 Case Number:  24TRCV00265    Hearing Date:   August 8, 2024    Dept:  M LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                  Thursday,
August 8, 2024
Department M                                                                                                         Calendar No. 9
 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Anthony Rodriguez, et al. v. LAX Auto
Center, LLC, et al.
            24TRCV00265
1.      LAX Auto Center, LLC’s Motion to Compel Arbitration
and to Stay Action 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            LAX Auto Center, LLC’s Motion to
Compel Arbitration and to Stay Action is granted.
 
Background 
            
            Plaintiff filed the Complaint on January
25, 2024.  Plaintiff alleges the
following facts. Plaintiff is a former employee of Defendant. Defendant failed
to provide proper break and rest periods. Defendant failed to compensate Plaintiff
at the required rate for all the hours worked. Defendant failed to provide
accurate payroll records. Plaintiff alleges the following cause of action: 1. Violation
of California Labor Code § 2698, et seq. 
 
            Motion to Compel Arbitration
 
            “California law reflects a strong
public policy in favor of arbitration as a relatively quick and inexpensive
method for resolving disputes. 
[Citation.]  To further that policy, [Code of Civil Procedure]
section 1281.2 requires a trial court to enforce a written arbitration
agreement unless one of three limited exceptions applies.  [Citation.] 
Those statutory exceptions arise where (1) a party waives the right to
arbitration; (2) grounds exist for revoking the arbitration agreement; and (3)
pending litigation with a third party creates the possibility of conflicting
rulings on common factual or legal issues. 
(§ 1281.2, subds. (a)–(c).)”  Acquire
II, Ltd. v. Colton Real Estate Group (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 959, 967. 
 
“The petitioner bears the burden of proving the existence of a valid
arbitration agreement by the preponderance of the evidence, and a party
opposing the petition bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of the
evidence any fact necessary to its defense.  In these summary proceedings, the trial court
sits as a trier of fact, weighing all the affidavits, declarations, and other
documentary evidence, as well as oral testimony received at the court’s
discretion, to reach a final determination.”  Giuliano v. Inland Empire Personnel, Inc.
(2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 1276, 1284.
 
“The party opposing arbitration has the burden of demonstrating that an
arbitration clause cannot be interpreted to require arbitration of the dispute.  Nonetheless, this policy does not override
ordinary principles of contract interpretation.  [T]he contractual terms themselves must be
carefully examined before the parties to the contract can be ordered to
arbitration:  Although [t]he law favors
contracts for arbitration of disputes between parties, there is no policy
compelling persons to accept arbitration of controversies which they have not
agreed to arbitrate.”  Rice v. Downs
(2016) 247 Cal.App.4th 1213, 1223 (internal citations and quotations omitted). 
 
In Rowe v. Exline (2007) 153
Cal.App.4th 1276, 1286, the Court of Appeal found that “a nonsignatory sued as
an agent of a signatory may enforce an arbitration agreement.”  Id.
at 1286.  In addition, “a nonsignatory
who is the agent of a signatory can even be compelled to arbitrate claims
against his will.”  Id. at 1285, citing Harris v. Superior Court (1986) 188
Cal.App.3d 475, 477–78.  Further, “in
many cases, nonparties to arbitration agreements are allowed to enforce those
agreements where there is sufficient identity of parties.”  Valley
Casework, Inc. v. Comfort Construction, Inc. (1999) 76 Cal.App.4th 1013,
1021.  This includes nonparties as agents
of a party as well as “a third party beneficiary of an arbitration
agreement.”  Ibid.  
 
Defendant moves for an order compelling Plaintiff’s individual PAGA
claims to arbitration and for an order to stay Plaintiff’s representative PAGA
claims. The motion is made pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 1281 et seq.
and the FAA, on the ground that Plaintiff is bound by a written agreement to
arbitrate the subject matter of the Complaint. Defendant argues that a valid arbitration
agreement exists between the parties that requires arbitration of the claims,
including the individual PAGA action, and that authority compels a stay of
Plaintiff’s representative PAGA claims. 
 
Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2 states, in relevant part: “On petition of a
party to an arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement
to arbitrate a controversy and that a party to the agreement refuses to
arbitrate that controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the
respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to
arbitrate the controversy exists[. . .]” “Generally, an arbitration agreement
must be memorialized in writing. A party's acceptance of an agreement to
arbitrate may be express, as where a party signs the agreement. A signed
agreement is not necessary, however, and a party's acceptance may be implied in
fact or be effectuated by delegated consent. An arbitration clause within a
contract may be binding on a party even if the party never actually read the
clause.” Pinnacle Museum Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle Market Development (US),
LLC (2012) 55 Cal.4th 223, 236 (internal citations omitted).
 
            The burden of production of evidence
in the context of a motion to compel arbitration was cogently articulated by the
following case. “First, the moving party bears the burden of producing prima
facie evidence of a written agreement to arbitrate the controversy. The moving
party can meet its initial burden by attaching to the [motion or] petition a
copy of the arbitration agreement purporting to bear the [opposing party's]
signature. Alternatively, the moving party can meet its burden by setting forth
the agreement's provisions in the motion. For this step, it is not necessary to
follow the normal procedures of document authentication. If the moving party
meets its initial prima facie burden and the opposing party does not dispute
the existence of the arbitration agreement, then nothing more is required for
the moving party to meet its burden of persuasion. [¶] If the moving party
meets its initial prima facie burden and the opposing party disputes the
agreement, then in the second step, the opposing party bears the burden of
producing evidence to challenge the authenticity of the agreement. The opposing
party can do this in several ways. For example, the opposing party may testify
under oath or declare under penalty of perjury that the party never saw or does
not remember seeing the agreement, or that the party never signed or does not
remember signing the agreement. [¶] If the opposing party meets its burden of
producing evidence, then in the third step, the moving party must establish
with admissible evidence a valid arbitration agreement between the parties. The
burden of proving the agreement by a preponderance of the evidence remains with
the moving party.” Gamboa v. Northeast Community Clinic (2021) 72
Cal.App.5th 158, 165–166 (internal citations and quotations omitted).
 
Defendant has met its initial burden of producing prima facie evidence of
a written agreement to arbitrate. (Decl., Mary Hicks, ¶¶ 3-15, Exs. A-C.) The arbitration
agreement requires that the parties agree to submit any controversy arising out of Plaintiff’s employment with
Defendant to binding arbitration.  As
noted above, at this stage, Defendant need only show prima facie evidence of
the existence of the agreement which it has properly done.
 
Thus, the burden shifts to Plaintiff to produce evidence to challenge the
authenticity of the agreement, by, for example, challenging that he ever signed
the agreement. The Court notes that Plaintiff produced no competent evidence to
challenge the agreements. Instead, Plaintiff acknowledges signing the
agreements. Thus, the burden does not shift to the third step where the moving
party must establish with admissible evidence a valid arbitration agreement
between the parties. 
 
            Because the moving party met its
initial burden to show the existence of a valid arbitration clause with respect
to the claims of the Plaintiff, the burden shifts to Plaintiff to show that the
arbitration clause should not be enforced as to these claims. Rice, supra,
247 Cal.App.4th at 1223.
 
            Plaintiff argues that the
arbitration clause is both procedurally and substantively unconscionable.  A court can invalidate an arbitration
agreement when it is unconscionable or against public policy.  See,
Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th
83, 99.  Unconscionability contains two
elements:  procedural unconscionability
and substantive unconscionability.  
 
            “[U]nconscionability has both a
procedural and a substantive' element, the former focusing on ‘oppression' or
'surprise' due to unequal bargaining power, the latter on 'overly harsh' or
'one-sided' results.  The prevailing view
is that [procedural and substantive unconscionability] must both be present in
order for a court to exercise its discretion to refuse to enforce a contract or
clause under the doctrine of unconscionability." But they need not be
present in the same degree. Essentially a sliding scale is invoked which
disregards the regularity of the procedural process of the contract formation,
that creates the terms, in proportion to the greater harshness or
unreasonableness of the substantive terms themselves.  In other words, the more substantively
oppressive the contract term, the less evidence of procedural unconscionability
is required to come to the conclusion that the term is unenforceable, and vice
versa.”  See Armendariz, 24 Cal.4th at 114.      
 
            “The traditional standard of
unconscionability . . . is that the inequality amounting to fraud must be so
strong and manifest as to shock the conscience and confound the judgment of any
man of common sense.   Subsequent
decisions have defined an unconscionable contract in varying but similar terms,
such as a contract that no man in his senses and not under delusion would make
on the one hand, and as no honest and fair man would accept on the other.”  See,
California Grocers Assn. v. Bank of America (1994) 22 Cal.App.4th
205, 214-15 (internal citations omitted). 
 
            Procedural unconscionability may be
established by showing oppression and surprise. 
Oppression occurs where the parties have unequal bargaining power, and
the contract is not the result of meaningful negotiations.  Surprise recognizes the extent to which the
agreed upon terms were hidden. 
 
            “In many cases of adhesion
contracts, the weaker party lacks not only the opportunity to bargain but also
any realistic opportunity to look elsewhere for a more favorable contract; he
must either adhere to the standardized agreement or forego the needed service.”  Madden v. Kaiser Foundation Hospitals
(1976) 17 Cal.3d 699, 711. Simply because a contract may have elements of an
adhesion contract does not render the agreement procedurally
unconscionable.  “The ultimate issue in
every case is whether the terms of the contract are sufficiently unfair, in
view of all relevant circumstances, that a court should withhold
enforcement.”  Sanchez v. Valencia Holding (2015) 61 Cal.4th 899,
912.  
 
            “[C]ourts, including ours, have used
various nonexclusive formulations to capture the notion that unconscionability
requires a substantial degree of unfairness beyond a simple
old-fashioned bad bargain. This latter qualification is important. Commerce
depends on the enforceability, in most instances, of a duly executed written
contract. A party cannot avoid a contractual obligation merely by complaining
that the deal, in retrospect, was unfair or a bad bargain. Not all one-sided
contract provisions are unconscionable; hence the various intensifiers in our
formulations: ‘overly harsh,’ ‘unduly oppressive,’ ‘unreasonably favorable.’
The ultimate issue in every case is whether the terms of the contract are
sufficiently unfair, in view of all relevant circumstances, that a court should
withhold enforcement.” Baltazar v. Forever 21, Inc. (2016) 62
Cal.4th 1237, 1245 (internal citations and quotations omitted; emphasis in
original). 
 
            To support his procedural
unconscionability argument, Plaintiff states that he was mandated to sign
several documents without explanation, was not adequately explained what
arbitration meant, was not explained his rights, was not given enough time to
review, and did not understand he was waiving his right to a jury trial.  (Decl., Anthony Rodriguez, ¶¶ 3-6.)  
 
            As noted earlier, Defendant has
adequately established that Plaintiff signed the arbitration agreement. It is
not an adequate defense to enforcement that Plaintiff failed to read and
understand the agreement before signing the agreement. Caballero v. Premier
Care Simi Valley LLC (2021) 69 Cal.App.5th 512, 519. In addition,
Defendants have no obligation to highlight, explain, or discuss the terms of
the arbitration agreement as any such requirement would be contrary to the FAA.
Sanchez v. Valencia Holding Co., LLC (2015) 61 Cal. 4th 899, 914-15. 
 
            By signing the agreement, Plaintiff “ATTESTS
TO THE FACT THAT I HAVE BEEN GIVEN AN OPPORTUNITY TO READ AND CONSIDER THIS
AGREEMENT, AND THAT I HAVE READ, UNDERSTAND, AND AGREE TO BE LEGALLY BOUND BY
ALL OF THE ABOVE TERMS. I AGREE THAT THE COMPANY IS BINDING ITSELF TO THIS
AGREEMENT BY PRESENTING THIS AGREEMENT TO ME FOR SIGNATURE.” (Defendant’s Ex.
A, p. 4). (Capitalization in original). In addition, Plaintiff signed an
agreement that stated the following: “I UNDERSTAND THAT I AM GIVING UP THE
RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY, BY A SITTING TRIAL COURT JUDGE AND/OR BY FINAL
ADJUDICATION THROUGH AN ADMINISTRATIVE PROCESS BY AGREEING TO BINDING
ARBITRATION.” (Id. at Ex. A, Para. 14.) (Capitalization in original). The
required level of oppression and surprise is lacking here. Therefore, the Court
finds that the arbitration was not procedurally unconscionable.
 
            As noted above, both procedural and
substantive unconscionability must exist for the Court to exercise its
discretion to refuse to enforce the arbitration provision. As noted, Plaintiff
submitted insufficient evidence to support the procedural unconscionability
element. Thus, the Court need not even address the substantive
unconscionability arguments. The Court does note however that the portions of
the agreement which Plaintiff contends is substantively unconscionable (fee
sharing of certain claims and arbitration payment due date) could have
potentially been carved out or severed had Plaintiff met his burden to show
procedural unconscionability. 
 
However, as to the former provision, the cost provision does specify that
costs are to be allocated pursuant to controlling law set forth in the
California Arbitration Act. A costs provision that complies with the law does
not appear to be substantively unconscionable. As to the latter provision, the
Court simply notes that if Defendant fails to meet the payment deadline
Plaintiff could easily seek an order to vacate the order to compel arbitration
on this basis alone. Doe v. Superior Court (2023) 95 Cal. App. 5th 346. 
 
On June 15, 2022, the United States Supreme Court issued its opinion in Viking
River Cruises, Inc, v. Moriana, 142 S.Ct. 1906 (2022). The Supreme Court
held that employees who sign valid arbitration agreements are subject to
arbitration of PAGA actions on an individual basis. Thus, Viking River
Cruises overruled the lines of cases led by Iskanian v. CLS
Transportation Los Angeles, LLC (2014) 59 Cal.4th 348. 
 
An argument could be made that Viking River Cruises only
invalidated Iskanian “insofar as it precludes division of PAGA actions
into individual and non-individual claims through an agreement to arbitrate.” Viking
River Cruises, Inc, v. Moriana, 142 S.Ct. 1906, 1924 (2022). Thus, Viking
River Cruises left open the question of whether Plaintiff’s representative
PAGA claim is subject to arbitration. 
 
On July 17, 2023, the California Supreme Court issued its opinion in Adolph
v. Uber Technologies, Inc. (2023) 14 Cal.5th 1104 resolving this question.
In Adolph, the Supreme Court held that a plaintiff whose individual
claims are compelled to arbitration retains standing to pursue representative
PAGA claims in court. Id. at 1123-24. The Supreme Court did not mandate
a stay of the civil action but stated that the Court has discretion to enter a
stay. “When an action includes arbitrable and nonarbitrable components, the
resulting bifurcated proceedings are not severed from one another; rather, the
court may ‘stay the trial of the action until such arbitration has been had in
accordance with the terms of the agreement.’ (9 U.S.C. § 3; see Code Civ.
Proc., § 1281.4.) In McGill v Citibank, N.A. (2017) 2 Cal.5th
945, 966 [216 Cal. Rptr. 3d 627, 393 P.3d 85], we explained that this principle
extends to “piecemeal litigation of ‘arbitrable and inarbitrable remedies
derived from the same statutory claim.’” Adolph v. Uber Technologies, Inc. (2023)
14 Cal.5th 1104, 1125. Plaintiff contends that the Court should exercise its
discretion here to not stay the instant action because Plaintiff, other
aggrieved employees, and the State will be unduly prejudiced by a stay because
of undue delay. 
 
            The Court finds that Plaintiff has
not articulated significant prejudice that would occur if the instant action were
stayed. In addition, while Adolph does not necessarily mandate a stay, but
instead only states that the Court has discretion to order a stay, the instant Court
notes, however, that significant portions of the Adolph decision discuss
a trial court’s discretion to stay the court action, thus, providing a strong
suggestion that a stay in most situations would be the most efficient and
reasonable outcome. The instant Court also finds that a stay of the instant
action would be most appropriate in this instance. 
 
            Finally, Plaintiff’s attempt to
invoke the provisions of CCP § 1281.6 is not proper at this time and premature
as that section specifically states that it must be presented pursuant to a
noticed petition.
 
Therefore, the Motion to Compel Arbitration is granted. The individual
PAGA claims are ordered to proceed through arbitration. The instant action,
which would now only encompass representative PAGA claims, is ordered stayed. 
 
An OSC re: status of arbitration is set for ____________. 
 
Defendant is ordered to give notice of this ruling.