  Case Number:  23TRCV03096    Hearing Date:   August 8, 2024    Dept:  M LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                 
                     Thursday, August 8, 2024
Department M                                                                                                         Calendar
No. 6
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
            Nira Schwartz v. Skyline Park Land, LLC, et al. 
            23TRCV03096
1.      Skyline
Park Land, LLC, et al.’s Motion to Compel Arbitration and to Stay Action    
 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Skyline Park Land, LLC, et al.’s Motion to
Compel Arbitration and to Stay Action is granted.      
 
            Background
 
            Plaintiff
filed the Complaint on September 19, 2023. Plaintiff alleges the following
facts. Plaintiff Nira Schwartz owns a mobile home. She rents a space to place
her mobile home in a mobile home park owned, controlled, and/or managed by
Skyline Park Land, LLC and Saunders Property LLC. The manager of the mobile
home park, Manuel Guzman, struck Plaintiff without any warning. Plaintiff
alleges the following causes of action: 1. Negligence; 2. Assault and Battery;
3. Premises Liability; 4. Elder Abuse (Welfare and Institutions Code § 15600,
et seq.).
 
            Objections
 
            Plaintiff’s
objections 1 to 3 are overruled.
 
            Motion to Compel Arbitration
 
            “California law reflects a strong public
policy in favor of arbitration as a relatively quick and inexpensive method for
resolving disputes.  [Citation.]  To
further that policy, [Code of Civil Procedure] section 1281.2 requires a trial
court to enforce a written arbitration agreement unless one of three limited
exceptions applies.  [Citation.]  Those statutory exceptions arise where (1) a
party waives the right to arbitration; (2) grounds exist for revoking the
arbitration agreement; and (3) pending litigation with a third party creates
the possibility of conflicting rulings on common factual or legal issues.  (§ 1281.2, subds. (a)–(c).)”  Acquire II, Ltd. v. Colton Real Estate
Group (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 959, 967. 
 
            “The petitioner bears the burden of proving the existence
of a valid arbitration agreement by the preponderance of the evidence, and a
party opposing the petition bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of
the evidence any fact necessary to its defense. 
In these summary proceedings, the trial court sits as a trier of fact,
weighing all the affidavits, declarations, and other documentary evidence, as
well as oral testimony received at the court’s discretion, to reach a final
determination.”  Giuliano v. Inland
Empire Personnel, Inc. (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 1276, 1284.
 
            “The party opposing arbitration has the burden of
demonstrating that an arbitration clause cannot be interpreted to require
arbitration of the dispute.  Nonetheless,
this policy does not override ordinary principles of contract
interpretation.  [T]he contractual terms
themselves must be carefully examined before the parties to the contract can be
ordered to arbitration:  Although [t]he
law favors contracts for arbitration of disputes between parties, there is no
policy compelling persons to accept arbitration of controversies which they
have not agreed to arbitrate.”  Rice
v. Downs (2016) 247 Cal.App.4th 1213, 1223 (internal citations and
quotations omitted). 
 
            In Rowe v. Exline
(2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1276, 1286, the Court of Appeal found that “a
nonsignatory sued as an agent of a signatory may enforce an arbitration
agreement.”  Id. at 1286.  In addition, “a
nonsignatory who is the agent of a signatory can even be compelled to arbitrate
claims against his will.”  Id. at 1285, citing Harris v. Superior
Court (1986) 188 Cal.App.3d 475, 477–78. 
Further, “in many cases, nonparties to arbitration agreements are
allowed to enforce those agreements where there is sufficient identity of
parties.”  Valley Casework, Inc. v. Comfort Construction, Inc. (1999) 76
Cal.App.4th 1013, 1021.  This includes
nonparties as agents of a party as well as “a third party beneficiary of an
arbitration agreement.”  Ibid. 

 
            Defendant moves for an order compelling arbitration and a
stay of proceedings. The motion is made pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
§1281 et seq., on the grounds Plaintiffs are bound by a written agreement to
arbitrate the subject matter of the Complaint. Code Civ. Proc. §1281.2.
Defendant argues that a valid arbitration agreement exists between the parties
that requires arbitration of all disputes. Defendant also moves pursuant to
Code of Civil Procedure § 1281.4 to stay all proceedings. Defendant has attached
the lease agreement entered into by the parties which sets forth an arbitration
provision on paragraph 51.1 of the agreement. The provision states: “ANY
DISPUTE BETWEEN HOMEOWNER AND PARK RELATING TO, CONCERNING OR CONNECTED WITH
THIS AGREEMENT, RESIDENCY DOCUMENTS, THE INTERPRETATION OR ENFORCEMENT THEREOF,
THE LEASEHOLD, THE HOMESITE, SERVICES, FACILITIES, OR MAINTENANCE IN OR ABOUT
THE PARK, AND ANY DISPUTE RESPECTING THESE MATTERS BETWEEN HOMEOWNER AND OWNER
SHALL BE RESOLVED SOLELY BY MEDIATION AND ARBITRATION IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE
PROVISIONS SET FQRTH BELOW, INSTEAD OF IN COURT.” (Decl., Michael Misera, Ex.
A, para. 51.1). In paragraph 2.2, the definition of “owner” is as follows: “"Owner"
includes, but it is not limited to, the owners of the Park (including the owner’s
partners, directors, representatives, officers, employees, and agents) and the
management of the Park.”  (Id., at Ex. A,
para. 2.2.)
 
            Plaintiff objected to the entirety of and portions of the
declaration of Michael Misera. (See, ruling on objections above. The burden of
production of evidence in the context of a motion to compel arbitration was
cogently articulated by the following case. “First, the moving party bears the
burden of producing prima facie evidence of a written agreement to arbitrate
the controversy. The moving party can meet its initial burden by attaching to
the [motion or] petition a copy of the arbitration agreement purporting to bear
the [opposing party's] signature. Alternatively, the moving party can meet its
burden by setting forth the agreement's provisions in the motion. For this
step, it is not necessary to follow the normal procedures of document
authentication. If the moving party meets its initial prima facie burden and
the opposing party does not dispute the existence of the arbitration agreement,
then nothing more is required for the moving party to meet its burden of
persuasion. [¶] If the moving party meets its initial prima facie burden and
the opposing party disputes the agreement, then in the second step, the opposing
party bears the burden of producing evidence to challenge the authenticity of
the agreement. The opposing party can do this in several ways. For example, the
opposing party may testify under oath or declare under penalty of perjury that
the party never saw or does not remember seeing the agreement, or that the
party never signed or does not remember signing the agreement. [¶] If the
opposing party meets its burden of producing evidence, then in the third step,
the moving party must establish with admissible evidence a valid arbitration
agreement between the parties. The burden of proving the agreement by a
preponderance of the evidence remains with the moving party.” Gamboa v.
Northeast Community Clinic (2021) 72 Cal.App.5th 158, 165–166 (internal
citations and quotations omitted).
 
            Defendant has met its initial burden of producing prima
facie evidence of a written agreement to arbitrate pursuant to the declaration
of Michael Misera. As noted above, at this stage, Defendant need only show
prima facie evidence which it has properly done.
 
            Thus, the burden shifts to Plaintiff to produce evidence
to challenge the authenticity of the agreement, by, for example, challenging
that she ever signed the agreement. The Court notes that Plaintiff produced no
competent evidence to challenge the agreement. Instead, Plaintiff freely
acknowledges signing the agreement. Thus, the burden does not shift to the
third step where the moving party must establish with admissible evidence a
valid arbitration agreement between the parties. 
 
            Defendant has met its initial burden to show the
existence of an arbitration agreement. Thus, the burden shifts to Plaintiff to
show that the arbitration clause should not be enforced.  Rice, supra, 247 Cal.App.4th at 1223.  Plaintiff did not meet her burden to show that
the arbitration agreement should not be enforced. 
 
            First, Plaintiff argues that the agreement is void as
against public policy. Residential lease agreements purporting to waive certain
tenant procedural rights are deemed “void as contrary to public policy” by Civ.
Code § 1953. Section 1953(a)(4) “precludes a residential lease agreement from
including any modification or waiver of a tenant's ‘procedural rights in
litigation in any action involving his rights and obligations as a tenant.’” Jaramillo
v. JH Real Estate Partners, Inc. (2003) 111 Cal.App.4th 394, 403-04.
Therefore, pursuant to CC § 1953(a)(4), public policy prohibits arbitration
provisions which are contained within residential lease or rental agreements. See,
also, Williams v. 3620 W. 102nd Street, Inc. (2020) 53 Cal.App.5th 1087,
1089-92; See also Harris v. University Village Thousand Oaks, CCRC, LLC
(2020) 49 Cal.App.5th 847, 850-56. Section 1953 voids, as contrary to public
policy, the waiver of procedural litigation rights in a residential lease
agreement and inherent in an arbitration agreement is a waiver of any right to
a jury trial. Id. Thus, pursuant to CC § 1953(a)(4), a residential
tenant cannot validly agree to binding arbitration to resolve disputes regarding
the tenant's rights and obligations as a tenant. Id. at 852.  A tenant may validly agree to arbitrate
habitability issues through a separate agreement to arbitrate that is entirely
independent of any lease agreement. See, Williams, supra, 53 Cal.App.5th
at 1092-93; See, also, Jaramillo, supra, 111 Cal.App.4th at 404. 
 
            Here, however, Plaintiff fails to provide competent
authority to establish that the authority noted above applies to a lease
agreement in which Plaintiff actually owns her own “residence” (mobile home),
and merely rents the space or land to place the mobile home on Defendant’s
premises. For example, Civ. Code § 1953, which is the statutory underpinning of
the case authority noted above, states right from the outset: “Any provision of
a lease or rental agreement of a dwelling by which the lessee agrees to
modify or waive any of the following rights shall be void as contrary to public
policy[.]” Civ. Code, § 1953(a)(emphasis added). Plaintiff did not lease or
rent a “dwelling.” Similarly, Plaintiff’s numerous references to Civ. Code § 1941
et seq. are unavailing. Civ. Code § 1940(a) which provides definitions
regarding the application of that chapter states: “Except as provided in
subdivision (b), this chapter shall apply to all persons who hire dwelling
units located within this state including tenants, lessees, boarders,
lodgers, and others, however denominated.” Civ. Code, § 1940(a). Civ. Code § 1940(c) defines dwelling unit:
“‘Dwelling unit’ means a structure or the part of a structure that is used as a
home, residence, or sleeping place by one person who maintains a household or
by two or more persons who maintain a common household.” Id. Plaintiff did not
lease a dwelling unit.
 
            Plaintiff then, correctly, analyzes and presents
arguments referring to the more applicable statutory provisions set forth in
the Mobilehome Residency Law (“MRL”), codified by Civ. Proc. Code. § 798 et
seq. Civ. Code, § 798.25.5 states: “Any rule or regulation of a mobilehome park
that (a) is unilaterally adopted by the management, (b) is implemented without
the consent of the homeowners, and (c) by its terms purports to deny homeowners
their right to a trial by jury or which would mandate binding arbitration of
any dispute between the management and homeowners shall be void and
unenforceable.” Here, however, there is no showing that the arbitration
agreement was “unilaterally adopted by” Defendant. Instead, as noted above,
both Plaintiff and Defendant’s assignor signed the agreement. Plaintiff’s
reference to the MRL (Civ. Code § 798.870) that deals with nuisance claims is
unavailing as no nuisance cause of action was asserted. In addition, simply
because that portion of the statute referred to remedy only by “civil action”
does not render the arbitration agreement unenforceable.
 
            “Lionsgate's primary argument centers on the False Claims
Act's references to a ‘civil action’ to recover penalties and damages, and to
assessments and findings by the court. However, it is settled that statutory
claims are not inarbitrable merely because the statute in question includes
such provisions. Business and Professions Code section 17204 declares that
“[a]ctions for relief pursuant to this chapter shall be prosecuted exclusively
in a court of competent jurisdiction....” Nevertheless, our Supreme Court has
held that claims for restitution and disgorgement under Business and
Professions Code section 17200 et seq. are arbitrable. Similarly, although
Civil Code section 1780, subdivision (c) formerly specified that actions under
the Consumers Legal Remedies Act (CLRA) must be filed in “any court ... having
jurisdiction of the subject matter,” the high court ruled that actions for
damages under that version of the CLRA could be arbitrated. It has also been
established that antitrust claims under the Cartwright Act (Bus. &
Prof.Code, § 16700 et seq.) are subject to arbitration, despite language in Business
and Professions Code section 16750, subdivision (a) contemplating civil actions
“in any court having jurisdiction....” County of Solano v. Lionsgate Corp.
(2005) 126 Cal.App.4th 741, 747 (internal citations and quotations omitted).

            Plaintiff then attempts to
argue the purported unfairness of the provision regarding costs and then argues
the alleged the adhesive nature of the agreement. Thus, Plaintiff appears to
begin arguing unconscionability by arguing substantive first and then
procedural.
 
            A
court can invalidate an arbitration agreement when it is unconscionable or
against public policy.  See Armendariz v. Foundation Health
Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 99.  Unconscionability contains two elements:  procedural unconscionability and substantive
unconscionability.  
 
            “[U]nconscionability has both a procedural
and a substantive' element, the former focusing on ‘oppression' or 'surprise'
due to unequal bargaining power, the latter on 'overly harsh' or 'one-sided'
results.  The prevailing view is that
[procedural and substantive unconscionability] must both be present in order
for a court to exercise its discretion to refuse to enforce a contract or
clause under the doctrine of unconscionability." But they need not be
present in the same degree. Essentially a sliding scale is invoked which
disregards the regularity of the procedural process of the contract formation,
that creates the terms, in proportion to the greater harshness or
unreasonableness of the substantive terms themselves.  In other words, the more substantively
oppressive the contract term, the less evidence of procedural unconscionability
is required to come to the conclusion that the term is unenforceable, and vice
versa.”  See Armendariz, 24 Cal.4th at 114.      
 
            “The
traditional standard of unconscionability . . . is that the inequality
amounting to fraud must be so strong and manifest as to shock the conscience
and confound the judgment of any man of common sense.   Subsequent decisions have defined an
unconscionable contract in varying but similar terms, such as a contract that
no man in his senses and not under delusion would make on the one hand, and as
no honest and fair man would accept on the other.”  See
California Grocers Assn. v. Bank of America (1994) 22 Cal.App.4th
205, 214-15 (internal citations omitted). 
 
            Procedural
unconscionability may be established by showing oppression and surprise.  Oppression occurs where the parties have
unequal bargaining power, and the contract is not the result of meaningful
negotiations.  Surprise recognizes the
extent to which the agreed upon terms were hidden.
 
            “In many cases of adhesion contracts, the weaker party
lacks not only the opportunity to bargain but also any realistic opportunity to
look elsewhere for a more favorable contract; he must either adhere to the
standardized agreement or forego the needed service.”  Madden v. Kaiser Foundation Hospitals
(1976) 17 Cal.3d 699, 711. Simply because a contract may have elements of an
adhesion contract does not render the agreement procedurally
unconscionable.  “The ultimate issue in
every case is whether the terms of the contract are sufficiently unfair, in
view of all relevant circumstances, that a court should withhold
enforcement.”  Sanchez v. Valencia Holding (2015) 61 Cal.4th 899,
912.  
 
            “[C]ourts, including ours, have used various nonexclusive
formulations to capture the notion that unconscionability requires a
substantial degree of unfairness beyond a simple
old-fashioned bad bargain. This latter qualification is important. Commerce
depends on the enforceability, in most instances, of a duly executed written
contract. A party cannot avoid a contractual obligation merely by complaining
that the deal, in retrospect, was unfair or a bad bargain. Not all one-sided
contract provisions are unconscionable; hence the various intensifiers in our
formulations: ‘overly harsh,’ ‘unduly oppressive,’ ‘unreasonably favorable.’
The ultimate issue in every case is whether the terms of the contract are
sufficiently unfair, in view of all relevant circumstances, that a court should
withhold enforcement.” Baltazar v. Forever 21, Inc. (2016) 62
Cal.4th 1237, 1245 (internal citations and quotations omitted; emphasis in
original). 
 
             To support her
procedural unconscionability argument, Plaintiff candidly acknowledges
recognizing paragraphs 49 to 51 of the agreement and that she initialed these
provisions. Plaintiff argues that she did not read or understand these provisions,
and no one explained them to her.  (Decl., Nira Schwartz, ¶¶ 3-5.)  
 
             Defendant has
adequately established that Plaintiff signed the arbitration agreement. It is
not an adequate defense to enforcement that Plaintiff failed to read and
understand the agreement before signing the agreement. Caballero v. Premier
Care Simi Valley LLC (2021) 69 Cal.App.5th 512, 519. In addition,
Defendants have no obligation to highlight, explain, or discuss the terms of
the arbitration agreement as any such requirement would be contrary to the FAA.
Sanchez v. Valencia Holding Co., LLC (2015) 61 Cal. 4th 899, 914-15.
 
            By signing the agreement, Plaintiff agreed to the
following: “BY INITIALING IN THE SPACE BELOW YOU ARE AGREEING TO HAVE ANY
DISPUTE ARISING OUT OF THE MATTERS INCLUDED IN THE "ARBITRATION OF
DISPUTES" PROVISION DECIDED BY NEUTRAL ARBITRATION AS PROVIDED BY
CALIFORNIA LAW AND YOU ARE GIVING UP ANY RIGHTS YOU MIGHT POSSESS TO HAVE THE
DISPUTE LITIGATED IN A COURT OR JURY TRIAL. BY INITIALING IN THE SPACE BELOW,
YOU ARE GIVING UP YOUR JUDICIAL RIGHTS TO DISCOVERY AND APPEAL, UNLESS SUCH
RIGHTS ARE SPECIFICALLY INCLUDED IN THE "ARBITRATION OF DISPUTES"
PROVISION. IF YOU REFUSE TO SUBMIT TO ARBITRATION AFTER AGREEING TO THIS
PROVISION, YOU MAY BE COMPELLED TO ARBITRATE UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF THIS
CALIFORNIA CODE OF CIVIL PROCEDURE. YOUR AGREEMENT TO THIS ARBITRATION
PROVISION IS VOLUNTARY. WE HAVE READ AND UNDERSTAND THE FOREGOING AND AGREE TO
SUBMIT DISPUTES ARISING OUT OF THE MATTERS INCLUDED IN THE "ARBITRATION OF
DISPUTES" PROVISION TO THE NEUTRAL ARBITRATION.”  (Decl., Misera, Ex. A, Para. 51.6.)
(Capitalization in original.)  The
required level of oppression and surprise is lacking here. Further, the
language of the agreement itself states in explicit terms that Plaintiff’s
agreement was voluntary. Therefore, the Court finds that the arbitration was
not procedurally unconscionable.
 
            As noted above, both
procedural and substantive unconscionability must exist for the Court to
exercise its discretion to refuse to enforce the arbitration provision. As
noted, Plaintiffs submitted insufficient evidence to support the procedural
unconscionability element. Thus, the Court need not even address the
substantive unconscionability arguments. 
 
            Therefore, the Motion to Compel Arbitration is granted. The
Court action is ordered stayed. The Motion for Trial Preference, currently
scheduled for August 19, 2024, is taken off the Court’s calendar. 
 
            An OSC re: status of arbitration is set for ____________.

 
            Defendant is ordered to give notice of this ruling.
 