..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is the summary of the tentative ruling in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 23CHCV02816
Judge: [Not specified]
Plaintiffs: Cheyenne Chelsea Oconnor, et al.
Defendants: Apple Nine Hospitality Ownership, Inc.
People-Names: None
Company-Names: Apple Nine Hospitality Ownership, Inc.
Places: Hotel property
Dates: July 28, August 3, October 7, 2024
Events: Bed bug infestation, hotel stay, notification to hotel manager
Money: Attorney fees, punitive damages
Intentions: Intentional infliction of emotional distress, nuisance
Facts: Bed bug infestation at hotel, hotel's failure to remedy infestation, guests' emotional distress
Disputes: Demurrer, motion to strike, requests for attorney fees and punitive damages
Acts: Failure to remedy bed bug infestation, notification to hotel manager
Agreements: Hotel rental agreement
Laws: California Civil Code, California Code of Civil Procedure
Case Citations: Potter v. Firestone Tire & Rubber Co., Burnett v. Chimney Sweep, Coll. Hosp., Inc. v. Superior Court
Statutes: CCP § 430.30(a), CCP § 435, CCP § 436(a), CCP § 436(b), CCP § 1021.5, Civ. Code § 3294
Roles: Plaintiffs, Defendants, Judge
Significant Statements:
* The court will overrule the demurrer to the third cause of action (intentional infliction of emotional distress) because the allegations that the hotel failed to remedy the bed bug infestation after being informed of the problem are sufficient to maintain a cause of action.
* The court will grant the motion to strike the request for attorney fees based on CCP § 1021.5 because the request only benefits the plaintiffs and does not confer a significant benefit on the general public or a large class of persons.
* The court will grant the motion to strike the request for punitive damages related to the nuisance cause of action because the allegations are conclusory and do not provide specific facts showing that the hotel's conduct was oppressive, fraudulent, or malicious.
* The court will allow the plaintiffs to maintain their claim for punitive damages under the intentional infliction of emotional distress cause of action because the allegations of outrageous conduct are sufficient to support a claim for punitive damages.
* The court will allow the plaintiffs to maintain their claim for punitive damages under the fraudulent concealment cause of action because the allegations of fraudulent conduct are sufficient to support a claim for punitive damages.
```

Note that the summary is based on the provided text and may not be a comprehensive summary of the entire document.
