 Case Number:  23TRCV00195    Hearing Date:   October 18, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
THOMAS
  A. BECHLER, et al., 


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:  
 


 
23TRCV00195




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
TORRANCE
  MEMORIAL MEDICAL CENTER, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          October
18, 2024
 
Moving
Parties:                      Defendant Torrance Memorial Medical Center
Responding Party:                  Plaintiffs Thomas A. Bechler,
Thomas Bechler, and Kimberly Bechler
Motion
for Summary Judgment
 
            The Court considered the moving
papers and opposition.
RULING
            The motion for summary judgment is
DENIED.
BACKGROUND
            On January 23, 2023, plaintiffs
Thomas A. Bechler, Thomas (“Scott”) Bechler, and Kimberly Bechler filed a
complaint for wrongful death against Torrance Memorial Medical Center and Omer
Deen, M.D.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
The
purpose of a motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication “is to provide
courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to
determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to
resolve their dispute.”  Aguilar v.
Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal. 4th 826, 843.  “Code of Civil Procedure section 437c,
subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the
evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’
and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no
triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law.”  Adler
v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal. App. 4th 1110, 1119. 
“On a
motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is always on the moving party
to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of material
fact.”  Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc.
(2005) 128 Cal. App. 4th 1510, 1519.  A
defendant moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or
her burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party has
shown that one or more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be
established, or that there is a complete defense to the cause of action.”  CCP § 437c(p)(2).  “Once the defendant . . . has met that
burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a triable issue
of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense
thereto.” CCP § 437c(p)(2).  “If the
plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment should be granted.” Avivi v. Centro
Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal. App. 4th 463, 467. 
            “When
deciding whether to grant summary judgment, the court must consider all of the
evidence set forth in the papers (except evidence to which the court has
sustained an objection), as well as all reasonable inferences that may be drawn
from that evidence, in the light most favorable to the party opposing summary
judgment.” Avivi, 159 Cal. App. 4th at 467; CCP §437c(c). 
DISCUSSION 
            Defendant
Torrance Memorial Medical Center (“TMMC”) requests that the Court enter summary
judgment in its favor and against plaintiffs pursuant to CCP §437c on the
ground that there is no triable issue of material fact and defendant is
entitled to judgment as a matter of law. 
            In
the complaint, plaintiffs allege that on January 22, 2022, decedent Barbara
Bechler was admitted to defendant Torrance Memorial Medical Center.  On January 25, 2022, defendant Omer Deen,
M.D. negligently ordered placement of an NG tube.  The attempted NG tube placement was
negligently performed.  Decedent’s
representative, Thomas A. Bechler’s, consent was not obtained prior to the
attempted placement of the NG tube. 
Complaint, ¶8.  As a result of
defendant’s negligence, decedent Barbara Bechler expired on January 26,
2022.  Id., ¶9.
            Plaintiffs
assert that Barbara Bechler expired as a result of aspiration and pneumothorax
caused by the negligent nasogastric tube insertion attempt by TMMC employee
Joshua Vu, R.N.
            The
elements of medical malpractice are: 
“(1) the duty of the professional to use such skill, prudence, and
diligence as other members of his profession commonly possess and exercise; (2)
a breach of that duty; (3) a proximate causal connection between the negligent
conduct and the resulting injury; and (4) actual loss or damage resulting from
the professional's negligence.”  Simmons
v. West Covina Medical Clinic (1989) 212 Cal. App. 3d 696, 701-02
(citations omitted).  “Both the standard
of care and defendants’ breach must normally be established by expert testimony
in a medical malpractice case.”  Avivi,
159 Cal. App. 4th at 467.  
            Thus,
in a medical malpractice case, “[w]hen a defendant moves for summary judgment
and supports his motion with expert declarations that his conduct fell within
the community standard of care, he is entitled to summary judgment unless the
plaintiff comes forward with conflicting expert evidence.”  Munro v. Regents of University of
California (1989) 215 Cal. App. 3d 977, 984-985 (citations omitted).  An expert declaration, if uncontradicted, is
conclusive proof as to the prevailing standard of care and the propriety of the
particular conduct of the health care provider. 
Starr v. Mooslin (1971) 14 Cal. App. 3d 988, 999. 
            As
context as to the chronology of what occurred during decedent Barbara Bechler’s
admission at TMMC based on the medical records, the parties do not dispute that
on January 22, 2022, Barbara Bechler was admitted to defendant TMMC.  Defendant’s Separate Statement of Undisputed
Material Facts (“DUMF”) 1.  On January
22, decedent, a then 85 year old female, was transported from her residence to
TMMC emergency department via ambulance. 
Decedent was hospitalized for pneumonia, hypoxia, and sepsis.  Decedent had a history of Alzheimer’s
dementia.  DUMF 3.  When decedent was transported to TMMC,
plaintiff Thomas A. Bechler, decedent’s husband, reported that decedent had had
difficulty breathing.  DUMF 4.  Patient was to be admitted to the PCU with
routine aspiration orders, nothing by mouth, and speech therapy
evaluation.  DUMF 5.  
On
January 23, at 12:58, an RN texted the hospitalist Dr. Cohen that the patient
was ordered to have nothing by mouth except medications but did not pass a
swallow screen.  Patient was to continue
nothing by mouth.  DUMF 7.  On January 23, Dr. Cohen documented a
discussion with plaintiff Thomas A. Bechler, who wanted the patient to remain a
full code with palliative care and nutrition consults.  Dr. Cohen noted that patient had advanced
Alzheimer's dementia and was lethargic, frail, and unresponsive, and on IV and
supplemental oxygen.  DUMF 8.  On January 23, at 14:39, Dr. Hsieh reviewed
the CT that showed a located right lower lobe pleural effusion and evidence of
parenchymal calcification in the right lower lobe, possible suggestive of
chronic aspiration.  He recommended a
chest tube and discussed with patient’s husband that she was at high risk for
recurrence of aspiration and bleeding. 
DUMF 9.
            On
January 24, at 13:45, Rachel Young, SLP attempted to see the patient, but she
was on a non-rebreather mask with evaluation deferred given her worsening
respiratory status and requested re-order when she was appropriate for oral
trials.  DUMF 10.  On January 24, Dr. Tauseef Haider met with
patient’s husband for a palliative care consultation and discussed the
patient’s poor prognosis, dysphagia, Code status, poor quality of life, and
hospice.  DUMF 11.
On January 24, at 14:13, Dr. Deen saw patient for
malnutrition.  Dr. Deen noted the patient
appeared cachectic and lethargic with temporal wasting.  The assessment was severe protein calorie
malnutrition, anorexia, unintentional weight loss, dysphagia, and non-healing
skin wound Stage IV to the sacrum, Stage I and unstageable, and
hypernatremia.  Dr. Deen recommended lab
work and iron studies, noting she was on nothing by mouth due to hypoxia.  The plan was to advance her diet if able,
and/or alternatively temporarily place a NG tube for feeding.  DUMF 12. 
On January 24, 2022, at 21:03, Dr. Deen ordered NG tube insertion.  DUMF 13. 

On January
25, at 13:26, Dr. Cohen ordered an echocardiogram for atrial
fibrillation/flutter.  DUMF 16.  On January 25, at 23:11, Joshua Vu, RN
documented “NGT attempt times one assertion per MD Deen CPOE.  Patient tolerated poorly, withdrawn
immediately, followed by immediate oral suction moderate thick/tan sputnum, no
blood.  At 23:15 Nurse Vu initiated Code
Blue as patient was unresponsive.  DUMF
17.  On January 25, at 23:24, Dr. Monica
Lee ordered a stat portable chest x-ray for shortness of breath and respiratory
stand by.  Intubation was ordered at
23:25 and ventilator at 23:42.  DUMF
18.  On January 25, at 23:49, Dr. Lee
responded to a Code Blue.  The RN stated
that the patient was supposed to have a NG placed for tube feedings and
“apparently was not tolerating the NG tube insertion.  She started coughing and choking.  She then went unresponsive and
pulseless.”  CPR was in progress prior to
Dr. Lee’s arrival.  She was intubated on
the first attempt with position confirmed by x-ray.  The case was discussed with Dr. Salim for
transfer to the ICU as patient was likely to code again.  She had a dismal prognosis.  DUMF 19. 
On January 26, a Critical Care Consult was required for patient by the
Emergency Department following a Code Blue. 
An emergent chest tube was placed at 00:15.  CPR was initiated but failed to achieve
return of spontaneous circulation (ROSC) after 24 minutes of
resuscitation.  Unable to achieve ROSC,
patient was pronounced dead at 00:30. 
DUMF 20.
Evidentiary
objections
            As
to plaintiffs’ objections, the Court OVERRULES Nos. 1-18.  (The Court notes that whether decedent had a
“poor prognosis” or any information related to an Adult Protective Services
report was not considered in this ruling.)
 
Defendant
argues that the claim for medical negligence against defendant hospital has no
merit, as the care and treatment given to decedent was within the standard of
care, and the placement of the NG tube was appropriate, and the procedure was
not negligently done.  Defendant also
argues that any alleged negligence was not a substantial factor nor a proximate
cause of decedent’s death.
Defendant
presents the declaration of Davina Leary, RN, who opines based on her review of
decedent’s medical records and other documents, as well as her education,
training, and experience, to a reasonable degree of medical probability,
decedent received appropriate nursing care and treatment at Torrance Memorial
Medical Center that met the standard of care in all respects.  Davina Leary, RN decl., ¶30.  She states that a review of the records
reflect that the patient had stage-four decubitus pressure ulcer with serious
tissue and muscle wasting.  Patient also
had severe Alzheimer’s dementia and a past hospitalization that showed moderate
risk for aspiration.  She states that the
patient’s aspiration events were confirmed by the husband’s report plus chest
x-ray.  Id., ¶31.  She also opines that Nurse Joshua Vu met the
standard of care in placing the NG tube and properly followed the physician
orders.  She cites to Nurse Vu’s
deposition testimony that he placed patient at 90 degrees, which was
appropriate in the patient’s circumstances, and that Nurse Vu followed the
appropriate procedure in immediately stopping the NG tube placement when
patient poorly tolerated the procedure. 
She notes that the order was placed within two hours prior to the
precipitating event.  She states that the
placement of NG tube is a procedure that is typically done by one person and
thus Nurse Vu should not have had to wait to do the procedure when more staff
were available.  Also, she states, the
placement of an NG tube is such a routine procedure that no consent beyond the
general consent to treatment is necessary. 
Id., ¶33.  She also states that
the precipitating event occurred three days into patient’s hospitalization, and
therefore feeding the patient at that juncture was proper.  She states “[u]nfortunately, the patient was
in a no-win situation and regardless of whether the tube was placed too early
into treatment or too late, the patient was in such a tenuous condition that
anything could trigger the response that patient had.  Because the patient failed a swallow
evaluation and was unable to participate, feeding via NG tube placement was
necessary as part of a plan to maximize recovery by aiding in healing.  The patient had non-healing wounds and tissue
wasting due to severe malnutrition.  Id.,
¶34.  She states that when Nurse Vu began
placing the NG tube, the patient started choking and coughing, which is a
typical response.  Nurse Vu documented
immediate withdrawal and suctioned the patient. 
Since the tube possibly irritated the patient’s vagus nerve causing the
patient to brady down, immediate withdrawal of the tube was the appropriate
thing to do.  Id., ¶35.  She opines that no care or treatment rendered
to decedent by the nursing staff at TMMC fell below the standard of care.  Id., ¶36.
            Further,
defendant presents the declaration of James Leo, M.D., who opines that based on
his education, training, and experience, and review of the medical records and
other documents, to a reasonable degree of medical probability, that the staff
and medical healthcare providers at TMMC met the standard of care of a hospital
emergency department in all respects in the care and treatment of
decedent.  James Leo decl., ¶31.  He states that the placement of an NG tube is
not inconsistent with a nothing by mouth order and was appropriate as feeding
was necessary because the patient showed clear evidence of protein calorie
malnutrition.  The patient was also
septic, which significantly increases nutritional requirements and that an NG
tube is a preferred method of feeding. 
He states that the placement of an NG tube is a procedure that can be
performed by one person and therefore the nursing staff would not have had to
wait for availability of more medical personnel before performing the
procedure.  Id., ¶32.  Further, complication rates with NG tube
placement are so low that no special consent beyond the general consent to
treatment is required and it is within the standard of care to place an NG tube
without obtaining a separate consent. 
There were no restrictions in the case of Barbara Bechler because there
were no restrictions on the patient since the patient was a full code.  Id., ¶33.
            Dr.
Leo opines that to a degree of medical probability, no act or omission by the
nursing and medical staff at TMMC caused or contributed to the death of Barbara
Bechler.  Id., ¶34.  Bechler’s result was completely
unforeseeable.  The patient had no
evidence of vomiting and was reported not to have eaten for days.  Patient’s pneumonia was set up well before
her hospitalization due to the fact that she presented with full blown
pneumonia, a complex pleural effusion, and Staphylococcal bacteremia.  He further opines that to a reasonable degree
of medical probability, the patient’s death was attributable to a
non-foreseeable aspiration event triggered by the attempted NG tube placement,
leading to hypoxia and cardiac arrest. 
This complication was unexpected, given her nothing by mouth status and
was not caused by an improper placement of the NG tube.  Id., ¶35.
 
            In
opposition, plaintiffs present the declaration of Effie Horning, MSN Ed, BSN,
RN in support of plaintiffs’ contention that TMMC failed to meet the standard
of care and the declaration of Dr. Rimawi as to causation.  Nurse Horning opines that based on her
education, training, and experience, review of the medical records, and
deposition transcripts, the standard of care was not met.  Horning states that the standard of care
required that two nurses place the NGT because Bechler had problems with
swallowing and dementia.  If the NGT goes
down the trachea to the lung, the patient starts coughing.  If the NGT is properly placed in the
esophagus there is not a sudden change in the patient’s respiration and
coding.  In this case, when the NGT was
inserted, the patient began coughing, there was a sudden change in her
respiration, and she coded.  Therefore,
the NGT was not properly inserted.  With
only one nurse present there is not enough time to suction the patient timely
once it is realized that the NGT went down the trachea.  Nurse Horning also states that Nurse Vu was
required to get verbal consent for the placement of the NGT from Mr. Bechler,
especially in light of Mr. Bechler advising if anything was to be done to let
him know, and Nurse Vu had reviewed the order before Mr. Bechler had left.  Effie Horning decl., ¶5.
            Plaintiffs
also present the declaration of Ramzy Rimawi, M.D. who states that based on the
review of the medical records, as well as his education, knowledge, experience,
and training, he opines that, to a reasonable degree of medical probability,
Barbara Bechler’s cardiac arrest was due to the attempted placement of the
nasogastric tube.  Aspiration pneumonia
is a well-established complication in patients fitted with NG tubes.  In patients like Bechler, with underlying
cognitive dysfunctions, the cough reflex and other intrinsic airway-clearing
mechanisms are less effective, therefore increasing her risk of complications
such as aspiration.  The patient went
into cardiac arrest several times and expired as a result of the aspiration and
pneumothorax caused by the NG tube insertion attempt.  He opines that based on a reasonable medical
probability, if the patient had not developed severe aspiration and
pneumothorax caused by the NG tube attempt, she would not have died on January
26, 2022.  The attempted placement of the
NG tube was a substantial factor in causing the death of the patient.  Ramzy Rimawi, M.D. decl., ¶5.
The Court
finds that defendant hospital has met its burden of showing that plaintiffs’
cause of action for wrongful death has no merit by showing that plaintiffs
cannot establish the elements of breach of duty and causation for medical
malpractice.  CCP §437c(p)(2). 
The
burden shifts to plaintiffs who came forward with conflicting expert evidence.  As such, the Court finds triable issues of
material fact as to breach of duty and causation. 
            The
motion for summary judgment is therefore DENIED.
 
ORDER
            The
motion for summary judgment is DENIED.
Plaintiffs
are ordered to give notice.