  Case Number:  21STCV24221    Hearing Date:   October 18, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
REANITA
  PARDUE, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
21STCV24221




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
PRIME
  HEALTHCARE SERVICES, INC., et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          October
18, 2024
 
Moving Parties:                      Defendant Prime Healthcare
Centinela, LLC dba Centinela Hospital Medical Center
Responding
Party:                  None
Motion
to Abate Action for Failure to Join Indispensable Parties
 
            The Court considered the moving papers.  No opposition was filed.
RULING
            The motion is GRANTED. 
The action is ABATED.  Plaintiff
Reanita Pardue is ordered to join and serve Marcus Perkins and Keith Perkins as
plaintiffs or nominal defendants or file a declaration pursuant to CCP §377.32
attesting that she is the decedent’s successor in interest/personal
representative.
            The actions ordered herein shall be
accomplished within 60 days of the date of this Order.
            A Status Conference re joinder of
Marcus Perkins and Keith Perkins is set for January 13, 2025 at 8:30 a.m. in
Dept. B.
            Centinela Hospitals Motion for
Summary Judgment filed July 15, 2024, set for hearing on May 22, 2025 in Dept.
29, shall be heard on February 7, 2025 at 8:30 a.m. in Torrance, Dept. B.  Briefing shall be pursuant to Code based on
the February 7, 2025 hearing date.
BACKGROUND
            On June 30, 2021, plaintiff Reanita
Pardue filed a complaint against Prime Healthcare Services, Inc. and Broderick
J. Franklin, M.D. for wrongful death due to medical negligence.
            On September 7, 2021, plaintiff
filed a FAC against Prime Healthcare Centinela, LLC, dba Centinela Hospital
Medical Center and Broderick J. Franklin, M.D. 
Plaintiff alleges that she is the wife of decedent Keith Perkins and is
the heir at law.  Plaintiff alleges that
on the morning of November 3, 2020, decedent (age 48) entered the emergency
room with severe abdominal pain, registering a pain scale of 10/10.  Decedent spent five hours in the emergency
room and was examined by defendant Dr. Franklin who failed to perform
appropriate testing, specifically a CT scan of the abdomen.  Instead, decedent was discharged home with a
misdiagnosis of chronic gastritis, although he was suffering from a perforated
ulcer.  In the afternoon of November 4,
2020, decedent re-entered the emergency room. 
By then, septic shock and organ failure had set in, and decedent died
shortly afterwards as a consequence of an untreated perforated ulcer. 
            On April 17, 2021, the court granted,
in part, defendant’s motions to compel further responses.
            On July 26, 2024, the case was
transferred from the PI Hub to Torrance Courthouse.
            Trial is scheduled for July 14,
2025.
LEGAL
AUTHORITY
Under CCP §389, “(a) A person who
is subject to service of process and whose joinder will not deprive the court
of jurisdiction over the subject matter of the action shall be joined as a
party in the action if (1) in his absence complete relief cannot be accorded
among those already parties or (2) he claims an interest relating to the
subject of the action and is so situated that the disposition of the action in
his absence may (i) as a practical matter impair or impede his ability to
protect that interest or (ii) leave any of the persons already parties subject
to a substantial risk of incurring double, multiple, or otherwise inconsistent
obligations by reason of his claimed interest.  If he has not been so joined, the court shall
order that he be made a party. . . .”
CCP §377.60 states in part:  “A cause of action for the death of a person
caused by the wrongful act or neglect of another may be asserted by any of the
following persons or by the decedent’s personal representative on their behalf:  (a) The decedent’s surviving spouse, . . . .,
children. . . .”  
“The wrongful death statute is ‘a
procedural statute establishing compulsory joinder and not a statute creating a
joint cause of action.’ . . . [E]ach heir has a personal and separate cause of
action, and a separate rather than a joint interest.”  Ruttenberg v. Ruttenberg (1997) 53
Cal. App. 4th 801, 807 (citation omitted). 
“As defined by section 389, a non-joined heir is not an ‘indispensable
party’ to a wrongful death action. 
Omitted heirs, however, are ‘necessary parties,” and plaintiff heirs
have a mandatory duty to join all known omitted heirs in the ‘single action’
for wrongful death.  If an heir refuses
to participate in the suit as a plaintiff, he or she may be named as a
defendant so that all heirs are before the court in the same action.”  Id. (citations omitted).
“Defendants facing a wrongful death
action in which all the heirs should have, but have not, been joined are
entitled to move to abate the action.”  Adams
v. Superior Court (2011) 196 Cal. App. 4th 71, 77.  “As a ‘personal representative’ of the
deceased, plaintiff may maintain the action on behalf of the heirs—i.e., as ‘a
statutory trustee to recover damages for the benefit of the heirs.’”  Id. (citation omitted).  “Either the decedent’s personal
representative on behalf of the heirs or the specified heirs (either as
plaintiffs or joined defendants) may assert the wrongful death claim—but not
both.”  Id. (citations omitted).
“[I]f the defendant had knowledge
of the omitted heir, but did not attempt to abate the action or join the heir,
the defendant waives the right to a single wrongful death action and may be
subjected to a second wrongful death action by the omitted heir, even after
settlement of the original action.”  Smith
v. Premier Alliance Insurance Company (1995) 41 Cal. App. 4th
691, 697.
DISCUSSION
            Defendant requests that the Court
abate the action for plaintiff’s failure to join indispensable parties.
            Defendant contends that plaintiff
failed to join decedent Keith Perkins’ heirs, Marcus Perkins and Keith Perkins,
under CCP §389.  Defendant asserts that
through the course of discovery, plaintiff provided verified responses
identifying Marcus Perkins and Keith Perkins as children of decedent.  On February 22, 2024 and March 20, 2024,
defense counsel contacted plaintiff’s counsel requesting that plaintiff join
decedent’s children in the action, either as plaintiffs or nominal
defendants.  Defense counsel has not
received a response.  Nor has Plaintiff’s
counsel chosen to file an Opposition to this motion.
            Defendant further explains that
there is no personal representative bringing a wrongful death claim on behalf
of “all heirs”; thus, defendant argues, decedents’ children must be joined as
they are necessary parties as there exists the possibility of multiple lawsuits
for the same cause of action. 
            There is no opposition.
            The Court finds that decedent’s
children, Marcus Perkins and Keith Perkins, are known heirs under CCP §377.60
and thus “necessary parties.”  Further, plaintiff
has not filed a declaration under CCP §377.32 attesting that she is the
personal representative.  Thus, they must
be joined as plaintiffs or nominal defendants. 
See CCP §389(a)(2)(ii).
            The motion is GRANTED.
ORDER
            The
motion is GRANTED.  The action is ABATED.
            Plaintiff
Reanita Pardue is ordered to join and serve Marcus Perkins and Keith Perkins as
plaintiffs or nominal defendants or file a declaration pursuant to CCP §377.32
attesting that she is the decedent’s successor in interest/personal
representative.
            The
actions ordered herein shall be accomplished within 60 days of the date of this
Order.
            A
Status Conference re joinder of Marcus Perkins and Keith Perkins is set for
January 13, 2025 at 8:30 a.m. in Dept. B.
            Centinela
Hospitals Motion for Summary Judgment filed July 15, 2024, set for hearing on
May 22, 2025 in Dept. 29, shall be heard on February 7, 2025 at 8:30 a.m. in
Torrance, Dept. B.  Briefing shall be
pursuant to Code based on the February 7, 2025 hearing date.
            Moving
party Defendant is ordered to give notice.