  Case Number:  23VECV02815    Hearing Date:   December 24, 2024    Dept:  W ZAVEN KOUYOUMDJIAN vs SEDRAK FODOLYAN, et
al.
 
defendants sedrak fodolyan, sedrak fodolyan dba
prestige home healthcare inc., and eprem fodolyan’s demurrer to plaintiff’s
first amended complaint 
 
Date of Hearing:        December 24, 2024                     Trial Date:     None set 
Department:              W                                                   Case No.:       23VECV02815
 
Moving
Party:            Defendants Sedrak
Fodolyan, Sedrak Fodolyan dba Prestige Home Healthcare Inc., and Eprem Fodolyan
 
Responding
Party:     Plaintiff Zaven Kouyoumdjian  
Meet
and Confer:      Yes. (Bagdasaryan Decl.
¶¶3-11.) 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On June 28, 2023, Plaintiff Zaven
Kouyoumdjian filed a complaint against Defendants Sedrak Fodolyan, Sedrak
Fodolyan dba Prestige Home Healthcare Inc., and Eprem Fodolyan. On April 2,
2024, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint against Defendants for
conversion, fraud, misappropriation of funds, breach of covenant of good faith
and breach of oral contract. 
 
Plaintiff alleges Plaintiff and
Defendant Sedrak entered into an oral agreement whereby Plaintiff loaned
Defendant $154,079.80 to assist Defendant Sedrak in his personal needs as well
as for the startup of Defendant Prestige Home Healthcare Inc. Defendant Sedrak
started making periodic payments but Plaintiff alleges there is a balance
remaining and while Plaintiff continued to make demands through the years, on
July 1, 2021, Defendant Sedrak informed Plaintiff he would not be making
further payments. Plaintiff further alleges sometime during the years 2013
through 2020, Defendant Eprem approached Plaintiff and asked to borrow
$60,000.00. Through the years of 2015 to 2021, Defendant Eprem made periodic
payments. However, Plaintiff further alleges while he continued to demand
Defendant Eprem to repay the balance and Defendant continued to promise he
would, on August 5, 2021, Defendant Eprem informed Plaintiff he would no longer
be making payments. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Defendants
Sedrak Fodolyan, Sedrak Fodolyan dba Prestige Home Healthcare
Inc., and Eprem Fodolyan’s Demur to the First Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Defendants Sedrak Fodolyan, Sedrak Fodolyan dba Prestige Home
Healthcare Inc., and Eprem Fodolyan demur to the First Amended Complaint
brought by Plaintiff Zaven Kouyoumdjian on the grounds the complaint and each
cause of action therein fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a claim
against Defendants and are uncertain, ambiguous, and unintelligible. 
 
Breach of Contract
 
“The standard elements of a claim for breach of contract are: ‘(1)
the contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3)
defendant’s breach, and (4) damage to plaintiff therefrom.’” (Wall Street
Network, Ltd. v. New York Times Co. (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 1171, 1178.)
Breach
of oral contract claims are subject to a two-year statute of limitations. (See CCP
§ 339(1).)  
 
Defendants demur to the fifth cause of action for breach of oral
contract on the grounds the precise terms of the contract, including the
execution date as well as the specific alleged breaches are unclear given the
misappropriation of funds allegation that follows. Specifically, Plaintiff
alleges the loan was to assist Defendant Sedrak yet simultaneously alleged
Defendants received money that was intended to be used for the benefit of
Plaintiff. Defendants further argues there is inconsistencies in the original
complaint and FAC and moreover, the cause of action is barred by the statute of
frauds and statute of limitations. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff acknowledges that there are deficiencies
in the operative complaint and has offered to amend the complaint to clarify
the allegation, however, Defendants have chosen to demur to the FAC instead.
Plaintiff briefly addresses Defendants’ argument regarding inconsistent
allegations, statute of limitations and statute of frauds. 
 
First, Plaintiff claims there are several ways to interpret the
allegations and therefore, could be seen as consistent with complaint and in
any case, Plaintiff does wish to clarify the allegations. Moreover, the alleged
oral contract had very simple terms as it was an agreement between family
members/friends. The fact there is no explicitly defined repayment schedule
does not justify the demur. Plaintiff further claims that the exception to the
statute of fraud applies as such as partial performance or promissory estoppel.
(See Alfaro v. Community Housing Improvement System & Planning
Association, Inc. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1356, 1396; Sutton v. Warner
(1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 415, 422.)  
 
The court agrees the allegations as alleged are insufficient.
However, as noted by Plaintiff, leave to amend must be allowed where there is a
reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy
(1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) Plaintiff has sufficiently shown they can amend
their breach of contract claim to clarify any inconsistent terms and the cause
of action is not automatically barred by the statute of frauds or statute of
limitations. The current complaint includes partial performance and moreover,
the face of the complaint is not barred by the statute of limitations. 
 
If Plaintiff wishes to add allegations of financial elder abuse
and promissory estoppel, Plaintiff will need to file a motion for leave to
amend. 
 
Accordingly, Defendants’ demurrer to the fifth cause of action is
SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
Breach of Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing
 
The covenant of good faith and fair dealing is implied by law in
every contract, and it acts “as a supplement to the express contractual
covenants, to prevent a contracting party from engaging in conduct which (while
not technically transgressing the express covenants) frustrates the other
party’s rights to the benefits of the contract.” (Racine & Laramie, Ltd.
v. Department of Parks & Recreation (1992) 11 Cal.App.4th 1026,
1031-1032.) 
 
Defendants demur to this cause of action on the grounds Plaintiff
has not sufficiently alleged a breach of contract claim and moreover, Plaintiff
has failed to allege any conduct by Defendants beyond the purported contractual
breach to support a separate cause of action for breach of the implied
covenant.
 
As the demurrer to the breach of contract cause of action has been
sustained, the court sustains the demurrer to the fourth cause of action for
breach of covenant of good faith and fair dealing. The court notes Plaintiff
must allege more than conclusory terms that Defendants unfairly interfered with
Plaintiff’s rights to receive the benefits of the oral contract. 
 
Accordingly, Defendants’ demurrer to the fourth cause of action is
SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.
 
Fraud 
 
The elements of fraud are: “(a) misrepresentation (false
representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) knowledge of falsity (or
‘scienter’); (c) intent to defraud, i.e., to induce reliance; (d) justifiable
reliance; and (e) resulting damage.” (Charnay v. Cobert (2006) 145
Cal.App.4th 170, 184.) In California, fraud, including negligent
misrepresentation, must be pled with specificity. (Small v. Fritz Companies,
Inc. (2003) 30 Cal.4th 167, 184.) “The particularity demands that a
plaintiff plead facts which show how, when, where, to whom, and by what means
the representations were tendered.” (Cansino v. Bank of America (2014)
224 Cal.App.4th 1462, 1469.)  
 
Defendants argue Plaintiff has failed to plead sufficient facts to
give rise to a fraud cause of action. Specifically, Defendants contend the
complaint allege vague and ambiguous language and moreover, Plaintiff’s
allegations inadvertently establish there could not have been fraud as
Plaintiff alleges Defendants also made partial payments throughout the years.
Lastly, Defendants contend Plaintiff’s allegations against the corporate
defendant do not meet the required specificity. 
 
The court agrees. The fraud cause of action is bare bones and
fails to allege the fraud cause of action with the required specificity against
Defendants, including the corporate Defendant Prestige. At the hearing,
Plaintiff should address whether they wish to include this cause of action in
their amended complaint and if so, how they can correct these issues. 
 
Prestige Home Healthcare Inc. 
 
Defendants demur to the FAC on the grounds there are no factual allegations
against the corporate defendant. At the hearing, Plaintiff is to explain
whether they seek to include allegations against Defendant Prestige Home Health
in the amended complaint and if so, how to correct the issues noted by
Defendants in the demurrer.  
 
Conversion 
 
To plead a cause of action for conversion, one must allege (1) the
plaintiff’s ownership or right to possession of personal property; (2)
defendant’s disposition of the property inconsistent with plaintiff’s rights;
and (3) resulting damages. (Fremont Indemnity Co. v. Fremont General Corp. (2007)
148 Cal.App.4th 97, 119.) “[U]nder the economic loss rule, tort recovery for
breach of a contract duty is generally barred  [citation] unless two conditions are
satisfied. A plaintiff must first demonstrate the defendant's injury-causing
conduct violated a duty that is independent of the duties and rights assumed by
the parties when they entered the contract. Second, the defendant's conduct
must have caused injury to persons or property that was not reasonably
contemplated by the parties when the contract was formed. A review of the cases
in which the doctrine has evolved provides context.” (Rattagan v. Uber
Technologies, Inc. (2024) 17 Cal.5th 1, 20–21.) 
 
Defendants demur to the conversion cause of action on the grounds that
the claim is barred by the economic loss rule and even if the economic loss
rule is inapplicable, Plaintiff’s simple recitation of the elements of
conversion do not satisfy the pleading requirements.
 
The court agrees, as alleged, the harm directly flows from the
alleged breach of contract. As such, at the hearing, Plaintiff is to explain
whether they seek to include allegations and 
how such claim would not be barred by the economic loss rule. 
 
Misappropriation of Funds 
 
Lastly, Defendants demur to the misappropriation of funds cause of
action on the grounds that it is uncertain and vague given that there is no
civil cause of action for misappropriation of funds, if Plaintiff is claiming
embezzlement that claim is also barred by the economic loss rule and lastly,
the allegations contradict Plaintiff’s breach of contract cause of action. 
 
The court agrees there is no misappropriation of funds cause of
action. At the hearing, Plaintiff needs to explain whether they are seeking an
embezzlement claim and whether that can be claimed. 
 
Because there is no cause of action for misappropriation of funds,
the court SUSTAINS the demurrer WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
 