 Case Number:  23VECV03540    Hearing Date:   December 24, 2024    Dept:  W ARTINEH
NAVASARTIAN vs ANAHIT KHACHOYAN, et al.
 
defendants
anahit khachoyan and arutyun martirosyan’s motion to compel deposition of
plaintiff and request for sanctions
 
Date of Hearing:        December
24, 2024              Trial Date:       April
14, 2025  
Department:              W                                            Case
No.:        23VECV03540
 
Moving Party:            Defendants
Anahit Khachoyan and Arutyun Martirosyan  
Responding Party:     Plaintiff
Artineh Navasartian 
Meet and Confer:      Yes.
(Mahlstedt Decl. ¶6.) 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On August 14,
2023, Plaintiff Artineh Navasartian filed a complaint against Defendants Anahit Khachoyan and Arutyun Martirosyan for
negligence and motor vehicle negligence. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Defendants Anahit Khachoyan and Arutyun
Martirosyan’s Motion to Compel Deposition of Plaintiff is GRANTED. 
 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
 
Plaintiff
submits objections to Defendants’ separate statement on the grounds of
attorney-client privilege. As discussed further below, the objections do not
stand and therefore, are overruled. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
Defendants Anahit Khachoyan and Arutyun
Martirosyan move this court for an order compelling Plaintiff Navasartian to
testify in Volume II of her deposition. Defendants also seek sanctions against
Plaintiff and/or Plaintiff’s record of attorney for failure to answer certain
questions at her deposition on October 14, 2024 per her attorney’s
instructions. 
 
“If a deponent fails to answer any
question or to produce any document, electronically stored information,¿or
tangible thing under the deponent's control that is specified in the deposition
notice or a deposition subpoena, the party seeking discovery may move the court
for an order compelling that answer or production.” (CCP §2025.480(a); see Stewart
v. Colonial Western Agency, Inc. (2001) 87 Cal.App.4th 1006, 1015 n. 3 [the
only proper basis to instruct a deponent to not answer a question is an
objection based upon a privilege or manifestly irrelevant questions or
questions designed only to harass.]) “If the court determines that the answer
or production sought is subject to discovery, it shall order that the answer be
given or the production be made on the resumption of the deposition.” (CCP §
2025.480(i).)¿Failure to obey an order may be considered contempt of court and
could subject a party to the action to issue, evidentiary, or terminating
sanctions as well as monetary sanctions. (CCP § 2025.480(k).) “This motion
shall be made no later than 60 days after the completion of the record of the
deposition, and shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration.”¿(CCP §
2025.480(b).)  
 
Defendants move to compel Plaintiff to
provide an answer to their questions regarding how they found PMIR and if
anyone, other than their attorney, referred them to PMIR. Defendants contend
the questions directed at how Plaintiff found their doctor and whether it was
attorney-referred is reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of
admissible evidence and not barred by attorney-client privilege (see Qaadir
v. Figueroa (2021) 67 Cal.App.5th 790). 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff opposes the
motion on the grounds while relevant, it is still protected by attorney-client
privilege. The court disagrees. Plaintiff misses the point of Qaadir v.
Figueroa. In Qaadir, the court agreed “[r]eferral evidence [i.e.,
evidence that a party was referred by his attorney to lien-physicians] … [is
also] relevant to the question of the reasonable value of the lien-physicians’
medical care because it may show bias or financial incentives on the part of
the lien-physicians.” (Qaadir v. Figueroa (2021) 67 Cal.App.5th 790, 808.)
Although the court did not explicitly go on to state that therefore, the
information was not barred by the attorney-client privilege, it is clear that the
court found evidence of a witness being referred to by Plaintiff's counsel is
relevant to show bias and to challenge credibility. Moreover, Plaintiff has not
shown that such a referral constitutes attorney-client communications. Defendant
may only ask who referred plaintiff to the physician.  If plaintiff indicates that the referral came
from his attorney, no further questions can be asked about communications
between plaintiff and his attorney on that topic. If the referral came from
someone else, follow up questions may be asked. 

 
Accordingly, Defendants’ Anahit
Khachoyan and Arutyun Martirosyan’s Motion to Compel Deposition of Plaintiff is
GRANTED.
 
Sanctions
 
Defendants request monetary sanctions
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.010. Defendants request
$810.00 against Plaintiff and/or their counsel. The court GRANTS Defendants’
request for sanctions in the reduced amount of $310.00. Defendants did not file
a Reply.  