 Case Number:  24PSCV01674    Hearing Date:   January 7, 2025    Dept:  H James Rutherford v. Cisneros
Mariscos Bar & Grill LLC, et al. (24PSCV01674)
ORDER ON
DEFAULT JUDGMENT APPLICATION
Plaintiff James Rutherford’s Application
for Default Judgment is DENIED without prejudice.
Background 
Plaintiff James Rutherford (“Plaintiff”) alleges as follows:
Plaintiff suffers from multiple disabilities that
affect his ability to ambulate, and therefore relies upon a wheelchair, among
other mobility devices. On or about April 14, 2024, Plaintiff went to El
Marisquero (the “Restaurant”), the Restaurant owned by Defendants Cisneros
Mariscos Bar & Grill LLC (“Cisneros”) and Does 4-6. The Restaurant is
located at 4136 Peck Rd, El Monte, CA 91732, which is owned by Xuedong Wang, as
trustee of the Xuedong Wang, MD, PHD, a Prof. Corp. Defined Benefit Pension
Plan (“Xuedong Wang”), Lan Shen, as trustee of the Xuedong Wang, MD, PHD, a
Prof. Corp. Defined Benefit Pension Plan (“Lan Shen”), and Does 1-3. Plaintiff
went to the Restaurant as a customer and to advocate for the civil rights of
disabled persons to verify whether Defendants were in compliance with the ADA
and Unruh Civil Rights Act, but determined that the conditions present
at the Defendants’ Restaurant and Property failed to comply ADA Standards for
Accessible Design due to various architectural barriers that affect patrons
with disabilities, in violation of the UCRA. Plaintiff further alleges that
these barriers deny Plaintiff his right to enjoy accessible conditions at this
public place of accommodation in violation of legally cognizable interests
created under the ADA.
On May
23, 2024, Plaintiff filed a complaint, asserting violations of the Unruh Civil
Rights Act, California Civil Code § 51, et seq.
On July
16, 2024, the Clerk entered default against Xuedong Wang and Lan Shen. On July
30, 2024, the Clerk entered default against Cisneros.
Pending
before the Court is Plaintiff’s Application for Default Judgment.
 
Discussion
Plaintiff’s
Application for Default Judgment is denied without prejudice. The
following defects are noted:
          1.       Plaintiff
has failed to dismiss Does 1-10 or filed an application for separate judgment
under Code of Civil Procedure § 579.
          2.       Plaintiff
has failed to describe the judgment to be entered as to any of the defaulted
defendants in item 2 of the Form CIV-100.
          3.       Plaintiff
has failed to fill out the memorandum of costs as to any of the requested
default judgments against any of the defaulted defendants in item 7 of the Form
CIV-100, which is required since Plaintiff seeks actual damages and deterrence
damages, as well as attorneys’ fees and reasonable litigation costs.
          4.       Plaintiff
has failed to fill out the declaration of nonmilitary status as to any of the
defaulted defendants in item 8 of the Form CIV-100.
          5.       Plaintiff
has failed to provide any supporting affidavits or evidence, including a
statement of the case (CRC 3.18000(a)(1)) and declarations in support of
judgment (Id., 3.18000(a)(2)). Accordingly, it is unclear what relief Plaintiff
seeks and whether it is within the amount sought in the prayer of the
complaint. (Greenup v. Rodman (1986) 42
Cal.3d 822, 824.)
Accordingly, the application is denied without prejudice.
Plaintiff is directed to submit a full and complete default judgment application
that addresses the foregoing issues.