 Case Number:  23PSCV01939    Hearing Date:   January 7, 2025    Dept:  H Liu v. Chen, et al., Case No. 23PSCV01939


ORDER ON MOTION FOR PRELIMINARY INJUNCTION
Plaintiff Tao Liu’s Motion for
Preliminary Injunction is GRANTED.
I.        Background
Plaintiff Tao Liu
(“Plaintiff”) alleges as follows:
In or
around April 2017, Plaintiff founded a restaurant called Liu Roast Fish and
Skewers (“Liu Roast Fish”) located at 18207 Gale Ave., City of Industry, CA
91748 (the “City of Industry branch”). Liu Roast Fish serves authentic
Chinese-style food using recipes developed by Plaintiff. In or around October
31, 2018, Plaintiff incorporated Liu Roast Fish Inc. in San Gabriel and opened
a San Gabriel branch of Liu Roast Fish located at 227 Valley Blvd., Unit 128,
San Gabriel, CA 91776 (the “San Gabriel branch”). Plaintiff has devoted a
significant amount of time, energy, and resources toward protecting the value
of his brand, products, name, and reputation. Plaintiff also regularly
exercised quality control over the food served at the restaurant branches.
On or
about October 21, 2020, Plaintiff and Defendant Chun Fang Chen (“Defendant”)
and a third-party, Chun Jin Li (“Li”), entered a restaurant share purchase
agreement (the “Agreement”). Under the Agreement, Plaintiff would sell 90% of
the shares of the City of Industry branch and the San Gabriel branch to Li and
Defendant. The Agreement also provided that Defendant and Li would continue to
use the restaurant’s logo for the San Gabriel branch and the City of Industry
branch. If any party decided to use Plaintiff’s recipes to open a new
restaurant, the other two parties to the contract would have to be notified and
would be given priority to purchase shares of the new restaurant. To protect
his brand and recipes, Plaintiff filed and registered a patent and trademark
with the United States Patent and Trademark Office on or about November 17,
2020.
In or
around September 2022, Plaintiff learned that Defendant had opened an
unauthorized branch of Liu Roast Fish in Tustin, California, located at 1046
Walnut Ave., Tustin, CA 92780 (the “Tustin restaurant”). On or about October 3,
2022, Plaintiff’s then-counsel sent a cease-and-desist letter to Defendant,
explaining that Defendant’s continued operation of the Tustin branch
constituted trademark infringement. Defendant denied the allegation of
trademark infringement and continued to sell products at the Tustin branch.
On June 28, 2023,
Plaintiff filed a complaint, asserting causes of action against Defendant and
Does 1-50 for: (1) breach of contract, (2) trademark infringement in violation
of the Lanham Act, (3) trademark dilution, and (4) unfair competition under
Cal. Bus. & Prof. Code §§ 17200.
The Final Status
Conference is set for February 18, 2025. Trial is set for March 4, 2025.
Pending before the Court
is Plaintiff’s application for a preliminary injunction.
 
II.      Legal Standard
“An injunction is a writ or order requiring a
person to refrain from a particular act. It may be granted by the court in
which the action is brought, or by a judge thereof; and when granted by a
judge, it may be enforced as an order of the court.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
525.)  
“In determining whether to issue a preliminary
injunction, the trial court considers two related factors: (1) the likelihood
that the plaintiff will prevail on the merits of its case at trial, and (2) the
interim harm that the plaintiff is likely to sustain if the injunction is
denied as compared to the harm that the defendant is likely to suffer if the
court grants a preliminary injunction.” (14859
Moorpark Homeowner’s Ass’n v. VRT Corp. (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 1396, 1402.)
“The trial court’s determination must be guided by a ‘mix’ of the
potential-merit and interim-harm factors; the greater the plaintiff’s showing
on one, the less must be shown on the other to support an injunction.” (Butt v. State of California (1992) 4
Cal.4th 668, 678 (“Butt”).)
“Generally, weighing these factors lies within the broad discretion of the
superior court.” (County of Kern v.
T.C.E.F., Inc. (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 301, 315.)

III.     Discussion
Plaintiff moves for a
preliminary injunction pending trial that would enjoin Defendant and any agents
or other persons acting with Defendant or on her behalf from misusing
Plaintiff’s trade name, trademark, and cooking recipes.
A.            Evidentiary Objections
The Court rules on
Defendant’s evidentiary objections to the Liu Declaration as follows: (1)
Objection 1 (i.e., as to paragraph 14) is sustained; (2) Objection 2 (i.e., as
to paragraph 15) is overruled; (3) Objection 3 (i.e., as to paragraph 16) is
overruled; (4) Objection 4 (i.e., as to paragraph 17) is sustained, (5)
Objection 5 (i.e., as to paragraph 18) is overruled, and (6) Objection 6 (i.e.,
as to paragraph 11) is overruled.
          B.       Merits
 
          1.       Likelihood
of Prevailing on the Merits
In
this lawsuit, Plaintiff alleges that Defendant has opened a restaurant, without
Plaintiff’s authorization, that uses Plaintiff’s trade name, trademark, and
cooking recipes. Based on these allegations, Plaintiff asserts the following
causes of action against Defendant: (1) breach of contract, (2) trademark infringement,
(3) trademark dilution, and (4) unfair competition. Plaintiff seeks, among
other things, injunctive relief prohibiting Defendant from any further
interference with Plaintiff’s trademark, trade name, and cooking recipes.
To
state a cause of action for breach of contract, Plaintiff must be able to
establish “(1) the existence of the contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or
excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach, and (4) the resulting
damages to the plaintiff.” (Oasis West
Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011) 51 Cal.4th 811, 821.) If a breach of contract
claim “is based on alleged breach of a written contract, the terms must be set
out verbatim in the body of the complaint or a copy of the written agreement
must be attached and incorporated by reference.” (Harris v. Rudin, Richman & Appel (1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 299,
307.) 
To
state a cause of action for trademark/trade-name infringement under the Lanham
Act (15 U.S.C. § 1125), the Plaintiff must establish: (1) the defendant’s use
of a mark, (2) that is similar to plaintiff’s mark, (3) such that it is likely
to deceive or confuse the public, based on the following: (a) strength of the
plaintiff’s mark; (b) similarity between the two marks; (c) proximity
of the goods; (d) evidence of actual confusion; (e) marketing channels used;
(f) type of goods and the degree of care likely to be exercised by the
purchasers; (g) Defendant’s intent in selecting the mark; and (h) the likelihood
of expansion of product lines. (Mallard
Creek Industries, Inc. v. Morgan (1997) 56 Cal.App.4th 426, 435 [holding
that the federal “likelihood of confusion” standard applies equally under
California law].) 
As to trademark
dilution, a trademark dilution claim does not merely require the plaintiff to
prove ownership of a trademark—“[i]nstead, the plaintiff must establish that
the trademark is both distinctive (the requirement to prove ownership) and
famous.” (Franklin Mint Co. v. Manatt,
Phelps & Phillips, LLP (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 313, 344.) Under federal
and California law, trademarks eligible for dilution protection are extremely
limited. (Id.) “Therefore, to meet
the ‘famousness’ element of protection under the dilution statutes, a mark must
be truly prominent and renowned.” (Id.
[cleaned up].) 
Finally,
the elements of an unfair competition claim are (1) a business practice; (2)
that is unfair, unlawful, or fraudulent; and (3) an authorized remedy. (Bus.
& Prof. Code, § 17200.) It is a tool with which to enjoin deceptive or
sharp practices. (Samura v. Kaiser
Foundation Health Plan, Inc. (1993) 17 Cal.App.4th 1284, 1299, fn. 6.)
Unfair competition “borrows” violations of other laws and authorizes a separate
action pursuant to unfair competition. (See Famers
Ins. Exch. V. Superior Court (1992) 2 Cal.4th 377, 383.) Unfair conduct in
unfair competition actions must be violative of public policy and “tethered to
specific constitutional, statutory, or regulatory provisions.” (Scripps Clinic v. Superior Court (2003)
104 Cal.App.4th 917, 940.) As a statutory cause of action, allegations of
unfair business practices must state with reasonable particularity the facts
supporting the statutory elements of the violation. (Khoury v. Maly’s of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612,
619.) The statutory violations must be specifically delineated and said
violations must relate to a business activity. (Id.)
Plaintiff
has proffered the following evidence in support of the requested preliminary
injunction:
Plaintiff has a registered trademark in the logo and trade name for his
restaurant business, Liu Roast Fish and Skewers. (Liu Decl., ¶¶ 1-3; Exh. 1.) Under
Plaintiff’s agreement with Defendant, if Defendant used Plaintiff’s trademark,
trade name, and recipes to open a new restaurant, she had to notify Plaintiff
and give him the right of first refusal to purchase an interest in the new
restaurant. (Id., ¶¶ 4-6; Exh. 2.)
Defendant admitted that she knew there was a protected trademark and trade name,
and that, even so, she used the protected logo, trademark and trade-name when
she opened her Tustin restaurant, including by putting the logo, trademark, and
trade name on or above the door of the Tustin restaurant, on numerous table
mats, and internet advertising. (Id.,
¶¶ 7-9, 11, 14, 18; Exhs. 3-4.) Further, in September 2024, when Plaintiff and
another person went to the Tustin restaurant to investigate, Plaintiff discovered
that Defendant was still using Plaintiff’s trademark, logo, and recipes. (Id. ¶¶ 12-15; Exhs. 3-5.)
In
opposition, Defendant contends that Plaintiff cannot establish a likelihood of
success on the merits because Plaintiff fails to demonstrate that his recipes
are a “trade secret” as defined by the California Civil Code, section 3426.1.
Defendant emphasizes that Plaintiff does not present any objective measurement
of the value of his recipes, and instead relies on Plaintiff’s own self-serving
declaration, which is insufficient to establish the existence of a protectable
trade secret.
Even
putting aside whether Plaintiff can prove the existence of a “trade secret,”
the Court finds that Plaintiff has established a likelihood of success on the
merits on at least some causes of action. As to the breach of contract action, under
the express terms of the Agreement, Defendant voluntarily contracted not to use
Plaintiff’s recipes to setup a new restaurant without notifying the other
parties, and that any change to the cuisine offered at the restaurants required
negotiation between the parties. (Liu Decl., ¶¶ 4-5; Exh. 2, at p. 3.) 
Moreover,
Plaintiff has presented evidence that Defendant used, and continued using (even
after receiving a cease-and-desist request), Plaintiff’s registered trademark
in Defendant’s restaurant business’s logo and trade name. (Liu Decl., ¶¶ 7-8,
11-16; Exhs. 1, 3-5.) Even if Plaintiff’s evidence does not conclusively
establish that Defendant used Plaintiff’s recipes,[FN] Plaintiff has presented evidence demonstrating that Defendant used the same
photos of the food made with Plaintiff’s recipes to advertise the Tustin
restaurant, resulting in consumer confusion. (Id., ¶¶ 7, 11, 14, 15; Exh. 3.) 
Accordingly,
the Court finds that Plaintiff has shown a likelihood of prevailing on the
merits against Defendant on his breach of contract, trademark infringement, and
unfair competition claims.
                    2.       Interim Harm 
Plaintiff
has also shown that the balance of relative hardships favors him. As described
above, Plaintiff’s evidence demonstrates the existence of actual consumer
confusion regarding Defendant’s use of Plaintiff’s registered mark, and that,
despite Plaintiff’s request to cease and desist, Defendant has continued to use
Plaintiff’s registered mark. (Liu Decl., ¶¶ 3, 7-9, 11-15; Exhs. 1, 3-5.)
Further, it appears Defendant testified untruthfully at her deposition by
claiming she did not know where the table mats using Plaintiff’s registered
mark came from or who acquired them, even though they were delivered to the
Tustin restaurant and had the addresses and phone numbers of Defendant’s two
restaurants printed on them. (Id.,
¶16; Exh. 6; Transcript of Chen Deposition, Exh. A, p. 55-59.) 
In
opposition, Defendant claims that Plaintiff cannot establish irreparable harm. She
first contends that the alleged harm is too speculative, as Plaintiff has not
provided evidence of any lost sales or other tangible damages. She also argues
that the fact that Plaintiff waited nearly two years to seek injunctive relief
cuts against Plaintiff’s claim of irreparable harm. (See O’Connell v. Superior Court (2006) 141 Cal.App.4th 1452, 1481.) 
While
the Court agrees that Plaintiff’s evidence of the first factor (the likelihood
of success on the merits) is stronger than the evidence of the second factor
(interim harm), the Court finds the evidence of interim harm is sufficient
based on the sliding scale of proof required at the preliminary injunction
stage. (Butt, supra, 4 Cal.4th at p.
678.) In particular, the Court is persuaded that the continued use of
Plaintiff’s registered mark has resulted in actual consumer confusion such that
an injunction is warranted to prevent further confusion before the case can be
brought to trial.

 
IV.     Conclusion 
For
the foregoing reasons, Plaintiff’s Motion for Preliminary Injunction is
granted.

