 Case Number:  23STCV06057    Hearing Date:   March 12, 2024    Dept:  48  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



TRACYNE RESTREPO, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
SUN MAR MANAGEMENT SERVICES, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 23STCV06057
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING PLAINTIFF’S MOTION
  TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO FORM INTERROGATORIES
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
March 12, 2024



 
On
May 10, 2023, Plaintiff Tracyne Restrepo served Form Interrogatories, Set One on
Defendant Community Care Rehab Center LLC. 
On June 19, 2023, Defendant served its unverified and allegedly deficient
responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One. 
After meeting and conferring, Plaintiff filed a motion to compel further
responses on August 31, 2023.  Plaintiff seeks
further responses to Form Rog Nos. 12.1 and 17.1.
Defendant’s
sole ground for opposition is that Plaintiff’s motion is deficient because she did
not file a memorandum of points and authorities pursuant to California Rules of
Court, rule 3.1113.  A party moving to compel
further responses must file a Separate Statement or follow the Court’s alternative
method of outlining the disputes.  (Code Civ.
Proc., §§ 2030.300, subd. (b), 2031.310, subd. (b); California Rules of Court, rule
3.1345(b).)  This Department requires the
parties to meet and confer on the substantive issues before filing a joint statement,
following the procedures outlined in Exhibit A of Department 48’s Courtroom Information
(available on the court’s website, www.lacourt.org).  This Department also specifies: “After the Joint
Stipulation is filed, each party may file a supplemental memorandum of law not later
than ten days before the hearing date.  A
supplemental memorandum may not exceed five pages in length.  No other separate memorandum of points and authorities
may be filed by either party in connection with the motion.”  Plaintiff’s motion complies with these procedures,
and Defendant did not respond to Plaintiff’s requests for Defendant’s portions of
the Joint Statement.  (Garcia Decl. ¶ 6.)
A
party may move to compel a further response to interrogatories if the demanding
party deems an answer to be evasive or incomplete, if an exercise of the option
to produce documents is unwarranted or inadequate, or if objection is without merit
or too general.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300,
subd. (a).)
A.        Defendant’s Response to Form Rog. No.
12.1 is Complete and Sufficient.
Form
Rog No. 12.1 requests information about each individual who witnessed or has knowledge
of the incident.  After objecting, Defendant’s
supplemental response to parts (a), (b), and (c) referred Plaintiff to her “records
from Community Care & Rehabilitation Center, LLC specifically any and all admission
records, transfer records, orders, progress notes, assessments, therapy records,
labs, and MDS reports.  Any and all witnesses
Responding Party is aware of are identified in those records.  All current staff named in the records can be
contacted through defense counsel’s office. 
Any former staff and their information can be found in ATTACHMENT 1 – FACILITY
FORMER EMPLOYEE LIST, attached hereto.”
“If
the answer to an interrogatory would necessitate the preparation or the making of
a compilation, abstract, audit, or summary of or from the documents of the party
to whom the interrogatory is directed, and if the burden or expense of preparing
or making it would be substantially the same for the party propounding the interrogatory
as for the responding party, it is a sufficient answer to that interrogatory to
refer to this section and to specify the writings from which the answer may be derived
or ascertained.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.230.)
Plaintiff
has not shown how Defendant’s response is insufficient.  Plaintiff acknowledges that Defendant “is relieved
from the burden of examining and summarizing voluminous documents in order to answer
an interrogatory . . . only where the burden or expense of preparing or making the
compilation or summary would be substantially the same for the propounding party
as the responding party.”  (Joint Statement
at pp. 8-9, emphasis omitted.)  Plaintiff
refers to a non-existent Exhibit 9 to assert that the records contain illegible
entries and over 4,822 pages of medical records.  (Id. at p. 9.)  There is no showing that the burden on Defendant
is less than that on Plaintiff.  Because the
burden of ascertaining identities from the medical records is substantially the
same for the both parties, Defendant’s response is complete and sufficient.  (See Kaiser Foundation Hospitals v. Superior
Court for Los Angeles County (1969) 275 Cal.App.2d 801, 804-805.)
For
part (d), Defendant responded, “Unknown, other than those persons identified above
as well as plaintiffs and plaintiffs’ counsel.” 
This is complete and sufficient.
The
motion is DENIED for Form Rog No. 12.1.
B.        Plaintiff Has Not Shown That Further Responses
to Form Rog No. 17.1 Are Required.
Form
Rog No. 17.1 requests further information for every response to a request for admission
that is not an unqualified admission.
Defendant
did not respond to Form Rog No. 17.1 with respect to numerous underlying RFAs.  (See Joint Statement at pp. 14-100.)  Although Plaintiff asserts that “Defendant denied
this Request for Admission,” Plaintiff does not provide Defendant’s responses to
the underlying RFAs.
“If
the response to a particular discovery request is dependent on the response given
to another discovery request, or if the reasons a further response to a particular
discovery request is deemed necessary are based on the response to some other discovery
request, the other request and the response to it must be set forth.”  (California Rules of Court, rule 3.1345 (c)(5).)  Without seeing Defendant’s responses to the RFAs,
the Court cannot determine whether they were indeed denials (or not unqualified
admissions) for which Form Rog No. 17.1 responses are required.
The
motion is DENIED for Form Rog No. 17.1.
C.        Conclusion
The
motion is DENIED.
The
request for sanctions is denied.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 12th day of March 2023
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 