 Case Number:  22STCV27209    Hearing Date:   March 12, 2024    Dept:  48 SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



THERESA CHANG, et al., 
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
BRINKS GLOBAL SERVICES USA, INC., et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 22STCV27209
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING MOTION FOR PROTECTIVE
  ORDER
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
March 12, 2024



 
On
August 22, 2022, Plaintiffs Theresa Chang dba Treasure Connection; Forty-Seventh
& Fifth, Inc.; Paul King Por Wong and Leona Wai Fong Lam Wong dba Lams Jade
Center, Inc.; Ming Chang dba Bonita Pearl, Inc.; Shahram Lavian and Sioun Lavian
dba S&N Diamond; Sarkis Kegeyan dba Luvell, Inc.; Fariborz Frank Petri dba Petri
Gems, Inc.; Amy Kit Tsing Leung dba Hawaiian Design Jewelry Company; Shung Man Simon
Lam and Woon Mai Lam Quek dba El Dorado Jewelry, Inc.; Victor Wu and Anita Wu dba
Pan Lovely Jewelry Company; Birol Arat dba Arat Jewelry; Tony Lee dba Lees International
Jewelry, Inc.; Tan Lay Eng and Lee Cheng Tek dba Supreme Collection Corporation;
and Rebecca Yum dba Denver Trading Company Kimmimoto (collectively, “Plaintiffs”)
filed this action against Defendant Gloria Corrales and others.
On
February 9, 2024, Defendant Corrales filed a motion for protective order governing
the confidentiality of discovery.
According
to Defendant, “Plaintiffs’ counsel has already agreed to a protective order to obtain
corporate policies, procedures and guidelines, and confidential business records
from Ms. Corrales’ employer Brinks Global Services USA, Inc. (or ‘Brinks’) in a
parallel action pending in the United States District Court for the Southern District
of New York (‘SDNY Action’).”  (Motion at
p. 2.)  Defendant therefore seeks to make
the SDNY protective order the governing protective order in this action.
Defendant
broadly argues that the information sought in discovery constitutes confidential
information.  (Motion at pp. 7-9.)  However, there is no factual showing that Defendant
has an interest in protecting any confidential discovery requested of her.  Instead, she contends that “Brinks could never
recover its loss from a disclosure of the requested information to a competitor,
criminals, or the public at large.  Disclosure
of Brinks’ policies information will cause irreparable harm to Brinks, its employees,
and its customers.”  (Id. at p. 9.)  This action as to Brinks is stayed in favor of
litigation in New York.  Brinks is not actively
litigating the case in this Court.
Defendant
also argues that she will be prejudiced without a protective order because “California
courts do not permit one party to block relevant discovery while it simultaneously
seeks affirmatively to rely on that evidence at trial,” and Plaintiffs already agreed
to the SDNY protective order.  (Motion at
pp. 9-10.)  There is again no showing that
Defendant is being blocked from obtaining any necessary discovery here.
The
proposed order provides that the protective order entered in the SDNY Action “is
now the order of this Court in this action.” 
As Plaintiffs note, the express language of the SDNY protective order governs
only discovery in New York.  By adopting that
order verbatim, it would not add any protection to discovery in this case in California.  In that respect, the Court agrees with Plaintiffs:  “Based on the language of Corrales’ Proposed Order,
she is requesting only that this Court make the NY Protective Order an Order of
this Court.  That would add nothing to the
NY Protective Order.  That Order, even extended
to this case, would still cover only discovery material produced in the NY action,
not anything produced or procured in discovery in this case.  Corrales’ Proposed Order would not change the
provisions in the NY Protective Order precluding use of material designated Confidential
or Highly Confidential in other litigation.” 
(Opposition at p. 6.)
Moreover,
the SDNY protective order expressly exempts this action:  “Recipients of Confidential or Highly Confidential
Discovery Material under this Order may use such material solely for the prosecution
and defense of this action and any appeals thereto, and not for any business, commercial,
or competitive purpose or in any other litigation proceeding, except that any party
in Chang, et al. v. Brinks Global Services, Los Angeles Superior Court Case No.
22STCV27209 may use such material in that action subject to the terms of this Order.  Nothing contained in this Order, however, will
affect or restrict the rights of any Party with respect to its own documents or
information produced in this action.”  (Motion,
Ex. 1 at p. 8, ¶ 16.)
The
motion for protective order is DENIED without prejudice to a stipulation or motion
to enter a different protective order, such as the model Los Angeles Superior Court
Los Angeles Superior Court Stipulated Confidentiality Order Form.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 12th day of March 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 