 Case Number:  22STCV37753    Hearing Date:   March 12, 2024    Dept:  48  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



JUAN CARLOS BARAHONA, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
APERTO PROPERTY MANAGEMENT, INC.,
 
                        Defendant.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 22STCV37753
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING MOTION TO COMPEL
  ARBITRATION
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
March 12, 2024



 
On December 2, 2022, Plaintiff
Juan Carlos Barahona filed this action against Defendant arising from his
employment.
On
November 8, 2023, Defendant filed a motion to compel arbitration.
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
Defendant’s
y Objections to Declaration of Plaintiff Juan Carlos Barahona are overruled.
DISCUSSION
When seeking to compel arbitration
of a plaintiff’s claims, the defendant must allege the existence of an agreement
to arbitrate.  (Condee v. Longwood Management
Corp. (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215, 219.) 
The burden then shifts to the plaintiff to prove the falsity of the agreement.  (Ibid.)  After the Court determines that an agreement to
arbitrate exists, it then considers objections to its enforceability.  (Ibid.)
The Court must grant a petition
to compel arbitration unless the defendant has waived the right to compel arbitration
or if there are grounds to revoke the arbitration agreement.  (Ibid.; Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.)  Under California law and the Federal Arbitration
Act (“FAA”), an arbitration agreement may be invalid based upon grounds applicable
to any contract, including unconscionability, fraud, duress, and public policy.  (Sanchez v. Western Pizza Enterprises, Inc.
(2009) 172 Cal.App.4th 154, 165-166.)
A.        Defendant Did Not Waive Its Right to
Compel Arbitration.
Plaintiff
argues that Defendant delayed bringing this motion and has waived its right to
arbitrate.  (Opposition at p. 11.)
“‘In
determining waiver, a court can consider “(1) whether the party’s actions are
inconsistent with the right to arbitrate; (2) whether the ‘litigation machinery
has been substantially invoked’ and the parties ‘were well into preparation of
a lawsuit’ before the party notified the opposing party of an intent to
arbitrate; (3) whether a party either requested arbitration enforcement close
to the trial date or delayed for a long period before seeking a stay; (4)
whether a defendant seeking arbitration filed a counterclaim without asking for
a stay of the proceedings; (5) ‘whether important intervening steps [e.g.,
taking advantage of judicial discovery procedures not available in arbitration]
had taken place’; and (6) whether the delay ‘affected, misled, or prejudiced’
the opposing party.” ’  [Citation.]”  (St. Agnes Med. Ctr. v. PacifiCare of Cal.
(2003) 31 Cal.4th 1187, 1196 (St. Agnes).)  Recently, the United States Supreme Court
resolved a circuit split and “held that under the FAA, courts may not
‘condition a waiver of the right to arbitrate on a showing of prejudice.’”  (Davis v. Shiekh Shoes, LLC (2022) 84
Cal.App.5th 956, 965 (Davis), quoting Morgan v. Sundance, Inc.
(2022) 142 S.Ct. 1708, 1713 (Morgan).) 
Accordingly, the St. Agnes factors “‘minus the prejudice
requirement’ are unaffected by Morgan and remain proper considerations
in the waiver inquiry.”  (Davis,
supra, 84 Cal.App.5th at p. 966.)
Defendant’s
conduct is not inconsistent with the right to arbitrate, and the “litigation
machinery” has not been substantially invoked. 
Defendant’s January 20, 2023 answer raised the arbitration agreement as
its third affirmative defense. 
Defendant’s April 12, 2023 Case Management Statement indicated that it
was willing to participate in binding private arbitration; Defendant did not
check any other boxes in Item 10(c).  In
Item 15, Defendant stated that it “intends to file a Motion to Compel
Arbitration based on Plaintiff’s signed arbitration agreement if Plaintiff’s
counsel does not stipulate to same,” and in Item 18, Defendant stated, “This
matter is subject to an arbitration agreement. 
Defendant will move to compel arbitration unless Plaintiff stipulates
that no motion to compel is necessary.” 
Defendant’s August 7, 2023 Case Management Statement contained similar
representations.  The only discovery
propounded in this case has been propounded by Plaintiff, and Defendant
objected to the discovery.  (Hunter Decl.
¶ 4.)  Defendant has not propounded any
discovery or filed any motions besides this one.  (Hunter Decl. ¶ 5.)
Additionally,
some of Defendant’s delay in filing this motion was brought on by Plaintiff’s
conduct.  In March 2023, Plaintiff’s
counsel “conveyed, in both email and during at least one telephone conversation
regarding the same, that Plaintiff would agree to stipulate to arbitration
without the need to file a motion to compel if Aperto attended the Settlement
Conference.”  (McBride Decl. ¶ 5.)  After the Settlement Conference did not
result in a resolution, Plaintiff refused to submit the matter to arbitration
and proceeded with discovery.  (McBride
Decl. ¶ 7.)  Plaintiff’s counsel stated
that Plaintiff would agree to arbitration if Defendant would agree to a “global
mediation” involving parties from other related cases.  (McBride Decl. ¶ 8.)  Even after that, Plaintiff would not
stipulate to arbitration.  (McBride Decl.
¶ 9.)  Plaintiff cannot rightly contend
that Defendant delayed when the delay was caused by Plaintiff’s
misrepresentations about his willingness to stipulate after settlement
discussions.
The
Court concludes that Defendant has not waived its right to compel arbitration.
B.        Defendant Has Shown The Existence of An
Arbitration Agreement.
Defendant
contends that on July 30, 2021, Plaintiff electronically signed a Binding
Mutual Agreement to Arbitration Claims in connection with his employment onboarding.  (Mendiola Decl. ¶ 6.)  Defendant provides a copy of the arbitration agreement.  (Mendiola Decl., Ex. A [“Arbitration Agreement”].)  Through the Arbitration Agreement, the parties
agreed to arbitrate “any controversy, claim or dispute between [employee] and
Aperto Property Management, Inc. . . . as the sole and exclusive remedy,
regardless of whether such dispute is initiated by Company or [employee].”  The Arbitration Agreement is electronically signed
by Plaintiff and a representative of the company using DocuSign.
Plaintiff
argues that he does not recall seeing or signing the Arbitration Agreement.  (Opposition at pp. 2-3; Barahona Decl. ¶ 7.)  Plaintiff declares that he is unaware of
anyone from Defendant contacting him about documents that he needed to
sign.  (Barahona Decl. ¶ 8.)
When
a plaintiff does not recall signing or agreeing to an electronic agreement, the
defendant has the burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence that an electronic
signature or acceptance is authentic, i.e., that it was the act of the plaintiff.  (Ruiz v. Moss Bros. Auto Group, Inc. (2014)
232 Cal.App.4th 836, 846.)
Defendant’s
Human Resources Manager has reviewed Plaintiff’s personnel file.  (Mendiola Decl. ¶¶ 2, 5-6.)  Plaintiff signed the Binding Mutual Agreement
to Arbitrate Claims using DocuSign, the link to which was sent to Plaintiff’s
personal email address that he provided. 
(Mendiola Decl. ¶ 7.)  Defendant
also provides the DocuSign Certificate of Completion for the Arbitration
Agreement, showing that Plaintiff’s electronic signature was from “Juan Carlos
Barahona Murillo” with the email address jcarlos197516@yahoo.com.  (Mendiola Decl., Ex. B.)  Plaintiff did not deny that this is his
personal email address.  (See Barahona
Decl.)  Defendant has shown, by a
preponderance of evidence, that the electronic signature is from Plaintiff.
Plaintiff
also declares that he has a very limited understanding of written English.  (Barahona Decl. ¶ 4.)  But a party who signed a contract in a
language he may not have completely understood cannot avoid enforcement of the
arbitration agreement on this basis.  (Ramos
v. Westlake Services LLC (2015) 242 Cal.App.4th 674, 687 [“If Ramos did not
speak or understand English sufficiently to comprehend the English Contract, he
should have had it read or explained to him.”]; see also Randas v. YMCA of
Metropolitan Los Angeles (1993) 17 Cal. App. 4th 158, 163 [“‘Ordinarily,
one who accepts or signs an instrument, which on its face is a contract, is
deemed to assent to all its terms, and cannot escape liability on the ground
that he has not read it.  If he cannot
read, he should have it read or explained to him.’  [Citation.]”].)
Defendant
has satisfied its burden of showing the existence of an agreement to arbitrate.
C.        The Arbitration Agreement Satisfies The
Armendariz Factors.
Arbitration
agreements for FEHA claims must (1) provide for neutral arbitrators, (2) provide
for more than minimal discovery, (3) require a written award, (4) provide for all
of the types of relief that would otherwise be available in court, and (5) not require
employees to pay either unreasonable costs or any arbitrators’ fees or expenses
as a condition of access to the arbitration forum.  (Armendariz, supra, 24 Cal.4th at p. 102.)  These requirements may apply to non-FEHA employment
claims.  (See Pinela v. Neiman Marcus Group,
Inc. (2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 227, 254 [applying the Armendariz factors
in the context of claims under the Labor Code].)
The
arbitration agreement provides for arbitration with JAMS in accordance with the
JAMS Employment Arbitration Rules and Procedures, using a neutral arbitrator.  The parties may conduct discovery to the same
extent as would be permitted in a court of law. 
The arbitrator will issue a written decision and will have full
authority to award all remedies that would be available in court.  Defendant will pay all arbitrator fees and any
arbitration administrative expenses.
Accordingly,
the Arbitration Agreement satisfies Armendariz.
D.        There Is No Procedural Unconscionability.
For
an arbitration agreement to be unenforceable as unconscionable, both procedural
and substantive unconscionability must be present.  (Armendariz, supra, 24 Cal.4th at p. 114.)  “[T]he more substantively oppressive the contract
term, the less evidence of procedural unconscionability is required to come to the
conclusion that the term is unenforceable, and vice versa.”  (Ibid.)
“The
relevant factors in assessing the level of procedural unconscionability are oppression
and surprise.”  (Orcilla v. Big Sur, Inc.
(2016) 244 Cal.App.4th 982, 997.)  “‘The oppression
component arises from an inequality of bargaining power of the parties to the contract
and an absence of real negotiation or a meaningful choice on the part of the weaker
party.’”  (Abramson v. Juniper Networks,
Inc. (2004) 115 Cal.App.4th 638, 656.) 
“The circumstances relevant to establishing oppression include, but are not
limited to (1) the amount of time the party is given to consider the proposed contract;
(2) the amount and type of pressure exerted on the party to sign the proposed contract;
(3) the length of the proposed contract and the length and complexity of the challenged
provision; (4) the education and experience of the party; and (5) whether the party’s
review of the proposed contract was aided by an attorney.”  (Grand Prospect Partners, L.P. v. Ross Dress
for Less, Inc. (2015) 232 Cal.App.4th 1332, 1348, fn. omitted.)  “The component of surprise arises when the challenged
terms are ‘hidden in a prolix printed form drafted by the party seeking to enforce
them.’”  (Ibid.)  “The adhesive nature of the employment contract
requires [the court] to be ‘particularly attuned’ to [Plaintiff’s] claim of unconscionability
[citation], but [the court] do[es] not subject the contract to the same degree of
scrutiny as ‘[c]ontracts of adhesion that involve surprise or other sharp practices’
[citation].”  (Baltazar v. Forever 21,
Inc. (2016) 62 Cal.4th 1237, 1245 (Baltazar).)
Plaintiff
argues that the arbitration agreement is procedurally unconscionable because it
is a contract of adhesion.  (Opposition at
pp. 4-5.)  Arbitration agreements that are
“take it or leave it” have some degree of procedural unconscionability.  (Ajamian v. CantorCO2e, L.P. (2012) 203
Cal.App.4th 771, 796.)  Here, however, the
Arbitration Agreement was not a condition of employment, and it states, “I
understand that this Agreement is voluntary and my decision to accept or reject
it will not impact my employment in any way.” 
The Arbitration Agreement was not mandatory, even it Plaintiff could not
negotiate the terms therein.
Plaintiff
also argues that the agreement is complicated and filled with legal jargon, and
it does not explain what the FAA is. 
(Opposition at p. 8.)  The
Arbitration Agreement is a stand-alone document that is clearly titled “BINDING
MUTUAL AGREEMENT TO ARBITRATE CLAIMS.” 
(See Sanchez v. Carmax Auto Superstores California, LLC (2014)
224 Cal.App.4th 398, 403 [no oppression or surprise when “[t]he stand-alone
arbitration agreement was not hidden, but prominently featured as part of the
employment application”].)  It uses an
easy-to-read font style and size.  There
are no references to statutes and acts.  It
is a single page.  (See Torrecillas v.
Fitness International, LLC (2020) 52 Cal.App.5th 485, 493 [no element of
surprise when an Arbitration Agreement is “but three pages long and was in a
conventional font.  Its title, in large
and bold font, was in plain English.”].)
Accordingly,
Plaintiff has not shown any procedural unconscionability.
E.        There Is No Substantive Unconscionability.
“‘Substantive
unconscionability pertains to the fairness of an agreement’s actual terms and to
assessments of whether they are overly harsh or one-sided.  [Citations.] 
A contract term is not substantively unconscionable when it merely gives
one side a greater benefit; rather, the term must be “so one-sided as to ‘shock
the conscience.’”’  [Citation.]’”  (Carmona v. Lincoln Millennium Car Wash, Inc.
(2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 74, 85.)
Plaintiff
argues that the Arbitration Agreement is substantively unconscionable because
it does not include a copy of the arbitration rules.  (Opposition at pp. 8-9.)  In Trivedi and the cases cited
therein, the unconscionability arguments depended on the arbitration rules in
question.  (Baltazar, supra, 62
Cal.4th at p. 1246.)  Those cases “thus
stand for the proposition that courts will more closely scrutinize the
substantive unconscionability of terms that were ‘artfully hidden’ by the
simple expedient of incorporating them by reference rather than including them
in or attaching them to the arbitration agreement.”  (Ibid.)  When a challenge to the enforcement of an
arbitration agreement has nothing to do with the particular rules, the failure
to attach the rules does not affect unconscionability.  (Ibid.)  Here, the challenge has nothing to do with
the particular rules.  And in any event,
the Arbitration Agreement states that copies of the rules are available from
Defendant’s Human Resources Department, and it includes a link to obtain a copy
of the JAMS rules.
Plaintiff
argues that Defendant is a repeat player in arbitration.  (Opposition at pp. 9-10.)  “Various studies show that arbitration is
advantageous to employers not only because it reduces the costs of litigation,
but also because it reduces the size of the award that an employee is likely to
get, particularly if the employer is a ‘repeat player’ in the arbitration
system.”  (Armendariz, supra, 24
Cal.4th 83, 115.)  However, Armendariz
dealt with this concern when concluding that when there is mandatory arbitration,
the employer cannot generally require the employee to bear any type of expense
that the employee would not be required to bear in court.  (Id. at pp. 110-111.)  As discussed above, the Arbitration Agreement
here satisfies this and all other Armendariz factors.  There are also “sufficient institutional
safeguards, such as scrutiny by the plaintiff’s bar and appointing agencies
like the AAA, to protect against corrupt arbitrators.”  (Id. at p. 111.)
Finally,
Plaintiff argues that the agreement is unconscionable because of the waiver of
representative actions, including PAGA actions. 
(Opposition at p. 10.)  But Plaintiff
does not bring this action as a representative action under PAGA or as a class action.  Even if he had, Plaintiff’s characterization of
the Arbitration Agreement is not accurate. 
The representative waiver is only “to the extent permitted by applicable
law, including the Federal Arbitration Act, to utilize representative action
procedures in asserting a claim subject to this Agreement.”  If the law does not permit waiver of certain
representative actions, then those claims cannot be arbitrated pursuant to this
agreement.  Additionally, “If any
provision of this Agreement is found to be unenforceable, the remainder of this
Agreement shall remain in full force and effect, as if the unenforceable or
invalid provision did not exist.”
In
sum, Plaintiff has not shown any procedural or substantive unconscionability, and
the Arbitration Agreement should not be invalidated.
CONCLUSION
Defendant’s
 motion to compel arbitration is GRANTED.  The entire action is STAYED pending the conclusion
of the arbitration.
A
Status Conference re: Arbitration is scheduled for March 13, 2025 at 8:30 a.m. in
Department 48 at Stanley Mosk Courthouse. 
Five court days before, the parties are to file a joint report stating the
name of their retained arbitrator and the status of arbitration.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 12th day of March 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 