 Case Number:  23STCV04694    Hearing Date:   March 12, 2024    Dept:  48  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



ABDOU DIAKITE, et al., 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
EQUITY RESIDENTIAL MANAGEMENT, LLC, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 23STCV04694
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER SUSTAINING DEMURRER; GRANTING
  MOTION TO STRIKE
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
March 12, 2024



 
On
March 3, 2023, Plaintiffs filed this action for (1) violations of the Investigative
Consumer Reporting Agencies Act (“ICRAA”), (2) invasion of privacy, and (3) declaratory
relief.  Plaintiffs later named Defendant
TransUnion Rental Screening Solutions Inc. as Doe 1.
On
August 11, 2023, Defendant filed a demurrer and a motion to strike.
Plaintiffs’
request for judicial notice of two other complaints in different actions is denied
as irrelevant.
DEMURRER
A
demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action.  (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740,
747.)  When considering demurrers, courts
read the allegations liberally and in context, accepting the alleged facts as true.  (Nolte v. Cedars-Sinai Medical Center (2015)
236 Cal.App.4th 1401, 1406.)
A.        Plaintiffs Do Not Allege Facts Showing
that Defendant is a Landlord Under ICRAA.
Under
ICRAA, any person requesting an investigative consumer report in connection with
the hiring of a dwelling unit must make certain disclosures and include a written
form with a box to check indicating that the consumer wishes to receive a copy of
any report that is prepared.  (Civ. Code,
§ 1786.16, subds. (a)(3), (b).)  “An investigative
consumer reporting agency or user of information that fails to comply with any requirement
under this title with respect to an investigative consumer report is liable to the
consumer who is the subject of the report in an amount equal to the sum of all the
following: [¶] (1) Any actual damages sustained by the consumer as a result of the
failure or, except in the case of class actions, ten thousand dollars ($10,000),
whichever sum is greater. . . .”  (Civ. Code,
§ 1786.50, subd. (a).)
Plaintiffs
allege that Equity Residential Management LLC manages and operates the Hesby Apartments,
Huxley Apartments, Glo Apartments, Mozaic at Union Station Apartments, Next on Sixth
Apartments, Pacific Place Apartments, Stoa Apartments, Aero Apartments and Altitude
Apartments, and many other complexes throughout California.  (Complaint ¶ 21.)  There are no facts about Defendant, formerly Doe
1, with respect to its role in this action. 
Plaintiffs do include the conclusory allegations that “Defendants” requested
and obtained investigative consumer reports about Plaintiffs during the processing
of the applications for the named apartment buildings, but Plaintiffs then proceed
to allege that only Equity Residential Management required Plaintiffs to complete
the applications and was required to comply with ICRAA.  (Complaint ¶¶ 28-31, 51, 57(d)-(i).)
The
demurrer to the first cause of action is sustained with leave to amend.
B.        Plaintiffs Do Not Allege Facts for Invasion
of Privacy.
Plaintiffs
allege: “By acting and failing to act as herein alleged, the Defendants have violated
the ICRAA and invaded the Plaintiffs’ rights of privacy by obtaining investigative
consumer reports about the Plaintiffs without complying with mandatory requirements
under the ICAA for getting investigative reports about the Plaintiffs.”  (Complaint ¶ 59.)  For the reasons stated with the first cause of
action, the second cause of action also does not allege facts about Defendant.
Additionally,
Plaintiffs allege that it was Equity Residential Management LLC who required Plaintiffs
to “consent to a release of information” that included “information regarding each
of the Plaintiffs’ character, reputation, and mode of living.”  (Complaint ¶¶ 29-31.)  Plaintiffs do not allege how their privacy was
invaded through this consensual inquiry.
The
demurrer to the second cause of action is sustained with leave to amend.
C.        Plaintiffs Do Not Allege a controversy
for Declaratory Relief.
Plaintiffs’
claim for declaratory relief is based on the conduct alleged in the first two causes
of action.  (Complaint ¶¶ 61-64.)
Accordingly,
the demurrer to the third cause of action is also sustained with leave to amend.
D.        Conclusion
The
demurrer is SUSTAINED with 30 days’ leave to amend.
MOTION
TO STRIKE
The
court may, upon a motion or at any time in its discretion: (1) strike out any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike out all or any
part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of California,
a court rule, or an order of the court.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 436, subds. (a)-(b).)
Defendant
moves to strike Paragraphs 5, 43, 55, and 57 and Paragraphs 1 through 10 of the
prayer relief of the Prayer for Relief.
Paragraph
57 seeks injunctive relief for violation of ICRAA.  ICRAA is limited to damages and attorney fees.  (Civ. Code, § 1786.50.)  The motion is GRANTED without leave to amend.
Defendant
contends that “Paragraphs 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 9, and 10 of the Prayer for Relief must
be stricken as irrelevant because Plaintiffs have not adequately alleged any cause
of action under which the sought relief may be properly awarded.”  With the Court sustaining Defendants’ demurrer
to all causes of action, the motion is moot for these items.  If Plaintiffs can remedy the deficiencies with
their factual allegations, then these general requests for relief would be available.
Defendant
moves to strike references to punitive damages (paragraphs 5, 43, 55).  A plaintiff can recover punitive damages in tort
cases where “the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.”  (Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (a).)  “The mere allegation an intentional tort was committed
is not sufficient to warrant an award of punitive damages.  [Citation.] 
Not only must there be circumstances of oppression, fraud or malice, but
facts must be alleged in the pleading to support such a claim. [Citation.]”  (Grieves v. Superior Court (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d
159, 166, fn. omitted.)  There are no such
factual allegations here.  The motion is GRANTED
on this ground with 30 days’ leave to amend.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 12th day of March 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 