 Case Number:  24STLC01648    Hearing Date:   September 12, 2024    Dept:  26   
Santos
v. Work & Vision, Inc., et al.DEMURRER
(CCP §§ 430.10, et seq.)
TENTATIVE RULING: 
 
Cross-Defendant Photogenics Media, LLC’s Demurrer to the
First Amended Cross-Complaint is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.
CROSS-DEFENDANT IS TO FILE AND SERVED A PROPOSED JUDGMENT OF DISMISSAL WITHIN
20 DAYS OF THIS ORDER.
 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
On March 6, 2024, Plaintiff
Karol Santos (“Plaintiff”) filed this action for Waiting
Time Penalties, Labor Code §§ 201, 201.6, 202, 203, 204 against Work &
Vision, Inc. dba Nia the Brand (“Cross-Complainant”). Cross-Complainant filed a
Cross-Complaint and then a First Amended Cross-Complaint on July 15, 2024. The
First Amended Cross-Complaint alleges causes of action for (1) indemnity;
(2) contribution; (3) apportionment of fault; and (4) declaratory relief
against Cross-Defendant Photogenics Media, LLC (“Cross-Defendant”).
 
Cross-Defendant filed the instant Demurrer
to the First Amended Cross-Complaint on August 13, 2024. Cross-Complainant
filed an opposition on August 29, 2024 and Defendant replied on September 5,
2024. 
 
Discussion
 
Allegations in
the Pleadings
 
The Complaint
alleges that Plaintiff has employee status with Cross-Complaint as a print
shoot employee, and as such, is entitled to receive payment of the wages earned
and unpaid at the time of termination by the next regular payday under Labor
Code section 201.6. (Compl., ¶¶12-13.) Alternatively, Plaintiff comes within
Wage Order 4-2001 “Regulating Wages, Hours And Working Conditions In The
Professional, Technical, Clerical, Mechanical And Similar Occupations.” (Id.
at ¶14.) On April 18, 2023, Cross-Complainant hired Santos for a still image
shoot to model at a daily wage of $3,000.00. (Id. at ¶¶19-20 and Exh. 1.)
Plaintiff’s payment for the shoot was due by May 10, 2023. (Id. at ¶21.)
Cross-Complainant paid Plaintiff for the shoot on May 19, 2023, nine days late.
(Id. at ¶¶21-23 and Exh. 2.) Plaintiff is owed waiting time penalties
equal to nine (9) days at her total daily rate of $3,375.00. (Id. at
¶38.) 
 
In the First
Amended Cross-Complaint, Cross-Complainant alleges Cross-Defendant operated a
modeling agency and represented Plaintiff during the relevant time. (FACC, ¶8.)
On October 23, 2018, Plaintiff and Cross-Defendant entered into a Talent Agency
Agreement. (Id. at ¶9 and Exh. 1.) The Talent Agency Agreement established
the procedures for handling contracts with third parties such as
Cross-Complainant. (Ibid.) This included collecting Plaintiff’s
compensation on her behalf and granting Cross-Defendant a power of attorney. (Id.
at ¶¶10d and 11.) In negotiating for Plaintiff’s services, Cross-Defendant
agreed that Cross-Complainant was only required to pay a maximum of $3,000.00
and there would not be any
additional, hidden or unknown fees or costs. (Id. at ¶12.) Also,
Cross-Defendant would be responsible for any and all costs, fees, liabilities
and penalties relating Cross-Complainant’s hiring of Plaintiff. (Id. at
¶12f.) Cross-Complainant paid for Plaintiff’s work in accordance with the terms
of the parties’ agreement, and if Cross-Complainant is held liable, it is due
solely to Cross-Defendant’s negligence, carelessness or intentional misconduct.
(Id. at ¶14.) 
 
 
Demurrer to FACC
 
The Demurrer is accompanied by a meet and confer declaration as required
by Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41. (Demurrer, Calderon Decl., ¶¶2-3.)
Cross-Defendant demurs to all causes of action of the First Amended Cross-Complaint
for lack of subject matter jurisdiction, failure to allege sufficient facts,
and uncertainty. (Citing Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subds. (a), (e), (f).) Special
demurrers, however, are not permitted in the limited jurisdiction court. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 92, subd. (c).) Therefore, the Court will not consider the
demurrer for uncertainty. 
 
Lack of Subject Matter
Jurisdiction
 
Cross-Defendant first demurs the
First Amended Cross-Complaint on the grounds that this action is governed by
the Talent Agencies Act (“the TAA”), and therefore, is under the exclusive
jurisdiction of the Labor Commissioner. The Talent Agencies Act is set forth at
Labor Code section 1700, et seq. and Cross-Defendant argues it is governed by
that more specific and more recently enacted statute, the TAA, not the older
and more general provisions of the Labor Code. (Citing Woods v. Young
(1991) 53 Cal. 3d 315, 323-325; Grassi v. Superior Ct. (2021) 73 Cal.
App. 5th 283, 288.) The Court is confused by this argument, in which
Cross-Defendant argues that the First Amended Cross-Complaint asserts it is
subject to Labor Code section 204. (Demurrer, p. 11:3-7.) The First Amended
Cross-Complaint, however, does not allege any Labor Code violations against
Cross-Defendant. Rather, it alleges common law causes of action for indemnity,
contribution, apportionment of fault, and declaratory relief. 
 
Cross-Defendant alternatively
argues that all claims or defenses that colorably arise under the TAA must be
heard by the Labor Commissioner, and all remedies before the Labor Commissioner
must be exhausted before a suit can be filed. In support of this, the Demurrer
cites to Styne v. Stevens (2001) 26 Cal.4th 42, in which the California
Supreme Court explained the broad extent of the Labor Commissioner’s
jurisdiction over issues that may arise under the TAA, and even the question of
the Labor Commissioner’s jurisdiction:
 
We have indicated throughout that all
claims or defenses which colorably arise under the Talent Agencies Act must be
submitted to the Commissioner before consideration by the superior court,
because the Commissioner has exclusive original jurisdiction not only to decide
the merits of a controversy arising under the Act, but also to determine, in
the first instance, whether the dispute actually falls within this statutory
grant of authority. Adhering to this principle, we use the term “colorable” in
its broadest sense. Certainly the superior court need not refer to the
Commissioner a case which, despite a party's contrary claim, clearly has
nothing to do with the Act. For example, a automobile collision suit between
persons unconnected to the entertainment industry is manifestly not a
controversy arising under the Act, and it cannot be made one by mere utterance
of words. On the other hand, if a dispute in which the Act is invoked plausibly
pertains to the subject matter of the Act, the dispute should be submitted to
the Commissioner for first resolution of both jurisdictional and merits issues,
as appropriate.
 
(Styne v. Stevens (2001)
26 Cal.4th 42, 59, n. 10.) Here, Cross-Defendant raises a defense pursuant to
the TAA, namely that a talent agency has 30 days from receipt to disburse wages
to its client such that Cross-Defendant complied with all statutory
requirements. (Citing Lab. Code, § 1700.25, subd. (a).) This action colorably
concerns application of the TAA to the parties’ obligations regarding the
timing of Plaintiff’s payment. In opposition, Cross-Complainant does not
address this holding of Styne and instead spends a significant amount of
time analyzing why the TAA does not apply to the First Amended Cross-Complaint.
As discussed above, however, even this determination must be left to the Labor
Commissioner. As the Court lacks jurisdiction over the claims raised in the
First Amended Cross-Complaint, the Demurrer is sustained on those grounds
without leave to amend.
 
Conclusion
 
Cross-Defendant Photogenics Media, LLC’s Demurrer to the
First Amended Cross-Complaint is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.
CROSS-DEFENDANT IS TO FILE AND SERVED A PROPOSED JUDGMENT OF DISMISSAL WITHIN
20 DAYS OF THIS ORDER.
 
 
Moving party to give notice. 
 
 