 Case Number:  24STLC02752    Hearing Date:   September 12, 2024    Dept:  26    State Farm v. Chavez, et al.(1 of 2) MOTION FOR RECONSIDERATION(CCP § 1008) TENTATIVE RULING:     Respondent Maria Chavez’s Motion for  Reconsideration is GRANTED. THE ORDER GRANTING PETITIONER’S MOTION TO COMPEL  MEDICAL EXAMINATION AND FOR AWARD OF SANCTIONS, ISSUED JUNE 18, 2024, IS  VACATED.       ANALYSIS:   On April 16, 2024,  Plaintiff State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Company (“Petitioner”) filed  this action against Respondent Maria Chavez (“Respondent”) via a Petition for  Case Number for Protective Order pursuant to Cal. Insurance Code section  11580.2. Due to clerical error, the action was set for trial as if the action  were based on a complaint. The Court vacated the trial date and on May 24,  2024, Plaintiff filed a Motion to Compel Attendance at Medical Examination and  Request for Sanctions (“Motion to Compel IME”). No opposition was filed to the  Motion to Compel IME, which the Court granted on June 18, 2024. (Minute Order,  06/18/24.)    On June 28, 2024,  Respondent filed the instant Motion for Reconsideration and a concurrently  scheduled Motion for Sanctions. Petitioner filed oppositions to both Motions on  July 25, 2024.   Discussion   Respondent  moves for reconsideration of the Court’s order regarding the Motion to Compel  IME and award of sanctions to Petitioner. The Motion is brought pursuant to  Code of Civil Procedure section 1008, subdivision (a), which states in relevant  part:   When an application for an order has been made to a judge, or  to a court, and refused in whole or in part, or granted, or granted  conditionally, or on terms, any party affected by the order may, within 10 days  after service upon the party of written notice of entry of the order and based  upon new or different facts, circumstances, or law, make application to the  same judge or court that made the order, to reconsider the matter and modify,  amend, or revoke the prior order. The party making the application shall state  by affidavit what application was made before, when and to what judge, what  order or decisions were made, and what new or different facts, circumstances,  or law are claimed to be shown.   (Code Civ. Proc., § 1008, subd.  (a).) The Court lacks the jurisdiction to reconsider a prior ruling, on motion  of a party, where the motion does not comply with the requirements of Code of  Civil Procedure section 1008. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1008, subd. (e); Le  Francois v. Goel (2005) 35 Cal.4th 1094, 1106.) Additionally, there is a  diligence requirement: “Courts have construed section 1008 to require a party  filing an application for reconsideration or a renewed application to show  diligence with a satisfactory explanation for not having presented the new or  different information earlier.” (Even Zohar Construction & Remodeling,  Inc. v. Bellaire Townhouses, LLC (2015) 61 Cal.4th 830, 839.)   The instant Motion was timely  brought on June 28, 2024, within ten days of service of the order on the Motion  to Compel IME. It is also supported by a declaration from Respondent’s counsel  regarding the correct email address for service of motion papers. Specifically,  Respondent’s attorney declares that the Motion to Compel IME was served to info@nordanyanlaw.com  but this has never been their service address. (Motion, Abrahamian Decl.,  ¶¶3-4.) Furthermore, their service email address has only ever been Pi@nordanyanlaw.com,  which was communicated to Petitioner’s counsel at the end of January 2024. (Id.  at ¶5.) Despite multiple requests by Respondent’s counsel for copies of the  emails showing they were served with the Motion to Compel IME, Petitioner’s  counsel refused to produce those emails. (Id. at ¶¶6-10.) Even if the  proof of service indicates service at info@nordanyanlaw.com, Respondent’s  attorney has no record of service at that address either. (Id. at ¶3.)  No one at Respondent’s attorney’s office was served with the assigned case  number or an email with the Motion to Compel IME prior to the hearing. (Id.  at ¶2.) The Court finds this is sufficient showing of new or different facts  regarding the Motion to Compel IME to satisfy the requirements of Code of Civil  Procedure section 1008.    In opposition, Petitioner contends  that its counsel regularly served correspondence, discovery requests,  deposition notices, and the IME requests to info@nordanyanlaw.com. (Opp., Tseng  Decl., ¶4.) Respondent’s attorney regularly responded to those emails and never  objected to any of the examination notices. (Ibid.) Petitioner’s  evidence of this regular correspondence is as follows. One email sent by  Petitioner’s counsel to info@nordanyanlaw.com with a deposition notice was  dated August 4, 2021; Respondent’s attorney responded to that email on August  23, 2021. (Id. at Exh. A.) Petitioner’s counsel had also sent discovery  requests to that email address on May 10, 2021, but there is no evidence  Respondent’s attorney responded. (Ibid.) Emails sent in April 2023 to info@nordanyanlaw.com  were done so only by including that address in the “cc” line, with the primary  recipient as “David Abrahamian” <david@nordanyanlaw.com>. (Ibid.)  In response to an email sent on April 7, 2023, Respondent’s counsel  specifically requested that the email address pi@nordanyanlaw.com be included  when serving documents. (Ibid.)    This evidence demonstrates that  service of the Motion to Compel IME at info@nordanyanlaw.com was not proper. As  Respondent points out, Code of Civil Procedure section 1010.6 requires a  serving party to confirm the appropriate electronic service address for the  counsel being served. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1010.6, subd. (b)(3).) It seems plain  that the purpose of this requirement is to avoid situations like this one,  where the attorneys, prior to the filing of the action, were communicating via  certain email addresses and the serving attorney made an assumption regarding  which email address was appropriate for service of court documents. Nor has  Petitioner demonstrated that the Motion to Compel IME was served on Respondent  at any email address. Petitioner argues that a proof of service creates a rebuttable  presumption that service was correct. Respondent, however, has presented  sufficient evidence that service of the Motion to Compel IME did not meet the  statutory requirements and that she lacked notice of the hearing. Therefore,  Respondent’s request for reconsideration of the Motion to Compel IME and the  award of sanctions is granted.    Conclusion   Respondent Maria Chavez’s Motion for  Reconsideration is GRANTED. THE ORDER GRANTING PETITIONER’S MOTION TO COMPEL  MEDICAL EXAMINATION AND FOR AWARD OF SANCTIONS, ISSUED JUNE 18, 2024, IS  VACATED.     Court clerk to give notice.  

























































 (2 of 2) MOTION FOR SANCTIONS(CCP § 128.7)TENTATIVE RULING:   Respondent Maria Chavez’s Motion for Sanctions is DENIED.  ANALYSIS: On April 16, 2024, Plaintiff State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Company (“Petitioner”) filed this action against Respondent Maria Chavez (“Respondent”) via a Petition for Case Number for Protective Order pursuant to Cal. Insurance Code section 11580.2. Due to clerical error, the action was set for trial as if the action were based on a complaint. The Court vacated the trial date and on May 24, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Motion to Compel Attendance at Medical Examination and Request for Sanctions (“Motion to Compel IME”). No opposition was filed to the Motion to Compel IME, which the Court granted on June 18, 2024. (Minute Order, 06/18/24.) On June 28, 2024, Respondent filed the instant Motion for Sanctions pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 128.7. Respondent concurrently filed a Motion for Reconsideration, which the Court has granted. Petitioner filed oppositions to both Motions on July 25, 2024. Discussion Code of Civil Procedure section 128.7, [R]equires that at least one attorney, or the party if he/she is not represented by an attorney, sign all pleadings, petitions, notice of motions and other similar papers. [Citation.] The signature indicates that the attorney, or party, certifies that: the paper is not being presented for an improper purpose; the legal contentions are warranted by law or nonfrivolous argument for extension, modification or reversal of existing law; the allegations and factual contentions have evidentiary support or are likely to have such support after a reasonable opportunity to further investigate; and the denials of factual contentions are warranted by the evidence. [Citation.] If the court determines, after notice or a reasonable opportunity to respond, that the attorney or party improperly certified the document, it may impose a proper sanction. (Barnes v. Department of Corrections (1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 126, 130.) In addition, section 128.7 contains a “safe harbor” provision specifying the motion for sanctions may not be filed “unless, within 21 days after service of the motion, ... the challenged paper, claim, defense, contention, allegation, or denial is not withdrawn or appropriately corrected.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 128.7, subd. (c)(1).) Petitioner first challenges the Motion for Sanctions on the grounds that Respondent did not comply with the safe harbor provision. The Motion was served electronically on Petitioner on June 28, 2024. (Motion, p. 11.) The Motion was filed with the Court on the same date. Unlike Code of Civil Procedure section 128.5, which contains an exception to that statute’s safe-harbor provision for actions and tactics that cannot be withdrawn or appropriately corrected, section 128.7 contains no exception. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 128.5, subd. (f)(1)(B); Changsha Metro Group Co., Ltd. v. Peng Xufeng (2020) 57 Cal.App.5th 1, 16.) Accordingly, the Motion for Sanctions is denied for failure to comply with the mandatory safe harbor provision of Code of Civil Procedure section 128.7.   Conclusion Respondent Maria Chavez’s Motion for Sanctions is DENIED.  Court clerk to give notice.