 Case Number:  23STCV01142    Hearing Date:   January 26, 2024    Dept:  34 SUBJECT:        Motion for Order Staying Case During Pendency
of Appeal of Orders Denying Anti-SLAPP Motion
 
Moving Party: Defendant
Levi Lesches
Resp. Party:    Plaintiffs James A. Kay, Jr. and Lucky’s
Two-Way Radios, Inc. 
 
 
The Motion to Stay Case Pending Appeal is GRANTED. This case is STAYED
IN ITS ENTIRETY pending conclusion of the appeals of Lesches’s Anti-SLAP Motion
and Pick’s Anti-SLAPP Motion. 
 
The Court sets a Status Conference re Stay for November 25, 2024.  The parties are to file a Joint Status
Conference Report 5 court days prior to the status conference hearing. 
 
BACKGROUND:
 
        On January 18, 2023, Plaintiffs James A.
Kay, Jr. and Lucky’s Two-Way Radios, Inc. filed their Complaint against
Defendants Levi Lesches, Lesches Law, Harold Pick, Jay Francis, and Wireless US
LC on a cause of action for malicious prosecution. 
 
        On April 12, 2023, Levi Lesches (d.b.a.
Lesches Law) filed his Answer to the Complaint. 
 
        On May 8, 2023, the Court denied
Defendant Lesches’s Special Motion to Strike Complaint Pursuant to California
Code of Civil Procedure § 425.16 (“Lesches’s Anti-SLAPP Motion”). 
 
        On May 9, 2023, Defendant Wireless US LC
filed its Answer     to the Complaint. 
 
        On May 11, 2023, Defendant Lesches filed
his notice of appeal of the Court’s denial of Lesches’s Anti-SLAPP Motion. 
 
        On May 17, 2023, the Court denied Harold
Pick’s Special Motion to Strike Plaintiff’s Complaint (“Pick’s Anti-SLAPP
Motion”). 
 
        On May 22, 2023, Defendant Pick filed
his notice of appeal of the Court’s denial of Pick’s Anti-SLAPP Motion. 
 
        On June 15, 2023, Defendant Francis
filed his Answer to the Complaint. 
 
        On November 21, 2023, the Court took off
calendar an ex parte application by Defendant Lesches to stay the case. 
 
        On December 1, 2023, Defendant Lesches
filed his Motion for Order Staying Case During Pendency of Appeal of Orders
Denying Anti-SLAPP Motion (“Motion to Stay Case Pending Appeal”). Defendant
Lesches concurrently filed his Proposed Order. 
 
        On January 2, 2024, Plaintiffs filed
their Opposition to the Motion to Stay Case Pending Appeal.  
 
        On January 8, 2024, Defendant Lesches
filed his Reply in support of his Motion to Stay Case Pending Appeal. 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
I.         
Legal Standard
 
“An order
granting or denying a special motion to strike shall be appealable under
Section 904.1.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subd. (i).)
 
“An appeal, other
than in a limited civil case, is to the court of appeal. An appeal, other than
in a limited civil case, may be taken from any of the following: . . . (13)
From an order granting or denying a special motion to strike under Sections
425.16 and 425.19.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 904.1, subd. (a)(13).)
 
“Except as
provided in Sections 917.1 to 917.9, inclusive, and in Section 116.810, the
perfecting of an appeal stays proceedings in the trial court upon the judgment
or order appealed from or upon the matters embraced therein or affected
thereby, including enforcement of the judgment or order, but the trial court
may proceed upon any other matter embraced in the action and not affected by
the judgment or order.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 916, subd. (a).)
 
“When there is a
stay of proceedings other than the enforcement of the judgment, the trial court
shall have jurisdiction of proceedings related to the enforcement of the
judgment as well as any other matter embraced in the action and not affected by
the judgment or order appealed from.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 916, subd. (b).)
 
        “[Code of Civil Procedure] section 916
stays all further proceedings on the merits during the pendency of an appeal
from the denial of an anti-SLAPP motion.” (Varian Med. Sys., Inc. v. Delfino
(2005) 35 Cal.4th 180, 194.)
 
        “Indeed, section 916, as a matter of
logic and policy, divests the trial court of jurisdiction over the subject
matter on appeal—i.e., jurisdiction in its fundamental sense.” (Varian Med.
Sys., Inc., supra, at p. 198.)
 
        “In light of our holding today, some
anti-SLAPP appeals will undoubtedly delay litigation even though the appeal is
frivolous or insubstantial. . . . Such an assessment is, however, a question
for the Legislature, and the Legislature has already answered it.” (Varian
Med. Sys., Inc., supra, at p. 196, citation omitted.)
 
“Every court
shall have the power to do all of the following: . . . (8) To amend and control
its process and orders so as to make them conform to law and justice. . . .”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 128, subd. (a)(8).)
 
“It is well
established, in California and elsewhere, that a court has both the inherent
authority and responsibility to fairly and efficiently administer all of the
judicial proceedings that are pending before it, and that one important element
of a court's inherent judicial authority in this regard is the power to control
the disposition of the causes on its docket with economy of time and effort for
itself, for counsel, and for litigants. How this can best be done calls for the
exercise of judgment, which must weigh competing interests and maintain an even
balance.” (People v. Engram (2010) 50 Cal.4th 1131, 1146, ellipsis,
quotation, and internal quotation marks omitted.)
 
II.      
Discussion
 
Defendant Lesches moves the Court to stay
the entire matter while the appeals on Lesches’ Anti-SLAPP Motion and Pick’s
Anti-SLAPP Motion are pending. (Motion to Stay Case Pending Appeal, p.
13:21–22.)
 
Defendant Lesches argues: (1) that a stay
is mandatory here because the discovery Plaintiff seeks affects the ruling on
appeal; and (2) that, in the alternative, the Court should order a
discretionary stay of the entire matter to preserve judicial resources and
avoid conflicting rulings. (Motion to Stay Case Pending Appeal, pp. 8:3–4,
12:7–8.)
 
Plaintiffs disagree, arguing: (1) that an
assertion of the advice of counsel defense waives privilege; (2) that Defendant
Francis already waived privilege by choosing to assert advice of counsel as an
affirmative defense in his Answer; (3) that California policy discourages
litigation stays; and (4) that Defendant Lesches’s arguments lack merit.
(Opposition, pp. 3:20, 4:1–2, 5:1, 8:12.)
 
In his Reply, Defendant Lesches responds
to Plaintiffs various arguments. 
 
The Court agrees with Defendant Lesches
in his Motion to Stay Case Pending Appeal. 
 
There is only one cause of action in this
case: malicious prosecution. (Complaint, pp. 1, 19.) Moreover, there is only
one set of allegations of unlawful conduct: that all of the Defendants together
drafted and filed a complaint in another matter without probable cause,
maintained prosecution of that action, and prosecuted a frivolous appeal of
that action. (Id. at ¶¶ 63–64.) 
 
Lesches’ Anti-SLAPP Motion and Pick’s
Anti-SLAPP Motion both touched upon the merits of the sole cause of action and
the sole set of conduct alleged. Thus, the appeals of these motions must also involves
the merits of this case. 
 
Plaintiffs’ arguments do not adequately
address how discovery and the other actions they seek would not affect the
merits of the case. It appears to the Court that Plaintiffs wish to continue
litigating the merits of this matter while the appeals are ongoing. 
 
Our Supreme Court has been clear:  Code of Civil Procedure section 916 “stays
all further proceedings on the merits during the pendency of an appeal from the
denial of an anti-SLAPP motion. (Varian Med. Sys., Inc., supra,
35 Cal.4th at p. 194.) The Court lacks subject matter jurisdiction to order
anything that would affect the merits of this matter. (Id. at p. 198.)
 
The Court believes it lacks discretion and
must stay the entire case. 
 
        However, even if the Court had
discretion, the Court would exercise its discretion to stay the case pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure section 128(a)(8) and, independently, under the
Court’s inherent judicial authority. (See Engram, supra,
50 Cal.4th at p. 1146.)  Ongoing
litigation of this matter while these motions are on appeal could lead to a
waste of judicial resources and conflicting rulings. 
 
III.    
Conclusion
 
The Motion to Stay Case Pending Appeal is GRANTED. This case is STAYED
IN ITS ENTIRETY pending conclusion of the appeals of Lesches’s Anti-SLAP Motion
and Pick’s Anti-SLAPP Motion. 
 
The Court sets a Status Conference re Stay for November 25, 2024.  The parties are to file a Joint Status
Conference Report 5 court days prior to the status conference hearing. 