  Case Number:  19STCV32597    Hearing Date:   January 26, 2024    Dept:  34 SUBJECT:        Motion for Leave to File First Amended
Complaint 
 
Moving Party: George
Santopietro 
Resp. Party:    James Harden, Jeff Wiseman, Patrick Michael,
LA Estate Rentals, and Solimar Management LLC
 
        
The Motion is GRANTED. George
Santopietro is granted seven (7) days leave to file his proposed FAC, with the
changes listed above. 
 
BACKGROUND:
 
On September 12,
2019, George Santopietro filed his Complaint against James Harden, Jeff
Wiseman, Patrick Michael, Lia Vasdekis, LA Estate Rentals LLC, and Solimar
Management LLC. The causes of action arise from damage that allegedly occurred
after these individuals and corporate entities rented George Santopietro’s real
property.
 
On February 20, 2020,
Jeff Wiseman and Solimar Management LLC filed: (1) Answer to the Complaint; and
(2) Cross-Complaint against George Santopietro. 
 
On February 25, 2020,
Jeff Wiseman and Solimar Management LLC filed their Notice of Errata. 
 
On April 6, 2020,
Patrick Michael filed his Answer to the Complaint. 
 
On April 13, 2020, LA
Real Estate Rentals LLC filed: (1) Answer to the Complaint; and (2) Joinder to
the Cross-Complaint. 
 
On July 20, 2020, the
Court granted summary adjudication in favor of Solimar Management LLC and
against George Santopietro as to the second cause of action (breach of the
covenant of good faith and fair dealing) in the Complaint. 
 
On April 13, 2021,
Jeff Wiseman and Solimar Management LLC filed their First Amended
Cross-Complaint. 
 
On May 5, 2021,
George Santopietro filed his Answer to the First Amended Cross-Complaint. 
 
On June 30, 2023, by
request of George Santopietro, the Clerk’s Office dismissed without prejudice
Lia Vasdekis from the Complaint. 
 
On December 13, 2023,
George Santopietro filed his Motion for Leave to File First Amended Complaint
(“Motion”). In support of his Motion, George Santopietro concurrently filed:
(1) Declaration of Robert H. Bisno; and (2) Proposed Order. 
 
On January 2, 2024,
James Harden, Jeff Wiseman, Patrick Michael, LA Estate Rentals, and Solimar
Management LLC filed their Opposition to the Motion. 
 
On January 5, 2024,
George Santopietro filed his Reply in support of the Motion. George Santopietro
concurrently filed a second Declaration of Robert H. Bisno. 
 
On January 19, 2024,
James Harden filed his Cross-Complaint against Beverly Park North Homeowners
Association and Vmw Trust. 
 
On January 19, 2024,
James Harden filed his Answer to the Complaint. 
 
On January 22, 2024,
James Harden filed his First Amended Cross-Complaint. 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
I.         
Legal
Standard
 
“The court may, in furtherance of justice, and
on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading or
proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any party, or by correcting a
mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect; and may,
upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or demurrer. The court may likewise,
in its discretion, after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any terms as
may be just, an amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other particulars;
and may upon like terms allow an answer to be made after the time limited by
this code.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (a)(1).)
 
        “Any judge, at any time before or
after commencement of trial, in the furtherance of justice, and upon such terms
as may be proper, may allow the amendment of any pleading or pretrial
conference order.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 576.)
 
“A motion to amend a pleading before trial
must: (1) Include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended pleading, which
must be serially numbered to differentiate it from previous pleadings or
amendments; (2) State what allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to
be deleted, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the deleted
allegations are located; and (3) State what allegations are proposed to be
added to the previous pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line
number, the additional allegations are located.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1324(a).)
 
“A separate declaration must accompany the
motion and must specify: (1) The effect of the amendment; (2) Why the amendment
is necessary and proper; (3) When the facts giving rise to the amended
allegations were discovered; and (4) The reason why the request for amendment
was not made earlier.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(b).)
 
“This discretion should be exercised liberally
in favor of amendments, for judicial policy favors resolution of all disputed
matters in the same lawsuit.” (Kittredge Sports Co. v. Super. Ct. (1989)
213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1047.) 
 
Leave to amend is thus liberally granted,
provided there is no statute of limitations concern. (Kolani v. Gluska (1998) 64 Cal.App.4th 402, 411.) The Court
may deny the plaintiff’s leave to amend if there is prejudice to the opposing
party, such as delay in trial, loss of critical evidence, or added costs of
preparation. (Id.)
 
II.      
Discussion
 
A.      The Parties’ Arguments
 
George Santopietro moves the Court for
leave to file his proposed First Amended Complaint (FAC). (Motion, p. 8:10–11.)
 
James Harden, Jeff Wiseman, Patrick Michael, LA Estate Rentals, and
Solimar Management LLC oppose the Motion, arguing: (1) that George Santopietro
incorrectly alleges that they would not stipulate to the FAC; (2) that Lia
Vasdekis has been dismissed from the case and thus all references to her must
be removed from the proposed FAC; (3) that they oppose the addition of the new
fifth cause of action as prejudicial, inexcusably delayed, and futile; (4)
that, in the alternative, the Court may opt to permit the amendment subject to
further proceedings; and (5) that the title, footer, lettering, and name of LA
Estate Rentals LLC should be corrected if leave to amend is granted.
(Opposition, pp. 2:2–3, 2:11–13, 3:1–2, 6:1–3, 6:20, 7:2, 7:7.)
 
B.      California
Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324
 
George
Santopietro complied with California Rules of Court, rule 3.1324. 
 
First, his
counsel submitted a copy of the proposed amended pleading. (Decl. Bisno, Exh.
C.)
 
Second, his
counsel submitted a red-lined version of the proposed amended pleading, which
shows exactly where additions and deletions would be made. (Decl. Bisno, Exh.
B.)
 
Finally, his counsel declares: (1) that the
effects of the proposed amendments would be to make complete the pleadings and
include a cause of action that is warranted by the facts; (2) that the proposed
amendments are necessary and proper because the facts and the law support a
cause of action for violation of Penal Code section 496; (3) that the facts
giving rise to the proposed amended allegations were discovered after George
Santopietro’s Counsel conducted additional research after James Harden
unsuccessfully sought review by the Supreme Court of California regarding
service of process; and (4) that the reason the request for the proposed amendments
was not made sooner was that the research was not conducted until after James
Harden was served. (Decl. Bisno, ¶ 4.)
 
C.      Prejudice
 
The Court has not been made aware of a
significant risk of prejudice to the opposing parties by allowing George Santopietro
leave to file the proposed amended pleading. This is because the new
allegations and cause of action for violation of Penal Code section 496 are all
directly related to the existing allegations and causes of action. Furthermore,
trial is still six months away, which should give the opposing parties the time
to adjust accordingly.
 
Contrary to the opposing parties’ argument,
no continuance is necessary at this time given the lengthy amount of time
before trial. 
 
However, the Court does agree that various procedural
and substantive items should be changed with the proposed pleading. The
necessity for these changes resulted from the roughly six-week period between
the filing of the Motion and the hearing of the Motion. The items that should
be updated include: (1) clarifying the pleading so that Lia Vasdekis is no
longer a defendant; (2) correcting the name of LA Estate Rentals LLC; and (3)
correcting the title of the FAC, the footing of the FAC, and the lettering of
the prayer in the FAC. 
 
III.    
Conclusion 
 
The Motion is GRANTED. George
Santopietro is granted seven (7) days leave to file his proposed FAC, with the
changes listed above. 
 