 Case Number:  22STCV30058    Hearing Date:   November 14, 2024    Dept:  52 Defendant Sandra Mariana Vidal’s
Motion to Quash Subpoena to Provident Title Company and for Protective Order
Defendant Sandra Mariana Vidal moves to
quash plaintiffs’ deposition subpoena for production of business records issued
to Provident Title Company (Provident). 
Defendant also moves for a protective order limiting the subpoena.
Quashing
Subpoena
On
a party’s motion, a court “may make an order quashing [a] subpoena entirely,
modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as
the court shall declare, including protective orders.  In addition, the court may make any other
order as may be appropriate to protect the person from unreasonable or
oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the right of privacy
of the person.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1(a).)  
Plaintiffs’
subpoena to Provident requests two categories
of records: (1) “All DOCUMENTS in YOUR possession, custody, or control relating
to the real property located at 2873 Las Alturas Street, Los Angeles, CA
90068.”  (2) “All COMMUNICATIONS between
YOU and Sandra Mariana Vidal.”
Defendant objects to the subpoena on three grounds.
First, she objects that it violates attorney-client
privilege.  Defendant offers no factual
basis or reason for concluding the records include any “ ‘confidential
communication between client and lawyer.’ ”  (Evid. Code, § 952.)  The subpoena is to a title insurance company,
not a lawyer.  If any of Provident’s
records constitute confidential communications between client and lawyer, the
client wh holds the privilege would be Provident—not defendant.  
Second, defendant objects that the
subpoena is harassing, overbroad, and not reasonably calculated to lead to the
discovery of admissible evidence.  The
subpoena is adequately tailored to this case, which includes a dispute over
interference with an easement to use part of the property at 2873 Las Alturas
Street.  Defendant relies on the
collateral source rule, which she contends prohibits admitting any evidence
that Provident Title Company paid defendant on a title insurance claim.  Even if the payment itself is inadmissible, it
is reasonably likely that Provident would have other records that may be
admissible.  
Moreover,
plaintiffs show the records may be admissible to impeach defendant’s
credibility.  In this action, defendant
has asserted plaintiffs have no valid easement over her property.  (Solberg Decl., Ex. B.)  Plaintiff presents evidence that in 2022,
Provident appraised how much the easement diminished the property’s value.  (Id., Ex. C.)  It is reasonably likely that Provident’s
records will show defendant made an insurance claim on the basis that the
easement is valid, contradicting her position in this litigation.  
In
the reply brief, defendant argues for the first time that the subpoena is
overly broad because it seeks “communications related to Defendant’s title
insurance for all properties in which Defendant held title insurance with
Provident Title Company and for communications unrelated to the disputed area.”  (Reply, p. 2.)  Defendant did not raise these two issues
about the subpoena’s scope until the reply brief.  Defendant’s initial meet and confer letter
(Danker Decl., Ex. C) did not refer to either issue.  In subsequent correspondence (id., Ex.
B), plaintiffs asked defendant to propose a more limited subpoena.  Defendant instead asked plaintiffs to propose
a narrower subpoena.  Defendant never
asserted that the subpoena should be limited to the subject property or the
disputed area of the subject property. 
Moreover, there is no evidence Vidal has insurance from Provident for
any other properties. 
            Finally, defendant argues the
subpoena violates her right to financial privacy.  “The
party asserting a privacy right must establish a legally protected privacy
interest, an objectively reasonable expectation of privacy in the given
circumstances, and a threatened intrusion that is serious.”  (Williams v. Superior Court (2017)
3 Cal.5th 531, 552.)  If the objecting party shows all three
elements, then the court must balance the need for disclosure against the right
to privacy.  (Ibid.) 
            Defendant
does not meet her burden of showing the third element.  The intrusion is not serious.  Plaintiffs are not seeking extensive
financial records, such as years of bank statements.  They are seeking discovery on a limited topic
that is directly relevant to this action. 
Moreover, though defendant may have a reasonable expectation of privacy
with respect to her communications with Provident, the subpoena seeks records
that largely concern title to and the value of real property.  There is substantial publicly available
information about those topics for any given property.
            The
court does not decide whether any documents produced pursuant to the subpoena
will be admissible.  Discoverable documents
and information are not necessarily admissible at trial.  (Lopez v.
Watchtower Bible & Tract Society of New York, Inc. (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 566, 591.) 
 
The court also will not continue the trial,
regardless of whether plaintiff obtains the documents from Provident before
trial.  (See Code Civ. Proc., §
2024.060.)  
Protective Order
Defendant does not show good cause for a protective
order limiting the subpoena.  “[T]he burden is on the party seeking the protective
order to show good cause for whatever order is sought.”  (Fairmont Ins. Co. v. Superior Court
(2000) 22 Cal.4th 245, 255.)  For the
same reasons discussed above, defendant does not meet her burden.
Sanctions
            In their opposition, plaintiffs seek
$1,925 in sanctions against defendant.  The
court finds defendant acted in good faith and with substantial justification when
making this motion.  No sanctions are
warranted. 
Disposition
            Defendant Sandra Mariana Vidal’s motion to quash subpoena and for
protective order is denied.  