  Case Number:  22STCV13106    Hearing Date:   November 14, 2024    Dept:  52 Plaintiff
Maureen Martinez’s Motion to Compel Further Deposition of Bill Matlock
            Plaintiff Maureen Martinez moves to
compel deponent Bill Matlock to answer five questions asked at deposition.  
Meet
and Confer
Defendants
Farmers Group, Inc., Farmers Insurance Exchange, Fire Insurance Exchange, Truck
Insurance Exchange, Mid-Century Insurance Company, and Farmers New World Life
Insurance Company (collectively, “Farmers”) argue plaintiff did not meet and
confer in good faith before filing this motion as required.  A motion to compel answers to deposition
questions “shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.480,
subd. (b).)  “A meet and confer
declaration in support of a motion shall state facts showing a reasonable and
good faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue presented by the
motion.”  (§ 2016.040.)
Plaintiff’s
motion is not accompanied by the required declaration.  The sole declaration in support of this
motion is the declaration of plaintiff’s counsel, which states only three
things.  First, the declaration authenticates
and describes portions of the deposition transcript regarding the five subject
questions and Farmers’ objections to them. 
(Gallagher Decl., ¶¶ 1, 2, 4, 5, 6.) 
Second, it asserts why plaintiff’s counsel believes these questions are
appropriate and necessary.  (Id.,
¶¶ 3, 7.)  Third, it asserts plaintiff’s
expenses incurred in making the motion. 
(Id., ¶ 8.)  It attests to
no attempts to have Matlock answer the five subject questions after Farmers’
counsel instructed him not to answer.
The
transcript includes portions showing plaintiff’s counsel’s responses to
Farmers’ objections.  “A reasonable and
good-faith attempt at informal resolution entails something more than bickering
with deponent’s counsel at a deposition. 
Rather, the law requires that counsel attempt to talk the matter over,
compare their views, consult, and deliberate.” 
(Townsend v. Superior Court (1998) 61 Cal.App.4th 1431,
1439.)  These portions of the transcript
show no more than arguing at the deposition. 
Nothing in the record shows that, before filing this motion, plaintiff
gave Farmers any notice that she still wanted the answers to these five
questions and planned to file a motion if necessary. 
The
court will not, however, deny the motion on this basis.  Not every failure to meet and confer in good
faith “can be categorized as a failure so egregious as to justify
summary denial of discovery.  Such
categorical rulings should be reserved for cases of clear intent to burden or
harass, cases of clear flaunting of statutory responsibilities, cases of
established track records of lack of good faith, and the like.”  (Obregon v. Superior Court (1998) 67
Cal.App.4th 424, 434.)  The court
admonishes plaintiff’s counsel not to file discovery motions without attempting
to informally resolve the dispute.
Answers to
Questions
            Plaintiff shows good cause to
require Matlock to answer the five questions Farmers’ counsel instructed him
not to answer.  “If a deponent fails to
answer any question …, the party seeking discovery may move the court for an
order compelling that answer.”  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2025.480, subd. (a).) 
Generally, the deponent may avoid answering a question only based on an
objection “to protect privileged information from disclosure.”  (Stewart v. Colonial Western Agency, Inc.
(2001) 87 Cal.App.4th 1006, 1014.)  For
other objectionable questions, “counsel should not instruct the deponent not to
answer … ‘[u]nless the objecting party demands that the taking of the
deposition be suspended to permit a motion for a protective order.’ ”  (Ibid.) 
            For these five questions, Farmers
did not object based on privilege. 
Farmers objected that the questions were not reasonably calculated to
lead to the discovery of admissible evidence and that they were harassing.  Some of these objections are valid.  For example, question No.3 asked Matlock,
“[W]hat
was your involvement in the decision to appoint district managers when you were
State Executive Director?”  Matlock testified
that he was the State Executive Director in “2004 through 2013” (Maile Decl.,
Ex. A, p. 8:7-8), many years before the actionable events.  Plaintiff makes only conclusory arguments
that these questions may be relevant to show plaintiff was an employee instead
of an independent contractor.   
            Defendants’
counsel, however, had no right to instruct the witness not to answer.  Defendants’ only remedy was to demand to
suspend the deposition to seek a protective order.  The court admonishes plaintiff’s counsel for
asking inappropriate questions.  The
court admonishes defendants’ counsel for instructing the witness not to
testify.  
            This is another of many examples of
how counsel for both sides have acted in an unreasonable, overly aggressive,
and discourteous manner in this litigation. 
The cost of litigation has substantially and unnecessarily increased
because of the conduct of the attorneys for plaintiff and Farmers.
Sanctions
Both
sides seek monetary sanctions against one another.  Farmers’ unsuccessfully opposed this motion
but did so with substantial justification. 
Farmers correctly argued plaintiff failed to meet and confer as
required.  And though the objections were
not a valid basis to instruct the witness not to answer, several of the
objections have merit.  No sanctions are
appropriate.  
Disposition
            Plaintiff Maureen Martinez’s motion
to compel further deposition of Bill Matlock is granted as to compelling
answers to the five specified questions. 

Defendants
Farmers Group, Inc., Farmers Insurance Exchange, Fire Insurance Exchange, Truck
Insurance Exchange, Mid-Century Insurance Company, and Farmers New World Life
Insurance Company are ordered to make deponent Bill Matlock available to
answer the five subject questions no later than December 13, 2024.  By November 18, defendants shall propose
three dates for the further deposition between November 20 to November 26 or
between December 2 and December 13.  Plaintiff
shall choose one of the three dates defendants propose.
            Plaintiff’s counsel shall only ask
the five questions included in the separate statement in support of this motion:
(1) “What staff is a new agent appointment required to have to get an
appointment?”,  (2) “And what’s the
purpose of your district meetings?”,  (3)
“And what was your involvement in the decision to appoint district managers
when you were State Executive Director?”, 
(4) “How do you judge your agent's performance?”, and (5) “What’s an
agent to do if they can’t afford to hire an employee?”   Defendants’
Motion to Compel Plaintiff’s Attendance at Independent Mental Examination            Defendants Farmers Group, Inc.,
Farmers Insurance Exchange, Fire Insurance Exchange, Truck Insurance Exchange,
Mid-Century Insurance Company, and Farmers New World Life Insurance Company
(collectively, “Farmers”) move to compel plaintiff Maureen Martinez to attend
an independent mental examination.Good
Cause for Mental Examination            Code of Civil Procedure 2032.020 permits
discovery via a physical or mental examination of a party when that party’s
physical or mental condition “is in controversy in the action.”  Someone’s mental condition is in controversy
when she seeks damages for “ongoing mental distress.”  (Doyle
v. Superior Court (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 1878, 1887; accord Vinson v.
Superior Court (1987) 43
Cal.3d 833, 839.)  “The court shall grant
a motion for a physical or mental examination … only for good cause
shown.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.320,
subd. (a).)            Farmers shows good cause for an
independent mental examination of plaintiff. 
Plaintiff put her mental condition in controversy in this action.  She asserts a cause of action for intentional
infliction of emotional distress, which requires severe distress.  At deposition, plaintiff testified that she
currently suffers from panic attacks caused by the events giving rise to this
action and takes medication for them. 
(Maile Decl., Ex. B, pp. 681-682.) 
Plaintiff’s interrogatory responses also state she “did suffer, and
continues to suffer severe and permanent emotional and mental distress and
anguish,
humiliation, embarrassment, fright, shock, pain, discomfort and anxiety,
nervousness, worry, mortification, shock, humiliation, indignity,
embarrassment, and apprehension.”  (Id.,
Ex. C.)              Plaintiff’s untimely opposition
argues Farmers’ motion is defective because they never served a demand for
medical examination.  Plaintiff conflates
Articles 2 and 3 of Chapter 15 of the Civil Discovery Act.  Under Article 2, a defendant in a personal
injury action may demand a physical examination of the plaintiff without leave
of court.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.220,
subd. (b).)  Farmers’ motion seeks a
mental examination under Article 3, which provides that a party seeking
discovery via “a mental examination … shall obtain leave of court.”  (§ 2032.310, subd. (a).)  Farmers was not required to serve a demand
before filing this motion.  It was,
however, required to meet and confer before filing the motion.  (Id., subd. (b).)              Plaintiff argues Farmers did not
meet and confer as required.  Plaintiff
relies on the fact that Farmers erroneously attached a meet and confer letter about
a different case.  (Maile Decl., Ex. E.)  Farmers also attached a letter about this
case (id., Ex. D) and an email asking whether the plaintiffs in both
cases will “agree to submit to an IME with Teri Pokrajac” (id., Ex.
F).  Farmers made an adequate attempt to
informally resolve this dispute.Place
of ExaminationFarmers’
motion properly specifies “the time, place, manner, conditions, scope, and
nature of the examination, as well as the identity and the specialty… of the
person… who will perform the examination” as required.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.310, subd.
(b).)  Farmers
does not, however, show good cause for plaintiff to submit to the examination
at the specified place.  Code of Civil
Procedure 2032.320, subd. (e) provides: “If the place of the examination is
more than 75 miles from the residence of the person to be examined, an order to
submit to it shall be entered only if both of the following conditions are
satisfied: [¶] (1) The court determines that there is good cause for the travel
involved.  [¶] (2) The order is
conditioned on the advancement by the moving party of the reasonable expenses
and costs to the examinee for travel to the place of examination.”  Farmers
seeks to have the examination at psychologist Teri M. Pokrajac, Psy.D’s office
in Newport Beach.  (Pokrajac Decl., ¶
2.)  Plaintiff resides in Santa Barbara,
more than 75 miles away.  (Gallagher
Decl., ¶ 12.)  Farmers does not show good
cause to require plaintiff to travel more than 75 miles for her mental
examination.  Farmers’ motion
acknowledges, “To the extent that Plaintiff resides more than 75-miles from Dr.
Pokrajac’s office, Defendants agree to meet and confer on the location of the
IME in order to comply with the requirements of the Code of Civil Procedure.”  (Motion, p. 5.)The
court will order plaintiff to submit to a mental examination within 75 miles of
her residence.  If Dr. Pokrajac is unable
to conduct the examination at such a location, the parties must meet and confer
on selecting a different psychologist for plaintiff’s independent mental
examination. Disposition            Defendants’ motion to compel
plaintiff Maureen Martinez’s attendance at independent mental examination is granted.Plaintiff
Maureen Martinez is ordered to submit to an independent mental
examination by psychologist Teri M. Pokrajac, Psy.D.  Plaintiff may select any of the following
times and dates for which Dr. Pokrajac is available: 10:00 a.m. on November 18,
December 5, December 11, or December 12. 
Defendants shall select a location for the examination within 75 miles
of plaintiff’s residence. The
examination will consist of questions about plaintiff’s medical history, prior
medical treatment received, and anticipated future medical care.  The examination will also include an oral
clinical examination about her full past history, demographic details, current
complaints for which she might seek care, and the history of her illness
including her subjective experience of the events leading to psychological
damages.  Plaintiff shall submit to tests
chosen by Dr. Pokrajac including the MMPI-2 or MMPI-3, TSI-2, MCMI-3 or
MCMI-IV, PAI, DES-II, CAPS-5, R-PAS, DES-II, and MMSE-2.   No
person other than plaintiff and Dr. Pokrajac and her staff shall be permitted
to be present for the examination.  Dr.
Pokrajac may make an audio recording of the examination.  If
Dr. Pokrajac is unable to conduct the examination at a location within 75 miles
of plaintiff’s residence, the parties shall meet and confer within 15 days to
select a different person to perform the examination.  

            