  Case Number:  BC701226    Hearing Date:   March 26, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



ST. ANDREW’S PHARAMACY LLC, a California limited liability
  company,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
ST. ANDREW’S GREEN, A COOPERATIVE CORPORATION, a California
  corporation; KANDACE SIMPLIS aka KATHY SMITH, an individual; and DOES 1 to
  50, Inclusive,
                        Defendants.
______________________________________
ST. ANDREW’S GREEN, a California Cooperative Corporation,
                        Cross-Complainant,
            v.
ST. ANDREW’S PHARMACY, LLC, a California limited liability
  company; KATHY SMITH, an individual; and ROES 1 through 200, inclusive,
                        Cross-Defendants.


 Case No.:          BC701226
 Hearing Date:   3/26/24
 Trial Date:        N/A
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant St. Andrew’s Pharmacy, LLC’s
  Motion for Order Compelling Responses to Judgment Creditor Special
  Interrogatories and for an Award of Sanctions; and
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant St. Andrew’s Pharmacy, LLC’s
  Motion for Order Compelling Responses to Judgment Creditor Requests for
  Production of Documents and for an Award of Sanctions.



 
I. Background
A. Pleadings
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant St.
Andrew’s Pharmacy, LLC—owned by Elite 126 Management, LLC and Elite’s owner,
Mr. Cobby Pourtavosi—sued Defendants St. Andrew’s Green, a Cooperative
Corporation (also a Cross-Complainant), Kathy Smith aka Kandace Simplis (also a
Cross-Defendant), and Does 1-50 pursuant to a December 22, 2020 Complaint
alleging claims of (1) Violation of Penal Code section 496, (2) Conversion, (3)
Specific Recovery of Personal Property (Replevin), (4) Violation of Unfair
Competition Law, Bus. & Prof. Code, § 17200, et seq., (5) Common Counts,
and (6) Declaratory Relief.
Briefly, the claims arose from
allegations that Defendants acted in such a way as to deprive Plaintiff of its
City of Los Angeles-issued medical marijuana license.
In turn, St. Andrew’s Green, a
Cooperative Corporation, and Arnold Abramyan sued St. Andrew’s Pharmacy, LLC
(hereafter Plaintiff), Kathy Smith (hereafter Defendant Smith), Elite
Management, LLC, Cobby Pourtavousi, Andre Khalili, Roe 1 Manu Khalili, and Roes
2 through 200 pursuant to a December 29, 2020 First Amended Cross-Complaint
alleging claims of (1) Violation of Penal Code section 496, (2) Conversion, (3)
Unfair Business Practices, (4) Implied Indemnity, (5) Comparative Indemnity,
(6) Declaratory Relief, and (7) Declaratory Relief.
B. Trial, Judgment, and Appeal
Trial was held in this action on
September 2, 6-8, 14, 16, 19, and 22, 2022.
On December 14, 2022, the
Court—then presided over by Judge David Sotelo (Ret.)—issued a final statement
of decision.
On November 21, 2023, St. Andrew’s
Pharmacy filed a motion for fees and costs in the trial court proceedings.
On January 24, 2023, the Court
entered judgment in this action in conformity with the final statement of
decision. The judgment adjudged that “Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant St. Andrew’s
Pharmacy, LLC and Cross-Defendant Cobby Pourtavosi shall have judgment in their
favor against Defendants/Cross-Complainants St. Andrew’s Green, a Cooperative
Corporation and Arnold Abramyan and Defendant Kathy Smith.” Important to this
analysis, the Court adjudged Plaintiff as having “judgment against Defendant
Kathy Smith on its cause of action for violation of Penal Code section 496.”
Moreover, the Court entitled Plaintiff to costs against Defendant Smith,
Defendant/Cross-Complainant St. Andrew’s Green, a Cooperative Corporation, and
Cross-Defendant Arnold Abramyan.
On March 23, 2023, Defendant Smith,
in pro per, appealed the judgment after court trial.
On March 28, 2023, Plaintiff filed
and served a notice of entry of judgment or order.
On January 12, 2024, the court of
appeal issued its opinion and remittitur, noting that the parties dismissed the
appeal by stipulation.
On January 26, 2024, the court
entered an amended judgment reflecting the award of fees and costs for St.
Andrew’s Pharmacy made by the Court on November 21, 2023.
C. Motion Before the Court
Prior to the dismissal of the
appeal and entry of the amended judgment, on January 9, 2024, St. Andrew’s
Pharmacy filed (1) a motion for an order compelling responses to special
interrogatories served by St. Andrew’s Pharmacy on Defendant/judgment debtor
Kathy Smith and for an award of sanctions against Kathy Smith to be added to an
judgment, and (2) a motion for an order compelling responses to production
requests served by St. Andrew’s Pharmacy on Kathy Smith and for an award of
sanctions against Kathy Smith to be added to an judgment.
The motion was served on Kathy
Smith—in pro per—via email and mail that same day, as well as by mail to
counsel for Defendant/Cross-Complainant, St. Andrew’s Green via email.
No opposition, reply, or notice of
non-opposition appear in the record.
St. Andrew’s Pharmacy’s motion is
now before the Court.
 
II. Motion to Compel Initial Discovery Responses and for
Sanctions
A. Motion to Compel
Interrogatory and Production Responses: GRANTED.
1. Legal
Standard
The provisions in California Code
of Civil Procedure section 2030.010 et seq. relating to the enforcement of
interrogatories served in a civil action apply when a judgment creditor
propounds interrogatories on a judgment debtor seeking information to aid in
the enforcement of the money judgment.¿ (See Code Civ. Proc., § 708.020.)
Similarly, the provisions in California
Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.010 et seq. to the enforcement of requests
for production served in a civil action apply when a judgment creditor
propounds a request for production on a judgment debtor seeking information to
aid in the enforcement of the money judgment.¿ (See Code Civ. Proc., §
708.030.)
A motion to compel an initial
response can be made on the ground that a party did not serve a timely response
to interrogatories or a demand to produce. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290, subd.
(a) [interrogatories], 2031.300, subd. (a) [demand to produce]; see Sinaiko Healthcare
Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th
390, 404 (Sinaiko).) To establish this ground, a movant must show:
(1) Proper service (see Code Civ.
Proc., §§ 2030.080, subd. (a) [interrogatories], 2031.040 [demand to produce]);
(2) Expiration of the deadline for
the initial response 30 days after service or on date agreed to by parties (see
Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.260, subds. (a), (b) [interrogatories], 2031.260,
subds. (a), (b) [demand to produce]); and
(3) No timely response (see Code
Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290 [interrogatories], 2031.300 [demand to produce]).
A court must deny a motion to
compel initial discovery where the discovery sought is outside the scope of
discovery. (See CBS, Inc. v. Superior Court (1968) 263 Cal.App.2d 12,
19; see also Code. Civ. Proc., § 2017.010 [scope of discovery].)
2. Analysis
a. Parties’
Arguments
In its motion, St. Andrew’s
Pharmacy argues as follows. On November 16, 2023, St. Andrew’s Green served
interrogatories and production requests on Kathy Smith, which were solely
emailed to Kathy Smith. Kathy Smith failed to respond to these requests by the
statutory timeframe ending on December 21, 2023, which prompted St. Andrew’s
Pharmacy to file the motions before the Court. The discovery sought by St.
Andrew’s Pharmacy is discoverable because it relates to the financial condition
of Kathy Smith, which is relevant to revealing assets that she might used to
pay the judgment against her in favor of St. Andrew’s Pharmacy. (See Motions,
pp. 2-5.)
No opposition, reply, or notice of
non-opposition appear in the record.
b. Court’s
Determination
After review, the Court determines
that an order compelling responses from Kathy Smith is proper here.
First, St. Andrew’s Pharmacy presents
evidence showing that it served the interrogatories and production requests on
Kathy Smith via email on November 16, 2023. (Motions, Sacuzzo Decls. Ex. A,
Proof of Service.)
Second, St. Andrew’s Pharmacy argues
that the deadline to respond to the interrogatories and production requests expired
as of December 21, 2023. (Motions, Sacuzzo Decls., ¶¶ 2.)
Third, St. Andrew’s Pharmacy
presents evidence showing that it has failed to received responses to the
interrogatories and production requests from Kathy Smith. (Motions, Sacuzzo
Decl., ¶¶ 2.)
Fourth, review of the discovery
sought shows that it relates to Kathy Smith’s financial condition and sources
of assets that can satisfy the judgment in favor of St. Andrew’s Pharmacy. (Motions,
Sacuzzo Decls. Ex. A; Code Civ. Proc., § 2017.010.)
Fifth, the Court last notes that
any objections to the discovery requests here have been waived as a result of
Kathy Smith’s nonresponse. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290, subd. (a), 2031.300,
subd. (a).)
St. Andrew’s Pharmacy’s motion is
thus GRANTED as to an order compelling responses from Kathy Smith to St.
Andrew’s Pharmacy’s interrogatories and production requests.
B. Request for Sanctions: GRANTED,
in part.
1. Legal
Standard
The provisions in California Code
of Civil Procedure section 2030.010 et seq. relating to the enforcement of
interrogatories served in a civil action apply when a judgment creditor
propounds interrogatories on a judgment debtor seeking information to aid in
the enforcement of the money judgment.¿ (See Code Civ. Proc., § 708.020.)
Similarly, the provisions in
California Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.010 et seq. to the enforcement
of requests for production served in a civil action apply when a judgment
creditor propounds a request for production on a judgment debtor seeking
information to aid in the enforcement of the money judgment.¿ (See Code Civ.
Proc., § 708.030.)
The Court must impose monetary
sanctions against anyone—party, nonparty, or attorney—who unsuccessfully makes
or opposes a motion to compel initial responses to interrogatories or
production requests, unless it finds that the person to be sanctioned acted
with substantial justification or other circumstances make the imposition of
the sanctions unjust. (See Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290, subd. (c)
[interrogatories], 2031.300, subd. (c) [demand to produce]; see Sinaiko Healthcare
Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants, supra, 148
Cal.App.4th at p. 404 [interrogatories and demand to produce].)
The court may award sanctions under
the Discovery Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery,
even though no opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion
was withdrawn, or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party
after the motion was filed. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1348, subd. (a).)
2. Analysis
a. Parties’
Arguments
In its motion, St. Andrew’s
Pharmacy argues that sanctions are warranted against Kathy Smith for failing to
respond to an authorized method of discovery seeking relevant information regarding
Smith’s assets. St. Andrew’s Pharmacy requests $1,185 in sanctions for each
motion, for a total of $2,370, as well as a court order to the effect that
failure to comply with this order could result in a finding of contempt and the
recommendation that the court of appeal dismiss the now-dismissed appeal by
Kathy Smith. St. Andrew’s Pharmacy also requests that any additional sanctions
be added to the judgment. (Motions, pp. 4-5.)
No opposition, reply, or notice of
non-opposition appear in the record.
b. Court’s
Determination
The Court finds that sanctions are
warranted here but only in part.
First, the Court notes that
sanctions are only sought against Kathy Smith and no one else, which logically
follows her in pro per status at of the time the discovery requests at issue
were served on her.
Second, the Court determines that
Kathy Smith’s failure to respond to St. Andrew’s Pharmacy’s interrogatories and
production requests despite service of the same amounts to a failure to respond
to an authorized method of discovery, supporting sanctions. (Code Civ. Proc.,
§§ 2023.010, subd. (d), 2023.030, subd. (a).)
Third, the Court determines that
because no opposition is before the Court, the Court lacks grounds to determine
that sanctions are without substantial justification or are unjust.
Fourth, the Court determines that
sanctions are appropriate in the total amount of $1,920, comprised of a
reasonable $450 per hour fee rate times 1.5 hours reasonably spent on each
motion and one hour (not two) to be reasonably spent attending this hearing on
both motions, plus a $60 motion filing fee for each motion. (Motions, Sacuzzo
Decls., ¶¶ 5.)
Fifth, the Court denies the
additional requests by St. Andrew’s Pharmacy, i.e., the inclusion of
admonishments in this order relating to contempt and dismissal of Kathy Smith’s
now-dismissed appeal, and the addition of any sanctions to the judgment as a
matter of course. The Court will address any noncompliance with its orders
after, not before that noncompliance occurs. Parties are assumed to be aware of
the legal consequences of their conduct, and in any event, lack of knowledge does
not preclude the Court from imposing any appropriate legal consequences. The
appeal dismissal admonishment is not necessary where the appeal has since been
dismissed. And for the amendment judgment in this action to be modified, St.
Andrew’s Pharmacy needs to file a written request or present an oral request
for that relief, along with a proposed second amended judgment.
Sanctions are thus GRANTED, in
part, in the amount of $1,920.
 
III. Conclusion
A. Motion to Compel Interrogatory
Responses
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant St.
Andrew’s Pharmacy, LLC’s Motion for Order Compelling Responses to Judgment
Creditor Special Interrogatories is GRANTED.
Defendant/Cross-Defendant Kathy
Smith is ORDERED to serve code-compliant responses, without objections, within
15 days of service of this order.
B. Motion to Compel Production
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant St.
Andrew’s Pharmacy, LLC’s Motion for Order Compelling Responses to Judgment
Creditor Requests for Production of Documents is GRANTED.
Defendant/Cross-Defendant Kathy
Smith is ORDERED to serve code-compliant responses and/or production, as
applicable, without objections, within 15 days of service of this order.
C. Requests for Sanctions
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant St.
Andrew’s Pharmacy, LLC’s requests for sanctions are GRANTED in part in the
total amount of $1,920.
Any request by Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant
St. Andrew’s Pharmacy, LLC that these monies be added to the operative amended
judgment must be in the form a proposed second amended judgment.
The Court otherwise declines to add
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant St. Andrew’s Pharmacy, LLC’s recommended
admonishments to the sanctions order.