 Case Number:  21PSCV01009    Hearing Date:   November 2, 2023    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
(1)  
Defendant The Defendant Boiling Crab’s Motion
For Summary Judgment Or, In The Alternative, Motion For Summary Adjudication is
GRANTED in part (MSA granted as to 1st, 2nd
and 3rd COAs [related to harassment]) and DENIED in part
(i.e., as to remainder of the COAs).  
 
(2)   Motion
To Continue Trial & All Discovery & Motion Filing Deadlines is GRANTED.

 
Background
 
This case arises
from alleged workplace harassment in the workplace. Plaintiff KATELYN
NGUYEN alleges the following against Defendant THE BOILING CRAB: Plaintiff was
a waitress at the Boiling Crab. “During her four (4) years of employment,
Defendant's patrons consistently and continuously harassed Plaintiff.
Defendant's male patrons made lude, sexual, inappropriate, and offensive
remarks to Plaintiff.” (Complaint ¶17.) Plaintiff complained to her manager (Alfred) and
her shift lead, but neither took steps to remedy the situation. (¶18.) Other
female employees also experienced similar sexual harassment by the male
patrons. (¶20.)
In addition to the hostile work environment, Defendant failed to
properly provide meal and/or rest breaks to its employee. (¶23.) Ultimately,
“Plaintiff's termination was constructive in nature due to Defendant
creating an intolerable and unsafe work environment.” (¶22.) 
 
On December 2, 2021, Plaintiff filed suit alleging the
following causes of action (COAs): 1.    
Harassment & Hostile Work Environment in Violation
of FEHA 2.     Wrongful
Termination In Violation of Public Policy 3.     Failure
to Prevent Harassment in Violation of FEHA 4.     Violation
of Meal & Rest Breaks 5.     Violation
of Private Attorney General Act (PAGA) 6.     Failure
to Provide Accurate Paystubs  7.     Waiting
Time Penalties in Violation of Labor Codes 201-204 8.     Failure
to Timely Provide Personnel & Payroll Records
 
On January 19, 2022,
Defendant filed its answer.
 
On August 17, 2023,
Defendant filed the instant motion for summary judgment (MSJ).
 
On August 31, 2023,
Plaintiff filed the instant motion to continue trial.
 
On October 12, 2023,
Plaintiff filed her opposition to the MSJ.
 
On October 26, 2023,
Defendant filed its reply.[1]
 
Legal Standard
 
The law of summary judgment
provides courts “a mechanism to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to
determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to
resolve their dispute.”  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001)
25 Cal.4th 826, 843 (Aguilar).)  In reviewing a motion for
summary judgment, courts employ a three-step analysis: “(1) identify the
issues framed by the pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving party has
negated the opponent’s claims; and (3) determine whether the opposition has
demonstrated the existence of a triable, material factual issue.”  (Hinesley
v. Oakshade Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289,
294.) “The motion for summary judgment shall be granted if all the papers
submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that
the moving party is entitled to a judgment as a matter of law.”  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).)   
 
A moving defendant bears the initial burden of production to
show that one or more elements of the cause of action cannot be established or
that there is a complete defense to the cause of action, at which point the
burden shifts to the plaintiff to make a prima facie showing of the
existence of a triable issue.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd.
(p)(2).) “The motion shall be supported by affidavits, declarations, admissions,
answers to interrogatories, depositions, and matters of which judicial notice
shall or may be taken. The supporting papers shall include a separate statement
setting forth plainly and concisely all material facts that the moving party
contends are undisputed. Each of the material facts stated shall be followed by
a reference to the supporting evidence. The failure to comply with this
requirement of a separate statement may in the court’s discretion constitute a
sufficient ground for denying the motion.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
437c, subd. (b)(1).) 
 
The opposing party may not rely on the mere allegations or
denials of the pleadings, but instead must set forth the specific facts showing
that a triable issue exists as to that cause of action or a defense
thereto.  (Aguilar, supra, at p.
849.) Specifically, “[t]he opposition, where appropriate, shall consist of
affidavits, declarations, admissions, answers to interrogatories, depositions,
and matters of which judicial notice shall or may be taken.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 437c, subd. (2).) 
 

Courts “liberally construe the
evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts
concerning the evidence in favor of that party.”  (Dore v. Arnold
Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389; see also Hinesley, supra,
135 Cal.App.4th at p. 294 [The court must “view the evidence in the light most
favorable to the opposing party and accept all inferences reasonably drawn
therefrom.”].)  In determining whether the papers show that there is a
triable issue as to any material fact, the court shall consider all of the
evidence set forth in the moving papers, except that as to which objections
have been made and sustained, and all inferences reasonable deducible from such
evidence. (Hayman v. Block (1986) 176
Cal.App.3d 629, 639.)
 
Discussion
 
Defendant seeks summary
judgment/adjudication as to the first through seventh COAs. (Notice of Motion.)[2] 
 
The crux of the motion is
predicated upon the arguments that: 
 
1. Plaintiff’s harassment cause
of action fails in that her allegations do not constitute severe or pervasive
harassment sufficient to have created a hostile working environment in
violation of the Fair Employment and Housing Act (FEHA).
 
2. Plaintiff voluntarily
resigned her position and was never terminated.
 
3. Plaintiff was provided with
her meal and rest breaks during her employment. 
 
A. Harassment COAs (1st
COA and 3rd COA)[3]
 
A hostile work environment sexual
harassment claims requires a plaintiff employee to show: (1) he or she was
subjected to unwelcome sexual advances, conduct or comments; (2) the harassment
was based on sex; and (3) the harassment was sufficiently severe or pervasive
to alter the conditions of employment and create an abusive environment. (Lyle
v. Warner Brothers Television Productions (2006) 38 Cal.4th 264, 279.)[4]

 
“The prohibition of harassment on
the basis of sex  . . . forbids only
behavior so objectively offensive as to alter the  conditions of the victim's employment and
create a hostile or abusive work environment [internal citation omitted].” (Id.
at p. 282-283, emphasis added.) As the
state Supreme Court continued to explain, an abuse or hostile work environment
“can be determined only by looking at all the circumstances [including] the frequency
of the discriminatory conduct; its severity; whether it is physically
threatening or humiliating, or a mere offensive utterance; and
whether it unreasonably interferes with an employee's work performance.
[internal citation omitted].) (Ibid, emphasis added.) 
 
In determining the severity of
harassment, it is judged from the “perspective of a reasonable person in the
plaintiff's position, considering all the circumstances.” [internal citation
omitted.].) (Id. at p. 283.) 
 
In determining the pervasiveness of
harassment, “courts have
held an employee generally cannot recover for harassment that is occasional,
isolated, sporadic, or trivial; rather, the employee must show a concerted
pattern of harassment of a repeated, routine, or a generalized nature.”
(Ibid, emphasis added.) “[W]hen the harassing conduct is not severe in
the extreme, more than a few isolated incidents must have occurred to prove a
claim based on working conditions.” (Id. at p. 284.) 
 
For Plaintiff to prevail on her
claim for failure to prevent harassment, Plaintiff must show three essential
elements: (1) that she was subjected to unlawful harassment; (2) that defendant
failed to take all reasonable steps to prevent the harassment; and (3) that
this failure caused Plaintiff to suffer injury, damage, loss or harm. (Caldera
v. Department of Corrections & Rehabilitation (2018) 25 Cal.App.5th 31,
43-44.)
 
a. Defendant’s Burden 
 
Defendant’s main argument is
that Plaintiff alleges only a few incidents of inappropriate verbal 
statements by third-party
customers. The statements are as follows:


- Plaintiff alleges that
sometime in 2019, a middle-aged male customer called her a “bitch” after it
took a while to seat his party. Plaintiff can’t recall what month or when in
2019 this allegedly occurred. (Separate Statement (SS) No. 9, citing Plaintiff’s
Deposition)
 
- Plaintiff alleges she was
verbally harassed by an elderly male Asian customer at some point during her
employment. Plaintiff claims this gentleman called her “cute” a few
times, and told Plaintiff that she should wait on him more often. Plaintiff
alleges she saw him staring at her butt on one occasion. Plaintiff claims that
this customer, on one occasion, told Plaintiff, “I like your butt.” (SS No. 10,
emphasis added.)
 
- On or about June 27, 2021,
Plaintiff alleges that four male customers at a certain table verbally harassed
her. Plaintiff claims that she brought the table drinks and was asked by one of
the customers, “Did you spit in my drink? If you did, I will slurp you up.”
This same male patron, according to Plaintiff, said during this conversation,
“You should drop your pen and bend over.” (SS No. 11). Plaintiff claims minutes
later the same male patron said to her, “I will tip you with my d-ck.” (SS No.
12).
 


 
Based thereon, Defendant avers
that there were few and sporadic comments, over a four-year period (worked
June 2017 until August 2021).
Notably, all comments from different customers, indicating the isolated
nature of the comments, which are insufficient for FEHA claims. (Lewis v.
City of Benicia (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 1519, 1528 [“Hickman's alleged
conduct did not consist of an isolated outburst of profane insults. Instead, as
outlined above, Hickman allegedly engaged in a course of conduct from which a
reasonable jury could infer he was pursuing a relationship with Lewis and was
acting from genuine sexual interest.”].) 
 
While the 2021 comment is
undoubtedly insulting, disgusting, and degrading, “the occasional
vulgar banter, tinged with sexual innuendo, of coarse and boorish workers” does
not constitute harassment. (Motion p. 10, citing Baskerville v. Culligan
Int’l Co. (7th Cir. 1995) 50 F.3d 428, 430, Meritor Savings Bank v.
Vinson (1986) 477 U.S. 57, 61; see also Sheffield v. Los Angeles County
Dept. of Social Services (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 153, 162.) At most, the
comments were teasing, but “simple teasing” and “offhand comments” are insufficient for
a sexual harassment claim. (See Motion p. 11, quoting Faragher v. City of
Boca Raton (1998) 524 U.S. 775, 788.) 

 
Plus, the comments were not physically
threatening nor affected Plaintiff’s work performance as after the June
2021 incident, Defendant never received any complaint from any customer or
employee regarding any of the June 2021 customers (SS No. 19) nor did Plaintiff
ever see the four male customers again. (SS No. 21.)[5] (See
Motion pp. 9-10, citing Harris v. Forklift Systems, Inc. (1993) 510 U.S.
17, 23.) 
 
What is more, Defendant had no
knowledge that any of these customers had ever said anything inappropriate or
harassing to any customer or employee before the June 2021 incident involving
Plaintiff. (SS No. 18.) And as to the 2021 incident, Defendant acted immediately
and appropriately as soon as the customers were reported. Plaintiff’s manager
moved her away and had another server tend the table (SS Nos. 14, 15), the
manager (Moua) confronted the table (SS No. 16), and the four customers left
the restaurant about an hour later never to be seen again (SS Nos. 16-18.) 
 
Thus, as there is no evidence of
Defendant’s knowledge about the particular third party’s harassing conduct and
here there is. of the customers’ harassing conduct, the employer/Defendant
cannot be liable for a third-party customer’s harassment. (Motion p. 11,
citing Carter v. California Dept. of Veterans Affairs (2006) 38 Cal.4th
914 [ statutory
interpretation of Assembly Bill No. 76 (2003–2004 Reg. Sess) that amended FEHA
to add language specifying that employers are “responsible for the acts of
nonemployees, with respect to the sexual harassment of employees ... where the
employer ... knows or should have known of the conduct and fails to take
immediate and appropriate corrective action.”].)[6]

 
Therefore, in sum, Plaintiff’s
unlawful harassment claim lacks merit in that infrequency and lack of severity
(aside from the 2021 incident) are insufficient to rise to the level of severe
or pervasive harassment under the FEHA, which also precludes the 3rd
COA for failure to prevent harassment. 
 
The burden now shifts to
Plaintiff. 
 
b. Plaintiff’s Burden 
 
Plaintiff argues that triable
issues of material fact exist as to whether the comments were pervasive or
severe and that “Plaintiff's lawsuit is almost entirely premised on the
allegation that TBC failed to take all reasonable steps necessary to investigate
and prevent harassment from occurring, putting Defendant's contentions in
dispute.” (Opp. p. 3:15-17.) 
 
As a prefatory matter, the court
disagrees with the latter point. As the pleadings frame the issues, the court
turns to the complaint. The complaint not once mentions Defendant’s duty or
failure to investigate harassment. To the extent that was the intent of the
complaint, the complaint is seemingly boilerplate. Rather, the complaint is
based upon the harassment she faced from customers. (See Complaint p. 7
[“Plaintiff was subjected to constant pervasive and/or severe harassment by
customers.”].) Therefore, to the extent that Plaintiff provides evidence and
arguments that Defendant alleged neglected to investigate the 2021 incident is
immaterial.  
 
As to the “frequency” of the
alleged harassment, Plaintiff disputes the “frequency” prong of the harassment
by arguing “Plaintiff on multiple occasions was harassed by customers, some who
were repeat customers.” (Plaintiff’s SS No. 8, citing to Plaintiff’s
declaration.) But a review
of Plaintiff’s declaration does not provide evidence that Plaintiff was
harassed by those same men on more than one occasion. Rather, her declaration,
which is largely dedicated to the wage claims, provides the following one sentence:
“I was harassed on multiple occasions working for Defendant Boiling Crab.
However, I recall three separate instances which I was harassed.” (¶11; see
also Plaintiff’s SS No. 22 [“Disputed to the extent Plaintiff only recalls
these three incidents.”.) If anything, this strengthens Defendant’s
argument that the comments were on separate instances and thus isolated.

 
In fact, Plaintiff
maintains that it's unclear whether these were repeat customers (Plaintiff’s SS

No. 18), further
suggesting the lack of evidence on the issue. To the extent there were repeat
customers, the court has reviewed Plaintiff’s deposition and the “older
Asian gentlemen” interacted with Plaintiff about four times. (Mirzaie Decl.,
Ex. C [Plaintiff’s deposition], p. 26-28 of 44 of PDF.)[7]
(See also Opp. p. 12 [“[Plaintiff] was constantly harassed by an Asian customer
who frequently dined at TBD.”].) 
 
But employing common sense and a reasonable view, the
interactions do not amount to harassment under FEHA because calling Plaintiff
(and other coworker(s)) “cute” is not so objectively offensive; being called
“cute” is not obscene, not vulgar, not coarse, not boorish, nor flagrant. As to the commentary about Plaintiff’s butt, while
that may be tined with sexual innuendo or suggestive, that does not constitute
harassment. (See Fisher, supra, 214 Cal.App.3d at p. 611-612 [“On the other hand,
courts have concluded that isolated instances of sexual harassment do not
constitute a hostile work environment. (See e.g., Jones v. Flagship Intern., supra, 793 F.2d 714, 716 [supervisor's
two suggestive remarks and a single proposition of plaintiff];  Rabidue v. Osceola Refining Co. (6th Cir.1986) 805 F.2d 611, 615, 622 [Even
though co-worker was extremely vulgar and crude and in confrontation posture
with plaintiff and nude photos were present, totality of the workplace was not
affected.]; Scott v. Sears, Roebuck & Co. (7th Cir.1986) 798 F.2d 210, 214 [isolated
winks, suggestive remarks and a co-worker's single request for a date with
plaintiff];  Downes v. F.A.A., supra, 775 F.2d 288, 293 [Defendant
engaged in mildly offensive verbal conduct on three occasions and twice touched
plaintiff's hair.].”].)
 
In fact, Taylor Dang
(another female coworker who was allegedly harassed) concedes in her
deposition that the statement was not offensive: “They didn’t make any
explicitly inappropriate” comment. (Mirzaie Decl., Ex. B [Dang Deposition], p.
16 of 44 of PDF.) 
 
To the extent
that being called “cute” is offensive, Plaintiff has not cited to any
authority, not responded to Defendant’s authority, nor provided an analysis to
deem otherwise. 

 
Therefore, absent evidence (and analysis), Plaintiff has
not provided evidence that she was subject to sexually improper comments in a
“concerted pattern of harassment of a repeated, routine or generalized nature.”
(Fisher v. San Pedro Peninsula Hospital (1989) 214 Cal.App.3d 590, 610.)

 
Thus, summary adjudication
is GRANTED as to the 1st and 3rd COAs. 
 
B. 2nd COA for
Wrongful Termination 
 
In order for Plaintiff to
prevail on her claim of wrongful constructive discharge, she must prove that
Defendant “either intentionally created or knowingly permitted working
conditions that were so intolerable or aggravated at the time of the employee’s
resignation that a reasonable employer would realize that a reasonable person
in the employee’s position would be compelled to resign.” (Motion p. 13, citing
Turner v. Anheuser-Busch, Inc. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 1238, 1251.) The focus
is on “whether the resignation was coerced, not whether it was simply one
rational option for the employee.” (Id.) Thus, the alleged adverse
working conditions must be “unusually aggravated” or amount to a “continuous
pattern” in order to be deemed intolerable. “Single, trivial, or isolated acts
of [misconduct] are insufficient” to support a constructive discharge claim.” (Id.
at 1247.)
 
Plaintiff resigned because she
felt unsupported by her managers during her employment, specifically after the
2021 incident. (SS No. 24.) 
 
Not being supported by your
supervisor is insufficient to support a constructive termination claim as
Plaintiff has not made allegations (nor a showing) of continuous pattern of
unusually aggravated conduct by her employers. 
 
Therefore, Defendant has met its
burden. 
 
b. Plaintiff’s Burden 
 
Plaintiff argues she resigned
because she “could no longer endure the constant customer harassment and the
neglect from managers in protecting the female employees against customers.” 
 
However, as noted above,
Plaintiff has not provided evidence of harassment, an inherent requirement for
a wrongful termination COA. 
 
Therefore, Plaintiff fails to
meet her burden. 
 
Thus, summary adjudication
is granted as to the 2nd COA. 
 
C. 4th COA for
Failure to Provide Meal and Rest Breaks
 
Labor Code sec. 512(a) provides
in pertinent part: An employer may not employ an employee for a work period of
more than five hours per day without providing the employee with a meal period
of not less than 30 minutes, except that if the total work period per day of
the employee is no more than six hours, the meal period may be waived by mutual
consent of both the employer and employee.
 
Section 12 of California Wage
Order 5 provides: (A) Every employer shall authorize and permit all employees
to take rest periods, which insofar as practicable shall be in the middle of
each work period. The authorized rest period time shall be based on the total
hours worked daily at the rate of ten (10) minutes net rest time per four (4)
hours or major fraction thereof. However, a rest period need not be authorized
for employees whose total daily work time is less than three and one-half
(31/2) hours. Authorized rest period time shall be counted as hours worked for
which there shall be no deduction from wages.”
 
a. Defendant’s Burden 
 
Defendant argues: Plaintiff
signed a meal period waiver at the beginning of her employment agreeing to
waive her meal breaks if she worked more than five hours, but less than six
hours, in a workday. (SS No. 28). It was Plaintiff’s practice to take a break
of at least 30-minutes in length if she worked more than six hours in a
workday. (SS No. 30) Plaintiff never complained to any of her managers or
supervisors that she was unable to take any meal or rest break.
 
Therefore, Defendant met its
evidentiary burden. 
 
b. Plaintiff’s Burden 
 
Plaintiff argues: Plaintiff was
not provided with her 10-minute uninterrupted rest periods due to working in a
busy, understaffed restaurant. (PSSF 66). Additionally, on the occasions when
Ms. Nguyen was working, she would not have time for a rest break and was not
allowed one when there was work. (PSSF 66). Plaintiff and her co-workers were
often so busy that they were forced to miss rest breaks. Plaintiff even
complained to her managers, Tommy, Taiyo, and Vanna, regarding her missed rest
breaks. (PSSF 64)
 
Therefore, as Plaintiff has
provided evidence that she was precluded from an uninterrupted rest period of
not less than 10 minutes for every period worked more than four (4) hours and
uninterrupted statutory meal breaks on days she worked more than six hours
either because the restaurant was busy during her shifts and constantly
understaffed. 
 
Thus, the court DENIES the
MSA as to the 4th COA. 
 

 
D. 6th COA for Failure to Provide Accurate
Paystubs and 7th COA for Waiting Time Penalties and 5th
COA for PAGA 
 
Defendant argues that this claim is a derivative claim,
predicated upon the alleged failure to pay meal period pay and/or rest period
pay. 
 
As the court denied the MSA as to the 4th COA,
the court DENIES the MSA as to the 6th COA and 7th COA as
the motion is predicated upon the premise that these COAs are derivative of the
alleged meal and rest breaks claims. As Plaintiff has made an adequate showing
that she did suffer meal or rest break violations during her employment, she is
an “aggrieved employee” for PAGA purposes such that MSA as to 8th
COA is also denied. (Labor Code §2699(c) “any person who was employed by the
alleged violator and against whom one or more of the alleged violations was
committed.”).)[8] 
 
Conclusion
 
In sum, “FEHA's prohibitions are not a ‘civility code’ and are not
designed to rid the workplace of vulgarity.” (Sheffield, supra, 109
Cal.App.4th at p. 161.) Thus, while the court in no way doubts that the
interactions (Plaintiff and her other female coworkers) made them feel
uncomfortable, mere discomfort is insufficient for FEHA purposes. 
 
Based on the foregoing, as to the 1st through 3rd
COAs, the MSJ/MSA is GRANTED. As to the PAGA based claims predicated upon
various labor code violations, the MSJ/MSA is DENIED. 


