  Case Number:  20STCV15419    Hearing Date:   November 2, 2023    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
SPECIALLY
APPEARING CROSSDEFENDANT/CROSS-COMPLAINANT HIWAY SAFETY RENTALS, INC.’S NOTICE
OF MOTION AND MOTION TO QUASH PLAINTIFFS EDGARDO PANO, JR. AND JONELLE
SOLLNER’S IMPROPER/INCOMPLETE SERVICE OF PROCESS is GRANTED (on the
grounds that Plaintiffs were not truly ignorant of the facts nor Hi-Way’s
identity at the time of filing their complaint, making the negligence COA
asserted against Hi-Way barred by the statute of limitations). 
 
Background[1]
 
This is a
wrongful death case arising from a January 27, 2020 accident wherein Luis
Eduardo Rios struck Edgardo Pano, Sr while he was riding his bicycle. 
 
On April 22,
2020, Plaintiff Edgardo Pano, Jr. (“Plaintiff”) filed suit against SERRANO
DEVELOPMENT GROUP, INC., a California Corporation; PACIFIC EMPIRE BUILDERS,
INC., a California Corporation; AZUSA BLOCK 36, LLC, a California Limited
Liability Company; CITY OF AZUSA, a Public Entity; JONELLE SOLLER (“Soller”) for
the death of his father who was struck by a truck while riding his bicycle. 
 
On July 23,
2020, Plaintiff files his first amended complaint (FAC). 
 
On January
19, 2021, Soller files her operative complaint. 
 
On March 8,
2022, Defendant/Cross-Defendant Serrano Development Group, Inc.; Pacific Empire
Builders, Inc. and Azusa Block 36, LLC (“Developer defendants”) file their
CrossComplaint. 
 
On June 10,
2022, Hi-Way Safety Rentals, Inc. (“Hi-Way”) was sued/served by Developer
Defendants as Roe 1. 
 
On October
19, 2022, Sun Aggregates LLC (“Sun Aggregates”) filed a Cross Complaint for (1)
EQUITABLE INDEMNITY; (2) CONTRIBUTION; (3) EXPRESS INDEMNITY; and (4)
DECLARATORY RELIEF against Cross-Defendants Developer Defendants; MANUAL D.
TEJEDA TRUCKING INC., a California Corporation; LUIS EDUARDO RIOS MORALES dba
RIOS TRUCKING; and RIGHT TRUCK INC. 
 
On March 1,
2023, the court set aside Hi-Way’s default (as to Developer Defendants’
cross-complaint). 
 
On July 20,
2023, Plaintiff JONELLE SOLLER, Successor in Interest to EDGARDO ANTONIO PANO,
and in her personal capacity, filed an AMENDMENT TO COMPLAINT naming HI-WAY
SAFETY RENTALS, INC. as Doe 7. 
 
On July 26,
2023, Plaintiff EDGARDO PANO, JR., filed an AMENDMENT TO COMPLAINT NAMING DOE 7
as HI-WAY SAFETY RENTALS, INC (“Hi-Way”).
 
On August 23,
2023, Hi-Way filed the instant motion.[2]

 
On October
20, 2023, Plaintiffs filed respective oppositions. 
 
On October
25, 2023, Hi-Way filed a consolidated Reply. 
 
Legal
Standard
 
The motion is
based upon California Code of Civil Procedure (CCP) sections 335.1, 418.10
(a)(1) and (3), 474 and 583.210 and 583.250. (Motion p. 2:27-28.)[3]
 
Section
418.10 (Objection to Jurisdiction) provides, in pertinent part, the following: 
 
(a) A defendant, on or before the
last day of his or her time to plead or within any further time that the court
may for good cause allow, may serve and file a notice of motion for one or more
of the following purposes:
(1) To quash service of summons
on the ground of lack of jurisdiction of the court over him or her.
. . . 
(3) To dismiss the action
pursuant to the applicable provisions of Chapter 1.5
In turn,
Chapter 1.5 (Dismissal for Delay in Prosecution), provides the following: 
 
(a) The summons and complaint shall be served upon a
defendant within three years after the action is commenced against the
defendant. For the purpose of this subdivision, an action is commenced at the
time the complaint is filed.
(b) Proof of service of the summons shall be filed
within 60 days after the time the summons and complaint must be served upon a
defendant.
 
The delay-in-service statute provides that its requirements “are
mandatory and are not subject to extension, excuse, or exception except as
expressly provided by statute.” (Code of Civ. Proc., §
583.250, subd. (b.).) 
 
Timeliness
 
CCP section
418.10 requires that: “(a) A defendant, on or before the last day of his or her
time to plead or within any further time that the court may for good cause
allow, may serve and file a notice of motion . . . (b) notice shall designate,
as the time for making the motion, a date not more than 30 days after filing of
the notice.”
 
The notice of
motion was filed and served on August 23, 2023, with a set hearing on November
2, 2023, when 30 days from August 22, 2023 is September 22, 2023. 
 
Plaintiff
argues that Hi-Way should have sought ex-parte relief for an earlier hearing
date. (Opp. p. 4.)[4]

 
Here, unlike
CCP section 583.250(b), supra, which expressly deprives the court with discretion,
CCP 418.10 does not use such language. “Ordinarily,
where the Legislature uses a different word or phrase in one part of a statute
than it does in other sections or in a similar statute concerning a related
subject, it must be presumed that the Legislature intended a different
meaning.” (Roy v. Superior Court (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 1337, 1352.) The
omission of language that the motion shall be heard within 30 days
of making a motion such and is not “subject
to extension, excuse, or exception” suggests that the court has discretion to
hear an untimely motion. In fact, arguably, section 418.10 (b) provides
for a court with discretion (“except that
for good cause shown the court may extend the defendant’s time to plead for an
additional period not exceeding 20 days”). And one such discretionary power is
the court’s power to enforce proceedings before it. (Code of Civ. Proc., §
128(a)(2).) As the court’s schedule is severely
impacted making difficult if not nearly impossible to hear a motion within 30
days of making a motion, the court exercises its discretion to hear the motion.
(See also Reply p. 3, citing Olinick v. BMG Entertainment (2006)
128 Cal.App 4th 1286, 1296 [“Further, as Weil
and Brown observes: “[S]cheduling a hearing date beyond 30 days should not invalidate a motion to
quash. Nothing in [section]
418.10 suggests
the court must overlook the lack of personal jurisdiction or proper service
because of a defendant's failure to schedule a hearing date within 30 days.”
(Weil & Brown, Cal. Practice Guide: Civ. Proc. Before Trial (The Rutter
Group 2005) § 3:381.)”].) 
 
Therefore, the court rejects Plaintiffs theory that a belated hearing
date on a motion to dismiss under section 418.10 deprives the trial court of
jurisdiction to consider the merits of the motion.
 
Discussion
 
Hi-Way brings
forth the motion on the following grounds: 
 
1.     Both of the Plaintiffs Have Failed to
Properly Serve Hi-Way Safety Rentals, Inc. With Process.
2.     Neither of the Plaintiffs Was “Truly
Ignorant” of Hi-Way Safety Rentals’ Identify or the Potential Claims That
Plaintiffs May Have Against It: Plaintiffs’ Doe Amendments Do Not Relate Back
to Their Original Filings
3.     Plaintiffs’ Doe Amendments Are Barred
Because They Unreasonably Delayed Amending.
4.     Plaintiff Edgardo Pano, Jr.’s Lawsuit
Is Subject to Mandatory Dismissal for Failure to Serve a Doe Defendant Within
Three Years of Filing the Original Complaint as Required by Statute
5.     Both Plaintiff’s Direct Claims Against
Hi-Way Safety Rentals Are Time Barred by the Applicable Statute of Limitations.
 
(See Table of Contents.) 
 
1.     Whether Hi-Way Was Properly Served?
 
Hi-Way
explains that Plaintiffs served Hi-Way’s counsel (who is not authorized
to accept service on behalf of Hi-Way) via email. (Motion pp. 6-7.) As
to Plaintiff Pano, Jr., his counsel sent a subsequent email wherein he included
a Summons, the First Amended Complaint and a new Doe Amendment on pleading
paper rather than the Judicial Council Form initially transmitted. (Motion p. 6:22-25.)

 
But in Opposition Plaintiffs explain that the service of process
was proper as Hi-Way was personally served on August 10, 2023. In Reply, Hi-Way
does not appear to dispute personal service. (Reply p. 4:17-18 [“Still, even assuming that each
plaintiff’s subsequent service was perfected . . . .”].) 
 
Therefore,
the court determines this issue is moot. 
 
2.     Whether Plaintiffs Were Truly Ignorant
of Hi-Way’s Identity?
 
As summarized by the court in Dover v. Sadowinski (1983) 147
Cal.App.3d 113: 
 
Section 474 provides that
when a plaintiff is ignorant of a defendant's identity, plaintiff may state
that fact in the complaint and name such defendant by a fictitious name. The
section further provides that, upon learning the name of the defendant, the
plaintiff must amend his complaint in order to state the true name. The proper
construction of section 474 was explained
in Barnes v. Wilson (1974) 40 Cal.App.3d 199, 144 Cal.Rptr.
839: “The
phrase ‘when the plaintiff is ignorant of the name of a defendant’ in Code of Civil
Procedure section 474 has not been interpreted literally. The plaintiff is
deemed ‘ignorant of the name’ if he knew the identity of the person but was
ignorant of facts giving him a cause of action against the person [citations],
or knew the name and all the facts but was unaware that the law gave him a
cause of action against the fictitiously named defendant and discovered that
right by reason of decisions rendered after commencement of the action.
[Citations.]” (Id., at p. 205, 114 Cal.Rptr.
839.) In Munoz v. Purdy (1979) 91 Cal.App.3d 942, 154 Cal.Rptr.
472, section 474 was further
construed, and the court held that there is no requirement placed upon a
plaintiff to exercise reasonable diligence prior to filing the complaint to
discover the defendant's identity or the facts giving him a cause of action
against the defendant. (Id., at pp. 947–948, 154 Cal.Rptr. 472.) The court
further stated, “The lack of knowledge of the true name of a defendant,
however, must be ‘real and not feigned.’ [Citation.] A plaintiff must actually
be ignorant of the facts giving him a cause of action against a defendant. ‘Ignorance
of the facts is the critical issue, and whether it be due to misinformation
or negligence is not relevant.’ [Citations.]” (Id. at pp. 116-117,
emphasis added.)[5]

 
“When a complaint alleges a cause of action against a
defendant designated by a fictitious name and his true name is thereafter
discovered and substituted by amendment, he is considered a party to the action
from its commencement and the statute of limitations stops running as of the
date the original complaint was filed.” (Pano Jr., Opp. p. 5, citing Snoke
v. Bolen (1991) 235 Cal.App.3d 1427, 1431; see also Woo v.
Superior Court (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 169, 176.) 
 
Unless the
requirements of section 474 are met, the plaintiff may not take advantage of
section 474 and later substitute a person in the place of a fictitious “Doe”
defendant. (Motion p. 8, citing Nissan v. Barton (1970) 4 Cal.App.3d 76,
79.) Should the requirements of 474 not be met, a motion to quash is the proper
mechanism to challenge the invalid 474 Amendment. (Motion p. 8, citing Optical
Surplus, Inc. v. Superior Court (1991) 228 Cal.App.3d 776, 782-783.)
 
a.     The Facts
 
Hi-Way argues
the following: neither of the plaintiffs was truly ignorant of Hi-Way’s
identity or of the factual allegations attributed to it because the factual
essence of the claims and theory of the case were clearly asserted; namely that
the incident and the resulting death of Edgardo Pano, Sr. was caused because
the width of northbound Azusa Avenue in the area of the incident was narrowed
by negligently placed concrete barriers (“K-rails”) and that each of the
defendants “approved, designed, planned, constructed, . . . built, owned,
managed, controlled . . . the southeast corner of Azusa Ave. and Foothill Blvd
. . . where the collision occurred, and the placement of concrete barriers
along Azusa Ave. . . . (Pano, Jr. Complaint and FAC, ¶¶ 26-27, 60, 63, 66, 74.)[6]
 
 
Similarly, in
the Soller complaint, Plaintiff asserted that the K-Rail/concrete barriers were
“negligently placed.” (Motion p. 9, quoting Soller Complaint ¶ 3; see also ¶¶
14-15 [allegations regarding the alleged negligent placement, spacing, warnings
and general improper narrowing of the roadway and its “geometry”].) 
 
Thus, each of the plaintiff’s liability theories
were copiously set forth in their respective complaints. Effectively, both
complaints allege the facts—that there were negligently-placed K-rails—and that
that said K-rails were owned or controlled by a (doe) defendant.[7] 
 
b.     The Identity 
 
As for the
identity of the doe Defendant, Hi-Way provides a compelling argument and
evidence: Hi-Way Safety Rentals was emblazoned in black, block letter
stenciling on the K-rails spanning the entirety of the construction project;
The 800-phone number for Hi-Way was also noted on the K-rails; publicly
available photographs on Google Maps capture Hi-Way’s name on the K-rails.
(Motion pp. 10-11 [photos attached].) 
 
What is more,
Developer Defendants’ responses to Plaintiff’s special interrogatories seeking
the identity of the person “responsible” for the K-rails was given to the Plaintiff
on May 16, 2022, according to the attached proof of service. (Motion, Ex. Q, p.
114 of 126.) “Responding Party is informed and believes that the k-rails
themselves were owned or leased and installed by Hi-Way Safety Rentals, Inc.”
Thus, the response to Interrogatories clearly set forth that Hi-Way Safety
Rentals was “responsible” for the K-rails and that it provided those K-rails
pursuant to a contract with property owner defendant, Azuza Block 36, LLC. But,
since May 16, 2022, Plaintiffs took no action in naming Hi-Way. In fact, even
after June 10, 2022, when Hi-Way was named as a cross-defendant, Plaintiffs
still did not bring Hi-Way into the action. 
 
a.     Soller
 
To the extent
that Soller files an opposition, she does not rebut the numerous arguments
advanced by Hi-Way. Rather, she argues that despite the numerous ways in which
Hi-Way’s identity was put on notice, it is “quite a leap” for Plaintiff to have
known of Hi-Ways identity. (Opp. p. 6:6-7.) The court is uncertain how drawing
the conclusion that Soller knew or should have known of the identity is a
“leap” when Soller has yet to explain when exactly and how she learned
of Hi-Way’s role. Therefore,
as the question of the plaintiff's good
faith in this regard is for the determination of the trial court but Soller
has not offered any explanation, the court finds her 474 amendment is improper.
(Hazel, supra, 201 Cal.App.3d at p. 1465.)
 
b.     Pano Jr. 
 
To the extent
that Pano Jr. files an opposition, he does advance a correct point: A plaintiff is not required to exercise reasonable
diligence prior to filing the complaint to discover the defendant's identity.
(Opp. pp. 5-6.)[8]
But to the extent that Pano Jr. relies upon Balon v. Drost
(1993) 20 Cal.App.4th 483, 488 to support his proposition that a plaintiff may
even act unreasonable, the court disagrees because Balon
contradicts rules by the state’s Supreme Court, as articulated by Justice Phelan's dissent. 
 
In Balon, the
plaintiff knew the identity of the driver of
the car which struck her (as they exchanged personal identification
information) and she also knew the driver was the boyfriend of the
granddaughter of the car's owner whom she sued. Yet, she claimed to have forgotten the driver’s name and never
inquired about it after the accident. Within two weeks after the limitations
period expired plaintiff's attorney obtained the driver’s identity from the
public accident report and filed an amended complaint under section 474, adding the driver
as a defendant previously named as a fictitious defendant. In a divided
opinion, the majority opinion considered forgetfulness with no effort to
refresh memory to be negligent ignorance, and held that negligent
ignorance of a defendant's identity does not preclude adding a defendant
under section 474 after the
statute of limitations expired. As set forth in a persuasive dissenting
opinion, the majority’s opinion ran contrary to the decision in Irving v.
Carpentier (1886) 70 Cal.23. (dis. opn. of Phelan, J.).)  “[W]here resort to ‘readily accessible’
information is available to ascertain a true name, a tardy ‘Doe’ amendment
should not be allowed.” (Balon, supra, 25 Cal.App.4th at p. 493,
emphasis added; see also Schroeter v. Lowers (1968) 260 Cal.App.2d 695,
700 [“This
lack of knowledge of the true name of a defendant must be real and not feigned,
and must not be wilful ignorance, or such as might be removed by some
inquiry or resort to information easily accessible.”], emphasis added.) 
 
Here, the readily accessible information (the police report, the
information on the K-rails, etc.) and some inquiry would have apprised
Plaintiffs of Hi-Way’s name. 
 
Moreover, there is a significant difference between Balon and the
instant case. In Balon, the complaint amendment adding a new defendant
was made without delay after an immediate effort by the plaintiff's attorney to
determine the identity of the new defendant, and the complaint amendment was
correctly made in accordance with the section 474 procedure. In
the instant case, Plaintiffs made no effort to promptly identify Hi-Way. These
differences undermine Plaintiffs’ contention they acted in good faith to comply
with section 474. 
 
To the extent
Pano Jr. argues that he didn’t discover the moving defendant’s identity and any
supported potential facts uncovering their liability until July 12, 2023 when
the person most knowledgeable (“PMK”) for defendant B.L. Price, Co. testified
about their connection, the explanation ignores all the other ways Hi-Way’s
identity was readily accessible, notably the interrogatory response issued well
over one year ago. 
 
Lastly, if as
Pano Jr. contends that Plaintiff “is still unaware of any actual and
verified facts supporting a theory of liability” against Hi-Way (Opp.
p.7:21-23) such that Hi-Way “may not have a place in this lawsuit” (Opp. p.
3:20-21), then the naming of Hi-Way as a defendant is improper. (See Cal. Civ.
Proc. Code § 128.7(b)(4) [“By presenting to
the court, whether by signing, filing, submitting, or later advocating, a
pleading, petition, written notice of motion, or other similar paper, an
attorney or unrepresented party is certifying that to the best of the person's
knowledge, information, and belief, formed after an inquiry reasonable under
the circumstances, all of the following conditions are met . . . (3) The
allegations and other factual contentions have evidentiary support or, if
specifically so identified, are likely to have evidentiary support after a
reasonable opportunity for further investigation or discovery.”] see also Blockrath
v. Aldrich Chemical Co., (1999) 21 Cal. 4th 71, 81-83.) 
 
Therefore, as
the requirements of 474 are not satisfied the amended complaint
substituting a new defendant for a fictitious Doe defendant filed after the
statute of limitations does not “relate back” to the filing date of the
original complaint.[9]
(McClatchy v. Coblentz, Patch, Duffy & Bass, LLP (2016) 247 Cal.
App. 4th 368.)[10]

 
 
 
Conclusion
 
In sum, 474
requirements are not met because Plaintiffs were not truly ignorant of
the facts nor Hi-Way’s identity, but rather seemingly chose to ignore the
facts and identity. Were they truly ignorant, both oppositions failed to
provide a good faith showing. Based on the foregoing, the motion is granted. 
 
The court
need not address the other arguments. 
 
 


