


[1] The Reply only addresses the 1st through 3rd
COAs, suggesting Plaintiff has met her evidentiary burden regarding the PAGA
based claims. 


[2]
Defendant does not discuss the eighth COA for Failure to Timely Provide
Personnel & Payroll Records. (See also Opp. p. 17, Header “J”.) Therefore,
the motion will focus on COAs 1 through 7 absent an argument and analysis
regarding the 8th COA. 
 


[3] To the extent that Plaintiff avers “harassment cases
are rarely appropriate for disposition on summary judgment” (quoting Gov. Code
§ 12923(e) and Nazir v. United Airlines, Inc. (2009) 178 Cal.App.4th
243) that does not entail that harassment cases are always inappropriate
for disposition on an MSJ. What is more, Nazir made its observation in response to
trial courts more frequently “making determinations properly reserved for the
factfinder, sometimes drawing inferences in the employer's favor,” pointing to
intent. (Id. at p. 248.) However, whereas in Nazir, plaintiff’s
co-workers called plaintiff (who is of Pakistani ancestry) scurrilous names
“sand n[----],” “sand flea,” “rag head,” and “camel jockey” (id. at p.
258) and he had been reported to the Federal Bureau of Investigation as a
“possible terrorist” likely by his co-workers (id. at p. 259), here,
Plaintiff’s own allegations are predicated upon customers discriminating
against Plaintiff, not Defendant’s employees (managers, supervisors,
co-workers). What is more, Plaintiff’s own citation to Lewis, infra, for
the elements of a FEHA claim is a workplace sexual assault case being
adjudicated on a summary judgment motion. Therefore, absent authority that
prohibits the adjudication of FEHA cases on a summary judgment motion, the
court will address the merits of motion. 


 
[4] Lyle heavily relies upon the Court’s decision
in Onacle v. Sundowner Offshore Services, Inc. (1998) 523 U.S. 75.) 


[5] (See also Dang Deposition, p. 35 of 44 of PDF [“Q.·
Had you ever seen any of these four Hispanic · ·males before? · · · A.· No. ·
Q.· After they left the restaurant night -- that  ·night, did you ever see any of these four
Hispanic men ·again? · A.· No, not that I recall.”
 


[6] Though a key case and argument, as with other
citations provided by Defendant, Plaintiff does not address it. To the extent
that during the hearing Plaintiff may argue that Defendant cites to federal
cases, “[b]ecause
the objectives and wording of Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C. §
2000e et seq.) are similar to that of FEHA, California courts
often look to federal cases for assistance in interpreting FEHA.” (Sheffield,
supra, 109 Cal.App.4th at p. 160.)


[7]  “Q: And he --
and he said -- he would tell you that you were cute, he commented on your butt
that one·time, said he liked it when you walked away.· What else ·did he
verbally say to you that bothered you other ·than what you've told me so far?
A.· So he would hand me tip.· So he said, "You ·should come by more
often" and try to hand me tip. Q.· Okay.· Other than saying you should
come by ·more often, what else would he say? A:· That's all I can recall.”,
emphasis added.) 
 


[8] As there is a viable PAGA claim, the court GRANTS the
motion to continue trial (absent an opposition) as Plaintiff wishes to conduct
further discovery on the PAGA claims for a class of 1,300 employees. 

