 Case Number:  23STCV02179    Hearing Date:   March 4, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
LEE NEWSON,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
CITY OF LOS ANGELES, 
                        Defendant.
  


 
  Case No.:  23STCV02179
  Hearing Date:  March 4, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
plaintiff’s motion to compel further
  responses 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On February 1, 2023, Plaintiff Lee
Newson filed this action against Defendant City of Los Angeles, asserting (1)
disability discrimination, (2) workplace harassment, (3) retaliation, and (4)
failure to prevent. 
            Plaintiff alleges that he was
prevented from promotion to detective due to discrimination against his
disabilities. Plaintiff alleges that he was falsely accused of DUI and arrested
because Defendant is aware he takes prescribed medication for prior injuries
and conditions. Defendant allegedly used this as a pretext to block Plaintiff’s
promotion to detective. Plaintiff was ultimately suspended for 22 days without
pay. Upon return, Plaintiff was involuntarily transferred to a different
station. 
            On November 9, 2023, Plaintiff filed
the instant motion to compel further responses to his requests for production.
Defendant has not filed an opposition. 
LEGAL STANDARD
Upon receiving responses to its discovery
requests, the propounding party may move for an order compelling further
responses if the responses are incomplete or evasive, or objections are without
merit or too general. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.300(a), 2031.310(a),
2033.290(a).) 
MEET AND CONFER
A motion to compel further must be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration demonstrating an attempt to
resolve the matter informally. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.300(b)(1),
2031.310(b), 2033.290(b).) The Court finds that Plaintiff has satisfied the
meet and confer requirement. (See Miller Decl.)
DISCUSSION
            The party seeking production of
documents bears the initial burden of showing good cause through a
fact-specific showing of relevance. (Kirkland v. Superior Court (2002)
95 Cal.App.4th 92, 98.) Once this showing is made, the burden shifts to the
responding party to justify any objections. (Ibid.) Plaintiff’s separate
statement sets forth good cause for the requested information. Without an
opposition, Defendant has articulated no argument or authority to the contrary.
Defendant also offers no support for its objections.   
            Furthermore, a statement of
compliance “shall state that the production . . . will be allowed either in
whole or in part, and that all documents or things in the demanded category
that are in the possession, custody, or control of that party and to which no
objection is being made will be included in the production.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2031.220.) “A representation of inability to comply . . . shall affirm that a
diligent search and a reasonable inquiry has been made in an effort to comply
with that demand. This statement shall also specify whether the inability to
comply is because the particular item or category has never existed, has been
destroyed, has been lost, misplaced, or stolen, or has never been, or is no
longer, in the possession, custody, or control of the responding party. The
statement shall set forth the name and address of any natural person or
organization known or believed by that party to have possession, custody, or
control of that item or category of item.” (Id., § 2031.230.) A response
must also “[i]dentify with particularity any document, tangible thing, land, or
electronically stored information falling within any category of item in the
demand to which an objection is being made.” (Id., § 2031.240.)
            Defendant’s responses do not comply
with these requirements. Defendant identified some documents that it intends on
producing, but did not indicate whether it was complying in whole or in part,
or whether certain documents were being withheld. To the extent any documents
are withheld based on objections, Defendant does not identify the documents.
Defendant also indicated an inability to comply with some of the requests
because “there are no documents known to this Defendant responsive to this
request at this time.” This is an incomplete response because it does not
explain whether the documents were lost, never existed, etc., and does not
identify anyone believed to be in possession of responsive documents.
Therefore, further responses are warranted.
            Sanctions are warranted as Defendant
provides no substantial justification for its failure to properly respond to
the RFPs. Plaintiff’s counsel reasonably claims an hourly rate of $350. (Miller
Decl. ¶ 13.) However, the 18 hours claimed are exaggerated given the simplicity
of the motion and lack of opposition. The Court finds that the reasonable
number of hours is 3 hours. Plaintiff is also entitled to the $60 filing fee.
Therefore, the Court awards sanctions in the total amount of $1,110.
CONCLUSION
            Plaintiff’s motion to compel further
responses is GRANTED. Defendant shall serve supplemental responses to the
subject RFPs within 15 days of this order. The Court sanctions Defendant in the
amount of $1,110, to be paid within 30 days of this order.