 Case Number:  23STCV17990    Hearing Date:   March 4, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
KRYSTAL LATOYA
  MONTGOMERY, et al.,
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
GEORGE MARCOS, et al., 
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  23STCV17990
  Hearing Date:  March 4, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
plaintiffs’ motion for trial preference 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On July 31, 2023, Plaintiffs Krystal
Latoya Montgomery, Jeremiah Daquan Montgomery, Anterrika DeShante Willis, and
Kristina Lashay Simpson, individually and as guardians at litem for
various minors, filed this action against Defendants George Morcos and Mervat
Morcos. The complaint alleges (1) breach of the implied warranty of
habitability, (2) negligence, (3) nuisance, and (4) violation of Civil Code
section 1942.4.  
            On February 6, 2024, Plaintiffs
filed the instant motion for trial preference. Defendants have not filed an
opposition. 
LEGAL STANDARD
“A civil action to recover damages for
wrongful death or personal injury shall be entitled to preference upon the
motion of any party to the action who is under 14 years of age unless the court
finds that the party does not have a substantial interest in the case as a
whole.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 36(b).) The statute makes preference mandatory as
long as the conditions are met, regardless of prejudice. (See Swaithes v.
Superior Court (1989) 212 Cal.App.3d 1082, 1085 [“The trial court has no
power to balance the differing interests of opposing litigants in applying the
provision”].)
DISCUSSION
            Plaintiffs move for a trial
preference on the grounds that Plaintiffs Tyler Sincere Montgomery, Karter
Darnell Montgomery, Bre’miah Lejcey Montgomery, and Kai’lah Dezarae Williams
are minors under 14 who have been injured by Defendants’ actions and have a
substantial interest in the case. 
            Plaintiffs have verified the ages of
the minors. (See Ohn Decl., Ex. A.) Additionally, the minors have a substantial
interest in the case as a whole because they have been allegedly exposed to
uninhabitable conditions in the same manner as the adult plaintiffs and seek
damages through this action. Defendants do not oppose the motion and thereby
concede that the minor plaintiffs are entitled to a trial preference.
CONCLUSION
            Plaintiffs’ motion for trial
preference is GRANTED. 