  Case Number:  19STCV18510    Hearing Date:   October 25, 2023    Dept:  78 Superior Court of CaliforniaCounty of Los AngelesDepartment 78ANAIAH SHEHORI,Plaintiff,          vs.DEFENDANT DOE 1, SUPERVISORY COMPANY, et al.,Defendants. Case No.: 19STCV18510 Hearing Date: October 25, 2023 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE: DEFENDANT DOE 3’S MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT OR IN THE ALTERNATIVE SUMMARY ADJUDICATIONDefendant Doe 3 Local Church’s Motion for Summary Judgment/Summary Adjudication is GRANTED only as to the cause of action for sexual battery pertaining to Perpetrator 1’s alleged abuse of Plaintiff at Perpetrator 1’s home while Perpetrator 1 was babysitting Plaintiff and DENIED as to the remaining causes of action and DENIED as to the cause of action for sexual battery pertaining to Perpetrator 1’s alleged abuse of Plaintiff while he was a teacher at Plaintiff’s school.Moving party to give notice.I. FACTUAL BACKGROUNDThis is an action for negligence, negligent hiring, negligent failure to warn, train, or educate, negligence per se, sexual battery, and sexual harassment. Plaintiff Anaiah Shehori was raised as a member of the Church of the Living Word (“Church”), a church founded by John Robert Stevens in 1951. (Compl., ¶¶22, 52.) Plaintiff alleges that she was sexually assaulted between the ages of 6 and 14 by her babysitter and later teacher, Perpetrator 1, who was raised in the same church. (Compl., ¶¶59-61.) Plaintiff also alleges that she was sexually assaulted by a high ranking member of her church, Perpetrator 2 between the ages of 11 and 16. (Compl., ¶¶62-67.) II. PROCEDURAL HISTORYOn May 28, 2019, Plaintiff Anaiah Shehori filed her Complaint against Defendants Doe 1 Supervisory Company, Doe 2 Family Ministry Corporation, Doe 3 Local Church, Doe 4 Religious Leader, Doe 5 Religious School, Doe 6, and Perpetrator 2.On June 30, 2023, Defendant Doe 3 Local Church filed this motion for summary judgment/summary adjudication.  III. LEGAL STANDARDThe purpose of a motion for summary judgment “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar v. Atl. Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) “Code of Civil Procedure section 437c(c), requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) “On a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is always on the moving party to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of material fact.” (Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.) A defendant moving for summary judgment “has met his or her burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be established” or that there is a complete defense. (Code Civ. Proc., section 437c(p)(2).) “Once the defendant . . . has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Ibid.) “If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment should be granted.” (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Med. Ctr. (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.) Where, “a defendant moves for summary adjudication on a cause of action for which the plaintiff has the burden of proof at trial, the defendant ‘must present evidence that either “conclusively negate[s] an element of the plaintiff's cause of action” or “show[s] that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain,” evidence necessary to establish at least one element of the cause of action. [Citation.] Only after the defendant carries that initial burden does the burden shift to the plaintiff “to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action ....” ’ ” (Doe v. The Roman Catholic Archbishop of Los Angeles (2021) 70 Cal.App.5th 657, 668) ; see Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2); Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 853-854..) “When deciding whether to grant summary judgment, the court must consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers (except evidence to which the court has sustained an objection), as well as all reasonable inferences that may be drawn from that evidence, in the light most favorable to the party opposing summary judgment.” (Avivi, supra, 159 Cal.App.4th at p. 467; see also Code Civ. Proc., section 437c(c).)IV. EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONSPlaintiff objects to Defendant’s evidence submitted in support of the motion for summary judgment. Plaintiff’s objections are to Defendant’s separate statement and not to any specific piece of evidence. Plaintiff’s objections are overruled.Defendant objects to Plaintiff’s evidence submitted in opposition to the motion for summary judgment.The following objections are OVERRULED: 1, 4, 6, 7, 10, and 11.The following objections are SUSTAINED: 2, 3, 5, 8, 9, 12, 13, 14, 15, and 16.V. DISCUSSIONDoe 3 moves for summary judgment/summary adjudication on the grounds that there are no triable issues of material fact as to one of more essential elements of Plaintiff’s causes of action for negligence, negligence per se, negligent failure to warn, and sexual battery. Although Plaintiff’s Complaint alleges incidents of sexual abuse committed by both Perpetrator 1 and Perpetrator 2, Doe 3 only moves for summary adjudication as to the sexual abuse allegedly committed by Perpetrator 1.1. Negligence Doe 3 moves for summary judgment as to this cause of action on the grounds that it (1) had no duty to protect Plaintiff while was she was at Perpetrator 1’s home and (2) it did not breach any duty to Plaintiff at that time as Defendant Doe 3 was unaware of the abuse.Generally, the existence of duty is a question of law. (Vasilenko v. Grace Family Church (2017) 3 Cal.5th 1077, 1083.)Generally, a person who has not created a peril does not have liability in tort for the failure to assist or protect another individual from that peril. (Brown v. USA Taekwondo (2021) 11 Cal.5th 204, 213.) However, there are exceptions to the general rule. In some circumstances a defendant may have an affirmative duty to protect a plaintiff from harm caused by a third party, even if that defendant did not create the risk of the harm suffered. (Id. at 215.)A recognized exception to this general rule is when a defendant has a special relationship with either the perpetrator of the harm or the victim who suffered the harm. (Id.)A special relationship exists where a plaintiff is particularly vulnerable and dependent upon a defendant and that defendant has some control over that plaintiff’s welfare. (Doe v. Lawndale Elementary School Dist. (2021) 72 Cal.App.5th 113, Here, it is undisputed that Plaintiff was a congregant at Doe 3, the Church of the Living Word located in North Hills, California (“the Church”), along with her entire family. (PUMF No. 17.) It is also undisputed that Perpetrator 1 was also a member of the Church. (PUMF No. 20.) Plaintiff was a student at a school operated by Doe 3, known as Centers of Learning (“the School”), from preschool until approximately 2001, including during the time that she alleges that she was abused by Perpetrator 1 when he was her babysitter. (PUMF No. 17.) Perpetrator 1 attended the School and later became a teacher there. Plaintiff alleges that Perpetrator 1 sexually abused her from the ages of 3 to 12 while Perpetrator 1 babysat her at his parent’s home. (UMF No. 2)Doe 3 argues that it had no duty to protect Plaintiff from Perpetrator 1 because Plaintiff’s harm with respect to the time period before she entered high school was caused by Perpetrator 1 in his family home. Perpetrator 1 was a teacher at School who taught Plaintiff in high school. (Plaintiff’s Exh. 56.) It is well settled that a school has a special relationship with minor children who attend that school. Thus, Doe 3 owed Plaintiff a duty to protect her from Perpetrator 1 while he was employed at School due to the special relationship between School and Plaintiff and between School and Perpetrator 1. As a student, Plaintiff would have reasonably expected Doe 3 to protect her from Perpetrator 1, Doe 3’s employee.Doe 3 does not mention Perpetrator 1’s employment as a teacher at School in its motion, and instead seeks summary adjudication as to the issue of duty with respect to earlier abuse which took place at Perpetrator 1’s family home. “For summary adjudication purposes, separate wrongful acts may give rise to separate causes of action. Whether they are pleaded in the same or single counts is not determinative.” (The Rutter Group, Civil Procedure Before Trial, §10:39.2 (citing Lilienthal & Fowler v. Superior Court (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 1848, 1854; Blue Mountain Enterprises, LLC v. Owens (2022) 74 Cal.App.5th 537, 549-550; and Cal. Civ. Proc., § 437c(p)(2).)Here, the alleged abuse consisted of separate and distinct acts by Perpetrator 1. As recognized by the Court of Appeal, “a party may present a motion for summary adjudication challenging a separate and distinct wrongful act even though combined with other wrongful acts alleged in the same cause of action.” (Lilienthal & Fowler v. Superior Court (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 1848, 1854-1855.)Because Plaintiff alleges separate acts of sexual abuse by Perpetrator 1, the acts which took place before Perpetrator 1 was hired at the School are the proper subject of a motion for summary adjudication.Doe 3 relies solely on the declaration of Matt Walkoe to support its motion. Walkoe testifies that he is a former pastor of the Church, served as an officer and director of the Church, was a member of the Apostolic Company (“APCO”), and also taught at the School between 2014 and 2018. (Walkoe Decl., ¶¶2-4.) Walkoe alleges Perpetrator 1’s abuse of Plaintiff when she was a child was never reported to him and had it been reported, Perpetrator 1 would never have been hired as a teacher. (Id., ¶6.) Walkoe did not hear about Perpetrator 1’s abuse of Plaintiff until this case was filed. (Id., ¶7.)Doe 3’s evidence at most shows that Matt Walkoe was not aware of Perpetrator 1’s alleged abuse of Plaintiff at the family home while Plaintiff was a student at the School. Although Walkoe testifies Perpetrator 1 would not have been hired as a teacher had the School known of the abuse, Walkoe did not teach at the School until 2014, after Plaintiff had already graduated. Additionally, Doe 3 fails to provide evidence that Walkoe was involved in the School’s administration at an earlier point. Thus, Doe 3 fails to meet its burden of demonstrating that it did not have knowledge of the abuse. Moreover, Defendant fails to analyze the Rowland factors and thus does not meet its moving burden for that reason as well. (Doe at Doe v. Lawndale Elementary School Dist. (2021) 72 Cal.App.5th 113, 131.) Under these circumstances, the Court cannot find that as a matter of law no duty was owed and denies the motion for summary adjudication.Doe 3 also alleges on reply that Perpetrator 1’s actions after he became a teacher did not constitute sexual assault. Defendant cannot raise a new ground or basis for summary adjudication in a reply brief. The clear basis set forth as to the lack of duty relate to the babysitting activity as set forth in Doe 3’s Motion for Summary Judgment.2. Negligent failure to warn, train, or educateDefendant argues that Plaintiff’s cause of action for negligent failure to warn, train, or educate fails because the Church did not have a youth protection program which it failed to implement.Defendant cites Juarez v. Boy Scouts of America, Inc. (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 377, 409-410, disapproved in part by Brown v. USA Taekwondo (2021) 11 Cal.5th 204, 222, which involved a former boy scout who alleged that the scouts owed him a duty to take reasonable measures to protect him from sexual assault committed by his scoutmaster. The court there, applying factors from Rowland v. Christian, 69 Cal.2d 108, determined that where there was a known risk of child molestation, a special relationship did exist between the scouts and the victim to protect him from harm caused by the third party criminal conduct committed by his scoutmaster, including warning the victim about how to handle the sexual abuse.Doe 3’s evidence, the declaration of Matt Walkoe, demonstrates that Matt Walkoe did not receive any reports of Perpetrator 1’s alleged abuse. (Matt Walkoe Decl., ¶7.) Additionally, Plaintiff had never reported the abuse to him or any other church leaders he is aware of. (Id., ¶9.) Doe 3’s evidence at most shows that Matt Walkoe did not receive reports of Perpetrator 1’s alleged abuse. Although Walkoe testifies he is not aware that any report had been made to other church leaders, he lacks personal knowledge to testify on what other church leaders knew. The evidence does not show that Doe 3 was unaware of Perpetrator 1’s alleged abuse that would give rise to a duty to warn of sexual abuse and how to handle such situations. Doe 3 thus fails to meet its burden of showing that no triable issue of material fact remains over whether Doe 3 had a duty to warn of Perpetrator 1’s sexual abuse. Summary adjudication is denied on this ground.3. Negligence per seDoe 3 next argues that the theory of liability under a theory of negligence per se fails because Doe 3 did not know about Perpetrator 1’s alleged abuse until after this Complaint was filed.“The negligence per se doctrine, as codified in Evidence Code section 669, creates a presumption of negligence if four elements are established: (1) the defendant violated a statute, ordinance, or regulation of a public entity; (2) the violation proximately caused death or injury to person or property; (3) the death or injury resulted from an occurrence of the nature of which the statute, ordinance, or regulation was designed to prevent; and (4) the person suffering the death or the injury to his person or property was one of the class of persons for whose protection the statute, ordinance, or regulation was adopted.” (Spates v. Dameron Hospital Association (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 208, 218, quotation marks omitted.) “The doctrine of negligence per se is not a separate cause of action but creates an evidentiary presumption that affects the standard of care in a cause of action for negligence.” (Johnson v. Honeywell International Inc. (2009) 179 Cal.App.4th 549, 555, quotation marks and brackets omitted.)Here, Doe 3 cites Doe v. Lawndale Elementary School District (2021) 72Cal.App.5th 113, 119 in support of its argument that the Church did not have any reason to suspect the abuse before the filing of the lawsuit. There, a court ruled that mandated reporting under Pen. Code, section 11166 requires mandated reporters to report abuse and reporters breach their duty to report only if a reasonable person in a like position would have discovered the abuse and those facts would have caused a reasonable person in a like position to suspect abuse. (Id at p.139.) However, as discussed above, Doe 3’s evidence is insufficient to show Doe 3 had no knowledge of Perpetrator 1’s abuse because the evidence at most shows Matt Walkoe had no knowledge of the abuse. For the reasons set forth above, Walkoe’s lack of knowledge is not particularly meaningful given the fact that he did not even work at the school during the relevant time frame.  Summary adjudication is denied on this ground.4. Sexual Battery Doe 3 argues that the cause of action for sexual battery fails because Doe 3 cannot be held vicariously liable for Perpetrator 1’s sexual abuse. Civ. Code, section 1708.5 provides the following: (a) A person commits a sexual battery who does any of the following: (1) Acts with the intent to cause a harmful or offensive contact with an intimate part of another, and a sexually offensive contact with that person directly or indirectly results. (2) Acts with the intent to cause a harmful or offensive contact with another by use of his or her intimate part, and a sexually offensive contact with that person directly or indirectly results. (3) Acts to cause an imminent apprehension of the conduct described in paragraph (1) or (2), and a sexually offensive contact with that person directly or indirectly results. (Civ. Code, § 1708.5(a).)  Section 1708.5 defines an intimate part as “the sexual organ, anus, groin, or buttocks of any person, or the breast of a female” and offensive contact as “contact that offends a reasonable sense of personal dignity.” (Id., § 1708.5(d), (f).)  “A cause of action for sexual battery under Civil Code section 1708.5 requires the batterer intend to cause a ‘harmful or offensive’ contact and the batteree suffer a ‘sexually offensive contact.’” (Angie M. v. Superior Court (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1217, 1225; see also Jacqueline R. v. Household of Faith Family Church, Inc. (2002) 97 Cal.App.4th 198, 208 (quoting Angie M.).)  “[R]espondeat superior liability attaches if the activities that cause[d] the employee to become an instrumentality of danger to others’ were undertaken with the employer’s permission and were of some benefit to the employer or, in the absence of proof of benefit, the activities constituted a customary incident of employment.” (Purton v. Marriott International., Inc. (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 499,509. Because it can be difficult to demonstrate “that a corporation is directly liable for the actions of its employees or agents,” respondeat superior “can allow a plaintiff to proceed against a corporation that could have been liable under a burdensome direct liability theory.” (Presbyterian Camp & Conference Centers, Inc. v. Superior Court (2021) 12 Cal.5th 493, 515) “‘Employee[s]’ include most persons ‘in the service of an employer under any ... contract of hire’ ..., but do not include independent contractors.” (S. G. Borello & Sons, Inc. v. Dept. of Indus. Rel. (1989) 48 Cal.3d 341, 349, 256 (Borello).)Here, Doe 3 alleges that it cannot be vicariously liable for Perpetrator 1’s earlier instances of sexual abuse which took place before Doe 3 hired Perpetrator 1 because it did not take place in an employment context. There is no dispute about that fact.Plaintiff argues that summary adjudication must be denied because Doe 3 fails to shift the burden to Plaintiff. However, Plaintiff’s own allegations in the Complaint state that Perpetrator 1’s earlier instances of sexual abuse took place while he was babysitting Plaintiff before he was hired as a teacher at the School. Because it is undisputed that Perpetrator 1 was not working for Doe 3 as an employee or agent during the earlier instances of sexual abuse, no triable issues of material fact remain over whether Perpetrator 1 was an agent of Doe 3 at the time of the earlier sexual abuse.Summary adjudication is granted as to this cause of action only as to the earlier instances of sexual abuse. DATED: October 25, 2023_________________________Hon. Jill FeeneyJudge of the Superior Court