 Case Number:  23STCV09835    Hearing Date:   October 25, 2023    Dept:  78  Superior Court of CaliforniaCounty of Los AngelesDepartment 78YOAN KOH, Plaintiff, vs.IN S. PARK, et al. Defendants. Case No.: 23STCV09835 Hearing Date: October 25, 2023 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE: DEMURRER AND MOTION TO STRIKE PLAINTIFF’S COMPLAINT FILED BY DEFENDANT PACIFIC UNION INTERNATIONAL, INC.The Demurrer filed by Defendants Pacific Union International, Inc., Daniel Kim and Compass California, Inc. is OVERRULED.Defendants’ Motion to Strike is DENIED as to punitive damages and GRANTED as to attorney’s fees. The ruling with respect to attorney’s fees applies to Moving Defendants only.Plaintiff should be prepared to argue the issue of leave to amend with respect to attorney’s fees.Moving party to provide notice and to file proof of service of such notice within five court days after the date of this order.FACTUAL BACKGROUNDThis is an action for failure to disclose, intentional misrepresentation, negligent misrepresentation, negligent misrepresentation, and breach of fiduciary duty. Plaintiff alleges that in June 2020, he entered into a residential purchase agreement with Defendants to purchase a property at 1028 South Wilton Place, Los Angeles, California 90019. Defendants did not disclose at the time of the sale that (1) the garage converted into a living unit did not pass inspections by the Los Angeles Department of Building and Safety (“LADBS”), (2) repairs of the main residence after fire damage did not pass LADBS inspections, and (3) the value of the property was substantially less than the price he offered and paid due to the defects Defendants failed to disclose.PROCEDURAL HISTORYOn May 2, 2023, Plaintiff Yoan Koh filed his Complaint against Defendants In S. Park, John H. Lee, and Pacific Unition International, Inc. dba Compass Real Estate, Daniel Kim, and Compass California, Inc. On June 14, 2023, Defendant John H. Lee answered.On July 6, 2023, Defendants Pacific Union International, Inc., Daniel Kim and Compass California, Inc. (“Moving Defendants”) filed a demurrer and motion to strike.DISCUSSIONI. DemurrerMoving Defendants demur to Plaintiff’s Complaint on the grounds that (1) the cause of action for failure to disclose under Civ. Code, section 1102 fails because section 1102 does not apply to real estate agents or brokers, (2) Plaintiff has failed to plead intentional misrepresentation with particularity, (3) the third cause of action for negligent misrepresentation fails because Defendants made representations that they had no reasonable grounds to believe were true, and (4) Plaintiff attaches a legal duty to Defendants that exceeds the scope of the inspection and disclosure duties under Civ. Code, section 2079.5.A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context. In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. (Code Civ. Proc., section, section 430.30, 430.70.) At the pleading stage, a plaintiff need only allege ultimate facts sufficient to apprise the defendant of the factual basis for the claim against him. (Semole v. Sansoucie (1972) 28 Cal. App. 3d 714, 721.) Meet and ConferA party filing a demurrer “shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc., section 430.41(a).) “The parties shall meet and confer at least five days before the date the responsive pleading is due. If the parties are not able to meet and confer at least five days prior to the date the responsive pleading is due, the demurring party shall be granted an automatic 30-day extension of time within which to file a responsive pleading, by filing and serving, on or before the date on which a demurrer would be due, a declaration stating under penalty of perjury that a good faith attempt to meet and confer was made and explaining the reasons why the parties could not meet and confer.” (Code Civ. Proc., section 430.41(a)(2).) A failure to meet and confer does not constitute grounds to sustain or overrule a demurrer. (See Code Civ. Proc., sections 430.41 (a)(4).)Here, Moving Defendants’ counsel testifies that in May 2023, an attorney at his office sent meet and confer correspondence to Plaintiff’s counsel and received no response. (Slome Decl., ¶2.) Because Moving Defendants’ counsel attempted to meet and confer and received no response, Moving Defendants satisfied meet and confer requirements.First Cause of Action – Failure to Disclose under Civ. Code, Section 1102Defendant Pacific (the only Moving Defendant named in this cause of action) demurs to the first cause of action for failure to disclose under Civ. Code, section 1102 on the grounds that the section does not apply to real estate agents or brokers. Pursuant to Civil Code, section 1102, et seq., a seller is obligated to inspect and disclose all material facts that affect and relate to the condition of a property. In complying with this statutory duty of disclosure, a transfer disclosure statement form must be used. (Civ. Code, section 1102.6.) Specifically, the form provided in Civil Code, section 1102.6 requires the seller to disclose whether the seller is aware of any significant defects with the windows, foundation, or other parts of the house. Agents are required to make their disclosures based on inquiry of the sellers and diligent visual inspection of the accessible areas of the property. A seller’s real estate agent or broker has a statutory duty under Civil Code, section 1102 to disclose only what a reasonably competent and diligent visual inspection would reveal and that the disclosures be made in good faith. (Peake v. Underwood (2014) 227 Cal. App. 4th 428, 442 (citing Robinson v. Grossman (1997) 57 Cal.App.4th 634, 642-643).) (“Peake”) Section 1102 imposes the same limited duties as Civ. Code, section 2079 to disclose visible defects which a reasonably competent and diligent visual inspection of the property would reveal. (Id.)No transfer subject to the article shall be invalidated solely because of a violation of Civ. Code, section 1102, et seq. (Civ. Code, section 1102.13.) However, any person who willfully or negligently violates or fails to perform under these sections is liable for the actual damages suffered by the transferee. (Id.)Here, Plaintiff’s Complaint alleges that Defendant Park was listed as the seller in the subject real estate purchase agreement. (Compl., ¶17.) Defendants Lee and Pacific are listed as the seller’s real estate sales person and real estate broker respectively on the agreement. (Compl., ¶¶18-19.) Defendants intentionally did not disclose facts materially affecting the value and desirability of the subject property, including the physical condition of the property, that the house had been damaged by a fire in 2018, and that the property was not in compliance with the Building Code of the City of Los Angeles. (Compl., ¶21.)Defendant Pacific argues that section 1102 does not apply to real estate agents or brokers because the duties of agents or brokers stem from Civ. Code, section 2079. However, section 1102 imposes the same duties as section 2079, meaning both apply to agents or brokers. Additionally, the disclosure form provided in section 1102.6 includes a section specifically for agents. California courts have also held that brokers and agents owe a duty to disclose all material facts that affect and relate to the condition of a property that a reasonably competent and diligent inspection would reveal. (Peake at p. 442.) Here, Pacific offers no authority in its moving papers or reply supporting its position that section 1102 should not apply to agents and brokers. Plaintiff’s Complaint states that Defendant Pacific failed to disclose facts about the property, including its physical condition, which affected the condition of the subject property at the time of the sale. Read liberally and in context, these facts are sufficient to support a cause of action for failure to disclose under Civ. Code, section 1102 because the physical condition of a property could reasonably have been revealed through a reasonably competent and diligent inspection of the property.The demurrer is overruled on this ground.Second Cause of Action – Intentional MisrepresentationDefendant Pacific (the only Moving Defendant named in this cause of action) next argues that the Complaint fails to state facts sufficient to state a cause of action for intentional misrepresentation because the Complaint lacks the required specificity.The elements of intentional misrepresentation are: “(a) misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) knowledge of falsity (or ‘scienter’); (c) intent to defraud, i.e., to induce reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting damage.” (Charnay v. Cobert (2006) 145 Cal.App.4th 170, 184.) In California, fraud, including negligent misrepresentation, must be pled with specificity. (Small v. Fritz Companies, Inc. (2003) 30 Cal.4th 167, 184.) “The particularity demands that a plaintiff plead facts which show how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations were tendered.” (Cansino v. Bank of America (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 1462, 1469.)  As discussed above, the Complaint alleges that Defendants failed to disclose the physical condition of the property, that the garage and repairs for fire damage did not pass LADBS inspections, and that the property’s value was significantly lower than the price Plaintiff offered and paid. Plaintiff relied on representations from Defendants that the subject property was building code compliant and had passed all inspections performed by the LADBS when he purchased the property. (Compl., ¶25.) Defendants knew the misrepresentations were false when they made them and intended the misrepresentations to induce Plaintiff to enter into the residential purchase agreement. (Compl., ¶27.) As a result of the misrepresentations, Plaintiff suffered damages of $1,060,000. (Compl., ¶30)The Complaint specifically states that Defendants misrepresented the physical condition of the property, that the property was building code compliant, and that the property passed all building inspections. Defendants also knew the misrepresentations were false and intended the misrepresentations to induce Plaintiff into purchasing the property. Finally, Plaintiff relied on the misrepresentations to his detriment. The Court finds that because the Complaint states what misrepresentations were made, the Complaint pleads a cause of action for intentional misrepresentation with sufficient specificity. The demurrer is overruled on this ground.Third Cause of Action – Negligent MisrepresentationDefendant Pacific (the only Moving Defendant named in this cause of action) demurs to the third cause of action for negligent misrepresentation on the grounds that Plaintiff failed to plead the cause of action with specificity. Additionally, Pacific argues that Plaintiff did not allege that Plaintiff relied on the misrepresented facts, that Defendants intended to induce Plaintiff into relying on the misrepresentations, or how he was economically harmed. The elements of a cause of action for negligent misrepresentation are “misrepresentation of a past or existing material fact, without reasonable ground for believing it to be true, and with intent to induce another’s reliance on the fact misrepresented; ignorance of the truth and justifiable reliance on the misrepresentation by the party to whom it was directed; and resulting damage.” (Hydro-Mill Co., Inc. v. Hayward, Tilton & Rolapp Ins. Associates, Inc. (2004) 115 Cal.App.4th 1145, 1154, quotation marks omitted.)Here, as discussed above, Plaintiff’s Complaint states a cause of action for intentional misrepresentation with sufficient specificity. Contrary to Pacific’s arguments, the Complaint explicitly states Defendants knew the misrepresentations were false, intended to induce Plaintiff into purchasing the home, and that Plaintiff suffered economic damages as a result of the misrepresentation. Even if the Complaint contains few details about how the misrepresentations resulted in Plaintiff’s economic losses, it is reasonable to infer from the other facts presented that Plaintiff paid more for the property than he would have had he known the property was not building code compliant.The demurrer is overruled on this ground.Fourth Cause of Action – Breach of Fiduciary DutyDefendants Kim and Compass California, Inc. (the only Moving Defendants named in this cause of action) demur to the fourth cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty on the grounds that the Complaint attempts to attach a legal duty that exceeds the scope of their obligations. Specifically, Defendants Kim and Compass (who represented Plaintiff)  argue that the non-conforming work and resulting deficiencies would not have been revealed through a reasonably competent visual inspection of the property.The elements for a breach of fiduciary duty cause of action are “the existence of a fiduciary relationship, its breach, and damage proximately caused by that breach.” (Thomson v. Canyon (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 594, 604.) “Before a person can be charged with a fiduciary obligation, he must either knowingly undertake to act on behalf and for the benefit of another or must enter into a relationship which imposes that undertaking as a matter of law.” Apollo Capital Fund, LLC v. Roth Capital Partners, LLC (2007) 158 Cal.App.4th 226, 246. Here, the contention that the non-conforming defects would not have been revealed through a visual inspection is a dispute of fact which may not be adjudicated through a demurrer. The demurrer is overruled on this ground.II. Motion to StrikeMoving Defendants move to strike Plaintiff’s demand for punitive damages and attorney’s fees.Punitive Damages In order to state a prima facie claim for punitive damages, a complaint must set forth the elements as stated in the general punitive damage statute, Civil Code section 3294. (College Hospital, Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 721.) These statutory elements include allegations that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud or malice. (Civ. Code, section 3294, subd. (a).) “Malice is defined in the statute as conduct intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.” (College Hospital, Inc., supra, 8 Cal.4th at p. 725 [examining Civ. Code, section 3294, subd. (c)(1)].) “A conscious disregard of the safety of others may constitute malice within the meaning of section 3294 of the Civil Code. In order to justify an award of punitive damages on this basis, the plaintiff must establish that the defendant was aware of the probable dangerous consequences of his conduct, and that he willfully and deliberately failed to avoid those consequences.” (Taylor v. Superior Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, 895-896.) “As amended to include [despicable], the statute plainly indicates that absent an intent to injure the plaintiff, ‘malice’ requires more than a ‘willful and conscious’ disregard of the plaintiffs’ interests. The additional component of ‘despicable conduct’ must be found.” (College Hospital, Inc., supra, 8 Cal.4th at p. 725.) The statute’s reference to despicable conduct represents a “new substantive limitation on punitive damage awards.” (Ibid.) Despicable conduct is “conduct which is so vile, base, contemptible, miserable, wretched or loathsome that it would be looked down upon and despised by ordinary decent people. Such conduct has been described as ‘having the character of outrage frequently associated with crime.’” (Tomaselli v. Transamerica Ins. Co. (1994) 25 Cal.App.4th 1269, 1287.) Here, the Complaint states that Defendants intentionally misrepresented that the subject property had passed building inspections and was building code compliant to induce Plaintiff into purchasing the subject property. The facts alleged in the Complaint sufficiently show that Defendants acted with a willful disregard for Plaintiff’s rights because the misrepresentation was intentional. Additionally, Defendants’ conduct rises to the level of despicable conduct because Defendants’ intentional misrepresentations rise to the level of conduct which would be looked down upon and despised by ordinary people. The motion to strike is denied on this ground.Attorney’s FeesMoving Defendants move to strike the demand for attorney’s fees, arguing that section 25 of the parties real estate purchase agreement only applies to Plaintiff and the seller, Defendant Park.Here, Plaintiff’s Complaint alleges that section 25 of the residential purchase agreement and joint escrow instructions provides for an award of attorney fees and costs to the prevailing party in any legal action involving the property. Plaintiff does not include the full text of the agreement or address the Moving Defendants’ arguments.The motion to strike is granted on this ground.DATED:  October 25, 2023 ______________________________Hon. Jill FeeneyJudge of the Superior Court