 Case Number:  22STCV27283    Hearing Date:   September 25, 2024    Dept:  68 Dept.
68
Date:
9-25-24 
Case
Number: 22STCV27283
Trial
Date: 1-27-25
 
FURTHER DOCUMENTS
 
MOVING PARTY:                Plaintiff, Flavio Nino 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Defendant, Phillip 66 Company
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Motion
to Compel Further Responses to Request for Production of Documents (set two)
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
Plaintiff
alleges she was employed with Phillips 66 from 2011 to the present. On April
23, 2021, Plaintiff suffered an injury at work. That same day Phillips 66 sent
Plaintiff to be seen at CareOnSite, Phillip 66’s worker’s compensation
provider. Upon arriving at CareOnSite, Plaintiff alleges that CareOnSite
immediately administered a drug test. Plaintiff alleges she submitted to the
drug test based on the understanding that she was required to do so as a
condition of her continued employment and that if she refused to submit to the
drug test, it would result in her immediate termination. Plaintiff alleges
CareOnSite did not undertake any efforts to determine whether the drug test was
necessary. Plaintiff alleges that CareOnSite and Phillips 66 did not possess
any information implicating that Plaintiff was intoxicated or under the
influence of any substance at the time of the April 23, 2021, injury. Plaintiff
alleges CareOnSite aided and abetted Phillips 66 in discrimination and
retaliation against Plaintiff by facilitating and directly performing the drug
test on Plaintiff. Plaintiff stated she passed the drug test following the
demand of the employer. Plaintiff maintains upon returning to work employer
refused to accommodate the required work restrictions. 
 
On
August 22, 2022, Plaintiff filed a complaint for (1) Disability Discrimination;
(2) Failure to Reasonably Accommodate; (3) Failure to Engage in the Interactive
Process; (4) Failure to Take All Reasonable Steps to Prevent Discrimination and
Retaliation; (5) Retaliation in Violation of FEHA; (6) Wrongful Termination in
Violation of Public Policy; and (7) Wrongful Constructive Termination in
Violation of Public Policy (8) Aiding and Abetting in Violation of FEHA. (9)
Unlawful Medical Inquiry in Violation of FEHA; (10) Violation of Labor Code §
432.6; and (11) Violation of Constitutional Right to Privacy. On
December 29, 2022, the court sustained the demurrer of CareOnSite, Inc. with 30
days leave to amend. 
 
On
January 27, 2023, Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint (1) Disability
Discrimination; (2) Failure to Reasonably Accommodate; (3) Failure to Engage in
the Interactive Process; (4) Failure to Take All Reasonable Steps to Prevent
Discrimination and Retaliation; (5) Retaliation in Violation of FEHA; (6)
Wrongful Termination in Violation of Public Policy; (7) Wrongful Constructive
Termination in Violation of Public Policy; (8) Aiding and Abetting in Violation
of FEHA; (9) Unlawful Medical Inquiry in Violation of FEHA; (10) Violation of
Labor Code § 432.6; and (11) Violation of Constitutional Right to Privacy. On
May 16, 2023, the court sustained the demurrer of CareOnSite, Inc. to the tenth
cause of action without leave to amend.
 
On
November 9, 2023, Plaintiff filed a second amended complaint (1) Disability
Discrimination; (2) Failure to Reasonably Accommodate; (3) Failure to Engage in
the Interactive Process; (4) Failure to Take All Reasonable Steps to Prevent
Discrimination and Retaliation; (5) Retaliation in Violation of FEHA; (6)
Wrongful Termination in Violation of Public Policy; (7) Wrongful Constructive
Termination in Violation of Public Policy; (8) Aiding and Abetting in Violation
of FEHA; (9) Unlawful Medical Inquiry in Violation of FEHA; and (10) Violation
of Constitutional Right to Privacy.
 
RULING: Denied.
Plaintiff Faviola Nino moves to compel supplemental
responses to Request for Production of Documents (set two), numbers 79-91, 96,
97 & 100 from Defendants Phillip 66 Company. Plaintiff maintains the
responses are not code compliant. Defendant filed on apparent separate
opposition, but the declaration of counsel maintains supplemental responses
have been or will be served on numbers 79-91, 97 and 100. [Declaration of Jamil
Mensah.] Defendant apparently continues to object to number 96. Plaintiff in
reply denies receipt of any supplemental responses at the time of the filing of
the reply, and maintains the objections on numbers 65, 69, and 75-79 remain
invalid. Plaintiff concludes with a request for sanctions.
 
The instant motion and the motion involving Request for
Production of Documents (set two) both improperly label the motion as one to
compel supplemental production, when Plaintiff in fact seeks further responses.
The motion was not properly reserved with the court. The court will consider
the two motions given the apparent supplemental discovery, but any and all new
or additional motions improperly identified and reserved can and will lead to a
continuance of the hearing date within an allotted spot or taken off-calendar
if beyond the trial date. The court will not enable parties to shortcut the
setting limits with misidentified motions and reserved items.
 
"Whether a
particular response does resolve satisfactorily the issues raised by
a motion is a matter best determined by the trial court in the exercise of its
discretion, based on the circumstances of the case. In many cases involving
untimely responses, the propounding party will take the motion off
calendar or narrow its scope to the issue of sanctions. If the propounding
party proceeds with the motion, however, the trial court has the discretion to
rule on the motion. The trial court might compel responses without
objection if it finds no legally valid responses have been provided to one or
more interrogatories; it might deny the motion to compel responses as essentially
unnecessary, in whole or in part, and just impose sanctions; it might
treat the motion as one under section 2030.300 and either determine that
further answers are required, or order the propounding party to “meet and
confer” (§ 2030.300, subd. (b)) and file a separate statement (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1020(a)(2), (c)); or it might take the motion off calendar,
thereby requiring the propounding party to file a motion under section
2030.300.”
 
(Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007)
148 Cal.App.4th 390, 408–409.) 
 
Any copies of purportedly identified supplemental responses
were not apparently incorporated with the opposition. [See Mensah Decl.] The
court accepts the lack of service of any responses at the time of the reply,
but the court assumes responses will be served at the time of hearing. If
Plaintiff’s counsel represents as an officer of the court that no responses
were served at the time of the hearing, and Defendant lacks proof of any
service of such responses, the court will provide a ruling as if the motion was
effectively unopposed on the subject items.
 
On number 96, it appears that Defendant agreed to produce
non-privileged documents, which Plaintiff acknowledges. In the 2,221 pages of
documents, however, Plaintiff maintains no “discernable order” or ability to
determine responsiveness. 
 
The argument under Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.280
no longer compels defendant to identify responsive documents among the
production. 
 
“Section
2031.280 prescribes the form in which items must be produced. As recently
amended, it requires that a document “be identified with the specific request
number to which the documents respond.” (Id. at subd. (a).) This replaces the prior requirement that
documents ‘either be produced as they are kept in the usual course of business,
or be organized and labeled to correspond with the categories in the demand.
(Former § 2031.280, subd. (a).) [¶] There is no requirement that a response
identify a document with the specific request to which the document applies.
[¶] There is no requirement that a document production be verified, nor that
documents be Bates labeled.” (Pollock v. Superior Court of Los Angeles
County (2023) 93 Cal.App.5th 1348, 1358.)
 
The motion is therefore DENIED in that both production and
agreed upon production will render the current dispute as moot, and Plaintiff
otherwise lacks a basis to compel Defendant to identify the applicable,
responsive documents by response under Code of Civil Procedure section
2031.280.  Plaintiff admits to providing
no valid request for sanctions in the motion, and the court declines to impose
sanctions via notice in the reply, even if Plaintiff presented a basis
justifying relief.
 
Trial currently set for July 28, 2025.
 
Moving
Defendants to give notice.
 