 Case Number:  24STCV00299    Hearing Date:   September 25, 2024    Dept:  68 Dept.
68
Date:
9-25-24
Case:
24STCV00299
Trial
Date: 5-12-25
 
FURTHER INTERROGATORIES
 
MOVING
PARTY: Defendant, O’Neil & Matusek
RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiff, Jerry Kohn
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Motion
to Compel Further Responses to Form Interrogatories
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
Defendant
O’Neil & Matusek represented Plaintiff Jerry Kohn in Jerry Kohn v. Lou
Maze, et al., 20STCV07618, until Plaintiff terminated representation on June 1,
2023. Following termination of representation, the underlying case settled.
Defendant apparently submitted a lien on the underlying action, and seeks collection
of certain fees and costs from the settlement. Plaintiff seeks to challenge any
recovery, or at least the sought after amount of recovery.  
 
On
January 4, 2024, Plaintiff filed a complaint for Declaratory Relief. On April
16, 2024, the court overruled the demurrer to the complaint. O’Neil &
Matusek answered the complaint, and filed a cross-complaint for Enforcement of
Attorney Lien for Fees and Costs. Kohn answered the cross-complaint on May 15,
2024. On June 7, 2024, the clerk entered defaults against Jerry Kohn and Henry
Matusek II.
 
RULING: Granted.
O’Neil & Matusek move to compel further responses to
Form Interrogatories (set one), numbers 12.1, 14.1, 50.1 and 50.2.  Defendant maintains the objections lack merit
and instead demonstrate “obnoxious semantic gamesmanship, and layers of
intransigent obstruction.” Plaintiff maintains the motion lacks a sufficient
meet and confer effort, and the responses were proper. Plaintiff offers
counter-opinions on the state of the parties’ relationship by characterizing
Defendant’s conduct as “exhibited belligerence, intractable acrimony, and
incivility toward Plaintiff and Borsuk which impede a collegial and rational
resolution of this case, not to mention matters such as discovery.” Defendant
in reply reiterates the insufficiency of the responses. 
 
The motion presents a sufficient meet and confer effort and
response. [Declaration of Henry Matusek II, Ex. 2-3.] The motion was timely
filed.
 
The court finds no support for the vague, ambiguous,
precluding an intelligent response and/or any other form of question objection
to Judicial Council drafted and reviewed interrogatories. Even if Plaintiff maintains the nature of
the request remains uncertain, “the nature of the information sought is
apparent, [and] the proper solution is to provide an appropriate response.” (Deyo v. Kilbourne (1978) 84 Cal.App.3d 771, 783 superseded by
statute on unrelated ground as stated in Guzman
v. General Motors Corp. (1984) 154 Cal.App.3d 438, 444.) The
interrogatories clearly seek information on the case initiated by Plaintiff.
Representing an inability to understand the question or deny relevance of
information on an action brought by Plaintiff undermines credibility and
establishes disingenuous and intentionally obstreperous conduct.
 
“But ‘[f]or discovery purposes,
information is relevant if it “might reasonably assist a party in evaluating
the case, preparing for trial, or facilitating settlement….” [Citation.] Admissibility is not the test and
information, unless privileged, is discoverable if it might reasonably lead to
admissible evidence. [Citation.] These rules are applied liberally in favor of
discovery [citation], and (contrary to popular belief), fishing expeditions are
permissible in some cases. [Citation.]’ (Citations.)” (Cruz
v. Superior Court (2004) 121 Cal.App.4th 646, 653–654.) 
 
The challenged equally available objection lacks support as
well in that the court cannot determine whether Plaintiff concedes to knowledge
required for a response or lacks the subject information, and therefore
declines to reply. (Bunnell v. Sup.Ct.
(1967) 254 Cal.App.2d 720, 723–724.) The court finds
the objection lacks support. The “offer” to review documents and identification
of the name and address of Plaintiff’s counsel undermines the validity of the
objection, and further supports the finding of intentional obstreperous
objections. Again, this is an action brought by Plaintiff, and the court
assumes, as an officer of the court, Plaintiff’s counsel considered certain
facts before filing the action, rather than intentionally filing an
unmeritorious action. 
 
“An objecting party may be
entitled to protection if it can make a preliminary or foundational showing
that answering the interrogatory would reveal the attorney's tactics,
impressions, or evaluation of the case, or would result in opposing counsel
taking undue advantage of the attorney's industry or efforts”].) (Coito v. Superior Court (2012) 54 Cal.4th 480, 502.) Notes,
statements, and impressions of the case are protected by the work product
doctrine. A list of potential witnesses is not work product. (Id. at p. 495; Nacht & Lewis Architects, Inc. v. Superior Court (1996) 47
Cal.App.4th 214, 217–218.) 
 
The objection lacks merit. The court finds no support for
the unidentified “privilege” non-work product object also identified in certain
responses. Plaintiff may provide non-privileged responses as to the basis of
the filed complaint. 
 
The premature expert testimony
objection also finds no support. Plaintiff may not completely disregard
any response on claims put at issue. Plaintiff must provide information as to
the foundation of the claim and distinguish information actually within the
realm of experts. (See Bloxham v. Saldinger (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 729, 751-752.) The responses and
opposition lack any support.
 
The motion is granted. Plaintiff
to serve amended, verified responses within 15 days of this order.
 
While the court cannot impose
monetary sanctions, even if the court found Plaintiff continues to engage in
efforts to evade provision of any and substantive responses (see below),
further non-compliance can lead to a motion to for issue, monetary and even
terminating sanctions (dismissal of Plaintiff’s complaint). Intentional evasion
through verbose superficial and unsupported objections on a case filed by
Plaintiff may support a court finding that Plaintiff lacks any and all facts in
support of the single claim for declaratory relief. Such a position would place
Plaintiff in a very limited and diminished position to prosecute the case, while
Defendants fully proceed on their cross-complaint for lien enforcement.
 
Simple incomplete responses compelling
Defendant to present a new and additional motion instead of a motion for issue,
evidentiary and/or terminating sanctions may lead to appointment of a discovery
referee in order to address each and every single word, item, description,
person, new objection, etc. strenuously interspersed by Plaintiff. Aggressive
counter discovery and motions to compel further responses in an effort to
engage in attrition tactics (since self-represented counsel cannot recover
sanctions), thereby burdening court resources in the process, may also lead to
a sua sponte setting for a discovery referee.
 
Defendant appears in the action in pro se, and cannot
recover any sanctions. Counsel presents no proof of actual payment or even
identification of other counsel, and otherwise fails to provide a separate
breakout of costs. (Trope v. Katz (1995) 11 Cal.4th 274, 292; Kravitz v.
Superior Court (2001) 91
Cal.App.4th 1015, 1020; Argaman v. Ratan (1999)
73 Cal.App.4th 1173, 1180.) The request for sanction is therefore denied.
 
Four additional motions to compel further responses on
calendar for March 27, April 2, 3, and 7, 2025.
 
Defendant to provide notice.
 