 Case Number:  23STCV25969    Hearing Date:   September 25, 2024    Dept:  68 Dept.
68
Date:
9-25-24
Case
#23STCV25969
 
TRANSFER/CHANGE VENUE
 
MOVING
PARTY: Specially Appearing Defendant, Raymond Noda
RESPONDING
PARTY: Unopposed/Plaintiff, Joseph Watson
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Motion
to Change Venue/Transfer the Action to the San Bernadino Superior Court
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
Joseph
Watson, in pro se, a property owner within a homeowners association governed by
Montara Estates, Inc. and/or Riverpride Higins, LLC, and managed by NiM
Property Management, alleges violations of the Davis-Sterling Act based on
“fabricated meeting” minutes. Plaintiff also alleges substandard maintenance of
common areas, thereby impacting the value of said property/ies.
 
On
October 24, 2023, Plaintiff filed a verified complaint for 1. Violations Of The
Davis-Stirling Act, Seeking Statutory Penalties, Monetary Damages, And
Injunctive Relief 2. Defamation (Slander), Seeking Monetary and Statutory
Damages 3. Breach Of HOA Governing Documents Under Civil Code § 5975 4.
Intentional Infliction Of Emotional Distress Seeking Monetary Damages 5. Breach
Of Contract Based On Bad Faith Denial Of Insurance Claim, and 6. Negligence.
 
On
May 29 and June 3, 2024, Plaintiff dismissed Defendants Robert Chandler and
John Lowenthal. On June 3, 2024, Defendant Montara Estates, Inc. answered the
complaint. On June 17, 2024, Plaintiff dismissed Gary Selvin. On June 18, 2024,
Terry Kinsfather answered the complaint. 
 
RULING: Granted.
Request
for Judicial Notice: Granted.
 
Specially
Appearing Defendant Raymond Noda moves to transfer the action to the San
Bernadino Superior Court case to the courtroom of a separate action, CIVSB21122422
(lead case) consolidated with CIVDS2019209. Noda moves on grounds that the
subject action involves a property in Barstow. Plaintiff in opposition relies
on the denial of the San Bernadino Court trial judge to deem the consolidated
cases before the court not related, thereby constituting a basis of res
judicata preclusion from any transfer. Plaintiff additionally maintains venue
is proper given the residence of Noda in Santa Clarita. Noda in reply
challenges the opposition as lacking any legal support. Noda challenges any
basis for the proposed claim splitting by allowing the separate actions to
proceed in separate courts in differing counties. Noda denies any application
of res judicata doctrine based on the denial of a request to deem cases
related. Noda alternatively the action is subject to abatement, and challenges
the lack of sufficient address of the arguments regarding the property and
majority of the witnesses residing in San Bernadino County. 
 
“(a)
The plaintiff shall state facts in the complaint, verified by the plaintiff's
oath, or the oath of the plaintiff's attorney, or in an affidavit of the
plaintiff or of the plaintiff's attorney filed with the complaint, showing that
the action has been commenced in the proper superior court and the proper court
location for the trial of the action or proceeding, and showing that the action
is subject to the provisions of Sections 1812.10 and 2984.4 of the Civil Code
or subdivision (b) of Section 395 of the Code of Civil Procedure ...
(b)
If it appears from the complaint or affidavit, or otherwise, that the superior
court or court location where the action or proceeding is commenced is not the
proper court or court location for the trial, the court where the action or
proceeding is commenced, or a judge thereof, shall, whenever that fact appears,
transfer it to the proper court or court location, on its own motion, or on
motion of the defendant, unless the defendant consents in writing, or in open
court (consent in open court being entered in the minutes of the court), to the
keeping of the action or proceeding in the court or court location where
commenced. ...
(d)
If it appears from the complaint or affidavit of the plaintiff that the
superior court and court location where the action or proceeding is commenced
are a proper court and court location for the trial thereof, all proper
proceedings may be had, and the action or proceeding may be tried in that court
at that location.
 
Code
Civ. Proc., § 396a
 
“Except as otherwise provided in Section 396a, if an action or
proceeding is commenced in a court having jurisdiction of the subject matter
thereof, other than the court designated as the proper court for the trial
thereof, under this title, the action may, notwithstanding, be tried in the
court where commenced, unless the defendant, at the time he or she answers,
demurs, or moves to strike, or, at his or her option, without answering,
demurring, or moving to strike and within the time otherwise allowed to respond
to the complaint, files with the clerk, a notice of motion for an order
transferring the action or proceeding to the proper court, together with proof
of service, upon the adverse party, of a copy of those papers. Upon the hearing
of the motion the court shall, if it appears that the action or proceeding was
not commenced in the proper court, order the action or proceeding transferred
to the proper court.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 396b, subd. (a).) 
 
“A corporation or association may be sued in the county where the
contract is made or is to be performed, or where the obligation or liability
arises, or the breach occurs; or in the county where the principal place of
business of such corporation is situated, subject to the power of the court to
change the place of trial as in other cases.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 395.5.)
 
The
San Bernadino cases undisputably involve a property located at 751 Higgins
Road, Barstow. The homeowner association operates over said Barstow property. The
operative complaint also identifies the Barstow property as the basis for the
instant action. Plaintiff identifies defendants Noda and Beaumont as residents
of Santa Clarita in Los Angeles County, but otherwise pleads nothing specific
in the operative complaint as to defendants’ residence for the basis of the
selected venue. The operative complaint also lacks any geographic information
as to all of the other defendants notwithstanding the allegations of the
property in San Bernadino Counyy, and by deduction the HOA also operating in
San Bernadino County.
 
“Subject to the power of the court to transfer
actions, the proper county for the trial of an action under this chapter is: (a)
Where the subject of the action is real property or real and personal property,
the county in which the real property, or some part thereof, is located. (b)
Where the subject of the action is personal property, the county in which the
personal property is principally located at the commencement of the action or
in which the defendants, or any of them, reside at the commencement of the
action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 760.050.)
 
Defendants
challenge the motion on the basis of an improper court, and inconvenience of
witnesses. (Code Civ. Proc., § 397,
subd. (a, c).) Defendants maintain all individual defendants, other than
themselves either reside in San Bernadino, operate in the area, or made
business decisions regarding the property in the area. 
 
“‘The burden rests
upon one who seeks a change of venue under
Code of Civil Procedure, section 397, subdivision 3, to prove that both
the convenience of witnesses and the ends of justice will be promoted thereby.
[Citations.] This [] must [be done] through affidavits which contain something
more than generalities and conclusions. [Citation.] It is primarily a question
for the trial judge whether that burden has been successfully sustained.’ [Citation.] 
The moving party must stand on the strength of his own showing
rather than on any weakness of the opposition. [Citations.]”
 
“Affidavits
or declarations in support of the motion must set forth the names of the
witnesses, the nature of the testimony expected from each, and the reasons why
the attendance of each would be inconvenient. 
[Citation.]  The nature of the testimony
expected of each is necessary so that the court may determine the materiality
of the evidence or the necessity of the testimony from such witnesses. The
convenience of witnesses whose testimony will be merely cumulative is entitled
to little consideration. [Citation.]” …¶… ‘Ordinarily only convenience to third-party
disinterested witnesses will be considered. 
Convenience to the parties or their agents or employees may not be
considered.  [Citation.]’” (Corfee v.
Southern California Edison Co. (1962) 202 Cal. App. 2d 473, 477.)
 
Noda
contends the inconvenience to all the other defendants appearing in the Mosk
Courthouse outweighs the convenience of Noda appearing in San Bernadino,
notwithstanding the concession of a longer drive to San Bernadino Superior
Court. [Declaration of Raymond Noda.] Plaintiff concedes that dismissed
defendants Gary Selvin and Robert Chandler are not San Bernadino residents. 
 
Plaintiff seeks to
distinguish the subject action on the basis that the cases involve differing
defendants and differing claims. Plaintiff also cites to an alleged order
denying the motion to deem the cases related by the San Bernadino Court (no
request for judicial notice was provided). Plaintiff also relies on a single
sentence conclusion that said denial constitutes a res judicata basis for
denial. The court finds no legal support for this position and declines to make
the arguments for Plaintiff.
 
The
San Bernadino actions allege claims for Violations Of The Davis-Stirling Act,
Seeking Statutory Penalties, Monetary Damages, And Injunctive Relief;
Defamation (Slander), Seeking Monetary And Statutory Damages; Breach Of HOA
Governing Documents Under Civil Code § 5975 4; Intentional Infliction Of
Emotional Distress Seeking Monetary Damages; and, Indemnity against Raymond
Noda, Diego Seglin, Nathaniel Picket, Montara Estates, Inc., Sarah Beaumont,
and Truck Insurance Exchange. The complaint pending before this court alleges Violations
Of The Davis-Stirling Act, Seeking Statutory Penalties, Monetary Damages, And
Injunctive Relief; Defamation (Slander), Seeking Monetary And Statutory Damages;
Breach Of Hoa Governing Documents Under Civil Code § 5975 4; Intentional
Infliction Of Emotional Distress Seeking Monetary Damages; Breach Of Contract
Based On Bad Faith Denial Of Insurance Claim; and Negligence. The named
defendants are Truck Insurance Exchange, Riverpride Higgins, LLC; Nicole Sams,;
Montara Estates, Inc.; Nim Property Management; Robert Chandler; Gary Selvin;
John Lowenthal; Loana Herrera; Sarah Beaumont; and, Raymond Noda. 
 
While
the subject action includes additional defendants (at least two of whom who
were not San Bernadino County residents and now dismissed) and causes of
action, the actions all apparently arise from management of the common areas of
the area governed by the association and its board members. Variations raising
claims involving denial of insurance coverage or claim, while new still arise
against from the common core of transactions. 
 
The
three pending actions at a minimum raise potential of forum shopping and a
strong position for dismissal of this later filed action on grounds of abatement.
“There is another action pending between the same parties on the same cause of
action.” (Code Civ. Proc., 430.10, subd. (c).) The subject approach of
Plaintiff also raises concerns of claim splitting. (See Mycogen Corp. v.
Monsanto Co. (2002) 28 Cal.4th 888, 900-903.) 
 
The
totality of the circumstances, including the vast majority of defendants,
location of the property, identified third party witnesses, multiple actions,
potential for claim splitting, and potential dismissal of the subject action on
grounds of abatement, supports a finding for granting the motion to transfer
the action to San Bernadino Superior Court. The court declines to assign the
case to any specific department as requested, and allows the parties to address
assignment with the San Bernadino Superior Court. 
 
Special
motion to strike by dismissed defendant Gary Selvin set for October 1, 2024, multiple
demurrers scheduled for November 5, November 25, December 3, and December 31,
2024, shall go off-calendar. 
 
Any
request for attorney fees may be brought in a separately filed motion.
 
Specially
Appearing Defendant Noda to give notice to all parties.
 