 Case Number:  22STCV27609    Hearing Date:   March 6, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




mansoureh aghayan

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
beverly hills rehabilitation centre, llc

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


22STCV27609




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


March
   6, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[Tentative]
  Order RE:
 
defendant’s motion for summary judgment or,
  in the alternative, summary adjudication
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                Defendant Beverly Hills
Rehabilitation Centre, LLC
 
RESPONDING PARTY:        Plaintiff Mansoureh Aghayan 
Motion for Summary Judgment or, in the Alternative, Summary
Adjudication
The court
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in connection with
this motion. 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS  
The court rules on plaintiff Mansoureh Aghayan’s evidentiary
objections, filed on January 3, 2024, as follows:
The court overrules Objections Nos. 1-7.
The court rules on defendant Beverly Hills Rehabilitation Centre,
LLC’s evidentiary objections, [1]
filed on January 25, 2024, as follows:
The court sustains Objections Nos. 2-5, 9, 12, 14, 26-29, and 45-46.
The court overrules Objections Nos. 1, 6-8, 10-11, 13, 15-25, 30, 30
(as set forth on page 30, lines 13-28 and page 31, lines 1-8), 31, 32, 34-40,
42, 43, 44, and 47.
The court notes that defendant Beverly Hills Rehabilitation Center,
LLC has objected to much of the declaration of Pamela Sharkey, RN, BSHS, MHA
(“Sharkey”), on the ground that it is not accompanied by the evidence on which
Sharkey relied to form her opinion.  (Garibay
v. Hemmat (2008) 161 Cal.App.4th 735, 743 [“An expert’s opinion based on
assumptions of fact without evidentiary support has no evidentiary
value”].)  The court further acknowledges
that the medical records on which Sharkey relied are not attached to her
declaration, nor have they been submitted by Plaintiff elsewhere.  (Sharkey Decl., ¶ 10.)  However, it appears that the medical records
relied on by Sharkey have been properly authenticated and placed before the
court by moving defendant on February 20, 2024. 

For example, Sharkey referenced her review of the “post-fall reviews,”
which were submitted to the court by defendant Beverly Hills Rehabilitation
Center, LLC.  (Def. Feb. 20, 2024 Notice
of Lodging, Ex. C, PDF pp. 808-815.) 
Further, Sharkey referenced a page of the “mini-mental” examination,
which was also placed before the court by the moving defendant.  (Def. Feb. 20, 2024 Notice of Lodging, Ex. F,
PDF p. 2946.)  Thus, the court finds that
the foundational facts set forth by Sharkey in her declaration are “before the
court to support [her] expert opinion.” 
(Shugart v. Regents of University of California (2011) 199
Cal.App.4th 499, 506; Ibid. [“The Garibay
case does not require a party
opposing summary judgment to file duplicate copies of the medical records on
which the opposing expert relied in forming a disputed expert opinion if they
are already before the court in support of the motion”].) 
The court, however,
acknowledges that plaintiff Mansoureh Aghayan did not file with the court (1) the
patient records indicating the number of patients at the facility during May
2022,  (2) the staffing records
indicating the number of CNA nursing hours for the period of May 2022 through
July 2022, or (3) the reports by the DHC concerning audits done at the
facility, on which Sharkey relied in forming some of the opinions set forth in
her declaration.  (Sharkey Decl.,
¶ 10.)  The court has therefore
sustained the objections to those opinions. 
(Objection Nos. 26-29, 45-46.)
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
The court grants defendant Beverly Hills
Rehabilitation Centre, LLC’s request for judicial notice.  (Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (c).)
LEGAL STANDARD
The purpose of a motion for summary judgment or summary
adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’
pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in
fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” 
(Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  “Code
of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to
grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences
reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences
or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and
that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”  (Adler
v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)
“On a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is always on
the moving party to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues
of material fact.”  (Scalf v. D.B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510,
1519.)  A defendant or cross-defendant
moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or her burden
of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party has shown that one
or more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be established, or that
there is a complete defense to the cause of action.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 437c, subd. (p)(2).)  “Once the
defendant or cross-defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the
plaintiff or cross-complainant to show that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)  “If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary
judgment should be granted.”  (Avivi v. Centro
Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)  “When deciding whether to grant summary
judgment, the court must consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers
(except evidence to which the court has sustained an objection), as well as all
reasonable inferences that may be drawn from that evidence, in the light most
favorable to the party opposing summary judgment.”  (Id. at
p. 467; Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).)
DISCUSSION
Defendant Beverly Hills Rehabilitation
Centre, LLC (“Defendant”) moves the court for an order granting summary
judgment in its favor and against plaintiff Mansoureh Aghayan (“Plaintiff”) on
the Second Amended Complaint or, in the alternative, granting summary
adjudication in its favor and against Plaintiff on each cause of action alleged
therein.  
The court notes that Defendant has first
addressed the third cause of action for elder abuse in its motion.  However, the court has addressed the causes
of action in numerical order. 

1.     First
Cause of Action for Negligence
“The elements of any negligence cause of action are duty, breach
of duty, proximate cause, and damages.” 
(Peredia v. HR Mobile Services, Inc. (2018) 25 Cal.App.5th 680,
687.) 
The court finds that Defendant has met its burden of showing that
the first cause of action for negligence has no merit because Defendant has shown
that an element of the cause of action (Defendant’s breach of duty) cannot be
established.  
Defendant has submitted the declaration of physician Sonja Rosen,
M.D. (“Dr. Rosen”)[2],
in which Dr. Rosen has concluded that Defendant and its staff met the standard
of care in rendering treatment to Plaintiff regarding her fall risk by (1)
appropriately assessing, monitoring, supervising, and assisting Plaintiff, (2)
implementing and carrying out care plan interventions for Plaintiff’s fall
risk, including by placing an alarm on Plaintiff’s bed after her initial fall
on the day of her admission, and (3) notifying Plaintiff’s physician of each of
her falls.  (Dr. Rosen Decl.,
¶ 5.)  Dr. Rosen further states that
Plaintiff’s falls “were unavoidable due to her ambulating and functional
ability combined with her pre-existing medical conditions and
comorbidities.”  (Ibid.)  In reviewing Plaintiff’s medical records, Dr.
Rosen also concluded that Plaintiff “was able to obtain nutrition and did not
have malnutrition following July 20, 2022 when she claims her dentures were
thrown away.”  (Dr. Rosen Decl., ¶ 9.) 
The court finds that this evidence is sufficient to show that
Defendant did not breach its duty of care to Plaintiff as alleged in the Second
Amended Complaint.  (SAC ¶¶ 12
[alleging that Defendant failed to prevent six falling incidents], 13 [alleging
that Plaintiff lost 17 pounds as a result of Defendant throwing away her
dentures and failing to replace them], 14; Scott v. Rayhrer (2010) 185
Cal.App.4th 1535, 1542 [“As a general rule, the testimony of an expert witness
is required in every professional negligence case to establish the applicable
standard of care, whether that standard was met or breached by the defendant,
and whether any negligence by the defendant caused the plaintiff’s damages”].) 
The court finds that Plaintiff has met her burden to show that a
triable issue of material fact exists as to the element of Defendant’s breach
of duty. 
     Plaintiff has submitted the declaration of
Sharkey, a registered nurse and consulting expert in the field of nursing with
experience working in facilities offering a skilled nursing level of care.  (Sharkey Decl., ¶ 1.)  Sharkey states that, in reviewing Plaintiff’s
post-fall reports, she concluded that Defendant breached its duty of care to
Plaintiff because (1) those reports were incorrectly (or inadequately)
completed since (i) Plaintiff suffered many falls by going to the bathroom but
(ii) the boxes “Would resident benefit from Toileting Motivation and Preference
Evaluation?” were unchecked; (2) the forms were untimely signed on September 8,
2022 and September 9, 2022—after Plaintiff was discharged—which therefore did
not affect the way Plaintiff was treated to help prevent further falls; and (3)
although there were several interdisciplinary team meetings following her
falls, Sharkey did not observe that the new interventions were put into
place.  (Sharkey Decl., ¶¶ 32, 38,
41, 43, 44.)  
The court finds that Plaintiff’s evidence is sufficient to show
the existence of a triable issue of material fact as to whether Defendant
breached its duty of care to Plaintiff by failing to (1) complete the post-fall
forms correctly (i.e., since Defendant opted not to implement toileting
motivation and preference evaluation), (2) timely complete the post-fall forms before
Plaintiff was discharged so that Defendant had the opportunity to change the
ways in which it was providing care to Plaintiff and its fall-prevention
efforts, and (3) implement new interventions following the interdisciplinary
team meetings.  (Sharkey Decl.,
¶¶ 32, 38, 41, 43, 44; SAC ¶¶ 12, 15.) 
The court finds that Defendant has met its burden of showing that
the first cause of action for negligence has no merit because Defendant has shown
that an element of the cause of action (causation) cannot be established.
Defendant has submitted the declarations of Dr. Rosen and Kevin
Ehrhart, MD (“Dr. Ehrhart”), a physician board certified in orthopedic
surgery.  Dr. Rosen states her opinion
that, upon her review of the records, Defendant did not cause or contribute to
Plaintiff’s injuries because her injuries were instead “the result of the
natural course of her pre-existing medical conditions and comorbidities, or
were the natural or expected result of reasonable treatment rendered for the
disease or condition, and were otherwise unavoidable.”  (Dr. Rosen Decl., ¶ 16.)  Dr. Ehrhart similarly states, based on his
review of the medical records and the independent medical examination of
Plaintiff that he conducted, that it is his professional opinion “that the care
and treatment provided to [P]laintiff by [Defendant] and its staff did not in
any way cause or contribute to [Plaintiff’s] claimed injuries.”  (Dr. Ehrhart Decl., ¶¶ 4-5.) 
The court finds that Plaintiff has met her burden to show that a
triable issue of material fact exists as to the element of causation.  
As set forth above, Plaintiff has submitted the declaration of
Sharkey, in which she stated that Defendant breached its duty of care by
failing to, inter alia, timely complete the post-fall reports so that it
could address Plaintiff’s risk of falls and implement new interventions after
Plaintiff’s falls.  (Sharkey Decl.,
¶¶ 43, 45.)  The court finds that
this evidence is sufficient to support a reasonable inference, and to show the
existence of a triable issue of material fact, that Defendant’s failure to
adequately address Plaintiff’s falls and implement new interventions thereafter
caused Plaintiff to suffer subsequent falls and injury.  (Ibid.; Kaney v. Custance (2022)
74 Cal.App.5th 201, 212 [“‘ “[C]ausation . . . is ordinarily a question of fact
which cannot be resolved by summary judgment. 
The issue of causation may be decided as a question of law only if,
under undisputed facts, there is no room for a reasonable difference of
opinion” ’”], 213 [courts “‘draw from the evidence all reasonable inferences in
the light most favorable to the party opposing summary judgment’”].) 
The court therefore denies Defendant’s motion for summary
adjudication as to the first cause of action for negligence. 
2.     Second
Cause of Action for Failure to Render Aid
“The elements of any negligence cause of action are duty, breach
of duty, proximate cause, and damages.” 
(Peredia, supra, 25 Cal.App.5th at p. 687.)
As a threshold matter, the court notes that it appears that
Plaintiff has, in alleging the second cause of action for failure to render
aid, alleged this cause of action based on a theory of negligence.  Specifically, Plaintiff has alleged that (1)
Defendant had a duty to alleviate Plaintiff’s pain and obtain medical care upon
causing her injuries, and (2) Defendant breached that duty by failing to
provide timely medical care to Plaintiff (i.e., by failing to call an ambulance
or to timely schedule an ambulance to take Plaintiff to the emergency
room).  (SAC ¶¶ 18, 20-21.)  The court notes that Plaintiff has also
alleged that Defendant “blindly outsourced to a staffing agency” to provide its
nurses without inquiring whether they were able to provide proper care.  (SAC ¶ 24.)  However, Plaintiff does not appear to have
expressly alleged that the failure to properly staff its facility constituted a
breach of care or failure to render aid. 
(SAC ¶¶ 24-25, 21 [“As an actual and proximate result of
Defendants’ breach of their duties to provide timely medical care,
Plaintiff’s pain, suffering, and mental anguish intensified” and suffered
damages] [emphasis added].) 
The court finds that Defendant has met its burden of showing that
the second cause of action for failure to render aid has no merit because Defendant
has shown that an element of the cause of action (Defendant’s breach of duty)
cannot be established.  
Defendant has submitted the declaration of Dr. Rosen, in which Dr.
Rosen states that, “[a]fter each of [Plaintiff’s] falls at Beverly Hills
Rehabilitation Centre, [Defendant’s] staff timely and appropriately evaluated
and assisted [Plaintiff], notified her physician or her physician’s nurse
practitioner of her fall, followed her physician’s orders, timely transferred
[Plaintiff] to the acute care hospital when appropriate, and documented a
change of condition evaluation.”  (Dr.
Rosen Decl., ¶ 6.)  Dr. Rosen
further stated, based on her review of the records, that “[w]hen there was a
need to transfer [P]laintiff to the acute care hospital, [Defendant] timely did
so.”  (Dr. Rosen Decl., ¶ 11.)  Although not expressly cited by Defendant in
its moving papers, the court notes that Dr. Rosen set forth two instances in
which Defendant’s staff transferred Plaintiff to the emergency room.  (Dr. Rosen Decl., ¶ 4, subds. (I) [the
staff carried out the physician’s order to transfer Plaintiff to the ER], (L)
[on May 9, 2022, staff notified doctor and recommended her transfer to
hospital], (M) [on May 10, 2022, the emergency department note stated that Plaintiff
was dizzy, which caused her to fall].)  The court finds that this evidence is
sufficient to show that Defendant did not breach its duty of care by failing to
timely and properly provide medical care to Plaintiff. 
The court finds that Plaintiff has not met her burden to show that
a triable issue of material fact exists as to the element of Defendant’s breach
of duty based on the allegation that it did not provide timely medical care to
Plaintiff. 
First, Plaintiff did not submit admissible evidence showing that
Defendant failed to timely call an ambulance for Plaintiff as alleged.  (SAC ¶¶ 21-22.) 
Second, Plaintiff did not cite to any portion of the declaration
of her expert (i.e., Sharkey) in which Sharkey set forth her opinion that
Defendant failed to timely provide to Plaintiff medical care and therefore
breached its duty of care to Plaintiff. 
(Scott, supra, 185 Cal.App.5th at p. 1542 [an expert
witness’s testimony is required in a professional negligence cause of action to
establish whether the standard of care was met or breached by the defendant];
Pl. Response to Material Fact No. 9, p. 14:4-9 [citing only to the declaration
of Behnam Khani in support of assertion that Defendant did not call the
ambulance or took upwards of 12 hours to do so].) 
Third, the court acknowledges that Plaintiff has argued that the
“‘systematic understaffing’ issue . . . is the very heart of Plaintiff’s
case.”  (Opp., p. 6:7-10.)  As to the second cause of action, the court
disagrees.  As set forth above, the court
recognizes that Plaintiff alleged, in support of this cause of action, that
Defendant, “[i]nstead of actually taking measures to ensure that they were
sufficiently staffed,” “blindly outsourced to a staffing agency called
Starbright Staffing Agency, Inc. . . ., to provide all of the nurses without
even inquiring whether the staff and nurses provided [by the staffing
agency] were sufficient in number and even qualified to provide Defendant’s
vulnerable and elderly residents with the proper care.”  (SAC ¶ 24 [emphasis added].)  However, Plaintiff did not allege that the
understaffing described in that allegation is the breach on which Plaintiff has
based the second cause of action; instead, this allegation appears to support
Plaintiff’s claim for punitive damages. 
(SAC ¶¶ 24 [Defendant outsourced its nurses “to systematically cut
costs”], 26 [“By placing profits ahead of the wellbeing and comfort of the
elderly patients, Defendants acted maliciously and with a conscious disregard
to Plaintiff’s wellbeing and safety”].)  Rather,
Plaintiff has described Defendant’s breach to be the failure to timely provide
medical care.  (SAC ¶ 21 [“As an
actual and proximate result of Defendants’ breach of their duties to provide
timely medical care[,]” Plaintiff was injured] [emphasis added].)  
Thus, the court finds that Plaintiff has not met her burden to
show the existence of a triable issue of material fact as to whether Defendant
failed to provide timely medical care and therefore breached its duty of care.
The court therefore grants Defendant’s motion for summary
adjudication as to the second cause of action for failure to render aid. 
3.     Third
Cause of Action for Elder Abuse (Neglect)
“‘[N]eglect’ within the meaning of Welfare and Institutions Code
section 15610.57 covers an area of misconduct distinct from ‘professional
negligence.’  As used in the [Elder Abuse
and Dependent Adult Civil Protection Act (the “Elder Abuse Act”)], neglect
refers not to the substandard performance of medical services but, rather, to
the ‘failure of those responsible for attending to the basic needs and comforts
of elderly or dependent adults, regardless of their professional standing, to
carry out their custodial obligations.’” 
(Covenant Care, Inc. v. Superior Court (2004) 32 Cal.4th 771,
783.)  
To successfully bring an action for neglect pursuant to the Elder
Abuse Act, “[t]he plaintiff must allege (and ultimately prove by clear and
convincing evidence) facts establishing that the defendant: (1) had
responsibility for meeting the basic needs of the elder or dependent adult,
such as nutrition, hydration, hygiene or medical care [citation]; (2) knew of
conditions that made the elder or dependent adult unable to provide for his or
her own basic needs [citations]; and (3) denied or withheld goods or services
necessary to meet the elder or dependent adult’s basic needs, either with
knowledge that injury was substantially certain to befall the elder or
dependent adult (if the plaintiff alleges oppression, fraud or malice) or with
conscious disregard of the high probability of such injury (if the plaintiff
alleges recklessness) [citations].  The
plaintiff must also allege (and ultimately prove by clear and convenience
evidence) that the neglect caused the elder or dependent adult to suffer
physical harm, pain or mental suffering.” 
(Carter v. Prime Healthcare Paradise Valley LLC (2011) 198
Cal.App.4th 396, 406-407 [internal citations omitted].) 
The court finds that Defendant has met its burden of showing that
the third cause of action for elder abuse (neglect) has no merit because Defendant
has shown that an element of the cause of action (that Defendant neglected
Plaintiff within the meaning of the Elder Abuse Act) cannot be established.
Defendant has submitted the declaration of Dr. Rosen, in which Dr.
Rosen states, based on her review of the medical records, that (1) “[t]here is
no evidence of [Plaintiff] having prolonged exposure to urine and/or
excrement[;]” (2) Plaintiff was able to obtain nutrition and did not have
malnutrition following July 20, 2022 (i.e., the date on which Plaintiff alleges
that her dentures were thrown away by Defendant’s staff); and (3) it is her
opinion that Defendant did not neglect or abuse Plaintiff, which is supported
by the acute care hospital medical records that “provide that [Plaintiff]
exhibited no signs of abuse or neglect.” 
(Rosen Decl., ¶¶ 8-9, 12; Def. Material Fact Nos. 11-12.) 
The court finds that Plaintiff has met her burden to show that a
triable issue of material fact exists as to the element of neglect.  Plaintiff has submitted the declaration of
her son, Behnam Khani, in which he states that “[o]n at least [four] separate
occasions, [he] discovered that [Plaintiff] had been allowed to remain in her
feces and urine and that they failed to change [Plaintiff’s] adult diapers for
at least 10 hours.”  (Khani Decl., ¶
10.)  For example, on or around July 20,
2020, Plaintiff’s “sheets were discovered filled with feces, so much that the
entire room smelled of feces . . . . 
Even the pillows had urine on them.” 
(Ibid. [emphasis in original omitted].)  When asked why Plaintiff’s pillows and
blankets were filled with urine and excrement, Defendant’s nurse informed Khani
that the nurse was busy and that, because it was Plaintiff’s “‘shower day[,]’”
they did not find it necessary to change Plaintiff’s sheets.  (Ibid.)  Khani further stated that, although Plaintiff
was provided a call light, the nurses would often not respond.  (Khani Decl., ¶ 9.)  On one occasion, Khani “rang the call light”
and observed that “nobody appeared even after [40] minutes.”  (Ibid.) 
The court finds, taking into consideration the clear and
convincing standard for a cause of action alleged under the Elder Abuse Act,
that this evidence is sufficient to show that a triable issue of material fact
exists as to whether Defendant neglected Plaintiff by failing to assist in her personal
hygiene and failing to provide services in response to Plaintiff’s ringing her
call light.  (Wel. & Inst. Code,
§ 15610.57, subds. (b)(1) [“Neglect includes, but is not limited to, all
of the following: [¶] (1) Failure to assist in personal hygiene”], (b)(2)
[neglect includes failure to provide medical care]; Rowe v. Superior Court (1993)
15 Cal.App.4th 1711, 1724 [“When a motion for summary judgment is made in a
case where the plaintiff’s claim carries a clear and convincing burden of
proof, the evidence and all inferences which can reasonably be drawn therefrom
must meet that higher standard”]; Carter, supra, 198 Cal.App.4th
at p. 407.)  The court further finds that
this evidence is sufficient to show a triable issue of material fact as to
whether Defendant, in withholding these services and failing to assist in Plaintiff’s
personal hygiene, acted with conscious disregard of the high probability of
such injury and therefore acted recklessly. 
(Carter, supra, 198 Cal.App.4th at p. 407; SAC ¶ 41
[alleging recklessness].) 
The court finds that Defendant has not met its burden of showing
that the third cause of action for elder abuse (neglect) has no merit because
Defendant has not shown that the element of causation cannot be established.  (Carter, supra, 198 Cal.App.4th
at p. 407 [“the neglect [must have] caused the elder or dependent adult to
suffer physical harm, pain or mental suffering”].)  
Defendant relies on the declarations of Dr. Rosen and Dr. Ehrhart,
in which they have concluded that Defendant did not cause Plaintiff’s claimed
injuries.  (Dr. Rosen Decl., ¶ 16; Dr.
Ehrhart Decl., ¶¶ 4-5.)  The court finds
that these declarations are insufficient to negate the element of causation as
to this cause of action. 
First, it appears that Defendant’s experts have concluded that
Defendant did not contribute to or cause injuries to Plaintiff as a result of
her falls.  Dr. Rosen concluded that
Defendant did not cause Plaintiff’s injuries because her injuries were instead
“the result of the natural course of her pre-existing medical conditions and
comorbidities, or were the natural or expected result of reasonable treatment
rendered for the disease or condition, and were otherwise unavoidable.”  (Dr. Rosen Decl., ¶ 16; Mot., p. 12:7-15
[citing Dr. Rosen Decl., ¶ 16].)  However,
the injuries alluded to in this conclusion appear to be those suffered as a
result of Plaintiff’s falls, not as a result of any alleged neglect on the part
of Defendant as described in her complaint (i.e., Defendant’s alleged failure
to respond to call lights and permitting her to remain in urine and excrement
for prolonged periods).  (Dr. Rosen
Decl., ¶ 5 [asserting that Plaintiff’s “falls . . . were unavoidable due
to her ambulating and functional ability combined with her pre-existing medical
conditions and comorbidities”]; SAC ¶¶ 29-30.)  Similarly, Dr. Ehrhart concluded that
Defendant “did not in any way cause or contribute to [Plaintiff]’s claimed injuries.”  (Dr. Ehrhart Decl., ¶ 5.)  However, his declaration also appears to have
focused solely on the injuries suffered by Plaintiff as a result of her falling,
and not the neglect alleged in her complaint. 
(Dr. Ehrhart Decl., ¶ 4 [Plaintiff “suffered no acute injury from
her falls in April through August 2022”] [emphasis added].) 
Thus, the court finds that the conclusions in Dr. Rosen and Dr.
Ehrhart’s declarations are insufficient to show that Defendant’s neglect (i.e.,
its failure to respond to Plaintiff’s call lights and assist in personal
hygiene) did not cause Plaintiff to suffer harm, pain, or mental
suffering.  
Second, the court also notes that Defendant did not present
evidence showing that Plaintiff cannot prove the element of mental suffering as
a result of the alleged neglect.  (SAC
¶¶ 32 [alleging that Plaintiff was subjected to mental abuse], 33
[Plaintiff “had to suffer day in and day out” and suffered “four months of
abuse and torture”], 40 [Plaintiff suffered “the loss of her dignity as a human
being”]; Carter, supra, 198 Cal.App.4th at p. 407 [plaintiff must
prove that the neglect caused “physical harm, pain or mental suffering”].)
The court finds that Defendant has not met its burden of showing
that the third cause of action for elder abuse (neglect) has no merit because
Defendant has not shown that an officer, director, or managing agent did not ratify
or authorize the wrongful conduct constituting neglect.   
“Where it is proven by clear and convincing evidence that a
defendant is liable for . . . neglect as defined in Section 15610.57 . . . ,
and that the defendant has been guilty of recklessness, oppression, fraud or
malice in the commission of this abuse, the following shall apply: [¶¶] (c) The
standards set forth in subdivision (b) of Section 3294 of the Civil Code
regarding the imposition of punitive damages on an employer based upon the acts
of an employee shall be satisfied before any damages or attorney’s fees
permitted under this section may be imposed against an employer.”  (Wel. & Inst. Code, § 15657,
subd. (c).)  Under Civil Code section
3294, “[a]n employer shall not be liable for [punitive damages], based upon
acts of an employee of the employer, unless the employer had advance knowledge
of the unfitness of the employee and employed him or her with a conscious
disregard of the rights or safety of others or authorized or ratified the
wrongful conduct for which the damages are awarded or was personally guilty of
oppression, fraud, or malice.  With
respect to a corporate employer, the advance knowledge and conscious disregard,
authorization, ratification or act of oppression, fraud, or malice must be on
the part of an officer, director, or managing agent of the corporation.”  (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (b).) 
In support of its argument, Defendant has only cited the
declaration of Dr. Rosen.  (Def. Material
Fact No. 20 [citing page 11, lines 11-16 of Dr. Rosen’s declaration].)  In her declaration, Dr. Rosen states as
follows:  “Based upon my review of the
aforementioned records, as well as my education, training and experience, it is
my professional opinion to a reasonable degree of medical probability that there
is no evidence in the record that [Defendant’s] officer, director or managing
agent engaged in, authorized or ratified any negligent or neglectful or abusive
act or omission on the part of [Defendant’s] staff as it relates to care,
treatment and services provided to” Plaintiff. 
(Dr. Rosen Decl., ¶ 15.)  The
court finds that this evidence is insufficient. 
First, Dr. Rosen does not appear to have described any records in which
she could conclude which acts were or were not authorized or ratified by
Defendant’s officers, directors, or managing agents.  (Dr. Rosen Decl., ¶ 4 [stating that the
opinions set forth in her declaration are based on her review of the described
medical records].)  Second, Dr. Rosen has
not set forth any facts to lay the foundation for her assertion that
Defendant’s officers, directors, or managing agents did not take, ratify, or authorize
the conduct described in Civil Code section 3294.  (Ibid.)  Third, the court notes that Defendant has not
cited or submitted any other evidence, such as a declaration from one of
Defendant’s officers, directors, or managing agents, to show that it did not
authorize or ratify an act of oppression, fraud, or malice. 
Thus, the court finds that Defendant has not met its burden to
show that Plaintiff cannot establish the element of authorization or
ratification of an act of oppression, fraud, or malice by an officer, director,
or managing agent of Defendant.  (Civ.
Code, § 3294, subd. (b); Wel. & Inst. Code, § 15657, subd. (c).) 
The court therefore denies Defendant’s motion for summary
adjudication as to the third cause of action for elder abuse (neglect).
4.     Claim
for Punitive Damages
“An employer shall not be liable for [punitive damages], based
upon acts of an employee of the employer, unless the employer had advance
knowledge of the unfitness of the employee and employed him or her with a
conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others or authorized or ratified
the wrongful conduct for which the damages are awarded or was personally guilty
of oppression, fraud, or malice.  With
respect to a corporate employer, the advance knowledge and conscious disregard,
authorization, ratification or act of oppression, fraud, or malice must be on
the part of an officer, director, or managing agent of the corporation.”  (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (b).) 
“[O]n
a motion for summary adjudication with respect to a punitive damages claim, the
higher evidentiary standard applies.  If the plaintiff is going to prevail
on a punitive damages claim, he or she can only do so by establishing malice,
oppression or fraud by clear and convincing evidence.”  (Basich v.
Allstate Ins. Co. (2001) 87 Cal.App.4th 1112, 1121.)  “Under the clear
and convincing evidence standard, the evidence must be ‘ “ ‘ “so clear as to
leave no substantial doubt” ’ ” ’ and ‘ “ ‘ “sufficiently strong to command the
unhesitating assent of every reasonable mind. ” ’ ” ’  [Citation.] 
Although the clear and convincing evidentiary standard is a stringent one, ‘it
does not impose on a plaintiff the obligation to “prove” a case for punitive
damages at summary judgment [or summary adjudication].’”  (Butte Fire
Cases (2018) 24 Cal.App.5th 1150, 1158 [internal citations omitted].) 
However, the court must take this higher standard of proof into account in
ruling on a motion for summary judgment.  (Ibid.)  
The court finds that Defendant has met its burden of showing that
the claim for damages has no merit because Defendant has shown that an element
of the claim (an act of oppression, fraud, or malice on the part of Defendant)
cannot be established.  Defendant has
submitted evidence showing that (1) “[t]here is no evidence of [Plaintiff]
having prolonged exposure to urine and/or excrement[,]” and (2) Plaintiff was
able to obtain nutrition and did not have malnutrition following July 20, 2022
(i.e., the date on which Plaintiff alleges that her dentures were thrown away
by Defendant’s staff).  (Dr. Rosen Decl.,
¶¶ 8-9.)  Thus, the court finds that
Defendant has shown that it did not engage in conduct that constitutes malice,
oppression, or fraud.  (Civ. Code, §
3294, subds. (a), (c).) 
The court finds that Plaintiff has met her burden to show that a
triable issue of material fact exists as to the element of Defendant’s act of
oppression, fraud, or malice by submitting evidence, as set forth above, showing
that (1) Plaintiff was forced to remain in soiled bedding for many hours; (2)
when asked why Plaintiff was permitted to remain in soiled bedding, Defendant’s
nurse stated it was unnecessary since it was Plaintiff’s “‘shower day[;]’” and          (3) Defendant’s nurses often did not
respond to Plaintiff’s call light. 
(Khani Decl., ¶¶ 9-10.)  The
court therefore finds, in considering the heightened standard for a claim of
punitive damages, that Plaintiff has submitted evidence showing the existence
of a triable issue of material fact as to whether Defendant acted with
oppression in committing the acts described above.  (Civ. Code, § 3294, subds. (a), (c)(2)
[“‘Oppression’ means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and
unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s rights”]; Butte Fire
Cases, supra, 24 Cal.App.5th
at p. 1158.) 
The court finds that Defendant has not met its burden of showing
that the claim for punitive damages has no merit because Defendant has not
shown that the element of authorization or ratification of an act of
oppression, fraud, or malice by an officer, director, or managing agent of
Defendant cannot be established for the same reasons set forth above in the
court’s the ruling on the third cause of action for elder abuse (neglect). 
The court therefore denies Defendant’s motion for summary
adjudication as to Plaintiff’s claim for punitive damages.
ORDER
The court denies defendant Beverly Hills Rehabilitation Centre, LLC’s
motion for summary judgment on plaintiff Mansoureh Aghayan’s Second Amended
Complaint. 
The court denies defendant Beverly Hills Rehabilitation Centre, LLC’s
motion for summary adjudication as to plaintiff Mansoureh Aghayan’s (1) first
and third causes of action, and (2) claim for punitive damages. 
The court grants defendant Beverly Hills Rehabilitation Centre, LLC’s
motion for summary adjudication as to plaintiff Mansoureh Aghayan’s second
cause of action for failure to render aid. 
The court orders plaintiff Mansoureh Aghayan to give notice of this
ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  March 6, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court


