  Case Number:  22STCV13452    Hearing Date:   April 24, 2024    Dept:  10 JCCP 5000  Woolsey Fire Cases
22STCV13452  Austin v. Southern California Edison Co.
April 24, 2024 Tentative
Rulings
Defense Motion to Compel
Signature on Settlement Agreement:  Grant
in part subject to limited further briefing and argument. Each party may file a
further brief by May 08, 2024. Further hearing on May 17, 2024 at
2:30 p.m.
Plaintiff, while represented
by counsel, signed the Resolution Protocol by which the claims of many plaintiffs,
though not all plaintiffs, in this coordinated proceeding have been
resolved.  Walsh Decl. Ex. 2.  That agreement, while prolix, constituted a
written settlement agreement of a plaintiff’s claims subject to various
valuation processes to determine the amount of such claim.  Walsh Decl. Ex. 1.  It specifically provided on the final page,
directly above Edison’s signature, as follows:
 N.
Enforceability And Disputes Over Interpretation of the Protocol
1. Any dispute as to the
interpretation of this Protocol shall be resolved by the Special Master and the
Special Master’s decision shall be binding on Edison and the Opt-In
Plaintiff(s) subject to the dispute.
2. The terms of this Protocol
constitute a binding and enforceable agreement as contemplated under CCP 664.6
between Edison and each Opt-In Plaintiff.
3. Except as otherwise set forth
in this Agreement, this Agreement shall not bar or otherwise preclude an Opt-In
Plaintiff from any rights or claims then available in any bankruptcy proceeding
commenced by any Edison entity. 
Id. at 14 (bold emphasis added).
The future events by which final claim valuation would occur
all constituted conditions subsequent in the Resolution Protocol for the
liquidation of the inchoate tort claim to a sum certain that would be paid by
defendant to plaintiff in full resolution of the claims.  In concept, there would be a period for
informal negotiation of possible settlement, followed by a non-binding
mediation process, if needed.  Failing
agreement by such time, the parties would either move on to “binding mediation”
(via either a “standard mediation” where the neutral picked the final number or
via a “Baseball-style” mediation where each side would make a last, best, and
final offer and see which one was selected by the neutral) or to a trial in
Superior Court subject to conditions. 
Here, when voluntary mediation failed and after Plaintiff and her lawyer
parted ways via a Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel, the parties held a
“standard” binding mediation before JAMS mediator Michael G. Ornstil, resulting
in a written award on February 27, 2024. 
Walsh Decl. Ex. 5.  That
award gave Plaintiff Austin, now self-represented, $590,000.00 for her claims
in addition to the recovery she had obtained via first-party property
insurance.
By reference to provisions of the Resolution Protocol at § M(3),
which provide that the plaintiff/claimant will promptly sign the form
Settlement Agreement with the award amount included after such document is
presented for signature, and Plaintiff Austin’s failure to do so, Southern
California Edison Company (“SCE”) now asks the Court to enter an Order “that
Austin enter into a settlement agreement incorporating the binding mediation
award in compliance with the Resolution Protocol within five (5) days of this
Order.”  [Proposed] Order (lodged March
18, 2024).
Plaintiff has filed a Declaration in lieu of a formal legal
memorandum.  She notes the difficulties
that parties had in scheduling a binding mediation on account of the
unwillingness of most pre-selected binding mediators and other alterative mediator
candidates to conduct proceedings with self-represented parties.  She notes her displeasure with her former
counsel.  She notes the delay in the
delivery of the award after the binding mediation was held.  SCE sufficiently refutes each point in its
reply, noting in particular that challenges to a late award need to be made
before the award is rendered, which did not occur here.
SCE has demonstrated that § 664.6 applies to this
dispute and that it is entitled to relief to finalize the settlement.  The “fly in the ointment,” however, is that SCE
does not ask for the correct relief to which it is entitled.  The relevant provision at § 664.6(a)
provides that “the court, upon motion, may enter judgment pursuant to the terms
of the settlement.”  The problem with
SCE’s [Proposed] Order (and its noticed motion) is that it wants the Court to
issue some kind of mandatory injunction that Ms. Austin be forced to sign a Settlement
Agreement.  This is not exactly how it is
supposed to happen to the Court’s understanding.
In the Court’s view SCE is entitled to a ruling that
Judgment be entered in Plaintiff’s favor for $590,000.00 and nothing more
(e.g., no costs or attorney fees) as against Southern California Edison Company
only in full resolution of her claims. 
If SCE wants to include a further provision in the Judgment that Plaintiff
sign a Settlement Agreement, it may do so, but the remedy for non-compliance by
Plaintiff with such an order is not a civil contempt proceeding against Plaintiff
to force compliance.  Rather resort to
the procedures detailed in Blueberry Properties, LLC v. Chow (2014) 230
Cal.App.4th 1017, 1021; and Rayan v. Dykeman (1990) 224 Cal.App.3d 1629,
1635 n.2, is required.  A court employee
becomes the “elisor” who executes the settlement agreement on behalf of
Plaintiff absent her willingness to do so. 
Why this is needed if a Judgment has already been entered, extinguishing
all of Plaintiff’s tort claims, is not obvious.