  Case Number:  19STCV32364    Hearing Date:   April 24, 2024    Dept:  9 Preliminary
Approval of Class Action Settlement
Department SSC-9
Honorable Elaine
Lu
Carter v. Red Tie,
Inc., et al.
Case No. 19STCV32364
Hearing: April 24,
2024 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            The motion for preliminary approval
is DENIED. The proposed settlement is for the named Plaintiff on an individual
basis – not a class-wide basis.  No class
settlement exists for the court to review. 
Therefore, a motion for preliminary approval of a class settlement is unnecessary
and improper.  If counsel seeks a
dismissal of the class claims herein, counsel must file a request for dismissal
that complies with CRC 3.770 -- not a motion for preliminary approval.
 
BACKGROUND
 
            On
September 5, 2019, Plaintiff filed a putative class action complaint against
Defendants Red Tie, Inc. d/b/a Red Tie Gentlemen’s Club, and Mike Mudaris,
(collectively “Defendants”) alleging: (1) failure to pay for all hours worked
(Cal. Lab. Code §§ 1182.12, 1194, 1197); (2) failure to provide meal periods
(Cal. Lab. Code §§ 226.7, 512); (3) failure to authorize and permit and/or make
available rest periods (Cal. Lab. Code § 226.7); and (4) unlawful business
practices (Cal. Bus. & Prof. §§ 17200 et seq.
 
            Counsel
represent that the parties engaged in informal discovery, as well as settlement
negotiations, and entered into an individual settlement agreement on or about
June 6, 2023, for $20,000 with Plaintiff Carter. 
 
            Plaintiff’s
counsel now requests approval of the Court to dismiss the class allegations
without prejudice, and dismissal of Plaintiff’s Complaint with prejudice; or in
the alternative, seeks preliminary approval of the settlement agreement. 
 
ANALYSIS 
 
            California
Rules of Court (CRC), rule 3.769(a) requires “A settlement or compromise of an
entire class action, or of a cause of action in a class action, or as to
a party, requires the approval of the court after hearing.”  Rule 3.769(c) establishes that “Any party to
a settlement agreement may serve and file a written notice of motion for
preliminary approval of the settlement. 
The settlement agreement and proposed notice to class members must be
filed with the motion, and the proposed order must be lodged with the
motion.”  
 
            In determining whether to approve a class settlement, the
court’s responsibility is to “prevent fraud, collusion or unfairness to the
class” through settlement because the rights of the class members and even
named plaintiffs “may not have been given due regard by the negotiating
parties.”  (Consumer Advocacy Group, Inc. v. Kintetsu Enterprises of America (2006)
141 Cal.App.4th 46, 60.)  The class settlement should
be scrutinized by the Court to assure itself that it is not the product of
fraud, overreaching, or collusion and that “the settlement, taken as a whole,
is fair, reasonable and adequate to all concerned.”  (Wershba
v. Apple Computer (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 224, 244–45.)  
 
            This matter was brought as a class
action on September 5, 2019. The court has a fiduciary duty to absent class
members to review and approve class action settlements. Here, there is
no class settlement.  There is
only an individual settlement which the individual Plaintiff executed with the
guidance of her counsel.  Therefore,
there is no class-wide settlement for this court to approve, and the motion for
preliminary approval is DENIED on that basis. 
 
Counsel should note that the dismissal of an entire
class action, or of any party or cause of action in a class action, does require
court approval. The court may not grant a request to dismiss a class action if
the court has entered judgment following final approval of a settlement.
Requests for dismissal must be accompanied by a declaration setting forth the
facts on which the party relies. The declaration must clearly state whether
consideration, direct or indirect, is being given for the dismissal and must
describe the consideration in detail. (CRC 3.770(a)).  If the parties request dismissal of class
claims without notice to class members, the declaration must also clearly state
why the dismissal without notice will not prejudice class members.
 
CONCLUSION
 
Therefore, based on the above, Plaintiff’s motion for
preliminary approval is DENIED.  By
virtue of the class representative settling as an individual plaintiff, the
class need not be certified, and no class representative with standing will
remain.  Because the claims are not being
settled on a class-wide basis, a Motion for Preliminary Approval of Class
Action Settlement is unnecessary and improper.
 
If
counsel now seeks a dismissal of the class claims herein, counsel must comply
with CRC 3.770: A copy of the settlement agreement(s) must be attached. Specifically,
Plaintiff’s declaration would have to address the following per CRC 3.770:
·        
A
statement setting forth the facts upon which the requesting plaintiff relies
upon that justify the dismissal [CRC 3.770(a)]; 
 
·        
A
statement whether consideration, direct or indirect is beings given for the
dismissal of the class allegations and a description of the consideration in
detail [CRC 3.770(a)]; 
o  
Note:
Compensating counsel and/or class representative(s) more than the amount they
would be entitled to on their individual claims may constitute indirect
consideration for class action dismissal. Plaintiff must specifically address
this point as it pertains to the Settlements; 
 
·        
A
statement setting forth in full the attorney’s fees paid by the defendant for
representation of the class and/or or of the class representatives [CRC
3.769(b)]; and 
 
·        
A statement explaining why dismissal
without notice to class members will not prejudice class members [CRC
3.770(c)].
 
Plaintiff must file her dismissal papers under CRC
3.770 no later than June 3, 2024.
 
A Non-Appearance Case Review re Filing of Dismissal
Papers Under CRC 3.770(a) is set for June 10, 2024, at 8:30 am., Department 9.
 
The Court’s Judicial Assistant shall give notice to
Plaintiffs’ Counsel.  Plaintiffs’ Counsel
is to give notice of this order to all other parties and file proof of service
of such within 10 days.
 
 
Date: April 24, 2024                                                   _____________________________
                                                                                                      ELAINE LU
          JUDICIAL OFFICER