  Case Number:  23LBCV00333    Hearing Date:   June 25, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.    
Background Facts
Plaintiff, Consuelo
Almazan filed this action
against Defendant, American Honda Motor Company, Inc. for Violation of the
Song-Beverly Act and breach of warranty of merchantability.  Plaintiff filed the complaint on 2/22/23.  Defendant filed an answer on 3/29/23.    
 
2.    
Motion to Compel Arbitration
a.     Parties’ Positions
Defendant moves to compel Plaintiff to arbitrate his dispute with
it.  Defendant concedes it does not have
an arbitration agreement with Plaintiff, but seeks to compel arbitration under
Plaintiff’s lease agreement with the dealership from whom Plaintiff leased the
subject automobile.  Defendant seeks to
compel arbitration under a third party beneficiary theory and also under an
estoppel theory.
Plaintiff opposes the motion, arguing neither third party beneficiary
theory nor estoppel theory can prevail under Ochoa.  Plaintiff also argues Defendant waived its
right to move to compel arbitration.
 
Defendant, in reply, expressly concedes its estopped theory lacks
merit.  It argues Ochoa is
distinguishable because it is named as an express third party beneficiary in
Plaintiff’s contract.  It argues waiver
is not present because it has not invoked the litigation machinery and has not
unreasonably delayed in seeking to compel arbitration.
 
b.    
Ochoa
On 4/04/23, the Court of Appeals decided Ochoa v. Ford Motor Company
(2023) 89 Cal.App.5th 1324. 
In Ochoa, the Court of Appeals expressly considered whether a
manufacturer of an automobile can enforce a dealership’s arbitration agreement
under a third party beneficiary and/or estoppel theory.  The Court of Appeals held that it
cannot.  
 
Defendant, in reply, argues Ochoa is distinguishable because the
contract in this case contains an express third party beneficiary provision
that names Defendant, whereas the contract in Ochoa did not actually name the
manufacturer as an express third party beneficiary.  The provision in Plaintiff’s contract
requires Plaintiff to arbitrate all claims with “HONDA,” which it defines to
include numerous entities, including Moving Defendant.
 
The Court finds this is a distinction without a difference.  The Court has read Ochoa, and finds that
something more than merely naming an entity as a third party beneficiary must
be done in order to compel the conclusion that the party actually IS a third
party beneficiary.  The Ochoa Court held:
To show the contracting parties intended to benefit it, a third party
must show that, under the express terms of the contract at issue and any other
relevant circumstances under which the contract was made, (1) “the third party
would in fact benefit from the contract”; (2) “a motivating purpose of the
contracting parties was to provide a benefit to the third party”; and (3)
permitting the third party to enforce the contract “is consistent with the
objectives of the contract and the reasonable expectations of the contracting
parties.” (Goonewardene, supra, 6 Cal.5th at p. 830, 243 Cal.Rptr.3d 299, 434
P.3d 124.) 
 
The Ochoa Court went on to hold that those factors are not present in a
contract with a dealership as it relates to a vehicle manufacturer.  The Court therefore finds that, under Ochoa,
the motion to compel arbitration must be denied.
 
c.    
Waiver
i.             
Law
Governing Waiver of the Right to Compel Arbitration 
Questions of waiver are determined by the court, not the arbitrator, in
connection with a motion to compel arbitration.  CCP § 1281.2. 
Where no deadline for demanding arbitration is specified in the
agreement, a reasonable time is allowed. A party who does not demand
arbitration within a reasonable time is deemed to have waived the right to
arbitration.  Spear v. California State
Auto. Ass'n (1992) Johnson v. Siegel (2000) 84 Cal.App.4th 1087, 1099.  What constitutes a “reasonable time” is a
question of fact depending on the situation of the parties, the nature of the
transaction, and the facts of the particular case. Among the facts a court may
consider is any prejudice the opposing party suffered because of the delay.   Id. at 1043.
 
Participating in litigation of an arbitrable claim does not itself
waive a party's right later to seek arbitration.  Saint Agnes Med. Ctr. v. PacifiCare of Calif.
(2003) 31 Cal.4th 1187, 1203.  No
“concrete test” exists for courts to use in deciding whether a party acted
inconsistently with the right to arbitrate. Rather, courts “consider the
totality of the [party's] actions …” Such inconsistency is shown when a party:
•      
 “makes an intentional decision not to move to
compel arbitration”; and
•     “actively
litigates the merits of a case for a prolonged period of time in order to take
advantage of being in court.”  Newirth by
& through Newirth v. Aegis Senior Communities, LLC, 931 F3d at 941.  
 
Short of a judgment on the merits, there is no fixed stage in a lawsuit
beyond which further litigation waives the right to arbitrate. Rather, the
court views the litigation as a whole in determining whether the parties'
conduct is inconsistent with a desire to arbitrate.  McConnell v. Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner
& Smith, Inc. (1980) 105 Cal.App.3d 946, 951.  “Unreasonable delay in seeking arbitration
may, standing alone, constitute a waiver of a right to arbitrate.” In a
putative class action, defendant actively litigated for almost two years and
only sought to compel arbitration three months before the last day to move to
certify the class. Substantial evidence supported the trial court's denial of
the motion to compel arbitration.  Spracher
v. Paul M. Zagaris, Inc. (2019) 39 Cal.App.5th 1135, 1137-1139, 252 CR3d 417,
419-420.  
 
The presence or absence of prejudice from the litigation is a
determinative issue under California law.   Saint Agnes Med. Ctr. v. PacifiCare of Calif.
(2003) 31 Cal.4th 1187, 1203-1204. 
Because of the strong policy favoring arbitration, prejudice typically
is found only where the petitioning party has:
•           — unreasonably delayed
seeking arbitration; or
•           — substantially
impaired an opponent's ability to use the benefits and efficiencies of
arbitration (e.g., where petitioning party used judicial discovery to obtain
information from opponent that could not have been gained in arbitration).  Id. at 1203-1204.
 
ii.            
Analysis
The Court finds Defendant waived any right to compel arbitration.  It answered the complaint almost a year
before it filed this motion, has fully participated in the litigation, and the
case is scheduled for trial on 7/15/24, less than a month after the hearing on
this motion.  Indeed, the parties have
filed motions in limine and trial is currently set for 7/15/24; the parties
have stipulated to continue the trial date, but the Court has not granted the
continuance sought at this time.
 
Defendant argues it did not unreasonably delay because it only received
a copy of the full lease agreement, including the arbitration provision, from
Plaintiff on 3/05/24.  Defendant fails,
however, to explain WHY it did not seek or receive the entire lease agreement
from Plaintiff for more than a year after Plaintiff filed litigation.  The Court will not move the case from
litigation to arbitration on the eve of trial absent a showing of diligence in
discovering the subject agreement.  
 
d.    
Conclusion
The motion to compel arbitration is denied pursuant to Ochoa and also
in light of Defendant’s unreasonable delay in moving to compel arbitration.
 
Defendant is ordered to give
notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative.  If
the parties do not submit on the tentative, they should arrange to appear
remotely.