 Case Number:  23LBCV01025    Hearing Date:   June 25, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Allegations
of the Complaint
Plaintiff, 562 Discount Med, Inc.
filed this action against Defendant, Glass House Brands, Inc. for violation of
BPC §17200.  Plaintiff is a licensed
cannabis dispensary operating in Long Beach. 
It alleges Defendant is a large, black marketer of cannabis, which
massively profits off of the illegal sale of cannabis to the detriment of those
operating in the legal market.  Plaintiff
alleges Defendant holds itself out as a licensed and fully legal operator, but
its operations are actually illicit.  Specifically,
Plaintiff alleges Defendant, which is licensed, specifically selects licensed
“burn distributors” and works with them to distribute cannabis in the illegal
downstream market.  
 
2.     Motion
for Judgment on the Pleadings
a.    
Meet and Confer
Defense Counsel declares he
attempted to meet and confer, but Plaintiff’s attorney placed unreasonable
requirements, including receipt of a copy of the moving papers, on the meet and
confer process, and therefore the attorneys never actually met and conferred.  Plaintiff filed an “objection” to Defense
Counsel’s declaration, wherein Plaintiff essentially argues that Defendant
should have laid out the grounds for its motion prior to any telephonic meet
and confer.  It is clear, from reading
both the declaration and the objection thereto, that Counsel are struggling to
cooperate in a civil manner in connection with this litigation. Notably, a
discovery referee was recently appointed because the parties are unable to
agree concerning discovery obligations.  The
Court will rule on the MJP despite the parties’ inability to meet and confer
prior to the hearing.
 
b.     Requests
for Judicial Notice
Defendant filed a request for
judicial notice with its moving papers. 
It seeks judicial notice of various documents that collectively
establish Plaintiff and another entity, HNHPC, have the same principals and the
same address.  It also seeks judicial
notice of a petition for writ of administrative mandamus filed by HNHPC against
the California Department of Tax and Fee Administration and the California
Office of Administrative Law, wherein HNHPC sought an order compelling the
departments to enforce their own regulations against Defendant.  
 
Plaintiff opposes the RJN.  The Court takes judicial notice of the fact
that the documents are what they purport to be, but not of the truth of any
matter asserted in the documents.
 
Plaintiff filed a request for
judicial notice with its opposition papers. 
Notably, the purpose of a motion for judgment on the pleadings is to
determine whether the complaint, on its face, is sufficiently pled or not.  If judicially noticeable documents are
necessary to render the complaint sufficient, then the complaint is not
sufficient, and a motion challenging the complaint must be granted.  The Court would therefore consider the
documents, at most, for the purpose of determining whether leave to amend
should be allowed.  Plaintiff seeks
judicial notice of various documents filed in a case brought by Defendant,
specifically various discovery orders made in that case and a subsequent
dismissal of the case.  Plaintiff
contends the documents establish that Defendant is trying, in this case, to
have the case dismissed to avoid its discovery obligations.  This is a side issue that has nothing to do
with whether the complaint is adequately pled. 
The Court takes judicial notice of the documents, but notes that the
documents do not affect its analysis of the motion.  
 
c.     Grounds
for Motion
Defendant moves for judgment on the
pleadings on three grounds.  First, it
contends the Court should abstain from adjudicating the action because the
action should be prosecuted, if at all, by the DCC using the laws enacted as a
result of the passage of Prop 64, which made recreational marijuana use legal
in California and created regulations governing production and distribution of
such marijuana.
 
Second, it contends Plaintiff lacks
standing to bring the action. 
Specifically, it contends Plaintiff has failed to allege any injury as a
result of Defendant’s purportedly wrongful conduct.  Additionally, it contends Plaintiff has not
alleged standing under the prong of the UCL concerning fraudulent business
practices because Plaintiff has not alleged its own reliance on fraudulent
statements, as opposed to third parties’ reliance on those statements.  
 
Finally, it contends the “safe
harbor doctrine” bars this action.  It
contends Plaintiff admits Defendant is a licensed cannabis cultivator and is
selling to licensed distributors, all of which is legal and cannot support a
claim for unfair competition.  
 
d.     Equitable
Abstention
Defendant argues the Court should
grant judgment on the pleadings based on the doctrine of equitable
abstention.  Defendant relies primarily
on Alvarado v. Selma Convalescent Hosp. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1292,
1298 and Shamsian v. Dep’t of Conservation (2006) 136 Cal.App.4th
621, 626 to support its position.  The
Court has reviewed both cases, and finds that Alvarado contains the most
extensive and helpful discussion of whether and when a trial court should
dismiss an action, at the pleading stage, based on the doctrine of equitable
abstention.  The Court will therefore
primarily analyze this case based on the Alvarado Court’s holding and
analysis.  
 
In Alvarado the plaintiff filed a
class action lawsuit under BPC §17200 seeking restitution and injunctive relief
to require owners and operators of skilled nursing and intermediate care
facilities to comply with the requirements set forth in HSC §1276.5(a).  The trial court sustained the defendants’
demurrer to the complaint without leave to amend, concluding it should abstain
from adjudicating the lawsuit by assuming the function of the Department of
Health Services, which was charged with enforcement of the subject code
section.  The trial court noted that
adjudicating the lawsuit would have obligated the court to become involved in
complex health care matters concerning staffing of facilities, and noted that
enforcing the requested relief would place an unnecessary burden on the trial
court in light of the fact that DHS already had the power to monitor and
enforce compliance with the subject code section.
 
Because the analysis of Alvarado is
particularly helpful, the Court will quote the Court of Appeals’ opinion at
length.  The Court of Appeals first
discussed the applicable standard for applying the abstention doctrine, wherein
it explained, in pertinent part (citations omitted):
Plaintiff seeks relief under the
UCL. In California, the remedies available for alleged violations of the UCL
include injunctions and restitution. Because these remedies are equitable in
nature, under the doctrine of judicial abstention, courts have the discretion
to abstain from employing them. (citation.)
There are various theories
underlying the application of judicial abstention in UCL lawsuits. Courts may
abstain when the lawsuit involves determining complex economic policy, which is
best handled by the legislature or an administrative agency.  (citation.) Judicial abstention is
appropriate in cases where granting injunctive relief would be unnecessarily
burdensome for the trial court to monitor and enforce given the availability of
more effective means of redress. 
(citation) …
 
Judicial abstention is appropriate
when granting the requested relief would require a trial court to assume the
functions of an administrative agency, or to interfere with the functions of an
administrative agency (citation).  
…
Courts may abstain from
adjudicating a lawsuit and issuing injunctive relief when the injunctive relief
would place an unnecessary burden on the court because of the existence of
other, more effective remedies.
In Diaz, (citation), plaintiffs
sought injunctive relief to prohibit ranchers from employing as farm workers
illegal immigrant into the United States. In that case, the court concluded
that the trial court should not become involved in issuing and enforcing
injunctive relief when there was a more effective federal remedy. The court
explained that a single trial court may have to issue dozens of injunctions,
creating a network of injunctions to cover growers in rural counties. The trial
courts would then have to enforce the injunctions through contempt hearings.
(citation). The court stated: “Thus, whatever the legal theory underlying the
injunction, the court must compare the effects of granting and withholding it
and, in that connection, consider the comparative availability and advisability
of other forms of amelioration.” (citation.)
The Court of Appeals went on to
analyze the above standards in the context of the plaintiff’s lawsuit seeking
an injunction re: appropriate staffing at the defendants’ nursing
facilities.  The Court affirmed the trial
court’s decision to sustain the defendants’ demurrer without leave to amend, noting
both that the requested injunction would require the trial court to assume
general regulatory powers over the health care industry, which powers were
already vested in the Department of Health Services.  The Court of Appeals noted that the DHS was
better equipped to determine compliance with the statute than the trial court
was.  The Court of Appeals held that
enforcing the requested injunction would place an undue burden on the trial
court.  It noted that DHS already had the
“power, expertise and statutory mandate” to enforce the subject code
section.  
 
Turning to the instant case,
Defendant notes that the voters passed Prop 64 in 2016, and that Prop 64
created a comprehensive regulatory structure governing marijuana
oversight.  It notes that BPC §26010
obligates the Department of Cannabis Control (“DCC”) to administer and enforce
the provisions of the Act.  It argues
that any injunction ultimately issued would be nearly impossible for the trial
court to enforce.  
 
Plaintiff, in opposition to the
motion, argues the doctrine is not applicable because the DCC does not have
exclusive jurisdiction to enforce the Act. 
Plaintiff argues its requested relief is not unduly burdensome, and
instead is the type of ordinary relief routinely granted under the UCL.  Plaintiff relies primarily on Arce v. Kaiser
Foundation Health Plan, Inc. (2010) 181 Cal.App.4th 471, 498-99, 501
to support its position.  
 
In Arce, a member of the Kaiser
healthcare plan brought a putative class action against the plan under the UCL
alleging violations of the plan contract and the Mental Health Parity Act.  The trial court sustained the plan’s demurrer
based on the equitable abstention doctrine, but the Court of Appeals
reversed.  The Court of Appeals held that
resolution of the UCL claim would not require the court to decide complex
issues of economic policy or other matters over which an administrative agency
has exclusive jurisdiction.  The Court
noted that the legislative scheme governing allegedly wrongful denial of health
insurance benefits permitted the DMHC to investigate and intervene, but that
the scheme itself made clear that the DMHC grievance system “shall be in
addition to any other procedures that may be available to any person, and
failure to pursue, exhaust, or engage in the procedures described in this
section shall not preclude the use of any other remedy provided by law.”  
 
The Court finds this case is
substantially more similar to Alvarado than it is to Arce.  The Act is comprehensive in nature, and
mandates (the word “shall” is used in BPC §26010) that the DCC enforce the
provisions of the Act.  Notably,
Defendant provides judicially noticeable documents showing that an entity in
some way related to Plaintiff currently has proceedings against the DCC pending
in Orange County Superior Court seeking to compel the DCC to enforce the
statutory scheme.  The Court finds
issuing the requested injunction would “assume the functions of an
administrative agency, or to interfere with the functions of an administrative
agency,” an issue Alvarado noted justifies invoking the doctrine.  
 
The Court also finds the
enforcement of any injunction ultimately issued would be overly
burdensome.  Plaintiff, in its complaint,
seeks an injunction “prohibiting Defendants from engaging in the business
practices set forth above.”  The crux of
the business practices detailed is that Defendant sells to licensed
distributors, but does so knowing (and conspiring to ensure) that the
distributors will distribute to black market buyers who then sell the product
downstream for prices that Plaintiff cannot compete with.  The Court does not know how it would even
begin to supervise such an injunction, if issued.  This problem is compounded by the fact that
the DCC is already charged with investigating and enforcing illegal cannabis
distributors and buyers.  As noted above,
per Alvarado, “Courts may abstain from adjudicating a lawsuit and issuing
injunctive relief when the injunctive relief would place an unnecessary burden
on the court because of the existence of other, more effective remedies.”
 
e.     Conclusion
Defendant’s motion for judgment on
the pleadings is granted without leave to amend.  The Court exercises its discretion to dismiss
the action pursuant to the doctrine of equitable abstention.  The Court declines to rule on Defendant’s
other arguments made in connection with its motion, as doing so is not
necessary to determine that dismissal of the action is appropriate.  
 
Defendant is ordered to give
notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative.  If
the parties do not submit on the tentative, they should arrange to appear
remotely.