 Case Number:  21STCV13692    Hearing Date:   November 9, 2023    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


32




HEARING DATE


November 9, 2023




CASE NUMBER


21STCV13692




MOTION


Motion for Summary Judgment or, in the Alternative, for
  Summary Adjudication




MOVING PARTY


Defendant Zheng Mao Huang dba Louisiana Fried Chicken and
  China Bowl




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff Joseph
  Steward Renova, a minor by and through his Guardian Ad Litem, Andrea
  Stephanie Lomeli 



 
MOVING PAPERS
 
1.      Notice of Motion and Motion for Summary
Judgment, or in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication 
2.      Memorandum of Points and Authorities
3.      Separate Statement of Undisputed Material
Facts
4.      Declaration of William P. Mullins in Support
5.      Compendium of Evidence
6.      Notice of Lodging Surveillance Video of the
Incident 
 
OPPOSITION PAPERS
 
1.      Plaintiff’s Opposition to Motion for Summary
Judgment 
2.      Separate Statement in Response
3.      Declaration of Boyd Johnson in
Opposition  
4.      Plaintiff’s Objections to Evidence
5.      Plaintiff’s Compendium of Evidence in
Opposition
 
REPLY PAPERS
 
1.      Reply in Support of Defendant’s Motion
 
SUR-REPLY
 
1.      Plaintiff’s Sur Reply
2.      Defendant’s Objection to Sur-Reply
 
SUPPLEMENTAL BRIEFS
 
1.      Supplemental Brief in Support of Defendant’s
Motion for Summary Judgment
2.      Declaration of Zheng Mao Huang
3.      Supplemental Declaration of William P.
Mullins
4.      Plaintiff’s Further Opposition to Motion for
Summary Judgment 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            On
April 12, 2021, Plaintiff Joseph
Steward Renova, a minor by and through his Guardian Ad Litem, Andrea Stephanie
Lomeli (“Plaintiff”), filed this action against Defendants Zheng Mao Huang (“Huang”),
an individual dba Louisiana Fried Chicken and China Bowl (“Defendant”) and Does
1 to 20 inclusive, asserting one cause of action for premises liability.
 
            The
Complaint alleges the following. On May 4, 2019, Plaintiff slipped, fell, and
sustained injuries at Defendant’s restaurant called Louisiana Fried Chicken and
China Bowl in Los Angeles (the “Premises”). Defendant had negligently created a
slippery walking surface condition that posed an unreasonable risk to customers
and by failing to (among other things) adequately warn against or remove that
condition. Defendant’s negligence caused Plaintiff’s slip and fall incident. 
 
Defendant now moves for summary
judgment or, in the alternative, for summary adjudication. Plaintiff opposes
the motion. The motion was called for hearing on August 16, 2023. The Court
continued the hearing and set a supplemental briefing schedule. (Min. Order,
8/16/23.) 
 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
 
            On August
2, 2023, Plaintiff filed objections to the declaration of William P. Mullins,
which declared that “attached as Exhibit ‘B’ [and ‘C’] to the concurrently
filed Compendium of Evidence is a true and correct copy of Defendant LFC’s
Camera 3 [and 7] video surveillance dated May 4, 2019…” (Mullins Decl. ¶¶ 3,
4.)  “Supporting and opposing affidavits
or declarations shall be made by a person on personal knowledge, shall set
forth admissible evidence, and shall show affirmatively that the affiant is
competent to testify to the matters stated in the affidavits or
declarations.”  (Code of Civ. Proc. §
437c(d).) Plaintiff objects on the grounds that the testimony lacks foundation
or personal knowledge and lacks authentication. Defendant’s supplemental brief includes
a declaration of Huang where he asserts under penalty of perjury that the video
footage in Exhibits B and C accurately depict the store and the events of this
lawsuit. (Huang Decl. ¶ 1-3.) Therefore, the objections are OVERRULED.
 
            In
Defendant’s Reply Brief, Defendant objects to Plaintiff’s declaration as “self-serving,”
“containing conflicting statements,” and not supported by “what was caught on
camera.” (Reply at pg. 3.) Defendant further argues that “[d]eclarations
submitted in opposition to motions for summary judgment must cite evidentiary
facts, not legal conclusions or ‘ultimate facts.’ [citation omitted.]
‘[U]ncorroborated and self-serving declarations’ do not create ‘genuine issues
of fact.’ [citation omitted.] The court ‘[is] not required to accept …
self-serving evidence.’” (Reply at pg. 3.)
 
            However,
Defendant has not cited to Plaintiff’s deposition testimony or any prior
statement by Plaintiff, which contradicts Plaintiff’s declaration. Moreover, Plaintiff’s
statements, particularly in paragraph 7, are evidentiary facts and not legal
conclusions. The declaration is made under penalty of perjury and there is no
showing that Plaintiff lacks personal knowledge or is incompetent with regard
to what he saw or did not see in the restaurant.
 
            Accordingly,
the objections are OVERRULED.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
            “[T]he party moving for summary judgment
bears the burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue of material fact
and that he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law[.] There is a triable
issue of material fact if, and only if, the evidence would allow a reasonable
trier of fact to find the underlying fact in favor of the party opposing the
motion in accordance with the applicable standard of proof.” (Aguilar v.
Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.) “[T]he party moving for
summary judgment bears an initial burden of production to make a prima facie
showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact; if he
carries his burden of production, he causes a shift, and the opposing party is
then subjected to a burden of production of his own to make a prima facie
showing of the existence of a triable issue of material fact.” (Ibid.; Smith
v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 1463, 1474 [summary
judgment standards held by Aguilar apply to summary adjudication motions].)
Further, in line with Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co., “[o]n a motion
for summary adjudication, the trial court has no discretion to exercise. If a
triable issue of material fact exists as to the challenged causes of action,
the motion must be denied. If there is no triable issue of fact, the motion
must be granted.” (Fisherman's Wharf Bay Cruise Corp. v. Superior Court
(2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 309, 320.)
 
            “On a summary judgment motion, the
court must therefore consider what inferences favoring the opposing party a
factfinder could reasonably draw from the evidence. While viewing the evidence
in this manner, the court must bear in mind that its primary function is to
identify issues rather than to determine issues. Only when the inferences are
indisputable may the court decide the issues as a matter of law. If the
evidence is in conflict, the factual issues must be resolved by trial.” (Binder
v. Aetna Life Ins. Co. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839 [cleaned up].)
Further, “the trial court may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a
factfinder to determine whose version is more likely true. Nor may the trial
court grant summary judgment based on the court's evaluation of credibility.” (Id.
at p. 840 [cleaned up]; see also Weiss v. People ex rel. Department of
Transportation (2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for
summary judgment or summary adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must
instead view it in the light most favorable to the opposing party and draw all
reasonable inferences in favor of that party”].)
 
ANALYSIS
 
A.    Timeliness
 
As an initial matter, the Court notes that Plaintiff argues that the motion
violates Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (a)(3) because it
was scheduled for hearing 29 days (instead of the statutory 30 days) from the
previous trial date. (Opposition, p. 2:2-7.)
 
However, on July 14, 2023, the Court granted Defendant’s ex parte
application to continue trial. Plaintiff does not cite any authority holding
that a party cannot move to continue trial while a motion for summary judgment
is pending.
 
Accordingly, the Court will consider the motion on its merits. 
 
B.     Merits
 
            Defendant moves for summary judgment
or summary adjudication, arguing (1) it did not have a duty to warn Plaintiff
of an open and obvious condition (i.e., Huang was mopping the floor in plain
view at the time of the incident) and (2) even if it owed Plaintiff a duty, it
did not breach that duty because Defendant had a warning sign in place. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1) [providing that a party may move for summary
adjudication at to one or more issues of duty].)
 
“The elements of a negligence claim and a premises liability claim are
the same: a legal duty of care, breach of that duty, and proximate cause
resulting in injury.” (Kesner v. Superior Court (2016) 1 Cal.5th 1132,
1158.) Therefore, to prevail on a claim for premises liability, Plaintiff must
prove: (1) defendant owned or controlled the subject property; (2) defendant
was negligent in the use or maintenance of the property; (3) plaintiff was
harmed; and (4) defendant’s negligence was a substantial factor in causing
plaintiff’s harm. (See Rowland v. Christian (1968) 69 Cal.2d 108.)
 
“‘Breach of duty is usually a fact issue for the jury; if the
circumstances permit a reasonable doubt whether the defendant’s conduct
violates the standard of due care, the doubt must be resolved by the jury as an
issue of fact rather than of law by the court. [Citation.]’ [Citations.]” (Constance
B. v. State of California (1986) 178 Cal.App.3d 200, 207 (“Constance”).)
“Similarly, ‘… the decision whether that breach caused the damage (that
is, causation in fact) is again within the jury’s domain; but where reasonable
men will not dispute the absence of causality, the court may take the decision
from the jury and treat the question as one of law. [Citations.]’ [Citations.]”
(Constance, supra, 178 Cal.App.3d at p. 207 [italics in
original].)
 
“It is well established in California that although a store owner is not
an insurer of the safety of its patrons, the owner does owe them a duty to
exercise reasonable care in keeping the premises reasonably safe.” (Ortega
v. Kmart Corp. (2001) 26 Cal.4th 1200, 1205 (“Ortega”).)
Specifically, “[a] store owner exercises ordinary care by making reasonable
inspections of the portions of the premises open to customers.” (Moore v.
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (2003) 111 Cal.App.4th 472, 476.) “The care required
is commensurate with the risks involved.” (Ibid.) “Thus, for example, if
the owner operates a self-service grocery store, where customers are invited to
inspect, remove, and replace goods on shelves, the exercise of ordinary care
may require the owner to take greater precautions and make more frequent inspections
than would otherwise be needed.” (Ibid.)
 
“‘“Generally, if a danger is so obvious that a person could reasonably be
expected to see it, the condition itself serves as a warning, and the landowner
is under no further duty to remedy or warn of the condition.” [Citation.] In
that situation, owners and possessors of land are entitled to assume others
will ‘perceive the obvious’ and take action to avoid the dangerous condition.
[Citation.]’ [Citation.]” (Kaney v. Custance (2022) 74 Cal.App.5th 201,
215.) This is known as “the no-duty exception for open and obvious dangerous
conditions ….” (Zuniga v. Cherry Avenue Auction, Inc. (2021) 61
Cal.App.5th 980, 993.) “[T]he rationale for the exception to the general duty
of ordinary care is that the foreseeability of harm usually is absent because
third parties will perceive the obvious and take action to avoid the danger.” (Id.
at p. 994.)
 
“[T]he obviousness of a condition does not necessarily excuse the
potential duty of a landowner, not simply to warn of the condition but to
rectify it.”¿ (Martinez v. Chippewa Enterprises, Inc.¿(2004) 121
Cal.App.4th 1179, 1184 (hereafter Martinez).)¿ The obviousness of a
danger “may obviate the duty to¿warn¿of its existence,” but “if it
is¿foreseeable¿that the danger may cause injury despite the fact that it is
obvious (e.g., when necessity requires persons to encounter it), there may be a
duty to¿remedy¿the danger, and the breach of that duty may in turn form the
basis for liability . . . .”¿ (Osborn v. Mission Ready Mix¿(1990) 224
Cal.App.3d 104, 122 (hereafter Osborn).)
 
Although “the existence of a duty of care is a matter of law,” “[t]he foreseeability
of a particular plaintiff’s injury is a question of fact.” (Alpert v. Villa
Romano Homeowners Assn. (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 1320, 1330, fn. 9.) 
 
“‘It is ordinarily a question of fact … whether [a] particular danger was
obvious, [or] whether an invitee was contributorily negligent ….’ [Citations.]”
(Henderson v. McGill (1963) 222 Cal.App.2d 256, 260; see also Curland
v. Los Angeles County Fair Ass’n (1953) 118 Cal.App.2d 691, 695–696 [“Whether
[a] danger was obvious to plaintiff [is] a question of fact for the jury. [Citations.]
Whether a person, under the circumstances, made a reasonable use of his
faculties is also a question for the jury. The law presumes that a person
possessing the normal faculties of sight must have seen that which was in the
range of his sight”].)
 
The Court may, in appropriate
circumstances, determine a condition is open and obvious where “photographs
prima facie established the obviousness” of the condition.  (Martinez,
supra, 121 Cal.App.4th at p. 1184.)  In examining photographs, the
court should consider: (1) the photograph’s subject (i.e., its focal point);
(2) the view of the subject (e.g., close-up, distant isolated, in context); (3)
the photograph’s perspective (e.g., eye-level, overhead, ground-level); (4) the
use of any plain-view altering devices (e.g., camera color filter, fish-eye
lens, computer-manipulation); (5) the characteristics of the photograph (e.g.,
sharp and clear, blurry, grainy, color or black and white); (6) whether the
photograph was taken under identical or substantially similar conditions (e.g.,
timing, lighting, weather); and (7) any other relevant circumstances (e.g.,
addition of extrinsic aids, such as a ruler or pointer).  (Kasparian v.
AvalonBay Communities, Inc. (2007) 156 Cal.App.4th 11, 24-25.)  In Kasparian v. AvalonBay Communities, Inc., the plaintiff sued
her landlord after she tripped and fell due to a recessed drain in the
apartment complex. (Kasparian v. AvalonBay Communities, Inc. (2007) 156
Cal.App.4th 11, 14.) The California Court of Appeal reversed the trial court’s
order granting summary judgment to the landlord, holding: “Summary judgment
cannot be based on photographs where the reviewing court concludes either
reasonable minds might differ regarding whether the photographs correctly
depict the alleged defect and the surrounding environs or whether the
photographs conclusively establish the defect was open and obvious. We find the
photographs before the trial court in this case are not conclusive on this
issue and thus triable issues remain, requiring a reversal of the summary
judgment.” (Id. at p. 15.)
 
Defendant sets forth the following facts:
 
-         
Around
5:33 p.m., Mr. Huang put a yellow caution sign on the tile floor four or five
feet away from the entrance of the restaurant while mopping the area next to
the buffet. (UMF 2.)
-         
Mr.
Huang placed the yellow warning sign to warn customers to be careful when they
walked, as he was mopping the floor. (UMF 3.) 
-         
Mr.
Huang then moved the yellow caution sign so that the sign was closer to the
entrance, and continued to mop the area to the left of the entrance doors. (UMF
4.)
-         
Plaintiff
Joseph and Andrea Lomeli, his mother, walked into the restaurant a few minutes
later. (UMF 5.) 
-         
The
yellow caution sign was out in the open when Plaintiff and Ms. Lomeli walked
into the restaurant. (UMF 6.)
-         
The
yellow caution sign continued to be out in the open while Plaintiff and Ms.
Lomeli waited in line.  (UMF 7.)
-         
Around
5:40 p.m., Mr. Huang moved the caution sign a little to his left and continued
to mop the area in front of the restaurant’s doors. (UMF 8.) 
-         
Video
surveillance shows Plaintiff turning, while waiting in line, in the direction
of Mr. Huang while he was mopping the area in front of the restaurant’s doors.
(UMF 9.) 
-         
Ms.
Lomeli testified she saw someone mopping while she and Plaintiff were in the
restaurant. (UMF 10.)
-         
Then,
while Ms. Lomeli was waiting to check out at the service counter, Plaintiff ran
towards the restaurant’s doors, slipped on the tile floor, and fell. (UMF 12.) 
 
Plaintiff sets forth the following facts:
 
-         
Before
falling inside the restaurant, Plaintiff had no knowledge of the floor being
wet or slippery. Plaintiff had never even slipped on a slippery floor before
and so, as a 10-year-old boy, he was not aware of this danger.  At the time, his mind was focused on getting
home safely.  (PUMF 20.)
-         
Plaintiff
fell at the only exit and entry doorway threshold of the restaurant. That is,
the only means of ingress/ egress. The only way in or out. (PUMF 29.)
 
Additionally, Plaintiff disputes that the surveillance video shows that
Plaintiff saw the sign or had knowledge of either the sign or the slippery
floor, arguing that “Plaintiff’s attention is not definitively discerned from
the video, though it seems apparent that his attention span is waning.” (PUMF
9.) Plaintiff has also submitted a declaration which states: “Before I left to
get the change from the truck, I had no idea that the restaurant floor was wet
or slippery, or what that actually meant. I didn’t see any signs about it….”
(Renova Decl. ¶ 7.)
 
Here, the Defendant focuses on the obviousness of Mr. Huang mopping the
floor. However, the condition at issue is the wet or slippery floor. That
condition is transitory, in that at some point the wet floor becomes dry and is
no longer slippery. Whether it was open and obvious that the floor in front of
the only public exit door remained wet and slippery at the time of Plaintiff’s
fall is a question of fact.[1]
The video itself does not clearly depict whether the floor was wet or dry.
 
Moreover, whether the yellow warning sign was sufficient is also a
question of fact. Here, the video evidence shows that while Mr. Huang initially
placed the warning sign near the entrance/ exit door when Plaintiff and his
mother came into the restaurant, he later moved the sign to the left of the
door at the time of Plaintiff’s fall. A reasonable inference is that the area
in front of the door is no longer wet or slippery.[2]
 
Defendant further argues that it was not its responsibility to supervise
Plaintiff, and it was Plaintiff’s mother’s fault for failing to supervise the
child properly. Defendant relies on cases finding a homeowner has no duty to
supervise a child when the parent is supervising the child, in the context of
liability based on negligent supervision. (Motion at pgs. 6-7.) Here, however,
Plaintiff has not asserted a cause of action for negligent supervision. Rather,
here, Defendant’s argument appears to be not one regarding duty, but that any
breach is not the proximate cause of Plaintiff’s injury because Plaintiff’s
mother’s failure to properly supervise was the cause of injury. (Motion at pg. 6
(“If a condition is open and obvious to a parent, or the parent has been
warned, the parent’s failure to properly supervise their child is the proximate
cause of a subsequent injury.”).)  Defendant’s
evidence consists solely of Lomeli’s deposition testimony that Plaintiff had
never run in a restaurant before, that she had not advised Plaintiff not to run,
and that she was not watching Plaintiff and did not see him until after he
fell. (Lomeli Depo., 34:22-35:1, 34:16-21, 35:2-12.) The Court finds this
evidence is insufficient to meet Defendant’s burden to show that there are no
triable issues of material fact as to causation.
 
Because the Court “may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a
factfinder to determine whose version is more likely true,”[3]
(Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at 840), the Court finds that Plaintiff has
shown that there are triable issues of fact.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
Therefore, Defendant Zheng Mao Huang dba Louisiana Fried Chicken
and China Bowl’s motion for Summary Judgment is DENIED.
 
Defendant shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file proof of
service of such.
 
 


