 Case Number:  21STCV45207    Hearing Date:   November 9, 2023    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


November
  9, 2023




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV45207




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Summary Judgment, or in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant City of Glendale




OPPOSING PARTY:


None



 
MOVING PAPERS
 
1.      Notice of Motion and Motion for Summary
Judgment, or in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication; Memorandum of Points and Authorities;
Declarations and Exhibits in Support thereof
2.      Separate Statement of Undisputed Material Facts
 
OPPOSITION PAPERS
 
1.      None
 
REPLY PAPERS
 
1.      None
 
BACKGROUND
 
On December 10, 2021,
Plaintiff Jason Neil Henkey (Plaintiff) filed a complaint against Defendants
City of Glendale, Cao Son Do, and Does 1 to 50 for premises liability and dangerous
condition of public property. Plaintiff alleges that he tripped on uneven
pavement on a sidewalk in front of 426 Coutin Lane, Glendale, California 91206.

 
Defendant City of Glendale
(Defendant) now moves for summary judgment arguing that no triable issue of material
fact exists as to the dangerous condition of public property cause of action. The
opposition was due October 26, 2023. No opposition has been filed. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
“[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears the burden of persuasion
that there is no triable issue of material fact and that he is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law[.] There is a triable issue of material fact if,
and only if, the evidence would allow a reasonable trier of fact to find the
underlying fact in favor of the party opposing the motion in accordance with
the applicable standard of proof.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)  “[T]he party moving for summary judgment
bears an initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the
nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact; if he carries his burden of
production, he causes a shift, and the opposing party is then subjected to a burden of production of his own to make a prima facie
showing of the existence of a triable issue of material fact.” (Ibid.;
Smith v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 1463, 1474
[summary judgment standards held by Aguilar apply to summary
adjudication motions].)  Further, in line
with Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co., “[o]n a motion for summary
adjudication, the trial court has no discretion to exercise.  If a triable issue of material fact exists as
to the challenged causes of action, the motion must be denied. If there is no triable
issue of fact, the motion must be granted.” (Fisherman's Wharf Bay Cruise
Corp. v. Superior Court (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 309, 320.)
 
“On a summary judgment motion, the
court must therefore consider what inferences favoring the opposing party a
factfinder could reasonably draw from the evidence. While viewing the evidence
in this manner, the court must bear in mind that its primary function is to
identify issues rather than to determine issues.  Only when the inferences are indisputable may
the court decide the issues as a matter of law. If the evidence is in conflict,
the factual issues must be resolved by trial.” (Binder v. Aetna Life Ins. Co.
(1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839 [cleaned up].) 
Further, “the trial court may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a
factfinder to determine whose version is more likely true.  Nor may the trial court grant summary
judgment based on the court's evaluation of credibility.” (Id. at p. 840
[cleaned up]; see also Weiss v. People ex rel. Department of Transportation
(2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for summary judgment or
summary adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must instead view it in the
light most favorable to the opposing party and draw all reasonable inferences
in favor of that party”].)            
 
DISCUSSION
 
Government Code section 835 states:¿“Except as provided by statute, a public entity is
liable for injury caused by a dangerous condition of its property if the
plaintiff establishes that the property was in a dangerous condition at the
time of the injury, that the injury was proximately caused by the dangerous
condition, that the dangerous condition created a reasonably foreseeable risk
of the kind of injury which was incurred, and either:¿ 
 
(a) A
negligent or wrongful act or omission of an employee of the public entity
within the scope of his employment created the dangerous condition; or¿¿ 
 
(b) The
public entity had actual or constructive notice of the dangerous condition
under Section 835.2
a sufficient time prior to the injury to have taken measures to protect against
the dangerous condition.”¿¿ 
 
“The defendant may […] present
evidence that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain,
needed evidence—as through admission by the plaintiff following extensive
discovery to the effect that he has discovered nothing.” (Aguilar v.
Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 855.) “[A] deemed admitted
order establishes, by judicial fiat, that a nonresponding party has responded
to the requests by admitting the truth of all matters contained therein.” (Wilcox
v. Birtwhistle (1999) 21 Cal.4th 973, 979, 90 Cal.Rptr.2d 260, 979; see Lattimore
v. Dickey (2015) 239 Cal.App.4th 959, 971 [affirming summary judgment
because plaintiff was deemed to have admitted that defendant met the applicable
standard of care, and there was no evidence that she attempted to withdraw or
amend the admission].)
 
Defendant asserts that co-defendant
Coa Son Do propounded Requests for Admissions, Set One on Plaintiff that were
unanswered. (UMF 2.) On December 16, 2022, the Court granted Defendant Coa Son
Do’s Motion to have Requests Deemed Admitted. (UMF 2; Min. Order 12/16/22.) The
following fact was deemed admitted:
 
-         
Plaintiff
admits that the curb/sidewalk where he fell did not constitute a dangerous
condition. (UMF 3.) 
 
Here, Defendant has met its burden to establish the absence
of a triable issue of fact. Therefore, the burden shifts to Plaintiff. Since
Plaintiff does not oppose the motion, he has failed to meet his burden. Accordingly,
the Court grants summary judgment in favor of Defendant.[1]
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
            Based on the foregoing, Defendant City
of Glendale’s Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED. Defendant shall file a proposed
judgment within 10 days.
 
            Defendant shall
provide notice of this ruling and file a proof of service of such.
 
 


