 Case Number:  21STCV23528    Hearing Date:   November 9, 2023    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


November
  9, 2023




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV23528




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Leave to File Cross-Complaint 




MOVING PARTY:


Defendants Harrie Cohen and Evan Cohen




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed



 
BACKGROUND
 
            On June 24, 2021, Plaintiff Rabin
Babazadeh (Plaintiff) filed a complaint against Defendants Harrie Cohen, Evan Cohen,
Chuck Hyneman, and Does 1 to 20 for premises liability resulting from a water
leak.    
 
             Defendants Harrie Cohen and Evan Cohen
(Defendants) now move for leave to file a cross-complaint against 118 Clark
Homeowners Association. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
A cross-complaint against any of the parties who filed the
initial complaint or cross-complaint against the cross-complainant must be
filed before or at the same time as the answer to the initial complaint or
cross-complaint, which answer must be filed within 30 days of service of the
complaint or cross-complaint.  (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 412.20(a)(3),
428.50(a), 432.10.)  Any other cross-complaint may be filed at any time
before the court has set a trial date.  (Code Civ. Proc.
§428.50(b).)   
 
If a party fails to file a cross-complaint within the time
limits described above, he or she must obtain permission from the court to file
the cross-complaint.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 426.50, 428.50(c).)  Leave
to file a mandatory cross-complaint must be granted absent bad faith. (Silver
Organizations, Ltd. v. Frank (1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 94, 99.)  Leave to
file a permissive cross-complaint need only be granted in the interest of
justice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 428.50(c).) The
court must grant leave to file the cross-complaint so long as defendant is
acting in good faith.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 426.50.) 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Defendants’ proposed
Cross-Complaint alleges equitable, partial, and total indemnification,
apportionment, contribution, and declaratory relief. Plaintiff alleges that
Defendants, as owners of the subject property, are responsible for a water leak
in Plaintiff’s unit. The leak allegedly originated from a water heater kept in
a storage unit on the roof. Defendants assert that 118 Clark Homeowners
Association is responsible for maintaining the common areas at the premises and
failed to properly seal the storage unit’s floor, thus contributing to
Plaintiff’s damage. Defendants seek to add 118 Clark Homeowners Association in
order to pursue mediation with Plaintiff. Defendants argue that no parties will
be prejudiced since the case is still in the discovery phase. (Motion at pp.
2–3.) Co-defendant Chuck Hyneman has not yet appeared in this case. (Motion at
pp. 5.) Additionally, the proposed cross-complaint falls under the same
occurrence as Plaintiff’s complaint. Trial is currently set for February 23,
2024. 
 
The Court finds that it is in the
interest of justice to grant leave to file the proposed cross-complaint. In
addition, there is no evidence that Defendants have acted in bad faith.
 

CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Accordingly, the Court GRANTS Defendants Harrie Cohen and Evan
Cohen’s motion for leave to file a
cross-complaint. Defendants are
ordered to file and serve their proposed cross-complaint within twenty (20)
days of the date of this Order.
 
Defendants shall provide notice of the Court’s order and file a proof of
service of such.
 