 Case Number:  22STCV10555    Hearing Date:   November 9, 2023    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


November
  9, 2023




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV10555




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Compel Plaintiff’s Deposition




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Roberta Stephens Villas
  Preservation, L.P.




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiff
  Joy White 



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            On March 28, 2022, Plaintiff Joy
White (Plaintiff) filed a complaint against Defendants Roberta Stephens Villas
Preservation, L.P. and Does 1 to 50 for injuries related to a slip and fall.
 
            Defendant
Roberta Stephens Villas Preservation, L.P. (Defendant) now moves to compel
Plaintiff’s deposition. Plaintiff opposes and Defendant replies. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
“If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the
action . . . , without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410,
fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for
inspection any document . . . described in the deposition notice, the party
giving the notice may move for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance
and testimony, and the production for inspection of any document . . .
described in the deposition notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a).) 
 
“A motion
under subdivision (a) [above] shall comply with both of the following: 
 
1. The motion
shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the production for
inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible
thing described in the deposition notice. 
2. The motion
shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040,
or, when the deponent fails to attend the deposition and produce the documents,
electronically stored information, or things described in the deposition
notice, by a declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent
to inquire about the nonappearance.” 
 
(Code Civ.
Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (b).) 
 
If a motion
is granted, the court shall impose a monetary sanction in favor of that party
unless the court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the sanction unjust.
(Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.450 (g).)
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
The Declaration of Clarence E. Ellington III does not indicate that he
contacted Plaintiff’s counsel after the February 16, 2023 deposition to inquire
about the non-appearance. Therefore, it appears the meet and confer requirement
was not met. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Defendant asserts that on January 23, 2023, it noticed Plaintiff’s
deposition set for February 16, 2023. (Ellington Decl. ¶ 3, Exh. A.) On January
23, 2023, Defendant also emailed Plaintiff to provide alternative dates if she
could not attend the deposition. (Id. ¶ 4.) On February 15, 2023, a paralegal
from Plaintiff’s counsel’s office stated Plaintiff would not appear for the
deposition since notice was not provided. On February 16, 2023, Plaintiff did
not appear at the deposition and Defendant obtained a certificate of
non-appearance. (Id. ¶ 6, Exh. D.) 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff asserts that she appeared for deposition on
May 1, 2023. Also, she incorrectly argues that the present motion was filed on
May 22, 2023. The record shows the motion was filed on March 22, 2023. However,
given that Plaintiff has appeared for deposition, the motion to compel is moot.

 
In reply, Defendant now only seeks monetary sanctions. Plaintiff
argues that her counsel did not receive notice of the deposition. (Opp., 3.) Defendant’s
exhibit A shows the notice was served electronically on Plaintiff’s counsel; a
follow-up email was also sent on January 23, 2023. (Ellington Decl., Exh. B.) 
 
Defendant seeks $905.00 in monetary sanctions representing a $195
hourly rate and four hours to prepare this motion, plus the $125 Court Reporter
fee. However, in light of Defendant’s failure to provide a meet and confer
declaration, the Court declines to award monetary sanctions. 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Defendant
Roberta Stephens Villas Preservation, L.P.’s motion to compel Plaintiff’s deposition
is DENIED.  
 
Defendant shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service of such. 
 