 Case Number:  21STCV28754    Hearing Date:   November 9, 2023    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


November
  9, 2023




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV28754




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Dismiss




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Chen Family Trust 




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiff
  Tatyana Ivanova 



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On August 4, 2021, Plaintiff Tatyana Ivanova (Plaintiff) filed a
complaint against Defendants Xavier Ibarra, Chen Family Trust, Co-Trustees Jack
M Chen and Shirley Chen, La Verne-Live Oak Homeowners Association, Inc., and
Does 1 to 10 for strict liability, negligence, and premises liability
surrounding a dog bite. Plaintiff alleges that Xavier Ibarra was the owner of
the subject dog and resided on property owned by Chen Family Trust. (Complaint
¶ 2, 6–7.) 
 
Chen Family Trust (Defendant)[1]
filed the instant motion, in pro per, to dismiss Plaintiff’s complaint. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
As an initial matter, the Court addresses Defendant’s appearance in
this case. 
 
Generally, a trustee or executor who is not a lawyer cannot appear in
pro per in legal proceedings to protect assets of the estate or trust “because
in this capacity such trustee would be representing interests of others and
would therefore be engaged in the unauthorized practice of law.” (Ziegler v. Nickel (1998) 64
Cal.App.4th 545, 548.) However, a trustee who is not a lawyer may represent the
trust in pro per if they are the sole trustee, the trust’s sole creator, and
the beneficiary. (Aulisio v. Bancroft (2014) 230
Cal.App.4th 1516, 1524 [“[A] trustee litigating on behalf of a trust in which
he as the settlor has designated himself the sole beneficiary is not
representing the interests of others. The interest he represents is his
own.”].) 
 
Plaintiff’s
complaint alleges Co-Trustees Jack M Chen and Shirley Chen. This
suggests that the Chen Family Trust (“Trust”) may have more than one trustee.
Additionally, it is unclear if the Trust has additionally beneficiaries. If
either is true, then the Trust must be represented by an attorney in future
proceedings before the Court. It appears Jack Chen signed the motion but did
not indicate that he is a licensed attorney. 
 
Therefore, since Defendant is not represented by counsel, the Court
cannot hear the present motion. Defendant must retain counsel before making
appearances in court.   
 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Therefore, Defendant Chen Family Trust’s motion to dismiss is DENIED. 
 
Defendant shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service of such. 
 


