 Case Number:  20STCV41781    Hearing Date:   November 9, 2023    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


November
  9, 2023




CASE NUMBER:


20STCV41781




MOTIONS:  


Compel
  Plaintiff’s Responses to Form Interrogatories, Set Two and Special
  Interrogatories, Set One.




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant RREEF America REIT II Corp. BBB




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            Defendant RREEF America REIT II
Corp. BBB (Defendant), moves to Compel Plaintiff’s Responses to Form
Interrogatories, Set One and Special Interrogatories, Set One. Plaintiff Louis
Richardson (Plaintiff) has not filed an opposition.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
If a party to whom interrogatories are directed fails to
serve a timely response, the propounding party may move for an order compelling
responses. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.290 (b).) Failure to timely respond waives
all objections, including privilege and work product, unless “[t]he party has
subsequently served a response that is in substantial compliance” and “[t]he
party’s failure to serve a timely response was the result of mistake,
inadvertence, or excusable neglect.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290 (a)(1),
(a)(2).) The statute contains no time limit for a motion to compel where no
responses have been served and no meet and confer is required when a party does
not respond to discovery requests. All that need be shown in the moving papers
is that a set of interrogatories was properly served on the opposing party,
that the time to respond has expired, and that no response of any kind has been
served. (Leach v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 902, 905-906.)  
 
If a motion to compel responses is filed, the Court shall
impose a monetary sanction against the losing party “unless it finds that the
one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., §§
2030.290 (c).) Further, “[t]he court may award sanctions under the Discovery
Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no
opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn,
or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion
was filed.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1348(a).) 
 
DISCUSSION
 
            On January 31, 2023, Defendant
served Plaintiff Form Interrogatories, Set One and Special Interrogatories, Set
One. (Wayne Decl. ¶ 2, Exh. A.) Extensions were granted until May 1, 2023. (Id.
¶ 5.) On July 19, 2023, Plaintiff’s then-counsel was relieved as counsel. (Min.
Order, 7/19/23.) It does not appear Plaintiff has retained new counsel since
then. According to the record, Plaintiff’s former counsel mailed Plaintiff
notice that she was relieved on October 19, 2023. (See Notice of Order Granting
Attorney’s Motion to be Relieved, 10/24/23.) This motion was served on
Plaintiff by mail. Defendant asserts that no responses have been served. (Id.
¶ 8.) Because no responses have been served, the motion to compel is granted. 
 
Defendant does not seek monetary sanctions against Plaintiff at this
time. 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s Motion to Compel Plaintiff’s Responses to
Form Interrogatories, Set One and Special Interrogatories, Set One is GRANTED. 
 
Plaintiff is ordered to serve complete and verified responses, without
objection, to counsel for Defendant, within 30 days of notice of this order.
 
Defendant
to provide notice and file a proof of service of such. 