  Case Number:  23STCP03707    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2023    Dept:  X    Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Joel L. Lofton,
Department X
 
 
HEARING DATE:      October 31, 2023                                            TRIAL
DATE: No date set. 
                                                           
CASE:                         GUARDIANS OF THE
PINES, an unincorporated association, v. CITY OF BURBANK, a municipal
corporation.  
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCP03707
 
            
 
EX
PARTE APPLICATION FOR TEMPORARY RESTRAINING ORDER

 
MOVING PARTY:               Petitioner Guardians of the Pines
 
RESPONDING PARTY:      Respondent
City of Burbank
 
SERVICE:                              Filed October 10, 2023
 
OPPOSITION:                       Filed October 26, 2023
 
REPLY:                                   Filed October 30, 2023
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED 
 
             Petitioner seeks a temporary
restraining order preventing Respondents from taking any action on towards the
Aleppo Pine Tree Reforestation Project. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
             This case arises out of Petitioner Guardian of
the Pines’s (“Petitioner”) claim that Respondent City of Burbank (“Respondent”)
violated the California Environmental Quality Act (“CEQA”) by approving the
Aleppo Pine Tree Reforestation Project. Petitioner filed their petition on
October 9, 2023. 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Petitioner’s
ex parte application for a temporary restraining order is GRANTED in part and
DENIED is part. 
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 526, subdivision
(a), provides: 
An injunction may be granted in the following cases: [¶] (1) When it appears by the complaint that the plaintiff
is entitled to the relief demanded, and the relief, or any part thereof,
consists in restraining the commission or continuance of the act complained of,
either for a limited period or perpetually. [¶] (2) When it
appears by the complaint or affidavits that the commission or continuance of
some act during the litigation would produce waste, or great or irreparable
injury, to a party to the action. [¶] (3) When it appears, during
the litigation, that a party to the action is doing, or threatens, or is about
to do, or is procuring or suffering to be done, some act in violation of the
rights of another party to the action respecting the subject of the action, and
tending to render the judgment ineffectual. [¶] (4) When
pecuniary compensation would not afford adequate relief. [¶] (5) Where it
would be extremely difficult to ascertain the amount of compensation which
would afford adequate relief. [¶] (6) Where the restraint is
necessary to prevent a multiplicity of judicial proceedings. [¶] (7) Where the obligation arises from a trust.
DISCUSSION
 
            Petitioner moves for a preliminary
injunction prohibiting Respondent from taking any actions towards implementing
the Project, including removal of any Aleppo Pine Trees. Petitioner must show
that (1) it is likely to succeed at trial on its cause of action for violation
of CEQA and (2) the balance of harms favors issuance of a preliminary
injunction. 
 
A.   
Mootness
 
            First,
the City argues that Petitioner’s request to prevent the City from removing the
three identified Aleppo Pines is moot. The City puts forward evidence that,
following the Court’s denial of the TRO with respect to these three trees, the City
completed the removal of the three identified Aleppo Pines. (Garcia Decl. ¶ 6.)

 
            The
Court agrees that Petitioner’s request is moot as to Petitioner’s request to
halt the removal of the three identified Aleppo Pines. However, Petitioner’s
request that the City be prevented from further implementing the Project and removing
the remaining Aleppo Pines is not moot.  The
Court proceeds to analyze Petitioner and City’s arguments with respect to the
remaining implementation of the Project. 
 
B.    
Ripeness 
 
            Next,
the City argues that the issue is not ripe because the City has not approved
the removal of any other Aleppo Pines besides the three identified Aleppo
Pines. 
 
            A
controversy is “ripe” if there is an “actual controversy” in which definitive
and conclusive relief can be granted, as opposed to an advisory opinion upon a
particular or hypothetical state of facts. (Selby Realty Co. v. City of
Buenaventura (1973) 10 Cal.3d 110, 118.) Ripeness “should not prevent
courts from resolving concrete disputes if the consequence of a deferred
decision will be lingering uncertainty in the law, especially when there is
widespread public interest in the answer to a particular legal question.” (Pacific
Legal Foundation v. California Coastal Commission (1982) 33 Cal.3d 158,
170.)  
 
            Here, City
puts forward the declaration of Maria Garcia, the Park, Recreation, and
Community Services Director for City. Ms. Garcia states that the City has not
approved the removal of any Aleppo Pines other than the three identified Aleppo
Pines that have already been removed. (Garcia Decl., ¶ 7.)  Ms. Garcia states that the City is continuing
to study the remaining 119 Aleppo Pines on a City-wide basis and is conducting
public outreach to residents. (Garcia Decl., ¶ 7.) Ms. Garcia states that the
City will not remove any Aleppo Pines until it finishes the level of
environmental review required under CEQA. (Garcia Decl., ¶ 7.) Ms. Garcia
states that the City has not approved an “Aleppo Pine Tree Reforestation
Project.” (Garcia Decl., ¶ 7.)
 
            The Petitioner,
however, as stating in their moving papers are not so sure as to the City’s ‘actual
commitment to the project’.  Petitioner
puts forward evidence of a September 18, 2023 Staff Report that states that the
City’s experts “identified approximately 125 Aleppo Pine trees that have likely
reached their mature life, and for which there may now be greater value in removing
and replanting in a phased approach.” (Mackinnon Decl. Ex. B, p. 2.) The Report
further states, “The Reforestation Strategy of the Aleppo Pine trees was
presented to the City Council and approved during the Fiscal Year 2023-24
Budget Process.” (Mackinnon Decl. Ex. B, p. 2.) Further, the report states “In
early July 2023, staff proceeded to begin executing the Strategy to remove and
replace 121 trees without adequately informing and engaging the impacted
residents.” (Mackinnon Decl. Ex. B, p. 2.) Additionally, the report states, “Staff
has reconsidered the timeline of the removals and is planning to strategically
remove and replace the trees in a multi-year phased approach.” (Mackinnon Decl.
Ex. B, p. 2.) 
 
            Petitioner
also puts forward the Arborist report in which the Arborist recommends that 119
specific Aleppo Pines be removed. The three identified Aleppo Pines are marked
“Urgent” and recommended to be removed as soon as possible due to the imminent
dangers they pose to the residential area. (Mackinnon Decl. Ex. B, Attachment
1, p. 2.)  Petitioner also puts forward
additional evidence that the City delivered notices to residents stating that
“the City will be removing Aleppo Pine trees on your block. This work is
anticipated to commence in August 2023 with an anticipated completion date of
July 2024. (Supp. MacKinnon Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. E.) The supplemental evidence
additionally shows that another notice was served on August 21, 2023, which
states that “the City’s arboriculture experts determined that 121 Aleppo Pines
have reached their mature life, and there is now greater value in replanting
new trees as there are no alternative solutions.” (Supp. MacKinnon Decl., ¶ 4,
Ex. F.)
 
            The
issue is ripe. There is an actual controversy as to whether the City’s approval
of the “Reforestation Strategy of the Aleppo Pines” violated CEQA. Although the
City argues that it has not approved removal of additional Aleppo Pines, its
Staff Report admits that the City Council approved of the Reforestation
Strategy which plans to remove and replant 119 Aleppo Pines in a multi-year
phased approach. An “approval” occurs when an agency commits itself to a
“definite course of action in regard to a project.” (Guidelines § 15352(a).)
Courts look to the terms of the agreement and to the surrounding circumstances
to determine whether the agency has committed itself to the project so as to
effectively preclude any alternatives or mitigation measures that CEQA would
otherwise require to be considered. (Save Tara v. City of West Hollywood
(2008) 45 Cal.4th 116, 139.) 
 
            Here,
the evidence shows that the City made decisions to approve this Reforestation
Strategy which plans to remove and replant the Aleppo Pines without undergoing
any CEQA review. The plan specifies 119 specific Aleppo Pines to be removed
over a multi-year period. Considering the specifics of the Reforestation
Strategy, and the circumstances surrounding it, the evidence shows that the
City has committed itself to this Reforestation Strategy so as to effectively
preclude any alternatives. Significantly, the City has already begun
implementing this plan, as evidenced by the City’s removal of the three
identified Aleppo Pines. (Garcia Decl., ¶ 6.) The City’s argument that this
issue is not ripe is contradicted by their actions that show that the City has
been removing these Aleppo Pines and delivering notices pursuant to this
Reforestation Strategy. 
 
            As there
is a concrete dispute about whether the City’s approval of this Reforestation
Strategy violated CEQA, the issue is ripe. Further, the declarations of the
community members submitted by Petitioner show that there is a significant
public interest in this controversy which further indicates that the Court
should not defer decision on this matter. (See Pacific Legal, supra, 33
Cal.3d at 170.)   
 
C.   
Likelihood of
Succeeding on the Merits 
 
In the sole cause of action in the
Petition, Petitioner alleges that the City violated CEQA by failing to conduct
a preliminary review prior to implementing the Project. (Pet., ¶¶ 29-33.) Petitioner
additionally argues that the approval of this Reforestation strategy is not
exempt from CEQA. (Pet., ¶ 34-51.) 
 
CEQA Legal Standard 
 
“CEQA is a comprehensive scheme
designed to provide long-term protection to the environment.”  (Mt.
Lion Found. v. Fish & Game Com. (1997) 16 Cal.4th 105, 112.)  “In
enacting CEQA, the Legislature declared its intention that all public agencies
responsible for regulating activities affecting the environment give prime
consideration to preventing environmental damage when carrying out their
duties.”  (Ibid.)  “CEQA is to be interpreted to afford the
fullest possible protection to the environment within the reasonable scope of
the statutory language.”  (Ibid.) 
 
            The
CEQA Guidelines¿establish a three-tier process to ensure that public agencies
inform their decisions with environmental considerations. (Muzzy Ranch Co.
v. Solano County Airport Land Use Com’n (2007) 41 Cal.4th 372,
379-80.)  The first tier is jurisdictional, requiring that an agency
conduct a preliminary review to determine whether an activity is subject to
CEQA.  (CEQA Guidelines, § 15060; see¿Pub. Resources Code, § 21065.).” 
(Id. at 380.) 
 
            “The
second tier concerns exemptions from CEQA review.”  (Ibid.) 
“CEQA does not apply to projects that are statutorily or categorically
exempt.  (CEQA Guidelines, § 15061, subd. (b).)”  (San Lorenzo
Valley Community Advocates for Responsible Education v. San Lorenzo Valley
Unified School Distrct (2006) 139 Cal.App.4th 1356, 1380.) 
 
            “If
a public agency properly finds that a project is exempt from CEQA, no¿further
environmental review is necessary.”  (Muzzy Ranch, supra, 41
Cal.4th at 380.)  “The agency need only prepare and file a notice of
exemption (see CEQA Guidelines,¿§§ 15061, subd. (d),¿15062, subd. (a)), citing
the relevant statute or section of the CEQA Guidelines and including a brief
statement of reasons to support the finding of an exemption (id.,¿§ 15062,
subd. (a)(4)).”  (Ibid.)  “If a project does not fall within
an exemption, the agency must ‘conduct an initial study to determine if the
project may have a significant effect on the environment.  (Id.,¿§ 15063,
subd. (a).).”  (Ibid.)  “If there exists ‘no substantial
evidence that the project or any of its aspects may cause a significant effect
on the environment’ (id.,¿§ 15063, subd. (b)(2)), the agency must prepare a
‘negative declaration’ that briefly describes the reasons supporting its
determination (see¿id.,¿§ 15070 et seq.).”  (Id. at 380-81.) 
 
            “CEQA's
third tier applies if the agency determines substantial evidence exists that an
aspect of the project may cause a significant effect on the environment. 
In that event, the agency must ensure that a full environmental impact report
is prepared on the proposed project. (CEQA Guidelines, § 15063, subd. (b)(1);
see also¿Pub. Resources Code, §§ 21100,¿21151; CEQA Guidelines, § 15080 et
seq.).”  (Id. at 381.) 
 
            Application

 
Petitioner must show a likelihood of
succeeding on the merits of its CEQA action such that a preliminary injunction
would result if Petitioner is successful in this case.  First, the Petitioner argues that there is no
evidence that the City conducted a preliminary review to determine whether the Project
was subject to CEQA before implementation of the Project. 
 
CEQA Guidelines § 15060 states that “a
lead agency must first determine whether an activity is subject to CEQA before
conducting an initial study.” An activity is not subject to CEQA if the
activity does not involve a discretionary agency action, the activity will not
result in a direct or reasonably foreseeable indirect physical change in the
environment, or the activity is not a “project.” (Guidelines § 15060(c).) A
“project” is the whole of an action which has a potential for resulting in
either a direct or indirect physical change in the environment, and that is
either an activity directly undertaken by an agency, assisted by an agency, or
involves the issuance of an entitlement by an agency. (Guidelines § 15378.)
 
Petitioner argues that the Reforestation
Strategy is a “project” subject to CEQA and thus should have undergone a
preliminary review where the City determined if the Reforestation Strategy was
subject to CEQA. Petitioner argues that the Project will result in some direct
physical changes in the environment because over 100 mature trees will be
removed as part of the Reforestation Strategy. Petitioner puts forward the
declaration of arborists who state that the environmental impact of removing
the trees will be great because the replacement tree species approved by the
city are smaller and would never replace the amount of greenery, shade, and
wildlife habitat provided by the Aleppo Pines. (Mellinger Decl., ¶ 12.) Further,
the large diameter of the canopy of the Aleppo Pines will reduce the benefits
of shade, stormwater interception, air quality improvements, energy
conservation, and carbon sequestration. (Mann Decl., ¶ 11.) These experts opine
that the time to restore the canopy will be at least 20 to 30 years. (Mann
Decl., ¶ 11.) 
 
The evidence shows that this
Reforestation Strategy was approved by the City, is being undertaken by the
City, and that there will be an environmental impact. The City does not put
forward any evidence showing that this is not a “project” subject to CEQA. Nor
does the City put forward any evidence that it conducted a preliminary review
and determined that the “Reforestation Strategy” was not subject to CEQA. 
 
Although the City puts forward evidence
of its Notice of Exemption as to the three identified Aleppo Pines, (Garcia
Decl., Ex. C), this does not show that the City complied with CEQA as to its
approval of the whole Reforestation Strategy. There is no Notice of Exemption
with respect to the approval of the whole plan to remove and replant the
remaining Aleppo Pines.  
 
A “project” under CEQA is the “whole
of the action.” (Guidelines § 15378.) An agency must consider the environmental
impacts of the whole action before it and not some of its constituent parts.
(Guidelines § 15003(h).) “The term ‘project’ refers to the activity which is
being approved and which may be subject to several discretionary approvals by
governmental agencies. The term ‘project’ does not mean each separate
governmental approval. [¶]… Where the lead agency could describe the project as
either the adoption of a particular regulation … or as a development proposal
which will be subject to several governmental approvals … the lead agency shall
describe the project as the development proposal for the purpose of
environmental analysis. (Citizens Association for Sensible Development of
Bishop Area v. County of Inyo (1985) 172 Cal.App.3d 151, 165 [citing CEQA
Guidelines § 15378(c)-(d)].) 
 
Applying this law to the facts at
hand, the City’s Restoration Strategy is the “project” subject to CEQA.
Although the City may need to approve the removal of each individual Aleppo
Pine, under CEQA, the “project” is the whole Restoration Strategy and the City
is required to comply with CEQA as to the whole Restoration Strategy. 
 
An agency is required to comply with
CEQA and environmental review before approving a project.  (See Laurel Heights Improvements Ass’n v.
Regents of University of California (1988) 47 Cal.3d 376, 394.) 
 
Because Petitioner offers evidence
that the City did not conduct a preliminary review to determine whether the
Reforestation Strategy is subject to CEQA before implementing the Reforestation
Strategy, and the City does not offer evidence to prove that it did conduct
this preliminary review, the Court finds that Petitioner has shown a likelihood
of success with respect to its cause of action for violation of CEQA. 
 
            Categorical
Exemptions
 
            Petitioner
additionally puts forward evidence that the Project is not exempt from CEQA
pursuant to the “emergency exemption.” The City filed a Notice of Exemption on
October 10, 2023 for removal of the three identified Aleppo Pines pursuant to
the “emergency exemption” of CEQA. 
            The
emergency exemption applies when there is “a sudden, unexpected occurrence,
involving a clear and imminent danger, demanding immediate action to prevent or
mitigate loss of, or damage to, life, health, property, or essential public
services.” (Pub. Res. Code § 21060.3.) Emergencies are limited to “occurrences”
not a condition. (Western Municipal Water District (1986) 187 Cal.App.3d
1104, 1111.) “The theory behind these exemptions is that if a project arises
for which the lead agency simply cannot complete the requisite paperwork within
the time constraints of CEQA, then pursing the project without complying with
the EIR requirement is justifiable.”  (Ibid.)
 
 
            Here,
Petitioner puts forward evidence that there is no sudden, unexpected occurrence
that triggered the emergency exception because representatives have known about
the condition of the trees since 2018. (MacKinnon Decl., ¶ 25.) Petitioner puts
forward the declarations of the two arborists who both state that the scope of
the City’s arborist’s review was skewed to favor removals and that there was
little consideration of pruning or other mitigation options. (Mann Decl., ¶ 8.)
These experts opined that failure was not “imminent” for any of these trees,
including the three identified Aleppo Pines. (Mellinger ¶ 11.) 
 
            The City
has not put forward evidence of any “sudden, unexpected occurrence” involving
an imminent danger regarding the remaining Aleppo Pines.  The City does not point to any imminent
disaster that would have caused these trees to fall and create damage before
the City would be able to conduct environmental review. 
 
            As such,
Petitioner has also shown a likelihood of success with respect to the emergency
exception asserted in the City’s Notice of Exemption filed on October 10, 2023.
Because Petitioner has put forward evidence that shows a likelihood of success
as to whether the Project qualified for an exemption, this shows that it was
likely that the City was required to conduct an initial study to determine
whether the Project might have a significant effect on the environment.
(Guidelines § 15070(a).) The City has not done so. As such, the Court finds
that Petitioner has shown a likelihood of success on the merits. 
 
D.     
Balance of Harms 
 
            Petitioner
puts forward evidence that Petitioner will suffer irreparable harm from the
loss of shade, the exacerbation of the heat island effect, and from enjoyment
of mature trees in the urban area. 
 
            The
Court finds that there will be irreparable harm without this injunction. If the
City is permitted to continue removing and replacing these trees, there will be
no adequate relief provided to Petitioner. (See e.g., Hixon v. County of Los
Angeles (1974) 38 Cal.App.3d 370, 378 [finding that a CEQA challenge is
moot when the project ended by cutting down all the trees].) Further, the
declarations of the experts show that the replacement trees will not provide
the same benefits as the Aleppo Pines and the replacement trees will take
decades to mature. (See Mellinger Decl., ¶ 12; Mann Decl., ¶ 11.) Further, the
City has shown that, without an injunction, it can and will remove the Aleppo
Pines, as evidenced by its removal of the three identified Aleppo Pines
following the TRO hearing. (Garcia Decl., ¶ 6.) 
 
On the other hand, the evidence shows
that the City will not suffer harm before the case is decided on the merits.
The evidence shows that only the three identified Aleppo Pines were labeled
“Urgent” by the City’s arborist. (Garcia Decl., Ex. B.) These trees have
already been removed, so the City cannot show that irreparable harm will occur
if the City is not permitted to remove these trees. (Garcia Decl., ¶ 6.)  The remaining trees are labeled with
lower-risk scores and recommended to be removed either “before severe weather
seasons” or within the next couple of years. (Garcia Decl., Ex. B.) 
 
The City argues that the injunction
would prevent the City from undertaking the level of environmental review
required for such a project under CEQA, (Garcia Decl., ¶ 8), and that the City
will not approve the removal of any Aleppo Pines without undergoing CEQA
review. (Garcia Decl., ¶ 7.) These statements support the granting of the
injunction of removing existing trees.  As
such, the City will not be harmed if the injunction is granted because its
claimed actions will not change.  
 
 
 
CONCLUSION
 
            Petitioner’s motion for a preliminary
injunction is GRANTED in part.  The City
is prevented from further removal of the subject Aleppo Pines
pursuant to the City’s Reforestation Strategy until further order from this
court. 
 
            The court additionally sets this
matter for a trial setting conference on December12, 2023 at 1:30 pm.
 
 
 
 
            
 
Dated:   October 31,
2023                                           ___________________________________
                                                                                    Joel
L. Lofton
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court




Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an
email to the court indicating their 
intention to submit.  alhdeptx@lacourt.org
