 Case Number:  22SMCV00598    Hearing Date:   September 13, 2024    Dept:  I Once again, this case presents a fascinating legal question,
although the manner in which the issue arose might not have so suggested.  A (very) brief thumbnail sketch of the
underlying facts is appropriate. 
Plaintiffs are production companies and produced the very-successful
series House of Cards.  This is
the American version—there is an unrelated British version spanning four
episodes and airing in the 1990’s that also follows political intrigue in the
upper reaches of government but in the United Kingdom.  The central character in House of Cards
is Frank Underwood, portrayed by Kevin Spacey. 
The series ultimately ran for six seasons.  Season six, the final season, was written and
in the process of filming when accusations against Spacey began coming to
light.  The accusations were of
inappropriate sexual behavior by Spacey directed to other actors or people
associated with projects in which he was involved.  Initially, the accusations were outside of House
of Cards, but later came to include the series.  Spacey denied the allegations but did go to
an inpatient center.  (Spacey was
acquitted of criminal charges in Great Britain related to these allegations.)  There is some debate about the precise
timeline and reasons for various decisions, but ultimately plaintiffs
terminated Spacey from House of Cards and wrote him out of the sixth
season.  The sixth season was rewritten
with fewer episodes and without Frank Underwood.  The allegation is that Spacey’s exit from the
project was a financial catastrophe.  Plaintiffs
sued Spacey and the matter was arbitrated. 
Plaintiffs won a substantial award against Spacey in that
proceeding.  The award was confirmed by
the Superior Court and was pending on appeal. 
Plaintiffs also made a claim against their carriers, Certain
Underwriter’s at Lloyds (Lloyds) and Fireman’s Fund Insurance Company
(FFIC).  After a series of hearings,
Lloyds was dismissed on demurrer, as the court found that the specific language
in the Lloyds policy would not support a claim by plaintiffs.  The dismissal is now on appeal.  However, in the same order, the court
sustained FFIC’s demurrer, but with leave to amend.  The court gave plaintiffs a relatively narrow
window by which they might be able to allege a cause of action consistent with
a potential reading of the policy, at least in the court’s view.  That led to a major shift.  Prior to that time, at least insofar as the
court can tell, plaintiffs and Spacey were not cooperating.  It is not that they were necessarily hostile
in this case (although plainly they were adverse in the arbitration); but
neither were they fully cooperating with one another.  However, perhaps as a result of the court’s
order in that demurrer ruling, things changed. 
Plaintiffs and Spacey reached an accord on the arbitration proceeding in
return for which Spacey has agreed to cooperate fully with plaintiffs.  That means that Spacey has agreed to provide
testimonial evidence and medical evidence that might not have been otherwise
available.  As a result of that
cooperation, the allegations in the next version of the complaint (which is the
operative version now) passed demurrer. 
The matter therefore started proceeding on the merits.
 
Of course, the next major step is discovery.  Here, plaintiffs sought FFIC’s files, as is
hardly surprising.  FFIC produced many
documents, but did not produce documents from or to its counsel, Leon
Gladstone.  Gladstone, FFIC asserts, was
retained by it when it perceived that there would be coverage issues in the
case—an observation that certainly proved accurate.  FFIC also retained a claims adjuster,
Leedecke.  FFIC is not claiming privilege
over Leedecke’s work—at least not directly—or FFIC’s own work—again, at least
not directly.  FFIC did not produce a
detailed privilege log relating to Gladstone based on an earlier stipulation
that documents to or from counsel would be presumptively privileged.  But, while FFIC is not claiming privilege
over Leedecke’s or its own work directly, much of that work is tied closely to
work that Gladstone did.  Therefore,
there are many documents that involve Leedecke, for example, that were not
produced on the basis that they reflected work or advice done or given by Gladstone
or were in aid of that work.  And that
led to the motion to compel by plaintiffs that is now before the court.
 
Initially, plaintiffs suggested that the court would have to
determine if the purpose of each communication was such that it would be
covered by the privilege or the work product doctrine.  (Attorney work product is not a privilege—it
is a doctrine.  It is not found in the
Evidence Code, it is found in the Code of Civil Procedure.  And that is because the two rules serve
different goals.  The attorney client
privilege is designed to ensure full, frank, and honest communications between
lawyers and clients.  Accordingly, absent
a few exceptions, such communications are not discoverable and cannot be used
at trial or anywhere else.  The work
product doctrine is designed to protect an attorney’s work, in large measure so
that the other side cannot leech off of it through discovery and avoid doing
its own work or unfairly peer into opposing counsel’s internal analysis.  Accordingly, an attorney’s mental impressions
are absolutely protected.  Other
information generated by an attorney is qualifiedly protected—it can be
discovered if a proper showing is made.) 
Plaintiffs rely at least in part of 2,022 Ranch v. Superior Court
(2003) 113 Cal.App.4th 1377, a case that was disapproved by our Supreme Court
in Costco Wholesale Corp. v. Superior Court (2009) 47 Cal.4th 725.  Although the parties dispute the extent to
which 2,022 Ranch remains good law, none dispute that Costco is
good law.  Under Costco, the court
must look to the dominant purpose of the retention of counsel to determine if a
privilege applies, at least as a prima facie matter.  The court agrees with FFIC that the court
need not look communication by communication at this initial stage.  However, even if the dominant purpose of the
retention is to give legal advice (as opposed to, say, business advice), that
does not end the inquiry.  Even if giving
legal advice is the dominant purpose, a communication can be made outside of
that dominant purpose and thus not be privileged.  There are other exceptions, too.  For example, if a client appends a document
to a communication with counsel, the communication might well be privileged but
that does not make the attached document privileged.  If the document is otherwise discoverable, it
remains discoverable.
 
Plaintiffs here suggest that Gladstone was not retained to
give legal advice; rather, they assert, he was retained to give adjusting
advice—something that is a routine function of an insurer and is not
privileged.  FFIC counters by saying that
such is not the case.  Rather, FFIC
contends, Leedecke was retained as the adjustor, not Gladstone.  The court agrees with FFIC here.  There is evidence in the form of declarations
from FFIC’s Ian Galloway (who hired Gladstone) and Gladstone that state that
Gladstone was retained to give legal advice. 
And this is a case where legal advice made sense.  The day the claim was made by plaintiffs, the
claim had litigation written all over it. 
The potential loss was in the eight figure range—that’s a lot of money,
even for the Industry and even for insurance companies.  The facts surrounding the case were high
profile—they were likely to garner attention. 
The claim was atypical in that Spacey was (for obvious reasons) not
cooperating nor making his medical files available.  And the alleged illness—which is what
plaintiffs contend triggered coverage—is not a physical ailment like cancer or
a broken bone; it is psychologic, meaning that the medical records are not
coming from an oncologist but rather from a psychologist or psychiatrist or
other sort of mental health professional—an area in which one expects it to be
hard to delve.  And, as this court found
out as it struggled with the demurrers, the ultimate decision was not so cut
and dried that the advice of counsel was an unneeded luxury or likely a mere
afterthought.  In short, the court
believes that there was good reason to retain counsel to advise on the law
here, and the court therefore credits the general notion that Gladstone provided
that advice.
 
So that answers at least a little bit of the question.  Gladstone’s communications with FFIC and
likely Leedecke would at least have a presumption of privilege.  On the other hand, Leedecke’s own work, even
to the extent it was communicated to Gladstone, would not be privileged per
se.  The actual communication itself
might be privileged, but the underlying work generally would not be.  If FFIC is going to rely on the notion that
Gladstone was not an adjuster because Leedecke is the adjuster, then it cannot
shield Leedecke’s work even if that work was communicated to Gladstone.  The communication of unprivileged information
does not make the unprivileged information privileged.  Further, under some circumstances
communications between lawyer and client may not be privileged, even if the
dominant purpose of the representation is to provide legal advice.  Rather, the communications must “bear some
relationship to the attorney’s provision of legal consultation.”  (Los Angeles County Board of Supervisors
v. Superior Court (2016) 2 Cal.5th 282, 293-294.)  In other words, at least as the court reads
the law, FFIC has created a presumption that the privilege applies to
communications limited to FFIC and Gladstone and maybe communications between
Leedecke and Gladstone, but that presumption can be overcome where the
particular communication is not a part of the legal consultation.  That showing is, of course, not easy to
make.  But given that it is plaintiffs’
burden to make the showing, the court does believe that a detailed privilege
log is appropriate, notwithstanding the earlier agreement.  The court believes that the agreement was
made before plaintiffs realized just how broad the privilege assertion would
be, and the court believes it is remarkably unfair for FFIC to rely on the Costco
presumption and then deprive plaintiffs with any means of overcoming the
presumption.  The court will order a
detailed privilege log to be provided. 
That is especially so given that the court cannot review the
communications in camera to ascertain whether they are privileged.  Indeed, in camera review was one of
the principal grounds upon which the Costo Court disapproved 2,022
Ranch.  The court also notes that
communications between Gladstone and Leedecke are not so clear cut.  FFIC is the client; Leedecke is not.  Gladstone’s communications with Leedecke are,
therefore, more indirectly privileged. 
If Leedecke was relying on legal advice from Gladstone to fulfill his
duty as the adjuster, that likely would fall within the privilege, but that is
a second-step showing that will have to be made.  
 
Even that does not answer the question fully, though.  For there are gray areas.  That is hardly surprising.  This is the law—even black letter rules have
gray in them.  For example, and the court
is not saying this is the case, consider this thought experiment.  FFIC hires Gladstone to give legal advice and
hires Leedecke to do the adjusting.  But
Leedecke does nothing.  Instead,
Leedecke’s view is that the adjusting will depend entirely on Gladstone’s legal
analysis of the contract based on a factual investigation that Gladstone is
doing in order to provide that advice. 
So Leedecke sits back and waits. 
Leedecke gets a communication from Gladstone, and then writes to FFIC
and states that the claim should be adjusted to zero based on nothing
else.  The court would be troubled by
saying that the entire adjustment decision is really a legal opinion from
Gladstone and therefore entirely privileged. 
Of course, there are countervailing issues.  Imagine the trial: “Q: So, Mr. Leedecke, will
you tell us about the work you did to reach your conclusion that the claim
should be adjusted to zero?  A: No.  Q: But you did adjust it to zero?  A: Yes. 
Q: Why?  A: I won’t tell
you.”  It might be worth it for the
plaintiffs to accept the privilege assertion just to get that dialogue before
the jury.  Of course, Leedecke might say
“Advice of counsel” in response (as opposed to “No”), but that is hardly any
better, as it would be too late to waive the privilege then.  And the court does advise FFIC that a
privilege assertion now, if upheld, will bind FFIC through trial.  Of course, the foregoing thought experiment
does not comport with reality.  Leedecke
is not going to say he did nothing, and in fact, he did not do nothing.  The problem is, according to plaintiffs, he
did not do a lot, and much of the actual work upon which he relied was done by
Gladstone and the privilege is being asserted over it.
 
Which brings us to the next point: Gladstone’s work.  In the course of Gladstone’s work, one would
assume that he spoke to many people who were not the client (or retained by
FFIC, like Leedecke).  In fact, we know
as much.  He spoke with representatives
from plaintiffs.  He spoke to people
associated with Spacey.  Likely, he spoke
to a number of medical professionals. 
None of that is privileged, or at least much of it would not be.  (There might be a gray area—again—regarding
doctors not associated with any third party who might have been consulted
essentially to give Gladstone expert advice.) 
Those conversations are not privileged. 
A privileged conversation is one that is solely between the attorney and
the client alone other than third parties who are present to further the
interest of the client or those to whom disclosure is reasonably necessary for
the transmission of the information or the accomplishment of the purpose for
which the lawyer is hired.  (Ev. Code
sec. 952.)  A conversation with plaintiffs’
counsel or anyone associated with plaintiffs does not really fit that bill, and
it would seem, at least at first blush, that much of the investigation done
that included third party communications might not either.  Similarly, a conversation with Spacey’s team
would seem to be outside of the privilege. 
But that, of course, is where the attorney work product doctrine comes
in.  Those communications, or memos about
them, might well fall within that doctrine. 
However, a document protected only by work product might well be subject
to an in camera review.  And there
is also a question whether it would be usable at trial if not turned over in
discovery (the court thinks not). 
Further, unless it is attorney impressions, it is only qualifiedly
confidential; the doctrine can be overcome on a proper showing.  The parties did not really parse out these
two doctrines—likely due to page limits. 
(The court does not mean to be critical. 
Quite the contrary.  The general
quality of legal work here is quite high.) 
This aspect might well be illuminated by the log, which will set forth
whether the document is being withheld on privilege or work product (something
that requires thought, not just “yes to both” repeated in every row.)  It will also set forth all recipients of the
communication or document, who created it, and a general description of what it
is (general enough so as not to waive the privilege or work product but
specific enough to allow plaintiffs and the court to know whether it ought to
be produced), and the date it was created.
 
The court also needs to have a better idea where FFIC is
drawing the line and where plaintiffs believe FFIC drew it.  To hear plaintiffs tell the tale, FFIC
withheld any document where some of the letters in the document could be
rearranged to form the word “privilege”; to hear FFIC tell the tale, only
documents that were directly tied to the legal question Gladstone as asked to
opine upon were withheld.  The court
apologizes in advance for not having a better feel for it without the need for
further help, although in the court’s defense there are over 400 pages
associated with this motion.
 
The court’s view at this point is as follows: (1) to order
FFIC to produce a detailed privilege log along the lines discussed above; (2)
to have the parties engage in additional meet and confer given the court’s
thoughts as set forth above; and (3) to set a conference in the near term to
decide how best to proceed.  At that
point, it ought to be plain whether the parties will be able to work to find a
solution, the parties want to engage in an IDC, or the matter needs to be
resolved by formal motion and a briefing schedule ought to be set.  The court will, of course, hear argument on
this issue, but the court is pretty well of the view that this is the best path
forward.