  Case Number:  18STCV09595    Hearing Date:   September 13, 2024    Dept:  I The court thinks that there may be a misunderstanding
between court and counsel.  The prior
proposed default judgments were rejected because the court needed to be sure of
certain things, such as the life plan. 
For example, the evidence here is from a nurse who testified that about
consulting with treating physicians and other experts and that conclusions were
reached based on what those others said. 
Based on those communications—which are not before the court—the witness
came up with the plan and the costs.  The
plan uses CPT codes, which the witness states are what is used nationally and
almost universally.  But the codes
describe the type of treatment, not the cost. 
The witness then determined the cost from a number of sources, although
the witness does not say which sources were pertinent here or how that analysis
occurred.  Frankly, that sounds like an
opinion based almost entirely upon hearsay, and the court still does not have
an understanding as to whether the amounts used are discounted or
undiscounted.  In other words, if
“reasonable and customary” means the amounts that are typically charged and
actually paid by the patient, that is one thing.  If it is the amount charged by the provider
without regard to whether there is or will be a discount, that is another
thing.  The court also does not know
whether the amounts are discounted to present value and, if not, why not.  The court is also concerned about the amount
of emotional and other non-monetary damages here.  The court also needs to understand why the
medical bills are being submitted without including any adjustments that were
made to the bill.  If that is because the
bills were paid in full and all that is meant is that plaintiffs did not mark
them up, then that is (of course) fine. 
But if it means that a downward adjustment was made by the medical
provider but that is not reflected, it is not permissible.  
 
In short, while the court agrees that damages in the
foregoing categories are appropriate, the amounts are quite high and warrant a
prove-up hearing.  Plaintiffs seem to
continue to submit default judgments in written form to the court for
approval.  The court will need to discuss
this with counsel.  So the court will
take this opportunity to go through the proposed judgment and let counsel know
where additional information is needed and whether the court will be satisfied
with documentary evidence or declaration as opposed to live testimony.  If live testimony is needed, the court will,
in consultation with counsel, set the date.
 
The court is aware that this is unusual for a default
judgment proceeding.  But these two
judgments total about $11 million.  While
the court has its doubts as to collectability, at numbers like this it is worth
a bit of care  before entering the
judgment.  The court also hates to say
it, but the court does need to be sure that the statement of damages and the
proposed judgment line up.  Related to
that, the Statements of Damages were served on October 25, 2023.  The defaults were entered on November 14, 2023.  The court wants to be sure that service was
proper and also that there was sufficient time between service of the
Statements of Damages and the entry of default.