 Case Number:  23BBCV00397    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2024    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
kevin
  hudson, jr.,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
valentin
  bazeekian, et al.,
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.: 
  23BBCV00397
 
  Hearing Date:  September 26, 2024
 
  [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
motion to file first amended
  cross-complaint   



 
NOTICE:
The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.  
 
Notice
may be given either by email at BurDeptB@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818)
260-8422.
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations
Plaintiff Kevin Hudson, Jr. (“Plaintiff”)
alleges that he is the biological son of Decedent Kevin Hudson, Sr.
(“Decedent”), who died in a vehicular collision on December 2, 2021.  Plaintiff alleges that on December 2, 2021 at
around 5:00 a.m., Defendant Valentin Bazeekian (“Bazeekian”) was operating a
2007 Lexus RX400H vehicle southbound on the #1 lane on the Interstate 5 Freeway
in Los Angeles County.  He alleges that Decedent
was operating his 2021 Mazda CX-30 vehicle southbound on the #1 lane on the
Interstate 5 Freeway just prior to and at the time of the incident.  Plaintiff alleges that a vehicle owned by
Defendant Security Paving Company, Inc. (“Security”), operated by Defendant
Mario Rene Cruz Zeleda (“Zeleda”), under the supervision of Defendant
California Department of Transportation (“Caltrans”) was driving in the #1 lane
at 5mph working alongside its workers to pick up and/or work on signs within
the center median.  Plaintiff alleges
that just prior to the accident, Decedent slowed his vehicle behind the
construction vehicle as he prepared to maneuver around it, but Bazeekian failed
to slow down or otherwise perceive the 2 vehicles in front of her and caused a
collision with Decedent’s vehicle. 
Plaintiff alleges that as a result of Bazeekian’s negligent operation of
her vehicle, she rear-ended Decedent’s vehicle, causing a significant motor
vehicle collision.  Plaintiff alleges
that as a result of Bazeekian’s, Security’s, and Zeleda’s negligent operation
of their vehicles, as well as Defendants Mazda Motor of America, Inc. (“Mazda”)
and The Hertz Corporation’s (“Hertz”) failings, Decedent succumbed to his fatal
injuries.  
The first amended complaint (“FAC”), filed
October 2, 2023, alleges causes of action for: (1) wrongful death – negligence
against Defendants Bazeekian, Security, Zeleda, Mazda, and Hertz; (2) wrongful
death – dangerous condition of public property against Defendants State of
California, CHP, and Caltrans; (3) strict products liability – manufacturing
defect against Mazda and Hertz; (4) strict products liability – design defect
against Mazda and Hertz; (5) strict products liability – failure to warn
against Mazda and Hertz; and (6) breach of the implied warranty of
merchantability against Mazda and Hertz. 
On October 10, 2023, Plaintiff named Mazda Motor of America, Inc. as Doe
1; and The Hertz Corporation as Doe 2. 
B.    
Cross-Complaints 
On August 11,
2023, Charlotte Brazile, individually as successor in interest to the Estate of
Kevin Anthony Hudson, filed a cross-complaint against Bazeekian, Mazda, and
Hertz for: (1) negligence; (2) negligence per se; (3) strict products liability
– manufacturing defect strict products; (4) strict products liability – design
defect; (5) strict products liability – failure to warn; (6) breach of implied
warranty; (7) wrongful death; and (8) survivorship. 
On November 3, 2023, Hertz filed a
cross-complaint against Bazeekian, Zeleda, Security, and Mazda for: (1)
indemnification; (2) apportionment of fault; and declaratory relief.  
On December 12, 2023, The State of
California acting by and through The Department of Transportation (erroneously
sued and served as California Department of Transportation) (“DOT”) filed a
cross-complaint against Bazeekian, Security, and Mazda for: (1) equitable
indemnity; (2) express indemnity; (3) express indemnity; (4) declaratory
relief; and (5) implied equitable indemnity and comparative contribution.  
On August 22, 2024, Mazda Motor of
America, Inc. dba Mazda North American Operation (“Mazda”) filed the first
amended cross-complaint (“Mazda FAXC”) against Roes 101 through 200 for: (1)
equitable indemnity against Traffix Devices, Inc. (“Traffix”); (2)
apportionment against Traffix; (3) contribution against Traffix; and (4)
declaratory relief against Traffix.  On
October 23, 2023, Mazda named Shaheen Zadori as Roe 101; and Sev Trucking, LLC
as Roe 102.  On February 2, 2024, Mazda
dismissed without prejudice the cross-complaint against Sev Trucking, LLC
only.  On March 4, 2024, Mazda named
Traffix Devices, Inc. as Roe 103.  
C.    
Motion on Calendar 
On July 30, 2024, Nominal Defendant/Cross-Complainant
Charlotte Brazile filed a motion to file a first amended cross-complaint.  
The Court is not in receipt of an
opposition brief.
LEGAL
STANDARD
CCP § 473(a)(1) states: “The court may, in
furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to
amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any
party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any
other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or
demurrer. The court may likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the
adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any
pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like terms allow an
answer to be made after the time limited by this code.”  
            CRC
rule 3.1324 requires a motion seeking leave to amend to include a copy of the
proposed pleadings, to identify the amendments, and to be accompanied by a
declaration including the following facts:
            1) The effect of the amendment;
            2) Why the amendment is necessary and proper; 
            3) When the facts giving rise to the amended allegations
were discovered; and 
            4) The reasons why the request for amendment was not made
earlier.
The Court’s discretion regarding granting
leave to amend is usually exercised liberally to permit amendment of
pleadings.  (Nestle v. Santa Monica (1972) 6 Cal.3d 920, 939.)  If a motion to amend is timely made and the
granting of the motion will not prejudice the opposing party, it is error to
refuse permission to amend.  (Morgan v. Superior Court of Los Angeles
County (1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530.) 
Additionally, failure to file an
opposition to the motion indicates the other parties' acquiescence that the
motion is meritorious. CRC Rule 8.54(c).
 
 
DISCUSSION
RE MOTION TO FILE A FIRST AMENDED CROSS-COMPLAINT
            Brazile
moves for leave to file the first amended cross-complaint (“FAXC”).  A copy of the proposed FAXC is attached as
Exhibit A to the moving papers.  
            In
support of the motion, Brazile provides the declaration of Brazile’s counsel, Lucas
A. Whitehill.  Mr. Whitehill states that the
proposed FAXC will add facts regarding the Doe entities that were named,
including Security and Zeleda. 
(Whitehill Decl., ¶2.)  He states
that the allegations are being added based on testimony received in written
discovery responses and depositions of witnesses that support the new
allegations.  (Id., ¶3.)  He provides a copy of Caltrans’ Standard Plan
T15, Traffic Control System for Moving Lane Closures on Multilane Highways (Ex.
B), relevant portions of the deposition of Zeleda dated February 12, 2024 (Ex.
C), and relevant portions of the deposition of Bazeekian dated June 27, 2024
(Ex. D).  (Id., ¶¶6-8.)  The specific allegations that Brazile intends
to add to or strike from the initial cross-complaint is stated on pages 6 to 7
of the moving papers.  Brazile argues
that following discovery, it became apparent that Security and Zeleda failed to
conduct the subject roadwork in a safe manner and failed to properly warn
oncoming traffic of the hazard presented by the roadway, which potentially
contributed to the subject collision incident. 
(Mot. at p.5.)  
            Based on the moving papers and no
opposition having been received, the Court grants Brazile’s motion for leave to
file the proposed FAXC.  Mr. Whitehill’s declaration
addresses the factors under CRC Rule 3.1324.   
In addition, the Court recognizes the liberal policy in allowing
amendment.  “[T]he court's discretion
will usually be exercised liberally to permit amendment of the pleadings.  The policy favoring amendment is so strong
that it is a rare case in which denial of leave to amend can be justified.”  (Howard
v. County of San Diego (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 1422, 1428.)  
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER

Cross-Complainant Charlotte Brazile’s
motion for leave to file the first amended cross-complaint is granted.  Brazile is ordered to electronically file
a separate version of the First Amended Cross-Complaint with the Court by this
date following the hearing on the matter. 

Cross-Complainant
shall provide notice of this order. 
 
DATED: September 26, 2024                                    ___________________________
                                                                              F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge
                                                                                    Superior
Court of California
                                                                              County
of Los Angeles