 Case Number:  23BBCV00663    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2024    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
michael green, et al.,
 
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
royal garden
  apartments inc., 
 
                        Defendant.


 
  Case No.:  23BBCV00663
 
Hearing
  Date:  September 26, 2024
 
 [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
motion to compel production of documents at deposition   
 



 
NOTICE:
The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.  
 
Notice
may be given either by email at BurDeptB@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818)
260-8422.
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations
Plaintiffs
Michael Green, Mia Cordes, Delia Reed, Zarinah Reed, and Jimmie Henry
(“Plaintiffs”) allege that they reside at 6705 Riverton Avenue, North
Hollywood, CA 91606 in various units. 
Michael Green and Mia Cordes reside in Apartment 13, Jimmie Henry
resides in Apartment C1, and Delia Reed and Zarinah Reed reside in Apartment
21.  Defendant Royal Garden Apartments
Inc. (“Defendant”) is alleged to be the owner, agent, and manager of the 6705
Riverton Avenue property.  Plaintiffs
allege that the premises have an infestation of roaches and rodents, lack
adequate gas facilities, and lack smoke detectors.  They allege that the premises are
uninhabitable.  
The complaint, filed March 23, 2023,
alleges causes of action for: (1) breach of warranty of habitability; (2)
breach of covenant of quiet enjoyment; (3) nuisance; (4) negligence (Civ. Code,
§§ 1714(a), 3333); (5) premises liability (negligence per se); (6) unfair
business practice and unfair competition; and (7) IIED.  
On August 16, 2023, Plaintiffs named J.K.
Residential Services, Inc. as Doe 1.  On
August 29, 2024, Plaintiffs named Anza Management Company as Doe 2.  
B.    
Relevant Background re: Discovery 
On August 1, 2024, the Court held an
Informal Discovery Conference (“IDC”). 
The Court ordered that each side may have 35 discovery requests and that
no additional discovery requests were permitted without further order of the
Court.  The Court continued the IDC to
August 9, 2024.  
On August 9, 2024,
the Court held another IDC in order to sequence and control discovery in this
matter: 
By
October 1, 2024, each party will serve upon all other parties a disclosure
statement as described in Code of Civil Procedure Section 2016.090(a)(1).
Except
for motions already filed and/or decided interrogatory and request for
admission discovery is stayed. 
Motions
to compel regarding document requests or depositions may be filed. As to
defendants' currently contemplated motions to compel further responses to
requests for production of documents, the time for filing those motions is
stayed by ten days from today's date to give plaintiff's the opportunity to to
[sic] provide supplemental responses.
(August
9, 2024 Minute Order.)   
C.    
Motion on Calendar 
On July 16, 2024, Defendant filed a motion
to compel Plaintiff Zarinah Reed to produce documents requested in the notice
of deposition.  Defendant seeks sanctions
in the amount of $3,330 against Reed and her counsel of record.  
On August 30, 2024, Reed filed an opposition
brief. 
On September 5, 2024, Defendant filed a
reply brief. 
DISCUSSION

Defendant moves to compel Reed’s
production of documents from the notice of deposition.  On March 26, 2024, Defendant served on Reed a
notice of deposition and production of 21 categories of documents, with the
deposition scheduled for April 18, 2024. 
(Mot., Ex. A.)  An amended
deposition notice was served scheduling the deposition for May 8, 2024 at 10:00
a.m. with 22 document requests.  Defendant
argues that Plaintiff did not object to the deposition notice.  On the day of the deposition, Plaintiff and
her counsel did not bring documents in response to the document requests at the
beginning of the deposition, but Plaintiff’s counsel’s office sent 393 pages of
documents at 12:32 p.m. during the deposition. 
Defendant argues that its counsel reserved the right to review the
documents and to continue the deposition so that counsel could review the
documents.  
In opposition, Reed argues that she
provided documents as requested “at the time of deposition” (at 12:32 p.m.
while the deposition was occurring), a link with a copy of the emails exchanged
between Plaintiff and the property management company and some photographs of
the unit, and a declaration under oath that Plaintiff did not have medical
billing related to her emotional distress damages.  
According to the separate statement,
Defendant seeks to compel request for production of document (“RPD”) Nos. 5, 6,
8, 16, 17, and 19. (A responsive separate statement is not provided with the
opposition brief.) 
RPD No. 5 seeks any and all
documents that support Reed’s contention that she notified Defendant of a
condition at the property.  RPD No. 6
seeks any and all documents that identify, mention, or refer to actions taken
by Defendant in response to Reed’s notification of a condition at the
property.  RPD No. 8 seeks any and
all documents that identify, mention, or refer to repair requests made by Reed
regarding alleged substandard conditions at the property.  RPD No. 16 seeks any and all documents
that constitute, identify, or refer to any communications by Reed about the
condition of the property while she lived there.  RPD No. 17 seeks any and all documents
that constitute, identify, or refer to any communications received by Reed
about the condition of the property while she lived there.  
Defendant argues that though Plaintiff’s
counsel represented that these documents would be sent during the deposition,
Defendant has not received documents that are relevant to the RPDs.  Defendant argues that it seeks to confirm
whether the notifications/requests for repair were in writing and if there are
any documents regarding notice to support Reed’s claim.  While Reed may have produced hundreds of
pages of documents during and after the deposition, Reed should provide
documents in response to the RPDs and identify which particular pages (identified
by Bates stamped pages) are responsive to these separate RPDs—even if the
documents were already produced.  The
motion is granted as to RPD Nos. 5, 6, 8, 16, and 17.  
RPD No. 19 seeks any and all
documents reflecting or referring to any and all physical harm she claims to
have sustained due to the alleged substandard conditions at the property.  Defendant argues that Reed has not provided a
formal written response to this RPD. 
Defendant argues that the documents sought are relevant as the complaint
alleges at paragraph 30 that Plaintiffs were continuously bitten by bugs and
had to seek medical attention.  Defendant
argues that Reed has only provided the name of her treating physician for
emotional distress but has not provided any supporting documents.  Reed should provide a further response to the
RPD.  If she lacks responsive documents,
then she should provide a response that complies in form with CCP § 2031.220:
“A representation of inability to comply with the particular demand for
inspection, copying,
testing, or sampling shall affirm that a diligent search and a
reasonable inquiry has been made in an effort to comply with that demand. This
statement shall also specify whether the inability to comply is because the
particular item or category has never existed, has been destroyed, has been
lost, misplaced, or stolen, or has never been, or is no longer, in the
possession, custody, or control of the responding party. The statement shall
set forth the name and address of any natural person or organization known or
believed by that party to have possession, custody, or control of that item or
category of item.”  The motion is granted
as to RPD No. 19.  
Defendant seeks sanctions in the amount of
$3,330 against Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s counsel (= [2 hours and 56 minutes on
the meet and confer letters + 12 hours for the motion papers + anticipated 2
hours and 6 minutes to review the opposition, draft a reply + anticipated 1
minute to attend the hearing] at $185/hour). 
Reed seeks sanctions for filing the opposition brief in the amount of
$3,600 (= [1 hour to review the motion + 2 hours to collect exhibits and
research the law + 4 hours on the opposition + 2 anticipated hours for the
hearing] x $400/hour).  The Court will
award a reasonable amount of sanctions in favor of Defendant and against
Plaintiff’s counsel in the amount of $1,170 for six hours at $185 an hour plus
a $60 filing for filing this motion. 
Reed’s request for sanctions is denied. 

CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
Defendant Royal
Garden Apartments Inc.’s motion
to compel Plaintiff Zarinah Reed to produce documents requested in the notice
of deposition is granted.  Defendant
is ordered to provide further responses within 20 days of notice of this
order.  
Plaintiff’s counsel is ordered to pay
monetary sanctions in the amount of $1,170 to Defendant, by and through counsel.  The Court suspends
all payment of sanctions until March 20, 2025. 
The Court will re-evaluate the issue of sanctions at the time of the
Final Status Conference.  
Defendant shall provide notice of this
order. 
 
 
 
DATED: September 26, 2024                                                 ___________________________
                                                                                          F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge
                                                                                                Superior Court of California
                                                                                          County
of Los Angeles