  Case Number:  23BBCV00284    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2024    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
garry
  tindell,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
jay
  nieto,
  an individual dba GENESIS 1 AUTO CONCEPTS, 
                        Defendant.


 
  Case No.: 
  23BBCV00284
 
  Hearing Date:  September 26, 2024
 
  [TENTATIVE] order RE: 
motions to set aside default and default judgment



 
NOTICE:
The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.  
 
Notice may be given either by email at
BurDeptB@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8422.
 
BACKGROUND
A.    Allegations 
Plaintiff Garry
Tindell (in propria persona, “Plaintiff”) alleges that he expected a reasonable
repair fee for his 1966 Mustang, which he claims only had a few problems.  Plaintiff alleges that Defendant Jay Nieto,
an individual dba Genesis 1 Auto Concepts (“Defendant”) presented him with a
Work Order for $19,901.50 that reflected the repairs made to Plaintiff’s
car.  Plaintiff alleges that Defendant
guaranteed that Genesis had performed a full makeover of the vehicle, which
included replacing the starter, the fuel pumps, the engine mount, the brakes,
the master brake cylinder, a rebuilt carburetor, a fully rebuilt Ford 289
engine, a rebuilt Ford C4 transmission, and 36 additional parts.  Plaintiff alleges that Defendant warranted to
Plaintiff that all the replacement parts would be new, rebuilt, or
reconditioned, but Defendant intentionally suppressed the fact that many of the
parts Genesis used to repair the vehicle were old, defective, and unsafe.  
The complaint,
filed February 3, 2023, alleges causes of action for: (1) fraud and deceit; (2)
intentional misrepresentation; (3) violation of statute; (4) breach of oral
contract and breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing; (5)
unjust enrichment; (6) unfair business practices; and (7) breach of implied
warranty.  
B.     Relevant
Background and Motions on Calendar 
On April 14, 2023, the default of
Defendant was entered. 
On April 14, 2023,
Plaintiff dismissed with prejudice the DOE Defendants only. 
On January 11, 2024, the default judgment
of Defendant was entered.  
On July 9, 2024, Defendant filed a motion
to set aside the default and default judgment.  On August 9, 2024, Plaintiff filed an
opposition brief.  
On July 10, 2024, Defendant filed a second
motion to set aside the default and default judgment.  The second motion includes a copy of the
proposed answer.  
On September 3, 2024, Defendant filed a
reply brief. 
The first motion was initially set to be
heard on August 23, 2024, but was continued to September 13, 2024 so that it
could be heard concurrently with the second motion.  The motions were then continued by the Court to
September 26, 2024.
LEGAL
STANDARD
            The discretionary
prong of CCP § 473(b) states in relevant part: 
The court may,
upon any terms as may be just, relieve a party or his or
her legal representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding
taken against him or her through his or her mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. Application for this
relief shall be accompanied by a copy of the
answer or other pleading proposed to be filed therein, otherwise the
application shall not be granted, and shall be
made within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months,
after the judgment, dismissal, order, or proceeding
was taken. …
(CCP § 473(b) [emphasis added].)  
            The mandatory prong of CCP
§ 473(b) states in relevant part: 
Notwithstanding
any other requirements of this section, the court shall, whenever an application
for relief is made no more than six months after entry of
judgment, is in proper form, and is accompanied by an attorney's sworn affidavit attesting to
his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect,
vacate any (1) resulting default
entered by the clerk against his or her client, and which will result in entry
of a default judgment, or (2) resulting
default judgment or dismissal entered against his or her
client, unless the court finds that the default
or dismissal was not in fact caused by the attorney's mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or neglect. …
(CCP
§ 473(b) [emphasis added].) 
DISCUSSION

            Defendant moves to set aside the
default and default judgment pursuant to counsel’s mistake, surprise, or
neglect under CCP § 473(b).  
            In support of the motion, Defendant
provides the declaration of counsel Joseph Trenk.  Mr. Trenk states that he is a solo
practitioner without any employees, and he shares an office with another
attorney who handles unlawful detainer matters. 
(Trenk Decl., ¶3.)  He states that
the summons and complaint were delivered to his office in March 2023, wherein
he was only present one or two days of the week while recuperating after a
heart attack.  (Id.)  He states that the summons and complaint were
delivered in a manila envelope without ever being opened, such that he did not
see it and a response was never calendared. 
(Id.)  Mr. Trenk states
that in 2023 and early 2024, his health took a negative turn, such that he was
hospitalized 3 times in 2023 and he learned of a new condition that required
multiple tests, an autopsy, and over 2 months of radiation therapy.  (Id., ¶4.) He states that his physical
condition from 2022 through early 2024 was such that his ability to attend
matters in his office was significantly impaired, and no one could pick up the
slack since he is a solo practitioner.  (Id.,
¶5.)  He states that Plaintiff’s
complaint was placed in a file which was already being handled on behalf of
Defendant, but his lack of being around the office on a regular basis prevented
him from following up with respect to the complaint, resulting in a default and
default judgment.  (Id., ¶6.)  He states that his client had expected and
understood the matter to be handled.  (Id.,
¶7.)  He requests that “the court permit
this matter to be handled as intended and excuse my condition based on
circumstances which were not foreseeable nor expected by me….”  (Id.)
            In
opposition, Plaintiff argues that Defendant’s motion is barred by the 6-month
deadline under CCP § 473(b).  Plaintiff
relies on Pulte Homes Corp. v. Williams Mechanical, Inc. (2016) 2 Cal.App.5th 267, arguing that the Court
cannot set aside the default and therefore cannot set aside the default
judgment.  In discussing
relief under the discretionary prong, the Court of Appeal in Pulte stated: 
Williams's motion was filed less than six months after
entry of the default judgment, but more than six months after entry of its
default. The trial court therefore could not set aside the default
under Code of Civil Procedure section 473. And because it could not set
aside the default, it also could not set aside the default judgment
under Code of Civil Procedure section 473, because that would be “an idle
act.” (Howard Greer Custom Originals v. Capritti (1950) 35 Cal.2d
886, 888, 221 P.2d 937.) “ ‘... If the judgment were vacated, it would be the
duty of the court immediately to render another judgment of like effect, and
the defendants, still being in default, could not be heard in opposition
thereto. ...’ ” (Id. at pp. 888–889, 221 P.2d 937; accord, Weiss
v. Blumencranc (1976) 61 Cal.App.3d 536, 541, 131 Cal.Rptr. 298; Koski
v. U–Haul Co. (1963) 212 Cal.App.2d 640, 643, 28 Cal.Rptr. 398.)” 
(Pulte, supra, 2 Cal.App.5th at 273.) 
Under the discretionary prong of section 473(b), relief may be granted
where the application is made within a reasonable time “in no case exceeding
six months after the judgment, dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken.”  As stated in Pulte, discretionary
relief would provide a basis to set aside the (default) judgment only.  
            However,
Defendant has filed this motion pursuant to the mandatory prong under
CCP § 473(b).  The mandatory prong states
that “the court shall, whenever an application for relief is made no more than six
months after entry of judgment … vacate
any (1) resulting default
entered by the clerk against his or her client, and which will result in entry
of a default judgment, or (2) resulting
default judgment or dismissal entered against his or her client ….”  (CCP § 473(b) [emphasis added].)  The above quote by the Pulte court was
in reference to the discretionary prong, and not the mandatory prong of
section 473(b).  Under the terms of the
statute, a motion to vacate is timely under the mandatory prong based on
attorney fault if brought within 6 months of the entry of judgment (including
default judgment)—not necessarily at the time of entry of default. 
To be timely, the motion to set aside the
default and default judgment had to be filed within 6 months of the default
judgment (entered January 11, 2024).  The
motion was filed on July 9, 2024, which was 2 days before the deadline of July
11, 2024.  As such, the motion is timely.  Further, based on the declaration of Mr.
Trenk, there is substantive merit to granting the motions to vacate the default
and default judgment pursuant to the mandatory prong of CCP § 473(b).  
            In the opposition brief, Plaintiff
also argues that Defendant’s motion should be denied in the event Defendant
argues a void judgment, extrinsic fraud, constructive service, and extrinsic
mistake.  The Court declines to discuss
these issues as they were not raised by Defendant in the motions as a ground to
set aside the default judgment and, thus, they are not relevant.  As discussed above, Defendant has brought a
valid basis to bring the motions and has timely filed the motions.
            The motions to set aside the default
and default judgment are granted.  
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
            Defendant Jay
Nieto, an individual dba Genesis 1 Auto Concepts’ motions to vacate the default
and default judgment are granted. 
Defendant is ordered to file a separate copy of the answer within 10
days of this order.  
            The
Court sets a Case Management Conference for February 5, 2025 at 8:30 a.m. 
Defendant shall
provide notice of this order. 
 
 
DATED:  September 26, 2024                                   ___________________________
                                                                              F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge
                                                                                    Superior
Court of California
                                                                              County
of Los Angeles
 