  Case Number:  22TRCV00453    Hearing Date:   May 13, 2024    Dept:  M LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                                            Monday, May 13, 2024 
Department M                                                                                                                   
      Calendar No. 10
  
 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Nazila Duran v. California Automobile
Insurance Company, et al.     
22TRCV00453
1.      California Automobile Insurance Company and Mercury
Insurance Group’s Motion for Summary Judgment, or, in the Alternative, Summary
Adjudication       


TENTATIVE RULING
 
            California
Automobile Insurance Company (“CAIC”) and Mercury Insurance Group’s Motion for
Summary Judgment is granted.   
 
            Background
 
            Plaintiff filed the Complaint on June 6, 2022.
Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint was filed on July 25, 2022. Plaintiff
alleges the following facts. Defendants improperly denied insurance coverage
for mold remediation on Plaintiff’s covered property.  Plaintiff alleges causes of action for: 1.
Breach of Contract; 2. Breach of the Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair
Dealing; 3. Bad Faith Denial of Insurance Claim; 4. Unfair Business Practices
Under Bus. & Prof. Code 17200; 5. Fraudulent Misrepresentation; 6.
Constructive Fraud; 7. Unjust Enrichment; 8. Declaratory Relief. 
 
            Objections
 
            Plaintiff’s Objections
            
            Objections 1 to 10 are overruled. “[The] attorney attested, under penalty of perjury, that
the copies of the documents lodged constituted “true and correct copies of what
they purport to be.”  This was sufficient
to overcome respondents' generic objections to this evidence.” Ambriz v.
Kelegian (2007) 146 Cal.App.4th 1519, 1527.
 
            Defendants’ Objections
 
            Declaration of Nazila Duran –
            Objections 1, 8, 9, 11-13, 15, 17, 18, and 20 to 22 are
overruled. Objections 2 to 7, 10, 14, 16, and 19 are sustained.
 
            Request for Judicial Notice
 
            Defendants’ request for judicial notice is granted
pursuant to Evidence Code § 452(d).
 
            Motion for Summary Judgment or Summary Adjudication
 
            The purpose of a motion for summary judgment or summary
adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’
pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in
fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” 
(Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  “Code of
Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to
grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences
reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences
or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and
that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”  (Adler
v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal. App. 4th 1110, 1119.)
 
            “On a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is
always on the moving party to make a prima facie showing that there are no
triable issues of material fact.”  (Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005)
128 Cal. App. 4th 1510, 1519.)  A
defendant moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or
her burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party has
shown that one or more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be
established, or that there is a complete defense to the cause of action.”  CCP § 437c(p)(2).  “Once the defendant . . . has met that
burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a triable issue
of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense
thereto.” CCP § 437c(p)(2).  “If the
plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment should be granted.”  Avivi
v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal. App. 4th 463, 467.
 
            “A plaintiff or cross-complainant has met his or her
burden of showing that there is no defense to a cause of action if that party
has proved each element of the cause of action entitling the party to judgment
on the cause of action. Once the plaintiff or cross-complainant has met that
burden, the burden shifts to the defendant or cross-defendant to show that a
triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or
a defense thereto.” Code Civ. Proc., § 437c(p)(1).
 
            “When deciding whether to grant summary judgment, the
court must consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers (except
evidence to which the court has sustained an objection), as well as all
reasonable inferences that may be drawn from that evidence, in the light most
favorable to the party opposing summary judgment.”  (Avivi,
159 Cal.App.4th at 467; CCP § 437c(c).)
 
            Defendants move for summary judgment on the grounds that
“Plaintiff's loss was excluded under the long-term moisture exclusion in her
insurance policy and Plaintiff cannot prove an element of her causes of action.”
 (Notice of Motion, page 2, lines 13-15.)
Alternatively, Defendants move for summary adjudication of the second and third
causes of action “because the denial of benefits was the result of a ‘genuine
dispute’ about coverage. Specifically, the parties had a genuine dispute
regarding whether the damages were the result of the water leak. Therefore,
there is not bad faith and Defendants can establish a complete defense to
Plaintiff's bad faith causes of action.”  (Notice of Motion, page 2, lines 18-23.)
 
            Defendants have met their initial burden to show that an
essential element or elements of Plaintiff’s causes of action cannot be
established and/or that there is a complete defense to the causes of action.
Plaintiff has not met her burden to provide specific facts to show the
existence of a triable issue of material fact as to the causes of action.  CCP § 437c(p)(2).
 
            The Court notes that Plaintiff did not meaningfully
dispute Defendants’ separate statement of facts. Plaintiff mostly attempted to
rely upon her objections, which were overruled. The only fact that was actually
disputed, with supporting evidence to demonstrate why it should be disputed (as
opposed to simply a blanket statement of “disputed” unsupported with evidence),
was fact number 33. However, this purported dispute does not show the existence
of a triable issue of material fact.  Instead,
it appears that Plaintiff is attempting to rely upon her own separate statement
of facts 47 to 120 and supporting evidence.
 
            First Cause of Action for Breach of Contract
            Fourth Cause of Action for Unfair Business
Practices Under Bus. & Prof. Code 17200
            Fifth Cause of Action for Fraudulent
Misrepresentation
            Sixth Cause of Action for Constructive Fraud
            Seventh Cause of Action for Unjust Enrichment
            Eighth Cause of Action for Declaratory Relief
 
            “Establishing that claim [for breach of contract]
requires a showing of (1) the existence of the contract, (2) plaintiff's
performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant's breach, and (4) the
resulting damages to the plaintiff.” D'Arrigo Bros. of California v. United
Farmworkers of America (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 790, 800 (internal
quotation omitted).
 
            Defendants move for summary judgment on the grounds that
there could be no breach of contract because Plaintiff was not covered for the
loss based on the following exclusion: “The Policy's provisions are found in
Dwelling Property 3 Special Form Policy Provision. Subsection A.2. under
SECTION I-PERILS INSURED AGAINST identifies losses that are not insured.
Subsection A.2.c.(5) of SECTION I specifically excludes losses caused by ‘constant
or repeated seepage or leakage of water or steam, or the presence or
condensation of humidity, moisture or vapor, that occurs over a period of 14
days or more.’” (Defendants’ Separate Statement of Facts 2.)  Defendants provided evidence to establish the
existence of the exclusion based on the date of the water leak of October 14, 2021,
and the discovery of continued moisture from that loss on December 8, 2021
which constitutes a period of 14 days or more. (Defendants’ Separate Statement
of Facts 2-44 and Supporting Evidence.)
 
            Plaintiff has not her burden to show the existence of a
triable issue of material fact as to the existence of coverage for the loss.
The basis for the coverage denial was the specific exclusion noted above.
Rather than specifically focusing on the actual exclusion, Plaintiff instead
appears to focus on an unrelated issue as to whether the mold that was
discovered was caused by the October 14, 2021 water leak. However, based on the
specific exclusion implemented, it is not Defendant’s burden to determine the
cause of the discovered mold. Instead, once there are grounds to show that
coverage must be denied based on the 14-day moisture exclusion, then there is
no coverage for the subsequent mold problem. 
 
            To put it a different way, Plaintiff appears to suggest
that the mold that was discovered was “new mold,” rather than mold that may
have stemmed from the October leak. However, a review of the specific policy
provisions reveal the following in language in Section 1E(10): “We will pay
under this additional coverage only if: (1) The covered loss occurs during the
policy period; (2) All reasonable means were used to save and preserve the
property at the time of and after the covered loss; and (3) We receive prompt
notice of the covered cause of loss that is alleged to have resulted in
"fungi", other microbes or rot.”  (Defendant’s Ex. 1, CAIC 287.)  Therefore, this hypothetical “new mold” would
first only be covered if it is caused by a covered loss, and second, only if
prompt notice of the covered loss is provided. As stated above, the actual loss
that was reported was not covered due to the 14-day moisture exclusion. Second,
to the extent that Plaintiff believes that another event may have caused this
“new” mold, there is no showing that Plaintiff provided prompt notice of this
new loss which resulted in this “new mold.” 
 
            Plaintiff places much emphasis on the ServPro report
which appears to indicate water loss potentially stemming from a toilet and
also categorizing the type of moisture as that which would appear from sewage
spillage. First, Defendant has provided significant evidence that this
categorization may have simply been a clerical mistake from ServPro. However,
even assuming arguendo that it was not a clerical mistake, there is no showing
that prompt notice of the potential loss that resulted in the alleged “new
mold” was provided to Defendant. Significantly, the Plaintiff provides no
evidence other than her own unsupported conclusion that this was not merely a
clerical mistake. That is, Plaintiff submitted no competent evidence from
anyone who may be competent to provide information that the moisture that still
existed in December occurred from a different water event than the one that was
reported in October. Plaintiff presents much argument concerning the need for a
plumbing expert to make a determination on the source of water, but the Court
notes that Plaintiff herself provided no evidence from a plumber or anyone else
regarding the source of the water that was still discovered in December. Again,
Plaintiff merely speculates that it may have occurred at a later date than
October but presents no evidence to support this speculation and no showing
that she ever reported a loss event other than the one in October 2021.
 
            Finally, under the facts alleged in the FAC, the fourth
through eighth causes of action fall with the first cause of action.
 
            “California Business and Professions Code Sections 17000,
et seq., and 17200, et seq., states [sic] that unfair competition shall mean
and include unlawful, unfair or fraudulent business practices.” Khoury v.
Maly's of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 618–19. “By
proscribing ‘any unlawful’ business act or practice, the UCL “borrows” rules
set out in other laws and makes violations of those rules independently
actionable. [Citation.] However, a practice may violate the UCL even if it is
not prohibited by another statute.” Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum Com. v.
Insomniac, Inc. (2015) 233 Cal.App.4th 803, 835. “The unfair competition
law is independent of the Unfair Practices Act and other laws. Its remedies are
“cumulative ... to the remedies or penalties available under all other laws of
this state” (§ 17205), but its sanctions are less severe than those of the
Unfair Practices Act. Prevailing plaintiffs are generally limited to injunctive
relief and restitution. (§ 17203; see ABC Internat. Traders, Inc. v.
Matsushita Electric Corp. (1997) 14 Cal.4th 1247, 1268 [61 Cal.Rptr.2d
112, 931 P.2d 290].) “Plaintiffs may not receive damages, much less treble damages,
or attorney fees.” Cel-Tech Communications, Inc. v. Los Angeles Cellular
Telephone Co. (1999) 20 Cal.4th 163, 179.
 
            Here, for the reasons stated, there is no triable issue
of material fact as to any alleged unlawful, unfair, or fraudulent business
practice of Defendants.
 
            “A complaint for fraud must allege the following
elements: (1) a knowingly false representation by the defendant; (2) an intent
to deceive or induce reliance; (3) justifiable reliance by the plaintiff; and
(4) resulting damages.”  Service by
Medallion, Inc. v. Clorox Co. (1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 1807, 1816. “Every
element of the cause of action for fraud must be alleged in the proper manner
and the facts constituting the fraud must be alleged with sufficient
specificity to allow defendant to understand fully the nature of the charge
made.”  Tarmann v. State Farm Mut.
Auto. Ins. Co. (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 157.  Plaintiffs must state facts which “show how,
when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations were
tendered.”  Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.
 
            “[T]he economic loss rule prevent[s] the law of contract
and the law of tort from dissolving one into the other.” Robinson Helicopter
Co., Inc. v. Dana Corp. (2004) 34 Cal.4th 979, 988 (internal citations and
quotations omitted). “[C]onduct amounting to a breach of contract becomes
tortious only when it also violates a duty independent of the contract arising
from principles of tort law. An omission to perform a contract obligation is
never a tort, unless that omission is also an omission of a legal duty.” Erlich
v. Menezes (1999) 21 Cal.4th 543, 551 (internal citations and quotations
omitted).
 
            Here, under the fraud cause of action, Plaintiff has not
alleged a duty that would be separate and apart from the duty imposed under the
contract. In the FAC, Plaintiff provides a stray reference to being induced
into the contract. However, the factual allegations reveal that the alleged
duty that was violated simply amounted to the duties that would be imposed in
the insurance agreement.
 
            “Constructive fraud is a unique species of fraud
applicable only to a fiduciary or confidential relationship.  Constructive fraud arises on a breach of duty
by one in a confidential or fiduciary relationship to another which induces
justifiable reliance by the latter to his prejudice. [The] elements of
constructive fraud cause of action are (1) a fiduciary or confidential
relationship; (2) nondisclosure (breach of fiduciary duty); (3) intent to
deceive, and (4) reliance and resulting injury (causation).  In its generic sense, constructive fraud
comprises all acts, omissions and concealments involving a breach of legal or
equitable duty, trust, or confidence, and resulting in damages to another.  Constructive fraud exists in cases in which
conduct, although not actually fraudulent, ought to be so treated—that is, in
which such conduct is a constructive or quasi fraud, having all the actual
consequences and all the legal effects of actual fraud.”  Prakashpalan v. Engstrom, Lipscomb &
Lack (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 1105, 1131 (internal citations and quotations
omitted.)
 
            Here, again, the constructive fraud theory fails because
again there is no separate duty identified other than the one stated in the
contract.
 
            Unjust Enrichment is not a cause of action.  See, Hill v. Roll Int'l Corp. (2011)
195 Cal.App.4th 1295, 1307.  The Court
may, however, recognize a cause of action based on quasi-contract to obtain the
remedy of restitution.  See, McKell v.
Washington Mutual, Inc. (2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 1457, 1490.  "The elements of an unjust enrichment
claim are the receipt of a benefit and [the] unjust retention of the benefit at
the expense of another."  Peterson
v. Cellco Partnership (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 1583, 1593-94. 
 
            Here, for the same reasons noted above, Plaintiff failed
to identify a triable issue of material fact that Defendants unjustly retained
a benefit at the expense of Plaintiff.
 
            Code Civ. Proc., § 1060 states, in relevant part:
            “Any person interested under a written instrument,
excluding a will or a trust, or under a contract, or who desires a declaration
of his or her rights or duties with respect to another, or in respect to, in,
over or upon property, [. . .]may, in cases of actual controversy relating to
the legal rights and duties of the respective parties, bring an original action
or cross-complaint in the superior court for a declaration of his or her rights
and duties in the premises, including a determination of any question of
construction or validity arising under the instrument or contract. He or she
may ask for a declaration of rights or duties, either alone or with other
relief; and the court may make a binding declaration of these rights or duties,
whether or not further relief is or could be claimed at the time. The
declaration may be either affirmative or negative in form and effect, and the
declaration shall have the force of a final judgment. The declaration may be
had before there has been any breach of the obligation in respect to which said
declaration is sought.”
 
            “To qualify for declaratory relief, [Plaintiff] would
have to demonstrate its action presented two essential elements: “(1) a proper
subject of declaratory relief, and (2) an actual controversy involving
justiciable questions relating to [Plaintiff’s] rights or obligations.... But
even assuming that [Plaintiff’s] action satisfies the first requirement, it
must still present an ‘actual controversy.’ The ‘actual controversy’ language
in Code of Civil Procedure section 1060 encompasses a probable future controversy
relating to the legal rights and duties of the parties. It does not embrace
controversies that are conjectural, anticipated to occur in the future, or an
attempt to obtain an advisory opinion from the court. Thus, while a party may
seek declaratory judgment before an actual invasion of rights has occurred, it
must still demonstrate that the controversy is justiciable. And to be
justiciable, the controversy must be ripe.” Wilson & Wilson v. City
Council of Redwood City (2011) 191 Cal.App.4th 1559, 1582 (internal
citations and quotations omitted; emphasis in original). 
 
            Here, the rights or duties with respect to the specific
written instrument – the policy – were adjudicated within the context of the
first cause of action.
 
            Second Cause of Action for Breach of the Implied
Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing
            Third Cause of Action for Bad Faith Denial of
Insurance Claim
 
            The Court notes that the second and third causes of
action are essentially duplicative of each other.
 
            “The
[implied] covenant of good faith and fair dealing [is] implied by law in every
contract. The covenant is read into contracts and functions as a supplement to
the express contractual covenants, to prevent a contracting party from engaging
in conduct which (while not technically transgressing the express covenants)
frustrates the other party's rights to the benefits of the contract. The
covenant also requires each party to do everything the contract presupposes the
party will do to accomplish the agreement's purposes.” Thrifty Payless, Inc. v. The Americana at Brand, LLC (2013) 218
Cal.App.4th 1230, 1244 (internal citations and quotations omitted).
 
            “[I]n
the context of the insurance contract, it has been held that the insurer's
responsibility to act fairly and in good faith with respect to the handling of
the insured's claim “‘is not the requirement mandated by the terms of the
policy itself-to defend, settle, or pay. It is the obligation ... under which
the insurer must act fairly and in good faith in discharging its contractual
responsibilities.” Chateau Chamberay Homeowners Ass'n v. Associated Intern.
Ins. Co. (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 335, 346. “[T]here are at least two separate
requirements to establish breach of the implied covenant: (1) benefits due
under the policy must have been withheld; and (2) the reason for withholding
benefits must have been unreasonable or without proper cause.” Love v. Fire
Ins. Exchange (1990) 221 Cal.App.3d 1136, 1151. “[A]n insurer may breach
the covenant of good faith and fair dealing when it fails to properly
investigate its insured's claim.” Egan v. Mutual of Omaha Ins. Co.
(1979) 24 Cal.3d 809, 817.
 
            First,
Defendants are entitled to summary adjudication of the second and third causes
of action because there was no underlying coverage for the loss based on the
exclusion identified in the analysis above. In addition, Defendants have also
established that summary adjudication is appropriate because it acted
reasonably in evaluating and investigating Plaintiff’s claim and there was a
genuine dispute regarding whether benefits were owed. 
 
            Again,
for the same reasons noted above, Plaintiff submitted no competent evidence to
show the existence of a triable issue of material fact as to whether Defendants
failed to adequately investigate the claim prior to making its coverage
determination. Plaintiff’s attempt to criticize the qualifications or training
of claims adjustor Maree Carney does not create a triable issue of material
fact. There is no authority for the proposition that a claims adjustor is
required to be a licensed contractor or plumber to make decisions regarding
claims coverage.
 
            Defendants
provided ample evidence that they conducted a prompt and reasonable
investigation of Plaintiff’s claim. Plaintiff submitted no competent evidence
which would show the existence of a triable issue of material fact. Again,
Plaintiff complains that Defendants should have attempted to investigate and
pursue an alternate theory that the mold that was found was “new mold.”
However, there is no showing that Defendants ignored specific evidence and
facts that the claim was, in fact, contrary to its ultimate decision, a covered
loss rather than excluded. Again, the specific evidence demonstrated moisture
intrusion that existed for over 14 days stemming from the October water leak.
Plaintiff merely speculates that there may have been another reason for the
moisture and/or water but provides no evidence other than the stray references
in the ServPro report. And, again, as noted above, if there was another
potential covered water loss that may have led to the mold, there is no showing
that Defendants were provided prompt notice of this alternative loss.  
 
               Thus,
Plaintiff failed to provide evidence wherein a trier of fact could reasonably
determine that Defendants handled the claim in an unreasonable and unfair
manner and denied the claim without proper investigation. 
 
            Finally,
as to Defendant Mercury General Corporation, there is no showing that this is a
contracting party, or any other evidence that would somehow hold this Defendant
liable for the acts alleged against co-Defendant CAIC.
 
            Thus,
for the foregoing reasons, Defendants’ motion for summary adjudication of the
second and third causes of action is granted. 
 
            Thus,
for the foregoing reasons, Defendants’ motion for summary judgment is granted.
 
            Defendants
are ordered to give notice of this ruling.