  Case Number:  23CHCV00037    Hearing Date:   March 4, 2024    Dept:  F51 
MARCH 1, 2024
 

MOTION TO COMPEL
DEPOSITION

Los Angeles Superior Court Case # 23CHCV00037

 
Motion filed: 9/27/23
 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiffs Haroon Temueri; and Shaheen
Temueri (collectively, “Plaintiffs”)
RESPONDING PARTY: Defendant Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC
(“Defendant”)
NOTICE: ok¿¿ 
 
RELIEF REQUESTED: An order compelling the Person(s)
Most Knowledgeable (“PMK”) and Custodian of Records for Defendant to appear in
person to be deposed. Plaintiff also requests monetary sanctions to be imposed
against Defendant and its counsel in the amount of $1,641.75.
 
TENTATIVE RULING: The
unopposed motion is granted. Defendant is ordered to produce its Person(s) Most
Knowledgeable and Custodian of Records to be deposed, and to produce the
documents specified in the deposition notice, on or before 4/4/24. The Court
imposes $525.00 in monetary sanctions against Defendant.
 
BACKGROUND
 
On 4/27/23,
Plaintiffs served a notice of deposition of Defendant’s PMK. (Ex. 1 to Decl. of
Christopher Urner.) Defendant failed to respond to the deposition notice or produce
its PMK for the deposition. (Urner Decl. ¶ 4.)
 
On 9/27/23, Plaintiffs filed the
instant motion to compel the deposition of the
Defendant’s PMK and Custodian of Records. No opposition has been filed to date.
 
ANALYSIS
            
A motion to compel a deposition must
(1) “set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the production for
inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible
thing described in the deposition notice;” and (2) “be accompanied by a meet
and confer declaration under Section 2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to
attend the deposition and produce the documents, electronically stored
information, or things described in the deposition notice, by a declaration
stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the
nonappearance.” (Id. at subd. (b) [emphasis added].)
 
1.      Meet and Confer
 
Here, Plaintiff’s counsel declares
that on 8/21/23, he emailed Defendant’s counsel inquiring about the
nonappearance and potential future dates for the deposition. (Urner Decl. ¶ 5.)
Accordingly, the Court finds that counsel has satisfied the meet-and-confer
requirement under Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.450, subdivision
(b)(2).)
 
2.      Good Cause
 
Here, Plaintiff asserts that there is good cause to depose
Defendant’s PMK and custodian of records because “Defendant’s knowledge
of the repair history and the engine cut-off and transmission concerns
including when it received such information, is relevant to determine whether
or not Defendant should have repurchased the vehicle but elected not to which
will subject Defendant to civil penalties. … Plaintiffs seek deposition
testimony regarding Defendant's belief that the vehicle does not qualify for
repurchase under California law and that MERCEDES-BENZ USA, LLC has no
obligation to do so. … The facts surrounding this topic go directly toward
liability under the Act and toward whether or not civil penalties may apply.”
(Pl.’s Mot. 9:10–10:2.)
 
The Court agrees
and finds that the testimony and documents sought are relevant to Plaintiffs’
claims that Defendant “willfully” violated the Song-Beverly Act, thereby
subjecting it to civil penalties. (Civ. Code § 1794, subd. (c).) The Court
further notes that Defendant has failed to oppose the instant
motion. Based on the foregoing, the Court orders the deposition of Defendant’s
PMK to be taken, with production of the requested documents, on or before 4/4/24.
 
3.      Sanctions
 
If the Court grants a motion to compel a deposition,
it “shall impose a monetary sanction … in favor of the party who noticed the
deposition and against the deponent or the party with whom the deponent is
affiliated, unless the court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.450, subd.
(g)(1).)
 
Here, Plaintiffs request monetary
sanctions in the total amount of $1,641.75 to
be imposed on Defendant and its counsel. This amount includes: (1) 1.5 hours of
Plaintiffs’ attorney’s time spent working on this motion; and (2) an
anticipated additional 1.5 hours reading Defendant’s opposition and drafting a
reply, at his hourly billing rate of $525.00 per hour. (Urner Decl. ¶ 10.)
Plaintiff further seeks to recover an additional $66.75 in filing fees. (Ibid.)
 
In granting the instant unopposed motion,
the Court finds it reasonable to award Plaintiff monetary sanctions against Defendant
and/or its counsel in the amount of $525.00. 
 
CONCLUSION
 
The unopposed motion is granted. Defendant is ordered
to produce its Person(s) Most Knowledgeable and Custodian of Records to be
deposed, and to produce the documents specified in the deposition notice, on or
before 4/4/24. The Court imposes $525.00 in monetary sanctions against
Defendant.