 Case Number:  23CHCV02619    Hearing Date:   March 4, 2024    Dept:  F51  MARCH 1, 2024    DEMURRER  Los Angeles Superior Court Case  # 23CHCV02619    Demurrer Filed: 10/11/23   MOVING PARTY: Defendants Timothy Burkhart; Timothy  Dofflow; Jeffrey D. Hudgins; and Justin Miyahira (collectively, “Moving  Defendants”) RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiffs  Anne Hawley and William Hawley, individually and as Successors in Interest to  Decedent, Christopher Hawley (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) NOTICE: OK   RELIEF REQUESTED: Moving Defendants demur against Plaintiffs’ entire complaint.   TENTATIVE RULING: The demurrer is overruled.   BACKGROUND    This is a  wrongful death action wherein Plaintiffs are the parents of decedent  Christopher Hawley (“Decedent”). Plaintiffs allege that on 6/23/22, Decedent  visited Six Flags Magic Mountain amusement park, located at 26101 Magic  Mountain Parkway in Valencia, California, and rode the X2 rollercoaster, after  which he sustained a brain injury resulting in his death. (Compl. ¶¶ 1, 24–32.)  Plaintiffs allege that Moving Defendants were employees of Six Flags Magic  Mountain “before, during, or around the time Decedent Christopher Hawley rode  X2 on June 23, 2022.” (Id. at ¶¶ 12–15.)   On 8/30/23,  Plaintiffs filed their complaint, alleging against seven named defendants the  following causes of action: (1) Strict Liability – Design Defect; (2) Strict  Liability – Failure to Warn; (3) Negligent Product Design; (4) Negligent  Failure to Warn; (5) Negligence; and (6) Premises Liability. All causes of  action other than the sixth are alleged against Moving Defendants.   On  10/11/23, Moving Defendants filed the instant demurrer. On 2/20/24, Plaintiffs  filed their opposition. On 2/26/24, Moving Defendants filed their reply. // // // ANALYSIS   Here, Moving  Defendants demur to Plaintiffs’ entire complaint on the basis that Plaintiffs  fail to allege facts to constitute any of the causes of action against Moving  Defendants.   1.      Meet  and Confer   Here, Moving Defendants’ counsel declares that on 9/25/23,  she sent Plaintiffs’ counsel a letter discussing the issues raised in the  instant demurrer. (Decl. of Sanaz Cherazaie ¶ 2.) On 9/29/23, counsel met and  conferred telephonically, but were unable to come to an informal resolution. (Id.  at ¶ 3.) Accordingly, the Court finds that counsel has satisfied the  preliminary meet and confer requirements of Code of Civil Procedure section  430.41, subdivision (a).   2.      Products  Liability Causes of Action   Plaintiffs’  first, second, third, and fourth causes of action respectively allege against  Defendants (1) Strict Liability – Design Defect; (2) Strict Liability – Failure  to Warn; (3) Negligent Product Design; and (4) Negligent Failure to Warn. “A  manufacturer, distributor, or retailer is liable in tort if a defect in the  manufacture or design of its product causes injury while the product is being  used in a reasonably foreseeable way.” (Soule v. General Motors Corp.  (1994) 8 Cal.4th 548, 560.) “A duty to warn or disclose danger arises when an  article is or should be known to be dangerous for its intended use, either  inherently or because of defects.” (DeLeon v. Commercial Manufacturing and  Supply Co. (1983) 148 Cal.App.3d 336, 343.)   Here,  Moving Defendants argue that Plaintiffs’ products liability causes of action  fail because “undoubtedly, Moving Defendants are not a manufacturer,  distributor, supplier, etc. that would subject them to liability under either  the law of products liability. Plaintiffs have not pled any specific facts as  to the individual Moving Defendants to support their products liability claims  against Moving Defendants. Plaintiffs have not alleged any facts to demonstrate  that the individual employees provided any product to Mr. Hawley.” (Dem.  9:22–26.)   In  opposition, Plaintiffs argue that they “allege that each Individual Defendant  was individually responsible for some aspect of X2’s (1) design, (2)  construction, maintenance, and/or operation pursuant to that design, (3)  certification to state authorities, and (4) safety.” (Pl.’s Opp. 11:17–12:2,  citing Compl. ¶¶ 12–15.) Specifically, Plaintiffs allege that: “Defendant  Burkhart was responsible for overseeing the maintenance and operation of rides  at Six Flags Magic Mountain, including the X2 rollercoaster, … Defendant  Dofflow was responsible for overseeing the maintenance of rides at Six Flags  Magic Mountain, including X2, … Defendant Hudgins was responsible for  certifying that rides at Six Flags Magic Mountain, including X2, meet all  applicable design requirements, and Defendant Miyahira was responsible for  ensuring the safety of Six Flags Magic Mountain patrons.” (Compl. ¶¶ 12–15.)   On reply, Moving  Defendants maintain that “Plaintiffs failed to state a claim for products  liability as moving Defendants are not a manufacturer, distributor, supplier,  etc. that would subject them to liability under either the law of products  liability.” (Defs.’ Reply 6:12–14.) However, the Court finds it sufficient that  Plaintiffs have alleged that each of the individual Moving Defendants was  responsible for the design, maintenance, operation, and/or safety of the X2  rollercoaster. As Plaintiffs observe, “the question of whether amusement park  rides give rise to liability under products-based causes of action requires a  well-developed evidentiary record.” (Pl.’s Opp. 11:24–25, fn.2, citing Sharufa  v. Festival Fun Parks, LLC (2020) 49 Cal.App.5th 493, 502–05.)   Based on  the foregoing, the Court finds that Plaintiffs have alleged facts sufficient to  constitute their products liability causes of action. Accordingly, the demurrer  is overruled as to Plaintiffs’ first, second, third, and fourth causes of  action.   3.      Negligence  Causes of Action   Plaintiffs’  third, fourth, and fifth causes of action respectively allege against  Defendants (3) Negligent Product Design; (4) Negligent Failure to Warn; and (5)  Negligence. To state a claim for negligence, a plaintiff must allege the  elements of (1) “the existence of a legal duty of care,” (2) “breach of that  duty,” and (3) “proximate cause resulting in an injury.” (McIntyre v.  Colonies-Pacific, LLC (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 664, 671.)   Here,  Moving Defendants argue that “there are no facts alleged in Plaintiffs’  Complaint related to Moving Defendants’ individual liability, whatsoever.” (Dem.  12:5–6.) “Plaintiffs’ Complaint fails to provide any factual details in which  Moving Defendants may ascertain the specific act Moving Defendants either  participated in or otherwise authorized/directed which serves as the basis for  his liability in this action.” (Id. at 13:2–4.) “Without facts  identifying the duty owed by Moving Defendants or how [each] Defendant  allegedly breached his purported duty, Plaintiffs’ conclusory allegation that  Defendant breached his duty (as alleged in Paragraph 89) does not pass muster.”  (Id. at 13:13–25.)   Moving  Defendants argue that “Plaintiffs alleging a claim against an officer or  director of a corporation must show that the individual defendant personally  directed or participated in the tortious conduct.” (Dem. 10:27–1:2, citing Frances  T. v. Village Green Owner Assn. (1986) 42 Cal.3d 490, 503.) In Frances  T., the plaintiff condominium unit owner brought an action against the condominium  owner’s association and individual members of its board of directors for  negligence, breach of contract and breach of fiduciary duty regarding injuries  she sustained when she was attacked in her unit. (42 Cal.3d at 495–497.)   The Frances  T. Court found that the plaintiff’s allegations were sufficient to show the  “defendant’s awareness of the need for additional lighting and of the fact that  lighting could aid in deterring criminal conduct, especially break-ins.” (Id.  at 503.) The Court concluded that “under the facts as alleged by plaintiff,  the directors named as defendants had specific knowledge of a hazardous  condition threatening physical injury to the residents, yet they failed to take  any action to avoid the harm; moreover, the action they did take may have  exacerbated the risk by causing plaintiff's unit to be without any lighting on  the night she was attacked. Plaintiff has thus pled facts to support two  theories of negligence, both of which state a cause of action under the  standard stated above.” (Id. at 509.)   Here,  Plaintiffs argue in opposition that they have similarly sufficiently alleged “that  the Individual Defendants, in their respective roles within Six Flags and Magic  Mountain which are identified in the Complaint, negligently contributed to the  design, production, maintenance, inspection, repair, maintenance, operation,  and warnings for X2, which negligence was a substantial and legal cause of Mr.  Hawley’s death after the ride caused him to suffer caused severe intracranial hemorrhaging.”  (Pls.’ Opp. 12:18–23.) “Plaintiffs’ Complaint clearly pleads that each  Individual Defendant had direct, personal involvement in the tortious activity,  which is alleged to have resulted in Mr. Hawley’s death.” (Id. at 13:7–9,  citing Compl. ¶¶ 12–15, 33–36, 38–42, 49–55, 62–66, 73–82, 89–92.) The Court  finds that here, similar to Frances T., Plaintiffs allege that Moving  Defendants were on notice of the hazardous nature of X2, yet “made the  conscious, knowing, and informed decision not to warm or otherwise inform Six  Flags Magic Mountain patrons and potential X2 passengers this danger.” (Compl.  ¶¶ 60, 87.)   Based on  the foregoing, the Court agrees with Plaintiffs, and finds it sufficient that at  the pleading stage, Plaintiffs have alleged facts to support each element of  negligence, including Moving Defendants’ duty to Plaintiffs (Compl. ¶¶ 63, 64, 74,  75, 89, 90), their breach thereof (Compl. ¶¶ 65, 91), causation (Compl. ¶¶ 66–69,  82–85, 92–95), and damages (Ibid.). Therefore, the Court finds that  Plaintiffs have alleged facts sufficient to constitute their negligence causes  of action. The Court again notes that further investigation of the merits of  Plaintiffs’ allegations may be resolved through the discovery process. Accordingly,  the demurrer is overruled as to Plaintiffs’ third, fourth, and fifth causes of  action.   CONCLUSION    The demurrer is overruled.MOTION TO STRIKE Los Angeles Superior Court Case  # 23CHCV02619  Motion Filed: 10/11/23 MOVING PARTY: Defendants Magic Mountain LLC; and Six  Flags Entertainment Corporation (collectively, “Moving Defendants”)RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiffs  Anne Hawley and William Hawley, individually and as Successors in Interest to  Decedent, Christopher Hawley (collectively, “Plaintiffs”)NOTICE: OK RELIEF REQUESTED: Moving  Defendants move to strike references relating to punitive damages from Plaintiffs’  complaint. TENTATIVE RULING: The motion is denied. BACKGROUND  On 10/11/23,  Moving Defendants filed the instant motion to strike. On 2/14/24, Plaintiffs  filed their opposition. On 2/22/24, Moving Defendants filed their reply./ANALYSIS The court may, upon a motion, or at any  time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant,  false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436,  subd. (a).) The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn  or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order  of the court. (Id., § 436, subd. (b).) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the  face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Id., § 437.) A.    Meet  and Confer Moving Defendants have not attached a meet-and-confer  declaration to the instant motion. However, “a determination by the  court that the meet and confer process was insufficient shall not be grounds to  grant or deny the motion to strike.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 435.5, subd. (a)(4).) B.     Punitive  Damages Punitive  damages may be recovered upon a proper showing of malice, fraud, or oppression  by clear and convincing evidence. (Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (a).) “Malice” is  defined as conduct intended to cause injury to a person or despicable conduct  carried on with a willful and conscious disregard for the rights or safety of  others. (Id. at subd. (c); Turman v. Turning Point of Cent. Cal.,  Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 63.) “Oppression” means despicable conduct  subjecting a person to cruel and unjust hardship, in conscious disregard of the  person’s rights. (Ibid.) “Fraud” is an intentional misrepresentation,  deceit, or concealment of a material fact known by defendant, with intent to  deprive a person of property, rights or otherwise cause injury. (Ibid.) 1.       Malice, Fraud, or Oppression Punitive damages  must be supported by factual allegations. Conclusory allegations, devoid of any  factual assertions, are insufficient to support a conclusion that parties acted  with oppression, fraud or malice. (Smith v. Superior Court (1992) 10  Cal.App.4th 1033, 1042; Anschutz Entertainment Group, Inc. v. Snepp  (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 598, 643.) In the  complaint, Plaintiffs allege that “Defendants, and each of them, knew, and at  various times reported to state safety authorities, numerous prior injuries  caused by the normal and intended operation of X and X2 including, but not  limited to, severe back, spine, neck, and head injuries, as well as traumatic  brain injuries. Plaintiffs are informed and believe, and thereon allege, that  Defendants, and each of them, have been involved in prior litigation involving  such injuries.” (Compl. ¶ 33.) Plaintiffs further allege that “despite this  knowledge, said Defendants consciously disregarded these known and appreciated  risks and instead made the conscious, knowing, and informed decision not to  redesign X2, putting park profits over the safety of their paying customers.” (Id.  at ¶ 47.) Here,  Moving Defendants argue that “the subject Complaint states nothing more than a  prayer for punitive damages, and general allegations of ‘oppressive,  fraudulent, or malicious intent.’” (MTS 8:18–19.) In  opposition, Plaintiffs argue that they have sufficiently met the pleading  standard for punitive damages because the “Complaint asserts that these  Defendants were responsible for owning, operating, and controlling X2, the ride  that caused Mr. Hawley’s death. As owners, operators, and controllers of X2,  Plaintiffs assert that Six Flags and Magic were both involved in the redesign  process for X2, and … were responsible for X2’s warning, which was inadequate,  failing to inform patrons that severe back, spine, neck, and head injuries, as  well as traumatic brain injuries, may result from the normal and intended  operation of the ride. Finally, Plaintiffs’ Complaint asserts that Six Flags  and Magic Mountain consciously disregarded the safety of X2 passengers by  ignoring these known and appreciated risks, along with the countless  publicly-posted concerns and complaints by prior X2 passengers regarding the  very safety issues that resulted in Mr. Hawley’s death.” (Pls.’ Opp. 11:24–12:6,  citing Compl. ¶¶ 11, 23, 33–35, 47, 60, 71, 87, 97, and 108.) On reply,  Moving Defendants argue that “Plaintiffs have failed to point to any clear and  convincing evidence that Defendants acted with a willful and conscious  disregard for the safety of others.” (Defs.’ Reply 5:26–27.) Moving Defendants  further argue that Plaintiffs have not sufficiently alleged “actual notice of  any risks, dangers, and unsafe conditions of the X2 ride, merely because an [sic]  plaintiff alleged the same in another litigation case, which resulted in no  findings of fault against Defendants.” (Id. at 6:17–19.) The Court  declines to weigh the merits of Plaintiffs’ factual allegations at the pleading  stage. Based on  the foregoing factual allegations, the Court finds that at this stage, Moving Defendants’  alleged conduct, as pled, may be considered malicious and oppressive as defined  by Civil Code section 3294. Further investigation of the merits of Plaintiffs’  allegations may be resolved through the discovery process. 2.       Employer Liability “An  employer shall not be liable for [punitive] damages … based upon acts of an  employee of the employer, unless the employer had advance knowledge of the  unfitness of the employee and employed him or her with a conscious disregard of  the rights or safety of others or authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct  for which the damages are awarded or was personally guilty of oppression,  fraud, or malice. With respect to a corporate employer, the advance knowledge and  conscious disregard, authorization, ratification or act of oppression, fraud,  or malice must be on the part of an officer, director, or managing agent of the  corporation.” (Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (b).) In their  complaint, Plaintiffs name four individual Defendants who were employees of Six  Flags Magic Mountain “before, during, or around the time Decedent Christopher  Hawley rode X2 on June 23, 2022.” (Compl. ¶¶ 12–15.) Plaintiffs further allege  that “the aforementioned acts were committed by Defendants, and each of them,  by and through their respective officers, directors, managing agents, agents  and/or representatives and/or were known to, aided, abetted, authorized by,  ratified by and/or otherwise approved by their respective officers, directors,  managing agents and/or representatives.” (Compl. ¶¶ 46, 59, 70, 86, 96, 107.) Here, Moving  Defendants argue that “there are no allegations against any particular  officers, directors or managing agents of Magic Mountain, LLC and Six Flags Entertainment  Corp., which would support a punitive damage award.” (MTS 10:2–4.) “Plaintiffs  do not allege specific facts to support acts of malice, oppression, or fraud on  against the individual employee Defendants. Moreover, Plaintiffs do not allege  facts to support a finding that the individual employee Defendants, or any  directors, officers, or managing agents, had specific knowledge of any wrongful  conduct and ratified the same.” (Id. at 11:4–7.) In  opposition, Plaintiffs argue that Moving “Defendants once again attempt to  fabricate a strict pleading requirement that Plaintiffs are not required, by  law, to meet.” (Pls.’ Opp. 6:25–26.) The Court agrees. As Plaintiffs observe, “Plaintiffs  need not include the level of detail that Six Flags and Magic Mountain believe  is required. Through discovery, Plaintiffs will be able to identify the  specific names of the Six Flags and Magic Mountain officers, directors,  managing agents, or other corporate decisionmakers who (a) negotiated and  worked with Arrow Dynamics to design and build X2’s predecessor, X, (b)  negotiated with S&S Worldwide to design X2, (c) signed the pertinent  contracts, (d) oversaw the design and construction of X2, (e) drafted X2’s warning  language, (f) oversee the company’s receipt and analysis of prior accidents and  injuries, (g) control the day-today operation of X2, and (h) are responsible  for monitoring the safety of X2.” (Id. at 14:12–19.) Based on  the foregoing, the Court finds that at this stage, Plaintiffs have sufficiently  alleged that Moving Defendants ratified/approved of the allegedly wrongful  conduct by their agents and/or employees. The Court again notes that further  investigation of the merits of Plaintiffs’ allegations may be resolved through  the discovery process. Accordingly, the Court denies Moving Defendants’ motion  to strike portions of Plaintiffs’ complaint referencing punitive damages. CONCLUSION   The motion to  strike is denied.