..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is the summary in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 23SMCV05190
Plaintiff's Name: Richard Cortijo, Cesar Madera
Defendant's Name: 727 Westbourne Vila B, LP, Moss Management Services Inc., Beach Front Property Management, Inc.
People-Names: Richard Cortijo, Cesar Madera
Company-Names: 727 Westbourne Vila B, LP, Moss Management Services Inc., Beach Front Property Management, Inc.
Places: 
Dates: January 10, 2014, November 2022, January 2023, February 28, 2024
Events: Construction work, failure to repair property, allegations of intentional infliction of emotional distress, promissory estoppel
Money: 
Intentions: 
Facts: Plaintiffs entered into a written rental agreement with defendant 727, defendants allegedly engaged in unauthorized and unsafe construction, plaintiffs alleged health issues and made complaints to defendants, defendants failed to repair property and respond to complaints
Disputes: Demurrers, motion to strike
Acts: Failure to repair property, failure to obtain permits, failure to notify tenants, alleged intentional infliction of emotional distress
Agreements: Written rental agreement, property management contracts
Laws: California Code of Civil Procedure, California Civil Code, Restatement (Second) of Torts
Case Citations: Gould v. Maryland Sound Industries, Inc., Pastoria v. Nationwide Ins., Ascherman v. Gen. Reinsurance Corp., StorMedia Inc. v. Superior Court, Scott v. JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., Berkley v. Dowds, Newby v. Alto Riviera Apartments, Marina Point, Ltd. v. Wolfson, Advanced Choices, Inc. v. State Dept. of Health Services, Aceves v. U.S. Bank, N.A., Bustamante v. Intuit, Inc., Garcia v. World Savings, FSB, National Dollar Stores v. Wagnon, Ebaugh v. Rabkin, Weeks v. Baker & McKenzie
Statutes: California Code of Civil Procedure, California Civil Code
Roles: Judge, Plaintiffs, Defendants
Significant Statements:
* The demurrers to the seventh and eighth causes of action are SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.
* The demurrer to the property damage cause of action is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.
* The motion to strike is GRANTED IN PART.
* Plaintiffs will have 30 days' leave to amend.
```

And here is a brief summary in English text:

The judge's tentative ruling addresses several issues related to the case. The demurrers to the seventh and eighth causes of action are sustained with leave to amend, while the demurrer to the property damage cause of action is sustained without leave to amend. The motion to strike is granted in part, striking certain requests for punitive damages and attorneys' fees. The court notes that the plaintiffs' claims for intentional infliction of emotional distress and promissory estoppel are insufficient, and that the property damage cause of action is unclear. The court grants plaintiffs 30 days' leave to amend their complaint.
