 Case Number:  23SMCV05190    Hearing Date:   February 28, 2024    Dept:  I The demurrers to the seventh and eighth causes of action are
SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.  The
demurrer as to the property damage cause of action is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE
TO AMEND.  The motion to strike is
GRANTED IN PART.  Plaintiffs have 30
days’ leave to amend.
Plaintiffs Richard Cortijo
and Cesar Madera (collectively “plaintiffs”) filed this landlord-tenant action
against defendants 727 Westbourne Vila B, LP (727), Moss Management Services
Inc. (Moss), and Beach Front Property Management, Inc. (Beach Front, and
collectively “defendants”).  According to
the operative complaint, plaintiffs entered into a written rental agreement
with defendant 727 on or around January 10, 2014.  (Compl., ¶11.)  Defendants Moss and Beach Front are property
managers for the property.  (Id.
at ¶12.)  Plaintiffs allege that
defendants have engaged in unauthorized and unsafe construction in the property
from November 2022 to the present. (Id. at ¶14.)  Among other things, defendants allegedly
failed to obtain permits and notify tenants of the construction when it
started, and failed to comply with safety and air safety standards concerning
asbestos.  (Id. at ¶¶15-16.)  Plaintiffs contend that these activities were
meant to force tenants to leave—in essence a constructive eviction in the rent
controlled apartments.  (Id. at
¶17.)  Plaintiffs assert that the
property is unfit for human occupation, contains water damage, has surface
asbestos, and is riddled with mold spores. 
(Id. at ¶18.)  Plaintiffs
state they told defendants about the construction debris and their ongoing
health issues, including continuous migraines, body aches, vomiting, diarrhea,
and fatigue, for which they have been receiving treatment since January
2023.  (Id. at ¶20.)  Further, the workers at the property
allegedly made homophobic and derogatory statements to plaintiffs, to the point
where it became so bad that plaintiffs had to call the Sheriff’s
Department.  (Id. at ¶¶21-22.)
Currently before the court
is defendants’ demurrer and motion to strike the complaint.  Plaintiffs filed oppositions limited to
certain arguments.
Defendants’ request for
judicial notice is GRANTED. Exhibit A is the grant deed, which is the proper
subject of judicial notice.  Exhibits B
and C are the property management contracts between the other defendants and
727.  A contract between private parties
is usually not subject to judicial notice. 
(Gould v. Maryland Sound Industries, Inc. (1995) 31 Cal.App.4th
1137, 1145.)  However, a court can take
judicial notice of a contract when there is no dispute regarding its
authenticity and enforceability.  (Pastoria
v. Nationwide Ins. (2003) 112 Cal.App.4th 1490, 1495 fn. 4; see also Ascherman
v. Gen. Reinsurance Corp. (1986) 183 Cal.App.3d 307, 310-311; StorMedia
Inc. v. Superior Court (1999) 20 Cal.4th 449, 457, fn. 9.)  Judicial notice may be taken of facts that
clearly derive from a contract’s legal effect. 
(Scott v. JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (2013) 214 Cal.App.4th 743,
754.)  Here, the opposition does not take
issue with the contracts’ authenticity and enforceability.  Judicial notice is GRANTED.
Defendants demur to the
seventh, eighth, and ninth causes of action on the grounds of failure to state
sufficient facts and uncertainty.  (See
Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subds. (e), (f).) 
“[D]emurrers for uncertainty are disfavored, and are granted only if the
pleading is so incomprehensible that a defendant cannot reasonably
respond.”  (Lickiss v. Fin. Industry
Regulatory Authority (2012) 208 Cal.App.4th 1125, 1135.)  A demurrer for uncertainty does not address
whether the pleading fails to “incorporate sufficient facts in the pleading but
is directed at the uncertainty existing in the allegations actually made.”  (Butler v. Sequeira (1950) 100
Cal.App.2d 143, 145-146.)  Rather, a
demurrer is intended to address whether a pleading is so incomprehensible that
a defendant cannot understand the allegations actually made.  (Id. at p. 146.) The only arguments
asserted by defendants pertain to the ground of failure to state sufficient
facts.  Thus, the demurrers for
uncertainty are unsubstantiated and OVERRULED.
The demurrer to the
seventh cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress is
SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND. 
Defendants argue that their failure to the repair the property does not
qualify as outrageous conduct.  One of
the requisite elements of an intentional infliction of mental distress claim is
that a defendant’s conduct must be outrageous. 
(Berkley v. Dowds (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518, 533.)  “ ‘In order to meet the first requirement of
the tort, the alleged conduct “ ‘ . . . must be so extreme as to exceed all
bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized community.’  [Citation.] Generally, conduct will be found
to be actionable where the ‘recitation of the facts to an average member of the
community would arouse his resentment against the actor, and lead him to
exclaim, “Outrageous!”’ (Rest.2d Torts, § 46, com. d.)”  [Citation.]’ 
(Ibid.)  [¶] Whether a
defendant's conduct can reasonably be found to be outrageous is a question of
law that must initially be determined by the court; if reasonable persons may
differ, it is for the jury to determine whether the conduct was, in fact,
outrageous.  (Alcorn v. Anbro
Engineering, Inc. (1970) 2 Cal.3d 493, 499.)”  (Id. at pp. 533–534, citing Cochran
v. Cochran (1998) 65 Cal.App.4th 488, 494 in part.)
The court agrees. The
claim is predicated solely on defendants’ failure to repair the property and
respond to plaintiffs’ concerns.  In
particular, plaintiffs allege that “Defendants’ failure to repair the Property
into a safe living condition and repeated failures to remedy the defect after
Plaintiff’s continuous requests were knowing, intentional and willfully done
with disregard to Plaintiff’s safety, causing Plaintiffs severe emotional
distress.”  (Compl., ¶59.)  The court does not believe that construction
work and failure to remedy defects, standing alone, constitutes outrageous
behavior.  But that does not mean that
plaintiffs will be unable to elaborate further in a way that will cure the
problem, and they have leave to so attempt.
The opposition argues that
IIED claims are properly brought against landlords by tenants raising
habitability issues.  One of the
requisite elements of an intentional infliction of mental distress claim is
that a defendant’s conduct must be outrageous. 
(Newby v. Alto Riviera Apartments (1976) 60 Cal.App.3d 288, 297,
disapproved of on another ground by Marina Point, Ltd. v. Wolfson (1982)
30 Cal.3d 721, 740, fn. 9.)  For the
purposes of a claim for intentional infliction of emotional distress,
“[b]ehavior may be considered outrageous if a defendant (1) abuses a relation
or position which gives him power to damage the plaintiff's interest; (2) knows
the plaintiff is susceptible to injuries through mental distress; or (3) acts
intentionally or unreasonably with the recognition that the acts are likely to
result in illness through mental distress.” 
(Ibid.)  Courts have stated
there is a special relationship between residential landlords and tenants when
considering whether the landlord’s conduct was outrageous.  (Ibid.)  And “[I]t is clear that the availability of a
remedy for breach of implied warranty of habitability does not preclude a
tenant from suing his landlord for intentional infliction of mental distress if
the landlord's acts are extreme and outrageous and result in severe mental
distress.”  (Stoiber v. Honeychuck
(1980) 101 Cal.App.3d 903, 922.)  But the
existence of a special relationship does not mean that the actions are
outrageous. That is the missing issue here for plaintiffs.  On the other hand, it could be that
plaintiffs are trying to allege that the habitability issues were more than
just inattention to complaints but rather were a deliberate attempt by the
landlord to make things so bad that plaintiffs would be compelled to move out.  That is different.  If that is what plaintiffs contend, they will
need to say so clearly, but if they do, that would be enough.  Failing to fix problems might be actionable,
but it is hard to see that alone as an IIED cause of action.  But deliberately letting things get so bad
that the tenant is forced to leave irrespective of the health and other effects
those issues have on a tenant is another. 
Similarly, things like failing to get a permit would not qualify as
outrageous conduct, but a claim that the conditions were so bad as to be
life-threatening (or were likely to cause severe injury) could be enough if
defendants were aware of that risk and chose to subject plaintiffs to it.  Leave to amend will be granted to allow
plaintiffs to so allege if that is what they are trying to say.  If they do, the court would not expect to see
a renewed demurrer.  The demurrer is
therefore SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.
The demurrer to the
promissory estoppel claim is also SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.  “ ‘ “The elements of a promissory estoppel
claim are ‘(1) a promise clear and unambiguous in its terms; (2) reliance by
the party to whom the promise is made; (3)[the] reliance must be both
reasonable and foreseeable; and (4) the party asserting the estoppel must be
injured by his reliance.’ ” ‘  (Advanced
Choices, Inc. v. State Dept. of Health Services (2010) 182 Cal.App.4th
1661, 1672.)”  (Aceves v. U.S. Bank,
N.A. (2011) 192 Cal.App.4th 218, 225, parallel citations omitted.)  “To be enforceable, a promise need only be ‘
“definite enough that a court can determine the scope of the duty[,] and the
limits of performance must be sufficiently defined to provide a rational basis
for the assessment of damages.” ’  (Bustamante
v. Intuit, Inc., supra, 141 Cal.App.4th at p. 209, quoting Ladas v.
California State Auto. Assn. (1993) 19 Cal.App.4th 761, 770.)”  (Garcia v. World Savings, FSB (2010)
183 Cal.App.4th 1031, 1045, parallel citations omitted.)  “ ‘Estoppel cannot be established from . . .
preliminary discussions and negotiations.’ 
(National Dollar Stores v. Wagnon (1950) 97 Cal.App.2d 915,
919.)”  (Id. at p. 1044, parallel
citations omitted.)  Rather, the
discussions must mature to a point of a clear and certain promise.
Plaintiffs’ promissory
estoppel claim revolves around promises made when they moved into the
property.  “Defendants made a clear and
unambiguous promise to Plaintiffs that the Property had been rid of toxic mold
and toxic mold spores prior to Plaintiffs moving into the Property.  [¶] Plaintiffs reasonably and justifiably
relied on Defendants’ promise that the Property was safe and habitable prior to
moving into the Property as Defendants were thought to be a respected physician
and to be in a place to know whether the home was rid of poisonous toxins.  As such, Plaintiffs did not conduct any
investigation into the potential presence of toxic mold and/or toxic mold
spores, because it had been purportedly done by Defendants.”  (Compl., ¶¶66-67.)  Defendant 727 establishes that it could not
have made any such promise because it became the owner of the properly in May
2022. (RJN, Exh. A.)  Plaintiffs allege
they moved into the property in 2014. 
That temporal irregularity dooms the cause of action, at least as to
those promises.
Defendants further argue
there is no clear and ambiguous promise.  
The court agrees. The promise, as alleged, does not set out the parties’
respective duties or provide the limit of performance so the court can determine
damages.  There is no opposition to the
demurrer to this cause of action. 
Plaintiffs will be given an opportunity to cure this problem.  If plaintiffs want to try and amend, they may
do so, but they must comply with the tort’s requirements.
Finally, the demurrer is
SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND as to the ninth cause of action for “property
damages.”  The court does not know what
this is and a request for relief is not a separate cause of action.  The request can be incorporated in other
causes of action.
Turning to the motion to
strike, it is GRANTED IN PART and DENIED IN PART.  Defendants move to strike plaintiffs’
requests for punitive damages and attorneys’ fees.  The motion is MOOT as to paragraphs 64 and 70
because the demurrers to the seventh and eighth causes of action were
sustained.  The motion is GRANTED as to
paragraphs 33 (negligence per se), and 40 (negligent failure to perform covenant
to repair).  Paragraphs 33 and 40 sound
in negligence and are not a proper basis for punitive damages.  “Mere spite or ill will is not sufficient;
and mere negligence, even gross negligence is not sufficient to justify an
award of punitive damages.”  (Ebaugh
v. Rabkin (1972) 22 Cal.App.3d 891, 894, emphasis in original.)
The breach of implied
warranty and nuisance claims arise out of the construction issues and health
concerns plaintiffs faced.  These
allegations also do not rise to the level of malice, oppression, or fraud.  Further, the punitive damages allegations in
general do not satisfy Civil Code section 3294 subdivision (b).  Plaintiffs seek punitive damages against
three entities, but there are no allegations of advance knowledge, personal
involvement by an officer or director, or ratification.  There is nothing for the court to make even
an inference off of on this issue. 
“Subdivision (b) thus authorizes the imposition of punitive damages on
an employer in three situations: (1) when an employee was guilty of oppression,
fraud or malice, and the employer with advance knowledge of the unfitness of
the employee employed him or her with a conscious disregard of the rights or
safety of others, (2) when an employee was guilty of oppression, fraud or
malice, and the employer authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct, or (3)
when the employer was itself guilty of the oppression, fraud or malice.”  (Weeks v. Baker & McKenzie (1998)
63 Cal.App.4th 1128, 1151.)  As such, the
motion is GRANTED in this regard. 
Plaintiffs have 30 days’ leave to amend.
The motion is DENIED as to
attorneys’ fees. That can be decided via noticed motion should the need
arise.  The court notes, though, that it
will not award attorneys’ fees absent a legal basis to do so. 