  Case Number:  23STCV03252    Hearing Date:   January 3, 2025    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



LYNN STEPANIAN 
  
        
  vs.
 
RCM
  ENTERTAINMENT SERVICES, INC.
  


 Case
  No.:  23STCV03252
 
 
 
 Hearing Date: January 3, 2025



 
 
Raven
Defendants’ demurrer is OVERRULED. 
 
On 2/14/2023, Lynn Stepanian (Plaintiff) initiated this
action. On 7/15/2024, Plaintiff filed a Second Amended Complaint (SAC) against
10 different Defendants, alleging: (1) breach of contract; (2) quantum meruit;
(3) breach of good faith and fair dealing; (4) wrongful termination; (5) unjust
enrichment; (6) fraudulent inducement; (7) fraudulent transfer; (8) wrongful
termination; (9) discrimination; (10) retaliation; (11) violation of Labor Code
sections 201 and 203; (12) declaratory relief; (13) promissory estoppel; (14)
intentional infliction of emotional distress; and (15) violation of Business
and Professions Code section 17200. 
 
            On 8/14/2023, Raven Capital
Management, LLC, (Raven Capital Management), Rive Releasing, LLC, (Rive
Releasing), OR Acquisition Co, LLC, (OR Acquisition), Rive TM, LLC, (Rive TM),
Rive CS, LLC, (Rive CS), RCM AWC, LLC, (RCM AWC), RCM Film Services LLC (RCM
Film Services), James Masciello, (Masciello), and Matthew Sidari, (Sidari, and
collectively the Defendants) demurred to the SAC.
 
            On
11/22/2024, Defendants Raven Capital Management (Raven), Rive Releasing LLC
(Rive), OR Acquisition Co., LLC (OR Acquisition), Rive TM, LLC (Rive TM), Rive
CS, LLC (Rive CS), RCM AWC, LLC (RCM AWC), RCM Film Services LLC (RCM Film),
James Masciello, and Matthew Sidari (collectively, the Raven Defendants) demurred
to the SAC. 
 
Discussion 
 
            Raven
Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s SAC is defective because it was filed without
leave to amend, and that the Raven Defendants are not proper parties to this
case.
 
            As
to the first contention that Plaintiff filed an SAC without leave to amend,
this is incorrect. The Court granted Plaintiff’s oral motion for leave to amend
on 6/7/2024, as reflected in the Court’s 6/7/2024 Minute Order: “Plaintiff's
oral motion to file a Second Amended Complaint as to RCM Entertainment Services
only is granted.” (P’s RJN, Exh. B.) 
 
            As
to the second contention, Raven Defendants argue that they are not proper
parties here because Plaintiff knew their identity and the facts giving rise to
her cause of action, and that alter-ego is not properly pled. 
 
            However,
as to knowledge, Plaintiff’s SAC alleges that the fraudulent transfer occurred after
she filed her Complaint as part of an effort to avoid paying Plaintiff the
wages sought in her Complaint. As such, the fact that Plaintiff was aware of
the identities of the Raven Defendants is not determinative here, given that
she has alleged facts which could show she did not yet know the facts to
support causes of action against them. While Raven Defendants may dispute this,
this is a factual determination not properly made at this pleading stage. 
 
            As
to alter-ego, to sufficiently allege alter ego liability, the plaintiff must
allege facts which could show: (1) a unity of interest and ownership such that
their separate personalities no longer exist, and (2) failure to disregard the
corporate entity would sanction a fraud or bring about injustice. (Mesler v.
Bragg Management Co. (1985) 39 Cal.3d 290, 300.) 
 
            Here,
Plaintiff alleges that:
 
-        
RCM and each of the Raven Defendants
were wholly owned and controlled by Raven. (SAC ¿¿ 2-9.)
 
-        
RCM and the Raven Defendants were all
controlled and managed by Raven’s Chief Executive Officer and principle,
Masciello, as well as Raven’s Director, Sidari. (SAC ¿¿ 10-11.)
 
-        
RCM Film was formed on November 13,
2023, after plaintiff filed this lawsuit in February 2023, and has the same
employees, office, telephone number, and management as RCM. (SAC ¿ 13.) 
 
Accepted as
true, these allegations are sufficient to show a unity of interest at the
pleading stage. More specific facts which can establish unity of interest are
contemplated by the discovery process. 
 
 Plaintiff also alleges that serious injustice
and fraud would result if there was a failure to pierce RCM’s corporate veil.
More specifically, Plaintiff alleges that Raven Defendants were created to
allow RCM to avoid any liability for its alleged wrongful actions. (SAC ¿ 74.) As such, a failure
to pierce the corporate veil would enable this alleged fraudulent conduct. 
 
As such, the
Court finds alter-ego liability to be sufficiently pled. 
 
Finally,
Raven Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s individual causes of action are
insufficiently pled. However, all of Raven Defendants’ arguments are either
unpersuasive or turn on factual determinations not properly made here. 
 
For example,
Raven Defendants argue that her wrongful termination claim is insufficiently
pled because “Plaintiff utterly fails to articulate what public policy is
implicated by her seeking payment for work she allegedly completed outside the
scope of her employment.” (Motion, 23: 4-6.) However, Plaintiff clearly alleges
that he was denied wages owed, retaliated against, and discriminated against.
As such, Plaintiff has alleged facts which could show wrongful conduct which
violates California public policy interests. Similarly, Raven Defendants argue
that Plaintiff hasn’t alleged any facts which could show severe emotional
distress. However, allegations that she was wrongfully terminated and
retaliated/discriminated against clearly can support this cause of action at
the pleadings stage.   
 
By way of
another example, Raven Defendants argue that her employment contract plainly
provides that she was employed only by RCM, not Raven. However, Plaintiff
alleges alter-ego liability. As such, whether or not she was, in fact, an
employee of Raven will require factual determinations related to
alter-ego.   
 
At the
pleading stage, the Court finds each cause of action is sufficiently alleged. 
 
Based on the
foregoing, Raven Defendants’ demurrer is overruled. 
 
It is
so ordered. 
 
Dated:  January   
, 2025
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend
to submit on this tentative must send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party
submits on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and
must identify the party submitting on the tentative.  If all parties to a
motion submit, the court will adopt this tentative as the final order.  If the department does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on the tentative and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed off calendar.  For more information, please contact the
court clerk at (213) 633-0517.  
 
 