 Case Number:  24STCV23093    Hearing Date:   January 3, 2025    Dept:  17 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



FN-OSM
  INC. 
                           
         vs.
 
LABY
  PROPERTY GROUP, LLC, et al. 
 


 Case No.: 
  24STCV23093
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date:  January 3, 2025



 
Defendant’s
motion to quash is GRANTED.  
 
            On
9/9/2024, Plaintiff FN-OSM Inc. (Plaintiff) filed suit against Laby Property
Group, LLC (Defendant), alleging breach of contract. 
 
            On
12/6/2024, Defendant moved to quash service of summons. 
 
Discussion 
 
            Defendant
argues that service in this case was defective, as the proof of service
indicates that service was made at an unassociated address purportedly on its
old registered agent (Mike Matzner), despite that the description in the proof
of service does not match Matzner.  
 
            Plaintiff’s
proof of service states that on 10/30/2024, service was made personally on Laby
Property Group, LLC, at 28625 Forest Meadow Pl, Castaic, CA 91384, on
10/23/2024, via its old registered agent Mike Matzner.
 
            However,
Defendant submitted evidence that the Secretary of State website lists Laby’s
property management group’s address of 17547 Ventura Blvd. #304, Encino, CA
91316, for the entity (which is where Mr. Matzner works), and it also lists
5945 Canoga Ave. Woodland Hills, CA 91367 as a mailing address. 
 
The address
listed on the Proof of Service of “28625 Forest Meadow Pl, Castaic, CA 91384”
is not associated with Defendant, and Defendant’s counsel indicated that he was
not able to find the address listed on any document associated with Defendant. 
 
Defendant’s
counsel also submitted evidence that he has met Mr. Matzner personally, and he
does not match the description of the person served in the proof of service.
Mr. Matzner is a much larger individual, both in height and in weight.
Defendant’s counsel does not know Mr. Matzner’s age, but would estimate he is
significantly younger than 60. 
 
Once service
is challenged by way of a motion to quash, plaintiffs carry the burden of
proving the validity of service. (Dill v. Berquist Construction Co.
(1994) 24 Cal.App.4th 1426, 1439- 40.) Here, Plaintiff has not submitted
evidence to rebut Defendant’s substantial evidence indicating invalid service. Rather,
Plaintiff indicates that counsel employed skip tracing to locate Mr. Matzner’s
home address. However, Plaintiff does not set forth any legal authority to show
that service of a corporation by service on the agent at their personal
residence is code-compliant. (“This failure to cite pertinent legal authority
is enough reason to reject the argument”); Akins v. State of California (1998)
61 Cal.App.4th 1, 50, 71 (contention waived by failure to cite legal
authority). Plaintiff also does not address the contention that the individual
described in the proof of service does not match Mr. Matzner’s description. 
 
Plaintiff
also argues that this motion is untimely citing CCP section 418.10. However,
Plaintiff still opposed the motion on the merits, and there is no indication of
prejudice if the motion is heard. 
 
As a final
note, the Court wishes to address the procedural history of this action, as
relayed by Defendant’s counsel in the moving papers. Specifically, Defendant’s
counsel wrote: 
 
Plaintiff’s
counsel Nava initially reached out to the Defendant’s property manager,
indicating his client held some claim, but failed to divulge the essence of the
claim. Defendant’s counsel reached out to inquire, and after several follow up
emails, still nothing of substance was communicated.
 
Eventually a
phone call was had, and Defendant’s counsel recalls that the claim explained by
Plaintiff’s counsel as one which was precluded by the limitations of the lease,
e.g. damages limited by insurance recovery under an AIR lease, when no such
recovery was had.
 
Plaintiff’s
counsel then indicated suit had been filed. Defendant’s counsel inquired with
his client as to whether it had been received, and followed up, no suit was
ever served or received in any manner by the Defendant or its property
management group.
 
Defendant’s
counsel requested a copy from Plaintiff’s counsel, who, over the course of ten
emails indicated only that a case had been filed, but continuously failed to
provide a case number, or a conformed complaint. Eventually a file was sent,
which was corrupted, and default was threatened. Defendant’s counsel responded
that the file was corrupted, and that he could not file a response without even
a case number, and demanded that a case number be pasted into the email if
Plaintiff’s counsel was not playing games.
 
Defendant’s
counsel, only this day, December 6, 2024, at approximately 8:00pm, finally
received the case number in an email from Plaintiff’s counsel
            
            (Motion,
3: 8-19.)
 
            The
Court is concerned by this conduct and advises Plaintiff’s counsel to avoid
future gamesmanship and unnecessary motion practice where possible.
 
            Based on the foregoing, Defendant’s
motion to quash is granted.  
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  January   
, 2025
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 