  Case Number:  23GDCV02293    Hearing Date:   December 2, 2024    Dept:  V SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA  COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES –  NORTHEAST DISTRICT  DEPARTMENT V  HONORATO ALTAMIRANO TORRES, by  and through his Guardian ad Litem, Roberto Ayala,Plaintiff,vs. LAC VERDUGO OPERATIONS, LLC  dba GLENDALE POST ACUTE CENTER; CAMBRIDGE HEALTHCARE SERVICES, LLC; and DOES 1  through 100.,Defendants. Case No.: 23GDCV02293  Hearing Date: October 15, 202Time: 8:30 a.m.[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:  PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO FORM INTERROGATORIES, SET ONE  PROPOUNDED ON CAMBRIDGE HEALTHCARE SERVICES, LLCMOVING PARTY: Plaintiff  HONORATO ALTAMIRANO TORRES, by and through his Guardian Ad Litem, Roberto AyalaRESPONDING PARTY: Defendant  LAC VERDUGO OPERATIONS, LLC, dba LLC GLENDALE POST ACUTE CENTER The court considered the  moving papers, Opposition, and Reply.  BACKGROUND  Plaintiff Honorato Altamirano  Torres (plaintiff), by and through his Guardian Ad Litem, Roberto Ayala, filed  the complaint against defendants LAC Verdugo Operations, LLC dba Glendale Post  Acute Center and Cambridge Healthcare Services, LLC on October 30, 2023.  Defendant Cambridge Healthcare Services, LLC is the operator of the facility  located at 250 N Verdugo Road, Glendale, California 91206, defendant LAC  Verdugo Operations, LLC dba Glendale Post Acute Center (facility). Plaintiff  alleges elder abuse and neglect, violation of residents’ bill of rights, and  negligence against defendants. Plaintiff was born on February 16, 1947, and was  approximately 76 years of age during the events from which this case arises. On  April 25, 2023, plaintiff was hospitalized due to progressing dementia and was  a high risk for falls. On April 29, 2023, plaintiff was discharged from the  hospital in stable condition and transferred to defendants’ facility. On April  30, 2023, plaintiff was admitted to defendants’ facility with a diagnosis of  metabolic encephalopathy, history of cerebrovascular accident, difficulty  walking, muscle atrophy, dementia, anxiety, hypertension, and a history of  falling. During his time at the facility, plaintiff experienced two  unsupervised falls. Plaintiff alleges that the facility did not perform  neurological checks for the 72 hours following those falls as per the  facility’s policy. Plaintiff also alleged the facility staff failed to  implement fall prevention measures, assess plaintiff’s risk for falls, nor did  the facility create any care plans for plaintiff’s risk for falls. Plaintiff  alleges that after the second fall, his condition deteriorated which  defendants’ staff failed to acknowledge. Plaintiff’s physician ordered that  plaintiff be transferred to the emergency room due to encephalopathy, lethargy,  and decline in activity on June 5, 2023. On June 6, 2023, plaintiff was  intubated and had an orogastric tube and Foley catheter placed. He also  underwent bilateral frontal craniotomy and evacuation the hematoma with drains.  By June 11, 2023, plaintiff’s condition improved but was dependent on others to  feed him. On June 17, 2023, plaintiff was stable and discharged to a skilled nursing  facility, College Vista Post Acute. Plaintiff alleges that after his falls and  head injuries he has not regained his ability to ambulate with a walker nor  returned to prior levels of functioning. On June 21, 2023, the California  Department of Public Health issued a deficiency based on findings that the  facility failed to conduct neurological assessments pursuant to facility’s  policy after plaintiff’s fall. Plaintiff filed the instant motion on July 26,  2024. Plaintiff filed an amended notice on November 15, 2024. Defendant LAC  Verdugo Operations, LLC dba Glendale Post Acute Center (defendant) filed the  opposition on November 15, 2024. Plaintiff filed his reply on November 20,  2024.  LEGAL STANDARD With respect to requests for  production of documents there are three appropriate responses: (1) a statement  that the party will comply with the request; (2) a statement of inability to  comply; or (3) an objection. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.210(a).) The requesting  party may move for an order compelling further responses to request for  production of documents if any of the following apply: (1) a statement of  compliance with the demand is incomplete; (2) a representation of inability to  comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive; or (3) an objection in the  response is without merit or too general. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310(a).) The  motion must be filed within 45 days from verified responses, supplemental  responses, or a specific later date agreed to in writing (Code Civ. Proc., §  2031.310(c).) Failure to make motion within the specified period constitutes  waiver of right to compel a further response. (Sexton v. Superior Court (1997)  58 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1410.) The time period is mandatory and jurisdictional in  the sense that it renders the Court without authority to rule on motions to  compel other than to deny them. (Id.) The motion shall be accompanied by a meet  and confer declaration under Code of Civil Procedure section 2016.040. (Code  Civ. Proc., § 2031.310(b)(2).) The purpose of the meet and confer requirement  is to encourage the parties to make serious effort to work out differences  informally and avoid a need for a formal order. (Stewart v. Colonial Western  Agency, Inc. (2001) 87 Cal. App. 4th 1006, 1016.) Under Rule of Court 3.1345,  the movant must submit a separate statement along with the motion to compel  further responses. The movant must include specific facts showing good cause  justifying further responses. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310(b)(1).) DISCUSSION A.    Timeliness  Defendant served its responses  on April 1, 2024, but without verifications. (Decl. of Ayman Mourad, ¶ 3; Exh.  B.) Berifications were provided on May 22, 2024. (Decl. of Ayman Mourad, ¶ 6;  Exh. E.) On July 8, 2024, defendant’s counsel agreed to an extension for the  motion to compel deadline to July 26, 2024. (Decl. of Ayman Mourad, ¶ 8; Exh.  G.) Because defendant agreed to an extension for the filing of the motion to  compel further, and plaintiff filed the motion by the deadline, plaintiff’s  motion is timely.      B.    Meet and Confer  Plaintiff’s counsel sent a  meet and confer letter on May 1, 2024, requesting further responses and  verifications. (Decl. of Ayman Mourad, ¶ 4; Exh. C.) On May 7, 2024, the  parties met and conferred via telephone agreeing that defendant would provide  further responses, verifications, and/or a response to the meet and confer  letter by May 22, 2024. (Decl. of Ayman Mourad, ¶ 5; Exh. D.) On May 22, 2024,  defendant sent verifications, but no further responses. (Decl. of Ayman Mourad,  ¶ 6; Exh. E.) Plaintiff’s counsel agreed to a one-week extension for the  discovery to June 10, 2024. (Decl. of Ayman Mourad, ¶ 7; Exh. F.) Plaintiff  fulfilled the meet and confer requirement. C.    Requests for Production of Documents  Plaintiff requests further  responses to Requests for Production of Documents nos. 1, 3, and 4. Defendant  argues that the motion is moot because defendant provide further verified  responses on November 13, 2024, and all responsive documents have been produced.  Jeffrey S. Healey, ¶ 2; Exh. A.) Plaintiff argues that the motion is not moot  because defendant only provided the further responses after plaintiff filed the  instant motion. The court agrees that the motion is moot. Defendant provided  further responses, and those responses agree to produce the requested  documents.Sanctions Plaintiff requests $1,160.00  in sanctions. A request for sanctions must, “in the notice of motion, identify  every person, party, and attorney against whom the sanction is sought, and  specify the type of sanction sought. The notice of motion shall be supported by  a memorandum of points and authorities, and accompanied by a declaration  setting forth facts supporting the amount of any monetary sanction sought.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.040.) Plaintiff’s initial notice simply states the  amount of sanctions he seeks, but fails to identify every person, party, and  attorney against whom the sanction is sought. Plaintiff attempted to remedy  this by filing an amended notice that identified the monetary sanctions  requested are against defendant LAC Verdugo Operations, LLC dba Glendale Post  Acute Center. However, this amended notice was filed on November 15, 2024, nine  court days before the hearing date. Proper notice requires sixteen court days  plus two calendar days for service of the notice by email. (Code Civ. Proc.,  1005(b).) The amended notice is not timely, and plaintiff’s request for  sanctions is denied.  Defendant requests sanctions  in the amount of $1,175.00 against plaintiff because defendant had to oppose  and attend the hearing on the moot motion. However, this motion is only moot  because defendant provided further responses and document production after  plaintiff filed the motion. Accordingly, sanctions against plaintiff are not  warranted.  Based on the foregoing, the  court DENIES plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses to request for  production of documents as moot.  The court DENIES plaintiff’s  request for sanctions.  The court DENIES defendant’s  request for sanctions.   