 Case Number:  24STCP00044    Hearing Date:   May 22, 2024    Dept:  71 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



PROGRESSIVE
  INSURANCE COMPANY, 
  
         vs.
 
MYRTLE ALLEN,
  et al.


 Case No.: 
  24STCP00044
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  May 22, 2024



 
Petitioner Progressive Insurance Company’s
motion to compel arbitration of this matter as to Respondents Myrtle Allen and
Sandra Wright in this action within 60 days of this ruling and to appoint
mutually selected and agreed upon Thomas I. Friedman, Esq., as arbitrator is
granted. 
 
Petitioner Progressive Insurance Company (“Progressive”) (“Petitioner”)
moves for an order compelling arbitration this matter as to Respondents Myrtle
Allen (“Allen”) and Sandra Wright (“Wright”) (collectively, “Claimants”) within
60 days of this ruling and to appoint mutually selected and agreed upon Thomas
I. Friedman, Esq. (“Friedman”).  (Notice
of Motion, pgs. 1-2; C.C.P. §§1281.2, 1281.6.) 
Petitioner moves on the grounds (1) Claimants entered into a written
agreement wherein the parties agreed to arbitrate any dispute regarding the
uninsured motorist coverage which arose under their policy; (2) Claimants
agreed to arbitrate this matter before Friedman; and (3) Claimants’ preemptory
challenge made within 24-hours of the scheduled arbitration is untimely and
unfounded.  (Notice of Motion, pg. 2.)
 
Background
Petitioner filed the operative Petition on January 8, 2024,
against Claimants pursuant to the uninsured motorist provisions of Claimants’
insurance policy.  (See Petition
¶1.)
Petitioner filed the instant motion on January 30, 2024.  Claimants filed their opposition on May 9,
2024.  Petitioner filed its reply on May
14, 2024.
 
Motion to Compel Arbitration
Insurance
Code §11580.2(f) provides, in part:
Title 4 (commencing with Section
2016.010) of Part 4 of the Code of Civil Procedure shall be applicable to these
determinations, and all rights, remedies, obligations, liabilities and
procedures set forth in Title 4 (commencing with Section 2016.010) of Part 4 of
the Code of Civil Procedure shall be available to both the insured and the
insurer at any time after the accident, both before and after the
commencement of arbitration, if any, with the following limitations:
 
(1) Whenever in Title 4
(commencing with Section 2016.010) of Part 4 of the Code of Civil Procedure reference
is made to the court in which the action is pending, or provisions is made for
application to the court or obtaining leave of court or approval by the court, the
court which shall have jurisdiction for the purposes of this section shall be
the superior court for the State of California.
 
(Ins.
Code §11580.2(f), emphasis added.)
          Under Insurance Code §11580.2(f), this
Court has jurisdiction over the instant uninsured motorist action.
          Petitioner’s policy provides the
following provision regarding the selection of an arbitrator:
If we and an insured person
cannot agree on:
 
1.    
the legal liability of the operator
or owner of an uninsured motor vehicle or under insured motor vehicle; or
2.    
the amount of the damages sustained
by the insured person;
 
this will be determined by
arbitration. If the accident involves an uninsured motor vehicle, any demand
for arbitration must be made within two years of the date of the accident. If
the accident involves an underinsured motor vehicle, the demand must be made
after all applicable bodily injury liability bonds or policies have been
exhausted by payment of judgments or settlements and prior to the expiration of
the bodily injury statute of limitations in the state in which the accident
occurred. An insured person demanding arbitration must send written notice to
us, or our agent for process, by certified mail, return receipt requested.
 
In the event of arbitration,
arbitration shall be conducted by a single neutral arbitrator. The costs and
fees of the arbitrator will be shared equally.
 
Unless both parties agree
otherwise, arbitration will take place in the county in which the insured
person resides. Local rules of procedure and evidence will apply.
 
A decision by the arbitrator
will be binding with respect to a determination of:
 
1.    
the legal liability of the operator
or owner of an uninsured motor vehicle or under insured motor vehicle; and
2.    
the amount of the damages sustained
by the insured person.
 
The arbitrator will have no
authority to award an amount in excess of the limit of liability.
 
(Motion,
pg. 12; Decl. of Calendo ¶3, Exh. B at pg. 14, emphasis added.)
On
March 20, 2023, pursuant to the Uninsured Motorist (“UM”) provisions of Petitioner’s
insurance policy, Allen demanded Arbitration to Petitioner, which excluded
mention of Wright.  (See Decl. of
Calendo ¶2, Exh. A.)  On June 19, 2023,
and again on September 7, 2023, Petitioner sent correspondences to Allen’s
counsel to meet and confer in selecting a mutually agreeable arbitrator to
arbitrate this matter pursuant to the UM provisions of the subject insurance
policy.   (Decl. of Calendo ¶¶4, 5, Exhs.
C, D.)  On September 18, 2023, attorney
for Allen, Geoffrey Kasler, agreed to arbitrate this matter with Friedman.  (Decl. of Calendo ¶¶7, 8, Exhs. F, G.)
On
December 19, 2023, Allen’s counsel advised he wanted to continue the
arbitration set for January 5, 2023, and advised that Wright was to be included
in the UM arbitration, even though nothing in Petitioner’s file in this matter
reflected Wright’s demand for arbitration. 
(See Decl. of Calendo ¶¶14, 15, Exh. M.)
Claimants’
argument that Petitioner has waived its right to compel arbitration is
unavailing in light of the evidence submitted to the Court that since June 19,
2023, Petitioner advised Allen it was ready to proceed with the selection of a
neutral arbitrator, and Allen failed to respond to the request.  (See Decl. of Calendo ¶4, Exh. C.)  Further, even after Petitioner agreed to
include Wright in the UM Arbitration, Claimants have sought to delay the
arbitration.  (See Decl. of Calendo
¶¶21, 25, 11, 28, Exhs. S, V, J, Y.)
Under
the UM policy, Claimants agreed to participate in arbitration and share equally
in Arbitrator’s costs and fees.  (Decl.
of Calendo ¶3, Exh. B at pg. 14.) 
Therefore, Claimants are required to pay the outstanding costs for
arbitration.
Pursuant
to C.C.P. §1281.6, this Court is conferred with the statutory power to select
and appoint an arbitrator when parties are unable to agree to one.  (C.C.P. §1281.6.)  Therefore, the Court appoints Friedman as the
arbitrator in the UM Arbitration.
Accordingly,
Petitioner’s motion is granted.
 
Conclusion
Petitioner’s
motion to compel arbitration is granted. 
Claimants Myrtle Allen and Sandra Wright in this action are compelled to
arbitration within 60 days of this ruling and Thomas I. Friedman is appointed
as the arbitrator. 
Moving Party to
give notice.

 
Dated:  May _____, 2024
                                                                             





  