  Case Number:  23STCV25168    Hearing Date:   May 22, 2024    Dept:  71 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
71
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



JASON
  ZUMBERGE,  
  
         vs.
 
BARBARA
  L. ANDERSON.


 Case No.: 
  23STCV25168
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  May 22, 2024



 
Plaintiff
Jason Zumberge’s unopposed motion for preliminary injunction is granted
in part and denied in part.   
Defendant
Barbara L. Anderson is enjoined from allowing the continuance of trespassers on
her residential property located at 800 N. La Jolla Ave., Los Angeles, CA 90046;
failing to secure her residential property located at 800 N. La Jolla Ave., Los
Angeles, CA 90046; and allowing further nuisance activities on her residential
property located at 800 N. La Jolla Ave., Los Angeles, CA 90046.  
Plaintiff’s
motion to enjoin Defendant Barbara L. Anderson from selling, gifting, and/or
transferring ownership of ownership of her residential property located at 800
N. La Jolla Ave., Los Angeles, CA 90046, is denied. 
 
Plaintiff Jason Zumberge (“Zumberge”) (“Plaintiff”)
moves unopposed for a preliminary injunction enjoining Defendant Barbara
L. Anderson (“Anderson”) (“Defendant”) from selling, gifting, and/or
transferring ownership of her residential property located at 800 N. La Jolla
Ave., Los Angeles, CA 90046 (“Subject Property”) and to enjoin Defendant from
allowing the continuance of trespassers on the Subject Property, failing to
secure the Subject Property, and allowing further nuisance activities on the
Subject Property.  (Notice of Motion,
pgs. 1-2.)
 
Background
Plaintiff filed his operative Complaint against
Defendant on October 16, 2023, alleging three causes of action: (1) private
nuisance, (2) preliminary injunction; and (3) declaratory relief, arising from alleged
illegal activity occurring at the Subject Property.
Plaintiff alleges he owns real property located
at 808 N. La Jolla Ave., Los Angeles, CA 90046 (“Plaintiff’s Property”), from
which he earns rental income for leasing Plaintiff’s Property to tenants.  (Complaint ¶8.)  Plaintiff alleges he charges tenants
$33,000.00 per month and the market value of Plaintiff’s Property as reported
by Zillow is $3,450,000.00.  (Complaint
¶8.)  Plaintiff alleges he substantially
increased the value of Plaintiff’s Property by performing upgrades to
Plaintiff’s Property.  (Complaint
¶8.)  
Plaintiff alleges ever since, and even prior to
June 14, 2018, the Subject Property has been a nuisance property for the
neighboring property owners on North La Jolla Ave. in the City of Los Angeles,
due to the illegal activity occurring thereon and the resulting interference
from said activities with the quiet enjoyment of said neighboring property
owners.  (Complaint ¶9.)  Plaintiff alleges on or about June 14, 2018,
pursuant to LAMC §§91.8903 and 91.8904, the Department of Building and Safety
ordered the owners or other parties in interest, including Defendant, within
thirty (30) days to secure all openings accessible for entry from the exterior
of the buildings and weatherproof the barricades installed, fence the lot, on
the parcel located at the Subject Property. 
(Complaint ¶10.)
Plaintiff alleges by July 14, 2018, Defendant
failed to comply with the Los Angeles Department of Building and Safety’s order
and LAMC §§91.8903 and 91.8904. 
(Complaint ¶11.)  Plaintiff
alleges after determining that the owners or other parties in interest,
including Defendant, failed to comply with the time prescribed by LAMC §§91.8903
and 91.8904, the Los Angeles Department of Building and Safety solicited bids, and
awarded a contract and caused said abatement of nuisance on the Subject
Property.  (Complaint ¶12.)  
Plaintiff alleges on or about March 14, 2023,
the Los Angeles Department of Building and Safety caused a barricade to be
installed around the perimeter of the Subject Property, which is referenced by
Work Order No. B4764, and cost $1,673.00. 
(Complaint ¶13.)  Plaintiff
alleges the same day, the Los Angeles Department of Building and Safety caused
a fence to be installed around the perimeter of the Subject Property, which is
referenced by Work Order No. F4304, and cost $18,834.82.  (Complaint ¶13.)  Plaintiff alleges the same day, the Los
Angeles Department of Building and Safety contracted for the Subject Property
to be cleaned, which is referenced by Work Order No. C4832, and cost
$1,680.00.  (Complaint ¶13.)  
Plaintiff alleges on or about May 25, 2023, the
Los Angeles Department of Building and Safety caused a barricade to be
installed around the perimeter of the Subject Property, which is referenced by
Work Order No. B4801, and cost $351.33. 
(Complaint ¶14.)  
Plaintiff alleges as a result of the nuisances
on the Subject Property, Plaintiff has had one (1) tenant terminate the rental
lease agreement for rental of Plaintiff’s Property.  (Complaint ¶15.)  Plaintiff alleges the rental tenant
complained to Plaintiff that the Subject Property was flooded with
homeless/transient people and/or squatters, and the Subject Property was being
used for criminal activity, including trespassing, illicit and illegal drug
use, and uncontrolled and uncontained fires. 
(Complaint ¶15.)  Plaintiff
alleges the rental tenant requested that Plaintiff do something about the
nuisance activities as those activities threatened the rental tenant’s safety
and enjoyment of Plaintiff’s Property. 
(Complaint ¶15.)  Plaintiff
alleges he and neighboring property owners reported the nuisance activity to
law enforcement many times, however, the nuisance activity still
continues.  (Complaint ¶15.)  Plaintiff alleges due to the continued
nuisance activity, Plaintiff’s rental tenant terminated the lease agreement
with Plaintiff and vacated Plaintiff’s Property in May 2023.  (Complaint ¶15.)  
Plaintiff alleges since May 2023, Plaintiff has
been unable to rent Plaintiff’s Property, despite numerous rental inquiries for
Plaintiff’s Property.  (Complaint
¶16.)  Plaintiff alleges he specifically
lost rental opportunities due to the fact that potential renters would tour
Plaintiff’s Property and contemporaneously discover that there were substantial
nuisance activities occurring at the Subject Property.  (Complaint ¶16.)  Plaintiff alleges many potential tenants
expressed significant interest in Plaintiff’s Property, but ultimately decided
not to rent Plaintiff’s Property. 
(Complaint ¶16.)  Plaintiff
alleges said potential tenants expressed to Plaintiff/Plaintiff’s agents that
the Subject Property’s nuisance activities presented a safety threat and the
potential tenants believed that those nuisance activities would interfere with
their enjoyment of Plaintiff’s Property. 
(Complaint ¶16.)  
Plaintiff alleges on or about June 10, 2023,
the Los Angeles Department of Building and Safety caused a barricade to be
installed around the perimeter of the Subject Property, which is referenced by
Work Order No. B4811, and cost $300.00. 
(Complaint ¶17.)  
Plaintiff alleges on or about June 29, 2023,
Defendant, as Trustor/Owner of the Subject Property, executed a Short Form Deed
of Trust and Assignment of Rents to Defendant DANCO, Inc. and JDCA Holdings,
LLC, for a mortgage.  (Complaint
¶18.)  
Plaintiff alleges on or about June 12, 2023,
the Los Angeles Department of Building and Safety caused a fence to be
installed around the perimeter of the Subject Property, which is referenced by
Work Order No. F4339, and cost $482.94. 
(Complaint ¶19.)  
Plaintiff alleges on or about July 12, 2023,
the Los Angeles Department of Building and Safety caused a barricade to be
installed around the perimeter of the Subject Property, which is referenced by
Work Order No. B4819, and cost $501.90. 
(Complaint ¶20.)  
Plaintiff alleges on or before July 14, 2023,
the Los Angeles Department of Building and Safety issued Defendant a Code
violation inspection fee as a result of Defendant’s failure to correct the
nuisance, and/or pay invoices for fees assessed by the Los Angeles Department
of Building and Safety.  (Complaint ¶21.)
Plaintiff alleges on or about July 14, 2023,
the Los Angeles Department of Building and Safety caused a fence to be
installed around the perimeter of the Subject Property, which is referenced by
Work Order No. F4349, and cost $845.15. 
(Complaint ¶22.)
Plaintiff alleges on or around August 7, 2023,
the City of Los Angeles’ Board of Building and Safety Commissioners and the
Department of Building and Safety provided notice to Defendant that a lien for
the total amount of $25,060.30 be recorded against the real property (Subject
Property) upon which services were rendered. 
(Complaint ¶23.)
Plaintiff alleges on or about October 11, 2023,
an uncontained and severe fire was started in the backyard of the Subject
Property.  (Complaint ¶24.)  Plaintiff alleges the fire blaze spread high
into the air above the Subject property, Plaintiff’s Property, and other
neighboring properties, causing damage to each property.  (Complaint ¶24.)  Plaintiff alleges he and neighboring property
owners had to use garden hoses to try and contain the fire. The Los Angeles
Fire Department responded to the Subject Property.  (Complaint ¶24.)  Plaintiff alleges the Los Angeles Police
Department also responded to the Subject Property and made several arrests of
persons who started the fire.  (Complaint
¶24.)
Plaintiff alleges he has and continues to lose
monthly rents for Plaintiff’s Property, and despite incurring substantial
marketing costs in attempting to rent Plaintiff’s Property.  (Complaint ¶25.)  Plaintiff alleges as a result of the
nuisances on the Subject Property, Plaintiff’s Property has significantly
decreased in value.  (Complaint ¶25.)
 
Procedural History
Plaintiff filed the instant motion on January
16, 2024.  As of the date of this hearing
Defendant has not filed an opposition.
 
Legal Standard
The purpose of a preliminary injunction is to
preserve the status quo pending
final judgment in the case.  (See Scaringe v. J.C.C. Enterprises, Inc. (1988)
205 Cal.App.3d 1536.)  The status quo has been defined to mean
the last actual peaceable, uncontested status which preceded the pending
controversy.  (Voorhies v. Greene (1983) 139 Cal.App.3d 989, 995, quoting United Railroads v. Superior Court (1916)
172 Cal. 80, 87.)  
In determining whether to issue a preliminary
injunction, the trial court considers two factors: (1) the reasonable
probability that the plaintiff will prevail on the merits at trial; and (2) a
balancing of the “irreparable harm” that the plaintiff is likely to sustain if
the injunction is denied compared to the harm that the defendant is likely to
suffer if the court grants a preliminary injunction.  (C.C.P. §526(a); 14859 Moorpark Homeowner’s Association v. VRT Corp. (1998) 63
Cal.App.4th 1396, 1402; Pillsbury,
Madison & Sutro v. Schectman (1997) 55 Cal.App.4th 1279, 1283.)
The Court’s determination is guided by a “mix”
of the potential-merit and interim-harm factors; the greater the plaintiff’s
showing on one, the less must be shown on the other to support an
injunction.  (Butt v. State of California (1992) 4 Cal.4th 668, 678.)  However, a trial court may not grant a
preliminary injunction, regardless of the balance of interim harm, unless there
is some possibility that the plaintiff would ultimately prevail on the merits
of the claim.  (Id.)  
The court must consider both factors.  The two factors are a sliding scale— the
stronger the showing of probability of prevailing, the lesser showing is
required for irreparable harm.  (Id.; The
Right Side Coalition v. Los Angeles Unified School District (2008) 160
Cal.App.4th 336 [reversing denial of preliminary injunction based solely on
balancing of hardships without considering probability of prevailing].)  The plaintiff must make some showing of each
factor.  (Jessen v. Keystone Savings & Loan Association (1983) 142
Cal.App.3d 454, 459.)  A court may not
issue a preliminary injunction if the plaintiff cannot possibly prevail on the
merits even if a strong showing of irreparable harm has been made.  (Butt,
4 Cal.4th at pgs. 677-678.)
On the first factor, a preliminary injunction
may not issue unless the judge is persuaded that it is “reasonably probable”
that the plaintiff will prevail on the merits. 
(San Francisco Newspaper Printing
Co. v. Superior Court (1985) 170 Cal.App.3d 438, 442.)  The judge does not determine the merits of
the action or decide that the plaintiff necessarily will prevail.  The judge only determines whether there is a
reasonable probability that the plaintiff will prevail.  (Youngblood
v. Wilcox (1989) 207 Cal.App.3d 1368, 1372.)
 For the
second factor, “irreparable harm” means that the defendant’s act constitutes an
actual or threatened injury to the personal or property rights of the plaintiff
that cannot be compensated by a damages award. 
(Brownfield v. Daniel Freeman
Marina Hospital (1989) 208 Cal.App.3d 405, 410.)  A plaintiff is not required to wait until
suffering actual harm; threatened harm is enough.  (Southern
Christian Leadership Conference v. Al Malaikah Auditorium Co. (1991) 230
Cal.App.3d 207, 223.)
The issue of irreparable harm is closely
related to the issue of damages as an adequate remedy at law.  Monetary loss will not constitute irreparable
harm unless the plaintiff also shows that the defendant is insolvent or unable
to pay damages.  (Friedman v Friedman (1993) 20 Cal.App.4th 876, 890.)  While both residential and commercial real
property are considered unique for purposes of irreparable harm (see Civ. Code §3387), damages may
adequately compensate property owned for investment property which has an
established value, and the foreclosing entity is solvent.  (Jessen,
142 Cal.App.3d at pg. 458.)  Where
the owner intends to use the investment property and not simply sell it, money
damages may not suffice, and irreparable harm may justify injunctive
relief.  (Id.)
The showing must demonstrate the specific harm
claimed; mere allegations of irreparable injury are insufficient.  (Leach
v. City of San Marcos (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 648, 661 [“A mere allegation
that such injury will result is not sufficient”.])  Conclusory statements, lay opinion, and
attorney declarations will not suffice. 
The irreparable harm must be imminent; a mere possibility or fear of
harm is insufficient.  (Korean Philadelphia Presbyterian Church v.
California Presbytery (2000) 77 Cal.App.4th 1069, 1084.)  The court’s ruling on a preliminary injunction
is not an adjudication of the merits, is not a trial, and does not require a
statement of decision.  (Cohen v. Board of Supervisors, (1985) 40
Cal.3d 277, 286; People v. Landlords
Professional Services, Inc., (1986) 178 Cal.App.3d 68, 70-71.)  The Court is not required to state its
reasons for granting or denying a preliminary injunction; a cursory statement
is sufficient.  (City of Los Altos v. Barnes, (1992) 3 Cal.App.4th 1193, 1198.)
 
Discussion
Plaintiff
demonstrates he has a reasonable likelihood of success on his claims.  Plaintiff’s Complaint sets forth three causes
of action: (1) private nuisance, (2) preliminary injunction; and (3)
declaratory relief.  Plaintiff only moves
in this motion on the basis of his private nuisance cause of action, presumably
in light of the fact that the nuisance cause of action is inclusive of the
other two causes of action.  Therefore,
the Court only examines the first cause of action for private nuisance.
 
1.    
Likelihood
of Success
a.     
Private
Nuisance
A cause
of action for private nuisance must allege the following elements: (1)
Plaintiff owned the property; (2) that Defendant, by acting or failing to act,
created a condition or permitted a condition to exist that was harmful to
health, was indecent or offensive to the senses, was an obstruction to the free
use of property so as to interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life or
property, or was a fire hazard to Plaintiff’s property; (3) that Defendant’s conduct
in acting or failing to act was intentional and unreasonable or unintentional
but negligent or reckless, or created or permitted a condition to exist was the
result of an abnormally dangerous
activity;
(4) that this condition substantially interfered with Plaintiff’s use or
enjoyment of Plaintiff’s land; (5) that an ordinary person would reasonably be
annoyed or disturbed by Defendant’s conduct; (6) that Plaintiff did not consent
to Defendant’s conduct; (7) that Plaintiff was harmed; (8) that Defendant’s
conduct was a substantial factor in causing Plaintiff’s harm; and (9) that the
seriousness of the harm outweighs the public benefit of Defendant’s conduct.  (CACI No.
2021; Lussier v. San Lorenzo Valley Water
District (1988) 206 Cal.App.3d 92, 100.)
          Here,
Plaintiff is likely to prevail on the merits of his private nuisance cause of
action because Plaintiff’s Property, a neighboring property of the Subject
Property, has suffered damage from the fire that was created by trespassers,
and has caused Plaintiff’s Property’s value to diminish due to the nuisances
caused by unhoused and transient people entering the Subject Property, which
remains unsecured, and said unhoused and transient people have engaged in
further illegal activity.  (Decl. of
Zumberge ¶¶2, 5.)  
Defendant has failed to take steps to eliminate
the conditions causing nuisance of the Subject Property because Defendant has
failed to adhere to any notices issued by any code enforcement departments of
the City of Los Angeles.  (Decl. of
Zumberge ¶2.)  Plaintiff has requested
via telephone conversation with Defendant that Defendant take steps to correct
the nuisance activity, but Defendant refuses to do so.  (Decl. of Zumberge ¶3.)  
Defendant has interfered with Plaintiff’s
ability to rent Plaintiff’s Property, which has caused Plaintiff substantial
monetary loss and harm, as well as
resulting damage to Plaintiff’s Property from
the fire.  (Decl. of Zumberge ¶4.)  Defendant has failed to correct the nuisance
activity/conditions and continues to ignore notices from the code enforcement departments
of the City of Los Angeles. (Decl. of Mackins ¶¶3-4, Exhs. 2-3.)  Defendant’s failure to correct the nuisance has
substantially interfered with Plaintiff’s use or enjoyment of Plaintiff’s
Property.  (Decl. of Zumberge ¶5.)  
Furthermore, it is reasonable to assume that an
ordinary person would reasonably be annoyed or disturbed by Defendant’s
conduct, especially in light of the fact that the Los Angeles City Council
approved a lien on the Subject Property and the Board of Building and Safety Commissioners
conducted a public hearing and subsequently took action finding and designating
the Subject Property a public nuisance. (Decl. of Mackins ¶¶3-4, Exhs. 2-3.)  
Plaintiff did not consent to Defendant’s conduct
and put Defendant on actual notice of the nuisances on the Subject Property and
resulting damage to Plaintiff’s Property.  (Decl. of Zumberge ¶4.)  
Plaintiff has been harmed by Defendant’s
conduct due to the lost rents from not being able to rent Plaintiff’s Property due
to concern of safety issues and other quiet enjoyment issues expressed by
potential renters.  (Decl. of Zumberge
¶5.)  Defendant’s failure to correct the
nuisances on the Subject Property have caused Plaintiff’s harm/damages.  (Decl. of Zumberge ¶5.)  
Finally, the seriousness of the harm, which is
allowing the nuisance to continue and the resulting harm to Plaintiff/Plaintiff’s
Property outweighs the public benefit of Defendant’s conduct, as there is no
public benefit form Defendant’s conduct, as confirmed by various code
enforcement departments of the City of Los Angeles and the Los Angeles City
Council.  (Decl. of Mackins ¶¶3-4, Exhs.
2-3.)
 
2.    
Balancing
of Harm
Plaintiff
has sufficiently demonstrated he will suffer irreparable harm if this Court
does not grant Plaintiff a preliminary injunction enjoining Defendant from
allowing the continuance of trespassers on the Subject Property, failing to
secure the Subject Property, and allowing further nuisance activity on the Subject
Property.   
Plaintiff
intends to use Plaintiff’s Property to rent to tenants, and Defendant’s conduct
has prevented Plaintiff’s intended use. 
(Jessen, 142 Cal.App.3d at pg. 458; Decl. of Zumberge ¶5.)  Plaintiff declares Defendant’s failure to
correct the nuisance created by unhoused and transient people entering the
Subject Property, which remains unsecured, has substantially interfered with
his use and enjoyment of Plaintiff’s Property. 
(Decl. of Zumberge ¶5.)  
On
balance, Defendant will not suffer hardship from this Court issuing a
preliminary injunction any more than what is required of any reasonable property
owner.  (Decl. of Mackins ¶10.)  Defendant must cure the Subject Property of
nuisances, which will in turn benefit Defendant by increasing the value of the
Subject Property.  (Decl. of Mackins
¶10.)
Therefore,
the balance of hardships and equities weighs in Plaintiff’s favor for enjoining
Defendant from allowing the continuance of trespassers on the Subject
Property; failing to secure the Subject Property; and allowing further nuisance
activities on the Subject Property.
Plaintiff
has not sufficiently demonstrated he will suffer irreparable harm if this Court
does not grant Plaintiff a preliminary injunction enjoining Defendant from
selling, gifting, and/or transferring ownership of the Subject Property Plaintiff
argues Defendant listed the Subject Property for sale on the MLS/Zillow for
$1,995,000, indicating that Defendant is attempting to sell the Subject Property.
 (Decl. of Mackins ¶5, Exh. 4.)  Plaintiff argues he will suffer irreparable
harm if the Subject Property is sold, and Plaintiff is unable to attach any
lien/abstract of judgment on the Subject Property after judgment is entered in
Plaintiff’s favor in this Action.  (Decl.
of Mackins ¶9.)
Monetary
loss does not constitute irreparable harm unless the plaintiff also shows that
the defendant is insolvent or unable to pay damages.  (Friedman, 20 Cal.App.4th at pg. 890; Jessen, 142 Cal.App.3d at pg. 458.) 
Here, Plaintiff has not demonstrated Defendant is insolvent, in which
case, money damages will typically suffice, and injunctive relief is not
justified.  (Friedman, 20
Cal.App.4th at pg. 890.)  
Plaintiff
has not made a showing that the proposed preliminary injunction enjoining
Defendant from selling, gifting, and/or transferring ownership of the Subject Property
weighs in his favor.  In fact, Plaintiff
acknowledges that such an injunction “may actually cause more harm to Plaintiff
and protracted litigation.”  (Motion, pg.
7.)  The Court finds no justification for
granting the requested relief.
Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s motion is granted in part and denied in part.
 
Conclusion
Plaintiff’s unopposed motion for a
preliminary injunction is granted in part and denied in part.  
Defendant is enjoined from allowing the
continuance of trespassers on the Subject Property; failing to secure the
Subject Property; and allowing further nuisance activities on the Subject
Property.
Plaintiff’s motion to enjoin Defendant from
selling, gifting, and/or transferring ownership of the Subject Property is
denied.
Moving Party to give notice.
 
Dated: 
May _____, 2024
                                                                             





  