  Case Number:  22STCV21262    Hearing Date:   January 19, 2024    Dept:  B MOTIONS TO COMPEL DISCOVERY RESPONSESLos Angeles Superior Court
Case # 22STCV21262
 



MP:  


City of La Cañada Flintridge
  (Defendant/Cross-Complainant)




RP:  


Emma Amosh Mirzaian (Defendant/Cross-Defendant)


 
NOTICE: 
The Court is not requesting oral argument on this
matter.  Pursuant to California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) notice
of intent to appear is required.  Unless the Court directs argument in the
Tentative Ruling, no argument will be permitted unless a “party notifies all
other parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of
the party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will
become the ruling of the court if no notice of intent to appear is received.”   
Notice may be given either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org
or by telephone at (818) 260-8412. 
ALLEGATIONS:  
Wayneider Singh Anand
(“Plaintiff”) brings this action against the City of La Cañada Flintridge (the “City”)
in connection with a December 4, 2021 incident which claimed the life of
Plaintiff’s wife. Plaintiff alleges the City failed to maintain safe conditions
for a crosswalk located at Foothill Boulevard and Union Street. Plaintiff
alleges that because of this failure, his wife was struck by a vehicle while
crossing the street. Plaintiff also brings this action against Emma Amosh Mirzaian (“Mirzaian”) and Edwin Baltazar
(“Baltazar”). Mirzaian was the person driving the vehicle that struck Plaintiff’s
wife and Baltazar is the owner of the vehicle. A criminal manslaughter case is
currently pending against Mirzaian. The City has filed a Cross-Complaint
against Mirzaian, alleging that she suffered a disability which impaired her
ability to operate the vehicle.  
Before
the Court are seven motions brought by the City to compel Mirzaian’s initial
discovery responses. The discovery to which the City seeks responses are as
follows: 
·      
Special
Interrogatories Set One – Served 11/3/2022
·      
RFPD Set One – Served
12/1/2022
·      
Special
Interrogatories Set Two – Served 12/1/2022
·      
Form Interrogatories
Set One – Served 12/1/2022
·      
RFA Set One – Served
12/1/2022
·      
Special
Interrogatories Set Three – Served 3/27/2023
·      
Form Interrogatories
Set Two – Served 3/27/2023
·      
RFA Set Two – Served
3/27/2023 
Mirzaian opposes each
motion, arguing that she was granted an open-ended extension to reply to
discovery pending the resolution of her criminal matter. Mirzaian further
argues that when the City unilaterally revoked this extension, she complied
with their new date of production by serving objections to each discovery
request on May 19, 2023. 
ANALYSIS:  
I.               
LEGAL
STANDARD  
If a party
to whom interrogatories are directed fails to serve a timely response, the
propounding party may move for an order compelling response and for a monetary
sanction.  (C.C.P. § 2030.290(b).)  The statute contains no time
limit for a motion to compel where no responses have been served.  All
that need be shown in the moving papers is that a set of interrogatories was
properly served on the opposing party, that the time to respond has expired,
and that no response of any kind has been served.  (See Leach v.
Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal. App. 3d 902, 905-906.)  
Where
there has been no timely response to a demand to produce documents, the
demanding party may seek an order compelling a response.  (C.C.P. §
2031.300(b).)  Failure to timely respond waives all objections, including
privilege and work product.  (C.C.P. § 2031.300 (a).)  Thus, unless
the party to whom the demand was directed obtains relief from waiver, he or she
cannot raise objections to the documents demanded. There is no deadline for a
motion to compel responses.  Likewise, for failure to respond, the moving
party need not attempt to resolve the matter outside court before filing the
motion.  
II.             
MERITS 
Background 
To begin, it appears from
the moving papers and the opposition that some sort of discovery extension was
provided to Mirzaian with respect to each of these requests. Neither the City
nor Mirzaian attach documents evidencing this initial extension. Instead, the
moving papers and opposition only refer to this extension and its subsequent
revocation. 
The only
document submitted in the moving papers referencing this extension is a May 8,
2023 email from prior counsel for the City, David Ferrante-Alan. (Dykes Decl.
Exh. E p. 41.) In this email Ferrante-Alan states “There is no stay in place
and Jeff Lerman [prior counsel for Mirzaian], you will have to forgive me, but
I can no longer honor an open ended time frame for your clients to respond to
discovery, even if we get objections” (Id.)
On May
12, 2023, the City sent a letter following up to the May 8, 2023 email
correspondence. (Dykes Decl. Exh. B.) In this follow up letter, the City stated
that they would no longer be honoring an open-ended time for Mirzaian to
respond to discovery. (Id.) The City then demanded production by May 19,
2023 at 5:00pm without objections. (Id.) 
On May
19, 2023, Mirzaian served responses to each discovery request consisting
entirely of objections based on the fifth amendment privilege against
self-incrimination. (Dykes Decl. ¶ 5, Exh. C.) These responses were unverified.
(Id.) In their reply, the City attaches a meet and confer email dated
April 3, 2023. It appears from this email that counsel for the City agreed
Mirzaian’s objections based on fifth amendment privilege were preserved. (Dykes
Reply Decl. Exh. H.) 
It also appears
the parties met and conferred just prior to the motions being filed in December
of 2023. Mirzaian attaches an email dated December 15, 2023 from her counsel to
counsel for the City, explaining the fifth amendment objections. (Stratman
Decl. Exh. 4.) This email advised the City that the criminal case against
Mirzaian would likely be concluding in January at which time Mirzaian could
begin to participate in discovery. (Id.) The email informed that the
objections need not have been verified, citing Blue Ridge Ins Co. v Superior
Court. (Id.) Lastly, the email informed that counsel for Mirzaian
would be on vacation until January 3, 2024. (Id.) Counsel for the City
admits that this correspondence was omitted from their moving papers and states
that the omission was entirely inadvertent. 
Analysis 
It
appears to the Court that the City’s demand for production without objections
was not appropriate given their representation that all objections were
preserved on April 3, 2023. It is clear from the communication that some sort
of open-ended extension was in place to allow time for the criminal prosecution
of Mirzaian to conclude. It does not stand to reason that the City could
unilaterally revoke this open-ended extension while also claiming that
objections are waived by virtue of failure to timely respond. 
Mirzaian’s
unverified responses were sufficient to put the City on notice of her
objections. Pursuant to C.C.P. § 2031.250(a), “[t]he party to whom the demand
for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling is directed shall sign the
response under oath unless the response contains only objections.” Further,
pursuant to C.C.P. § 2030.250(a), “[t]he party to whom the interrogatories are
directed shall sign the response under oath unless the response contains only
objections.” Objections are legal conclusions interposed by counsel, rather
than factual attestations by their clients, and thus verification is
unnecessary. (Blue Ridge Ins Co. v Superior Court (1988) 202 Cal.App.3d
339, 345.) Accordingly, Mirzaian’s service of unverified responses consisting
entirely of fifth amendment objections did not require verification. 
In short,
it is clear from the April 3, 2023 correspondence and Mirzaian’s subsequent
discovery responses that the City was on notice of the fifth amendment
objections such that they were not waived. The City’s argument that the fifth
amendment privilege is not absolute is misplaced on a motion to compel initial
production. Whether Mirzaian’s objections are sufficient to bar production are
the subject of a motion to compel further responses, not a motion to compel
initial responses. 
Accordingly,
the City’s motions to compel are DENIED.  
Sanctions 
If the Court
finds that a party has unsuccessfully made or opposed a motion to compel
responses to interrogatories or inspection demands, the Court “shall impose a
monetary sanction . . . unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction
acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the
imposition of the sanction unjust.” (C.C.P. §§ 2030.290(c), 2031.300 (c).) 
Here, the
Court finds the City has brought these motions without substantial
justification. The City’s motions seek production which has already been
rendered. The City filed its motions after meet and confer efforts made clear
to them that the fifth amendment objections were made timely and did not need
verification. The City should have been aware that, per their April 3, 2023
email, Mirzaian’s objections were not waived. The City also filed these motions
well aware that counsel for Mirzaian was on vacation at the time they were
filed. Presuming the City reviewed the relevant case law and the meet and
confer correspondence, it cannot be said the City was substantially justified
in pursuing these motions. 
Monetary
sanctions in favor of Mirzaian would be appropriate in this case. However,
counsel for Mirzaian submits no declaration attesting to hours spent in
preparing the oppositions nor any statement as to his hourly rate. As such, the
Court has no metric by which to assess the amount of sanctions which would be
appropriate. 
--- 
RULING: 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
City of La Cañada
Flintridge’s Motions to Compel Responses to Discovery came
on regularly for hearing on January 17, 2024, with appearances/submissions as
noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised
in the premises, did then and there rule as follows:  
THE MOTIONS TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO THE CITY’S
FORM INTERROGATORIES, SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES, REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION, AND
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION ARE DENIED. 
 UNLESS ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, THE CITY IS TO
GIVE NOTICE.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
  
DATE: 
January 17, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    Yolanda Orozco, Judge 
 Superior Court of California 
   County of
Los Angeles 