 Case Number:  22STCV38412    Hearing Date:   December 7, 2023    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of
  California
County of Los
  Angeles




 
Fabiola Sanchez,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
22STCV38412




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
General Motors, LLC,


 
 
 
Defendant.


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: December 7, 2023
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion to Compel PMK Deposition and
Further Responses to Requests for Production
Moving Party: Plaintiff Fabiola Sanchez
Responding Party: Defendant General Motors, LLC
 
T/R:      PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO COMPEL THE
DEPOSITION OF DEFENDANT’S PERSON MOST KNOWLEDGEABLE IS GRANTED. 
 
THE PARTIES ARE ORDERED TO MEET AND
CONFER REGARDING A MUTUALLY AGREEABLE DATE FOR DEPOSITION.
 
PLAINTIFF TO NOTICE.
If the parties wish to submit on the
tentative, please email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing.
The Court considers the moving papers, opposition, and reply.
 
BACKGROUND
               
This is a lemon law action arising out
of Plaintiff purchase of a 2022 Chevrolet Silverado manufactured and distributed by
Defendant General Motors LLC.
 
ANALYSIS
 
“If, after service of a deposition
notice, a party to the action … without having served a valid objection under
Section 2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to
produce for inspection any document, electronically stored information, or
tangible thing described in the deposition notice, the party giving the notice
may move for an order compelling the deponent's attendance and testimony, and
the production for inspection of any document, electronically stored
information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.”  (CCP § 2025.450, subd. (a).) 
 
The motion must be accompanied by a
good faith meet and confer declaration under section 2016.040 or, “when the
deponent fails to attend the deposition and produce the documents,
electronically stored information, or things described in the deposition notice,
by a declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent to
inquire about the nonappearance.”  (CCP §
2025.450, subd. (b)(2).)  
 
Plaintiff moves to compel Defendant’s
PMK on various categories as well as to produce documents at deposition. The
requests are roughly separated into three categories: the repair and repurchase
of Plaintiff’s vehicle; Defendant’s policies and procedures relating to
Song-Beverly compliance; and Defendant’s knowledge of, and efforts or lack of
efforts to remedy the subject defect. All categories are relevant to
Plaintiff’s claims and discoverable. To the extent Defendant already has produced
the requested documents, Defendant need not produce them again.
 
The motion to compel deposition is GRANTED.
 
 
 