  Case Number:  23STCP03872    Hearing Date:   March 19, 2024    Dept:  85 
Douglas Richter v. Department
of Industrial Relations et al., 23STCP03872


Tentative decision on demurrer:
sustained without leave to amend



 
            
Respondents California Department of Industrial Relations,
Department of Labor Standards Enforcement (“DLSE”); Lilia García-Brower (“García-Brower”);
Ethera Clemons (“Clemons”); Wendy Corleto (“Corleto”); Cristina Zamora
(“Zamora”); and Karen Betancur (“Betancur”) demur to the Petition filed by
Petitioner Douglas Richter (“Richter”).
            The
court has read and considered the moving papers (no opposition was filed)[1]
and renders the following tentative decision. 
 
            A. Statement of the
Case
            1. The Petition
            Petitioner
Richter filed the Petition against Respondents and Real Parties-in-Interest
Ariela Lousky (“Lousky”) and Universal Home Design, Inc. (“Design”) on October
17, 2023, alleging (1) traditional mandamus based on procedural due process
under article 1, section 7 of the California Constitution; (2) traditional
mandamus based on bias of DLSE and the hearing officer; (3) traditional
mandamus based on anti-discrimination protections in Government Code (“Govt.
Code”) section 11135; (4) traditional mandamus based on protection of workers’
rights under Govt. Code section 11135; and (5) violation of the California
Public Records Act (“CPRA”).  Pet. at
15-16.  The verified Petition alleges in
pertinent part as follows.
 
            a.
Factual Allegations
            García-Brower
is the Labor Commissioner, Clemons is a former Chief Deputy Labor Commissioner,
Corleto is a Senior Labor Hearing Commissioner, Zamora is a DSLE Regional
Manager, and Betancur is a Deputy Labor Commissioner.  Pet. at 1.
            Lousky’s
family operates a construction company. 
Pet. at 7.  Richter started
working for Lousky during the COVID-19 pandemic.  Pet. at 7. 
Richter began renting a house from Lousky in May 2020, with a move-in
date of May 26.  Pet. at 7.  The lease was for two years with a monthly
rent of $5,500.  Pet. at 5.
            The
house had various issues, including electrical and water intrusion that needed
repairs within 72 hours for safety reasons. 
Pet. at 8.  An electrician did not
come to the house until four days after Richter moved in.  Pet. at 8. 
A breaker exploded, and the electrician blamed Lousky for being cheap
and difficult to work with before he stormed off.  Pet. at 8. 
The explosion caused a minor fire that Richter had to put out with an
extinguisher.  Pet. at 7.
            A
few days later, in early June 2020, Lousky and her cousin tried to assert that the
problems stemmed from a switch Richter wanted to install.  Pet. at 8. 
The cousin eventually declined to conduct the repairs and Richter hired
a third-party electrician to do so.  Pet.
at 8.  Between the repairs to the house
and Richter’s employment by Lousky, deductions against Richter’s rent totaled
$4,519.23.  Pet. at 9.  
            Sometime
after Richter moved out of the house, Lousky built an accessory dwelling unit (“ADU”)
on the property and attempted to charge Richter for it.  Pet. at 6. 
The ADU was lawful, but the inspector falsely asserted that Richter left
the property in disrepair.  Under
California law, ADU construction could not begin until a year after the
inspection.  Pet. at 6.  Lousky retained an ex-felon, Andrew Mazor, to
produce a forged report in an attempt to defraud the courts.  Pet. at 6.
            The
hearing for this matter was in 2023.  Pet.
at 10.  Richter did not receive all of
Lousky’s evidence and exhibits before the hearing.  Pet. at 9. 
At the hearing, Lousky gave conflicting testimony about the repairs and
reimbursement and tried to downplay the severity of issues with the house.  Pet. at 9. 

            Hearing
officer Clemons let Lousky testify as to whatever she chose but insisted that Richter’s
testimony had to be relevant.  Pet. at
10.  She wrote down parts of Lousky’s
testimony to keep track of relevant facts and did not do the same for
Richter.  Pet. at 10.  She interrupted Richter’s testimony and
attempted to fit his answers into a manufactured narrative.  Pet. at 9. 

            Instead
of interpreting wage and hour regulations to protect the employee, Clemons tried
to protect Design.  Pet. at 9-10.  This reflected bias, possibly because of an
incident three years ago where an employer filed a claim against Richter before
DLSE.  Pet. at 9.  Someone in the DLSE later told him that the
agency knew the claim was fraud, but he was still told to just pay the amount
the claimant requested.  Pet. at 9.  Richter may also be part of the reason the
Legislature is currently investigating DLSE. 
Pet. at 31.
            The
Order, Decision, and Award (“ODA”) denying unpaid wages and reimbursements had
various clerical, calculation, and factual errors.  Pet. at 3, 5. 
Richter moved for DLSE to correct these errors.  Pet. at 5. 
DLSE denied the request but did not deny that the ODA had such
errors.  Pet. at 5.  It also told Richter that his motion did not
toll the deadline for appeal of the ODA to the superior court.  Pet. at 5.
 
            b.
Recitations of Law
            Under
Title 22 of the California Code of Regulations (“22 CCR”), a decision issued by
an administrative law judge (“ALJ”) may not be changed except to correct a
clerical error.  22 CCR §5069(a).  Pet. at 22.  In In the Matter of the nunc pro tunc
Request for Review of: S. C. Clemons, Inc. (“Clemons”), Case No. 15-0409-PWH,
the hearing officer chose to modify the decision to correct a clerical error
rather than let the error stand.  Pet. at
26.
If an ALJ amends a decision based on clerical error, the
time within which to file any board appeal begins anew upon service of an order
correcting a clerical error or a corrected decision or order.  22 CCR §5069(d).  Pet. at 23. 
Based on this, Richter requests correction of the clerical errors in the
ODA to reflect actual figures supported by the evidence and take into
consideration facts that were proven during the hearing.  Pet. at 23.
            Labor
Code section 98 limits the scope of hearing held by the Labor Commissioner to
matters properly before its division. 
Pet. at 23.
            Under
Govt. Code section 11519(a), an administrative decision becomes effective 30
days after it is delivered or mailed to respondent unless a reconsideration is
ordered or a stay of execution granted by then, or the agency itself orders
that the decision shall become effective sooner.  Pet. at 24. 
A stay of execution may be granted either before the decision becomes
effective or as part of the decision itself, with terms of probation that are
reasonable based on the findings and decision. 
Govt. Code §11519(b).  Pet. at
24-25.
            
            c.
Causes of Action
            The
first cause of action alleges that the ODA violates due process based on breach
of confidentiality, privacy, and a court order. 
Pet. at 15.  DLSE was barred from
entering content of sealed matters into that record.  Pet. at 15.
            The
second cause of action alleges that the ODA was predetermined and flawed
because the hearing officer was biased and the hearing filled with problems.  Pet. at 15.
            The
third cause of action alleges that Govt. Code section 11135 prohibits discrimination
under any state program or activity on the basis of race or national origin.
Pet. at 15.  Richter is protected under anti-discrimination
provisions based on racial identification and national origin.  Pet. at 15.
            The
fourth cause of action asserts that, under Govt. Code section 11135, DLSE
failed to take action to support AB 5 wage orders and further the rights of
workers.  Pet. at 15.
            The
fifth cause of action alleges that, in passing the CPRA, the Legislature found
that access to information concerning the conduct of the people’s business is a
fundamental and necessary right of every person in this state.  Pet. at 16. 
DLSE has ignored Richter’s requests for records.  Pet. at 16.
 
            d.
Prayer for Relief
            Richter
seeks, inter alia, (1) remand to DLSE for an additional in-person
hearing to correct the figures in the ODA to comply with prevailing law and
public policy based on the AB 5 test, including finding that Richter was an
employee and performed the work he was hired to do; (3) elimination of any
barred references in the ODA; (4) an apology and admission of fault form the
state, and punishment for willfully criminal conduct; (5) an order compelling
DLSE to add a review step between the hearing decision and the appeal which
would allow a party to show factual inaccuracies in an ODA merit corrections
thereto; (6) stronger separation of adjudicative and investigative roles in
DLSE to preserve due process and avoid bias; (7) an order assigning the matter
to Clemons for her to act consistently with public policy and this court’s
order; (8) removal of any figures derived from incorrect facts; (11) an order
to issue an ODA aligning with prevailing laws and public policy, including an
award of compensatory and consequential damages, waiting time penalties, and
liquidated damages; (13) compensatory damages of $62.54 based on 118 miles
traveled; and (14) 10% annual interest on the $15,756.35 owed in compensatory
damages, or $2,734.57.  Pet. at 13-15.
 
            2.
Course of Proceedings
            On
November 6, 2023, Richter served Lousky and Design with the Petition and
Summons by substitute service, effective November 16, 2023.  
            On
January 8, 2024, DLSE, García-Brower, Clemons, Corleto, Zamora, and Betancur
signed a Notice of Acknowledgement of Receipt for the Petition and Summons.
 
B. Applicable Law
            A demurrer
tests the legal sufficiency of the pleading alone and will be sustained where
the pleading is defective on its face. 
            Where
pleadings are defective, a party may raise the defect by way of a demurrer or
motion to strike or by motion for judgment on the pleadings.  CCP
§430.30(a); Coyne v. Krempels, (1950) 36 Cal.2d 257.  The party
against whom a complaint or cross-complaint has been filed may object by
demurrer or answer to the pleading.  CCP §430.10.  A demurrer is
timely filed within the 30-day period after service of the complaint.  CCP
§ 430.40; Skrbina v. Fleming Companies, (1996) 45 Cal.App.4th 1353,
1364. 
            A demurrer
may be asserted on any one or more of the following grounds: (a) The court has
no jurisdiction of the subject of the cause of action alleged in the pleading;
(b) The person who filed the pleading does not have legal capacity to sue; (c)
There is another action pending between the same parties on the same cause of
action; (d) There is a defect or misjoinder of parties; (e) The pleading does
not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action; (f) The pleading is
uncertain (“uncertain” includes ambiguous and unintelligible); (g) In an action
founded upon a contract, it cannot be ascertained from the pleading whether the
contract is written, is oral, or is implied by conduct; (h) No certificate was
filed as required by CCP §411.35 or (i) by §411.36.  CCP §430.10. 
Accordingly, a demurrer tests the sufficiency of a pleading, and the grounds
for a demurrer must appear on the face of the pleading or from judicially
noticeable matters.  CCP §430.30(a); Blank v. Kirwan, (1985) 39
Cal.3d 311, 318.  The face of the pleading includes attachments and
incorporations by reference (Frantz v. Blackwell, (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d
91, 94); it does not include inadmissible hearsay.  Day v. Sharp,
(1975) 50 Cal.App.3d 904, 914.   
            The sole
issue on demurrer for failure to state a cause of action is whether the facts
pleaded, if true, would entitle the plaintiff to relief.  Garcetti v.
Superior Court, (1996) 49 Cal.App.4th 1533, 1547; Limandri v. Judkins,
(1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 326, 339.  The question of plaintiff’s ability to
prove the allegations of the complaint or the possible difficulty in making
such proof does not concern the reviewing court.  Quelimane Co. v.
Stewart Title Guaranty Co., (1998) 19 Cal.4th 26, 47.  The ultimate
facts alleged in the complaint must be deemed true, as well as all facts that
may be implied or inferred from those expressly alleged.  Marshall v.
Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher, (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1397, 1403. 
Nevertheless, this rule does not apply to allegations expressing mere
conclusions of law, or allegations contradicted by the exhibits to the
complaint or by matters of which judicial notice may be taken.  Vance
v. Villa Park Mobilehome Estates, (1995) 36 Cal.App.4th 698, 709. 
            For all
demurrers filed after January 1, 2016, the demurring party must meet and confer
in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading for the purpose
of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the
objections to be raised in the demurrer.  CCP §430.31(a).  As part of
the meet and confer process, the demurring party must identify all of the
specific causes of action that it believes are subject to demurrer and provide
legal support for the claimed deficiencies.  CCP §430.31(a)(1).  The
party who filed the pleading must in turn provide legal support for its
position that the pleading is legally sufficient or, in the alternative, how
the complaint, cross-complaint, or answer could be amended to cure any legal
insufficiency.  Id.  The demurring party is responsible for
filing and serving a declaration that the meet and confer requirement has been
met.  CCP §430.31(a)(3).   
            If a demurrer is sustained, the court may
grant leave to amend the pleading upon any terms as may be just and shall fix
the time within which the amendment or amended pleading shall be filed.  CCP
§472a(c).  It is an abuse of discretion to grant a motion for judgment
on the pleadings without leave to amend if there is any reasonable possibility
that the plaintiff can state a good cause of action.  Dudley v.
Department of Transportation (“Dudley”) (2001), 90 Cal. App. 4th
255, 260.  However, in response
to a demurrer and prior to the case being at issue, a complaint or
cross-complaint shall not be amended more than three times, absent an offer to
the trial court as to such additional facts to be pleaded that there is a
reasonable possibility the defect can be cured to state a cause of action.  CCP §430.41(e)(1).
 
            C.
Statement of Facts[2]
            1. Precedent
            In August 2016, the Director of
Industrial Relations (“Director”) issued an order modifying its decision in Clemons
to fix the name of the subcontractor at issue. 
RJN Ex. 2.  The order noted that
Labor Code section 1742(b) allows the Director to make substantive changes to
the decision within 15 days of its issuance, and to correct clerical errors at
any time.  RJN Ex. 2.  
 
            2. ODA
            On May 3, 2022, Richter filed a
complaint against Lousky.  RJN Ex. 1 (ODA
p. 1).  The complaint alleged that Lousky
owed Richter wages, meal period premiums, rest period premiums, liquidated
damages, unreimbursed business expenses, and penalties.  ODA p. 1. 
Hearing officer Clemons heard the complaint on August 2, 2022.  ODA p. 2.
            On August 14, 2023, Clemons issued
an ODA denying Richter’s complaint.  ODA
p. 6.  The ODA’s Findings of Fact stated
that Richter moved into the house in June 2020 and vacated it in May 2022.  ODA p. 2. 
He then contacted Lousky about required repairs.  ODA p. 2. 
When Lousky said that she could not immediately address those issues,
Richter offered to complete the work. 
ODA p. 2.  Lousky agreed to let
him find the workers to complete the work. 
ODA p. 2.  
            Richter asserted that this meant
Lousky knew he would hire workers, including himself, to complete the
work.  ODA p. 2.  Richter worked in the construction industry
and billed $30 per hour for this work, which was consistent with industry
standards.  ODA p. 2.  
            In contrast, Lousky argued Richter
made deductions from the rent for repairs after saying he would pay for the
cost of upgrades.  ODA p. 3.  Lousky eventually told Richter that he could
no longer make those rent deductions and that any further repairs required her
approval.  ODA p. 4.  They continued to exchange emails about
Richter’s late rent payments and unauthorized work.  ODA p. 4. 
Their relationship soured to the point that Richter was asked to leave
the premises.  ODA p. 4.
            The ODA found that Richter was not
an employee and not discharged from the work he conducted on the Property.  ODA p. 5. 
On August 18, 2023, DLSE served Richter with the ODA by mail.  ODA p. 9.
            D.
Analysis
            Respondents
demur to the Petition based on (1) an alternative remedy available to Richter
at law; (2) failure to plead sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action;
and (3) quasi-judicial immunity of individual Respondents. 
 
            1. Meet and
Confer
            Despite
a 70-minute Zoom meeting on February 5, 2024, the parties could not reach an
agreement regarding the objections raised in this demurrer.  Raymond Decl., ¶4.  Respondents have satisfied the requirement to
meet and confer.
 
            2.
Merits
            Respondents
assert that the five causes of action (Pet. at 15-16) lack sufficient facts to
constitute a cause of action.  Dem. at
6-7.  
CCP section 1094.5 is
the administrative mandamus provision which structures the procedure for
judicial review of adjudicatory decisions rendered by administrative agencies.¿
Topanga Association for a Scenic Community v. County of Los Angeles, (“Topanga”)
(1974) 11 Cal.3d 506, 514-15.¿ It is the appropriate form of mandamus when the
writ is issued for the purpose of inquiring into the validity of any final
administrative order or decision made as the result of a proceeding in which by
law a hearing is required to be given, evidence is required to be taken, and
discretion in the determination of facts is vested in the inferior tribunal,
corporation, board, or officer.  CCP
§1094.5(a).     
Labor Code section 98(a) authorizes,
but does not require, the Labor Commissioner to provide for a hearing, known as
a Berman hearing, in any action to recover wages, penalties, and other
demands for compensation.  Such a hearing
shall be informal.  Labor Code §98(g).  Case law distinguishes between Berman hearings
and those governed by the Administrative Procedures Act.  Corrales v. Bradstreet, (“Corrales”)
(2007), 153 Cal. App. 4th 33, 51.  Within
ten days after service of notice of an order, decision, or award, the parties
may seek review by filing an appeal to the superior court, where the appeal
shall be heard de novo.  Labor
Code §98.2(a).  
Because de novo superior court
review is available, administrative mandamus is not appropriate for review of
these hearings.  The
Petition asserts that all five causes of action lie in traditional
mandamus.  Pet. at 15-16.  A traditional writ of mandate under CCP
section 1085 is the method of compelling the performance of a legal,
ministerial duty.  Pomona Police
Officers’ Assn. v. City of Pomona, (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 578, 583-84.  Generally, mandamus will lie when (1) there
is no plain, speedy, and adequate alternative remedy, (2) the respondent has a
duty to perform, and (3) the petitioner has a clear and beneficial right to
performance.  Id. at 584 (internal
citations omitted).  Mandamus is an
equitable remedy that is not available if there is an adequate remedy at law.
            On
May 3, 2022, Richter filed a complaint against Lousky.  ODA p. 1. 
On August 14, 2023, Clemons issued an ODA denying Richter’s complaint in
full.  ODA p. 6.  Richter seeks, inter alia, (1)
remand to the DLSE for an additional in-person hearing to correct the figures
in the ODA to comply with prevailing law and public policy based on the AB 5
test, including by finding that Richter was an employee and performed the work
he was hired to do; (7) an order to assign the matter to Clemons for her to act
consistently with public policy and this court’s order; (8) removal of any
figures derived from incorrect facts; (11) an order to issue an ODA aligning
with prevailing laws and public policy, including an award of compensatory and
consequential damages, waiting time penalties, and liquidated damages based on the
verified wage claim; (13) compensatory damages of $62.54 based on 118 miles
traveled; and (14) 10% annual interest on the $15,756.35 owed in compensatory
damages, or $2,734.57.  Pet. at 13-15.
            Respondents
argue that traditional mandamus is not available because there was an adequate
remedy available at law through de novo superior court appeal.  Labor Code §98.2(a).  The Petition alleges that Richter did not
timely appeal because he instead moved for DLSE to correct the various clerical,
calculation, and factual errors in the ODA. 
Pet. at 3, 5.  When DLSE denied
the motion, it told Richter that his motion did not toll the deadline to appeal
the ODA to the superior court.  Pet. at
5.  
            The
first issue is whether Richter’s motion tolled the ten-day statute of
limitations to file a de novo superior court appeal.  The Petition cites no viable authority for
tolling.
The Petition first cites 22 CCR
section 5069(d), which resets the deadline for filing an appeal upon service of
an order correcting a clerical error or a corrected decision or order.  Pet. at 23. 
22 CCR concerns social security, and 22 CCR sections 5000 et seq.
govern hearings before the California Unemployment Insurance Appeals Board.  Dem. at 6. 
They have nothing to do with Berman hearings before the Labor
Commissioner.  Id.
            The
Petition cites Govt. Code section 11519(a), under which an administrative
decision becomes effective 30 days after it is delivered or mailed to
respondent unless a reconsideration is ordered or a stay of execution granted
by then, or the agency itself orders that the decision shall become effective
sooner.  Pet. at 24.  A stay of execution may be granted either
before the decision becomes effective or as part of the decision itself, with
terms of probation that are reasonable based on the findings and decision.  Govt. Code §11519(b).  Pet. at 24-25.  Govt. Code sections 11500 et seq.
apply only to formal administrative hearings under the APA.  Dem. at 6. 
They do not apply to informal wage claim proceedings before the Labor
Commissioner.  See Labor Code §98(g).  
            The
Petition also cites Clemons, in which the Director chose to modify a
decision to correct a clerical error rather than let the error stand.  Pet. at 26; RJN Ex. 2.  The order cited Labor Code section 1742(b),
which allows the Director to make substantive changes to the decision within 15
days of its issuance, and to correct clerical errors at any time.  RJN Ex. 2. 
Labor Code sections 1720 et seq. concern public works as defined in
Labor Code section 1720(a)(1).  Mem. at
6.  It does not apply to a wage claim for
work done on a private residence.  
            Richter has failed to show any
statutory authority permitting a motion to amend a clerical error in an ODA, or
that such a motion tolls the ten-day statute of limitations for a Berman
appeal under Labor Code section 98.2.  The
Petition does refer to due process but fails to indicate how due process would
be violated by the lack of tolling for a motion to modify a clerical error.In
any case, the error alleged by Richter was not clerical.  The Petition asserts that the ODA was wrongly
decided due to hearing officer bias and error. 
Pet. at 5.  
              Second, even if arguendo Richter were
correct that the ten-day deadline for superior court appeal should have been
tolled, his remedy was to file an untimely appeal and argue tolling of the
deadline.  As this was an adequate legal
remedy, he cannot seek review of the deadline through traditional mandamus. The
demurrer is sustained for the first through fourth
causes of action seeking traditional mandamus alleging that the
ODA contains confidential information, was the result of bias, was
discriminatory, and failed to support AB 5 wage orders and further the
rights of workers.  Pet. at 15.  Traditional mandamus cannot support these four
time-barred claims seeking to reverse or modify the ODA[3]
            The
fifth cause of action invokes principles of the CPRA.  Pet. at 16. 
Govt.
Code section 7921.000 declares that “access to information concerning the
conduct of the people’s business is a fundamental and necessary right of every
person in this state.”  The CPRA’s purpose is to increase freedom of
information by giving the public access to information in possession of public
agencies.  CBS. Inc. v. Block,
(1986) 42 Cal. 3d 646, 651.  
Respondents are correct that the Petition’s CPRA claim is
deficient.  Dem. at 8.  The Petition alleges that DLSE ignores
Richter’s request for records (Pet. at 16) but does not allege that Richter
ever made a request for documents under the CPRA.  It does not identify the documents Richter
requested, DLSE’s response, and what documents remain to be produced.  Dem. at 8. 
The fifth cause of action fails to state facts
sufficient to constitute a CPRA claim.[4]
 
            E. Conclusion
            The demurrer to the
Petition is sustained.  Richter has not
opposed the demurrer and has not demonstrated he can amend the Petition to cure
its defects.  The demurrer is sustained
without leave to amend.  An OSC re: dismissal is set for
April 4 , 2024 at 9:30 a.m.


