  Case Number:  23CHCV03185    Hearing Date:   June 21, 2024    Dept:  F47 Dept. F47
Date: 6/21/24
Case #23CHCV03185
 
DEMURRER TO THE
FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT
 
Demurrer filed on 4/29/24.
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendants Yusheng Shew and Jill J. Van
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiffs Gevork Voskanian; Mary
Keryan and KSJV3, Inc.
NOTICE: ok
 
Demurrer is to the 1st, 2nd, 3rd,
4th, 6th, 9th and 10th causes of
action in the First Amended Complaint:
            1.  Breach of Contract
            2.  Breach of the Implied Covenant of Good Faith
and Fair Dealing
            3.  Fraud and Deceit
            4.  Negligent Misrepresentation
            5.  Accounting
            6.  Declaratory Relief
            7.  Intentional Interference
            8.  Negligent Interference
            9.  Assault
            10.
Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress
 
RULING: The demurrer is sustained with 30 days
leave to amend.  
 
SUMMARY OF FACTS & PROCEDURAL HISTORY
 
This action arises out of the sale of a fencing company,
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant KSJV3, Inc. dba Five Star Fence (Five Star), from
Defendants/Cross-Complainants Yusheng Shew (Shew) and Jill Van (Van) to
Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants Gevork Voskanian (Voskanian) and Mary Keryan
(Keryan).  
 
On 10/20/23, Voskanian, Keryan and Five Star (collectively,
Plaintiffs) filed this action against Shew and Van (collectively, Defendants) for:
(1) Breach of Contract, (2) Breach of Implied Covenant
of Good Faith and Fair Dealing, (3) Fraud and Deceit, (4) Negligent
Misrepresentation, (5) Accounting, (6) Declaratory Relief, (7) Unjust
Enrichment, (8) Conspiracy, (9) Intentional Interference and (10) Negligent
Interference. 

 
On 12/18/23, Shew and Van filed and served a
cross-complaint against Voskanian, Keryan and Five Star for: (1) Fraud – Promise Without Intent to Perform, (2) Breach
of Stock Purchase Agreement, (3) Breach of Secured Promissory Note, (4) Breach
of Guaranty, (5) Breach of Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing, (6)
Judicial Foreclosure of UCC-1 Lien, (7) Interference With Contract, (8)
Accounting and (9) Declaratory Relief.   

 
On 12/26/23, Shew and Van/Defendants filed and served a
demurrer, with a 3/8/24 hearing date, to the 1st – 5th
and 7th and 8th causes of action in the complaint.  On 2/22/24, Plaintiffs filed the subject
First Amended Complaint for: (1) Breach of Contract, (2) Breach of Implied
Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing, (3) Fraud and Deceit, (4) Negligent
Misrepresentation, (5) Accounting, (6) Declaratory Relief, (7) Intentional
Interference, (8) Negligent Interference, (9) Assault and (10) Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress.
 
After meet and confer efforts failed to resolve the
issues Defendants had with the First Amended Complaint, on 4/29/24, Defendants served
and filed the instant demurrer to the 1st, 2nd, 3rd,
4th, 6th, 9th, and 10th causes of
action in the First Amended Complaint. 
 
On 5/1/24, the Court overruled Five Star, Voskanian and
Keryan’s demurrer as to the 1st, 7th and 9th
causes of action in the cross-complaint and sustained the demurrer with 30 days
leave to amend as to the 5th cause of action.  A First Amended Cross-Complaint has not been
filed.
 
On 6/10/24, Defendants filed and served a Notice of
Non-Opposition to the instant demurrer to the First Amended Complaint.  On 6/14/24, 5 court days late and 1 day after
a reply was due and without explanation, Plaintiffs filed and served an
opposition to the demurrer to the First Amended Complaint.  CCP 1005(b). 
On 6/17/24, Defendants filed and served a reply to the opposition.
 
Despite the late filing and service of the opposition and
reply papers, they were considered by the Court in ruling on the merits of the
demurrer.  See CRC 3.1300(d).
 
ANALYSIS
 
Among others, a demurrer may be based on the grounds that
the complaint fails to state sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action;
the complaint fails to allege whether the contracts sued on are written, oral
or implied by conduct and/or that the pleading is uncertain and ambiguous.  CCP 430.10(e), (f), (g).
 
1st cause of action – Breach of Contract
 
As noted above, a demurrer lies when “in an action
founded upon a contract, it cannot be ascertained from the pleading whether the
contract is written, is oral, or is implied by conduct.”  CCP 430.10(g).  While Plaintiffs allege that Voskanian and
Keryan entered into a written “Stock Purchase Agreement” with Shew and Van,
they also allege that they entered into 5 ancillary agreements: (1) Promissory
Note, (2) Security Agreement, (3) Guaranty, (4) Non-Competition Agreement and
(5) Escrow Agreement without any indication of whether these “ancillary
agreements” are written oral or implied. 
(See FAC ¶7).  Plaintiffs
also allege that Defendants entered into “various agreements memorialized in a
number of writings, some signed, others perhaps not.”  (FAC ¶55). 
Plaintiffs do not attach and incorporate any agreements to the First
Amended Complaint and have failed to set forth the terms of the “ancillary
agreements.” 
 
Within the breach of contract cause of action itself, Plaintiffs
refer to “the Agreement” and “the contract;” however, it is not clear if
Plaintiffs are referencing the “Stock Purchase Agreement” and/or one of the
“ancillary agreements.” (FAC ¶30).  As
such, it is uncertain which contract(s)/agreement(s) forms the basis(es) for
the breach of contract claim, the terms of such contract, etc. 
 
To state a claim for breach of written contract, the
plaintiff must plead the existence of a contract, its terms which establish the
obligation at issue, the occurrence of any conditions precedent to enforcement
of the obligation, and the breach of that obligation.  FPI Development, Inc. (1991) 231 CA3d
367, 383.  A written contract may be pled
by setting forth the terms, verbatim, in the complaint, by attaching a copy of
the contract to the complaint and incorporating it by reference, or by pleading
its legal effect (i.e., allege the substance of its relevant terms).  See McKell (2006) 142 CA4th
1457, 1489.  As noted above, while Plaintiffs
may have pled terms of the “Stock Purchase Agreement,” they have not done so
with the other agreements referenced in the First Amended Complaint and, also
as noted above, it is not clear which contract, or contracts, form the basis/es
for the claim.  
 
2nd cause of action – Breach of Implied
Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing
 
If the allegations of a breach of implied covenant of
good faith and fair dealing cause of action merely restate a breach of contract
claim and seek the same damages, such a claim is superfluous and may be
disregarded.  See Careau &
Co. (1990) 222 CA3d 1371, 1395.  
 
Here, the breach of implied covenant claim appears to
rely on the same facts as the defective breach of contract claim.  As such, this claim fails for the same
reasons as the breach of contract claim. 
Additionally, it appears that the breach of implied covenant claim
merely restates the allegations and damages sought in the breach of contract
cause of action.  (See FAC
¶¶35-36).  As such, it appears that the
cause of action is unnecessarily duplicative. 
 
 
3rd cause of action – Fraud and Deceit
 
The elements of a fraud cause of action are: (1) false
representation by defendant, (2) intent to deceive or induce reliance, (3)
justifiable reliance by plaintiff, (4) resulting damages.  Service by Medallion, Inc. (1996) 44
CA4th 1807, 1816.  Fraud claims must be
pled with specific facts showing how, when, where, to whom and by what means
the misrepresentations were made.  Lazar
(1996) 12 C4th 631, 645; Stansfield (1990) 220 CA3d 59, 73.  
 
Plaintiffs do not include any specific allegations within
the 3rd cause of action itself. 
Rather, Plaintiffs incorporate the previous and subsequent allegations
and allege that “Defendants made certain [false] representations of fact as
described above related to the operations, financial condition, and value of
Five Star Fence.”  (See FAC ¶¶37-40).  It is not the job of Defendants and/or the
Court to determine which allegations in the many preceding and subsequent paragraphs
of the First Amended Complaint, Plaintiffs contend support their fraud
claim.  Even considering the other allegations,
Plaintiffs fail to specify which of the two Defendants made which specific
misrepresentation, where, to whom and/or by what means.  
 
4th cause of action – Negligent
Misrepresentation
 
A claim for negligent misrepresentation has the same specific
pleading requirements as a fraud claim.  Small
(2003) 30 C4th 167, 184.   As with the fraud and deceit claim, Plaintiffs
have failed to plead the negligent misrepresentation cause of action with the
requisite factual specificity.  
 
6th cause of action – Declaratory Relief
 
In a declaratory relief cause of action, a plaintiff may
seek a judicial declaration of the plaintiff’s rights or duties with respect to
another in cases of actual controversy relating to the legal rights and duties
of the respective parties.  Alborzian
(2015) 235 CA4th 29, 40.
 
Here, Plaintiffs allege that they and Defendants “entered
into various agreements memorialized in a number of writings, some signed,
others perhaps not. The Plaintiff and Defendants dispute the terms and/or
enforceability of those agreements.” 
(FAC ¶55).  Plaintiffs further
allege that they are “requesting a judicial determination of the validity of
all of the aforementioned agreements and a determination of the parties’
rights, title and interest in the action.” 
(FAC ¶56).  As noted above, Plaintiffs
have alleged the existence of a “Stock Purchase Agreement” and 5 “ancillary
agreements” without specifying whether such ancillary agreements are written,
oral or implied and without pleading the terms of same.  As such, it is not clear which of the various
agreements mentioned in the First Amended Complaint form the basis(es) of
Plaintiffs’ declaratory relief cause of action and/or how the Court can
determine the parties’ rights, title and interest therein.
 
9th cause of action – Assault &  10th cause of action – Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress
 
Contrary to Defendants’ assertion, Plaintiffs were
entitled to include these additional causes of action as they amended their
complaint as a matter of right pursuant to CCP 472(a).  Unlike in Harris (2010) 185 CA4th
1018, 1023 relied on by Defendants, this Court has not issued an order
sustaining a demurrer with leave to amend. 
However, these claims fail for other reasons.  
 
The elements of an assault cause of action are: (1)
defendant acted, intending to cause harmful or offensive contact, (2) plaintiff
reasonably believed that plaintiff was about to be touched in a harmful or an
offensive manner or that defendant threatened to touch plaintiff in a harmful
or offensive manner; that it reasonably appeared to plaintiff that defendant
was about to carry out the threat; that plaintiff did not consent to
defendant’s conduct, (4) plaintiff was harmed and (5) defendant’s conduct was a
substantial factor in causing plaintiff’s harm. 
CACI 1301.  
 
The elements of an intentional infliction of emotional
distress cause of action are: (1) defendant’s conduct was outrageous, (2)
defendant intended to cause plaintiff emotional distress or defendant acted
with reckless disregard of the probability that plaintiff would suffer
emotional distress, knowing that plaintiff was present when the conduct
occurred, (3) plaintiff suffered severe emotional distress and (4) defendant’s
conduct was a substantial factor in causing plaintiff’s severe emotional
distress.  CACI 1600.  
 
These two causes of action are alleged solely by
Voskanian against Shew and incorporate all of  the previous and subsequent paragraphs.  (See FAC ¶¶67, 72).  However, Voskanian fails to specify which of
the allegations form the bases of these claims. 
It is unclear how allegations regarding alleged breaches of contract and/or
fraud regarding a business transaction could support these claims.  Again, it is not the responsibility of Shew
or the Court to determine which allegations Voskanian intended to support his
claims.     
 
CONCLUSION
 
The demurrer is sustained.  Due to the liberal policy of allowing leave
to amend and because this is only the First Amended Complaint, Plaintiffs are
given the opportunity to try to cure the defects in their pleading.  A Second Amended Complaint is due to be filed
and served within 30 days.
 
The parties are reminded to comply with the filing
deadlines and are warned that failure to timely file and/or serve papers in the
future may result in the late papers not being considered by the Court.  
 