 Case Number:  22NWCV01401    Hearing Date:   November 2, 2023    Dept:  C SCHUBERT INVESTMENTS, INC. v. TAY
CASE NO.:  22NWCV01401 
HEARING:  11/02/23
 
#2
 
Defendant/Cross-Complainant
ALLAN ROBERTO TAY’s Motion to Quash ¶Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant SCHUBERT
INVESTMENTS, INC.’s Deposition Subpoenas for Production of Business Records
from JP Morgan Chase Bank N.A. is DENIED. On the Court’s own Motion, the
Subpoena is MODIFIED, and a  Protective Order is
issued, as indicated below.   
 
Moving Party to give
notice. 
 
This breach of contract
action was filed by Plaintiff SCHUBERT INVESTMENTS INC. (“Plaintiff”) against
Defendants ALLAN ROBERTO TAY (“Tay”) and BELLATOR ROOFING INC. (“Bellator
Roofing”) (collectively “Defendants”) on November 22, 2022. The operative
Complaint alleges that in January 2022, the parties entered into an oral
agreement whereby Schubert Investments Inc. would receive a 10% ownership interest
in Bellator Roofing, Inc., in return for a direct investment of one hundred
thousand dollars. (Complaint, ¶ 19). The parties agreed that Schubert
Investments, Inc. would receive 10% of the profits from all jobs contracted by
Bellator Roofing Inc. (Ibid.) Plaintiff made payments totaling one
hundred thousand dollars in or around March 2022. (Complaint, ¶¶ 13-14.)  However, despite Plaintiffs payment, Defendants
have failed to issue Plaintiff a 10% ownership interest in Bellator Roofing,
Inc., nor have they made any payments pursuant to the agreement that Plaintiff
would receive 10% of all profits on jobs contracted by Bellator. (Complaint, ¶
22.)  Additionally, the Complaint alleges
Defendant Allan Roberto Tay diverted corporate assets, commingled corporate
funds and assets with his personal funds, and paid for personal expenses out of
Bellator's company funds. (Complaint, ¶ 34, 39.)  
 
The Complaint asserts
the following causes of action: (1) Breach of Oral Agreement; (2) Breach of
Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing; (3) Breach of Fiduciary Duty; (4)
Fraud; (5) Negligent Misrepresentation; (6) Conversion of Stock; (7) Constructive
Trust; (8) Accounting; (9) Inspection Rights; and (10) Injunctive Relief.
 
On September 6, 2023,
Defendants/Cross-Complainants Tay and Bellator Roofing filed the operative
First Amended Cross-Complaint (“FAXC”) asserting claims for: (1) Breach of Oral
Contract; (2) Fraud; and (3) Declaratory Relief. 
 
Tay now moves for an
order to quash the deposition subpoena for production of business records
served by Plaintiff to JP Morgan Chase Bank N.A. Tay alternatively moves for
the issuance of a protective order to prevent disclosure of Tay’s financial
condition and profits until and unless the trier of fact returns a verdict for
Plaintiff finding Tay guilty of malice, oppression, or fraud. Tay argues that
the subpoena at issue constitutes a violation of his right to privacy, is
overly broad, and seeks irrelevant non-discoverable information. 
 
Tay’s Separate
Statements indicates that the following Requests are at issue: 
(1)
All
documents pertaining to all open or closed checking accounts in the name of or
associated with Allan Roberto Tay, including but not limited to: (a) Bank
statements; (b) Deposit tickets; and (c) Items deposited; 
(2)
All
documents pertaining to all open or closed saving accounts in the name of or
associated with Allan Roberto Tay, including but not limited to: (a) Bank
statements; (b) Deposit tickets; and (c) Items deposited; and 
(3)
Customer
correspondence files related to any account associated with Allan Roberto Tay. 
 
In Opposition,
Plaintiff argues that the documents at issue are relevant because they are
directly related to the amount of damages that Plaintiff has suffered due to
Defendants’ purported failure to issue Plaintiff the agreed upon 10% ownership
interest in Bellator Roofing, Inc., as well as payments pursuant to the
agreement that Plaintiff would receive 10% of all profits on jobs contracted by
Bellator. Plaintiff maintains that the subpoena at issue is necessary to show
that cash or other payments that should have been deposited into the corporate
bank accounts for Bellator Roofing, Inc., were instead deposited into Tay’s
personal bank account. 
 
“If a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness or the
production of books, documents, electronically stored information, or other
things before a court, or at the trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of
a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably made by [a party], or upon the
court’s own motion after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard,
may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing
compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare,
including protective orders. In addition, the court may make any other order as
may be appropriate to protect the person from unreasonable or oppressive
demands, including unreasonable violation of the right of privacy of the
person.” (CCP §1987.1.) 
 
The documents sought by Plaintiff contain Tay’s financial
information. Financial records are subject to a right of privacy. The right to
privacy set forth in the California Constitution extends to one’s financial
records. (Valley Bank of Nevada v. Superior Court of San Joaquin County
(1975) 15 Cal.3d 652, 656.) Even highly relevant, non-privileged information
may be shielded from discovery if its disclosure would impair a person’s
“inalienable right of privacy” provided by Calif. Const. Art., 1 §1. The right
to privacy may be abridged only when there is a compelling and opposing state
interest. (Garstang v. Superior Court (1995) 39 Cal.App.4th 526, 532.)
One such compelling public need lies in facilitating the ascertainment of truth
in connection with legal claims. (Id.) The party seeking the
constitutionally protected information has the burden of establishing that the
information sought is directly relevant to the claims. (Tylo v. Superior
Court (1997) 55 Cal.App.4th 1379, 1387.) 
 
When privacy objections are asserted, the party seeking
discovery must show a “particularized need” for the confidential information
sought. “The broad “relevancy to the subject matter” standard is not enough.
The Court must be convinced that the information is directly relevant to a
cause of action or defense… i.e. that it is essential to determining the truth
of the matters in dispute.” (TRG, Civil Procedure Before Trial, Chapter 8C-5,
Section 8:320, citing Britt v. Superior Court (1978) 20 Cal.3d 844, 859-562.)

 
The Court finds that Plaintiff has not established a
“particularized need” warranting entitlement to the breadth financial
information sought by the subpoena at issue. However, the court determines
there is a “particularized need” for some access to Tay’s relevant financial
records, limited in time and scope.  It
is undisputed that an issue to be adjudicated in this case is whether Tay
commingled or misappropriated the funds of Bellator Roofing, Inc. (See
Complaint ¶34.)  Rather than quash the subpoena
in its entirety, the Court elects to modify the subpoena in accordance with its
powers to do so under CCP 1987.1.
 
The Subpoena is MODIFIED to limit the documents
sought to: funds deposited into Tay’s personal and checking accounts from
January 2022 to present.  
 
Moreover, on its own motion, the Court ORDERS that a protective order should be entered to govern the
disclosure of implicated documents produced or that are to be produced
throughout the course of discovery. (CCP §2031.060(b).) Therefore, it is ORDERED that documents to be produced
by JP Morgan Chase Bank which contain confidential information are “Protected
Documents.” The Protected Documents and the information contained therein shall
be treated by all parties as confidential. Except upon the prior written
consent of Defendant Tay or upon further order of this Court, the Protected
Documents or information contained therein may be shown, disseminated, or
disclosed only to: the parties of this litigation and/or their counsel of
record in this case; or employees of counsel or of associated counsel who
assist in the preparation of this case; or experts and consultants retained by
the parties to this litigation. 