  Case Number:  23CHCV02609    Hearing Date:   February 26, 2024    Dept:  F49 Dept. F49¿ 
Date: 2/26/24
Case #23CHCV02609
 
LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
VALLEY DISTRICT
DEPARTMENT
F49
 FEBRUARY 26,
2024
 

MOTION TO STRIKE REFERENCES TO
PUNITIVE DAMAGES IN COMPLAINT

Los Angeles Superior Court Case # 23CHCV02609

 
Motion
filed: 10/2/23
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant Magic Mountain, LLC (“Magic
Mountain” or the “moving Defendant”)
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff Jane Doe (“Plaintiff”) 
NOTICE: ok¿¿¿ 
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED: An
order granting the moving Defendant’s Motion to Strike References to Punitive
Damages in Complaint.
 
TENTATIVE
RULING: The
motion is DENIED.
 
BACKGROUND
 
On August 30, 2023, Plaintiff filed this action against
Defendants Magic Mountain, LLC, Jose Arriaga (“Arriaga”), and Does 1 through 50.
The Complaint alleges 12 causes of action: (1) sexual battery/abuse of a minor;
(2) intentional infliction of emotional distress; and (3) sexual harassment;
(4) negligent hiring, supervision & retention of an unfit employee; (5)
negligent failure to warn, train or educate; (6) negligent supervision of a
minor; (7) negligence; (8) retaliation in violation of the FEHA; (9)
retaliation under Labor Code §§ 98.6, 1102.5; (10) sexual harassment in violation
of FEHA; (11) discrimination in violation of FEHA; and (12) failure to prevent
harassment and discrimination in violation of FEHA.
 
On October 2, 2023, Defendant Magic Mountain filed the
instant motion to strike (the “Motion”).
 
On February 8, 2024, this case was reassigned to department
F49. 
 
On February 9, 2024, Plaintiff filed her Opposition to the
Motion. Subsequently, on February 15, Magic Mountain replied. 
 
 
ANALYSIS
“Any party, within the time
allowed to respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of motion to
strike the whole or any part thereof[.]” (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b),
par. (1).)
 
“Before filing a motion to strike pursuant to
this chapter, the moving party shall meet and confer in person, by telephone,
or by video conference with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to
the motion to strike for the purpose of determining if an agreement can be
reached that resolves the objections to be raised in the motion to strike.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5, subd. (a).)
A.   
Meet and
Confer Requirement
 
The moving party is required to meet and confer with the
party who filed the pleading to resolve the issue raised in the motion to
strike. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5, subd. (a).) Moreover, the moving party must include in their
motion to strike a declaration stating either (1) the means by which the meet
and confer occurred and that the parties did not reach an agreement resolving
the objections, or (2) that the party who filed the pleading failed to respond
to the meet and confer request. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5, subd. (a), par.
(3), subpar. (A) (B).)
 
However, the moving Defendant Magic
Mountain has failed to include a code-compliant declaration. Furthermore, there
is no presentation of facts indicating that an effort to meet and confer has
been made. Consequently, the Court deems the meet and confer requirement was
not been satisfied.
 
The Court directs both parties to adhere
to the relevant sections and requirement for the meet and confer process
outlined in Code of Civil Procedures in all future proceedings.
 
B.    
Motion to Strike References to Punitive
Damages
 
The moving
Defendant Magic Mountain moves to strike all portions of Plaintiff’s Complaint
referring punitive damages, including:
 
1.     
Causes of Action, stating “oppressive, fraudulent, or
malicious intent” and “Plaintiff is entitled to punitive damages, pursuant to
California Civil Code section 3294, so as to punish Defendant, Magic Mountain
and deter them from similar conduct in the future.” (Complaint, at 13:15-19,
14:25-15:4, 16:8-12, 17:17-21, 18:22-26.)
 
2.     
Pray for Damages 2(d), 3(d), 4(d), 5(d), 6(d), stating
“for punitive damages according to proof.” (Complaint, at 19-20.)
“In order to survive a motion to strike an allegation
of punitive damages, the ultimate facts showing an entitlement to such relief
must be pled by a plaintiff.” (Clauson v. Superior Court (1998) 67
Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.) 
Specific facts must be pleaded in support of punitive
damages.  (Hillard v. A.H. Robins Co.
(1983) 148 Cal.App.3d 374, 391-392.) Facts must be pled to show that a
defendant “act[ed] with the intent to vex, injure or annoy, or with a conscious
disregard of the plaintiff’s rights.” (Silberg v. California Life Ins. Co.
(1974) 11 Cal.3d 452, 462.) Conduct that is merely negligent will not support a
claim for punitive damages. (Tomaselli v. Transamerica Ins. Co. (1994)
25 Cal.App.4th 1269, 1288.) 
“An employer shall not be liable for [punitive] damages . .
. based upon acts of an employee of the employer, unless the employer had
advance knowledge of the unfitness of the employee and employed him or her with
a conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others or authorized or
ratified the wrongful conduct for which the damages are awarded or was
personally guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice. With respect to a corporate
employer, the advance knowledge and conscious disregard, authorization, ratification
or act of oppression, fraud, or malice must be on the part of an officer,
director, or managing agent of the corporation.” (Civ. Code § 3294(b).)
            
Malice is defined as either “conduct which is
intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff,” or “despicable
conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious
disregard of the rights or safety of others.” 
(Civ. Code § 3294(c)(1).) “Despicable conduct is conduct which is so
vile, base, contemptible, miserable, wretched or loathsome that it would be
looked down upon and despised by ordinary decent people.” (Mock v. Michigan
Millers Mutual Ins. Co. (1992) 4 Cal. App. 4th 306, 331.) Fraud under
California Civil Code, Section 3294(c)(3) “means an intentional
misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the
defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving
a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.” California
Civil Code, Section 3294(c)(2) defines oppression as “despicable conduct that
subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that
person’s rights.” 
In its Motion, Magic Mountain argues that the Complaint is deficient
in two key respects. First, it asserts that there are no facts demonstrating that
Magic Mountain acted with oppression, fraud, or malice. (Mot., at 5.) Second, it
claims that there are no specific facts alleged against any particular
officers, directors, or managing agents of Magic Mountain. (Id., at 8.)
 
In her Opposition, the Plaintiff contends that the
Complaint has indeed pleaded ultimate factual allegations showing that Magic
Mountain acted with both malice and conscious when it terminated her employment
after she reported sexual abuse and harassment by Co-Defendant Arriga, citing Roberts
v. Ford Aerospace & Communications Corp. (1990) 224 Cal.App.3d 793.
Furthermore, Plaintiff argues that factual allegations sufficiently demonstrate
ratification by a managing agent of Magic Mountain. (Opp’n., at 5-7.)
 
In Coasts v. Construction & Glen. Laborers Local No.
185 (1971) 15 Cal.App.3d 908 (Coasts), a union’s officers refused to
disciple its employee after being informed that the employees assaulted a union
member. The Coast Court found that the union’s failure to discharge or
discipline the offending employees amounted to ratification which justified an
award of punitive damages against the employer under Civil Code section 3294.
 
In Hart v. National Mortgage & Land Co., (1987)
189 Cal.App.3d 1420 (Hart), the plaintiff alleged his superiors were
aware that other employees were harassing him and condoned it. The Court of
Appeal reversed the trial court’s summary judgment, stating, specifically
regarding the issue of punitive damage, that the plaintiff should have been
permitted to amend his complaint to allege the ratification provision. (Id.,
at 1421.) The Hart court further clarified that the plaintiff could be
entitled to punitive damages by showing that his supervisor's knowledge and
failure to act constituted ratification imputable to the employer, or, alternative,
by demonstrating that his supervisor was an “officer, director or manage agent”
of the employee, and he committed acts of “oppression ... or malice.” (Id.,
at 1433.)
 
 Here, Plaintiff
alleges that “[i]n or around August 2, 2022, Plaintiff reported the incidents
of abuse to Magic Mountain. Magic Mountain referred her to the on-site deputies
at the park. Since Plaintiff was a minor at the time, the deputies contacted
her family and informed them of Plaintiff’s report.” (Compl., ¶ 23.) “After
reporting the abuse to Magic Mountain ... Magic Mountain allowed Arriaga to
continue working there and placed Plaintiff on a leave of absence.” (Id.,
¶ 25.) Furthermore, “[s]ince the ‘investigation’ into Plaintiff’s complaints of
workplace harassment and discrimination, Plaintiff experienced retaliation from
Magic Mountain. On or around September 15, 2022, without any warning thereto,
Magic Mountain’s Employee Service Office Supervisor sent Plaintiff a letter
letting her know that her employment had been discontinued.” (Id., ¶¶
26-27.)
 
 The Court finds that
Plaintiff’s Complaint has pleaded sufficient factual allegation under the guidance
of the Hart ruling. Plaintiff alleges that she reported Arriaga’s
harassing conduct to the employer, Magic Mountain, on August 2, 2022, and subsequently,
Magic Mountain terminated her employment on September 15, 2022, while Arriaga
continued working there. These factual allegations raise triable issues as to
whether Magic Mountain failed to act, and whether the termination decision sent
by the “Employee Service Office” can be imputed to Magic Mountain.
 
Therefore, the Motion to Strike is DENIED.
 
CONCLUSION
 
Defendant
Magic Mountain, LLC’s Motion to Strike References to Punitive Damages is
DENIED. Defendant is to file an answer within thirty (30) days of this order.
 
Moving
party to give notice of this order.
 
 