  Case Number:  23PSCV02644    Hearing Date:   January 24, 2024    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
Defendants Maria Del Consuelo Cervantes and Maria
Mercedes Cervantes DEMURRER TO PLAINTIFF’S COMPLAINT is CONTINUED to
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 2024 at 10 AM because Plaintiff is ordered to
meet and confer with Defendants. Should Plaintiff elect to file a
FAC prior to the 2/15/24 hearing date (rendering the instant demurrer moot),
the court requests Defendants remove the demurrer at least 5 court days before
the hearing. Should Plaintiff choose not to file a FAC before the continued hearing
date, Plaintiff may not file an opposition as the time to file an
opposition has passed. 
 
Background 
 
This case relates to elder abuse. Plaintiff GUADALUPE
CERVANTES, an individual, and on behalf of the Marital Estate of DOMINGO
CERVANTES[1]
AND GUADALUPE CERVANTES alleges the following against her two daughters,
Defendants MARIA DEL CONSUELO CERVANTES, an individual, MARIA MERCEDES
CERVANTES: Plaintiff, who is 79 years old, has been physically and mentally
abused by her daughters. Incidents include attacking Plaintiff and pulling on
Plaintiff’s arm (causing bruising) when Plaintiff attempted to a remove a “no
trespass” sign that Defendants illegally placed on Plaintiff’s property;
placing surveillance cameras on Plaintiff’s property; and kidnapping
Plaintiff’s dog. As for the subject real property, in 2005, Plaintiff, at the
behest and undue influence of Defendants, transferred the property to her late
husband. Ultimately, after two other transfers, Defendant Del Consuelo
Cervantes became the sole owner in January 2022. Thereafter, Defendant Del
Consuelo Cervantes granted the property to a management company, who has now
filed a UD action against Plaintiff. In short, Plaintiff alleges that her
“Defendant daughters have been plotting to take Plaintiff’s home from Plaintiff
and her husband once they became elderly.” (Complaint ¶26.) 
 
On August 29, 2023, Plaintiff filed suit against Defendants
asserting the following causes of action: 1.    
Elder Abuse 2.    
Assault 3.    
Battery 4.    
Violation Of Penal Code §422 5.    
Violation Of Penal Code §182 6.    
Harassment 7.    
Intentional Interference With Prospective Economic
Advantage 8.    
Quiet Title 9.    
Constructive Trust 
On November 17, 2023, Defendants filed the instant demurrer.

 
On January 16, 2024, Defendants filed a ‘Notice Of
Non-Receipt Of Opposition To Defendants’ Demurrer To Plaintiff’s Complaint.’
 
Discussion
 
Defendants demur to the 1st COA for Elder Abuse;
4th COA for Violation of Penal Code § 422; 5th COA for
Violation of Penal Code § 182; 6th COA for harassment; 7th
COA for Intentional Interference with Prospective Economic Advantage; 8th
COA for Quiet Title; and 9th COA for Constructive Trust on the
grounds that the pleading fails to state sufficient facts and uncertainty. 
 
Generally,
while the court would offer a ruling on the merits of the demurrer, the court
is persuaded by various arguments advanced by Defendants.[2]
For example, Defendants aver that at the time Plaintiff is making certain
allegations (e.g., when she was removed from title in 2005), she was not an
elder (60, not 65); thus, she would lack standing to sue for financial elder
abuse. Related to the property, Plaintiff admits that she does not hold title
to the property such that if anybody is claiming an interest adverse to the
Plaintiff it would be A&R Management, Inc., not Defendants. Moreover,
Plaintiff cites to various penal codes, but a violation of a state statute does
not necessarily give rise to a private cause of action. Furthermore, it is
unclear whether harassment (6th COA) is a COA. 
 
All in all, the various COAs could use clarification and/or
additional sufficient facts. This is the very purpose of meet and confer: to
discuss purported defects in a pleading to allow for amendment prior to court
intervention. However, despite numerous attempts by Defense Counsel to meet and
confer, Plaintiff’s Counsel has not returned Defense Counsel Roger’s emails or
calls. (See Defense Counsel Rogers’ Declaration.) 
 
Conclusion
 
Based on the foregoing, the demurrer is CONTINUED to
2/15/24 at 10 AM. 


