  Case Number:  21PSCV00891    Hearing Date:   April 11, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE  NAME:  Cultiva  Group v. Andrew’s Son Trading, Inc., et al.  Motion  for Leave to Amend Cross-Complaint  TENTATIVE  RULING  The Court DENIES the motion for leave to amend cross-complaint.               Cross-Defendants are ordered to give  notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.  BACKGROUND  This is a breach of contract action. On November 1, 2021, plaintiff  Cultiva Group (Plaintiff) filed this action against defendants Andrew’s Son  Trading, Inc. (Andrew’s Son Trading), Jiazheng Lu aka Andrew Lu (Lu), and Does  1 through 50 (collectively, Defendants). Plaintiff filed the operative First  Amended Complaint on August 17, 2022, alleging causes of action against the  same Defendants for breach of written contract, common counts, open book  account, fraud, breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, and  unfair business practices.  On May 27, 2022, Andrew’s Son Trading filed the operative  cross-complaint against cross-defendants Cultiva Group, Colin Lin, Peng Li  (collectively, Cross-Defendants), and Roes 1 through 50, alleging causes of  action for breach of contract, intentional misrepresentation, negligent  misrepresentation, quantum meruit, and unfair business practices.  On March 4, 2024, Andrew’s Son Trading (Andrew’s) moved for leave  to amend the cross-complaint. On March 20, 2024, Cross-Defendants opposed the  motion. On April 4, 2024, Andrew’s replied.  LEGAL STANDARD  Code of Civil Procedure section  473, subdivision (a)(1) provides, in relevant part:  “The court may, in furtherance of justice,  and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading or  proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any party, or by correcting a  mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect; and may,  upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or demurrer.  The court may likewise, in its discretion,  after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an  amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like  terms allow an answer to be made after the time limited by this code.” (Code  Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (a)(1).)  “This discretion should be exercised liberally in favor  of amendments, for judicial policy favors resolution of all disputed matters in  the same lawsuit.” (Kittredge Sports Co. v. Superior Court (1989) 213  Cal.App.3d 1045, 1047.) Under Rule 3.1324, subdivision (a) of the California  Rules of Court, a motion to amend a pleading shall (1) include a copy of the  proposed amendment or amended pleading, which must be serially numbered to  differentiate it from previous pleadings or amendments; (2) state what  allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and  where, by page, paragraph and line number, the deleted allegations are located;  and (3) state what allegations are proposed to be added to the previous  pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the  additional allegations are located. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324, subd.  (a).)  Under Rule 3.1324, subdivision  (b) of the California Rules of Court, a separate declaration must accompany the  motion and must specify (1) the effect of the amendment; (2) why the amendment  is necessary and proper; (3) when the facts giving rise to the amended  allegations were discovered; and (4) the reasons why the request for amendment  was not made earlier. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324, subd. (b).)            DISCUSSION  Summary of Arguments              Andrew’s seeks to amend the  cross-complaint to add Lu as a cross-complainant and to add three causes of  action for false imprisonment, intentional infliction of emotional distress,  and negligent infliction of emotional distress to be brought by Lu. Andrew’s contends  it was recently discovered at Andrew’s deposition in December 2023 that there  was an incident involving Cross-Defendants and Lu wherein Lu was forcibly  detained for an extended period of time. Andrew’s contends it is necessary to  add Lu as an additional cross-complainant to this action, as these matters  involve the same parties and arise out of the same transaction or occurrences  as alleged in the cross-complaint. Andrew’s contends the liberal policy  favoring leave to amend favors granting the motion, and there is no prejudice  to Cross-Defendants because no trial date is set and discovery is still  ongoing. Andrew’s also contends amendment will help have all of these issues  resolved in a single proceeding.              In opposition, Cross-Defendants  argue that the December 2023 deposition was not the first time these issues  regarding the alleged forcible detainer were addressed, as Defendant Lu  provided information about this incident in discovery responses back in August  2022, and was therefore aware of this for the past year and a half.  Cross-Defendants contend permitting amendment will prejudice Cross-Defendants              Analysis              “[W]hen an amended complaint seeks to add new plaintiffs  and claims, the court's discretion is tightly confined by considerations of due  process -- that is, potential unfairness to the defendant -- and the running of  the applicable statute of limitations.” (LAOSD Asbestos Cases (2018) 28 Cal.App.5th 862, 873.) Amendment of a pleading  generally is not permitted where an additional party plaintiff seeks to enforce  an independent right after the statute of limitations has run. (Pasadena  Hospital Assn., Ltd. v. Superior Court (1988) 204 Cal.App.3d 1031, 1037 fn.  4.)              The Court finds Andrew’s motion is  not well taken. First, Andrew’s current causes of action are for breach of  contract and business related torts. The proposed causes of action are Lu’s  claims based on harms to his person, i.e., false imprisonment, intentional  infliction of emotional distress, and negligent infliction of emotional  distress. (Motion, 5:16-19.) Lu’s proposed causes of action are therefore independent  from Andrew’s claims. (See Pasadena Hospital Assn., Ltd., supra, 204  Cal.App.3d at p. 1037 fn. 4.) Hence, Andrew’s seeks to amend its  cross-complaint to enforce an independent right of an independent party. The  Court also notes that Lu is not a party to the motion and has not filed a  separate motion for leave to file his own cross-complaint; although the result  would not change because of the statute of limitations issue.              Second, Lu’s proposed causes of  action would be time-barred. (See Bartalo v. Superior Court (1975) 51 Cal.App.3d  526, 533-534 [injured spouse not entitled to amend complaint to add other  spouse and allege loss of consortium claim after expiration of statute of  limitations].) The statute of limitations for false imprisonment is one year.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 340, subd. (c).) The statute of limitations for intentional  infliction of emotional distress and negligent infliction of emotional distress  are both two years. (Id., § 335.1; Roman v. County of Los Angeles (2000)  85 Cal.App.4th 316, 323; Pugliese v. Superior Court (2007) 146  Cal.App.4th 1444, 1450.) The incident upon which Lu bases his proposed causes  of action allegedly occurred on August 20, 2021. (Cheng Decl., Ex. A, ¶¶ 18,  58, 74.) It has been more than two years since the alleged incident in  question. Thus, Lu’s proposed causes of action would be time-barred and his  claim cannot relate back, for purposes of satisfying the statute of limitations.  (See Dominguez v. City of Alhambra (1981) 118 Cal.App.3d 237, 241-243.               Third,  Andrew’s explanation for the delay in seeking amendment is unpersuasive since  Lu was the party being deposed here. (Cheng Decl., ¶ 3.) This case has been  pending since November 2021 and the cross-complaint filed in May 2022. Lu  certainly knew about the facts underlying these incidents at the time they  occurred and took no action to pursue his claims in over 2 1/2 years. Andrew’s  declaration fails to provide any explanation as to why Lu did not seek to  assert his claims earlier. Indeed, the claims Andrew’s seeks to add belong to  Lu not Andrew’s and Lu has offered no explanation for the delay.              Finally, Cross-Defendants and  Plaintiff will be prejudiced by these amendments. The Court is ready to set a  trial date and is set to do so at the Trial Setting Conference on April 11,  2024, which is also the date of the hearing of this motion. Written discovery  has been completed, Lu’s deposition has been taken, and the parties already  participated in private mediation. Additional discovery will be necessary to  explore Lu’s tort claims, while this action has been focused on a business  dispute. (Berger Decl., ¶¶ 11, 12.) The trial would be delayed if the amended  Cross-Complaint were allowed. For all of the foregoing reasons, the Court DENIES the motion for  leave to amend cross-complaint. CONCLUSION  The Court DENIES the motion for leave to amend cross-complaint.                Cross-Defendants are ordered to give  notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.