 Case Number:  22TRCV00302    Hearing Date:   February 22, 2024    Dept:  M 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT – SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 




 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                                  Thursday, February 22, 2024
Department M                                                                                                                             Calendar No. 9  



 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Peter
Maginnis, et al. v. Jamshied Pourtemour, et al.   
22TRCV00302

1.     
Jamshied
Pourtemour’s Motion to Compel Peter Maginnis’ Responses to Form
Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories, and Request for Production of
Documents, Set One, and for Monetary Sanctions
2.     
Jamshied
Pourtemour’s Motion to Compel Stephanie Maginnis’ Responses to Form
Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories, and Request for Production of
Documents, Set One, and for Monetary Sanctions 
 
 
TENTATIVE RULING

Jamshied Pourtemour’s Motions to Compel Peter
Maginnis’ and Stephanie Maginnis’ Responses to Form Interrogatories, Special
Interrogatories, and Request for Production of Documents, Set One, and for
Monetary Sanctions are deemed moot, in part, and granted, in part. 
 
Background
 
Plaintiffs Complaint was filed on April 21, 2022.
Plaintiffs allege the following facts. Plaintiffs were purchasers and
Defendants were sellers of real property and executed a purchase agreement.
Defendants failed to fulfil the contract and complete the transaction.
Plaintiffs allege causes of action for specific performance and breach of
contract.
 
Motions to
Compel
 
CCP § 2030.290 states: “If a party to whom
interrogatories are directed fails to serve a timely response, the following
rules apply…The party propounding the interrogatories may move for an order
compelling response to the interrogatories.” (CCP § 2030.290(b).)  
 
CCP § 2031.300 states: “If a party to whom a demand
for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling is directed fails to serve a
timely response to it, the following rules shall apply: The party making the
demand may move for an order compelling response to the demand.”  (CCP § 2031.300(b)).
 
Defendant served upon Plaintiffs Form Interrogatories,
Set One, Special Interrogatories, Set One, and Request for Production of
Documents, Set One, on September 21, 2023. (Decls., Christine M. Miller, ¶¶ 2-3.)
Defendant contends that no responses
were served to the requests. (Id.)  On
February 16, 2024, Plaintiffs served responses to the discovery items at issue
in the motions.  (Decl., Robert
Schachter, p. 2.)
 
Therefore, the motions to compel responses to Form
Interrogatories, Set One, Special Interrogatories, Set One, and Request for
Production of Documents, Set One, are deemed moot. 
 
Sanctions
 
Defendant’s requests for monetary sanctions are granted.
 
The
responses were only served after Defendant incurred the time and expense to
file the motions to compel. Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1348(a) states: “The
court may award sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor of a party who files
a motion to compel discovery, even though no opposition to the motion was
filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn, or the requested discovery
was provided to the moving party after the motion was filed.”
 
Plaintiffs are sanctioned the total amount of $1,934.50
which is calculated at 5 hours to prepare and appear at $350/hour and $184.50
in filing fees. Sanctions are payable within 30 days of this date.  
 
Defendant is ordered to give notice of this ruling.