 Case Number:  23TRCV00729    Hearing Date:   February 22, 2024    Dept:  M LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                                   Thursday,
February 22, 2024
Department M                                                                                                                            Calendar No. 10
 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Deborah
Betters v. Uber Technologies, Inc., et al.   
23TRCV00729
1.      Estefan Encarnacion’s Motion to be Relieved as Counsel
for Defendant Jose Quintero
2.      Estefan Encarnacion’s Motion to be Relieved as Counsel
for Defendant Ana Henriquez   
 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Estefan Encarnacion’s Motions to be
Relieved as Counsel for Defendants Jose Quintero and Ana Henriquez are granted.
 
Background
 
Plaintiff filed the Complaint on March 13, 2023. Plaintiff
alleges the following facts. Plaintiff was involved in an auto accident. 
 
Motions to be Relieved
as Counsel
 
Counsel
states, in the declaration, valid reasons for withdrawal. Counsel states that
there has been a complete breakdown in the relationship of the parties based on
a breach of the representation agreement. The Court finds that the attorney has
filed and served upon the clients a declaration.  The Court also finds that the attorney has shown
sufficient reasons why the motion to be relieved as counsel should be granted
and why the attorney brought a motion under Code of Civil Procedure § 284(2)
instead of filing a consent under section 284(1). The Court finds that the
attorney served the proposed orders upon the clients and all parties as
required by Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1362(d)(1).
 
Therefore, the
motions to be relieved as counsel are granted.
 
The attorney is
relieved as counsel of record for the clients effective upon the filing of the
proof of service of the signed order upon the clients. 
 

Estefan Encarnacion is ordered to give notice of the
Court’s ruling. 