  Case Number:  23LBCV02411    Hearing Date:   January 21, 2025    Dept:  S27 1.    
Background Facts
Plaintiff, Kirk Cully filed this action against Defendants, Matson
Navigation Co., Sargeant Marine, Inc., Point Shipping Corp., Vulcan Carriers,
Ltd., Sheridan Transportation, and Atlandic Tankships for Jones Act negligence,
unseaworthiness, and maintenance cure and found.  Plaintiff named Moving Defendant Hess Corp.
as a doe defendant in the action.
 
Plaintiff sues for exposure to benzene while working on container ships
in various locations.
 
2.    
Prior Hearings on Motion to Quash
The Court was originally scheduled
to hear this motion on 7/09/24.  At the
conclusion of the hearing, the Court continued the hearing to permit Plaintiff
to conduct jurisdictional discovery.  The
Court will not re-state the entirety of its 7/09/24 ruling by reference in this
order, but incorporates the prior ruling by reference.
 
The Court was next scheduled to
hear this motion on 12/12/24.  The Court
noted that Plaintiff had pending discovery motions, and continued the hearing
on the motion so it could be heard contemporaneously with the discovery
motions.  The Court summed up the issue
to be decided on the motion as follows: The
Court asks the parties to focus their briefing on the issue of whether
Defendants would be subject to specific jurisdiction if they were shipping
natural gas, through their subsidiaries, from California onto ships at sea,
including Plaintiff’s ship.  
 
3.    
Motions to Compel
a.     Untimely
Responses
Defendants admit they failed to
timely respond to Plaintiff’s discovery. 
They contend they did not waive their objections because their failure
to timely respond was due to mistake and excusable neglect.  They rely on CCP §§2030.290(a) and
2031.300(a) to support their position. 
These sections, however, permit the Court to excuse a party from waiver
of objections “on motion.”  Defendants
did not make a motion for relief from waiver of objections.  
The Court finds Defendants waived
their objections by failing to timely respond, and in light of their failure to
file motions for relief, all objections remain waived.  
 

Remaining Issues

Despite the fact that objections have been waived, the Court is
inclined to consider the substantive issues presented by the parties, as both
parties have now fully briefed the issues relating to the motion to quash.  The Court will do so because, if it is
satisfied that the motion to quash must be granted, then the motions to compel
will be moot.  If the Court finds the
motion to quash must be denied and/or the hearing continued to permit
jurisdictional discovery, the Court may wish to limit the discovery sought
despite the waiver of objections in an attempt to streamline the issues
remaining for resolution.
 

Law Governing Imposition of Jurisdiction on a Principal Based on
     the Acts of its Subsidiary

Hess Corporation has many subsidiaries, including Sheridan.  Sheridan owned the ship on which Plaintiff
was injured.  Plaintiff seeks to impose
jurisdiction on Hess and Sheridan based on his allegation that Hess’s other
subsidiaries, based in California, were producing and shipping natural gas that
was ultimately destined for the ship on which Plaintiff worked (and was exposed
to Benzene) in New York.  The Court,
therefore, must consider the law governing imposition of jurisdiction on a
principal (or sister subsidiary) based on the acts of its subsidiaries (or
sister subsidiaries).  
 
A plaintiff can establish specific jurisdiction over a parent company
based on the acts of its subsidiary if the parent's actions are connected or
related to the cause of action on which jurisdiction is sought. This requires
that the parent's acts, whether direct or through the subsidiary, constitute a
purposeful availment of the benefits and protections of the forum state (Sonora
Diamond Corp. v. Superior Court, 83 Cal.App.4th 523 (2000)). The acts must be
attributable to the parent corporation itself and not merely the result of the
subsidiary's independent activities (Sonora Diamond Corp. v. Superior Court, 83
Cal.App.4th 523 (2000)).
 
The mere ownership of a subsidiary in the forum state does not
constitute purposeful availment. Instead, the parent must deliberately direct
the subsidiary's activities in, or have a substantial connection with, the
forum state (BBA Aviation PLC v. Superior Court, 190 Cal.App.4th 421 (2010)).
Specific jurisdiction is appropriate if the parent company purposefully directs
its subsidiary's activities at the state, and these activities have a
substantial connection with the plaintiff's claim (HealthMarkets, Inc. v.
Superior Court, 171 Cal.App.4th 1160 (2009)).
 
For example, in the case of Empire Steel, specific jurisdiction was
established because the parent company knowingly caused its California
subsidiary to make contracts while the subsidiary was insolvent, thus engaging
in activities creating substantial contacts within California in relation to
the claim asserted (DVI, Inc. v. Superior Court, 104 Cal.App.4th 1080 (2002)),
(Anglo Irish Bank Corp., PLC v. Superior Court, 165 Cal.App.4th 969 (2008)).
This demonstrates that the parent's purposeful direction of the subsidiary's
activities can support specific jurisdiction even if the corporate separateness
is maintained (Anglo Irish Bank Corp., PLC v. Superior Court, 165 Cal.App.4th
969 (2008)).
 
Additionally, the relatedness criterion for specific jurisdiction
requires that the plaintiff's claim have a substantial connection with the
defendant's forum activities. This does not necessarily mean that the cause of
action must formally arise from the defendant's contacts with the forum, but
there must be a close relationship between the defendant's in-state activities
and the plaintiff's claim (Vons Companies, Inc. v. Seabest Foods, Inc., 14
Cal.4th 434 (1996)).
 
 
The court may consider the parent company's activities and control over
the subsidiary during the relevant time period leading up to and including the
events giving rise to the plaintiff's claim. The specific acts must be
attributable to the parent corporation itself, either directly or indirectly
through the subsidiary (Sonora Diamond Corp. v. Superior Court, 83 Cal.App.4th
523 (2000)).
 
Thus, to establish specific jurisdiction over a parent company based on
the acts of its subsidiary, the plaintiff must show that the parent's actions,
whether direct or through the subsidiary, are purposefully directed at the
forum state and are substantially connected to the plaintiff's claim. The mere
ownership of a subsidiary is insufficient; there must be deliberate direction
or substantial connection to the forum state (Anglo Irish Bank Corp., PLC v.
Superior Court, 165 Cal.App.4th 969 (2008)).
 

Issues Properly the Subject of Discovery

The Court finds that, if a subsidiary is producing benzene products, at
the direction of its parent company, for the purpose of shipping to the
plaintiff’s location, then the act of producing the benzene is sufficiently
related to the plaintiff’s injury to give rise to specific jurisdiction.  The Court will therefore allow discovery
between Plaintiff and Defendants.  The
discovery must be limited as follows:
·        
Discovery
may relate to a time period prior to 1993 (when Plaintiff alleges he was
exposed to benzene), but cannot extend past 1993, as any shipments of benzene
after exposure are objectively not relevant. 
Additionally, the Court finds discovery back to 1980 is not
appropriate.  The Court will allow
discovery from the beginning of 1990 to the end of 1993.  This ruling is not intended to conclusively
establish that any shipment of benzene in 1990 supports jurisdiction; this
ruling is intended only as an outside limitation on the window of discovery
into shipment that could potentially be relevant.
·        
Discovery
is permitted into the relationships between Hess, Sheridan, and the
subsidiaries that allegedly produced and shipped benzene.  This discovery is also limited to the time
period between 1990 and 1993.  The
purpose of this discovery is to determine whether Hess and/or Sheridan meets
the test set forth above for imposition of jurisdiction on a parent corporation
based on the acts of its subsidiary.
 
If Plaintiff believes other categories of discovery are necessary,
Plaintiff must appear at the hearing prepared to articulate exactly how those
categories would potentially establish facts that meet the test detailed above.  If the parties submit on the tentative, then
no other categories of discovery will be permitted.
 
4.    
Motion to Quash
The hearing on the motion to quash is continued to permit the parties
to conduct discovery, as detailed above. 
The Court imposes the following timeline:
·        
The
parties must meet and confer to limit discovery per the above within the next
week (on or before 1/28/25);
·        
If
Plaintiff needs to redraft the discovery in light of the above ruling,
Plaintiff must do so on or before 2/04/25.
·        
Defendants
must provide supplemental responses to the discovery, without objections (but
with the above limitations), on or before 2/18/25.  
·        
Defendants
must provide responsive documents on or before 2/25/25.
 
Once the parties have provided and reviewed the discovery, they must
file briefs in support of and in opposition to the motion to quash.  The hearing on the motion to quash is
continued to Tuesday, 3/25/25 at 8:30 a.m. in Department S27.  The parties’ briefs are due on or before
3/14/25.  The briefs must focus on the
following issues:
·        
Does the
relationship between the parent company and its subsidiaries meet the above
test for imposition of jurisdiction?
·        
Does the
evidence show the parent company, through its subsidiaries, was producing and
shipping benzene from California to Plaintiff’s ship?
·        
Was
Sheridan a parent company of the California subsidiaries?  If it was not, and was only a sister company,
what is the effect of that distinction on the analysis of whether or not the
Court can impose specific jurisdiction on Sheridan?
 
If the parties do not believe the above timeline is realistic, they
must appear at the hearing and suggest an alternative timeline.  If the parties submit on the tentative, then
the above timeline can only be adjusted through stipulation and order.
 
5.    
Case Management Conference 
There is a CMC on calendar
concurrently with the hearing on the above motion.  The CMC is also continued to 3/14/25.  
 
Defendants are ordered to give
notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.   