 Case Number:  24STCV06029    Hearing Date:   August 16, 2024    Dept:  50 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 50
 
 
 



 OSB INVESTMENT, LLC, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 EDAN DAHAN,
  et al.,
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


24STCV06029




Hearing Date:


August 16, 2024




Hearing
  Time:    2:00 p.m. 
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:
 
DEFENDANTS EDEN
  DAHAN, ISRAEL DAHAN, AND BUILDERS GREEN REMODELING, INC.’S DEMURRER TO
  PLAINTIFF OSB INVESTMENT, LLC’S FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT
 



 
Background
On March 11, 2024, Plaintiff OSB Investment, LLC (“Plaintiff”) filed
this action against Defendants Edan Dahan, Israel Dahan, and Builders Green
Remodeling, Inc. 
On April 19, 2024, Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended
Complaint (“FAC”), alleging causes of action for (1) fraud, (2) breach of
fiduciary duty, and (3) conversion. 
Eden Dahan, Israel Dahan, and Builders Green Remodeling, Inc.
(collectively, “Defendants”) now demur to the second cause of action of the
FAC. Plaintiff opposes. 
Discussion
A.    Legal Standard 
A demurrer can be used only to challenge
defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters
outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. ((Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) “To
survive a demurrer, the complaint need only allege facts sufficient to state a
cause of action; each evidentiary fact that might eventually form part of the
plaintiff’s proof need not be alleged.” ((C.A.
v. William S. Hart Union High School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 872.) For
the purpose of testing the sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer
admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded. ((Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967.) A demurrer “does not admit contentions, deductions
or conclusions of fact or law.” ((Daar
v. Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d
695, 713.)   
B.   
Allegations of the FAC 
In
the FAC, Plaintiff alleges that “[t]his is an action to recover more than half a million
dollars in funds stolen by Defendants during a real estate joint venture
involving the purchase, remodel/construction for eventual sale of a residential
property.” (FAC, ¶ 12.) 
“Plaintiff is and has been
engaged in real estate development, most typically in the role of financing.
Defendants have held themselves out as being top-rate builders and construction
professionals, with skill and experience in residential remodels and complete
builds.” (FAC, ¶ 13.) “Plaintiff and Defendants had done real estate joint
venturers in the past, and in doing so, they previously formed a limited
liability company called 2695 Hidden Valley, LLC” (“HVLLC”). (FAC, ¶ 13.)
After the completion of an unrelated
HVLLC project, all shares in that entity were transferred back to Defendants.
(FAC, ¶ 14.) 
The property at issue in
this action is “6643 Miurlands Drive, La Jolla, California, 92037” (the “Property”).
(FAC, ¶ 13.) Plaintiff alleges that “[t]he terms of the Joint Venture Agreement
were straightforward: a. OSB would provide the downpayment funds in the amount
of $579,500.00; b. Defendants would handle the day-to-day construction/remodel
of the residence on the Property; c. On completion of the construction, the
Property would be listed for sale and sold to the highest bidder; d. On sale,
OSB would receive the downpayment funds back in first position, and the parties
would split the remaining profits.” (FAC, ¶ 13.)
“[B]y February 13,
2020, OSB had wired or otherwise provided the total sum of $579,500.00 to
Great Pacific Escrow to purchase the Property.” (FAC, ¶ 16.) “On February 19,
2020, escrow in fact closed and HVLLC became the legal owner of the Property.”
(FAC, ¶ 17.)
“As the project moved
forward, OSB would later learn that, on information and belief, Defendants used
proceeds earmarked for this project for other projects of their own, or for
other purposes not involving Plaintiff. Plaintiff learned this because at some
point, also unbeknownst to Plaintiff, Defendants refinanced the Property and
took those proceeds for themselves.” (FAC, ¶ 19.) “Additionally, Defendants
were continually behind on their construction obligations, and continually
claiming that the project needed more funds, and thus as a natural course, the
project was overbudget and behind schedule.” (FAC, ¶ 19.) 
“Ultimately Defendants, being the sole
membership interest holders in HVLLC, sold the Property to a third-party buyer
without ever disclosing this information to OSB.” (FAC, ¶ 21.) Plaintiff alleges
that “in doing so Defendants literally and brazenly stole each and every dollar
of profit resulting from the sale, including the deposit money provided by OSB,
leaving OSB with nothing. All the while OSB continued to believe the project
was behind but was progressing, and thus was unaware of the sale until in and
around May of 2021.” (FAC, ¶ 21.) 
Plaintiff
alleges that “[u]ltimately,
in engaging in the acts set forth herein without the knowledge or consent of
Plaintiff, Defendants stole: a. $579,500.00, which was the total amount of the
purchase deposit provided by OSB; b. Approximately $370,000.00 from the
refinancing proceeds; and c. $180,250, which represents 50% of the profits,
after deducting the OSB down payment.” (FAC, ¶ 23.) 
C.   
Second Cause of Action for Breach of
Fiduciary Duty  
In the second cause of action for breach of
fiduciary duty, Plaintiff alleges that “[a]s a result of the joint venture
agreement created by and between the parties hereto, a fiduciary duty exists
between OSB and Defendants with respect to their rights, obligations and duties
to each other in connection with the operation of the joint venture,
disposition of the Property and distribution of the proceeds from sale of the
Property.” (FAC, ¶ 38.) Plaintiff alleges that “Defendants and each of them
have breached their fiduciary duty to OSB by, amongst other things, engaging in
acts and omissions to Plaintiff’s detriment, converting to their own account
money and other consideration related to the Property including the deposit
funds provided by OSB, the refinancing fees taken by Defendants, and the
profits that OSB was entitled to on sale of the Property.” (FAC, ¶ 39.) 
“The elements of a claim for breach of fiduciary duty are (1) the
existence of a fiduciary relationship, (2) its breach, and (3) damage
proximately caused by that breach.” ((O'Neal v.
Stanislaus County Employees’ Retirement Assn. (2017) 8 Cal.App.5th 1184, 1215.) In the
demurrer, Defendants assert that “Plaintiff has failed to state facts
sufficient to establish the first element, namely, the existence of a fiduciary
relationship.” (Demurrer at p.  7:26-28.)  
As set forth above, Plaintiff alleges in
the second cause of action that “[a]s a result of the joint venture
agreement created by and between the parties hereto, a
fiduciary duty exists between OSB and Defendants...” (FAC, ¶ 38, emphasis
added.) Defendants assert that “Plaintiff’s allegations demonstrate that no
joint venture existed between Plaintiff and Defendants.” (Demurrer at p.
8:13-14.) 
Defendants cite to Cochrum v. Costa
Victoria Healthcare, LLC (2018) 25
Cal.App.5th 1034, 1053, where the Court of Appeal noted that “[a]
joint venture…is an undertaking by two or more persons jointly to carry
out a single business enterprise for profit. There are three basic elements of
a joint venture: the members must have joint control over the venture (even
though they may delegate it), they must share the profits of the undertaking,
and the members must each have an ownership interest in the enterprise.”
(Internal quotations and citation omitted.) 
Defendants assert that here, Plaintiff does not allege that it had
any ownership interests in the alleged joint venture. Defendants assert that to
the contrary, Plaintiff alleges that “after the completion of the unrelated
HVLLC project, all shares in that entity were transferred back to Defendants,
and thus Plaintiff was without legal ownership interest in the Property.” (FAC,
¶ 14.) Plaintiff alleges that “[b]ecause OSB was not a member or interest
holder in HVLLC, OSB had no visibility or access into any of HVLLC’s
transactions.” (FAC, ¶ 19.) 
In the opposition, Plaintiff does not
appear to address or dispute Defendants’ assertion that Plaintiff
does not allege that it had any ownership interests in the alleged joint
venture. The Court agrees with Defendants that Plaintiff does not appear to
allege that “the members…each have an ownership interest in the enterprise.” ((Cochrum v. Costa Victoria Healthcare, LLC, supra, 25 Cal.App.5th at p. 1053)

Defendants also assert that “Plaintiff has failed to satisfy the
element of control required for a joint venture.” (Demurrer at p. 10:1-2.)
Defendants assert that “Plaintiff clarifies numerous times throughout the FAC
that Plaintiff did not exercise any control over the LLC, Flipping Project, or
the Property.” (Demurrer at p. 10:9-10.) Defendants note that Plaintiff
alleges, inter alia, that “Plaintiff was without legal ownership
interest in the Property,” and that “[g]iven the structure of the relationship,
OSB and its principals were not directly involved in the day-to-day operations
at the Property, but instead trusted its partners to fulfill their obligations
in a timely, competent manner…” (FAC, ¶¶ 14-15.) Plaintiff alleges that
Defendants were “the sole membership interest holders in HVLLC.” (FAC, ¶ 21.)
As noted by Defendants, Plaintiff further alleges that “Defendants had complete
control over HVLLC and thus Plaintiff OSB had no access to or control over the
books and records of this entity, and accordingly was not a part of or aware of
any financial transactions that Defendants would cause HVLLC to engage in, or
that the Defendants would otherwise undertake in the name of HVLLC.” (FAC, ¶
18.) 
Defendants assert that the “allegations…establish that Plaintiff
simply provided money for the Flipping Project and, thereafter, did not
exercise any control over anything.” (Demurrer at p. 11:1-2.) In the
opposition, Plaintiff does not appear to address or dispute Defendants’
assertion that Plaintiff failed to satisfy the element of control required for
a joint venture. Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff does not appear to allege
that “the members…have joint control over the venture.” ((Cochrum v. Costa Victoria Healthcare, LLC, supra, 25 Cal.App.5th at p. 1053.)

In light of the foregoing, the Court
sustains Defendants’ demurrer to the second cause of action of the FAC, with
leave to amend. 
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, the
Court sustains Defendants’ demurrer to the second
cause of action of the FAC, with leave to amend.  
The Court orders Plaintiff
to file and serve an amended complaint, if any, within 20 days of the date of
this order. If no amended complaint
is filed within 20 days of this Order, Defendants are ordered to file and serve
their answer(s) within 30 days of the date of this Order.¿¿
Defendants are ordered to
give notice of this order.¿  
 
DATED:  August 16, 2024                             ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Cour