  Case Number:  22STCV06517    Hearing Date:   August 16, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 50
 



DEVIN ESTIME, et al.,  
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
KAISER FOUNDATION HEALTH
  PLAN, INC., et al.,  
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


22STCV06517




Hearing
  Date:


August 16,
   2024




Hearing
  Time:


10:00 a.m.




[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:
 
PLAINTIFF’S
  MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE THIRD AMENDED COMPLAINT



 
Background
Plaintiffs Devin Estime, a minor, by and through his Guardian Ad
Litem, Arti Bhimani, Michel Estime, and Arti Bhimani filed this action on
February 22, 2022 against a number of defendants. On January 26, 2024, Plaintiff
Devin
Estime, a minor, by and through his Guardian Ad Litem, Arti Bhimani (“Plaintiff”)
filed the operative Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) against defendants
Southern California Permanente Medical Group and Enrique Earle Emel, M.D.
(jointly, “Defendants”). The SAC alleges causes of action for (1) negligence
and (2) unfair business practices.  
Plaintiff now moves for an order granting him leave to file a third amended
complaint. Defendants oppose. 
Discussion 
Pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (a)(1),
“[t]he court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper,
allow a party to amend any pleading.” Amendment may be allowed at any time
before or after commencement of trial. ((Id., § 576.) “[T]he court’s
discretion will usually be exercised liberally to permit amendment of the
pleadings. The policy favoring amendment is so strong that it is a rare case in
which denial of leave to amend can be justified.” ((Howard v. County of San Diego (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 1422, 1428 [internal
citations omitted].) “If the motion to
amend is timely made and the granting of the motion will not prejudice the
opposing party, it is error to refuse permission to amend….” ((Morgan v. Superior Court of Los Angeles County (1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530.) Prejudice includes “delay in trial, loss of critical
evidence, or added costs of preparation.” (Solit v.
Tokai Bank, Ltd. New York Branch (1999) 68 Cal.App.4th 1435, 1448.)
A
motion to amend a pleading before trial must include a copy of the proposed
amendment or amended pleading, which must be serially numbered to differentiate
it from previous pleadings or amendments. (¿¿Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324, subd. (a).)¿¿ The motion must
also state what allegations are proposed to be deleted or added, by page,
paragraph, and line number.  (¿Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324, subd¿. (a).)
Finally, “¿[a] separate declaration must
accompany the motion and must specify: (1)¿The
effect of the amendment; (2)¿Why the amendment is necessary and
proper; (3)¿When the facts giving rise to the amended
allegations were discovered; and (4)¿The reasons why
the request for amendment was not made earlier.¿” (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324, subd. (b), emphasis
added.) 
Plaintiff’s
counsel attaches as Exhibit A to her declaration a copy of
Plaintiff’s proposed Third Amended Complaint (“TAC”). (Ganesan Decl., ¶ 3, Ex.
A.) In addition, Plaintiff’s counsel provides a copy of the redlined version of
Plaintiff’s proposed TAC, showing the changes made to the SAC. (Ganesan Decl.,
¶ 4, Ex. B.) In the proposed TAC, Plaintiff seeks to add an additional cause of
action for fraudulent concealment against Defendants. (Ibid.)

The cause of action for fraudulent concealment in the proposed TAC
alleges, inter alia, that “[o]n or about 11:00 am on March 8, 2021 at
Kaiser’s Baldwin Hills-Crenshaw medical offices, DEVIN and ARTI met with EMEL
for DEVIN’s wellness visit. During the visit, ARTI expressed her concern about
Devin’s hunched posture…EMEL listened to ARTI’s concerns and conducted an
examination of DEVIN, including of DEVIN’s back. In DEVIN’s medical records,
EMEL noted that he observed DEVIN had ‘mild lumbar scoliosis’ and diagnosed
DEVIN with ‘LUMBAR SCOLIOSIS’.” (Ganesan Decl., ¶ 4, Ex. B, ¶¶ 66-67.) The
cause of action alleges that “EMEL did not disclose this diagnosis to DEVIN or
ARTI…Instead, EMEL intentionally deceived them as to the cause of DEVIN’s
hunched posture, claiming that it was due to the way DEVIN used his cell phone,
and that it could be corrected by DEVIN holding up his phone when in use.” (Ibid., ¶¶ 68-69.) 
As an initial matter, Defendants assert that “Plaintiff did not file
this motion with enough notice for electronic service. Plaintiff is late by one
(1) day.” (Opp’n at p. 6:25.) As noted by Defendants, “[u]nless
otherwise ordered or specifically provided by law, all moving and supporting
papers shall be served and filed at least 16 court days before the hearing.” ((Code Civ. Proc., § 1005,
subd. (b).) Sixteen court days before the August 16, 2024 hearing is July
25, 2024. In addition, “[a]ny period of notice, or any right or duty to do any act or make any
response within any period or on a date certain after the service of the
document, which time period or date is prescribed by statute or rule of court,
shall be extended after service by electronic means by two court days…” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 1010.6, subd. (a)(3)(B).) The proof of service attached to
the instant motion indicates that the motion was served by electronic service
on July 24, 2024. However, two court days prior to July 25, 2024 is July 23,
2024. In the reply, Plaintiff acknowledges that the motion was untimely served,
“due to Plaintiff’s counsel’s
inadvertent calendaring oversight.” (Reply at p. 8:1.) 
In the opposition,
Defendants also assert that “[t]his motion is prejudicial to Defendants because
there is no excuse or justification offered for the delay.” (Opp’n at p.
2:7-8.) Defendants note that this action was filed on February 22, 2022, and
that the instant motion was filed on July 24, 2024, over two years later.
Plaintiff’s motion does not appear to provide any justification for the delay
in filing the instant motion. Defendants cite to Magpali
v. Farmers Group (1996) 48
Cal.App.4th 471, 486, where the Court of Appeal found that “our
independent review of the record reveals no abuse of discretion in the denial
of the request for leave to amend. Magpali’s amendment was proposed on the
eve of trial, nearly two years after the complaint was originally
filed. He did not give an explanation for leaving the Act claim out of the
original complaint or bringing the request to amend so late.” Plaintiff’s reply
also does not appear to discuss the delay in filing the instant motion. 
Moreover, the Court notes that Plaintiff’s counsel’s supporting
declaration does not appear to specify “[w]hy the amendment is necessary and
proper,” “[w]hen the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were
discovered,” or “[t]he reasons why the request for amendment was not made
earlier.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324, subds.
(b)(2)-(4).) As set forth above, California Rules of
Court, rule 3.1324, subdivision (b) is mandatory.[1] 
In light of the foregoing, the Court denies Plaintiff’s motion for
leave to file a third amended complaint.  
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion for leave
to file a third amended complaint is denied, without
prejudice. Plaintiff is to provide notice of this Order.¿ 
 
DATED:  August 16, 2024                                         
________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court


