 Case Number:  23SMCV04062    Hearing Date:   May 1, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


May 1, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV04062




MOTION


Motion to Strike Portions of Amended Complaint




MOVING PARTIES


Defendants Heritage Provider Network, Inc; Regal Medical
  Group, Inc; Lakeside Medical Organization, a Medical Group, Inc.; Oasis
  Independent Medical Associates, Inc.; Desert Medical Group, Inc.; High Desert
  Medical Corporation, a Medical Group; Affiliated Doctors of Orange County
  Medical Group, Inc.; Sierra Medical Group, Inc.; and Coastal Communities
  Medical Group, Inc.




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff CEP America-California



 
MOTION
 
Defendants Heritage Provider Network, Inc; Regal Medical Group, Inc; Lakeside
Medical Organization, a Medical Group, Inc.; Oasis Independent Medical
Associates, Inc.; Desert Medical Group, Inc.; High Desert Medical Corporation,
a Medical Group; Affiliated Doctors of Orange County Medical Group, Inc.;
Sierra Medical Group, Inc.; and Coastal Communities Medical Group, Inc.
(“Defendants”) move to strike the following passages from the First Amended
Complaint regarding Plaintiff’s request for injunctive relief:
 
Paragraph 46(a): “Failing to comply with its
mandatory duty to consider the criteria set forth in California at 28 C.C.R.
Section 1300.71(b), which are the minimum criteria that a licensed
health plan is legally required to consider when paying out-of-network
providers, when paying claims pursuant to Section 1371.4 for emergency
care.  Vituity is informed and believes
that Heritage does not consider any, let alone all, of the six
statutorily-created minimum criteria, and instead pays Vituity an arbitrarily
chosen percentage of what it believes Medicare would pay.”
 
Paragraph 47(b): “An order enjoining Heritage
from implementing its current out-of-network reimbursement methodology for
out-of-network emergency services provided by Vituity; and”
 
Paragraph 50(c): “(c) Failed to use statistically
credible data, updated at least annually, to take into consideration the
factors defendants are required by DMHC to consider when paying for services
absent a written contract setting an alternative rate, including the following:

 
(i)             
the provider’s training, qualifications, and length of
time in practice; 
(ii)           
the nature of the services provided; 
(iii)         
the fees usually charged by the provider; 
(iv)         
prevailing provider rates charged in the general
geographic area in which the services were rendered; or 
(v)           
the economics of the medical provider’s practice that
are relevant.”
 
Page 13, Prayer for Relief, item “2”: “For injunctive relief as set
forth above in the unfair business practices cause of action”
 
            Plaintiff opposes the motion and
Defendants reply.
 
ANALYSIS
 
1.     MOTION
TO STRIKE
 
Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading, may serve
and file a motion to strike the whole pleading or any part thereof.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1); Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1322, subd. (b).) 
On a motion to strike, the court may: (1) strike out any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike out all or
any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of
California, a court rule, or an order of the court.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a)-(b); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767,
782.)  
 
Here, Defendants move to strike allegations relating to Plaintiff’s
request for injunctive relief on the grounds that courts may not grant
injunctive relief restraining or altering an insurance company’s payment
methodology, which is instead governed and managed by the Department of Managed
Health Care (DMHC).  In support,
Defendants primarily rely upon Long Beach Memorial Medical Center v. Kaiser
Foundation Health Plan, Inc. (2021) 71 Cal.App.5th 323 (hereafter Long
Beach).[1]
 
Plaintiff opposes, arguing Long Beach is distinguishable
because (1) unlike the injunction in Long Beach, the injunction
Plaintiff seeks is not too vague to enforce; and (2) Plaintiff already has a
jury verdict from another case demonstrating that Defendants underpay the
reasonable and customary value for services.
 
“Under federal and state law, a hospital is required to provide
necessary stabilizing treatment for any person in an emergency medical
condition.” (Long Beach, supra, 71 Cal.App.5th at p. 329 (citing 42
U.S.C. § 1395dd, subd. (b); Health & Saf. Code, § 1317, subd. (a)).)  “If that person is covered by a health care
service plan, California's Knox-Keene Health Care Service Plan Act of 1975 (the
Knox-Keene Act) (§ 1340 et seq.) requires the plan to reimburse the hospital
for providing such emergency services and care.”  (Ibid.)  “Under the Knox-Keene Act, the health care
service plan (or its contracting medical providers) must, within 30 or 45 days,
reimburse the hospital or other medical providers for the emergency services
and care provided to its enrollees as to (1) all care necessary for
stabilization of the enrollee, and (2) for all poststabilization care the plan
authorizes the hospital to provide.”  (Id.
at p. 334.)
 
“The amount of reimbursement depends upon whether the hospital and
plan already have a contract in place: If they do, the plan must pay the agreed
upon contractual rate; if they do not, the plan must pay the reasonable and
customary value for the emergency health care services rendered” (Id. at
p. 329 (citing Cal. Code Regs., tit. 28, § 1300.71, subd. (a)(3)(A)).)  “If a plan without a contract pays
reimbursement that the hospital believes is below the reasonable and customary
value, the hospital may sue the plan in quantum meruit for the shortfall.”  (Ibid.)
 
Long Beach held that while a provider may sue for quantum
meruit, it may not also sue for injunctive relief under California’s unfair
competition law “to enjoin the plan from paying too little reimbursement for
possible future claims not covered by a contract[.]”  (Long Beach, supra, 71 Cal.App.5th at
pp. 329-330.)  Long Beach also
clarified that while “a plaintiff may as a general matter state a claim under
the unfair competition law for a violation of the Knox-Keene Act” (id. at
p. 342), as a way of pursuing restitution for underpayments as an alternative
to a quantum meruit claim (id. at p. 343-344), an injunction to restrain
an insurer from underpaying for emergency medical services in the future or to
“obey the law” is “legally unavailable.” 
(Id. at p. 343.)   Specifically,
Long Beach explains:
 
What is more, the injunctive relief the hospitals
seek—that is, an order enjoining Kaiser from violating the Knox-Keene Act by
underpaying for emergency medical services in the future—is legally
unavailable. To the extent it requires Kaiser more specifically not to underpay
reimbursement when its enrollees receive emergency medical services in every
future instance, it is difficult to see how Kaiser could comply: It is
impossible for Kaiser to definitively know the “reasonable and customary value”
of emergency medical services until a jury fixes that value, but Kaiser is statutorily
obligated to pay some reimbursement amount within 30 or 45 days of rendering
those services. If Kaiser incorrectly estimates the “reasonable and customary”
value and underpays, it will have violated the injunction and will ostensibly
be subject to contempt penalties. To us, such an injunction would be so vague
that persons of common intelligence must necessarily guess at its meaning and
differ as to its application; as such, it would be invalid and could not form
the basis for the potent weapon of contempt. To the extent it requires Kaiser
more generally to obey the law, such an injunction would be equally invalid. 
 
(Long Beach, supra, 71 Cal.App.5th at p.
343 [cleaned up].)
 
In opposition, Plaintiff primarily cites case law standing for the
proposition that parties may sue to recover the quantum meruit reasonable value
for emergency services rendered in instances where they believe they have been
underpaid, but Plaintiff’s cited case law does not directly address Long
Beach’s holding.  
 
Long Beach is clear that a plaintiff may not sue “to enjoin the
plan from paying too little reimbursement for possible future claims not
covered by a contract[.]”  (Long Beach,
supra, 71 Cal.App.5th. at pp. 329-330.)  Here, Plaintiff seeks “Restitution for all
underpayments for emergency services resulting from Heritage’s unfair payment
patterns” and “An order enjoining Heritage from implementing its current
out-of-network reimbursement methodology for out-of-network emergency services
provided by Vituity[.]”  (FAC ¶ 47.)
 
Thus, Plaintiff’s request for injunctive relief regarding Defendants’
payment methodology is legally unavailable pursuant to Long Beach.  As such, the Court agrees that it is proper
to strike from the Complaint any such request.
 
However, the Court declines to strike paragraph 46(a) or 50(c), as
those are simply factual allegations that could also be relevant to Plaintiff’s
other causes of action.  Similarly, the
Court declines to strike the prayer for injunctive relief, as Plaintiff also
seeks injunctive relief regarding Defendants’ alleged failure to timely or
accurately pay bills, timely specifying the reasons for any contest, and complying
with the applicable written contracts. 
(See FAC ¶ 47(c).)
 
2.    
LEAVE TO AMEND
 
A plaintiff has the burden of showing in what
manner the complaint could be amended and how the amendment would change the
legal effect of the complaint, i.e., state a cause of action. (See The
Inland Oversight Committee v. City of San Bernardino (2018) 27 Cal.App.5th
771, 779; PGA West Residential Assn., Inc. v. Hulven Int'l, Inc. (2017)
14 Cal.App.5th 156, 189.) A plaintiff must not only state the legal basis for
the amendment, but also the factual allegations sufficient to state a cause of
action or claim. (See PGA West Residential Assn., Inc. v. Hulven Int'l, Inc.,
supra, 14 Cal.App.5th at p. 189.) Moreover, a plaintiff does not meet his
or her burden by merely stating in the opposition to a demurrer or motion to
strike that “if the Court finds the operative complaint deficient, plaintiff
respectfully requests leave to amend.” (See Major Clients Agency v Diemer
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1116, 1133; Graham v. Bank of America (2014) 226
Cal.App.4th 594, 618 [asserting an abstract right to amend does not satisfy the
burden].)
 
Here, Plaintiff has failed to meet this burden as Plaintiff only indicates
is “A court should not sustain a motion to strike without leave to amend if
there is a reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by
amendment.”  (Opp. at p. 6.)  Here, because the requested injunctive relief
is “legally unavailable” (in part) pursuant to Long Beach, there is no
reasonable possibility that the defect could be cured by amendment.    
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
For the reasons stated, the Court grants, in part, Defendants’ Motion
to Strike and strikes from the First Amended Complaint the entirety of
paragraph 47(b) without leave to amend. 
The Court denies the balance of Defendants’ motion to strike.   
 
Defendants shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service regarding the same.  
 
 
DATED:  May 1, 2024                                                           ___________________________
                                                                                    Michael E. Whitaker
                                                                                    Judge of the Superior Court


