 Case Number:  SC125247    Hearing Date:   May 1, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


May 1, 2024




CASE NUMBER


SC125247




MOTIONS


Demurrer and Motion to Strike Answer




MOVING PARTY


Plaintiff Yazmin Ortiz




OPPOSING PARTY


Defendants Rudy Eisler, individually and as trustee for
  the Eisler Family Living Trust; Steven Eisler individually and as Trustee for
  the Eisler Family 2000 Living Trust; Theresa Eisler, individually and as
  Trustee for the Eisler Family 2000 Living Trust; Wendy Eisler, individually
  and as Trustee for the Eisler Family Living Trust; Eisler Investments; West
  End Properties; Robert Sundeen; Carole Sundeen; and Dustin Wells.



 
MOTIONS
 
Plaintiff Yazmin Ortiz (“Plaintiff”) demurs to and moves to strike the
first amended answer (“FAA”) filed by Defendants Rudy Eisler, individually and
as trustee for the Eisler Family Living Trust; Steven Eisler individually and
as Trustee for the Eisler Family 2000 Living Trust; Theresa Eisler,
individually and as Trustee for the Eisler Family 2000 Living Trust; Wendy
Eisler, individually and as Trustee for the Eisler Family Living Trust; Eisler
Investments; West End Properties; Robert Sundeen; Carole Sundeen; and Dustin
Wells. (“Defendants”) on February 16, 2024.[1]  
 
Defendants oppose both motions and Plaintiff replies.   
 
PLAINTIFF’S REQUEST TO INTRODUCE ORAL
TESTIMONY AT HEARING
 
            Plaintiff
has filed a request to introduce oral testimony at the hearing on demurrer and
motion to strike Defendants’ First Amended Answer.  Plaintiff contends oral testimony is needed “as
to the clarification of certain points brought about by the Court and in the
Defendants' pleadings that she did not have the opportunity to properly address
in her previous pleadings/declarations; circumstances that have since developed
with regards to her filings that should be examined before proceeding with the
trial (to which Plaintiff – as this Court knows – objects) for judicial
economy, non-duplication of resources and efficiency purposes; and with regards
to the Defendants’ Declarations and this Court’s statement at the previous
hearing that Plaintiff’s Second Amended Complaint was not filed by her.”
 
The Court denies this
request.  Plaintiff may present oral
argument at the hearing, but may not present oral evidence.
 
 
MEET
AND CONFER REQUIREMENT
 
            Code of Civil Procedure section
430.41, subdivision (a) requires that “Before filing a demurrer pursuant to
this chapter, the demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by
telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for
the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would
resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.”  
 
The statute further requires “As part of the meet and confer process,
the demurring party shall identify all of the specific causes of action that it
believes are subject to demurrer and identify with legal support the basis of
the deficiencies.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41, subd. (a)(1).)  “The party who
filed the complaint, cross-complaint, or answer shall provide legal support for
its position that the pleading is legally sufficient or, in the alternative,
how the complaint, cross-complaint, or answer could be amended to cure any
legal insufficiency.”  (Ibid.)
 
“The demurring party shall file and serve with the demurrer a
declaration stating either” the means by which the parties met and conferred,
or that the party who filed the pleading subject to demurrer failed to respond
to the meet and confer request.  (Code
Civ. Proc. § 430.41, subd. (a)(3).)  
 
At the prior hearing, the parties represented that they have met and
conferred as required by statute, and the Court accepted such representations.
 
BACKGROUND
 
            Unlawful Detainer Action
 
            On
May 11, 2015, the Eisler Defendants to this action[2]
filed an unlawful detainer complaint against Plaintiff Yazmin Ortiz
(“Plaintiff”), case number 15R02431. 
Plaintiff proceeded in pro per in that matter.  The court ordered judgment in favor of the
Eislers.
 
            The Current Action
 
Plaintiff filed the Complaint
in this matter on January 13, 2016.  On
December 4, 2017, Plaintiff filed the First Amended Complaint, alleging the
following causes of action:
 

First:
     Violation of Civil Rights
Second:
     Actual and Punitive Damages under FEHA
Third:
     Violation of the Unruh Civil Rights Act
Fourth:
     Actual and Punitive Damages under California’s Landlord Tenant Statutes
Fifth:
     Actual and Punitive damages for retaliation
Sixth:
     Actual and Punitive damages for breach of contract and of the covenant of
     quiet enjoyment
Seventh:
     Breach of warranty of habitability
Eighth:
     Nuisance
Ninth:
     Negligence
Tenth:
     Malicious Prosecution
Tenth
     [sic]: Violation of Rent Control Laws
Eleventh:
     Violation of Rent Control Laws
Twelfth:
     Violation of Santa Monica Charter Amendment section 1809
Thirteenth:
     Breach of Written Rental Agreement
Fourteenth:
     Intentional and Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress
Fifteenth:
     Unfair Business Practices (Cal. Bus. & Prof., sections 17000 and
     17200)
Sixteenth:
     Unlawful Business Practices (Cal. Bus. & Prof., sections 17000 and
     17200)
Seventeenth:
     Negligent Supervision and maintenance
Eighteenth:
     Negligence Per Se

 
Anti-SLAPP
& Appeal
 
Defendants filed a special
motion to strike the fifth, sixth, tenth (both), twelfth, thirteenth and
sixteenth causes of action, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 425.16
(anti-SLAPP).  The Court granted the anti-SLAPP
motion and struck the fifth, tenth (both), twelfth, and sixteenth causes of
action in their entirety.  With respect
to the sixth cause of action, the Court granted the motion in part, “only as to
all allegations relating to the institution of the unlawful detainer action,
both as to the breach of contract and breach of covenant of quiet enjoyment
claims.”  (November 19, 2019 Minute
Order.)  
 
Plaintiff appealed, and the
Court of Appeal reversed in part with respect to the twelfth cause of action
only, explaining that the “allegation that defendants demanded rent in excess
of the maximum lawful rent” pursuant to section 1809 of the Santa Monica
Charter Amendment did not arise from protected activity.  The Court of Appeal affirmed the Court’s
decision in all other respects.  (See
August 22, 2022 Appeal – Remittitur – Other Reversed in Part and Affirmed in
Part (B303780).)  
 
Demurrer & Motion to
Strike
 
Defendants demurred to the
other causes of action (First, Second, Third, Fourth, Sixth, Seventh, Eighth,
Ninth, Eleventh, Fourteenth, Fifteenth, Seventeenth, and Eighteenth) and moved
to strike requests for attorneys’ fees, punitive damages, injunctive relief,
and treble damages and disgorgement from the FAC.  The Court sustained the demurrers, without
leave to amend, on the basis that Plaintiff raised these issues as affirmative
defenses in connection with the unlawful detainer matter, and therefore they were
barred by res judicata.  (December 6,
2022 Minute Order.)
 
Thus, only the twelfth cause
of action remains, and only as to Plaintiff’s allegations that Defendants
demanded rent in excess of the maximum lawful rent permitted by section 1809 of
the Santa Monica Charter Amendment.
 
With respect to the motion to
strike, the Court granted the motion to strike in part.  The Court struck Plaintiff’s request for
treble damages and disgorgement under the Third Cause of Action for violation
of the Unruh Civil Rights Act, because the court sustained Defendants’ demurrer
to that cause of action without leave to amend. 
(December 6, 2022 Minute Order.)
 
The Court also granted
Defendants’ motion to strike Plaintiff’s request for punitive damages in
connection with the twelfth cause of action, and Plaintiff’s request for
injunctive relief, but granted Plaintiff 30 days’ leave to amend.  (December 6, 2022 Minute Order.)
 
Plaintiff did not successfully
file a second amended complaint within the 30-day time period in conformance
with the Court’s order.
 
As such, the current operative
complaint is the First Amended Complaint, and the only cause of action still at
issue is the twelfth cause of action, only as to allegations that Defendants
demanded rent in excess of the maximum lawful rent permitted by section 1809 of
the Santa Monica Charter Amendment.
 
ANALYSIS
 
1.    
      DEMURRER TO ANSWER
 
A plaintiff may demur to an answer if: “(a) The
answer does not state facts sufficient to constitute a defense.  [¶]  (b) The answer is uncertain. As used in this
subdivision, ‘uncertain’ includes ambiguous and unintelligible.  [¶]  (c) Where the answer pleads a contract, it
cannot be ascertained from the answer whether the contract is written or oral.”
 (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.20.)  “Code of Civil Procedure section
431.30, subdivision (b) provides that an answer to the complaint shall contain,
in addition to a “general or specific denial” of the complaint's allegations, a
statement of any new matter constituting a defense. It has long been held that
if the onus of proof is thrown upon the defendant, the matter to be proved by
him is new matter.”  (Harris v. City
of Santa Monica (2013) 56 Cal.4th 203, 239 [cleaned up].)  
 
As “[t]o the allegations of
new matter, [n]umerous defenses were purportedly raised by defendants’
allegations of affirmative defense.  Most
of these allegations fail to state a defense even when liberally construed in
defendants’ favor. Some are simply immaterial. 
For example, defendants allege as a conclusion that plaintiff's claim is
barred by laches, an equitable defense that has no application to the
plaintiff's legal claim.  All of the
allegations are proffered in the form of terse legal conclusions, rather than
as facts averred as carefully and with as much detail as the facts which
constitute the cause of action and are alleged in the complaint. The only
affirmative defenses that are mentioned in the summary judgment proceedings,
fraud in the inducement and failure of consideration, are not well pled,
consisting of legal conclusions, and would not have survived a demurrer.”  (FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima
(1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 367, 384 [cleaned up]; see also Quantification
Settlement Agreement Cases (2011) 201 Cal.App.4th 758, 813 [“affirmative
defenses cannot be pled as mere legal conclusions but must instead be alleged
with as much factual detail as the allegations of a complaint”]; Department
of Finance v. City of Merced (2019) 33 Cal.App.5th 286, 294, fn. 6
[boilerplate affirmative defenses without factual support are deficient].)  

 
Plaintiff
demurs to the First Amended Answer (“FAA”) on the basis that the affirmative
defenses are uncertain and devoid of factual support.  Generally, the Court agrees with Plaintiff
that each affirmative defense lacks factual support and are “proffered
in the form of terse legal conclusions, rather than as facts averred as
carefully and with as much detail as the facts which constitute the causes of
action and are alleged in the complaint.” 
 
 
However, the Court finds that Plaintiff fails to identify in her
demurrer which affirmative defenses pertain to “new matters” in which
Defendants would have the burden of proof at trial.  Because Plaintiff fails to do so, the Court
cannot make a complete determination whether Plaintiff’s demurrer should be
sustained in whole or in part.  As such,
the Court overrules Plaintiff’s demurrer. 

 
2.     MOTION
TO STRIKE ANSWER
 
Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading, may serve
and file a motion to strike the whole pleading or any part thereof.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1); Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1322, subd. (b).) 
On a motion to strike, the court may: (1) strike out any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike out all or
any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of
California, a court rule, or an order of the court.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a)-(b); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767,
782.)  
 
Although
only one cause of action remains – Defendants’ alleged charging of rent in
excess of the legal maximum pursuant to Santa Monica Charter Amendment section
1809 – Defendant has listed thirty-six affirmative defenses, many of which do
not appear on their face to be relevant to the single cause of action that
remains at issue.
 
            Defendants counter that because
Plaintiff has not filed an operative Second Amended Complaint in conformance
with the Court’s December 6, 2022 order, Defendants must essentially hedge
their bets in an abundance of caution by listing affirmative defenses to all
potential causes of action that Plaintiff may bring or that may be resuscitated
by appeal or writ.
 
The
Court disagrees with Defendants that it is proper at this juncture for
Defendants to hedge their bets by submitting affirmative defenses that pertain
either to causes of action that have already been dismissed and/or stricken, or
to causes of action that have not yet been brought.  To the extent Defendant has admitted doing
this, such affirmative defenses are irrelevant and are properly stricken.  To the extent additional causes of action, if
any, become at issue in the future, Defendants may answer those additional
allegations once they become at issue.
 
            Therefore, having found that the
First Amended Answer contains irrelevant affirmative defenses, the Court
strikes the First Amended Answer.
 
3.    
LEAVE TO AMEND
 
A plaintiff has the burden of showing in what
manner the complaint could be amended and how the amendment would change the
legal effect of the complaint, i.e., state a cause of action. (See The
Inland Oversight Committee v. City of San Bernardino (2018) 27 Cal.App.5th
771, 779; PGA West Residential Assn., Inc. v. Hulven Int'l, Inc. (2017)
14 Cal.App.5th 156, 189.) A plaintiff must not only state the legal basis for
the amendment, but also the factual allegations sufficient to state a cause of
action or claim. (See PGA West Residential Assn., Inc. v. Hulven Int'l, Inc.,
supra, 14 Cal.App.5th at p. 189.) Moreover, a plaintiff does not meet his
or her burden by merely stating in the opposition to a demurrer or motion to
strike that “if the Court finds the operative complaint deficient, plaintiff
respectfully requests leave to amend.” (See Major Clients Agency v Diemer
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1116, 1133; Graham v. Bank of America (2014) 226
Cal.App.4th 594, 618 [asserting an abstract right to amend does not satisfy the
burden].)
 
Here, because the Court finds that the first amended answer
contains additional, irrelevant affirmative defenses, such defect can easily be
cured by Defendants amending the answer to omit the irrelevant and superfluous affirmative
defenses, which are not “new matters” in which Defendants would have the burden
of proof at trial.
 
Therefore, the Court grants Defendants leave to amend the answer
in conformance with this ruling.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
For the reasons stated, the Court overrules Plaintiff’s Demurrer but
grants Plaintiff’s motion to strike the First Amended Answer for containing
irrelevant affirmative defenses.  
 
Further, the Court orders Defendants to file and serve a second
amended answer in conformance with this Court’s ruling on or before May 8, 2024.  
 
Defendants shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service regarding the same.  
 
 
DATED:  May 1, 2024                                                           ___________________________
                                                                                    Michael E. Whitaker
                                                                                    Judge of the Superior Court


