


[1]In the motion, SecurCapital
refers to Wave Investment LLC, a Delaware limited liability company as “Wave
DE” or “Plaintiff.” (Mot. at p. 1:3-4.) 


[2]As discussed, the Foot’s
Transfer Court noted that “[w]e recognize
that the Gherman court
relied, in part, for its conception of ‘bad faith,’ on the premise
that delay only may constitute the requisite bad faith to preclude the
granting of the request to file a cross-complaint when it appears that a
delayed cross-complaint, if allowed, would work a substantial injustice to the
opposing party and would prejudice that party’s position in some way.” (Foot's Transfer &
Storage Co. v. Superior Court,
supra, 114 Cal.App.3d at p. 903, emphasis added.) 


[3]As set forth
above, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 426.30, subdivision (a), “[e]xcept as otherwise provided
by statute, if a party against whom a complaint has been filed and served fails
to allege in a cross-complaint any related cause of action which (at the time
of serving his answer to the complaint) he has against the plaintiff, such
party may not thereafter in any other action assert against the plaintiff the
related cause of action not pleaded.” 


[4]The Silver Orgs Court noted
that “Respondents,
in their remarkably abbreviated brief, do argue that the causes of action set
forth in the cross-complaint could have been raised by appellants in a prior
action between them and the seller of the real property involved in the
underlying transaction and that the issues raised by the cross-complaint were
all raised as defenses in the trial of the complaint but were rejected after a
hearing on the merits. These arguments are nothing more than conclusions of
counsel made without supporting documentation or any citation to the record and
deserve no consideration from this court. We point out, however,
that if there were merit to these contentions they might be appropriately
raised by demurrer, summary judgment, or other pretrial proceeding after the
compulsory cross-complaint has been filed.” (Silver Orgs. v. Frank, supra, 217 Cal.App.3d at pp.
101-102 [internal citations omitted].) 


