 Case Number:  21STCV47554    Hearing Date:   February 20, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 50
 



WAVE INVESTMENT, LLC, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
SECURCAPITAL CORP., et al.
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


21STCV47554




Hearing Date:


February 20, 2024




Hearing Time:   10:00 a.m. 
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER
  RE:
 
DEFENDANT
  SECURCAPITAL CORP.’S MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE CROSS-COMPLAINT



 
Background
Plaintiff Wave
Investment, LLC (“Plaintiff”) filed this action on December 30, 2021 against
Defendants SecurCapital Corp. (“SecurCapital”) and Stephen J. Russell (“Russell”)
(jointly, “Defendants”)
Plaintiff filed the operative Third Amended Complaint (“SAC”) on November
15, 2023 alleging causes of action for (1) breach of contract, (2) declaratory
relief, (3) breach of partnership or joint venture agreement, (4) breach of
fiduciary duty, (5) conversion, (6) fraudulent concealment, (7) fraudulent
misrepresentation, (8) negligent misrepresentation, 
(9)
unjust enrichment, (10) accounting, and (11) constructive trust. 
In the TAC, Plaintiff alleges, inter alia, that “[t]his action
arises from Defendants’ theft of business and investment opportunities in
violation of the law and the Parties’ agreements…The primary opportunity was
the acquisition of Breakout Capital (‘Breakout’), a small business lender.”
(TAC, ¶¶ 1-2.) “[Plaintiff] identified SecurCapital and Russell as potential
investors. [Plaintiff] discussed the opportunity with Defendants, and the
parties decided to move forward.” (TAC, ¶ 2.) Plaintiff alleges that “[t]o
protect itself and to ensure it would be fully compensated for its efforts,
[Plaintiff] entered into a Non-Circumvention Agreement that prohibited
Defendants from acquiring any assets of Breakout or otherwise investing in the
company without [Plaintiff’s] prior written approval.” (TAC, ¶ 3.) 
Plaintiff alleges that “[a]fter signing the Non-Circumvention
Agreement and agreeing to be bound thereby, Russell, individually and on behalf
of SecurCapital, went behind [Plaintiff’s] back and acquired the assets of
Breakout without notice to, or approval from, [Plaintiff]. In doing so,
Defendants lied to [Plaintiff] to conceal their plan and negotiations with
Breakout to prevent [Plaintiff] from exercising its contractual right to block
the deal.” (TAC, ¶ 5.) Plaintiff “seeks to recover its lost profits and other
economic injury from the loss of this opportunity, compensation for its
substantial work, disgorgement of the benefits Defendants unjustly received,
and all related damages it suffered from Defendants’ wrongful conduct.” (TAC, ¶
6.) 
SecurCapital now moves for an order granting it leave to file a
Cross-Complaint. Plaintiff opposes. 
Evidentiary Objection 
The Court sustains Plaintiff’s evidentiary
objection to paragraph 8 of the Declaration of Stacy Y. North. 
Discussion 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 428.50, subdivision (a), “[a] party shall file a cross-complaint
against any of the parties who filed the complaint or cross-complaint against
him or her before or at the same time as the answer to the complaint or
cross-complaint.” Pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure section 428.50, subdivision (b), “[a]ny other cross-complaint may be filed at any
time before the court has set a date for trial.” Pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure section 428.50, subdivision (c), “[a] party shall obtain leave of
court to file any cross-complaint except one filed within the time specified in
subdivision (a) or (b). Leave may be granted in the interest of justice at any
time during the course of the action.” 
In addition, pursuant to
Code of Civil Procedure section 426.50, “[a] party who fails to plead a cause of action subject to the
requirements of this article, whether through oversight, inadvertence, mistake,
neglect, or other cause, may apply to the court for leave to amend his
pleading, or to file a cross-complaint, to assert such cause at any time during
the course of the action. The court, after notice to the adverse party, shall
grant, upon such terms as may be just to the parties, leave to amend the
pleading, or to file the cross-complaint, to assert such cause if the party who
failed to plead the cause acted in good faith. This subdivision shall be
liberally construed to avoid forfeiture of causes of action.”  
“A policy of liberal
construction of section 426.50 to avoid
forfeiture of causes of action is imposed on the trial court. A motion to
file a cross-complaint at any time during the course of the action must be
granted unless bad faith of the moving party is demonstrated where forfeiture
would otherwise result. Factors such as oversight, inadvertence, neglect,
mistake or other cause, are insufficient grounds to deny the motion unless
accompanied by bad faith.” ((Silver Orgs.
v. Frank (1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 94,
98-99.) 
SecurCapital’s counsel attaches as Exhibit A to her declaration a copy
of SecurCapital’s proposed Cross-Complaint. (North Decl., ¶ 2, Ex. A.) The
proposed Cross-Complaint is brought by SecurCapital against Cross-Defendants
Wave Investment, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, Mark Boyce, and
Wave Investment, LLC, a South Carolina limited liability company. (Ibid.) The proposed Cross-Complaint alleges
causes of action for (1) fraudulent concealment, (2) fraudulent
misrepresentation, (3) fraudulent inducement, (4) breach of the covenant of
good faith and fair dealing, and (5) declaratory relief. (Ibid.) 
In the proposed Cross-Complaint, SecurCapital
alleges, inter alia, that “[a]t the time Russell, on behalf of
SecurCapital, executed the Non-Circumvention Agreement, Boyce had not
disclosed, among other things, that: (a) Breakout was insolvent; (b) Boyce
believed that Breakout had misused his money; (c) Boyce had recently learned
that he could not access 
Boyce/Plaintiff
Wave’s $1.2 million (i.e., it was ‘trapped’ in Breakout); and (d) Boyce was
trying to find investors for Breakout so that he could recover his
approximately $1.2 million. Further, at the time SecurCapital entered into the
Non-Circumvention Agreement, Boyce misrepresented that it intended to be a
co-investor in the Breakout transaction.” (North Decl., ¶ 2, Ex. A, ¶ 23.) 
SecurCapital further alleges that “[b]y late June 2019, all parties
had agreed to the essential terms of the Breakout transaction. However, Boyce
kept delaying the final close as he sought repayment of Cross-Defendants’
‘trapped’ money. Russell repeatedly urged Boyce to move forward, explaining
that SecurCapital had already invested $400,000 in the deal with the
understanding Cross-Defendants would approve of and coinvest in the
transaction. Boyce began telling Russell that Cross-Defendants did not have the
money to participate in the Breakout transaction unless Cross-Defendants
recovered their ‘trapped’ money, or words to that effect.” (North Decl., ¶ 2,
Ex. A, ¶ 39.) 
In addition, SecurCapital alleges in the proposed Cross-Complaint that
“[o]n or about September 29, 2023, Plaintiff Wave produced documents in this
litigation that were not previously produced. The September 29, 2023 production
included bank and investment statements evidencing that Cross-Defendants had
money to invest in the Breakout transaction at the time of the closing…” (North
Decl., ¶ 2, Ex. A, ¶ 47.) SecurCapital further alleges that “[o]n or about
November 8, 2023, Breakout’s founder, Carl Fairbank (‘Fairbank’) produced
nearly 500 text messages between Boyce and Fairbank (the “Boyce-Fairbank
Texts”). Many of the Boyce-Fairbank Texts were sent around the time of the
closing of the Breakout transaction. The Boyce-Fairbank Texts evidence that,
while SecurCapital was focusing on closing the Breakout transaction,
Cross-Defendants were focused on entering into an agreement with Breakout that
provided for repayment of the ‘trapped cash’ with seemingly no intent of
participating in the acquisition.” (Ibid., ¶ 48.)

SecurCapital alleges in the proposed Cross-Complaint’s first cause of
action for fraudulent concealment that “between April 2019 and July 2019,
Cross-Defendants fraudulently and maliciously concealed material information,
including, among other things: (a) Breakout was insolvent; (b) Boyce believed
that Breakout had misused his money; (c) Boyce had recently learned that he
could not access Cross-Defendants’ approximately $1.2 million that was
‘trapped’ in Breakout; (d) Boyce was trying to find investors for Breakout so
that he could recover Cross-Defendants’ money; and (e) Boyce had no intention
of investing his own money in the Breakout transaction.” (North Decl., ¶ 2, Ex.
A, ¶ 50.) SecurCapital alleges that “Cross-Defendants concealment of this
material information caused SecurCapital to detrimentally change its position
in reliance on Defendants’ concealments as follows: SecurCapital entered into
the Non-Circumvention Agreement and subsequently advanced approximately
$400,000 of ‘good faith’ loans to Breakout pending the close of the Breakout
transaction. SecurCapital then had to move forward with the closing of the
transaction or lose the $400,000 that was already invested in Breakout.
SecurCapital also had to invest more money than originally contemplated,
creating extreme financial hardship, and SecurCapital was forced to expend
significant effort finding additional funding and obtain financing on
unfavorable terms.” (Ibid., ¶ 53.) 
In the instant motion, SecurCapital first asserts that “leave to file
the compulsory cross-complaint against Wave DE[1]
must be granted because there in [sic] no bad faith.” (Mot. at p. 6:13-14.) 
SecurCapital asserts that because Wave Investment LLC, a Delaware
limited liability company is the Plaintiff in this action, and because the proposed
cross-claims against it arise “out of the same transaction, occurrence, or
series of transactions or occurrences as the cause of action which the
plaintiff alleges in [its] complaint,” the proposed cross-claims against Wave
Investment LLC, a Delaware limited liability company are compulsory. (Mot. at
p. 7:9-12.) Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
426.30, subdivision (a), “[e]xcept as otherwise provided by statute, if a party against whom
a complaint has been filed and served fails to allege in a cross-complaint any
related cause of action which (at the time of serving his answer to the
complaint) he has against the plaintiff, such party may not thereafter in any
other action assert against the plaintiff the related cause of action not
pleaded.” Pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 426.10, subd.
(c), “related cause of action” means “a cause of
action which arises out of the same transaction, occurrence, or series of
transactions or occurrences as the cause of action which the plaintiff alleges
in his complaint.” In Foot’s Transfer & Storage Co. v. Superior
Court (1980) 114 Cal.App.3d 897, 901, cited by SecurCapital, the Court of Appeal noted that “[t]he granting of leave
to file a cross-complaint is particularly of importance in avoiding forfeiture
of causes of action because of the principle expressed in section 426.30 of the Code of Civil Procedure, that
cross-complaints relating to the subject of the action must be filed therein or
are deemed lost.”
 SecurCapital
argues that it “seeks to file its Cross-Complaint based on recently obtained
discovery regarding the true financial condition of Cross-Defendants at the
time they represented an inability to invest, and upon discovery of the
Fairbank-Boyce Texts indicating Cross-Defendants lack of intent to invest in
Breakout at all…Because SecurCapital seeks in good faith to bring its
Cross-Complaint against Wave DE based upon newly discovered evidence, the Court
should grant the Motion.” (Mot. at p. 7:20-25.) 
In her supporting declaration, SecurCapital’s counsel states that
“[o]n September 29, 2023, as part of a supplemental document production,
Plaintiff produced bank statements evidencing that Plaintiff had access to
sufficient funds in May 2019 and July 2019 to fund Plaintiff’s share of the
contemplated $2 million investment in Newco.” (North Decl., ¶ 5.) SecurCapital’s
counsel also states that “[o]n or about November 8, 2023, Breakout’s founder,
Carl Fairbank (‘Fairbank’) produced nearly 500 text messages between Boyce and
Fairbank, none of which had been previously produced in this litigation (the
‘Boyce-Fairbank Texts’).” (North Decl., ¶ 6.) SecurCapital’s counsel asserts
that “[t]he Boyce-Fairbank Texts evidence that, while SecurCapital was focusing
on closing the Breakout transaction, Boyce and the Wave entities were focused
on entering into an agreement with Breakout that provided for repayment of
approximately $1.2 million ‘trapped cash’ Boyce had earlier invested in
Breakout, with seemingly no intent of participating in the acquisition with
SecurCapital.” (North Decl., ¶ 6.)
In the opposition, Plaintiff asserts that “SecurCapital’s delay in
seeking to bring cross-claims is inexcusable and demonstrates the motion is
intended only to prejudice [Plaintiff].” (Opp’n. at p. 11:3-4.) 
Plaintiff contends that “SecurCapital’s claim that it only just
learned of the alleged facts supporting its proposed cross-claims in late 2023
ignores the weight of contrary evidence in the record. Defendants’ own
materials and testimony confirm that SecurCapital knew of the supposed ‘newly learned’
facts giving rise to their claims in 2019.” (Opp’n at p. 11:10-13, emphasis
omitted.) Plaintiff submits the Declaration of Mark Boyce, the founder,
principal, and sole member of Wave Investment, LLC. (Boyce Decl., ¶ 1.) Mr.
Boyce states in his declaration that “[a]ttached as Exhibit 1 herein is a true
and correct copy of an e-mail with Russell that I received, produced by Wave…”
(Boyce Decl., ¶ 2, Ex. 1.) The September 5, 2019 email attached to Mr. Boyce’s
declaration states, inter alia, as follows: 
 
“Mark yet again
rather than coming through with your commitment to join the preferred series a
group of investors by topping up your investment You’re not now bailing on me
altogether…I keep going back to the term sheet where are you were in for a half
$1 million and then up to 40% of the second $1.5 million…Just clearly
illustrates all you were doing with me is leveraging me to get your settlement
with Carl and had no good Faith intention of being a partner in this with me
despite the term sheet you executed…It’s bitterly disappointing and you left me
hanging with the bag having to replace your equity plus haircut money in a
company I would have never bought without your commitment…” (Boyce Decl., ¶ 2,
Ex. 1.)  
            Mr. Boyce states that “[t]he
reference to ‘settlement with Carl’ is a reference to the $1.2 million that
Wave had loaned Breakout, which Breakout owed it.” (Boyce Decl., ¶ 3.)  
            Plaintiff also argues that
“SecurCapital was likewise on notice that [Plaintiff] had sufficient funds to
close the Breakout deal before September 2023, when Defendants received Wave’s
2019 bank statements: it explicitly asked Boyce about this issue at his
deposition before it received those documents. The fact that Defendants prepared
to depose Boyce on this topic demonstrates it had sufficient awareness of the
issue well in advance of December 2023 when it filed this Motion.” (Opp’n at p.
11:17-21.) Plaintiff cites to the following testimony from the September 8,
2023 deposition of Mr. Boyce: “Q. At this point in time, did Wave have the approximately
1.5 million available to invest? A. Yes. Q. Okay. Did that include the nearly
1.2 million that was already invested in Breakout? A. No.” (Miller Decl., ¶ 11,
Ex. J (Boyce Depo.) at pp. 67:24-68:4.)
SecurCapital counters that in Foot’s Transfer & Storage Co. v. Superior
Court, supra,
114 Cal.App.3d at pages 903-904, the Court of Appeal found that
“[r]eal party in interest Worth also urges us to uphold the trial court’s
denial of petitioner’s request to file a cross-complaint on the theory that
petitioner’s bad faith was demonstrated by the fact that it had,
despite its assertions to the contrary, all the facts it needed to support
the filing of a cross-complaint as early as 1976, and this was before the
complaint was filed by Worth. We recognize that the Gherman court relied, in part, for its
conception of ‘bad faith,’ on the premise that delay only may constitute
the requisite bad faith to preclude the granting of the request to file a
cross-complaint when it appears that a delayed cross-complaint, if allowed,
would work a substantial injustice to the opposing party and would prejudice
that party’s position in some way. But in the case at bench, we fail to
perceive any substantial injustice or prejudice to the real party in interest
Worth in this litigation by the filing of petitioner Foot’s Transfer &
Storage’s cross-complaint, as belated as it may be. The correspondence of
counsel establishes that neither side was unaware of the claims of the other.
Similarly, the discovery undertaken in 1979 also indicates a lack of any such
unawareness. We hold, therefore, that the evidence to support the trial court’s
denial of petitioner’s motion to file a cross-complaint was insufficient as a
matter of law in view of the well established liberality with which section 426.50 of the Code of Civil Procedure is to be
applied. It is preferable that the parties have their day in court.” 
Similarly here,
Plaintiff asserts that SecurCapital delayed in seeking leave to
file the proposed Cross-Complaint, and that “SecurCapital’s claim that it only
just learned of the alleged facts supporting its proposed cross-claims in late
2023 ignores the weight of contrary evidence in the record.” (Opp’n at p.
11:10-11.) Plaintiff also asserts that “the motion is intended only to
prejudice [Plaintiff].” (Opp’n at p. 11:4). It appears that such asserted
prejudice is an increase in Plaintiff’s litigation costs, as Plaintiff argues
that “[t]he Court should not allow SecurCapital to take advantage of the
lengthy delay occasioned by the Court’s busy docket to force [Plaintiff] to
incur significant expense through the addition of new parties and claims.”
(Opp’n at p. 15:8-11.) SecurCapital counters that any such prejudice “does not
constitute prejudice to Plaintiff’s position.” (Reply at p. 7:8-9, emphasis
omitted.)[2]
The Court also does not find that Plaintiff has demonstrated “substantial evidence of bad faith” by SecurCapital. (Silver Orgs. v. Frank, supra,
217 Cal.App.3d at p. 100.) The Silver Orgs Court
noted that “[s]ubstantial evidence of
bad faith will obviously negate good faith, the latter being the sine qua non
to the granting of a section 426.50 motion. It is
therefore necessary to examine the amorphous concept of bad faith…‘Bad faith’
is defined as ‘[t]he opposite of ‘good faith,’ generally implying or involving
actual or constructive fraud, or a design to mislead or deceive another, or a
neglect or refusal to fulfill some duty or some contractual obligation, not
prompted by an honest mistake . . ., but by some interested or sinister
motive[,] . . . not simply bad judgment or negligence, but rather…the conscious
doing of a wrong because of dishonest purpose or moral obliquity; . . . it
contemplates a state of mind affirmatively operating with furtive design or ill
will.” (Ibid.)
 
In the motion, SecurCapital also asserts that “leave to file the
permissive cross-claims against Boyce and Wave SC should be granted ‘in the
interest of justice’.” (Mot. at p. 8:1-2.) As set forth above, pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure section 428.50, subdivision (c), “[a] party shall obtain leave of court to file any cross-complaint
except one filed within the time specified in subdivision (a) or (b). Leave may
be granted in the interest of justice at any time during the course of the
action.” SecurCapital asserts that “[a]s Boyce and Wave SC
are not plaintiffs in this case, SecurCapital’s cross-claims against them are
permissive.” (Mot. at p. 9:5-6.)[3]
SecurCapital refers the proposed Cross-Defendant Wave Investment, LLC, a South
Carolina limited liability company as “Wave SC.” (Mot. at p. 1:5-6.) 
SecurCapital argues that “[t]he interests of justice…favor granting
leave to file the permissive cross-claims in order that all claims between the
parties arising out of the Breakout investment plan may be determined at once,
to avoid the unnecessary duplication of time and effort inherent in pursuit of
the permissive cross-claims in a separate action.” (Mot. at p. 9:19-22.)
SecurCapital also asserts that the Cross-Defendants to the proposed
Cross-Complaint will not suffer prejudice as the trial in this action is
currently set for December 11, 2024.  
            In the opposition, Plaintiff asserts
that “[w]ith respect to SecurCapital’s permissive counterclaims, the court has
even more discretion to deny leave.” (Opp’n at p. 12:23-24.) SecurCapital cites
to Crocker Nat. Bank v. Emerald (1990) 221 Cal.App.3d
852, 864, where the
Court of Appeal concluded that “[w]e find the trial court did not
abuse its discretion in refusing Emerald leave to file the cross-complaint.
Emerald sought leave to file his cross-complaint seven years after the onset of
litigation, and five years after a demurrer was sustained to Emerald’s fifth
amended cross-complaint without leave to amend. Moreover, Emerald’s motion for
leave to file a cross-complaint was filed only five months before the trial
date. Emerald provides no explanation for his delay in seeking the court’s
permission to file his proposed cross-complaint. Emerald knew of the facts upon
which he based his first cause of action for gross negligence since at least
August 1980, when he filed his first proposed cross-complaint. In addition, the
facts upon which he based his second and third causes of action were known to
him since 1986. Emerald’s declaration in support of his motion for
reconsideration, following the trial court’s order granting Crocker’s motion
for extension of a writ of attachment, contains the same allegations as his
proposed cross-complaint. Given Emerald’s lack of explanation concerning his
failure to seek leave of the court between 1986 and 1988, we find the trial
court acted within its discretion in denying Emerald leave to file his
cross-complaint.” The Crocker Court
also noted that “Emerald’s proposed cross-complaint
is a permissive cross-complaint, governed by Code
of Civil Procedure section 428.50, subdivision (c)…” ((Ibid.) 
            Plaintiff argues that
here, “SecurCapital is seeking leave to file permissive cross-claims over two
years after this lawsuit was filed. Fact and expert discovery have been
completed, motions in limine are fully briefed, trial readiness binders were
lodged, exhibit binders were lodged, and the parties appeared for a Final
Status Conference on November 17, 2023, fully prepared to try this case on
December 6, 2023. The matter did not proceed to trial due to the Court’s docket
availability, which resulted in a lengthy continuance to December 11, 2024.
Only after all that has SecurCapital sought leave to assert cross-claims that
it has sat on for years. It is not in the interests of justice to reward such
sandbagging.” (Opp’n at p. 13:2-9.) Plaintiff also asserts that “much like in Crocker,
SecurCapital has no credible explanation for its delay. The evidence shows that
SecurCapital accused the Wave Parties of this exact wrongdoing over two years
before this lawsuit was filed and over four years before SecurCapital
supposedly received the evidence that made it aware of these claims.” (Opp’n at
p. 13:9-13.) 
            In the reply, SecurCapital asserts
that Crocker is distinguishable, as the proposed
Cross-Complaint is the first one SecurCapital seeks to file in this action. SecurCapital
also points to the evidence in support of the motion that (as discussed above),
“[o]n September 29, 2023, as part of a supplemental document production,
Plaintiff produced bank statements evidencing that Plaintiff had access to
sufficient funds in May 2019 and July 2019 to fund Plaintiff’s share of the
contemplated $2 million investment in Newco.” (North Decl., ¶ 5.) In addition, SecurCapital
points to the evidence that “[o]n or about November 8, 2023, Breakout’s
founder…produced nearly 500 text messages between Boyce and Fairbank, none of
which had been previously produced in this litigation.” (North Decl., ¶ 6.) As
discussed, SecurCapital’s counsel asserts that such texts “evidence that, while
SecurCapital was focusing on closing the Breakout transaction, Boyce and the
Wave entities were focused on entering into an agreement with Breakout that
provided for repayment of approximately $1.2 million ‘trapped cash’ Boyce had
earlier invested in Breakout, with seemingly no intent of participating in the
acquisition with SecurCapital.” (North Decl., ¶ 6.) 
Lastly, Plaintiff argues that “[t]he interests of justice further
favor denial of leave for SecurCapital to assert cross-claims because the
claims are meritless on their face.” (Opp’n at p. 13:18-19.) SecurCapital
counters that any issues as to the proposed cross-claims are more “appropriately raised by demurrer, summary judgment, or
other pretrial proceeding after the compulsory cross-complaint has been filed.”
(Silver Orgs. v. Frank, supra, 217 Cal.App.3d at p. 102.)
The Court agrees.[4]  
Based on the
foregoing, the Court finds that SecurCapital has demonstrated
that it is “in the
interest of justice” for the Court to grant SecurCapital leave to
file the proposed Cross-Complaint. ((Id., § 428.50, subd. (c).) 
Conclusion 
Based on the foregoing, SecurCapital’s motion for leave to file a cross-complaint is granted.
The Court orders SecurCapital to file and
serve the proposed Cross-Complaint within 3 days of the date of this Order.  
SecurCapital is ordered to give notice of
this Order. 
 
 
DATED:  February 20, 2024                          ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court


