  Case Number:  20STCV27973    Hearing Date:   February 20, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department
50
            



lydia cincore-templeton,
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
beverly smith, et al.,
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


20STCV27973




Hearing Date:


February 20, 2024




Hearing Time:


10:00 a.m.




[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:
 
MOTION BY
  PLAINTIFF TO FILE HER MARCH 13, 2023 OPPOSITION TO DEFENDANTS’ MOTION TO
  ENFORCE SETTLEMENT UNDER SEAL 



 
Background 
Plaintiff Lydia
Cincore-Templeton (“Plaintiff”) filed this action on July 24, 2020, against
Defendants Beverly Smith, Cheryl Hickmon, and Delta Sigma Theta Sorority, Inc. (collectively,
“Defendants”). 
The operative Third Amended
Complaint (“TAC”) was filed on October 13, 2021. The TAC asserts causes of
action for (1) breach of contract, (2) breach of the covenant of good faith and
fair dealing, (3) violation of Unfair Competition Law, (4) declaratory relief,
(5) intentional infliction of emotional distress, (6) negligence, and (7) intentional
interference with prospective economic, reputational, and political relations. 
On February 8, 2023,
Defendants filed a motion to enforce settlement. On March 13, 2023, Plaintiff
filed a “Partial Opposition by Plaintiff Lydia Templeton to Defendants’ Motion
to Enforce Settlement.” 
Plaintiff
now moves “for an order to file her March 13, 2023 Opposition to
defendants’ motion to enforce settlement documents under seal.” The motion is
unopposed. 
Discussion 
Generally,
court records are presumed to be open unless confidentiality is required by
law. ((Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.550(c).) If the presumption of access applies, the
court may order that a record be filed under seal “if it expressly finds facts
that establish: (1) There exists an overriding interest that overcomes the
right of public access to the record; (2) The overriding interest supports
sealing the record; (3) A substantial probability exists that the overriding
interest will be prejudiced if the record is not sealed; (4) The proposed
sealing is narrowly tailored; and (5) No less restrictive means exist to
achieve the overriding interest.” (Cal. Rules of Court,
rule 2.550, subdivision (d).)
In
support of the motion, Plaintiff submits the declaration of her counsel.
Plaintiff’s counsel indicates that at a September 7, 2022 Mandatory
Settlement Conference, the parties settled this matter. (Quiller Decl., ¶ 3.)
Plaintiff’s counsel states that “[a]fter not obtaining a settlement agreement
executed by both parties, the defendants filed a motion to enforce the
settlement, with a hearing date of March 24, 2023. On or about March 13, 2023,
I filed a partial opposition to defendants’ motion to enforce settlement…Within
that opposition, I identified the terms of the settlement agreement.” (Quiller
Decl., ¶ 4.) 
Plaintiff’s counsel states that “[s]ubsequently, defense counsel
conveyed to me his belief that the terms of the agreement are confidential.”
(Quiller Decl., ¶ 5.) In addition, Plaintiff’s counsel states that “[o]ne of
the sticking points in finalizing the settlement agreement is for this Court to
issue an Order sealing the Opposition.” (Quiller Decl., ¶ 8.)
Plaintiff’s
counsel notes that Plaintiff filed a previous motion to seal, which was heard
on May 4, 2023 and denied. The Court’s May 4, 2023 Order provides, inter
alia, that “the memorandum of points and authorities in support of the…motion
does not cite to any law or discuss the application of California
Rules of Court, rule 2.550, subdivision (d).” (May 4, 2023 Order at p.
3:3-5.) 
            In the instant motion, Plaintiff argues
that “filing these records under seal achieves the overriding interest
in protecting this confidential information.” (Mot. at p. 6:23-24.) Plaintiff asserts that
“[t]he right of the parties to maintain confidential settlement terms
and communications that are not available to the public, outweighs the public
right to access to court filings and, therefore, supports sealing the record.”
(Mot. at p. 6:15-17.) The Court notes that Plaintiff does not cite to any legal
authority to support this argument. In addition, Plaintiff’s counsel states
that “defense counsel conveyed to me his belief that the terms of the agreement
are confidential.” (Quiller Decl., ¶ 5.) It is unclear if Plaintiff also
asserts that the settlement agreement is confidential. 
            In addition, the Court notes that
the motion does not appear to contain any argument or evidence pertaining to whether
“[a] substantial
probability exists that the overriding interest will be prejudiced if the
record is not sealed.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.550, subd. (d)(3).) 
            Plaintiff also argues in the motion
that “[t]he proposed sealing is narrowly tailored, as only [sic] relates to
those records that contain confidential settlement terms and correspondence.
Plaintiff is only seeking to seal one document that contains terms deemed
‘confidential’ by the parties, or which may otherwise contain confidential or
sensitive information.” (Mot. at p. 6:19-22.) However, the Court notes that the
motion does not appear to contain any argument as to whether “[n]o less restrictive means exist
to achieve the overriding interest.” (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 2.550, subd. (d)(5).) 
            As discussed, “[t]he court may order that a record
be filed under seal only if it expressly finds facts that establish: (1) There exists an
overriding interest that overcomes the right of public access to the record; (2) The
overriding interest supports sealing the record; (3) A
substantial probability exists that the overriding interest will be prejudiced
if the record is not sealed; (4) The proposed sealing is narrowly
tailored; and (5) No less restrictive means exist to
achieve the overriding interest.” 
Conclusion 
Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s
motion is denied without prejudice.  
Plaintiff
is ordered to provide notice of this ruling. 
 
DATED:  February 20, 2024                          ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A. Beaudet
Judge, Los Angeles Superior Court 