 Case Number:  SC128659    Hearing Date:   December 20, 2024    Dept:  I The court is in receipt of Buckley’s ex parte.  The gist of the application is that the court
did not adequately consider Buckley’s claim that Pomerantz’s actions in the Zampolli
matter constituted legal malpractice and that he was denied due process because
the court deemed his claim of damages as “too attenuated.”  He argues that Pomerantz’s delay in filing
the Special Motion to Strike, coupled with a second ex parte application
for leave to file the SMS led to the imposition of sanctions against Buckley on
the theory that the second request was a disguised motion for
reconsideration.  Buckley was sanctioned
a bit over $4000 for what the court found was an improper 1008 motion.  According to Buckley, that in turn led the
State Bar to investigate Buckley’s conduct. 
Although eventually the State Bar dropped the charges against Buckley,
Buckley still argues that Pomerantz’s malpractice is what led to the ordeal to
begin with.  The court will inquire of
Pomerantz as to the sanctions issue and whether that might constitute damages
sufficiently closely tied to the alleged misconduct to defeat summary
adjudication on that issue.  The court
remains convinced, though, that the State Bar inquiry is too attenuated an
alleged harm to survive.  And the court
is also still of the view that Buckley has shown neither causation nor damages
with regard to whether the SMS had any effect on the outcome of the Zampolli
matter.
 
The court does not believe Buckley was denied due
process.  Rather, the court did its level
best to review Buckley’s papers and arguments, as well as those Pomerantz made,
and arrive at the decision the court believed was consistent with the law.  While Buckley might not always agree with the
court’s rulings, such is the nature of litigation.  The court also notes that it modified its
tentative ruling in one substantial way after oral argument, denying the motion
as to an important part of Pomerantz’s case when the tentative had been to
grant.
 
In all respects other than the one about which the court
will inquire, the ex parte is DENIED.
 
The court also notes that the instant ex parte
application is more accurately a 1008 motion for reconsideration (ironically)
rather than a standalone motion regarding due process.