 Case Number:  22STCV06897    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTION TO CONTINUE TRIAL
Hearing Date: 9/20/24¿ 
CASE NO./NAME: 22STCV06897 JESUS ROMERO vs
INTEX REALTY CORP et al.
Moving Party: Defendant Intex Realty Crop 
Responding Party: Unopposed
Notice: Sufficient¿ 
Ruling: MOTION TO CONTINUE TRIAL IS
GRANTED. 
 
On February 24, 2022,
Plaintiff filed the present case. On August 22, 2024, Defendant Intex Realty
Corp filed a motion for summary judgment against Plaintiff, with a hearing set
for April 23, 2025. The trial is currently set for October 11, 2024. Defendant
moves the court to either advance its motion for summary judgment prior to the
scheduled trial date or continue the trial so its MSJ can be heard. No
opposition to the motion to continue has been filed.
"[A] trial court
may not refuse to hear a summary judgment filed within the time limits of [Code
of Civil Procedure] section 437c. [Citation.] Local rules and practices may not
be applied so as to prevent the filing and hearing of such a motion." (Sentry
Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1989) 207 Cal.App.3d 526, 529). The court finds
that continuing the trial date so Defendant’s motion for summary judgment can
be heard constitutes good cause, especially since no parties filed an
opposition alleging prejudice. Defendant does not request to reopen discovery.
Based
on the foregoing, the Court will continue the October 11, 2024 trial.  However, a number of new summary judgment
dates have opened on the Court’s calendar. 
So, the Court will meet with the parties to set appropriate dates.
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party
intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party
must send an email to the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the
Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.  The body of
the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact
information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless all parties
submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear
remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.  You should
assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the
parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off
calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the
Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of
the subject motion without leave.
Bottom of Form
 
 
 