 Case Number:  23STCV03767    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTION TO CONTINUE TRIAL
Hearing Date: 9/20/24¿ 
CASE NO./NAME: 23STCV03767 SUSANA DELGADO,
et al. vs MARTIN CARRILLO-MORALES, et al.
Moving Party: Defendants Karen Bourdain and
Dmitry Prokofev
Responding Party: Unopposed
Notice: Sufficient¿ 
Ruling: MOTION TO CONTINUE TRIAL IS
GRANTED. 
 
On February 21, 2023, Plaintiff
filed this case. Defendant Martin Morales has settled with Plaintiff.
Defendants Karen Bourdain and Dmitry Prokofev remain in the case, and they both
filed their answers on December 11, 2023. The current trial date is set for
October 25, 2024. Defendants Prokofev and Bourdain move the court to continue
the trial and reopen discovery. However, Defendants did not specify a desired
trial date. 
 
Nonetheless, considering the
amount of time Defendants have had to conduct discovery, their request to
reopen discovery is reasonable. Further, Plaintiff did not file an opposition
alleging prejudice. The court finds good cause to continue the trial for four
months for the limited scope of discovery requested.
 
The new Trial Date is set for February
__, 2025, at 8:30 a.m. The Final Status Conference is continued to January__,
2025, at 10:00 a.m. All case related deadlines will follow the new trial
date. 


 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party
intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party
must send an email to the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the
Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.  The body of
the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact
information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless all parties
submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear
remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.  You should
assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the
parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off
calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the
Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of
the subject motion without leave.
 
 
 