 Case Number:  23STCV13167    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27¿ 
¿ 
MOTION TO DEEM ADMITTED AND REQUESTS FOR
SANCTIONS
Hearing Date: 9/19/24¿¿ 
CASE NO./NAME: 23STCV13167 EDWIN ZEPEDA vs
CITY OF LOS ANGELES, et al. 
Moving Party: Defendants County of Los Angeles
Responding Party: Unopposed 
Notice: Sufficient¿¿ 
Ruling: MOTION TO DEEM ADMITTED AND REQUESTS
FOR SANCTIONS
ARE GRANTED.
 
Legal Standard   
 
Cal. Civ. Proc. Code § 2033.290 provides that “[o]n receipt of a
response to requests for admissions, the party requesting admissions may move
for an order compelling a further response if that party deems that either or
both of the following apply: (1) An answer to a particular request is evasive
or incomplete. (2) An objection to a particular request is without merit or too
general.” “If a party then fails to obey an order compelling further response
to requests for admission, the court may order that the matters involved in the
requests be deemed admitted. In lieu of, or in addition to, this order, the
court may impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section
2023.010).” Cal. Civ. Proc. Code § 2033.290 (e).
 
Discussion
 
On October 10, 2023, Defendant County of Los Angeles (“County”)
served Plaintiff Edwin Zepeda with Requests for Admissions, Set One. Plaintiff
responded with blanket objections to each request, providing no substantive
responses. On January 9, 2024, the Court granted Plaintiff's counsel's motion
to be relieved as counsel, and Plaintiff is now appearing in pro per. On April
24, 2024, the Court granted the County’s Motion to Compel Plaintiff's Further
Responses to the Requests for Admission without objection and imposed monetary
sanctions. Plaintiff was to serve the responses within 20 days of the notice of
the ruling.
On April 30, 2024, the County served the Notice of Ruling. As of
July 26, 2024, when the present motion was filed, Plaintiff had not complied
with the Court’s order and had not provided further responses to the Requests
for Admissions. Defendant now moves the court to deem the contents of its
request for admissions admitted. Plaintiff did not file an opposition or any
other document indicating that further responses substantially compliant with
the Court’s order had been served. Therefore, the contents of Defendant’s
Requests for Admissions, Set One, are deemed admitted.
 
Furthermore, the Court finds that Plaintiff did not act with
substantial justification. Defendant requests sanctions in the amount of $875,
which the Court finds reasonable. Sanctions in the amount of $875 are ordered
against Plaintiff, to be paid to Defendant within 30 days.
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date
and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party
submitting. 
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the
hearing to argue. 
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion
without leave. 
 