  Case Number:  21STCV31561    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTION FOR SANCTIONS¿ 
Hearing Date: 9/20/24¿ 
CASE NO./NAME: 21STCV31561 KEVIN JOSHUA
ROGOFF et al. vs LOS ANGELES COUNTY METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY et
al. 
Moving Party: Defendants Los Angeles County
Metropolitan Transit Authority and Marcelino Efrocino Cipriano Barrozo 
Responding Party: Plaintiff¿Fanny Valenzuela, Nefretiri Rogoff
Notice: Sufficient¿ 
Ruling: MOTION FOR SANCTIONS¿IS GRANTED 
 
On August 26, 2021, Plaintiffs Kevin Joshua
Rogoff, Fanny Valenzuela, Nefretiri Rogoff and Judith Rogoff filed the instant
action for negligence and motor vehicle negligence against, among others,
Defendants Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transit Authority and Marcelino
Efrocino Cipriano Barrozo (collectively referred to herein as “Defendants”). 
 
On October 17, 2023, Defendants’ counsel
personally served Plaintiffs’ counsel with a Notice of Demand for an
Independent Medical Examination (IME) of Fanny Valenzuela and Nefretiri Rogoff,
scheduled for November 16, 2023. The notice specified that “any continuance or
cancellation of this examination must be received no later than 48 hours prior
to the examination date” and that “failure to provide such notice will render
Plaintiff responsible for any fees charged due to late cancellation.” On
November 14, 2023, Defendants’ counsel emailed Plaintiffs’ counsel to confirm
that the IMEs were proceeding as scheduled for November 16, 2023. On November
15, 2023, Plaintiffs’ counsel responded, claiming non-receipt of the IME
demands and stating that Plaintiffs Fanny Valenzuela and Nefretiri Rogoff would
not be able to attend. As a result, Defendants incurred a $3,000 late
cancellation fee for Plaintiffs’ non appearance at the IME with Dr. Nelson.
(Exhibit 3.)
 
On November 15, 2023, Defendants’ counsel sent
a meet-and-confer letter to Plaintiffs’ counsel requesting reimbursement for
the cancellation fee charged by Dr. Nelson. Plaintiffs’ counsel failed to
respond to this meet-and-confer attempt.
 
The parties then agreed to conduct Plaintiff Nefretiri
Rogoff’s second IME on February 27, 2024. However, less than two hours before the IME, Plaintiff’s counsel advised
Defendant’s counsel that Ms. Rogoff was not feeling well and would not appear
for the IME. As a result, Defendants incurred another $1,500.00 in no show/late
cancellation fees to Dr. Nelson as a result of Ms. Rogoff’s late cancellation. (Exhibit
8.)
 
Defendants’ counsel then made multiple
attempts, through emails and meet-and-confer efforts, to seek reimbursement
from Plaintiffs’ counsel for the cancellation fees resulting from Plaintiffs’ non-appearance
or late cancellation. Plaintiffs’ counsel did not respond to these attempts.
Defendants now move the Court for sanctions against Plaintiffs Fanny Valenzuela
and Nefretiri Rogoff and their counsel. 
 
Plaintiffs filed an opposition arguing that Defendants did not effectuate
proper notice for the initial IMEs on November 16, 2023. However, the proof of
service indicates that notices of the IMEs were personally served on Plaintiff’s
counsel’s office, and an email was sent to confirm the IME prior to the
scheduled date. Plaintiffs’ counsel claims that his office never received
notice of the IMEs, but this does not mean that the service was improper.
Moreover, the court understands that counsel works for a medium to large-sized
law firm. It is unclear from the declaration whether counsel is responsible for
receiving notices for the law firm and whether he has personal knowledge to
make such a declaration. Under the circumstances, the court finds it
appropriate to sanction Plaintiffs in the amount of $3,0000 for failure to
attend the November 16, 2023, IMEs.
 
As to Plaintiff Nefretiri Rogoff’s second IME, counsel declares
that on February 27, 2024, Plaintiff’s mother contacted his office to inform
him that her daughter had a fever and could not attend the rescheduled IME.
Consequently, counsel informed Defendants of Ms. Rogoff’s non appearance soon
after. Defendants argue that Ms. Rogoff’s general practice is to delay and evade
discovery. The only evidence presented to support this claim was Ms. Rogoff’s
late attendance at a deposition; however, this evidence is insufficient to
substantiate a finding that Ms. Rogoff was dishonest about her illness on the
date of the IME. Therefore, the court will not award sanctions for Nefretiri
Rogoff’s late cancellation for her second IME.
 
Plaintiffs further argue that the cancellation
fee is unreasonable and unsupported. However, Defendants have provided invoices
from Dr. Nelson, showing that $1,500 was charged for each cancellation
(Exhibits 3, 8). It is reasonable and common for a doctor to charge fees for
either a no-show or a last-minute cancellation, and the Court finds the amount
of sanctions reasonable and substantiated.
 
On September 19, 2024, the court ruled on the same issue regarding
Plaintiff Kevin Rogoff’s failure to attend his scheduled IMEs. In that ruling,
the court issued sanctions to reimburse Defendants for the cancellation fees
due to Mr. Rogoff’s late cancellation and non-attendance at the IME but
declined to grant sanctions for Defendants’ attorney fees in drafting the
motion. The court sees no reason to deviate from that ruling in the present
motions and orders sanctions of $3,000 against Plaintiffs Fanny Valenzuela, Nefretiri Rogoff and their
attorney, jointly and severally, payable to Defendants within 20 days of today.
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:¿ 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿The body of the email must include the hearing date and
time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting. 
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿You should assume that others may appear at the hearing
to argue. 
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion. 
 
 