


[1]
Los Angeles County (“County”) is the Petitioner, but LACMA, a department of the
County, refers to itself as the Petitioner.


[2] Policy 514 is framed in terms of
disqualification at the hiring or transfer stage (AR 287), but Scagliotti
argues that it is relevant to discipline of a current employee.  See Opp. at 10. 


[3] The
nature of the neighbor’s complaint is not in the administrative record. 


[4]
While not impermissible,
LACMA also makes hyperbolic arguments that are not persuasive, including that
Scagliotti is “a ticking time bomb waiting to explode” (Reply at 7) and that he is a “criminal mastermind”
living a “double life as a law-abiding citizen by day and a felon by
night”.  Pet. Op. Br. at 17.


[5] LACMA correctly notes that the
remedy for improperly excluded evidence under CCP section 1094.5(e)
in a case where the standard of review is substantial evidence is a judgment of
remand for the agency to reconsider the case in the light of that evidence.   However, LACMA incorrectly argues that the
court should consider the default judgment and that the weight of the evidence
supports discharge.  See Pet. Op.
Br. at 19.  
This
case is governed by the substantial evidence standard and the court weighs
evidence only when the independent judgment standard of review applies.  Thus, LACMA’s remedy for improperly excluded
evidence could only be a remand.


[6]
The court has deleted LACMA’s unsupported facts and inferences from its penalty
argument.


[7] Again, LACMA incorrectly refers
to the weight of the evidence.
 


[8]
LACMA disputes the relevance
of Policy 514, which applies to applicants “applying for employment with the
County and current employees applying for a different position”.  AR 287. 
Scagliotti was neither a new applicant nor did he apply for a different
position.  Pet. Op. Br. at 14-15.  The court need not address the relevance of
Policy 514.


[9]
Scagliotti points out that, to sustain
discipline for failure of good behavior based on off-duty misconduct, there
must be a rational relationship between the conduct and the employee’s job
duties. Vielehr v. State Personnel Board, (“Vielehr”)(1973) 32
Cal. App. 3d 187, 194 (overturning discharge of a tax representative trainee
for marijuana possession because there was no “relationship between possessing
marijuana off the job and the duties of a tax representative trainee.”).  
LACMA replies that
Scagliotti could be terminated even if there is no nexus to his job
duties.  Under CSR 18.031, an employee
can be discharged if his felony conviction exhibits a failure to perform
assigned duties so as to meet explicitly stated or implied standards of
performance, including failure to exercise sound judgment.  Grounds for discharge may also include any
behavior or pattern of behavior which is unbecoming a County employee.  AR 333. 
Accordingly, Scagliotti would have been discharged only for being a
convicted felon without the need to prove a nexus between Scagliotti’s off-duty
conduct and his job duties.  Reply at
4-5.
LACMA is incorrect.  CSR 18.031 permits a discharge for failure to
perform assigned duties, but Scagliotti was not charged with a failure to
perform his duties.  He was only charged with behavior unbecoming a
County employee.  CSR 18.031 permits
discharge for behavior unbecoming of a County employee, but Vielehr explained that this vague
standard cannot pass constitutional muster without a nexus to employment.  32 Cal.App.3d at 191.


[10]
Scagliotti contends that, in 1992, these weapons could be owned without having
to register them. They were re-classified as “assault weapons” in 2000 and
became subject to registration at that time. See former Penal Code §12276.1
(West 2000) (stats.1999, c. 29, §7) (classifying certain firearms as assault
weapons); former Penal Code §12285 (West 2000) (stats.1999, c. 29, §9) (allowing
existing owners of reclassified firearms to register and keep them).  Opp. at 3. 
LACMA does not dispute this contention.


[11]
Scagliotti argues that, by lumping
lawful weapons possession together with unlawful possession, LACMA has laid
bare its view that any gun ownership is a threat. Opp at 9.  LACMA disagrees.  Reply at 3. 
It is fair to say, however, that LACMA views ownership of illegal
weapons as a threat because that is the only charge in this case. 
 

