 Case Number:  22STCP04207    Hearing Date:   May 7, 2024    Dept:  85 
Megeen McLaughlin v. California Department of
Transportation, 
22STCP04207

Tentative decision on (1) demurrer:
overruled; (2) motion for leave to amend:    denied



 
Respondent California Department of Transportation (“Caltrans”)
demurs to the second cause of action in the Second Amended Petition (“SAP”)
filed by Petitioner Megeen McLaughlin (“Megeen”).  Petitioner Megeen separately moves for leave
to file a Third Amended Petition (“TAP”).
The court has read and considered the moving papers,
oppositions, and replies, and renders the following tentative decision.
 
A. Statement of
the Case
1. The SAP
Petitioners commenced this proceeding on November 29, 2022.  On February 27, 2024, Petitioner filed the SAP,
the operative pleading, which alleges causes of action for declaratory relief and/or
mandamus.  The verified SAP alleges in
pertinent part as follows. 
 
a. Vacating the Property
The McLaughlins were tenants in good standing at 1110
Glendon Way (“Property”) from September 1991 to December 1999.  SAP, ¶13. 
Megeen signed a lease for the Property on May 24, 1993.  SAP, ¶14, Ex. 2.  Her son Ryan was a minor at the beginning of
this tenancy.  SAP, ¶14.
            By
1998, the Property was in negligent disrepair. 
SAP, ¶15.  In Spring 1999, the
“Historic Properties Tenants Association” notified Megeen by mail that Caltrans
had developed a project to rehabilitate 80 historic homes along the 710
corridor route in Pasadena and South Pasadena. 
SAP, ¶16, Ex. 3.  At the same
time, Caltrans Property Manager Marilyn J. Lavender (“Lavender”) informed
Megeen that the McLaughlins would be displaced from the Property so that
Caltrans could renovate it to comply with historical property standards.  SAP, ¶17. 

            To
preserve her right to purchase the Property under the Roberti Law, Megeen
agreed to move out only if Caltrans guaranteed to allow the McLaughlins to return
after the renovations.  SAP, ¶18.  Caltrans agreed, and Lavender promised to
provide a Memorandum of Understanding (“MOU”) to that effect soon after the
McLaughlins vacated.  SAP, ¶¶ 19, 25.  Based on Caltrans’s representations, Megeen
believed that the renovations would begin as soon as the McLaughlins vacated
and would take only a year.  SAP, ¶20.  She also believed that the proposed
renovations were the only way to restore the Property to an adequate living
condition.  SAP, ¶22.  Thus, she agreed to temporarily vacate the
Property.  SAP, ¶22.
            On
December 2, 1999, shortly before the McLaughlins vacated the Property, Lavender
presented Megeen a document entitled “Residential Claim for Moving Expense by
Schedule or Actual Reasonable Cost” (“Moving Expense Sheet”).  SAP, ¶23, Ex. 4.  The Moving Expense Sheet listed Megeen and
Ryan as claimants.  SAP, ¶23, Ex. 4.  Lavender handwrote “RAP” on top to
demonstrate that the Moving Expense Sheet was for the Relocation Assistance
Program.  SAP, ¶23, Ex. 4.  Megeen incorrectly signed the document where
a Caltrans representative should sign it, below an acknowledgment that the
document and supporting evidence complies with applicable provisions of Title
49 Code of Federal Regulations (“CFR”), Part 24.  SAP, ¶23, Ex. 4.
            The
McLaughlins vacated the Property in the second week of December 1999.  SAP, ¶22. 
By this point, Ryan was 18 years old. 
SAP, ¶13.  
            In
January 2001, Lavender asked Megeen via phone if she had received the promised
MOU.  SAP, ¶25.  Megeen replied that she was still waiting for
it.  SAP, ¶25.
            In
September 2022, the McLaughlins made public records requests to Caltrans for
documents about their displacement from the Property.  SAP, ¶31. 
Caltrans only produced the Moving Expense Sheet.  SAP, ¶32, Ex. 4.
The McLaughlins made a public records request for documents
concerning Caltrans’ rehabilitation efforts for the Property under the
Secretary of the Interior’s Standards for Treatment of Historic Properties, 36
CFR, Part 68 (“Historic Property Standards”). 
SAP, ¶33.  The only document
provided was a Route 710 Historic Houses Condition Assessment Report
(“Renovation Report”) from October 15, 2002. 
SAP, ¶33, Ex. 5.  The 2002
Renovation Report shows that the Property in the same state of disrepair as
when they vacated it.  SAP, ¶33, Ex.
5.  A repair estimate from May 23, 2012
(“Estimate”) shows the same improvements as the Renovation Report and indicates
that Caltrans did not make any improvements in the ten years between the two
documents.  SAP, ¶34, Exs. 5-6.  The rehabilitation project either no longer
exists or no longer applied to the Property. 
SAP, ¶34.  
 
b. Efforts to Return
Between 2000 and 2022, the McLaughlins’ replacement dwelling
at 854 Bank Street. (“Bank Property”) had a new property manager once every 1-2
years.  SAP, ¶35.  Each manager inspected the Bank Property at
least annually.  SAP, ¶36.  Each time there was a new manager, Megeen told
that manager about the McLaughlins’ displacement and their intention to move
back into the Property after its rehabilitation was complete.  SAP, ¶37. 

             A repair report dated December 4, 2014[1]
shows that Property manager Angus Chan (“Chan”) called for move-in repairs to
the Property.  SAP, ¶39, Ex. 7.
            In
June 2015, Chan became manager of the Bank Property.  SAP, ¶38. 
Megeen told Chan about her intent to return to the Property.  SAP, ¶38. 
Chan did not inform her that he was also manager of the Property, that
the Property had been renovated for move-in purposes, and that it had not been
renovated to comply with Historic Property Standards.  SAP, ¶38. 
Had they known this, the McLaughlins could have asserted their right to
move back in at that time.  SAP,
¶38.  
            In
November 2021, the City of South Pasadena (“City”) notified the McLaughlins
that it planned to purchase vacant Caltrans-owned properties within City
limits.  SAP, ¶40.  Megeen contacted then-Property manager Michael
Means (“Means”) to assert the McLaughlins’ right to move back into the
Property.  SAP, ¶41.  Later that month, Caltrans CFO Stephen Keck
(“Keck”) helped the McLaughlins contact Caltrans program manager Carolyn Dabney
(“Dabney”).  SAP, ¶43.  Dabney said that she would speak to Edward
Francis (“Francis”), Caltrans Deputy Director of District 7, who had the final
say on the issue.  SAP, ¶44.  
            From
November 2021 to August 2022, the McLaughlins attempted to contact Francis by
telephone and email as they had yet to hear from Dabney.  SAP, ¶45. 
In August 2022, Ryan explained the situation to Francis over the
phone.  SAP, ¶47.  Although Francis found Ryan’s assertions
believable, he was not familiar with Caltrans’s efforts to rehabilitate
historic properties in that area.  SAP,
¶47.  Francis also informed Ryan that the
Property was fully renovated and vacant, although it had been rented to a
tenant for a short time.  SAP, ¶47.  This was the first time that the McLaughlins
learned that the Property was in “move in” condition.  SAP, ¶48. 

            On
September 14, 2022, Francis informed Ryan that he could not establish or
confirm Megeen’s rights to the Property. 
SAP, ¶49.  This was the first
formal denial of the McLaughlins’ right to move back into the Property.  SAP, ¶49.
            On
September 20, 2022, the McLaughlins filed a claim against Caltrans with the
Department of General Services Office of Risk and Insurance Management (“General
Services”).  SAP, ¶50.  In this claim, they sought to enforce
Caltrans’s promise to allow them to move back into the Property after its
restoration.  SAP, ¶50.  Caltrans did not respond to this within 45
days or thereafter.  SAP, ¶51.  
 
c. The Caltrans Guide
In 1990, Caltrans issued a guide entitled “Your Rights and
Benefits as a Displacee Under the Uniform Relocation Assistance Program
(Residential)” (“Caltrans Guide”).  SAP,
¶11, Ex. 1.  In the Caltrans Guide,
Caltrans admits that it must abide by 49 CFR Part 24, which implements the Uniform
Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970 (“Uniform
Act”).  SAP Ex. 1, p. 2.  Its objective is to ensure that persons
displaced as a direct result of federal or federally assisted projects are
treated fairly, consistently, and equitably so that such persons will not
suffer disproportionate injuries from projects designed for the benefit of the
public as a whole.  SAP Ex. 1, p. 2.  
            The
Caltrans Guide explains that eligible displaced individuals have a right to
appeal any Caltrans decision about relocation benefits and eligibility.  SAP Ex. 1. 
The Uniform Act guarantees the right to file an appeal with the head of
the responsible agency if that person believes it has failed to determine the
person’s eligibility or the amount of a payment authorized by the Act.  Id. 
If the displaced individual expresses dissatisfaction with the
determination either verbally or in writing, Caltrans will help file an appeal
and explain the procedures to follow.  Id.  
            The
displaced individual will have a prompt and full opportunity to
be heard, with the right to representation by legal counsel or another
representative at the individual’s own expense. 
Id.    Caltrans will consider all
available information and provide a written determination with an explanation
of the basis for the decision.  Id.  Caltrans will advise any
dissatisfied individuals that they may seek judicial review.  Id.  
            The
Los Angeles County Department of Business and Consumer Affairs, Division of
Housing Protections (“Housing”), defines a temporarily displaced tenant as one
who must temporarily leave a unit for necessary repairs, rehabilitation via
upgrades and repairs that increase product value, health and safety violations,
or other work that cannot be completed while the tenant remains in the unit.  SAP, ¶¶ 52-53, Ex. 8.  When the McLaughlins vacated the Property,
they met this definition because the cracked asbestos tiles and improper
electrical grounding made repairs necessary to resolve health and safety
violations.  SAP, ¶54.  Asbestos disposal could not occur with
tenants in the house.  SAP, ¶54.  The renovations under the Historic Property
Standards as originally intended also would have drastically increased the
Property’s value.  SAP, ¶54, Ex. 3.
 
d. The
California Relocation Assistance Act
The California Relocation Assistance Act (“CRAA”), codified
as Government Code sections 7260–277, established a uniform policy for the fair
and equitable treatment of persons displaced as a direct result of programs or
projects undertaken by a public entity.  SAP, ¶55.
Caltrans failed to adhere to its statutory duty owed to Megeen
per Govt. Code section 7261(a-c) in that it failed to give her any relocation
advisory assistance.  SAP, ¶56.  Had Caltrans done so, Megeen would have been
aware that she was not required to move from the Property until a comparable
replacement dwelling had been provided per her right statutory right under  Govt. Code section 7261(c)(4).  SAP, ¶57.
Although the Property was in disrepair, Megeen was not
notified by Caltrans that there was an emergency which would cause for her
immediate vacation from the Property and void Caltrans’ obligation to her under
Govt. Code section 7261(c)(4).  With
utter disregard to the adverse impact that its (now failed) historical
renovations project would have on Megeen and to expedite the project, Caltrans
forced Petitioner to relocate to a dwelling (where she continues to live with four
other occupants) which is not comparable in size or accommodation to the home from
which she was displaced.  SAP, ¶58.
Caltrans further failed to adhere to its statutory duty per
Govt. Code section 7261(c)(2) which required it to provide Megeen with current
and continued information on the rental availability of dwellings comparable in
size and accommodation to the Property.  Caltrans’
disregard for the Legislature’s recommendation to public entities to establish
local advisory assistance offices per Govt. Code section 7261(b) further
allowed Megeen to be ignorant of her rights as a displaced tenant and Caltrans,
her landlord, to take advantage of her.  SAP, ¶59.
Caltrans failed to adhere to its statutory duty owed to Megeen
per Govt. Code section 7265.3(d) in that it did not give Petitioner the option
of relocating back to the Property of her displacement following its completed
renovations.  Caltrans’s statutory duty
effectively required it not only to give Megeen the option of relocating back
to the Property but to provide notice that it had been renovated (albeit not to
historical standards). Without that required notice, Megeen could not have
known that the Property had been renovated for move-in purposes as the majority
of those renovations were to the interior of the Property. SAP, ¶60.
Caltrans failed to adhere to its statutory duty owed to Megeen
per Govt. Code section 7267.8 in that it did not provide any formal
administrative procedure for adjudicating Megeen’s claim to be relocated back to
the Property.  SAP, ¶61.
Following an August 8, 2022 phone conversation between
Deputy Director Francis and Megeen’s son, Ryan, whereupon Megeen learned for
the first time that the Property had been renovated for move-in purposes, Megeen
sought to assert her rights to relocate per Govt. Code section 7265.3(d).  In an email dated September 14, 2022, Francis
pushed back against Megeen’s claims by stating “...we were not able to confirm
or establish Roberti rights for the Glendon property, your mother’s right to
purchase does apply to her current residence.” SAP, ¶62, Ex. 9.
In a later email dated September 14, 2022, Francis stated:
“I have been in contact with various divisions within the Department throughout
our communication to further investigate and determine the appropriate final
determination related to both your mother’s current residence of 854 Bank St.
and former residence at 1110 Glendon Way”.  SAP, ¶63, Ex. 10. 
Francis’s statements clearly indicate that Caltrans offered,
at best, an inadequate administrative appeals process that did not provide due
process. Caltrans did not allow Megeen’s claim to be submitted before an
impartial fact finder where testimony could be heard and legal briefs read.  Megeen waited for more than two months for
Caltrans to deliver its biased final determination regarding her claim to be
relocated, yet no decision was timely rendered. As such, Petitioner filed this
lawsuit as she had reason to believe that the sale of the Property was
imminent. SAP, ¶64, Ex. 11.
Megeen’s attempts to exhaust her administrative remedies
prior to the filing lawsuit is well documented in the four month long email
exchange between her son Ryan and Director Gloria Roberts and Deputy Director
Francis. SAP, ¶68. Ex. 12.  During that
lengthy email exchange Caltrans officials failed to guide Megeen through the
appeals process per its ministerial duty stated on page 28 of Caltrans handbook.
 Ex. 1. 
By failing to assist Megeen in filing an appeal and explaining the
procedures to be followed, Caltrans denied her right per Govt. Code section 7272
of The Act which states: If under any other provision of law of this state the
owner or occupant of real property acquired by a public entity for public use
is given greater protection than is provided by Sections 7265.3 to 7267.8,
inclusive, the public entity shall also comply with such other provision of
law.  SAP, ¶70.
 
e. The Causes of Action and Prayer
The first cause of
action seeks a writ of mandate and/or an injunction to compel Caltrans to allow
Petitioner the ability to return to the Property.  SAP at 17. 
The second cause of
action seeks a writ of mandate and/or injunction to equitably estop
Caltrans.  SAP at 19.
Megeen prays for (1) a writ of mandate and/or injunction
commanding Caltrans to allow her to return to the Property, (2) an injunction
to prevent Caltrans from selling the Property during the pendency of this
action, (3) an order that Caltrans be bound by its conduct and promises which
Petitioners relied upon to their detriment, thereby allowing her to return to
the Property of displacement in accordance with Government Code section
7265.3(d), and (4) costs. 
 
2. Course of Proceedings
On November 30, 2022, the McLaughlins filed a lis pendens
for the Property.  They served Caltrans
with the Summons, Petition, and lis pendens.
On February 7, 2023, the McLaughlins filed the First Amended
Petition (“SAP”).
On March 1, 2023, the McLaughlins filed a second lis
pendens for the Property.
Also on March 1, 2023, the court denied the McLaughlins’ ex
parte application for a temporary restraining order (“TRO”) and order to
show cause re: preliminary injunction (“OSC”), ruling that the McLaughlins had
provided no evidence that they qualify under the Roberti Law, they had delayed because
they knew about the City’s attempts to buy the Property since September 2021,
and there was no showing that a sale was eminent (and the McLaughlins would
have to add the buyer as a party if there was).
On May 23, 2023, the court sustained Caltrans’ demurrer to
the first cause of action as to both Petitioners, and the second cause of
action as to Ryan.
On July 6, 2023, Petitioners dismissed Ryan as a Petitioner
without prejudice.
On August 2, 2023, Caltrans filed an Answer.
On February 22, 2024, the court denied Megeen’s motion for
judgment under CCP section 1094.  It
granted leave to amend the SAP only to allege a violation of the RAA.  The court also extended the discovery cutoff
to May 30, 2024, with orders to meet and confer before any discovery motion was
filed.
On February 27, 2024, Megeen filed and served the SAP.
On March 28, 2024, the
court denied Megeen’s motion to compel Caltrans to provide further
discovery responses to the Requests for Production of Documents, Set Five.
 
B. Applicable Law
Demurrers are permitted in administrative mandate
proceedings.  CCP §§1108, 1109.  A demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the
pleading alone and will be sustained where the pleading is defective on its
face.
Where pleadings are defective, a party may raise the defect
by way of a demurrer or motion to strike or by motion for judgment on the
pleadings.  CCP §430.30(a); Coyne v.
Krempels, (1950) 36 Cal.2d 257.  The
party against whom a complaint or cross-complaint has been filed may object by
demurrer or answer to the pleading.  CCP
§430.10.  A demurrer is timely filed
within the 30-day period after service of the complaint.  CCP § 430.40; Skrbina v. Fleming Companies,
(1996) 45 Cal.App.4th 1353, 1364.
A demurrer may be asserted on any one or more of the
following grounds: (a) The court has no jurisdiction of the subject of the
cause of action alleged in the pleading; (b) The person who filed the pleading
does not have legal capacity to sue; (c) There is another action pending
between the same parties on the same cause of action; (d) There is a defect or
misjoinder of parties; (e) The pleading does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action; (f) The pleading is uncertain (“uncertain” includes
ambiguous and unintelligible); (g) In an action founded upon a contract, it
cannot be ascertained from the pleading whether the contract is written, is
oral, or is implied by conduct; (h) No certificate was filed as required by CCP
§411.35 or (i) by §411.36.  CCP
§430.10.  Accordingly, a demurrer tests
the sufficiency of a pleading, and the grounds for a demurrer must appear on
the face of the pleading or from judicially noticeable matters.  CCP §430.30(a); Blank v. Kirwan,
(1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.  The face of
the pleading includes attachments and incorporations by reference (Frantz v.
Blackwell, (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 91, 94); it does not include inadmissible
hearsay.  Day v. Sharp, (1975) 50
Cal.App.3d 904, 914.  
The sole issue on demurrer for failure to state a cause of
action is whether the facts pleaded, if true, would entitle the plaintiff to
relief.  Garcetti v. Superior Court,
(1996) 49 Cal.App.4th 1533, 1547; Limandri v. Judkins, (1997) 52
Cal.App.4th 326, 339.  The question of
plaintiff’s ability to prove the allegations of the complaint or the possible
difficulty in making such proof does not concern the reviewing court.  Quelimane Co. v. Stewart Title Guaranty
Co., (1998) 19 Cal.4th 26, 47.  The
ultimate facts alleged in the complaint must be deemed true, as well as all
facts that may be implied or inferred from those expressly alleged.  Marshall v. Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher,
(1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1397, 1403. 
Nevertheless, this rule does not apply to allegations expressing mere
conclusions of law, or allegations contradicted by the exhibits to the
complaint or by matters of which judicial notice may be taken.  Vance v. Villa Park Mobilehome Estates,
(1995) 36 Cal.App.4th 698, 709.
For all demurrers filed after January 1, 2016, the demurring
party must meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed
the pleading for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached
that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.  CCP §430.31(a).  As part of the meet and confer process, the
demurring party must identify the causes of action that it believes are subject
to demurrer and provide legal support for the claimed deficiencies.  CCP §430.31(a)(1).  The party who filed the pleading must, in
turn, provide legal support for its position that the pleading is legally
sufficient or, in the alternative, how the complaint, cross-complaint, or
answer could be amended to cure any legal insufficiency.  Id. 
The demurring party is responsible for filing and serving a declaration
that the meet-and-confer requirement has been met.  CCP §430.31(a)(3).  
 
C. Demurrer
The SAP’s second cause of action is the only remaining cause
of action as the court sustained a demurrer to the first cause of action on May
23, 2023.  The second cause of action
seeks declaratory relief and mandamus, alleging that Megeen relied upon the
conduct and promises of Caltrans to her detriment and that Caltrans violated
the CRAA.  As such, the court should issue a writ of
mandate and/or injunction directing Caltrans to allow Megeen to return to the
Property.  SAP ¶¶ 87, 91.
Caltrans demurs to the second cause of action of the SAP,
contending that (a) the CRAA does not apply to this action; (b) Megeen failed
to exhaust her administrative remedies; (3) the lease between the parties
controls; (4) the second cause of action is barred by the statute of
limitations; and (5) Caltrans cannot be estopped under these circumstances.  Caltrans further demurs to the second cause of
action on the grounds that it is uncertain as to whether it is for breach of
contract or for writ.[2] 
 
1. Meet and Confer
On March 31, 2024, Caltrans attorney, Paul M. DiPietro,
Esq., e-mailed Megeen to schedule a meet and confer.  DiPietro Decl., ¶2, Ex. 1.  The email listed the grounds for demurrer and
requested a specific date and time to speak in person or by phone.  Id. 
On March 22, 2024, DiePietro met in person with Megeen to discuss the
demurrer.  DiPietro Decl., ¶3.  Megeen stated that she would amend the FAP to
address item 7 of his meet and confer letter, which states: (7) The Second
Cause of Action is Uncertain as to whether it is one for enforcement of an oral
promise/agreement or the enforce the CRAA—Cal. Civ. Code §430.10.”  Id. 
DiePietro then memorialized the conversation in an email.  DiPietro Decl., ¶4, Ex. 2.  
On April 5, 2024, DiPietro received an email from Megeen
with a proposed TAP and stipulation for leave to amend.  DiPietro Decl., ¶5, Exs. 3-5.  Instead of resolving the uncertainty in the
second cause of action, Megeen elected to amend the SAP to include a third
cause of action.  DiPietro Decl.,
¶6.  As Caltrans did not agree with Megeen’s
effort to address the issue, the parties were unable to reach agreement.  DiPietro Decl., ¶7.
Caltrans has complied with the meet and confer requirements
of CCP section 430.31(a).
 
2. The CRAA
The
CRAA, located in Govt. Code[3] sections 7260-277, was
passed in 1969.   The Legislature finds
and declares that “[d]isplacement as a direct result of programs or projects
undertaken by a public entity is caused by a number of activities, including rehabilitation,
demolition, code enforcement, and acquisition.” 
§7260.5(a)(1) (emphasis added). 
The CRAA “establishes a uniform policy for the fair and equitable
treatment of persons displaced as a direct result of programs or projects
undertaken by a public entity. 
§7260.5(b).  The Legislature
intends that “[u]niform procedures for the administration of relocation
assistance shall, to the maximum extent feasible, assure that the unique
circumstances of any displaced person are accorded equal treatment under the
CRAA.  §7260.5(c)(2).
As used in the CRAA, “public entity” includes the state, the Regents of the University
of California, a county, city, city and county, district, public authority,
public agency, and any other political subdivision or public corporation in the
state or any entity acting on behalf of these agencies when acquiring real
property, or any interest therein, in any city or county for public use,
and any person who has the authority to acquire property by eminent domain
under state law.”  §7260(a) (emphasis
added). 
“‘Public use’ means a
use for which real property may be acquired by eminent domain.” §7260(g).
As pertinent, a “[d]isplaced
person” means the following: 
(A) Any person who
moves from real property, or who moves his or her personal property from real property,
either:
(i). As a direct
result of a written notice of intent to acquire, or the acquisition of, the
real property, in whole or in part, for a program or project undertaken by
a public entity or by any person having an agreement with, or acting on behalf
of, a public entity.  
(ii). As a direct
result of the rehabilitation, demolition, or other displacing activity, as the
public entity may prescribe under a program or project undertaken by a public
entity, of real property on which the person is a residential tenant or
conducts a business or farm operation, if the public entity determines that
the displacement is permanent. For purposes of this subparagraph,
‘residential tenant’ includes any occupant of a residential hotel unit, as
defined in subdivision (b) of Section 50669 of the Health and Safety Code, and
any occupant of employee housing, as defined in Section 17008 of the Health and
Safety Code, but does not include any person who has been determined to be in
unlawful occupancy of the displacement dwelling.”  §7260(a)(1) (emphasis added).
Programs or projects
undertaken by a public agency shall be planned in a manner that recognizes any
actions which will cause displacement and provides for the resolution of the
problems to minimize adverse impacts on displaced persons.   §7261(a). 
In giving assistance, the public entity may establish local relocation
advisory assistance offices to assist in obtaining replacement facilities for
person it finds necessary to relocate because of the acquisition of real
property by the public entity. 
§7261(b).  This advisory
assistance shall provide current and continuing information on the
availability, sales prices, and rentals of comparable replacement dwellings for
displaced homeowners and tenants.  §7261(c)(2).  The advisory assistance shall include those
measures or services necessary or appropriate to: “(4) Assure that a person
shall not be required to move from a dwelling unless the person has had a
reasonable opportunity to relocate to a comparable replacement dwelling, except
in the case of any of the following: (A) A major disaster as defined in Section
102(2) of the federal Disaster Relief Act of 1974. (B) A state of emergency
declared by the President or Governor. (C) Any other emergency which requires
the person to move immediately from the dwelling because continued occupancy of
the dwelling by the person constitutes a substantial danger to the health or
safety of the person.”  §7261(c)(4).
“A person displaced
by rehabilitation work which is wholly or partially financed or assisted with
public funds…shall, as a condition of the financing or assistance, be given the
option of relocating after rehabilitation, in the dwelling from which the
person was displaced.”  §7265.3(d).
Any person aggrieved
by a determination as to eligibility for, or the amount of, a payment
authorized by the CRAA may have the application reviewed by the public
entity.  §7622(b).
All public entities
shall adopt rules and regulations to implement payments and to administer relocation
assistance in accordance with the rules and regulations adopted by the
Department of Housing and Community Development.  §7267.8(a).
 
3. Application of
the CRAA
Respondent Caltrans
argues that the CRAA does not apply to Megeen for several reasons: (1) the CRAA
only applies when there is an acquisition of real property; (2) the state is
not a “public entity” as defined under the CRAA; (3) the rehabilitation of the
Property was not for the benefit of the public as a whole; and (4) Megeen is
not a “displaced person”, as defined under the CRAA.  Dem. at 2.
Caltrans argues that the
CRAA provides relocation benefits to persons displaced by state or local
acquisitions.  Kong v. City of
Hawaiian Gardens Redevelopment Agency, (“Kong”) (2002) 101 Cal.App.4th
1317, 1326.  In this case, the State
already owned the Property when its tenant, Megeen, vacated it in 1999.  SAP, ¶¶ 3, 13-14.  As a result, there was no such
acquisition.  Dem. at 2.  
Relatedly, Caltrans
argues that the CRAA only applies if the state is acquiring property by eminent
domain for a public use. As
used in the CRAA, a “public
entity” is defined as an entity acquiring
real property, or any interest therein, in any city or county for public use. §7260(a).  “‘Public use’ means a use for which
real property may be acquired by eminent domain.” §7260(g).
Caltrans was not acquiring the
Property for a public use; it already owned the Property.  Dem. at 3.
Caltrans’
argument requires statutory interpretation of the CRAA.  In construing a statute, a court must
ascertain the intent of the legislature so as to effectuate the purpose of the
law.  Brown v. Kelly Broadcasting Co.,
(1989) 48 Cal.3d 711, 724.  The court
first looks to the language of the statute, attempting to give effect to the
usual, ordinary import of the language and seeking to avoid making any language
mere surplusage.  Brown v. Kelly
Broadcasting Co., (1989) 48 Cal 3d 711, 724.  Significance, if possible, is attributed to
every word, phrase, sentence and part of an act in pursuance of the legislative
purpose.   Orange County Employees
Assn. v. County of Orange, (1991) 234 Cal.App.3d 833, 841.  The statutory language must be harmonized
with provisions relating to the same subject matter to the extent
possible.  Id.  “’The
statute's words generally provide the most reliable indicator of legislative
intent; if they are clear and unambiguous, ‘[t]here is no need for judicial
construction and a court may not indulge in it. [Citation.]’” MCI
Communications Services, Inc. v. California Dept. of Tax & Fee
Administration, (“MCI”) (2018) 28 Cal. App. 5th 635, 643.
            If
a statute is ambiguous and susceptible to more than one reasonable
interpretation, the court may resort to extrinsic aids, including principles of
construction and legislative history.  MacIsaac v. Waste Management Collection
& Recycling, Inc., (2005) 134 Cal.App.4th 1076, 1082 (quoting Riverview Fire Protection Dist. v. Workers’ Comp. Appeals Bd.,
(1994) 23 Cal.App.4th 1120, 1126).  Where
ambiguity still remains, the court should consider “reason, practicality, and
common sense.”  Id. at 1084.  This requires consideration of the statute’s
purpose, the evils to be remedied, public policy, and contemporaneous
administrative construction.  MCI,
supra, 28 Cal.App.5th at
643.  The enactment must be given a
reasonable and commonsense interpretation consistent with the apparent purpose
and intent of the lawmakers, practical rather than technical in nature, and
which, when applied, will result in wise policy rather than mischief or
absurdity.  Lungren v. Deukmejian,
(1988) 45 Cal. 3d 727, 735.  Finally,
statutes are not construed in isolation and every statute must be read and
harmonized with the statutory scheme.  People
v. Ledesma, (1997) 16 Cal.4th 90, 95.   

Applying these
principles, Caltrans construes the CRAA too narrowly.  Section 7260(a) is not limited to public
entities acquiring real property. 
Rather, the term “public entity” is defined to include the state,
Regents, cities, counties, districts, public agencies and authorities, and
any public subdivision, corporation or entity acting on behalf of these
agencies when the subdivision, corporation, or entity acting on an agency’s
behalf is acquiring real property for public use.  In other words, the state (including
Caltrans) is a public entity under section 7260(a) no matter what program is
taking place.  While Caltrans’
interpretation of section 7260(a) is viable, it is inconsistent with the
statutory scheme and purpose of the CRAA, which is to “establishes a uniform policy for the fair and
equitable treatment of persons displaced as a direct result of programs or
projects undertaken by a public entity.” 
§7260.5(b).  Such projects include
rehabilitation, demolition, code enforcement,
and acquisition.”  §7260.5(a)(1).  
The
case cited by Caltrans, Kong, supra, 101 Cal.App.4th
at 1326, is not to the contrary.  There,
the petitioner was a sublessee forced to vacate the premises when a developer
purchased the property from a city.  Id.
at 1320.  In connection with these facts,
the court stated that the CRAA provides state relocation benefits to persons
displaced by state or local acquisitions. 
Id.  at 1326.  The court did not purport to limit CRAA relocation
benefits to state or local acquisitions of property. 
Caltrans
further argues that the refurbishment of the Property was not for the public as
a whole.  “The primary purpose of [the
CRAA] is to ensure that displaced persons shall not suffer disproportionate
injuries as a result of programs and projects designed for the benefit of the
public as a whole and to minimize the hardship of displacement on these
persons.  Bi-Rite Meat Provisions Co.
v. City of Hawaiian Gardens Redevelopment Agency, (2007) 156 Cal.App.4th
1419, 1426.  The renovation of the
Property was not done for the public as a whole, but for its tenants.  Dem. at 3.
If the
renovation of the Property was not for the public as a whole, it is hard to see
who it was supposed to benefit. 
Certainly not Megeen.  It is true
that Megeen alleges that, by 1998, the Property was in negligent
disrepair.  SAP, ¶15.  However, Caltrans did not seek to repair the
Property for her benefit.  In Spring
1999, the “Historic Properties Tenants Association” notified Megeen by mail
that Caltrans had developed a project to rehabilitate 80 historic homes along the
710 corridor route in Pasadena and South Pasadena.  SAP, ¶16, Ex. 3.  At the same time, Caltrans Property Manager
Lavender informed Megeen that she and her son would be displaced from the Property
so that Caltrans could renovate it to comply with historical property standards.  SAP, ¶17. 
Megeen only agreed to move out if Caltrans guaranteed to allow the
McLaughlins to return after the renovations. 
SAP, ¶18.  Thus, the project to renovate
80 homes to historical standards, including the Property, was intended to
benefit the public as whole.
Finally, Caltrans argues that
Megee is not a “displaced person” under section 7260(a)(1).  A “displaced person” means any person
who moves from real property either (i) as a direct result of a written notice
of the acquisition of real property for a program or project undertaken by a
public entity or (ii) as a direct result of the rehabilitation, demolition, or
other displacing activity, under a program or project undertaken by a public
entity, of real property on which the person is a residential tenant if the
public entity determines that the displacement is permanent.  §7260(a)(1). 
Caltrans argues that neither prong of section 7260(a)(1) applies.  Caltrans was not acquiring the Property; it
already owned it.  Megeen also admits
that Caltrans intended only to temporarily displace her.  SAP ¶¶ 26-29.
As
Megeen argues, it is undisputed that Caltrans acquired the Property by eminent
domain, that she was a tenant at the Property, and that Caltrans undertook a
rehabilitation project.  If Caltrans intended
only to temporarily displace Megeen, the SAP makes clear that the displacement
became permanent.  More important, even a
temporary displacement is governed by the CRAA. 
“A person
displaced by rehabilitation work which is wholly or partially financed or
assisted with pubic funds…shall, as a condition of the financing or assistance,
be given the option of relocating after rehabilitation, in the dwelling from
which the person was displaced.” 
§7265.3(d).  This is the principal
provision relied on for Megeen’s claim under the CRAA.  SAP, ¶60. 
If there is a conflict between the two statutes, section 7265.3(d) is
more specific and controls.
Megeen’s
displacement for the rehabilitation project is within the scope of the
CRAA.  Opp. at 4.
 
4. Exhaustion of Administrative Remedies
Caltrans notes that the SAP does not contend that Megeen
exhausted her administrative remedies and only alleges that exhaustion was not
necessary where there is an inadequate administrative hearing procedure.  SAP ¶¶ 65-67. 
Specifically, the SAP relies on several court cases where exhaustion
of administrative remedies was not necessary: Superior Strut & Hanger
Co. v. Port of Oakland, (“Port of Oakland”) (1977) 72 Cal.App.3d 987;
Glendale City Employees' Assn., Inc. v. City of Glendale, (1975) 15 Cal.
3d 328, 342-43 (city's procedure which provided merely for the submission of a
grievance form without the taking of testimony, submission of legal briefs, or
resolution by an impartial trier of fact was "manifestly inadequate" for
dispute between city employees and the city concerning an agreement over
salaries); Sunnyvale Public Safety Officers Assn. v. City of Sunnyvale,
(1976) 55 Cal. App. 3d 732, 736 (employer-employee regulation which did not
provide for a hearing or taking of testimony but only a final determination
based on recommendation of advisory panel rendered the administrative remedy
ineffective).  SAP, ¶¶ 65-67. 
In Port of Oakland, a CRAA case, the court stated:
“As an alternative ground for our conclusion, under the facts of the case,
respondent was not required to seek administrative review before filing its
complaint in superior court. As pointed out in City of Los Angeles v. Decker,
(1976) 61 Cal. App.3d 444, 451, it may be fairly imported from the review
provisions of the CRAA that the public entity must provide for a hearing and
the taking of evidence.  Where the public
body's procedure is inadequate, the requirement of an exhaustion of
administrative remedies is inapplicable.  2 Witkin, Cal. Procedure (2d ed. 1970)
Actions, § 182, p. 1046.  Id. at
1002.  
Caltrans notes that Megeen alleges that she was not required
to exhaust because she sent emails to the State, but the court already ruled
that these emails were inadequate to satisfy exhaustion.  Caltrans also has an adequate appeals process
for any claims under the CRAA (RJN Ex. A; §10.09.07.00).  Dem. at 4-5. 

Megeen responds that, in ruling on the previous demurrer,
the court did not hold that the four-month exchange of emails between Deputy
Director Francis and herself was inadequate to exhaust administrative
remedies.  Rather, the court declined to
consider the emails attached to the opposition. 
Opp. at 11.  Caltrans
disagrees.  Reply at 5.   
The court’s ruling for the previous demurrer was that, based
on the pleaded facts, Megeen had not exhausted her administrative remedies
under the Uniform Act.  This ruling was made
on the ground that Caltrans had made no decision on Megeen’s eligibility for relocation
assistance.  The court stated that Megeen
needed to apply for assistance under the Uniform Act and, if dissatisfied, file
an appeal.  Dec. at 8-9.  This ruling had nothing to do with the emails
that were not considered.  Rather, it was
based on the fact that Caltrans had not denied Megeen eligibility for
relocation benefits.
Megeen also argues that Caltrans’ handbook (“Caltrans Guide”)
under the Uniform Act (SAP, Ex. 1) requires Caltrans to assist her in filing an
appeal and explaining the procedures to be followed.  Opp. at 7. 
She followed the Caltrans Guide in that her son notified Deputy Director
Francis over the phone and in writing of her grievance and asked that it be
dealt with promptly to comply with the Guide’s requirement that she be given a
“prompt and full opportunity to be heard”. 
Yet, Caltrans failed to comply with its duty to guide her through the
appeal process.  Opp. at 7-8.  
These allegations may or may not excuse an untimely claim under
the CRAA (the Guide applies to the Uniform Act) but not a failure to exhaust
administrative remedies.  If Caltrans did
not comply with its ministerial duty to guide Megeen through the appeal
process, it cannot rely on a failure to exhaust administrative remedies to
defeat her claim as untimely.  But it still
can require her to fulfill the exhaustion requirement.
However, Megeen is
correct (Opp. at 11) that the statutory appeal procedure does not apply to her
claim.  The CRAA provides for an appeal to
the public entity for “[a]ny person aggrieved by a determination as to
eligibility for, or the amount of, a payment authorized by the CRAA.  §7622(b). 
Megeen is not dissatisfied with eligibility for, or the amount of, a
payment.  She wants to be relocated to
the Property.  
Caltrans replies that Megeen ignores section 7622(a), which provides
that if a relocation appeals board has been established by a city or county for
relocation agency decisions, a city may designate by ordinance that the board
hear appeals from all public agencies, except state agencies which have an
appeal process, on the eligibility for, or the amount of, relocation
payment.  Reply at 6.  Caltrans fails to explain the relevance of
section 7622(a), as it does not show that Los Angeles County or the City of Los
Angeles has a relocation appeals board (which would be doubtful since
redevelopment agencies no longer exists). 
Caltrans also ignores the fact that it has its own appeal process and
therefore section 7622(a) has no application.
Caltrans’ appeals process appears to be broader than that required
by section 7622(b).   It provides for an
appeal by a person who is dissatisfied with any aspect of their
relocation assistance. RJN Ex. A, §10.09.04.00. 
Relocation assistance may include, but is not limited to, the
person’s eligibility for, or the amount of, a relocation payment required under
the Uniform Act.  Ex A,
¶10.09.02.00.  While the period for a
tenant to file a claim is limited to 18 months, it may be extended for good
cause.  Ex. A, §10.08.03.00.  Additionally, the right to appeal shall be
described in all written documents distributed to displaced persons.  Ex. A, §10.09.01.01.  Thus, Megeen may still have a right to an
administrative appeal to Caltrans and not be time-barred in doing so.  As no party addresses this issue, it is a
matter for trial.
On the grounds stated, Megeen has not failed to exhaust her
administrative remedies.  
 
3. The Lease
Caltrans argues that it
is the landlord and Megeen is the tenant and the parties’ lease controls their
relationship, not the CRAA.  In acting as
Megeen’s landlord, Caltrans cannot be compelled to perform a governmental duty
or action because it is not acting in a legislative or governmental
capacity.  Accordingly, the lease is
binding and controls.  Dem. at 5-6.
Caltrans relies on Hubbs
v. People Ex. Rel. Department of Public Works, (1974) 36 Cal.App.3d 1005, in
which the petitioner lessees sought declaratory relief to determine their rights
in property acquired by the state for future highway purposes.  Id. at 1007.  The department informed the lessees that
their rent would increase, and the petitioners contended that the
Administrative Procedures Act required a hearing on whether the increases were
excessive in light of the properties’ disrepair.  Id.  
The court held that “the policy and duty of acquiring real property for
the future needs of state highway purposes and the maintenance and leasing of
such property was the ‘legislative act’ of the state.” Id. at 1009.  The maintenance and leasing of the property
were steps taken by the department to carry out the policy.  Id.  Thus, the state was functioning as a landlord and
plaintiffs, as tenants, were entitled to pursue only those remedies normally
available to tenants.  In the absence of
a specific statute changing their relationship, the state was “not required to
perform duties as a landlord additional to those required of private
landlords.”  Id.  
Hubbs is
distinguishable because the CRAA is a specific statute that applies directly to
a circumstance in which a state agency, acting as a landlord, relocates a
tenant. 
Caltrans also argues
that the lease denies any relocation benefits. 
SAP, ¶16, Ex.2.  Dem. at 6.  The lease merely states that it creates no
right to relocation assistance upon termination of the tenancy.  Id. 
Aside from the fact that Megeen’s tenancy has not terminated, the lease
does not purport to negate statutory rights to relocation assistance.  Megeen also notes that Caltrans paid her
relocation benefits in conformance with the Uniform Act and CRAA section 7262(a)(1).  Consequently, not even Caltrans believes the
lease prevents relocation assistance. 
Opp. at 6-7.
The parties’ lease
does not prevent application of the CRAA.
 
4. Statute of Limitations
Caltrans argues that the statute of limitations for Megeen’s
traditional mandamus claim is either three years for an action upon a liability
created by statute (CCP §338(a)), two ears for breach of oral contract (CCP
§339(1)), or four years for a written contract (CCP §337(a)).  Dem. at 6. 
While the discovery rule permits delayed accrual of a cause of action,
Megeen had sufficient facts to put a reasonable person on notice that a cause
of action had accrued beginning in 1999 and as late as 2014.  Dem. at 6-7. 
Megeen filed this action in 2022 and the action is time-barred.  Dem. at 6. 

Caltrans argues that Megeen was put on notice by the
following facts: (1) she was told in the Spring of 1999 that she would be
allowed to move back into the Property within one year and then was not
returned to it. SAP ¶¶ 17-20;  (2) she stated
for over 20 years that she planned to move back into the Property as promised,
yet never received confirmation; (3) she asserted Caltrans’ promise for an MOU
in 1999 but then never received an MOU; and (4) her son stated that  “in 2014, Caltrans agent, Angus Chan dismissed
our assertion that we were to move in to 1110 Glendon Way, once it had been
repaired….”  SAP, Ex. 12. Dem. at 8.
Megeen opposes, contending that she was removed from the
Property for Caltrans to perform historic renovations but the Property sat
vacant for 15 years, Caltrans ignored her grievances to be returned to the
Property as early as 2014 and failed to perform its ministerial duty to guide
her through the appeal process, Caltrans failed to perform its statutory duty
under the CRAA for relocation assistance and provide updates, and failed to
keep adequate records of its activities as required by 49 C.F.R. section
24.9.  Opp. at 13.
The court addressed this issue in ruling on the previous
demurrer.  Dec. at 11-12.  The discovery issue is factual in nature and
not amenable to resolution on demurrer. 
The same is true for Caltrans’ equitable estoppel argument. 
 
6. Uncertainty
Respondent argues
that the second cause of action is uncertain. 
Either the second cause of action seeks mandamus to enforce provisions
of the CRAA or it is for breach of contract. 
It can only be one or the other and not both.  Further, if it is a breach of contract
action, it is not clear whether the contract is oral or implied by conduct.  That, too, is grounds for a demurrer.  See CCP § 430.10.  Dem. at 10. 
The second cause of
action joins legal theories under the CRAA and promissory estoppel, a point
which is made obvious by Megeen’s motion for leave to file a TAP.  This could have been made clearer by
separating the two legal theories, but a demurrer for uncertainty may be
overruled so long as the defendant can reasonably determine what issues must be
admitted or denied, or what claims are directed against it.  Khoury v. Maly’s of California, Inc.,
(19993) 14 Cal.App4th 612, 616.  Demurrers
for uncertainty are disfavored, and Caltrans is well aware of the nature of
Megeen’s claims.  Additionally, Caltrans
knows what promises are at issue and whether they are in writing or oral.  See Miles v. Deutsche Bank National
Trust Co, (2015) 236 Cal.App.4th 394, 401.[4] 
 
7. Conclusion
The demurrer is
overruled.  Caltrans has ten days to
answer only.


