  Case Number:  22STCP03795    Hearing Date:   May 7, 2024    Dept:  85 
 
Committee to Support
the Recall of District Attorney George Gascon v. Dean Logan and Office of the
Los Angeles County Registrar-Recorder/County Clerk, 22STCP03795

 
Tentative decision on (1) motion
to intervene: granted; (2) motion for attorney fees: granted in part 
 
 



            
Petitioner Committee to Support the Recall of District
Attorney George Gascón (“Committee”) seeks an award of attorney fees under Government
Code[1]
section 7923.115 from Respondents Dean Logan
(“Logan”) and Office of the Los Angeles County Registrar-Recorder/County Clerk
(collectively, “Registrar”).  
            The
court has read and considered the moving papers, opposition, reply, the
supplemental moving papers, opposition, and reply, and renders the following
tentative decision. 
 
            A. Statement of the Case
            1.
First Amended Petition
            Petitioner
Committee filed this proceeding on October 18, 2022.  The operative pleading is the First Amended
Petition (“FAP”), filed on November 16, 2022 and alleging (1) traditional
mandamus and (2) declaratory judgment, and seeking injunctive relief.  The verified FAP alleges in pertinent part as
follows.
            After
his election on December 8, 2020, George Gascón (“Gascón”) took office as the
Los Angeles County (“County”) District Attorney.  Gascón has since introduced controversial
prosecutorial policies that frustrated some residents.  On January 27, 2022, the Registrar approved
the Committee’s request to circulate a petition to recall Gascón (“Recall
Petition”).  The Committee collected
715,833 signatures, 148,976 more than the 566,857 signatures required to
trigger a recall election.  The Committee
submitted the Recall Petition on July 6, 2022.  On July 9, 2022, the Registrar issued a press
release that verified the total number of raw signatures.
            After
the Registrar reviewed a 5% sample, it launched a review of all Recall Petition
signatures.  On August 15, 2022, the
Registrar announced that it had found 195,783 signatures invalid.  This reduced the number of signatures to
46,807, fewer than needed to qualify the Recall Petition for a recall
election.  The reasons cited for invalid
signatures included: (1) 88,464 signatures of voters who were not registered;
(2) 43,593 duplicate signatures; (3) 32,187 signatures from voters with a
different address; (4) 9,490 mismatched signatures; (5) 7,344 “cancelled”
signatures; (6) 5,374 signatures from voters with an out-of-County address; and
(7) 9,331 signatures invalid for one of ten other reasons.
            On
August 18, 2022, the Committee informed the Registrar that it intended to
exercise its statutory right, under Elections Code section 11301 and section
6253.5, to examine the Recall Petition to assess “which signatures were
disqualified and the reasons therefor.” 
On August 19, the Registrar replied that the Committee could review the
Recall Petition and the voter record data or information that led to the
disqualification of each signature.  Such
review would occur at the Registrar’s office during business hours.
            On
August 29, 2022, the Registrar restricted the review process whereby (1) the
Committee could examine Petition signatures at the Registrar’s office only on Tuesday
through Thursday, from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m; (2) only 14 Committee representatives
would be permitted per day; (3) Committee representatives would be limited to use
of seven computer workstations; and (4) each computer workstation would be
operated by one staff person from the Registrar’s office.  
The Committee made a good faith effort to comply with these
restrictions beginning on September 6, 2022. 
Progress has been slow, and the Registrar has not provided access to all
voter signatures on file, prior addresses of registered voters, and other
crucial pieces of information needed to determine whether a signature found
invalid was actually valid.  In other
instances, the Registrar has provided this information in printed form, which
slows down the Committee’s review.  The
Registrar has also refused to answer questions, ignoring them or claiming that
the answers are beyond the scope of the examination process.  It has also failed to provide information on
Runbeck’s EMS-DIMS Election Management System (“DIMS”) for voter registration, such
as the abbreviations the system uses.
            The
difficulties the Committee has faced make it clear that timely review of the
Registrar’s findings is impossible with current parameters.  At the current rate, the Committee would need
18 months to review the disqualified signatures which in effect denies the
Committee of its right to review under section 6253.5.  
            The
Committee seeks a writ of mandate compelling timely production of (1) all
signatures on file for voters whose signature was rejected as a mismatched
signature (“Request No. 1”); (2) for all persons whose signature was rejected
because the voter’s residence address on the Recall Petition did not match the
voter’s registered address, an electronic list of the voters’ prior addresses,
dates of all changes, the reason, and notice provided for involuntary changes
(“Request No. 2”); (3) a list of voters whose signatures were valid, invalid as
a duplicate, invalid because registration was cancelled due to death, and
invalid for “fatal pending” (“Request No. 3”); (4) all training materials or
user manuals for DIMS to interpret the data contained in the system (“Request
No. 4”); (5) all comments, notes, or notations made in the voter files of
rejected signatures (“Request No. 5”); (6) all voter files that may exist for
those voters with rejected signatures, cancelled or not (“Request No. 6”); (7)
the original affidavits of registration including re-registrations for voters
with rejected signatures (“Request No. 7”); (8) an electronic list of all
voters whose Petition signatures were rejected during the random sample review
(“Request No. 8”); and (9) all data and information the Registrar relied on in
rejecting a Petition signature (“Request No. 9”).
            The
Committee also seeks a writ of mandate compelling the Registrar to agree that
(1) Committee representatives may examine the Recall Petition five days per
week, (2) up to 25 representatives may examine the Recall Petition at one time,
(3) Committee representatives can use up to 25 computer workstations, and (4)
Committee representatives may use personal electronic devices during the review
process.
            The
Committee requests (1) a temporary restraining order (“TRO”), preliminary
injunction, and/or permanent injunction mandating that the Registrar provide
the requested documents and requested access, (2) a judicial declaration that
Respondents acted unlawfully when they chose not to do so, and (3) attorney fees
and costs.
 
            2. Course of Proceedings
            On
October 25, 2022, the court heard the Committee’s ex parte application for an order to show cause re: preliminary injunction (“OSC”) compelling the
Registrar to (1) comply with Request Nos. 1-4 and (2) provide the access
requested in the FAP.  The court granted the ex parte application and issued
the OSC.  
On
the same day, the Committee served Respondents with the Petition, Summons, and ex parte application.  
            On
November 17, 2022, the court heard and denied the Committee’s ex parte
application for leave to file a supplemental brief in support of the OSC.  
            On
December 6, 2022, the court granted in part the Committee’s application for a
preliminary injunction.  The Registrar
was ordered to allow the Committee to review prior signatures on file for voters whose
signatures were denied because of a mismatch (Request No. 1).  It was also required to produce
electronic copies of the existing lists subject to a strict protective order to
be negotiated by the parties, as well as a hard copy list of valid signatures
for the petition.  (Request No. 3).  The Registrar was not required to allow review of addresses and change
of address notices for voters whose residence address on the Recall
Petition did not match the voter’s registered address (Request No. 2).  It was also not required to produce
additional training materials or user manuals for DIMS to interpret the data
contained in the system (Request No. 4), but the parties were to meet and
confer on the completeness of disclosures.
            On
December 16, 2022, the Registrar filed its Answer.
            On January 30,
2023, the court granted the Committee’s application for an order to enforce the
preliminary injunction.
            On January 31,
2023, the Registrar filed a notice of appeal from the preliminary injunction.
            On July 27, 2023,
the court found this case related to Committee v. Registrar, (“Committee
II”) Case No. 23STCP02365, and consolidated them before this court.
            On August 10,
2023, the Second Appellate District Court of Appeal issued a decision
dismissing the appeal from the December 6, 2022 preliminary injunction, but
granting the appeal for the court’s January 23, 2023 order to the extent it (1)
authorized use of electronic lists outside the Registrar’s examination room,
and (2) commanded disclosure of redacted affidavits of voter registration.  The appellate court ordered both parties to
bear their own costs on appeal.
            On August 16,
2023, Department 1 unrelated this case and Committee II, and returned
this case to Department 85 and returned Committee II to Department 86
(Hon. Mitchell Beckloff).
            On October 10,
2023, this court issued a revised order pursuant to the Second Appellate
District’s August 10, 2023 decision, effective once remittitur was issued.  This remittitur was filed on October 11,
2023.
            On November 27,
2023, the court dismissed the FAP in this case as moot after the Committee stated
the examination was complete.
            On February 8,
2024, the court granted in part the Committee’s motion for attorney fees and
costs.  The court denied the request for
costs but granted the Committee’s entitlement to attorney fees under the
California Public Records Act (“CPRA”) only. 
The court ordered the parties to file supplemental papers for a hearing
on the reasonableness of CPRA fees and to meet and confer before they do so. 
            On February 21,
2024, the court entered an order based on the parties’ stipulation for the
timing of filing the supplemental papers. 
The parties have complied with that schedule.
            On March 26,
2024, counsel for the Committee filed a motion to intervene for the limited
purpose of the award of attorney fees. 
 
            B. Motion to Intervene
Proposed Intervenors Ellis George LLP (“Ellis George”),
Marian M. J. Thompson, Esq. (“Thompson”) and Kathleen M. Cady, Esq. (“Cady”)
move to intervene for the sole purpose of awarding and apportioning fees
between them.  Proposed Intervenors are
the attorneys of record for the Committee. 
 
            1.
Applicable Law
CCP section 387(b) provides for mandatory intervention if
the application is timely and the person seeking intervention either has a
statutory right to intervene or claims an interest relating to the property or
transaction that is the subject of the action and the applicant is so situated
that the disposition of the action may as a practical matter impair or impede
that person’s ability to protect that interest, unless that person’s interest
is adequately protected by existing parties.
CCP section 387(a) provides for permissive intervention so
that “any person, who has an interest in the matter in litigation...may
intervene in the action or proceeding.” 
Section 387(a) is to be construed liberally in favor of
intervention.  Simpson Redwood Co. v.
State of California, (1987) 196 Cal. App. 3d 1192, 1201.   CCP section 387(a) authorizes the court
discretion to permit intervention when a party has a direct, not consequential,
interest in the matter in litigation.  Kobernick
v. Shaw, (1977) 70 Cal. App. 3d 914, 919. 
In addition to a direct interest, intervention must not enlarge the
issues raised by original parties, and not tread on the rights of the original
parties to conduct their own lawsuit.  See
Kuperstein v. Superior Court, (1988) 204 Cal.App.3d 598, 600.  This means that the reasons for intervention
must outweigh any opposition.  Truck
Insurance Exchange v. Superior Court, (1997) 60 Cal.App.4th 342, 346.
 
2. Analysis
On February 8, 2024, the court ruled that the Committee is
entitled to recover fees under the CPRA. 
The California Supreme Court has held that attorney fees awarded under another
fee-shifting statute, FEHA, belong to the attorneys who labored to earn them
absent an agreement allocating the fees otherwise.  Flannery v. Prentice (2001) 26 Cal.4th
572, 575.  The Court of Appeal subsequently
held that a party’s counsel entitled to a statutory award of fees under CCP
section 1021.5 has standing for permissive intervention in the action for the
purpose of seeking to recover fees.  Lindelli
v. Town of San Anselmo (2006) 139 Cal.App.4th 1499, 1502.  Accordingly, the fees awarded under the CPRA
in this case will belong to Proposed Intervenors.  Mot. at 6. 

Intervention will not adversely affect the Registrar because
Proposed Intervenors do not seek any additional fees beyond those to which the
Committee is entitled.  Nor would
intervention cause any delay or materially enlarge the issues in the case, as a
determination of the reasonableness of the fees will be made whether Proposed
Intervenors intervene or not.  Further, Proposed
Intervenors do not expect to submit any additional briefs or evidence beyond
that which the Committee has already submitted, or will submit, with respect to
the motion for attorney fees.  Mot. at
7.  Proposed Intervenors submit a Proposed
Complaint-in-Intervention.  Carroll Decl.,
Ex. 1.
The unopposed motion to intervene is granted. 
 
E. Attorney Fees
The Committee initially requested an award of $1,196,102.50
in attorney fees.  In its supplemental
brief, the Committee now seeks $707,138.78. 
The revised amount is broken down as follows: $330,016.63 for Ellis
George, $260,212.47 for Thompson, and $116,909.68 for Cady. 
 
1. Governing Law
            Section 7923.115, formerly
section 6259,[2] provides
in part: “If the requester prevails in litigation filed pursuant to this
chapter, the court shall award court costs and reasonable attorney’s fees to
the requester.”  §7923.115(a).  The costs and fees shall be paid by the
public agency of which the public official is a member or employee and shall
not become a personal liability of the public official.  Id.
            The
attorney fee provision of the CPRA should be interpreted in light of the
overall remedial purpose of the Act to broaden access to public records.  Community Youth Athletic Center v. City of
National City, (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 1385, 1447.  Indeed, the purpose of the attorney fees
provision is to provide protections and incentives for members of the public to
seek judicial enforcement of their right to inspect public records subject to
disclosure.  Community Youth Athletic
Center v. City of National City, 220 Cal.App.4th at 1447.  The use of the word “shall” in a fee statute
means the award is mandatory and, as such, an award of fees to prevailing petitioner
in a CPRA action is mandatory.  Belth
v. Garamendi, (1991) 232 Cal.App.3d 896, 899-900.   
The court employs the
“lodestar” analysis when looking to determine the “reasonableness” of an
attorney fee award.  The lodestar figure
is calculated by multiplying the number of hours reasonably spent by the
reasonable market billing rate.  Serrano
v. Priest, (1977) 20 Cal.3d 25, 48.
 
2. Reasonable
Rates
Generally, the reasonable hourly rate used for the lodestar
calculation is the rate prevailing in the community for similar work.  Center for Biological Diversity v. County
of San Bernardino, (2010) 188 Cal.App.4th 603, 616.  In making its calculation, the court may rely
on its knowledge and familiarity with the legal market, as well as the
experience, skill, and reputation of the attorney requesting fees, the
difficulty or complexity of the litigation to which that skill was applied, and
affidavits from other attorneys regarding prevailing fees in the community and
rate determinations in other cases.  569
East County Boulevard LLC v. Backcountry Against the Dump, Inc., (2016)
6 Cal.App.5th 426, 437.  
In support of its requested rates, the Committee relies on a
Real Rate Report which it contends often is relied on by Los Angeles area
courts, the complexity and novelty of this case, and the experience of its
counsel.  Carroll Decl., ¶12, Ex. 4.  Pl. Supp. Br. at 8-9.  Thompson’s rate is $810.  Thompson Decl., ¶3.  Cady’s rate is $810.  Cady Decl., ¶5.  For Ellis George, the rates are $1260 for
Eric M. George, Esq. and Of Counsel, $810 for other partners, $630 for
associates, $300 for litigation support personnel, and $200 for paralegals. A
total of six lawyers from Ellis George worked on the case, of which three
primarily litigated.  Carroll Decl.,
¶3.  
The Registrar argues that the rates claimed by the Committee
are dramatically out of step with prevailing rates in the area for similar CPRA
work.  The Committee attempts to justify
these rates with its counsels’ years of practice, but they predominantly
reflect experience in international law, criminal law, and unrelated civil
matters.  The Committee also opines that
higher rates for commercial litigation are “appropriate yardsticks” but
provides no justification aside from the alleged complexity and fast-paced
nature of the case.  Supp. Opp. at 13.
In Los Angeles County and the surrounding region, reasonable
rates for CPRA litigation and related issues are considerably lower, even for
attorneys with extensive experience in these matters. Based on prevailing rates
for similar work and counsel’s experience, reasonable hourly rates in this case
do not exceed $600 for partners and of counsel, $400 for associates, $125 for
law clerks and litigation support, and $125 for paralegals. See, e.g., Lacy
v. United States Dep’t of State, (C.D. Cal. Aug. 22, 2023, No.
8:22-cv-01065-DOC-KES) 2023 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 195381, at *21-23 (hourly rates of
$585 for lead counsel and $485 for co-counsel were reasonable in Freedom of
Information Act case); Kinney v. City of Corona, (2023) 99 Cal.App.5th
1, 16 (noting that Riverside County trial court reduced hourly rates to $400
and $300 in CPRA dispute). Supp. Opp. at 14.
The Committee replies that the Registrar unreasonably
attempts to narrow the relevant market into CPRA-specific litigation rates in
Los Angeles. The Registrar cites no authority that the relevant market is
defined that narrowly, and the authority is to the contrary.  Heritage Pacific Financial, LLC v. Monroy,
(2013) 215 Cal.App.4th 972, 1009 (no abuse of discretion in comparing counsel’s
hourly rates for Fair Debt Collection Practices Act litigation with rates for
complex class action litigation).  The
Registrar also wrongly discounts counsel’s experience, which includes
litigating election law cases, administrative law cases, and appeals. The
Registrar does not dispute that this case was an unusually complex CPRA case,
that it was litigated at a brisk pace, and that it involved novel issues for
which there was little to no guiding case authority.  The “difficulty [and] complexity of the
litigation” is an explicit factor in determining a reasonable rate.  569 East County Boulevard LLC v.
Backcountry Against the Dump, Inc., supra, 6 Cal.App.5th at
437.  Supp. Reply at 13-14.
            The
court agrees with the Registrar that the rates sought by the Committee are
excessive.  It is appropriate to consider
the nature of the litigation in setting market rates (Center for Biological
Diversity v. County of San Bernardino, supra, 188 Cal.App.4th at
616), and CPRA cases generally have rates in the $400-$500 range.  Given the novelty of this case, a reasonable
blended rate for the Committee’s attorneys is $600 per hour.  The efforts of law clerks, litigation
support, and paralegals are included within this blended rate for attorneys.
 
3. Reasonableness
of Hours 
An attorney fee award should ordinarily include compensation
for all the hours reasonably spent on the litigation.  Ketchum v. Moses, (2001) 24
Cal.4th 1122, 1133.  The trial court must
carefully review attorney documentation of hours expended and eliminate padding
in the form of inefficient or duplicative efforts.  Id. at 1132; see also Morris
v. Hyundai Motor America (2019)
41 Cal.App.5th 24, 39 (“it is appropriate for a trial court to reduce a fee
award based on its reasonable determination that a routine, non-complex case
was overstaffed to a degree that significant inefficiencies and inflated fees
resulted”).
A trial court may reduce attorney fees based on the
plaintiff’s degree of success.  A reduced
fee award is appropriate if the relief, however significant, is limited in
comparison to the scope of the litigation as a whole.  Save Our Uniquely Rural Community
Environment v. County of San Bernardino, (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 1179,
1185; see also Laurel Heights
Improvement Assn. v. Regents of University of California, (1988) 47
Cal.3d 376, 428, n.29 (noting that trial could should consider the fact that
appellant, a successful party, was ultimately unsuccessful in its challenge to
agency’s finding of mitigation).  
 
a. Scope of the Permissible Fees
The court has ruled that the scope of the attorney fees
available to the Committee is limited to obtaining the disclosure of records
under the CPRA.  Private attorney general
fees are not available under CCP section 1021.5.  Nor is the Committee entitled to attorney fees
for reviewing the records obtained.  
The litigation tasks for which the Committee can recover
fees are (a) drafting the Petition, (b) the December 6, 2022 preliminary
injunction motion, and (c) the January 2023 motion to enforce insofar as it
enforced the December 6 ruling or added new orders not later reversed by the
Court of Appeal, and the Committee’s fee motion insofar as it seeks CPRA
fees.  Carroll Decl., ¶16, Ex. 3, pp. at
28-29, 30.  The court also permitted
briefing on whether the Committee could recover fees for litigating the preliminary
injunction bond and for the appeal with respect to CPRA issues. Id., p.
29.  
For the preliminary injunction bond, the Committee argues
that the Registrar requested that the court impose an injunction bond and
initially identified $985,000 in staff costs and up to $200,000 in attorney
fees that needed to be bonded.  Id.,
¶20. This sum exceeded the amount the Committee could afford to post.  By successfully keeping the preliminary
injunction bond to $500, and by successfully arguing that the Court of Appeal
should not exercise its discretion to review the bond, the Committee fully prevailed
on the preliminary injunction bond issue and attorney fees should be awarded.  Pl. Supp. Br. at 15.
For attorney fees on appeal, the Committee argues that the
appellate court’s order that each party bear their own costs on appeal has no impact
on the recovery of fees for that appeal. 
CRC 8.278(d)(2) (“[u]nless the court orders otherwise, an award of costs
neither includes attorney’s fees on appeal nor precludes a party from seeking
them under rule 3.1702”).  “[A] decision
about the entitlement to costs on appeal is entirely separate from a decision
about the entitlement to attorney fees on appeal.”  Butler-Rupp v. Lourdeaux, (2007) 154
Cal.App.4th 918, 926-27.  The court can
and should award appellate fees to the Committee.  “A statute providing for an attorney fee
award to the prevailing party in litigation ordinarily also authorizes an award
of fees incurred on appeal even if it does not expressly so state.”  Garcia v. Bellflower Unified School Dist.
Governing Bd., (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 1058, 1067.  Pl. Supp. Br. at 15-16.
The court accepts each of the Committee’s arguments on the
scope of permissible fees.  The Committee
may obtain its fees for defending the preliminary injunction bond and the CPRA
portion of the appeal.
 
            b.
The In re Tobacco Approach
The Committee argues that the court may apportion fees
between compensable and non-compensable tasks based on a review of the work
performed in conjunction with counsel’s timesheets. In In re Tobacco Cases I,
(“In re Tobacco”) (2013) 216 Cal.App.4th 570, the plaintiffs prevailed
on one of two contract issues and was the prevailing party.  In requesting fees, the plaintiffs averred
that “the fees incurred on the two issues . . . were largely inextricably
intertwined.”  Id. at 585.  Nonetheless, they “voluntarily reduced their
fee request to reflect their lack of success” on the unsuccessful issue.  Ibid.  The plaintiffs first identified time that could
be attributed almost exclusively to the non-compensable issue, which they excluded
entirely.  Ibid. As to the
remaining time, the plaintiff “applied a percentage discount so as to exclude
time spent solely on this claim.” Ibid.  The plaintiff did so by reviewing litigation
documents and identifying those pertaining solely to the unsuccessful theory
and determining that a 15% reduction to account for the unsuccessful theory was
warranted.  Id. at 586.  The Court of Appeal affirmed the award of
fees with the 15% reduction.  Id.
at 858.  Pl. Supp. Br. at 1-11.
The Committee argues that it has reduced its attorney fees
in an identical manner.  Its counsel has
identified the time and fees incurred for tasks the court determined were not
compensable or for items that are clearly segregable from the compensable
tasks.  For the remaining items, the
Committee’s counsel has identified the time and fees incurred for those tasks,
and then it applied a percentage reduction (if appropriate) to account for non-compensable
theories.  In making that reduction,
counsel reviewed myriad litigation documents to determine the time spent solely
on issues on which the Committee did not prevail or that the court determined were
not compensable. Carroll Decl., ¶¶ 17-34; Pl. Suppl. Br. at 11.
The Committee asks for a lodestar of $707,13878 in the
following amounts: (a) Ellis George: $330,016.63, (b) Thompson: $260,212.47;
and (c) Cady: $116,909.67.  The Committee
argues that it has eliminated $257,050 in fees for non-compensable items,
including all trial court proceedings after February 1, 2023, with the
exception of the Registrar’s motion objecting to the preliminary injunction
bond and this motion for attorney fees (Carroll Decl., ¶30(a)), pre-complaint
strategizing in August and September 2022 to the extent those fees did not
relate to the drafting of the complaint or the motion for preliminary
injunction (Carroll Decl., ¶30(b)), and the First Amended Complaint, the
November 2022 ex parte application, and the December 2022 renewed ex
parte application (Carroll Decl., ¶ 30(c)). 
Pl. Suppl. Br. at 11-12.
The
Registrar criticizes the Committee’s approach. 
Instead of providing the number of reasonable hours worked to prevail on
the two successful claims, the Committee asserts an entitlement to all fees
incurred except for non-compensable issues. 
The Committee attempts to comply with this court’s order to apportion
successful and unsuccessful claims by simply using the ratio of pages in its
briefs for which it prevailed and lost. 
In doing so, the Committee assumes that it should be compensated for all
time spent overlapping compensable and non-compensable issues.  The Committee never identifies the hours
billed on successful issues and, from the records provided, it is impossible to
do so.   Supp. Opp. at 4-5.
The
Registrar contends that the Committee misreads In re Tobacco.  Unlike that case, the Committee fails to make
any effort to determine the hours attributable to compensable and successful
versus non-compensable and unsuccessful claims. See In re Tobaccou,
supra, 216 Cal.App.4th at 585 (relying on counsel’s
declaration identifying the percentage of time “attributed almost exclusively”
to the non-successful issue).  The
Committee does not rely on hours billed at all, but simply justifies its page-counting
method as appropriate.  Carroll Decl., ¶¶
18, 20, 22, 24-27.   Supp. Opp. at 5.
The
parties also debate the percentage of apportionment for non-compensable fees.  The Registrar contends that the Committee
lost on six claims, succeeded on a non-compensable claim related to access, and
only succeeded on two compensable record-related claims.  After the December 2022 preliminary
injunction order, it achieved no records-related relief since the relief it
obtained in January 2023 was reversed by the Court of Appeal.  Because of the Committee’s limited success in
obtaining records, any apportionment must be focused on the documents that were
ordered to be produced.  Bernardi,
supra, 167 Cal.App.4th at 1398 (“the degree of the plaintiff’s success
in obtaining the objectives of the litigation is a factor that the trial court
may consider in determining an amount of reasonable attorney fees under a fee
statute [citations omitted], including the CPRA fee statute.”).  The Registrar argues that, even if the
Committee’s page-counting methodology were correct (it is not), any fee award
should be much lower based on a comparison of pages.  The Committee should receive 22% of the time
requested for the preliminary injunction, not 75%.  Supp. Opp. at 6-7.
The
Committee replies that the Registrar’s proposed 22% of fees incurred is heavily
distorted.  Securing a valid signature
list was a separate success; the Registrar not only refused to provide this in
electronic form but refused to provide it at all.  The correct numerator is thus three, not
two.  The Registrar’s denominator is
wrong because that figure is based on additional items sought in the amended
complaint (9 items), not the items in the original complaint (5 items).  As the Registrar acknowledges, the Committee
eliminated all fees associated with pursuing the additional items in the
amended complaint.  It is thus
unreasonable to apportion fees for the entirety of the remainder of the
litigation based on four additional claims that have already been eliminated
from the fee request.  The correct
denominator is five.  Supp. Reply at
9.  
The
court accepts the Committee’s point on the appropriate ratio of successful
claims to total claims.  Although the
Committee also correctly replies that separating compensable from
non-compensable effort is appropriate, and that overlapping work may be
compensated (Reply at 6-8), the court agrees with the Registrar that the
Committee’s page counting approach is awkward and inappropriate.  The Committee should have identified the
attorney hours spent on its successful claims and the hours spent on intertwined
compensable and non-compensable claims. 
That is not possible based on the Committee’s timesheets because they do
not identify specific legal issues. 
Kaminski Decl., ¶6.  Therefore,
any uncertainty in the fee calculation must work against the Committee.  
Where
there is a voluminous fee application, the court may make across-the-board
percentage cuts either in the number of hours claimed or the final lodestar
figure.  Morris v. Hyundai Motor
America, (2019) 41 Cal.App.4th at 24, 40.  That is what the court will do here.  The court will calculate the Committee’s fees
based on a reasonable rate coupled with actual hours discounted for
non-compensable time, using across-the-board percentage cuts to reach what is
reasonable.
 
c.
The Preliminary Injunction 
For fees incurred in securing the December 6, 2022
preliminary injunction, the Committee has made a 1/3 reduction to fees such
that the total sought is $210,831.67. 
This includes work for researching and drafting the complaint, the
application for preliminary injunction, the court-ordered meet and confer
following the initial ex parte setting the OSC re: preliminary
injunction, reviewing the Registrar’s opposition to the preliminary injunction,
researching and drafting the Committee’s reply, and preparing for and attending
the preliminary injunction hearing. Carroll Decl., ¶ 31, Ex. 1.  Pl. Supp. Br. at 12.
The Committee argues that a 1/3 reduction is appropriate for
apportionment.  While it prevailed on
three of the six items compensable items requested in the preliminary
injunction, a reduction of the fees is not simply a matter of reducing the
requested fees by half.  Bernardi,
supra, 167 Cal.App.4th at p. 1395 (“A rule requiring an award of
attorney fees to be commensurate with the degree of success in CPRA litigation
could have a similar chilling effect, if, as the County proposes, the trial
court was required to reduce the lodestar amount in strict proportion to the
ratio of successful to unsuccessful public record requests.”).  Myriad tasks relevant to all issues—
including research, fact development, motion drafting, and so on—would have
been undertaken even if the non-compensable issues were not included in the
preliminary injunction.  As In re
Tobacco illustrates, the more equitable (and objective) method of reducing
fees is to review litigation documents and identify the portion that is
relevant only to non-compensable issues. 
The Committee argues that between 20 and 30% of the briefs and Complaint
concern non-compensable issues.  The
declarations supporting the application for preliminary injunction are even
less susceptible to apportionment. 
Carroll Decl., ¶18(e).  A 1/3 reduction
to the fees sought to obtain the preliminary injunction is thus eminently
reasonable.  Pl. Supp. Br. at 13.
The Registrar responds that the Committee’s Petition and
motion for preliminary injunction included nine requests for documents and
expanded access to the Registrar’s office, and the Committee only prevailed on
two record-related requests. First, the Registrar was ordered to allow the
Committee to review all prior signatures on file for voters whose signatures
were denied because of a mismatch. 
Second, the Registrar was ordered to produce four electronic copies of
lists the Registrar had already provided in physical form. In total, the
Committee succeeded on three of nine requests from the initial Complaint, and
only two are compensable – a 22% success rate. 
The reasonable attorney fees for this stage of the litigation should
reflect this limited success. Additionally, the Committee must exclude entries
related to record examination and substantial meet and confer time, which are
not among the categories identified by the court.  Kaminski Decl., Ex. A, pp. 4-5; Ex. B, p.
7.  Supp. Opp. at 3, 8.[3]
The Committee responds that the court ordered the parties to
meet and confer on all items identified in the complaint and preliminary
injunction motion at the October 2022 OSC hearing. The fees for the preliminary
injunction motion thus includes the meet-and-confer process. Additionally,
entries related to the record examination were reasonably necessary to the CPRA
litigation.  For example, the Committee’s
counsel visited the Registrar’s office to observe first-hand the issues that
were being litigated in the CPRA action. 
Supp. Reply at 10.
The court accepts the Committee’s 1/3 reduction for
non-compensable time.  The Kaminski
declaration Exhibit A shows that four lawyers spent 331 hours on this task
before reduction for non-compensable time. 
(Thompson: 143.5 hours; Ellis George of counsel: 6 hours; Ellis George partner:
172.5 hours; Ellis George associate: 9.25 hours).  Whatever one thinks of the meet-and-confer
time and need to examine records, 331 hours for this task is grossly excessive
and arises from a duplication of effort. 
Additionally, the reasonable hours must be reduced for uncertainty due
to block billing, inadequate descriptions, and irrelevant tasks.  The Registrar’s reduction to 72.8 hours (.22
x 331) for non-compensable time is excessive. 
The reasonable number of hours for the compensable portion of this task is
100.  At a $600 blended hourly rate, this
results in attorney fees of $60,000 (100 x 600).  
 
d. Meet-and-Confer
and Ex Parte Applications 
For fees incurred in the court-ordered meet-and-confer
effort between December 7, 2022 and January 31, 2023, the Committee has made a 1/3
fee reduction such that the total amount sought is $73,665.  At the December 6, 2022 preliminary
injunction hearing, the court ordered the parties to meet and confer on both
the logistics of implementing the preliminary injunction and on substantive
issues not otherwise fully settled at that hearing.  Carroll Decl., ¶31, Ex. 1.  This included the production of multiple electronic
reports (both inside and outside the Registrar’s examination room), generating
a valid signature report, providing access to historic voter signatures,
expanded access to the examination room, and a protective order for the
electronic lists. The parties also met and conferred on the Registrar’s demand
for an injunction bond. The parties’ meet-and-confer efforts included
exchanging multiple position letters, e-mails, and multiple Zoom or telephonic
calls.  Id., ¶19.  The Committee contends that a 1/3 reduction
in fees for these tasks is appropriate to account for any non-compensable
theories that may have been discussed during the meet-and-confer efforts.  Ibid. 
Pl. Supp. Br. at 13-14.
The Registrar argues that the meet-and-confer efforts did
not result in any additional production of documents and mostly concerned
disagreements about the scope of the preliminary injunction, the required
protective order, access issues, and the bond issue.  Gevercer Decl., ¶5.  Because the Committee did not obtain any
records, the Committee is not entitled to fees for this stage.  If the court decides to award any fees for the
post-injunction meet-and-confers, at least four of the Committee’s claimed hours
are for entirely non-compensable billing entries during this phase, and the
same 22% ratio should be used for successful versus unsuccessful claims.  Supp. Opp. at 9.
The Committee replies that the meet-and-confer efforts
resolved the logistics of how to provide access to historic signatures, an
issue left open from the December 2022 preliminary injunction hearing.
Likewise, the parties conferred on providing the Committee with electronic
lists within (as well as outside) the Registrar’s office, including a valid
signature list.  These efforts were
ordered by the court and necessary to the actual production of the
documents.  That they did not result in
the production of additional items is irrelevant.  Supp. Reply at 10.
For the post-injunction meet-and-confer, Thompson spent 53.5
hours, Ellis George spent 48.75 hours, and Cady spent 23.75 hours, a total of
126 hours.  The court accepts the
Committee’s 1/3 apportionment reduction, but the hours are duplicative and
excessive for the largely unsuccessful meet-and-confer, even after an
apportionment reduction, and the resulting $73,665 sought is unreasonable.  The hours also must be reduced for
uncertainty due to block billing, inadequate descriptions, and irrelevant
tasks.  The reasonable compensable hours
are reduced to 37, and the reasonable fees are $22,200 (37 x 600).   
 
January 2023 Ex Parte Applications
For fees incurred in the January 2023 ex parte
application to enforce the preliminary injunction and the ex parte
application to set bond, the Committee has also made a 1/3 reduction such that
the total amount sought is $52,649.95. 
Carroll Decl., ¶ 31, Ex. 1. 
During meet-and-confer efforts, the parties reached an impasse on (1)
whether the court should impose an injunction bond, (2) whether the Registrar
must produce electronic lists outside of the Registrar’s office, (3) whether
the Registrar must produce affidavits of registration for certain categories of
rejected Recall Petition signatures, and (4) the scope of a protective order
for electronic lists.  Id.,
¶20.  
The Committee filed an ex parte application to
enforce the preliminary injunction.  The
Registrar filed an ex parte application to set a bond, identifying
$985,000 in staff costs and up to $200,000 in attorney fees that needed to be
bonded.  Both parties opposed each
other’s applications, and the hearing lasted approximately two hours.  Ibid. 
The court (1) agreed with the Committee that it was indigent and set a
nominal bond in the amount of $500, (2) ordered the production of a list of
valid signatures, (3) ordered the Registrar to provide the Committee with
electronic signatures outside of the Registrar’s office, (4) ordered the
production of redacted affidavits of registration, and (5) resolved the
disputes over the protective order.  Ibid.,
Ex. 28.  The Committee fully prevailed on
the Registrar’s ex parte application for a preliminary injunction bond.  As for the Committee’s ex parte
application, the court ordered the production of the valid signature list.   Carroll Decl., ¶20.  Pl. Supp. Br. at 14-15.
The Registrar contends that the January 2023 ex parte
proceeding involved three issues: (1) whether the Committee was entitled to
take the electronic lists outside the Registrar’s office; (2) whether the
Committee was entitled to the production of the affidavits of registration; and
(3) whether a bond was required for the preliminary injunction. The Registrar
ultimately prevailed on all three.  The
Court of Appeal reversed the court on the first two issues and the court set a
bond. While the Registrar disagreed as to the amount, the court affirmed the
Registrar’s position that a bond was required. 
Supp. Opp. at 9.
The Committee’s claim that the court’s January order
resulted in the disclosure of the valid signature list is incorrect.  The preliminary injunction ordered the
parties to meet-and-confer on the possibility of creating and providing an
electronic list of all valid signatures. 
Gevercer Decl., Ex. B, p. 23.  The
Registrar notified the Committee that it was able to produce an electronic copy
on January 5, 2023, well in advance of the January ex parte
proceedings.  Id., Ex. F.  The Committee alleges that it accepted this
offer, but it refused to sign a protective order – as required by this court –
that would allow review of the list only in the Registrar’s office.  Id., Ex. H.  The Committee chose to litigate this issue
and lost in the Court of Appeal.  In
short, not only did the Committee not prevail on any issues from the January ex
parte, it did not obtain access to any additional records. If the court
decides to award any fees in connection with the January hearing, this category
should reflect the same degree of success as the rest of the litigation
(22%).  Supp. Opp. at 9-10.
The Committee responds that the Registrar did not prevail on
the bond issue; the court ordered a $500 bond instead of the $1,185,000 bond
the Registrar suggested. Likewise, at the hearings, the Registrar conceded it
could produce a list of valid signatures and was ordered to do so. While the
Committee obtained two orders that were ultimately reversed on appeal, that
does not mean the Committee should recover no fees for these proceedings.   Supp. Reply at 11.
For the January ex parte to enforce the preliminary
injunction, Thompson spent 33 hours, Ellis George spent 2.25 hours, and Cady
spent 27 hours, a total of 62.25 hours.  The
total hours are not unreasonable, but a reduction of the 62.25 hours by 2/3 to 20.5
hours is required because the Committee’s effort largely was unsuccessful, and
the successful bond setting was a small portion of the hearing.  The reasonable fee is $12,325 (20.5 x 600).
The total fees for these matters are $34,525 ($22,200 for
meet-and-confer and $12,325 for the January 2023 ex parte applications).
 
e. Opposing
the Motion for Preliminary Injunction Bond 
The Committee has not made any reduction in its fees
incurred in opposing the motion objecting to the preliminary injunction bond,
and the fees claimed are $50,422.50. 
Carroll Decl., ¶31, Ex. 1.  The
court should award these fees in full. 
Pl. Supp. Br. at 15.
The Registrar argues that its motion objecting to the bond
amount, which the court denied, was unrelated to any production of documents.
The Registrar had already appealed the December 2022 and January 2023 orders,
and the Committee’s access to the Registrar’s office had not changed.  See Carroll Decl., Ex. 39.  Because the Committee did not obtain access to
any records during this stage, it is not entitled to any fees.  If any fees are awarded, they should reflect
the same 22% rate of success.  Supp. Opp.
at 10.
The Committee replies that the bond issue was not just a
collateral dispute.  A defendant has no
obligation to comply with a preliminary injunction unless and until the
plaintiff posts any bond ordered.  City
of South San Francisco v. Cypress Lawn Cemetery Assn., (1992) 11
Cal.App.4th 916, 920.) A bond such as the $1,185,000 sought by the Registrar
would have wiped out the preliminary injunction’s disclosure orders.  By prevailing on the bond issue, the
Committee ensured that the court’s orders stayed in effect. As there is no
compensable versus non-compensable issue, all fees should be awarded.  Supp. Reply at 11.
The court agrees that all fees should be awarded, but the
$50,422.50 requested is not reasonable.  In
opposing the Registrar’s motion objecting to the bond, Thompson spent 33 hours,
Ellis George spent 2.25 hours, and Cady spent 27 hours, a total of 62.25
hours.  These hours are duplicative and
unreasonable for a single opposition and hearing. They also must be reduced for
uncertainty due to block billing, inadequate descriptions, and irrelevant
tasks.  The hours are reduced to 41 hours
and, at a blended rate of $600, the reasonable fees are $24,600.
 
f. Fees on
Appeal 
The Committee argues that the Registrar challenged on appeal
every order that this court issued in the Committee’s favor.  Carroll Decl., ¶25.  In defending these issues, the Committee
overwhelmingly prevailed, including on production of electronic lists,
production of a valid signature list, and production of historic voter
signatures, and the Registrar’s request for an injunction bond.  The Registrar’s suggestion that it took an
appeal only to challenge the two issues on which it ultimately prevailed (see
Carroll Decl., ¶ 16, Ex. 2, pp. 23-25) is convenient hindsight and irrelevant
because the Registrar’s subjective motivation in taking the appeal has no bearing
on the Committee’s entitlement to fees. 
Pl. Suppl. Br. at 16-17.
The Registrar’s further suggestion that it provided the
requested documents before the appeal resolved—and thus that the appeal was not
reasonably necessary—is factually inaccurate. The Registrar claims it offered
to permit the use of electronic lists the examination room, before the appeal
was taken, which the Committee rejected. 
That is not correct.  The
Committee accepted the Registrar’s offer pending litigation over whether access
to them outside the office was warranted. 
Thompson Decl., ¶¶ 8-9, Exs. 36-39. 
The Registrar never produced the lists in the examination room before it
took its appeal.  Id., ¶8.  Upon its appeal, the Registrar stated that it
would produce no electronic lists until resolution of the appeal.  Id., ¶ 9.  Pl. Suppl. Br. at 17-18.
The Committee’s proposed reductions adequately account for
any non-compensable theories litigated on appeal.  The Committee made a 1/3 reduction to almost
all its appeal fees, even though only 20% of its appellate brief addressed
non-compensable issues, a smaller portion of the motion to dismiss for lack of
jurisdiction discussed non-compensable theories, and the Committee’s answer to
the two amicus briefs supporting the Registrar did not separately discuss
non-compensable theories.  Carroll Decl.,
¶¶ 24-26.  The only appeal item for which
the Committee seeks full recovery is its motion for calendar preference, which
was granted in full.  Carroll Decl.,
¶23.  Pl. Suppl. Br. at 18-19.
The Registrar notes that the Court of Appeal reversed the court’s
January 2023 order and dismissed the appeal from the December 2022 order on
procedural grounds.  The Committee did
not obtain access to any additional records during this stage and is not
entitled to any fees. The Committee also obtained only partial success when the
Court of Appeal left the December order in place.  In the end, the Committee lost on the two most
significant substantive issues – removing the lists from the examination room
and obtaining copies of affidavits of registration.  In fact, the Registrar had already complied
with the December 6 preliminary injunction and the appeal was necessitated
solely by the Committee’s additional demands that were rejected by the Court of
Appeal.  Moreover, the appellate court’s
direction that each party bear their own costs strongly suggests that it did
not consider the Committee to be the prevailing party on appeal.  Supp. Opp. at 10-11.
The Committee replies that it was the Registrar who appealed,
and the Committee had to defend against the appeal.  The Committee would never have obtained
additional records during the appeal, but it certainly could have lost access if
it had not prevailed on the myriad items the Registrar raised on appeal.  Likewise, the Registrar’s subjective
perception of the importance of issues has nothing to do with the time
reasonably spent litigating the compensable issues on which the Committee
prevailed.  Further, the Registrar had
not fully complied with the December 6 order before the appeal because it never
provided the electronic lists within the Registrar’s office. A reversal of the
preliminary injunction would have resulted in the Registrar ceasing compliance
with the injunction.  At bottom, the
Registrar chose to challenge on appeal every single disclosure order that now
forms the basis of the fee award and compensation for having to litigate that
appeal is warranted.  Supp. Reply at 12.
The court concludes that, while the Committee had to defend
the appeal, it did not prevail, and the appeal fees must be significantly
apportioned.  Additionally, the total hours
incurred are unreasonable.  In opposing
the Registrar’s appeal, Thompson spent 154.5 hours, Ellis George spent 155.25 hours,
and Cady spent 108 hours, a total of 417.75 hours.  The Committee never states what fees it seeks
on appeal, but even at a blended rate of $600 per hour the fees without
apportionment would be $250,650.  This is
excessive and is a function of multiple lawyers performing duplicative
work.  The hours also must be reduced for
uncertainty due to block billing, inadequate descriptions, and irrelevant
tasks.  The total 417.75 hours are cut in
half to 209 hours to be reasonable.  They
are apportioned further by half for compensable issues to 105.  At a blended $600 rate, the reasonable appeal
fees are $63,000.
 
g. Motion for Attorney Fees
The Committee has reduced the fee request in its initial motion
by 60% and now seeks $36,405 for that motion. 
This reduction more than accounts for litigating the CCP section 1021.5
issue on which the Committee did not prevail. 
Only 4 pages of the 15-page motion discussed the CCP section 1021.5
issue.  Carroll Decl., ¶28.  The three supporting declarations and 37
attached exhibits all related to the reasonableness of the fees requested.  The Committee requests an additional $30,000
for its supplemental briefing, which reflects less time than the Committee
expects to expend.  Carroll Decl.,
¶29.  Pl. Suppl. Br. at 19.
The Registrar responds that the Committee’s fee motion request
lacks sufficient detail to determine reasonableness. The Registrar does not
dispute the Committee’s suggestion of a 60% reduction for the initial fee
motion but notes that the Committee only provides billing entries for that
initial fee motion itself.  The Committee
offers no billing entries to substantiate the fee motion reply or any of the supplemental
briefing. Instead, the Committee relies on its counsel’s general descriptions
of the work performed and of an anticipated 30 hours to prepare a supplemental reply.
 Carroll Decl., ¶¶ 28-29.  That is not sufficient evidence to support an
award.  Supp. Opp. at 11.
The Committee replies that it is entitled to fees for reviewing
the Registrar’s opposition, drafting the initial fee motion reply, attending
the February 8, 2024 hearing, drafting the supplemental brief, reviewing the
Registrar’s supplemental opposition, drafting the supplemental reply, and attending
the May 7, 2024 hearing.  California
authority is clear that timesheets are not required to substantiate a fee
request.  Syers Properties III, Inc.
v. Rankin, (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 691, 699 n. 4 (“detailed timesheets [are]
not required” for fee requests, and “a court may award fees based on time
estimates for attorneys who do not keep time records”).  The Committee’s counsel provided an estimate
of hours spent and to be spent, determined the corresponding fee based on the
requested hourly rate, and then requested an award lower than that estimate.  Supp. Reply at 13.
While the Committee is correct that timesheets are not
required, they are the best evidence of hours worked.  Moreover, Carroll’s declaration does not
merely estimate the time that will be incurred in preparing for and attending
the May 7, 2024 hearing; it also estimates the historical efforts of drafting
the initial reply and the supplemental brief. 
It further estimates the time to review the supplemental opposition and
prepare the supplemental reply instead of including a declaration concerning
these tasks with the supplemental reply. 

The timesheets show that Ellis George spent 84 hours on the
moving papers for the fee motion.  The
estimated 40 hours to prepare the supplemental brief and 30 more hours to review
the supplemental opposition, draft a reply, and attend the hearing, bring the
total to 154 hours for a single motion split into two hearings.  While the Committee has discounted the 84
hours by 60% the total fees sought for the fee motion of $66,405 are still excessive.  The Committee is awarded fees on the fee
motion of $36,000 (600 x 60).
 
E. Conclusion
The Committee’s
motion for attorney fees is granted in the amount of $218,125 ((a) preliminary
injunction: $60,000, (b) meet and confer and ex parte to enforce
preliminary injunction: $34,525, (c) opposing preliminary injunction bond:
$24,600, (d) appeal: $63,000, and (e) fee motion: $36,000.  
The motion of Ellis George, Thompson, and Cady to
intervene is granted.  The fee award shall be apportioned to
Intervenors based on their percentage of hours worked on each identified item.


