 Case Number:  23STCP02481    Hearing Date:   May 7, 2024    Dept:  85 
 
Los Angeles County Museum of Art v. Los Angeles
County Civil Service Commission, 
23STCP02481

 
Tentative decision on petition for writ of mandate:  denied



 
 
Petitioner Los Angeles County Museum of Art (“LACMA”)[1]
seeks a writ of mandate compelling Respondent Los Angeles County Civil Service
Commission (“Commission”) to set aside its decision reducing its discharge of
Real Party-in-Interest Manuel Scagliotti (“Scagliotti”) to a 30-day suspension.
The court has read and considered the moving papers, opposition,
and reply, and renders the following tentative decision. 
 
A. Statement of
the Case
1. The Petition
Petitioner LACMA filed the Petition against Respondent
Commission on July 17, 2023, alleging one cause of action for administrative
mandamus.  The Petition alleges in
pertinent part as follows.
Petitioner County is a public entity and legal subdivision
of the State of California under Article XI of the California Constitution. Pet.,
¶1.  LACMA is an administrative sub-unit
of the County.  Pet., ¶2. 
Respondent Commission is created by Article IX of the County
Charter and is responsible for administering the merit-based civil service
system for County personnel, including Scagliotti. The Commission is the
appellate body authorized to hear and resolve appeals for employment-related
issues.  County Civil Service Rule (“CSR”)
4.01.  Pet., ¶4. 
Real Party-in-Interest Scagliotti was formerly employed by
LACMA as a Refrigerator Technician. Pet. ¶3. 
He was discharged from County service after he was charged with felony
possession of illegal assault weapons.  Pet.,
¶5.
Scagliotti petitioned the Commission for a hearing. The Commission
appointed a hearing officer to hear the evidence.  After a full hearing on the merits, the hearing
officer recommended upholding the discharge. The hearing officer found
Scagliotti’s claims that he committed the crimes out of ignorance not credible
and the fact that the felonies were retroactively determined to be misdemeanors
insufficient to overcome the disciplinary decision. The hearing officer found
Scagliotti’s discharge was appropriate, particularly as LACMA could not
continue to employ someone who was found to have acted in such a reckless
manner and charged with felony counts of illegal possession of firearms,
larceny and a misdemeanor count for marijuana. Pet., ¶6.
Scagliotti objected to the Commission’s adoption of the
hearing officer’s report. The Commission then overturned the discharge and reinstated
Scagliotti to his position after serving a 30-day suspension.  LACMA objected to the new proposed decision,
but the Commission overruled those objections.  Pet., ¶7.
LACMA maintains that the Commission’s reinstatement of Scagliotti
as a Refrigeration Technician was an abuse of discretion.  Pet., ¶7. 
The Commission abused its discretion by imposing a 30-day suspension and
not upholding a discharge.  In
determining there was no job nexus, the Commission ignored personnel-related
issues, dealing with supervisors, clients, co-workers, and the public, all of
which require professional behavior.  By compelling
LACMA to keep Scagliotti as an employee, the Commission is exposing LACMA and
the County to potential liability. Pet., ¶21.
Petitioner LACMA seeks a writ of administrative mandamus
commanding the Commission to set aside its decision and enter an order
restoring the discharge of Scagliotti.
 
2. Course of
Proceedings
A proof of service on file shows that the Commission was
served on August 2, 2023.  The Commission
filed a notice of no beneficial interest in the outcome on October 16, 2023.
Real Party Scagliotti accepted service by notice and
acknowledgement on August 15, 2023.  He filed
an Answer on September 13, 2023.
 
B. Standard of
Review
CCP section 1094.5 is the administrative mandamus provision
which structures the procedure for judicial review of adjudicatory decisions
rendered by administrative agencies.  Topanga
Ass’n for a Scenic Community v. County of Los Angeles, (“Topanga”)
(1974) 11 Cal.3d 506, 514-15.  
CCP section 1094.5 does not in its face specify which cases
are subject to independent review, leaving that issue to the courts.  Fukuda v. City of Angels, (1999)20
Cal.4th 805, 811.  In cases reviewing
decisions which affect a vested, fundamental right the trial court exercises
independent judgment on the evidence. Bixby v. Pierno, (1971) 4 Cal.3d
130, 143.  See CCP §1094.5(c).  In other cases, the substantial evidence test
applies.  Mann v. Department of Motor
Vehicles, (1999) 76 Cal.App.4th 312, 320; Clerici v. Department of Motor
Vehicles, (1990) 224 Cal.App.3d 1016, 1023. An employer’s right to
discipline or manage its employees is not a fundamental vested right, and the
employer does not have a right for the trial court exercise its independent
judgment on the evidence.  County of
Los Angeles v. Civil Service Commission, (1995) 39 Cal.App.4th 620,
633.  Therefore, the substantial evidence
test applies to the court’s review of the County’s mandamus claim concerning Scagliotti’s
discipline.
“Substantial evidence” is relevant evidence that a
reasonable mind might accept as adequate to support a conclusion (California
Youth Authority v. State Personnel Board, (“California You Authority”)
(2002) 104 Cal.App.4th 575, 585) or evidence of ponderable legal significance,
which is reasonable in nature, credible and of solid value.  Mohilef v. Janovici, (1996) 51
Cal.App.4th 267, 305, n.28.  The
petitioner has the burden of demonstrating that the agency’s findings are not
supported by substantial evidence in light of the whole record.  Young v. Gannon, (2002) 97 Cal.App.4th
209, 225.  The trial court considers all
evidence in the administrative record, including evidence that detracts from
evidence supporting the agency’s decision. 
California Youth Authority, supra, 104 Cal.App.4th at 585.
The agency’s decision must be based on the evidence
presented at the hearing.  Board of
Medical Quality Assurance v. Superior Court, (1977) 73 Cal.App.3d 860,
862.  The hearing officer is only
required to issue findings that give enough explanation so that parties may
determine whether, and upon what basis, to review the decision.  Topanga, supra, 11 Cal.3d at
514-15.  Implicit in CCP section 1094.5
is a requirement that the agency set forth findings to bridge the analytic gap
between the raw evidence and ultimate decision or order.  Id. at 515.
An agency is presumed to have regularly performed its
official duties (Evid. Code §664), and the petitioner therefore has the burden
of proof.  Steele v. Los Angeles
County Civil Service Commission, (1958) 166 Cal.App.2d 129, 137.  “[T]he burden of proof falls upon the party
attacking the administrative decision to demonstrate wherein the proceedings
were unfair, in excess of jurisdiction or showed prejudicial abuse of
discretion.  Afford v. Pierno,
(1972) 27 Cal.App.3d 682, 691.
The propriety of a penalty imposed by an administrative
agency is a matter in the discretion of the agency, and its decision may not be
disturbed unless there has been a manifest abuse of discretion.  Lake v. Civil Service Commission, (“Lake”)
(1975) 47 Cal.App.3d 224, 228.  In
determining whether there has been an abuse of discretion, the court must
examine the extent of the harm to the public service, the circumstances
surrounding the misconduct, and the likelihood that such conduct will
recur.  Skelly v. State Personnel
Board, (“Skelly”) (1975) 15 Cal.3d 194, 217-218.  Neither an appellate court nor a trial court
is free to substitute its discretion for that of the administrative agency
concerning the degree of punishment imposed. 
Nightingale v. State Personnel Board, (“Nightingale”)
(1972) 7 Cal.3d 507, 515.  The policy
consideration underlying such allocation of authority is the expertise of the
administrative agency in determining penalty questions.  Cadilla v. Board of Medical Examiners,
(1972) 26 Cal.App.3d 961. 
 
C. Governing Law
An employer (including a public employer) shall not use as a
factor in terminating an employee a record of arrest that does not result in a conviction.
 Labor Code §432.7(a).
A felony conviction involving
moral turpitude constitutes cause for discipline of a public agency employee.  Govt. Code §19572(k).
 “A plea or verdict of guilty, or a conviction following a
plea of nolo contendere, to a charge of a felony or any offense involving moral
turpitude is deemed to be a conviction within the meaning of this section”.  Id. 
“Other failure of good behavior either during or outside of duty hours, which
is of such a nature that it causes discredit to the appointing authority or the
person's employment” is also cause for discipline.  Govt. Code §19572(t).
CSR 18.031 provides grounds for disciplining a County employee:
“Failure of an employee to perform his or her assigned duties so as to meet
fully explicitly stated or implied standards of performance may constitute adequate
grounds for discharge, reduction or suspension.  Where appropriate, such grounds may include,
but are not limited to, qualitative as well as quantitative elements of
performance, such as failure to exercise sound judgment….Grounds for
discharge, reduction, or suspension may also include any behavior or pattern of
behavior which negatively affects an employee's productivity, or which is
unbecoming a county employee….”  AR
333 (emphasis added).
County Department of
Human Resources Guidelines (“Guidelines”) Rule VI authorizes discipline for
criminal or unbecoming conduct on or off-duty. AR 343.  
Rule VI.A provides
that conviction of any crime with a job nexus to county employment warrants a
15-30-day suspension for a first offense and discharge for a second
offense.  Id.  
Rule VI.B provides
that criminal or unbecoming conduct while performing duties, on County remises,
or during work hours or when such conduct is related to the employee’s duties
or departmental interest warrants a 30-day suspension or discharge for a first
offense.  Id.
Rule VI.B cites County Policy 514, which in pertinent part
states: “Departments shall not place a person in a sensitive position if the
person has been convicted of a felony or a misdemeanor, except that such
conviction may be disregarded and if, after conducting individualized
assessment, it is determined that there are mitigating circumstances or the
conviction is not related to the position and poses no threat or risk to the
County or public. Further, departments shall consider as sensitive any
position involving duties which pose a potential threat or risk to the
County or to the public when performed by persons who have a conviction history
incompatible with those duties whether those persons are employees of the
County employees, volunteers, or perform those services pursuant to
contract.”  AR 288 (emphasis added).[2]
Rule VI.C provides
that conviction of crimes (whether felony, misdemeanor, or infraction) or
unbecoming conduct that may include, but are not limited to, illegal drugs,
theft, inappropriate sexual behavior, crimes against persons or property, human
trafficking, etc., warrant a 30-day suspension or discharge for a first
offense.  Id.
 
D. Statement of
Facts
1. Employment
Scagliotti was employed with LACMA as a Refrigeration
Mechanic (HVAC Technician) commencing in 1997. He held this position until his
termination in August 2018.  AR 69.
Scagliotti’s job duties included maintaining the heating and air conditioning
systems at the museum.  AR 348-49.  He was not a sworn officer and did not carry
a firearm.  See id. 
During his 21 years with LACMA, Scagliotti was never
disciplined and mostly received “very good” and “outstanding” ratings on his
performance evaluations.  AR 70, 250,
252, 255.  In the comments attached to his
evaluations, there is no suggestion that he lacked judgment in performing his job
duties or that he exhibited any unusual or threatening behavior toward colleagues
or members of the public.  AR 251, 254,
256.
 
2. Arrest and Conviction
On April 14, 2016, the Los Angeles Police Department (“LAPD”)
searched Scagliotti’s residence following a complaint from a neighbor.[3]
AR 442.  LAPD confiscated 26 firearms from
Scagliotti’s house and placed him under arrest. The 26 firearms consisted of 19
firearms lawfully registered to Scagliotti, four firearms registered to a
friend who had temporarily left them with him after a day at the shooting
range, and three unregistered firearms.  AR
433-34.
On February 1, 2017, the District Attorney filed nine felony
charges and one misdemeanor charge against Scagliotti.  Seven of the felony charges were for unlawful
possession of an assault weapon (Penal Code §30605(A), one felony was for
manufacturing and possessing a short-barreled rifle (Penal Code §33215), and the
ninth felony was for larceny (Penal Code §487(A)).  AR 70.  The
misdemeanor charge was for cultivating marijuana (Health & Safety Code
§11358).  AR 70, 351.
On November 27, 2017, Scagliotti pled nolo contendere
to three felony firearm charges: two charges for unlawful possession of an
assault weapon in violation of Penal Code section 30605(a) and one charge for
possessing a short-barreled rifle in violation of Penal Code section 33215.  AR 70, 363. 
The District Attorney dismissed the remaining charges pursuant to a plea
agreement, including five of the firearm charges, the larceny charge, and the
marijuana charge.  AR 366.  Scagliotti was convicted and received a
suspended sentence with three years’ formal probation on condition that he
serve six days in jail with credit for time served, perform 60 days of community
labor/Caltrans, and pay various fees and restitution.  AR 364.
The charges on which Scagliotti was convicted were “wobblers”
which could be reduced to misdemeanors upon successful completion of probation.
 Scagliotti met the conditions of his
probation and, on June 16, 2020, his convictions were reduced to misdemeanors
and dismissed pursuant to Penal Code section 1203.4.  AR 70, 305-06. 
 
3. Termination of Employment
On July 30, 2018, LACMA issued a Letter of Intent to
Discharge (“Letter of Intent”) to Scagliotti based on his three firearm
convictions.  AR 319-24.  The Letter of Intent relied on his violation
of CSR 18.031 and Guideline Rule VI.B and VI.C as the policies violated.  AR 319.
Scagliotti failed to appear at his Skelly hearing and
presented no evidence for LACMA to consider.  AR 67, 404-05. 
On August 20, 2018, LACMA issued a Notice of Discharge to
Scagliotti based on the three firearm convictions, again relying on CSR 18.031
and Guideline Rule VI.B and VI.C.  AR
3-8. 
 
4. The Default Judgment
On July 23, 2018, the City, through the Department of Water
and Power (“DWP”), filed a civil action (BC714718) against Scagliotti for diverting
power during the period of 2000-2016 by means of a wiring bypass.  AR 155-56. 
DWP sustained damages of $173,328.07 for both metered and unmetered
consumption.  AR 156.  On December 10, 2018, a default judgment was
entered against Scagliotti in the amount of $551,888.57,
including treble damages and interest.  AR 160-61. 
 
5. The Appeal
On September 6, 2018, Scagliotti appealed his discharge to
the Commission.  On May 20, 2021, a
hearing was held in front of Hearing Officer Richard Terzian (“Hearing
Officer”).  AR 66.  LACMA’s sole witness was its Chief Deputy
Director Ann Rowland (“Rowland”).  Scagliotti testified in his defense.
 
a. Rowland
Rowland testified in pertinent part as follows.  LACMA’s biggest asset is its art, which is
valued at billions of dollars.  AR 419.  Due to the nature of his position, Scagliotti
had unfettered access to all parts of the buildings including art storage
rooms, staff offices, the galleries, and other storage areas of the Museum.  AR 396-97.
The felony charges against Scagliotti were serious and “they”
did not feel it appropriate for a convicted felon to work there.  AR 402.  
He might be a danger to the staff and public and his bad judgment was
not consistent with the sort of employee they want.  AR 402. 
They discussed the issue with Human Resources and looked at the
Guidelines and were advised that discharging Scagliotti was consistent with the
rules and regulations.  AR 403.  They considered his lack of prior discipline,
but the level of criminal behavior and lack of judgment superseded his record.  AR 405. 
Discharge is permissible under the Guidelines for criminal or unbecoming
conduct.  AR 406.  
Scagliotti’s bad judgment in possessing illegal firearms
made him unfit for service with the County. AR 408.  “[H]aving a convicted felon in an art museum
doesn’t sit well.”  AR 408.  His “bad judgment” was engaging in criminal
activity that resulted in a conviction and that is what she relied on in making
the decision to discharge him.  AR 423-24.
 
b. Scagliotti
Scagliotti testified in pertinent part as follows.  His main priority in his job was maintaining
the temperature and humidity for the proper preservation and presentation of
the artwork.  AR 430.  He mainly dealt with equipment and had little
interaction with the public during the workday.   AR 432.
He is a firearm collector. 
AR 434.  He uses his guns on the
shooting range to target shoot.  AR
434.  When LAPD executed a search warrant
at his home, he had 26 weapons, 19 of which were in his name.  AR 433. 
Of the seven unregistered weapons, four were registered in the name of
his friends.  AR 433.  He brought them home to clean after they were
used at the shooting range.  AR 434.
He pled no contest to three felony charges.  AR 445. 
Two of the unregistered firearms for which he pled no contest were given
to him in 1992 by the family of a close friend who passed away.  AR 436-38.  Scagliotti did not register these firearms
because he was unaware of the procedures for registering guns inherited from
others. AR 437-38.  The third unregistered
firearm for which he was convicted was an 80% pistol platform that he custom built
in 2002.  AR 438-39.  He was not aware that it was considered an
illegal short-barrel rifle until the criminal proceedings against him.  AR 438-39.
On cross-examination, LACMA attempted to ask Scagliotti
about the DWP default judgment.  AR 457.  The Hearing Officer sustained the objection of
Scagliotti’s counsel on relevance grounds.  AR 457. 
 LACMA’s counsel argued that the
evidence went to Scagliotti’s credibility but the Hearing Officer reiterated
that the objection was sustained and told LACMA’s counsel to move on.  AR 457.
 
6. The Hearing Officer’s Proposed Decision
On July 2, 2021, the Hearing Officer issued a Proposed
Decision recommending that Scagliotti’s discharge be upheld based on his three
firearm convictions.  AR 67-76.  The Hearing Officer stated that the
Commission defined the issues as: (1) Are the allegations contained in the
Department’s letter of August 20, 2018 true? and (2) If any or all of the
allegations are true, is the discipline appropriate?  AR 67.
The Hearing Officer found there was no factual dispute.  AR 68. 
Scagliotti admitted to, and was convicted of, three felonies.  AR 68. 
That the felonies were retroactively reduced to misdemeanors was of no
consequence.  AR 69.  Rowland testified that she could not have an
employee who exercised such poor judgment in proximity to other employees, in
light of the value of LACMA’s collection and the safety of other
employees.  AR 69.  Scagliotti’s claim that he committed the
crimes out of ignorance was not credible. 
AR 69, 70.
Scagliotti’s job gave him unlimited and unsupervised access
to LACMA’s art collection both on display and in storage worth billions of
dollars and “arguably priceless”.   AR
69.  His conviction for three felonies relating
to guns -- two for possession of unregistered assault rifles and the third for
manufacture and possession of a short-barreled rifle -- was conduct unbecoming
of a County employee.  AR 70.  Scagliotti’s conviction of the crimes
represents extremely bad judgment on his part, which had a significant adverse
effect on other LACMA employees and its relations with the public, and which endangered
its priceless assets in the form of its art collections.  AR 70.  
The Hearing Officer concluded that LACMA met its burden in
proving the allegation and that the discharge was appropriate.  He recommended that the discharge be
sustained.  AR 71. 
 
7. The Commission’s Decision
On October 6, 2021, Scagliotti filed objections to the
Proposed Decision.  AR 80.  At the ensuing Commission hearings, a
Commissioner observed that she “did not see any support for” the implication in
Rowland’s testimony that Scagliotti would use the firearms to “rob or bring
harm to the museum.” CSCHT-20.   Another Commissioner stated that there was no
“job nexus” and that “discharge [was not] supported by the facts found.”
CSCHT-61.  A third Commissioner noted
that “there had been no evidence in this case that any weapons had been brought
to work.”  CSCHT-64-65. 
On a 3-2 vote, the Commission issued a new Proposed Decision
reducing Scagliotti’s termination to a 30-day suspension on the grounds that
LACMA “did not prove a nexus between [Scagliotti’s] off duty conduct and [his]
job duties.”  AR 117-18. 
LACMA filed objections to the New Proposed Decision in which
it, inter alia, submitted records related to the DWP default judgment.
AR 119-29, 155-61.  
On April 19, 2023, the Commission overruled LACMA’s
objections and issued a final order reducing Scagliotti’s discharge to a 30-day
suspension.  AR 168-69, 227.  
 
E. Analysis 
Petitioner LACMA seeks a writ of mandate compelling the
Commission to set aside its decision.  LACMA
argues that (1) the Hearing Officer wrongly sustained the objection to a
question on cross-examination of Scagliotti concerning the DWP default judgment
and (2) the Commission erred in reducing the penalty to a 30-day suspension.
LACMA’s arguments are disposed of by the fact that the
standard of review in this case is substantial evidence.  County of Los Angeles v. Civil Service
Commission, supra, 39 Cal.App.4th at 633.  Scagliotti stands convicted of three weapons
charges and the Commission’s decision that there is no nexus between his
possession of illegal assault weapons at his home and his job at LACMA is
supported by substantial evidence.
 
1. LACMA Improperly Relies on Facts Not in the Record and
Inferences That Are Impermissible
As a threshold matter, Scagliotti correctly argues that LACMA’s
briefs improperly rely on facts not in the administrative record and an
inference that may not lawfully be drawn. 
Opp. at 12, 14-15.
First, LACMA relies on the fact that Scagliotti was charged
with ten criminal offenses, and not just his conviction for three offenses, to argue
that the nature and quantity of the entire charges shows that he poses a threat
to the County.  Pet. Op. Br. at 7, 14,
17.  The existence of unproven charges
cannot be relied upon by an employer in discharging an employee.  See Labor Code §432.7(a).  Moreover, LACMA’s Notice of Discharge only
relied on the three charges for which Scagliotti was convicted, not the seven
other charges which were dismissed. AR 3-8. 
LACMA may not properly rely on the dismissed charges to reach any
conclusions.  

Second, LACMA argues that the Scagliotti “illegally planted,
cultivated and processed marijuana” using the electricity he “diverted” from
DWP.  Pet. Op. Br. at 16, 19.  While the default judgment in DWP’s favor is
in the record, there is no evidence that Scagliotti stole power from DWP to
cultivate marijuana.  See AR
155-61.
Third, LACMA argues that Scagliotti’s criminal case was
“highly publicized through major media outlets” and that there was “media
interest in the case”.  Pet. Op. Br. at
14, 19.  In reply, LACMA argues that
there was “high publicity of [Scagliotti’s] arrest” and devotes an entire
paragraph to an ABC7 report of the search and arrest on April 15, 2016.  Reply at 4, 8.  LACMA fails to cite any evidence in the administrative
record of publicity surrounding Scagliotti’s arrest.
Fourth, LACMA argues that Scagliotti was convicted of owning
a “sawed-off shotgun”, which is the weapon of choice for robberies and heists
because they are easy to conceal.  Pet.
Op. Br. at 10, 16.  The Hearing Officer
found that Scagliotti possessed a “short-barrel rifle,” not a “sawed-off
shotgun.”  AR 70.[4]
The court has not considered any of these arguments.
 
2. The
Default Judgment
LACMA argues that the Hearing
Officer excluded evidence of the default judgment entered against Scagliotti
for stealing hundreds of thousands of dollars’ worth of power.  AR 155-61, 457.  The City filed a lawsuit against Scagliotti
for unmetered consumption of water and power worth $173,328.07 from 2000 to
2016 by diverting electricity from DWP by means of a wiring bypass.  AR 155-61.  A default judgment totaling $551,888.57, which
included treble damages, was entered against Scagliotti.  Id. 
LACMA contends that the default judgment is concrete proof that
Scagliotti stole public property for over a decade.  The default judgment also proves Scagliotti is
untrustworthy, lacks truthfulness, and is a dishonest person, thereby showing a
nexus to his job. AR 294.  The Commission
abused its discretion by excluding the default judgment.  Pet. Op. Br. at 19-20.
LACMA contends that the default judgment was significantly
relevant because Scagliotti stole hundreds of thousands of dollars’ worth of
power from DWP.  Theft is a crime of
moral turpitude, and it goes to Scagliotti’s truthfulness and honesty and
proves a nexus to his job.  The excluded
evidence would further reflect upon Scagliotti’s history of using public
property for his financial gain and further demonstrate that the conduct that
gave rise to the dismissal was egregious and inconsistent with the LACMA’s
mission and the requisite professionalism, integrity and sound judgment
required from a County employee.  Further,
Scagliotti stole power by means of a wiring bypass, showing that he has the
skill to compromise sophisticated security undetected.  Pet. Op. Br. at 1; Reply at 8.
LACMA mischaracterizes the evidence excluded by the Hearing
Officer and the reasons why its counsel offered it.  The Hearing Officer did not exclude evidence
of the default judgment; LACMA only added that evidence when it filed objections
to the Commission’s Proposed Decision. 
AR 119-29, 155-61.  Rather, the
Hearing Officer sustained a relevance objection when LACMA’s counsel attempted
to ask Scagliotti about the DWP default judgment.  AR 457. 
LACMA’s counsel argued that the question was relevant for Scagliotti’s
credibility but the Hearing Officer reiterated that the objection was sustained
and told LACMA’s counsel to move on.  AR
457.  This evidentiary ruling is reviewed
for an abuse of discretion.  See CCP
§1094.5. 
Scagliotti argues that the Hearing Officer properly excluded
this question because it would have violated CSR 4.03(C), which requires the
Commission to issue a Notice of Hearing advising the parties of “the specific
issue(s) . . . to be heard” and that “no other issues shall be heard” at the
hearing.  The Commission only identified
two issues in the Notice of Hearing: (1) whether the allegations contained in
Scagliotti’s Notice of Discharge were true; and (2) if so, whether discipline
is appropriate.  AR 329.   The
allegations contained in the Notice of Discharge did not mention the DWP judgment;
only the firearm convictions were mentioned.  AR 3-8.  Opp. at 12-13.
Due process also
requires that the affected employee be provided with the “grounds for
discipline” and the “charges and materials on which the action is based.” Skelly,
supra, 15 Cal.3d at 736.  Likewise,
the agency must inform the employee of the “substance of the charge” before the
hearing commences.  Smith v. State Bd.
of Pharmacy, (1995) 47 Cal.App.4th 229, 241-42 (due process violation where
charges pursued at the hearing differed from the charging document).  Opp. at 13.
This is true but not
controlling.  There is nothing in Skelly
or CSR 4.03(C) that limits the quantity of evidence an agency can submit at a
disciplinary appeal hearing in connection with the charged matters.  Questions of Scagliotti by LACMA’s counsel
designed to impeach his credibility are permissible.  Evid. Code §785.  However, specific instances of conduct
generally are inadmissible to show a character trait.  Evid. Code §787.  
The court need not
decide whether the Hearing Officer committed an abuse of discretion in
excluding questions about Scagliotti’s default judgment for theft of power from
DMV because any abuse of discretion was harmless error.  Even due process violations are subject to a
harmless error analysis.  Hinrichs v.
County of Orange, (2004) 125 Cal.App.4th 921, 928.  The Hearing Officer explained that he did not
find Scagliotti’s explanation credible that he committed his weapon possession
crimes out of ignorance.  AR 69.  LACMA points to no other aspect of
Scagliotti’s testimony that could bear on the proper penalty, and any error in
not permitting the question to be answered was harmless.[5]
 
3. The Penalty
LACMA argues[6]
that the Commission abused its discretion by reducing
the discharge to a slap on the wrist 30-day suspension despite the “weight of
the evidence”[7] and the harm to the public.  Considering the nature of the crimes, the
circumstances surrounding their commission, and Scagliotti’s access to LACMA’s
billions of dollars’ worth of art located in various art storage rooms and
galleries, employees, and patrons, it is undeniable that the Commission
exceeded all bounds of reason and abused its discretion by reducing the
discharge to a 30-day suspension.  A
30-day suspension sends a wrong message to County employees that the illegal
possession of dangerous weapons has no negative consequence to their
employment.  A discharge reassures the
public that they are safe at LACMA, and artists and generous donors will rest
assured that their priceless art and contributions to the County are not
threatened by dangerous felons like Scagliotti. 
A mere slap on the wrist of a 30-day suspension does not protect the
public from the harm of heist and robbery. 
Pet. Op. Br. at 12-13, 15, 20.
In seeking to set aside the Commission’s penalty
determination, LACMA faces a steep burden. 
The propriety of a penalty imposed by an administrative agency is a
matter in the discretion of the agency, and its decision may not be disturbed
unless there has been a manifest abuse of discretion.  Lake, supra, 47 Cal.App.3d 224,
228.  The court’s powers are limited and
exercised with great deference to the Commission’s decision on the question of
penalty.  See Deegan v. City of Mountain View, (“Deegan”) (1999)
72 Cal.App.4th 37, 45.  The
court may not substitute its own judgment for that of the Commission and court
must uphold the penalty if there is any reasonable basis to sustain it.  Id. at 46.  It is only in an exceptional case that an
abuse of discretion is shown because reasonable minds cannot differ on the
appropriate penalty.  Deegan, supra, 72 Cal.App.4th at 45.
Thus, the issue is whether the Commission’s decision to
reduce Scagliotti’s penalty to a 30-day suspension was a clear abuse of
discretion.  See Cate v. State Personnel Bd., (“Cate”) (2012) 204
Cal.App.4th 270, 285.  The agency’s
discretion is not unfettered, and the court may find an abuse of discretion
where the decision exceeds the bounds of reason.  Kolender v. San Diego County Civil Service
Commission, (“Kolender”) (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 464,
471.  In determining whether there has
been an abuse of discretion, the court must examine the extent of the harm to
the public service, the circumstances surrounding the misconduct, and the
likelihood that such conduct will recur. 
Skelly, supra, 15 Cal.3d at 217-18.  In weighing these factors, the court
considers the nature of the employee's profession, “since some occupations such
as law enforcement, carry responsibilities and limitations on personal freedom
not imposed on those in other fields.”  Cate,
supra, 204 Cal.App.4th at 284.
 
a.     
Harm to Public Service/Circumstances of the
Misconduct
Harm to the public
service is the most important consideration. 
County of Los Angeles v. Civil Service Commission of County of Los
Angeles, (2019) 40 Cal. App. 5th 871, 878 (citation omitted). The pu0blic
is entitled to protection from unprofessional employees whose conduct places
people at risk of injury and the government at risk of incurring liability. Kolender,
supra, 149 Cal. App. 4th at 471 (citations omitted).
LACMA argues that Scagliotti’s
conviction has tarnished LACMA’s reputation.  LACMA is a reputable museum and should not be
employing a convicted felon who had access to over 26 guns, some of which are
unregistered and illegal to possess, including an illegal short-barrel rifle.  Reputable artists will think twice or even
look for other museums either to donate or even exhibit their rare art because
of the risk Scagliotti poses to these unique treasures. Scagliotti’s employment
is a significant risk to LACMA’s reputation and his employment has a negative
impact on public trust.  Pet. Op. Br. at 13-14.[8]
Scagliotti’s employment also
exposes LACMA to financial and legal responsibility.  Scagliotti is no ordinary employee who missed
one day’s work or came to work a few hours late.  His felony conviction of Scagliotti was for possessing
multiple unregistered guns and manufacturing and possessing a short-barrel
rifle. It is common knowledge that such guns are a choice of weapon for
criminals engaged in robberies and heists because they are easy to conceal and
cause significant damage.  Still, the
Commission failed to consider the weight and the nature of the felony
conviction and the significance of owning a short-barreled rifle by a person
who has access to billions of dollars’ worth of art and history.  Pet. Op. Br. at 15.
A 30-day suspension for
such an egregious crime sends a wrong message to other County employees that
illegal possession of dangerous weapons is acceptable.  Discharge sends the correct message to County
employees that the County does not condone crime, and that felons like
Scagliotti have no place in the County for employment.  A discharge also reassures the public that
they are safe at LACMA, and artists and generous donors who donate millions of
dollars to LACMA will rest assured that their priceless arts and contributions
are not threatened by dangerous felons like Scagliotti.  Pet. Op. Br. at 20.
LACMA further argues
that the circumstances of Scagliotti’s misconduct are egregious.  He possessed 26 guns, some of which were
unregistered, and pled no contest to three felony charges.  During the hearing, Scagliotti argued that
the felonies he was convicted of were regulatory violations.  AR 326. 
This argument is meritless because one of those felonies was for
manufacturing and possession of a short-barreled rifle, a choice of weapon for
heists, burglaries, and robberies.  The
fact that Scagliotti evaded detection while working under the nose of the
County is proof that Scagliotti could hide in plain sight waiting for the
perfect moment to do harm to the public and LACMA employees. Pet. Op. Br. at 17-18.
The Commission’s conclusion that the public harm from Scagliotti’s
misconduct is modest because it is not connected to his work is supported by
substantial evidence. AR 117-18.  
As Scagliotti argues, there is no connection between Scagliotti’s weapons
convictions and the workplace. The only place he ever took his firearms was the
shooting range.  AR 434-35.  He did not bring the weapons to work, was
never seen with them outside work while in a County uniform, and did not engage
in any public behavior that attracted the attention of the police. When LAPD
seized the firearms, they were stored safely in his home.  Opp at 8.
There also is no nexus between Scagliotti’s convictions and his job
duties as a Refrigeration Mechanic. As a civilian employee, Scagliotti is not
subject to the “higher standards of conduct” that apply to law enforcement
personnel.  His job as a Refrigeration
Mechanic is to maintain LACMA’s heating and refrigeration systems.  He does not carry a weapon and is not
responsible for enforcing firearm regulations.  As such, there is no connection between
Scagliotti’s possession of unregistered firearms and his job duties.  Opp. at 8-9.[9]
Nor are the circumstances of his misconduct egregious.  Despite LACMA’s arguments about danger to the
public, its employees, and its artwork, there is no evidence that Scagliotti’s weapons
convictions show him to be a threat.  Scagliotti
has been a gun collector for decades.  He
acquired two of the guns in question before he began working at LACMA and
acquired the third in 2002, 16 years before his termination.  AR 436-38.[10]
 Scagliotti
never exhibited any behavior suggesting that he would use his firearms to carry
out a heist of LACMA’s art collection. As the Commission recognized, Scagliotti’s
possession of the three illegal firearms does not call into question his
ability to perform his job duties. The convictions were not crimes of violence
or moral turpitude that would create concerns over whether he could be trusted
around LACMA’s property.  Whether or not
one agrees with him that his convictions stemmed from a misunderstanding of California’s
complex gun regulations, he lawfully owned a number of firearms and never used them
in an illegal or irresponsible fashion. 
Opp at 9.[11]
Finally, Scagliotti correctly criticizes LACMA’s assertion that there is
a straight line from possessing unregistered firearms to orchestrating an armed
heist of its art collection.  The
notion that Scagliotti has been waiting
21 years for the perfect moment to rob LACMA’s art collection at gunpoint is
rooted more in the world of Hollywood fantasy than anything resembling reality.  Opp at 9.
The harm to public service and circumstances of Scagliotti’s misconduct
are modest.
 
b. The Likelihood of Recurrence
LACMA argues that it is
a miracle that a life has not been taken so far.  It should not be forced to retain a convicted
felon who is most likely to commit other similar and more dangerous crimes
against the patrons of LACMA and its billions of dollars of art.  It is undeniably certain that Scagliotti will
venture towards this unreplaceable art, to which he has easy access. Pet. Op.
Br. at 18-19.
Aside from the fact that
LAMCA’s argument is wholly speculative, it focuses on the wrong
likelihood.  The reoccurrence at issue is
whether Scagliotti is likely to again possess illegal weapons in the future,
not whether he is likely to rob LACMA.  
Scagliotti argues that
two of his firearm convictions stemmed from the unique circumstances in which
he acquired the guns through inheritance from a deceased friend followed by a
change in the law and the third conviction stemmed from his misunderstanding of
the regulatory regime governing custom built firearms. These are not offenses
that reveal a persistent character defect or predisposition toward criminality.
Now that Scagliotti is aware of the regulatory framework, it is highly unlikely
he will re-offend.  Opp at 11.
This may or may not be true.  Contrary
to Scagliotti’s argument, his admitted status as a gun enthusiast would suggest
that he may want to possess the same types of illegal weapons in the future.  The court cannot reach any clear conclusion
about the likelihood of reoccurrence.
 
c. Conclusion
In addition to the
modest public harm and circumstances of misconduct, and unknown likelihood of
reoccurrence, there are mitigating factors. Scagliotti is a 21-year employee
with a stellar work record and no history of discipline.  He has never exhibited any violent or
threatening behavior.  His felonies have
been reduced to misdemeanors and expunged from his record.  These factors weigh in his favor.  Opp
at 11.
Scagliotti was
charged with violating Guidelines Rule VI.B and Rule IV.C.  Rule VI authorizes discipline for criminal or
unbecoming conduct on or off-duty.  AR
343.  Rule VI.B provides that criminal or
unbecoming conduct while performing duties, on County premises, or during work
hours or when such conduct is related to the employee’s duties or departmental
interest, warrants a 30-day suspension or discharge for a first offense.  Id. 
Rule VI.C provides that conviction of crimes (whether felony,
misdemeanor, or infraction) or unbecoming conduct that may include, but are not
limited to, illegal drugs, theft, inappropriate sexual behavior, crimes against
persons or property, human trafficking, etc., warrant a 30-day suspension or
discharge for a first offense.  Id.  
Scagliotti’s
offenses are not expressly enumerated in Rules VI.B or VI.C and are not analogous
to the enumerated offenses, which are crimes of violence or moral turpitude.  Scagliotti’s offenses fit within the
scope of Rule VI.C, for which the
Commission had discretion to impose a 30-day suspension for a first
offense.  There is substantial evidence
from which the Commission may properly conclude that a 3-day suspension is
appropriate, and this is not the rare case where the court should overturn the
penalty.  See Deegan,
supra, 72 Cal.App.4th at
45.
 
F. Conclusion
The Petition is denied. 
Scagliotti’s counsel is ordered to prepare a proposed judgment and a
writ, serve it on Merritt’s counsel for approval as to form, wait ten days
after service for any objections, meet and confer if there are objections, and
then submit the proposed judgment along with a declaration stating the
existence/non-existence of any unresolved objections.  An OSC re: judgment is set for June 6, 2024
at 9:30 a.m. 


