 Case Number:  22STCV33724    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2023    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     September 20, 2023               TRIAL DATE: April
9, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                         Nabil Mihoubi v. General Motors, LLC
 
CASE NO.:                 22STCV33724            
 
MOTION
FOR ORDER DEEMING TRUTH OF MATTERS IN REQUESTS FOR ADMISSIONS

 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff Nabil Mihoubi
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Defendant General
Motors, LLC
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is a lemon law action filed on October 17, 2022. Plaintiff purchased
a 2022 Cadillac Escalade which is alleged to be defective.
 
Plaintiff moves for an order
deeming the truth of matters in requests for admissions. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Plaintiff’s Motion for Order
Deeming the Truth of Matters in Requests for Admissions is GRANTED. 
 
Plaintiff’s request for sanctions
is GRANTED in the amount of $411.65 against Defendant and its counsel,
jointly and severally. Payment is to be made within 10 days of this order.
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Plaintiff moves for an order
deeming the truth of matters in requests for admissions. 
 
//
 
 
Legal
Standard
 
When a party to
whom requests for admission are directed fails to respond, the party
propounding the requests may move for an order that the truth of any matters
specified in the requests be deemed admitted. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2033.280(b).)
“The court shall make this order [deem the requests admitted], unless it finds
that the party to whom the request for admissions have been directed has
served, before the hearing on the motion, a proposed response to the requests
for admission that is in substantial compliance with section 2033.220.” (Code
Civ. Proc. § 2033.280(c).)
 
Analysis
 
            Plaintiff
requests that the Court issue an order deeming the truth of the matters in
Plaintiff’s requests for admissions propounded to Defendant. Plaintiff served
Requests for Admissions, Set One, on January 31, 2023 by mail. (Declaration of
Nadia Yashar ISO Mot. ¶ 2, Exh. 1.) Defendant’s responses were therefore due on
March 6, 2023. (Id. ¶ 3.) To date, no responses have been received. (Id.
¶ 5.) 
 
            Plaintiff
also requests that the Court order Defendant to provide complete responses to
the requests for admission without objections. Plaintiff’s request is not
authorized by any provision in the Code of Civil Procedure, and the Court
therefore refuses to consider it further.
 
            Defendant
opposes this motion on the basis that Plaintiff did not adequately meet and
confer with Defendant and that the failure to respond was due to a calendaring
error and responses “will be served” by the date of the hearing on this motion.
These contentions are irrelevant. Plaintiff is under no obligation to meet and
confer with Defendant before filing a motion to deem the truth of matters in
requests for admissions. All that Plaintiff must do is establish that requests
for admission were properly served, and no response was provided within the
time authorized by statute or agreed upon by the parties. Plaintiff has done
so, and Defendant concedes that, as of now, no responses have been served. 
 
            Plaintiff
is therefore entitled to an order deeming the truth of the matters in requests
for admissions. 
 
Sanctions
 
            Plaintiff
requests sanctions for Defendant’s failure to provide timely responses to
requests for admissions. 
 
Failure to respond or submit to an
authorized method of discovery is a misuse of the discovery process for which
sanctions may be imposed. (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2023.010(d); 2023.030(a).)
Sanctions are mandatory on the party or attorney or both whose failure to serve
a timely response to requests for admission necessitated a motion to deem
requests for admissions as admitted. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2033.280(c).)
 
Here, Plaintiff requests sanctions
against Defendant and its counsel, jointly and severally, in the amount of
$1,681.65. This request is based on one hour of attorney time incurred at a
rate of $350 per hour, plus $61.65 in filing fees, plus an additional 3.5 hours
anticipated attorney time and $45 in anticipated costs. (Yashar Decl.  ¶¶ 8-9.) The Court declines to award fees and
costs not actually incurred and will therefore reduce the award of sanctions to
$411.65, representing the fees and costs actually incurred. 
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s Motion for Order Deeming the Truth of Matters in
Requests for Admissions is GRANTED. 
 
Plaintiff’s request for sanctions
is GRANTED in the amount of $411.65 against Defendant and its counsel,
jointly and severally. Payment is to be made within 10 days of this order.
 
Moving Party to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  September 20,
2023                           ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 