  Case Number:  21STCV28284    Hearing Date:   December 5, 2023    Dept:  50 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 50
 







ARMANDO VAZQUEZ-RAMOS, as Successor Trustee of the LOURDES
  R. VAZQUEZ FAMILY LIVING TRUST of 2004,
 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
ANTONIO RAMOS VAZQUEZ, in his individual capacity, et al., 
 
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


21STCV28284




Hearing Date:


December 5, 2023




Hearing Time:


10:00 a.m.




TENTATIVE RULING RE:  
PLAINTIFF ARMANDO VAZQUEZ’S SECOND
  RENEWED MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT



            
Background 
Plaintiff Armando
Vazquez-Ramos, as Successor Trustee of the Lourdes R. Vazquez Family Living
Trust of 2004 (“Plaintiff”) filed this action on July 30, 2021 against, inter
alia, Antonio Ramos Vazquez, in his individual capacity, and Fernando Ramos
Vazquez. The Complaint alleges causes of action for (1) quiet title to real
property and for injunctive relief, (2) constructive trust, and (3) accounting.

On September 26, 2022,
Plaintiff filed an amendment to the Complaint naming Peggy Muse in place of Doe
2. 
In the Complaint,
Plaintiff alleges, inter alia, that he “is now, and at all times
mentioned herein was, the owner of all the following real property, situated in
the City of Long Beach, and commonly known as: 1608 Petaluma Avenue, in the
City of Long Beach…” (Compl., ¶ 31.) Plaintiff alleges that “ANTONIO RAMOS
VAZQUEZ, in his individual capacity, and FERNANDO RAMOS VAZQUEZ, in his
individual capacity, Defendants, claim an interest and estate in each of the
aforementioned properties adverse to Plaintiff; the claims of defendant are
without any right whatsoever, and defendant has no right, estate, title or
interest in any of the property, nor any part thereof, whatsoever.” (Compl., ¶
32.) 
Plaintiff now moves for
leave to file a first amended complaint. Antonio Ramos Vazquez, Fernando Ramos
Vazquez, and Peggy Muse (collectively, “Defendants”) oppose. 
Discussion 
Pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure section 473(a)(1), “[t]he
court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow
a party to amend any pleading.” Amendment may be allowed at any time before or
after commencement of trial. (Id., § 576.) “[T]he court’s discretion will usually be
exercised liberally to permit amendment of the pleadings. The policy favoring
amendment is so strong that it is a rare case in which denial of leave to amend
can be justified.” (Howard v. County of
San Diego (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th
1422, 1428 [internal citations omitted].)
“If the motion to amend is timely made and the granting of the motion will not
prejudice the opposing party, it is error to refuse permission to amend….” (Morgan v. Superior Court of Los Angeles County (1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530.) Prejudice includes “delay in trial, loss of critical
evidence, or added costs of preparation.” (Solit v.
Tokai Bank, Ltd. New York Branch (1999) 68 Cal.App.4th 1435, 1448.)
A motion to amend a pleading before trial
must include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended pleading, which must
be serially numbered to differentiate it from previous pleadings or amendments.
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324, subd. (a).) The motion must also state what allegations are proposed
to be deleted or added, by page, paragraph, and line number. (Ibid.) Finally, a
separate supporting declaration specifying the effect of the amendment, why the
amendment is necessary and proper, when the facts giving rise to the amended
allegations were discovered, and the reason why the request for amendment was
not made earlier must also accompany the motion. (Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1324, subd. (b).)
 
A Declaration of Armando Vazquez-Ramos is
submitted in connection with the instant motion. Plaintiff’s supporting
declaration indicates that “[a] copy of the [Proposed] First Amended
Complaint is attached hereto as Exhibit ‘A.’ A redlined version of the
[Proposed] First Amended Complaint is attached hereto as Exhibit ‘B.’” (Vazquez-Ramos Decl., ¶ 8.) 
As shown in the redlined version of the
proposed First Amended Complaint, Plaintiff seeks to add additional causes of
action for tort of deceit and cancellation of instruments, as well new factual
allegations. (Vazquez-Ramos Decl., ¶ 8, Ex.
B.) Plaintiff’s supporting declaration also discusses “new paragraphs
within the FAC that ought to have been included in the original Complaint, but
which were not, or other allegations which were discovered due to discovery or
other investigation…” (See Vazquez-Ramos
Decl., ¶ 27.) 
In the opposition, Defendants first assert
that Plaintiff failed to sign his declaration. However, Plaintiff’s declaration
filed on November 7, 2023 with the instant motion contains the signature “/s/
Armando Vazquez-Ramos.” (Vazquez-Ramos Decl., p. 26.)
Defendants do not provide any legal authority or argument demonstrating that
this is insufficient. 
Next, Defendants argue that Plaintiff “fails
to go through the…four-part analysis of C.R.C. Rule
3.1324(b) for all the changed paragraphs. He acknowledges earlier in his
Declaration that there are new paragraphs, but in Paragraph 27, he jumps
directly to paragraph 8.” (Opp’n at p. 5:2-4.) But
paragraph 8 is the first paragraph in the proposed First Amended Complaint
under the heading “Facts in Common to All Causes of Action.” (Vazquez-Ramos Decl., ¶ 8, Ex. A, p. 4.) 
Defendants also assert that “in
Paragraph 27.a…PLAINTIFF’s statements of ignorance are not credible.” (Opp’n at
p. 5:6-7, emphasis omitted.) Defendants’ counsel asserts that “PLAINTIFF states
he did not discover until April 2022 that the LVT2004 did not terminate
automatically upon the death of his mother; however, the Probate Case where
DEFENDANTS were alleging PLAINTIFF violated his fiduciary duties was filed in
September 2020, and has been ongoing since that time. Since September 2020,
PLAINTIFF has been fighting and opposing DEFENDANT’s motions seeking his
removal as trustee pre-trial. Clearly, he knows he has remained trustee.”
(Potier Decl., ¶ 6.) But the Court does not see how this invalidates
Plaintiff’s statement that “[o]n or about April 7, 2022, I discovered that the
LVT2004 did not terminate automatically upon the death of LOURDES.” (Vazquez-Ramos Decl., ¶ 27(a).) 
Defendants also assert that “PLAINTIFF does not state, by page,
paragraph, and line number the deleted and added allegations.” (Opp’n at p.
6:17-18.) But as set forth above, Plaintiff provides a redlined version of the
proposed First Amended Complaint. (Vazquez-Ramos
Decl., ¶ 8, Ex. B.) The redlined version shows allegations that are proposed to
be deleted from and added to the original Complaint. (Ibid.)
 
In addition, Defendants
assert that Plaintiff’s motion is untimely and will prejudice them. Defendants
indicate that Antonio Ramos Vazquez and Peggy Muse have propounded written
discovery in this action. (Potier Decl., ¶ 10.) Defendants’ counsel asserts
that “[d]ue to the above discovery activity, DEFENDANTS have incurred
almost $100,000 in attorney fees, much due to discovery and PLAINTIFF’s willful
refusal to comply with discovery. The discovery included not only propounding
the actual discovery, but numerous detailed follow up meet and confer letters
and communications, and Informal Discovery Conferences that became necessary
due to Plaintiff’s failure to comply.” (Potier Decl., ¶ 12.) 
Defendants assert that they “would be forced to conduct an entirely
new set of discovery, not only on PLAINTIFF, but also the additional Plaintiff
the PLAINTIFF seeks to add.” (Potier Decl., ¶ 11.) As an initial matter,
Plaintiff’s proposed First Amended Complaint does not appear to show that
Plaintiff seeks to add an additional plaintiff. (Vazquez-Ramos
Decl., ¶ 8, Exs. A, B.) In addition, Plaintiff notes that “[a] trial
date has not been set and the discovery process is still ongoing…” (Mot. at p.
5:24.) Plaintiff also asserts that “[t]he parties have yet to conduct
deposition. Thus, any anticipated argument that written discovery has already
concluded is meritless.” (Opp’n at pp. 5:27-6:1.) Defendants acknowledge that
“[t]he only discovery not yet conducted is depositions.” (Potier Decl., ¶ 11.) 
Defendants also cite to Congleton v. Nat'l Union Fire Ins. Co. (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d
51, 62, where the
Court of Appeal noted that “an
amendment which contradicts an admission in the
original pleading will ordinarily not be allowed unless a
showing is made of mistake or other excuse for changing the allegations of
fact.” (Internal emphasis omitted.) Defendants assert that “[h]ere,
Plaintiffs initial Complaint was Verified under oath, so the Court should deny
any amendment which now contradicts.” (Opp’n at p. 9:27-28.) To the extent
Defendants assert that the Court should deny any proposed amendment in the
First Amended Complaint that contradicts the allegations of the original
Complaint, Defendants have not identified any such amendments. 
            Lastly,
Defendants assert that the instant motion is a “sham pleading.” Defendants cite
to Vallejo Development Co. v. Beck Development Co. (1994) 24 Cal.App.4th
929, 946, where the
Court of Appeal noted that “[t]he court may examine the prior complaint to ascertain whether
the amended complaint is merely a sham. The rationale for this rule is
obvious. A pleader
may not attempt to breathe life into a complaint by omitting relevant facts
which made his previous complaint defective. Moreover, any inconsistencies with
prior pleadings must be explained; if the pleader fails to do so, the court may
disregard the inconsistent allegations.” (Internal quotations and citations
omitted.)  
Defendants assert that “[h]ere,
PLAINTIFF claims the trust owns the Petaluma Property, whereas the title
documents attached to the verified pleadings contradict this contention.”
(Opp’n at p. 10:20-22.) But the Court does not see how this argument shows that
the proposed First Amended Complaint purportedly omits any relevant facts which made the original
Complaint defective. (Vallejo Development Co. v. Beck Development Co., supra,
24 Cal.App.4th at p. 946.) 
In first cause of action
in the original Complaint, Plaintiff alleges, inter alia, that “Plaintiff
ARMANDO VAZQUEZ, as Trustee, is now, and at all times mentioned herein was, the
owner of all the following real property, situated in the City of Long Beach,
and commonly known as: 1608 Petaluma Avenue, in the City of Long Beach…” (Compl., ¶ 31.) In the proposed
First Amended Complaint, Plaintiff similarly alleges that “Plaintiff
ARMANDO VAZQUEZ, as Trustee of the LVT2004, is now, and at all times mentioned
herein was, the owner of all the following real property, situated in the City
of Long Beach, and commonly known as: 1608 Petaluma Avenue, in the City of Long
Beach…” (Vazquez-Ramos Decl., ¶ 8, Ex. B, ¶
54.) Defendants do not appear to
identify any inconsistencies between the pleadings. 
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion for leave to
file a First Amended Complaint is granted. The Court orders Plaintiff to file
and serve the First Amended Complaint within 3 days of the date of this Order. 
Plaintiff is ordered to give notice of this Order. 
 
DATED:  December 5, 2023                          ________________________________
Hon. Rolf M.
Treu
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court