 Case Number:  22STCV07335    Hearing Date:   December 5, 2023    Dept:  50 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 50
 



MARIA VARELA, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
J AND S HOSPITALITY, INC., et al.
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


22STCV07335




Hearing Date:


December 5, 2023




 Hearing Time:    2:00
  p.m.
 
TENTATIVE
  RULING RE:  
 
DEFENDANT
  BEST WESTERN INTERNATIONAL, INC.’S MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
 



            
Background
Plaintiff Maria Varela
(“Plaintiff”) filed this action on February 28, 2022 against Defendants J and S
Hospitality, Inc., Best Western International, Inc. (“BWI”), Rebecca Doe, Greg
Doe, and Best Western Palm Desert Resort (the “Resort”) (collectively,
“Defendants”)
The Complaint asserts
causes of action for (1) disability discrimination, (2) perceived disability
discrimination, (3) failure to prevent harassment and retaliation, (4)
retaliation in violation of Government Code section
12940, et seq., (5) age discrimination, (6) nationality
discrimination, (7) wrongful termination in violation of public policy, and (8)
intentional infliction of emotional distress. 
            BWI
now moves for an order granting summary judgment in its favor on
Plaintiff’s’ Complaint and all causes of action set forth therein. Plaintiff
opposes. 
 
 
Request for Judicial
Notice
The Court grants Plaintiff’s request for
judicial notice as to Exhibits 13 and 14 attached to the request. The Court
denies Plaintiff’s request for judicial notice as to Exhibit 12 attached to the
request.  
Legal Standard
“[A] motion for summary judgment shall be granted if all
the papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material
fact and that the moving party is entitled to a judgment as a matter of law.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).)
The moving party bears the initial burden of production to
make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of material fact.
(Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.) If
the moving party carries this burden, the burden shifts to the opposing party
to make a prima facie showing that a triable issue of material fact exists. (Ibid.) Courts
“liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary
judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.) 
When a defendant seeks summary judgment or summary
adjudication, he/she must show either (1) that one or more elements of the
cause of action cannot be established; or (2) that there is a complete defense
to that cause of action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c,
subd. (p)(2).) 
Discussion
A.    Allegations
of the Complaint 
In the Complaint, Plaintiff
alleges that she worked for J and S Hospitality, Inc., BWI, and the Resort for approximately
eight years. (Compl., ¶ 17.) Plaintiff worked in the Laundry Room department at
the time of her termination. (Compl., ¶ 18.) 
In or around 2017, Plaintiff suffered a workplace injury to her back
and was placed on light duty restrictions by her doctor. (Compl., ¶ 19.)
Rebecca Doe, Plaintiff’s supervisor and/or manager, was angry that Plaintiff
was injured and told Plaintiff that she needed to continue working at “100.”
(Compl., ¶¶ 22, 37.) When Plaintiff would explain that she could not work as
quickly as before because she was injured, Rebecca Doe threatened Plaintiff by
telling her that she was going to take away Plaintiff’s work days if she did
not continue working at “100.” (Compl., ¶ 22.) Rebecca Doe was angry that
Plaintiff could not work in housekeeping because of her back injury, and after
her injury, Plaintiff was placed in the laundry department. (Compl., ¶ 23.) 
Plaintiff further alleges that Rebecca Doe treated Plaintiff
differently after knowing that Plaintiff is a U.S. Citizen. (Compl., ¶ 21.)
Plaintiff alleges that Rebecca Doe likes to hire undocumented workers so that
she can take advantage of them by overworking them without breaks. (Compl., ¶
21.) Rebecca Doe told others that Plaintiff might be a liability because she
was a citizen and that undocumented workers are better because they might not
know their rights. (Compl., ¶ 21.)
Plaintiff alleges that she was “terminated
on or about March 26, 2020 because she had been injured and couldn’t perform
her usual work and defendants were getting rid of documented workers and
replacing them with undocumented workers.” (Compl., ¶ 26.) Plaintiff alleges
that Defendants used COVID-19 as a pretext to terminate Plaintiff because they
saw her as a liability and because they perceived her to be disabled. (Compl.,
¶ 25.)  
B.    
BWI’s Motion 
BWI asserts that it “is
entitled to summary judgment on Plaintiff’s Complaint because [BWI] never
employed Plaintiff, had no role in or responsibility for any decision affecting
her employment and her furlough due to governmental shutdown orders, and
because [BWI] is not a joint employer of employees of defendant J & S
Hospitality, Inc., d/b/a Best Western Palm Desert Resort…” (Mot. at p. 5:2-6.) 
BWI cites to Futrell v. Payday California, Inc. (2010) 190 Cal.App.4th
1419, 1434, where the
Court of Appeal noted that “[t]he essence of the common law
test of employment is in the ‘control of details.’ A number of factors may be
considered in evaluating this control, including (1) whether the worker is
engaged in a distinct occupation or business; (2) whether, considering the kind
of occupation and locality, the work is usually done under the alleged employer’s
direction or without supervision; (3) the skill required; (4) whether the
alleged employer or worker supplies the instrumentalities, tools, and place of
work; (5) the length of time the services are to be performed; (6) the method
of payment, whether by time or by job; (7) whether the work is part of the
alleged employer’s regular business; and (8) whether the parties believe they
are creating an employer-employee relationship. The parties’ use of a label to
describe their relationship does not control and will be ignored where the
evidence of their actual conduct establishes a different relationship exists.”
(Internal citations omitted.)
In Futrell, the Court of Appeal noted that “[t]his appeal arises from a class action alleging violations
of sections of the Labor Code and the federal Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938
(29 U.S.C. § 201 et seq.) (FLSA) by a payroll
processing company operating in the local television commercial production
industry. Plaintiffs’ primary claim is that the payroll company violated
various Labor Code and FLSA wage statutes, including Labor
Code sections 510 and 1194 (authorizing a private right of action)…by failing
to pay statutorily required overtime compensation rates to plaintiffs. In the
context of a motion for summary adjudication of issues (SAI), the trial court
ruled the payroll company had not been plaintiffs’ ‘employer.’ The court
thereafter entered judgment in favor of the payroll company, and plaintiffs
filed the appeal that comes before us today.” (Futrell v. Payday California, Inc., supra, 190 Cal.App.4th at p. 1423.)
The Court of Appeal “affirm[ed] the judgment in favor of the payroll
company.” (Ibid.) 
The Futrell Court noted, inter alia, that “Payday did not direct or supervise Futrell at the production sites. Payday did not provide any tools, or the place of
work, to Futrell. Payday did not set Futrell’s pay.” (Id. at
p. 1435.) The Futrell Court also noted that “we see the factor
of the payroll documents as the main focus. For the reasons explained above, we
find such documents—as a matter of law—are not sufficient to support a
conclusion an employer-employee relationship existed between Futrell and Payday
for purposes of the Labor Code wage statutes. Payday did not and
could not hire or fire Futrell, nor did Payday have any control over Futrell’s work activities. A commonsense understanding of
who ‘employed’ Futrell—for purposes of compelling the
payment of allegedly unpaid wages—must prevail, and that employer was Reactor.”
(Ibid.) 
BWI asserts that “[t]he same is true
here. BWI possesses none of the essential authorities over the Resort’s
employees that would qualify BWI as a joint employer under California law.”
(Mot. at p. 11:20-21.) 
BWI provides evidence that it is a “lodging industry service
organization that licenses the use of the ‘Best Western’ name and logo for
member hotels and offers members various services, including a reservation
system and volume discounts hotel supplies, among other things.” (Genther
Decl., ¶ 3.) “In exchange for the reservation system, other services, and the
license to use the ‘Best Western’ name, members pay fees and dues pursuant to a
Membership Agreement.” (Genther Decl., ¶ 4.) 
BWI indicates that its members include the owners of the Best Western
Palm Desert Resort. (Genther Decl., ¶ 2.) BWI indicates that “[p]ursuant to the
Membership Application and Agreement with Best Western, the owner of the Best
Western Palm Desert Resort (the ‘Hotel’) exclusively controls the day-to-day
operations of the Hotel.” (Genther Decl. ¶ 5.) BWI notes that the subject Membership
Application and Agreement states: 
 
17. Best Western
is a nonprofit corporation operated on a cooperative basis by and for its
hotelier members. The relationship of Best Western to its members is one of an
independent contractor. Neither party has the power to obligate or bind the
other in any way. No relationship of partners, joint venturers or agents is
created. BEST WESTERN ONLY PROVIDES SERVICES AS DIRECTED BY THE MEMBERSHIP.
BEST WESTERN HAS NO RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE USE, CONDITION OR OPERATION OF THE
HOTEL OR THE SAFETY OF THE DESIGN OF ANY STRUCTURE OR PRODUCT. BEST WESTERN HAS
NO CONTROL OVER OR RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY DECISION AFFECTING THE EMPLOYMENT OR
SUPERVISION OF ANY PERSON EMPLOYED IN CONNECTION WITH THE HOTEL.” (Genther
Decl., ¶ 5, Ex. B[1].) 
            The “Best Western International,
Inc. Membership Application and Agreement” provided by BWI lists a date of
“5/16/14” and a “Current Hotel Name” of “Best Western Plus Palm Desert Resort.”
(Genther Decl., ¶ 5, Ex. B.) 
BWI cites to the declaration of Brendan Genther, the Director, Member
Relations for BWI, who states that BWI “does not have, nor has it ever had, the
right to hire, discharge, or discipline employees, determine employee wages or
working conditions, set standards for employee skills or productivity, or
supervise employee work routines at the [Best Western Palm Desert Resort].
[BWI] does not have, and has never had, any control over [Best Western Palm
Desert Resort’s] employment policies and/or procedures. [BWI] does not control
any aspect of employment at the [Best Western Palm Desert Resort]. [BWI] does
not have, and has never had, control of or access to employment files for the
[Best Western Palm Desert Resort’s] employees.” (Genther Decl., ¶ 6.)
            BWI also submits the Declaration of
Craig Gilmore, the General Manager of J&S Hospitality, Inc. d/b/a Best
Western Palm Desert Resort. (Gilmore Decl., ¶ 1.) J&S Hospitality, Inc.
d/b/a Best Western Palm Desert Resort is referred to as the “Resort” in Mr.
Gilmore’s declaration. Mr. Gilmore states that “[t]he Membership Application
and Agreement does not include, and the Resort has never received from [BWI]
any directives, mandates, instructions, guidance, guide books, or other
material, written or otherwise, requiring that the Resort engage in any
specific practices in hiring, compensating, disciplining, or terminating employees.”
(Gilmore Decl., ¶ 3.) 
Mr. Gilmore further states that BWI “has no responsibility for, and
does not exercise any control over our recruitment practices, nor has it ever
interviewed any candidates the Resort has considered for employment in any
position. The Resort alone decides its staffing needs and when and who to hire;
what, when, and how employees will be paid; how employes are trained and when;
what employees must wear; when employees are scheduled to work; what holidays,
vacation, leaves of absence, and other days off the Resort provides; whether
and when pay increases, promotions, changes of job titles of employees are
needed; which supervisors employees report to; whether to engage in progressive
discipline and the manner of issuing disciplinary action when needed; and/or the
decisions affecting involuntary termination of employment.” (Gilmore Decl., ¶
3.) Mr. Gilmore states that “[t]he Resort does not consult with or inform [BWI]
of any of these decisions affecting job applicants or employees.” (Gilmore
Decl., ¶ 3.) 
In addition, Mr. Gilmore states that “[t]he Resort maintains a
handbook and has certain personnel policies applicable to its employees that
the Resort develops internally or from outside human resources consultants or
firms of its own choosing, but the handbook and such policies are obtained or
developed by the Resort without any input or guidance from [BWI].” (Gilmore
Decl., ¶ 4.) In addition, “[t]he Resort determines the rates of pay for work
performed by its employees without any requirement or guidelines from [BWI].”
(Gilmore Decl., ¶ 5.) “The Resort issues pay checks and pay statements to its
employees each pay period. The pay statements bear the name and address of the
Resort, and the bank account of the Resort, not [BWI].” (Gilmore Decl., ¶ 5.) “[BWI]
does not pay or issue pay statements to employees of the Resort and does not
contribute directly or indirectly to employee compensation or benefits. [BWI]
does not reimburse the Resort for any employee expenses.” (Gilmore Decl., ¶ 5.)

Mr. Gilmore further states that “[s]tarting in or about March 16,
2020, the Resort received and/or became aware of a number of notices,
directives, and orders from the State of California and agencies of the County
of Riverside, California.” (Gilmore Decl., ¶ 7.) Mr. Gilmore states that “[i]n
order to comply with the government orders and directives…which allowed the
Resort to remain in operation but only for limited purposes, the Resort
determined that it needed to reduce its staff. Accordingly, on or about March
26, 2020, the Resort laid off or furloughed 6 of its housekeeping employees,
including Maria Varela.” (Gilmore Decl., ¶ 8.) Mr. Gilmore states that
“[a]nother employee of the Resort who I supervise and I alone, acting solely
for the Resort, made the decisions of how many employees of the Resort needed
to be laid off and which employees would be affected by these decisions. No
officer, director or employee of [BWI] had any responsibility for or role
whatsoever in making and implementing these decisions.” (Gilmore Decl., ¶ 9.)
Mr. Gilmore indicates that “[n]either I nor the Resort sought or needed
consultation with or approval form [BWI] for these decisions, nor did I or the
Resort even inform [BWI] before or after implementing the reduction in force of
the fact of it or the names of employees affected.” (Gilmore Decl., ¶ 9.) 
In the opposition, Plaintiff asserts that “[t]here is a factual
dispute as [sic] whether BWI retained the authority to control the day to day
operations at Best Western Resort Palm Springs and thus were [sic] an employer
of Plaintiff.” (Opp’n at p. 16:16-19.) 
Plaintiff cites to Medina v. Equilon Enters. (2021) 68 Cal.App.5th
868, 870, where “Plaintiff Santiago Medina appeal[ed] from a summary
judgment entered against him and in favor of his putative joint employer,
defendant Equilon Enterprises, LLC (Shell), which is a Shell Oil Company
subsidiary doing business as Shell Oil Products US.” 
“Shell owned gas stations and operated them
through contracts with separate companies called MSO operators, one of which
employed plaintiff as a gas station cashier and manager. Plaintiff sued
the MSO operator and Shell, alleging violations of the Labor Code and arguing
that Shell was his joint employer, based upon Shell’s strict control over the
operations of its gas stations. Relying on two prior published decisions of our
sister courts of appeal involving similar claims, Curry v. Equilon Enterprises, LLC (2018) 23
Cal.App.5th 289 [233 Cal. Rptr. 3d 295] (Curry) and Henderson v. Equilon Enterprises, LLC (2019)
40 Cal.App.5th 1111 [253 Cal. Rptr. 3d 738] (Henderson),
Shell moved for summary judgment, arguing Shell was not plaintiff’s employer
as a matter of law. The trial court concluded it was bound by these prior
decisions and granted the motion.” (Medina v. Equilon Enters., supra, 68
Cal.App.5th at pp. 870-871.) The Court
of Appeal reversed, finding that “[t]he facts presented by plaintiff in
this case, particularly with respect to the degree of Shell’s control over the
MSO operators and gas station employees like plaintiff, differ meaningfully
from the facts set forth in the two prior opinions. In addition to these
factual distinctions, we also disagree with the analysis of our sister courts
on the application of the relevant tests for joint employer status to Shell’s
operation. We conclude the undisputed facts presented in Shell’s motion show
Shell both indirectly controlled plaintiff’s wages and working conditions and
suffered or permitted plaintiff to work at Shell’s stations, either of which is
enough to make Shell plaintiff’s joint employer.” (Id.
at p. 871.) 
Plaintiff notes that the Medina
Court found, inter alia, that “[t]he relevant wage order
provision defines an ‘employer’ as ‘any person … who directly or indirectly, or through an agent or any other person,
employs or exercises control over the wages, hours, or working conditions of
any person.’ (Cal. Code Regs., tit. 8, § 11070, subd. 2(F), italics
added.) Thus, a person can be a joint employer without exercising
direct control over the employee. If the putative joint employer instead
exercises enough control over the intermediary entity to indirectly dictate the
wages, hours, or working conditions of the employee, that is a sufficient
showing of joint employment…The undisputed facts in this case are more than
sufficient to support such a finding. Shell provided extremely detailed
technical instructions for managing their stations, and deviations from these
standards were prohibited. Plaintiff was even threatened with termination by a
Shell employee for an alleged violation of these standards. Another Shell
employee told plaintiff at training she had fired ‘many’ MSO operator managers
for violating these policies. And
Shell’s system of unilaterally setting reimbursements for labor costs while
mandating hours of operation for their stations had the practical effect of
controlling plaintiff’s wages.” (Medina
v. Equilon Enters., supra, 68 Cal.App.5th at p. 879 [internal
emphasis omitted].) 
Plaintiff argues that “[j]ust
like in…Medina, BWI requires the employees to follow BWI policies and
procedures in the daily operation of the hotel, and oversee the hotel, and any
customer complaints as set forth in their Policies and Procedures.” (Opp’n at
p. 18:8-10.)[2] Based on
the remainder of Plaintiff’s opposition to the instant motion, it appears
Plaintiff is referring to BWI’s “Rules and Regulations” not any specific
“Policies and Procedures.” 
Plaintiff provides the subject May 16, 2014 “Best Western
International., Inc. Membership Application and Agreement” for Best Western
Plus Palm Desert Resort in connection with the opposition. (Gallagher Decl., ¶
2, Ex. 3.) Plaintiff notes that Section 11 of this
Membership Agreement provides that “11. Best Western is a membership
organization providing rights and obligations as set forth by the membership in
the ‘Bylaws’ and as set forth by the Board in the ‘Rules and Regulations’. In
connection only with the Hotel, Best Western agrees to provide to Applicant all
rights, and Applicant agrees to abide by all obligations, as may be established
from time to time in the duly adopted Bylaws and Rules and Regulations…” (Ibid.)
Plaintiff provides a copy of the “Best Western International, Inc. Rules
[and] Regulations.” (Gallagher Decl., ¶ 5, Ex. 8.) Plaintiff notes that these
Rules and Regulations provide, inter alia, that “[a]ll guest contact
personnel shall be neat, well-groomed and properly attired,” and that “[t]he
hotel staff of a Best Western Property shall give prompt and courteous
attention to any guest concern. When complaints are received at Best Western
Headquarters with reference to a particular Property, if the complaint relates
to accommodations or service, Best Western Headquarters shall have the
authority to resolve the matter upon the first contact, in which case a record
of the complaint and resolution will be forwarded to the hotel, and the hotel
will be charged a fee according to the following schedule…” (Gallagher Decl., ¶
5, Ex. 8, §§ 500.32, 500.35.) 
Plaintiff also notes that the subject Rules and Regulations provide that
“[a]ll Best Western Members and personnel shall display a courteous and
professional attitude toward officers, directors, employees and staff of
Best Western.” (Gallagher Decl., ¶ 5, Ex. 8, §
500.41.) Plaintiff also notes that the Rules and Regulations provide that
“[s]nacks and hot beverages in guest rooms or public areas are to be available
for guests,” that “[c]onvenient arrangements for early morning call/alarm are
to be available,” and that “[s]afe deposit facilities are to be available
for guests.” (Id., §§ 500.46-500.49.) 
Plaintiff also notes that the Rules and Regulations provide that
“[t]he housekeeper’s office and area shall be maintained in a neat, clean and
safe manner and be free of refuse and fire hazards,” and that “Maids and
housemen (regularly employed) shall be neatly uniformed.” (Gallagher Decl., ¶
5, Ex. 8, §§ 800.1, 800.4.) The Rules and
Regulations also provide that “Maid carts shall be kept in a good state of
repair and be well painted, clean, neat, well organized, properly supplied and
free of squeaks or other noises that might disturb guests,” and that
“[p]rofessional housekeeping procedures shall be followed at all times.” (Id., §§ 800.11, 800.12.) 
In the reply, BWI asserts that “Plaintiff gives the false appearance
that BWI’s rules and regulations, primarily focusing on hotel appearance,
cleanliness, and sanitation, shows that BWI has ‘daily control’ over J&S’s
workforce. BWI does not.” (Reply at p. 9:2-4.) 
BWI cites to Curry v. Equilon Enterprises, LLC (2018)
23 Cal.App.5th 289, 292-293, where “Plaintiff and appellant Sadie M. Curry brought a class action case against defendant
and respondent Equilon Enterprises, LLC, doing business as Shell Oil Products US (Shell). Curry’s causes of action included (1) failure to pay
overtime compensation; (2) failure to pay for missed break periods; and
(3) unfair business practices (Bus. & Prof.
Code, § 17200). The trial court found Shell was not Curry’s employer and therefore granted Shell’s motion for
summary judgment. Curry contend[ed] the trial court
erred in its finding and by granting summary judgment.” The Court of Appeal
affirmed the judgment. (Id. at p. 293.) 
The Court of Appeal in Curry
noted that “[t]he essence of the common law
employment test ‘is the ‘control of details’—that is, whether the
principal has the right to control the manner and means by which the worker
accomplishes the work—but there are a number of additional factors in the
modern equation, including (1) whether the worker is engaged in a distinct
occupation or business, (2) whether, considering the kind of occupation and
locality, the work is usually done under the principal’s direction or by a
specialist without supervision, (3) the skill required, (4) whether the
principal or worker supplies the instrumentalities, tools, and place of work,
(5) the length of time for which the services are to be performed, (6) the
method of payment, whether by time or by job, (7)  whether the work is
part of the principal’s regular business, and (8) whether the parties believe
they are creating an employer-employee relationship…The parties’ label is not
dispositive and will be ignored if their actual conduct establishes a different
relationship.” (Curry v. Equilon Enterprises, LLC, supra, 23
Cal.App.5th at pp. 304-305.) The Curry Court found, inter
alia, that “[t]he second factor is whether
considering the kind of occupation and locality, the work is usually done under
the principal’s direction or by a specialist without supervision. While
employed by ARS, Curry reported to and took
direction from ARS employees … and, at times, from the manager of the ARS HR
department. From this evidence it can be inferred that Curry’s job was performed under the principal’s direction.
In this case, the principal was ARS. In regard to Shell providing direction
to Curry, Shell required various tasks be performed by ARS;
however, there is nothing indicating that Shell required Curry be the person to perform those tasks. It was ARS
that required Curry to perform certain tasks.”
(Id. at p. 305 [internal quotations omitted].) 
BWI asserts that “[j]ust like in Curry, the flaw in Plaintiff’s
argument is that she can only show BWI having some control over J&S itself
through requirements of the membership agreement. But, she has not explained
how BWI exercised control over her daily working conditions, or shown that BWI
mandated who or how other employees executed which tasks.” (Reply at p. 9:5-8,
emphasis omitted.) 
BWI also asserts that “this matter presents a markedly different issue
than in Medina v. Equilon Enterprises, LLC, (2021) 68
Cal.App.5th 868, cited in Plaintiff’s Opposition.” (Reply at p. 9:17-18.) In
Medina v.
Equilon Enters., supra,
68 Cal.App.5th at page 880, the Court of Appeal found that “[h]ere, Shell could have stopped plaintiff from working in their
stations through a variety of means. Unlike the Curry and Henderson courts,
we conclude Shell could indeed have invoked its contractual ability to remove
employees from a particular station. The ‘good cause shown’ was the MSO
operator’s failure to comply with California’s wage and hour laws in
compensating that employee. Or Shell
could have simply removed the station (or all its stations) from the MSO
operator’s cluster, replacing them with another MSO operator with different
employees. As discussed above, Shell had the power to do so at any time, for
any reason. And it is evident from Shell’s strict control over its stations and
the statements and threats of Shell’s employees to plaintiff that Shell also
had the practical power to cause its MSO operators, who were essentially at
Shell’s mercy, to terminate any particular employee.” (Internal
quotations omitted.) 
BWI notes that here, “[t]here is no evidence that BWI had any
authority to terminate Plaintiff’s employment, or any other J&S employees’
employment at the hotel.” (Reply at p. 9:24-26.) As set forth above, the Medina
Court found that “[t]he undisputed facts in this case
are more than sufficient to support such a finding. Shell provided extremely
detailed technical instructions for managing their stations, and deviations
from these standards were prohibited. Plaintiff was even threatened with
termination by a Shell employee for an alleged violation of these standards.
Another Shell employee told plaintiff at training she had fired ‘many’ MSO
operator managers for violating these policies.” (Medina v. Equilon
Enters., supra, 68 Cal.App.5th at p. 879.) The Medina
Court further noted that “[t]here are certain
features of the facts and evidence in this case that appear to differ from
those presented to the courts in Curry and Henderson. The evidence offered in this case by
plaintiff that Shell employees told him they had the power to fire him, or to
have him fired, does not appear in the Curry or Henderson opinions.”
(Id. at p. 878.) Here, Plaintiff does not appear to provide any
evidence demonstrating that BWI had the power to terminate her employment. As
discussed above, BWI provides evidence that BWI “does not have,
nor has it ever had, the right to hire, discharge, or discipline employees…”
(Genther Decl., ¶ 6.) 
Plaintiff also indicates in the opposition that at his deposition, Mr.
Genther testified that “Learning Management System is an online platform for
education content.” (Gallagher Decl., ¶ 1, Ex. 1 (Genther Depo.) at p. 24:7-8.)
Mr. Genther testified that “Learning Management System makes the available
tools and training to assist our members in operating their hotels.” (Id. at p. 24:16-18.) Plaintiff cites to the
following testimony from Mr. Genther’s deposition: “Q[.] Is there any required
training on the Learning Management System that the member are required to have
for their staff? A[.] Yes. Q[.] What is the required training? A[.] I will give
you a few examples. Our general managers, new general managers to the brand are
required to take a general manager approval development, an orientation program
if you will, within 90 days after their hire.” (Id.
at p. 26:14-23.) Plaintiff also cites to the testimony that “[t]here’s also
required training for our -- our sales, what we call our sales champions. Basic
sales training. Those things are required. Those are some of them. Q[.] When
you are talking about sales, what are you referring to? A[.] Hotel securing an
account with a corporation or a group that provides them with room nights,
stays in the hotel. Q[.] Is there required training for the front desk staff of
the hotel? A[.] Yes…” (Id. at p. 27:2-13.)
Plaintiff also cites to the following testimony from Mr. Genther’s
deposition: “Q[.] Is there training for maintenance? A[.] Yes. Q[.] Training
for housekeeping? A[.] Yes. Q[.] Is that training Best Western International
does for the housekeeping department, is that tracked as well? A[.] If a -- if
a housekeeper at a hotel has a login and takes a specific housekeeping training
component, training unit, then we would have record of that, yes. Q[.] And that
applies to the manager of housekeeping as well, when they get training it’s
tracked through their login? A[.] If -- correct, if they use their own
Identifiable login, unique login then yes, we would have record of that.”
(Gallagher Decl., ¶ 1, Ex. 1 (Genther Depo.) at p. 51:6-22.)
BWI counters that “Plaintiff also relies heavily on the notion that
BWI making resources available to member hotels, such as training modules, or
requiring light training of General Managers or certain front desk staff is
equivalent to being an employer. Notably, there is no evidence that BWI ever
trained the Plaintiff, which forecloses any notion that BWI employed the
Plaintiff under this theory.” (Reply at p. 10:17-20.) Indeed, Plaintiff does
not appear to provide any evidence that she obtained training from BWI. 
BWI also asserts that “in Curry, the station operator’s requiring that
plaintiff attend training courses taught by the putative joint employer did not
lead to a finding of joint employment.” (Reply at p.
10:21-22.) In Curry v.
Equilon Enterprises, LLC, supra,
23 Cal.App.5th at page 306, the Court of
Appeal noted that “Curry’s job training was
provided by ARS. ARS required Curry attend environmental compliance courses
taught by Shell. ARS paid for Curry’s time at the classes.” The Court of Appeal
found that “[i]n sum, Shell, along with ARS, provided Curry a place to
work and the equipment with which she performed her job. Providing a portion of
Curry’s work location and equipment is insufficient to raise a triable issue of
material fact as to Shell being Curry’s employer due to the many other
factors reflecting Shell is not Curry’s employer.
In other words, one could not reasonably conclude that Shell controlled
the manner and means by which Curry accomplished her work because Shell did not
supervise Curry, Shell did not have input on Curry’s skills, Shell did not have
control over the length of time Curry performed her job, Shell did not pay
Curry, Shell was not in the business of operating service stations, and Shell
and Curry did not believe they were creating an employer-employee relationship.”
(Id. at p. 308.) Here too, Plaintiff does not appear to provide
any evidence that BWI supervised Plaintiff, that BWI had input on Plaintiff’s
skills, that BWI had control over the length of time Plaintiff performed
her job, or that BWI paid Plaintiff.  
Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that BWI has met its burden of
demonstrating that it is not a joint employer of the Resort, and that Plaintiff
has failed to raise a triable issue of material fact as to this issue. 
Lastly, as noted by Plaintiff, portions of the Membership Agreement
attached as Exhibit “B” to BWI’s Genther Declaration are redacted. Plaintiff
provided an unredacted version of the agreement in connection with the
opposition. (Gallagher Decl., ¶ 2, Ex. 3.) The Court notes that pursuant to ¿California Rules of Court, rule 2.551, subdivision (a)¿, “¿[a] record must
not be filed under seal without a court order.¿” Accordingly, the
Court orders BWI to either file an unredacted copy of the subject Exhibit “B,”
or immediately
file a motion or application to seal the subject exhibit pursuant to California
Rules of Court, rule 2.550 et seq.¿
Conclusion
Based
on the foregoing, BWI’s motion for summary judgment is granted. 
BWI is ordered to give
notice of this order.
 
DATED:  December 5, 2023                          ________________________________
Hon. Rolf M.
Treu
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court


