  Case Number:  22STCV35574    Hearing Date:   April 4, 2024    Dept:  26 Superior Court of
California
County of Los Angeles
Department 26



 
AVO
  ABOULIAN,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
EDVIN
  O. ovasapyan
                        Defendant.


 
  Case No.: 
  22STCV35574    
 
  Hearing Date:  April 4, 2024
 
[TENTATIVE] order RE:
defendant’s DEMURRER and motion to STRIKE the FIRST amended complaint
  



 
Procedural
Background
            On November
9, 2022, Plaintiff Avo Aboulian (“Plaintiff”) filed the instant action arising
out of Plaintiff’s purchase of a luxury watch from Defendant Avo Ovasapyan
(“Defendant”). Plaintiff alleged three causes of action for (1) Breach of
Contract, (2) Unfair Business Practices in Violation of Business and
Professions Code § 17200, and (3) Fraud – Civil Code § 1710(4).
            On
September 29, 2023, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) against
Defendant alleging an additional fourth cause of action for (4) Violation of
Penal Code § 350 Selling Counterfeit Goods.
            On October
23, 2023, Defendant filed the instant demurrer and motion to strike the FAC.  On March 31, 2024, Plaintiff filed oppositions
to the demurrer and motion to strike. On March 27, 2024, Defendant filed replies
for both the demurrer and motion to strike. 
Allegations of the
Operative Complaint
The FAC alleges
as follows: 
On December 6,
2021, Plaintiff agreed to purchase a green dial Rolex 18k yellow gold Daytona
watch (the “Rolex”) from Defendant for $90,000.00. (FAC ¶¶ 4, 11.) Plaintiff
completed payment on December 13, 2021. (FAC ¶ 5.) Fifteen minutes before
delivering the Rolex, Defendant informed Plaintiff that the watch in his
possession in fact had a white dial, not a green dial, which significantly diminishes
the watch’s value. (FAC ¶ 6.) Instead of refunding
Plaintiff’s money, Defendant proposed that the Rolex be replaced with a
stainless steel Patek Philippe Nautilus (the “Patek”). (Ibid.) Plaintiff
took possession of the Patek and brought it to the Patek Philippe store in
Beverly Hills to be authenticated. (Ibid.) Plaintiff was informed by the
store that the watch was counterfeit. (Ibid.) 
Legal Standard 
Demurrer Standard
A
demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the
pleading under attack; or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially
noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985)
39 Cal 3d 311, 318.) No other extrinsic evidence can be considered (i.e.,
no “speaking demurrers”). (Ion Equipment Corp. v. Nelson (1980) 110
Cal.App.3d 868, 881.)
A
demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action.
(Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App.
4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations
liberally and in context. (Taylor v. City
of Los Angeles Dep’t of Water & Power (2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th 1216,
1228.) In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of
the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal. App. 4th 968, 994.)
“A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic
matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the
pleading or are judicially noticed.” (SKF
Farms v. Superior Ct. (1984) 153 Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.) “The only issue
involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands,
unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.” (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at 747.)  
Motion to Strike
Standard
Motions
to strike are used to reach defects or objections to pleadings that are not
challengeable by demurrer (i.e., words, phrases, prayer for damages, etc.). (See CCP §§ 435-437.)  A party may file a motion to strike in whole
or in part within the time allowed to respond to a pleading, however, if a
party serves and files a motion to strike without demurring to the complaint,
the time to answer is extended.  (CCP §§
435(b)(1), 435(c).)
A
motion to strike lies only where the pleading has irrelevant, false, or
improper matter, or has not been drawn or filed in conformity with laws.  (CCP § 436.) 
The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the
pleadings or by way of judicial notice. 
(CCP § 437.) 
Meet and Confer
Requirement 
Code
of Civil Procedure § 430.41, subdivision (a) requires that “[b]efore filing a
demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the demurring party shall meet and confer¿in
person or by telephone¿with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to
demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached
that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” The parties
are to meet and confer at least five days before the date the responsive
pleading is due and if they are unable to meet the demurring party shall be
granted an automatic 30-day extension.  (CCP § 430.41(a)(2).)  The
demurring party must also file and serve a declaration detailing the meet and
confer efforts.  (Id.¿at
(a)(3).)¿ If an amended pleading is filed, the parties must meet and confer
again before a demurrer may be filed to the amended pleading.  (Id.¿at (a).)  There is a similar
meet and confer requirement for motions to strike.  (CCP § 435.5.)
Defendant’s
counsel sent a 6-page meet and confer letter to Plaintiff’s counsel on October
5, 2023. (Mitilian Decl., ¶ 2.) A response was only received on October 23,
2023. (Id.) The FAC was filed on September 29, 2023 and the Court had
ordered Defendant to file a responsive pleading within 30 days. (9/28/23 Minute
Order.) It is not clear to the Court whether the parties adequately met and
conferred as required; nevertheless, the Court will consider the demurrer on
the merits. The Court admonishes the parties to strictly comply with all
statutory requirements in the future. 
Discussion – Demurrer 
First Cause of Action: Breach of Contract
Defendant contends that the first cause of action for
breach of contract fails because Plaintiff does not state whether the alleged
contract is written, oral or implied by conduct. CCP § 430.10(g) provides that
a defendant can object by demurrer to a complaint if “in an action founded upon
a contract, it cannot be ascertained from the pleading whether the contract is
written, is oral, or is implied by conduct.” (CCP § 430.10, subd. (g).)
Plaintiff did not specify anywhere in the FAC
whether the alleged contract is written, oral or implied by conduct. In
opposition, Plaintiff contends, somewhat confusingly, that the contract in
question was “partially written and partially oral” (Opp’n, 4:14) but that the
contract’s nature (whether in writing or oral) “cannot be alleged without
further evidence.” (Opp’n 4:6-7.) If the contract was partially written,
Plaintiff should provide more information on the written portions. If the
contract was entirely oral, Plaintiff should plead as so.
Accordingly, Defendant’s demurrer to the
first cause of action is SUSTAINED with leave to amend. 
Fourth
Cause of Action: Violation of Penal Code § 350 Selling Counterfeit Goods
            Defendant contends that Plaintiff
lacks capacity to prosecute this cause of action, which also fails because it
does not state sufficient facts.
Penal Code Section
350 prohibits a person from willfully manufacturing, intentionally selling, or
knowingly possessing counterfeit marks for sale. As Defendant correctly points
out, this section is premised on a defendant first being convicted of a crime.
(See Penal Code § 350 subd. (a) [“Any person . . . shall, upon
conviction, be punishable as follows . . .”]; subd. (b) [“Any person who has
been convicted of a violation . . . shall, upon a subsequent conviction . . .
be punished by . . .”]; subd. (c) [“Any person who has been convicted of a
violation of subdivision (a) . . . shall . . . be punished . . .”]; subd. (d)
[“in any action brought under this section resulting in a conviction, the court
shall . . .”]; and subd. (i) [“when a person is convicted of an offense under
this section, the court shall . . .”].)
            Plaintiff’s arguments and case law
raised in opposition are inadequate and, fatally, fails to address the fact
that the remedies provided by Section 350 are only available after a
criminal conviction for selling counterfeit products, which Plaintiff never
alleged either in the FAC or in his opposition. 
Accordingly, Defendant’s demurrer to the fourth cause of action is SUSTAINED without
leave to amend. 
Discussion
– Motion to Strike
            Defendant moves to strike numerous
paragraphs of the FAC.  Specifically,
Defendant moves to strike the entire fourth cause of action and related prayer,
punitive damages, allegations concerning an unrelated criminal proceeding and
civil action involving Defendant, and compensatory damages for the second cause
of action for violation of Business and Professions Code sec. 17200.
            The Fourth Cause of Action
            As the Court sustained its demurrer
to the fourth cause of action without leave to amend, Defendant’s motion to
strike the entire fourth cause of action and related prayer from the FAC is GRANTED. 
            Punitive Damages
            Punitive damages are not recoverable
in a breach of contract dispute. Civil Code § 3294(a), which Plaintiff himself cites
in his opposition, clearly states that exemplary damages provided by that
section are available only in “an action for the breach of an obligation not
arising from contract.” (Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (a) [emphasis added].)
Neither of the two cases Plaintiff cites to support its request for punitive
damages (Hartzell v. Myall (1953) 115 Cal.App.2d 670 and Perkins v.
Superior Court (1981) 117 Cal.App.3d 1) involved a contract. 
For this reason alone, Defendant’s motion
to strike all mention of punitive damages in the FAC is GRANTED. 
            Unrelated civil and criminal
proceedings involving Defendant
            Defendant argues that mentions of
other civil and criminal proceedings that Defendant is involved in, which have
nothing to do with Plaintiff’s claims in this action, are immaterial and
irrelevant, and therefore should be stricken. Plaintiff argues in opposition
that pattern and practice evidence is permitted to demonstrate unfair business
practices and fraud (Allied Grape Growers v. Bronco Wine Co. (1988) 203
Cal.App.3d 432, 453) and the allegations of Defendant’s convictions and civil
judgments for fraud are evidence of such a pattern and practice. Defendant
fails to cite any authority to the contrary in reply. 
Accordingly, Defendant’s motion to strike
from the FAC allegations of other civil and criminal proceedings involving
Defendant is DENIED. 
            Compensatory damages for the second
cause of action
            Plaintiff’s second cause of action
is for violation of California’s Unfair Competition Law (“UCL”), codified by Business
and Professions Code section 17200 et seq. Defendant contends that
compensatory damages are not recoverable for violation of the UCL. Rather,
recovery is limited to injunctive relief and restitution, which does not
include attorney fees, interest, costs or other damages. Plaintiff argues in
opposition that prejudgment interest is a recoverable component of restitution
under § 17200, citing Ballard v. Equifax Check Services, Inc. (ED CA
2001) 158 F.Supp.2d 1163, 1176-1177 and Irwin v. Mascott (ND CA 2000)
112 F.Supp.2d 937, 956. Although these decisions are not binding on this Court,
they are persuasive as they also interpret California’s UCL. Defendant does not
address Plaintiff’s argument in reply. 
            Accordingly, Defendant’s motion to
strike the following sections from the FAC is DENIED:
·       Paragraphs
2-4 of the Prayer for the Second Cause of Action, page 8, lines 17 through 21:
“2. For all costs and expenses; For interest on sum certain; and 4. For any
other
·       damages
the Court deems are just and proper”.
·       Paragraph
17 of the FAC, page 5, lines 10 through 11: “plus sum certain interest under
California Civil Code § 3287 at 10% from Dec. 15, 2021, plus all court costs
and any other damages the Court deems just.”
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
Based on the foregoing, Defendant Edvin
Ovasapyan’s demurrer to the first amended complaint is SUSTAINED in its
entirety. Plaintiff is granted leave to amend the first cause of action only
and is granted 20 days to amend.
Defendant’s motion to strike is granted in
part and denied in part. Defendant’s motion to strike is GRANTED as to (1)
punitive damages and (2) the fourth cause of action and its related prayer.
Defendant’s motion to strike is DENIED as to (1) mentions of other civil and
criminal proceedings involving Defendant and (2) relief requested in connection
with the second cause of action.
            Defendant is to give notice to all
parties.
 
DATED: April 4, 2024                                                           ___________________________
                                                                                          Yolanda
Orozco
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court