 Case Number:  22STCV16247    Hearing Date:   January 30, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



EDMOND DURHAM, 
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
JOSE P. LAGUNA, et al.,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No: 
  22STCV16247
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  January 30, 2024
 Calendar Number:  4



 
 
 
Defendants Jose P. Laguna and Jose P. Laguna Trust (“Trust”)
(collectively, “Defendants”) move for a judgment of possession in order to
enforce a settlement agreement in this action and request attorney’s fees from
Plaintiff Edmond Durham (“Plaintiff”).
 
Defendants’ motion is GRANTED, subject to Defendants
providing to the Court at the hearing specific information about the identity
of the property at issue.  The property
is not identified in either the moving papers or the settlement agreement
attached to the moving papers.  
 
The Court awards Defendants $3,357.50 in attorney’s fees
pursuant to the terms of the settlement agreement.  Plaintiff shall pay this amount within 30
days of this order.
 
Defendants shall give notice.
 
Background
 
Plaintiff Edmond Durham (“Durham”) filed this action on May
16, 2022 against Defendants, alleging breach of contract related to a property
that Plaintiff rented from Defendants.
 
The parties entered a settlement of the matter outside of
the presence of the court. (Swartz Decl. ¶¶ 3-6; Exh. A.) The settlement
agreement provides that Plaintiff would vacate the property by June 30, 2023
and would notify Defendants’ attorney once Plaintiff had vacated. (Swartz
Decl., Exh. A ¶¶ 1-3.) The settlement also provides that the prevailing party
in any dispute to enforce the settlement will be entitled to reasonable
attorney’s fees and costs. (Swartz Decl., Exh. A ¶ 18.)
 
As of November 22, 2023, Plaintiff had not moved out and had
not paid any rent since April 2023. Defendant’s attorney also has not been
notified that Plaintiff has vacated the property.
 
Defendants filed this motion on November 22, 2023. Plaintiff
did not oppose the motion.
 
Legal Standard
 
“If parties to pending litigation stipulate, in a writing
signed by the parties outside of the presence of the court or orally before the
court, for settlement of the case, or part thereof, the court, upon motion, may
enter judgment pursuant to the terms of the settlement. If requested by the
parties, the court may retain jurisdiction over the parties to enforce the
settlement until performance in full of the terms of the settlement.” (Code
Civ. Proc. § 664.6, subd. (a).)
          
“In any action on a contract, where the contract
specifically provides that attorney’s fees and costs, which are incurred to
enforce that contract, shall be awarded either to one of the parties or to the
prevailing party, then the party who is determined to be the party prevailing
on the contract, whether he or she is the party specified in the contract or
not, shall be entitled to reasonable attorney’s fees in addition to other
costs.” (Civ. Code § 1717, subd. (a).)
 
“The court, upon notice and motion by a party, shall
determine who is the party prevailing on the contract for purposes of this
section, whether or not the suit proceeds to final judgment. Except [where an
action has been voluntarily dismissed or dismissed pursuant to a settlement of
the case], the party prevailing on the contract shall be the party who
recovered a greater relief in the action on the contract. The court may also
determine that there is no party prevailing on the contract for purposes of this
section.” (Civ. Code § 1717, subd. (b).)
 
Discussion
 
Settlement Agreement
 
          Here,
the parties entered into a full settlement of the matter outside of the
presence of the Court. Defendants attach the settlement agreement as Exhibit A
to the declaration of Charles A. Schwartz. 
 
Plaintiff has not performed on the material provision that
Plaintiff vacate the property by June 30, 2023. Defendants are therefore
entitled to a judgment of possession in their favor.
 
There remains one problem: neither the settlement agreement
nor Defendants’ motion identify the actual real property at issue. Thus, the
Court is not able to grant an actionable judgment of possession of the property
without being able to identify the property. 
Defendants should be prepared to specifically identify the property at
the hearing, with proof of the address if there is any controversy on this
point.
 
Attorney’s Fees
 
The settlement agreement provides that the prevailing party
in any action to enforce its terms will be entitled to reasonable attorney’s
fees and costs incurred in doing so. (Schwartz Decl., Exh. A at p. 4, ¶ 18.)
 
Defendants request an hourly rate of $395.00 for Charles
Schwartz. The Court finds this rate to be reasonable.
 
Defendants request 8.5 hours for Schwartz in connection with
the enforcement of the settlement agreement. The Court finds this time
expenditure to be reasonable.
 
Thus, the Court awards Defendants a total of $3357.50 in
attorney’s fees.