  Case Number:  19STCV05254    Hearing Date:   September 11, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     September 11, 2024               TRIAL DATE: January
28, 2025
                                                           
CASE:                         Nicole Mehringer v. City of Los Angeles
 
CASE NO.:                 19STCV05254            
 
MOTION
FOR PROTECTIVE ORDER

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant City of Los Angeles.
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff Nicole
Mehringer
 
CASE
HISTORY:

02/15/19:
     Complaint filed.
01/11/22:
     First Amended Complaint filed

 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            Plaintiff was terminated by the
Los Angeles Police Department following a Board of Rights hearing regarding
misconduct by Plaintiff. Plaintiff alleges that her termination was in
retaliation for whistleblowing regarding misconduct of other police officers. 
 
Defendant moves for a protective
order precluding Plaintiff from taking depositions of Michale Rimkunas, Alcenda
Neal, and William Tan. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Defendant’s Motion for Protective
Order is GRANTED. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Defendant moves for a protective
order precluding Plaintiff from taking depositions of Michale Rimkunas, Alcenda
Neal, and William Tan. 
 
Authority To Bring Motion
 
            Defendant
does not specify a statute authorizing it to seek a protective order in its
notice of motion. However, protective orders relating to depositions are
governed by Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.420. As Plaintiff referenced
this code section as applying to the instant motion in her opposition, and
Defendant did not challenge that view in its reply, the Court construes this
motion as a Motion for Protective Order pursuant to Code of Civil procedure
section 2025.420 and will analyze the motion under that statute. 
 
Legal Standard
 
Code of Civil Procedure section
2025.420 authorizes a party, deponent, or any other affected person or entity
to move for a protective order. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.420(a).) Subdivision
(b) authorizes the Court to, for good cause shown, issue a protective order “to
protect any party or other natural person from unwarranted annoyance,
embarrassment, or oppression, or undue burden and expense.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
2025.420(b).) A protective order under this section may include, inter alia,
an order that the deposition not be taken at all. (Code Civ. Proc. §
2025.420(b)(1).) 
 
Meet and Confer
 
            Before
filing a motion for a protective order, Defendant is required to file a
declaration stating its efforts to meet and confer with the opposing party to
resolve this dispute, showing a “reasonable and good faith attempt” to resolve
informally the issues presented by the motion before filing the motion. (Code
Civ. Proc. § 2016.040.)
 
            Defendant
did not file a declaration in support of the motion describing any efforts to
meet and confer with Plaintiff to resolve this dispute. Defendant’s reply
acknowledges this omission and attempts to remedy the error by describing the
parties’ meet and confer efforts in the body of the reply as nonspecific
“informal, telephonic discussions.” (Reply p. 5:11.) Nonspecific statements in
argument are not a substitute for detailed descriptions in a sworn declaration.
Defendant therefore has not satisfied its statutory meet and confer
obligations. Nevertheless, the Court will address the motion on its merits to
facilitate an expedient resolution. 
 
Analysis
 
Defendant seeks a protective order
precluding Plaintiff from taking the depositions of Michale Rimkunas, Alcenda
Neal, and William Tan, the three individuals who presided over Plaintiff’s
Board of Rights Hearing. Defendant contends that Plaintiff is prohibited from
taking the depositions of the Board of Rights Members under Evidence Code
section 703.5. This section provides, in pertinent part: 
 
No person presiding
at any judicial or quasi-judicial proceeding, and no arbitrator or mediator,
shall be competent to testify, in any subsequent civil proceeding, as to any
statement, conduct, decision, or ruling, occurring at or in conjunction with
the prior proceeding, except as to a statement or conduct that could (a) give
rise to civil or criminal contempt, (b) constitute a crime, (c) be the subject
of investigation by the State Bar or Commission on Judicial Performance, or (d)
give rise to disqualification proceedings under paragraph (1) or (6) of
subdivision (a) of Section 170.1 of the Code of Civil Procedure.
 
(Evid. Code § 703.5.) Board of Rights hearings are an
example of a quasi-judicial proceeding. (Koon v. United States (1996) 58
U.S. 81, 110; Bradshaw v. City of Los Angeles (1990) 221 Cal.App.3d.
908, 922, disapproved on other grounds in Copley Press Inc. v. Superior
Court (2006) 39 Cal.4th 1272.) Therefore, the Board of Rights Members may
only be deposed if the conduct or statements as to which they would be required
to testify falls within one of the listed exceptions. The parties agree that the
only potentially-applicable subdivision in this case is subdivision (d), which permits
testimony regarding conduct or statements which would give rise to
disqualification proceedings under Code of Civil Procedure section 170.1(a)(1)
or (a)(6). This section provides, as relevant here:
 
A judge shall be
disqualified if any one or more of the following are true:
 
(1)(A) The judge
has personal knowledge of disputed evidentiary facts concerning the proceeding.
 
(B) A judge shall
be deemed to have personal knowledge within the meaning of this paragraph if
the judge, or the spouse of the judge, or a person within the third degree of
relationship to either of them, or the spouse of such a person is to the
judge's knowledge likely to be a material witness in the proceeding.
 
. . . 
 
(6)(A) For any
reason:
(i) The judge
believes his or her recusal would further the interests of justice.
 
(ii) The judge
believes there is a substantial doubt as to his or her capacity to be
impartial.
 
(iii) A person
aware of the facts might reasonably entertain a doubt that the judge would be
able to be impartial.
 
(B) Bias or
prejudice toward a lawyer in the proceeding may be grounds for
disqualification.
 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 170.1(a)(1); (6).) Questions of bias must
be evaluated “through the eyes of the objective person” who is “a
well-informed, thoughtful” and “disinterested objective observer.” (Basset
Unified School Dist. v. Sup. Ct. (2023) 89 Cal.App.5th 273, 285-86.) The
party raising the issue of bias or the appearance thereof “has a heavy burden
and must clearly establish the appearance of bias.” (Haworth v. Sup. Ct. (2010)
50 Cal.4th 372, 389.) “[J]udicial rulings alone almost never constitute a valid
basis for a bias or partiality motion.” (Liteky v. United States (1994)
510 U.S. 540, 555.) “Judicial remarks during the course of a trial that are
critical or disapproving of, or even hostile to, counsel, the parties, or their
cases, ordinarily do not support a bias or partiality challenge.” (Id.)
 
            In
opposition to this motion, Plaintiff first argues that the Board Members could
have been subject to disqualification proceedings under section 170.1
subdivision (a)(3) (A), which warrants disqualification when a judge “has a
financial interest in the subject matter in a proceeding or in a party to the
proceeding.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 170.1(a)(3)(A).) Subdivision (a)(3)(A) is not
one of the listed exceptions to Evidence Code section 703.5, and, for that
reason alone, this argument is without merit. Nor is the Court persuaded by
Plaintiff’s argument that the Board Members had a financial interest in a party
to the proceeding because they were employed by the City of Los Angeles. As
Defendant states in its reply, if that were the case, every judge in a given
county would be required to recuse whenever that county is a party to a suit. The
Court declines to adopt such an extreme construction of the law. 
 
            Second,
Plaintiff argues that the Board Members’ refusal to disclose Pitchess documents
and hostile remarks to her counsel and counsel’s arguments “calls the Board
members’ impartiality into serious question.” (Opposition p.9:8-9.) As stated
above, however, judicial rulings and remarks during proceedings do not
ordinarily support a bias or partiality challenge. Further, as Defendant
persuasively argues, the propriety of the Board of Rights decision to deny
Plaintiff’s Pitchess motion has already been litigated in the writ
proceeding, where Judge Mary H. Strobel found Plaintiff failed to show that her
penalty phase hearing was unfair. 
(Defendant’s Exh. 3.)  Plaintiff’s
reference to this Court’s rulings to argue that the materials should have been
disclosed by the Board of Rights is not well taken. The Court’s Pitchess rulings
in this action are concerned only with whether the documents at issue bear
sufficient connection to this action to warrant their disclosure to
demonstrate the basis for a potentially retaliatory motive and offer no opinion
on the Board of Rights’ decision to reject the notion that the records were
relevant to what penalty should be imposed on Plaintiff.  Further, the evaluation of a ruling on a Pitchess
motion is pursuant to an abuse of discretion standard Alford v. Superior
Court (2003) 29 Cal. 4th 1033, 1039), so even if the Board of Rights had
decided the same issue as was posed here, the Court’s exercise of discretion
does not render the Board’s decision an abuse. 
In addition, whether the Pitchess materials should have been
disclosed is collateral to the issue of whether a disinterested objective
observer might reasonably entertain doubts that the Board of Rights could be
impartial in this proceeding. As Plaintiff’s argument principally rests on
material which may not constitute a basis for disqualification, the Court finds
that Plaintiff has not met the heavy burden to demonstrate that these
depositions are proper. 
 
CONCLUSION:

 
Accordingly, Defendant’s Motion for
Protective Order is GRANTED. 
 
Moving Party to give notice.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  September 11,
2024                           ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 