 Case Number:  24STCV02751    Hearing Date:   September 11, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     September 11, 2024               TRIAL DATE: NOT
SET
                                                           
CASE:                         Soon Ja Hong v. Cedars-Sinai Medical
Center
 
CASE NO.:                 24STCV02751            
 
DEMURRER
TO COMPLAINT AND MOTION TO STRIKE PORTIONS OF COMPLAINT

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant Cedars-Sinai Medical Center
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff Soon Ja
Hong
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an action for professional negligence and elder abuse that was
filed on February 1, 2024. Plaintiff alleges that Defendant failed to secure an
intravenous line for iron infusion, causing disfiguring injuries to Plaintiff. 
 
Defendant demurs to the second
cause of action for elder abuse and moves to strike Plaintiff’s claims for
punitive damages and attorney’s fees. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Defendant’s Demurrer to the Complaint is
OVERRULED.
 
Defendant’s Motion to Strike is
GRANTED IN PART as to the prayer for punitive damages only and otherwise
DENIED. This ruling is without prejudice to a properly noticed motion for leave
to amend to include punitive damages pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 425.13. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Demurrer to Complaint
 
            Defendant
demurs to the second cause of action for elder abuse.
 
//
Legal Standard
 
A demurrer tests whether the
complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147
Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations
liberally and in context. (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and
Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.) In a demurrer proceeding, the
defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial
notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968,
994.) “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other
extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face
of the pleading or are judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court
(1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) “The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing
is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters,
states a cause of action.” (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at p. 747.) The
ultimate facts alleged in the complaint must be deemed true, as well as all
facts that may be implied or inferred from those expressly alleged. (Marshall
v. Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1397, 1403; see also Shields
v. County of San Diego (1984) 155 Cal.App.3d 103, 133 [stating, “[o]n
demurrer, pleadings are read liberally and allegations contained therein are
assumed to be true”].) “This rule of liberal construction means that the
reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not the
defendant.” (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th
1228, 1238.) 
 
Meet and Confer
 
Before filing a demurrer, the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who has filed the pleading subject to the demurrer and file a declaration
detailing their meet and confer efforts.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41(a).)
However, an insufficient meet-and-confer process is not grounds
to overrule or sustain a demurrer.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41(a)(4).)
 
            The
Declaration of Attorney Lee M. Moulin in support of the demurrer states that Defendant’s
counsel sent correspondence to Plaintiff’s counsel on February 7 seeking to
meet and confer regarding the issues raised in this demurrer. (Declaration of
Lee M. Moulin ISO Demurrer ¶ 4.) As of the date this demurrer was filed,
Plaintiff’s counsel had not responded. (Id. ¶ 5.) Defendant has
therefore satisfied its statutory meet-and-confer obligations. 
 
Second Cause of Action: Elder Abuse/Neglect
 
            Defendant
demurs to the second cause of action for elder abuse and neglect for failure to
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. 
 
            To state a
claim under the Elder Abuse Act, the plaintiff must allege that the defendant
is liable for physical abuse, neglect, or abandonment and guilty of
recklessness, oppression, fraud, or malice while doing so. (Welf & Inst.
Code § 15657(a).) “Abuse” includes “[p] hysical abuse, neglect, financial
abuse, abandonment, isolation, abduction, or other treatment with resulting
physical harm or pain or mental suffering” or “[t]he deprivation by a care
custodian of goods or services that are necessary to avoid physical harm or
mental suffering.” (Welf. & Inst Code § 15610.57(a)(1).) “Neglect” includes
but is not limited to “(1) [f]ailure to assist in personal hygiene, or in the
provision of food, clothing, or shelter,” “(2) [f]ailure to provide medical care
for physical and mental health needs,” “(3) [f]ailure to protect from health
and safety hazards,” and “(4) [f]ailure to prevent malnutrition or
dehydration.” (Welf. & Inst. Code § 15610(b).) Neglect, as a form of abuse,
is “the failure of those responsible for attending to the basic needs and
comforts of elderly or dependent adults, regardless of the professional
standing, to carry out their custodial obligations.” (Carter v. Prime
Healthcare Paradise Valley LLC (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 396, 404.) This
definition “speaks not of the undertaking of medical services, but the failure
to provide medical care. (Covenant Care, Inc. v. Superior Court
(2004) 32 Cal.4th 771, 783.) As a statutory cause of action, a claim under the
Elder Abuse Act must be pleaded with particularity. (Id. at 790; see
also Lopez v. Southern Cal. Rapid Trans. Dist. (1985) 40 Cal.3d 780,
795.) 
 
            Defendant
argues that the second cause of action is inadequately pled because the facts
alleged, according to Defendant, only disclose a negligent undertaking of
medical services, rather than an outright withholding of medical care. The
pertinent factual allegations are contained in paragraphs 5 through 7 of the
Complaint, which allege:
 
5. On or about March
12, 2023, the FACILITY admitted Ms. Hong. During the course of Ms. Hong’s
hospitalization, the FACILITY inserted an intravenous line for iron infusion.
However, the FACILITY failed to secure the intravenous line. Consequently, an
alarming amount of blood drenched Ms. Hong as well as her sheets. Despite Ms.
Hong and her family raising their concerns, the FACILITY disregarded the
importance of securing the intravenous line. Instead, the nurse laughed and
stated that such an occurrence was very common at the facility. 
 
6. Ms. Hong’s upper
extremity began to swell. Despite Ms. Hong and her family raising their
concerns about the swelling, the FACILITY failed to address the issue and
informed Ms. Hong and her family that the swelling would subside.
 
7. However, the
swelling did not subside. Moreover, Ms. Hong’s left hand began to turn black.
As such, Ms. Hong and her family again addressed their concern to the FACILITY
who continued to ignore the seriousness of said injury. Instead, the FACILITY
discharged Ms. Hong and merely recommended cold compressions for symptomatic
relief. 
 
(Complaint ¶¶ 5-7.) Defendant contends that these
allegations merely support a claim for professional negligence, and do not
constitute specific facts tending to establish a withholding of medical care or
recklessness as to the Plaintiff’s well-being. The Court does not share
Defendant’s view. It is true that the failure to provide medical care or to
treat certain injuries only constitutes professional negligence unless there is
some further showing of intentional misconduct or recklessness. (Carter,
supra, 198 Cal.App.4th at 410-11.) Here, however, Plaintiff has offered
allegations tending to establish, at minimum, recklessness. Plaintiff has
alleged not only that Defendant improperly placed an intravenous line, failed
to secure the line, and failed to treat the resultant swelling, but that, when Plaintiff
started bleeding, the attending nurse merely laughed and stated that such
events are a common occurrence. (Complaint ¶ 5.) This allegation, which must be
taken as true on demurrer, does not demonstrate a mere failure to act with due
care, but rather shows a conscious disregard of the danger to Plaintiff—or, in
a word, recklessness. (See Delaney v. Baker (1999) 20 Cal.4th 23, 31.) The
Court is therefore not persuaded that the second cause of action fails to state
facts sufficient to constitute a claim for elder abuse and neglect.
 
Uncertainty
 
            Defendant
also demurs to the second cause of action as uncertain. 
 
Demurrers¿for uncertainty are disfavored,
because discovery can be used for clarification, and they apply only where
defendants cannot reasonably determine what issues or claims are stated.¿(Chen
v. Berenjian (2019) 33 Cal.App.5th 811, 822; Khoury v. Maly's of Cal.,
Inc.¿(1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) If the complaint is sufficiently
comprehensible that Defendant can reasonably respond, the complaint is not
uncertain. (Mahan v. Charles W. Chan Ins. Agency, Inc. (2017) 14
Cal.App.5th 841, 848 n.3.)
 
As the Court has found that the second
cause of action states facts sufficient to constitute a claim for elder abuse
and neglect, it should be readily apparent that the second cause of action is
not uncertain.
 
Conclusion
 
            Accordingly,
Defendant’s Demurrer to the Complaint is OVERRULED.
 
Motion to Strike Portions of Complaint
 
            Defendant
moves to strike portions of the Complaint pertaining to a request for punitive
damages and a request for attorney’s fees. 
 
Legal Standard
 
The court may, upon a motion, or at
any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any
irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 436(a).) The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not
drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an
order of the court. (Id., § 436(b).) The grounds for a motion to
strike are that the pleading has irrelevant, false or improper matter, or has
not been drawn or filed in conformity with laws. (Id. § 436.) The
grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way
of judicial notice. (Id.§ 437.) “When the defect which justifies
striking a complaint is capable of cure, the court should allow leave to
amend.” (Vaccaro v. Kaiman (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 761, 768.) A motion to strike can be used where the
complaint or other pleading has not been drawn or filed in conformity with
applicable rules or court orders.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436(b).) This
provision is for "the striking of a pleading due to improprieties in its
form or in the procedures pursuant to which it was filed." 
(Ferraro v. Camarlinghi (2008) 161 Cal.App.4th 509, 528 [emphasis
in original].)
 
Meet and Confer
 
 Before filing a motion to strike, the moving
party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who has
filed the pleading subject to the motion to strike and file a declaration
detailing their meet and confer efforts.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5(a).)
However, an insufficient meet-and-confer process is not grounds to grant or
deny a motion to strike.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5(a)(4).)
 
The Declaration of Attorney Lee M.
Moulin in support of the motion states that Defendant’s counsel sent
correspondence to Plaintiff’s counsel on February 7 seeking to meet and confer
regarding the issues raised in this demurrer. (Declaration of Lee M. Moulin ISO
Mot. ¶ 4.) As of the date this motion was filed, Plaintiff’s counsel had not
responded. (Id. ¶ 5.) Defendant has therefore satisfied its statutory
meet-and-confer obligations. 
 
Punitive Damages
 
            Defendant
moves to strike Plaintiff’s prayer for punitive damages on the basis that
Plaintiff has not sought nor obtained an order from the Court authorizing an
amended pleading to assert punitive damages in this case pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure section 425.13. 
 
            Code of
Civil Procedure section 425.13(a) states, in relevant part:
 
In any action for
damages arising out of the professional negligence of a health care provider,
no claim for punitive damages shall be included in a complaint or other
pleading unless the court enters an order allowing an amended pleading that
includes a claim for punitive damages to be filed.
 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 425.13(a).) An action for damages “arises
out of the professional negligence of a health care provider if the injury for
which damages are sought is directly related to the professional services
provided by the healthcare provider.” (Central Pathology Service Medical
Clinic, Inc. v. Superior Court (1992) 3 Cal.4th 181, 191.) The Complaint
expressly admits that Defendant is a general acute care hospital. (Complaint
¶2.) Moreover, the Complaint, on its face, relates to the medical care which
Plaintiff received or failed to receive while in that hospital. The Court
therefore concurs with Defendant that section 425.13 of the Code of Civil
Procedure governs this action. As no order has been entered permitting punitive
damages, the Court finds that Plaintiff’s prayer for punitive damages must be
stricken. 
 
Attorney’s Fees
 
            Defendant
purports to move to strike Plaintiff’s prayer for attorney’s fees, but offers
no explanation for why this prayer for relief is invalid, especially as the
Complaint only claims “attorney’s fees and costs as allowed by law”
(Complaint p.6, Prayer 4 [emphasis added].) Defendant has therefore failed to
carry its burden on this motion with respect to this prayer for relief. 
 
Conclusion
 
            Accordingly,
Defendant’s Motion to Strike is GRANTED IN PART as to the prayer for punitive
damages only and otherwise DENIED. This ruling is without prejudice to a
properly noticed motion for leave to amend to include punitive damages pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure section 425.13. 
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly, Defendant’s Demurrer to the Complaint is OVERRULED.
 
Defendant’s Motion to Strike is
GRANTED IN PART as to the prayer for punitive damages only and otherwise
DENIED. This ruling is without prejudice to a properly noticed motion for leave
to amend to include punitive damages pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 425.13. 
 
            Moving
Party to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  September 11,
2024                           ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It should
be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still conduct
a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you have, in
essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you should be
aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an order which
modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 