 Case Number:  23STCV16340    Hearing Date:   October 6, 2023    Dept:  15 [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE MOTION TO QUASH (CUMMINS)
Plaintiffs Ramona
Jellesed, Charlene Peterson, and Catherine Beard allege Terry Jellesed was
exposed to asbestos from products of Defendant Cummins Inc.  Defendant filed a motion to quash for lack of
personal jurisdiction.  
A defendant may move to quash
service of summons on the ground of lack of jurisdiction of the court over the
defendant.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 418.10, subd.
(a)(1).)  The court may dismiss without prejudice
the complaint in whole, or as to that defendant, when dismissal is made pursuant
to Section 418.10.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 581,
subd. (h).)  “A court of this state may exercise
jurisdiction on any basis not inconsistent with the Constitution of this state or
of the United States.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 410.10.)  “The Due Process Clause protects
an individual’s liberty interest in not being subject to the binding judgments of
a forum with which he has established no meaningful ‘contacts, ties, or relations.’”  (Burger
King Corp. v. Rudzewicz (1985) 471 U.S. 462, 471-472.)  A state court may not exercise personal jurisdiction
over a party under circumstances that would offend “traditional notions of fair
play and substantial justice.”  (Asahi Metal Industry Co., Ltd., v. Superior Court
of California, Solano County (1987) 480 U.S. 102, 113.)  
When a defendant moves to
quash service of process on jurisdictional grounds, the plaintiff has the initial
burden of demonstrating facts justifying the exercise of jurisdiction.  (Jayone
Foods, Inc. v. Aekyung Industrial Co. Ltd. (2019) 31 Cal.App.5th 543, 553.)  Once facts showing minimum contacts with the forum
state are established, the defendant has the burden to demonstrate that the exercise
of jurisdiction would be unreasonable.  (Ibid.) 
“The plaintiff must provide specific evidentiary facts, through affidavits
and other authenticated documents, sufficient to allow the court to independently
conclude whether jurisdiction is appropriate. 
[Citation.]  The plaintiff cannot rely
on allegations in an unverified complaint or vague and conclusory assertions of
ultimate facts.  [Citation.]”  (Strasner
v. Touchstone Wireless Repair & Logistics, LP (2016) 5 Cal.App.5th 215,
222.)
A defendant is subject to
a state’s general jurisdiction if its contacts “are so continuance and
systematic as to render [it] essentially at home in the forum State.”  (Saimler AG v. Bauman (2014) 571 U.S.
117, 127.)  A nonresident defendant may be
subject to the specific jurisdiction of the forum “if the defendant has purposefully
availed himself or herself of forum benefits [citation], and the ‘controversy is
related to or “arises out of” a defendant’s contacts with the forum.’  [Citations.]” 
(Vons Companies, Inc. v. Seabest Foods,
Inc. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 434, 446.) 
This test does not require a “causal relationship between the
defendant’s in-state activity and the litigation.”  (Ford Motor Co. v. Montana Eighth Judicial
District Court (2021) 141 S.Ct. 1017, 1026.)  The “arise out” of standard “asks about
causation,” but “relate to” does not.  (Ibid.)  “[W]hen a corporation has ‘continuously and
deliberately exploited [a State’s] market, it must reasonably anticipate being
haled into [that State’s] court[s]’ to defend actions ‘based on’ products causing
injury there.”  (Id. at p.
1027.)  
Defendant states it is
incorporated and headquartered in Indiana, and Plaintiffs do not contend
otherwise. 
Defendant argues the
complaint gives no details about the products from Defendant that Terry
Jellesed used and whether he used them in California.  (Motion at p. 3.)  The complaint does not specify any product
from Defendant.  The only detail specific
to Jellesed in the complaint, which is otherwise generic boilerplate, is that Terry
Jellesed used unspecified asbestos-containing products while working as an
engineman in the Long Beach Naval Shipyard from 1960 through 1962.  (Complaint, Ex. A.)  Plaintiffs’ opposition repeats this
allegation.  (Opposition at p. 3.)  But the opposition does not identify any
product from Defendant that Terry Jellesed used or worked around.  Nor does the opposition attach any evidence
showing that Terry Jellesed worked in the Long Beach Naval Shipyard and was
exposed there to a product from Defendant. 
Allegations are not enough.  (Strasner, supra, 5 Cal.App.5th at p. 222.)
Instead, Plaintiffs argue
that Defendant consented to California’s jurisdiction in this case because it
consented to California’s jurisdiction in other cases.  (Opposition at pp. 4-5.)  Plaintiffs cite no law for this concept that
by consenting to jurisdiction in a prior case, a defendant consents to a
state’s jurisdiction for future, yet-unfiled cases that will eventually be brought
by completely different plaintiffs based on different allegations.  The court rejects this unsupported argument. 
Plaintiffs ask for jurisdictional
discovery.  There must be some basis in
fact for jurisdictional discovery, some reason to conclude discovery is likely
to produce evidence of California contacts sufficient for personal
jurisdiction.  (In re Automobile
Antitrust Cases (2005) 136 Cal.App.4th 100, 127 [“In order to prevail on a
motion for a continuance for jurisdictional discovery, the plaintiff should
demonstrate that discovery is likely to lead to the production of evidence of
facts establishing jurisdiction”].)  When
a plaintiff is not able to make an offer of proof of the existence of
“additional relevant jurisdictional evidence,” a court does not abuse its
discretion in denying jurisdictional discovery. 
(Ibid.)  Here Plaintiffs have
not made any such offer of proof because they do not even identify the products
at issue.  The complaint is so vague
about Defendant’s alleged conduct, it is impossible to determine the products
at issue and thus the scope of jurisdictional discovery.  Plaintiffs do not demonstrate that discovery
is likely to lead to the production of evidence of facts establishing Plaintiffs’
claims arise out of or relate to Defendant’s contacts with California.  
The motion is
GRANTED and the complaint against Defendant Cummins Inc. is DISMISSSED without
prejudice pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 581, subdivision (h).
            The
moving party is to give notice.