  Case Number:  23STC08409    Hearing Date:   October 6, 2023    Dept:  15 [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE MOTION TO QUASH (COSMETIC)
Plaintiffs Jill Diaz,
Michael Pardo, Joni Standley, and Darren Pardo filed this action alleging Teresa
Pardo developed mesothelioma as a result of exposure to asbestos in Defendant Cosmetic
Specialties, Inc.’s products.  Defendant filed
a motion to quash service of summons for lack of personal jurisdiction.
A defendant may move to quash
service of summons on the ground of lack of jurisdiction of the court over the
defendant.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 418.10, subd.
(a)(1).)  The court may dismiss without prejudice
the complaint in whole, or as to that defendant, when dismissal is made pursuant
to Section 418.10.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 581,
subd. (h).)  “A court of this state may exercise
jurisdiction on any basis not inconsistent with the Constitution of this state or
of the United States.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 410.10.)  “The Due Process Clause protects
an individual’s liberty interest in not being subject to the binding judgments of
a forum with which he has established no meaningful ‘contacts, ties, or relations.’”  (Burger
King Corp. v. Rudzewicz (1985) 471 U.S. 462, 471-472.)  A state court may not exercise personal jurisdiction
over a party under circumstances that would offend “traditional notions of fair
play and substantial justice.”  (Asahi Metal Industry Co., Ltd., v. Superior Court
of California, Solano County (1987) 480 U.S. 102, 113.)  
When a defendant moves to
quash service of process on jurisdictional grounds, the plaintiff has the initial
burden of demonstrating facts justifying the exercise of jurisdiction.  (Jayone
Foods, Inc. v. Aekyung Industrial Co. Ltd. (2019) 31 Cal.App.5th 543, 553.)  Once facts showing minimum contacts with the forum
state are established, the defendant has the burden to demonstrate that the exercise
of jurisdiction would be unreasonable.  (Ibid.) 
“The plaintiff must provide specific evidentiary facts, through affidavits
and other authenticated documents, sufficient to allow the court to independently
conclude whether jurisdiction is appropriate. 
[Citation.]  The plaintiff cannot rely
on allegations in an unverified complaint or vague and conclusory assertions of
ultimate facts.  [Citation.]”  (Strasner
v. Touchstone Wireless Repair & Logistics, LP (2016) 5 Cal.App.5th 215,
222.)
A defendant is subject to
a state’s general jurisdiction if its contacts “are so continuance and
systematic as to render [it] essentially at home in the forum State.”  (Saimler AG v. Bauman (2014) 571 U.S.
117, 127.)  A nonresident defendant may be
subject to the specific jurisdiction of the forum “if the defendant has purposefully
availed himself or herself of forum benefits [citation], and the ‘controversy is
related to or “arises out of” a defendant’s contacts with the forum.’  [Citations.]” 
(Vons Companies, Inc. v. Seabest Foods,
Inc. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 434, 446.) 
This test does not require a “causal relationship between the
defendant’s in-state activity and the litigation.”  (Ford Motor Co. v. Montana Eighth Judicial
District Court (2021) 141 S.Ct. 1017, 1026.)  The “arise out” of standard “asks about
causation,” but “relate to” does not.  (Ibid.)  “[W]hen a corporation has ‘continuously and
deliberately exploited [a State’s] market, it must reasonably anticipate being
haled into [that State’s] court[s]’ to defend actions ‘based on’ products
causing injury there.”  (Id. at p.
1027.)  
Defendant is incorporated
in New Jersey and has its principal place of business in New Jersey.  (Katerndahl Decl., Exs. C, D.)  This evidence establishes California has no
general jurisdiction over Defendant, and Plaintiffs do not argue otherwise.
Defendant argues it has
not engaged in activities availing itself of the benefits of doing business in
California related to Plaintiffs’ claims. 
(Motion at p. 12.)  Plaintiffs
contend Defendant supplied talc to Avon, Covergirl, Revlon, Gold Bond, and
Estee Lauder, and Teresa Pardo used their products.  (Opposition at p. 1.)  Plaintiff cites no evidence of this.  The only evidence Plaintiffs submitted is
that it distributed talc for Cyprus Mines. 
(Opposition at pp 3-4.)  But that
is not evidence that Plaintiffs’ arise out of or relate to Defendant’s
activities in California.
Plaintiffs state they
need jurisdictional discovery.  Defendant
filed this motion on June 15, 2023, and the court has already continued the
hearing twice for jurisdictional discovery. 
Plaintiffs do not explain why they were not to complete jurisdictional
discovery in the last three and a half months. 
Nor do Plaintiffs specify the additional discovery they need.  
There must be some basis
in fact for jurisdictional discovery, some reason to conclude discovery is
likely to produce evidence of California contacts sufficient for personal
jurisdiction.  (In re Automobile
Antitrust Cases (2005) 136 Cal.App.4th 100, 127 [“In order to prevail on a
motion for a continuance for jurisdictional discovery, the plaintiff should
demonstrate that discovery is likely to lead to the production of evidence of
facts establishing jurisdiction”].)  When
a plaintiff is not able to make an offer of proof of the existence of
“additional relevant jurisdictional evidence,” a court does not abuse its
discretion in denying jurisdictional discovery. 
(Ibid.)  Plaintiffs did not
demonstrate that further discovery is likely to lead to the production of
evidence of facts establishing Defendant sold talc for use in Avon, Covergirl,
Revlon, Gold Bond, and Estee Lauder products or that Plaintiffs’ claims are
otherwise related to or arise out of Defendant’s contacts with California.   
The motion is
GRANTED and the complaint against Defendant Cosmetic Specialties, Inc. is
DISMISSSED without prejudice pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 581,
subdivision (h).
            The
moving party is to give notice.