  Case Number:  23STCV28218    Hearing Date:   August 12, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los
Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



SOHAILA DERAKHSHAN 
  
        
  vs.
 
HAMED JAFARI 
  


 Case
  No.:  23STCV28218    
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  August 12, 2024




 
Defendant’s
demurrer is SUSTAINED, WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND. However, dismissal of this
action is without prejudice to allow Plaintiff to properly refile on
behalf of her brother, rather than on her own individual standing.  
 
            On 11/17/2023, Plaintiff Sohaila Derakhshan (Plaintiff),
representing herself in propria persona, filed suit against Hamed Jafari
(Defendant), alleging: (1) breach of fiduciary duty; (2) elder abuse; (3)
forgery; (4) conversion; and (5) fraud. 
 
            Now, Defendant demurs to the Complaint.
 
Discussion 
 
            Defendant argues that Plaintiff has failed to support
each cause of action with sufficient allegations.
 
            After review, the Court agrees. 
 
            Plaintiff’s Complaint suffers from the fact that each
claim is based on conduct allegedly committed against her now deceased Brother.
For example, Plaintiff alleges a breach of fiduciary duty, but does not allege
any fiduciary relationship between her and Defendant. Similarly, Plaintiff does
not allege that she is a member of the class protected by California Elder
Abuse Laws, or that Defendant took any action exerting undue influence over
her. Rather, Plaintiff alleges elder abuse on behalf of her deceased
brother.  
 
As
such, Plaintiff does not have individual standing to pursue these claims, but
must pursue this claim on a representative basis. Plaintiff is urged to consult
an attorney to assist her with navigating this process. 
             
            Based on the foregoing, Defendant’s demurrer is
sustained, without leave to amend. However, dismissal of this action is without
prejudice to allow Plaintiff to properly refile on behalf of her brother,
rather than on her own individual standing. 

 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  August   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 