 Case Number:  24STCV02729    Hearing Date:   August 12, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los
Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



DANIEL MOLINA 
  
        
  vs.
 
ENRICH ESTATE LLC, et al. 
  


 Case
  No.:  24STCV02729    
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  August 12, 2024




 
Defendants’
motion to strike is GRANTED IN PART, DENIED IN PART. Defendants’ motion to
strike is DENIED as to the prayer for punitive damages, but GRANTED as to the
attorney fees request.
 
            On 2/1/2024, Plaintiff Daniel Molina (Plaintiff) filed
suit against Enrich Estate, LLC and Jiayu Zheng (collectively, Defendants),
alleging: (1) damage to real property; (2) trespass; (3) negligence (4)
negligence per se; (5) negligent hiring, supervision, or retention, and (6) intrusion
into private affairs.  
 
            Now, Defendants move to strike portions of Plaintiff’s
Complaint. 
 
Discussion 
 
            Defendants move to strike Plaintiff’s prayer for punitive
damages and request for attorney fees. 
 
            As for punitive damages, Plaintiff has an operative claim
for intrusion into private affairs. Plaintiffs alleges that “Defendants began
to engage in harassing behavior, including but not limited to installing video
cameras on the outside of the Adjacent Property pointed directly at the Subject
Property. Moreover, Defendants have sent unknown individuals to Plaintiff’s
home without warning, who purport to be contractors hired by Defendants to
repair and replace the damaged fence. It is unknown whether these “contractors”
were licensed or were in fact contractors at all.”  (Complaint ¶ 29.) As such, accepted as true at
the pleading stage, Plaintiff has alleged facts which could show that
Defendants engaged in conduct intended to cause injury and with “willful and
conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.” (CCP § 3294, subd.
(c)(1).)
 
            As
for attorney fees, in the absence of such statute and contract, “California
follows what is commonly referred to as the American rule, which provides that
each party to a lawsuit must ordinarily pay his own attorney fees.” (See
CCP § 1021; also Trope v. Katz (1995)11 Cal. 4th 274, 278-279). Here,
Plaintiff has not alleged any contractual or statutory basis to recover
attorney fees. In opposition, Plaintiff argues that she is entitled to recover
under CCP section 1021.9. However, section 1021.9 only applies to agricultural
land: “In any action to recover damages to personal or real property resulting
from trespassing on lands either under cultivation or intended or used for
the raising of livestock, the prevailing plaintiff shall be entitled to
reasonable attorney's fees in addition to other costs, and in addition to any
liability for damages imposed by law.” Here, Plaintiff alleges damages to a
residential property, not land under cultivation or intended to raise
livestock. 
 
            Based
on the foregoing, Defendants’ motion to strike is granted in part, denied in
part. Defendants’ motion to strike is denied as to the prayer for punitive
damages, but granted as to the attorney fees request. 
 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  August   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this tentative
as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 