 Case Number:  22STCV09946    Hearing Date:   July 10, 2024    Dept:  52 Plaintiff Lauren Taxter’s
Motions to Compel: (1) Deposition of Defendant’s Person Most Qualified, (2)
Responses to Form Interrogatories, (3) Responses to Special Interrogatories
Motion
to Compel Deposition
            Plaintiff Lauren Taxter moves to
compel the deposition of defendant 900 South Figueroa Street Apartments
Investors LLC’s person most qualified on several matters of examination.  Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.450(a) provides,
“If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the action … without
having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for
examination, …  the party giving the
notice may move for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance and testimony.”  
            Plaintiff does not show defendant failed
to appear for a deposition.  Plaintiff
served a notice of deposition of defendant’s person most qualified on several
topics for March 2, 2024, which was a Saturday. 
(Gabrielyan Decl., ¶ 4, Ex. A.) 
Plaintiff served an amended notice of deposition to take place on March
11.  (Id., ¶ 5, Ex. B.)  Before that date, plaintiff agreed to
reschedule the deposition.  (Motion, p.
5.)  Defendant’s counsel did not respond
to plaintiff’s counsel’s requests for alternate dates to depose defendant’s
person most qualified.  (Gabrielyan
Decl., ¶¶ 7-9, Ex. C.)  
Plaintiff
did not, however, serve a second amended notice of deposition for which
defendant failed to appear.  Plaintiff
agreed to reschedule the deposition.  Failing
to provide alternate dates for a deposition is not the same as failing to
appear at a properly noticed deposition. 
It may be a professional
courtesy to mutually schedule a deposition, but the Civil Discovery Act does
not require that.  “An oral deposition
shall be scheduled for a date at least 10 days after service of the deposition
notice.”  (CCP § 2025.270(a).)  “The service of a deposition notice under
Section 2025.240 is effective to require any deponent who is a party to the
action… to attend and to testify.”  (CCP
§ 2025.280(a).)  Plaintiff had to serve a
new notice of deposition.  If defendant
did not appear on the date as noticed, then plaintiff could move to compel the
deposition.
Motions
to Compel Responses to Form and Special Interrogatories
            Plaintiff Lauren Taxter moves to
compel defendant 900 South Figueroa Street Apartments Investors LLC to respond
to form interrogatories, set seven and special interrogatories, set one.  When the responding party fails to serve a
timely response to interrogatories, the propounding party may move for an order
compelling responses.  (CCP §
2030.290(b).)  Failing to serve a timely
response waives any objection to the interrogatories.  (Id., subd. (a).)
            Plaintiff served form
interrogatories - general, set seven and special interrogatories, set one, on
defendant on January 26, 2024. 
(Gabrielyan Decls., ¶ 4, Ex. A.)  Plaintiff’s
counsel agreed to extend defendant’s deadline to respond to March 7.  (Id., ¶ 7.)  Defendant had not served any responses as of
May 14, when plaintiff filed these motions. 
(Id., ¶ 11.)  Defendant did not serve a timely response to
plaintiff’s form interrogatories, set seven and special interrogatories, set
one.  Plaintiff is therefore
entitled to an order compelling defendant to serve verified responses without
objections to the interrogatories. 
            On each motion, plaintiff moves for
$1,460 in sanctions against defendant.  Failing to respond to an authorized method of
discovery is a misuse of the discovery process subject to monetary
sanctions.  (CCP § 2023.010(d).)  Defendant failed to respond to plaintiff’s
interrogatories.  It did not act with
substantial justification.  Sanctions are
just under the circumstances.  
            Plaintiff,
however, did not reasonably incur $1,460 in expenses for each motion.   These
expenses include 2 hours of attorney fees at $350 hourly anticipated for
reviewing defendant’s oppositions and preparing replies.  (Gabrielyan Decls., ¶ 12.)  Defendant did not file an opposition.  Plaintiff did not file a reply.  The court therefore reduces the sanctions by
$700 on each motion.  
Disposition  
Plaintiff Lauren
Taxter’s motion to compel defendant’s deposition is denied.
Plaintiff Lauren
Taxter’s motion to compel defendant 900 South Figueroa Street
Apartments Investors LLC to respond to form interrogatories, set seven, is granted.  Defendant 900 South Figueroa Street
Apartments Investors LLC is ordered
to serve verified responses without objections to form interrogatories –
general, set seven, within 20 days.  Defendant
900 South Figueroa Street Apartments Investors LLC is ordered
to pay plaintiff Lauren Taxter $760 in sanctions within 20 days.  
Plaintiff Lauren
Taxter’s motion to compel defendant 900 South Figueroa Street
Apartments Investors LLC to respond to special interrogatories, set one, is granted.  Defendant 900 South Figueroa Street
Apartments Investors LLC is ordered
to serve verified responses without objections to plaintiff’s special
interrogatories, set one, within 20 days. 
Defendant
900 South Figueroa Street Apartments Investors LLC is ordered
to pay plaintiff Lauren Taxter $760 in sanctions within 20 days.  