  Case Number:  22STCV02823    Hearing Date:   July 10, 2024    Dept:  52 Plaintiff Maneesh Bansal’s Motion to
Disqualify Counsel 
Plaintiff Maneesh
Bansal, M.D. moves to disqualify Michael W. Caspino and Forward
Counsel LLP from representing defendants Arunpal Sehgal, M.D. and Paramjot
Mann, M.D.  Plaintiff contends Forward
Counsel LLP must be automatically disqualified due to simultaneous adverse
representation.  Generally, “there is a
per se rule requiring disqualification of an attorney or a law firm when there
is a conflict of interest based upon concurrent representation of multiple
clients.  [Citations.]  This is the case irrespective of whether the
representation of one client has anything to do with the representation of the
other client.”  (M’Guinness v. Johnson
(2015) 243 Cal.App.4th 602, 625.)
Plaintiff does not show Forward Counsel simultaneously
represents adverse clients.  Forward
Counsel currently represents Shelby Hospitality, LLC (Shelby) in another action
(the Shelby Litigation).  (Bansal Decl.,
¶ 6.)  Plaintiff is one of three managing
members of Shelby.  (Id., ¶¶
3-4.)  Shelby has nine members: one LLC
and eight individuals, including plaintiff. 
(Id., ¶ 4.)  Shelby’s
operating agreement provides that, when it was executed in 2018, the LLC and
five of the eight individuals had 10% membership interests, Bansal and two
other individuals had an 11.1% interest, and the final member had a 16.67%
interest.  (Id., Ex. A, p. 13.) 
Representing
Shelby does not mean Forward Counsel represents plaintiff himself.  “Generally, when ‘representing a corporation,
an attorney’s client is the corporate entity, not individual shareholders or directors,
and the individual shareholders or directors cannot presume that corporate
counsel is protecting their interests.’ 
[Citation.]  ‘An attorney
representing a corporation does not become the representative of its
stockholders merely because the attorney’s actions on behalf of the corporation
also benefit the stockholders; as attorney for the corporation, counsel’s first
duty is to the corporation.’ ”  (Sprengel
v. Zbylut (2019) 40 Cal.App.5th 1028, 1042 (Sprengel).)
Representing
an entity, however, “may create an implied attorney-client relationship with”
its individual owners.  (Sprengel,
supra, 40 Cal.App.5th at p. 1043.)  “When
assessing the existence of an implied attorney-client relationship between a
corporate attorney and the entity’s individual members, the key inquiry is
whether ‘the totality of the circumstances’ implies an agreement that the
corporate attorney will not act adversely to the individual shareholder’s
interests with respect to the issues in dispute.”  (Id. at p. 1047.) 
The court “must assess whether the parties conducted themselves in a way
that would reasonably cause a shareholder to believe the attorney would protect
the shareholder’s individual interests.” 
(Ibid.)  
When
determining this issue, courts consider factors including “[t]he type and size
of” the entity, “the nature and scope of the attorney’s engagement,” “[t]he
kind and extent of contacts, if any, between the attorney and the individual”
owner, and “the attorney’s access to information (e.g., partnership financial
information) relating to the individual.” 
(Responsible Citizens v. Superior Court (1993) 16 Cal.App.4th
1717, 1733 (Responsible Citizens).)
The
evidence in the record does not show that, under the totality of the
circumstances, plaintiff reasonably believed Forward Counsel would protect his
individual interests.  The type and size
of Shelby Hospitality, LLC do not support that conclusion.  One primary purpose of a limited liability
company is to limit the individual members’ liability for the company’s debts.  An LLC’s debts or liabilities “are solely the
debts, obligations, or other liabilities of the limited liability company”
(Corp. Code, § 17703.04(a)(1)) and “do not become the debts, obligations, or
other liabilities of a member or manager solely by reason of the member acting
as a member or manager acting as a manager for the limited liability company” (id.,
subd. (a)(2)).  Shelby has nine members.  (Bansal Decl., ¶ 4.)  Plaintiff does not identify his current
membership interest in Shelby, but he owned 11.1% of the company when it was
formed.  (Id., Ex. A, p. 13.)    
In
contrast, in Responsible Citizens, the individual moving for
disqualification was one of two partners in a general partnership.  (Responsible Citizens, supra, 16
Cal.App.4th at p. 1722 [remanding issue to trial court])  In Sprengel, the individual was one of
two members who each owned 50 percent of a limited liability company.  (Sprengel, supra, 40 Cal.App.5th at p.
1033 [affirming summary judgment of malpractice action].)  Plaintiff’s interest in Shelby is far
smaller.
The
nature and scope of the engagement also do not support the finding that Forward
Counsel represents Bansal.  Shelby operates
a hotel.  (Bansal Decl., ¶ 3.)  Forward Counsel is defending Shelby in an
action by a corporation that unsuccessfully tried to purchase the hotel
property before Shelby purchased 83.33% of it.  (Id., Ex. B, Complaint in Bhuvneshwari
Corp. v. Ken Pansurai, et al., ¶¶ 16-31.) 
The retainer agreement between Forward Counsel and Shelby “states the
Engagement is only for the persons or entities identified in the incorporated
Letter Agreement which only lists Shelby (along with nonparties Fine
Hospitality and Eurocan) and does not mention Bansal.”  (Caspino Decl., ¶ 9.)  It further provides, “ ‘Unless expressly
agreed in writing, the Firm is not undertaking the representation of any
related or affiliated person or entity… nor any of your or their officers,
directors, shareholders, managers, members, agents, partners, or employees.’
”  (Ibid.)  Nothing about the nature and scope of the
representation involves plaintiff’s individual interests.  It only impacts him incidentally as a member
of the LLC.
Plaintiff
largely relies on the fact that Forward Counsel planned to prepare him for his
deposition in the action against Shelby (before the deposition was
postponed).  (Bansal Decl., ¶¶ 12-14.)  Preparing a witness for a deposition does not
constitute personally representing the witness. 
Moreover, the email asking to prepare Bansal for his deposition was sent
to five individual members of Shelby about their depositions.  (Id., Ex. D.)  Each deposition was scheduled for two
hours.  (Ibid.)  Forward Counsel asked to “have a short call
with each” witness only one to three days before their depositions and stated
“[e]ach call should not take more than 15-20 minutes.”  (Ibid.)  This email shows Forward Counsel’s plan to
prepare plaintiff to testify at deposition was no different from how it treated
four other members.  A brief phone call
to prepare for an unusually short deposition does not demonstrate any personal
attorney-client relationship.  Nothing in
the circumstances would cause a reasonable person in plaintiff’s shoes to
believe Forward Counsel represents his personal interests.  
The
only factor supporting a finding of concurrent adverse representation is the kind
and extent of contacts between plaintiff and Forward Counsel.  Plaintiff states he “had at least four phone
calls and videoconferences with Mr. Caspino” (Bansal Decl., ¶ 9), and he
“exchanged at least 68 emails” with Forward Counsel (id., ¶ 11).  
Plaintiff,
however, explains the reason for having extensive communication with Forward
Counsel.  He states, “I was elected by
the non-interested members of Shelby (i.e., those without a personal interest
in the Shelby Litigation) to represent their interests and deal with Forward
Counsel and Mr. Caspino on their behalf.  I am currently the only manager of Shelby that
can make decisions for the entity without consideration of the needs and
desires of the other two defendants, given that Gaurang Patel owns one of the
named defendants and Nishant Karod is the business partner of another named
defendant.  I am the only manager or
member of Shelby who has interacted with Forward Counsel on behalf of the
non-interested members.”  (Id., ¶
7.)  
He
thus acknowledges he does not have “a personal interest in the Shelby
Litigation” and interacts with Forward Counsel in his capacity as Shelby’s
managing member on behalf of Shelby and, in particular, the other “non-interested
members of Shelby.”  Except for being one
of the three managing members, his relationship with Forward Counsel is the
same as all the other individuals who own Shelby.  None of these individuals, including Bansal,
are parties in the Shelby Litigation and Forward Counsel does not represent
them.  
Plaintiff
also states he asked Caspino “a personal legal question and requested advice on
an issue personal to me” in January 2023. 
(Bansal Decl., ¶ 12.)  He did not
explain the nature of the legal issue. 
Defendants show it was not personal. 
After the opposing counsel cancelled plaintiff’s deposition, plaintiff
wrote, “Can we seek sanctions for this behavior.  Scheduling a deposition takes time and
planning.  I have to reschedule my
patients in clinic and can’t switch schedules so capriciously.”  (Caspino Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. 1.)  Caspino replied, “Absolutely.  I am setting him up for this right now.”  (Ibid.)
These
emails involve at most a modicum of legal advice.  The issue was plaintiff’s frustration about how
the litigation impacted his schedule as a practicing physician.  Any witness, regardless of their relationship
with Shelby or Forward Counsel, in plaintiff’s shoes might share such
frustration.  And, as defendants argue,
any sanctions would be paid to Shelby, not plaintiff, who is not a party to
that action.  
Plaintiff
does not identify any information relating to his individual interests that
Forward Counsel can access.  Under the
circumstances, any information Forward Counsel has about Shelby only
incidentally relates to plaintiff based on his status as one of its nine
members.    
The
totality of the circumstances does not imply an agreement that Forward Counsel
would not act adversely to plaintiff’s individual interests.  Plaintiff states, “I viewed Forward Counsel
as my trusted lawyers.  Forward Counsel
has never communicated to me that it does not represent me or my interests.”  (Bansal Decl., ¶ 17.)  His view was not reasonable under the
totality of the circumstances.  And
Forward Counsel did expressly communicate that it does not represent him or his
interests.  It did so via the retainer
agreement that serves as the basis for its relationship with Shelby (and
therefore any resulting relationship with plaintiff).  (Caspino Decl., ¶ 9.)  That Bansal purportedly “never saw a copy of”
the agreement until recently (Bansal Decl., ¶ 8) does not excuse him.  An objectively reasonable member of Shelby
Hospitality LLC would expect that the written contract between Shelby and
Forward Counsel governs their relationship. 

Disposition
            Plaintiff Maneesh Bansal, M.D.’s
motion to disqualify counsel is denied.Defendants Arunpal Sehgal and
Paramjot Mann’s Motion to Compel Arbitration Defendants/cross-complainants Arunpal Sehgal, M.D.
and Paramjot Mann, M.D. move to compel arbitration of the entire action.  A court may deny a motion to compel
arbitration when “[t]he right to compel arbitration has been waived.”  (CCP § 1281.2(a).)Defendants waived any right to compel arbitration of
this action.  “[M]erely participating in
litigation, by itself, does not result in a waiver.”  (St. Agnes Medical Center v. PacifiCare of
California (2003) 31 Cal.4th 1187, 1203 (St. Agnes).)  When determining waiver, courts consider
factors including “(1) whether the party’s actions are inconsistent with the
right to arbitrate; (2) whether the litigation machinery has been substantially
invoked and the parties were well into preparation of a lawsuit before the
party notified the opposing party of an intent to arbitrate; (3) whether a party
either requested arbitration enforcement close to the trial date or delayed for
a long period before seeking a stay; (4) whether a defendant seeking
arbitration filed a counterclaim without asking for a stay of the proceedings;
(5) whether important intervening steps [e.g., taking advantage of judicial
discovery procedures not available in arbitration] had taken place.”  (Id. at p. 1196, internal quotes
omitted.)Defendants’ actions have been wholly inconsistent
with the right to arbitrate.  Before
plaintiff filed this action, Bansal brought a demand for arbitration with JAMS
against Sehgal in September 2021. 
(Beatty Decl., ¶ 2, Ex. A.)  Rather
than pursuing his counterclaims before JAMS, Sehgal demurred to the demand for
arbitration on the basis that Bansal’s claim was not subject to arbitration.  (Id., ¶ 3, Ex. B.)  Before a ruling on the demurrer, “the parties
met and conferred and reached an agreement whereby Bansal agreed to voluntarily
dismiss his Demand for Arbitration without prejudice and refile his claims in
state court.”  (Id., ¶ 4.)  Resisting arbitration and agreeing to proceed
in court is a paradigmatic example of acts inconsistent with the right to
arbitrate.  Defendants’ conduct in this litigation has also been
inconsistent with arbitration.  They first
appeared in this action by filing a case management statement on April 5,
2022.  Defendants offer no explanation for
not seeking to compel arbitration of this action until December 2023.  Until filing this motion, defendants never
indicated an intent to arbitrate.  In their
initial case management statement, defendants did not check the box indicating
they were willing to arbitrate.  (Apr. 5,
2022 Case Management Statement, ¶ 10.c(5).)  Neither their demurrer to the initial
complaint (Beatty Decl., Ex. E), answer to the first amended complaint (id.,
Ex. F), initial cross-complaint (id. Ex. G), first amended
cross-complaint (id., Ex. H), nor second amended cross-complaint (id.,
Ex. I) assert any demand to arbitrate.  Defendants now argue, for the first time, the action
is subject to arbitration.  They seek to
justify their change in position by arguing that plaintiff’s initial demand for
arbitration was different than plaintiff’s operative complaint.  But defendants’ initial cross-complaint alleges,
“Bansal initially filed a demand for arbitration asserting similar claims
against Cross-Defendants as he alleges in this action.  Cross-Complainant objected to arbitration.”  (Beatty Decl.., Ex. G, ¶ 20.)    Defendants substantially invoked the litigation
machinery.  Together, the two defendants “have
served three sets of Requests for Production of Documents (totaling 190
requests), two sets of Special Interrogatories (totaling 81 special
interrogatories), two sets of Form Interrogatories, and two sets of Requests
for Admission (totaling 43 requests).” 
(Beatty Decl., ¶ 10, Exs. J-R.)  They
filed three motions to compel compliance with requests for production.  (Id., ¶ 11, Exs. S & T.)  In response to defendants’ requests for
production, Bansal produced almost one million pages of documents.  (Id., ¶ 12.)  Furthermore, plaintiff’s counsel states, “Bansal
has incurred more than $300,000 in attorneys’ fees in litigating this matter.”  (Id., ¶ 15.)  The parties are well into preparation for the
trial scheduled for July 28, 2025.  Defendants
also filed a cross-complaint (and two amended cross-complaints) without asking
to stay this action.    Plaintiff demonstrates that defendants’ delay has substantially
prejudiced him.  “[C]ourts assess
prejudice with the recognition that California’s arbitration statutes reflect ‘
“a strong public policy in favor of arbitration as a speedy and relatively
inexpensive means of dispute resolution” ’ and are intended ‘ “to encourage
persons who wish to avoid delays incident to a civil action to obtain an
adjustment of their differences by a tribunal of their own choosing.” ’  [Citation.] 
Prejudice typically is found only where the petitioning party’s conduct
has substantially undermined this important public policy or substantially
impaired the other side’s ability to take advantage of the benefits and
efficiencies of arbitration.”  (St.
Agnes, supra, 31 Cal.4th at p. 1204.) 
Such prejudice has occurred here. 
Beginning arbitration over two years after this action has been at issue
and after extensive discovery, multiple discovery motions, and several
demurrers would not be speedy or inexpensive. After considering all relevant factors, the court
finds defendants waived any right to compel arbitration of this action.  Plaintiff also argues defendants are judicially
estopped from moving to compel arbitration. 
The court does not reach the issue.Disposition
Defendants/cross-complainants
Arunpal Sehgal, M.D. and Paramjot Mann, M.D.’s motion to compel arbitration is denied.