 Case Number:  22SMCV01876    Hearing Date:   April 9, 2024    Dept:  205 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Beverly
Hills Courthouse | Department 205
 
 



QUALITY CABINET AND FIXTURE
  COMPANY, LLC,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
WEBCOR CONSTRUCTION L.P., etc.,
  et al.,
                        Defendants.


  Case No.: 22SMCV01876
  Hearing Date: 4/9/24
  Trial Date: 6/24/24   
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE CROSS-COMPLAINT 



 
Background
 
This action arises
from the renovation of the Century Plaza Condo Towers (the “Project”), located
at 2025 Avenue of the Stars in Los Angeles (the “Property”). Plaintiff Quality
Cabinet and Fixture Company, LLC (“Plaintiff”) entered into a subcontract with
Defendant Webcor Construction L.P. dba Wecor Builders (“Webcor”) and Plaintiff
alleges that, among other actions, Webcor breached the subcontract. 
On October 12,
2022, Plaintiff filed a Complaint against Defendants Webcor, Next Century
Partners, LLC, Century Plaza Master Association (collectively “Defendants”),
and DOES 1 through 200, inclusive, alleging causes of action for: (1) breach of
contract, (2) foreclosure of mechanic’s lien, (3) quantum meruit, (4) money had
and received, and (5) account stated. 
On November 29,
2022, Defendant Webcor filed an Answer to the Complaint. 
On March 14, 2023,
Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) against Defendants,
Zurich American Insurance Company, and DOES 1 through 250, inclusive, alleging
causes of action for: (1) breach of contract, (2) enforcement mechanics lien
release bond, (3) quantum meruit, (4) money had and received, and (5) account
stated. 
On April 17, 2023,
Defendant Webcor filed an Answer to the FAC. 
On March 11, 2024,
Defendant Webcor filed and served the instant Motion for Leave to File
Cross-Complaint, which is made on the grounds that granting it leave to file a
cross-complaint is in the interests of justice and will promote the efficient
resolution of all claims against the parties. 
On March 21, 2024,
Plaintiff filed an opposition to the motion, to which Defendant Webcor replied
on March 27, 2024. 
Jury trial in this
action is scheduled to commence on June 24, 2024. 
Legal Standard/Applicable Law
 
            Code Civ. Proc., §
428.50, subd. (a) provides that “[a] party shall file a cross-complaint against
any of the parties who filed the complaint or cross-complaint against him or
her before or at the same time as the answer to the complaint or cross-complaint.”
“Any other cross-complaint may be filed at any time before the court has set a
date for trial.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 428.50, subd. (b).) “A party shall obtain
leave of court to file any cross-complaint except one filed within the time
specified in subdivision (a) or (b). Leave may be granted in the interest of
justice at any time during the course of the action.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
428.50, subd. (c).) 

            “A party who
fails to plead a cause of action subject to the requirements of this article,
whether through oversight, inadvertence, mistake, neglect, or other cause, may
apply to the court for leave . . . to file a cross-complaint, to assert such
cause of action at any time during the course of the action.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 426.50.) “The court, after notice to the adverse party, shall grant, upon
such terms as may be just to the parties, leave to amend the pleading, or to
file the cross-complaint, to assert such cause if the party who failed to plead
the cause acted in good faith. [CCP § 426.50] shall be liberally construed to
avoid forfeiture of causes of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 426.50.) A
compulsory cross-complaint can by definition be against the plaintiff or the
cross-complainant. (Code Civ. Proc., § 426.50.) A compulsory cross-complaint is
one that arises out of the same transaction, occurrence, or series of
transactions or occurrences as the cause of action which plaintiff alleges in its
complaint. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 426.10(c) and 426.30(a).) 
            Code Civ. Proc. § 428.10(b) allows a party to
file a cross-complaint alleging “[a]ny cause of action he has against a person
alleged to be liable thereon, whether or not such person is already a party to
the action, if the cause of action asserted in his cross-complaint (1) arises
out of the same transaction, occurrence, or series of transactions or
occurrences as the cause brought against him.” “[A] related cause of action is
a cause of action which arises out of the same transaction, occurrence, or series
of transactions or occurrences as the cause of action which the plaintiff
alleges in his complaint.” (K.R.L. Partnership v. Superior Court, supra,
120 Cal.App.4th 490, 498.) “Cross-complaints for comparative
equitable indemnity would appear virtually always transactionally related to
the main action.” (Time for Living, Inc. v. Guy
Hatfield Homes/All American Development Co. (1991) 230 Cal.App.3d 30,
38.)  
            “Bad
faith, is defined as [t]he opposite of good faith, generally implying or
involving actual or constructive fraud, or a design to mislead or deceive
another, or a neglect or refusal to fulfill some duty or some contractual
obligation, not prompted by an honest mistake . . . , but by some interested or
sinister motive[,] . . .  not simply bad
judgment or negligence, but rather the conscious doing of a wrong because of
dishonest purpose or moral obliquity; it contemplates a state of mind
affirmatively operating with furtive design or ill will.” (Silver
Organizations Ltd. v. Frank (1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 94, 100, citations
omitted.) 
Analysis
 
The proposed cross-complaint of Defendant Webcor is
attached as Exhibit 1 to the declaration of Daniel Sakaguchi (“Sakaguchi”) in
support of the motion. (Sakaguchi Decl., ¶ 2; Exh. 1.) The proposed
cross-complaint is asserted against Plaintiff and arises from the construction
of the Project. The proposed cross-complaint asserts causes of action against
Plaintiff for: (1) breach of contract, (2) express contractual indemnity, and
(3) equitable indemnity. (Id.) 
Here, the Court finds that the proposed cross-complaint is
compulsory because it arises from the same transaction that gives rise to
Plaintiff’s FAC against Defendant Webcor. As such, it is mandatory that the
Court grant Defendant Webcor leave to file its proposed cross-complaint against
Plaintiff unless there is a showing of bad faith. 
Here, there is no evidence of bad faith. Plaintiff argues
in the opposition that “Webcor knew or should have known of any potential
claims long ago. This attempt to file a [c]ross-[c]omplaint is a delay tactic
and precursor to a future motion for a trial continuance.” (Opp’n at p. 2: 20-23.)
Plaintiff contends that the motion should have been filed back in November of
2023. (Opp’n at p. 2:8-9.) In support of the opposition, Plaintiff’s counsel
declares that on or about November 15, 2023, he sent a letter to Defendant
Webcor’s Vice President, Kurt Rucci, that addressed the alleged defective work
issue concerning the Project. (Donohue Decl., ¶ 2; Exh. A.) A delay of four
months is not undue, nor is there any showing of prejudice to Plaintiff because
of the request of Defendant Webcor to file a cross-complaint. The failure to timely
file a cross-complaint with the answer alone is not evidence of bad faith;
otherwise, there would be no provision to seek leave under CCP § 428.50. 
Conclusion
Accordingly, the
Court GRANTS Defendant Webcor’s Motion for Leave to File Cross-Complaint.
Defendant Webcor is ordered to file and serve its proposed cross-complaint,
which is attached as Exhibit 1 to the declaration of Daniel Sakaguchi in
support of the motion, within five calendar days of the date of this order so
that it becomes an operative pleading in this action. 
 
Dated: April 9, 2024
__________________________________________
Edward B. Moreton, Jr.
Judge of the Superior Court