 Case Number:  23SMCV03671    Hearing Date:   April 9, 2024    Dept:  205  
 
 
Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles – West District 
Beverly Hills Courthouse / Department 205
 



 
WILLIAM KEATING JR.,  
 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
GENERAL MOTORS, LLC. and DOES 1 through
  10, inclusive, 
 
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.: 
  23SMCV03671
 
  Hearing Date:  April 9, 2024
  [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
Plaintiff’s motion to compel the   
  deposition of defendant general   
  motors, llc’s person most Qualified with production of documents and
  request for monetary sanctions in the amount of $3,000
 



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
               This case
arises from a dispute over an allegedly defective 2020 GMC Sierra Denali.  On September 24, 2020, Plaintiff William
Keating, Jr. (“Plaintiff”) purchased a new 2020 GMC Sierra Denali that
Defendant General Motors, LLC (“Defendant”) manufactured. (Compl. ¶¶ 4-7.) It
is further alleged that the sale of the subject vehicle was accompanied by
express and implied warranties. (Id. at ¶ 8-9.) However, during the warranty
period, the subject vehicle exhibited certain nonconformities to warranty
relating to “electrical, infotainment screen, transmission, camshaft position
sensor, intermittent no start, and other defects.” (Id. at ¶ 10.) Because
of these defects, Plaintiff presented the subject vehicle to Defendant’s
authorized service and repair facility, but the aforementioned defects
persisted. (Id. at ¶¶ 11-12.)  Defendant
has failed to repurchase the subject vehicle and pay restitution. (Id.
at ¶¶ 14-15.)
The
operative complaint asserts a single claim for violation of the Song-Beverly
Act.   
This
hearing is on Plaintiff’s motion to compel the deposition of Defendant’s person
most qualified (“PMQ”) with production of documents and request for monetary
sanctions in the amount of $3,000.  Plaintiff
argues good cause exists to compel the deposition.   
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
Plaintiff objects to various portions of
the Declaration of Cameron Major. The Court rules as follows: (1) Objection
Nos. 1-7 are overruled; (2) Objection Nos. 8-10, 15 are sustained on the ground
of improper argument; (3) Objection Nos. 11-14 is sustained due to lack of
personal knowledge.
LEGAL
STANDARD
“Any
party may obtain discovery . . . by taking in California the oral deposition of
any person, including any party to the action.  The person deposed may be
a natural person, an organization such as a public or private corporation, a
partnership, an association, or a governmental agency.”  (Code Civ. Proc.
§ 2025.010.)
If
the deponent named is not a natural person, the deposition notice shall
describe with reasonable particularity the matters on which examination is
requested. In that event, the deponent shall designate and produce at the
deposition those of its officers, directors, managing agents, employees, or
agents who are most qualified to testify on its behalf as to those matters to
the extent of any information known or reasonably available to the deponent.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.230.) 
Code
of Civil Procedure §¿2025.450(a) provides:¿“If, after service of a deposition
notice, a party to the action . . . , without having served a valid objection
under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it,
or to produce for¿inspection any document . . . described in the deposition
notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order compelling the
deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of any
document . . . described in the deposition notice.”¿ 
Code
of Civil Procedure §¿2025.450(b) provides:¿“A motion under subdivision (a)
shall comply with both of the following:¿ 

The motion shall set forth specific
     facts showing good cause justifying the production for inspection of any
     document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described
     in the deposition notice.¿ 


The motion shall be accompanied by a
     meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040, or, when the deponent
     fails to attend the deposition and produce the documents, electronically
     stored information, or things described in the deposition notice, by a
     declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent to
     inquire about the nonappearance.”¿ 

Code
of Civil Procedure §¿2025.450(c) provides, “(1) If a motion under subdivision
(a) is granted, the court shall impose a monetary sanction . . . in favor of
the party who noticed the deposition and against the deponent or the party with
whom the deponent is affiliated, unless the court finds that the one subject to
the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances
make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”¿ 
//
//
DISCUSSION
Meet and Confer
Code
of Civil Procedure § 2025.450 requires the motion to be accompanied by a meet
and confer declaration under Code of Civil Procedure § 2016.040.  (Code
Civ. Proc. § 2025.450.)  Code of Civil Procedure § 2016.040 provides that
“[a] meet and confer declaration in support of a motion shall state facts
showing a reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal resolution of each
issue presented by the motion.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 2016.040.) 
“[W]hen the deponent fails to attend the deposition and produce the documents,
electronically stored information, or things described in the deposition
notice, by a declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent
to inquire about the nonappearance.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.450(b)(2).)
Here,
on September 11, 2023, Plaintiff served his notice of deposition for
Defendant’s PMQ to take place on October 11, 2023. (Hunt Decl. ¶ 6, Exh. A.)
Based on Defendant’s objections, Plaintiff attempted to meet and confer and
offered to withdraw certain categories and requests made in the initial notice,
but Defendant did not respond. (Hunt Decl. ¶¶ 7-8, Exhs. B-C.) Thereafter,
Plaintiff sent two subsequent amended notices for the deposition of Defendant’s
PMQ on October 12, 2023 and November 13, 2023, respectively.  The attempts to meet and confer were largely
unproductive. (Hunt Decl. ¶¶ 9-21, Exhs. D-L.)  On January 31, 2024, the parties attended an
informal discovery conference where, among other things, Defendant agreed to
provide a deposition date by the end of February. (See January 31, 2024 Minute
Order.) However, by March 4, 2024, Defendant had yet to select a deposition
date for its PMQ. (Hunt Decl. ¶¶26-28, Exhs. Q-R.)
            Based on the protracted yet futile meet and confer
attempts as well as the parties’ attendance at the informal discovery
conference, the Court finds that Plaintiff has sufficiently complied with the
meet and confer requirement under Code of Civil Procedure § 2025.450.
Good Cause
Here,
pursuant to the Second Amended Deposition Notice, Plaintiff seeks to depose
Defendant’s PMQ in connection with the following categories: (1) Why GM did not
repurchase or replace the vehicle before this action was filed; (2) The service
and warranty history; (3) Communications between GM and Plaintiff; (4)
Communications between GM and anyone else about the vehicle; (5) GM’s
investigation into whether or not the vehicle qualified for repurchase before
this action was filed; and (6) Warranty nonconformities in the vehicle. (Motion
at pg. 5; Separate Statement at pp. 2-15.) 
Additionally,
Plaintiff seeks the production of the following documents: (1) Documents
showing the repairs to the vehicle; (2) Documents evidencing correspondence
relating to Plaintiff or the vehicle, excluding attorney-client communication; (3)
Copies of GM’s California lemon law policy and procedure manual used by GM’s
dealers and customer service representatives; (4) GM’s customer service file
pertaining to Plaintiff or the vehicle; (5) Writings provided to GM’s customer
service representatives that reflect or relate to rules, policies and
procedures concerning the issuance of refunds pursuant to California’s
Song-Beverly Act; (6) Copies of the technical service bulletins that apply to
the vehicle; (7) Copies of recall notices that apply to the vehicle; (8) Copies
of the documents GM reviewed when it decided pre-litigation not to repurchase
the vehicle pursuant to the lemon law; (9) GM’s lemon law policy and procedure
manual; and (10) Copies of any photographs or videos GM has of the vehicle.
(Motion at pg. 6; Separate Statement at pp. 16-31.)
Plaintiff
contends that the requested testimony and documents are universally
discoverable in lemon law cases and that there is nothing inherently
objectionable about these requests. (Motion at pg. 6.) Furthermore, Plaintiff
argues that the deposition of Defendant’s PMQ is fundamental to his claim
because it is alleged in the complaint that Defendant knew that the subject
vehicle was defective and needed to have been bought back. (Id. at pp.
8-9.) Thus, Plaintiff asserts that the deposition testimony is necessary to
establish the essential elements of Plaintiff’s express and implied warranty
and damage claims. (Motion at pg. 11.)
In
opposition, Defendant suggests that Plaintiff has sufficient documentary
evidence needed to support his claims, and that it is unnecessary to depose its
PMQ.  Defendant further contends that it
has agreed to produce its PMQ for deposition on April 23, 2024 to testify on Categories
1-6. (Opposition at pp. 4, 8.) In terms of the documents sought, Defendant
argues that Plaintiff fails to articulate how the requested testimony or
documents are essential to his claims when breach of warranty claims are unique
to the consumer and his vehicle. (Opposition at pg. 6.) Thus, any information
about other consumers or their vehicles are irrelevant and overbroad. (Ibid.)
For this reason, Defendant argues that the Court should limit the scope of
discovery. (Id. at pg. 7.) Lastly, Defendant claims that Plaintiff’s
requests impermissibly seeks the production of trade secret material. (Id.
at pg. 7.)
In
consideration of the parties’ arguments, the Court finds that there is good
cause to grant the motion in full. First, Defendant improperly seeks to limit
the scope of Plaintiff’s discovery by preventing him from deposing Defendant’s
PMQ. In the absence of a contrary court order, a civil litigant’s right to
discovery is broad.  “[A]ny party may
obtain discovery regarding any matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the
subject matter involved in the pending action     . . . if the matter either is itself
admissible in evidence or appears reasonably calculated to lead to the
discovery of admissible evidence.”  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2017.010; Davies v.
Superior Court (1984) 36 Cal.3d 291, 301.) The Court declines to find that
Plaintiff’s desire to depose Defendant’s PMQ as amounting to an abuse of
discovery. 
Second,
while Defendant claims that a PMQ will be produced for deposition on April 23,
2024, there is nothing beholding Defendant to do so without a court order.
After all, despite informally agreeing to provide the deposition date for its
PMQ by the end of February 2024, Defendant only did so after Plaintiff had
filed the instant motion. 
Third,
information regarding other similar vehicles is relevant to claims brought
under the Song-Beverly Act. California Courts of Appeal have implicitly
authorized the discovery of information about other, similar vehicles. (See Donlen v. Ford Motor Company (2013)
217 Cal.App.4th 138, 154.) Fourth, as to Defendant’s concern that Plaintiff
improperly seeks trade secret documents, this argument is unavailing because
any such documents would be covered by the protective order that the parties
entered into on February 6, 2024. 
Accordingly,
the Court finds that there is good cause to compel the deposition of
Defendant’s PMQ. 
Sanctions
            Plaintiff seeks sanctions of $3,000
against Defendant and Defendant’s counsel of record to compensate Plaintiff for
the attorney fees and costs in bringing the instant motion.  Plaintiff’s
Counsel claims that eight hours at a rate of $375/hour were and will be spent meeting
and conferring, preparing the instant motion, reviewing Defendant’s opposition,
preparing a reply, and appearing at the hearing.  (Hunt Decl. ¶ 35.) 
If a motion to compel deposition “is
granted, the court shall impose a monetary sanction  . . . in favor of the party who noticed the
deposition and against the deponent or the party with whom the deponent is
affiliated, unless the court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust.”  (Code of Civil Procedure § 2025.450(c).) 
Thus, sanctions are mandatory unless circumstances make the imposition of
sanctions unjust.
            Because the instant motion has been
granted, sanctions are mandatory, and given Defendant failed to promptly
provide a deposition date, the imposition of sanctions would not be unjust. Based
on the totality of the circumstances, the Court finds that $3,000 reasonably
compensates Plaintiff for the attorney’s fees incurred in bringing this
motion. 
Accordingly, the request for sanctions is
granted. Defendant and its counsel of record, Erskine Law Group, PC, are
jointly and severally liable and ordered to pay monetary sanctions in the
amount of $3,000 to Plaintiff by and through counsel, within thirty (30) days
of notice of this order.   
CONCLUSION
            Based on the forgoing, Plaintiff’s motion to compel the
deposition of Defendant General Motors LLC’s Person Most Knowledgeable is
GRANTED.  Defendant’s PMQ is ordered to appear for deposition and to
produce the requested documents, within thirty (30) days of notice of this
order at a date and time noticed by Plaintiff. 
Defendant
and its counsel of record, Erskine Law Group, PC, are jointly and severally
liable and ordered to pay monetary sanctions in the amount of $3,000 to
Plaintiff by and through counsel, within thirty (30) days of notice of this
order.   
 
 
DATED: April 9, 2024                                                           ___________________________
Edward
B. Moreton, Jr.
Judge
of the Superior Court