 Case Number:  23STCV21311    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2023    Dept:  15 [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE DEMURRER, MOTION TO STRIKE
            Plaintiffs
Silvia Roasas, Elsa Herrera, Carlos Rosas, Santos Rosas, and Marta Ruvulcaba filed
this action alleging Otilia Rosas was injured by exposure to asbestos in Defendant
Mary Kay Inc.’s products.  Defendant filed
a demurrer to the third and fourth causes of action for false misrepresentation
and intentional failure to warn as well as a motion to strike the request for
punitive damages.  
I.          Demurrer
A.        Third Cause of Action
The third cause of action
alleges the defendants sold asbestos-containing products to Otilia Rosas and represented
to Otilia Rosas and the public that the products were safe, but in fact the
defendants knew the products were not safe, and as a result of the false
representations, Otilia Rosas was injured. 
(FAC, ¶¶ 37, 39, 40.)  Defendant
argues the third cause of action is defective because it does not plead any
specific facts about the alleged false representations.  (Demurrer at p. 4.)  Plaintiff argues it does not need to plead
fraud with specificity.  (Opposition at
p. 8.)  
The third cause of action
has the heading “False Representations Under Restatement of Torts Section
402-B.”  (FAC at p. 13.)  Section 402-B establishes “liability for
injuries caused by justifiable reliance on false advertising.”  (Westlye v. Look Sports, Inc. (1993)
17 Cal.App.4th 1715, 1750.)  Under this
section “ ‘[o]ne engaged in the business of selling chattels who, by
advertising, labels, or otherwise, makes to the public a misrepresentation of a
material fact concerning the character or quality of a chattel sold by him is
subject to liability for physical harm to a consumer of the chattel caused by
justifiable reliance upon the misrepresentation, even though [¶] (a) it is not
made fraudulently or negligently, and [¶] (b) the consumer has not bought the
chattel from or entered into any contractual relation with the seller.’  [Citation.]” 
(Id. at pp. 1750-1751.) 
“The rule ‘is one of strict liability for physical harm to the consumer,
resulting from a misrepresentation of the character or quality of the chattel
sold, even though the misrepresentation is an innocent one, and not made
fraudulently or negligently.’ 
[Citation.]”  (Hauter v.
Zogarts (1975) 14 Cal.3d 104, 114.)  
Neither side mentions
Section 402-B in their motion papers.  Assuming
Plaintiffs intended to allege a cause of action under section 402-B, the
pleading is vague and deficient.  The FAC
does not allege the particular products from Defendant at issue, the contents
of Defendant’s misrepresentation about those products, when or where Defendant
made the misrepresentation, or that Otilia Rosas or the ultimate purchaser of
the product who gave it to Otilia Rosas justifiably relied upon the
misrepresentation.  (Westlye, supra, 17
Cal.App.4th at p.  1750.)  For example, in Westlye, the complaint
alleged the defendant had engaged in an advertising campaign advertising the
safety of the ski equipment (specifically that the bindings released long
before injury to the leg) and published a technical manual for distribution to
its dealers with information to be passed on to consumers.  (Ibid.)  No such detail appears in the FAC.  Indeed, the third cause of action does not
even mention Defendant by name.
Rather than mentioning
Section 402-B, Plaintiffs’ opposition argues they do not need to plead fraud
with specificity because Defendant has all of the information concerning the
facts in controversy.  (Opposition at p.
8.)  As an initial matter, that is not
the situation here.  The FAC does not
inform the reader what misrepresentation is at issue or that Otilia Rosas (or
the person who purchased the product and gave it to her) relied on it.  Only Plaintiffs know what misrepresentation she
relied on.
Second, Plaintiffs state
the particularity requirement does not apply here because Plaintiffs allege
failure to disclose, not fraudulent misrepresentation.  (Opposition at p. 8.)  That is not correct.  The third cause of action alleges Defendant’s
representations “were false and untrue, and Defendant[] knew at the time they
were untrue.”  (FAC, ¶ 39.)  The FAC thus alleges Defendant made false
representations.  
Because the third cause
of action is vague and fails to allege adequately a cause of action for false
representation or under Section 402-B, the demurrer is sustained.  Plaintiffs ask for leave to amend but do not
state how they can amend the complaint to remedy the defect.  This information is in their control.  They (not Defendant) know which of
Defendant’s products Otilia Rosas used, which of Defendant’s statements Otilia
Rosas (or the consumer who gave the product to Rosas) heard or read, how those
statements were false, and how she or the purchaser relied on those false statements.  At the hearing, Plaintiffs’ counsel is to be
prepared to specify how Plaintiffs can amend the complaint to cure these
deficiencies.
B.        Fourth Cause of Action
The fourth cause of
action alleges “Intentional Tort/Intentional Failure to Warn/
Concealment.”  (FAC at p. 14.)  This cause of action alleges in very vague
terms that Defendant violated Civil Code sections 1708, 1709, and 1710 by not
including warning labels, suppressing unspecified information, failing to warn
users about the dangers of the products, suppressing the contents of the Lanza
Report, suppressing information from the Asbestos Textile Institute Industrial
Hygiene Foundation and other industry organizations, failing to give Otilia
Rosas protective masks and equipment to use when applying and installing
Defendant’s product, concealing Rosas’ “industrial exposure, not giving
adequate information to Otilia Rosas’s doctors, not giving adequate information
to the doctors hired by Otilia Rosas’ employers, and failing to file a First
Report of Occupational Injury or Illness. 
(Complaint, ¶ 43.)  
As an initial matter, most
of these allegations are boilerplate that do not appear to have any relevance
to Defendant.  For example, the fourth cause
of action alleges Rosas “installed” Defendant’s products, but cosmetics are not
“installed.”  It is highly unlikely Rosas
had “industrial exposure” to Defendant’s products unless she was working in a
cosmetic manufacturing or distribution facility or cosmetic store or beauty salon,
none of which is alleged in the FAC. 
Rather, the FAC alleges Otilia Rosas was injured by using Defendant’s
products as part of her personal hygiene. 
(FAC, Ex. A.)  The cause of action
alleges Defendant failed to give Rosas’ doctors information, but does not
allege the Defendant knew that Rosas was ill or knew how to contact her
doctors.  The FAC alleges Defendant
failed to give information to the doctors hired by Rosas’ employer.  This makes no sense unless Rosas used
Defendant’s product as part of her employment, and in any event the FAC does
not allege how Defendant was supposed to know that Rosas’ employer had hired doctors
to treat her.  Likewise, the alleged failure
by Defendant to file a First Report of Occupational Injury or Illness makes no
sense unless Rosas was injured on the job by using Defendant’s makeup and
powders, which the FAC does not allege. 
In sum, the FAC is deficient in including nonsensical allegations
regarding Defendant.
It also fails to allege a
cause of action for concealment.  “
‘[T]he elements of a cause of action for fraud based on concealment are “ ‘(1)
the defendant must have concealed or suppressed a material fact, (2) the
defendant must have been under a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff,
(3) the defendant must have intentionally concealed or suppressed the fact with
the intent to defraud the plaintiff, (4) the plaintiff must have been unaware
of the fact and would not have acted as he did if he had known of the concealed
or suppressed fact, and (5) as a result of the concealment or suppression of
the fact, the plaintiff must have sustained damage.’ ”  [Citation.]’ ”  (Bigler-Engler v. Breg, Inc. (2017) 7
Cal.App.5th 276, 310-311.)  When a
fiduciary duty does not exist, a duty to disclose arises only “when the
defendant had exclusive knowledge of material facts not known to the
plaintiff,” or “when the defendant actively conceals a material fact from the
plaintiff,” or “when the defendant makes partial representations but also
suppresses some material facts.”  (Id.
at p. 311.)  This type of relationship “
‘can only come into being as a result of some sort of transaction between the
parties’ ” and “must necessarily arise from direct dealings between the
plaintiff and the defendant; it cannot arise between the defendant and the
public at large.”  (Ibid.)  Evidence that the defendant was involved in
retail sales of the disputed product to consumers and profited from them is
sufficient to satisfy the Bigler requirement.  (Bader v. Johnson & Johnson (2022)
86 Cal.App.5th 1094, 1132.)
The FAC does not allege a
concealed fact about any particular product from Defendant used by Otilia Rosas.  Plaintiffs (not Defendant) know what products
she purchased and used.  
Defendant also argues the
FAC does not allege the basis for any duty. 
(Demurrer at p. 5.)  Neither the FAC
nor the opposition describes any direct dealings between Otilia Rosas and
Defendant.  The fourth cause of action
does not allege that Otilia Rosas purchased any specific product from Defendant
or that Defendant was involved in retail sales of the disputed product.  Rather the fourth amended complaint alleges
Defendant induced Otilia Rosas “to work in a dangerous environment.”  (FAC, ¶ 45.) 
That makes no sense because the FAC alleges Defendant exposed her to
asbestos as part of her personal hygiene, not at work.  (FAC, Ex. A.) 

            In
sum, the fourth cause of action is confusing, nonsensical, and vague and does
not give Defendant notice of the actual cause of action Plaintiffs are trying
to plead.  The FAC does not state the
bare minimum of factual allegations for Defendant to understand which of its products
is in dispute and the concealed facts about those products.  The demurrer is SUSTAINED.  
Plaintiffs’ opposition
did not state how they can remedy these defects.  If at the hearing they cannot state precisely
how they can amend the complaint to remedy these defects, the court will
sustain the demurrer to the fourth and fifth causes of action without leave to
amend.
II.        Motion
to Strike
            Defendant
moves to strike the request for punitive damages as conclusory.  (Motion at p. 5.)  The FAC alleges Defendant’s conduct was
“willful, malicious, fraudulent, outrageous, and in conscious disregard and
indifference to the safety and health of ‘exposed persons.’”  (FAC, ¶ 46.) 
The FAC does not allege any specific facts about Defendant’s conduct.  For example, the FAC alleges the defendants
knew about information disseminated through industry organizations like the
Asbestos Textile Institute (FAC, ¶ 43), but does not allege Defendant was a
member of any asbestos industry organization (which seems unlikely because
Defendant is a cosmetic company, not an asbestos company).  Indeed, the FAC does not allege that
Defendant was even in existence in the 1930s and 1940s when the FAC alleges
various studies were distributed to the asbestos industry.  (FAC, ¶ 43.)
Defendant
argues the complaint’s allegations do not satisfy the requirements of Civil
Code section 3294.  For a corporate
defendant, the oppression, fraud or malice “must be on the part of an officer,
director, or managing agent of the corporation.”  (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (b).)  As with the other aspects of the FAC, the
allegations about this element are vague and conclusory.  (FAC, ¶ 24.)
The motion to strike is GRANTED.
 Plaintiffs’ opposition did not state how
they can remedy these defects.  If at the
hearing they cannot state precisely how they can amend the complaint to remedy
these defects, the court will grant the motion without leave to amend.
The moving party is to
give notice.