 Case Number:  23GDCV00516    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2023    Dept:  15 [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE MOTION TO REOPEN DISCOVERY AND
COMPEL DEPOSITIONS
            Plaintiffs
move to reopen discovery against Defendant Autozone West pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure section 2024.050 and to compel the depositions of three
witnesses – Charlie Cain, Michael Lewis, and Walter Rust.  Code of Civil Procedure section 2024.050,
subdivision (a) allows a court to grant leave to complete discovery closer to
the initial trial date.  The court must
consider the necessity for the discovery, the diligence of the party seeking
the discovery and the reasons that the discovery was not completed, the
likelihood that permitting discovery will prevent the case from going to trial
or result in prejudice to any other party, and the length of time between any
date previously set and the date presently set for the trial.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.050, subd.
(b).)  
            This
case was filed on March 14, 2023.  The
court granted Plaintiffs’ preference motion and set the trial for December 11,
2023.  Pursuant to the trial setting
order, the fact discovery cutoff was November 27, 2023.  On November 15, 2023, Defendant filed and
served a witness list including Charlie Cain, Michael Lewis, and Walter Rust as
trial witnesses.  On November 16, 2023,
Plaintiffs filed a joint witness list that included Cain, Lewis, and Rust as
witnesses as well as times for Plaintiffs’ cross-examinations of these
witnesses.  Also on November 16,
Defendant served amended interrogatory responses identifying the three
witnesses as having knowledge of issues in dispute in this case.  On November 29, 2023, Plaintiffs noticed the
depositions of the three witnesses.  On
December 4, 2023, Plaintiffs filed this motion arguing that in earlier
discovery responses, Defendant failed to disclose the identities of Charlie
Cain, Michael Lewis, and Walter Rust as witnesses with knowledge about the
issues in this case, and Plaintiffs did not learn they had knowledge until
Defendant served the witness list on November 15, 2023.  
            Because
the witnesses appear on Defendant’s trial witness list, Plaintiffs’ desire to
take their depositions is reasonable. 
However, Plaintiffs’ delay in pursuing their depositions in undercuts an
argument that their depositions are necessary in this case.
            Regarding
Walter Rust, on October 6, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a List of Former Testimony
identifying the former deposition transcripts Plaintiffs plan to use at the
trial in this case.  The list included
two transcripts of Rust’s prior testimony.  Therefore, since before October 6, 2023,
Plaintiffs have known Rust has information pertinent to this case.  If they wanted to depose him rather than rely
on the transcripts of his prior testimony, they had plenty of time to notice
his deposition.  Plaintiffs did not show
diligence in pursuing his deposition.  That
Plaintiffs merely included the Rust transcripts on their List of Former
Testimony indicates Plaintiffs did not believe a new deposition of Rust is
necessary in this case.
            When
Defendant listed Charlie Cain and Michael Lewis on its witness list on November
15, 2023, Plaintiffs had notice that Defendant believed these two witnesses
have pertinent information.  Then on
November 16, Plaintiffs filed a joint witness list.  The fact that Plaintiffs included time for
their counsel to cross-examine these witnesses shows they had seen the names on
the November 15 list and considered how long Plaintiffs would need for their
trial examination.  Yet Plaintiffs did
not seek to take Cain’s and Lewis’s depositions until November 29, 2023, after
the discovery cutoff date.  Plaintiffs do
not explain why they did not notice the two depositions immediately upon
receiving the November 15 list.  In this
expedited proceeding where litigation needs to take place very quickly, waiting
14 days to notice the depositions, especially with the discovery cutoff date
approaching, did not evince diligence.  
            Trial
is on December 12, 2023 (continued one day due to the court being dark on
December 11, 2023), in six days.  Only four
court days remain before trial.  Because
this is a preference case, there is no legal basis to continue the trial to
allow reopened discovery.  Even if the witnesses
are available between now and December 12 (which has not been established),
spending time taking their depositions will interfere with trial preparation
and prejudice the other parties.
            For
all of these reasons, the motion is DENIED.
            The
moving party is to give notice.