 Case Number:  22VECV02299    Hearing Date:   December 1, 2023    Dept:  W KAREN SORONOW,
et al. v. SUNSHINE'S PLACE II, et al.
 
plaintiff’s motionS to compel
further discovery 
 
Date of Hearing:        December
1, 2023                 Trial Date:       December
9, 2024
Department:              W                                            Case
No.:        22VECV02299
 
Moving Party:             Plaintiff Karen
Soronow
Responding Party:     Defendant
Sunshine’s Place II                      
 
BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiff Karen Soronow filed a
complaint on December 6, 2022 against Defendant Sunshine’s Place, II, alleging
(1) Wrongful Death – Negligent Hiring, Supervision, and/or Retention; (2)
Survival – Negligent Hiring, Supervision, and/or Retention; (3) Wrongful Death
– Negligence; (4) Survival – Negligence; and (5) Elder Abuse. Plaintiff alleges
her mother, Joyce Soronow, was a resident of Sunshine’s Place, II. While under
Sunshine’s care, Plaintiff alleges failed to provide for her basic needs,
caused a lapse in her care, and inflicted terrible pain and suffering that
caused Joyce’s fatal injuries. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
I.                   
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further Request for
Production Responses from Defendant Sunshine’s Place II is GRANTED, in part. 
II.                 
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further Interrogatories
from Defendant Sunshine’s Place II is GRANTED, in part. 
III.               
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further Request for
Admissions from Defendant Sunshine’s Place II is GRANTED, in part. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
I.                   
PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER REQUEST
FOR PRODUCTION RESPONSES FROM DEFENDANT SUNSHINE’S PLACE II
 
Plaintiff Karen Soronow moves the court
for an order compelling further discovery response to Plaintiff’s Request for
Production, Set One and monetary sanctions in the amount of $800.00 against
Defendant Sunshine’s Place II and its attorney of record. Plaintiff makes the
motion on the grounds that Defendants have provided incomplete and evasive
discovery responses and asserted objections without merit. 
 
A motion to compel further responses to
a demand for inspection or production of documents (“RFP”) may be brought based
on: (1) incomplete statements of compliance; (2) inadequate, evasive or
incomplete claims of inability to comply; or (3) unmerited or overly
generalized objections.  (CCP §
2031.310(c).) 
 
A motion to compel a further response
to a request for production must be noticed within 45 days of the service of
the response, or any supplemental response, or on or before any specific later
date to which the propounding party and the responding party have agreed in
writing.  Otherwise, the propounding
party waives any right to compel further response to the inspection demand.
(See CCP § 2031.310(c); see also Sexton v. Superior Court (1997) 58
Cal.App.4th 1403, 1409; Vidal Sassoon, Inc. v. Superior Court (1983) 147
Cal.App.3d 681, 685.) The motion must also be accompanied by a declaration
stating facts showing a reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal
resolution of any issue presented by it. (See CCP §§ 2016.040, 2031.310(b)(2).)
Finally, a motion to compel further responses to inspection demands must be
accompanied by a separate document that sets forth each item to which further
response is requested and the factual and legal reasons for compelling it.
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345(a).)
 
RFP No. 1
 
Defendant’s supplemental response
provides: Responding party produced the declaration page related to the policy
for this claim. The declaration page is more than sufficient for the purposes
of this litigation and responding party will not produce any more documents in
response to this Request. Discovery and investigation are ongoing and
defendants reserve the right to alter, modify, amend and/or supplement these
discovery responses as discovery and investigation continue.
 
Plaintiff argues Defendant’s response
is inadequate, incomplete, and evasive absent production of the complete
policy. 
 
In opposition, Defendant states in
light of the IDC held, Defendant informed Plaintiff of its intent to produce
the entire policy at the IDC on November 7, 2023 as well as during the Meet and
confer on November 13, 2023. 
 
Accordingly, the court finds RFP No. 1
MOOT. 
 
RFP Nos. 14-15, 23, 26, 31-32, 37, and
45
 
Plaintiff contends Defendant’s
supplemental responses are insufficient because Defendant has not “specif[ied]
whether the inability to comply is because the particular item or category has
never existed, has been destroyed, has been lost, misplaced, or stolen, or has
never been, or is no longer, in the possession, custody, or control of the
responding party. (CCP §2031.230.) Nor has Defendant “set forth the name and
address of any natural person or organization known or believed by that party to
have possession, custody, or control of that item or category of item.” (CCP
§2031.230.) 
 
In opposition, Defendant again contends
in light of the discussions held at the IDC, Defendant has supplemented its responses
making them code compliant. Defendant expressed its intent to supplement and
provide code compliant responses at both the IDC as well as in the November 13,
2023 Meet and Confer. 
 
Plaintiff notes the supplemental
responses were not verified and requests that this Court order Defendant to
serve verifications within fifteen days of its order. 
 
Accordingly, the court orders Defendant
to provide verified responses within 15 days. 
 
RFP Nos. 24-25
 
Plaintiff contends these requests seek
information on prior resident injuries at Defendant’s facility from 2008 to
2020. Defendant initially represented that there were no such records in its possession,
then agreed to provide further responses after Plaintiff outlined the issues
with these responses. Instead of providing further responses, Plaintiff
contends Defendant asserted an additional privacy ground. Plaintiff argues the
privacy objection is without merit and has been waived. Defendant did not raise
it in their initial response and the parties have entered a Stipulation and
Protective Order governing confidential treatment of discovery. 
 
In opposition, Defendant argues that
regardless of the protective order, the residents of Sunshine's Place II and
their families members entrusted the Defendant with the care of their loved
ones which includes maintaining the privacy of the families not involved in
this instant action. 
 
The court finds discovery outweighs the
privacy concern. In Hill v. National Collegiate Athletic Assn. (1994) 7
Cal.4th 1, the Supreme Court established a framework for evaluating potential
invasions of privacy. The party asserting a privacy right must establish a
legally protected privacy interest, an objectively reasonable expectation of
privacy in the given circumstances, and a threatened intrusion that is serious.
(Id. at pp. 35–37, 26 Cal.Rptr.2d 834, 865 P.2d 633.) The party seeking
information may raise in response whatever legitimate and important countervailing
interests disclosure serves, while the party seeking protection may identify
protective measures that would diminish the loss of privacy. A court must then
balance these competing considerations. (Id. at pp. 37–40, 26
Cal.Rptr.2d 834, 865 P.2d 633.) As more recently clarified, “[c]ourts must
. . . place the burden on the party asserting a privacy interest to establish
its extent and the seriousness of the prospective invasion, and against that showing
must weigh the countervailing interests the opposing party identifies.” (Williams
v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 557.) 
 
While there are certainly privacy
interests in the documents sought, the interests are outweighed by the need for
disclosure. Moreover, as noted by Plaintiff, the Protective Order will protect
the privacy concerns at issue. 
 
Accordingly, the court orders further
discovery responses to RFP Nos. 24-25.  
 
Sanctions
 
Code of Civil Procedure section
2031.310(h) provides for mandatory monetary sanctions “against any party,
person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel
further response to a demand, unless it finds that the one subject to the
sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make
the imposition of the sanction unjust.” 
(CCP § 2031.310(h).)   
 
Plaintiff request monetary sanctions against
Defendant in the amount of $800.00 on the grounds Defendant has continued to refuse to produce the requested
documents or information based on various plainly inapplicable objections. For
example, Plaintiff notes Defendant intentionally sat on a misleading response
(RFP No. 1) by withholding the coverage information which was indisputably
discoverable. As a result, Defendant has acted to impede the discovery
process.   
 
Defendant also requests sanctions
against Plaintiff in the amount of $800.00 on the grounds the motions to compel
were filed at a time when Plaintiff had the records and knew that the Defendant
did not have the records due to the motions to quash.
 
The court denies both requests with
there being substantial justification on both sides. (See CCP §2031.310(h).)
 
II.                 
PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER INTERROGATORY
RESPONSES FROM DEFENDANT SUNSHINE’S PLACE II
 
Plaintiff Karen Soronow moves the court
for an order compelling further discovery response to Plaintiff’s Special
Interrogatories, Set One and monetary sanctions in the amount of $800.00
against Defendant Sunshine’s Place II and its attorneys of record. Plaintiff
makes the motion on the grounds Defendants have provided incomplete and evasive
discovery responses and asserted objections without merit to the SROGs.
 
A motion to compel further responses to
form or specially prepared interrogatories may be brought if the responses
contain: (1) answers that are evasive or incomplete; (2) an unwarranted or
insufficiently specific exercise of an option to produce documents in lieu of a
substantive response; or (3) unmerited or overly generalized objections. 
(CCP § 2030.300(a).)   
 
SROG No. 1
 
This interrogatory seeks information on
the circumstances of Joyce’s fall at the facility in 2018. Plaintiff contends
Defendant agreed to provide supplemental responses, yet when served, Defendant
responded that it would not. 
 
In opposition, Defendant argues the
response given is sufficient and if Plaintiff would like to seek additional
information related to the 2018 fall then she is welcome to ask the same
question to the appropriate witness during a deposition.
 
The court agrees Defendant cannot
respond briefly to an interrogatory. Defendant must provide complete and
straightforward information reasonably available to the responding party
permits. (CCP §2030.210(c).) If the response provided is the complete response
based on information available to Defendant, the interrogatory must state so.
Plaintiff being able to depose witnesses does not excuse Defendant’s incomplete
response. 
 
Accordingly, the court compels further
response to SROG No. 1. 
 
SROG No. 3
 
This interrogatory seeks information on
what preventative measures were taken by Defendant after Joyce Soronow was
deemed a fall risk in 2020. Plaintiff argues Defendant agreed to provide a
further response but then indicated in its supplemental response that it would
“not provide a further response. 
 
In opposition, Defendant states they
stand by their response. 
 
The court finds the answer evasive. The
interrogatory asks what measures were taken in response to Joyce scoring an 8
out of a possible fall risk. Defendant’s response “fall preventative measures
were taken” is insufficient and does not answer what measures were
taken. 
 
Accordingly, the court compels further
response to SROG No. 3.  
 
SROG No. 24
 
This interrogatory seeks information on
the responsible person for each individual residing in the facility in November
2020. Plaintiff argues Defendant agreed to provide a further response but then
indicated in its supplemental response that it objected on privacy grounds and
that it would “not provide names of additional residents or the ‘Responsible
person’ for their care.” Plaintiff contends Defendant waived that privacy
objection when it did not include it in their initial response and moreover, the
right is outweighed by the relevance of the information sought.
 
In opposition, Defendant argues Plaintiff
continues to seek information that it is not entitled to. The family members
and residents of Sunshine’s Place II entrusted the Defendant with the care of
their loved ones which includes maintaining the privacy of the families not
involved in this instant action.
 
The court finds discovery outweighs the
privacy concern. (See Hill v. National Collegiate Athletic Assn. (1994)
7 Cal.4th 1.) Discovery into those responsible for residents outweighs the
privacy concerned. Moreover, as noted by Plaintiff, any remaining concerns
about the degree of intrusion are addressed by the parties’ Stipulation and
Protective Order. 
 
Accordingly, the court compels further
response to SROG No. 24.  
 
SROG No. 41
 
This interrogatory asks Defendant to
describe the amount of supervision it deemed necessary for Joyce at the time of
her admission. Plaintiff argues Defendant’s response is not code-compliant.
Defendant’s supplemental response provided: Responding
party is unable to provide further response due to the fact that Joyce Soronow
was admitted to the facility on two separate occasions and Propounding party
does not clarify as to which admission this interrogatory is referring to. Plaintiff
contends they are unaware of more than one entry into the facility and even so,
thereafter clarified with Defendant they are referring to an entry in 2017. 
 
Defendant still maintains that the
interrogatory, as written, is unnecessarily vague and ambiguous as to the
admission timeline Plaintiff is seeking information about. Defendant asks that
Plaintiff either prepares the question in a new set of interrogatories that
specifies the period requested or ask the question to the appropriate witness
during the course of a deposition. 
 
The court orders Defendant to provide
further response to SROG NO. 41 limiting the period to the 2017 admission. 
 
Sanctions
 
Both parties request sanctions. As
noted above, the court denies both requests with there being substantial
justification on both sides. (CCP 2030.300(d).) 
 
III.               
PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER REQUEST
FOR ADMISSIONS FROM DEFENDANT SUNSHINE’S PLACE II
 
Plaintiff Karen Soronow moves the court
for an order compelling further discovery response to Plaintiff’s Request for
Admissions, Set One and monetary sanctions in the amount of $800.00 against
Defendant Sunshine’s Place II and its attorneys of record. Plaintiff makes the
motion on the grounds Defendants’ have provided incomplete and evasive
discovery responses and asserted objections without merit to the RFAs.
 
A motion to compel further responses be
brought based on responses to requests for admission (“RFA”) that: (1) provide
evasive or incomplete answers; or (2) make unmeritorious or overly-generalized
objections.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.290(a).)  However, a motion to
compel further responses cannot compel the admission of matters already
denied.  (Holguin v. Superior Court (1972) 22 Cal.App.3d 812,
821.) 
 
RFA No. 8
 
Plaintiff argues Defendant’s response
is not code-compliant because it is not specific to Joyce’s fall risk and
therefore nonresponsive. Defendant’s initial response provided “den[ied] as
phrased”. 
 
In opposition, Defendant contends following
the discussion held at the Informal Discovery Conference, Defendant has
supplemented its response to this request and therefore, this response is moot.

 
Plaintiff notes the supplemental
responses were not verified and requests that this Court order Defendant to
serve verifications within fifteen days of its order. 
 
Accordingly, the court orders Defendant
to provide verified responses within 15 days. 
 
RFA Nos. 17-18, 23, 34, 36-37
 
Plaintiff argues Defendant initially
objected to each of these requests as vague and ambiguous and denied each of
these requests “as phrased.” Although Defendant agreed to provide further
responses, its supplemental responses are not Code-compliant. 

In opposition, Defendant argues in light of the discussions held at the IDC,
Defendant has provided further responses to RFAs Nos. 17, 18, and 23. As for
34, and 36-37, Defendant contends the remaining RFAs are more than sufficient
and if Plaintiff wishes to obtain more information that the questions may be
posed to the appropriate witness during a deposition. 
 
First, the court notes the supplemental
responses are not verified. Moreover, as noted by Plaintiff, they are still not
code compliant as “if a responding party gives lack of information or knowledge
as a reason for a failure to admit all or part of a request for admission, that
party shall state in the answer that a reasonable inquiry concerning the matter
in the particular request has been made, and that the information known or
readily obtainable is insufficient to enable that party to admit the matter.”
(CCP §2033.220(c).) 
 
As for the remaining RFAs, the court
finds the responses insufficient. The responses have not admitted, denied, or
“[s]pecif[ied] so much of the matter involved in the request as to the truth of
which the responding party lacks sufficient information or knowledge.” 
 
Accordingly, Defendant is ordered to
provide complete, verified responses within 15 days. 