  Case Number:  22VECV00259    Hearing Date:   December 1, 2023    Dept:  W 4467 WOODLEY
PARTNERS, LLC vs ALLIED INSULATION, INC., et al. 
 
motion for
good faith settlement determination on behalf of byer geotechnical inc. and
jeff warling d/b/a warling and associates 
 
Date of Hearing:        December
1, 2023                             Trial Date:       None
set.   
Department:              W                                                        Case No.:        22VECV00259
 
Moving Party:            Defendants Byer Geotechnical Inc. and Jeff
Warling D/B/A Warling and Associates 
Responding Party:     Defendant
United Excavation Group, Inc.  
 
BACKGROUND
 
On February 22, 2022, Plaintiff 4467
Woodley Partners, LLC filed a complaint against Allied Insulation, Inc., All-Tech,
Inc., Boc Construction, Inc., B.Y. Marble, Inc., Byer Geotechnical Inc., Clark
Structural Inspections, Inc., Jaime Diaz D/B/A Greener Days Landscaping, Forma
Engineering, Inc., Robert D. Kilgour D/B/A Kilgour Plumbing, Premier Pool
Plastering, Rhino Steel, Inc., Speed Of Light, Inc., Tassio Temperature Control,
Inc.,  United Excavation Group Inc.,
Universal Engineering, Inc., and Jeff Warling D/B/A Warling and Associates
asserting causes of action for (1) Declaratory Relief; (2) Equitable Indemnity;
and (3) Comparative Contribution and Indemnity. 
 
Plaintiff alleges it was the owner of
the property located at 4467 Woodley Avenue, Encino, California 91436 (the “Property”)
in the county of Los Angeles. Plaintiff acted as developer and general contractor
for the development of a luxury residential home on the Property and hired the
Defendants as subcontractors to provide services on the property. Plaintiff
further alleges it sold the property to The Sapphire Trust. On October 19,
2021, Sapphire filed a demand in arbitration against Woodley alleging violations
of Civil Code §895 et seq., strict liability, negligence, breach of implied warranty,
breach of express warranty, breach of contract and declaratory relief. Plaintiff
contends this demand constitutes a proceeding for which Woodley must be indemnified
and now seeks indemnification from Defendants. 
 
On December 22, 2022, Seth
Lichtenstein, an individual and as Trustee of The Sapphire Trust’s filed a Complaint
in Intervention for Damages. On January 20, 2023, Byer Geotechnical, Inc. filed
a cross-complaint against 4467 Woodley Partners, LLC, Evan Gaskin, Gaskin
Design and Development, and Seth Lichtenstein, an individual, as Trustee of The
Sapphire Trust for express indemnity, breach of contract, equitable indemnity,
and declaratory relief. 
 
Plaintiff dismissed Marble, Inc. on
March 2, 2023 and All-Tech, Inc. and Robert D Kilgour on March 31, 2023, 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Motion for
Good Faith Settlement Determination on Behalf of Byer Geotechnical Inc. and
Jeff Warling D/B/A Warling and Associates is GRANTED. 
 
discussion
 
Defendants Byer Geotechnical Inc. as well as Jeff Warling D/B/A Warling
and Associates move the court for an order determining that their settlement
with Plaintiffs is reasonable and was made in good faith pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure section 877.6.
 
Code of Civil Procedure section
877.6(a)(1) provides that a “party to an action in which it is alleged that two
or more parties are joint tortfeasors or co-obligors on a contract debt shall
be entitled to a hearing on the issue of the good faith of a settlement entered
into by the plaintiff or other claimant and one or more alleged tortfeasors or
co-obligors…” Under subdivision (a)(2), a settling party may give notice of
settlement to the parties and court, together with an application for
determination of good faith settlement and a proposed order. The application
“shall indicate the settling parties, and the basis, terms, and amount of the
settlement” and must include a proof of service. (CCP §877.6(a)(2).)
 
In determining the good faith of a
settlement, the court may consider the affidavits served with the notice of
hearing, and any counter-affidavits filed in response, or other evidence in the
court’s discretion. (CCP §877.6(b).) The California Supreme Court, in Tech-Bilt
Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde & Associates (1985) 38 Cal.3d 488, provided
factors to be considered in determining the good faith of a particular
settlement. The court explained that the policies and intent underlying section
877.6 “require that a number of factors be taken into account,” such as: a
rough approximation of a plaintiff’s total recovery and the settlor’s
proportionate liability; the amount paid in settlement; the allocation of
settlement proceeds among plaintiffs; a recognition that a settlor should pay
less in settlement than he would if he were found liable after a trial. (Tech-Bilt
at p. 499.) Other relevant factors include financial conditions and insurance
policy limits of settling defendants, and the existence of collusion, fraud, or
tortious conduct aimed to injure the interests of non-settling defendants. (Id.).
This evaluation must be made “on the basis of information available at the time
of settlement.” (Id.) The court further explained that settlement by a
defendant “must not be grossly disproportionate to what a reasonable person, at
the time of the settlement, would estimate the settling defendant’s liability
to be.” (Id., citations omitted.) 

 
The non-settling tortfeasors or
obligors bear the burden of demonstrating the absence of good faith in the
settlement.  (CCP §877.6(d).) In order to
demonstrate a lack of good faith, the non-settling party must show that the
settlement is so far “out of the ballpark” as to be inconsistent with the
equitable objectives of Section 877.6.  (Nutrition
Now, Inc. v. Superior Court (2003) 105 Cal.App.4th 209, 213.)
 
Defendants Byer Geotechnical Inc. and Jeff Warling D/B/A Warling and Associates
have filed an application for good faith settlement providing that Defendants
and Plaintiff would settle for $600,000.00 through Byer’s professional
liability insurer and $250,00.00 through Warling’s professional liability
insurer. The settlement was reached in exchange for dismissal of Defendants
with prejudice. Defendants contend the settlement was reached in this
construction defect action to avoid protracted litigation, policy exposure, and
further attorneys’ fees and costs. The court finds Defendants’ motion satisfies
the Tech-Bilt factors.
 
Defendant United Excavation Group, Inc.
(“United”) opposes the motion on the grounds the motion omits critical details
necessary for this court to find the settlement is in good faith, including an
adequate rough approximation of Plaintiff’s total recovery and Defendants’
proportionate liability. Furthermore, Defendants’ settlement figures are
disproportionate to what is reasonable and a good faith settlement. 
 
Timeliness
 
Defendants argue United’s opposition is
untimely and moreover, was not properly served on Byer. The court notes the
opposition is untimely. November 23, 2023 and November 24, 2023 were court
holidays and therefore, United’s opposition was due by November 16, 2023 – not
November 21, 2023. Moreover, United’s proof of service fails to indicate
Defendants were served with the opposition. The court admonishes United to
comply with all procedural and statutory requirements going forward.  Despite these insufficiencies, the court finds
Defendants were able to substantively reply to the opposition and considers the
opposition in this order. 
 
Rough Approximation
 
United first argues Defendants fail to
accurately provide a rough approximation of Plaintiff’s total recovery and
their proportionate liability. United contends Plaintiff has produced an
estimate as to the cost of repair for the soils related claims which could be
up to $4,500,000. Plaintiff produced an expert witness report from engineer
Steve Helfrich opining that Byer Geotechnical is between 25% to 55% responsible
for any soils related claims and Warling is 10 to 20 % responsible for any
soils related claims. However, Defendants argue they are at the low end of the
percentage and as a result, the Total Recovery will be little more than
$2,000,000. United claims this argument is skewed and Defendants have failed to
substantiate the $2,500,000.00 difference in total potential recovery provided
by Mr. Helfrich’s report.
 
The court finds Defendants have provided
sufficient evidence/reasoning for how they arrived at this figure. Defendants
provide the declaration of Robert Zweigler, a Registered Geotechnical Engineer
in California and Certified Engineering Geologist. Mr. Zweigler attests even
the 25% is high because Byer did not perform any physical construction, Byer’s
contract with Gaskin has a limit of liability, Warling confirmed that the pool
is in a different orientation on the pool plan from what was built, the wall deflection,
the downward and slope ward movement of the fill below the northern Baja shelf,
and the wet zone, demonstrate that Byer is only partly at fault, and so on.
(Zweigler Decl. 3:2-4:10.) As a result, the court finds the settlement is a
rough approximation of Plaintiffs’ total recovery. 
 
Amount Paid
 
United next argues Defendants attempt
to justify their settlement amounts by ignoring Plaintiff’s estimate of
$4,500,000 for potential costs of repair for the soils related claims and
constructed their own unsupported total repair estimate which is $2,000,000.
Again, the court finds Defendants have provided evidence supporting the
settlement amounts. United has not established how the defense costs are
inappropriate. “[U]nder some policies, the indemnity limits include the legal
fees and other defense costs expended.” (J. Policy Limits, California Practice
Guide: Insurance Litigation Ch. 7A-J.) 
 
Disproportionate Figure 
 
Lastly, United argues the settlement
amounts of $600,000.00 for Byer Geotechnical Inc. and $250,000.00 for Jeff
Warling d/b/a Warling and Associates are not reasonably close to the figures
Mr. Helfrich found to be a fair representation of responsibly for soil related
claims in this matter. 
 
“‘[A] defendant’s settlement figure
must not be grossly disproportionate to what a reasonable person, at the time
of the settlement, would estimate the settling defendant’s liability to be.’
[Citation.]” (Tech-Bilt, Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde & Associates
(1985) 38 Cal.3d 488, 499.) Again, Defendants have submitted evidence that the
settlement is not grossly disproportionate. (See Zweigler Decl.)
 
Based on the foregoing, the court finds
United has failed to show that the settlement is “so far out of the ballpark”
in relation to the Tech-Bilt factors. Accordingly, Defendants’ Motion for Good Faith Settlement
Determination is GRANTED. All claims against Defendants Byer Geotechnical
Inc. and Jeff Warling D/B/A Warling and Associates for equitable comparative contribution, or partial or comparative
indemnity, based on comparative negligence or comparative fault, are barred
pursuant to CCP section 877.6(c). 
 