 Case Number:  24NNCV00582    Hearing Date:   November 22, 2024    Dept:  P [TENTATIVE] ORDER SUSTAINING DEFENDANT AUGUSTO
COYNE’S (COEN-BROWN)  DEMURRER TO THE COMPLAINT
WITH LEAVE TO AMEND     I.         INTRODUCTION
            Plaintiff
Yadira Alejandra Torres (“Plaintiff”) initiated this action on March 8, 2024,
against Mofongo’s Inc, (“Mofongos”) Augusto Coen-Brown erroneously sued as
Augusto Coyne Marcos Lopez (“Augusto”), Alexis Fuentes and Does 1 through 100.
Plaintiff asserts eleven causes of action: (1) Failure to Provide Compliant
Meal Periods, (2) Failure to Provide Compliant Rest Periods, (3) Failure to Pay
for All Hours Worked, (4) Failure to Pay All Overtime Owed, (5) Wage Statement
Penalties, (6) Waiting Time Penalties, (7) Violation of Unfair Competition Law,
(8) Sexual Harassment in Violation of the FEHA, (9) Wrongful Termination in
Violation of Public Policy, (10) Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress,
and (11) Private Attorneys General Act (PAGA).
On September 18, 2024, Defendant
Augusto filed a general demurrer to the entire Complaint, arguing that
Plaintiff failed to allege sufficient facts to state any cause of action
against him. On November 8, 2024, Plaintiff filed an Opposition, conceding the
insufficiency of the allegations but requesting leave to amend the Complaint to
address the deficiencies. On November 13, 2024, Defendant filed a reply,
asserting that Plaintiff failed to demonstrate how the Complaint could be
amended to cure its defects and arguing that leave to amend should be denied.
 
Meet and Confer
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 430.41, subdivision (a), the demurring party is required to meet and
confer with the party who filed the pleading at least five days before the
responsive pleading is due. This must occur in person, telephone or by video
conference with the aim of resolving any objections raised in the demurrer.
Additionally, the demurring party must file and serve a declaration detailing
the meet and confer efforts. It should be noted, however, that the failure to
meet and confer is not itself grounds for sustaining or overruling a demurrer
or granting or denying a motion to strike. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.41, subd.
(a)(4), 435.5, subd. (a)(4).)
Here, on September 10, 2024, Augusto’s
counsel, Richard A. Rogers, telephoned Plaintiff’s counsel, Dan Ginzburg, to
meet and confer before filing the demurrer. (Rodgers Decl., ¶ 6) The Court
finds that the meet and confer requirement has been satisfied.
II.        LEGAL STANDARD
A demurrer tests the legal
sufficiency of a complaint. Donabedian v.
Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994. A plaintiff’s allegations
must be accepted as true for purposes of demurrer, no matter how “improbable”
they are. (Del E. Webb Corp. v.
Structural Materials Co. (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 593, 604 (Del E. Webb).) Allegations need not be
accepted as true if they are contradicted by judicially noticeable facts. (Cansino v. Bank of America (2014) 224
Cal.App.4th 1462, 1474.) 
Pleadings are to be broadly
construed (Code Civ. Proc., § 452) and demurrers are to be overruled where the
facts are sufficient to state any cause of action. (Quelimane Co. v. Stewart
Title Guaranty Co. (1998) 19 Cal.4th 26, 38.)
“The court may, in furtherance of
justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading
or proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any party, or by correcting
a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect; and may,
upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or demurrer. The court may
likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any
terms as may be just, an amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other
particulars; and may upon like terms allow an answer to be made after the time
limited by this code.”¿ (C.C.P. §473(a)(1).)¿ 
“Trial courts are vested with the discretion
to allow amendments to pleadings ‘in furtherance of justice.’ That trial courts
are to liberally permit such amendments, at any stage of the proceeding, has
been established policy in this state since 1901.”¿ (Hirsa v. Superior Court
(1981) 118 Cal.App.3d 486, 488-489.)¿ ¿ 
      III.      ANALYSIS
Defendant Augusto demurs to the entire Complaint, alleging that all
eleven causes of action are directed at Mofongo’s Inc., not him. He further
argues that Plaintiff fails to allege any specific facts connecting him to the
claims or establishing personal liability. Augusto emphasizes that the
Complaint lacks allegations identifying him as a party to the employment
relationship or as a wrongdoer in his personal capacity.
In opposition Plaintiff acknowledges the Complaint’s deficiencies as to
Augusto but requests leave to amend, asserting the ability to allege facts and
claims to hold him liable. Plaintiff concedes Augusto was not named in the list
of parties or explicitly tied to the asserted causes of action but maintains
that factual allegations in the Complaint would support viable claims upon
amendment.
In reply, Augusto argues Plaintiff fails to meet the burden of showing
how the Complaint can be amended to cure the defects. Augusto argues that
Plaintiff’s Opposition does not include a proposed amended pleading or
articulate new allegations to support the claims.
The Court agrees that the Complaint does not allege facts sufficient to
state a cause of action against Augusto. However, the Court must evaluate
whether Plaintiff has demonstrated a reasonable possibility of curing the
defects through amendment.
California courts are required to exercise their discretion liberally in
permitting amendments to pleadings in furtherance of justice. (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 473(a)(1); Hirsa v. Superior Court (1981) 118 Cal.App.3d 486, 488)
Granting leave to amend is particularly appropriate where there is no showing
of prejudice to the opposing party and the plaintiff asserts an ability to
correct the defects.
Here, Plaintiff’s Opposition asserts an intent to amend and acknowledges
that the Complaint fails to explicitly name Augusto as a party to the action
under the section designating the names of the parties and their county of
residence. (Opposition, p. 2.) Plaintiff further contends that, although the
Complaint currently lacks sufficient allegations against Augusto, the existing
factual allegations could support viable claims if properly amended. Plaintiff
requests leave to amend, stating that specific facts and causes of action will
be included in an amended complaint to address the deficiencies.
Based on the foregoing and policy favoring liberal amendment, the Court SUSTAINS
the demurrer with leave to amend.
IV.       ORDER
            The Court SUSTAINS
the demurrer as to the Complaint with 20 days leave to amend.
            Defendant Augusto Coyne (Coen-Brown) to give notice.
            
Dated: November 22, 2024                                                    
 
 
 
             
JARED D. MOSES  
           JUDGE OF THE SUPERIOR COURT 