 Case Number:  23STLC02699    Hearing Date:   February 1, 2024    Dept:  26  
The Bankruptcy Law Firm, PC v. Vitamins Online, Inc.,
et al.MOTION
TO ENTER DEFAULT AND DEFAULT JUDGMENT(CCP §§ 585, et seq.)
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Plaintiff The Bankruptcy Law Firm,
PC’s Motion to Enter Default and Default Judgment is GRANTED UPON SUBMISSION OF
A PROPOSED JUDGMENT. 
 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
Plaintiff The Bankruptcy Law Firm,
PC (“Plaintiff”) filed the instant action for breach of contract and breach of
guaranty against Defendants Vitamins Online, Inc. (“Defendant Vitamins”) and
Osman Khan (“Defendant Khan”) on April 21, 2023. Plaintiffs filed proof of
personal service on June 20, 2023 and sought entry of default on July 20, 2023.
The clerk’s office rejected the request for entry of default on the following
grounds:
 
Vitamins Online,
Inc., a Delaware corporation, et al 
#1b Plaintiff's name
incomplete 
Vitamins Online,
Inc-Defendant not served as sued. Name of defendant must correspond to the name
on complaint. 
No indication of
service on “Authorize Agent” 
#6 Notice to the
Person Served incomplete 
 
Osman Khan-#6 Notice
to the Person Served in error. 
Declaration of
reasonable due diligence required for substitute service. 
Submit a new proof of
service as to each defendant 
 
Due to the nature of
this case, this a Court Judgment request. Must submit a complete 585 packet
 
(Notice of Rejection, 07/21/23.)
Plaintiff filed another proof of personal service on September 13, 2023. On
November 15, 2023, Plaintiff filed the instant Motion to Enter Default and
Default Judgment. No opposition has been filed to date.
 
Discussion
 
A request for default and default judgment must conform to
the requirements of Code of Civil Procedure section 585 and Cal. Rules of Court
3.1800. Rule 3.1800 states in relevant part:
 
A party seeking a default judgment on
declarations must use mandatory Request for Entry of Default (Application to
Enter Default) (form CIV-100) . . . . The following must be included in the
documents filed with the clerk:
(1) Except in unlawful detainer cases,
a brief summary of the case identifying the parties and the nature of
plaintiff's claim;
(2) Declarations or other admissible
evidence in support of the judgment requested;
(3) Interest computations as
necessary;
(4) A memorandum of costs and
disbursements;
(5) A declaration of nonmilitary
status for each defendant against whom judgment is sought;
(6) A proposed form of judgment;
(7) A dismissal of all parties against
whom judgment is not sought or an application for separate judgment against
specified parties under Code of Civil Procedure section 579, supported by a
showing of grounds for each judgment;
(8) Exhibits as necessary; and
(9) A request for attorney fees if
allowed by statute or by the agreement of the parties.
 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1800(a).) 
 
The proof of personal service
filed on September 13, 2023 demonstrates that both Defendants were personally
served with the Summons and Complaint. (Proof of Personal Service, filed
09/13/23, Exhs. A-B.) The Motion identifies the claim in this action between
Plaintiff and Defendant Vitamins as breach of contract for legal services on a
bankruptcy appeal; the claim between Plaintiff and Defendant Khan is for breach
of guarantee of the aforementioned contract. (Motion, p. 5:20-26.) 
 
In support of the Motion,
Plaintiff submits the declaration of Kathleen P. March (“March”), its principal.
March’s declaration attaches copies of the contracts between the parties and
true and correct copies of bills itemizing work completed pursuant to the contract,
but not paid. (Motion, March Decl., Exhs. B-C.) The work amounted to $13,261.34
in fees that were acknowledged, but unpaid, by Defendants. (Id. at Exhs.
C-D.) 
 
Plaintiff also seeks ten percent
interest per annum from the date the payments were due, August 10, 2021, in the
amount of $2,461.43. (Motion, p. 6:1-2.) The memorandum of costs and
disbursements is part of the attached request for default judgment, at paragraph
7, in the amount of $795.00. (Motion, Exh. A, ¶7.) The declaration of
non-military status is also included in the request for default judgment. (Id.
at ¶8.) 
 
However, the Motion is not
accompanied by a proposed judgment, as required by rule 3.1800(a)(6).)
Plaintiff must provide the proposed judgment by the time of the hearing. (See
Judicial Council Form for Optional Use, JUD-100.) 
 
Conclusion
 
Plaintiff The Bankruptcy Law
Firm, PC’s Motion to Enter Default and Default Judgment is GRANTED UPON
SUBMISSION OF A PROPOSED JUDGMENT. 
 
 
Court clerk to give notice. 
 
 