 Case Number:  22STCV04747    Hearing Date:   March 28, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiff, Jane Doe filed this
action against Defendants, LBUSD and Thomas Maggio for damages arising out of
childhood sexual assault perpetrated by Maggio while he was a teacher for LBUSD
and Plaintiff was a student.  Plaintiff
alleges the abuse occurred in 1996 while Plaintiff was in eighth grade and was
13-14 years old.  
 
Plaintiff filed her complaint on
2/07/22, and LBUSD answered on 4/29/22. 
LBUSD filed a cross-complaint against Maggio.  Maggio answered the complaint and
cross-complaint on 10/31/22 and 11/14/22, respectively.  
 
On 2/28/23, the parties were scheduled
to participate in an informal discovery conference before the Honorable Serena
R. Murillo in the personal injury hub court. 
The IDC was not held because the Court referred the matter to Department
1 to determine whether it was complicated and should be transferred to an IC
court for all further proceedings.  On
3/08/23, the Court transferred the matter to Department S27 for all further
proceedings.  
 
3.         Motion to Compel Compliance with Subpoena
a.         History of Discovery Dispute
Plaintiff propounded a deposition subpoena
for production of business records on the City of Long Beach on 10/13/23.  The subpoena sought production of all
documents relating to any criminal investigation of Maggio, including various
sub-categories of documents.    
 
The City responded to the subpoena
and produced various records.  The records
revealed that at least three other former students of Hughes Middle School made
allegations against Maggio that are similar to Plaintiff’s allegations.  All identifying information about the students,
however, was redacted from the records.  
 
The parties met and conferred, but
were unable to resolve the dispute over whether the names of the students must
be provided.  
 
b.         Analysis
The City opposes the motion,
arguing Penal Code §293(c) precludes it from providing the requested documents.  §293(c) provides:
A law enforcement agency shall not
disclose to a person, except the prosecutor, parole officers of the Department
of Corrections and Rehabilitation, hearing officers of the parole authority,
probation officers of county probation departments, or other persons or public
agencies where authorized or required by law, the address of a person who
alleges to be the victim of a sex offense.
 
Plaintiff, in reply, relies on People
v. Dixon (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 414, 442 and Marken v. Santa
Monica-Malibu Unified School District (2012) 202 Cal.4th 1250, 1271,
1274-1276 to support her position that the contact information for the other victims
must be provided. 
 
In Dixon, a jury found the
defendant to be a sexually violent predator, and the trial court committed the
defendant to a secured facility under the Sexually Violent Predators Act.  The defendant appealed.  The defendant sought disclosure of the contact
information for two prosecution witnesses who were victims of his crimes.  The prosecutor refused to provide the
information, citing §293(c).  
 
The Court of Appeals held that the
Civil Discovery Act applied because the proceedings were civil in nature, and
that the trial court erred in permitting the prosecution to withhold the information
under §293(c).  it held that the rules
governing criminal discovery, including §293(c), did not apply, and instead the
rules governing civil discovery applied. 
Importantly, however, at 443-444, the Dixon court specifically held that
§293(d) has been interpreted to permit disclosure of contact information to a
public defender, and although the proceedings were civil in nature, the
defendant was represented by a public defender in the proceedings.  Dixon, therefore, is not directly on point.
 
In Marken, a student complained of sexual
harassment by a teacher (Marken), and two years later, a parent sought Marken’s
investigation records under the CPRA. 
Marken filed a complaint seeking injunctive relief to prevent the
release of the records.  The trial court
denied the request for relief, and the issue was appealed to the Supreme Court.  The Supreme Court affirmed the trial court’s
ruling denying the request for relief, finding that the parents were entitled
to the investigation records.  The Court
thoroughly reviewed Marken, and finds it never discussed contact information of
other victims.  While it can be assumed victims
were identified in the report, it is not clear if their names were redacted or
how that issue was handled.  Indeed, it
does not appear the issue of contact information was raised by the parties at
all.  The case, therefore, cannot be used
to stand for a position that was never considered or raised.  
 
§293(c), on its face, bars disclosure
of the contact information.  Plaintiff cites
one case permitting disclosure of “investigation records,” but not considering
whether contact information should be disclosed or not.  She cites another case holding that a public
defender is, per the Code itself, permitted to review the records.  She cites no case otherwise circumventing §293(c)’s
prohibition against disclosure of the records. 
She therefore failed to meet her burden to show some exception to the
express wording of §293(c) applies, and the motion to compel compliance is
denied.
 
Plaintiff is ordered to give
notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.   