 Case Number:  22LBCV01003    Hearing Date:   March 28, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiff, Jeroma Bonner filed this
action against Defendants, LAUSD and Christina Park (the principal at her
school location) for disability discrimination, perceived disability
discrimination, age discrimination, work environment harassment, retaliation,
failure to prevent harassment, discrimination, and retaliation, retaliation,
failure to provide reasonable accommodation, and failure to engage in the
interactive process.
 
The operative complaint is the
First Amended Complaint, which Plaintiff filed on 5/12/23.  The crux of the FAC is that Plaintiff had
been working for LAUSD as a teacher’s assistant and early education aide since
1999, and that at the time of her termination, she was 59 years old and had
high blood pressure.  Plaintiff alleges
she was wrongfully terminated when she was mere months away from
retirement.  Specifically, Plaintiff
alleges she was in the process of complying with LAUSD’s vaccination
requirement, but she became so ill that she had to be hospitalized, and this
led to her having to postpone her second shot. 
She alleges LAUSD wrongfully terminated her for being out of compliance
with the vaccination mandate, even though, at the time LAUSD terminated her,
she had already completed the vaccination process.  She alleges she received her second dose on
11/17/21, and she went to Park’s office to provide her with a compete copy of
her vaccination record.  Park offered to
input the record into the system, but then did not do so, which led to her
being terminated after the winter holiday break.  She alleges she told her direct supervisor
she was fully vaccinated, and provided proof of same, but she was never
reinstated.  She alleges she was
informed, by her union representative, that the deadline for vaccination had
been extended to May of 2022, and therefore the termination was wrongful.  She alleges she lost her retirement
eligibility as a result of the wrongful termination.  
 
2.     Motion
for Summary Judgment/Adjudication

Initial Notes

i.             
Dismissals
Plaintiff dismissed all claims
against Defendant, Christiana Park on 1/23/24. 
She also dismissed her fourth cause of action for work environment
harassment on the same date.  To the
extent the motion is brought by Park, and also to the extent the motion attacks
the fourth cause of action, the motion is moot in light of the dismissals.
 
ii.            
Motion for Summary Adjudication
Defendant’s separate statement is
not compliant with CRC 3.1350(b) which requires each issue to be adjudicated to
be set forth “verbatim” in the notice of motion and separate statement.  Notably, Defendant’s notice of motion lists
nine issues to be adjudicated.  The
separate statement, however, lists eleven issues.  One of the issues is that the Court should
grant summary judgment on the entire complaint, but that still leaves ten, as
opposed to nine, issues to be adjudicated. 
The Court has done its best to rule on the motion despite this defect,
but asks Defense Counsel to ensure compliance with this and all other rules of
court in the future in connection with this and other actions.  
 
iii.           
Opposing Separate Statement
CRC 3.1350(h) provides the format
for an opposing separate statement.  It
makes clear that the opposing separate statement must, in the left-hand column,
include the moving party’s stated facts AND the evidence the moving party
indicates supports those facts. 
Defendant included the evidence with the moving statement, but Plaintiff
eliminated the evidence from the opposing statement.  This required the Court to go back and forth
between the two statements in order to review the evidence, which was very difficult.  Plaintiff’s attorney must, in the future in
this and other actions, ensure compliance with this and all other rules of
court.
 
iv.           
Scope of Complaint
Defendant, in reply, argues
Plaintiff is impermissibly attempting, in opposition to the summary judgment
motion, to expand the scope of her complaint. 
Specifically, Defendant notes that ¶41 of the FAC alleges Plaintiff
suffered from a disability in the form of high blood pressure, but her
opposition discusses abdominal pain and hypertension.  
 
Plaintiff’s complaint, at ¶¶15-18,
detailed her abdominal pain.  The
opposition therefore does not attempt to improperly expand the scope of the FAC
in this regard.  Hypertension is another
word for high blood pressure, and therefore references to hypertension also do
not impermissibly expand the scope of the complaint.  
 

Evidentiary Objections

Plaintiff purports to object to
various facts in Defendant’s separate statement.  This is improper per CRC 3.1354(b), and the
Court declines to rule on the purported objections.
 
Defendant filed objections with its
reply papers.  Defendant objects to
consideration of various pages of Plaintiff’s deposition transcript on the
ground that there is no title page, as required by CRC 3.1116(a).  At most, the Court would continue the hearing
to permit Plaintiff to cure this defect. 
The Court has considered the testimony. 
Defendant also objects to consideration of its responses to RFAs on the
ground that the cover page and verification are not included.  Again, at most, the Court would continue the
hearing to require the documentation; the Court has considered the evidence in
ruling on the motion.  
 
Defendant then purports to object
to Plaintiff’s responses to various facts in the separate statement.  There is no authority permitting an objection
to a response to a separate statement. 
Objections, by their very nature, must be to evidence, not to responses
to a separate statement.  Defendant is
free, as it did in its reply, to make ARGUMENT that Plaintiff’s evidence does
not support her purported statements of fact. 
It cannot, however, object to the statements of fact.  The Court therefore declines to rule on these
remaining objections.  
 

Law Governing
     Plaintiff’s FEHA Claims

Special rules govern allocation of
the burden of proof on motions for summary judgment in wrongful termination and
employment discrimination cases, under both federal and state law. State courts
follow the approach taken by federal courts in these cases.  Moore v. Regents of Univ. of Calif. (2016)
248 Cal.App.4th 216, 233.  These special
rules are intended to sharpen the inquiry into the elusive factual question of
intentional discrimination. The summary judgment procedure “provides a
particularly suitable means to test the sufficiency of … the defendant's
nondiscriminatory motives for the employment decision.”  Caldwell v. Paramount Unified School Dist.
(1995) 41 Cal.App.4th 189, 203.
But “many employment cases present
issues of intent, and motive, and hostile working environment, issues not
determinable on paper”; such cases are “rarely appropriate for disposition on
summary judgment.”  Nazir v. United
Airlines, Inc. (2009) 178 Cal.App.4th 243, 286. 

 
Because direct evidence of
discrimination is seldom available, courts use a system of shifting burdens as
an aid to the presentation and resolution of such cases both at trial and on a
motion for summary judgment.   Guz v.
Bechtel Nat'l, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 317, 354-355.  At trial, the initial burden is on the
employee to establish a prima facie case of discrimination. (Not much is
required, however; circumstantial evidence creating an inference of
discrimination is sufficient.)  Id. at
354-355.  
 
When the employer seeks summary
judgment, however, the initial burden rests with the employer to show that no
unlawful discrimination occurred.  CCP
§437c(p)(2); see Id. at 354-355; see also Cornell v. Berkeley Tennis Club
(2017) 18 Cal.App.5th 908, 926.  To
satisfy its initial burden, the moving party employer must either undermine an
element of the plaintiff's prima facie case by affirmatively negating it or showing
the plaintiff cannot prove it or must provide a legitimate nondiscriminatory
reason for the adverse employment action; McGrory v. Applied Signal Tech., Inc.
(2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1523.  
 
First, the employer (moving party)
must carry the burden of showing the employee's action has no merit (§
437c(p)(2)). It may do so by evidence either:
•           —
negating an essential element of the employee's claim (difficult to do, because
prima facie case of discrimination is so easy to establish); or
•           —
showing some legitimate, nondiscriminatory reason for the action taken against
the employee.   Caldwell, supra, at
202-203.  
 
If the employer meets this initial
burden, to avoid summary judgment the employee must produce “substantial
responsive evidence that the employer's showing was untrue or pretextual,”
thereby raising at least an inference of discrimination.  Hersant v. California Dept. of Social
Services (1997) 57 Cal.App.4th 997, 1004-1005. 
A plaintiff's “suspicions of improper motives … primarily based on
conjecture and speculation” are clearly not sufficient to raise a triable issue
of fact to withstand summary judgment. 
Kerr v. Rose (1990) 216 Cal.App.3d 1551, 1564.   Evidence showing facts inconsistent with the
employer's claimed reasons tends to prove the employer's discriminatory intent.  Martin v. Lockheed Missiles & Space Co.
(1994) 29 Cal.App.4th 1718, 1735.  
“Pretext” does not require proof that discrimination was the only reason
for the employer's action. When there are mixed motives for the employer's
action, it is enough that discriminatory intent was a substantial motivating
factor in the employer's decision to take the adverse action.  Harris v. City of Santa Monica (2013) 56
Cal.4th 203, 232.  
 
An employee may also avoid summary
judgment by attacking the credibility of the employer's declarations; i.e., by
demonstrating “such weaknesses, implausibilities, inconsistencies,
incoherencies, or contradictions in the employer's proffered legitimate reasons
for its action that a reasonable factfinder could rationally find them unworthy
of credence” and hence infer discriminatory intent.   Hersant, supra, at 1005.  However, though “disbelief of an Employer's
stated reason for a termination gives rise to a compelling inference that the
Employer had a different, unstated motivation, … it does not, without more,
reasonably give rise to an inference that the motivation was a prohibited
one.”  McGrory v. Applied Signal Technology,
Inc. (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1531-1532. 

 
The defendant employer may proceed
directly to provide evidence that its action was taken for a legitimate,
nondiscriminatory purpose. The burden is then on the plaintiff employee to
rebut with evidence raising an inference that intentional discrimination
occurred. Summary judgment for the employer should be granted where, “given the
strength of the employer's showing of innocent reasons, any countervailing
circumstantial evidence of discriminatory motive, even if it may technically
constitute a prima facie case, is too weak to raise a rational inference that
discrimination occurred.”   Guz, supra at
362.  
 

Timeline

The Court, from Plaintiff’s
deposition, has pieced together the following timeline of relevant events (all
citations are to Plaintiff’s depo):
·        
Sometime in September of 2021 – Plaintiff learns
that she must be vaccinated by 10/15/21 and will be disciplined if she is not
(page 55, lines 9-20)
·        
9/23/21 – Plaintiff’s first dose of vaccine (page
40, line 21)
·        
11/02/21 – six weeks after first does, Plaintiff
was scheduled to have second dose (page 43, line 20)
·        
11/07/21 – Plaintiff goes to ER with abdominal
pains, stays for seven hours, receives medication and is sent home (page 47,
line 16)
·        
11/08/21 – Plaintiff goes to work but is in
pain, goes to Diana in the office, and is sent home to recover for the rest of the
week (page 47, line 21 through page 48, line 15)
·        
11/15/21 – Plaintiff returns to work (this is a
Monday), but she hasn’t had a COVID test and is sent home and told she needs
one to return to work (page 48, line 16)
·        
11/16/21 – Plaintiff tries to return to work but
her daily pass does not allow her to do so (page 48, line 22)
 

Evidence of
     Nondiscriminatory Reason for Termination 

Defendant clearly met its initial
burden to show it had a legitimate, nondiscriminatory reason for terminating
Plaintiff’s employment.  Defendant
provides evidence that it adopted a vaccination policy and sent all employees
an interoffice correspondence announcing the vaccine requirement.  See undisputed fact 14.  The correspondence allowed employees to seek
exemptions.  Fact 15.  The interoffice correspondence required all
employees to submit proof of vaccination through a portal, and included step by
step guidance on how to do so.  Fact
16.  Employees who were not vaccinated
were given text, email, and blackboard (LAUSD communication program) reminders
of the requirement.  Fact 17.  Employees were required to have a first does
by 10/15/21 and second dose by 11/15/21. 
Fact 18.  On 11/07/21, the Board
of Education terminated the employment of 418 employees, including Plaintiff,
who had not been vaccinated.  Fact
20.  
 

Shifted Burden to Show
     Pretext

i.             
Arguments in Opposition to Motion
Because Defendant met its initial
burden to show Plaintiff was terminated due to her failure to timely upload her
vaccination records, the burden shifts to Plaintiff to show that the stated
reason for her termination was a mere pretext. 
She attempts to do so in two ways. 
First, she argues the deadline was never communicated to her and/or she
was given the wrong deadline.  Second,
she argues she had a medical condition that Defendant should have accommodated
rather than terminating her employment.  
 
ii.            
Lack of Notice
Plaintiff argues she was never
given notice of the vaccine deadline. 
The Court has therefore considered both parties’ evidence concerning
notice of the vaccine deadline.
 
Defendant relies primarily on the
Declaration of Francisco J. Serrato in this regard.  Serrato is the Interim Chief Human Resources
Officer for LAUSD, and he was the Deputy Chief Human Resources Officers during
the relevant time period.  He attaches,
as Exhibit 1, an email that went out to all employees on 8/13/21 advising them
that they had to be fully vaccinated by 10/15/21.  He then attaches, as Exhibit 2, various
interoffice correspondence sent to employees after 8/13/21 reminding them of
the vaccine requirement.  
Serrano declares that, ultimately,
LAUSD required all employees to be fully vaccinated by 11/15/21.  He does not cite to any specific
correspondence giving employees notice that the date had been extended from
10/15/21 to 11/15/21.  The Court has
therefore reviewed the correspondence attached as Exhibit 2 to the declaration
to determine exactly what LAUSD told its employees when.  Serrano declares that Exhibit 2 is a copy of
correspondence with employees.  The top
of Exhibit 2 states “Blackboard Connect Summary of Employee and Labor Relations
Messages on Vaccination Reminders.”  It
then includes columns that name the sender of the correspondence, the date of
the correspondence, the time of the correspondence, and the message
itself.  It appears that, at the top of
the message portion, it indicates how the message was sent (email, text,
etc.).  
 
There are numerous emails reminding
employees that vaccination must be completed by 10/15/21.  There are emails indicating that employees
can use part of their workday to get vaccinated, as well as emails indicating
employees who are having a hard time uploading vaccination records can attend a
live support meeting during work hours.  
 
On 10/08/21, LAUSD sent an email to
all employees indicating that, if they did not have a first vaccination as of 10/15/21,
they were not to report to work on 10/16/21. 
The email went on to indicate that, if they had one dose, they must have
the second dose by 11/15/21.  The
remaining emails and texts are merely reminders of this policy.  
 
Plaintiff, in opposition to the
above evidence, contends the deadline was confusing and communication was not
actually received.  She cites to her own
deposition and the deposition of Park to support her opposition.  She relies on pages 26 and 29-34 of her own
deposition transcript, which the Court has reviewed.  
 
Plaintiff was asked a series of
questions about whether or not she received the various emails and messages Defendant
sent out, and she answered no to many of them. 
However, at page 30, lines 5-8, she was asked, “And so you – in September
of 2021, did you understand that LAUSD was requiring you to be fully vaccinated
against COVID by October 15, 2021?”  She
responded in the affirmative.  On page
32, she indicated she did not know the time to be vaccinated was extended until
11/15/21, but instead believed it had been extended for six months; she goes on
to indicate she developed that belief AFTER she was fully vaccinated, which occurred
on 11/17/21.  Additionally, at page 55,
she testified at length that she had been told of the requirements.  At page 57, she indicates she did receive a statement
that she would be disciplined if she were not fully vaccinated.
 
The problem with Plaintiff’s
testimony and evidence is that she admits she knew, as of September, that she
had to be fully vaccinated by 10/15/21. 
She does not indicate that she made any attempts, prior to 10/15/21, to
contact anyone to clarify the policy.  She
admits that she had an appointment to be fully vaccinated on 11/02/21, which would
have complied with the policy extending the date to 11/15/21, but she did not
go.  She was hospitalized the next week,
but there is no evidence of any reason she could not have gone on 11/02/21 to
her follow-up appointment.  All of the
remaining evidence, about her trying to reach someone at the District to talk
about what was going on, is that she tried to reach someone AFTER she was fired
and it was impossible to reach someone.  There
is, however, no evidence that she ever tried to reach anyone BEFORE she was
terminated to request an extension of time to be vaccinated or to discuss her
medical condition.  
 
Plaintiff failed to raise a triable
issue of material fact concerning whether she had notice of the policy, and she
failed entirely to raise a triable issue of material fact concerning whether
her stated reason for termination was mere pretext.  
 
iii.           
Extension of Deadline
Plaintiff argues, alternatively,
that she reasonably believed the deadline to complete vaccination had been
extended.  She cites various pieces of
evidence to support her contention that her union representative told her the
requirement had been extended to May 15, 2022.
 
As Defendant correctly notes in
reply, a union representative would not be an agent of Defendant, and therefore
any statement by a union representative would not be imputed to Defendant.  Additionally, Defendant cites Plaintiff’s
deposition testimony, at pages 52-53, to support its position that any
conversation with the union representative occurred after termination, such
that Plaintiff could not have relied on the statements in failing to be timely
vaccinated.  The Court has reviewed page
52 of Plaintiff’s deposition, and finds that she testified that her union
representative told her the deadline had been extended to May “between February
and March” of 2022.  Plaintiff was
terminated in December of 2021, and therefore Defendant is correct in noting
that this conversation could not have form the basis of any decision not to
become timely vaccinated during the relevant time period.  
 
iv.           
Accommodation
Plaintiff’s alternative argument is
that she had a medical condition of which Defendant was aware, and Defendant
should have accommodated that condition by permitting her to submit her proof
of vaccination after the deadline.  Her
arguments in this regard fall into three general categories.  First, she contends she was hospitalized
during the relevant time period, and Defendant knew of the
hospitalization.  Second, she contends
she was attempting to receive help uploading her vaccination record, but
Defendant’s personnel were unreachable and/or unhelpful.  Third, she contends Park’s statements that
she was “slow” are evidence of age-based discrimination.  
 
v.         Hospitalization
Plaintiff provides evidence that
she was hospitalized in early November of 2021. 
Specifically, she was hospitalized with abdominal pains and thereafter
took time off work.  She provides
evidence that she told Diana, the office manager at her elementary school, that
she had been hospitalized, and the two agreed that she would take the rest of the
week off due to her hospitalization.  
 
Plaintiff contends these facts are
sufficient to require Defendant to engage in the interactive process pursuant
to Gov Code §§12940(m) and (n), which sub-sections make it unlawful:
(m)(1) For an employer or other
entity covered by this part to fail to make reasonable accommodation for the
known physical or mental disability of an applicant or employee. Nothing in
this subdivision or in paragraph (1) or (2) of subdivision (a) shall be
construed to require an accommodation that is demonstrated by the employer or
other covered entity to produce undue hardship, as defined in subdivision (u)
of Section 12926, to its operation.
(2) For an employer or other entity
covered by this part to, in addition to the employee protections provided
pursuant to subdivision (h), retaliate or otherwise discriminate against a
person for requesting accommodation under this subdivision, regardless of
whether the request was granted.
(n) For an employer or other entity
covered by this part to fail to engage in a timely, good faith, interactive
process with the employee or applicant to determine effective reasonable
accommodations, if any, in response to a request for reasonable accommodation
by an employee or applicant with a known physical or mental disability or known
medical condition.
 
The parties discuss whether
Plaintiff’s known hospitalization supports a conclusion that Defendant knew she
had a disability Defendant was obligated to accommodate.  Plaintiff cites Kao v. University of San
Francisco (2014) 229 Cal.App.4th 437, 450 to support her position
that even a nonobvious disability must be accommodated if the employee presents
medical evidence of the disability. 
Plaintiff then cites DFEH guidelines requiring employers to accommodate
employees who have a disability-based reason for not being vaccinated, as well
as DFEH guidance making clear that individuals with hypertension are at
increased risk from contracting COVID (notably, NOT indicating that individuals
with hypertension are at risk from the vaccine itself).  
 
There is nothing in Plaintiff’s
opposition that allows the Court to “connect the dots.”  It is important to understand that the
accommodation at issue is an extension of the time to become vaccinated per the
District’s policy.  Plaintiff provides no
evidence that she had any medical reason for failing to comply with the
policy.  Notably, at page 41, lines
20-25, she testified that nobody at the hospital told her not to get her second
dose of the vaccine due to her health problems. 

 
She provides no evidence that the
District, upon learning she had been hospitalized with abdominal pains, should
have concluded that she would need more time to obtain vaccination.  She provides no evidence that she talked to
anyone at the District about her medical inability to become vaccinated on the
District’s schedule.  She does not
testify that, during her conversation with Diana, she told Diana that she had
not completed the vaccine requirement and was concerned or needed more time to
do so.  Notably, as Defendant shows in
reply, the mere fact that an employer knows an employee was hospitalized is not
sufficient to commence the interactive process. 
See Avila v. Continental Airlines (2008) 165 Cal.App.4th
1237, 1247.  
 
v.            
Help Uploading Vaccination Card
Plaintiff next argues she sought
help uploading her vaccination card, but she was unable to obtain the necessary
help for a variety of reasons. 
Defendant, in reply, notes that Plaintiff’s vaccination card, on its
face, shows she was vaccinated on 11/17/21, AFTER the 11/15/21 deadline
expired.  While this may be very
unfortunate, it does not show pretext. 
Defendant terminated ALL employees who were out of compliance with the
requirement on the same date, and Plaintiff does not dispute this fact.  That Defendant was required to adopt a
hard-line approach on its deadline is not evidence of pretext.  
 
As noted above, Plaintiff testified
at length that she tried repeatedly to get ahold of someone after she was terminated
to ask about the vaccine requirement, but could not get ahold of anyone.  Plaintiff cites to no authority indicating
that an employee can attempt to provide notice of a health problem AFTER being
terminated for a legitimate, non-discriminatory reason.  
 
vi.           
Slow
Plaintiff next points to various
comments by the principal at her school that she was “slow.”  She contends these comments are evidence of
age discrimination.  The problem, however,
is that she is required to show pretext for termination as a result of
noncompliance with the vaccine policy. 
She admits that all employees who were not in compliance with the policy
were terminated, and admits that she was not in compliance with the policy.  Whether her principal called her “slow” or
not could potentially go to her harassment claim, but she has dismissed that
claim.  It does not show pretext, or lead
to any conclusion that anything other than non-compliance with the vaccination
policy contributed to her ultimate termination. 

 

Conclusion

Defendant met its moving burden to show
it terminated Plaintiff’s employment for a legitimate, non-discriminatory
reason.  Plaintiff failed, in opposition,
to raise any triable issue of material fact. 
The motion for summary judgment is therefore granted.
 
Defendant is ordered to give
notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative.  If
the parties do not submit on the tentative, they should arrange to appear
remotely.