  Case Number:  22LBCV00206    Hearing Date:   March 28, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiff, Gregg Kirkpatrick filed
this action against Defendants, Paradise Gardens, L.P., Paradise Garden, LLC,
James E. Wolf, and Daniel L. Wayne for breach of contract and related claims
arising out of the parties’ ground lease, pursuant to which the entity defendants
leased a building that Plaintiff owns.  The
crux of the complaint is that Defendants failed to maintain the property in the
condition required per the terms of the lease, leaving Plaintiff with $20
million in deferred maintenance and repairs that Defendants should have
completed while they were leasing the property. 
 
 
The complaint includes causes of
action for breach of contract and negligence against the entity defendants on a
direct liability theory and against the individual defendants on an alter ego
theory.  It also includes a cause of
action for intentional interference with contractual relations against the
individual defendants on a direct liability theory.  
 
2.     Motion
to Trifurcate

Parties’ Positions

Defendants seek an order trifurcating this action for trial.  Specifically, they seek to have the trial conducted
in three phases:
Jury trial on issues of liability and compensatory damages
Bench trial on issue of alter ego claim against the individual defendants
Jury trial to award punitive damages if, during the first phase, fraud,
malice, and/or oppression is established
 
Defendants contend the alter ego issue is an equitable one, and therefore
must be tried by bench trial, rather than jury trial.  They contend there is little to no overlap
between the liability issues and the alter ego issues, and therefore the issues
should be tried separately.  They contend
the amount of punitive damages, if any, should be heard last, as bifurcation of
that issue is mandated per Code.
 
Plaintiff opposes the motion.  He argues
Defendants are trying to thwart alter ego discovery pending the outcome of the
first phase of trial, but because the amount of punitive damages must be tried
by the same jury that tries the liability phase, delaying discovery would
result in an inability to keep the jury seated and ready for the third proposed
phase of trial.  Plaintiff contends there
is significant overlap between the liability issue and the alter ego issue, because
Plaintiff will show that the individual defendants plundered the entity
defendants’ assets, leaving no funds remaining for necessary repairs.  Plaintiff contends the Court can have the
jury determine the legal issues and also provide an advisory verdict on the
alter ego issue.  Plaintiff does not oppose
severing the issue of the amount of punitive damages, but makes clear that the
punitive damages phase should go forward immediately after the liability and
alter ego phase of the trial.  
 
Defendants, in reply, contend Plaintiff’s opposition shows how
complicated the issues are and why trifurcation is necessary.  They indicate they are amenable to having the
alter ego phase of the trial heard last, with punitive damages immediately
following liability, to avoid any jury problems.  They contend having all the alter ego
evidence presented to the jury is not efficient, because the jury will not
ultimately determine the alter ego issue. 
They contend there will be no overlap between the evidence in support of
liability and the evidence re: punitive damages and/or alter ego.  
 

Amount of Punitive Damages

Civil Code §3295(d) provides, “The court shall, on application of any
defendant, preclude the admission of evidence of that defendant's profits or
financial condition until after the trier of fact returns a verdict for
plaintiff awarding actual damages and finds that a defendant is guilty of
malice, oppression, or fraud in accordance with Section 3294.  Evidence of
profit and financial condition shall be admissible only as to the defendant or
defendants found to be liable to the plaintiff and to be guilty of malice,
oppression, or fraud.  Evidence of profit and financial condition shall be
presented to the same trier of fact that found for the plaintiff and found one
or more defendants guilty of malice, oppression, or fraud.”  
 
Thus, bifurcation is mandatory under the Code.  Trial on the issue of the amount of punitive
damages will go forward, if necessary, after the jury finds Defendants guilty
of malice, oppression, or fraud.    
 

Alter Ego

The more difficult issue is whether the alter ego claims should be
bifurcated and, if so, when the Court should hear the trial on the alter ego
claims.  The parties agree that the alter
ego issue must be tried by the bench, while the liability issue will be tried
by a jury.  
 
The Court agrees with Defendants that the issue of liability on the
breach of contract and negligence claims will not overlap with the alter ego
issues.  The issue of liability on those
claims is simply whether the property was returned in proper condition or
not.  
 
The third cause of action, however, is for intentional interference with
contractual relations, and is asserted against the individual defendants.  The allegation in the interference cause of
action is that the individual defendants interfered with and prevented the performance
of the contractual obligations of the entity defendants under the ground
lease.  Notably, Plaintiff seeks
imposition of punitive damages against the individual defendants in connection
with this cause of action.
 
Defendants concede that the issue of whether or not Plaintiff is entitled
to punitive damages must be tried in the liability, as opposed to damages,
phase of the trial.  It seems there would
be significant overlap between the alter ego issues and the issue of whether
the individual defendants acted with fraud, malice, or oppression in connection
with their interference with the entity defendants’ contracts.  Notably, the crux of an alter ego claim is
that an individual is fraudulently using an entity as a shell through which to
operate for his own advantage and shield himself from liability.  If Plaintiff can prove, at trial, that the
individual defendants were plundering corporate assets for their own gain, this
would be an element of both alter ego and also punitive damages.  
 
The Court is therefore not inclined to sever the alter ego claim from the
liability claim at trial.  
 

Conclusion 

The motion to trifurcate is granted in part.  The liability and alter ego issues will go
forward first.  If Plaintiff is
successful in showing liability and also establishing malice, fraud, or
oppression, the second phase of the trial, amount of punitive damages, will go
forward immediately after the first phase of the trial concludes.  
 
Defendants are ordered to give
notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative.  If
the parties do not submit on the tentative, they should arrange to appear
remotely.
 