  Case Number:  22STCV15728    Hearing Date:   December 9, 2024    Dept:  71 Superior Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



HUSAM
  ASI,  
  
         vs.
 
HOLLYWOOD
  FOREIGN PRESS ASSOCIATION, et al.


 Case No.: 
  22STCV15728
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  December 9, 2024



 
Pro per Plaintiff Husam Asi’s motion to compel further responses from
Defendant Hollywood Foreign Press Association to his Request for Production
(Set Four) is denied.
Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions
against Defendant on his motion to compel further responses to his Request for
Production (Set Four) is denied.
 
Plaintiff
Husam Asi (“Asi”) (“Plaintiff”) moves, in pro per, to compel further
responses from Defendant Hollywood Foreign Press Association (“HFPA”)
(“Defendant”) in response to his Request for Production (Set Four) (“RFP
4”).  (Notice MTCF RFP 4, pg. 2.)  Plaintiff further moves for monetary
sanctions in and unspecified amount. 
(Notice MTCF RFP 4, pg. 2.)
 
Meet
and Confer
Plaintiff
met and conferred with Defendant’s counsel at an IDC held on November 25, 2024,
and the Court deemed the issues unresolved. 
(11/25/24 IDC Minute Order.) 
Therefore, Plaintiff’s motion is proper.
 
Background
On July
2, 2024, Plaintiff served his RFP 4 on Defendant.  (Decl. of Asi ¶2, Exh. A.)  Defendant responded on August 5, 2024.  (Decl. of Asi ¶3, Exh. B.)  
Plaintiff filed the instant motion on August 12,
2024.  Defendant filed its opposition on
September 24, 2024.  Plaintiff filed his
reply on October 1, 2024.
 
Legal
Standard
“The
party claiming the privilege has the burden of establishing the preliminary
facts necessary to support its exercise, i.e., a communication made in the
course of an attorney-client relationship.”  (Costco Wholesale Corp. v. Superior Court
(2009) 219 Cal.4th 725, 733.)  This is
done by providing a privilege log, which contains sufficient information for
judicial evaluation of a claim of privilege.  (Best Products, Inc. v. Superior Court (2004)
119 Cal.App.4th 1181, 1188.)  “Once that
party establishes facts necessary to support a prima facie claim of
privilege, the communication is presumed to have been made in confidence and
the opponent of the claim of privilege has the burden of proof to establish the
communication was not confidential or that the privilege does not for other
reasons apply.”  (Costco Wholesale
Corp., 219 Cal.4th at pg. 733.)
 
Discussion
Plaintiff’s
motion to compel further responses from Defendant as to RFP 4 is denied.  
Plaintiff’s
RFPs seek “all documents” about each and every complaint of misconduct made
against or by other members of the
HFPA, including the complete private personnel files of other HFPA members who
may have made or received such complaints. Plaintiff fails to demonstrate these
requests seeks relevant information that is reasonably calculated to lead to
the discovery of admissible evidence.  (See
C.C.P. §2017.010.)  
Here, Plaintiff
is seeking every document related to every complaint made on the HFPA’s hotline,
regardless of subject matter, since May 2021 (RFP No. 1), every document
related to any misconduct complaint received or reviewed by the HFPA’s human resources
department about any member since the summer of 2021 (RFP Nos. 2-3), every
document related to any investigation prepared by the investigators about other
members (including their investigation reports, if any) (RFP Nos. 4-5), every
document about any type of “sanction” imposed by the HFPA on any member who may
have at one time been a “complainant” (RFP No. 6), the complete personnel files
and every other document related to any person who has ever made a complaint against
Plaintiff, regardless of subject matter, and including the records of three
women who accused Plaintiff of sexual misconduct (RFP No. 8), and every document
related to Comic-Con in 2017, including specifically hotel information for the
other members who attended Comi-Con. (RFP No. 11).
These
requests seek confidential, private, personnel information of other HFPA
members that are not relevant to Plaintiff’s claims.  Under Williams v. Superior Court (2017)
3 Cal.5th 531, Plaintiff must provide a compelling interest to overcome these
“obvious invasions of interests fundamental to personal autonomy.”  (Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3
Cal.5th 531, 557.)  Plaintiff has not met
his burden to demonstrate this. 
Plaintiff also failed to meet his burden to demonstrate this private
information somehow outweighs any third party’s right to privacy.  (Id.; Life Technologies Corp. v.
Superior Court (2011) 197 Cal.App.4th 640, 652 [“The public interest in
preserving confidential, personnel information generally outweighs a private
litigant’s interest in obtaining that information.”].)
Defendant
also produced a detailed privilege log, which demonstrates that the documents
withheld on the basis of privilege are communications made in the course of an
attorney-client relationship, either with outside counsel or the Defendant’s
COO and General Counsel, Greg Goeckner.  (Decl. of Aceves ¶11, Exhs. 6, 7.)
Here,
Defendant’s privilege log states the withheld documents.  The privilege log denotes the individuals who
are attorneys with an asterisk on the log itself.  (Decl. of Aceves ¶11, Exhs. 6, 7.)  Each entry in the “Description” field explains
that the communication is one which involves “providing legal advice,”
“requesting legal advice,” “memorializing legal advice,” or otherwise provides
an even more specific description of the attorney function being performed in
that specific communication.  (Decl. of Aceves
¶11, Exhs. 6, 7.)  Defendant’s privilege
log provides sufficient factual information for Plaintiff and this Court to
evaluate the merits of that claim.  (Catalina
Island Yacht Club v. Superior Court (2015) 242 Cal.App.4th 1116, 1123 [“Even
a minimal statement . . . is sufficient.”].)
Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses is denied.
 
          Sanctions
          In light of the Court’s ruling on the
instant motion, Plaintiff’s request for sanctions is denied.
 
Conclusion
Plaintiff’s
motion to compel further responses to his RFP 4 is denied.
Plaintiff’s
request for sanctions is denied.
Moving
Party to give notice.
 
Dated: 
December _____, 2024
                                                                             





  