 Case Number:  24STCV17254    Hearing Date:   December 9, 2024    Dept:  71 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



DARLENE
  LEVY-POTTER,
  
         vs.
 
LOS ANGELES
  COMMUNITY COLLEGE DISTRICT, et al. 


 Case No.: 
  24STCV17254
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  December 9, 2024



 
Defendants Los Angeles Community College District’s, Wanda
Morris’, and Ann Hamilton’s demurrer to Plaintiff Darlene Levy-Potter’s 9th and 10th causes of action in her first
amended complaint is overruled.
 
Defendants Los Angeles Community College District (“LACC”),
Wanda Morris (“Morris”), and Ann Hamilton (“Hamilton”) (collectively, “Defendants”)
demur to the 9th and 10th causes of action in Plaintiff Darlene Levy-Potter’s (“Levy-Potter”)
(“Plaintiff”) first amended complaint (“FAC”). 
(Notice of Demurrer, pgs. 1-2; C.C.P. §430.41(e).) 
 
Meet and Confer
Before filing a demurrer, the demurring party must meet and
confer in person, by telephone, or by video conference with the party
who filed the pleading to attempt to reach an agreement that would resolve the
objections to the pleading and obviate the need for filing the demurrer.  (C.C.P. §430.41(a), emphasis added.)
The demurring party shall file and serve with the demurrer
a declaration stating either of the following: (A) The means by which the
demurring party met and conferred with the party who filed the pleading subject
to demurrer, and that the parties did not reach an agreement resolving the
objections raised in the demurrer. (B) That the party who filed the pleading
subject to demurrer failed to respond to the meet and confer request of the
demurring party or otherwise failed to meet and confer in good faith.  (C.C.P. §430.41(a)(3).)
Defendants’ counsel declares that on September 23, 2024,
she called Plaintiff’s counsel regarding the instant motion, and the parties
could not reach an agreement resolving the objections raised in the demurrer.  (See Decl. of Amin ¶4.)  Defendants’ counsel’s declaration is
sufficient under C.C.P. §430.41(a). 
Therefore, the Court will consider Defendants’ demurrer.
 
Procedural
Background
          Plaintiff
filed her initial Complaint on July 11, 2024, against Defendants.  Plaintiff filed the operative FAC against
Defendants, alleging ten causes of action: (1) associational disability
discrimination in violation of FEHA; (2) discrimination on the basis of age in
violation of FEHA; (3) retaliation in violation of FEHA; (4) failure to prevent
discrimination in violation of FEHA; (5) failure to provide reasonable
accommodation in violation of FEHA; (6) failure to engage in the interactive
process in violation of FEHA; (7) constructive termination in violation of
public policy; (8) wrongful termination in violation of public policy; (9)
intentional infliction of emotional distress; and (10) negligent hiring,
retention, or supervision.[1]
Defendants filed the instant demurrer on September 30, 2024.
 Plaintiff filed her opposition on
November 22, 2024.  As of the date of
this hearing no reply has been filed.
 
Summary of Allegations
Plaintiff alleges she began her employment with LACC in or
around September 2005 as a Faculty Professor for LACC’s nursing program.  (FAC ¶13.)  Plaintiff alleges the course load varied from
semester to semester based on number of students, but her typical workload
included teaching two (2) 12-hour clinicals per week and teaching approximately
four (4) hours in the classroom per week and earned approximately $93,000
annually in this role.  (FAC ¶13.)  Plaintiff alleges in or around June 2016, she
shifted to an Adjunct Faculty role, wherein she supervised nursing students on
their rotations for an inpatient psychiatric unit. (FAC ¶14.)  Plaintiff alleges in this role she earned
approximately $12,000 per semester.  (FAC
¶14.)  Plaintiff alleges that around this
time she also relocated to Ohio while continuing to work for LACC, and LACC was
aware of Plaintiff’s relocation at all times and never raised any concerns
about it.  (FAC ¶14.)    
Plaintiff alleges that as an Adjunct Faculty she was
required to supervise her students’ clinical hours.  (FAC ¶15.)  Plaintiff alleges The Board of Nursing
requires that nursing students must complete 108 clinical hours each semester.  (FAC ¶15.)  Plaintiff alleges in accordance with The Board
of Nursing guidelines, LACC allowed nursing students to complete a portion of
their clinical hours by obtaining “community experience” that did not require
direct supervision.  (FAC ¶15.)  Plaintiff alleges from 2016 onwards, she
supervised 96 clinical hours of hospital rotations while allowing her students
to obtain the final 12 hours through “community experience.”  (FAC ¶16.) 
Plaintiff alleges these 12 hours were not required to be supervised by a
professor and instead involved students observing community health
organizations such as Alcoholics Anonymous.  (FAC ¶16.) 
Plaintiff alleges her students always met the requirements put forth by The
Board of Nursing.  (FAC ¶16.)  
Plaintiff alleges that beginning in June 2016, she taught
her required 96 hours over the course of three (3) weeks, teaching 8-12 hours
each on consecutive Fridays, Saturdays, and Sundays.  (FAC ¶17.) 
Plaintiff alleges her schedule was approved by her supervisors, and
Chairs of the Nursing Department, Dr. Christiana Baskaran (“Dr. Baskaran”), and
Betsy Manchester (“Ms. Manchester”).  (FAC ¶18.) 
Plaintiff alleges that at all relevant times she was an exemplary
employee and adequately performed all her job duties, earning rave reviews from
her students.  (FAC ¶18.)  
Plaintiff alleges that her husband, Robert Potter
(“Potter”) suffered an injury in or around September of 2021, which led to him
developing a Spinal Dural Arteriovenous Fistula.  (FAC ¶19.) 
Plaintiff alleges her husband requires catheterization 24/7 and the
nerves below his waist are dead.  (FAC
¶19.)  Plaintiff alleges that from
September of 2021 to this date, Plaintiff was, and is, her husband’s primary
caregiver. (FAC ¶19.)  Plaintiff alleges she
transports her husband to his numerous doctor’s appointments, maintains his
catheter, prepares all his meals, helps him shower, gets him dressed, and
assists with many other activities of daily living.  (FAC ¶19.) 
Plaintiff alleges Potter is also considered a high fall risk, so he
requires constant support and supervision. 
(FAC ¶19.)  
Plaintiff alleges that from 2016 to 2022, her part-time
schedule was approved and did not raise any concerns.  (FAC ¶20.) 
Plaintiff alleges when her husband was injured in 2021, she was able to
continue working because her schedule allowed her to arrange alternative
caretakers for her husband during the three (3) week increments she taught in
Los Angeles.  (FAC ¶20.)  Plaintiff alleges that for two years she
continued to dutifully perform all essential functions of her job without issue.  (FAC ¶20.)  

Plaintiff alleges that on July 10, 2023, she received an
email from Defendant Morris, the Interim Director of Nursing.  (FAC ¶21.) 
Plaintiff alleges that therein, Morris announced that the teaching
schedules for the fall semester would soon be given to the Adjunct Professors,
including Plaintiff.  (FAC ¶21.)  Plaintiff alleges that on July 18, 2023,
Plaintiff informed Morris and Defendant Hamilton, Dean of the Nursing
Department, via email that she required her same three-week Friday, Saturday,
Sunday schedule “in order to return to Ohio as soon as possible so I can take
care of my disabled husband.”  (FAC ¶21.)
Plaintiff alleges that on July 28, 2023, she sent a follow
up email to Morris and Hamilton, since it had been ten (10) days without a
response.  (FAC ¶22.)  Plaintiff alleges instead of confirming that she
could continue to work her same schedule, Morris pressured her to resign,
saying, “Truly no one would begrudge” her need to be with her husband instead
of working.  (FAC ¶22.)  
          Plaintiff
alleges that on August 4, 2023, Morris emailed Plaintiff a proposed schedule
which required Plaintiff to be in Los Angeles over the span of eight (8) weeks.
 (FAC ¶23.)  Plaintiff alleges not only was this a
dramatic deviation from the schedule she had been working since 2016, but it
would prevent Plaintiff from caring for her husband.  (FAC ¶23.) 
Plaintiff alleges she attempted to find alternative care for her husband
to see if she could make this new schedule work but was unsuccessful.  (FAC ¶23.)
          Plaintiff
alleges that on August 17, 2023, Plaintiff emailed Defendants Morris, Hamilton,
and Jocelyn Simpson-Turk (“Simpson-Turk”) explaining that despite her best
efforts, she was unable to find alternative caregivers for her “disabled
husband” and could not be away from him for such a long stretch of time.  (FAC ¶24.) 
Plaintiff alleges that she again explained that the three-week schedule
accommodated her husband’s needs by allowing her to serve as the primary caretaker
and would also fulfill the clinical hours as required by the California Board
of Registered Nursing.  (FAC ¶24.)
          Plaintiff
alleges that on August 23, 2023, Morris denied Plaintiff’s request for an
accommodation and removed her from the schedule and gave Plaintiff’s position
to a much younger professor with fewer credentials.  (FAC ¶25.) 
Plaintiff alleges that in the weeks and months that followed, she made
several attempts to initiate the interactive process and regain her schedule,
to no avail.  (FAC ¶26.)  
 
Summary of Demurrer
Defendants demur to the 9th and
10th causes of action on the basis they fail to state facts sufficient to
constitute causes of action against them. 
(Demurrer, pg. 2.)
 
Failure to State a Cause of
Action
Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress (9th COA)
“A cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional
distress exists when there is ‘(1) extreme and outrageous conduct by the
defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the
probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff’s suffering
severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual and proximate causation of
the emotional distress by the defendant's outrageous conduct.’ A defendant’s
conduct is ‘outrageous’ when it is so ‘extreme as to exceed all bounds of that
usually tolerated in a civilized community.’ And the defendant’s conduct must
be ‘intended to inflict injury or engaged in with the realization that injury
will result.’”  (Hughes v. Pair
(2009) 46 Cal.4th 1035, 1050-1051.)
“Severe emotional distress [is] emotional distress of such
substantial quantity or enduring quality that no reasonable [person] in a
civilized society should be expected to endure it.”  (Fletcher v. Western Life Insurance Co.
(1970) 10 Cal.App.3d 376, 397.)
“[W]hether conduct is outrageous is ‘usually a question of
fact’ . . .. [However] many cases have dismissed intentional infliction of
emotional distress cases on demurrer, concluding that the facts alleged do not
amount to outrageous conduct as a matter of law.”  (Bock v. Hansen (2014) 225 Cal.App.4th
215, 235, internal citations omitted.)
“‘Behavior may be considered outrageous if a defendant (1)
abuses a relation or position that gives him power to damage the plaintiff’s
interests; (2) knows the plaintiff is susceptible to injuries through mental
distress; or (3) acts intentionally or unreasonably with the recognition that
the acts are likely to result in illness through mental distress. . ..’”  (Molko v. Holy Spirit Association
(1988) 46 Cal.3d 1092, 1122, internal citation omitted.)
Plaintiff alleges Defendants’ discriminatory and
retaliatory actions taken against Plaintiff constituted severe and outrageous
misconduct and caused Plaintiff severe emotional distress.  (FAC ¶106.) 
Plaintiff alleges she was a loyal and hardworking employee for
Defendants.  (FAC ¶106.)  Plaintiff alleges she took pride in her work
and teaching was a large part of her identity.  (FAC ¶106.) 
Plaintiff alleges she also earned the praise of her students, as shown
by her overwhelmingly positive reviews. (FAC ¶106.)  Plaintiff alleges her life turned upside down
when her husband was diagnosed with a Spinal Dural Arteriovenous Fistula.  (FAC ¶106.) 
Plaintiff alleges that instead of accommodating her and permitting her
to work the schedule that would allow her to care for her disabled husband (and
had historically been permitted for years without issue), Defendants retaliated
against Plaintiff and pushed her out of her job.  (FAC ¶106.) 
Plaintiff alleges Morris even pressured her to resign, saying “Truly no
one would begrudge” her need to be with her husband instead of working.  (FAC ¶106.) 
Plaintiff alleges that after her repeated requests for reasonable
accommodation, Defendants further retaliated against her by removing her for
the schedule, which effectively terminated her employment after sixteen years
of loyal dedication.  (FAC ¶106.)
Plaintiff alleges because of Defendants’ actions her emotional
wellbeing has been profoundly affected. 
(FAC ¶107.)  Plaintiff alleges
that she was once strong and confident and now finds herself grappling with an
overwhelming sense of despair.  (FAC
¶107.)  Plaintiff alleges the joy and
satisfaction that teaching once brought her has been replaced with a deep sense
of loss and betrayal.  (FAC ¶107.)  Plaintiff alleges the stress and anxiety of
losing her livelihood, coupled with the burden of caring for her ailing husband,
have left her in a constant state of fear and uncertainty.  (FAC ¶107.) 
Plaintiff alleges the emotional toll has been so severe that it has
permeated every aspect of her daily life. 
(FAC ¶107.)
Plaintiff alleges Defendants’ discriminatory and
retaliatory conduct has devastated her emotionally and she now suffers from
depression, anxiety, fatigue, loss of sleep, financial insecurity, humiliation,
loss of reputation, stress, a sense of loss and detachment, and mental pain and
anguish.  (FAC ¶108.)
Plaintiff alleges Defendants’ conduct was intentional in
nature and/or done with reckless disregard of the probability that Plaintiff
would suffer severe emotional distress, knowing that Plaintiff depended on her
employment to provide income since her husband could not work a full-time job.  (FAC ¶110.)
Plaintiff alleges Defendants’ wrongful conduct was a
substantial factor in causing Plaintiff harm including severe emotional
distress.  (FAC ¶111.)
Plaintiff sufficiently alleges a cause of action for
intentional infliction of emotional distress. 
Behavior may be considered outrageous in many circumstances, including
if a defendant abuses a relation or power that gives it power to damage the
plaintiff’s interests.  (Smith v. BP
Lubricants USA Inc. (2021) 64 Cal.App.5th 138, 147.)  An employer-employee relationship has long
been recognized as significantly contributing to the conclusion that particular
conduct was outrageous.  (Alcorn v.
Anbro Engineering, Inc. (1970) 2 Cal.3d 493, 498 n.2 [stating employees
entitled to a greater degree of protection from insult and outrage].)  Additionally, a defendant’s knowledge that
plaintiff is susceptible to mental distress may constitute an aggravating
circumstance to render conduct outrageous.  (Smith, 64 Cal.App.5th at pg. 147.)  
Here, Plaintiff sufficiently alleges Defendants’ power as
Plaintiff’s employer and supervisors and their course of conduct with
sufficient specificity that proximately caused her emotional distress.  (See FAC ¶¶106-111.)
Accordingly, Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s 9th cause
of action is overruled.
 
Negligent Hiring, Retention, and Supervision (10th COA)
“California
case law recognizes the theory that an employer can be liable to a third person
for negligently hiring, supervising, or retaining an unfit employee.”  (Doe v. Capital Cities (1996) 50
Cal.App.4th 1038, 1054.)
“Negligence
liability will be imposed on an employer if it ‘knew or should have known that
hiring the employee created a particular risk or hazard and that particular
harm materializes.’”  (Phillips v. TLC
Plumbing, Inc. (2009) 172 Cal.App.4th 1133, 1139.)
“[A]
negligent supervision claim depends, in part, on a showing that the risk of
harm was reasonably foreseeable. [Citations.] ‘Foreseeability is determined in
light of all the circumstances and does not require prior identical events or
injuries.’ [Citations.] ‘“It is not necessary to prove that the very injury
which occurred must have been foreseeable by the school authorities. . . .
Their negligence is established if a reasonably prudent person would foresee
that injuries of the same general type would be likely to happen in the absence
of [adequate] safeguards.”’”  (D.Z. v.
Los Angeles Unified School District (2019) 35 Cal.App.5th 210, 229,
internal citations omitted.)
“Liability
for negligent supervision and/or retention of an employee is one of direct
liability for negligence, not vicarious liability.”  (Delfino v. Agilent Technologies, Inc.
(2006) 145 Cal.App.4th 790, 815.)
Plaintiff
alleges Defendants owed a duty of care to Plaintiff to appoint, hire, retain,
and supervise persons who would not engage in discriminatory, harassing, or
retaliatory conduct.  (FAC ¶115.)  Plaintiff alleges Defendants owed a duty of
care to Plaintiff not to retain managers or employees who would discriminate,
harass or retaliate against employees for engaging in legally protected
activity.  (FAC ¶115.)  Plaintiff alleges Defendants also owed a duty
of care to Plaintiff to supervise its managers and employees closely to ensure
they would appropriately handle requests for work accommodations and refrain
from engaging in discriminatory conduct. 
(FAC ¶115.)  
Plaintiff
alleges Defendants breached these duties when they hired, supervised, and/or
retained Defendants Morris and Hamilton, who were unfit to perform the work for
which they were hired.  (FAC ¶116.)  Plaintiff alleges considering Plaintiff’s numerous
requests for accommodation and repeated complaints, Defendants knew or should
have known that these three named Defendants were unfit, and that this
unfitness created a particular risk of harm to others.  (FAC ¶116.) 

Plaintiff
alleges Defendants’ negligence in hiring, supervising and/or retaining
Defendants MORRIS And HAMILTON was a substantial factor in causing Plaintiff’s
harm.  (FAC ¶117.)
Plaintiff
alleges as a direct and proximate cause of Defendants’ conduct, Plaintiff has
suffered and continues to suffer substantial losses in wages, bonuses, benefits,
career path opportunities and other out of pocket expenses in an amount
according to proof at the time of trial. 
(FAC ¶118.)  Plaintiff alleges as
a direct and proximate result of Defendants’ aforementioned acts, Plaintiff has
also suffered and/or incurred general damages for depression, anxiety, fatigue,
loss of sleep, financial insecurity, humiliation, loss of reputation, stress, a
sense of loss and detachment, and mental pain and anguish, in an amount
according to proof at the time of trial. 
(FAC ¶119.)  
Plaintiff
sufficiently alleges a cause of action for negligent hiring, retention, or
supervision.  Plaintiff alleges LACCD
hired, supervised, and retained Defendants Morris and Hamilton and that Morris
and Hamilton were unfit to perform their jobs.  (FAC ¶116.)  Plaintiff alleges LACCD knew, or should have
known, of Morris and Hamilton’s misconduct and refusal to accommodate
Plaintiff. Id. LACCD knew, or should have known, that Morris and Hamilton’s
unfitness created a particular risk of causing Plaintiff harm.  (FAC ¶116.) 
Plaintiff alleges Morris and Hamilton’s unfitness for their roles did
harm Plaintiff.  (FAC ¶117.)
Accordingly,
Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s 10th cause of action is overruled.
 
Conclusion
Defendants’ demurrer to
Plaintiff’s 9th and 10th causes of action is overruled.
Moving Party to give notice.
 
Dated:  December _____, 2024
                                                                             





  