 Case Number:  22SMCV01974    Hearing Date:   June 18, 2024    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling 
Kermanshahi, et
al. v. Orbic Air, LLC, et al. Case No. 22SMCV01974
Hearing Date June
18, 2024
Defendant/Cross-Complainant
The Semler Companies/Malibu dba Saddlerock Ranch’s Motion for Leave to File
Amended Cross-Complaint 
 
Plaintiffs’
decedent was injured at a wedding at Saddlerock Ranch, owned by moving
defendant Semler Companies. Defendant Butterfly Floral created a floral arch;
defendant Orbic Air flew a helicopter into the arch, which fell, striking
plaintiff’s decedent.
 
On March 23, 2023 Semler
cross-complained for indemnity, contribution and apportionment and declaratory
relief. Against Hakakian, Khakshoy, and Zoes 1-50, Semler alleged breach of
contract. On May 17, 2024 Semler moved to for leave to file an amended
cross-complaint, adding causes of action for fraud, negligence, negligent
misrepresentation, breach of contract and breach of implied covenant of good
faith and fair dealing. Semler attached a proposed first amended
cross-complaint (FACC) to the motion. Butterfly and Orbic oppose.
 
The case was filed
October 25, 2022; no trial date has been set. 
 
Courts liberally
exercise discretion to allow amendments to pleadings at any time. Desny v.
Wilder (1956) 46 Cal.2d 715, 751. Leave to amend may be denied when the
party seeking amendment delayed without justification. Melican v. Regents of
Univ. of Calif. (2007) 151 CA4th 168, 176. A motion for leave to amend a
pleading must state when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were
discovered and the reasons why the request for the amendment was not made
earlier. Cal. Rules of Court 3.1324(b). 
 
A motion to amend
must: (1) include a copy of the proposed amendment, (2) state what allegations
in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and where, by
page, paragraph, and line number, the deleted allegations are located, and (3)
state what allegations are proposed to be added to the previous pleading, if
any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the additional allegations
are located. Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324(a).
 
In moving to amend
a pleading, the moving party “must” file a declaration that specifies: (1) the
effect of the amendment, (2) why the amendment is necessary and proper, (3)
when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered, and (4)
the reasons why the request for amendment was not made earlier. Cal. Rules of
Court 3.1324(b).
 
Semler argues both
Butterfly Floral and Orbic Air named Semler as an additional insured, but both
carriers denied coverage. Glaser Decl. ¶10. Semler asserts that Hakakian,
Khakshoy, Kotelyan and her company, Butterfly Floral, and Orbic Air
fraudulently induced Semler through Certificates of Insurance to allow them to
put temporary insecure structures in Semler’s venue and allow the fly over,
even though the helicopter was not on Orbic Air’s Certificate of Insurance and
the pilot was not employed by Orbic Air. Glaser Decl. ¶¶ 12-13. 
 
Based on this new
information, Semler asserts additional claims as stated in the proposed amended
cross-complaint. 
Cross-defendants
Butterfly and Orbic each oppose, arguing lack of compliance with Rule 3.1324
because Semler does not indicate what is sought to be added via the FACC. The
court disagrees. Semler’s motion states the allegations proposed to be added.
Second, cross-defendants argue the proposed FACC is uncertain or fails to state
sufficient facts to support many of its new causes of action. This argument
fails because these types of issues are addressed at the demurrer stage. 
 
The oppositions
argues the FACC fails to state a cause of action, including failure to plead
the fraud claims with sufficient factual specificity. Orbic also argues the
FACC runs afoul of the statute of limitations. The statute relates back to the
original date of the incident, so this argument is unavailing and not
appropriate for consideration on a motion for leave to amend. Likewise, arguments
regarding lack of factual specificity are for the court to consider on a
challenge to the pleadings, not on the motion for leave to amend. 
 
However, the moving
papers only partially comply with Rule 3.1324. There is no representation as to
when the facts giving rise to the amendment were discovered or why the request
to amend was not made earlier. Cal. Rules of Court 3.1324(b)(3)-(4). Moving party
must provide a supplemental declaration in this regard.