 Case Number:  23STCV16376    Hearing Date:   May 29, 2024    Dept:  68 Dept.
68
Date:
5-29-24
Case
#23STCV16376
Trial
Date: Not Set
 
FURTHER DEPOSITION
 
MOVING
PARTY: Plaintiff, Claudia Salazar
RESPONDING
PARTY: Oceanside Laundry LLC, et al.
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Motion
to Compel Further Deposition Testimony
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
On August 20, 2021, plaintiff Claudia Salazar began
employment with Defendants Oceanside Laundry LLC dba Emerald Los Angeles, LLC,
a Delaware Limited Liability Company, and Emerald Textiles Services, Northern
California, LLC, as a Laundry Worker in Defendants city of Commerce facility.
Plaintiff informed Defendants of her pregnancy. Plaintiff maintains Defendants
offered no notice of any rights, such as a request for accommodation to avoid
certain strenuous duties and pregnancy leave time. Notwithstanding, Plaintiff
subsequently requested an accommodation upon the advice of her medical
provider, limiting any lifting to no more than 20 pounds. No accommodation was
made, and Plaintiff alleges the work strain caused a miscarriage at six months.
Plaintiff was subsequently terminated in December 2022. 
 
On
July 13, 2023, Plaintiff filed a complaint for 1. Discrimination (Violation of
Gov. Code § 12940(a)) 2. Retaliation in Violation of The FEHA and Pregnancy
Disability Leave Law (Gov. Code §§ 12940, et seq.) 3. Interference in Violation
of the Pregnancy Disability Leave Law (Violation of Gov. Code § 12945) 4.
Violation of California Sick Leave Laws (Labor Code §§ 233, 246, 247.5, and 248
et seq.) 5. Failure to Engage in a Timely, Good Faith, Interactive Process
(Violation of Gov. Code § 12940(n)) 6. Failure to Provide Reasonable
Accommodation (Violation of Gov. Code § 12940(m)) 7. Failure to Prevent
Discrimination (Violation of Gov. Code § 12940(k)) 8. Wrongful Discharge in
Violation of Public Policy 9. Declaratory Relief, and 10. Injunctive Relief.
 
RULING: Denied
Plaintiff
Claudia Salazar moves to compel further deposition questions and answers for
individual Steven Beach, and to compel the deposition of Laura Hardy. Defendant
maintains sufficient discovery took place, and further depositions no longer
required. Plaintiff in reply reiterates the goal of identifying the parties
“entitled to seek arbitration.” 
 
Steven Beach
If
a deponent fails to answer any question … the party seeking discovery may move
the court for an order compelling that answer…” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.480,
subd. (a).) A party may also move for production of documents. (Ibid.) A motion to compel answers to a
deposition must be filed within 60 days of the completion of the “deposition
record,” and accompanied by a meet and confer letter. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.480, subds. (a-b).) The deposition session occurred on January 30, 2024.
The limited transcript lacks contains a stenographer certification dated
February 2, 2024. [Declaration of Ashtyne Cofer, ¶¶ 21, 28, Ex. D.] Sixty days
from the deposition date is April 2. 2024. The motion was filed on April 3,
2024. The motion was timely filed given the court does not count the date of
the stenographer certification for purposes of calculating service dates. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 12.)
 
Deposition
testimony time is limited to seven hours, unless the court allows additional
time. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.290.) It’s not clear how long the first session
lasted. The deponent otherwise raises no objection to the time limit.
 
The
origin of the dispute arises from the parties’ December 8, 2023, stipulation,
whereby it remains agreed that Plaintiff would conduct limited discovery into
facts for opposing the motion to compel arbitration without any waiver of the
right to seek arbitration by defendant employer(s). The stipulation itself
lacks defined terms of the scope of discovery necessary to oppose the
deposition. The deposition was either unilaterally halted by Plaintiff or
stipulation of the parties. [Cofer Decl., Ex. D.]
 
Plaintiff
maintains Defendants are improperly withholding information necessary for an
opposition to the motion to compel arbitration. Defendants Emerald Los Angeles,
LLC, Emerald Textiles Services, Northern California, LLC, and Wash Encore
Holdings, LLC, in opposition maintain full compliance in providing sufficient
information regarding agreement itself and the onboarding process. Defendants
both presented a witness for deposition, but also provided 149 pages of
documents. [Declarations of Raina Sharma and Alison Lynch.] Defendants
challenge any necessity for further deposition of Beach or the deposition of
Hardy. Defendants also challenge the sufficiency of the meet and confer effort.

 
On
the deposition of Beach, the limited deposition
transcript includes the presumed source of the dispute: an instruction not to
answer based on an objection to questions represented as beyond the scope of
the stipulation for limited discovery into the onboarding process. The
questions specifically inquired into operations for Emerald Northern California,
and inquiry into the greater onboarding procedure(s). Beach testified to
separate Southern California operations, e.g. the city of Commerce facility, and
apparently denied relationship to Northern California operations. This led to
the second basis of objection and eventual suspension of the deposition— the
specific question of a “uniform onboarding policy for Emerald facilities.”
Plaintiff announced the suspension of the deposition on grounds of an inability
to obtain “information regarding the corporate structure, the onboarding.”
Defendant maintained sufficient information was provided. [Cofer Decl., Ex. D.]
 
The relationship between Northern California versus Southern
California human resources operations remains at the core of the dispute.
Plaintiff references the potential relationship between the entities, Emerald
Textile Services Northern California, Oceanside Laundry LLC, and Emerald Los
Angeles LLC. According to Plaintiff, the onboarding documents identify
Oceanside Laundry as the employer, though said entity no longer exists. [Cofer
Decl., Ex. F.] Plaintiff states that “records” show Oceanside changed its name
to Emerald Textile Services Northern California. Defendants on the other hand
seek a dismissal of Emerald Textile Services Northern California based at least
in part on the representation that Oceanside interests were in fact transferred
to defendant Emerald Los Angeles, LLC. [Cofer Decl., ¶¶ 13-19.]
 
Plaintiff remains skeptical of the purported shared business
interests between Oceanside and Emerald Los Angeles, LLC due to the lack of any
signature by an Emerald entity to the arbitration agreement and the unspecified
“records.” Plaintiff therefore seeks greater information regarding the
interrelationship of the parties, especially between Oceanside and Emerald
Textile Services Northern California notwithstanding the representations of
Defendants. [Ibid.] Steven Beach in opposition specifically denies any
employment relationship with Emerald Textile Services Northern California, LLC
or Oceanside Laundry, LLC, and maintains Plaintiff was only and exclusively
employed by Emerald Los Angeles, LLC. [Declaration of Steven Beach.]
 
The court generally adheres to a policy of robust discovery in
order to allow the best presentation of all claims and defenses, but
acknowledges the limited scope of the inquiry for purposes of both opposing the
motion to compel as well as avoiding potential arguments of waiver. The court
agrees with Defendants that the discovery dispute apparently frames the subject
challenge to the arbitration under two potential arguments—proper party to the
agreement and unconscionability. An argument can be made that the subject discovery
dispute somewhat conflates the determination of the proper defendant(s) to the
entire action with the limited inquiry into the circumstances regarding the
proper parties to the arbitration agreement. Consideration of all parties
relationship could require address of concerns into discovery and legal
consideration beyond the intended scope of the stipulation and the instant
motion. The court seeks to avoid issuing an advisory opinion on the impending
motion to compel.
 
Plaintiff concedes to executing an arbitration agreement with
Oceanside, an entity no longer in existence. Plaintiff potentially seeks to
challenge the lack of any agreement with moving party(ies), the circumstances
and practices of the boarding process relative to Plaintiff’s understanding of
the existence of the arbitration agreement itself, or both. The scope of
discovery into subject situation however apparently remained at the discretion
of the parties within the terms of the stipulation. The subject motion
apparently requests the court interpret the parties’ intended boundaries, and
consider a definitive boundary. 
 
Defendants raise a valid challenge on grounds that Plaintiff has
conducted all necessary discovery into the two possible bases of a defense to
arbitration on formation and/or unconscionability. The burden falls on the
party seeking to compel arbitration to establish all parties to the agreement
for arbitration. 
 
The parties agreed to allow Plaintiff to conduct discovery into
the relationship of the parties, but it remains unclear how further discovery
will yield new information required to challenge the existence of the admitted employment
contract and arbitration agreement with Oceanside. In other words, the entity
acquiring the rights to the Oceanside contractual agreement and seeking
arbitration must establish its basis for arbitration, or risk denial of the
motion. Plaintiff already seemingly challenges the lack of any relationship
given the alleged assignment of rights from Oceanside to Emerald Textile
Services Northern California, and statement from Beach attesting to separate
operations in Commerce from the Emerald Textile Services Northern California
business. 
 
The court seeks to balance the unique circumstances presented by
the instant motion in order to prevent full pre-arbitration discovery and
potential waiver versus limited, sufficient discovery to oppose the motion on
grounds of proper parties and unconscionability. Given the understanding of the
dispute over the ownership of Oceanside rights and liabilities, the court finds
circumstances provide no basis for compelling further questioning on this
particular item. The court finds Plaintiff completed sufficient discovery in
both the deposition and apparent document review. 
 
The second area of inquiry and presumably the basis for the
suspension of the deposition also presents a valid dispute. Corporate policy on
onboarding may present a valid basis of inquiry for purposes of challenging an
arbitration motion on the basis of formation and unconscionability. 
 
The
motion itself lacks limited support for any purported deficiency. Defendants’
declarations specifically attest that the 149 pages of discovery included
copies of English and Spanish versions of the agreement, the employee handbook,
and the onboarding packet used at the time of hire. 
 
The
subject documents appear to address the procedures and circumstances of the
onboarding process at the time of hiring. The court finds no basis justifying
further inquiry. 
 
Laura Hardy
Other than the notice of motion seeking the deposition of Laura
Hardy, the points and authorities and declaration lack an actual basis of
support to compel the deposition of Laura Hardy, as either a representative of
the employer or third party witness. A party may file a motion to compel
deposition upon a non-appearance or refusal to proceed by the noticed party.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1, 2025.450, subd. (a).) A party must present a
qualified person for each deposition. (Maldonado v. Superior Court (2002) 94 Cal.App.4th 1390, 1398.) The motion
lacks any proof of service of a notice of deposition. The court declines to
otherwise declines to determine the necessity of Laura Hardy as a witness, even
if proof of service is presented given the lack of any substantive basis for
further discovery. 
 
The
court therefore denies the entire motion.
 
Sanctions
are mandatory unless the court finds justified action. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.480, subd. (j).) The court accepts the difficulty in precisely crafting the
stipulation and the scope of the dispute in trying to resolve the issue, and
the request for clarification. The court finds good faith efforts from all
participants at all times. The court therefore declines to impose sanctions
given the underlying dispute. 
 
On
the motion to compel arbitration currently set for June 5, 2024, the scheduling
of the subject motion precluded timely submission of any opposition reflecting
the holding in the subject motion. On May 22, 2024, Plaintiff submitted a face
page of the opposition on the opposition due date (it’s not clear whether the
face page constituted the entire opposition or if there was a submission error).
On May 23, 2024, Plaintiff submitted a revised opposition. Both documents were
late filed. At the time of the tentative ruling publication cutoff, the court
shows no reply on file to the late filed opposition to the motion to compel
arbitration.
 
The
court elects to allow Plaintiff an opportunity to fully brief the motion taking
into account the subject order. Due to both court dark days and impacted
calendars, the court continues the hearing on the motion to compel arbitration
to July 24, 2024. Plaintiff may rely on the May 23, 2024 opposition or submit a
revised opposition. Any revised opposition and reply shall be due pursuant to
statutory deadlines. 
 
Plaintiff
to provide notice.
 