  Case Number:  21STCV18294    Hearing Date:   December 18, 2023    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
DECEMBER 18, 2023

MOTION
FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT 

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 21STCV18294

 
MP:    BHC Alhambra Hospital (Defendant)
RP:     Olga
Zharovskaya (Plaintiff)
 
NOTICE:
 
The Court is not requesting oral argument on this matter. 
Pursuant to California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) notice of intent to
appear is required.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative
Ruling, no argument will be permitted unless a “party notifies all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no notice of intent to appear is received.”  

 
Notice may be given either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or
by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
On May
14, 2023, Olga Zharovskaya (“Plaintiff”) filed suit against BHC Alhambra
Hospital (“Defendant”). Plaintiff alleges Defendant was negligent in her care
and in the supervision of a third-party patient (“TPP”) who attacked Plaintiff
while she was a patient at Defendant’s hospital. The Complaint contains causes
of action for (1) Professional Negligence, (2) Dependent Adult Abuse, and (3)
Willful Misconduct. 
 
Defendant now moves for summary judgment. Defendant argues no triable
issue of fact exists as to whether the actions of its staff in caring for
Plaintiff fell below the standard of care. In the alternative, Plaintiff moves
for summary adjudication of Plaintiff’s second and third causes of action.
Plaintiff opposes and Defendant replies. 
 
The matter was originally on the Court’s calendar for December 15, 2023,
which the Court on its own motion continued to December 18, 2023 at 9:00 a.m.
 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS: 
 
Plaintiff’s evidentiary objections to the declaration of Denise K. Rounds
are OVERRULED. Plaintiff objects to the entirety of the declaration on grounds
that Rounds, a registered nurse, is not a qualified expert for purposes of
opining on the standard of care. As Plaintiff notes, Evidence Code §
720(a) states, “a person is qualified to testify as an expert if her has
special knowledge, skill, expertise, training, or education sufficient to
qualify them as an expert on the subject to which the testimony relates.” Having
reviewed her curriculum vitae and qualifications as a Psychiatric Nurse expert,
the Court finds Rounds qualified to testify as to the standard of care for
facilities providing psychiatric nursing services. Further, Plaintiff does not
substantively brief her individual evidentiary objections to the declaration
and appears to have repeated the same objections to each regardless of the
statement’s content. 
 
Defendant’s evidentiary
objections to the declarations of David Rudnick and Gary Mittelberg are
OVERRULED except as noted below. Defendant does not substantively brief their
individual evidentiary objections to the declarations and appears to have
repeated the same objections to each regardless of the statement’s content.  For example, Defendant objects as the
declaration lacks foundation and calls for speculation; however, pages 2 and 3
of the declaration set forth an extensive list of the foundation upon which Dr.
Rudnick relied.  RUDNICK SUSTAINED
OBJECTIONS: Numbers 6 (Improper Expert Opinion), and 9 (Speculation).  MITTELBERG SUSTAINED OBJECTIONS: Number 27
(Speculation)
 
JUDICIAL NOTICE: 
 
Plaintiff requests the Court take judicial notice of a jury verdict
rendered in the case Gerard v. BHC Alhambra Hospital, Inc. LASC
Case No. SC110387. Plaintiff does not substantively brief why notice should be
taken and the Court declines the request. 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.               
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
The
function of a motion for summary judgment or adjudication is to allow a
determination as to whether an opposing party cannot show evidentiary support
for a pleading or claim and to enable an order of summary dismissal without the
need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.¿(2001) 25 Cal.4th
826, 843.) C.C.P.¿§ 437c(c) “requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment
if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from
the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that
there is no triable issue as to¿any material fact and that the moving party is
entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”¿ (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp.
(1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)¿ “The function of the pleadings in a motion
for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues; the function of the
affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether there is any triable issue of
fact within the issues delimited by the pleadings.”¿ (Juge¿v. County of
Sacramento¿(1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67, citing¿FPI Development, Inc. v.
Nakashima¿(1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 367, 381-382.)¿ 
¿ 
As to
each claim as framed by the complaint, the defendant moving for summary
judgment must satisfy the initial burden of proof by presenting facts to negate
an essential element, or to establish a defense. (C.C.P.¿§437c(p)(2);¿Scalf v.
D. B. Log Homes, Inc.¿(2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.) Courts “liberally
construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and
resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore v.
Arnold Worldwide, Inc.¿(2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)¿ 
¿ 
Once the
defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that
a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action
or a defense thereto. To establish a triable issue of material fact, the party
opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster
v.¿Paetkau¿(1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)¿ 
 
II.             
MERITS 
 
Background
 
Plaintiff was admitted to Defendant’s facility
on May 17, 2020. (Mot. Exh. 1, p.1.) Upon admission Plaintiff was examined by
Dr. Leonard Jones (“Jones”). (Id.) Jones noted that Plaintiff was “very
psychotic, hyperreligious and tangential” and that Plaintiff was not eating or
sleeping. (Id.) Jones noted that Plaintiff was admitted to Defendant’s
facility on a 5150-hold as “gravely disabled” and estimated her stay would be
three to five days. (Id. at p.2.) Jones issued Physician Admissions
Orders for Plaintiff prescribing Ativan, Restoril, and later Zyprexa. (Id.
at p. 91-92.)
 
TPP was admitted to Defendant’s facility on May
9, 2023 on a 5150-hold secondary to being a danger to others. (Mot. Exh. 2, p.
8-10.) TPP was placed on hold after he was evaluated for hearing voices,
threatening to kill his brother, and threatening to burn down his house. (Id.)
TPP was evaluated by Dr. Wakelin McNeel (“McNeel”) on May 10, 2023, who noted
TPP was not taking his usually prescribed medication. (Id.) McNeel
estimated TPP’s stay at Defendant’s facility to be between three and seven
days. (Id.) 
 
On May 10, 2023, TPP was observed by a
housekeeper to have pulled the blanket off his roommate and punched the
roommate in the face. (Opp. Exh. C, p. 17.) TPP was then determined to be a
high risk of injury to others and transferred to a secluded unit known as the
“Open Time Out” (“OTO”) room. (Id.) McNeel ordered an emergency
treatment plan which directed that TPP be encouraged seek out staff if he was
feeling agitated. (Id. at p. 47.) TPP was transferred out of the OTO on
May 12, 2023. (Id.) TPP was ordered to be observed every 15 minutes by
McNeel. (Mot. Exh. 2, p.74.) TPP remained on 15-minute observation the entirety
of his stay at Defendant’s facility. (Id. p. 273-297.) 
 
At around 3:00 a.m. on May 20, 2023, TPP left
his room and entered Plaintiff’s room uninhibited. (Oppo. Exh. C, p. 177.)
Immediately prior to the incident, TPP was observed to be pacing and unable to
sleep. Plaintiff was asleep at the time when TPP began to strike Plaintiff in
the face. (Mot. Exh. 1, p. 69.) Defendant’s staff responded to the incident and
separated TPP from Plaintiff. (Id.) Plaintiff sustained serious injury
and was ordered to the emergency room. (Id.) TPP was escorted back to
his room by staff where he attempted to hit his roommate and was required to be
physically restrained before medication was administered. (Oppo. Exh. C, p.
177.) 
 
Standard of Care
 
Defendant first argues that summary judgment
must be granted because there is no triable issue of material fact as to
whether its staff upheld a standard of care. 
 
“The elements of a cause of action for medical
malpractice are: (1) a duty to use such skill, prudence, and diligence as other
members of the profession commonly possess and exercise; (2) a breach of the
duty; (3) a proximate causal connection between the negligent conduct and the
injury; and (4) resulting loss or damage.” (Chakalis v. Elevator Solutions,
Inc. (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 1557, 1571.)
 
The standard of care against which the acts of
a physician are to be measured is a matter peculiarly within the knowledge of
experts; it presents the basic issue in a malpractice action and can only be
proved by their testimony. (Hanson v. Grode (1999) 76 Cal.App.4th
601.) When a defendant moves for summary judgment and supports
his motion with expert declarations that his conduct fell within the community
standard of care, he is entitled to summary judgment unless the
plaintiff comes forward with conflicting expert evidence. (Munro v.
Regents of University of California (1989) 215 Cal.App.3d 977, 984–985
[citations omitted].) 
 
To this end, Defendant presents the declaration
of registered nurse Denise K. Rounds (“Rounds”). Rounds has been a registered
nurse in the state of California since 1976 and has previously served as the
Psychiatric Nurse Expert for the California Board of Registered Nursing.
(Rounds Decl. ¶ 1.) Rounds states that the Lanterman-Petris-Short Act
(“LPS Act”) bars Defendant’s staff from rendering treatment to mental health
patients which is not expressly ordered by a physician. (Rounds Decl. ¶ 11(b).)
Rounds cites to Welf. and Inst. Code § 5325.1 which provides in relevant part: 
 
“Treatment
should be provided in ways that are the least restrictive of the personal
liberty of the individual. . . (c) A right to be free from harm, including
unnecessary or excessive physical restraint, isolation, medication, abuse, or
neglect . . .”
 
Rounds states that the only exception to the
above provision is circumstances in which staff are confronted with a patient
engaging in violent or self-destructive behavior. (Round Decl. ¶ 11(b).)
Rounds states that because of this restriction, the applicable standard of care
for a psychiatric nursing staff is limited to whether the staff appropriately
implemented the attending physician’s orders. (Rounds Decl. ¶ 11(c).) 
 
Rounds states that once TPP was released from
OTO on May 12, Defendant’s staff had no basis to place TPP under further
restraint or seclusion for lack of physician order. (Rounds Decl.
¶ 11(c).) Rounds further states that McNeel noted a positive reception to
medications in TPP and noted no further violent behavior. (Id.) Rounds
states that Defendant’s staff adhered to the standard of care by completing the
physician ordered 15-minute checks throughout TPP’s stay at the facility.
(Rounds Decl. ¶ 11(d).) Rounds further attests that TPP’s behavior
immediately prior to the incident, where TPP was pacing and appeared agitated,
was not cause for Defendant’s staff to restrain or seclude TPP. (Rounds Decl. ¶
11(e).) Rounds further states that Defendant’s staff met the standard of care
immediately after the incident by contacting the on-call physician. (Rounds
Decl. ¶ 11(f).) 
 
Rounds states that there is a pervasive risk of
these sorts of incidents by virtue of Defendant’s care for a high volume of
5150-hold patients. (Rounds Decl. ¶ 11(h).) Rounds states that there was
no evidence of understaffing and that Defendant’s staff on duty were all within
sight range of the hallway. (Rounds Decl. ¶ 11(k).) Rounds states that
there is also no evidence to suggest that Defendant’s staff improperly
administered Zyprexa to Plaintiff, which would have resulted in her increased sleep
and decreased reaction time. (Rounds Decl. ¶ 11(m).) Rounds lastly states that
there is no evidence in her review that Defendant’s staff was unfit to carry
out their jobs and that the staff acted only on physicians’ orders. (Rounds
Decl. ¶ 11(n).) 
 
Plaintiff argues that she has placed at issue
the standard of care by virtue of presenting conflicting expert evidence.
Plaintiff argues that Defendant fell below the standard of care in failing to
evaluate and implement appropriate precautionary measures which would have
prevented this incident. 
 
Defendant presents the declaration of Dr. David
Rudnick, who is Board Certified in Psychiatry. (Rudnick Decl. ¶ 2.)  Rudnick states that based upon his review of
the records, Defendant’s behavior fell below the standard of care. Rudnick
states that Defendant was aware that TPP has a history of psychosis and was
expressing homicidal ideation before arriving at the facility. (Rudnick Decl.
¶ 9.) Rudnick states that despite “assault precautions” being designated
for TPP, Defendant placed him on 15-minute checks, which constitutes the lowest
level of surveillance. (Rudnick Decl. ¶ 10.) Rudnick states that Nicholas
Duran (“Duran”), the nurse in charge of conducting the surveillance checks,
stated the requirements for patients on “assault precautions” to be minimal. (Id.)
Duran testified he was only required to give “assault precaution” patients
medication and offer that they sit in the day room if they appeared unable to
sleep. (Id.) 
 
Rudnick further states that Defendant’s staff were
aware for three hours prior to the attack that TPP was pacing and appeared
agitated. (Id.) Rudnick states that despite this behavior, TPP was
allowed to enter Plaintiff’s room unobserved by any of Defendant’s staff. (Id.)
Rudnick also states that the standard of care was violated when Duran abandoned
his hall monitor post to deliver documents to the charge nurse while the other
staff were away on their meal break. (Id.) Rudnick states the violation
continued when Defendant’s staff immediately placed TPP back into a room with
another patient, despite his just having inflicted violence on Plaintiff. (Id.)
Rudnick concludes that Defendant failed to provide elementary safety measures
to protect patients from these sorts of incidents. Rudnick states that not
ordering additional interventions to be implemented for patients with “assault
precautions” is grossly insufficient. (Rudnick Decl. ¶12.) 
 
Defendant also submits the declaration of
Registered Psychiatric Nurse, Gary Mittelberg (“Mittelberg”). Mittelberg also
states that Defendant violated the standard of care by placing TPP on the
lowest possible surveillance despite the knowledge of his violent tendencies.
(Mittelberg Decl. ¶ 8.) Mittelberg states Defendant’s “assault precautions”
were inadequate to keep patients safe. (Mittelberg Decl. ¶ 9.) Mittelberg
also states that Duran’s leaving his post without any available substitute
indicates Defendant was understaffed to handle its patient population.
(Mittelberg Decl. ¶ 11.) Mittelberg concludes that Defendant failed to
protect its patients from TPP by continuously housing him with other patients
and failing to supervise him more closely. (Mittelberg Decl. ¶ 12.) 
 
The Court finds Plaintiff has provided
sufficient expert testimony in contravention of Defendant’s own expert. “The
trial court's gatekeeping role does not involve choosing between competing
expert opinions…  The trial court's preliminary determination whether the
expert opinion is founded on sound logic is not a decision on its
persuasiveness. The court must not weigh an opinion's probative
value or substitute its own opinion for the expert's opinion.” (Garrett v.
Howmedica Osteonics Corp. (2013) 214 Cal.App.4th 173, 186.) A
trial court may not “weigh competing expert opinions, evaluate their
credibility, and pick a winner...” (Menges v. Department of Transportation
(2020) 59 Cal.App.5th 13, 37.) 
 
Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s declarations
do not serve to dispute Defendant’s adherence to the standard of care.
Defendant states neither the Rudnick nor the Mittelberg declarations speak to
the prohibition of increased levels of observation created by the LPS Act. The
Court finds this argument unpersuasive. The language cited to by Defendant in
the LPS act states that treatment “should” be provided in ways that are least
restrictive of the personal liberty of the individual. Defendant does not endeavor
to explain what these methods are or how this statutory directive is usually
realized in the field of psychiatric nursing. The very nature of providing care
for someone on a 5150-hold is restrictive of personal liberty. Welf. and Inst.
Code § 5325.1 (c) states that it is the intent of the legislature that persons
with mental illness have the right to be free from “unnecessary or excessive
physical restraint”. This implies that some level of restraint is occasionally
required in providing care to the mentally ill. Defendant cannot use this code
section to defeat Plaintiff’s argument that the amount of supervision was
insufficient, when the code section implicitly acknowledges some level of
restraint is necessary. It cannot be that any action not directly ordered by an
attending psychiatrist is a restriction on physical liberty. 
 
Further, Plaintiff’s experts state Defendant’s
protocol to implement the “assault precautions,” which were explicitly ordered
by McNeel, were below the standard of care. Both Rudnick and Mittelberg attest
that Defendant’s staff failed to properly implement the physicians orders. It
is the contention of Plaintiff’s experts that Defendant’s procedures for
handling “assault precaution” patients were woefully inadequate, especially in
light of TPP’s prior violent outbursts. Further, both experts state that Duran
was stationed as a hallway monitor and abandoned his post without replacement.
This suggests either negligence on Duran’s part or that Defendant did not have
enough staff on hand to properly implement the physician’s orders. 
 
Both parties have presented conflicting expert
testimony as to the standard of care in this case. As such, the Court finds
Plaintiff has met her burden to show a triable issue of fact. Accordingly, the
motion for summary judgment is DENIED. As summary judgment has been denied on
these grounds, the Court need not determine whether a triable issue of fact
exists as to causation. 
 
Dependent Adult Claim 
 
In alternative to its moving for summary
judgment of the entire action, Defendant moves for summary adjudication of
Plaintiff’s second cause of action for Dependent Adult Abuse. 
 
Case law is clear that neglect, within the
meaning of Welf. and Inst. Code § 15610.57, covers an area of misconduct
distinct from professional negligence.¿ (Covenant Care, Inc. v. Superior
Court¿(2004) 32 Cal.4th 771, 783.)¿ “As used in the Act, neglect refers not
to the substandard performance of medical services but, rather, to the failure
of those responsible for attending to the basic needs and comforts of elderly
or dependent adults, regardless of their professional standing, to carry out
their custodial obligations.”¿ (Id. [citations and quotations
omitted].)¿¿¿ 
 
In order to distinguish Dependent Adult Abuse
from Professional¿Negligence, there must be a showing of recklessness, fraud,
malice, or oppression. (See¿Covenant Care, Inc., supra, 32 Cal.4th¿at
783.) “Oppression, fraud, and malice involve intentional, willful, or conscious
wrongdoing of a despicable or injurious nature.” (Carter v. Prime Healthcare
Paradise Valley¿LLC (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th¿396, 405 [internal quotation
marks omitted].) Recklessness requires deliberate disregard of a high degree of
probability an injury will occur. (Id.) 
 
Defendant first argues that Plaintiff’s claim
fails as a matter of law because Welf. And Inst. Code § 15610.57 applies only
to actions which derive the dependent adult of their basic needs. The Court finds
this argument unpersuasive. Welf. And Inst. Code § 15610.57 (b)(3) defines
“neglect” as including failure to protect from health and safety hazards. Here,
Plaintiff is alleging Defendant failed to implement safety protocols which
would have prevented her assault by TPP. 
 
Defendant further argues that the supervision
of TPP is irrelevant to whether Plaintiff was neglected within the meaning of
the statute. The Court again is unpersuaded. Defendant’s duty to adequately
safeguard its patient population from violent patients is relevant to its care
of all patients, not just the patients being supervised. The fact that
Defendant did nothing directly to Plaintiff does not disqualify her Dependent
Adult Abuse claim.  
 
Defendant lastly argues that no triable issue
of fact exists as to whether Defendant acted with recklessness, fraud, malice,
or oppression. Defendant states that the failure of its staff to notice TPP
entering Plaintiff’s room is at most the result of simple negligence. 
 
In Fenimore¿v. Regents of University of
California¿(2016) 245 Cal.App.4th 1339, the California Appellate Court
determined that allegations that a hospital engaged in a pattern and practice
of understaffing and undertraining its staff to cut costs, which foreseeably
resulted in the abuse and neglect of its residents, were sufficient to state a
cause of action under the Elder/Dependent Abuse Act. The Fenimore court
found that: 
 
“Worsham's
determination that understaffing constitutes no more than negligence may be
true,¿absent¿further allegations showing recklessness. But the Fenimores
have alleged more than a simple understaffing here. The FAC identified the
staffing regulation the Hospital allegedly violated and suggested a knowing
pattern of violating it constituted recklessness. A jury may see knowingly
flouting staffing regulations as part of a pattern and practice to cut costs,
thereby endangering the facility's elderly and dependent patients, as
qualitatively different than simple negligence” 
 
(Fenimore supra, 245 Cal.App.4th. at
1350.) 
 
The Fenimore court concluded
“Recklessness may be inferred when the neglect recurs in a significant
pattern.” (Id.) However, the opinion in Fenimore does not
describe what sort of pattern or practice would suffice to infer recklessness. 
 
Although it is procedurally distinguishable
from this case, in that it concerned pleading requirements and not the
existence triable material fact, the Court finds the logic in Fenimore
instructive. Fenimore found allegations of a corporate directive, i.e.,
understaffing, were sufficient to support a dependent adult abuse claim. Here,
Plaintiff has presented two declarations that state the behavior of Defendant’s
staff was consistent with Defendant’s insufficient protocol for handling
violent patients. A jury could reasonably conclude from the evidence Plaintiff
has presented that Defendant maintained a corporate directive which was
inadequate to provide for the safety of its patients. Both of Plaintiff’s
declaration testify to a number of ways in Defendant’s protocol could be found
inadequate, including: 
 
·      
The fact that Duran and other staff were only
required to offer medication to agitated patients on “assault protocol”. 
·      
The fact that Duran left his hall monitor post
with no substitute. 
·      
The fact that staff routinely placed TPP in
close proximity to other patients despite knowledge that he was violent,
including directly after he attacked Plaintiff.
 
Based on the evidence presented by both sides,
the Court finds a triable issue of fact exists as to whether the failure to
safeguard Plaintiff was the result of Defendant’s negligence. While Plaintiff
may ultimately be unable to prove by clear and convincing evidence that
Dependent Adult Abuse occurred here, there is ample evidence to defeat a motion
for summary adjudication. (See Conservatorship of O.B. (2020) 9
Cal.5th 989, 1003.) Accordingly, the motion for summary adjudication of
Plaintiff’s cause of action for Dependent Adult Abuse is DENIED. 
 
Willful Misconduct 
 
Defendant argues that Willful Misconduct is not
a separate cause of action. Indeed, willful misconduct is not a separate tort,
but simply an aggravated form of negligence, differing in quality rather
than degree from ordinary lack of care. (Berkley v. Dowds (2007)
152 Cal.App.4th 518, 526.) Regardless, the Court notes this argument does not
speak to the summary judgment standard. If Defendant wished to have this cause
of action removed as duplicative, the more appropriate avenue would have been a
demurrer or motion to strike. Even then Plaintiff could still assert her theory
of willful misconduct under her professional negligence cause of action. 
 
“Three essential elements must be present to
raise a negligent act to the level of wilful [sic] misconduct: (1) actual or
constructive knowledge of the peril to be apprehended, (2) actual or
constructive knowledge that injury is a probable, as opposed to a possible,
result of the danger, and (3) conscious failure to act to avoid the peril.” (Bains
v. Western Pacific R. Co. (1976) 56 Cal.App.3d 902, 906 [internal
quotations marks omitted].) 
 
The Court finds there is most certainly a
triable issue of fact as to whether Defendant knew of the peril presented by
TPP. As such, there is no basis for summary adjudication of this cause of
action.  Accordingly, summary
adjudication of Plaintiff’s cause of action for Willful Misconduct is DENIED. 
 
RULING:
 
In the event the parties submit on this
tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed order or the court in its
discretion elects to sign a formal order, the following form will be either
electronically signed or signed in hard copy and entered into the court’s
records.
 
ORDER
 
BHC Alhambra Hospital’s Motion for Summary
Judgment came on regularly for hearing on December 18, 2023, with
appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the
court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there rule as follows:
 
DEFENDANT’S
MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT IS DENIED. 
 
DEFENDANT’S
MOTIONS FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION ARE DENIED. 
 
UNLESS ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, DEFENDANT TO
GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATE:  December
15, 2023                               
_______________________________
                                                                   
    F.M. TAVELMAN, Judge
                                                                        Superior
Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 