 Case Number:  23SMCV04430    Hearing Date:   March 12, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


March 12, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV04430




MOTIONS


Demurrer and Motion to Strike Portions of First Amended Complaint




MOVING PARTIES


Defendants Cigna Health & Life Insurance Company and
  Cigna Healthcare of California




OPPOSING PARTIES


Plaintiffs Marks House LLC/Hillcrest Teen Treatment
  Center; Bailard House LLC/Beachside/Malibu Teen Center; and The Meadowglade
  LLC



 
MOTIONS
 
This case stems from a dispute over Defendants’ alleged failure to pay
“non-contracted” or “out-of-network” Plaintiffs for psychological and/or
psychiatric care, treatment, and services provided to patients insured by
Defendants.
 
Plaintiffs Marks House LLC/Hillcrest Teen Treatment Center; Bailard
House LLC/Beachside/Malibu Teen Center; and The Meadowglade (“Plaintiffs”) have
brought nine causes of action in the First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) against
Defendants Cigna Health & Life insurance Company and Cigna Healthcare of
California (“Defendants”) for: (1) Recovery for Services Rendered; (2) Open
Book Account; (3) Quantum Meruit; (4) Breach of Implied Contract; (5) Breach of
Oral Contract; (6) Promissory Estoppel; (7) Intentional Misrepresentation of
Material Facts; (8) Negligent Misrepresentation of Material Facts; and (9)
Unfair Business Practices.
 
Defendants demur to all nine causes of action on the grounds that they
fail to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivision (e).  Defendants also move to strike portions of
the FAC.  Plaintiffs oppose both motions
and Defendants reply.
 
REQUEST
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
            Defendants request judicial notice
of The Cigna Group’s December 31, 2022 Form 10-K and Exhibit 21, filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) and publicly available on the SEC’s
website.  
 
Official notices, statements, and certificates made by a federal
government agency (like the SEC) are properly the subject of judicial notice as
documents reflecting official acts of a state’s executive department, pursuant
to Evidence Code section 452, subdivision (c). 
(See generally Friends of Shingle Springs Interchange, Inc. v. County
of El Dorado (2011) 200 Cal.App.4th 1470, 1483–1484.)  However, “materials prepared by private
parties and merely on file with the state [or federal] agencies” may not be
properly judicially noticed as an official act of a legislative, executive, or
judicial department of the United States or any state of the United
States.  (People v. Thacker (1985)
175 Cal.App.3d 594, 598.)
 
            Nonetheless, Defendants request
judicial notice of the SEC filing as “[f]acts and propositions that are not
reasonably subject to dispute and are capable of immediate and accurate
determination by resort to sources of reasonably indisputable accuracy”
pursuant to Evidence Code section 452, subdivision (h).  In Apple Inc. v. Superior Court, the
appellate court explained that judicial notice of the existence of Apple’s
filing with the SEC was proper under subdivision (h), and while the truth of
the composition of the board members listed at the time of that filing could be
factually disputed, the opposing party had not disputed the accuracy of the
statement, and therefore the Court took judicial notice both of the existence
of the document and the truth of the board composition listed therein.  (Apple Inc. v. Superior Court (2017)
18 Cal.App.5th 222, 242.)
 
            Similarly here, Plaintiffs have not
opposed Defendants’ request for judicial notice or otherwise challenged the validity
of the statement contained therein that “Our domestic subsidiaries sell most of
their products and services to sponsors of employee benefit plans that are
governed by ERISA.”  (RJN Ex. A at p.
24.)  Therefore the Court takes judicial
notice of the existence of this filing and of the quoted statement.
 
ANALYSIS
 
1.      DEMURRER
 
“It is black letter law that a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of
the allegations in a complaint.”  (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015)
235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  In testing the sufficiency of a cause of
action, a court accepts “[a]s true all material facts properly pled and matters
which may be judicially noticed but disregard contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law.  [A court
also gives] the complaint a reasonable interpretation, reading it as a whole
and its parts in their context.”  (290
Division (EAT), LLC v. City & County of San Francisco (2022) 86
Cal.App.5th 439, 450 [cleaned up]; Hacker v. Homeward Residential, Inc.
(2018) 26 Cal.App.5th 270, 280 [“in considering the merits of a demurrer,
however, “the facts alleged in the pleading are deemed to be true, however
improbable they may be”].)
 
Further, in ruling on a demurrer, a court must “liberally construe”
the allegations of the complaint “with a view to substantial justice between
the parties.”  (See Code Civ. Proc., §
452.)  “This rule of liberal construction
means that the reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not
the defendant.”  (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209
Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.)   
 
In summary, “[d]etermining whether the complaint is sufficient as
against the demurrer on the ground that it does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action, the rule is that if one consideration of all the
facts stated it appears the plaintiff is entitled to any relief at the hands of
the court against the defendants the complaint will be held good although the
facts may not be clearly stated, or may be intermingled with a statement of
other facts irrelevant to the cause of action shown, or although the plaintiff
may demand relief to which he is not entitled under the facts alleged.”  (Gressley v. Williams (1961) 193
Cal.App.2d 636, 639.)
 
A.   
FAILURE TO STATE A CAUSE OF ACTION
 
Defendants argue (1) Plaintiffs fail to state a claim because most of
Cigna’s plans are governed by ERISA, which preempts Plaintiffs’ state law
claims; and (2) Plaintiffs fail to plead the essential elements of each of
their claims.
 
                                                                   
i.           
ERISA
Preemption
 
Defendants rely primarily on
their request for judicial notice to support their argument that the insurance
claims at issue are preempted by ERISA. 
As a threshold matter, that document establishes only that “domestic
subsidiaries” of “The Cigna Group” “sell most of their products and services to
sponsors of employee benefit plans that are governed by ERISA.”  It does not demonstrate that the defendants
to this action – Cigna Health & Life Insurance Company and/or Cigna
Healthcare of California are part of “The Cigna Group” or that most of Defendants’
plans are governed by ERISA.  In
fact, neither “Cigna Health & Life Insurance Company” nor “Cigna Healthcare
of California” are mentioned anywhere in that document.
 
But even if it were
established that this document pertains to Defendants in this action, it does
not establish that any of the patient claims at issue in this case are governed
or preempted by ERISA, much less that all of them are.  
 
Therefore, ERISA preemption is
not a basis to sustain the demurrer at this stage of the litigation.  
 
                                                                 
ii.           
First Cause
of Action for Services Rendered and Third Cause of Action for Quantum Meruit
 
“The requisite elements of
quantum meruit are (1) the plaintiff acted pursuant to an explicit or implicit
request for the services by the defendant, and (2) the services conferred a
benefit on the defendant.”  (Port
Medical Wellness, Inc. v. Connecticut General Life Insurance Company (2018)
24 Cal.App.5th 153, 180.)
 
The elements for “services
rendered” are “the services performed, an oral promise to compensate by will,
the failure to perform the promise, the reasonable value of the services, and
failure to pay.”  (Toney v. Security
First Nat. Bank of Los Angeles (1951) 108 Cal.App.2d 161, 167.)
 
Defendants contend that both
of these causes of action fail because Plaintiffs fail to allege that
Defendants made any “request for services.” 
The FAC alleges as follows:
 
56. At all relevant times, prior to rendering
services to the Patients, Plaintiffs contacted Defendants, and each of them, to
obtain permission, authorization and consent to render care to the Patients, to
obtain verification of coverage, and to obtain Defendants’ commitment,
agreement and assent that they would provide payment, coverage and
indemnification for the psychological and psychiatric services and procedures
to be rendered to the patients by Plaintiffs at the lesser of their published
reimbursement rates or of Plaintiffs’ usual, customary and reasonable rates. On
each such occasion and for each Patient, Defendants authorized, pre-certified
and consented to Plaintiffs’ provision of psychological and psychiatric
services and procedures, either orally or in writing, at the facilities
operated and owned by Plaintiffs and committed to pay, reimburse, indemnify,
cover or otherwise provide insurance benefits and payments, either orally or in
writing, to Plaintiffs at the lesser of their published reimbursement rates or
at Plaintiffs’ usual, customary and reasonable charges.
 
(FAC
¶ 56.)  Defendants contend that these
prior authorization phone calls do not, as a matter of law, constitute a
“request” for services, but Defendants cite only nonbinding federal district
court cases in support.
 
            Therefore, the Court overrules
Defendants’ demurrer to the first and third causes of action.
 
                                                               
iii.           
Second Cause
of Action for Open Book Account
 
The term
“book account” means a detailed statement which constitutes the principal
record of one or more transactions between a debtor and a creditor arising out
of a contract or some fiduciary relation, and shows the debits and credits in
connection therewith, and against whom and in favor of whom entries are made,
is entered in the regular course of business as conducted by such creditor or
fiduciary, and is kept in a reasonably permanent form and manner and is (1) in
a bound book, or (2) on a sheet or sheets fastened in a book or to backing but
detachable therefrom, or (3) on a card or cards of a permanent character, or is
kept in any other reasonably permanent form and manner.
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 337a, subd. (a).)
 
            “A
book account is ‘open’ where a balance remains due on the account.”  (Eloquence Corporation v. Home Consignment
Center (2020) 49 Cal.App.5th 655, 664–665.) 
However, “[t]he mere recording in a book of transactions or the
incidental keeping of accounts under an express contract does not of itself
create a book account.”  (Id. at
p. 666.)   
 
            Defendants
contend that the alleged open book account, attached as Exhibit A to the FAC is
the mere recording of transactions, and does not constitute a true open book
account.  Defendants’ argument raises a
factual dispute concerning the alleged open book account that cannot be
resolved on the face of the pleadings.
 
            As
such, the Court overrules Defendants’ demurrer to the second cause of action
for open book account.
 
                                                               
iv.           
Contract-Based
Causes of Action
 
“To prevail on a cause of
action for breach of contract, the plaintiff must prove (1) the contract, (2)
the plaintiff's performance of the contract or excuse for nonperformance, (3)
the defendant's breach, and (4) the resulting damage to the plaintiff.”  (Richman v. Hartley (2014) 224
Cal.App.4th 1182, 1186.)  
 
“The elements of a promissory
estoppel claim are (1) a promise clear and unambiguous in its terms; (2)
reliance by the party to whom the promise is made; (3) [the] reliance must be
both reasonable and foreseeable; and (4) the party asserting the estoppel must
be injured by his reliance.”  (Jones
v. Wachovia Bank (2014) 230 Cal.App.4th 935, 945.)
 
Defendants argue that
Plaintiff’s fourth, fifth, and sixth causes of action for breach of implied
contract, breach of oral contract, and promissory estoppel, respectively (“contract-based
causes of action”) fail because (1) reimbursements for non-emergency services
are governed by the evidence of coverage; (2) pre-authorization verification
phone calls, like those alleged, cannot form the basis of a contract or
promissory estoppel claim; and (3) Plaintiffs do not allege the material terms
of the alleged contracts/promises.
 
Reimbursements Governed by
EOCs
 
California Code of
Regulations, title 28, section 1300.71, subdivision (a)(3)(C) provides that the
enrollee’s evidence of coverage dictates reimbursements “[f]or non-emergency
services provided by non-contracted providers[.]”  (Accord Orthopedic Specialists of Southern
California v. Public Employees' Retirement System (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th
644, 648.)
 
However, the FAC does not
allege that the services provided were non-emergency.  Instead, the FAC merely alleges Defendants
provided “psychological and/or psychiatric care, treatment, and services” with
no mention of whether those services included emergency or non-emergency care.
 
Moreover, to the extent
Plaintiffs have alleged breach of contract causes of action, they would not be “non-contracted
providers.”  To the extent a valid and
enforceable contract exists between the parties, Defendants would presumably be
held to the terms of any such agreement. 
The Department of Managed Health Care has explained, “‘regulations are
intended to set forth the minimum payment criteria to ensure compliance with
the [Knox-Keene] Act's claims payment and dispute resolution standards’ and
that, to the extent providers wish to pursue other common law or statutory
remedies, they may seek redress in the courts.” 
(Children's Hospital Central California v. Blue Cross of California
(2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 1260, 1273.)
 
Defendants cite to Pacific
Bay Recovery, Inc. v. California Physicians’ Services, Inc. (2012) 12
Cal.App.5th 200, 215-217 (hereafter Pacific Bay), where the appellate
court affirmed the trial court’s sustaining of the demurrer to an implied
contract cause of action on the basis that Defendant’s reimbursement of only six
of the thirty-one treatment days demonstrates there was no meeting of the minds
with respect to an implied contract, and Plaintiff had not pleaded “specific
facts” demonstrating otherwise.  
 
The Court notes that while a
plaintiff must plead the essential terms of a contract, there is otherwise no
heightened pleading standard requiring “specific facts” for breach of contract
causes of action.  Here, with respect to
the essential terms of the alleged contract, Plaintiffs allege:
 
75. At all times relevant hereto, for each
individual Patient, representatives of Plaintiffs contacted Defendants to
verify that each patient was insured, covered or otherwise had rights of
indemnification and insurance through Defendant, and prior to the rendition of
treatment for each Patient, were advised by representatives of Defendants that
the Patients were insured, covered and eligible for coverage under their
respective plans or policies for the services to be rendered by Plaintiffs at
Plaintiffs’ facilities; were specifically authorized to provide the course of
treatment and care recommended, and that Plaintiffs would be paid for their
provision of the care and/or treatment rendered by Plaintiffs by Defendants at
the lesser of either Plaintiffs’ usual, customary and reasonable rates, or,
conversely, at the published rates that Defendants had stated they would pay in
accordance with California law and in accordance with the well-established
business practice, custom, habit and routine of insurers, including Defendants,
of paying such usual, customary and reasonable rates or the rates Defendants
had published and stated they would pay non-participating providers or
out-of-network providers for services rendered to their insureds, members and
subscribers. 
 
76. Pursuant to the authorizations previously
received, Defendants, and each of them, entered into oral contracts with
Plaintiffs’ to pay Plaintiffs for the the [sic] psychological and psychiatric
services and procedures provided to Defendants’ Patients at the lesser of
Plaintiffs’ usual, customary, and reasonable rate for services provided or the
published rates Defendants stated they would pay to nonparticipating providers
or out-of-network providers for services rendered to their insureds, members
and subscribers.
 
(FAC
¶¶ 75-76.)
 
Moreover, as an explanation
for the discrepancy between the reimbursement terms of the implied contract and
what Defendants actually paid, Plaintiffs allege that Defendants rely on “flawed
databases” to underpay out-of-network reimbursements, and that reliance on
these “flawed databases” have been the subject of investigations by both
Congress and the New York Attorney General. 
(FAC ¶ 45.) 
 
Thus, neither the EOCs nor Pacific
Bay precludes Plaintiff’s contract-based causes of action. Whether the
parties actually had an oral or implied contract is a factual question
to be determined at later stages of the litigation.  
 
Preauthorization Phone Calls
 
Defendants next argue that
those pre-authorization verification phone calls cannot, as a matter of law,
constitute the basis for a contract or promissory estoppel claim.  However, Defendants primarily cite nonbinding
federal district court cases in support. 
The only California case cited is Pacific Bay, discussed
above.  With regard to estoppel, the Pacific
Bay opinion indicates only the following: “We need not address the estoppel
claim because it was raised for the first time in the reply brief.  That said, Pacific Bay has not stated a cause
of action for estoppel because it has not alleged a promise clear and
unambiguous in its terms.”  (Pacific
Bay, supra, 12 Cal.App.5th at p. 216, fn. 6 [cleaned up].)
 
Because Defendants have
provided no binding authority supporting the proposition that preauthorization
verification phone calls cannot, as a matter of law, form the basis of a contract
or promissory estoppel cause of action the Court declines to sustain the
demurrer on this basis.
 
Material Terms of the
Contract
 
As discussed above, Plaintiffs
adequately plead the material terms of the alleged contract.  Defendants argue, however, that because
Plaintiffs also plead allegations that Defendants also failed to pay consistent
with the terms of the patients’ insurance policies and certificates, that the
terms of the alleged contract are unclear. 
The Court disagrees that the allegations that Defendants failed to pay
for services in accordance with the patients’ insurance policies and
certificates somehow undermines the allegations that Defendants also failed to
reimburse Plaintiffs in accordance with their promises and agreements with
Plaintiffs.  In any event, at this stage
of the litigation, Plaintiffs are permitted to “plead in the alternative and
make inconsistent allegations.”  (Klein
v. Chevron U.S.A., Inc. (2012) 202 Cal.App.4th 1342, 1388.)
 
Defendants also argue that the
alleged promise/agreement to reimburse Plaintiffs the lesser of Defendants’ “usual,
customary, and reasonable rates” or Defendants’ published rates is too vague to
withstand demurrer.  In support,
Defendants cite to Banner Entm’t, Inc. v. Super Ct. (1998) 62
Cal.App.4th 348, 359 (hereinafter Banner) and Children’s Hosp.
Central California v. Blue Cross of California (2014) 226 Cal. App. 4th
1260, 1273-76 (hereinafter Children’s Hosp.)
 
Banner, which analyzed the validity of a purported
agreement to arbitrate, merely stands for the general proposition that there
must be a meeting of the minds and mutual assent to form a contract.  Children’s Hosp. stands for the
general proposition that what the “reasonable and customary” reimbursement
value is depends on analyzing several Gould factors.  But neither case stands for the proposition
that a promise or agreement to pay based on the reasonable or customary value
for services is too indefinite to withstand demurrer.
 
Therefore, the Court overrules Defendants’ demurrers to the fourth,
fifth, and sixth causes of action for breach of implied contract, breach of
oral contract, and promissory estoppel, respectively.
 
                                                                 
v.           
Seventh and
Eighth Causes of Action – Intentional & Negligent Misrepresentation
 
The elements for fraudulent
misrepresentation are “(1) the defendant represented to the plaintiff that an
important fact was true; (2) that representation was false; (3) the defendant
knew that the representation was false when the defendant made it, or the
defendant made the representation recklessly and without regard for its truth;
(4) the defendant intended that the plaintiff rely on the representation; (5)
the plaintiff reasonably relied on the representation; (6) the plaintiff was
harmed; and (7) the plaintiff's reliance on the defendant's representation was
a substantial factor in causing that harm to the plaintiff.”  (Graham v. Bank of America, N.A.
(2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 594, 605–606.)  
 
“The essential elements of a
count for negligent misrepresentation are the same [as intentional
misrepresentation] except that it does not require knowledge of falsity but
instead requires a misrepresentation of fact by a person who has no reasonable
grounds for believing it to be true.”  (Chapman
v. Skype Inc. (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 217, 230-231 (hereafter Chapman).)  Like intentional misrepresentation, causes of
action for negligent misrepresentation sound in fraud, and must also,
therefore, be pleaded with particularity. 
(Ibid.)  
 
Defendants demur to the seventh
and eighth causes of action for intentional and negligent misrepresentation on
the grounds that (1) the economic loss doctrine bars Plaintiff’s fraud claims;
and (2) Plaintiffs fail to plead the fraud-based causes of action with
requisite particularity.
 
Economic Loss Doctrine
 
Defendants argue that the
economic loss doctrine bars Plaintiffs’ fraud-based claims.  In support, Defendants cite to Sheen v.
Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2022) 12 Cal.5th 905, 922 (hereinafter Sheen);
Erlich v. Menezes (1999) 21 Cal.4th 543, 551 (hereinafter Erlich);
and Food Safety Net Services v. Eco Safe Systems USA, Inc. (2012) 209
Cal.App.4th 1118, 1130 (hereinafter Food Safety.)
 
In Sheen, the appellate
court explained the economic loss doctrine “bars recovery in negligence for
pure economic losses when such claims would disrupt the parties’ private
ordering, render contracts less reliable as a means of organizing commercial
relationships, and stifle the development of contract law.”  (Sheen, supra,12 Cal. 5th at p.
915.)  In other words, the mere
“negligent breach of a contract” is insufficient to create a duty in tort.  (Erlich, supra, 21 Cal.4th at
p. 552.)
 
Here, Plaintiffs do not allege
a mere negligent breach of contract. 
Rather, Plaintiffs allege Defendants either knowingly or negligently
made fraudulent misrepresentations to Plaintiffs in the course of their contract
negotiations.  Thus, Plaintiffs allege
“tortious conduct independent of a breach of the contract itself, that is,
violation of some independent duty arising from tort law.”  (Food Safety, supra, 209
Cal.App.4th at p. 1130.)
 
In Food Safety, the
appellate court held that the economic loss doctrine barred the
misrepresentation claims because the plaintiff failed to raise a triable issue
of fact on summary judgment that “defendant did not intend to honor its
contractual promises when they were made” and “something more than
nonperformance is required to prove the defendant’s intent not to perform his
promise.”  (Food Safety, supra,
209 Cal.App.4th at p. 1131.)  “Because
Eco Safe’s [evidentiary] showing bore only on Food Safety’s actual performance
under the contract, it does not demonstrate fraudulent inducement.”  (Id. at pp. 1131-1132.)  Food Safety does not stand for the
proposition that a fraudulent misrepresentation claim cannot coexist with a
breach of contract claim.
 
Therefore, the economic loss
doctrine does not bar Plaintiffs’ misrepresentation claims at this stage of the
litigation.
 
Particularity
 
“In California, fraud must be
pled specifically; general and conclusory allegations do not suffice.”  (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12
Cal.4th 631, 645.)  “This particularity
requirement necessitates pleading facts which show how, when, where, to whom,
and by what means the representations were tendered.”  (Ibid.)  Causes of action for negligent
misrepresentation sound in fraud, and must also, therefore, be pleaded with
particularity.  (Chapman, supra,
220 Cal.App.4th at pp. 230-231.)  
 
“One of the purposes of the
specificity requirement is notice to the defendant, to furnish the defendant
with certain definite charges which can be intelligently met.”  (Alfaro v. Community Housing Improvement
System & Planning Assn., Inc. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1356, 1384.)  As such, less specificity is required “when
it appears from the nature of the allegations that the defendant must
necessarily possess full information concerning the facts of the
controversy[.]”  (Ibid.)  “Even under the strict rules of common law
pleading, one of the canons was that less particularity is required when the
facts lie more in the knowledge of the opposite party.”  (Ibid.)
 
Here, Plaintiffs allege:
 
99. At all times relevant hereto, for each
individual Patient, representatives of Plaintiffs contacted Defendants to
verify that each patient was insured, covered or otherwise had rights of
indemnification and insurance through Defendant, and, prior to the rendition of
any treatment of the Patient, Plaintiffs were advised by representatives of
Defendants through conversations between Plaintiffs and Defendants that the
Patients were insured, covered and eligible for coverage under their respective
Plans or Policies for the services to be rendered by Plaintiffs at Plaintiffs’
facilities; that Plaintiffs were authorized to render such treatment and care;
and that Plaintiffs would be paid for their provision of the care and/or
treatment rendered by Plaintiffs by Defendants at the lesser of either
Plaintiffs’ usual, customary and reasonable rates, or, conversely, at the rates
published by Defendants that Defendants had stated they would pay in accordance
with California law and in accordance with the well-established business
practice, custom, habit and routine of insurers, including Defendants, of
paying usual, customary and reasonable
rates or the rates published by Defendants that they stated they would pay to
non-participating providers or out-of-network providers for services rendered
to their insureds, members and subscribers. 
 
100. A true and correct copy of Defendants’
published description of their methodology for reimbursing of out-of-network
providers is attached hereto as Exhibit “B” and is incorporated herein by this
reference. 
 
101. At no time prior to the provision of
services to the Patients by Plaintiffs, during conversations between Plaintiffs
and Defendants, did Defendants advise Plaintiffs that the Patients’ policies or
certificates of insurance were subject to any exclusions, limitations or
qualifications, which might result in denial of coverage to the Patients, nor
were Plaintiffs offered copies of the applicable policies or certificates of
insurance coverage applicable to the Patients by Defendants or made privy to the
specific terms, conditions, exclusions and qualifications of those policies or
certificates. At all relevant times, Plaintiffs were led to believe that they
would be paid an agreed-upon portion or percentage of their total billed
charges, which charges correlated with the lesser of Plaintiffs’ usual,
customary, and reasonable rate for services provided or the published rates
Defendants stated they would pay to non-participating providers or
out-of-network providers.
 
102. Plaintiffs provided psychological and
psychiatric care, treatment, and/or procedures to the Patients. Defendants’
billing rates for almost all of the patients that Plaintiffs treat are based on
a “MRC II” Option . As those rates are not set by Medicare, the MRC I Option of
FAIR Health’s 80th Percentile of out of network billing is the appropriate
rate. The remaining rates are at MRC I Option in any event. 
 
103. At all times relevant hereto, the care,
treatment and/or procedures provided by Plaintiffs to Defendants’ insureds were
pre-authorized by the Defendants, and Defendants represented and warranted that
they would reimburse Plaintiffs for the treatment and services provided at the
FAIR Health, Inc. 80th Percentile billing level. 
 
104. Three types of service were carried out, as
follows: 
 
(d) Intensive Out Patient (IOP) – Three hours of
care generally. 
(e) Partial Hospitalization (PHP) – Generally six
hours of care; and 
(f) Residential Care (RTC) – Ongoing treatment. 
 
105. The FAIR Health 80th percentile rates for
the codes associated with each of these treatment types is as follows: 
 
(a) IOP – H0015 - $1,845 and S9480 - $1,599 
(b) PHP – H0035 - $2,559 and S0201 - $3,202
(c) RTC – H0018 - $4,365 and H2013 - $3,132 
 
106. The average amount paid by Defendants for
these CPT codes is as follows: 
 
(a) IOP H0015 - $551.23 and S9480 - $244.49 
(b) PHP H0035 - $$512.11 and S0201 - $532.74
(c) RTC – H0018 - $2695.35 and H2013 - $1899.20 
 
107. Based on the foregoing, Defendants have
deliberately and systematically underpaid the Plaintiffs according to their
own, published reimbursement rates by an amount according to proof at time of
trial but which Plaintiffs are informed and believe and based upon such
information and belief allege should have been One Million Eight Hundred
Thirty-Two Thousand and Forty-One Dollars and Ninety-Eight Cents
($1,832,041.98), plus interest from the last date of service thereon.
 
108. In agreeing to provide the necessary,
pre-authorized treatment to Defendants’ insureds, Plaintiffs relied upon
Defendants’ representations that they would pay for such services at FAIR
Health’s 80th Percentile of out of network billing level, as set forth in their
publications regarding reimbursement rates for out-of-network providers.
 
109. Defendants’ representations regarding their
reimbursement rate policies were false, and were known by Defendants to be
false at the time they were made, and were made with the intent to induce
Plaintiffs into providing the services which were, in fact, rendered to
Defendants’ insureds, all to Plaintiffs’ detriment. 
 
110. It was only after such services had been
provided did the Plaintiffs discover that Defendants had not, and never had,
any intention of actually paying for the services provided at the rates that
they had claimed they would pay, and in fact intended to only pay substantially
reduced rates that had been privately and unilaterally set by Defendants
without Plaintiffs’ knowledge or consent. 
 
111. At the time that Plaintiffs agreed to
provide care and treatment for Defendants’ insureds, Plaintiffs were unaware of
the true facts, and had no reasonable way of discovering those facts, which
were solely in possession of Defendants. Had Plaintiffs known the true facts at
the time that they agreed to provide the medically-necessary psychological and
psychiatric care and treatment sought by Defendants’ insureds, they would not
have agreed to accept those Patients for treatment. 
 
112. As a direct, proximate result of these
false, intentional and deliberate misrepresentations, Plaintiffs have been
damaged in an amount according to proof at the time of trial, but which they
are informed and believe and based upon such information and belief allege are
not less than not less than One Million Eight Hundred Thirty-Two Thousand and
Forty-One Dollars and Ninety-Eight Cents ($1,832,041.98), plus statutory
interest thereon from the last day of service.
 
(FAC
¶¶ 99 -112.)
 
In
addition, Plaintiffs allege:
 
44. Plaintiffs are informed and believe and based
upon such information and belief allege that Defendants relied upon and
utilized a flawed database to make pricing determinations for the claims
submitted by the Plaintiffs on behalf of the Patients, and utilized that flawed
database as a primary source of data upon which it based its pricing
determinations, even though Defendants knew that the data cannot and should not
be used for that purpose. Defendants were fully aware that its database was not
properly designed to determine usual, customary and reasonable reimbursement
amounts. 
 
45. Plaintiffs are further informed and believe
and thereon allege that Defendants’ system(s) for paying out-of-network claims
is flawed, that Defendants improperly manipulate the data in their systems to
underpay out-of-network medical provider claims, and that Defendants’ systems
and methods for calculating such rates violate California law. Defendants have
used flawed databases and systems to unilaterally determine what amounts they
pay medical providers and have colluded with other insurers to artificially
underpay, decrease, limit, and minimize the reimbursement rates paid for
services rendered by non-contracted, out-of-network providers. The issue of
health care plans’ utilization of flawed databases has been investigated by the
U.S. Congress and the New York Attorney General, and has been the source of
numerous lawsuits and class action suits filed in connection with the databases
utilized. 
 
46. Plaintiffs are informed and believe that
there are a number of inherent flaws in Defendants’ database(s), which make
such databases invalid and inappropriate for setting usual, customary and
reasonable rates. Among other flaws, Defendants’ databases: 
 
(a) Do not determine the numbers or types of
providers in any geographic area;
(b) Do not determine the actual types of
procedures performed within a geographic area; 
(c) Collect charge data which is not
representative of the actual number of procedures performed within a geographic
area; 
(d) Do not collect sufficient data to enable its
users to determine whether the data reflects the charges of providers with any
particular degree of expertise or specialization; 
(e) Do not collect sufficient provider-specific
data to enable its users to determine whether the charges are from one
provider, from several providers, or from only a minority subset of the
providers in a geographic area; 
(f) Fail to compare providers of the same or
similar training and experience level and, instead, combine and average all
provider charges by procedure code without separating the charges of Plaintiffs
and non-Plaintiffs; 
(g) Do not collect Patient-specific information
such as age or medical history or condition; 
(h) Do not ascertain the most common charge for
the same service or comparable service or supply; 
(i) Do not determine the place of service or type
of facility; 
(j) Do not collect sufficient data to enable it
or its users to determine an appropriate medical market for comparing like
charges; 
(k) Combining zip codes inappropriately, and use
zip codes instead of appropriate medical markets; 
(l) Fail to compare procedures that use the same
or similar resources (and other costs) to the provider but, rather,
indiscriminately combine all provider charges by procedure code without regard
to such factors; 
(m) Fail to compare procedures of the same or
similar complexity by, among other things, failing to record or account for CPT
code modifiers; 
(n) Do not use appropriate statistical
methodology;
(o) Do not properly consider charging protocols
and billing practices generally accepted by the medical community or specialty
groups; 
(p) Do not properly consider medical costs in
setting geographic areas; 
(q) Lack quality controls, such as basic
auditing, to ensure the validity, completeness, representativeness, and
authenticity of the data; 
(r) Is subject to pre-editing by data
contributors; 
(s) Report charges that are systematically skewed
downward; 
(t) Use relative values and conversion factors to
derive inappropriate “usual, customary and reasonable” amounts; 
(u) Use a methodology that does not comply with
Defendants’ contractual definition of usual, customary and reasonable; and 
(v) Purport to be confidential and/or
proprietary, which prevents access to and/or scrutiny of the data by members or
their employers. 
 
47. These and other flaws render Defendants’ use
of their data systems invalid and unlawful for determining usual, customary and
reasonable rates. By systematically and typically making usual, customary, and
reasonable rate determinations without compliant and valid data to substantiate
its determinations, Defendants have breached their obligations to reimburse
Plaintiffs for out-of-network services, to the extent that Defendants have been
unwilling to reimburse Plaintiffs at the eightieth (80%) percentile of FAIR
Health’s published out of network rate as they represented. Accordingly, all
past usual, customary, and reasonable rate determinations based on Defendants’
data system should be overturned. 
 
48. Defendants used other improper pricing
methods to reduce reimbursement to out-of-network providers. Accordingly,
Defendants violated, and continue to violate, their legal obligations to
Plaintiffs to pay usual, customary and reasonable rates of reimbursement for
services rendered to the Patients, insureds, subscribers, and members.
 
[…]
 
51. At all relevant times, Defendants harmed
Plaintiffs by making improper usual, customary, and reasonable rate and pricing
determinations that reduced the lawful reimbursement amounts for out-of-network
providers without valid or scientifically-compliant data to support such
determinations. Defendants further harmed the Plaintiffs by misapplying
in-network policies to out-of-network provider claims, and then by delaying
payments to out-of-network providers under the pretext of negotiation. As a
result of these actions, the Plaintiffs have been financially harmed and forced
to exhaust significant time and resources appealing Defendants’ unlawful
determinations through a process deliberately designed to impede, deny, and
delay out-of-network physician providers such as Plaintiffs from obtaining
their rightful reimbursement. 
 
52. Plaintiffs are informed and believe and based
upon such information and belief allege that Defendants used and continue to
use flawed database data, among other things, to understate the true market
rates of medical care performed by out-of-network providers. The improper use
of this data has caused both Patients and out-of-network providers including
Plaintiffs to experience significant losses. Patients are harmed because payors
like Defendants are not reimbursing out-of-network services at appropriate
levels, which results in out-of-network providers increasingly being forced to
bill their Patients for amounts charged, which exceed the amounts Defendants
cover. Out-of-network providers like Plaintiffs are harmed because they are not
always able to collect these balances from Patients and are forced to take a
loss for their services. Moreover, because out-of-network providers are often
unaware of the scheme that results in payors such as Defendants failing to pay
the lesser of their published reimbursement rates or appropriate usual,
customary and reasonable rates, they are either powerless to appeal any such
improper determinations or their efforts to appeal these determinations are
futile.
 
53. Defendants’ Explanation of Benefit (“EOB”)
statements are often uninformative, false, and misleading regarding “usual,
customary, and reasonable” rates. This ambiguity has resulted in the
inconsistent application of purported “usual, customary and reasonable” rates
to deny Plaintiffs and other similarly situated non-contracted providers lawful
reimbursement. Usual, customary, and reasonable rates should be applied
consistently by Defendants, but instead are improperly and selectively used to
deny or diminish lawful reimbursement otherwise due to Plaintiffs and other
out-of-network providers. 
 
54. The EOB and remittance advices Plaintiffs
receive from Defendants often state that their billed charges purportedly
exceed the usual, customary, and reasonable rate for the geographic area where
the services were performed. However, nowhere on the EOB statements, remittance
advices, or elsewhere in any other correspondence sent to the Plaintiffs do
Defendants discuss or identify how they actually calculate usual, customary,
and reasonable rates. The EOB statements do not even specify whether database
data or some other methodology was used in these calculations. Instead, the EOB
statements plainly state that the rates have been determined by Defendants.
Since their methods for calculating usual, customary, and reasonable rates are
improperly shrouded in a veil of secrecy, Defendants are able to derive
improper rates using faulty data and apply them to out-of-network providers
such as the Plaintiffs, all to the Plaintiffs’ damage.
 
(FAC
¶¶ 44-48; 51-54.)  And as a result, 
 
37. Rather than simply pay Plaintiffs the lesser
of their published reimbursement or rates or usual, customary, and reasonable
rates, Defendants instead routinely and deliberately reimbursed Plaintiffs'
claims at rates well below their published rates or usual, customary, and
reasonable levels, forcing Plaintiffs to exhaust time and energy by first
identifying and then appealing the improperly reimbursed claims.
 
38. Defendants have failed and refused, and
continue to fail and refuse to pay reasonably adequate monies, benefits, or
insurance proceeds to the Plaintiffs for the medically necessary and
pre-authorized services, care, treatment, and/or procedures rendered to the
Patients by the Plaintiffs, and/or have substantially underpaid benefits for
such services at inappropriate and unreasonably low rates, using illegal and/or
flawed databases and systems to calculate reimbursement for non-contracted
providers and have failed and refused to pay the claims at the lesser of their
published reimbursement rates or Plaintiffs’ usual, customary, and reasonable
rates.
 
[…]
 
40. The rates paid by Defendants were not usual,
customary or reasonable, and were instead arbitrary, capricious and
inexplicable. Further, Defendants have never explained how they calculated,
justified, or rationalized their pricing and rate schedule for non-contracted,
out-of-network providers such as the Plaintiffs other than by means of their
published rates, which are far higher than the rates actually paid. 
 
41. Moreover, the rates paid to the Plaintiffs by
Defendants for the exact same procedures, treatments or services were paid at
different rates during the same year. At other times, Plaintiffs were paid at
rates below what they would have been paid had they been a preferred or
in-network provider, even though such volume-discounted rates are significantly
lower than the lesser of their published reimbursement rates or usual,
reasonable, and customary rates as required by California law.
 
(FAC
¶¶ 37-38; 40-41.)
 
            As such, Plaintiffs have pleaded
specific facts about Defendants’ alleged misrepresentations, Defendants’ knowledge
of falsity, Plaintiffs’ reliance, causation, and damages.  
 
Although Plaintiffs do not allege the precise who and when for each specific
preauthorization/verification phone call, Plaintiffs have provided a 23-page spreadsheet
of claims at issue, indicating the date of service and claim ID for each claim,
shielding identifying patient information from the public record, but offering
to supply that information to Defendants upon request.  (FAC at p. 5, fn. 1 and Ex. A.)  Thus, under the circumstances, the Court
finds that Plaintiffs have pleaded their fraud claims with sufficient
particularity to put Defendants on notice of the specific facts underlying the
fraud claims.
 
Moreover, although some of the allegations are based “on information
and belief,” the FAC pleads facts underlying that belief – namely, the
investigations by Congress and the New York Attorney General, the large
discrepancies between the published rates and rates actually paid, and the
inconsistencies among payments for the same procedures during similar
timeframes.
 
            Therefore, the Court overrules
Defendants’ demurrer to the seventh and eighth causes of action for intentional
and negligent misrepresentation.
 
                                                               
vi.           
Ninth Cause
of Action – Unfair Business Practices
 
California prohibits “any unlawful,
unfair or fraudulent business act or practice[.]”  (Bus. & Prof. Code, §§ 17200 et seq.)
 
Defendants argue that
Plaintiffs fail to allege any unfair, unlawful, or fraudulent conduct to
support their unfair business practices claim and that Plaintiffs fail to
allege the public is likely to be deceived. 

 
Because the Court overrules
Defendants’ demurrers to the fraud causes of action, the Court similarly finds
Defendants have sufficiently pleaded fraudulent conduct to support their Unfair
Business Practices cause of action.
 
As for likelihood of
deception, Plaintiffs have adequately alleged that by publishing rates that are
substantially higher than Defendants actually reimburse out-of-network
providers, and assuring providers by phone that they will be compensated for
the medical care they provide, both out-of-network providers and patients are
likely to be deceived as to Defendants’ coverage and reimbursement of care by
out-of-network providers.
 
Therefore, the Court overrules
Defendants’ demurrer to the ninth cause of action.
 
2.      MOTION
TO STRIKE
 
Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading, may serve
and file a motion to strike the whole pleading or any part thereof.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1); Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1322, subd. (b).) 
On a motion to strike, the court may: (1) strike out any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike out all or
any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of
California, a court rule, or an order of the court.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a)-(b); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767,
782.)  
 
Plaintiffs move to strike the following from the FAC:
 
1.     
Paragraph 36, as follows: “At all relevant times,
Plaintiffs expected to be reimbursed by Defendants at the lesser of either
Defendants’ published reimbursement rates or the then-current usual, customary,
and reasonable rate, which is defined by California law as follows: A ‘usual’
chary is the amount that is most consistently charged by an individual
physician for a given service. A ‘customary’ charge is the amount that falls
within a specified range of usual charges for a given service billed by most Plaintiffs
with similar training and experience within a given geographical area. A
‘reasonable’ charge is a charge that meets the Usual and Customary criteria, or
is otherwise reasonable in light of the complexity of treatment of the
particular case. Under a UCR Program, the payment is the lowest of the actual
billed charge, the physician's usual charge or the area customary charges for
any given covered service.”
 
2.      Paragraph
B of Plaintiffs’ Prayer for Relief, Page 37:16, as follows: “For punitive and
exemplary damages according to proof in an amount sufficient to deter such
conduct in the future.”
 
3.      Paragraph
113, as follows: “The foregoing acts of Defendants, and each of them, were
willful, wanton and malicious, and made with the knowledge and intent that
Plaintiffs would suffer damages as a result of their mistaken reliance upon
Defendants’ intentional misrepresentations, and as a result Plaintiffs are
entitled to an award of punitive and exemplary damages.”
 
4.      Paragraph
126, as follows: “Plaintiffs allege that injunctive relief is necessary and
appropriate to prohibit the Defendants from continuing to conduct themselves in
this manner and to mandate it to honor its obligations to its creditors as a
matter of the corporate policy and general business practice of each
Defendant.”
 
5.      Paragraph
129, as follows: “Plaintiffs are entitled to attorney fees pursuant to the
provisions of Code of Civil Procedure 1021.5.”
 
Paragraphs 36 & 129
 
Defendants
move to strike paragraph 36 on the basis that it appears to be a copy/paste
from another case, including another company’s definitions and attributing them
to California law, when in fact no such definitions are provided by California
law.  Defendants also move to strike Plaintiffs’
request for attorneys’ fees in Paragraph 129 on the basis that California’s
Unfair Competition Law (“UCL”) does not authorize the award of attorneys’ fees.
 
In
Opposition, Plaintiffs have indicated they do not oppose Defendants’ request to
strike these paragraphs.  As such, the
Court strikes the requested passages from Paragraphs 36 and 129 from the FAC.
 
The
Court also notes that, although not specifically requested by Defendants,
paragraph C of the Prayer for Relief seeks a judgment “For Plaintiffs’
reasonable attorney fees pursuant to the provisions of Code of Civil Procedure §1021.5.”  Because Plaintiffs do not oppose “the request
for Attorney Costs and Fees being stricken” (Opp. at p. 5) the Court similarly
strikes paragraph C from the Prayer for Relief as it is now irrelevant.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a) [“The
court may, […] at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper:
(a) Strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any
pleading.”])  
 
Paragraph 126 – Injunctive Relief
 
Defendants
move to strike Plaintiff’s request for injunctive relief because (1) Plaintiffs
do not allege an inadequate remedy at law; and (2) Plaintiffs do not adequately
plead a UCL claim to warrant injunctive relief. 
Plaintiffs do not address Defendants’ request to strike paragraph 126
from the Complaint in their Opposition.
 
The
Court notes that although paragraph 126 refers to injunctive relief,
Plaintiffs’ prayer for relief does not include a request for injunctive relief.
 
Therefore,
the Court similarly grants Defendants’ unopposed request to strike paragraph
126 from the FAC.
 
Punitive Damages
 
In ruling on a motion to strike punitive damages, “judges read
allegations of a pleading subject to a motion to strike as a whole, all parts
in their context, and assume their truth.” 
(Clauson v. Superior Court
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.)  To
state a prima facie claim for punitive damages, a plaintiff must allege the
elements set forth in the punitive damages statute, Civil Code section 3294.  (College
Hosp., Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 721.)  Per Civil Code section 3294, a plaintiff must
allege that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.  (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).)   As set forth in the Civil Code, 
 
(1) “Malice” means conduct which is intended
by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which
is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard
of the rights or safety of others.  (2)
“Oppression” means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and
unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person's rights.  (3) “Fraud” means an intentional
misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the
defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving
a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.
 
(Civ.
Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1)-(3), emphasis added.)  
 
Further, a plaintiff must assert facts with specificity to support a
conclusion that a defendant acted with oppression, fraud or malice.  To wit, there is a heightened pleading
requirement regarding a claim for punitive damages.  (See Smith v. Superior Court (1992) 10
Cal.App.4th 1033, 1041-1042.)  “When
nondeliberate injury is charged, allegations that the defendant’s conduct was
wrongful, willful, wanton, reckless or unlawful do not support a claim for
exemplary damages; such allegations do not charge malice.  When a defendant must produce evidence in
defense of an exemplary damage claim, fairness demands that he receive adequate
notice of the kind of conduct charged against him.” (G. D. Searle & Co.
v. Superior Court (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 22, 29 [cleaned up].)  In Anschutz Entertainment Group, Inc. v.
Snepp, the Court of Appeal noted that the plaintiffs’ assertions related to
their claim for punitive damages were “insufficient to meet the specific
pleading requirement.”  (Anschutz
Entertainment Group, Inc. v. Snepp (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 598, 643
[plaintiffs alleged “the conduct of Defendants was intentional, and done
willfully, maliciously, with ill will towards Plaintiffs, and with conscious
disregard for Plaintiff's rights. Plaintiff's injuries were exacerbated by the
malicious conduct of Defendants. Defendants' conduct justifies an award of
exemplary and punitive damages”]; see also Grieves
v. Superior Court (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 166 [“The mere allegation an
intentional tort was committed is not sufficient to warrant an award of
punitive damages.  Not only must there be
circumstances of oppression, fraud, or malice, but facts must be alleged in the
pleading to support such a claim”].)  
 
Moreover, “the imposition of punitive damages upon a corporation is
based upon its own fault.  It is not imposed vicariously by virtue of the
fault of others.”  (City Products Corp. v. Globe Indemnity Co.
(1979) 88 Cal.App.3d 31, 36.)  “Corporations are legal entities which do
not have minds capable of recklessness, wickedness, or intent to injure or
deceive.  An award of punitive damages against a corporation therefore
must rest on the malice of the corporation’s employees.  But the law does
not impute every employee’s malice to the corporation.  Instead, the
punitive damages statute requires proof of malice among corporate
leaders:  the officers, directors, or managing agents.”  (Cruz v.
Home Base (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 160, 167 [cleaned up].)  
 
Here, as discussed above, Plaintiffs have adequately pleaded their
fraud-based causes of action.  Moreover,
the allegations that each time Plaintiffs called, which occurred prior to
providing services for each patient on the 23-page spreadsheet, they were told
they would be paid in accordance with the lesser of Defendants’ published rates
or the reasonable and customary rate, yet Plaintiffs received inconsistent
payments that were drastically below Defendants’ published rates, suggests Defendants’
corporate policy is behind the alleged fraudulent conduct. 
 
Therefore, the Court denies Defendants’ request to strike references
to and requests for punitive damages alleged in paragraph 113 of the Complaint
and paragraph B of the Prayer for Relief.
            
3.     
LEAVE TO AMEND
 
A plaintiff has the burden of showing in what
manner the complaint could be amended and how the amendment would change the
legal effect of the complaint, i.e., state a cause of action. (See The
Inland Oversight Committee v City of San Bernardino (2018) 27 Cal.App.5th
771, 779; PGA West Residential Assn., Inc. v Hulven Int'l, Inc. (2017)
14 Cal.App.5th 156, 189.) A plaintiff must not only state the legal basis for
the amendment, but also the factual allegations sufficient to state a cause of
action or claim. (See PGA West Residential Assn., Inc. v Hulven Int'l, Inc.,
supra, 14 Cal.App.5th at p. 189.) Moreover, a plaintiff does not meet his
or her burden by merely stating in the opposition to a demurrer or motion to
strike that “if the Court finds the operative complaint deficient, plaintiff
respectfully requests leave to amend.” (See Major Clients Agency v Diemer
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1116, 1133; Graham v Bank of America (2014) 226
Cal.App.4th 594, 618 [asserting an abstract right to amend does not satisfy the
burden].)
 
Here, Plaintiffs do not oppose Defendants’ request to strike
paragraphs 36, 126, and 129 from the FAC, and did not address whether leave
should be granted if these requests to strike are granted.    
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
For the reasons stated, the Court overrules Defendants’ Demurrers to
the FAC in their entirety.  
 
Further, the Court grants in part and denies in part Defendants’ Motion
to Strike.  The Court strikes paragraphs
36, 126, and 129 of the FAC and Paragraph C of the Prayer for Relief in their
entirety, without leave to amend.  The
Court denies Defendants’ motion to strike in all other respects.  
 
Further, the Court orders Defendants to file an Answer to the FAC on
or before March 29, 2024.  
 
Defendants shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service regarding the same.  
 
 
DATED:  March 12, 2024                                                      ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court