 Case Number:  23STCP03943    Hearing Date:   March 7, 2024    Dept:  82 MOTION TO STAY PROCEEDINGS
 
MOTION TO BIFURCATE
  
Date:               3/7/24
(1:30 PM)
Case:                           Dr. Todd Sadow et
al. v. City of Los Angeles et al. (23STCP03943)
  
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Respondents City of Los Angeles, West Los Angeles Area
Planning Commission, and Vincent Bertoni in his individual capacity as Director
of Planning for the City of Los Angeles’ (collectively, “City”) Motion to Stay
Proceedings Pending Required Exhaustion of Remedies Before the Coastal
Commission is GRANTED. 
 
Petitioners Dr. Todd Sadow and Ivo Venkov’s Motion to
Bifurcate is DENIED.
 
Respondents’ requests for judicial notice in connection with
both motions are GRANTED in their entirety. (Evid. Code § 452(b), (d).) 
 
In this action, petitioners seek the rescission of
respondent’s grant of a Zoning Administrator’s Adjustment (“ZAA”) and Coastal
Development Permit (“CDP”), both of which are needed for real parties to
construct infrastructure on a property neighboring petitioners’ properties.
(Pet. ¶¶ 1, 2, 41; Prayer for Relief ¶¶ 2, 3.) 
 
With respect to the CDP, petitioner is in the process of
exhausting administrative remedies by appealing the City’s issuance of the CDP to
the Coastal Commission. (Pet. ¶ 111.)  Respondents
move to stay proceedings in the instant matter pending the Coastal Commission’s
determination. While petitioners do not oppose a stay of the other causes of
action (second through fifth), they move to bifurcate and press forward with
their first cause of action, which seeks a writ of mandate based on the
purported violation of petitioners’ due process right in connection with their appeal
of the ZAA and CDP before the West Los Angeles Area Planning Commission
(“APC”). 
 
The Court elects to allow the appeal of the CDP to the
Coastal Commission to proceed and be resolved first in the interests of
judicial economy. If the Coastal Commission rules that the CDP was improperly
issued, then petitioners will have accomplished their goal of stopping construction
on the subject adjacent property and the remainder of the instant action
(including due process challenges and whether the ZAA was property granted) would
be moot. 
 
If the Coastal Commission upholds the CDP on substantive
grounds, petitioners contend that they will be prevented from litigating their
due process claims with respect to the CDP in this Court, because the City’s
decision would be nullified and only the Coastal Commission’s CDP decision
would be before this Court. (See McAllister v. County of Monterey (2007)
147 Cal.App.4th 253, 274, quoting Kaczorowski v. Mendocino County Bd. of
Supervisors (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 564, 569.)  Indeed, in the reply in support of their
motion to bifurcate, petitioners contend their due process claim with respect
to the CDP would never be heard, because they contend the Coastal Commission’s
jurisdiction on appeal from the City’s decision does not extend to the purported
denial of due process when petitioners attempted to present their case to the
APC, as alleged in the first cause of action. (Bifurcate Reply at 6:18-8:5;
Pet. ¶¶ 10, 68-71.) Even assuming petitioners are correct in this contention, their
due process claims also extend to the ZAA (Pet. ¶¶ 10, 68-71), which will be
heard by this Court.  Accordingly, should
petitioners prevail on their due process claims with respect to the ZAA, they would
still accomplish their goal of stopping construction.  Further, even if there was a denial of due
process with respect to the City’s CDP decision, it would seem such violation potentially
might be cured or rendered harmless if the Coastal Commission were to afford
petitioners a full opportunity to present evidence and be heard when evaluating
the substance of whether the CDP was properly issued. (See El-Attar v.
Hollywood Presbyterian Medical Center (2013) 56 Cal.4th 976, 990 [“[D]epartures
from an organization’s procedural rules will be disregarded unless they have
produced some injustice”].)
 
For the foregoing reasons, the Court finds that the
interests of judicial economy would be promoted by allowing the appeal to the
Coastal Commission to be resolved first. Accordingly, petitioners’ motion to
bifurcate the first cause of action is DENIED. Respondents’ motion to stay is GRANTED.
The action is stayed in its entirety pending resolution of petitioners’ appeal
before the Coastal Commission. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 