 Case Number:  23VECV00978    Hearing Date:   October 16, 2023    Dept:  W SOPHIA SHLOSS v. PETROS GHARIBYAN, et al.
 
defendants Petros gHaribyan and vazrik gHaribyan’s MOTION
TO STAY THE CIVIL PROCEEDING DUE TO THE PENDING CRIMINAL CASE, motion to strike
portions of plaintiff’s complaint, and motion to consolidate cases 
 
Date
of Hearing:        October 16, 2023                                           Trial Date:       None
set.  
Department:              W                                                                     Case
No.:        23VECV00978 
 
Moving
Party:            Defendants Petros
Gharibyan 
Responding
Party:     Plaintiff Sophia Shloss 
 
BACKGROUND
 
This lawsuit arises out of an accident
that occurred on February 26, 2022 wherein Plaintiff Sophia Shloss alleges Defendant
Petros Gharibyan negligently drove a BMW owned by his father, Vazrik Gharibyan, and collided with Plaintiffs’
vehicle. On March 6, 2023, Plaintiff Shloss filed a complaint against Petros
Gharibyan, Vazrik Gharibyan, City of Agoura Hills, and County of Los Angeles,
State of California for motor vehicle, general negligence, and premises
liability. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
I.                   
Defendants Motion to Stay the Civil
Proceeding Due to the Pending Criminal Case is GRANTED, IN PART. 
II.                 
Defendants’ Motion to Strike Portions of Plaintiff’s Complaint is
GRANTED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.
III.               
Defendants’ Motion to Consolidate Cases is DENIED. 
 
ANALYSIS 
 
I.                   
MOTION TO STAY THE CIVIL PROCEEDING DUE TO THE PENDING CRIMINAL
CASE
 
Defendants Petros Garibyan and Vazrik Garibyan move to stay the instant
civil proceedings on the ground criminal charges have been filed against
Defendant Petros Gharibyan involving the same accident and are currently
pending. Defendant Petros Gharibyan contends he is an integral witness in this
action, and as he is not waiving his Fifth Amendment rights, Defendants request
that the court stay this case until the criminal case is completed.
 
In deciding whether to stay proceedings when a civil defendant
faces parallel criminal charges, courts engage in a two-step process. First,
the decision should be made “‘in light of the particular circumstances and
competing interests involved in the case’ . . . This means the decision maker
should consider ‘the extent to which the defendant’s fifth amendment rights are
implicated.’ [Citation.]” (Keating v. Office of Thrift Supervision (9th
Cir. 1995) 45 F.3d 322, 324.) Second, the court should consider: “(1) the
interest of the plaintiffs in proceeding expeditiously with this litigation or
any particular aspect of it, and the potential prejudice to plaintiffs of a
delay; (2) the burden which any particular aspect of the proceedings may impose
on defendants; (3) the convenience of the court in the management of its cases,
and the efficient use of judicial resources; (4) the interests of persons not
parties to the civil litigation; and (5) the interest of the public in the
pending civil and criminal litigation.” (Avant! Corp. v. Superior Court
(2000) 79 Cal.App.4th 876, 885; Keating, supra, 45 F.3d at p.
325.) “[I]t has been consistently held that when both civil and criminal
proceedings arise out of the same or related transactions, an objecting party
is generally entitled to a stay of discovery in the civil action until
disposition of the criminal matter.”  (Pacers, Inc. v. Superior Court
(1984) 162 Cal.App.3d 686, 690.) 
 
Defendant Petros Gharibyan is currently facing two charges in Los
Angeles County Superior Court, Case No. LA097176. A complaint was filed on July
1, 2022 for two counts: Penal Code §187(A) (murder) and Vehicle Code §23101(A)
(reckless driving) for which he has pleaded not guilty. There is no doubt
Defendant Petros Gharibyan’s Fifth Amendment rights would be implicated in the
instant civil action. As discussed further below, the court finds the Avant!
and Keating factors weigh in favor of staying the civil action as to
Defendant Petros Gharibyan only. Discovery may continue against Defendant
Vazrik Gharibyan. 
 
Defendants first argue there is little to no prejudice to
Plaintiffs in issuing the stay. All of the individuals involved in this
accident are relatively young and are all under the age of 25. Moreover, the
accident occurred only about a year ago, on February 26, 2022. Defendants
contend Plaintiff will have their opportunity to conduct discovery and litigate
this matter, but only after the criminal case is completed. Defendants also
argue unless this civil action is stayed, he would be forced to choose between potentially
having a judgment entered against him by not being able to participate in and
defend the present case or sacrificing his Constitutional right against
self-incrimination. Defendants also note they are only attempting to streamline
the litigation in light of the criminal matter and protect his Fifth Amendment
rights. If the court does not issue a stay, there will likely be a plethora of
law and motion work on this case regarding the scope of depositions and written
discovery. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff Shloss argues placing a hold on the
entire civil proceeding is unnecessary and would prejudice the Plaintiff in
this matter. In light of the corresponding criminal proceeding, Plaintiff
contends she should still be able to engage in discovery that would not
infringe upon Defendant Petros Gharibyan's Fifth Amendment right. For instance,
Plaintiff contends she should still be able to request information pertaining
to the Defendants’ applicable insurance policy at the time of the subject
collision and police department records. Plaintiff Shloss further argues by
engaging in narrow discovery, little to no burden would be placed on Defendant
Petros. The fact that Defendant Petros is involved in an ongoing criminal
matter does not shield the other Defendant or witnesses from complying with
Plaintiff’s discovery requests. Plaintiff Shloss lastly notes a delay would
risk witnesses’ ability to testify truthfully and accurately and the public has
an interest in ensuring that injured parties who file lawsuits against
tortfeasors will be guaranteed a fair and efficient forum in which they can
either bring their case to trial. 
 
It is unclear at this time what the status of Defendant Petros’
criminal proceeding is. In reply, Defendant Petros notes a pre-trial conference
has been scheduled in Defendant Petros Gharibyan’s criminal matter for October
12, 2023. Regardless, Defendant Petros’ Fifth Amendment rights are implicated
as of the pending criminal proceedings against him arise from the same set of
facts as those in Plaintiff Shloss’ civil action. And while Defendant Petros
could assert her Fifth Amendment rights in discovery, the court finds that, at
this time, fairness weighs in favor of staying the action and discovery as to
Defendant Petros.
 
As for Defendant Vazrik, Defendants contend discovery should be
halted as well because it is already difficult and complicated to try to
delineate certain discovery that may or may not impede Defendant Petros Gharibyan’s
Fifth Amendment rights. If part of the case were to proceed while other parts
are stayed, Defendants argue it is anticipated that there will be many motions
or requests made to the court to clarify what discovery can be done for certain
parts of the case. The court disagrees. Plaintiff has an interest in
expeditious litigation and Defendant Petros does not provide an estimate for
when his criminal proceedings will be disposed of. If Defendants object to
certain discovery requests or deposition questions on Fifth Amendment grounds,
the court will conduct a particularized inquiry with respect to each specific
claim of privilege to determine whether the privilege applies. (See Siry
Investment, L.P. v. Farkhondehpour (2020) 45 Cal.App.5th 1098, 1124.)
 
Accordingly, Defendants’ Motion to Stay the Civil Proceeding Due
to the Pending Criminal Case, is GRANTED IN PART. The case is stayed as to
Defendant Petros, but not as to Varik. 
Petros may participate in depositions noticed by plaintiff or Varik and
ask questions and may receive copies of discovery between those parties.  Petros, however, cannot issue discovery
requests nor does he need to respond to any at this time.  
 
II.                 
DEFENDANTS PETROS GHARIBYAN AND VAZRIK GHARIBYAN’S MOTION TO
STRIKE PORTIONS OF PLAINTIFF’S COMPLAINT
 
Defendants Petros Garibyan and Vazrik Garibyan move the court for
an order striking the following portions of Sophia Shloss’ complaint: Paragraph
14(a)(2) requesting punitive damages in the prayer for relief; and Exemplary
Damages Attachment attached as page 9 to the complaint.
 
In order to state a prima facie claim for punitive damages, a
complaint must set forth the elements as stated in the general punitive damage
statute, Civil Code section 3294. (College Hospital, Inc. v. Superior Court
(1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 721.)  These statutory elements include allegations
that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud or malice. (Civ. Code
§3294(a).) 
 
California Civil Code section 3294 authorizes the recovery of
punitive damages in non-contract cases where “the defendant has been guilty of
oppression, fraud, or malice ....” (Civ. Code §3294(a).)  “‘Malice’ means
conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or
despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and
conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.” (Civ. Code §3294(c)(1).)
“‘Oppression’ means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and
unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s rights.” (Civ.
Code §3294(c)(2).) “‘Fraud’ means an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or
concealment of a material fact known to the defendant with the intention on the
part of the defendant of thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights
or otherwise causing injury.”  (Civ. Code §3294(c)(3).) 
 
Punitive damages thus require more than the mere commission of a
tort. There must be circumstances of aggravation or outrage, such as spite or
‘malice,’ or a fraudulent or evil motive on the part of the defendant, or such
a conscious and deliberate disregard of the interests of others that his
conduct may be called willful or wanton. (See Taylor v. Superior Court
(1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, 894-95.)  Malice is properly pleaded by alleging the
wrongful motive, intent or purpose. A general allegation of that intent is
sufficient. (Cyrus v. Haveson (1976) 65 Cal. App. 3d 306, 316–17.) 
Specific facts must be pleaded in support of punitive damages. (See Hillard
v. A.H. Robins Co. (1983) 148 Cal.App.3d 374, 391-92.) 
 
Defendants argue the complaint contains buzz words rather than
sufficient allegations or any aggravating factors sufficient to support a
recovery of punitive damages. Defendants contend Plaintiff simply has not and
cannot allege sufficient facts to support a finding of malice, oppression or
fraud, wherein this case amounts to a general negligence claim. Moreover, there
are certainly insufficient allegations regarding the registered owner Defendant
Vazrik Gharibyan to support the punitive damages claim. In support of their
contention, Defendants primarily rely on two cases: Taylor v. Superior Court
(1979) 24 Cal.3d 890 and Lackner v. North (2006) 135 Cal. App. 4th 1188.

 
Taylor held that, “[i]n order to justify an award of punitive damages on
this basis [conscious disregard of the safety of others], the plaintiff must
establish that the defendant was aware of the probable dangerous consequences
of his conduct, and that he willfully and deliberately failed to avoid those
consequences.” (Taylor, supra, 24 Cal.3d at 895-896.) Defendants
argue this action is distinguishable from Taylor because there are no
allegations of prior accidents of recklessness involving injury and in fact and
this is not an alcohol related accident. Rather, this action is more similar to
Lackner. In Lackner, the court found “the plaintiff must
establish that the defendant was aware of the probable dangerous consequences
of his conduct, and that he willfully and deliberately failed to avoid those
consequences.” (Lackner, supra, 135 Cal.App.4th at p. 1211.) Defendants
contend like Lackner, although it is alleged that Defendant’s conduct
may have been careless or reckless, it does not warrant punitive damages. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff Shloss argues Defendants' reliance on Lackner
v. North is misplaced. Plaintiffs contend there is no evidence which would
suggest that Defendant Petros Gharibyan's actions were unintentional or that he
made any attempt to avoid the crash. Additionally, there is no evidence which
would suggest that Defendant Petros was in control as he turned a sharp corner,
going twice the posted speed limit, on a two-lane highway on that fateful
night. Moreover, Lackner was decided at the summary judgment stage. As
for Taylor, Plaintiffs argue Taylor does not stand for the proposition
that punitive damages are only reserved for auto collisions where the defendant
was intoxicated. In fact, the court in Taylor made it a point to avoid
making such a broad ruling for all auto cases. Moreover, like Taylor,
Defendant Petros’ history of reckless driving is alleged in Plaintiffs
complaint. As for Defendant Vazrik, Plaintiff Shloss argues Plaintiff's
complaint alleges that Defendant Vazrik knew of Defendant Petros’ history of
reckless driving and still gave him permission to drive a sports car equipped
with the ability to drive at an extremely high rate of speed. This is
sufficient to show Defendant Vazrik acted with conscious disregard for the
rights and safety of others. 
 
Based upon the discussion set forth above, the court finds that
the allegations contained in Plaintiff Shloss’ complaint regarding Defendant
Petros’ erratic driving at a high-speed rate and Defendant Vazrik’s negligent
entrustment of the vehicle to Defendant Petros are insufficient to support the
imposition of punitive damages. Although Plaintiff Shloss does allege facts
regarding Defendant Petros’ alleged reckless driving by driving at erratic high
speeds, this behavior and Defendant Vazrik’s knowledge of Petros’ prior record
for reckless driving – without more – has the character of ordinary negligent
driving and does not show aggravating circumstances warranting punitive
damages.  
 
However, the court believes Plaintiff’s proposed allegations of Defendant
Petros driving more than twice the posted speed limit around a sharp corner, running
a red light before the subject crash, a previous arrest for reckless driving,
and Defendant Vazrik’s knowledge of Petros’ arrest for reckless driving would
show that the risk of injury was probable and warrant a request for punitive
damages.  
 
Accordingly, Defendants’ Motion to Strike Portions of Plaintiff’s
Complaint is GRANTED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
III.               
DEFENDANTS PETROS GHARIBYAN AND VAZRIK GHARIBYAN’S MOTION TO
CONSOLIDATE CASES 
 
Defendants Petros Gharibyan and Vazrik Gharibyan move the court
for an order to consolidate the following three actions for all purposes: Sophia
Shloss v. Petros Gharibyan, et al. (23VECV00978); Lauren Elizabeth Bahorich et
al. v. Petros Gharibyan, et al. (23SMCV01521); and Stacie Riley as successor in
interest of Skylar Scripter (Decedent) v. Petros Gharibyan, et al. (23VECV02092).
Defendants bring the motion on the grounds that all three actions involve
common questions of law or fact and are pending in the same court. 
 
“When actions involving a common question of law or fact are
pending before the court … it may order all the actions consolidated and it may
make such orders concerning proceedings therein as may tend to avoid
unnecessary costs or delay.” (CCP §1048(a).) The purpose of consolidation is to
enhance trial court efficiency by avoiding unnecessary duplication of evidence
and the danger of inconsistent adjudications. (Todd-Stenberg v. Dalkon
Shield Claimants Trust (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 976,
978-979.)  There are two types of consolidation under section 1048:
“a consolidation for purposes of trial only, where the two actions remain
otherwise separate; and a complete consolidation or consolidation for all
purposes, where the two actions are merged into a single proceeding under one
case number and result in only one verdict or set of findings and one
judgment.” (Hamilton v. Asbestos Corp. (2000) 22 Cal.4th 1127,
1147.) 
 
“Cases may not be consolidated unless they are in the same
department. A motion to consolidate two or more cases may be noticed and heard
after the cases, initially filed in different departments, have been related
into a single department, or if the cases were already assigned to that
department.” (Super. Ct. L.A. County, Local Rules, rule
3.3(g)(1).)  A Notice of Motion to consolidate cases must (1) include
a list of all named parties in each case, the names of those who have appeared,
and the names of their respective attorneys of record; (2) include the captions
of all the cases sought to be consolidated; and (3) be filed in each case
sought to be consolidated. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.350(a)(1).)    
 
The court notes Defendants’ motion fails to comply with Rules of
Court, rule 3.350(a)(1)(C). No notices were filed in Riley’s or Bahorich’s
actions. Accordingly, Defendants’ motion is denied without prejudice. Defendant
may seek consolidation again once properly complied with all applicable
statutes and rules. 