  Case Number:  22VECV00777    Hearing Date:   October 16, 2023    Dept:  W VEDRES FAMILY
INVESTMENT PARTNERSHIP, LP v. PAYAM MAROUNI MD, INC.
 
Cross-Defendant Vedres Family
Investment Partnership, LP’s Demurrer to the First Amended Cross-Complaint
 
Date of Hearing:        October
16, 2023                              Trial Date:       None
Set
Department:              W                                                        Case
No.:        22VECV00777
 
Moving Party:             Cross-Defendant Vedres Family
Investment Partnership, LP
Responding Party:     Cross-Complainant
Payam Marouni MD, Inc.  
Meet and Confer:      Yes.

 
BACKGROUND
 
On June 8, 2022, Plaintiff Vedres
Family Investment Partnership, LP filed an unlawful detainer action against
Defendant Payam Marouni MD, Inc. Plaintiff’s request for entry of default was
entered against All Unknown Occupants in Possession on August 3, 2022.
Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint naming Defendant Payam Marouni on
October 31, 2022; however, Defendant Marouni was dismissed on February 22,
2023. 
 
On February 24, 2023, Defendant Payam
Marouni MD, Inc. filed a cross-complaint against Vedres Family Investment
Partnership, LP and Quest Screen for (1) Conspiracy to Interfere with Prospective
Economic Advantage (2) Intentional Interference with Contractual Relations and
(3) Negligent Interference with Contractual Relations. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Cross-Defendant Vedres Family
Investment Partnership, LP’s Demurrer to the First Amended Cross-Complaint is
SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND 
 
ANALYSIS
 
Cross-Defendant Vedres Family
Investment Partnership, LP (“Vedres Family Investment”) demurs to the First
Amended Complaint of Payam Marouni, MD, Inc. on the grounds that the Complaint fails
to allege facts sufficient to support a cause of action because it fails to
plead facts which, if true, would give rise to a cause of action.
 
First Cause of Action
 
Cross-Defendant Vedres Family
Investment demurs to the first cause of action on the grounds the claim fails
to allege an independent wrongdoing or other basis of liability. Conspiracy is
not itself an independent claim; it allows for recovery against some other
party based upon some other, independent tort action. 
 
“‘A civil conspiracy, however
atrocious, does not give rise to a cause of action unless a civil wrong has
been committed resulting in damage.’”  (Applied Equipment Corp. v.
Litton Saudi Arabia Ltd. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 503, 511.)
 
Here, the civil conspiracy appears
linked to Cross-Complainants’ interference with prospective economic advantage
claim. The elements of the tort of intentional interference with prospective
economic advantage are: (1) an economic relationship between the plaintiff and
some third party, with the probability of future economic benefit to the
plaintiff, (2) the defendant’s knowledge of the relationship, (3) intentional
acts on the part of the defendant designed to disrupt the relationship, (4)
actual disruption of the relationship, and (5) economic harm to the plaintiff
proximately caused by the acts of the defendant. (Marsh v. Anesthesia
Services Medical Group, Inc. (2011) 200 Cal.App.4th 480, 504, citing Korea
Supply Company v. Lockheed Martin Corp. (2003) 29 Cal.4th 1134, 1153.) In Korea
Supply, “the court clarified that the third element of the tort of
interference with prospective economic advantage ‘also requires a plaintiff to
plead intentional wrongful acts on the part of defendant designed to disrupt the
relationship.’” (Marsh, 200 Cal.App.4th at 504.)
 
As discussed below in more detail,
Cross-Complainants have not alleged an independent wrongful act. Accordingly,
Cross-Defendants’ demurrer to the first cause of action is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE
TO AMEND. 
 
Second and Third Causes of Action 
 
Cross-Defendant first demurs to the
FAXC on the grounds it fails to allege an economic relationship with a
cognizable third party that Cross-Defendant interfered with.
 
“The tort[s] of intentional or
negligent interference with prospective economic advantage impose[] liability
for improper methods of disrupting or diverting the business relationship of
another which fall outside the boundaries of fair competition.” (Golden
Eagle Land Investment, L.P. v. Rancho Santa Fe Assn. (2018) 19 Cal.App.5th
399, 429.) “The elements of intentional
interference with prospective economic advantage are ‘(1) the existence,
between the plaintiff and some third party, of an economic relationship that
contains the probability of future economic benefit to the plaintiff; (2) the
defendant's knowledge of the relationship; (3) intentionally wrongful acts
designed to disrupt the relationship; (4) actual disruption of the
relationship; and (5) economic harm proximately caused by the defendant's
action.’ [Citations.]” (Redfearn v. Trader Joe's Co. (2018) 20
Cal.App.5th 989, 1005.) 
 
Cross-Complainant alleges that the
conduct of the Cross-Defendant interfered with a general market for COVID-19
tests. Cross-Complainant argues the cross-complaint, however, fails to allege a
tangible, existing relationship with ascertainable third parties beyond a
general class of consumers who might be interested in such tests. Accordingly,
the Cross-Complaint fails to adequately allege the first element of prospective
interference with an economic relationship. 
 
In opposition, Cross-Complainant argues
Plaintiff need not allege an actual or inevitable breach of contract in order
to state a claim for disruption of contractual relations. The court disagrees. Allegations
regarding interference with potential customers are insufficient to state a
cause of action for intentional interference with prospective economic
advantage. (See Korea Supply Co., supra, 29 Cal.4th at 1164 (stating
that the tort of intentional interference with prospective economic advantage
“‘protects the expectation that the relationship eventually will yield the
desired benefit, not necessarily the more speculative expectation that a
potentially beneficial relationship will arise” (quoting Westside Center
Associates v. Safeway Stores 23, Inc. (1996) 42 Cal.App.4th 507, 524); Roth
v. Rhodes (1994) 25 Cal.App.4th 530, 546 (finding that an allegation that
the defendant interfered with relations with future customers is insufficient
to show an existing relationship).) Moreover, the cross-complaint contains
no allegations related to any contracts between the Cross-Complainant and a
third party. 
 
Cross-Defendant further argues
Cross-Complainant fails to allege an independent wrong. Specifically, Vedres
Family Investment contends Cross-Defendant alleges that the Cross-Complainant
leased space it owned to an adjacent tenant, and that that tenant set up a
tenant to conduct COVID-19 testing. However, the Cross-Complaint fails to
allege any determinable legal standard as to why this conduct is independently wrong.
 
In order to plead intentional
interference with prospective economic advantage, a plaintiff has to plead
facts showing that Defendants engaged in an independently wrongful act. (See Korea
Supply Co., supra, 29 Cal.4th at 1158.) “An act is not independently
wrongful merely because defendant acted with an improper motive.” (Id.)
“[A]n act is independently wrongful if it is unlawful, that is, if it is proscribed
by some constitutional, statutory, regulatory, common law, or other
determinable legal standard.” (Id. at 1159.) 
 
Cross-Complainant does not address this
point. Upon review of the cross-complaint, the court finds the cross-complaint
does not allege an independent wrong. Cross-Complainant’s allegations that
Vedres intentionally worked with Quest in the adjacent property to allow Quest to
also conduct COVID-19 testing in the parking lot to confuse Cross-Complainant’s
patients is not a wrong that is unlawful. 
 
Lastly, Cross-Defendant argues in
California, there is no cause of action for negligent interference with
contractual relations. (See Davis v. Nadrich (2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 1,
9.) The court agrees. 
 
Accordingly, the court sustains the demurrer
to the second and third causes of action WITH LEAVE TO AMEND 
 