 Case Number:  23SMCV01521    Hearing Date:   October 16, 2023    Dept:  W LAUREN ELIZABETH BAHORICH, et al. v.
PETROS GHARIBYAN, et al.
 
defendants Petros gHaribyan and vazrik gHaribyan’s
MOTION TO STAY THE CIVIL PROCEEDING DUE TO THE PENDING CRIMINAL CASE and motion
to strike portions of plaintiff’s complaint
 
Date
of Hearing:        October 16, 2023                               Trial Date:       None
set.  
Department:              W                                                         Case No.:         23SMCV01521          
 
Moving
Party:            Defendants Petros
Gharibyan 
Responding
Party:     Plaintiff Lauren Elizabeth
Bahorich
 
BACKGROUND
 
This lawsuit arises out of an accident
that occurred on February 26, 2022 wherein Plaintiff Lauren
Elizabeth Bahorich alleges Defendant Petros
Gharibyan negligently drove a BMW owned by his father, Vazrik Gharibyan, and collided with Plaintiffs’
vehicle. On April 7, 2023, Plaintiff Bahorich filed a complaint against Petros Gharibyan, Vazrik Gharibyan, County of
Los Angeles, and State of California, acting by and through the California
Department of Transportation, for negligence, dangerous condition of public
property, and punitive/exemplary damages claim.  
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
I.                   
Defendants Motion to Stay the Civil
Proceeding Due to the Pending Criminal Case is GRANTED, IN PART. 
II.                 
Defendants’ Motion to Strike Portions of Plaintiff’s Complaint is
GRANTED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.
 
ANALYSIS 
 
I.                   
MOTION TO STAY THE CIVIL PROCEEDING DUE TO THE PENDING CRIMINAL
CASE
 
Defendants Petros Garibyan and Vazrik Garibyan move to stay the instant
civil proceedings on the ground criminal charges have been filed against
Defendant Petros Gharibyan involving the same accident and are currently pending.
Defendant Petros Gharibyan contends he is an integral witness in this action,
and as he is not waiving his Fifth Amendment rights, Defendants request that
the court stay this case until the criminal case is completed.
 
Plaintiff Bahorich filed a notice of joinder to Plaintiff Shloss’
opposition in the related/lead case No. 23VECV00978. Plaintiff Bahorich states her
interests are identical to that of Plaintiff Shloss’. Plaintiff Bahorich further
contends a delay in the subject civil suit will prejudice the Bahorich in the
same manner as laid out in the Opposition Papers filed by Plaintiff Shloss. 
 
For reasons stated in the court’s order in Sophia Shloss v.
Petros Gharibyan, et al. (23VECV00978), Defendants’ motion is GRANTED IN
PART. 
 
II.                 
DEFENDANTS PETROS GHARIBYAN AND VAZRIK GHARIBYAN’S MOTION TO
STRIKE PORTIONS OF PLAINTIFF’S COMPLAINT
 
Defendants Petros Garibyan and Vazrik Garibyan move the court for
an order striking the following portions of Bahorich’s complaint: Paragraphs
62, 64, and Paragraph 17 of the Prayer for relief on the grounds Plaintiff has
failed to plead specific facts sufficient to establish that Defendants
Gharibyans acted with malice, as required under California law to state a claim
for punitive damages. 
 
In order to state a prima facie claim for punitive damages, a
complaint must set forth the elements as stated in the general punitive damage
statute, Civil Code section 3294. (College Hospital, Inc. v. Superior Court
(1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 721.)  These statutory elements include allegations
that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud or malice. (Civ. Code
§3294(a).) 
 
California Civil Code section 3294 authorizes the recovery of
punitive damages in non-contract cases where “the defendant has been guilty of
oppression, fraud, or malice ....” (Civ. Code §3294(a).)  “‘Malice’ means
conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or
despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and
conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.” (Civ. Code §3294(c)(1).)
“‘Oppression’ means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and
unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s rights.” (Civ.
Code §3294(c)(2).) “‘Fraud’ means an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or
concealment of a material fact known to the defendant with the intention on the
part of the defendant of thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights
or otherwise causing injury.”  (Civ. Code §3294(c)(3).) 
 
Punitive damages thus require more than the mere commission of a
tort. There must be circumstances of aggravation or outrage, such as spite or
‘malice,’ or a fraudulent or evil motive on the part of the defendant, or such
a conscious and deliberate disregard of the interests of others that his
conduct may be called willful or wanton. (See Taylor v. Superior Court
(1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, 894-95.)  Malice is properly pleaded by alleging the
wrongful motive, intent or purpose. A general allegation of that intent is
sufficient. (Cyrus v. Haveson (1976) 65 Cal. App. 3d 306, 316–17.) 
Specific facts must be pleaded in support of punitive damages. (See Hillard
v. A.H. Robins Co. (1983) 148 Cal.App.3d 374, 391-92.) 
 
Defendants first argue Plaintiff’s allegations are insufficient to
establish that Defendant Vazrik Gharibyan had a conscious disregard or that he
knew that injury would occur. At best, Defendant Vazrik Gharibyan was negligent
in allowing Defendant Petros Gharibyan to operate the vehicle, but this is
insufficient for punitive damages.  As
for Defendant Petros, Defendants argue there are no facts pled, nor could there
be, that he intended to harm Plaintiff, or that he acted in “conscious
disregard” of others’ rights, including Plaintiffs. Specifically, Plaintiff’s
allegations Defendant Petros was driving recklessly and that he was unable to
negotiate a curve as well as ran a red light and was driving at an excessive
speed reaching over 100 MPH at best involves simple negligence or at most,
gross negligence or recklessness but does not amount to an evil motive or
conscious disregard for the safety of others. 

 
In support of their contention, Defendants primarily rely on two
cases: Taylor v. Superior Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d 890 and Lackner v.
North (2006) 135 Cal. App. 4th 1188. Taylor held that, “[i]n order
to justify an award of punitive damages on this basis [conscious disregard of
the safety of others], the plaintiff must establish that the defendant was
aware of the probable dangerous consequences of his conduct, and that he willfully
and deliberately failed to avoid those consequences.” (Taylor, supra,
24 Cal.3d at 895-896.) Defendants argue this action is distinguishable from Taylor
because there are no allegations of prior accidents of recklessness involving
injury and in fact and this is not an alcohol related accident. Rather, this
action is more similar to Lackner. In Lackner, the court found
“the plaintiff must establish that the defendant was aware of the probable
dangerous consequences of his conduct, and that he willfully and deliberately
failed to avoid those consequences.” (Lackner, supra, 135 Cal.App.4th
at p. 1211.) Defendants contend like Lackner, although it is alleged
that Defendant’s conduct may have been careless or reckless, it does not
warrant punitive damages. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff Bahorich argues their allegations that
Defendant Petros was driving erratic and reckless at excessive speeds,
purportedly ran a red light, and was overall driving unsafe are sufficient to
support a claim for damages. Plaintiff Bahorich’s opposition also states
Defendant Petros was arrested and charged with two criminal counts for “murder”
and “reckless driving”. Plaintiff Bahorich also argues punitive damages are appropriate
for punishment and deterrence.
 
Based upon the discussion set forth above, the court finds that
the allegations contained in Plaintiff Bahorich’s complaint regarding Defendant
Petros’ erratic driving at a high-speed rate including running a red light and
Defendant Vazrik’s negligent entrustment of the vehicle to Defendant Petros are
insufficient to support the imposition of punitive damages. Although Plaintiff
Bahorich does allege facts regarding Defendant Petros’ alleged reckless driving
by driving at erratic high speeds, this behavior and Defendant Vazrik’s
knowledge of Petros’ prior record for reckless driving – without more – has the
character of ordinary negligent driving and does not show aggravating
circumstances warranting punitive damages. 
The court notes Plaintiff makes arguments in her opposition that are not
alleged in the complaint. These “facts” are not within the four corners of the complaint
and are not considered by the court. 
 
Accordingly, Defendants’ Motion to
Strike Portions of Plaintiff’s Complaint is GRANTED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 