 Case Number:  23VECV01866    Hearing Date:   October 16, 2023    Dept:  W YANIRA
GARCIA FIGUEROA V. JOSE CASTANEDA 
 
SPECIALLY
APPEARING DEFENDANT JOSE CASTANEDA’S  MOTION
TO QUASH SERVICE OF SUMMONS BASED ON PERSONAL JURISDICTION
 
Date
of Hearing:        October 16, 2023                              Trial Date:       None
set   
Department:
             W                                                        Case No.:        23VECV01866
 
Moving
Party:            Specially Appearing
Defendant Jose Castaneda 
Responding
Party:     No opposition  
 
BACKGROUND
 
This
is a wrongful eviction case. On April 28, 2023, Plaintiff Yanira Garcia
Figueroa filed a complaint against Defendant Jose Castaneda for (1) Negligent
Breach of the Implied Warranty of Habitability; (2) Intentional Breach of the
Implied Warranty of Habitability; (3) Nuisance (Negligence); (4) Nuisance
(Intentional); (5) Negligence; (6) Intentional Infliction of emotional
Distress; (7) Breach of the Implied Warranty of Quiet Use and Enjoyment; (8)
Negligent Violation of Statutory Duty; (9) Intentional Violation of Statutory
Duty; and (10) Constructive Eviction. 
 
[TENTATIVE]
RULING:
 
Specifically
Appearing Defendant Jose Castaneda’s Motion to Quash Service of Summons Based
on Personal Jurisdiction is GRANTED. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Specially Appearing Defendant Jose Castaneda, for
the sole purpose of challenging jurisdiction, moves the court for an order
pursuant to California Code of Civil Procedure section 418.10(a)(1) granting
his Motion to Quash Service of Summons based on personal jurisdiction.
 
“A defendant . . . may serve and file a notice of
motion for one or more of the following purposes:  (1) To quash service of
summons on the ground of lack of jurisdiction of the court over him or her. . .
.”  (CCP § 418.10(a).)  A court lacks jurisdiction over a party if
there has not been proper service of process. (See Ruttenberg v. Ruttenberg (1997)
53 Cal.App.4th 801, 808.) “[C]ompliance with the statutory procedures for
service of process is essential to establish personal jurisdiction.
[Citation.]” (Dill v. Berquist Construction Co. (1994) 24 Cal.App.4th
1426, 1444.) “[T]he filing of a proof of service creates a rebuttable
presumption that the service was proper” but only if it “complies with the
statutory requirements regarding such proofs.” (Id. at 1441-1442.) When
a defendant moves to quash service of the summons and complaint, the plaintiff
has “the burden of proving the facts that did give the court jurisdiction, that
is the facts requisite to an effective service.” (Coulston v. Cooper
(1966) 245 Cal.App.2d 866, 868.) 
 
Castaneda
argues Plaintiff failed to serve the complaint on Mr. Castaneda under any of
the five methods enumerated under the Code of Civil Procedure: (1) personal
service, (2) substituted service, (3) through a Notice of Acknowledgement and
Receipt, (4) through publication, or (5) by posting. (See CCP § 417.10.)
Specifically, Castaneda contends he was never personally served and only became
aware of this litigation by receiving certified mail from Plaintiff containing
a copy of the summons and the complaint on or about July 8, 2023. (Castaneda
Decl. ¶¶2-3.) Moreover, there is no evidence Plaintiff adequately accomplished
substituted service or accomplished service by Notice of Acknowledgment and
Receipt, publication, or posting. 
 
Plaintiff did not file an opposition. Rather,
Plaintiff filed a proof of service. However, the court finds the proof of
service does not sufficiently establish the statutory requirements were
satisfied. The proof of service states Castaneda was served by mail and acknowledgment
of receipt of service. However, Castenada, under penalty of perjury, attests
the envelope did not contain a Notice of Acknowledgment and Receipt. (Castaneda
Decl. ¶2.) Plaintiff’s proof of service fails to include a signed acknowledgment
of receipt per Code of Civil Procedure section 415.30(c). 
 
Accordingly, Specifically
Appearing Defendant Jose Castaneda’s Motion to Quash Service of Summons Based
on Personal Jurisdiction is GRANTED. 