 Case Number:  21STCV45526    Hearing Date:   October 16, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


October
  16, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV45526




MOTIONS:  


Petition
  for Minors Compromise 




MOVING PARTY:


Petitioner Henrietta Riojas




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed
  



 
 
The Court has reviewed the
petition filed on August 23, 2024 by Petitioner Henrietta Riojas (Petitioner)
on behalf of Claimant Sky Riojas, age 10. The Court denies the petition without prejudice for the following
reasons: 
 
Petitioner now asserts Claimant was injured after being
bitten by bed bugs, and still suffers from the following temporary injuries:
emotional distress and potential scarring. (Petition, item 8b.) Again,
Petitioner must provide medical records/reports to support this in attachment 8.
 
Plaintiff must explain the reason for apportionment of $15,000
for the benefit of Henrietta Rojas and $5,000 for the benefit of Sky Riojas,
given the nature of the injuries.
 
In item 12a, Petitioner writes “TBD” for total medical
expenses. Similarly, item 12b4, states that the amount to be reimbursed to
Medi-Cal is “TBD”. Petitioner must explain the reason for this in an
attachment. Furthermore, Petitioner indicates Claimant was treated at Arroyo
Vista Family Health Center. Petitioner does not describe whether Claimant is
still being treated, or why past expenses cannot be calculated. 
 
Petitioner requests $2,000 in attorney fees which
represents 40% of the gross settlement. Again, the Court finds the attorney
declaration does not adequately justify this amount. 
 
Petitioner must include attachment 17e.
 
The selections in MC-351, item 9c1, and MC-355, item 5b,
contradict. Petitioner must amend them accordingly.  
 
Accordingly, the Court denies the petition without
prejudice.
 
Petitioner shall give notice and file a
proof of service of such.
 