 Case Number:  23STCV06764    Hearing Date:   October 16, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


October
  16, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


23STCV06764




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Order Compelling Defendant Target Corporation to Produce Court Ordered
  TruCase Reports




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiffs Brayden Medina Molina and Joo Hye Song 




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendant
  Target Corporation



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiffs Brayden
Medina Molina and Joo Hye Song (“Plaintiffs”) move for an order compelling Defendant
Target Corporation (“Defendant”) to produce additional TruCase reports.
Plaintiffs also seek monetary sanctions. Defendant opposes and Plaintiffs reply.

 
ANALYSIS
 
            On August 8, 2024, the Court denied
in part Plaintiff’s motion to have its expert conduct an inspection of
Defendant’s TruCase system. However, the Court ordered the following: “the
Court orders Target to produce a person most knowledgeable as to records
contained in the TruCase system regarding stabbings and brandishings with
knives taken from a Target store at the time of stabbing or brandishing, in any
Target store within the United States for five years prior to the incident.
This deposition shall occur within 15 days and Target shall produce all
documents 2 days prior to the deposition.” (Min. Order, 8/8/24.) 
 
            Following this order, the parties
decided not to proceed with a deposition, but instead agreed on certain search
terms for the TruCase system and allowed Defendant to produce the results.
(Motion, 3.) The parties agreed that all results would be produced, which were
placed in an Excel sheet. Once Plaintiff identified certain incidents from this
sheet, Defendant agreed to produce the applicable TruCase report. Defendant
produced the Excel sheet on August 23, 2024, which contained 3,000 results, and
on August 30, 2024, produced the TruCase reports for the incidents Plaintiffs had
identified. 
 
            Plaintiffs now bring this motion,
arguing they have subsequently identified 20 more incidents from the Excel
sheet, and want Defendant to produce the applicable TruCase reports.[1] 
 
            In opposition, Defendant argues that
TruCase only stores the raw data of each incident; as a result, the Excel sheet
reflects the form of the data within TruCase. (Opp., 2; Deck Decl. ¶ 3.) Furthermore,
Defendant contends the information in the report would not differ from the
information that was presented in the Excel sheet. (Opp., 2; Deck Decl. ¶ 5.) Defendant
asserts it previously produced the reports as a courtesy to Plaintiffs, and
maintains, as it did then, that the Court’s order only applies to “records
contained in the TruCase system”. (Opp., 4.) Since the information in the Excel
sheet accurately reflects the substantive information in the TruCase system, as
well as the form of the information, it is compliant with the Court’s
order.  
 
            In support of this position,
Defendant relies on Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.280(d), which states: 
 
“Unless the parties otherwise agree or the court otherwise orders, the
following shall apply:
 
(1) If a demand for production does not specify a form or forms for
producing a type of electronically stored information, the responding party
shall produce the information in the form or forms in which it is ordinarily
maintained or in a form that is reasonably usable.
(2) A party need not produce the same electronically stored
information in more than one form.”
 
In reply, Plaintiffs do not dispute that the raw data they possess
through the Excel sheet is the same information in the reports. Plaintiffs cite
Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.280(e) which states “[i]f necessary, the
responding party at the reasonable expense of the demanding party shall,
through detection devices, translate any data compilations included in the
demand into reasonably usable form.” 
 
Target has complied with the Court’s prior order. However, in light of
Plaintiff’s representation that the excel spreadsheet is not “reasonably
usable,” and because Target does not appear to argue that the preparation of a
separate report for each of the 20 additional incidents would be burdensome or
harassing, the Court grants Plaintiff’s motion to compel production of individual
reports.
 
The Court declines to award sanctions because Target has complied with
the Court’s order and Plaintiff’s motion contains a new discovery request, for
which Target had substantial justification to refuse.
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Therefore, Plaintiffs’ motion for Order Compelling Defendant Target
Corporation to Produce Court Ordered TruCase Reports is GRANTED. Target shall
produce reports for the identified 20 additional incidents within 5 days.
 
            Plaintiffs shall provide notice, and
file a proof of service of such. 


