 Case Number:  21STCV28134    Hearing Date:   October 16, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


October
  16, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV28134




MOTIONS:  


(1)   Motion
  to Compel Production of Documents From Charles Gruver Pursuant to Deposition
  Subpoena
(2)   Motion
  to Compel Production of Documents to Deposition of Joseph Enayati




MOVING PARTY:


(1)-(2) Defendant Uber
  Technologies, Inc.




OPPOSING PARTY:


(1)   Charles
  Gruver, M.D.
(2)   Joseph
  Enayati, M.D. 



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On August 26, 2024, Uber Technologies, Inc. (“Uber”) filed the instant
motions seeking orders compelling nonparties Charles Gruver, M.D. (“Dr.
Gruver”) and Joseph Enayati, M.D. (“Dr. Enayati”) to comply with certain requests
for production in Uber’s deposition subpoenas. 
 
The doctors filed their oppositions on October 2, 2024.
 
On October 9, 2024, Uber filed an omnibus reply. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
A party seeking discovery from a person who is not a party to the
action may obtain discovery by oral deposition, written deposition, or
deposition subpoena for production of business records. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2020.010.) A deposition subpoena may command either: (1) only the attendance
and testimony of the deponent, (2) only the production of business records for
copying, or (3) the attendance and testimony of the deponent, as well as the
production of business records, other documents, electronically stored
information, and tangible things. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.020.)
 
A service of a deposition subpoena shall be affected a sufficient time
in advance of the deposition to provide the deponent a reasonable opportunity
to locate and produce any designated documents and, where personal attendance
is commanded, a reasonable time to travel to the place of deposition. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2020.220, subd. (a).) Personal service of any deposition subpoena
is effective to require a deponent who is a resident of California to: personally
appear and testify, if the subpoena so specifies; to produce any specified
documents; and to appear at a court session if the subpoena so specifies. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2020.220, subd. (c).) A deponent who disobeys a deposition
subpoena may be punished for contempt without the necessity of a prior order of
the court directing compliance by the witness. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.240.) A
motion to compel compliance with a deposition subpoena must be made within 60 days
after completion of the deposition record, the date objections are served, or
the date specified for production, and be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.480, subd., (b); Board of Registered
Nursing v. Sup.Ct. (Johnson & Johnson) (2021) 59 Cal.App.5th 1011,
1032-1033.)
 
California Code of Civil Procedure section 1987.1, subdivision (a)
states, “[i]f a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness or the production
of books, documents, or other things before a court, or at the trial of an
issue therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion
reasonably made by any person described in subdivision (b), or upon the court’s
own motion after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make
an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance
with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including
protective orders. In addition, the court may make any other order as may be
appropriate to protect the person from unreasonable or oppressive demands,
including unreasonable violations of the right of privacy of the person.”
 
California Code of Civil Procedure section 1987.2, subdivision (a)
states, in relevant part, “. . . in making an order pursuant to motion made . .
. under Section 1987.1, the court may in its discretion award the amount of the
reasonable expenses incurred in making or opposing the motion, including
reasonable attorney’s fees, if the court finds the motion was made or opposed
in bad faith or without substantial justification . . . .”
 
“In general, ‘any party may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not
privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending
action or to the determination of any motion made in that action, if the matter
either is itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably calculated to
lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.’ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2017.010.)
To meet this standard, a party seeking to compel production of records from a nonparty
must articulate specific facts justifying the discovery sought; it may not rely
on mere generalities. [Citation.] In assessing the party’s proffered
justification, courts must keep in mind the more limited scope of discovery
available from nonparties.” (Board of Registered Nursing, supra,
59 Cal.App.5th at 1039.)
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
            The Court finds the meet and confer
requirement has been met. (Declarations of Nicholas D. Brauns, filed on August
26, 2024 (“Braus Decl.”), ¶ 8 [testifying that Uber’s counsel and counsel for
the nonparties met and conferred on several occasions regarding the requests
for production at issue in the subpoenas but the parties were unable to resolve
the dispute].)
 
SEPARATE
STATEMENT
 
            Uber has also satisfied the separate
statement requirement. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345(a) [requiring motions
to compel the production of documents at a deposition to be accompanied by a
separate statement]; Unzipped Apparel, LLC v. Bader (2007) 156
Cal.App.4th 123, 131 [“Under the plain meaning rule, the Act contemplates that
discovery conducted by way of a business records subpoena is a ‘deposition’”];
Separate Statements filed on August 26, 2024 [outlining the requests for
production at issue, the nonparties responses to those requests, and why
further responses are required].)
 
DISCUSSION
 
This action arises from an automobile collision. The operative
Complaint alleges that on or about August 2, 2019, Plaintiffs Kenny Reese
(“Reese”) and Michele Bias were passengers in Defendant John Doe’s vehicle when
the latter collided with two other defendants’ vehicle. 
 
Uber now moves to compel Drs. Gruver and Enayati to produce certain
documents pursuant to deposition subpoenas, arguing that those doctors treated
Reese for pain management on a medical lien-basis. (Braums Decl., ¶ 2
[testifying Uber served the nonparties with the subpoenas on February 22,
2024]; Exhibits B – copies of the subpoenas.) According to defense counsel, the
two doctors are affiliated with one another, LA Pain and Beverly Hills Pain
& Spine (“LA Pain”) and Beverly Hills Advanced Pain and Spine (“BHAPS”).
(Braums Decl., ¶ 2.) Uber previously moved for an order compelling BHAPS to
comply with Uber’s subpoena seeking “[a]ny and all lien agreements or contracts
between [BHAPS] and Downtown L.A. Law Group in the last 10 years.” (Separate
Statement, filed June 20, 2024, p. 1:25-27.) The Court granted the motion in
part, ordering BHAPS to only produce redacted lien information for the two
years prior to Reese’s referral. (Minute Order, filed October 7, 2024 (“October
7 Minute Order”), p. 6.) 
 
The Court has reviewed Uber’s separate statements and notes that the discovery
at issue (i.e., request for production of documents (“RPD”) Nos. 3-9, 11,
15-34, 38-48, 54-73, and 75) are identical. 
 
According to Uber, the RPDs seek records relevant to Reese’s damages; specifically,
the reasonable value of medical services provided to Reese. (Braums Decl., ¶
13.) 
 
In their oppositions, Drs. Gruver and Enayati argue the Court should
deny the motions for the following reasons. First, Uber failed to give consumer
notices to the patients whose information is being requested. (See Code Civ.
Proc., § 1985.3, subd. (b) [“Prior to the date called for in the subpoena duces
tecum for the production of personal records, the subpoenaing party shall serve
or cause to be served on the consumer whose records are being sought a copy of
the subpoena duces tecum . . .”].) Second, the subpoenas seek irrelevant
information. Third, the subpoenas violate the doctors’ and their patients’
rights to privacy. The doctors ask the Court to impose sanctions on Uber for
bringing what they deem to be frivolous motions. 
 
Uber makes the following arguments in reply. First, it was impossible
for Uber to comply with the consumer notice requirement because Uber did not
know the identity of other patients other than Reese and, in any event, patient
privacy can be protected by redacting patient identifying information. Second,
the information requested for is relevant to Uber’s assessment of Reese’s
damages. Third, any privacy interests the doctors have in the requested records
are outweighed by Uber’s need for the discovery. In addition, a protective
order can be issued to protect the doctors’ privacy. Finally, sanctions are inappropriate
because Uber has brought the motions in good faith. 
 
As an alternative to granting the motions in full, Uber argues in its
reply that the Court should issue an order narrowing the scope of the RPDs to
two years before and two years after Reese’s referral to BHAPS. 
 
“In a tort action for economic damages, the California Supreme Court
has held an award of past medical expenses is limited to the lesser of (1) the
amount paid or incurred and (2) the reasonable value of the services rendered.”
(Qaadir v. Figueroa (2021) 67 Cal.App.5th 790, 797 (“Qaadir”).) 
 
“[E]vidence of a medical bill is relevant to prove or disprove the ‘paid
or incurred’ prong of past medical damages if it can be established the bill is
actually paid or incurred.” (Qaadir. supra, 67 Cal.App.5th at p.
798.)
 
In addition, “[r]eferral evidence [i.e., evidence that a party was
referred by his attorney to lien-physicians] … [is also] relevant to the
question of the reasonable value of the lien-physicians’ medical care because
it may show bias or financial incentives on the part of the lien-physicians.” (Qaadir.
supra, 67 Cal.App.5th at p. 808.)
Here, with the
exception of the RPDs discussed below, the Court finds that all other RPDs seek
information that goes beyond seeking documents relevant to showing bias in Reese’s
referral and the medical bills that Reese actually paid or incurred. For
example, some RPDs ask the doctors to produce (1) all documents of instances in
which the LA Pain “has commenced collections actions or litigation against a
patient for non-payment of bills” (RPD No. 18), and (2) all liens for
healthcare services rendered by LA Pain (No. 71) regardless of whether those
documents have anything to do with Reese. Uber has not provided a sufficient
basis for those requests. 
 
However, the Court
finds that RPDs Nos. 6, 34, 44-47[1],
66, 68-69, and 75 seek relevant documents. For example, RPD No. 6 asks the
doctors to produce all documents LA Pain has used to develop Reese’s billing
and RPD No. 46 asks them to produce all documents of incentives or discounts LA
Pain offers for patient referrals by attorneys. The Court finds those documents
are relevant to determining the value of the medical services LA Pain provided
to Reese and the issue of bias with regard to Reese’s referral to LA Pain. The
Court notes that, according to Uber’s separate statements, the doctors did not
respond or object to RPD Nos. 44, 45, 46, 66, 68, and 69. The doctors objected
to RPD Nos. 6, 34, 47, and 75 on various grounds, including that some requests
are vague and seek to intrude on the doctors’ and nonparties’ rights to
privacy. However, the Court has not found any of those requests vague, and the
doctors have not explained how those specific requests will invade theirs and
others’ rights to privacy. To the extent the doctors are concerned the
documents produced will contain identifying information of other patients other
than Reese, the doctors can redact that identifying information. Like BHAPS,
the doctors have “not pointed to authority that redacting the personal
identification information would still require consumer notices.” (October 7
Minute Order, p. 5, the third full paragraph.) 
 
Accordingly, Uber’s
request to compel the doctors’ requests for production to RPD Nos. 6, 34,
44-47, 66, 68-69, and 75 is granted but limited to two years before and after
Reese was referred to LA Pain. The request to compel production of all other
RPDs is denied. 
 
The doctors argue that
Uber should bear the cost of producing the documents. BHAPS’s General Counsel
Craig Johnson testifies that it will cost approximately $20,000 to $30,000 for
the doctors to locate and produce the RPDs. (Motions, Declarations of Craig
Johnson, ¶ 4.)
 
Uber argues that the
$20,000 to $30,000 estimate lacks foundation and the Court agrees. Johnson does
not discuss how he arrived at that number. In addition, since the subpoenas
seek the same documents from the same entity (LA Pain) it is unlikely that it
will cost $40,000 to $60,000 in total for the doctors to produce the documents.
The Court has also denied the request to compel many of the original requests
for production in the subpoenas. Therefore, it is questionable whether
Johnson’s estimate is accurate. 
 
Accordingly, the Court
will grant the doctors’ request for an order reimbursing their reasonable and
actual costs of production contingent upon them providing Uber an estimate with
sufficient information. 
 
Drs. Gruver and Enayati’s requests for monetary sanctions against Uber
is denied. Uber acted with
substantial justification in bringing the motions. (Code Civ. Proc., § 128.5,
subd. (f)(1)(B).)
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court grants in part the motions to compel Charles
Gruver, M.D. and Joseph Enayati, M.D. to comply with Defendant Uber
Technologies, Inc.’s deposition subpoenas. The doctors are ordered to produce redacted
Request for Production of Documents, Nos. 6, 34, 44-47[2],
66, 68-69, and 75 limited to two years before and after Plaintiff Kenny
Reese was referred to LA
Pain and Beverly Hills Pain & Spine. 
 
Defendant shall give notice of the Court’s order and file a proof of
service of such.  


