 Case Number:  23PSCP00315    Hearing Date:   November 26, 2024    Dept:  H Swift
Financial, LLC v. LokiTap LLC, et al., Case No. 23PSCP00315
 
ORDER ON PETITIONER’S MOTION FOR ASSIGNMENT ORDER
Swift Financial, LLC as Servicing
Agent for WebBank’s Motion for Assignment Order is GRANTED.

Background
On
July 13, 2022, Petitioner Swift
Financial, LLC (as Servicing Agent for WebBank) (“Petitioner”) filed a
“Petition to Confirm Contractual Arbitration Award” (“Petition”) as against
Respondents LokiTap LLC (“LokiTap”), Andrei Mirzoian (“Mirzoian”), and Does
1-10. On July 25, 2023, Petitioner filed a “Notice of Motion and Motion on
Petition to Confirm Arbitration Award.”
On
September 29, 2023, the Court entered “Judgment on Petition to Confirm
Arbitration Award.” On December 21, 2023, Plaintiff filed (and served via mail)
a “Notice of Entry of Judgment.”
On
December 22, 2023, an abstract of judgment was issued. On January 24, 2024 and
March 26, 2024, writs of execution were issued.
Pending
before the Court is Petitioner’s
motion for an order instructing LokiTap and Mirzoian (together, “Judgment
Debtors”) to assign their interests in any and all monies, proceeds,
receivables, and payables received by them from Apple, to Petitioner, to the
extent necessary to pay Petitioner’s judgment.
 
Legal
Standard
“Except as otherwise provided by law, upon application of
the judgment creditor on noticed motion, the court may order the judgment
debtor to assign to the judgment creditor . . . all or part of a right to payment due
or to become due, whether or not the right is conditioned on future
developments, including but not limited to the following types of payments:
(1)
Wages due from the federal government that are not subject to withholding under
an earnings withholding order.
(2)
Rents.
(3)
Commissions.
(4)
Royalties.
(5)
Payments due from a patent or copyright.
(6)
Insurance policy loan value.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 708.510, subd. (a).)
“The notice of the motion shall be served on the judgment
debtor. Service shall be made personally or by mail.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 708.510, subd. (b).)
“Subject
to subdivisions (d), (e), and (f), in determining whether to order an
assignment of the amount of an assignment pursuant to subdivision (a), the
court may take into consideration all relevant factors, including the
following:
(1)
The reasonable requirements of a judgment debtor who is a natural person and of
persons supported in whole or in part by the judgment debtor. 
(2)
Payments the judgment debtor is required to make or that are deducted in
satisfaction of other judgments and wage assignments, including earnings
assignment orders for support. 
(3)
The amount remaining due on the money judgment. 
(4)
The amount being or to be received in satisfaction of the right to payment that
may be assigned.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 708.510, subd. (c).)
“A
right to payment may be assigned pursuant to this article only to the extent
necessary to satisfy the money judgment.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 708.510, subd.
(d).)
“When earnings or periodic payments pursuant to a pension
or retirement plan are assigned pursuant to subdivision (a), the amount of the
earnings or the periodic payments assigned shall not exceed the amount that may
be withheld from a like amount of earnings under Chapter 5
(commencing with Section 706.010) (Wage Garnishment Law).” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 708.510, subd. (e).)
“Where a specific amount of the payment or payments to be
assigned is exempt by another statutory provision, the amount of the payment or
payments to be assigned pursuant to subdivision (a) shall not exceed the amount
by which the payment or payments exceed the exempt amount.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 708.510, subd. (f).)

Discussion
Petitioner moves the Court for an order instructing
“Judgment Debtors” to assign their interests in any and all monies, proceeds,
receivables, and payables received by them from Apple, to Petitioner, to the
extent necessary to pay Judgment Creditor’s judgment on full, including accrued
interest through the date of payment.
In support of Petitioner’s motion, Petitioner’s
counsel Darren Schlecter (“Schlecter”) represents as follows:
          Judgment
was entered on September 29, 2023 in this case in favor of Petitioner and
against Judgment Debtors, jointly and severally, in the amount of $138,937.23.
(Schlecter Decl., ¶ 2.) Petitioner received one payment in the amount of
$1,255.42 through a previous levy conducted on or about June 4, 2024, which was
applied first to interest on the judgment. (Id., ¶ 3.) There is now due and owing the amount of
$153,821.38 through November 26, 2024; interest accrues from the date of entry
of judgment and post-judgment costs incurred at the daily rate of $38.07/day. (Id.) The judgment is final and enforcement
thereof is not stayed. (Id., ¶ 4.)
          On
January 31, 2024, a subpoena was directed to and served on Apple (Id., ¶ 6, Exh. A); in response thereto, Apple’s
local counsel confirmed that she would cooperate in achieving a stipulated
assignment order (Id., ¶ 7.) Petitioner’s
counsel has been in regular communication with Apple’s local counsel since
February 2024 regarding seeking an assignment. (Id., ¶ 13.) The instant motion was brought after the
Court rejected a stipulated confidentiality order to address Apple’s concerns
in early June 2024 and efforts to attempt to reach a consensual assignment with
Apple also failed. (Id., ¶ 8.)
          Petitioner’s
counsel is informed that Judgment Debtors’ business appears to still be
operating and that they have several apps, including but not limited to, Pentix
Tetris, Pentix APK, and Pentix Tournament. (Id., ¶¶ 10-12, Exhs. B and C.) He is informed and
believes that the following right to payment(s) is/are or will become due to
Judgment Debtors: “Any and all rights to payments, royalties, compensation from
Apple due to Judgment Debtors Andrei Mirzoian and/or Lokitap, LLC for any and
all applications on Apple’s iTunes Store, including but not limited to Pentix
Tetris, Pentix APK and Pentix Tournament.” (Id., ¶ 5.) Petitioner’s counsel is also informed and
believes that the right to payment(s) sought to be assigned herein has not been
previously assigned. (Id., ¶ 9.)
The
unopposed motion is granted.   