 Case Number:  21STCV01071    Hearing Date:   January 30, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


January
  30, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV01071




MOTIONS:  


Amended
  Petition for Minors Compromise 




MOVING PARTY:


Petitioner Karina Molinar  




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed
  



 
 
The Court has reviewed the revised
Petition to Approve Compromise of Pending Action of a Minor, Othaniel Molinar. The Court denies the petition
without prejudice for the following reasons. 
 
As stated in the previous minute order, the records
included in attachment 8c must include a report or evidence of Claimant’s
current condition. (Min. Order, 10/23/23.) Petitioner indicates that Claimant
is not fully recovered. No evidence has been submitted other than records of an
August 7, 2020 operation. Petitioner must also state more facts about the
nature of the incident in item 5. 
 
The amounts listed in 10b must equal the gross settlement
in 10a. 
 
Item 12a(4) states the total medical expenses requested
to be reimbursed is $124,836.32. However, this appears to be a typo and must be
amended. 
 
Petitioner did not complete item 12a(1). 
 
In item 14b, Petitioner indicates she has paid all the
expenses for which reimbursement is requested. If this is true, then Petitioner
must attach proof of the fees and payments that were made by Petitioner.
 
Attachment 17a indicates that Claimant’s attorney is
representing other parties in this case. Accordingly, the response in item 17e
must be changed and attachment 17e must be included. 
 
Accordingly, the Court denies the petition without
prejudice.
 
Petitioner shall give notice and file a
proof of service of such.
 