 Case Number:  22STCV21242    Hearing Date:   January 30, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are  encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if  a resolution may be reached.  If the  parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this  tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date  and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the  identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email  indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no  appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or  adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this  tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely (which is  highly encouraged).  Further, after the Court has posted/issued a tentative  ruling, the Court has the inherent authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the  subject motion and adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.     TENTATIVE RULING       DEPARTMENT   32     HEARING DATE   January 30, 2024     CASE NUMBER   22STCV21242     MOTION   Motion for Trial Preference      MOVING PARTY   Plaintiffs Vanessa Jung Tirman, Estate of Jonathan Dongin    Jung, Jung Sik Jung, and Insoon Jung¿      OPPOSING PARTY   Defendant The Bicycle Casino, LP       BACKGROUND   On June 29, 2022, Plaintiffs Vanessa Jung  Tirman, Estate of Jonathan Dongin Jung, Jung Sik Jung, and Insoon Jung filed a  complaint against Defendant The Bicycle Casino, Inc. (“Defendant”) for the  wrongful death of Decedent Jonathan Dongin Jung (“Decedent”). Plaintiffs  alleges that Defendant’s security guards attacked Decedent and caused his  death.     A Jury Trial is currently set for June  3, 2024, four (4) months and 4 days from the hearing on January 30, 2024.    LEGAL  STANDARD   “A party to a civil action who is  over 70 years of age may petition the court for a preference, which the court  shall grant if the court makes both of the following findings: (1) [t]he party  has a substantial interest in the action as a whole[; and] (2) [t]he health of  the party is such that a preference is necessary to prevent prejudicing the party’s  interest in the litigation.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 36, subdivision (a).)    A motion made under Section 36(a) “may  be supported by nothing more than an attorney’s declaration ‘based upon  information and belief as to the medical diagnosis and prognosis of any party.’  [Citation.]” (Fox v. Superior Court (2018) 21 Cal.App.5th 529, 534,  citing Code Civ. Proc., § 36.5 [“[a]n affidavit in support of a motion for  preference under subdivision (a) of Section 36 may be signed by the attorney  for the party seeking preference based upon information and belief as to the  medical diagnosis and prognosis of any party”].) The affidavit may also consist  entirely of hearsay and conclusions. (Id.)   If the court makes the requisite  finding of fact on a motion for preference under Code of Civil Procedure  section 36, subdivision (a), it has no discretion to deny the motion due to the  use of the word “shall” in the statute. (See Peters v. Superior Court (1989)  212 Cal.App.3d 218, 224-25; see also Rice v. Superior Court (1982) 136  Cal.App.3d 81, 89-94.) “Failure to complete discovery or other pre-trial  matters does not affect the absolute substantive right to trial preference for  those litigants who qualify for preference under subdivision (a) of section 36.”  (Swaithes v. Superior Court (1989) 212 Cal.App.3d 1082, 1085 (“Swaithes”).)  “The trial court has no power to balance the differing interests of opposing  litigants in applying the provision.” (Ibid.)   The courts have not decided on the  due process implications of Code Civ. Proc., section 36. (Peters v. Superior  Court (1989) 212 Cal.App.3d 218, 227.) Although the Swaithes court  briefly acknowledged that trial preference may operate to truncate the  discovery rights of other parties, the provisions of section 36 remain  mandatory. (Swaithes, supra, 212 Cal.App.3d at p. 1086.)   DISCUSSION   The Court finds that Plaintiff Insoon  Jung (“Insoon”) has a substantial interest in the action as a whole and that  her health is such that a preference is necessary to prevent prejudicing her  interest in the litigation.  The  declaration submitted in support of the motion shows that Insoon is 76 years  old. (Jones Decl. ¶ 12–13.) Notably, she “suffers from dementia,  Alzheimer’s Disease, and overall failing health, which has further deteriorated  since Jonathan’s death. Indeed, it now appears that the Jung Mother no longer  has a consistent cognitive understanding of the proceedings such that she will  be able to competently testify at trial.” (Id. ¶ 3.) Additionally, she “has  been suffering from the onset of dementia and Alzheimer’s Disease for some  time, and her condition has been exacerbated by the recent death of the Jung  Parents’ lone remaining child, Mrs. Jung Tirman. Based on the Jung Mother’s advanced  age, age-based susceptibility to disease, diagnosed dementia, diagnosed  Alzheimer’s Disease, and apparent grief-based depressive state, there is a  substantial likelihood that she may not survive for an extended period of time  beyond the currently-scheduled trial date.” (Id. ¶ 37.) Plaintiff’s  attorney declares that since the death of Plaintiff Vanessa Tirman in August  2023, Insoon has become more frail, is completely non-verbal, and “no longer  recognizes, acknowledges, or reacts when shown pictures of her children.” (Id.  ¶ 22.)    As a result, the declaration  in support of the motion provides a factual basis for the Court to find that  the health of the Plaintiff is such that a preference is necessary.   CONCLUSION AND ORDER               Therefore, Plaintiffs motion  for trial preference is GRANTED.   The hearing on the motion to  exclude set for January 31 is continued to the trial date of May 09, 2024 at 8:30 a.m. The hearings on the  discovery motions currently set for March 5, March 6, April 11, and April 23  are advanced to February 28, 2024. All papers must be timely filed and served.               The Final Status  Conference is set for April 25, 2024 at 10:00 a.m. in Department 32 of the  Spring Street Courthouse.               Trial is set for May 9,  2024 at 8:30 a.m. in Department 32 of the Spring Street Courthouse.   Plaintiffs shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof of service of  such.       