 Case Number:  21STCV37966    Hearing Date:   January 30, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court. 

 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


January
  30, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV37966




MOTIONS:  


(1)  
  Compel Response to Request for Production of
  Documents
(2)  
  Compel Response to Interrogatories




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff
  Mignon Smith




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendant
  Ronald Francis Gilmartin



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            Plaintiff Mignon Smith (Plaintiff),
moves to compel Defendant Ronald Francis Gilmartin’s (Defendant) responses to
Request for Production of Documents, Set One, Form Interrogatories, Set One,
and Special Interrogatories, Set One. Plaintiff seeks monetary sanctions.
Defendant opposes. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
If a party to whom interrogatories are directed fails to
serve a timely response, the propounding party may move for an order compelling
responses. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.290 (b).) Failure to timely respond waives
all objections, including privilege and work product, unless “[t]he party has
subsequently served a response that is in substantial compliance” and “[t]he
party’s failure to serve a timely response was the result of mistake,
inadvertence, or excusable neglect.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290 (a)(1),
(a)(2).) The statute contains no time limit for a motion to compel where no
responses have been served and no meet and confer is required when a party does
not respond to discovery requests. All that need be shown in the moving papers
is that a set of interrogatories was properly served on the opposing party,
that the time to respond has expired, and that no response of any kind has been
served. (Leach v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 902, 905-906.)  
 
If a motion to compel responses is filed, the Court shall
impose a monetary sanction against the losing party “unless it finds that the
one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., §§
2030.290 (c).) Further, “[t]he court may award sanctions under the Discovery
Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no
opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn, or
the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion was
filed.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1348(a).) 
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure Section 2031.300, if a party
fails to serve a timely response to a demand for inspection, the party making
the demand may move for an order compelling response to the demand. (Code Civ.
Pro § 2031.300 (b).) The party who fails to serve a timely response to a demand
for inspection waives any objection to the demand unless the court finds that
the party has subsequently served a response that is in substantial compliance
or party’s failure was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable
neglect. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.300 (a)(1)- (2).)  
 
Courts shall impose a monetary sanction against any party
who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to a demand
for inspection unless the party acted with substantial justification or other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc. §
2031.300 (c).) Further, “[t]he court may award sanctions under the Discovery
Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no
opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn,
or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion
was filed.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1348(a).) 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Here, Plaintiff shows that she served Request for Production of
Documents, Set One, Form Interrogatories, Set One, and Special Interrogatories,
Set One on Defendant on May 24, 2023. (Mashburn Decl. ¶ 3, Exh. 1.) Responses
were due June 27, 2023. (Id. ¶ 4.) Plaintiff then conferred with Defendant and
granted extensions to respond, without objections. On August 24, 2023,
Defendant served unverified responses with objections. (Id. ¶ 7–8, Exh. 2.) As
of the filing of this motion, Defendant had not served verified responses. Unverified
discovery responses are tantamount to no response at all, and are subject to a
motion to compel responses (rather than a motion to compel further responses).¿
(Appleton v. Superior Court (1988) 206 Cal. App. 3d 632,
635-36.)¿   
 
In opposition, Defendant argues Plaintiff’s motion is actually to
compel further answers and separately moves for relief from the waiver of
objections due to mistake, inadvertence and/or excusable neglect. Defendant
contends he executed the verification page for the discovery responses on
September 6, 2023. (Spearman Decl. ¶ 7, Exh. 6.)  
 
First, if Defendant moves for relief from waiver of objections, he
must bring a separately noticed motion. (See Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.290(a) [“The
court, on motion, may relieve that party from this waiver . . . .”].) Therefore,
the Court will not address Defendant’s request in opposition.
 
Second, upon reviewing Defendant’s verification statements in exhibit
6, the Court finds them to be deficient. Under Code of Civil Procedure section
2015.5, whenever a statute requires a matter to be supported by a verification,
the writing must “recite[] that it is certified or declared by him or her to be
true under penalty of perjury, is subscribed by him or her, and (1), if
executed within this state, states the date and place of execution, or (2), if
executed at any place, within or without this state, states the date of
execution and that it is so certified or declared under the laws of the State
of California.” 
 
Here, Defendant’s verifications do not follow the proper format under
section 2015.5 and are not signed “under penalty of perjury.” Merely stating
that Defendant believes the matters to be true is insufficient. 
 
Therefore, finding that Defendant has not served verified responses,
the motions to compel are granted. 
 
Plaintiff requests $1,260 in sanctions for each motion (two total),
representing an hourly rate of $400 and the $60 filing fee. The Court finds
sanctions are warranted but the amount requested is excessive. Therefore, the
Court awards sanctions in the amount of $1,320.00 (1.5 hours of attorney time
to file and appear at the hearing, plus the $60 filing fee, for each of the two
motions). 
             
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s Motions to Compel are GRANTED. Defendant shall serve properly
verified responses, without objections, to Production of Documents,
Set One, Form Interrogatories, Set One, and Special Interrogatories, Set One, within 10 days.
 
The
Court awards monetary sanctions to Plaintiff against Defendant and his counsel
of record, jointly and severally, in the reduced amount of $1,320.00. Said
monetary sanctions are to be paid to counsel for Plaintiff within 30 days of
the date of this order.   
 
Plaintiff shall
provide notice of the Court’s order and file a proof of service of such. 