 Case Number:  22STCV24157    Hearing Date:   January 30, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


January
  30, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV24157




MOTIONS:  


Petition
  for Minors Compromise 




MOVING PARTY:


Petitioner Ika Sugiharto




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed
  



 
 
The Court has reviewed the revised
Petition to Approve Compromise of Pending Action of a Minor, Bradley Sugiharto, age 17. The Court denies the
petition without prejudice for the following reasons. 
 
Petitioner indicates that Claimant is fully recovered.
However, Petitioner must submit medical records and/or a report verifying
Claimant’s current condition in attachment 8. 
 
Medical expenses are sought to be reimbursed for $8,399.93.
Of this amount, Petitioner will be reimbursed $189.95. Claimant’s private
insurance will be reimbursed $2,360.77, along with various providers for $6,039.16.
However, these amounts total $8,589.88, and thus are inconsistent with the
value in 12a(4). The amounts must be amended accordingly. Additionally, the
$189.95 that Petitioner purportedly seeks reimbursement for is not indicated in
item 8 of the Order (MC-351) or item 14b of the Petition. 
 
Accordingly, the Court denies the petition without
prejudice.
 
Petitioner shall give notice and file a
proof of service of such.
 