 Case Number:  23STCV31474    Hearing Date:   June 7, 2024    Dept:  52 Defendant Abel Rivera’s Motion to Set
Aside the Judgment and Any Default and to Quash Any Writ of
Possession/Execution
Defendant Abel Rivera moves to set aside his default
and the default judgment against him under Code of Civil Procedure section
473.5.  Courts may vacate a defendant’s
default and default judgment “[w]hen service of a summons has not resulted in
actual notice to a party in time to defend the action.”  (Id., subd. (a).)  A motion for that relief “shall be
accompanied by an affidavit showing under oath that the party’s lack of actual
notice in time to defend the action was not caused by his or her avoidance of
service or inexcusable neglect.”  (Id.,
subd. (b).)
Defendant meets that burden.  “ ‘[W]ith respect to setting aside a default
judgment, it is the policy of the law to favor, whenever possible, a hearing on
the merits.’ ”  (Luxury Asset Lending,
LLC v. Philadelphia Television Network, Inc. (2020) 56 Cal.App.5th 894, 907;
accord Rappleyea v. Campbell (1994) 8 Cal.4th 975, 980 [CCP §
473(b)].)  Defendant submitted a
declaration stating, “I did not answer the Summons and Complaint and did not go
to the trial because I did not receive the Summons and Complaint in this case
at all or did not receive them in the legally required way calculated to
provide notice.  I received them after
receiving the Notice to Vacate and being instructed by my Attorney to go get
the case files as they are inaccessible prior to subbing in.”  (Rivera Decl., ¶ 2.)  He further states, “I didn’t receive the
Summons/Complaint until after I received the Notice to Vacate.”  (Id., ¶ 3.)  “I did not avoid service of the legal papers
or do anything else that interfered with notice of the Summons and Complaint
that was meant for me.”  (Id., ¶
4.)  Finally, he states, “I discovered
there was a default/judgment against me on April 26, 2024.”  (Id., ¶ 5.)
In light of the policy favoring trial on the merits,
defendant presents sufficient evidence showing he lacked actual notice in time
to defend the action and his lack of actual notice did not result from avoiding
service or inexcusable neglect.
Plaintiff Hollywood Arts, LLC argues, “Given that the
proofs of service attest to Defendant receiving actual notice in time to defend
the action and file an answer or other responsive pleading, Defendant’s
argument under Code of Civil Procedure section 473.5 that he did not have
actual notice in time to defend the action is disproved.”  (Opp., p. 5.) 
The proofs of service do not attest to defendant receiving actual
notice.  They state the process server
posted the summons and complaint at the subject commercial property and
thereafter mailed them to the same address. 
Properly serving the papers under Code of Civil Procedure section 415.45
does not mean defendant actually got them. 
Defendant testifies that he never received them until after default
judgment was entered against him.  That
evidence suffices for relief under Code of Civil Procedure section 473.5.     
Disposition  
Defendant Abel
Rivera’s motion to set aside default and default judgment is granted.  The court hereby vacates the default and default
judgment for possession of the premises entered against defendant Abel
Rivera.  The court hereby quashes the writ of
possession issued by the clerk. 
Defendant shall file his proposed answer (attached to the motion as
exhibit 9) forthwith.  