  Case Number:  21STCV09539    Hearing Date:   June 7, 2024    Dept:  52 Plaintiff
Jesus Ortiz’s Motion to Lift
Arbitration Stay and for Sanctions
            Plaintiff
Jesus Ortiz moves to lift the stay of this action pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 1281.98.  
Section 1281.98, subdivision (a)(1) provides,
“In an employment or consumer arbitration that
requires, either expressly or through application of state or federal law or
the rules of the arbitration provider, that the drafting party pay certain fees
and costs during the pendency of an arbitration proceeding, if the fees or
costs required to continue the arbitration proceeding are not paid within 30
days after the due date, the drafting party is in material breach of the
arbitration agreement, is in default of the arbitration, and waives its right
to compel the employee or consumer to proceed with that arbitration as a result
of the material breach.”  Subdivision
(b)(1) provides, “If the drafting party materially breaches the arbitration
agreement and is in default under subdivision (a), the employee or consumer may
unilaterally elect to do any of the following: (1) Withdraw the claim from
arbitration and proceed in a court of appropriate jurisdiction.”  
Culinary
International, LLC’s Opposition
A.
Grounds to Withdraw from Arbitration and Lift Stay
Defendant
Culinary International, LLC (Culinary) opposes the motion on the grounds that,
though it did not timely pay an invoice from AAA, it did not breach the
arbitration agreement because that invoice sought a deposit for future
services.  Culinary provides no authority
that section 1281.98 does not apply to deposits for future services.  Culinary argues the statute only applies to “fees or costs required to
continue the arbitration proceeding” (§ 1281.98(a)(1)), and therefore does not
apply to deposits.  But AAA did require
those fees to continue the arbitration proceeding.  (Gould Decl., Exs. B-D.)  That is how deposits work.  The deposit was not optional.  “[T]he Legislature intended courts to apply the
statute’s payment deadline strictly.”  (Espinoza
v. Superior Court (2022) 83 Cal.App.5th 761, 771.)  The court must strictly apply section 1281.98
to the subject invoice.  Plaintiff
properly exercised his right to unilaterally withdraw his claims from
arbitration.
B. Sanctions
Plaintiff moves for $4,515 in sanctions
against defendants.  Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.99(a)
provides, “The court shall impose a monetary sanction against a drafting party
that materially breaches an arbitration agreement pursuant to subdivision (a)
of Section 1281.97 or subdivision (a) of Section 1281.98, by ordering the
drafting party to pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees and
costs, incurred by the employee or consumer as a result of the material breach.”  
Culinary contends plaintiff engaged in
gamesmanship by misleading it about a potential stipulation to withdraw this
motion.  Assuming that would constitute
grounds for denying sanctions, Culinary fails to show gamesmanship.  Culinary’s counsel sent the other parties an
email stating, “Culinary proposes that the parties enter into a Stipulation to
lift the arbitration stay and resume litigation in Court, and Ortiz would
forego the sanctions [he] is seeking by way of [his] motion.”  (Hak Decl., Ex. 2, p. 6.)  Plaintiff’s counsel ultimately drafted a
proposed stipulation stating, “Plaintiff’s counsel is not prevented from
seeking attorney fees for breach of the agreement under California Code of
Civil Procedure § 1281.98 (c)(1).”  (Id.,
Ex. 3, p. 3.)  
Defendants correctly note the stipulation does
not include any provision that plaintiff would forego the $4,515 in sanctions
he seeks in this motion.  But the
stipulation does not expressly state otherwise. 
This portion of the proposed stipulation refers to section
1281.98(c)(1), which provides, “The employee or consumer
may bring a motion, or a separate action, to recover all attorney’s fees and
all costs associated with the abandoned arbitration proceeding.  The recovery of arbitration fees, interest,
and related attorney’s fees shall be without regard to any findings on the
merits in the underlying action or arbitration.”  This subdivision concerns fees and costs spent
conducting the arbitration before the drafting party’s breach—not fees
and costs spent making this motion after the breach, which are discussed
in sections 1281.98(c)(2) and 1281.99(a). 

Finally, Culinary argues plaintiff did not
reasonably incur $4,515 in expenses due to Culinary’s breach of the
agreement.  Plaintiff claims $4,455 for
nine hours of attorney fees at $495 hourly, plus the $60 filing fee.  (Gould Decl., ¶¶ 18-24.)  This simple motion did not reasonably require
nine hours of work.  Plaintiff reasonably
incurred 3.5 hours of attorney fees ($1,732.50) plus the $60 filing fee.  
CitiStaff
Solutions, Inc.’s Opposition
Defendant
CitiStaff Solutions, Inc. (CitiStaff) opposes this motion solely as to the
monetary sanctions against it.  It
contends it should not be sanctioned because only co-defendant Culinary failed
to timely pay its share of arbitration fees. 
It is undisputed that, unlike Culinary, CitiStaff timely paid AAA
pursuant to the invoice for $17,440. 
(Gould Decl., Ex. A.)  
Nevertheless,
CitiStaff is liable for the sanctions.  Section
1281.98, subdivision (a)(1) provides, “In an employment or consumer arbitration
that requires, either expressly or through application of state or federal law
or the rules of the arbitration provider, that the drafting party pay certain
fees and costs during the pendency of an arbitration proceeding, if the fees or
costs required to continue the arbitration proceeding are not paid within 30
days after the due date, the drafting party is in material breach of the
arbitration agreement.”  CitiStaff was
the drafting party and was, both expressly and through application of state
law, required to pay the relevant fees and costs during the pendency of the
arbitration proceeding.  CitiStaff does
not dispute that it is “the drafting party,” or at least one of the drafting
parties.  
CitiStaff
was obligated both by law (see Mercuro v. Superior Court (2002) 96 Cal.App.4th 167, 181) and contract to pay these
arbitration fees.  The
arbitration agreement provides it is between employees and “CitiStaff Solutions
Inc. and CitiStaff Management Group, Inc, their clients, officers, employees,
and agents (hereinafter ‘CitiStaff’, ‘Company’, ‘Employer’).”  (Opp., Ex. A, p. 1.)  It further provides, “CitiStaff will pay the
arbitrator’s fees and expenses for the arbitration hearing, i.e., hearing time,
hearing dispute or pre-arbitration discovery motion, report, investigation of
the arbitration briefs, hearing evidence review, award preparation, etc.”  (Id., p. 4, ¶ 7.)  Though the reference to “CitiStaff” may
include clients such as Culinary, generally, “[a]n obligation imposed upon
several persons, or a right created in favor of several persons, is presumed to
be joint, and not several.”  (Civ. Code,
§ 1431.)  That AAA agreed to CitiStaff’s
request to split the invoices between the two defendants (Gould Decl., Ex. G) does
not negate its status as the drafting party who was required by contract and
state law to pay the arbitrator’s fees.    
Disposition
            Plaintiff Jesus Ortiz’s motion to lift
arbitration stay is granted.  The
court hereby lifts the stay of this action.  Under Code of Civil Procedure sections
1281.98(c)(2) and 1281.99(a), defendants CitiStaff Solutions, Inc. and Culinary
International, LLC shall be jointly and severally liable to plaintiff for
sanctions in the amount of $1,792.50.         