 Case Number:  22AHCV00268    Hearing Date:   August 15, 2024    Dept:  P [TENTATIVE]
ORDER ON CROSS-COMPLAINANT’S MOTIONS TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO INTERROGATORIES,
REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION, AND REQUESTS FOR ADMISSIONS, AND REQUESTS FOR
SANCTIONSThe motion is granted in
part, on the terms set forth below. No sanctions.
I.        INTRODUCTION
          This is a commercial loan dispute. Plaintiff Cadlerock
Joint Venture, L.P. sued defendants Edith Enterprise Ltd., Helen Young, Does
I-X, and Roe Corporations XI-XX on May 9, 2022, for breach of contract, unjust
enrichment, and promissory estoppel. Plaintiff sought to recover an outstanding
balance of approximately $25,000.00 on a line of credit issued to Defendants by
CitiBank, who later assigned the contract to Plaintiff.
          On April 3, 2023, defendant Edith Enterprise, Ltd.
(“Edith”) cross-complained against cross-defendant CitiBank, N.A. ( “Citi”);
Edith filed its second amended cross-complaint (“SAXC”) on August 28, 2023. The
SAXC asserts causes of action for (1) breach of written and implied-in-fact
contract; (2) conversion; (3) negligence; (4) fraudulent transfers; (5) unfair
business practices; and (6) common count.
          On November 1, 2023, the Court entered judgment for Cadlerock
and against Edith and Young in the amount of approximately $50,000.00. Edith’s
cross-claim against Citi remains unresolved.
Edith
alleges it maintained a line of credit and business checking account with Citi from
at least 2008 to 2020. (SAXC, ¶ 7.) In April 2020, Citi notified Edith that “it
could ‘no longer service Edith’s account ending – 8207 and your other related
Citibank accounts[.]’” (Id., ¶ 10.) Edith continued to use its account
for several months. (Id., ¶ 12.) Citi then zeroed out and closed Edith’s
account. (Id., ¶ 14.) Edith assumed the approximate $30,000.00 balance
would be used to pay off its line of credit, with the surplus disbursed to it
by check. (Id., ¶¶ 17, 20.) But it never received any funds. (Id., ¶¶ 20-25.)
Despite
the closure of Edith’s checking account, the outstanding balance on its line of
credit remained. (Id., ¶ 26.) In August 2021 Citi sold its rights under
the contract to Cadlerock. (Ibid.) Cadlerock sent Edith a letter
requesting that she redirect her payments to Cadlerock; surprised, Edith disputed
the debt and notified Cadlerock that Citi should have paid off the balance. (Id., ¶¶ 27-29.)
Cadlerock declared Edith in default. (Id., ¶ 31.) In May 2022, it sued.
(Id., ¶¶ 31, 34.)
On
April 29, 2024, Edith moved for an order compelling Citi to respond to five (5)
sets of discovery: Edith’s Form Interrogatories (“FR”), Special Interrogatories
(“SR”), two subsets of its Requests for Production (“RPD”), and Requests for
Admission (“RFA”). On August 2, 2024, Citi opposed Edith’s motions. On August
9, 2024, Edith replied.
 
II.      LEGAL
STANDARD
          Code of Civil Procedure sections 2030.300, 2031.310, and
2033.290 govern motions to compel further responses to interrogatories,
requests for production, and requests for admission, respectively. A party
propounding any of these three methods of discovery has a right to responses
within thirty (30) days of when the party propounds its requests. (Code Civ.
Proc., §§ 2030.260(a), 2031.260(a), 2033.250(a).) The Code prescribes the form
and contents of discovery responses. (See id., §§ 2030.210-250, 2031.210-250,
2033.210-250.) If the responding party provides responses but the propounding
party contends the responses do not satisfy the relevant provisions of the
Code, the propounding party may move for an order compelling the responding
party to provide further responses. (See id., §§ 2030.300, 2031.310,
2033.290.)
 
          III.     ANALYSIS
          A. Procedural Considerations
                    1. Timeliness
          A party moving for further responses must file its motion
within forty-five (45) days of the response that it contends is deficient. (Code
Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.300(c), 2031.310(c), 2033.290(c).)
          Citi provided its most recent supplemental responses to all
the disputed discovery ten days before Edith filed its motion on April 29, 2024.
(Chien RPD1 and SR Decls., ¶¶ 52; RFA Decl., ¶ 51; RPD2 and FR Decls., ¶¶ 48.)
The motion is timely.
                    2. Meeting and Conference
          A motion to compel further responses must be accompanied by
a declaration establishing the moving party made a good-faith effort to meet
and confer as described in Code of Civil Procedure section 2016.040. (See Code
Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.300(b)(1), 2031.310(b)(2), 2033.290(b)(1).) 
Counsel
submitted a declaration, supported by exhibits, that satisfies section
2016.040. (See Chien FR Decl., ¶¶ 14-57.)
          
B.
Interrogatories
Each response to an interrogatory must be either an
answer, a reference to external writing from which the answer may be found, or
an objection to a specific interrogatory. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.210(a).) If
the response is an answer, it must be “as complete and straightforward as the
information reasonably available to the responding party permits.” (Id.,
§ 2030.220 (a).) “If an interrogatory cannot be answered completely, it shall
be answered to the extent possible,” and “If the responding party does not have
personal knowledge sufficient to respond fully to an interrogatory, that party
shall so state, but shall make a reasonable and good faith effort to obtain the
information by inquiry to other natural persons or organizations, except where
the information is equally available to the propounding party.” (Id., §
2030.220(b)-(c).)
 
1. Form Interrogatories
          Edith argues Citi has not provided sufficient responses to
its FR Nos. 15.1 or 17.1. The former interrogatory asks the responding party to
state all facts supporting each denial or special or affirmative defense in its
pleadings; the latter asks for all facts justifying any whole or partial denial
in response to an RFA. 
Citi
answered No. 15.1 for each of its thirty-five (35) affirmative defenses and
17.1 for each of Edith’s thirteen (13) RFAs. Each of Citi’s responses recites
substantially the same page-long factual narrative explaining a few internal
transactions that affected the balance of Edith’s checking account.
Edith
argues (1) Citi only provided facts regarding the affirmative defenses, but not
the denials, in its answer, and (2) Citi “narrowed the scope of its response by
stating that it has not ‘directly’ received any fraud claim”. (Sep. St.,
11:19-20.) Edith also contends Citi failed to provide addresses or telephone
numbers for prospective witnesses and Citi “significantly reduced the number of
PERSONS who have knowledge of the facts from twenty (20) identified in its
prior responses to only three in its current iteration.” (Id., 12:7-9.)
Citi’s
responses are vague and evasive in one uniform respect. Citi begins every
response by stating that “Citibank has not directly received any claim of fraud
directly any persons claiming that they were fraudulently induced to transfer
funds to Edith’s Citibank account.” (Sep. St., 6:19-20.) This
sentence is syntactically incoherent. It also does not define the term
“directly”. The Court agrees with Edith that the qualification is evasive.
Citi
has also failed to provide contact information for percipient witnesses, as it
was asked to do.
As
to FR No. 15.1, however, the Court agrees with Citi that the term “material
allegation” is impermissibly vague.
The
motion is granted on narrower terms: Citi must provide contact information for
the witnesses it has identified. It must also clarify the meaning of its
unintelligible statement that it has not “directly received any claim of fraud
directly any persons.”  Citi must also
provide a sworn certification that it has answered each interrogatory as
completely and straightforwardly as possible following a reasonable and
good-faith effort to obtain the information by inquiry to other natural persons
or organizations.
 
                    2. Special
Interrogatories
          Edith also moves to compel further responses to its SR Nos.
1-41 and 46-48. The Court discusses them individually below, as paraphrased:
 



SR Nos. 1-3


Describe all
  communications with Edith regarding the disputed funds; identify documents
  supporting that description; and identify all persons with knowledge about
  the description.



          In response to these interrogatories, Citi referred to twenty-eight
(28) pages of its document production. It provided no further response. This is
insufficient, particularly given that the documents are, according to Edith,
only copies of Edith’s bank statements and a one-page letter regarding its
account balance. 
As
to these interrogatories, the motion is granted. Citi must provide a
supplemental response that does more than cite its document production. It must
also certify it has responded as completely as responsible after diligent
inquiry.
 



SR Nos. 4-6


Describe all
  communications with Edith regarding claims that a person fraudulently
  transferred funds to her account, and identify documents and individuals with
  knowledge.



          Citi responded to these three SRs by recycling its
responses to Ediths’ FRs. This is insufficient. The response does not discuss
any communications with Edith. It only discusses funds transfers that took
place within Citi and communications between Citi and Bank of America
personnel.
          As to these interrogatories, the motion is granted.
 



SR Nos. 7-9


Describe efforts to
  investigate any purported fraud related to Edith’s account, and identify
  documents and individuals with knowledge.



          Citi recited the same boilerplate objections and FR
responses in its answers to these interrogatories. The answers are
nonresponsive. Citi’s objections are overruled, and the motion is granted.
 



SR Nos. 10-12


Describe efforts to
  determine that Edith had no right to the funds in her account and identify
  documents and witnesses.



          Citi stated it “has not investigated whether the subject
funds were ‘rightfully’ Edith’s” (Sep. St., 20:20) and recited its same FR
response detailing its communications with Bank of America. The response is not
straightforward. Citi needs to describe its efforts or state there weren’t any.
 An answer that it “has not investigated”
is unclear.
          The motion is granted.
 



SR Nos. 13-15


Describe all actions you
  have taken in response to Edith’s December 10, 2020 letter, and identify
  documents and witnesses.



          In response to this interrogatory, Citi identified a single
document and gave no further information. This is insufficient. The motion is
granted.
 



SR Nos. 16-18


Describe all evidence
  “to support YOUR decision to close the CHECKING ACCOUNT” (Sep. St.,
  33:23-24.), and identify documents and witnesses.



          This interrogatory is vaguely phrased, and Citi provided
substantive responses, in particular by identifying witnesses with percipient
knowledge. The motion is denied.
 



SR Nos. 19-21


Describe “ALL evidence
  YOU have to support YOUR decision to debit the FUNDS DEBITED” and identify
  documents and witnesses.



          As with SR Nos. 16-18, the Court finds this interrogatory
to be vaguely worded, and Citi has provided substantial responses. The motion
is denied.
 



SR Nos. 19-21


Describe “ALL evidence
  YOU have to support YOUR decision to debit the FUNDS DEBITED” and identify
  documents and witnesses.



          The motion is denied on the same grounds as for SR Nos.
16-21.
 



SR Nos. 22-27


Describe your investigative
  efforts and identify documents and witnesses.



            Citi
identified documents and some witnesses in response to these SRs but provided
no narrative response. This is insufficient. Citi’s objections are overruled,
and the motion is granted.
 



SR Nos. 28-33


Describe various communications
  with Edith, and identify documents and witnesses.



            As with its
responses to SRs Nos. 1-3, Citi identified a few pages of responsive documents
and provided no further information. As with SR Nos. 1-3, this response is
insufficient. Citi must provide a supplemental narrative response and attest
that it conducted a diligent inquiry.
 



SR Nos. 34-36


Confirm whether you or
  your agents, etc. obtained any statements regarding the funds debited, and identify
  documents and witnesses.



            Citi cited
several pages of documents and a few individuals in its response, without
elaboration. This is not responsive to the interrogatory. The motion is
granted.
 



SR Nos. 37-39


Have you received any
  evidence of that any person was fraudulently induced to transfer funds to
  Edith’s checking account? Identify documents and witnesses.



            Citi
contends these duplicate interrogatories 4-6 and refuses to respond on that
basis. The interrogatories are not duplicative; to the extent they overlap, the
Court has granted Edith’s motion as to SR Nos. 4-6, and that order is equally
applicable here.
 



SR Nos. 40-41


Describe in detail the
  agreement that gave Citi the right to close Ediths’ checking account, and
  identify supporting documents.



            Citi
responded by citing to the written agreements that govern its relationship with
Edith. This is sufficient. The motion is denied.
 



SR Nos. 46-48


Describe all communications
  you had with Edith since 2020 “RELATING TO YOUR decision that EDITH had no
  rightful claim to the FUNDS DEBITED”, and identify supporting documents and
  witnesses.



            Citi
responded that it has not made any such decision. This is sufficient to render
the request moot. The motion is denied.
 
C.
Requests for Production
Citi
has produced several hundred pages of documents. But it also asserted a number
of objections and claimed that discovery is continuing and it reserves the
right to supplement. The Court agrees with Edith that Citi has not strictly
complied with the Code, even if it has produced all responsive documents. Edith
is entitled to an unequivocal statement of compliance. Also, Citi continually
reiterates objections, and the Code requires a more specific response that
identifies materials withheld based on an objection.
          The Court will order Citi to certify its compliance
according to Code of Civil Procedure sections 2031.220-240 and to identify
withheld documents with particularity and, as necessary, provide a privilege
log.
 
          D. Requests for Admission
          Edith moves for further responses to her RFAs Nos. 10-12,
all of which request information about “the fraud claim made by the
[CLAIMANT]”, meaning “the PERSON(S) who made the fraud claim on or about April
20, 2020 claiming, inter alia, that they were fraudulent [sic] induced
to transfer funds to the CHECKING ACCOUNT.” (RFA Sep. St., 2:14-16.)
          Citi objected to each RFA, but it also denied each for lack
of information based on what it contends is confusing about the definitions of
“fraud claim” and “CLAIMANT”.
          Citi’s responses comply with the Code. To the extent it
objects based on vagueness or ambiguity, these objections are sustained. The
motion is denied.
 
          F. Sanctions
          A party that unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to
compel further responses is subject to mandatory monetary sanctions, unless the
court finds (1) the party was substantially justified in its unsuccessful
motion or opposition, or (2) other circumstances make imposition of a sanction
unjust. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.300(d), 2031.310(h), 2033.290(d).) 
          Each party has been partly successful and partly
unsuccessful in its motion and opposition. The Court finds both acted with
substantial justification, particularly given the lengthy efforts to meet and
confer. Sanctions are denied.
 
IV.     CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
          The motion is granted on the following terms:
          A. Form Interrogatories
The
motion is granted in part as to the form interrogatories. Citi is ordered to
provide a supplemental response that defines what it means by its statement
that it has not “directly received any claim of fraud directly any persons”,
and to state whether it has indirectly received any claims of fraud.
Citi is ordered to provide telephone numbers and email addresses for every
potential fact witness identified in its responses. Citi must also provide a
sworn certification that it has answered each form and special interrogatory as
completely and straightforwardly as possible following a reasonable and
good-faith effort to obtain the information by inquiry to other natural persons
or organizations.
B.
Special Interrogatories
The
motion is granted as to SR Nos. 1-15 and 22-39. The motion is denied as to SR
Nos. 16-21, 40-41, and 46-48. Citi must also provide a sworn certification that
it has answered each interrogatory as completely and straightforwardly as
possible following a reasonable and good-faith effort to obtain the information
by inquiry to other natural persons or organizations.
C.
Requests for Production
The
motion is granted in part as to the RPDs. Citi is ordered to provide a sworn
statement (1) confirming that all responsive documents have been produced after
diligent search and reasonable inquiry in an effort to comply with the demand;
(2) specifying whether documents not produced have never existed, have been
destroyed, have been lost, misplaced, or stolen, or have never been, or are no
longer, in Citi’s possession, custody, or control, and setting forth the name
and address of any person believed to have possession, custody, or control of
responsive documents; and (3) for any document withheld based on privilege or
some other objection, identifying those documents with particularity and
setting forth clearly the applicable objection, including with a privilege log,
as applicable.
D.
Requests for Admission
The
motion is denied in its entirety as to the RFAs.
         E. Unsolicited Judicial Commentary  As a
final matter, by this court’s count the total number of pages filed by the
parties in support of and in opposition to these five motions to compel is four
thousand three hundred and nine (4,309). The Court reminds the parties that civil
discovery is intended to be a self-executing system with minimal judicial
intervention.  (See Volkswagenwerk
Aktiengesellschaft v. Superior Ct. (1981) 122 Cal.App.3d 326, 331; Clement
v. Alegre (2009) 177 Cal.App.4th 1277, 1291-1292.)
 
Dated: August 15, 2024                                    
                                                                                  JARED D. MOSES                            JUDGE
OF THE SUPERIOR COURT