 Case Number:  22AHCV01269    Hearing Date:   August 15, 2024    Dept:  P [TENTATIVE] ORDER1. DENYING DEFENDANT’S MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT; AND
2. DENYING DEFENDANT’S MOTION FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION OF
THE FIRST, SECOND, AND THIRD CAUSES OF ACTIONI.               
INTRODUCTION
            On
December 9, 2022, Plaintiffs Jane M.A.T. Doe (“MAT”) and Jane M.I.G. Doe (“MIG”)
brought an action for 1) sexual assault, 2) negligence, and 3) negligent
failure to educate, train, or warn against Defendants Doe 1, Doe 2, and Does 3
through 100.  The Complaint alleges that
Plaintiffs were sexually abused from approximately 1979 until 1981 or 1982,
when they were between the ages of 6 and 9 years old, during school hours and
on school grounds by an employee of Defendant Doe 1’s elementary school where
they were students.  During that time, Defendant
Doe 1 personnel received complaints of alleged abuse by the employee, Frank
Miller.  However, school personnel
conducted no investigation and Frank Miller was not terminated from employment.
            On
March 9, 2023, Emmaus Evangelical Lutheran Church of Alhambra (“Emmaus”) as
Defendant Doe 1, and The Pacific Southwest District of the Lutheran Church –
Missouri Synod (“Pacific”) as Defendant Doe 2, each filed answers to the
Complaint.
            On
March 27, 2024, the action was reassigned to Judge Jared D. Moses in Department
P at the Pasadena Courthouse.
            On
March 28, 2024, Emmaus filed an Amended Answer to the Complaint.
            On
April 17, 2024, Emmaus filed the instant Motion for Summary Judgment, or in the
alternative, Summary Adjudication (“Motion”). 
On August 1, 2024, Plaintiffs filed an Opposition to the Motion and on
August 9, 2024, Defendant filed a Reply. 
On August 12, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a reply to Defendant’s objections.
            On
July 26, 2024, Pacific also filed a Motion for Summary Judgment, or in the
alternative, Summary Adjudication, set for hearing on November 8, 2024.
Having considered
the moving papers, opposition, objections, and reply, the Court denies
Defendant’s Motion for Summary Judgment and Defendant’s Motion for Summary
Adjudication of the first, second, and third causes of action.
II.            
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
Under the
California Rules of Court, rule 3.1352, a party moving for summary judgment
must present its objections to the evidence presented either in writing or at
the hearing.  Pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 437c, subdivision (q):
In granting or
denying a motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication, the court need
rule only on those objections to evidence that it deems material to its
disposition of the motion. Objections to evidence that are not ruled on for
purposes of the motion shall be preserved for appellate review.
            For
judicial economy, the Court only rules on the objections to evidence it has
deemed material to the disposition of the instant Motion.
The Court SUSTAINS
the following objections: 1-7.
The Court
OVERRULES the following objections: 8-31.
III.          
LEGAL
STANDARD
A party seeking
summary judgment has the burden of producing evidentiary facts sufficient to
entitle him/her to judgment as a matter of law. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).) 
The moving party must make an affirmative showing that he/she is
entitled to judgment regardless of whether the opposing party files an
opposition.  (Villa v. McFerren (1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 733, 742-743.)  Thus, “the initial burden is always on the
moving party to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of
material fact.”  (Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519 (citing
Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001)
25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)
When a plaintiff
seeks summary judgment, he/she must produce admissible evidence on each element
of each cause of action on which judgment is sought.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(1).)  When a defendant seeks summary judgment,
he/she has the “burden of showing that a cause of action has no
merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the cause of action,
even if not separately pleaded, cannot be established, or that there is a
complete defense to the cause of action.” 
(Code of Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)
The opposing party
on a motion for summary judgment is under no evidentiary burden to produce
rebuttal evidence until the moving party meets his or her initial burden.  (Binder
v. Aetna Life Insurance Company (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 840.)  Once the initial movant’s burden is met, then
the burden shifts to the opposing party to show, with admissible evidence, that
there is a triable issue requiring the weighing procedures of trial.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p).)  The opposing party may not simply rely on
his/her allegations to show a triable issue but must present evidentiary facts
that are substantial in nature and rise beyond mere speculation.  (Sangster
v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 162.) 
Summary judgment must be granted “if all the evidence submitted, and
‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by
other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any
material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of
law.”  (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992)
7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)
As to any
alternative request for summary adjudication of issues, such alternative relief
must be clearly set forth in the Notice of Motion and the general
burden-shifting rules apply but the issues upon which summary adjudication may
be sought are limited by statute.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1).) 
“A motion for summary adjudication shall be granted only if it
completely disposes of a cause of action, an affirmative defense, a claim for
damages, or an issue of duty.”  (Ibid.)
IV.       ANALYSIS
Defendant Emmaus moves for summary judgment of
the Complaint or in the alternative, for summary adjudication of all three
causes of action, on the basis that there are no triable issues of material
fact as to any of the causes of action.
The following facts are undisputed.  Emmaus Evangelical Lutheran Church of
Alhambra is a nonprofit corporation that operated an elementary school during
the years relevant to the Complaint.  (Undisputed
Material Facts (“UMFs”) 1-2.)  Frank
Miller (“Miller”) was a voting member of the church as early as 1956 and was
hired as a custodian before 1971.  (UMF
3.)  He retired from his position around
February 1, 1981.  (UMF 4.)  Plaintiff MAT, now 50 years old, attended the
elementary school from 1979 to 1982.  (UMF
5.)  MAT alleges that Miller sexually
abused her in the school’s gardening shed, girls’ bathroom, and playground
yard.  (UMFs 6-7.)  Prior to reaching adulthood, MAT did not tell
anyone about Miller’s actions, but during third grade, she did tell her mother
that Miller had touched her legs on the playground when questioned by her
mother.  (UMFs 8-9.)  Plaintiff MIG, now 51 years old, attended the
elementary school from 1979 to 1981 or 1982. 
(UMF 10.)  She alleges that she
was sexually abused by Miller in the school’s gardening shed and the girls’
bathroom.  (UMF 11.)  Prior to reaching adulthood, she never told
anyone about Miller’s actions.  (UMF 12.)  Pastor Carl Kaye conducted a diligent search
of Emmaus’s records but did not find any record of complaints against Miller
for inappropriate conduct toward students prior to the filing of the instant
Complaint.  (UMF 13.)  Furthermore, he did not find any documents
dating to or in effect between 1979 and 1982 that relate to policies regarding
interaction between adults and children, supervisors of children, or hiring and
training of employees who work near children. 
(UMF 15.)  Frank Miller and the
principal at the time of the alleged abuse, George Zehnder, are deceased.  (UMF 16.) 
According to Defendant, most YMCAs and Big Brothers/Big Sisters
organizations began to implement abuse prevention programs in 1997 and 1998 for
screening and selecting adults to work with children, which took place 15 years
after the alleged abuse in this case. 
(UMF 24.)
A.     First Cause of Action - Sexual Assault
Civil Code section
1708.5, subdivision (a), states that “[a] person commits a sexual battery who
does any of the following: [¶] (1) Acts with the intent to cause a harmful or
offensive contact with an intimate part of another, and a sexually offensive contact
with that person directly or indirectly results. [¶] (2) Acts with the intent
to cause a harmful or offensive contact with another by use of his or her
intimate part, and a sexually offensive contact with that person directly or
indirectly results. [¶] (3) Acts to cause an imminent apprehension of the
conduct described in paragraph (1) or (2), and a sexually offensive contact
with that person directly or indirectly results.”
Generally, an
employer may be held liable for employee misconduct under the respondeat
superior theory or vicarious liability. 
(C.R. v. Tenet Healthcare Corp. (2009) 169 Cal.App.4th 1094,
1110-1111.)  Alternatively,
“an employer may be liable for an employee's act where the employer either
authorized the tortious act or subsequently ratified an originally unauthorized
tort. [Citations.]  The failure to
discharge an employee who has committed misconduct may be evidence of
ratification.  [Citation.]  The theory of ratification is generally
applied where an employer fails to investigate or respond to charges that an
employee committed an intentional tort, such as assault or battery.  [Citations.]  Whether an employer has ratified an employee's
conduct is generally a factual question.  [Citation.]’ 
[Citations.]”  (Ibid.; City of Los
Angeles v. Superior Court (1973)
33 Cal.App.3d 778, 782–783.)
Defendant argues that it is entitled to
summary adjudication of the first cause of action for sexual assault because
California does not recognize vicarious liability for sexual assault by school
employees against students.  (Mot. p.
14.)  Defendant cites Steven F. v.
Anaheim Union High School Dist., for the finding that a school district
cannot be held vicariously liable for a teacher’s sexual misconduct toward a
student, except through liability for negligent hiring and supervising.  (112 Cal.App.4th 904, 908.)
In opposition, Plaintiffs argue that
Defendant misread the Complaint because Plaintiffs do not allege vicarious
liability through respondeat superior, but rather through the theory of
ratification.  (Oppos. pp. 12-13.)  They argue that Emmaus ratified Frank
Miller’s sexual abuse of minors because the school principal was aware of the
inappropriate conduct and conducted no investigation or took remedial action.  Plaintiffs present the declarations of former
students, C.P. and K.S., who were targets of Miller’s sexually inappropriate
conduct and spoke to the principal regarding Miller’s actions.  (DeMarco Decl., Exs. 5-6.)  They also state that other staff members were
aware that Miller inappropriately touched C.P. in the girls’ restroom and
unbuttoned his pants to show his clothed genitals to three elementary school
girls on the campus field.  (Ibid.)  However, as Pastor Kaye states in his
declaration, there is no record of discipline, supervision, or investigation
into Miller’s conduct.  (See UMF
13 – Kaye Decl. ¶ 8.)  Plaintiffs state
that their evidence demonstrates that much of this inappropriate conduct was
“open and obvious to other children and staff at the school” as presented in
the deposition testimony of MAT, MIG, and the declaration of C.P.  (Oppos. p. 13, citing to Exhibits 2, 3, 5,
8.)  Plaintiffs also refer to the note
that C.P. saw the principal take down when she made her complaint.  However, no evidence of this note has been
found.  (Ex. 5 ¶ 5; Ex. 8 at 2:20-3:10.)
In its Reply, Defendant argues that the
evidence presented by Plaintiffs is not sufficient to conclude that Defendant
ratified the alleged sexual abuse by Miller. 
(Reply p. 3.)  The evidence shows
that the school principal was informed that Miller had touched C.P. on the
shoulder and an unnamed teacher may have observed tickling on the
playground.  However, the Plaintiffs did
not report Miller’s conduct.
Having considered the evidence and the
arguments presented by the parties, the Court finds that a reasonable fact
finder could conclude that Defendant had sufficient notice of Miller’s conduct
to have ratified his actions by failing to terminate his employment or take
other remedial action.  The evidence
presented by Plaintiffs does not have to show that Defendant ratified Miller’s
conduct, but rather it must raise a triable issue of material fact.  Here, there is a triable issue of material
fact regarding Defendant’s ratification and liability for the first cause of
action for sexual assault.  Defendant’s
Motion for Summary Adjudication of the first cause of action is denied.
B.     Second and Third Causes of Action – (2) Negligence
and (3) Negligent failure to educate, train or warn.
“To establish a cause of
action for negligence, the plaintiff must show that the ‘defendant had a duty
to use due care, that he breached that duty, and that the breach was the
proximate or legal cause of the resulting injury.’”  (Brown v. USA Taekwondo (2021) 11 Cal.
5th 204, 213). “Recovery for negligence depends as a threshold matter on the
existence of a legal duty of care.” (Ibid.)  “Whether a duty exists is a question of law to
be resolved by the court.”  (Ibid.;
see Regents v. University of California v. Superior Court (2018) 4
Cal.5th 608, 620 [“The determination whether a particular relationship supports
a duty of care rests on policy and is a question of law.”].)
The elements of a cause of action for negligent
hiring, retention, or supervision are: (1) the employer’s hiring, retaining, or
supervising an employee; (2) the employee was incompetent or unfit; (3) the
employer had reason to believe undue risk of harm would exist because of the
employment; and (4) harm occurs.  (Evan F. v. Hughson United Methodist Church
(1992) 8 Cal.App.4th 828, 836-837.)
Here, the parties dispute the threshold matter of the
existence of a legal duty of care.
a.     Duty:
Special Relationship
“Under some circumstances, a
defendant may have an affirmative duty to protect the plaintiff from harm at
the hands of a third party, even though the risk of harm is not of the
defendant's own making.”  (Brown, supra,
11 Cal. 5th at 215.)  “In particular, a
person may have an affirmative duty to protect the victim of another's harm if
that person is in what the law calls a ‘special relationship’ with either the
victim or the person who created the harm.”  (Ibid. at 215.)
“In Brown, the
Supreme Court established a two-step inquiry to determine whether a defendant
has a legal duty to take action to protect a plaintiff from injuries caused by
a third party: ‘First, the court must determine whether there exists a special
relationship between the parties or some other set of circumstances giving rise
to an affirmative duty to protect. Second, if so, the court must consult the
factors described in [Rowland v. Christian (1968) 69 Cal.2d 108, 70
Cal.Rptr. 97, 443 P.2d 561 (Rowland)] to determine whether relevant
policy considerations counsel limiting that duty’.”  (Doe v. Roman Cath. Archbishop of Los
Angeles, 70 Cal. App. 5th 657, 670 [citing Brown, supra, 11 Cal.5th
at p. 209 and Regents, supra, 4 Cal.5th at p. 627 (special relationship
doctrine is an exception to the general rule that there is no duty to protect
others from the conduct of third parties)].)
“A special relationship
between the defendant and the victim is one that ‘gives the victim a right to
expect’ protection from the defendant, while a special relationship between the
defendant and the dangerous third party is one that ‘entails an ability to
control [the third party's] conduct.” (Brown, supra, 11 Cal. 5th at
216.)  “Where such a special relationship
exists between the defendant and a minor, the obligation to provide such
protection and assistance may include a duty to protect the minor from third
party abuse.”  (Brown, supra, 11
Cal. 5th at 504).
Moreover, “ ‘[i]t is the duty of the school authorities
to supervise at all times the conduct of the children on the school grounds and
to enforce those rules and regulations necessary to their protection. [Citations.]…’
[Citation.]”  (J.H. v. Los Angeles Unified School Dist. (2010) 183
Cal. App.4th 123, 139; C.A. v. William S. Hart Union High School District
(2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 869.)  As a result, “[a] special relationship is formed between a
school district and its students resulting in the imposition of an affirmative
duty on the school district to take all reasonable steps to protect its
students. . . .” (M. W. v. Panama Buena Vista Union School Dist.¿(2003)¿110
Cal.App.4th 508, 517.)
Once a special
relationship is established, Courts move on to the second step in the inquiry
to determine whether the duty should be limited and in doing so they balance “a
number of considerations; the major ones are the foreseeability of harm to the plaintiff,
the degree of certainty that the plaintiff suffered injury, the closeness of
the connection between the defendant's conduct and the injury suffered, the
moral blame attached to the defendant's conduct, the policy of preventing
future harm, the extent of the burden to the defendant and consequences to the
community of imposing a duty to exercise care with resulting liability for
breach, and the availability, cost, and prevalence of insurance for the risk
involved.  (Rowland v. Christian
(1968) 69 Cal.2d 108, 113.)
The parties do not
dispute that a special relationship existed between the school and its
students.  However, Defendant argues that
even if a special relationship did exist, analysis under the Rowland factors
justifies limiting Defendant’s duty in the instant case.
b.    
Duty: Rowland Factors
Defendant argues that all of the Rowland
factors weigh in favor of limiting the general duty of care.
                                                             
i.     Foreseeability
First, Defendant states that the harm
was not foreseeable and presents the declaration of Dr. Applewhite, who holds a
Ph.D. in Social Work, in support of this assertion.  (Mot. p. 17.) 
Defendant argues that a trier of fact would need to rely on expert
assistance to assess the standard of care imposed on similar institutions
between 1979-1982, instead of substituting a modern understanding of childhood
sexual abuse.  Dr. Applewhite asserts
that during the 1979-1982 timeframe, the risk of sexual abuse by adults against
minors was largely unknown to academics or the public and there was no
established standard of care for selecting adults to work with children or
protocols for proactively preventing sexual abuse of children.  (UMFs 17-30, Applewhite Decl. ¶¶ 14-19, 21,
23, 26.)  Thus, according to Defendant, the
type of harm Plaintiffs suffered was not reasonably foreseeable in 1979-1982.
Plaintiffs argue that there is ample
evidence that Defendant knew or had reason to know of the dangerous
propensities of Frank Miller, which demonstrates the foreseeability of the harm
they suffered.  (Oppos. pp. 15-19.)  In support, Plaintiff presents the following
evidence (1) the school principal received a complaint from at least one child
and her father that Miller was hanging out in the girls’ restroom, where he
touched a girl in the same age range as Plaintiffs (Ex. 6 ¶¶ 5-6), (2) at least
one schoolteacher witnessed a tickle fight between Miller and three young
female students when Miller revealing his jock strap covered genitals on the
school field (Ex. 6 ¶¶ 4-5), (3) in plain view of supervising teachers on the
school playground, Miller rubbed the thighs of little girls, gave them candy,
and in at least one instance struck a female student on the face (Exs. 2, 6,
10); (4) during school recesses, Miller had little girls in his work shed,
which was visible from the lunch and playground areas where teachers were
stationed to supervise children, this work shed was supposed to be off limits
to children and clearly displayed pictures of scantily clad women (Exs. 2, 3,
5, 9, 10).  Plaintiffs also present the
testimony of Defendant’s former employees who acknowledge the significance of
Miller’s actions and the fact that he should have been dismissed as a result of
his conduct.  (Ex. 9 – Deposition of Dr.
Larry Stotereau at 20:7-21, 21:17-22:9, 22:18-25, 23:9-14, 25:24-26:5,
26:7-28:2; Ex. 10 – Deposition of Maralyn Malucky at 28:5-13, 29:24-31:11, 38:21-39:12,
46:7-47:24, 58:22-59:20.)  
Plaintiffs present a sampling of articles from the Los
Angeles Times and other sources demonstrating the media coverage of child
molestation cases by trusted adults, including school personnel, within the
1977 to 1983 timeframe.  (See Exs.
11-37.)  Plaintiffs also refer to the 1962
California Court of Appeals case, Wallace v. Der-Ohanian, in which the
Court referred to public awareness of the problem of child molestation.  (See Wallace v. Der-Ohanian
(1962) 199 Cal.App.2d 141, 146.)
“In examining foreseeability
[in determining duty], ‘the court's task ... “is not to decide whether a
particular plaintiff's injury was reasonably foreseeable in light of a
particular defendant's conduct, but rather to evaluate more generally whether
the category of negligent conduct at issue is sufficiently likely to result in
the kind of harm experienced that liability may appropriately be imposed.” ’
[Citations.]” (Doe v. Roman Catholic Archbishop of Los Angeles (2021) 70
Cal. App. 5th 657, 676.)
Here, the Court finds that Plaintiffs have presented
significant evidence that the type of harm was foreseeable based on the
specific factual circumstances in the instant case, as well as societal
awareness of the problem of child abuse at the time.  Thus, the foreseeability factor weighs toward
imposing a duty of care on Defendant.
                                                           
ii.     Certainty
Defendant argues that because the harm
in question occurred so long ago, the fact of the Plaintiffs’ injury is
inherently less certain due to unavailability of evidence, the deaths of witnesses,
and Plaintiffs’ own memories.  (Mot. p.
17.) Plaintiffs argue that Defendant does not cite any authority or facts to
support its assertion that the passage of time makes the injury resulting from
abuse less certain.  (Oppos. pp.
19-20.)  Defendant’s argument is unsupported
by cases such as Doe v. Lawndale, which held that this factor should not
limit claims based on physical sexual abuse and assault.  (Doe v. Lawndale (2021) 72 Cal.App.5th
113, 132-133.)
The Court finds that the factor of
certainty also weighs against limiting Defendant’s duty of care.
                                                         
iii.     Closeness of Connection
Defendant argues that there was no
closeness of connection between Emmaus’s conduct and Plaintiffs’ injury because
the connection between a youth-serving organization’s conduct and risk of child
abuse by its employees was not understood in 1979-1982, as supported by Dr. Applewhite’s
declaration.  (Mot. p. 18.)  Plaintiffs argue that Emmaus’s failure to
take any action against Miller or to protect children under its care from
molestation would still have been effective during the time period in question.  (Oppos. p. 20.)
The Court refers back to its finding
regarding foreseeability and the fact that Defendant had opportunities to
protect its students from the abuse. 
Thus, the Court finds that the connection between Defendant’s conduct and
Plaintiffs’ injuries does not weigh in favor of limiting Defendant’s duty of
care.
                                                         
iv.     Moral Blame
Fourth, Defendant argues that moral
blame for the harm lies with the deceased Frank Miller, not Emmaus.  (Mot. p. 18.) 
Given the inability of academics, institutions, and the public to
anticipate or apprehend the danger of unreported childhood sexual abuse during
the period in question, moral blame cannot be assigned to Emmaus.
Plaintiffs argue that moral blame also
attaches to persons involved in hiring, retaining, or supervising an employee,
when they become aware of a substantial risk posed by that employee but fail to
take appropriate action to respond to this risk.  (Oppos. p. 21.)  This is particularly true in instances where a
school fails to protect minors from alleged sexual abuse while those minors are
under the school’s supervision and control.
In Reply, Defendant reiterates its
stance that there is no evidence of prior knowledge of Miller’s conduct and
Emmaus should be held to the standard applicable in 1979-1982, not the 2000s.  (Reply pp. 6-7.) The Court finds that the allegations
in the instant action, particularly the allegation that minor Plaintiffs were
harmed in an elementary school setting where an employee openly displayed
inappropriate conduct, weigh against limiting Defendant’s duty of care.
                                                           
v.     Policy of Preventing Future Harm
Fifth, Defendant argues that the
evidence establishes that Emmaus met the standard of care in 1979-1982, thus,
it would not serve public policy to punish Emmaus for failing to foresee harm
that was not understood at the time, nor would it prevent future harm.  (Mot. p. 18.) 
Plaintiffs argue that safeguarding children from sexual abuse “weighs
strongly in favor of imposing a duty on school districts to take reasonable
measures to identify and respond to potential misconduct.”  (Oppos. pp. 21-22.)
            In Reply, Defendant reiterates that
retroactively punishing Emmaus for not meeting the modern standards of care
will not further the public policy of preventing future harm.  (Reply p. 7.) 
Moreover, there is no indication that Defendant is not currently meeting
the modern standard of care in such situations. 
The Court finds that not limiting the duty of care for similarly
situated parties would further the general public policy of preventing future
sexual abuse of minors.
                                                         
vi.     Consequences
of Imposition of Duty of Care
Defendant argues that the consequence
of imposing a duty where none would have been recognized in 1979-1982 would
unfairly expose youth-serving organizations to legal expenses and negatively
impact the communities they serve.  (Mot.
pp. 18-19.)
Plaintiffs argue that Defendant fails
to present any evidence or arguments regarding the burden of preventing
molestation of minors after receiving complaints about an alleged perpetrator
or generally educating and training staff, children, and parents how to prevent
such abuse.  (Oppos. pp. 22-23.)  Given the role Defendant plays in the lives
of the youth and the community, imposing a burden that would result in the
prevention of childhood sexual abuse would not be too onerous.
The Court finds that, although there
may be consequences related to exposing similar organizations to legal actions,
Defendant has not shown that this burden outweighs the protection of minors
from sexual abuse when under the control or supervision of such
institutions.  Thus, this factor does not
weigh in favor of limiting Defendant’s duty.
 
                                                        
vii.     Availability of Insurance
Defendant has not been able to locate
an insurance policy for the time period and is completely exposed to the costs
of litigation.  (Mot. p. 19.)  As stated in Dr. Applewhite’s declaration,
neither institutions nor insurers in 1979-1982 could anticipate these types of
claims.  In response, Plaintiffs present
the deposition testimony of Dr. Lenhardt, a former pastor at Defendant’s
institution, who states that Defendant would have had insurance.  (Ex. 9 at 50:17-23, 51:5-10.)
The Court does not find that Plaintiffs’
evidence is sufficient to show the existence of an insurance policy.  Thus, this factor does weigh in favor of
limiting Defendant’s duty of care.  As
discussed above, the Court finds that a special relationship existed between Defendant
and Plaintiffs such that Defendant owed a duty of care to Plaintiffs.  As most of the Rowland factors weigh
against limiting this duty, the Court concludes that Defendant owed a duty of
care toward Plaintiffs.
Given that Defendant does not dispute
the other elements of negligence and negligent hiring, retention, or
supervision, the Court denies Defendant’s Motion for Summary Adjudication of
the second and third causes of action.
C.    Unconstitutional Violation of Due Process Rights
Defendant argues that California Code of
Civil Procedure, section 340.1, which was amended by Assembly Bill No. 218 in
2019, unconstitutionally violates Emmaus’s due process rights as applied.  (Mot. pp. 19-22.)  It exposes Defendant to a stale claim and the
possibility of deprivation of property without the opportunity to defend
itself.  Defendant states that prior to
1998, Code of Civil Procedure, section 340.1, did not extend the statute of
limitations for childhood sexual abuse/assault claims against non-perpetrator
defendants.  Thus, until 2019,
Plaintiff’s causes of action were barred by the statute of limitations.  However, in 2019, Assembly Bill 218 amended
Code of Civil Procedure, section 340.1, to suspend the statute of limitations
for three years.  The Amendment created a
private action where none existed before.
Defendant argues that pursuant to the U.S.
Constitution, Amendment 5, and California Constitution, Article I, Section 7,
it does not have a meaningful opportunity to defend itself against Plaintiffs’
claims due to the passage of time, the death of the alleged offender and the
school principal, and inability to determine Emmaus’s relevant written
policies.  (UMFs 15-16.)
Moreover, Defendant argues that the Court in Deutsch v. Masonic Homes of California, Inc., which found that a similar revival provision of
section 340.1 did not violate the due process clause, was wrong.  (Deutsch v. Masonic Homes of California,
Inc. (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 748.)[1]
In opposition, Plaintiffs argue that several appellate
cases have addressed whether the revival of previously time-barred actions
violates the due process clause and other constitutional provisions.  (Oppos. pp. 24-26.)  The same arguments presented by Defendant regarding
the unavailability of witnesses were dismissed in Deutsch.  Furthermore, there are potentially hundreds
of witnesses who are still available in the instant action.
Here, the Court finds that the matter of
constitutionality of a similarly revived provision has already been determined
by Deutsch.  (Deutsch, 164
Cal.App.4th 748.)  In Deutsch, the
Court reviewed legislation passed in 2003, allowing plaintiffs with sexual
abuse claims to revive their claims pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
340.1, against individuals or entities who owned a duty of care to those
plaintiffs.  (Ibid. at 752.)  First, the Court found that the provision was
not unconstitutional on its face as appellant had no constitutional right to be
free of the obligation to defend stale claims. 
(Ibid. at 759-761.) 
Second, the Court found that the provision was not unconstitutional as
applied because the delay in bringing the action did not constitute state
action and was not subject to the due process clause.  (Ibid. at 761-762.)
The Court finds that the instant case is
analogous to Deutsch and notes that Defendant’s challenges to the
constitutionality of a similar provision have been addressed by the Court of
Appeals in Deutsch.  Thus, the
Court denies Defendant’s Motion based on an unconstitutional violation of its
due process rights.
V.        CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
For the foregoing reasons, Defendant’s Motion
for Summary Judgment is DENIED. 
Defendant’s Motion for Summary Adjudication of the first, second, and
third causes of action is also DENIED.
Plaintiffs are ordered to give notice of this
ruling.
            
Dated:  August 15, 2024                                         
                                                                                                 JARED D. MOSES
                                                                                   JUDGE
OF THE SUPERIOR COURT


