  Case Number:  19TRCV00169    Hearing Date:   July 8, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
AMELIA
  YUHAS, et al., 


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
19TRCV00169




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
GIZMO
  MEDIA LLC, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          July 8,
2024
 
Moving
Parties:                      Plaintiff Amelia A. Yuhas
Responding
Party:                  Defendants Gizmo Media LLC and Nayeem Ahmed Khan
Motion
for Attorneys’ Fees for Award of Post-Appellate Attorneys’ Fees
 
            The Court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.
RULING
            The motion is GRANTED.  Plaintiff Amelia A. Yuhas is awarded $49,285.50 in reasonable attorney’s fees as
the prevailing party against defendants Gizmo Media LLC and Nayeem Ahmed Khan.
BACKGROUND
On February 15, 2019, plaintiffs
Amelia A. Yuhas and Vincent C. Yuhas Jr. filed a complaint against Gizmo Media
LLC and Nayeem Ahmed Khan for (1) breach of contract [against Gizmo only] and
common counts – account stated [against both defendants].  Plaintiffs seek the same amount of damages for
both claims - $36,167.  Plaintiffs allege
that a Business Purchase Agreement and Joint Escrow Instructions was made
between plaintiffs and Gizmo Media LLC. 
Defendant refused to perform under the agreement by stopping payment on
19 postdated checks.  Plaintiffs are
entitled to recover $1,800 held in escrow and $867 in deferred commission
payments and $5,000 in closing costs.
On January 10, 2020, plaintiffs
filed a FAC.
On February 28, 2020, the court
granted defense counsel’s motion to be relieved as counsel.
On March 13, 2020, the court
granted plaintiffs’ motion for leave to file a SAC.
On March 18, 2020, plaintiffs filed
a SAC for (1) breach of contract, (2) money had and received, (3) breach of
oral contract, (4) conversion of personal property.
On April 24, 2020, defendants filed
substitutions of attorney.
On August 20, 2020, Gizmo Media
filed a cross-complaint against Personal Mail Box, LLC for breach of contract.
On August 2, 2021, Gizmo Media
dismissed its cross-complaint. 
On August 19, 2021, the court
granted defendant Nayeem Khan’s motion for judgment on the pleadings with leave
to amend as to allegations regarding transfer/assignment.
On October 22, 2021, plaintiffs
filed a TAC.
A court trial was held on February
17, 18, 22 and March 11, 2022.  The court
found in favor of plaintiff Amelia Yuhas in the amount of $36,251.50 and
interest in the amount of $12,802.24, and attorney fees per noticed motion, and
costs per memo of costs.
Judgment was entered against
defendants on March 18, 2022.
On June 16, 2022, the court granted
plaintiff’s motion for attorney’s fees in the amount of $101,174 as the
prevailing party against defendants.
On May 9, 2024, a remittitur was
issued, stating that plaintiff is entitled to costs on appeal.  The appellate court affirmed the judgment.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
CCP §1021 states:  “Except as attorney’s fees are specifically
provided for by statute, the measure and mode of compensation of attorneys and
counselors at law is left to the agreement, express or implied, of the parties;
. . .” 
CCP §1032(b) states:  “Except as otherwise expressly provided by
statute, a prevailing party is entitled as a matter of right to recover costs
in any action or proceeding.” 
CCP §1033.5(a)(10)(A) states that
attorney fees when authorized by contract are allowable as costs and may be
awarded upon a noticed motion pursuant to CCP §1033.5(c)(5).   
            Under Civil Code §1717(a), “[i]n any
action on contract, where the contract specifically provides that attorney fees
and costs, which are incurred to enforce that contract, shall be awarded either
to one of the parties or to the prevailing party, then the party who is
determined to be the prevailing party on the contract, whether he or she is the
party specified in the contract or not, shall be entitled to reasonable
attorney fees in addition to other costs.” 

“The trial court has ‘broad
authority’ to determine the amount of a reasonable attorneys’ fees.  PLCM
Group v. Drexler (2000) 22 Cal.4th 1084, 1095.  “[T]he fee setting inquiry in California
ordinarily begins with the ‘lodestar,’ i.e., the number of hours reasonably
expended multiplied by the reasonable hourly rate.”  (Id.
[“California courts have consistently held that a computation of time spent on
a case and the reasonable value of that time is fundamental to a determination
of an appropriate attorneys' fee award.”].)
Under Cal. Rules of Court, Rule
3.1702, “(c) Attorney's fees on appeal:  (1)  Time for motion:  A notice of motion to claim attorney's fees
on appeal-other than the attorney's fees on appeal claimed under (b)-under a
statute or contract requiring the court to determine entitlement to the fees,
the amount of the fees, or both, must be served and filed within the time for
serving and filing the memorandum of costs under rule 8.278(c)(1) in an
unlimited civil case . . . .”
 
DISCUSSION
            Plaintiff
Amelia A. Yuhas requests attorney’s fees in the amount of $49,285.50 under Civil
Code §1717 as the prevailing party under the appeal.
            Entitlement
            After
a non-jury trial, the Court found in favor of plaintiff Amelia A. Yuhas and
against defendants.  Judgment was entered
on March 18, 2022, finding that plaintiff is the prevailing party in the
litigation, “such that it be awarded attorney fees” pursuant to the submission
of a motion for attorney fees.  The Court
awarded attorney’s fees in favor of plaintiff and against defendants.  Defendants appealed, arguing that the
evidence was insufficient to that defendant Khan was the alter ego of Gizmo
Media, LLC.  On May 9, 2024, a remittitur
was issued, affirming the judgment in favor of plaintiff and stating that
plaintiff is entitled to costs on appeal.
Cal. Rules
of Court, Rule 8.278(a) defines the “prevailing party” on appeal as “the
respondent if the Court of Appeal affirms the judgment without modification or
dismisses 
the appeal,” which what occurred.
            As
stated in the Court’s previous ruling on plaintiff’s request for attorney’s
fees, plaintiff sued for breach of the Business Purchase Agreement and Joint
Escrow Instructions.  The agreement
provides at para. 35:  “Attorney
Fees:  In any action, proceeding, or
arbitration between Buyer and Seller arising out of this Agreement, the
prevailing Buyer or Seller shall be entitled to reasonable attorneys fees and
costs from the non-prevailing Buyer or Seller, except as provided in paragraph
30A.”
            In
accordance with the appellate court opinion, the Court finds that plaintiff is
the prevailing party against defendants on appeal and that plaintiff is
entitled to attorney’s fees against them. 

            Reasonableness
            Plaintiff
requests $49,285.50 in attorney’s fees incurred on appeal.  She argues that her request is reasonable.  According to plaintiff’s counsel’s
declaration, he was the primary handling attorney on the appellate case.  He states that the “vast majority of my
practice has been dedicated to business and real estate matters” and that for
the past thirteen years, he has specialized in such.  As a senior associate, his billing rate is
$375 per hour.  He billed 135.7 hours on
the appeal.  He incurred an additional
ten hours as to the herein motion.  See
Jonathan Davis decl.
            In
their opposition, defendants argue that the amount requested is unreasonable
and excessive.  Defendants point to 32.9
hours billed from April 13, 2022 to July 24, 2024 for “reviewing the case
file.”  Defendants also contend that
plaintiff should not be able to recover for any of the hours billed (14.6) in
opposing defendant’s claim of exemption.
            In
reply, plaintiff reiterates that the amount of fees requested is reasonable and
already includes a discount on the total billable hours in reviewing the case
file, including “trial transcripts for a multi-day trial and underlying
pleadings (including trial documents) that were key to the appeal.”  Plaintiff also contends that as to fees
incurred in opposing the claim of exemption, a judgment creditor is entitled to
the reasonable and necessary costs of enforcing a judgment, citing to CCP
§685.040 (“The judgment creditor is entitled to the reasonable and necessary
costs of enforcing a judgment. Attorney’s fees incurred in enforcing a judgment
are not included in costs collectible under this title unless otherwise
provided by law.  Attorney’s fees
incurred in enforcing a judgment are included as costs collectible under this
title if the underlying judgment include an award of attorney’s fees to the
judgment creditor . . . .”).
            The
Court reviewed plaintiff’s counsel’s billing records and finds that the amount
requested is reasonable. 
            The
motion is GRANTED.
 
ORDER
            The
motion is GRANTED.    
            Plaintiff
is awarded attorney’s fees in the amount of $49,285.50 as against defendants.
Plaintiff
is ordered to give notice of the ruling.