 Case Number:  YC069624    Hearing Date:   July 8, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
PRIMARY
  FINANCIAL SERVICE, LLC 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
YC069624




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
SUK
  KANG, et al.


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          July
8, 2024
 
Moving
Parties:                      Non-party Wells Fargo Bank, National Association
Responding
Party:                  None
Motion
to Substitute Wells Fargo Bank, National Association as Party Plaintiff
            This Motino was originally heard on
June 10, 2024, at which time it continued to the matter to allow the moving
party to supplement its materials to show that it is the owner of the
claim.  The court considered the moving
papers and the supplemental papers filed following the June 10, 2024 hearing,
and in particular the Declaration of Amenda Layton with attached Agreement for Purchase
and Sale of Charged Off Account, filed June 27, 2024.  No Opposition has been filed.
RULING
            The motion is GRANTED.
BACKGROUND
            The Court notes that the documents
referenced below are archived and are currently unavailable to view:
On February 6, 2014, plaintiff
Primary Financial Services, LLC filed a complaint against Andrew, Joshua & Associates,
Inc. and Suk Kang.
On June 18, 2014, plaintiff dismissed
Andrew, Joshua & Associates.  A default
was entered against Suk Kang.
On August 1, 2014, a default
judgment was entered.
DISCUSSION
            Non-party
Wells Fargo Bank requests an order substituting it as “party plaintiff” and to
amend the judgment entered on August 1, 2014 and correct it nunc pro tunc
as of the date of entry of judgment to read, “It is ordered, adjudged, and
decreed that plaintiff Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, recover from Suk
Hyun Kan, an individual, aka Suk Kang aka Steve Kang, the total sum of
$89,305.20.”  
            Wells
Fargo asserts that it is the assignee of plaintiff Primary Financial Services,
LLC.  Wells Fargo explains that it
assigned its right, title, and interest to Suk Hyun Kang aka Suk Kang aka Steve
Kang to CBV Collection Services Ltd., who had in turn assigned it to plaintiff
Primary Financial Services LLC for servicing. 
After judgment was entered, in December 2014, Wells Fargo purchased back
its right, title, and interest from CBV and PFS.  It now owns all rights and remedies as
related thereto.  The Amended Layton
Declaration filed June 27, 2024 shows that Wells Fago acquired the rights to
this debt.
            CCP
§368.5 states:  “An action or proceeding
does not abate by the transfer of an interest in the action or proceeding or by
any other transfer of an interest. The action or proceeding may be continued in
the name of the original party, or the court may allow the person to whom the
transfer is made to be substituted in the action or proceeding.”
The Court finds that WELLS FARGO BANK, NATIONAL
ASSOCIATION is the owner of the debt has the right to be substituted as the
named Judgment Creditor in this action. 
ORDER
            Wells
Fargo Bank, National Association shall be substituted in place of Primary
Financial Services, LLC., a Limited Liability Company as the Party Plaintiff
and is entitled to enforce the Judgment entered August 1, 2014.
            Moving
party is ordered to give notice of ruling.