 Case Number:  23STCV30346    Hearing Date:   January 22, 2025    Dept:  74 Zarrabian v.
Zarrabian et al. 
Motion to Furnish Bond 
 
BACKGROUND
This
motion arises from a shareholder dispute.
Plaintiff
Yousef Zarrabian (Plaintiff) alleges that defendants Pouya Zarrabian, Gold Gas,
Inc.; P&J Gas, Inc.; Classic Petroleum, Inc.; Unique Petroleum, Inc.;
Rowland Heights Petroleum, Inc.; and VIP Petroleum, Inc. violated the
shareholder agreement and engaged in abuse of control and unjust enrichment as
well as elder financial abuse, conversion and accounting.  
Defendant
Pouya Zarrabian moves for order to furnish bond pursuant to Corporation Code
section 800.
 
LEGAL STANDARD 
            California
Corporation Code section 800 allows a “defendant who is an officer or director
of the corporation… [to] move the court for an order, upon notice and hearing,
requiring the plaintiff to furnish a bond.” 
The bond must be based on the grounds that either “(1) [t]hat there is
no reasonable possibility that the prosecution of the cause of action alleged
in the complaint against the moving party will benefit the corporation or its
shareholders [or] (2) [t]hat the moving party, if other than the corporation,
did not participate in the transaction complained of in any capacity.”  (Corp. code § 800(c).)  The motion for bond must be filed within 30
days after service of summons.  (Corp.
code § 800(c).)  The Court may extend the
30-day period not to exceed 60 days upon a showing of good cause.  (Corp. code § 800(c).)
DISCUSSION
            Defendant
requests the Court impose a bond on Plaintiff under California Corporations
code section 800.  Defendant alleges that
there is no reasonable possibility that the prosecution of Plaintiff causes of
action will benefit the corporation because (1) Plaintiff failed to comply with
Corporation code section 800(b) and (2) Plaintiff is pursuing a personal right
of action.  Additionally, Defendant
alleges that they did not participate in the alleged transaction complained of
in any capacity.
            Plaintiff
argues that Defendant previously brought a motion to require a bond under the
original complaint and that Defendant now brings the motion to require a bond
on grounds that were previously available. 

            A
party who originally made an application for an order which was refused may
make a subsequent application for the same order upon new or different facts,
circumstances, or law.  (Code of Civil
Procedure § 1008(b).)  The motion must
include an affidavit stating, “what application was made before, when and to
what judge, what order or decisions were made, and what new or different facts,
circumstances, or law are claimed to be shown.”
            Defendant
does not provide an affidavit stating what new facts, circumstances or law
permits a subsequent application for the same order.  Therefore, Defendant has failed to meet the
procedural requirements.
 
CONCLUSION
            The
Court denies Defendant’s Motion to Require Bond. 
            Defendant
to give notice.