 Case Number:  23STCV25419    Hearing Date:   January 22, 2025    Dept:  74 Isaacson v.
Paradigm Treatment Centers, LLC et al.
Defendants Paradigm Treatment
Centers, LLC and Altior Healthcare, LLC’s Motion to Compel Arbitration
 
BACKGROUND  
This
motion arises from an employment and discrimination claim.
Plaintiff
Arika Isaacson (Plaintiff) alleges the defendant Paradigm Treatment Centers LLC
and Altior Healthcare (Defendants), her employers, discriminated against her
for her sex.
Plaintiff
filed the complaint on October 18, 2023. 

On
April 25, 2024, Defendants filed a motion to compel arbitration. 
 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
            The
Court denies the Plaintiff’s evidentiary objections. 
 
LEGAL STANDARD 
Under
both the Federal Arbitration Act and California law, arbitration agreements are
valid, irrevocable, and enforceable, except on such grounds that exist at law
or equity for voiding a contract.  (Winter
v. Window Fashions Professions, Inc. (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 943, 947.)  The party moving to compel arbitration must
establish the existence of a written arbitration agreement between the
parties.  (Code of Civ. Proc. §
1281.2.)  This is usually done by
presenting a copy of the signed, written agreement to the court.  “A petition to compel arbitration or to stay
proceedings pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure sections 1281.2 and 1281.4 must
state, in addition to other required allegations, the provisions of the written
agreement and the paragraph that provides for arbitration.  The provisions must be stated verbatim, or a
copy must be physically or electronically attached to the petition and
incorporated by reference.”  (Cal. Rules
of Court, rule 3.1330.)  The moving party
must also establish the other party’s refusal to arbitrate the
controversy.  (Code of Civ. Proc. §
1281.2.)  
            The
Court shall order arbitration unless it determines that grounds exist for the
revocation of the agreement.  (Code Civ.
Proc. § 1281.2.)  Under California law,
and the Federal Arbitration Act, an arbitration agreement may be invalid based
upon grounds applicable to any contract, including unconscionability, fraud,
duress, and public policy, which would be matters for the court to decide.  (Sanchez v. Western Pizza Enterprises, Inc.
(2009) 172 Cal.App.4th 154, 165-166.)
 
DISCUSSION
            Defendants
allege that the Parties entered into a binding arbitration agreement in May
2021.  The agreement states, in pertinent
part: 
Agreement to Arbitrate.
Employee and Company (the “Parties”) hereby agree that any dispute, controversy
or claim arising out of or related to Employee’s employment with or termination
from the Company, this Agreement, or any breach of this Agreement (whether
grounded in common or statutory law) shall be resolved exclusively through
binding arbitration in Los, Angeles, California before a single neutral
arbitrator selected jointly by the Parities. 
The Parties agree that all claims shall be submitted to arbitration
including, but not limited to, claims based on any alleged violation of any
constitution, federal, states, or local law; any claims of discrimination,
harassment, retaliation, wrongful termination, or violation of civil rights;
claims for wages or compensation owing; and any claim based in tort, contract,
or equity. The Parties to the arbitration shall have available rights,
remedies, and defenses as in a civil action for the issues in controversy.  Any arbitral award determination shall be
final and binding upon the Parties. 
(Doukakis Decl., Ex. “B.”)  Defendants attached a copy of the Mutual
Agreement to Arbitrate Claims with no signature attached, a page stating,
“Mutual Arbitration” with a signature labeled Anika Issacson, and a screenshot
from Paylocity labeled “Mutual Arbitration” with a document linked stating
“Mutual Arbitration Form” and “Please review the following policy and
acknowledge in the space provided below.” 
(Doukakis Decl., Ex. “B”; “C”; “D.”) 

            Defendants
allege that Plaintiff was sent the forms to sign, Plaintiff confirms that she
was required to log into an online portal to review and sign various
documents.  (Doukakis Decl. ¶ 5; Isaacson
¶ 5.)  Given the evidence submitted by
both parties, the Court finds that the signature was acknowledging the
Arbitration Agreement.  Additionally, the
Court finds the statement “[p]lease review the following policy and acknowledge
in the space provided below” provided sufficient notice to the Plaintiff that
they were signing the form.  (See Herzog
v. Superior Court (2024) 101 Cal.App.5th 1280, 1296-99.)  
            Finally,
Plaintiff notes that the contract lists “Paradigm Treatment, LLC” rather than
“Paradigm Treatment Centers, LLC” as the beneficiary of the arbitration
agreement.  In interpreting a contract,
the mutual intention of the parties at the time of formation governs
interpretation.  (Travelers Cas. and Surety Co. v. Transcontinental Ins. Co. (2004)
122 Cal.App.4th 949, 955.)  Plaintiff
intended to form a contract with Paradigm Treatment Centers, LLC and Paradigm
Treatment Centers, LLC intended to form a contract with Plaintiff.  In light of the submitted exhibits, the Court
finds that Defendants have met their burden in establishing an Arbitration
Agreement existed between the two parties. 
Waiver
            Plaintiff
argues that Defendants waived their right to compel arbitration by
participating in litigation for over six months after the action was filed. Plaintiff filed the complaint on October
18, 2023.  (Zenjiryan Decl. ¶ 3.)  Defendants filed an answer to Plaintiff’s
complaint and filed a cross-complaint. 
(Zenjiryan Decl. ¶ 3.)  Defendants
also responded to Plaintiff’s discovery requests.  (Zenjiryan Decl. ¶ 4.) The six-month span
between the filing of the complaint and defendants’ filing their motion to
compel arbitration during which defendants’ litigation activity was limited to
the precautionary acts of filing its cross-complaint and responding to
discovery – but not affirmatively propounding any discovery requests – is not
inconsistent with intending to arbitrate. Thus, the court finds Defendants have
not waived their right to compel arbitration.  
 
CONCLUSION
            The
Court grants Defendants’ Motion to Compel Arbitration. 
            Defendants
to give notice.