  Case Number:  23STCV24668    Hearing Date:   January 22, 2025    Dept:  74 Seneviratne
v. Avanzado et al. 
Plaintiff Saman Seneviratne’s Motion
to Expunge Lis Pendens
 
BACKGROUND  
            Plaintiff
Saman Seneviratne, individually and as a trustee of the Seneviratne Family
Residence Trust of 2018 (Plaintiff) filed a complaint against defendants Melvin
Avanzado, Abigania Avanzado, The Avanzado Law Firm, Kirsch & Jansen, LLP
(Defendants).  
            In
the original complaint, Plaintiff alleged breach of written contract regarding
Plaintiff’s right to purchase 2601 Basil Lane, Los Angeles, CA 90077 (the
Property).
            On
March 15, 2024, defendant Melvin Avanzado filed a Lis Pendens.
            On
June 12, 2024, the Court sustained the demurrer to the first, second, fourth
and sixth cause of action.  The court
denied leave to amend to the first and second cause of action (quiet title and
breach of written contract, respectively.)  

            On
December 2, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion to expunge lis pendens.  
 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
Plaintiff’s evidentiary objections
to Avanzado’s Declaration
-         
Sustained:
1 (best evidence), 2 (best evidence), 3 (best evidence)
 
LEGAL STANDARD 
The
possible grounds for a motion to expunge a lis pendens include (1) that the
complaint does not contain a real property claim (Code Civ. Proc., § 405.31);
that plaintiff cannot establish the probable validity of the real property
claim by a preponderance of the evidence (Code Civ. Proc., § 405.32); (3) that
adequate relief can be secured to the claimant by the giving of an undertaking
(Code Civ. Proc., § 405.33); and (4) that there is a defect in the statutory
service and filing requirements.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 405.23).  
Unlike
most other motions, the burden of proof is on the party¿opposing¿the motion to
expunge.  The lis pendens claimant bears
the burden of establishing the existence of a “real property claim” and that it
is “probably valid.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§§ 405.30, 405.32; Malcolm v. Superior Court of Santa Clara County (1981)
29 Cal.3d 518, 525-526, superseded by statute on other grounds.)  
 
DISCUSSION
            Plaintiff
moves to expunge the lis pendens on the basis that Defendant cannot show by the
preponderance of the evidence the probable validity of the real property claim.
Plaintiff alleges that the causes of action in the Second Cross-Complaint that
would support lis pendens are superseded by an Addendum to the contract between
parties. Defendant has the burden of proof in establishing the existence of a
“real property claim” that is “probably valid.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., §§ 405.30, 405.32; Malcolm, supra, 29
Cal.3d at pp. 525-526.)  Defendant
alleges that the Quiet Title, Declaratory Relief, Slander of Title, the
Cancellation of Written Instrument, and the Ejectment Cause of Action all
support a real property claim. 
Addendum #4
            Plaintiff
submits Addendum #4, entered into by the parties on May 29, 2018, to the Court.
Addendum #4 provides in pertinent part:
The seller shall relinquish all
claim and ownership of the property indefinitely.  Seller indemnifies and holds harmless buyer
against any past, present and future claims relating to any and all terms,
conditions, representations, omissions, and any claim what so ever. 
(Plaintiff AOE, Ex. 5.)  Plaintiff alleges that  this addendum forecloses Defendant’s claims to
the Property.  Defendant claims that the
addendum is not the operative agreement, and that Plaintiff did not comply with
all of the requirements under the Rent to Purchase Agreement (RPA) between the
parties. 
            Defendant
alleges that Plaintiff failed to perform under the RPA by failing to (1) make
the required rent payments, (2) pay real property taxes, (3) obtain and pay for
insurance, and (4) pay the monthly payments, causing escrow not to close.  (Avanzado Decl., ¶ 2.)  Plaintiff also failed to meet all escrow
requirements.  (Avanzado Decl., ¶
4.)  Defendant states that the Deed of
Trust for $71,000 was advanced rent payments, which Plaintiff applied to the
monthly rent payments for the property. 
(Avanzado Decl. ¶ 3.)  The funds
paid were applied to rent through 2020, upon which Plaintiff failed to reconvey
the deed of trust.  (Avanzado Decl. ¶
3.)  Defendant issued a “notice to buyer
to perform” on September 25, 2023. 
(Avanzado Decl., Ex. “B.”)  The
Complaint was filed on October 10, 2023. 
            Defendant
has a high burden to prove that by a preponderance of the evidence that
Plaintiff had breached a term in the agreement. 
Defendant only provides the Notice to Buyer to Perform and Close Escrow,
with no proof of service or supporting documentation, to prove that Plaintiff
was in breach of the contract.  Plaintiff
provides Addendum #4 which evidences that Parties intended to exchange
ownership interest in the property on May 29, 2018, in exchange for Plaintiff
paying off the Notice of Default received on April 11, 2018.  The statement that Seller relinquishes “any
and all claims of ownership” is repeated twice in the Addendum.  Defendant proposes that the Deed of Trust was
an advance on rent but fails to provide a different interpretation of the
relinquishment of ownership. It is also unclear why, if the Addendum was not
intended to transfer ownership, Defendant failed to file the Notice to Perform
and Close Escrow until nearly three years after Defendant alleges that
Plaintiff failed to pay rent and months after the initial RPA expired.  
Given
that Defendant has not proven by a preponderance of the evidence that Plaintiff
breached a material term in the agreement, Defendant has not met his burden to
oppose the Expungement. 
 
Attorney’s Fees
            The
court does not reach the merits of plaintiff’s request for attorney’s fees
because counsel’s November 18 declaration filed on December 31 is inadequate.
The declaration does not state the billing rate for the attorney who assisted
counsel and does not allocate the hours counsel expended and the hours the
assisting attorney expended in working on the motion. 
 
CONCLUSION
            The
Court grants Plaintiff’s Motion to Expunge Lis Pendens.
            Plaintiff
to give notice.