 Case Number:  24SMCV00413    Hearing Date:   September 24, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


July 30, 2024, continued to September 24, 2024




CASE NUMBER


24SMCV00413




MOTIONS


Demurrer and Motion to Strike Portions of First Amended
  Complaint




MOVING PARTIES


Defendants Ritz Flooring, Inc. and Mordecai Notis




OPPOSING PARTIES


Plaintiffs Ocean Promenade, Inc., dba Ocean View Hotel and
  Pacificside, Inc. dba Santa Monica Hotel



 
MOTIONS
 
On April 17, 2024, Plaintiffs Ocean Promenade, Inc. dba Ocean View
Hotel and Pacificside, Inc. dba Santa Monica Hotel (“Plaintiffs”) filed the
operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) against Defendants Ritz Flooring,
Inc. (“Ritz”); Mordecai Notis (“Notis”); and Navigators Insurance Company
(“Navigators”) alleging five causes of action for (1) Breach of Contract; (2)
Negligence; (3) Fraud; (4) Negligent Misrepresentation; and (5) Complaint
Against Contractor’s Bond.
 
Defendants Ritz and Notis (“Moving Defendants”) now demur to all five
causes of action on the grounds that they fail to state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action and are uncertain, pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 430.10, subdivisions (e) and (f), respectively.  In
addition, Moving Defendants move to strike Plaintiffs’ allegations regarding
and request for punitive damages.
 
Plaintiffs untimely opposed
both motions, but the Court continued the hearing to give Moving Defendants an
opportunity to file reply briefs.
 
In reply, Moving Defendants
submitted the Declaration of Eugene S. Alkana, Esq., indicating that upon
reviewing the Demurrer, the untimely Opposition, and the Court’s prior
Tentative Ruling, Moving Defendants submit to the Court’s prior Tentative
Ruling.  On September 3, Moving
Defendants filed an answer to the First Amended Complaint.
 
ANALYSIS
 
1.     DEMURRER
 
“It is black letter law that a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of
the allegations in a complaint.”  (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015)
235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  In testing the sufficiency of a cause of
action, a court accepts “[a]s true all material facts properly pled and matters
which may be judicially noticed but disregard contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law.  [A court
also gives] the complaint a reasonable interpretation, reading it as a whole
and its parts in their context.”  (290
Division (EAT), LLC v. City & County of San Francisco (2022) 86
Cal.App.5th 439, 450 [cleaned up]; Hacker v. Homeward Residential, Inc.
(2018) 26 Cal.App.5th 270, 280 [“in considering the merits of a demurrer,
however, “the facts alleged in the pleading are deemed to be true, however
improbable they may be”].)
 
Further, in ruling on a demurrer, a court must “liberally construe”
the allegations of the complaint “with a view to substantial justice between
the parties.”  (See Code Civ. Proc., §
452.)  “This rule of liberal construction
means that the reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not
the defendant.”  (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209
Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.)   
 
In summary, “[d]etermining whether the complaint is sufficient as
against the demurrer on the ground that it does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action, the rule is that if on consideration of all the
facts stated it appears the plaintiff is entitled to any relief at the hands of
the court against the defendants the complaint will be held good although the
facts may not be clearly stated, or may be intermingled with a statement of
other facts irrelevant to the cause of action shown, or although the plaintiff
may demand relief to which he is not entitled under the facts alleged.”  (Gressley v. Williams (1961) 193
Cal.App.2d 636, 639.)
 
A.   
UNCERTAINTY
 
“[D]emurrers for uncertainty are disfavored.”  (Lickiss v. Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority (2012) 208 Cal.App.4th 1125, 1135.)  A demurrer for uncertainty will be sustained
only where the pleading is so bad that the responding party cannot reasonably
respond - i.e., he or she cannot reasonably determine what issues must be
admitted or denied, or what claims are directed against him or her.  (Khoury v. Maly’s of California (1993)
14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)  Where a
demurrer is made upon the ground of uncertainty, the demurrer must distinctly
specify exactly how or why the pleading is uncertain, and where such
uncertainty appears by reference to page and line numbers.  (See Fenton v. Groveland Comm.
Services Dist. (1982) 135 Cal.App.3d 797, 809.)  
 
Moving Defendants argue that the first cause of action for breach of
contract is uncertain, because the FAC does not allege the material terms of
the contract(s) at issue.  The FAC
alleges:
 
32. Between October 8, 2020, and January 6, 2023,
Plaintiffs entered into the Contracts with Defendants wherein Defendants agreed
to supply and install recommended flooring material at Plaintiffs’ hotels at
prices stated in the Contracts.
 
(FAC
¶ 32.)  Thus, the Court finds that the
basic terms of the contract(s) at issue are alleged in the FAC.
 
            Moving Defendants argue the second
cause of action for negligence is uncertain because it is unclear what
Plaintiffs allege Defendants did wrong. 
The FAC alleges:
 
44. Defendants have breached their duty and
negligently performed their services by failing to cause the flooring
installation to be completed in a proper and workmanlike manner.
 
(FAC
¶ 44.)  Therefore, the breach alleged is
not uncertain.
 
            Moving Defendants do not raise any
arguments that the remaining causes of action are uncertain. 
 
            Ultimately, Moving Defendants do not
demonstrate that any portions of the FAC are so bad that Moving Defendants
cannot reasonably determine what issues must be admitted or denied, or what
claims are directed against them.  The
Court thus declines to sustain Moving Defendants’ demurrer on the basis of
uncertainty. 
 
B.   
FAILURE TO STATE A CAUSE OF ACTION
 
                                                        
i.         
First Cause
of Action – Breach of Contract
 
“To prevail on a cause of
action for breach of contract, the plaintiff must prove (1) the contract, (2)
the plaintiff's performance of the contract or excuse for nonperformance, (3)
the defendant's breach, and (4) the resulting damage to the plaintiff.”  (Richman v. Hartley (2014) 224
Cal.App.4th 1182, 1186.)  
 
Moving Defendants argue that
because the invoices attached to the FAC indicate they were issued by Ritz, as
opposed to Notis, Plaintiffs fail to state a breach of contract claim against
Notis.  The FAC alleges:
 
6. Plaintiffs are informed and believe, and based
thereon allege that at all times herein mentioned, Defendant MORDECAI NOTIS
(hereinafter “Notis”) is an individual and at all times relevant herein was
conducting business in the County of Los Angeles, State of California and is
one of the owners, responsible party, managing partner, controlling
shareholder, CEO, and/or President, or otherwise directs and controls defendant
Ritz. 
 
7. Since July 29, 2024, Defendant Notis has been
the Responsible Managing Officer (“RMO”) for Defendant Ritz and acting as the
sole qualifier for Defendant Ritz’s California Contractor’s license. 
 
8. As the RMO of Defendant Ritz and pursuant to
California Business and Professions Code Section 7068.1 Defendant Notis is
“…responsible for exercising supervision and control of their employer's or
principal's construction operations to secure compliance with this chapter and
the rules and regulations of the board.” 
 
9. As the RMO of Defendant Ritz, Defendant Notis
has personal liability for the wrongdoing of Defendant Ritz based upon
Defendant Notis’ direct participation and decision making, authorization, and
direction, in the wrongdoing alleged herein. Michaelis v. Benavides, 71 Cal.
Rptr. 2d 776, 779 (Cal. App. 2d Dist. 1998).
 
[…]
 
13. Plaintiffs are informed and believe, and
thereupon allege that each defendant was the agent, servant, and employee of
the other defendants, and each of them, and in committing the acts and
omissions herein mentioned was acting within the course and scope of said
agency, servitude and employment. At all times mentioned herein, each defendant
was chargeable and bound by the knowledge and information received by and on
behalf of each other defendant. 
 
14. Plaintiffs are informed and believe and
thereon allege that Ritz is, and at all times herein mentioned was, a mere
shell and sham without sufficient capital, assets, and/or insurance coverage
considering the business done by Ritz; that Ritz is, and at all times mentioned
herein was, conceived, intended, and used by Notis, and Does 1-50 as a device
to avoid individual liability by means of substituting a financially insolvent
and inadequately capitalized and/or insured business entity in place of said beneficial
owners; that there exists, and at all times mentioned herein has existed, a
unity of interest and ownership between Defendants such that any separateness
has ceased to exist between them; that Notis, and Does 1-50 have used assets of
Ritz for personal use, have caused the assets of Ritz to be transferred to them
without adequate consideration, and have withdrawn funds from Ritz’s bank
accounts for personal use that Notis, and Does 1-50 manipulated the assets and
liabilities of Ritz so that the assets were concentrated in persons and/or
entities other than Ritz; that Ritz was a mere shell, instrumentality, and
conduit through which Notis, and Does 1-50 carried business in the entity’s
names exactly as they had previous to incorporation, exercising complete
dominance and control of such business to such an extent that any individuality
or separateness of Defendants would permit abuse of the corporate privilege and
would sanction fraud and injustice in that said person, through their control,
domination and manipulation of Ritz have purposely sought to insulate
themselves from liability for wrongful acts and to substitute in their place a
shell lacking adequate capital when assessed in light of the activities of
Ritz, thereby rendering Ritz insolvent and unable to meet its obligations. 
 
15. All of the acts of the defendants, and each
of them, were ratified and adopted by the acts of their co-defendants, and each
of them. 
 
16. Between October 8, 2020, and January 6, 2023,
Plaintiff Ocean Prominade hired Defendants Ritz and Notis to supply and install
flooring material at Ocean Prominade’s property based upon prices stated in the
invoices. The invoices are attached and incorporated hereto as Exhibit “1.” 
 
17. Between May 21, 2021, and May 26, 2022,
Plaintiff Pacificside hired Defendants Ritz and Notis to supply and install
flooring material at Pacificside’s property based upon prices stated in the
invoices. The invoices are attached and incorporated hereto as Exhibit “2.”
(Exhibits “1” and “2” are collectively referred to as the “Contracts”). 
 
18. Prior to the selection of the LVP flooring,
Defendant Ritz and Notis recommended to Plaintiffs that the LVP flooring was
the appropriate material to install and utilize at Plaintiffs’ hotels. 
 
19. As a flooring contractor, when the
recommendation was made, Defendant Ritz and Notis knew that the LVP flooring
was not the appropriate material to install and utilize at Plaintiffs’ hotels. 
 
20. Prior to the work commencing, Defendants Ritz
and Notis provided the invoices (contracts) to Plaintiffs specifically
recommending the material and stating the cost of the material including the
installation thereof. Thereafter, Plaintiffs would review the invoices and
approve them prior to work commencing. 
 
21. Based upon Defendants Ritz and Notis’
representations, Plaintiffs installed LVP flooring at both locations.
Plaintiffs relied on Defendants Ritz and Notis’ recommendation regarding the
type of flooring material to install. As further alleged below, the flooring
material recommended and suggested was not the appropriate material to install
in hotels. 
 
22. Almost immediately following installation of
the flooring materials Plaintiffs began noticing numerous problems with the
installed flooring materials, including but not limited to, cracking,
splitting, unlevel finish, and floating flooring materials. Additionally, the
installed flooring materials exhibited excessive noise, which is unacceptable
for hotels. 
 
23. Following installation, the problems with the
flooring materials were brought to Defendants Ritz and Notis’ attention at
which time, numerous repairs were attempted by Ritz and Notis. Unfortunately,
these repairs were not successful and the floors continued exhibiting the same
problems. 
 
24. Finally, Ritz and Notis admitted the flooring
material recommended was not appropriate for a hotel setting and was rather
designed for apartments. Following this admission, Ritz and Notis offered to
sell Plaintiffs more expensive flooring which would be appropriate for a hotel.

 
25. In entering into the Contracts, Defendants
Ritz and Notis implicitly promised to provide flooring materials which met the
standard of care set by professionals in the construction industry for flowing
materials in hotel settings. 
 
26. Plaintiffs reasonably relied on both the
implicit and explicit contractual promises by Defendants Ritz and Notis in
entering into the contracts and paying Defendants. 
 
27. Defendants, and each of them, intentionally
misled Plaintiffs in order to induce Plaintiffs to hire them.
 
28. As a direct and proximate result of the
foregoing acts, conduct and/or omissions of the Defendants, and each of them,
said defects have caused, and continue to cause, resultant damage to the
component parts of construction. Additionally, said defects constituted a life
safety issue, including but not limited to, constituting trip hazards to
Plaintiffs’ employees and customers, and require repair and replacement. 
 
29. Plaintiffs have further been damaged in the
nature of the costs incurred to repair the work agreed to be performed by the
Defendants and the cost to repair consequential damage to the Plaintiffs’
property, purchase materials, and pay for permits; all in a sum in excess of
$250,000.00 together with interest thereon at the legal rate according to
proof. 
 
30. As a direct and proximate result of
Defendants’ actions as herein alleged, Plaintiffs have further been damaged by
the loss of use of the properties and hotel rooms, including lost profit in
being unable to rent the affected hotel rooms during attempted repairs and
until proper repairs can take place in the affected rooms all in a sum in
excess of $250,000.00 together with interest thereon at the legal rate
according to proof.
 
[…]
 
32. Between October 8, 2020, and January 6, 2023,
Plaintiffs entered into the Contracts with Defendants wherein Defendants agreed
to supply and install recommended flooring material at Plaintiffs’ hotels at
prices stated in the Contracts.
 
33. Defendants began performing the services
under these Contracts. 
 
34. Plaintiffs have performed all conditions
precedent, if any, to Defendants’ bargained for and due performance under the
Contracts, and further, Plaintiffs have performed all conditions, covenants and
promises required to be performed, unless excused, on their part under the
Contracts. 
 
35. Defendants implicitly agreed to perform their
work, labor, and/or services in a good and workmanlike manner in accordance
with all operative codes, rules, and regulations. 
 
36. Plaintiffs are informed and believe and
thereon allege that the Defendants breached the Contracts as set forth in
paragraphs 13 through 29 above, including, but not limited to performing work
in a non-workmanlike manner, and recommending and installing inappropriate
material in Plaintiffs’ hotels 
 
37. As a direct and proximate result of the
foregoing acts, conduct and/or omissions of the Defendants, and each of them,
said defects have caused, and continue to cause, resultant damage to the
component parts of construction. Additionally, said defects constituted a life
safety issue, including but not limited to, constituting trip hazards to
Plaintiffs’ employees and customers, and require repair and replacement. 
 
38. Plaintiffs have further been damaged in the
nature of the costs incurred to repair the work agreed to be performed by the
Defendants and the cost to repair consequential damage to the Plaintiffs’
property, purchase materials, and pay for permits; all in a sum in excess of
$250,000.00 together with interest thereon at the legal rate according to
proof. 
 
39. As a direct and proximate result of
Defendants’ actions as herein alleged, Plaintiffs have further been damaged by
the loss of use of the properties and hotel rooms, including lost profit in
being unable to rent the affected hotel rooms during attempted repairs and
until proper repairs can take place in the affected rooms all in a sum in
excess of $250,000.00 together with interest thereon at the legal rate
according to proof.
 
(FAC ¶¶ 6-9, 13-39.) 
 
Thus, Plaintiffs have adequately
alleged breach of contract as to Notis.
 
                                                      
ii.         
Second
Cause of Action – Negligence
 
“The elements of any negligence cause of action are duty, breach of duty,
proximate cause, and damages.”  (Peredia
v. HR Mobile Services, Inc. (2018) 25 Cal.App.5th 680, 687.)
The FAC alleges:
 
41. Plaintiffs are informed and believe and
thereon allege that Defendants knew, or should have known, that if the improper
flooring was installed and/or not properly or adequately installed, that the
Plaintiffs would be substantially damaged thereby, including loss of use, and
lost profits, and that installed floors would be defective and not of
merchantable quality. 
 
42. Defendants were under a duty to exercise
ordinary and reasonable care, to avoid reasonably foreseeable injuries to
Plaintiffs, and knew or should have known with reasonable certainty that
Plaintiffs would suffer the monetary damages set forth herein if Defendants
failed to perform their duty to cause the construction to be completed in a
proper and workmanlike manner. 
 
43. Pursuant to California Business and
Professions Code Section 7109(a), Defendants were under a duty to exercise
ordinary and reasonable care, to avoid reasonably foreseeable injuries to
Plaintiffs, and knew or should have known with reasonable certainty that
Plaintiffs would suffer the monetary damages set forth herein if Defendants
failed to perform their duty to cause the construction to be completed in a
proper and workmanlike manner. 
 
44. Defendants have breached their duty and
negligently performed their services by failing to cause the flooring
installation to be completed in a proper and workmanlike manner. Defendants’
negligent work has resulted in damage to adjacent parts of the properties and
caused further damages which both needed to be repaired at additional cost. 
 
45. As a direct and proximate result of the
foregoing acts, conduct and/or omissions of the Defendants, and each of them,
said defects have caused, and continue to cause, resultant damage to the
component parts of construction. Additionally, said defects constituted a life
safety issue, including but not limited to, constituting trip hazards to
Plaintiffs’ employees and customers, and require repair and replacement. 
 
46. Plaintiffs have further been damaged in the
nature of the costs incurred to repair the work agreed to be performed by the
Defendants and the cost to repair consequential damage to the Plaintiffs’
property, purchase materials, and pay for permits; all in a sum in excess of
$250,000.00 together with interest thereon at the legal rate according to
proof. 
 
47. As a direct and proximate result of
Defendants’ actions as herein alleged, Plaintiffs have further been damaged by
the loss of use of the properties and hotel rooms, including lost profit in
being unable to rent the affected hotel rooms during attempted repairs and
until proper repairs can take place in the affected rooms all in a sum in
excess of $250,000.00 together with interest thereon at the legal rate
according to proof.
 
(FAC ¶¶ 41-47.)  Therefore, Plaintiffs have adequately stated
a cause of action for negligence.
 
                                                    
iii.         
Third and
Fourth Causes of Action – Fraud and Negligent Misrepresentation
 
The elements for fraudulent
misrepresentation are “(1) the defendant represented to the plaintiff that an
important fact was true; (2) that representation was false; (3) the defendant
knew that the representation was false when the defendant made it, or the
defendant made the representation recklessly and without regard for its truth;
(4) the defendant intended that the plaintiff rely on the representation; (5)
the plaintiff reasonably relied on the representation; (6) the plaintiff was
harmed; and (7) the plaintiff's reliance on the defendant's representation was
a substantial factor in causing that harm to the plaintiff.”  (Graham v. Bank of America, N.A.
(2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 594, 605–606.)  
 
“The essential elements of a
count for negligent misrepresentation are the same [as intentional
misrepresentation] except that it does not require knowledge of falsity but
instead requires a misrepresentation of fact by a person who has no reasonable
grounds for believing it to be true.”  (Chapman
v. Skype Inc. (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 217, 230-231 (hereafter Chapman).)  Like intentional misrepresentation, causes of
action for negligent misrepresentation sound in fraud, and must also,
therefore, be pleaded with particularity. 
(Ibid.)  
 
“In California, fraud must be
pled specifically; general and conclusory allegations do not suffice.”  (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12
Cal.4th 631, 645.)  “This particularity
requirement necessitates pleading facts which show how, when, where, to whom,
and by what means the representations were tendered.”  (Ibid.)  
 
“One of the purposes of the
specificity requirement is notice to the defendant, to furnish the defendant
with certain definite charges which can be intelligently met.”  (Alfaro v. Community Housing Improvement
System & Planning Assn., Inc. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1356, 1384.)  As such, less specificity is required “when
it appears from the nature of the allegations that the defendant must
necessarily possess full information concerning the facts of the
controversy[.]”  (Ibid.)  “Even under the strict rules of common law
pleading, one of the canons was that less particularity is required when the
facts lie more in the knowledge of the opposite party.”  (Ibid.)
 
Moving Defendants demur to the
third and fourth causes of action on the grounds that they are not pleaded with
requisite specificity.  As to the Third
Cause of Action, the FAC alleges:
 
49. Prior to entering into the Contracts, and
before any work was performed on the Subject Property, Defendants, represented
to Plaintiff that the installed LVP flooring was the appropriate flooring
materiel to utilize in Plaintiffs’ hotels. 
 
50. The representation and suggestion that the
installed LVP flooring was the proper material to use in a hotel setting was
false when made and each of Defendants knew the Misrepresentations were false
at the time that they made them. 
 
51. Defendants made the misrepresentations with
regard to the installed LVP flooring with the intention of defrauding
Plaintiffs and inducing Plaintiffs to rely upon the Misrepresentations in
contracting with Defendants to do the Work. 
 
52. Plaintiffs were ignorant of the true facts
concerning Defendants’ Misrepresentations. If Plaintiffs had known the truth
about the Misrepresentations, Plaintiffs would never have agreed to contract
with Defendants for the installed LVP flooring and would have taken steps to
prevent the use of substandard materials at its hotels. 
 
53. Plaintiffs relied upon the false statements
made by entering into the Contracts and Permitting Defendants to continue to
perform work. 
 
54. Defendant RITZ FLOORING, INC., by and through
its corporate officers, directors, and managing agents, presently unknown to
Plaintiffs and according to proof at the time of trial, ratified the misconduct
and statements alleged herein in that they were aware that Defendant RITZ
FLOORING, INC. improperly recommended the use of the installed LVP flooring.
That notwithstanding this knowledge, these officers, directors, and/or managing
agents meaningfully disregarded these issues even though they knew this would
lead to unnecessary damages to Plaintiff. 
 
55. Plaintiffs have further been damaged in the
nature of the costs incurred to repair the work agreed to be performed by the
Defendants and the cost to repair consequential damage to the Plaintiffs’
property, purchase materials, and pay for permits; all in a sum in excess of
$250,000.00 together with interest thereon at the legal rate according to
proof.
 
56. As a direct and proximate result of
Defendants’ actions as herein alleged, Plaintiffs have further been damaged by
the loss of use of the properties and hotel rooms, including lost profit in
being unable to rent the affected hotel rooms during attempted repairs and
until proper repairs can take place in the affected rooms all in a sum in
excess of $250,000.00 together with interest thereon at the legal rate
according to proof. 
 
57. In doing the acts alleged herein, Defendants,
and each of them, acted fraudulently and with malice, oppression, and the
intention of depriving Plaintiff s of their property, legal rights, and
otherwise causing injury to Plaintiff. This conduct was despicable and
conducted with the willful and conscious disregard for the rights of
Plaintiffs, thereby resulting in injury justifying an award of exemplary and
punitive damages.
 
(FAC
¶¶ 49-57.)  Similarly, the FAC alleges as
to the fourth cause of action:
 
58. The allegations of paragraphs 1 through 57
are incorporated by reference and realleged herein.
 
59. At the time said Defendants, and each of
them, made the representations as herein alleged, including the representations
that the installed LVP flooring was appropriate for hotel use, the Defendants
knew these representations were untrue and the said Defendants, and each of
them, did not have sufficient knowledge and/or they did not possess a
sufficient factual basis upon which to make said representations, and they knew
that Plaintiffs would rely on said representations as if they were true and correct
in making their decision to enter into the Contracts with Defendants. 
 
60. In making said representations, the said
Defendants, and each of them, acted in a negligent and careless manner and knew
or should have known that these negligent misrepresentations made to Plaintiffs
were likely to be relied on by Plaintiffs and would mislead Plaintiffs (and
they did in fact mislead Plaintiffs) such that based thereon Plaintiffs agreed
to enter into the Contracts with Defendants. 
 
61. At the times these misrepresentations were
made, and at the times Plaintiffs acted as described herein in reliance
thereon, Plaintiffs were ignorant of their falsity, and of the existence of the
true facts. Had Plaintiffs been aware of the falsity of the facts that said
Defendants, and each of them, represented to Plaintiffs as being true,
Plaintiffs would not have entered into the Contracts with Defendants. 
 
62. Said misrepresentations were negligently made
by the said Defendants, and each of them, with the intent that Plaintiffs would
rely on them as true, which they did. 
 
63. Plaintiffs have further been damaged in the
nature of the costs incurred to repair the work agreed to be performed by the
Defendants and the cost to repair consequential damage to the Plaintiffs’
property, purchase materials, and pay for permits; all in a sum in excess of
$250,000.00 together with interest thereon at the legal rate according to
proof. 
 
64. As a direct and proximate result of
Defendants’ actions as herein alleged, Plaintiffs have further been damaged by
the loss of use of the properties and hotel rooms, including lost profit in
being unable to rent the affected hotel rooms during attempted repairs and
until proper repairs can take place in the affected rooms all in a sum in
excess of $250,000.00 together with interest thereon at the legal rate
according to proof.
 
(FAC
¶¶ 58-64.)
 
            Thus, in context, Plaintiffs allege
that prior to entering into the contracts at issue, which were entered into
between May 21, 2021 and May 26, 2022 (FAC ¶ 17), Defendants misrepresented to
Plaintiffs that the LVP flooring was appropriate to install in Plaintiffs’
hotel.  Plaintiffs further allege that
shortly following the installation, Moving Defendants admitted the flooring material
was not suitable for hotels and was designed for apartments.  (FAC ¶ 24.) 
This suggests that Moving Defendants either knew or should have known at
the time they made the misrepresentation that it was false.  Further, the misrepresentation appears
calculated to induce Plaintiffs to purchase the flooring at issue and hire
Moving Defendants to do the installation.
 
            As such, Plaintiffs have pleaded the
third and fourth causes of action with requisite particularity.
 
                                                    
iv.         
Fifth Cause of Action – Complaint Against
Contractor’s Bond
 
Moving Defendants demur to the
fifth cause of action on the grounds that “Complaint Against Contractor’s Bond”
is a remedy, not an independent cause of action, citing to Nakash v.
Superior Court (1987) 196 Cal.App.3d 59; Wilson & Wilson v. City
Council of Redwood City (2011) 191 Cal.App.4th 1559; McDowell v. Watson
(1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 1155; R.A. Vending Services, Inc. v. City of Los
Angeles (1985) 172 Cal.App.3d 1188. 
The Court finds those appellate opinions to be distinguishable and do
not stand for the proposition that the Moving Defendants seek to advance.  (See, e.g., FNB Mortg. Corp. v. Pacific
General Group (1999) 76 Cal.App.4th 1116, 1132 [“Language used in any
opinion is of course to be understood in light of the facts and the issue
before the court, and an opinion is not authority for a proposition not therein
considered”].)  
 
In opposition, Plaintiffs cite
to Code of Civil Procedure section 996.430 which provides in relevant part:  “The liability on a bond may be enforced by
civil action.  Both the principal and the
sureties shall be joined as parties to the action.   . .
.   (c) A cause of action on a bond may
be transferred and assigned as other causes of action.”   (See,
e.g., National Technical Systems v. Commercial Contractors, Inc. (2001)
89 Cal.App.4th 1000, 1007 [“Liability on a bond may be enforced in a single
civil action by the subcontractor in which both the principal and sureties are
joined as parties to the action”].)  The
Court finds Plaintiffs’ opposition to be persuasive.
 
Therefore, the Court overrules
Moving Defendants’ demurrer to the fifth cause of action.
 
2.     MOTION
TO STRIKE
 
Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading, may serve
and file a motion to strike the whole pleading or any part thereof.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1); Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1322, subd. (b).) 
On a motion to strike, the court may: (1) strike out any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike out all or
any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of
California, a court rule, or an order of the court.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a)-(b); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767,
782.)  
 
In ruling on a motion to strike punitive damages, “judges read
allegations of a pleading subject to a motion to strike as a whole, all parts
in their context, and assume their truth.” 
(Clauson v. Superior Court
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.)  To
state a prima facie claim for punitive damages, a plaintiff must allege the
elements set forth in the punitive damages statute, Civil Code section 3294.  (College
Hosp., Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 721.)  Per Civil Code section 3294, a plaintiff must
allege that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.  (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).)   As set forth in the Civil Code, 
 
(1) “Malice” means conduct which is intended
by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which
is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard
of the rights or safety of others.  (2)
“Oppression” means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and
unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person's rights.  (3) “Fraud” means an intentional
misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the
defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving
a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.
 
(Civ.
Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1)-(3), emphasis added.)  
 
Further, a plaintiff must assert facts with specificity to support a
conclusion that a defendant acted with oppression, fraud or malice.  To wit, there is a heightened pleading
requirement regarding a claim for punitive damages.  (See Smith v. Superior Court (1992) 10
Cal.App.4th 1033, 1041-1042.)  “When
nondeliberate injury is charged, allegations that the defendant’s conduct was
wrongful, willful, wanton, reckless or unlawful do not support a claim for
exemplary damages; such allegations do not charge malice.  When a defendant must produce evidence in
defense of an exemplary damage claim, fairness demands that he receive adequate
notice of the kind of conduct charged against him.” (G. D. Searle & Co.
v. Superior Court (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 22, 29 [cleaned up].)  In Anschutz Entertainment Group, Inc. v.
Snepp, the Court of Appeal noted that the plaintiffs’ assertions related to
their claim for punitive damages were “insufficient to meet the specific
pleading requirement.”  (Anschutz
Entertainment Group, Inc. v. Snepp (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 598, 643
[plaintiffs alleged “the conduct of Defendants was intentional, and done
willfully, maliciously, with ill will towards Plaintiffs, and with conscious
disregard for Plaintiff's rights. Plaintiff's injuries were exacerbated by the
malicious conduct of Defendants. Defendants' conduct justifies an award of
exemplary and punitive damages”]; see also Grieves
v. Superior Court (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 166 [“The mere allegation an
intentional tort was committed is not sufficient to warrant an award of
punitive damages.  Not only must there be
circumstances of oppression, fraud, or malice, but facts must be alleged in the
pleading to support such a claim”].)  
 
Moreover, “the imposition of punitive damages upon a corporation is
based upon its own fault.  It is not imposed vicariously by virtue of the
fault of others.”  (City Products Corp. v. Globe Indemnity Co.
(1979) 88 Cal.App.3d 31, 36.)  “Corporations are legal entities which do
not have minds capable of recklessness, wickedness, or intent to injure or
deceive.  An award of punitive damages against a corporation therefore
must rest on the malice of the corporation’s employees.  But the law does
not impute every employee’s malice to the corporation.  Instead, the
punitive damages statute requires proof of malice among corporate
leaders:  the officers, directors, or managing agents.”  (Cruz v.
Home Base (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 160, 167 [cleaned up].)  
 
Here,
Moving Defendants move to strike from the FAC, references to and claims for
punitive damages.              
 
As discussed above, Plaintiffs have alleged their fraud-based causes
of action with requisite specificity to withstand demurrer.  Further, Plaintiffs allege that the
misrepresentations were made by Notis, as the responsible managing officer of
Ritz.  Therefore, Moving Defendants’
motion to strike punitive damages from the FAC is denied.
            
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
For the reasons stated, the Court overrules Moving Defendants’ Demurrer
to the First Amended Complaint in its entirety. 
Further, the Court denies Moving Defendants’ Motion to Strike in its
entirety.  
 
Moving Defendants shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file the
notice with a proof of service forthwith. 

 
 
DATED:  September 24, 2024                                               ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker

                                                                                                Judge of the Superio