This is an employment matter.  Motion to Compel -429Plaintiff Selim Hoxha seeks to compel further responses to his special interrogatories (“SI”), set one, nos. 18 and 19 propounded on Defendant The Regents of the University of California.SI no. 18 states, “Please identify each and every policy of the DEFENDANT that was relevant to the TERMINATION of PLAINTIFF, by stating and describing each relevant policy, the date each policy went into effect, describing how each policy was relevant to the TERMINATION of PLAINTIFF, and then if it is a written policy, describe the DOCUMENT that contains each policy sufficiently so that PLAINTIFF can locate it.” The last supplemental response referred to a number of documents.  The response is nearly sufficient, but fails to explain the relevance of the documents at issue.  Thus, a further response will be required within 30 days.The Motion is denied as to SI no. 19 because another supplemental response was provided. In sum, the Motion is granted in part.  The Court declines to award sanctions.Motion to Compel -224Plaintiff seeks to compel further responses to SI nos. 23, 27-29, 39, 46, 48, and 50 fromDefendant The Regents of the University of California. The Motion is denied as to SI nos. 23 and 39 because Defendant provided supplemental responses for these interrogatories.   SI nos. 27-29 seek information as to investigations pertaining to inappropriate conduct.  The Motion is denied as to these interrogatories because sufficient responses were provided. SI nos. 46 and 48 seek the identities, contact information, and assignments of Plaintiff’s catering coworkers.  Defendant provided schedules having the necessary information but redacted the names of non-supervisory employees.  Plaintiff seeks the identity of these non-supervisory employees.  Given that the timeframe for these interrogatories is only 3 months and the scope of discovery is broad, the Court will require Defendant to provide unredacted schedules.  The Motion is granted with respect to SI nos. 46 and 48.   The Motion is also granted as to SI no. 50 because the reference to documents is not appropriate and the objections lack merit.  A direct response will be required. In sum, the Motion is granted in part.  Further responses/production are to be served within 30 days.  The Court declines to award sanctions.Moving party to give notice.