 Case Number:  BC290553    Hearing Date:   November 21, 2024    Dept:  52 Tentative Ruling:
Defendant
Haresh Jogani’s Motion to Narrow Receivership Order 
Defendant
Haresh Jogani moves to narrow the order appointing receiver Aaron J. Kudla.  Defendant seeks to narrow or modify the
receiver’s authority in four ways.
First,
defendant moves the court to prohibit Kudla from having ex parte communications
with any of the parties.  Receivers must
be neutral.  (See Security Pacific
National Bank v. Geernaert (1988) 199 Cal.App.3d 1425, 1431-1432.)  Defendant, however, provides no authority
supporting their request to prohibit ex parte communications by a
receiver.  Defendant relies on authority
about neutrality of decisionmakers in quasi-judicial proceedings.  (Today’s Fresh Start, Inc. v. Los Angeles
County Office of Education (2013) 57 Cal.4th 197, 226 [County Board of
Education “not prohibited from ex parte contacts with staff members”]; Pacific
& Arctic Ry. and Nav. Co. v. United Transp. Union (9th Cir. 1991) 952
F.2d 1144, 1148 [arbitrator under Railway Labor Act].)  These cases do not apply to receivers.  Defendant does not show good cause to
prohibit the receiver from having ex parte communications with the parties to
this action.
Second,
defendant seeks an order prohibiting the receiver from making transfers of more
than $250,000 without prior court approval. 
Such an order would likely result in substantial delay and require excessive
oversight from the court.  The receivership
estate is worth billions of dollars.  It
is not unusual for the entities in the receivership estate to make transfers of
over $250,000.  The receiver states,
“Each month, there are routinely transfers that exceed $250,000 as part of the
administration of the Receivership Estate.” 
(Kudla Decl., ¶ 5.)      
Third,
defendant moves for an order prohibiting the receiver from making shareholder
distributions without court approval. 
The receiver does not oppose this part of the motion.  The supplemental order Kudla seeks would
include an equivalent provision.  Given
that the receiver does not seek to make shareholder distributions without prior
approval, the court finds it is currently unnecessary to issue an order specifying
he cannot do so.
Fourth,
defendant moves for an order permitting all shareholders to have online
monitoring access to business accounts.  The
receiver already “must provide monthly reports to the parties.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1182(a).)  The court finds these reports satisfy the
parties’ needs for information about the receivership estate.  The receiver may choose to provide the
parties equal online monitoring access to the accounts.  
Disposition
             Defendant Haresh Jogani’s motion to narrow
receivership order is denied.  
 Tentative Ruling:
Receiver
Aaron J. Kudla’s Motion for Supplemental Order Appointing Receiver
Receiver
Aaron J. Kudla moves for a supplemental order appointing him as receiver.  His moving papers describe obstacles he has
encountered in performing his duties.  The
court is persuaded that Kudla needs a more detailed order to effectively carry out
his duties.  Kudla does not, however,
adequately show that many provisions of the supplemental order he proposes are
necessary or appropriate.  
The
following are examples of the overly broad scope of the proposed order:
·       
The proposed
order requires that any person with notice of the order must turn
over “[a]ny books and records of or concerning the Receivership Entities.”  (Prop. Order, ¶ 2.)  Such an order is too vague to enforce.  Books and records “concerning” the entities would
include a wide variety of documents that are not part of the receivership
estate or assets.  For example, this
order would compel counsel for Haresh Jogani to turn over documents protected
by the attorney client privilege and attorney work product doctrine if they
“concerned” the Receivership Entities.
 
·       
The proposed order requires third parties
to “turn over” the assets of the receivership. 
(Prop. Order., p. 2.)  This too is
impermissibly vague.  Does this require a
bank that receives the order in the mail to liquidate the funds in accounts
held by the Receivership Entities?  This
goes beyond giving Kudla access to assets and records.  The provisions in Section E, beginning on
page 5 of the proposed order, adequately give Kudla the power to control the
Receivership Assets.  
 
·       
The proposed order states that the “all
persons and entities who receive notice of this Order” are required to turn
over the assets of the Receivership Entities to Kudla, including assets that
are located “outside of the United States.” 
(Proposed Order, pp. 2-3.)  Kudla
provides no authority supporting the court’s jurisdiction to compel non-parties
to turn over assets located outside the United States.  
.
·       
The proposed
order states, “Receiver shall undertake the risks and obligations ordinarily incurred
by owners, managers, and operators of similar businesses and enterprises and
shall pay for these services from the funds of the Receivership Assets.  No such risk or obligation incurred shall be
the personal risk or obligation of the
Receiver, his agents, professionals or any management company employed by the
Receiver, but shall be the sole risk and obligation of the receivership estate.”  (Prop. Order, ¶ E.d.)  
            Haresh
Jogani contends this provision improperly seeks to relieve the receiver and                          his
agents of liability for their own torts. 
A receiver “may incur liability for                                    negligence in his
official capacity in the performance of his duties which results in                         injury.”  (Vitug v. Griffin (1989) 214
Cal.App.3d 488, 496.)  But “[a]ny
recovery                            is payable out of receivership funds; thus a
suit for personal injury damages is a                              claim, albeit a
contingent one, against the receivership estate.”  (Ibid.)  Whether                              this provision merely
restates the general rule or modifies it to minimize the                                     receiver’s
personal liability, Kudla does not show an adequate basis for including                           it
in a supplemental order appointing him as receiver.
·       
 Haresh Jogani also objects to the following
provision: “The Receiver shall consider the recommendations and advice of
Defendant and Cross-Defendant Shailesh Jogani regarding the management and
maintenance of the Receivership Assets.” 
(Prop. Order, ¶ E.d.)  The
receiver presents no reason for such an order. 
He needs no extra authority to consider advice from any
shareholder.  The receiver may exercise
his independent judgment regarding every shareholder’s recommendations and
advice.          
 
·       
Paragraph J of the proposed order provides:
“This Court shall have sole and exclusive jurisdiction over any action brought
against the Receiver, any agents, employees or professionals of the Receiver,
or the Receivership Estate.  No person or
entity shall file suit against the Receiver related to the receivership, or
take other action against the Receiver related to the receivership, without an
order of this Court permitting the suit or action provided, however, that no
prior court order is required to file a motion in this action to enforce the
provisions of this Order or any other order of this Court in this action.  The Receiver shall have no responsibility to
respond to any complaint brought against any of the Receivership Entities in
the case absent further order of this Court.” 

            Kudla presents no reason why he
seeks such an order.  Nor does he provide
                                    authority permitting such an order.  “ ‘[S]ubject matter jurisdiction cannot be                                  conferred
by consent, waiver, or estoppel.’ ”  (Wackeen
v. Malis (2002) 97                                       Cal.App.4th 429, 438.)  This provision would broadly purport to give
this court                              sole jurisdiction over actions for which it
has no subject matter jurisdiction.  For                             example,
covered claims against the receivership estate could include workers’                               compensation
claims that must be adjudicated before the Workers’ Compensation                          Appeals
Board.  (See La Jolla Beach &
Tennis Club, Inc. v. Industrial Indemnity                           Co. (1994) 9 Cal.4th
27, 35 [“Pursuant to constitutional mandate, the Legislature                            has
vested the Workers’ Compensation Appeals Board (WCAB) with exclusive                              jurisdiction
over claims for workers’ compensation benefits”].)
 
·       
The proposed order provides that a bond in
the sum of $10,000 “satisfies the requirements of California Code of Civil
Procedure [section] 567.”  (Proposed
Order, Par. A.)   On September 20, 2024,
however, the court ordered that the bond amount shall be $100,000.
 
·       
The proposed order provides: “All third
parties with knowledge of this Order, including but not limited to Yardi, are
ordered to comply with the Receiver’s requests. . . .”  (Prop. Order, p. 4.)  The court has no authority to order all third
parties in the world to comply with any and all requests by Kudla.  
 
·       
The proposed order includes very broad
immunity to Kudla related to hazardous substances.  (Prop. Order, p. 12.)  It appears to give Kudla carte blanche to
violate a long list of environmental laws without any accountability.  It is unclear why Kudla needs the power to,
for example, dump hazardous waste in the ocean with impunity.
 
·       
The proposed order purports to require “former
employees, agents, attorneys and directors, including but not limited to Jeet
Jogani and Ritesh Desai” to “promptly  and fully cooperate with Receiver.”  (Prop. Order, p. 17.)  Kudla provides no authority for the court’s
jurisdiction to issue such an order.  
 
·       
The proposed order purports to enjoin
defendants and their “officers, agents, employees, attorneys and all other
persons who receive actual notice of this Order” from “taking action that would
interfere with the exclusive jurisdiction of this Court over the Receivership
Assets or documents of the Receivership Entities.”  This proposed injunction is
unconstitutionally vague.  Further, the
court does not have jurisdiction to issue an injunction affecting “all other
persons” who receive its order.
 
·       
The proposed order purports to prohibit “all
persons with . . . . constructive knowledge” of the order from, among other
things, doing “any act” which “will tend to, impair, defeat, divert, prevent or
prejudice the preservation of the Receivership Assets.”  (Prop. Order, p. 20.)  This is too vague to enforce and purports to
bind third parties who do not have actual notice of the order.
 
·       
The proposed order requires Haresh Jogani to
provide a full accounting of assets within five days of receiving the
order.  (Prop., Order, p. 21.)  This is an unreasonably short amount of time.
These
and several other provisions in the proposed order are not sufficiently related
to helping the receiver perform his duties or purport to grant the court power
beyond its jurisdiction.    
Kudla
has overreached.  The court will deny
this motion without prejudice.  Kudla may
file a renewed motion with a proposed supplemental order properly tailored to specifying
powers necessary to manage the receivership estate.    
Receiver
Aaron J. Kudla’s motion for supplemental order appointing receiver is denied without
prejudice.