 Case Number:  23STCV06798    Hearing Date:   November 21, 2024    Dept:  52 Tentative
Ruling: 
Petitions for Approval of Compromise of
Claim or Action for Minors Ashairel Aguirre, Axel Aguirre, and Fredy Aguirre
Plaintiff
Anairel Diaz petitions for approval of the compromise of this action on behalf
of her minor children, Ashairel Aguirre, Axel Aguirre, and Fredy Aguirre.  Plaintiff Anairel Diaz shows a reasonable
compromise of the action on behalf of the minors.  The court, however, will deny the petitions
without prejudice for two reasons.
1.
Distribution of Funds
For
the manner of distributing funds to each minor claimant, the petitions elected
that “the money be held on any conditions the court determines are in the best
interest of the minor.”  (Petitions, ¶ 18.b(8).)  This option only applies when “the money of
the guardianship estate does not exceed twenty thousand dollars ($20,000).”  (Prob. Code, § 3413, subd. (c).)  The settlement provides for paying minor
Fredy Aguirre $24,000.  Plaintiff cannot
use this manner of distribution for him.
Moreover,
on attachment 18.b(8), the petitions state, “To be paid or delivered to a
parent of the minor on the terms the court determines to be in the best
interest of the minor or adult person with a disability.”  (Petitions, p. 12.)  Probate Code section 3401, provides that “money
or other property belonging to the minor may be paid or delivered to a parent
of the minor entitled to the custody of the minor to be held in trust for the
minor until the minor reaches majority” only if “[t]he total estate of the
minor, including the money and other property to be paid or delivered to the
parent, does not exceed five thousand dollars ($5,000).”  (Id., subds. (a) & (c)(2).)  Minors Ashairel Aguirre and Axel Aguirre will
each receive a balance of $8,000.  As
stated above, minor Fredy Aguirre will receive a balance of $24,000.  Plaintiff cannot use this method of distribution
for any of the three minors.
2.
Proposed Orders
Plaintiff
also did not submit proposed orders approving the compromises on mandatory
Judicial Council form MC-351.
Disposition
Plaintiff
Anairel Diaz’s three petitions for approval of compromise of this action are denied
without prejudice.  Plaintiff must
file amended petitions that choose a permitted manner of distributing the funds
(¶ 18.b) and must submit proposed orders on Judicial Council form MC-351 for
each amended petition.  If necessary,
plaintiff must also submit any additional proposed orders as required for the
chosen manner of distribution.  (E.g., Judicial
Council form MC-355, order to deposit funds in blocked account.)Tentative
Ruling: 
Defendants Judith Sixtos and Jesus Sixtos’s Motion
for Determination of Good Faith Settlement
Defendants Judith Sixtos and Jesus Sixtos move for an order
determining good faith settlement under Code of Civil
Procedure section 877.6, subdivision (a). 
When only some of multiple defendants alleged to be jointly liable
settle a case, the settling parties may apply to the court for a determination
of good faith settlement.  (Ibid.)  A determination of good faith “shall bar any
other joint tortfeasor or co-obligor from any further claims against the
settling tortfeasor or co-obligor for equitable comparative contribution, or
partial or comparative indemnity, based on comparative negligence or
comparative fault.”  (Id., subd.
(c).)
The settling
defendants have shown proof of service on all parties who have appeared in this
action.
The court finds the settlement was made in
good faith.  In making such a
determination, the court must various factors stated in Tech-Bilt, Inc. v.
Woodward-Clyde & Associates (1985) 38 Cal.3d 488, 499-500.  “ ‘Good faith may be found only if there has
been no collusion between the settling parties and where the settlement amount
appears to be within the “reasonable range” of the settling party’s
proportionate share of comparative liability for a plaintiff’s injuries.’
”  (Long Beach Memorial Medical Center
v. Superior Court (2009) 172 Cal.App.4th 865, 872.)  
The settlement represents a fair compromise of
this a landlord/tenant dispute.  The settling
defendants agreed to pay plaintiffs $125,000. 
Plaintiffs allege Judith Sixtos and Jesus Sixtos sold the property
“within the last couple of years” before filing this action in March 2023.  (Comp., ¶ 49.)  They further allege, “On March 29, 2021,
Plaintiffs received a letter from Defendant Saul Diaz ‘introducing himself as
the new owner of the building.’ ”  (¶
28.)  Selling the building two years
before plaintiffs filed this action significantly reduces Judith Sixtos and
Jesus Sixtos’s proportionate share of liability.   
No other defendant has asserted a lack of good
faith or presented any evidence.  “The
party asserting the lack of good faith shall have the burden of proof on that
issue.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd.
(d).)
Disposition
Defendants Judith Sixtos and Jesus Sixtos’s motion for
determination of good faith settlement is granted.