  Case Number:  21STCV17999    Hearing Date:   March 5, 2024    Dept:  48 SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



WEBER ENTERPRISE TRUCKING CORPORATION,
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
FOREST LAWN MEMORIAL-PARK ASSOCIATION, et
  al.,
 
                        Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 21STCV17999
 
ORDER DENYING WEBER ENTERPRISE TRUCKING
  CORPORATION’S MOTION TO CONTINUE TRIAL 
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
March 5, 2024



 
On
May 13, 2021, Weber Enterprise Trucking Corporation (“Weber”) filed this action
against Forest Lawn Memorial-Park Association (“Forest Lawn”) and others.
On
October 21, 2022, Forest Lawn filed a first amended cross-complaint (“FACC”) against
Weber and Shane Josef Weber alleging (1) breach of contract; (2) nuisance; (3) trespass;
(4) fraudulent concealment; (5) implied equitable indemnity; (6) declaratory relief
(termination of Soil Agreement); and (7) declaratory relief (Weber subcontractor
claims).
On October 26, 2022, Weber filed
a first amended complaint (“FAC”) alleging (1) breach of contract; (2) intentional
misrepresentation; (3) negligent misrepresentation; (4) anticipatory breach of contract;
and (5) breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing.
On
February 8, 2024, Weber filed the instant motion to continue trial and related
dates from June 3, 2024 to 120 days or any date thereafter. Forest Lawn
opposes. 
MOTION
TO CONTINUE TRIAL
Although continuances of trials are
disfavored, each request for a continuance must be considered on its own
merits. (CRC rule 3.1332(c).) The Court may grant a continuance only on an
affirmative showing of good cause requiring the continuance. (Ibid.)   
Circumstances that may indicate good
cause include: (1) the unavailability of an essential lay or expert witness because
of death, illness, or other excusable circumstances, (2) the unavailability of
a party because of death, illness, or other excusable circumstances, (3) the
unavailability of trial counsel because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances, (4) the substitution of trial counsel, but only where there is
an affirmative showing that the substitution is required in the interests of
justice, (5) the addition of a new party if the new party has not had a
reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial, or if the
other parties have not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and
prepare for trial in regard to the new party's involvement in the case, (6) a
party's excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other
material evidence despite diligent efforts, or (7) a significant, unanticipated
change in the status of the case as a result of which the case is not ready for
trial. (Ibid.) 
In ruling on the motion, the Court must
consider all the facts and circumstances relevant to the determination.  Courts may look to the following factors in
determining whether a trial continuance is warranted:  (1) proximity of the trial date; (2) whether
there was any previous continuance of trial due to any party; (3) the length of
the continuance requested; (4) the availability of alternative means to address
the problem that gave rise to the motion; (5) the prejudice that parties or
witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance; and (6) whether trial
counsel is engaged in another trial. (See generally, CRC, rule
3.1332(d)(1)-(11).)   
Additionally, factors for the Court to
consider include: a party’s excused inability to obtain essential testimony,
documents, or other material evidence despite diligent efforts; the proximity
of the trial date; whether all parties have stipulated to a continuance; and
any other fact or circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the motion
or application. (CRC, rule 3.1332(c), (d).) 
A.        Weber Has Not Shown Good Cause For A
Trial Continuance 
Trial
is currently set for June 3, 2024. Weber argues good cause exists to continue
the trial date because new counsel substituted in for Weber on January 22, 2024
and needs adequate time to prepare, get caught up to speed, and be ready for
trial including review of hundreds of discovery responses, numerous
depositions, and over approximately 10,000 pages in documents. (Vahdat Decl.,
¶¶3-5.) Further, Forest Lawn's Cross-Complaint allegations are a significant
aspect of this trial and despite prior counsel's efforts, a significant amount
of discovery is still needed in such a short window of time with the current trial
date. (Id. at ¶6.) Further investigation is needed to evaluate claims
regarding imported soil materials, the allegation that asbestos was present on
the site, alleged damages to a habitat area, and alleged costs to remediate.
In
opposition, Forest Lawn argues that the current trial date provides enough time
for new counsel to get up to speed, new counsel knew about the trial date when
taking the case, and prior counsel also used this as a basis for the prior
trial continuance in September 2023. Forest Lawn also argues that Weber claims
to know specific additional discovery that is supposedly needed, but admits to
a substantial amount of discovery already, i.e., “hundreds of discovery
responses, numerous depositions, and over approximately 10,000 pages in
documents.” Forest Lawn contends that Weber’s repeated substitution of new
counsel should not be used as a means to prejudice Forest Lawn and continue to
delay trial in this case that has been pending since May 2021.
In
reply, Weber points to specific discovery it contends must take place prior to
trial to evaluate Forest Lawn’s purported economic loss including depositions
of numerous third parties involved in ongoing off-hauls that are taking place
to allegedly mitigate Forest Lawn's damages, Forest Lawn’s PMK which will take
multiple days, additional Forest Lawn employees and personnel, and at least
seven to eight expert depositions between Forest Lawn and Weber's experts which
could take anywhere from ten to fifteen full days of deposition. Weber also
anticipates that it will need to issue additional subpoenas to obtain further
information on Forest Lawn's claims based on the information obtained at Forest
Lawn's PMK deposition. Weber estimates this investigative process will take
several months.
The
Court does not find that Weber has shown good cause for a trial continuance at
this time. Trial is still three months away. New counsel was aware or should
have been aware of the trial date when taking the case. Three months is
sufficient time for counsel to get up to speed with the case, and Weber has not
shown that any specific discovery necessitates a trial continuance. Discovery
has not closed, and the depositions Weber indicates have yet to take place may
be taken within these months prior to trial. As Weber admits, the investigative
process will take several months. This finding does not preclude Weber from
making another motion closer to the trial date addressing any specific
outstanding discovery that has yet to be completed.  
Accordingly,
the motion to continue trial is DENIED.
Moving
party to give notice. 
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at
SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit.  If all parties in
the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
       Dated this 5th day of March 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 