 Case Number:  22STCV21658    Hearing Date:   March 5, 2024    Dept:  48 SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



COMMERCIAL WASTE SERVICES, INC., 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
IPL INC.,
 
                        Defendant.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 22STCV21658
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER CONTINUING PLAINTIFF’S
  MOTION TO STRIKE IPL NA’s ANSWER
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
March 5, 2024



 
On July 5, 2022, Plaintiff Commercial Waste Services
Inc. (“CWS”) filed this action against Defendant IPL Inc. (“IPL”) for
breach of contract and breach of implied warranty.
On June 15, 2023, IPL filed a
demurrer.  IPL argued that this action is
barred by res judicata and the parties’ settlement agreement.
On September 19, 2023, the Court
overruled the demurrer and ordered IPL to file an answer within 10 days.
On September 29, 2023, IPL North
America (IPL NA) filed an answer. 
On October 23, 2023, plaintiff CWS
filed the instant motion to strike IPL NA’s answer. 
            A.        Meet and Confer
CWS has complied with the meet and
confer requirement.  (Pakradouni Decl. ¶¶
2-4.)  “Before filing a motion to strike
pursuant to this chapter, the moving party shall meet and confer in person or
by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to the
motion to strike for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be
reached that resolves the objections to be raised in the motion to strike.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 435.5, subd. (a).)¿ 
B.        Requests for Judicial Notice
CWS seeks judicial notice of (1) the
Statement and Designation by Foreign Corporation for IPL Inc. filed with the
California Secretary of State on February 2, 2011; (2) history report for IPL;
(3) certificate of status for IPL, Inc., dated September 6, 2023; and (4)
Statement and Designation by Foreign Corporation for IPL North America, Inc.
filed with the California Secretary of State on December 1, 2020.  The Court GRANTS CWS’s requests pursuant to
Evidence Code sections 452(c) and (h).  
IPL NA seeks judicial notice of (1)
Certificate and Articles of Amalgamation of IPL Plastics, Inc. dated October 1,
2020; (2) Asset Transfer Agreement dated October 1, 2020; (3) Certificate of
Amendment dated October 1, 2020, changing the name of IPL St-Damien Inc. to IPL
Canada Inc.; and (4) Certificate of Amendment dated October 23, 2020, changing
the name of IPL Canada Inc. to IPL North America Inc.  The Court GRANTS CWS’s requests pursuant to
Evidence Code sections 452(h).  
C.        Motion to Strike
CWS brings this motion under Code of
Civil Procedure sections 435 and 436.  California
law authorizes a party’s motion to strike matter from an opposing party’s
pleading if it is irrelevant, false, or improper.  (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 435; 436, subd. (a).)
Motions may also target pleadings or parts of pleadings that are not filed or
drawn in conformity with applicable laws, rules, or orders.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 436, subd. (b).)  Alternatively, CWS requests that the Court
strike the answer under the Court’s inherent power to regulate its docket under
Code of Civil Procedure section 128.  
CWS moves to strike IPL NA’s answer
on the grounds that it has no ability or right to defend itself in California
court because IPL, a Canadian company, forfeited its right to do business in
California.  IPL NA does not dispute the
law on this matter, but rather requests that the Court substitute IPL NA as a
party to this action under its inherent power. 
IPL NA states that it is the appropriate party for this action based on
the following merger transactions: (1) in October 2020, IPL merged into IPL
Plastics, Inc.; (2) IPL Plastics Inc. assigned all of its liability and
obligations with respect to IPL’s North American operations to IPL St-Damien,
Inc; (3) IPL St. Damien Inc. changed its name to IPL Canada Inc.; and (4) IPL
Canada Inc. changed its name to IPL NA.  (Darling
Decl. ¶¶ 3-6.)  Thus, IPL NA states that
as a result of these transactions, it is the assignee and successor in interest
to CWS’s claims against IPL.  (Id.
¶ 7.)  In reply, CWS asserts that IPL’s
inability to defend itself likewise prohibits IPL NA from defending itself on a
claim that arose from the original, forfeited entity.  CWS relies on a subrogation case where the
court found that an insurer could not defend a case brought against its insured
which was a suspended corporation as well as other cases that prohibited an
assignee of a suspended corporation from prosecuting an action.  (See Truck Insurance Exchange v. Superior
Court (1997) 60 Cal. App. 4th 342, Cal-Western Business Services, Inc.
v. Corning Capital Group (2013) 221 Cal. App. 4th 304, Thorner v.
Selective Cam Transmission Co. (1960) 180 Cal. App.2d 89.)  
The Court finds that IPL NA, as the
assignee, steps into the shoes of IPL, thus it may be substituted into this
case.  However, the Court finds CWS’s
case law to be persuasive in determining that as the assignee, IPL NA also
inherits the disqualification from participating in litigation activities.  “Code of Civil Procedure section 368, []
provides, in pertinent part, that ‘[i]n the case of an assignment of a thing in
action, the action by the assignee is without prejudice to any set-off, or
other defense existing at the time of, or before, notice of the assignment.’  In cases where the assignor of a chose in
action is a suspended corporation, California courts generally have recognized
that the assignee is subject to the same defenses that could have been asserted
against the assignor.”  (See
Cal-Western Business Services Inc., supra 221 Cal. App. 4th at
310.)  Under the Revenue and Taxation
Code, a suspended corporation may not bring or defend an action.  (Id. [“…suspended corporation is ‘disabled
from participating in any litigation activities’… The purpose of Revenue and
Taxation Code section 23301 ‘is to “prohibit the delinquent corporation from
enjoying the ordinary privileges of a going concern” [citation], and to
pressure it to pay its taxes [citation].’”].) 
Further in Truck Ins. Exchange, the court denied an application
to intervene for an insurer who “stood in the shoes” of the insurer, but
allowed intervention for another insurer which had independent standing.  The court stated: “This right is not the
equivalent of ‘standing in the shoes’ of the insured. Consequently, Truck is
not barred by RCS’s disability. Truck has independent standing to preserve its
right to claim such contribution as may be available from Transco and Alpine.”  (Truck Ins. Exchange, supra, 60
Cal.App.4th at 350.)  This is not the
case here as IPL NA does not establish that it has independent standing apart
from being IPL’s assignee.  Accordingly,
IPL NA lacks capacity to defend.  
However, the Court finds that an
order striking the answer may not be necessary at this time so long as IPL
corrects its deficient suspended/forfeited status.  “[I]f the corporation’s status only comes to
light during litigation, the normal practice is for the trial court to permit a
short continuance to enable the suspended corporation to effect reinstatement
(by paying back taxes, interest and penalties) to defend itself in court.”  (Timberline, Inc. v. Jaisinghani
(1997) 54 Cal.App.4th 1361, 1366.) 

Accordingly,
the motion to strike is CONTINUED to allow IPL to reinstate its corporation
status.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 5th day of March 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 