 Case Number:  22STCV07986    Hearing Date:   March 5, 2024    Dept:  48 SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



GREAT DIVIDE
  INSURANCE COMPANY,
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
CANNON CONSTRUCTORS SOUTH INC., et al.
 
                        Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 22STCV07986
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER SUSTAINING THE DEMURRER
  WITH LEAVE TO AMEND
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
March 5, 2024



 
On March 4, 2022, Plaintiff Great Divide Insurance
Company a/s/o Trailer Park Inc. filed a complaint against Defendant Cannon Constructors
South, Inc. for damages in subrogation. 
On March 23, 2023, Cross-Complainant Cannon Constructors South, Inc.
filed a cross-complaint against Cross-Defendant GPS Painting & Wallcovering,
alleging (1) Express Indemnity; (2) Implied Indemnity; (3) Equitable Indemnity;
(4) Contribution; (5) Declaratory Relief re Duty to Defend; (6) Declaratory
Relief re Duty to Defend; and (7) Breach of Contract.  
On September 29, 2023,
Cross-Defendant filed a demurrer without motion to strike to the
Cross-Complaint.  On October 31, 2023,
Cross-Complainant filed an opposition. 
On November 3, 2023, Cross-Defendant filed a reply.  On November 14, 2023, the hearing on the
demurrer filed on September 29, 2023 was placed off calendar on the Court’s own
motion, and the case was transferred to Department 48, Stanley Mosk
Courthouse.  
On November 28, 2023, Cross-Defendant
filed the instant demurrer to the cross-complaint, which is now set for hearing
on March 4, 2024.  On February 27, 2024,
Cross-Defendant filed a reply. 
The Court considers the motion filed
on November 28, 2023, the opposition filed on October 31, 2023, and the reply
filed on February 27, 2024. 

REQUEST
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
            Cross-Defendant only makes reference
to requests for judicial notice in its memorandum and has not filed such
requests separately, however, “[a]ny request for judicial notice must
be made in a separate document listing the specific items for which notice
is requested and must comply with rule 3.1306(c).”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1113.)  The Court also notes that Cross-Complainant’s
opposition includes a “Request for Judicial Notice” in the title of the
opposing papers, but there is no separately filed request.  Thus, the Court declines to rule on any
requests for judicial notice.  
DISCUSSION
A
demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action.  (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740,
747.)  When considering demurrers, courts
read the allegations liberally and in context, accepting the alleged facts as true.  (Nolte v. Cedars-Sinai Medical Center (2015)
236 Cal.App.4th 1401, 1406.)  “Because a demurrer
challenges defects on the face of the complaint, it can only refer to matters outside
the pleading that are subject to judicial notice.”  (Arce ex rel. Arce v. Kaiser Found. Health
Plan, Inc. (2010) 181 Cal.App.4th 471, 556.)
A.               
Meet and Confer
Before
filing a demurrer, “the demurring party shall meet and confer in person or
by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to
demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached
that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.”  (emphasis added, Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41(a).)  
            Todd A. Daley provides a declaration where he states that
on September 28, 2023, he emailed Cross-Complainant’s counsel, Cristine S.
Capitulo, and requested a telephonic conference.  (Daley Decl. ¶ 2.)  He states that he conferred with Ms. Capitulo
regarding his intention to file a demurrer and on what grounds.  (Id.) 
He states that Ms. Capitulo did not offer to cure the legal
insufficiency.  (Id.)  
            In opposition, Cross-Complainant contests the sufficiency
of Cross-Defendant’s meet and confer attempts, stating that Cross-Defendant did
not meet and confer in good faith because Mr. Daley simply advised that an
email would be sent explaining the basis for the request for a call without
reference to a demurrer, but no email was received.  (Capitulo Decl. ¶ 5, Exhib. E.)  The email sent on September 28, 2023, states:
“Hi Cristine, could you give me a call on this matter when you have a moment?
My remote work line is 213 327 7091. Thank you!”  (Id.) 
However, Cross-Complainant does not bring any evidence disputing that
the parties telephonically conferred the following day, where according to Mr.
Daley’s declaration, he explained Cross-Defendant’s intention to file a
demurrer and the basis for doing so.  
            Thus, the Court finds that the meet and confer
requirement is satisfied. 
B.        The First, Fifth, Sixth, and Seventh
Causes of Action Are Time-Barred
            Cross-Defendant states that the first, fifth, sixth, and
seventh causes of action fail as a matter of law because they are time-barred
under Code of Civil Procedure sections 337(a) and/or 337.15(a)(1), (b), and
(c).  There is a four-year statute of
limitations for breach of written contract claims pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 337(a) and a ten-year statute of repose for latent
construction defect damage under Code of Civil Procedure sections 337.15(a)(1),
(b), and (c).  Cross-Defendant argues
that Cross-Complainant’s first, fifth, sixth, and seventh causes of action are
based on “indemnity” language purportedly contained in a 2004 and 2010 Master
Subcontract Agreements which are time-barred. 
Further, Cross-Defendant points out that the 2004 Master Subcontract
Agreement is not pled or before the Court.
            In opposition, Cross-Complainant asserts that section 1.3
of the Master Agreement delineates that in the event there is no notice of
termination between the parties said 2010 agreement automatically renews.  (Capitulo Decl., Exhib. A.)  That section states: “In the event that no
notice of termination has been given by either Party within thirty (30) days
before the termination date set forth in Paragraph 1.2, this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect for additional successive twelve (12) month
periods or until either Party gives thirty (30) days’ prior written notice of
termination.  (Id.)  Cross-Complainant also states that that
Agreement contained an indemnity provision in section 5.1. (Id.)   
            In reply, Cross-Defendant asserts that the December 14,
2020 GPS “Purchase Order” only refers to a Master Agreement dated March 24,
2004 and does not make reference to nor incorporates the terms of the March 23,
2010 Master Agreement and the purported indemnity terms.  The GPS Purchase order provides: 
This Purchase
Order will be deemed accepted by the addressee unless notice of nonacceptance
is given to CANNON CONSTRUCTORS SOUTH, INC. within 5 days of receipt by
addressee. This Purchase Order is subject to and shall be governed by all of
the provisions of the Master Subcontract Agreement between CANNON CONSTRUCTORS,
INC. and the addressee dated 3/24/04, and this entire Agreement is
incorporated herein by this reference as if printed herein [sic] full.
Addressee acknowledges that it has executed this Agreement, has a copy in its
files and is fully familiar with its terms. No alterations or amendments can be
made to this Purchase Order without a written amendment document executed by
Cannon Constructors South, Inc.
 
(Cross-Complaint, Exhib.
B.) 
            First, the parties do not dispute that the first cause of
action for express indemnity, fifth cause of action for declaratory relief re
duty to defend, sixth cause of action for declaratory relief re duty to
indemnify, and seventh cause of action for breach of contract are based on
purported indemnity obligations contained in a Master Subcontract
Agreement.  However, the Purchase Order,
on its face, does not contain any defense or indemnity language.  Although Plaintiff asserts that the March 23,
2010 Master Agreement contains an auto renewal provision and an indemnity
clause, Cross-Defendant correctly points out that the Purchase Order only
refers to a March 24, 2004 Master Subcontract Agreement that is not before the
Court.  Additionally, since
Cross-Complainant fails to point to any indemnity provision that would apply to
the Purchase Order, the fifth and sixth causes of action for declaratory relief
cannot stand.  Thus, the first, fifth,
sixth, and seventh causes of action fail as a matter of law.  
CONCLUSION
The
demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND. 

Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 5th day of March 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 