 Case Number:  23STCP04614    Hearing Date:   February 28, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department
50
 







In Re: 
 
AMERICAN ANNUITY FUNDING, LLC,
 
                        Petitioner,
 
 
 
 


Case No.:


23STCP04614




Hearing Date:


February 28, 2024




Hearing Time:


10:00 a.m.




[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:
 
FIRST AMENDED
  PETITION FOR APPROVAL OF TRANSFER OF STRUCTURED SETTLEMENT PAYMENT RIGHTS
 



 
Background
Petitioner American Annuity Funding, LLC
(“Petitioner”) filed a Petition for Approval of Transfer of Structured
Settlement Payment Rights in this action on December 26, 2023. 
Petitioner seeks “approval of the transfer
of certain structured settlement payment rights by its payee Robert Suarez, Jr.
(‘Payee’) to Petitioner or its assignee.” (Amended Notice at p. 2:5-7.)[1] 
Discussion
Petitioner
submits the Declaration of Robert Suarez Jr. in support of the petition. Robert
Suarez Jr. (“Payee”) states that “I have agreed to sell my interest in
certain payments I am due under an existing structured settlement to Petitioner
American Annuity Funding, LLC as follows: 120 monthly life contingent payments
each in the amount of $1,500.00 starting on 1/6/2025 and continuing through
12/6/2034, as set forth in the Transfer Agreement, which is attached to the
Notice of Hearing as Exhibit Two.” (Suarez Jr. Decl., ¶ 2.) As an initial
matter, the Court notes that no exhibits are attached to Petitioner’s notice of
hearing. 
Pursuant to Insurance
Code section 10136, subdivision (c), “[t]he transfer agreement shall be written in at least 12-point
type and shall be complete and without blank spaces to be completed after the
payee’s signature. The transfer agreement shall set forth clear and
conspicuously, and in no less than 12-point type” certain information specified
in Insurance Code section 10136, subdivision (c). It does not appear that Petitioner provided a
copy of the subject transfer agreement. Accordingly, the Court is unable to
determine if any transfer agreement complies with Insurance
Code section 10136, subdivision (c).  
In addition,
pursuant to Insurance Code section 10136, subdivision
(b), “[t]en or more days before the payee executes a transfer agreement,
the transferee shall provide the payee with a separate written disclosure
statement, accurately completed with the information that applies to the
transfer agreement, in substantially the following form, in at least 12-point
type unless otherwise indicated (bracketed instructions shall not appear in the
form):…” Payee states in his supporting declaration that “I received and
read the separate written disclosure required by California
Insurance Code section 10136(b), at least 10 days before I signed the
Transfer Agreement. The document attached to the Notice of Hearing in this
matter as Exhibit ‘4’ is a true and correct copy of the document I received.” (Suarez Jr. Decl., ¶ 9.) As
discussed, no exhibits are attached to the notice of hearing. The Court is thus
unable to determine whether any written disclosure statement is in compliance with Insurance Code
section 10136, subdivision (b). 
In
addition, Insurance Code section 10138, subdivision (a) provides that “[a] transfer agreement, as
defined in subdivision (o) of Section 10134, shall
not include any provision described in the paragraphs below. Any inclusion of a
prohibited provision, with respect to a seller who is a California resident,
shall make the provision void and unenforceable.” As discussed, a copy of the
subject transfer agreement does not appear to have been provided. The Court is
thus unable to determine if the transfer agreement contains any of the provisions prohibited by Insurance Code section 10138. 
Further, Insurance Code section 10139.3, subdivision (a) provides that “[n]one of the provisions of
this article may be waived by the payee.” As discussed, a copy of the transfer agreement was not provided by
Petitioner. The Court is thus unable to determine whether the transfer
agreement complies with Insurance Code section 10139.3. 
In
addition, pursuant to Insurance Code section 10139.5, subdivision (f)(2), “[n]ot less than 20 days prior to the scheduled hearing on any
petition for approval of a transfer of structured settlement payment rights
under this article, the transferee shall file with the court and serve on all
interested parties a notice of the proposed transfer and the petition for its
authorization,” and shall include with that notice, inter alia, “[a]
copy of the proposed transfer agreement and disclosure form required by
paragraph (3) of subdivision (a),” “[a] copy of the disclosure
required in subdivision (b) of Section 10136,”
“[n]otification that any interested party is entitled to support, oppose, or
otherwise respond to the transferee’s petition, either in person or by counsel,
by submitting written comments to the court or by participating in the hearing,”
and “[n]otification of the time and place of the hearing and
notification of the manner in which and the time by which written responses to
the petition must be filed, which may not be less than 15 days after service of
the transferee’s notice, in order to be considered by the court.” (Ins.
Code, § 10139.5, subds. (f)(2)(B), (D), (J), (K).) 
As discussed,
Petitioner did not provide a copy of the transfer agreement or the written
disclosure statement. In addition, the notice of hearing does not appear to
contain all of the notifications required by Insurance
Code section 10139.5, subdivisions (f)(2)(J)-(K).  
In addition,
Payee states in his supporting declaration that he is “36 years old, single
male with two minor children.” (Suarez Jr. Decl., ¶ 4.) Pursuant to Insurance Code section 10139.5, subdivision (c)(3), “[e]very
petition for approval of a transfer of structured settlement payment rights,
except as provided in subdivision (d), shall include, to the extent known after
the transferee has made reasonable inquiry with the payee, all of the
following:…(3) The names, ages, and place or places of residence of the
payee’s minor children or other dependents, if any.” Such information does not
appear to have been provided. 
Payee also states that “I have previously
assigned a portion of my structured settlement payment rights on five prior
occasions.” (Suarez Jr. Decl., ¶ 7.) Petitioner does not appear to indicate “[w]hether the transferee attempted previous transactions
involving the payee’s structured settlement payments that were denied, or that
were dismissed or withdrawn prior to a decision on the merits, within the past
five years,” or “[w]hether, to the best of the transferee’s knowledge after
making inquiry with the payee, the payee has attempted structured settlement
payment transfer transactions with another person or entity, other than the
transferee, that were denied, or which were dismissed or withdrawn prior to a
decision on the merits, within the past five years.” (Ins. Code, § 10139.5,
subds. (b)(11)-(12).) 
Conclusion
In light of
the foregoing, the Petition is denied without prejudice. 
Petitioner is ordered to provide notice of
this order.
 
DATED:  February 28, 2024                          ________________________________
Hon.
Teresa A. Beaudet
Judge,
Los Angeles Superior Court
 


