 Case Number:  23STCV22390    Hearing Date:   February 28, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 50
 



MIGUEL A. LICEA,
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
THE FINISH LINE, INC. d/b/a
  FINISHLINE.COM, et al.,
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


23STCV22390




Hearing Date:


February 28, 2024




Hearing Time:


2:00 p.m.




[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: 
 
DEFENDANT THE
  FINISH LINE, INC.’S DEMURRERS TO PLAINTIFF’S COMPLAINT
 



            
Background
On September 18, 2023,
Plaintiff Miguel A. Licea (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendant The
Finish Line, Inc., dba Finishline.com. The Complaint alleges causes of action
for (1) violations of the California Invasion of Privacy Act - Penal Code § 631 and (2) violations of the
California Invasion of Privacy Act - Penal Code § 632.7.  
The Finish Line Inc. (“Defendant”) now demurs to both causes of action
of the Complaint. Plaintiff opposes.[1]
 
Requests for Judicial Notice 
The
Court denies Defendant’s requests for judicial notice filed in support of the
demurrer and reply. As to Defendant’s request for judicial notice filed in
support of the reply, the Court notes that “¿¿[t]he general
rule of motion practice…is that new evidence is not permitted with reply
papers.¿¿” (Jay v. Mahaffey¿(2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 1522, 1537¿.)
The
Court denies Plaintiff’s request for judicial notice as to Exhibits 1-7 and
9-11. The Court grants Plaintiff’s request for judicial notice as to Exhibit 8.

Discussion
A.    Legal Standard 
A demurrer can be used
only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack
or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (Blank
v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,
318.) “To survive a demurrer, the
complaint need only allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action; each
evidentiary fact that might eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need
not be alleged.” (C.A. v. William S. Hart
Union High School Dist. (2012) 53
Cal.4th 861, 872.) For the purpose of testing the
sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967.) A demurrer “does not admit contentions, deductions or conclusions
of fact or law.” (Daar v. Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713.) 
B.    Allegations of the Complaint  
In the Complaint,
Plaintiff alleges that “Defendant secretly enables and allows a
third-party spyware company to eavesdrop on the private conversations of
everyone who communicates through the chat feature at
https://www.finishline.com/ (the ‘Website’). The spyware company then exploits
and monetizes that data by sharing it with other third parties, who use the
private chat data to bombard the unsuspecting visitor with targeted marketing.”
(Compl., p. 2:2-6.) 
Plaintiff alleges that “[t]o
enable eavesdropping, Defendant paid a third party named Genesys Cloud Services
Inc. to embed its chat technology code into the chat feature offered on
Defendant’s Website. Indeed, whenever a consumer chats via Defendant’s Website,
the chat is routed through Genesys’s servers so they may simultaneously collect
a transcript of that chat, along with other user data, in real time and save it
for later access.” (Compl., ¶ 10.) 
Plaintiff alleges that “[w]ithin the last year, Plaintiff visited
Defendant’s Website. Plaintiff – like all visitors – shared personal data and
personally identifying information with Defendant via the Website chat
feature.” (Compl., ¶ 23.) Plaintiff alleges that “Defendant did not inform
Plaintiff that Defendant was secretly allowing, aiding, and abetting a third
party to intercept and eavesdrop on the conversations during transmission, or
that the third party provided data from such transcripts to Meta through
‘integration’ with Meta software.” (Compl., ¶ 25.)
C.    First Cause of Action 
Plaintiff’s first cause of action is for violations of the California
Invasion of Privacy Act, specifically, Penal Code
section 631. 
Penal Code section 631, subdivision (a)
provides in pertinent part as follows: 
 
“Any person
who, by means of any machine, instrument, or contrivance, or in any other
manner, intentionally taps, or makes any unauthorized connection, whether
physically, electrically, acoustically, inductively, or otherwise, with any
telegraph or telephone wire, line, cable, or instrument, including the wire,
line, cable, or instrument of any internal telephonic communication system, or
who willfully and without the consent of all parties to the communication, or
in any unauthorized manner, reads, or attempts to read, or to learn the
contents or meaning of any message, report, or communication while the same is
in transit or passing over any wire, line, or cable, or is being sent from, or
received at any place within this state; or who uses, or attempts to use, in
any manner, or for any purpose, or to communicate in any way, any information
so obtained, or who aids, agrees with, employs, or conspires with any person
or persons to unlawfully do, or permit, or cause to be done any of the acts or
things mentioned above in this section, is punishable by a fine not
exceeding two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500), or by imprisonment in the
county jail not exceeding one year, or by imprisonment pursuant to subdivision
(h) of Section 1170, or by both a fine and
imprisonment in the county jail or pursuant to subdivision (h) of Section 1170…” (Emphasis added.) 
Plaintiff
appears to allege that Defendant violated the foregoing underlined portion of Penal Code section 631, subdivision (a) “by ‘aiding,
abetting, and conspiring’ to allow a third party to intercept, eavesdrop upon,
learn, share, and monetize the contents of Defendant’s chat conversations.”
(Compl., ¶ 28, emphasis omitted.)
In the demurrer, Defendant cites to Warden v. Kahn
(1979) 99 Cal.App.3d
805, 811, where the
Court of Appeal noted that “[i]nsofar as [Penal Code] section 631 is concerned, appellant’s claim is without
merit. That section, which is quite ambiguous…has been held to apply only to
eavesdropping by a third party and not to recording by a participant to a
conversation.” Defendant asserts that here, “Plaintiff cannot (and does not)
allege that [Defendant], by receiving a written chat message over the Internet,
engaged in any unauthorized tapping or reading of a communication in transit as
a ‘third party.’” (Demurrer at pp. 9:23-10:2.) But as set forth above, Penal Code section 631, subdivision (a) also concerns,
inter alia, any person “who
aids, agrees with, employs, or conspires with any person or persons to
unlawfully do, or permit, or cause to be done any of the acts or things
mentioned above in this section.” As
discussed, Plaintiff alleges that “Defendant violates the third prong,
as set forth above, by ‘aiding, abetting, and conspiring’ to allow a third
party to intercept, eavesdrop upon, learn, share, and monetize the contents of
Defendant’s chat conversations.” (Compl., ¶ 28.) 
Defendant also asserts that “[n]or can a party to the
conversation ‘aid and abet’ a third-party service provider. Instead, in order
to be liable as a party to a conversation for aiding and abetting a third party
with eavesdropping, the third parties must be independent parties who mined
information and sold it for their own gain.” (Demurrer at p. 10:3-6.) But in
support of this assertion, Defendant cites to non-binding federal district
court cases. (See Demurrer at p. 10:3-19.) 
In addition, Defendant argues that “Plaintiff fails
to sufficiently allege that [Defendant] aided, agreed with, employed, or
conspired with Genesys to unlawfully do, or permit, or cause to be done any of
the acts or things in the first three clauses of Section
631(a)…” (Demurrer at p. 11:8-11.) Defendant cites to People v.
Beeman (1984)
35 Cal.3d 547, 560, where the
California Supreme Court “conclude[d] that the weight of
authority and sound law require proof that an aider and abettor act with
knowledge of the criminal purpose of the perpetrator and with an intent or purpose either of
committing, or of encouraging or facilitating commission of, the offense.”
(Emphasis in original.) Defendant asserts that “Plaintiff fails to allege
Defendant had knowledge of Genesys’ supposed nefarious intentions when it
licensed the Genesys chat feature, that Defendant knew anything of the sort
when it ‘paid a third party named Genesys Cloud Services Inc. to embed its chat
technology code into the chat feature offered on Defendant’s Website’ to
‘enable’ eavesdropping or the even more attenuated wrongful conduct vis-à-vis
targeted advertising…” (Demurrer at p. 11:19-24.) 
In the opposition, Plaintiff contends that “[t]he
Court can infer Defendant’s knowledge based on the fact that the chat
provider’s behavior constitutes eavesdropping that is actionable under section 631(a) of the Penal Code, which Defendant
provided substantial assistance to the chat provider by deliberately (but
covertly) embedding the latter’s software code into the code for Defendant’s
Website without obtaining its users’ informed consent.” (Opp’n at p. 21:1-4.)
But in support of this assertion, Plaintiff appears to cite to Licea v. Jockey Int'l, 2023 Cal. Super. LEXIS 69728, a non-binding
superior court decision. (See Opp’n at p. 21:1-5.) Plaintiff does not appear
to point to any factual allegations in the Complaint that Defendant acted with
“knowledge of the criminal purpose of the perpetrator and with an intent or purpose either of
committing, or of encouraging or facilitating commission of, the offense.” (People v. Beeman, supra, 35 Cal.3d at p. 560 [emphasis omitted].) 
            In
light of the foregoing, the Court sustains Defendant’s demurrer to the first
cause of action of the Complaint.  
D.    Second Cause of
Action 
Plaintiff’s second cause of action is for violations of the California
Invasion of Privacy Act, specifically, Penal Code
section 632.7. 
Penal Code section 632.7, subdivision (a)
provides in pertinent part as follows: 
 
“Every person who, without the consent of all of the
parties to a communication, intercepts or receives and intentionally records,
or assists in the interception or reception and intentional recordation of, a
communication transmitted between two cellular radio telephones, a cellular
radio telephone and a landline telephone, two cordless telephones, a cordless
telephone and a landline telephone, or a cordless telephone and a cellular
radio telephone, shall be punished by a fine not exceeding two thousand five
hundred dollars ($2,500), or by imprisonment in a county jail not exceeding one
year, or in the state prison, or by both that fine and imprisonment…” 
Plaintiff alleges in the second cause of action that “Plaintiff
communicated with Defendant using telephony subject to the mandates and
prohibitions of Section 632.7,” and that “Defendant
recorded telephony communication without the consent of all parties to the
communication in violation of Section 632.7.”
(Compl., ¶¶ 35, 37.) Plaintiff alleges that “[w]ithin the last year, Plaintiff
visited Defendant’s Website. Plaintiff – like all visitors – shared personal
data and personally identifying information with Defendant via the Website chat
feature. Plaintiff used a smart phone (a cellular telephone with integrated
computers to enable web browsing).” (Compl., ¶ 23.) 
In the demurrer, Defendant asserts, inter alia, that “Plaintiff
does not and cannot allege that either [Defendant] or Genesys used a telephone
on its side of the chat.” (Demurrer at p. 16:22-23.) Indeed, in the Complaint,
Plaintiff alleges in a conclusory fashion that “Defendant’s communication from
the chat feature on its website is transmitted via telephony subject to the
mandates and prohibitions of Section 632.7.”
(Compl., ¶ 36.) But Plaintiff does not appear to allege that there was any “communication transmitted between two cellular radio
telephones, a cellular radio telephone and a landline telephone, two cordless
telephones, a cordless telephone and a landline telephone, or a cordless
telephone and a cellular radio telephone…” (Pen. Code, § 632.7,
subd. (a).) 
In the
opposition, Plaintiff appears to cite to Penal Code
section 632.7, subdivision (d)(3), which provides that “‘communication’ includes, but is not limited to,
communications transmitted by voice, data, or image, including facsimile.” Plaintiff contends that “[g]iven
that communications transmitted by ‘data,’ ‘image,’ or ‘facsimile,’ are within
the scope of section 632.7, this strongly implies
that the Legislature intended the undefined term, ‘landline telephone,’ in section 632.7(a) to be broadly construed.” (Opp’n at
p. 21:19-22.) But Plaintiff does not then specify what he means by “broadly
construing” the term “landline telephone.” In addition, Plaintiff does not cite
any legal authority demonstrating that the term “landline
telephone” as it is used in Penal Code section 632.7,
subdivision (a) encompasses the “chat communications from a website”
alleged here. (Compl., ¶ 24.) 
As discussed, Penal Code section 632.7, subdivision (a) clearly provides that “[e]very person who, without the
consent of all of the parties to a communication, intercepts or receives and
intentionally records, or assists in the interception or reception and
intentional recordation of, a communication transmitted between two cellular
radio telephones, a cellular radio telephone and a landline telephone, two
cordless telephones, a cordless telephone and a landline telephone, or a
cordless telephone and a cellular radio telephone, shall be punished by a
fine not exceeding two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500), or by
imprisonment in a county jail not exceeding one year, or in the state prison,
or by both that fine and imprisonment.” (Emphasis added.) The Court does not find that
Plaintiff has alleged that any such communication “transmitted between two
cellular radio telephones, a cellular radio telephone and a landline telephone,
two cordless telephones, a cordless telephone and a landline telephone, or a
cordless telephone and a cellular radio telephone” exists here. (Pen. Code, §
632.7, subd. (a).) 
Based on the
foregoing, the Court sustains Defendant’s demurrer
to the second cause of action of the Complaint. 
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, the Court sustains Defendant’s
demurrer to the first and second causes of action of the Complaint, with leave
to amend. 
The Court orders
Plaintiff to file and serve an amended complaint, if any, within 20 days of the
date of this order. If no amended complaint is filed within 20 days, the Court
orders 
Defendant to file and serve a proposed judgment of
dismissal within 30 days of the date of this order.¿Defendant is ordered
to give notice of this order.   
 
DATED:  February 28, 2024                          ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court
 


