  Case Number:  19STCV21657    Hearing Date:   October 21, 2024    Dept:  57 ther Pending
before the Court is the motion of Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant The Longford
Condominium Association (“Longford”) for
an order for terminating sanctions against Defendants/Cross-Complainants
Heidi Tabib and Roya Tabib (collectively “The Tabibs”)  based on what Longford says is the Tabibs’
willful failure to comply with multiple discovery orders in this case.  In
the alternative, Longford requests in the motion an order imposing issue and
evidentiary sanctions against the Tabibs that would preclude them from offering
evidence or argument at trial on their second, third and fourth affirmative
defenses to Longford’s complaint, introducing at trial any evidence of
their financial condition, and testifying at trial.In the Court's view, Longford has made a persuasive case for the imposition of terminating sanctions against the Tabibs based on the Tabibs' failure to comply with discovery orders (four as to each of the Tabibs) the Court entered on February 9, 2023.  To date, the Tabibs have not provided to Longford the discovery that the Court ordered them to provide or paid to Longford the sanctions that the Court ordered them to pay.  In fact, since that time, the Tabibs have appeared at only one hearing in the case  (the June 22, 2023 hearing on Longford's motion for an order deeming admitted matters in requests for admission it propounded on the Habibs, which the Court denied in part).  Notably, the Tabibs failed to oppose Longford’s motion for
summary judgment on their cross-claim, which the Court granted following a
hearing on August 6, 2024 at which the Tabibs did not appear, and they failed to appear at their
depositions, which Longford re-noticed twice in September 2023 and June 2024. Nevertheless, the Court is continuing the hearing on the motion to October 25, 2024, the date of the final status conference in this case.  (The trial is set to start on November 4, 2024.)  If the Tabibs fail to appear on October 25, 2024, the Court will grant Longford's motion for terminating sanctions by striking their answer to Longford's complaint and entering a default against them.  If the Tabibs do appear on October 25, 2024, the Court will grant Longford's alternative request for issue and evidentiary sanctions.   The Court understands that this disposition will require Longford to prepare trial readiness in advance of the final status conference.   The Court will, however, relieve Longford from compliance with the normal requirement that it work with the  Tabibs in the preparation of those documents.  And Longford need not file the documents until the day before the final status conference.The Court is directing the Clerk to give notice of this ruling to the Tabibs. 