  Case Number:  24SMCP00411    Hearing Date:   December 16, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Creative
Artists Agency LLC, et al., v. Range Media Partners LLC, et al.
CASE NO.:                24SMCP00411
MOTION:                  Petition
to Compel Compliance with Third-Party Arbitration Subpoenas
HEARING DATE:   12/16/2024

 
Legal
Standard
 
Section 7 of the Federal
Arbitration Act (FAA), titled “Witnesses before arbitrators; fees; compelling
attendance,” reads in relevant part:
 
The arbitrators
selected either as prescribed in this title or otherwise, or a majority of
them, may summon in writing any person to attend before them or any of them as
a witness and in a proper case to bring with him or them any book, record,
document, or paper which may be deemed material as evidence in the case.
 
Federal courts have interpreted section 7 of the FAA as
authorizing summons for a person to physically appear before the arbitrator to
provide testimony and documents. (McConnell v. Advantest Am., Inc.,
(2023) 92 Cal. App. 5th 596, 612.) California State Courts have concurrent
jurisdiction to enforce the FAA. (Lagatree v. Luce, Forward, Hamilton &
Scripps, (1999) 74 Cal. App. 4th 1105, 1118, n.8.) 
 
 
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
 
Respondents’ objections are
OVERRULED.
 
            Petitioners’
objection to taking the oral testimony of Sean Hardy is GRANTED.
 
ANALYSIS
 
Petitioners Creative Artists
Agency, LLC; Creative Artists Agency Holdings, LLC; CAA Holdings, LLC; and CAA
Equity Incentive, Series 2 LLC (collectively, Petitioners or CAA) move for an
order granting their First Amended Petition (FAP) against Respondents Range
Media Partners LLC and Peter Micelli. The FAP requests the following relief: 1)
an order that Range Media Partners comply with the subpoena and appear for a
hearing at which they shall produce the requested documents; (2) an order that
Micelli comply with the subpoena and appear for a hearing to testify and
produce the requested documents; and (3) an award of costs and attorneys’ fees
incurred in this action. 
 
This petition concerns a
third-party subpoena issued in an Arbitration between Petitioners CAA, a
collection of organizations comprising a talent and sports agency which
represents thousands of celebrities worldwide, and a group of former talent
agents and equity members of CAA Holdings LLC (“Former CAA Members”). (FAP ¶¶
8, 10-11.) Because of their access to confidential and proprietary information,
the Former CAA Members signed an Operating Agreement and several individual
member award agreements which provided for confidentiality of certain
information. (FAP ¶ 11.) The FAP alleges that while still equity members, the
Former CAA Members used confidential CAA business information and resources to
form their competing agency, Range Media Partners. (¶¶ 13-15.) In addition,
they took numerous high-level CAA clients to Range Media Partners. (¶ 14.) The FAP
further alleges that the Former CAA Members procured employment for artists and
thus attempted to circumvent the legal constraints imposed on agents by
California law and the talent guilds. (¶ 15.) On October 9, 2020, CAA
terminated the Former CAA Members’ equity interests. (¶ 16.) In response, the
Former CAA Members filed an arbitration proceeding before JAMS on November 23,
2022, placing at issue whether they competed with CAA, including their
activities, client interactions, and Range Media Partners-related work between
August 23, 2020 (the date their services to CAA terminated) and October 9, 2020
(the date their equity was cancelled). (Id., See Baca Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. A.) Petitioners
counterclaimed against Former CAA members based, in part, on the Former CAA
Members competition during the above period and their use of proprietary
information. (FAP ¶19.)
 
In the arbitration, Petitioners
propounded their first set of requests for production to the Former CAA Members
pertaining to their competition with CAA, including the creation of Range Media.
(Baca Decl., ¶ 6.) The Former CAA Members claimed to be unable to produce
certain documents that were with Range Media. (Baca Decl., ¶ 7) CAA then filed
a motion to compel further discovery responses. (Baca Decl., ¶ 8.) The
Arbitration Panel granted, in part, the motion to compel, but Former CAA
Members still did not produce any documents. (FAP ¶ 23; Baca Decl., ¶ 9, Ex.
D.) Further motion practice followed, including a granted motion for sanctions
against the Former Members, but additional documents still were not produced.
(See Baca Decl., ¶¶10-17.) After Respondents refused to voluntarily comply with
a discovery subpoena, the Panel issued the two subject hearing subpoenas for
(1) the production of certain documents from Range, and (2) the testimony of
Range’s CEO Micelli at the merits hearing on August 5 and 6, 2024, along with
his production of documents. (Baca Decl., ¶¶18-19, Exs. F-G; FAP ¶ 29-33.) Range
and Micelli refused to comply. (Baca Decl., ¶¶21-24.) 
 
Petitioners argue that the subject
merits hearing subpoenas to Respondents were issued by the Arbitrator under
Section 7 of the FAA. In opposition, Respondents argue that the subject
subpoenas were outside the Arbitrator’s authority under controlling California
law, which does not allow discovery from nonparties to be conducted by having
arbitrators hold a separate hearing for the sole purpose of obtaining discovery,
regardless of the hearing’s title. (See McConnell, supra, 92 Cal. App.
5th at 611.) Respondents assert that the hearing will require Respondents to
produce documents and testify prior to, and separate from, the true merits
hearing that is scheduled months later. They contend, without any evidence,
that no other witnesses are to testify at the hearing. They further contend,
without evidence, that it is “reasonable to assume” that the hearing will take
place before the arbitration parties file arbitration briefs or give
opening statements.
 
The FAA empowers arbitrators to
compel third parties to appear as witnesses at a hearing and produce relevant
documents at hearing, but not a “prehearing” discovery subpoena. (Aixtron,
Inc. v. Veeco Instruments Inc., (2020) 52 Cal. App. 5th 360, 394; CVS
Health Corp. v. Vividus, LLC (2017) 878 F.3d 703, 708.) “[T]he FAA
implicitly withholds the power to compel documents from non-parties without
summoning the non-party to testify. And if Congress intended the arbitrators to
have the broader power to compel documents from non-parties without summoning
the non-party to testify, it could have said so. Accordingly, we conclude that
9 U.S.C. § 7 does not permit pre-hearing depositions and discovery from
non-parties.” (Managed Care Advisory Grp., LLC v. CIGNA Healthcare, Inc. (11th
Cir. 2019) 939 F.3d 1145, 1159–1160].)
 
Indeed, an arbitrator may not issue
third party subpoenas which require production documents at a hearing set for
the limited purpose of receiving the subpoenaed documents for
discovery purposes. (McConnell v. Advantest America, Inc. (2023) 92 Cal.
App. 5th 596, 611-614.) In McConnell, the McConnell
court found that the scheduled hearing was actually an impermissible attempt to
secure third party discovery as demonstrated by: (a) the broad request for
documents; (b) the session's timing (a year before the merits hearing); (c) the
fact the hearing was specially set to secure documents; and (d) the fact the
documents were uploaded to a website and not presented to the arbitrator. (Ibid.)
The McConnell court rejected the subpoenas because
 
although the
subpoenas required the document production at a hearing presided over by the
arbitrator, the hearing was limited to the arbitrator appearing only for so
long as needed for the documents to be collected with the intent that the
hearing be adjourned for nearly 12 months, at which time Appellants would later
be summoned to testify. The subpoenas allowed Appellants to upload the
documents to a website controlled by Advantest's counsel. There is no
indication in the record showing the arbitrator would have access to this
website to review or evaluate the purported evidence.
 
(Id.) The court further reasoned that this would
defeat the purpose of production at a hearing, which would give the arbitrator “control
over what is produced, such as ruling on objections and ordering redactions.” (Id.
at 612.) Further, the subpoenas in McConnell went “far beyond” obtaining
the deleted WhatsApp messages at issue (evidence that the test business was
entitled to but could not obtain from the parties in the arbitration). (Id.
at 613-614.) Instead, they sought broad discovery on all messages sent from
unidentified agents and comprehensive production on finances which could be
sought from the parties within the arbitration. (Id. at 614.) 
 
In summary, federal caselaw permits
hearing subpoenas, if the proceeding is not a disguised prehearing
attempt at discovery, but part of a hearing process. (See Stolt-Nielsen SA
v. Celanese AG (2nd Cir. 2005) 430 F3d 567, 577-581 [arbitrators served
subpoenas on a third party compelling its custodians of records to appear and
provide documents and for former counsel to testify before the panel; the proceeding
was not “thinly disguised” prehearing discovery because it was a hearing
before the panel].) The rule against pre-hearing discovery ensures that contractual
arbitration remains as an expeditious and economical means of dispute
resolution. (See McConnell, supra, 92 Cal. App. 5th at 608, fns. 10-11
[decided under California Arbitration Act, noting similar policies under
Federal Arbitration Act]; see also Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare
Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 106, fn. 11 [“[A] limitation on
discovery is one important component of the ‘simplicity, informality, and
expedition of arbitration.’”].) “The requirement that document production be
made at an actual hearing may, in the long run, discourage the issuance of
large-scale subpoenas upon non-parties. This is so because parties that
consider obtaining such a subpoena will be forced to consider whether the
documents are important enough to justify the time, money, and effort that the
subpoenaing parties will be required to expend if an actual appearance before
an arbitrator is needed. Under a system of pre-hearing document production, by
contrast, there is less incentive to limit the scope of discovery and more
incentive to engage in fishing expeditions that undermine some of the
advantages of the supposedly shorter and cheaper system of arbitration.” (Hay
Group v. E.B.S. Acquisition Corp. (3d Cir. 2004) 360 F.3d 404, 409.) 
 
Here, the Arbitration Panel’s
summons and subpoenas generally complied with the section 7 standard. The
subpoenas required Respondents to “produce the documents, electronically stored
information, and things identified” before the Arbitrator at a specific JAMS
resolution center. The summons specifically noticed Section 7 of the FAA and
ordered Respondents to appear before the Panel on August 5 and 6, 2024 at 8:00
AM, and to bring with them to the hearing certain identified documents. These
instructions are entirely within the arbitrator’s section 7 powers to “compel
the attendance of a person ‘to attend before them . . . as a witness’” and to
“compel such person ‘to bring with him or them’ relevant documents”. (CVS,
supra, 878 F.3d at 706.) As such, the facts before the Court are distinct
from McConnell. Here, the Panel identified the categories of documents
as material evidence in the case during the above discovery process and the
Former CAA Members identified Range as exclusively possessing the material
evidence. To that extent, Petitioners would not have prehearing access to the
information available only to their counsel and not the arbitrator. Further, the
arbitrator would be present at a two-day hearing. This supports Petitioner’s
contention that the hearing is not simply to receive production, but to
evaluate the evidence and rule on evidentiary objections. Petitioners have not
been able to seek this specific information directly from the parties within
the arbitration. The Former Employees refused to provide such information,
claiming that Respondents have exclusive access to the information sought.
Additionally, the fact that the hearing will take place over videoconference
does not suggest that the hearing is for the limited purpose of receiving
the subpoenaed documents for the arbitration parties to review. Thus, the
Court would compel Respondent’s attendance at hearings as further directed by
the Panel.
 
That said, the Panel exceeded their
authority under section 7 of the FAA to the extent that the subpoenas called
for production of documents directly to Respondents. The FAA grants an
arbitrator no freestanding power to order third parties to produce documents
other than in the context of a hearing. (CVS Health Corp. v. Vividus, LLC,
(2018) 878 F. 3d 703, 706.) While there is a minority view that arbitrators may
order production of documents for review by a party prior to the hearing itself,
that review has been rejected in California. (McConnell  supra, 92 Cal.App.5th at 612-613.) In
part, the subpoenas instructed Respondents to deliver true copies of the
documents with a declaration of a custodian of records to counsel for CAA. This
instruction is not clear on when and by what means production to Petitioner’s
counsel would occur. In any event, production directly to CAA outside the
arbitrator’s presence would not be for production of evidence at a hearing before
the arbitrator. Thus, the Court will not compel compliance with those instructions
of the subpoenas.
 
Accordingly, the Petition is GRANTED.
Respondents Range Media Partners and Micelli are ordered comply with the hearing
subpoenas issued by the Panel on June 21, 2024. Respondents are ordered to appear
for the hearing, at which they shall testify and produce the requested
documents. 
 
Petitioners have not shown
entitlement to any fees. Thus, the requested fees are DENIED.