  Case Number:  19STCV44154    Hearing Date:   November 2, 2023    Dept:  61 Plaintiff Jens Frederick
Larsen’s Motion for Summary Judgment is DENIED.
Defendant to provide notice.
I.                  
MOTION FOR SUMMARY
JUDGEMENT
 
A party may move for summary judgment “if it
is contended that the action has no merit or that there is no defense to the
action or proceeding.”  (Code Civ. Proc.
§ 437c, subd. (a).) “[I]f all the evidence submitted, and all inferences
reasonably deducible from the evidence and uncontradicted by other inferences
or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and
that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law,” the moving party
will be entitled to summary judgment.  (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7
Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) A motion for summary adjudication may be made by
itself or as an alternative to a motion for summary judgment and shall proceed
in all procedural respects as a motion for summary judgment.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (f)(2).)   
The moving party bears an initial burden of
production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable
issue of material fact, and if he does so, the burden shifts to the opposing
party to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of
material fact.  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850;
accord Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) Plaintiffs moving for summary
judgment may meet their initial burden by “prov[ing] each element of the cause
of action entitling the party to judgment on the cause of action.” (Code Civ.
Proc. § 437c(p)(1).) 
Once the plaintiff
has met that burden, the burden shifts to the defendant to show that a triable
issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action or a
defense thereto.  (Code Civ. Proc. §
437c(p)(1).)  The defendant may not rely
upon the mere allegations or denials of its pleadings to show that a triable
issue of material fact exists but, instead, shall set forth the specific facts
showing that a triable issue of material fact exists as to that cause of action
or a defense thereto.  (Code Civ. Proc. §
437c(p)(1).)  To establish a triable
issue of material fact, the party opposing the motion must produce substantial
responsive evidence.  (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68
Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)
 
Plaintiff Jens
Frederick Larson (Plaintiff) seeks summary judgment as to his claims for
medical negligence and dependent adult abuse. The motion is supported by the
declaration of Plaintiff himself, who testifies concerning his experience with
the nurses provided by Defendant Tender Home Health (Defendant) and his medical
treatment during the relevant period. Plaintiff also presents a declaration
from Dr. Omar S. Darwish, who testifies that Plaintiff’s pulmonary embolism
could have been prevented had Defendant provided timely physical therapy.
(Darwish Decl. ¶¶ 23–24.) Plaintiff also presents the declaration of Moshe
Lewis, M.D., who opines that Defendant Tender Home Health failed to comply with
the standard of care or the plans of care agreed to prior to Plaintiff’s
discharge from the hospital in failing to provide timely physical therapy to
Plaintiff and discharging him prematurely despite known risks. (Lewis Decl.
¶¶ 28–41.)
 
“The elements of a cause of action for negligence are well
established. They are “(a) a legal duty
to use due care; (b) a breach of such
legal duty; [and] (c) the breach was the proximate
or legal cause of the resulting injury.” [Citation.]” (Ladd v. County of San Mateo (1996) 12 Cal.4th 913, 917, emphasis in
original.)
 
In medical malpractice cases, expert testimony is required
to prove or disprove compliance with the standard of care. (See Landeros v. Flood (1976) 17 Cal.3d
399, 410; Garibay, supra, 161 Cal.App.4th at p. 741.) On a
summary judgment motion, expert testimony may be supplied through expert
declarations, and summary judgment is proper if plaintiff fails to submit any
opposing expert testimony. (See Curtis v.
Santa Clara Valley Medical Center (2003) 110 Cal.App.4th 796, 800; Willard v. Hagemeister (1981) 121 Cal.App.3d
406, 412.) Expert declarations may be based on hospital and medical records if
they are properly authenticated. (Garibay,
supra, 161 Cal.App.4th at pp.
742–743.)
 
 
There is a flaw in
Plaintiff’s motion that Defendant identifies in opposition. As noted above, Plaintiff’s
claims require expert testimony for their vindication, and the medical records
upon which that testimony is based must be authenticated. (Id. at pp.
742–743.) “Although hospital and medical records are hearsay, they can
be admitted under the business records exception to the hearsay rule.” (Id.
at p. 742.) That rule is set forth in Evidence Code § 1271, which states:
 
Evidence of a writing made as a record of an
act, condition, or event is not made inadmissible by the hearsay rule when
offered to prove the act, condition, or event if:
 
(a) The writing was made in the regular
course of a business;
 
(b) The writing was made at or near the time
of the act, condition, or event;
 
(c) The custodian or other qualified witness
testifies to its identity and the mode of its preparation; and
 
(d) The sources of information and method
and time of preparation were such as to indicate its trustworthiness.
 
Here, Plaintiff
presents the declarations of his experts without authenticating the medical
records upon which they rely to come to their conclusions. His notice of
lodging exhibits simply states that “a true and correct copy” of the given
record is attached. Plaintiff in reply includes a new declaration attesting
that he is the custodian of his own medical records, but provides no testimony
concerning any the of criteria required by Evidence Code § 1271. Plaintiff’s
expert declarations are therefore without an authenticated evidentiary basis.
 
The motion is
therefore DENIED.
 
Defendants to provide notice.