 Case Number:  23STCV20204    Hearing Date:   November 2, 2023    Dept:  61 Defendants
CBS Broadcasting, Inc., Jodi Roth, and Yacht Money, LLC’s Demurrer to the
Complaint is SUSTAINED without leave to amend.
 
Defendant to give notice.
 
 
I.                  
DEMURRER
A demurrer should be sustained only where the defects appear
on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. (Code Civ. Pro., §§
430.30, et seq.) In particular, as is
relevant here, a court should sustain a demurrer if a complaint does not allege
facts that are legally sufficient to constitute a cause of action. (See
id. § 430.10, subd. (e).) As the Supreme Court held in Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311:
“We treat the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but
not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law. . . . Further, we
give the complaint a reasonable interpretation, reading it as a whole and its
parts in their context.” (Id. at
p. 318; see also Hahn. v. Mirda
(2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747 [“A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not
the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the
defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed.
[Citation.]”) 
 
“In determining whether the complaint is sufficient as
against the demurrer … if on consideration of all the facts stated it appears
the plaintiff is entitled to any relief at the hands of the court against the
defendants the complaint will be held good although the facts may not be
clearly stated.”  (Gressley v. Williams (1961) 193 Cal.App.2d 636, 639.)
 
“A demurrer
for uncertainty is strictly construed, even where a complaint is in some
respects uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery
procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly’s of Cal., Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612,
616.) Such demurrers “are disfavored,
and are granted only if the pleading is so incomprehensible that a defendant
cannot reasonably respond.” (Mahan v.
Charles W. Chan Insurance Agency, Inc. (2017) 14 Cal.App.5th 841, 848.)
 
A demurrer should not be sustained without leave to amend if
the complaint, liberally construed, can state a cause of action under any
theory or if there is a reasonable possibility the defect can be cured by
amendment. (Schifando v. City of Los Angeles, supra, 31 Cal.4th at p.
1081.) The demurrer also may be sustained without leave to amend where the
nature of the defects and previous unsuccessful attempts to plead render it
probable plaintiff cannot state a cause of action. (Krawitz v. Rusch
(1989) 209 Cal.App.3d 957, 967.)
 
Defendants CBS Broadcasting, Inc., Jodi Roth, and Yacht
Money LLC (Defendants) demurrer to the single claim for breach of implied
contract in Plaintiff Accelerated Global Content, LLC’s (Plaintiff) Complaint,
on the grounds that Plaintiff’s alleged show idea is not substantially similar
to the show ultimately produced by Defendants — Superfan — particularly
given the prior copyright registration filed by Keltie Knight, alleged to be
one of the show’s producers, involving a similar show concept. (Demurrer at pp.
10–15.) 
 
The pertinent allegations are these. Plaintiff in July 2019
pitched a TV show to CBS entitled The Fandom. (Complaint ¶¶ 12, 22.) A
slideshow of the show’s structure and features (or “deck”) proposed the
following show structure:
 
·        
A different musical artist would headline every
episode, and five contestants (or “Superfans” of that performer) would compete
in elimination-challenges, overseen by three celebrity panelists and one secret
panelist;
·        
The first round of challenges would consist of
performances by the contestants, showcasing their unique talents and “fandom”
for the guest artist, with the eliminated contestant determined by audience
vote;
·        
The second round would consist of trivia about
the guest artist, using audio-visual clues, such as “an Instagram post,
childhood video clip, music video excerpt, an instrumental portion of a song”;
·        
After an appearance or performance by the guest
artist, the third round would consist of a karaoke-style challenge, to
determine if the contestants could remember the lyrics to songs by the guest
artist, with the eliminations once again determined by audience vote;
·        
After the secret panelist reveals their
identity, the final round would consist of the two remaining contestants once
again showcasing their talents, with the winner determined by audience vote;
·        
The winner would then be announced on stage, followed
by a performance by the guest artist.
(Complaint Exh. 1.) 
 
The Complaint identifies several features of this show that
are similar to the Superfan show that CBS later released, including the
following:
 
·        
Each episode features a different musical artist
and five contestants who are fans of the artist;
·        
The show consists of four elimination rounds of
play, with the final round consisting of the two remaining contestants in a
“head-to-head” challenge;
·        
The winning contestant is decided by audience
vote, and the show concludes with a performance by the guest artist;
·        
The challenges, other than the head-to-head,
consist of audio-visual and trivia-based questions to the contestants, such as
identification of snippets of songs and guessing .
 
(Complaint ¶ 43.) 
 
Defendants argue, however, that any similarity between
their Superfan and Plaintiff’s The Fandom carries no inference of
unlawful copying, because Defendants were in possession of an earlier work
containing the same key elements upon which Plaintiff relies. Specifically,
Defendants ask this court to take judicial notice of a copyright certificate issued
to Keltie Knight — alleged in the Complaint to be one of the creators of Superfan
and the co-founder of Defendant Yacht Money, LLC (Complaint ¶¶ 32–35) — for a
show entitled Fans vs. Bands, dated August 6, 2015, some four years
before Plaintiff’s alleged Fandom pitch. (RJN Exhs. A, B.) The copyright
certificate attaches a deck prepared for the latter show, containing the
following elements:
·        
Fans vs. Bands is a five-contestant game show built around an episodic
musical guest and contestants (called “super fans”) who compete in elimination
challenges;
·        
The first round begins
after a musical performance by the guest artist. The contestants answer trivia
questions, and two of the five contestants are eliminated;
·        
The second round is
also-trivia based, but the contestants also compete against the guest artist in
answering trivia questions about that artist. Two more contestants are
eliminated, leaving one contestant to compete against the guest;
·        
After another musical
performance, the final round begins, in which the final contestant and the
guest artist compete in a slapstick challenge, such as “a pie-eating contest,
bobbing for donuts, a mystery balloon piñata maze,” etc. After which, either “fans”
or “bands” is deemed the winner.
(RJN Exh. B.)
 
 
“In an idea submission case such
as this, to prevail on a cause of action for breach of implied-in-fact
contract, plaintiffs must show (1) they clearly conditioned the submission of
their ideas on an obligation to pay for any use of their ideas; (2) the defendants,
knowing this condition before the plaintiffs disclosed the ideas, voluntarily
accepted the submission of the ideas; and (3) the defendants found the ideas
valuable and actually used them—that is, the defendants based their
work substantially on the plaintiffs' ideas, rather than on their own ideas or
ideas from other sources.” (Spinner v. American Broadcasting Companies, Inc.
(2013) 215 Cal.App.4th 172, 184.) “In the absence of direct evidence, “use” of
an idea can be inferred from evidence showing the defendant had access to the
plaintiff's idea and the parties' ideas are similar.” (Ryder v. Lightstorm
Entertainment, Inc. (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 1064, 1073.) 
The purpose of the substantial-similarity
analysis is to answer the question whether the defendant copied the work of the
plaintiff. Ordinarily, similar elements between known work of the plaintiff and
the defendant's work will, depending on the degree of uniqueness and
originality of the element, support such an inference. However, where defendant
owns a prior work containing the same elements, he has no reason, beyond the
illicit thrill of copyright infringement, to copy wrongfully from another what
he could legally copy from himself. Therefore, where an element occurs both in
the defendant's prior work and the plaintiff's prior work, no inference of
copying can be drawn.
(Ryder v. Lightstorm Entertainment, Inc. (2016) 246
Cal.App.4th 1064, 1075.) 
Knight’s preexisting copyright for
Fans vs. Bands rebuts a central feature of Plaintiff’s Complaint.
Plaintiff’s case centers on the allegation, “The premise and structural spine
of Superfan is virtually indistinguishable from . . . The Fandom, utilizing
the concept of a competition involving the biggest fans of a particular music group
or star where contestants participate in a variety of challenges which relate
in some way to the artists featured in each episode.” (Complaint ¶ 43.) This
allegation, however, describes Fans vs. Bands just as well as Plaintiff’s
proposed program. And “where defendant owns a prior work containing the
same elements, he has no reason, beyond the illicit thrill of copyright
infringement, to copy wrongfully from another what he could legally copy from
himself.” (Ryder, supra, 246 Cal.App.4th at p. 1075.)
 
Plaintiff’s opposition to the present demurrer does not take
adequate account of the Fans vs. Bands copyright, except to argue that
this court should not consider it. Plaintiff argues that there is no authority
for the proposition that a copyright to a different show can be dispositive of
Plaintiff’s implied contract claims. (Opposition at p. 10.) But this ignores
the authority cited in Defendants’ demurrer, which holds that where a defendant
owns a prior work containing the same elements, their ownership of a work
containing the same elements rebuts an inference of use. (Ryder, supra,
246 Cal.App.4th at p. 1075.) Plaintiff also argues that, although
this court may take judicial notice of the copyright certificate, it may not
take judicial notice of the “truth” of the statements contained therein.
(Opposition at p. 11.) But the “truth” of the copyrighted materials is not the
point; the materials are a proposal for a show, not statements of fact.
 
Plaintiff briefly argues that Fans vs. Bands is much
less similar to the show that became Superfan than what they pitched as The
Fandom. (Opposition at p. 11.) Plaintiff argues that Fans vs. Bands
contained two musical performances, while The Fandom (like Superfan)
contained only one. (Opposition at p. 11.) Plaintiff also notes that the final
round of Fans vs. Bands called for a “viral,” contestant vs. guest
artist challenge, while no such thing appears in either The Fandom or Superfan.
(Opposition at p. 11.) 
 
These arguments are unpersuasive, as Superfan has
vastly more in common with Fans vs. Bands than Plaintiff’s The Fandom.[1]
While Superfan’s contestants are picked from the audience, as are those
in Fans vs. Bands, the contestants in Fandom emerge onstage as
performers with particular talents to showcase throughout the show. In Superfan
and Fans vs. Bands, all challenges save the final challenge are
trivia-based. But all challenges in The Fandom (save the single trivia
round) are performance-based, with the contestants either presenting their
unique talents or performing in a karaoke-lyrics contest. Plaintiff’s proposal
for The Fandom makes much of a celebrity panel with a single mystery
panelist, whose identity is revealed near the end of the show. Yet neither Fans
vs. Bands nor Superfan contain these elements. In short, The
Fandom proposed a talent competition with a celebrity panel, which Superfan
is not. Fans vs. Bands proposed a trivia-based fan competition, which is
what Superfan turned out to be. 
 
The demurrer is therefore SUSTAINED, without leave to amend.
 


