


[1]           The Ordinance defines “Mobilehome
park” as “any area or tract of land where two or more mobilehome lots are
rented or leased, or held out for rent or lease, to accommodate mobilehomes
used for human habitation for permanent, as opposed to transient, occupancy.”
(AR 5.) “Mobilehome” is defined as “a vehicle, designed or used for human
habitation, including a camping trailer, travel trailer, motor home and
slide-in camper, when used as the principal place of habitation for the
occupants thereof, as well as mobilehomes as defined by Civil Code Section 798.3.”
(AR 5.) 


[2]           Pursuant to a Stipulation and Order
drafted and submitted by respondent City, the Court ordered respondent’s
opposition brief to be filed by January 12, 2024.  Without explanation or leave to do so, respondent
City of El Monte untimely served and filed its opposition on January 31, 2024,
after petitioner had filed its Reply. 
Because petitioner did not have the opportunity to respond to
respondent’s opposition, the Court exercises its discretion to decline to
consider respondent’s opposition. (Bozzi v. Nordstrom, Inc. (2010) 186
Cal.App.4th 755, 765 [“A trial court has broad discretion under rule 3.1300(d)
of the Rules of Court to refuse to consider papers served and filed beyond the
deadline without a prior court order finding good cause for late submission”]; see
also CRC 3.1300(d) [“If the court, in its discretion, refuses to consider a
late filed paper, the minutes or order must so indicate”].) 


[3]           Petitioner
and Intervenor quibble over whether “designated representative” in section 8.70.090(D)(1)
is the same as a “resident representative” under 8.70.140.  The resolution of that dispute is immaterial
to the outcome here, as the Court finds that notice to any such representative
operates independent of the residents’ right to appeal a fair return decision
of the City Manager.
 


[4]           In this case, it appears the Park residents
were informed of the decision on petitioner’s fair return application when the City
mailed a copy to all Park residents. (AR 629.) From this, petitioner argues “the
City actually violated the plain language of the Ordinance” because “the Ordinance
only allows the decision to be sent to the Park and resident representative
pursuant to Section 8.70.090(D)(1).” (Opening Br. at 3.) This assertion is
without merit. Section 8.70.090(D)(1) does not state the decision can only
be sent to the park owner, the park owner’s designated representative, or the
residents’ designated representative. (AR 14.) Instead, section 8.70.090(D)(1) merely
dictates the minimum amount of notice the City shall provide. 

