  Case Number:  20SMCV00370    Hearing Date:   March 14, 2024    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling 
Bru et al. v.
Douglas Emmett, Inc. et al., Lead Case No. 20SMCV00370 (and related cases
20STCV14331, 20STCV15442 and 22STCV03650)
Hearing Date March
14, 2023
Defendants Douglas
Emmett Management and Barrington Pacific, LLC’s Motions for Summary
Adjudication
Douglas Emmett,
Inc.’s Motion for Summary Adjudication. 
 
These cases arise
out of a fire at the Barrington Plaza apartments in which numerous plaintiffs were
injured and the Bru plaintiffs’ decedent perished. 
 
Defendants Douglas
Emmett Management (DEM) and Barrington Pacific (Barrington) move for summary adjudication
of plaintiffs’ punitive damages claims in the lead case and related cases
20STCV14331, 20STCV15442 and 22STCV03650, arguing they did not engage in
conduct egregious enough to support such damages. 
 
Defendant Douglas
Emmett, Inc. (DEI) moves separately for summary adjudication of punitive
damages, arguing it did not own Barrington Plaza, did not exercise control over
its day-to-day operations, and none of its officers, directors or managing
agents acted with malice, oppression or fraud sufficient to support a finding
of punitive damages. 
 
DEM/Barrington
Pacific Motion 
To recover
punitive damages, plaintiff must prove by “clear and convincing evidence” that
defendant engaged in malice, oppression or fraud. Cal. Civ. Code §3294. Summary
judgment is proper “when no reasonable jury could find the plaintiff’s evidence
to be clear and convincing proof of malice, fraud, or oppression.” Butte
Fire Cases (2018) 24 Cal.App.5th 1150, 1158. 
 
DEM managed Barrington
Plaza apartments; Barrington owned it. DEM and Barrington argue they undertook
extensive efforts to ensure fire safety at Barrington Plaza, including
conducting annual fire drills in 2013-2020 through Allied Universal,
training property management, staff, security and residents in the use and
operation of fire safety systems, maintaining a list of disabled residents who
might need extra assistance during a fire, performing annual “regulation 4”
testing of fire detection and safety systems, installing self-closing door
hinges and low-heat stove burners and implementing regular fire drills.
DEM/Barrington Separate Statement of Undisputed Material Facts (DBUMF) 2-10,
14-16, 40, 41, 44-51. 
 
DEM and Barrington
support these facts via the declaration of Robert Lutes, DEM’s Director of
Engineering, the deposition of Martin Fellbaum, Regional Manager and PMQ for
Allied Universal, a 2014 invoice for purchase of self-closing hinges and the deposition
of plaintiff Sergei Maidaniuk, who describes a 2019 fire drill, as well as the
loud fire alarm and tenant intercom system that alerted him to the 2020 fire. 
DEM and Barrington acknowledge that
Barrington Plaza lacked a fire sprinkler system but argue this was because Los
Angeles Rent Stabilization Ordinance (LARSO) and the Los Angeles Housing
Department prevented them from emptying the building entirely while such construction
was performed, and the LAFD prohibited them from emptying the building
piecemeal. 
Douglas Emmett CEO Jordan Kaplan testified
that even though no sprinklers were required, defendants made substantial
efforts to obtain bureaucratic approval for their installation, to no avail. DBUMF
35-37. Defendants present evidence that DEM and Barrington implemented various measures
to protect tenants from fire. They argue this precludes a fact-finder from
concluding they acted with the malice required for punitive damages. The court
agrees defendants present evidence of efforts after the 2013 fire to prevent
recurrence and to ensure fire safety, sufficient to meet their initial burden
on summary judgment. The burden of proof shifts to plaintiffs to show a triable
issue of fact. 
 
Plaintiffs rely
primarily on declarations. Retired Los Angeles Fire Marshall Craig Fry opined defendants’
fire safety measures prior to the 2020 fire were flawed. After reviewing
depositions of various DEM employees/officers and documents, Fry opined defendants
violated various provisions of the Fire Code portions of the Los Angeles
Municipal Code applicable to high-rise buildings, as well as non-statutory community
standards. Fry decl. ¶22, 23. 
 
Among the
violations Fry identifies are Fire Safety Director Sherri Router’s failure to
read defendants’ entire emergency manual, the absence of a fire safety director
training certificate for Router or any other person at Barrington Plaza prior
to 2020, absence of designated Floor Wardens (which resulted in a Fire/Life
Safety Violation from the LAFD on February 13, 2020), failure to take
affirmative steps to ensure residents actually reviewed Occupant Instructions
for conduct during a fire, failure to maintain documentation of fire drills
(which resulted in three citations from the City), failure to implement “zoned
evacuation” rather than evacuating an entire building at once and failure to
implement the “rule of five,” by which only five specific floors are evacuated
during a fire, while residents of other floors are instructed to “shelter in
place.” Fry decl. ¶¶28-88.
 
The court notes an
expert cannot testify to legal conclusions in the guise of expert opinion. Downer
v. Bramet (1984) 152 Cal.App.3d 837, 841. Fry’s testimony regarding whether
the defendants complied with the Fire Code is inadmissible, as it seeks to
apply the law to the facts, which is the province of the finder of fact.
However, Fry may testify regarding Code requirements and his opinion as to
whether defendants met the relevant standard of care.
 
Even excluding
ultimate opinions regarding compliance with the Fire Code, Fry provided
adequate opinion, including absence of adequate evacuation procedures,
self-closing doors, compliance with the “Rule of Five” and inadequate emergency
announcements, which rely on his expertise. Taken together, the evidence could
together constitute despicable conduct sufficient to support a finding of
punitive damages. Fry decl. ¶¶82-101, 103.
 
Defendants argue
plaintiffs only allege conduct that fell below the standard of care, which is
not the standard for imposition of punitive damages. Defendants argue all
alleged violations were technical and did not cause injury. Defendants are
correct that absent causation, there can be no ultimate liability and therefore
no award of punitive damages. However, Fry opines “[d]efendants’ violation of
the standard of care caused several floors of occupants to unnecessarily go
into the smoke-filled stairwells. Defendants’ violations of the standard of
care caused the stairwells to contain people unnecessarily, which hampered LAFD
fire attack and rescue operations.” Fry decl. ¶100. This adequately alleges a
causal link between defendants’ violations and plaintiffs’ injuries. 
 
While each
violation, on its own, might not be sufficient to sustain a claim for punitive
damages, a reasonable juror, considering the violations in total, bolstered by
Fry’s opinions, could conclude defendants’ conduct was despicable sufficient to
form the basis for an award of punitive damages. The evidence is sufficient to create
a triable issue of fact regarding the impact of these deficiencies on the delayed
Fire Department response or other bases, upon which a punitive damages award
might be based. DENIED. 
 
DEI 
 
Defendant DEI
moves for summary adjudication of plaintiffs’ request for punitive damages. DEI
describes itself as a “passive investor and indirect parent of Barrington.”
Motion at pg. 3. DEI’s Separate Statement of Material Facts 9 (DSS 9). It
argues it is a separate entity from Barrington and DEM, which exercised no
control over fire safety policy at Barrington Plaza. Therefore, it argues, it
cannot be vicariously liable for Barrington and DEM’s breaches and cannot be liable
for punitive damages based on their wrongdoing. 
 
A parent company
can be liable for acts of its subsidiaries if the “nature and extent of the
control exercised over the subsidiary by the parent is so pervasive and
continual that the subsidiary may be considered nothing more than an agent or
instrumentality of the parent.” Dorel Indus., Inc. v. Superior Court (2005)
134 Cal.App.4th 1267, 1276. Because punitive damages are unavailable absent
actual damages, there must be a basis for vicarious liability to award punitive
damages to a parent company for its subsidiary’s wrongdoing. E.g., Kizer v.
County of San Mateo (1991) 53 Cal.3d 139.
 
DEI cites Laird
v. Capital Cities/ABC Inc. (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 727 and Waste Mgmt.,
Inc. v. Superior Court (2004) 119 Cal.App.4th 105 for the proposition that
when a subsidiary makes its own decisions and is not controlled by its parent,
the parent cannot be liable for the subsidiary’s actions. According to DEI,
since it did not exercise control over DEM and Barrington, is not involved in
day-to-day operations and maintains a separate structure (e.g., separate bank
accounts, accounting records, boards of directors, minutes and liability
insurance), it cannot be liable for its subsidiaries’ actions. DEI separate
statement of undisputed material facts (9–13). 
 
Plaintiffs present
evidence, including depositions of various DEI employees/officers that DEM, DEI
and Barrington are intertwined. They share headquarters; the leadership team
had offices at Douglas Emmett headquarters, they share many of the same
officers, and it was a standing policy that if there was a code violation at
Barrington Plaza, it was required to be reported to DEI officers. Plaintiffs’
separate statement 165-177. 
 
John Spelke, plaintiffs’
expert in real estate and corporate structure, opines DEM, DEI, and Barrington
are “all one company, ‘Douglas Emmett’ headed by Jordan Kaplan as the CEO of
DEI.” Spelke decl., pg. 4. Among the factors Spelke identifies are: Kaplan made
sprinkler retrofit decisions on behalf of Barrington, acted as an officer for
DEI and DEM, participated in quarterly DEI investment calls and failed to
distinguish which entities he as representing when working on the retrofit
project. Spelke decl. ¶¶4-22.
 
DEI correctly argues
that Kaplan serving as CEO of both DEM and DEI, without more, cannot expose the
parent company to liability for its subsidiaries’ acts. See, e.g., United
States v. Bestfoods (1998) 524 U.S. 51, 69. The court agrees Kaplan’s dual role
alone is insufficient to support a finding of alter ego liability. DEI
presented substantial evidence that DEI and DEM maintained independent
corporate structures, though they shared an office and some overlapping directors/executives.

 
However, a
complete unity of identity and interest is not necessary to hold a parent
liable for the acts of a subsidiary. There is substantial evidence that DEM
acted as DEI’s agent with respect to Barrington Plaza. Unlike in Laird, plaintiffs
present substantial evidence that DEI was involved in the day-to-day management
of safety issues. Spelke noted “if there’s a code violation at Barrington Plaza
it would be reported to the officers of DEI,” and DEI was highly involved in
the sprinkler retrofit project, through Kaplan acting in his capacity as CEO of
DEI (not DEM). Spelke decl. ¶17. 
 
A reasonable
finder of fact could conclude, based on the totality of these facts, that DEI
controlled DEM’s day-to-day operations with respect to fire safety and was
aware of and/or ratified the alleged violations detailed above. Plaintiffs
present evidence raising a triable issue of material fact on this issue. Summary
judgment DENIED. 
 
Objections in
DEM/Barrington MSJ
Plaintiffs’
Objections: Objection 1 – 10 OVERRULED, Objection 11 SUSTAINED (irrelevant),
Objection 12-22 OVERRULED.
 
Defendants’
Objections: Objection 1 OVERRULED, objections 2-8, SUSTAINED (legal
conclusions), objections 9-19 OVERRULED, Objections 20-21 SUSTAINED (hearsay),
Objections 22-26 OVERRULED, Objection 27 SUSTAINED (Immaterial), Objection 28
SUSTAINED (hearsay).
 
Defendants’
Objection to Joinder
OVERRULED. Frazee
v. Seely (2002) 95 Cal.App.4th 627 held that a party moving to join a
motion in connection with an MSJ or MSA “shall support their motion with
a separate statement.” Moving parties here did not do so. Failure to provide a
separate statement on its own is not a sufficient basis to deny an MSA, but in Frazee
the moving parties’ failure to include their own SS necessitated denial
because the other parties’ separate statement did not support a ruling in their
favor. Id at 637. Here, the separate statement provided by
the other parties is sufficient to support a ruling in favor of the joining
parties.

Objections in DEI MSJ 
Objections 1-3
OVERRULED, Objection 4 SUSTAINED (lack of foundation), Objection 5-6 SUSTAINED
(improper opinion), Objection 8 OVERRULED, Objection 9 SUSTAINED (improper
opinion), Objection 10 OVERRULED, Objections 11-18 OVERRULED.
 
The court is in
receipt of no objections from defendant DEI, only a response to objections
filed by plaintiffs. 