 Case Number:  23STCV20049    Hearing Date:   March 11, 2024    Dept:  49 Antonia Guzman Franco v. The Perfect Bite, LLCPLAINTIFF ANTONIA GUZMAN FRANCO’S MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff Antonia Guzman FrancoRESPONDING PARTY(S): NoneSTATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: This is an employment dispute. Plaintiff Antonia Guzman Franco worked for Defendant The Perfect Bite, LLC, as a Research Development Technician. Plaintiff, who was 62-years old and suffered from osteoarthritis, alleges Defendants terminated her employment based on her age and disability. Plaintiff also alleges Defendant committed wage and hour violations, and failed to provide meal and rest periods as required by law.Plaintiff now moves for leave to file a First Amended Complaint. Defendant filed a limited opposition to the motion.TENTATIVE RULING:Plaintiff’s Motion for Leave to File a First Amended Complaint is GRANTED.A stand-alone FAC must be filed and served to all current parties within 10 days.  Any new parties must be served in a timely manner as provided by law.Moving party to give notice, unless waived.DISCUSSION:Motion for Leave to File First Amended ComplaintI. Legal StandardIf a plaintiff wishes to amend a complaint after the answer has been filed or after the demurrer has been filed and after the hearing on the demurrer, or if he or she has already amended the complaint “of course,” permission of the court must be obtained before the amendment will be allowed. (CCP §§ 473(a)(1), 576.)   Motions for leave to amend the pleadings are directed to the sound discretion of the court. “The court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading . . . .” (CCP § 473(a)(1); see CCP § 576.) Policy favors liberally granting leave to amend so that all disputed matters between the parties may be resolved. (See Howard v. County of San Diego (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 1422, 1428.) Absent prejudice to the adverse party, the court may permit amendments to the complaint “at any stage of the proceedings, up to and including trial.” (Atkinson v. Elk Corp. (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 739, 761 [internal quotes omitted].)  Although denial is rarely justified, a judge has discretion to deny leave to amend if the party seeking the amendment has been dilatory, and the delay has prejudiced the opposing party. (Morgan v. Sup.Ct. (1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530; see also Hirsa v. Superior Court (1981) 118 Cal.App.3d 486, 490). An opposing party is prejudiced where the amendment would necessitate a trial delay along with a loss of critical evidence, added preparation expense, increased burden of discovery, etc. (Magpali v. Farmers Group, Inc. (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 471, 486-488.  Ordinarily, the court will not consider the validity of the proposed amended pleading in ruling on a motion for leave since grounds for a demurrer or motion to strike are premature.  The court, however, does have discretion to deny leave to amend where a proposed amendment fails to state a valid cause of action as a matter of law and the defect cannot be cured by further amendment.  (See California Casualty General Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1985) 173 Cal.App.3d 274, 281 (overruled on other grounds by Kransco v. American Empire Surplus Lines Ins. Co. (2000) 23 Cal.4th 390).) II. AnalysisPlaintiff moves for leave to amend to file a First Amended Complaint. By the proposed amendment, Plaintiff will add three new individual defendants to the Eleventh, Twelfth, Thirteenth, Fourteenth, and Fifteenth causes of action. (See Charles Decl. ¶ 3.)Under CRC Rule 3.1324(a), a plaintiff seeking leave to amend must provide (1) the effect of the amendment; (2) why the amendment is necessary and proper; (3) when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and (4) the reasons why the request for amendment was not made earlier. (CRC, Rule 3.1324(b).)Here, Plaintiff has not addressed when she discovered the facts giving rise to the amended allegations, nor has she addressed the reasons why the request for amendment was not made earlier. (See Charles Decl., generally.) Presumably Plaintiff was aware of the identities of Defendant’s employees at the time she filed her complaint. In its limited opposition, Defendant does not oppose the amendment, and indicates it is willing to stipulate to the amendment. However, Defendant maintains that Plaintiff was always aware of the identifies of the individuals to be added to the amended complaint, and therefore, they should not be added as “doe” Defendants. This court agrees with that position. Absent prejudice to the adverse party, the court may permit amendments to the complaint “at any stage of the proceedings, up to and including trial.” (Atkinson v. Elk Corp. (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 739, 761 [internal quotes omitted].) By failing to substantively oppose, Defendant has not demonstrated it will be unduly prejudiced by the amendment. Therefore, leave to amend is appropriate. This is consistent with the “policy of great liberality in allowing amendments at any stage of the proceeding so as to dispose of cases upon their substantial merits.”  (Bd. of Trustees v. Superior Ct. (2007) 149 Cal. App. 4th 1154, 1163.) This court takes no position at this time on the viability of any statute of limitations defenses that may be raised by the newly-added Defendants. Rather, the “better course of action” is to permit the amendment, “and then let the parties test its legal sufficiency in other appropriate proceedings.”  (Atkinson v. Elk Corp. (2003) 109 Cal. App. 4th 739, 760.) Accordingly, on good cause shown, Plaintiff’s Motion for Leave is GRANTED.A stand-alone FAC must be filed and served to all current parties within 10 days.  Any new parties must be served in a timely manner as provided by law.Moving party to give notice, unless waived.  IT IS SO ORDERED.Dated:  March 11, 2024 ___________________________________ Randolph M. Hammock Judge of the Superior Court