 Case Number:  22SMCV01693    Hearing Date:   December 13, 2023    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling 
Barboza, et al. v.
Holiday Villa East Management, LP et al., Case No. 22SMCV01693
Hearing Date
December 13, 2023 
Defendants Holiday
Villa East Management & Diller’s Motion for Summary Adjudication
 
Plaintiffs
Barboza, Rhonda Madrid and Anthony Madrid sued their former employer, a senior
living facility owned and/or operated by defendant Holiday Villa East
Management and managing partner defendant Diller. Plaintiffs allege retaliatory
termination for reporting sexual abuse at the facility, hostile work
environment, lack of meal/rest breaks, requiring work off-the-clock without pay
and failure to reimburse. Defendants move for summary adjudication. 
 
Evidentiary
Objections
Plaintiffs’
Objections:
Objection 1 SUSTAINED
(lack of personal knowledge), Objection 2 OVERRULED, Objections 3-5 OVERRULED,
Objection 6 SUSTAINED (lack of authentication), objection 7 OVERRULED,
Objection 8 SUSTAINED (lack of personal knowledge), Objection 9 SUSTAINED
(speculation), objections 10-17 OVERRULED.
 
FEHA Claims: Administrative
Exhaustion
A plaintiff seeking
to bring a claim for an unlawful employment practice under the Fair Employment
and Housing Act (FEHA, Cal. Govt. Code §§12940, et seq.) must exhaust
administrative remedies by filing a complaint with the DFEH within the
three-year statute of limitations period. Cal. Govt. Code §1260(e)(5). 
 
Defendants argue failure
to exhaust administrative remedies. Hechavariaa decl. ¶¶2-4. Plaintiffs present
copies of the right-to-sue letters from DFEH. Plaintiffs Exhs. G, I and J. Defendants
withdraw these arguments. MOOT.
 
Wrongful
Termination 
Defendants argue
plaintiffs quit their jobs and were not terminated. In reply, defendants
withdraw this argument as to plaintiffs Rhonda and Anthony Madrid but maintain
it as to plaintiff Barboza. 
 
Defendants argue Barboza
quit. Diller states he received a complaint that Barboza used offensive
language. Diller called Barboza, who allegedly quit over the phone. Diller decl.
¶27. Barboza’s alleged statements are admissible as a verbal act and/or a
statement by a party opponent. J&M Mash & Barrel, LLC v. Superior
Court (2022) 74 Cal.App.5th 1, 19, Cal. Evid. Code §1220. This satisfies defendants’
initial burden on summary adjudication. 
 
Barboza claims he
did not quit, but Diller fired him. Barboza decl. ¶¶20-23. Barboza cites an
email he sent to Diller in which he denies quitting. Barboza exh. A. The email is
an inadmissible out-of-court statement offered for proof of its contents. It is
not a party admission (Evid. Code §1220), as this only applies when the
out-of-court statement is offered against the declarant.
 
The parties’ evidence
regarding the conversation conflicts. Diller claims Barboza quit; Barboza
claims Diller fired him. On summary adjudication the court does not weigh
evidence. Blue Mountain Ent., LLC v. Owen (2022) 74 Cal.App.5th 537, 549.
The declarations create a triable issue of material fact. DENIED.
 
Meal and Rest
Breaks 
Employers must
provide a thirty-minute meal period for every five hours worked unless the
employee’s total work period per day is no more than six hours. Cal. Lab. Code
§512. If an employer fails to provide meal breaks, they must pay an additional
hour at the regular hourly rate. Cal. Lab. Code §226.7. Additionally, employees
are entitled a ten-minute rest break for every four hours worked. Brinker
Restaurant Corp. v. Superior Court (2012) 53 Cal.4th 1004, 1028-1029, Cal.
Code Regs., Tit. 8 §11050. 
 
Defendants argue Barboza
was not deprived of breaks, presenting time sheets Barboza signed certifying he
took all required rests. Defendants’ Exh. D. The employee handbook informs
employees of their right to rest breaks. Defendants’ Exh. G. Per Diller, HVE
provided regular meal and rest breaks to all employees. Diller decl. ¶17. Diller
states Barboza never told him he was missing meal or rest periods. Id. Barboza’s
biweekly time sheets (2/18-5/20) indicate he regularly took thirty-minute meal
breaks. Defendants’ exh. D. 
 
Plaintiffs argue
the time sheets are inadmissible. Diller, HVE’s managing partner, qualifies as
a custodian of records. These are admissible business records (Evid. Code §1271).

 
The time sheets do
not indicate whether Barboza took ten-minute rest breaks under §11050. Nor do
they account for May-September 2020. Diller states HVE had a written policy of
providing meal and rest breaks, and Barboza never told him he was missing meal
or rest periods. Diller decl. ¶17. This is sufficient to meet defendants’
initial burden on summary adjudication. The burden shifts to plaintiff to show
a triable issue of material fact. 
 
Barboza states the
time sheets do not accurately reflect hours worked. He states Diller required
him to clock out and buy groceries for the facility twice weekly. He states
Diller would “call and scream at [him]” if he submitted accurate timesheets that
reflected time spent on these tasks. Barboza decl. ¶13. He claims the tasks took
two to four hours each, extending the length of his day and entitling him to
additional meal and/or rest breaks that were not provided or reflected in
timesheets. Barboza decl. ¶¶7-9.
 
This creates a
triable issue of fact as to whether workdays were longer than recorded in the timesheets.
Summary adjudication DENIED. 
 
Failure to
Indemnify (Barboza/Madrid)
An employer must
indemnify employees for “all necessary expenditures or losses incurred by the
employee in direct consequence of the discharge of his or her duties[.]” Cal.
Labor Code §2802(a). 
 
Diller states HVE
routinely reimbursed employees for out-of-pocket expenses and paid all expense
claims Barboza and Rhonda Madrid made. Diller decl. ¶19. Exhs. I-K, emails from
Barboza to Diller with grocery receipts and/or reimbursement checks to Barboza,
back up this claim. HVE’s QuickBooks account, which reflects many
reimbursements made to Barboza and Rhonda Madrid. Exh. M. This carries
defendants’ initial burden. 
 
Plaintiffs claim exhibits
I-K, the emails, are illegible and/or unintelligible. The emails show Barboza
and Diller were discussing out-of-pocket expenses and reimbursements. Ambiguity
about their contents is clarified by Diller’s declaration. Plaintiffs claim
exhibit M is inadmissible hearsay. The Quickbooks records are authenticated by
Diller and are admissible business records.
 
Barboza fails to identify
specific expenses that were unreimbursed or present evidence that the QuickBooks
records were inaccurate or incomplete. His claim that Diller “refused to
reimburse [him]” for supplies is refuted by exhibits I-K and M. Barboza fails
to carry his burden to show a triable issue of fact as to reimbursement. GRANTED
as to Barboza.
 
Rhonda Madrid
contends she was not reimbursed for use of her personal cell phone or gas. Rhonda
Madrid decl. ¶9. She fails to provide evidence these expenses were “necessary,”
or “a direct consequence of the discharge of [her] duties,” in light of Diller’s
declaration that Madrid had access to a company van and telephones and did not
need to use her personal phone or car to conduct Holiday Villa business. Diller
decl. ¶18. GRANTED as to Rhonda Madrid. 
 
Failure to Pay all
Earned Wages/Overtime; Failure to Furnish Accurate Wage and Hour Statements (Barboza)

This cause of action
is based on Barboza’s allegation that he was forced to perform regular tasks
off-the-clock, and these trips were not included in wages, overtime or wage
statements. There is a triable issue of material fact as to whether Diller
required Barboza to take these trips and leave them out of his timesheet. Summary
adjudication is improper.
 
Defendants argue
Barboza presented no evidence of actual or constructive knowledge of alleged
off-the-clock work. Barboza declared Diller required him to omit the supply
runs from his timesheet and screamed at him when he included them. Barboza
decl. ¶9-13. This is sufficient to create a triable issue of fact as to whether
Diller and Holiday Villa directed – and therefore had constructive knowledge of
– Barboza’s off-the-clock work. DENIED. 
 
 