 Case Number:  22STCV04219    Hearing Date:   October 9, 2024    Dept:  14 #9Case Background
This is an action for partition and declaratory relief.
The parties dispute how an inherited property should be managed and how they
should care for an elderly dependent.
On August 25, 2022 Plaintiff filed her Verified First
Amended Complaint (“FAC”) for (1) Partition, (2) Financial Elder Abuse, (3)
Breach of Fiduciary Duty, (4) Undue Influence, (5) Accounting, (6) Defamation,
(7) Harassment, and (8) Declaratory Relief against Defendants Benayah Israel
aka William Shorter (“Israel”), Michael A. Shorter (“Michael”), Estate of John
Shorter (“Estate”), Carmencita Ferguson (“Ferguson”), All Persons Known or
Unknown, and DOES 1-50. The second and third causes of action are asserted
against Defendant Ferguson, only. The fourth cause of action is asserted
against Defendants Israel and Ferguson, only. The sixth and seventh causes of
action are asserted against Defendant Israel, only.
On September 9, 2024, Defendant Michael A. Shorter
filed this motion for extension of time for good cause.
On October 2, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition.
Instant Pleading
Defendant Michael A. Shorter moves for a 60-day
extension of time of unspecified proceedings.
Decision
Defendant Michael Shorter’s motion for an extension of
time is DENIED.
Discussion
Defendant Michael Shorter filed a motion styled a
motion for an extension of time for good cause. The Court construes this as a
motion to continue trial because the only matters remaining on calendar for
this case are the final status conference and trial. 
Michael Shorter testifies that he has had health
problems for quite some time, that he has a growth on his adrenialin (sic)
gland, that he is often tired, and that his heart flutters at times when he
makes certain movements. (Motion, pp. 1, 2.) Additionally, he has been putting
off a biopsy because he is litigating this case. (Id. at p.2.)
In opposition, Plaintiff’s counsel argues that Michael
Shorter attempted to delay this action by filing other motions to stay or
extend time. (Strickland Decl., ¶¶1-14.) Additionally, there is no evidence
that the alleged medical procedure is immediately necessary or will prohibit
Michael Shorter from appearing for trial. 
The Court agrees that Michael Shorter fails to provide
evidence that his medical needs will prevent him from appearing for trial on
October 21, 2024. Although his declaration states he needs a biopsy and that he
is experiencing medical problems, the declaration does not state that he cannot
appear for trial due to his medical condition or medical procedure. Therefore,
the Court does not find that good cause exists to continue trial. The motion to
continue trial is DENIED.
Conclusion
Defendant Michael Shorter’s motion for an extension of
time is DENIED.