  Case Number:  21STCV02577    Hearing Date:   October 9, 2024    Dept:  14 #6Case Background
This is an action for negligence, fraud, breach of
fiduciary duty, constructive fraud, elder abuse, involuntary dissolution, an
accounting, and declaratory relief. Plaintiffs allege that they are
shareholders of a business called Alliance Industrial Refrigeration Services,
Inc. (AIRS) and an LLC of the same name (AIRS LLC). Defendants Golding and
Merrell, two other shareholders, purchased an investment property that would be
leased to AIRS and deprived AIRS of the opportunity to own the property. The
shareholder Defendants also failed to offer Plaintiff Lohr an opportunity to
obtain membership in AIRS LLC. Plaintiffs allege Defendants used AIRS LLC to
enrich themselves to the detriment of AIRS and Plaintiffs and to commit
bankruptcy fraud.
On January 21, 2021, Plaintiffs Kathy Lohr and Taylor
Winslow, successor trustee of the Katherine Jo Winslow 2019 Living Trust filed
their Complaint against Defendants AIRS, AIRS LLC, Grant Golding, Daniel
Jordan, and Richard Jones.
On September 3, 2024, Defendants Golding filed this
motion to stay the dissolution of AIRS LLC to permit Golding to proceed with
his right to buyout the membership interest of Plaintiff Winslow under Cal.
Corp. Code, section 17707.03(c)(1). The motion is unopposed.
Instant Pleading 
Defendant Golding moves to stay dissolution proceedings
for AIRS LLC to allow him to exercise his right to buy out Plaintiff Winslow’s
membership interest in AIRS LLC.
Decision
The motion to stay the dissolution proceedings of AIRS
LLC filed by Defendant Grant Golding is DENIED without prejudice. The parties
are ordered to meet and confer on the fair market value of Winslow’s share of
AIRS LLC. 
Discussion
Defendant Golding moves to stay the dissolution
proceedings of AIRS LLC under Cal. Corp. Code, section 17707.03(c). The section
provides that in a suit for judicial dissolution, the other members may avoid
the dissolution of the limited liability company by purchasing for cash the
membership interests owned by the members so initiating the proceeding at their
fair market value. (Cal. Corp. Code, section 17707.03(c)(1).) If the parties
cannot agree upon the fair market value of the membership interests and the
purchasing party supplies a bond, the court shall stay the dissolution
proceeding and fix the fair market value of the membership interests owned by
the moving parties. (Id. at subd. (c)(2).) Subdivision (c)(3) provides the
procedure a court must follow to issue a decree fixing the fair market value of
the ownership interest.
Here, Golding’s counsel testifies that Golding
currently holds an 83.34% interest in AIRS LLC. (Brethen Decl., ¶3.) On August
22, 2024, Golding’s counsel informed Winslow’s counsel that Golding was
exercising his statutory right to buy out Winslow’s interest in AIRS LLC and
requested that Winslow stipulate to staying this action. (Id., ¶¶4,5.) Golding
provides a proposed schedule for the buyout process.
Although Golding is entitled to buy out Winslow’s
interest in AIRS LLC, the Court notes that the parties have made no attempt to
determine the fair market value of Winslow’s ownership interest. Golding
provides no evidence that he and Winslow cannot determine the fair market value
themselves. Section 17707.03(c)(2) provides that the parties may seek a stay to
fix the fair market value of the ownership interest at issue if the parties
cannot agree upon the fair market value of the interest. Here, the parties must
make an attempt to make the determination on their own before seeking a
judicial decree fixing the amount. Therefore, Golding’s motion to stay
dissolution proceedings is DENIED without prejudice. ConclusionThe motion to stay the dissolution proceedings of AIRS LLC filed by Defendant Grant Golding is DENIED without prejudice. The parties are ordered to meet and confer on the fair market value of Winslow’s share of AIRS LLC.