 Case Number:  21STCV19791    Hearing Date:   August 7, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as
follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
May 26, 2021, Plaintiff Sedigheh Hajizadeh (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendants Magic Mountain, LLC (“Defendant”) and Does 1-50 for general
negligence and premises liability. 
On
June 21, 2021, Defendant filed an answer. 
On
January 30, 2024, the Court granted Plaintiff’s motion for summary adjudication
of Defendant’s statute of limitations affirmative defense (fourth affirmative
defense) and denied Plaintiff’s motion for summary adjudication of four other
affirmative defenses. 
On
March 11, 2024, Defendant filed a motion for leave to amend its answer.  The motion was set for hearing on April 5,
2024.  On March 22, 2024, Plaintiff filed
an opposition and a request for judicial notice.  On March 28, 2024, Defendant filed a reply.  The Court continued the hearing to August 7,
2024. 
No
trial date is currently scheduled. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Defendant
asks the Court to grant leave to file an amended answer that includes new affirmative defenses. 
Plaintiff
asks the Court to deny the motion. 
PLAINTIFF'S REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL
NOTICE 
          Granted.  (Evid.
Code, § 452, subd. (d).) 
LEGAL STANDARD 
“The
court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow
a party to amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name
of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake
in any other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or
demurrer. The court may likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the
adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any
pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like terms allow an
answer to be made after the time limited by this code.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 473,
subd. (a)(1).) 
“Any
judge, at any time before or after commencement of trial, in the furtherance of
justice, and upon such terms as may be proper, may allow the amendment of any
pleading or pretrial conference order.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 576; see Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324.) 
“ ‘While
a motion to permit an amendment to a pleading to be filed is one addressed to
the discretion of the court, the exercise of this discretion must be sound and
reasonable and not arbitrary or capricious. [Citations.] And it is a rare case
in which “a court will be justified in refusing a party leave to amend his
pleadings so that he may properly present his case.” [Citations.] If the motion
to amend is timely made and the granting of the motion will not prejudice the
opposing party, it is error to refuse permission to amend and where the refusal
also results in a party being deprived of the right to assert a meritorious
cause of action or a meritorious defense, it is not only error but an abuse of
discretion.  [Citations.]’”  (Redevelopment
Agency v. Herrold (1978) 86 Cal.App.3d 1024, 1031, quoting Morgan v.
Superior Court (1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530.) 
“Courts
usually display great liberality in allowing amendments to answers because ‘a
defendant denied leave to amend is permanently deprived of a defense.’ ”  (L. Edmon & C. Karnow, Cal. Practice
Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (Rutter 2023) ¶ 6:643, p. 6-189 (Cal.
Practice Guide), quoting Hulsey v. Koehler (1990) 218 Cal.App.3d 1150,
1159.) 
“Ordinarily,
the judge will not consider the validity of the proposed amended pleading in
deciding whether to grant leave to amend. . . . After leave to amend is
granted, the opposing party will have the opportunity to attack the validity of
the amended pleading.” (Cal. Practice Guide, supra, ¶ 6:644, pp. 6-189
to 6-190.) 
DISCUSSION 
A.   The complaint 
The
complaint alleges the following: 
Defendants
negligently, carelessly, and recklessly and with disregard for the rights of
the Plaintiff, managed, maintained, supervised, entrusted, repaired,
authorized, approved, leased, loaned, bailed, controlled, and operated a
facility located at 26101 Magic Mountain Parkway, Valencia, CA 91355 (“the
premises”). 
On
August 19, 2019, Defendants failed to maintain, design, inspect, control,
supervise, attend to, and care for the
premises. Defendants breached their duty of care to Plaintiff when they failed
to properly maintain, manage, and control the premises, failing to alert or
warn Plaintiff of an inherently unsafe condition. As a proximate result of
Defendants’ negligence, Plaintiff sustained severe injuries. 
B.  
The answer 
Defendant’s answer filed on June 21, 2021, denies the complaint’s allegations and asserts
affirmative defenses. 
C.   Motion for leave to amend answer 
Defendant
asks for leave to amend its answer to add the following affirmative defenses: estoppel
(tenth affirmative defense), res judicata and collateral estoppel (eleventh
affirmative defense), and waiver (twelfth affirmative defense).  According to Defendant, it discovered the
facts supporting these affirmative defenses in January 2024 in Plaintiff’s
motion for summary adjudication.  Defendant’s
motion includes a supporting declaration explaining why Defendant did not file
the motion sooner.  (Makorow Dec. ¶
5.)  The proposed amendments are based on
what Defendant contends is Plaintiff’s previous dismissal with prejudice of
another action with the same parties and same subject matter as this case. 
Plaintiff
opposes the motion, contending that Defendant did not act diligently because it
knew about the previous lawsuit long before January 2024.  (Defendant responds that it did not know until January 2024 that the
previous lawsuit was dismissed with prejudice.)  But even assuming Defendant unreasonably
delayed in filing the motion to amend, “it is an abuse of discretion to deny
leave to amend where the opposing party was not misled or prejudiced by the
amendment.” (Kittredge Sports Co. v. Superior Court (1989) 213
Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048.)  “Prejudice
exists where the amendment would result in a delay of trial, along with loss of
critical evidence, added costs of preparation, increased burden of discovery,
etc.”  (Cal. Practice Guide, supra,
¶ 6:656, p. 6-193.)  
Plaintiff
has not shown that allowing the amendment will prejudice her.  No trial date is currently scheduled.  A trial setting conference is set for August
15, 2024.  Counsel may address any need
for discovery based on the amendments and other scheduling issues at the trial
setting conference. 
Plaintiff
also argues that the premise of Defendant’s motion for
leave to amend the answer to include the new affirmative defenses is incorrect. The Court
does not evaluate the truth or strength of pleadings when deciding whether to
grant leave to amend. 
The
Court grants the motion. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS Defendant Magic Mountain,
LLC’s motion for leave to file an amended answer. 
The Court orders Defendant Magic Mountain, LLC, to
file and serve the first amended answer within 30 days of the hearing on this
motion. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days. 