 Case Number:  22STCV23145    Hearing Date:   August 7, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposition, reply, and ex parte papers, the Court rules
as follows.  
BACKGROUND 
On
July 18, 2022, Plaintiff Shamsun Nahar Khan (“Plaintiff”)
filed this action against Defendants Joseph William Schiffer (“Defendant”) and
Does 1-50 for negligence. 
On
August 19, 2022, Defendant filed an answer. 
On
February 28, 2024, the Court granted in part Plaintiff’s ex parte application
to continue the trial and continued the trial from April 15, 2024 to September 10, 2024.  The Court declined to continue or reopen
discovery, observing that the ex parte application did not specifically request
that discovery be continued or reopened and that Defendant opposed a
continuance or reopening of discovery. The denial was without prejudice to
Plaintiff filing a noticed motion. 
On
May 20, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion “Motion for Order Modifying the Order
Dated February 28, 2024 Denying the Continuation or Reopening of
Discovery.”  The motion was set for
hearing on August 7, 2024.  On July 25,
2024, Defendant filed an opposition.  On
July 31, 2024, Plaintiff filed a reply. 
On
July 31, 2024, Plaintiff filed an ex parte application to continue the trial
for at least 120 days.  The ex parte
application does not ask the Court to continue or reopen discovery.  The application was set for hearing on August
7, 2024. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for September 10, 2024. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Plaintiff
asks the Court to modify its February 28, 2024 order, reopen discovery, and continue the trial. 
Defendant
asks the Court to deny the motion to modify the February 28, 2024 order. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
A.   Motion to continue trial 
California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332 provides: 
“(a) Trial dates are firm 
“To ensure the prompt disposition of civil cases, the
dates assigned for a trial are firm. All parties and their counsel must regard
the date set for trial as certain. 
“(b) Motion or application 
“A party seeking a continuance of the date set for
trial, whether contested or uncontested or stipulated to by the parties, must
make the request for a continuance by a noticed motion or an ex parte
application under the rules in chapter 4 of this division, with supporting
declarations. The party must make the motion or application as soon as
reasonably practical once the necessity for the continuance is discovered. 
“(c) Grounds for continuance 
“Although continuances of trials are disfavored, each
request for a continuance must be considered on its own merits. The court may
grant a continuance only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring the
continuance. Circumstances that may indicate good cause include: 
“(1)  The
unavailability of an essential lay or expert witness because of death, illness,
or other excusable circumstances; 
“(2)  The
unavailability of a party because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances; 
“(3)  The
unavailability of trial counsel because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances; 
“(4)  The
substitution of trial counsel, but only where there is an affirmative showing
that the substitution is required in the interests of justice; 
“(5)  The
addition of a new party if: 
“(A)  The new
party has not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for
trial; or 
“(B)  The other
parties have not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare
for trial in regard to the new party's involvement in the case; 
“(6)  A party's
excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material
evidence despite diligent efforts; or 
“(7)  A
significant, unanticipated change in the status of the case as a result of
which the case is not ready for trial. 
“(d) Other factors to be considered 
“In ruling on a motion or application for continuance,
the court must consider all the facts and circumstances that are relevant to
the determination. These may include: 
“(1)  The
proximity of the trial date; 
“(2)  Whether
there was any previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to
any party; 
“(3)  The length
of the continuance requested; 
“(4)  The
availability of alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the
motion or application for a continuance; 
“(5)  The
prejudice that parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance; 
“(6)  If the
case is entitled to a preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status
and whether the need for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay; 
“(7)  The
court's calendar and the impact of granting a continuance on other pending
trials; 
“(8)  Whether
trial counsel is engaged in another trial; 
“(9)  Whether
all parties have stipulated to a continuance; 
“(10)  Whether
the interests of justice are best served by a continuance, by the trial of the
matter, or by imposing conditions on the continuance; and 
“(11)  Any other
fact or circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the motion or
application.” 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1332.) 
B.   Motion to continue or reopen discovery 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2024.020 provides: 
“(a) Except
as otherwise provided in this chapter, any party shall be entitled as a matter
of right to complete discovery proceedings on or before the 30th day, and to
have motions concerning discovery heard on or before the 15th day, before the
date initially set for the trial of the action. 
“(b) Except
as provided in Section 2024.050, a continuance or postponement of the trial
date does not operate to reopen discovery proceedings.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.020.) 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2024.050 provides: 
“(a) On
motion of any party, the court may grant leave to complete discovery
proceedings, or to have a motion concerning discovery heard, closer to the
initial trial date, or to reopen discovery after a new trial date has been set.
This motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040. 
“(b) In
exercising its discretion to grant or deny this motion, the court shall take
into consideration any matter relevant to the leave requested, including, but
not limited to, the following: 
“(1) The
necessity and the reasons for the discovery. 
“(2) The
diligence or lack of diligence of the party seeking the discovery or the
hearing of a discovery motion, and the reasons that the discovery was not
completed or that the discovery motion was not heard earlier. 
“(3) Any
likelihood that permitting the discovery or hearing the discovery motion will
prevent the case from going to trial on the date set, or otherwise interfere
with the trial calendar, or result in prejudice to any other party. 
“(4) The
length of time that has elapsed between any date previously set, and the date
presently set, for the trial of the action. 
“(c) The
court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section
2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes a motion to extend or to reopen discovery, unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.050.) 
DISCUSSION 
A.   Motion to modify February 28, 2024 order 
Defendant
argues that Plaintiff’s motion to modify the Court’s February 28, 2024 order is
not timely under Code of Civil Procedure section 1008, which governs motions
for reconsideration. 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 1008 does not apply here because the Court’s
February 28, 2024 order was made without prejudice to a noticed motion seeking
to continue or reopen discovery.  (See Farber
v. Bay View Terrace Homeowners Assn. (2006) 141 Cal.App.4th 1007, 1015.) 
The
Court instead construes Plaintiff’s motion as a motion to reopen discovery
under Code of Civil Procedure section 2024.050. 
(See Motion p. 5 [“.  . . the
Court should grant the Plaintiff’s motion to reopen discovery”].) 
A
motion to reopen discovery “shall be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration under Section 2016.040.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.050, subd. (a).)  A meet and confer declaration under Code of
Civil Procedure section 2016.040 “shall state facts showing a reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal
resolution of each issue presented by the motion.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2016.040.)  Plaintiff has
provided a declaration showing that counsel met and conferred about scheduling
the motion.  However, the declaration
does not show “a reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal resolution of
each issue presented by the motion.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2016.040.)  Therefore, the Court denies the motion.
Because
the Court denies the motion based on the lack of a meet and confer declaration,
the Court does not decide whether the motion otherwise satisfies the
requirements of Code of Civil Procedure section 2024.050. 
The
Court denies the motion to reopen discovery. 
B.   Ex parte application to continue the trial 
Plaintiff
asks the Court to continue the trial at least 120 days because (1) Plaintiff’s
counsel has sustained a concussion, impairing his cognitive functions and
ability to prepare for trial and (2) Defendant’s counsel has not provided
reciprocal scheduling accommodations.  (Plaintiff also cites the motion to reopen
discovery, which the Court has denied.) 
The
Court finds good cause and continues the trial for 30 days or to the next available
date based on Plaintiff’s counsel’s medical condition.  Plaintiff has provided no evidence or
argument, however, showing that counsel’s medical condition warrants a
continuance of 120 days. 
The
ex parte application does not ask the Court to reopen or continue discovery.  The Court does not reopen or continue
discovery. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court DENIES Plaintiff Shamsun Nahar Khan’s “Motion for Order Modifying the Order Dated February
28, 2024 Denying the Continuation or Reopening of Discovery,” which the Court
construes as a motion to reopen discovery. 
The
Court GRANTS in part Plaintiff Shamsun
Nahar Khan’s ex parte application to continue the trial.  The Court continues the trial for 30 days or
to the next available date.  The final
status conference date will be based on the new trial date.  In all other respects, the Court DENIES the ex
parte application. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.