  Case Number:  23CHCV00164    Hearing Date:   September 21, 2023    Dept:  F51 MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE CROSS-COMPLAINT

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23CHCV00164

 
Motion filed: 08/24/23
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant Guillermo Neunschwander Grupp
RESPONDING PARTY: None
NOTICE: ok
 
RELIEF REQUESTED: An order granting Defendant
Guillermo Neunschwander Grupp leave to file a Cross-Complaint as to
Cross-Defendant Amazon.Com, Inc.
 
TENTATIVE RULING: The unopposed motion is GRANTED.  Defendant/Cross-Complainant Guillermo
Neunschwander Grupp is ordered to separately file his Cross-Complaint after the
hearing by the end of the day on 9/21/23. 

 
BACKGROUND
 
On 1/20/23, Plaintiff Jaime Rene
Lara Castro filed this action against Defendants Uber Technologies, Inc. and
Guillermo Neunschwander Grupp alleging causes of action for general negligence
and motor vehicle negligence.
 
ANALYSIS
 
CCP 426.50 provides:
 
A
party who fails to plead a cause of action subject to the requirements of this
article, whether through oversight, inadvertence, mistake, neglect, or other
cause, may apply to the court for leave to amend his pleading, or to file a
cross-complaint, to assert such cause at any time during the course of the
action. The court, after notice to the adverse party, shall grant, upon such
terms as may be just to the parties, leave to amend the pleading, or to file
the cross-complaint, to assert such cause if the party who failed to plead the
cause acted in good faith. This subdivision shall be liberally construed to
avoid forfeiture of causes of action.
 
Absent a showing of
bad-faith, leave to file a compulsory cross-complaint must be granted.  (See Silver Organizations Ltd. V. Frank
(1990) 217 CA3d 94, 98-99.)  Relief to
file a compulsory cross-complaint must be liberally granted to avoid forfeiture
of causes of action, unless there is a showing that the party seeking to file
the cross-complaint has acted in bad faith. 
(Id.; Foot’s Transfer and Storage Company (1980) 114 CA3d
897, 901-903.)  
 
Defendant contends
that Plaintiff’s deposition confirmed the existence of an Amazon delivery truck
at the location where the incident took place, which Defendant claims blocked
his view of the southbound traffic on Balboa Boulevard.  (Nhan Decl. ¶ 3, Exhib. B.)  Based on Plaintiff’s confirmation of this
information, Defendant believes that there is sufficient information to warrant
a Cross-Complaint against Amazon for indemnity and contribution should
Defendant be found liable for the subject incident and Plaintiff’s alleged
injuries.  (Id., Exhib. A.) 
 
The Court finds that
there is no evidence that Defendant acted in bad faith in failing to file its
cross-complaint.  
 
CONCLUSION
 
The motion is GRANTED.