 Case Number:  22STCV29253    Hearing Date:   April 16, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



EBONY ELAINE MOSS, 
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
PROPERTY I.D. CORPORATION, et al.,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No: 
  22STCV29253
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  April 16, 2024
 Calendar Number:  5



 
 
 
Defendant All California Title and Escrow Company
(“Defendant”) moves for an order compelling Plaintiff Ebony Elaine Moss
(“Plaintiff”) to permit forensic inspection of electronic devices in her
possession, custody, or control since July 8, 2021 and have been used to access
certain email accounts. The specific discovery items at issue are Request for
Production Nos. 7-10.
 
The Court GRANTS Defendant’s motion. Plaintiff shall make
the laptop available within ten days of this order.  Defendant may instruct the third-party to
conduct searches limited to the search terms proposed by Defendant on March 29,
2024.  
 
The Court DENIES Defendant’s request for sanctions.
 
Background
 
Plaintiff filed this action on September 8, 2022 against
Defendant, her former employer, alleging (1) discrimination under FEHA; (2)
retaliation under FEHA; (3) failure to prevent discrimination, harassment, and
retaliation; and (4) wrongful termination.
 
On October 26, 2023, Defendant answered and filed a
Cross-Complaint, raising cross-claims for (1) breach of fiduciary duty of
loyalty; and (2) violation of Comprehensive Computer Data and Access Fraud Act.
 
On October 27, 2023, Defendant served discovery requests
seeking, among other things, the inspection of Plaintiff’s devices in order to
determine whether Plaintiff had forwarded any emails from Defendant’s computers
to her own devices. A lengthy meet and confer process ensued.
 
On February 20, 2024, the parties attended an Informal
Discovery Conference (“IDC”) with the Court. At the IDC, Plaintiff’s counsel
agreed to produce Plaintiff’s devices for inspection by a neutral third party
with computer forensics credentials. (Aina Decl. ¶ 6.) The parties dispute
whether this agreement limited the third-party’s investigation to emails
forwarded from Defendant’s electronic devices to Plaintiff’s electronic
devices. Plaintiff’s counsel contends that the parties agreed to this
limitation and opposes the motion on that basis. (Meyer Opposition Decl. ¶ 3.)
 
The parties met and conferred further, but reached an
impasse.  Plaintiff argues that
Plaintiff’s counsel demanded that Defendant’s counsel provide the specific
search terms that would be provided to the third-party, and Defendant’s counsel
refused to do so.  Defendant states in
the reply brief that Defendant’s counsel proposed search terms (tracking
Defendant’s prior document requests) on March 29, 2024, which was after the
filing of this motion.  (Corpuz Decl., ¶
4, Exhibit 12.)
 
Defendant filed this motion on March 5, 2024. Plaintiff’s
counsel filed a declaration in opposition to the motion. Defendant filed a
reply.
 
Legal Standard
 
Unless otherwise limited by order of the court in accordance
with this title, any party may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not
privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending
action or to the determination of any motion made in that action, if the matter
either is itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably calculated to
lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2017.010.) Discovery
may relate to the claim or defense of the party seeking discovery or of any
other party to the action. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2017.010.)
 
“Relevant evidence is defined in Evidence Code section 210
as evidence ‘having any tendency in reason to prove or disprove any disputed
fact that is of consequence to the determination of the action.’ The test of
relevance is whether the evidence tends logically, naturally, and by reasonable
inference to establish material facts. The trial court has broad discretion in
determining the relevance of evidence, but lacks discretion to admit irrelevant
evidence.”  (Donlen v. Ford Motor Co. (2013)
217 Cal.App.4th 138, 148 [internal quotations and citations omitted].)
 
Requests for Production
 
“A statement that the party to whom a demand for inspection,
copying, testing, or sampling has been directed will comply with the particular
demand shall state that the production, inspection, copying, testing, or
sampling, and related activity demanded, will be allowed either in whole or in
part, and that all documents or things in the demanded category that are in the
possession, custody, or control of that party and to which no objection is
being made will be included in the production.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.220.)
 
“A representation of inability to comply with the particular
demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling shall affirm that a
diligent search and a reasonable inquiry has been made in an effort to comply
with that demand. This statement shall also specify whether the inability to
comply is because the particular item or category has never existed, has been
destroyed, has been lost, misplaced, or stolen, or has never been, or is no
longer, in the possession, custody, or control of the responding party. The
statement shall set forth the name and address of any natural person or
organization known or believed by that party to have possession, custody, or
control of that item or category of item.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.230.)
 
“(a)
On receipt of a response to a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or
sampling, the demanding party may move for an order compelling further response
to the demand if the demanding party deems that any of the following apply:
            (1) A statement of compliance with
the demand is incomplete.
(2)
A representation of inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive.
            (3) An objection in the response is
without merit or too general.
 
(b) A motion
under subdivision (a) shall comply with each of the following:
(1)
The motion shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the
discovery sought by the demand.
(2)
The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040.
(3)
In lieu of a separate statement required under the California Rules of Court,
the court may allow the moving party to submit a concise outline of the
discovery request and each response in dispute.
 
(c)
Unless notice of this motion is given within 45 days of the service of the
verified response, or any supplemental verified response, or on or before any
specific later date to which the demanding party and the responding party have
agreed in writing, the demanding party waives any right to compel a further
response to the demand.
 
…
(h) Except as provided in subdivision (j), the court shall impose a monetary
sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party,
person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel
further response to a demand, unless it finds that the one subject to the
sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make
the imposition of the sanction unjust.”
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310.)
 
            The
burden is on the moving party to show both relevance to the subject matter and
specific facts justifying discovery. (Glenfed Develop. Corp. v. Superior
Court (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 1113, 1117.) 
Once good cause is established by the moving party, the burden then
shifts to the responding party to justify any objections made to document
disclosure. (Hartbrodt v. Burke (1996) 42 Cal.App.4th 168, 172-174.)
 
Discussion
 
            Plaintiff’s
argument in opposition to the motion to compel is that Defendant refused to
provide Plaintiff’s counsel with clear limitations on the searches that it
would ask the third-party to conduct on Plaintiff’s devices. Plaintiff
preserved this objection by raising a privacy objection to the initial
discovery requests.
 
            Defendant
is entitled to obtain discovery and has in fact proposed search terms.  Defendant may only instruct the third-party
to conduct searches pursuant to those search terms.  
 
Sanctions
 
            The
Court does not award sanctions because it finds that Plaintiff’s opposition is
substantially justified. The Court has not issued a previous order on this
discovery request. Although the use of a neutral-party to search Plaintiff’s
devices is adequate to protect Plaintiff’s privacy, the search of a physical
laptop does pose serious privacy issues that Plaintiff is entitled to
protect.  The agreements at the IDC were
not confirmed by any party with enough clarity or neutrality to document what
specifically was agreed to.  The
confirmations in Defendant’s post-IDC letters (Aina Decl. Exs. 4-6) were made
in the context of already contentious discovery disputes and do not provide
sufficient clarity.  Moreover, Defendant
provided search terms only after it filed this motion.  For those reasons, the Court denies
sanctions.  