 Case Number:  23STCV05285    Hearing Date:   April 16, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



THE ENGLANDER GROUP, et al., 
 
                                  Plaintiffs,
  
         v.
 
 
PRESTIGE GLOBAL SOLUTIONS, LLC et al.,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No: 
  23STCV05285
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  April 16, 2024
 Calendar Number:  6



 
 
 
Defendants and Cross-Complainants Prestige Global Solutions,
LLC (“Prestige”) and Sabrina Rindels (collectively, “Defendants”) move for
leave file a permissive cross-complaint against Cross-Defendants Brad Hakala
and The Hakala Law Group (“Hakala Law”) (collectively, “Cross-Defendants”).
 
The Court GRANTS Defendants’ motion.
 
Background
 
This case relates to a failed transaction for the purchase
of CBD isolate. Plaintiffs The Englander Group, f/k/a Tower Marketing and
Investments, LLC (“Englander Group”) and Harvey Englander allege that
Defendants entered into a contract with Plaintiffs to deliver CBD isolate
purchased form a third-party supplier, but failed to deliver the products to
Plaintiffs. Plaintiffs also allege that Defendants made certain
misrepresentations surrounding the transaction.
 
Defendants allege in the proposed cross-complaint that
Rindels entered into a partnership with Brad Hakala, her attorney, in 2017. The
purpose of the alleged partnership was to procure and sell marijuana and CBD
isolate. Defendants allege that Hakala and Rindels agreed to form a corporate
entity, and that Hakala facilitated the initial filing with the California
Secretary of State in 2018, listing himself as the service agent and point of
contact for that entity. Defendants allege that Rindels was not listed on the
form in any way.
 
Defendants allege that Hakala and Rindels entered into an
agreement with Englander for the sale of $1.6 million in CBD isolate, but that
Hakala and Rindels’ supplier never delivered the CBD isolate to them after
being sent the funds to pay for it.
 
            Defendants
allege that, after the transaction failed, Hakala took actions to insulate
himself and his law firm from potential liabilities. Defendants allege that
Hakala prepared a statement of information for the California Secretary of
State which he had Rindels sign, identifying Rindels as the Managing Member of
Prestige. Defendants allege that this alteration was executed without Rindels’
full knowledge and consent, shifting the appearance of managerial
responsibility solely to her. Defendants also allege that, in support of an ex
parte application against the third-party supplier, Hakala drafted an affidavit
which he directed Rindels to sign which positioned her as the primary actor in
the transactions. Defendants allege that Hakala never disclosed his interest in
the transactions to Plaintiffs.
 
Plaintiff filed this action on March 9, 2023. The operative
complaint is now the First Amended Complaint (“FAC”), which raises claims for
(1) breach of contract; (2) fraud by intentional misrepresentation; and (3)
negligent misrepresentation.
 
On August 22, 2023, the Court set trial for this matter on
July 22, 2024.
 
Defendants filed a Cross-Complaint against Hakala and Hakala
Law on March 13, 2024, raising claims for (1) fraud by intentional
misrepresentation; (2) fraud by concealment; (3) breach of contract; and (4)
breach of fiduciary duty by attorney. Defendants mistakenly filed the
Cross-Complaint without seeking leave of the Court because they did not realize
that it was necessary to do so.
 
Defendants filed this motion for leave to file a
cross-complaint on March 21, 2024. No party filed an opposition.
 
Legal Standard
 
“A party against whom a cause of action has been asserted in
a complaint or cross-complaint may file a cross-complaint setting forth either
or both of the following:
 
(a) Any cause of action he has against any of the parties
who filed the complaint or cross-complaint against him. Nothing in this
subdivision authorizes the filing of a cross-complaint against the plaintiff in
an action commenced under Title 7 (commencing with Section 1230.010) of Part 3.
 
(b) Any cause of action he has against a person alleged to
be liable thereon, whether or not such person is already a party to the action,
if the cause of action asserted in his cross-complaint (1) arises out of the
same transaction, occurrence, or series of transactions or occurrences as the
cause brought against him or (2) asserts a claim, right, or interest in the
property or controversy which is the subject of the cause brought against him.”
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 428.10.)
 
            “When
a person files a cross-complaint as authorized by Section 428.10, he may join
any person as a cross-complainant or cross-defendant, whether or not such
person is already a party to the action, if, had the cross-complaint been filed
as an independent action, the joinder of that party would have been permitted
by the statutes governing joinder of parties.”
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 428.20.)
 
“All persons may be joined in one
action as defendants if there is asserted against them:
 
  
         (1) Any right to relief
jointly, severally, or in the alternative, in respect of or arising out of the
same transaction, occurrence, or series of transactions or occurrences and if
any question of law or fact common to all these persons will arise in the
action; or
 
              (2) A claim, right, or interest adverse to
them in the property or controversy which is the subject of the action.”
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 379, subd. (a).)
 
            “(a)
A party shall file a cross-complaint against any of the parties who filed the
complaint or cross-complaint against him or her before or at the same time as
the answer to the complaint or cross-complaint.
 
(b) Any other cross-complaint may be filed at any time
before the court has set a date for trial.
 
(c) A party shall obtain leave of court to file any
cross-complaint except one filed within the time specified in subdivision (a)
or (b). Leave may be granted in the interest of justice at any time during the
course of the action.”
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 428.50.)
 
Discussion
 
Because trial has already been set, Defendants must seek
leave to file the cross-complaint against a new party.
 
Here, the allegations of the Cross-Complaint arise out of
the same series of transactions as the Complaint. Defendants allege that Hakala
was Rindels’ partner in the underlying transactions, but set Rindels up to take
the fall when the transactions fell through. Further, joinder of
Cross-Defendants is permissible because the Cross-Complaint alleges that Hakala
should be partially liable to Plaintiffs on Plaintiffs’ claims.
 
The Court grants the motion for leave to file a
cross-complaint.