  Case Number:  22VECV02618    Hearing Date:   October 16, 2024    Dept:  W JANE DOE 1, et al. vs LOS ANGELES UNIFIED SCHOOL
DISTRICT
 
motions to compel
further discovery

 
Date
of Hearing:        October 16, 2024                              Trial Date:       None
set 
Department:              W                                                        Case
No.:        22VECV02618
 
Moving Party:            Defendant Los Angeles Unified School
District 
Responding Party:     Plaintiffs Jane Doe 1, Jane Doe 2, Jane Doe
3, and Jane Doe 4 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On December 30, 2022, Plaintiffs Jane Doe 1, Jane Doe 2, Jane Doe 3, And
Jane Doe 4 filed a lawsuit against Defendants Los Angeles Unified School
District for negligence. Plaintiffs were minors and students at elementary
schools in LAUSD where their perpetrator was employed. Plaintiffs allege the
perpetrator groomed and sexually abused Plaintiffs and LAUSD breached their
duty by failing to protect Plaintiffs from sexual abuse. 
 
[Tentative]
Ruling
 
I.                   
Plaintiffs’ Motion to Compel Further Responses to
Plaintiffs’ Request for Special Interrogatories, Set One is GRANTED in part.
II.                 
Plaintiffs’ Motion to Compel Further Responses to
Plaintiffs’ Request for Production of Documents, Set Three is GRANTED, in part.

III.              
Plaintiffs’ Motion to Compel Further Responses to
Plaintiffs’ Request for Production of Documents, Set Four is GRANTED.
 
discusion
 
I.                   
MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO PLAINTIFFS’
REQUEST FOR SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES, SET ONE AND REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS IN THE
AMOUNT OF $1,810.00. 
 
Plaintiffs Jane Doe 1, Jane Doe 2, Jane Doe 3, and
Jane Doe 4 move for an order compelling Defendant Los Angeles Unified School
District to provide further responses to Plaintiffs’ Request for Special
Interrogatories Set 1, Nos. 1-23. Plaintiffs make the motion on the grounds Defendant’s
responses to Plaintiff’s Request for Special Interrogatories, Set One,
contained unmerited objections and assertions as a basis for withholding
relevant, informative witness information. Defendant LAUSD provided objection only
responses to Plaintiff’s Request for Special Interrogatories, Set One, Numbers
1-23 and as such, good cause exists for an Order compelling Defendant to
further respond to Plaintiffs’ First Set of Special Interrogatories by
producing such information.
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.300, a
court may order a party to serve a further response to interrogatories when the
court finds that any of the following apply: (1) An answer to a particular
interrogatory is evasive or incomplete. (2) An exercise of the option to
produce documents under Section 2030.230 is unwarranted or the required
specification of those documents is inadequate. (3) An objection to an
interrogatory is without merit or too general. 

 
Plaintiffs argue the special interrogatories seek
the identification and last known contact information for LAUSD employees
including aides and after school program leaders who worked at all school sites
that Rene Tenas was assigned to. Plaintiffs contend they seek this information
to investigate what employees may have witnessed, heard of or complained of
Rene Tenas’ sexual abuse of students and inappropriate conduct with students.
However, LAUSD has made unmeritorious objections and claiming that it does not
have said information. It is difficult to believe that Defendant cannot
identify individuals who they have hired to work at its school sites and
interacted with its minor students. 
 
In opposition, LAUSD argues Plaintiffs misrepresent
the facts as LAUSD did in fact provide substantive responses to SROG Nos 1-13
and intends to supplement those responses prior to the date of the hearing. As
for SROG Nos. 14-23, LAUSD argues Plaintiffs are not entitled to the private
personal information and last known addresses of afterschool program leaders
for five different elementary schools spanning 17 years. This is so because all
alleged incidents occurred only during school instructional hours. Accordingly,
such requests are extremely overbroad and violate constitutionally protected
privacy rights. 
 
The court finds the names of the program leaders may
lead to admissible evidence. As noted by Plaintiffs, there is reason to believe
Rene Tenas did regularly have students in his classroom afterschool and program
leaders are reasonably likely to have been witnesses to Tenas interacting with
students, having students in his classroom afterschool and engaging in
inappropriate conduct with his students. To the extent that defendant has
provided verified responses that it does not know the names of certain former
employees or aides, those answers are code compliant and do not need to be
supplemented.  If they know the name of after
school program leaders, the district is ordered to provide the name and last
known address and phone number. 
 
Accordingly, Plaintiffs’ Motion to Compel Further
Responses to Plaintiffs’ Request for Special Interrogatories, Set One is
GRANTED in part. 
 
Sanctions
 
Plaintiffs seek $1,810.00 against Defendant and
their counsel on the grounds LAUSD’s misuse of discovery is without substantial
justification, as LAUSD’s initial responses to 33 requests were incomplete or
wholly deficient. 
 
In opposition, LAUSD argues sanctions aren’t
warranted against LAUSD because Plaintiffs failed to properly meet and confer.
As a result, LAUSD should pay sanctions for its failure to properly meet and
confer. LAUSD seeks $2,025.00 in reasonable attorney's fees. 
 
The court denies both requests for sanctions. The
court finds Plaintiffs attempted to properly meet and confer with LAUSD.
However, the court finds LAUSD acted with substantial justification in
objecting to the SROGS. 
 
II.                 
PLAINTIFFS’ MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO
PLAINTIFFS’ REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS, SET THREE AND REQUEST FOR
SANCTIONS IN THE AMOUNT OF $2,860
 
Plaintiffs move for an order compelling Defendant
LAUSD to provide further responses to Plaintiff’s Request for Production of Documents,
Set Three on the grounds LAUSD’s responses are improper, deficient, and not
code compliant. 
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.310, the
Court may order a responding to serve a further response to a request for
production when the Court finds that any of the following apply: (1) A
statement of compliance with the demand is incomplete; (2) A representation of
inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive. (3) An objection in
the response is without merit or too general.
 
Plaintiffs argue the requested discovery seeks LAUSD
documents addressed to Curtis Johnson (former Hart Elementary Principal) and documents
regarding tutoring programs and identification of administrators, afterschool
program leaders, and campus aides at all school sites Tenas was assigned to.
Plaintiffs contend LAUSD provided boilerplate objections and LAUSD’s contention
they do not have any responsive documents in their possession, is nothing more
than a specious argument as it is highly unlikely that LAUSD does not maintain
a list of its employees.
 
In opposition, LAUSD asserts it will supplement its responses
to RPD, Set 3 Nos. 159, 163-166, 169, 171, 174, 179, 181, 184, 186, 189, and
191 prior to the hearing date on this motion. As for the remaining responses (RPD
Set 3, Nos. 161, 162, 167, 168, 170, 172, 173, 175, 177, 178, 180, 182, 183, 185,
187, 188 and 190) Plaintiffs are either not entitled to the documents sought,
i.e. Curtis Johnson’s employee personnel file or the documents do not exist as
already stated in the District’s responses.
 
The court OVERRULES to the objections to RPD Set 3,
No. 160. Plaintiff is entitled to all documents sent to Curtis explaining the
basis for his assignments and reassignments, if they exist.   The court finds request for production 159
overbroad and burdensome as written and potentially invasive of the privacy
rights of others.  No further response is
required by the LAUSD.  As for RPDs where
LAUSD claims they do not have the documents (RPD Set 3 Nos. 167, 168, 172, 173,
175, 177, 178, 180, 182, 183, 185, 187, 188, and 190), the responses are
sufficient. LAUSD cannot produce what they do not have. As for RPD No. 170, the
court compels further responses if a list of aides exists.  
 
Accordingly, Plaintiffs’ Motion to Compel Further
Responses to Plaintiffs’ Request for Production of Documents, Set Three is
GRANTED, in part. 
 
Sanctions
 
Plaintiffs request $2,860.00 in sanctions against
LAUSD for LAUSD’s misuse of discovery. LAUSD also requests sanctions in the
amount of $1,575.00 for Plaintiffs’ failure to properly meet and confer and
failure to tailor its discovery to the scope of this litigation. 
 
The court DENIES the request for sanctions for
reasons stated above. 
 
III.               
PLAINTIFFS’ MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO
PLAINTIFFS’ REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS, SET FOUR AND REQUEST FOR
SANCTIONS IN THE AMOUNT OF $1,860
 
Plaintiffs move for an order compelling Defendant
LAUSD to provide further responses to Plaintiffs’ Request for Production of
Documents, Set Four on the grounds LAUSD’s response is improper, deficient, and
not code compliant. 
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.310, the
Court may order a responding to serve a further response to a request for
production when the Court finds that any of the following apply: (1) A
statement of compliance with the demand is incomplete; (2) A representation of
inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive. (3) An objection in
the response is without merit or too general.
 
Plaintiffs seek unredacted letters sent to LAUSD
students who were previously in Tenas’ class, notifying them of the release of
their name and contact information and the opportunity for them to object at a
hearing on May 7, 2024. Plaintiffs contend LAUSD gave redacted copies only.
However, it is critical that Plaintiffs have access to information regarding
witness information. Students who were previously in Tenas’ class are
reasonably likely to have firsthand knowledge regarding Tenas’ abuse of
Plaintiffs and other minor students.
 
LAUSD opposes the motion on the grounds Plaintiffs
have not made any showing that they are entitled to each student’s home
address. LAUSD contends Plaintiffs have been provided with the student names
because the names were located in Tenas’ personnel file. Moreover, to now seek
the student’s home addresses from letters that were created in response to a
court order for discovery is overreaching and an invasion of these students’
privacy. However, should the court grant Plaintiffs’ Motion and compel the
unredacted letters, LAUSD contends it will again have to follow the FERPA
procedure in notifying each student of this disclosure of their private information
to allow them the opportunity to object. 
 
The court finds good cause for production of the
unredacted letters. LAUSD has not provided any authority that it needed to give
notice yet again to provide copies of these unredacted letters.  At the May 7, 2024, hearing no students
appeared to object to the release of their information. 
 
Accordingly, Plaintiffs’ Motion to Compel Further
Responses to Plaintiffs’ Request for Production of Documents, Set Four is
GRANTED.   Defendant is ordered to
provide copies of these letters, without any redactions, within 30 days. 
 
Sanctions
 
Plaintiffs request $1,860.00 in sanctions against
LAUSD and their counsel. In opposition, LAUSD also requests sanctions in the
amount of $1,350.00 against Plaintiff. 
 
Sanctions are denied to both parties, as substantial
justification exists for both of their positions.