 Case Number:  23VECV04833    Hearing Date:   October 16, 2024    Dept:  W J. A. vs BLUE
CROSS OF CALIFORNIA DBA ANTHEM BLUE CROSS
 
plaintiff’s
motion to compel pmk deposition 
 
Date of Hearing:        October
16, 2024                              Trial
Date:       None Set.
Department:              W                                                        Case No.:        23VECV04833
 
Moving Party:            Plaintiff
J.A., a minor, by and through his Guardian ad Litem, Michael Allen
Responding Party:     Defendant
Blue Cross of California dba Anthem Blue Cross
Meet and Confer:      Yes.
(Glovsky Decl.)
 
BACKGROUND
 
On October 30, 2023, Plaintiff J.A., a minor by and through his
Guardian ad Litem, and Michael Allen filed a complaint against Defendant Blue
Cross of California dba Anthem Blue Cross for 1. Breach of the Implied Covenant
of Good Faith and Fair Dealing; 2. Breach of Contract; and 3. Violations of
Business & Professions Code Section 17200. Plaintiff alleges this action
arises out of Anthem’s repeated wrongful and bad faith denials of inpatient
hospital admission so that J.A. can have medically necessary brachial plexus
(nerve repair) surgery. Plaintiff alleges J.A.’s surgery was cancelled because
Anthem denied the required inpatient hospital admission in the intensive care
unit (ICU) required for his surgery. As of the date of this complaint, J.A. is
still waiting to have surgery.
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel PMK
Deposition and Production of Documents is GRANTED, in part. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Plaintiff J.A., a minor, by and through
his Guardian ad Litem, Michael Allen moves this court for an order compelling
Defendant Blue Cross of California dba Anthem Blue Cross to produce for
deposition the person(s) most knowledgeable (“PMK”) for a deposition within
fourteen (14) days on the following designated Topic Nos. 1 and 2 and to
produce all documents responsive to Request for Production Nos. 1 and 2 in
Plaintiff’s Notice of PMK Deposition dated July 12, 2024. 
 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
Section 2025.450, if after service of a deposition notice, a party to the
action, without having served a valid objection, fails to appear for
examination, or proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any document, the
party giving notice may move for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance
and testimony, and the production for inspection of any document. (CCP §
2025.450(a).) A motion to compel the deposition of a party to the action must
be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration, or, when the deponent failed
to attend the deposition, a declaration stating that the petitioner has
contacted the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance. (CCP §
2025.450(b)(2).)
 
Plaintiff argues Anthem’s relevance
objections to both the topics for deposition and requests for production in the
PMK Depo Notice lack merit. In the complaint, J.A. alleges that Anthem
financially incentivizes its reviewers to encourage unreasonable denials of
care. (Compl. ¶¶ 6, 34, 50.)  Plaintiff
contends by intentionally designing and implementing compensation packages that
incentivize reviewers to deny claims, or at a minimum create a bias against
approving medically necessary treatment, Anthem has employed policies and
practices to further its own financial interests at the expense of its members’
health and wellbeing. (Compl. ¶¶ 34(e), 50.) Moreover, this court has
previously stated that “Plaintiff can ask at deposition of the person most
knowledgeable or other person with knowledge as to whether there are financial
or other incentives for denial of coverage and how such incentives work”. (05/23/2024
Minute Order at 4.) Plaintiff further argues the privacy objections do not show
how or why the PMK Depo Notice implicates any individual’s privacy rights,
especially given the language included in each request that “Plaintiff is not
seeking the employment agreements or contracts for these individuals.” 
 
In opposition, Anthem argues Plaintiff
is seeking beyond what this court might have suggested as appropriate. Anthem
contends not only does Plaintiff want a PMK deposition regarding compensation
and bonus plans for those Anthem employees involved in the handling of
Plaintiff’s pre-service request for an inpatient admission but also all documents
and communications relating thereto. Moreover, the Elevance Health Incentive
Compensation Plan that Plaintiff points to, Anthem argue, expressly provides
that: “The Performance Measures shall not include or derive from the number or
frequency of (i) denials of authorization for benefit coverage; or (ii)
reductions or limitations on hospital lengths of stay, medical services or
charges. Performance Measures shall not be designed, construed or used to
incentivize the withholding of medically necessary services or the denial of
benefits to which members are entitled.” (Glovsky Decl. Exh. 6.) Lastly, Anthem
has and will continue to allow Plaintiff to ask its employee witnesses whether
they are aware of any “financial or other incentives for denial of coverage”
and, if so, “how such incentives work.” 
 
The court finds Topics 1 and 2 relevant
only as to the general basis for compensation and potential bonus compensation
of Anthem. The court finds any inquiry into individuals’ actual compensation  to be an invasion of their privacy rights and
overbroad. Accordingly, the court finds Request for Production Nos 1 and 2 to
be overbroad as framed. The PMQ must provide documents that set forth the basis
for compensation and any potential bonus compensation structure but not documents
that may include individual information such as any W2s or 1099s. 
 
Sanctions
 
Plaintiff requests sanctions against
Anthem in the amount of $1,000.00 for its obstructionist tactics which have
required plaintiff to bring this motion despite this discovery’s direct
relevance to the issues in this case and the Court’s prior statements in this
regard.
 
The court DENIES the request for
sanctions. 