 Case Number:  23STCV02252    Hearing Date:   November 29, 2024    Dept:  14 #10Case Background
This is an action for defamation, libel, intentional
interference with prospective economic advantage, negligent interference with
prospective economic advantage, and unfair business practices. Plaintiff
alleges that Defendant posted a false and defamatory statement on FreightGuard
Report discouraging shippers from using Plaintiff’s services.
On February 1, 2023, Plaintiff Plentitude
Transportation, Inc. filed its Complaint against S&S Brokerage, Inc.
On September 20, 2024, Plaintiff filed this motion to
continue trial.
On October 10, 2024, Defendant filed a notice of
joinder to the motion to continue trial.
Instant Pleading
Plaintiff moves to continue trial by 90 days.
Decision
Plaintiff’s motion to continue trial is GRANTED. Trial
is continued to _____. Trial related deadlines are to track with the new trial
date.
Discussion
Plaintiff alleges good cause exists for a continuance
of trial because the parties require more time to complete discovery and
participate in settlement discussions. Plaintiff’s counsel alleges that written
discovery was delayed in part because the parties could not participate in IDC
until July 2024 due to unavailability in the Court’s calendar. (Kashfian Decl.,
¶¶5-7.) As a result, Plaintiff propounded additional written discovery in
September 2024 which Defendant has not responded to. (Id., ¶12.) Neither
party has taken depositions. (Id., ¶14.) Finally, the parties have not
participated in settlement discussions. (Id., ¶18.) 
The Court finds that the parties have not completed
significant discovery. Additionally, the parties require more time to engage in
settlement discussions. Because the parties would not be prepared for trial
without a continuance, it would be in the interests of justice to continue
trial. The 90-day continuance requested is reasonable. Therefore, Plaintiff’s
motion to continue trial is GRANTED.
Conclusion
Plaintiff’s motion to continue trial is GRANTED. Trial
is continued to August 4, 2025 and FSC to July 24, 2025. Trial related
deadlines are to track with the new trial date.