 Case Number:  21STCV26100    Hearing Date:   May 16, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
Hearing Date: 5/16/24
CASE NO./NAME: 21STCV26100 NATHAN AKHTARZAD,
et al. vs MICHAEL MAIOLO
Moving Party: Defendant Silvercar Inc.
Responding Party: Plaintiffs Nathan Akhtarzad and Lauren Davis
Notice: Sufficient
 
Ruling: MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT IS GRANTED
 
MOTION FOR SANCTIONS
Hearing Date: 5/16/24
CASE NO./NAME: 21STCV26100 NATHAN AKHTARZAD, et al. vs MICHAEL
MAIOLO
Moving Party: Defendant Silvercar Inc.
Responding Party: Plaintiffs Nathan Akhtarzad
and Lauren Davis
Notice: Sufficient
 
Ruling: MOTION FOR SANCTIONS IS GRANTED
 
MOTION
FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
 
Background
On July 15, 2021,
Plaintiffs filed the present auto accident case alleging that on July 19, 2019,
Plaintiffs Nathan Akhtarzad and Lauren Davis were involved in a collision with
a vehicle owned by Defendant Silvercar and operated by Defendant Michael Maiolo.
Silvercar now moves for summary judgment on the basis that Plaintiffs' claim
against Silvercar is barred under the Graves Amendment, which precludes
liability against rental car businesses. Plaintiff did not file an opposition.
Legal
Standard 
¿ 
The purpose of a motion for summary judgment or summary
adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’
pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in
fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal. 4th 826, 843.) “Code of Civil Procedure section 437c,
subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the
evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’
and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no
triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7
Cal. App. 4th 1110, 1119.)¿ 
¿ 
“On a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is always on
the moving party to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues
of material fact.” (Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal. App.
4th 1510, 1519.) A defendant moving for summary judgment or summary
adjudication “has met his or her burden of showing that a cause of action has
no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the cause of
action . . . cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense to the
cause of action.” CCP § 437c(p)(2). “Once the defendant . . . has met that
burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a triable issue
of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense
thereto.” CCP § 437c(p)(2). "When the motion for summary judgment is
supported by affidavits sufficient to sustain the motion,…the burden of showing
that triable issues exist shifts to the party opposing the motion. [Citation.]
A party cannot avoid summary judgment based on mere speculation and
conjecture…but instead must produce admissible evidence raising a triable issue
of fact. (Crouse v. Brobeck, Phleger & Harrison (1998) 67
Cal.App.4th 1509, 1524.) “If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment
should be granted.” (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center
(2008) 159 Cal. App. 4th 463, 467.)
 
Analysis
Under the Graves
Amendment, an owner of a motor vehicle that rents or leases the vehicle shall
not be liable under the law of any state, by reason of being the owner of the
vehicle, for harm to persons or property that results or arises out of the use,
operation, or possession of the vehicle during the period of the rental or
lease, if: (1) the owner is engaged in the trade or business of renting or
leasing motor vehicles; and (2) there is no negligence or criminal wrongdoing
on the part of the owner. (49 U.S.C. § 30106, subd. (a).) The Graves Amendment
“shields owners of leased vehicles ‘engaged in the business or trade of renting
or leasing motor vehicles’ from vicarious liability for the alleged negligence
of their lessee’s drivers.” (Vargas v. FMI, Inc. (2015) 233 Cal.App.4th
638, 642.)
Defendant Silvercar has
met its initial burden of demonstrating that Plaintiffs' claim against
Silvercar is barred by the Graves Amendment. Silvercar is and at all times
relevant to the captioned action was a business entity engaged in the business
of renting motor vehicles to the public. (Milanez Decl., ¶ 2.) Silvercar rented
the vehicle to Maiolo from July 18, 2019, through 10 p.m. on July 19, 2019.
(Milanez Decl. ¶ 4; Rental Agreement between Silvercar and Maiolo, attached as
Exhibit C to the Milanez Decl.) On July 19, 2019, at 4:20 PM, Defendant Maiolo
was involved in an accident with Plaintiff while driving a rental car from
Silvercar. Defendant Silvercar was not the operator of the vehicle at the time
of the accident, Maiolo was not an employee or agent of Silvercar, and the
accident was not caused by a malfunction or defect in the vehicle, nor was there
any negligence on behalf of Silvercar that led to the accident. (Milanez Decl.
and Sawyer Decl., Exhibit D.) Defendant has met its initial burden in
establishing all the elements under the Graves Amendment.
Plaintiff failed to
file an opposition or introduce any evidence raising a triable issue of fact.
Thus, the present Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED.
MOTION
FOR SANCTIONS UNDER CCP 128.7
Legal Standard
CCP section 128.7(b)
provides that by signing and filing a pleading, an attorney “is certifying that
to the best of the person’s knowledge, information, and belief, formed after an
inquiry reasonable under the circumstances, all of the following conditions are
met: (1) [i]t is not being presented primarily for an improper purpose, such as
to harass or to cause unnecessary delay or needless increase in the cost of
litigation[;] (2) [t]he claims, defenses, and other legal contentions therein
are warranted by existing law or by a nonfrivolous argument for the extension,
modification, or reversal of existing law or the establishment of new law[;]
(3) [t]he allegations and other factual contentions have evidentiary support
or, if specifically so identified, are likely to have evidentiary support after
a reasonable opportunity for further investigation or discovery[;] (4) [t]he
denials of factual contentions are warranted on the evidence or, if
specifically so identified, are reasonably based on a lack of information or
belief.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 128.7(b).) CCP section 128.7 authorizes the court to
impose appropriate sanctions upon attorneys or parties that have violated
subsection (b). (Id., § 128.7(c).)
CCP section 128.7
provides a 21-day safe harbor provision whereby the offending party can avoid
sanctions by withdrawing the improper pleading. (See Galleria Plus, Inc. v.
Hanmi Bank (2009) 179 Cal.App.4th 535, 538.) 
In pertinent part section 128.7, subdivision (c)(1) reads as follows:
"A motion for sanctions under this section shall be made separately from
other motions or requests and shall describe the specific conduct alleged to
violate subdivision (b). Notice of motion shall be served as provided in Section
1010, but shall not be filed with or presented to the court unless, within 21
days after service of the motion, or any other period as the court may
prescribe, the challenged paper, claim, defense, contention, allegation, or
denial is not withdrawn or appropriately corrected. . . ." Section 1010
provides that a notice of a motion "must state when . . . the motion will
be made."
A claim can be
factually frivolous or legally frivolous. (See Peake v. Underwood (2014) 227
Cal.App.4th 428, 440.) “A claim is factually frivolous if it is ‘not well
grounded in fact’ and it is legally frivolous if it is ‘not warranted by
existing law or a good faith argument for the extension, modification, or
reversal of existing law.’” (Id.) “In either case, to obtain sanctions, the
moving party must show the party’s conduct in asserting the claim was
objectively unreasonable.” (Id.) “A claim is objectively unreasonable if ‘any
reasonable attorney would agree that [it] is totally and completely without
merit.’” (Id.)  The Court further notes
that even if a claim is frivolous, sanctions are not mandatory and should be
made with restraint. (Id.)
Analysis
Defendant moves the
court for sanctions on the basis that Plaintiffs' action/pleading against
Defendant Silvercar is frivolous.
The Court finds that
the moving party has complied with the safe harbor rule, as the notice and
motion were served on Plaintiff on July 20, 2023, and the moving party waited
at least 21 days before filing the present motion on August 16, 2023. The
lawsuit against Silvercar is not legally frivolous, as Silvercar can be liable
even under the Graves Amendment if it is independently liable in some way for
the accident. From an objective perspective, it is reasonable for Plaintiff to
file a lawsuit against the owner of the vehicle at the onset, in case the
discovery process and further investigations uncover Silvercar’s independent
negligence, such as negligent maintenance of the vehicle causing the accident.
However, if throughout
this process, Plaintiff has not uncovered any facts supporting its allegations
against Silvercar, then dismissal of its claims against Defendant would be
appropriate. Plaintiff did not oppose Defendant’s motion for summary judgment
nor Defendant’s motion for sanctions. Plaintiff failed to provide any
indication that the present lawsuit is not factually frivolous by presenting
evidence of Silvercar’s independent negligence to sustain its cause of action
against Silvercar. Thus, the motion is granted.
Defendant requests
sanctions in the amount of $10,275.20. However, the Court notes that the motion
for summary judgment was filed on April 7, 2023, and Plaintiff was provided
formal notice of the motion for sanctions on July 20, 2023, well after the MSJ was
filed. Although Defendant filed an informal notice, the safe harbor period does
not start until a formal notice is served on Plaintiff. Therefore, even if
Plaintiff had withdrawn its pleading and dismissed the matter during the safe
harbor period starting on July 20, 2023, it would not have saved Defendant
attorney fees in drafting the summary judgment motion. However, because
Plaintiff did not dismiss Silvercar during the safe harbor period and after the
motion for sanctions was filed, Silvercar is still required to attend the
hearing on the two motions and incur additional attorney’s fees. Pursuant to
the principle that sanctions under § 128.7 are not mandatory and should be made
with restraint (Peake v. Underwood (2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 428, 440), the Court
exercises its discretion and sanctions Plaintiff’s attorney in the amount of $2,500.  Said sanction is to be paid within 20 days.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date
and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party
submitting. 
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the
hearing to argue. 
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion. 
 