 Case Number:  21STCV16034    Hearing Date:   May 16, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTION TO REOPEN DISCOVERY 
Hearing Date: 5/16/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 22STCV16034 ERIC SLATTERY vs
MAR PIZZA, INC., et al.
Moving Party: Defendants Mar Pizza and Maria
De Los Angeles Sanchez 
Responding Party: Plaintiffs 
Notice: Sufficient 
 
Ruling: MOTION TO REOPEN DISCOVERY IS GRANTED.
 
On May 13, 2022,
Plaintiffs filed their complaint alleging injuries from a motor vehicle
accident. Defendants filed their answers in May 2023. On February 23, 2024, the
Court granted Defendants' ex parte application to continue the trial
date from April 10, 2024, to August 19, 2024. Pursuant to the CCP, the Court
did not extend the discovery cutoff date, as that must be done by stipulation
or noticed motion. On March 5, 2024, Defendants moved the Court to extend the
discovery cutoff date to align with the current trial date of August 19, 2024.
Defendants request an
extension of the discovery cutoff date because they filed their answer in May
2023, thus having less than one year to conduct discovery. They request
additional time to conduct discovery into Plaintiff's medical history.  Because Plaintiff Eric Slattery underwent
major surgeries in December 2023, Defendants request further discovery,
including an additional IME to assess the results of the surgery.
The Court finds
Defendants’ requests reasonable, especially because Defendants were served only
approximately one year ago and had less than one year to conduct discovery. The
Court is usually inclined to allow parties up to two years, depending on the
circumstances, in motor vehicle accident cases to conduct discovery. The
Parties had far less time than that. Furthermore, Defendants' need to assess
the results of Plaintiff’s recent surgeries in December 2023 is reasonable.
Although Plaintiff disputes the appropriateness of the various exams proposed
by Defendants, the Court will assess them upon Defendants’ fully briefed
motions and not in the present motion. Nevertheless, The Court does find
Defendants' overarching need to conduct discovery to assess the results of
Plaintiff’s surgeries to be appropriate.
. Furthermore, the
Court does not find Defendants to be tardy in requesting the discovery
extension. Defendants brought the ex parte application on February 22,
2024, to continue the trial and discovery cutoff dates, just two months after
learning about the surgeries. A delay of two months, while perhaps not ideal,
is not tardy.
Based on the age of the case, the limited time
Defendants had to conduct discovery, and the need to conduct further discovery
into Plaintiff's recent surgeries, the Court grants the present motion. All
pretrial deadlines are hereby adjusted to align with the new trial date of
August 19, 2024.
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date
and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party
submitting. 
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the
hearing to argue. 
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion. 
 