  Case Number:  20STCV06479    Hearing Date:   May 16, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTION FOR GOOD FAITH DETERMINATION OF
SETTLEMENT 
Hearing Date: 5/16/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 20STCV06479 NAKISA NOWZAR vs
VIA MARINA TAHITI HOA, et al. 
Moving Party: Defendants Via Marina Tahiti HOA
and Horizon Management Company
Responding Party: Defendant Personal Touch
Cleaning and Maintenance
Notice: Sufficient
 
Ruling: MOTION FOR GOOD FAITH DETERMINATION OF
SETTLEMENT IS
GRANTED.
 
Background
 
On February 18, 2020, Plaintiff filed the
present premises liability case, stemming from an incident where Plaintiff
slipped and fell on a water puddle in the garage of a condominium complex owned
by Defendant Via Marina Tahiti HOA (“Via Marina”). Defendant Horizon Management
Company ("Horizon Management") serves as the HOA management company
for the subject property. Defendant Personal Touch Cleaning & Maintenance
(“Personal Touch”) is contracted by Via Marina and Horizon Management
(collectively referred to as "Settling Defendants") to provide
cleaning and maintenance services for the condominium, including the garage. On
May 30, 2023, HOA management and Via Marina reached a settlement with Plaintiff
for $80,000. On October 20, 2023, the Settling Defendants filed their first
motion for determination of good faith settlement without prejudice; that
motion was denied because the Settling Defendants failed to provide sufficient
evidence of a rough approximation of the total recovery. The Settling
Defendants now again move the court for a determination of good faith settlement.
Defendant Personal Touch opposes the motion, arguing that the settlement amount
is grossly disproportional to the total value of the case.
 
Legal Standard
 
In an action involving two or more joint
tortfeasors or co-obligors, when one tortfeasor or obligor enters into a
settlement with the plaintiff, the other tortfeasors or obligors are entitled
to a hearing on the issue of whether the settlement was entered into in good
faith. (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6(a).) Where a plaintiff settles with one of
several joint tortfeasors or co-obligors without releasing the others, a
determination of “good faith” discharges the settling defendant from liability
to the other defendants for equitable contribution or comparative indemnity.
(CCP § 877(a)-(b).) The amount paid by the settling defendant reduces the claim
against the others (CCP § 877(a)), but a risk of prejudice remains because an
unreasonably low settlement (i.e., with the “most culpable” tortfeasor) exposes
the remaining defendants to a judgment exceeding their fair share of the
liability. (See Bay Development, Ltd. v. Superior Court (1990) 50 Cal.
3d 1012, 1019-1020.) 
 
There is no precise yardstick for measuring
the “good faith” of a settlement with one of several tortfeasors, but it must
harmonize the public policy favoring settlements with the competing public
policy favoring equitable sharing of costs among tortfeasors. (See Tech-Bilt,
Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde & Associates (1985) 38 Cal.3d 488, 499.)
 
“A more appropriate definition of ‘good
faith,’ in keeping with the policies of American Motorcycle and the
statute, would enable the trial court to inquire, among other things, whether
the amount of the settlement is within the reasonable range of the settling
tortfeasor's proportional share of comparative liability for the plaintiff's
injuries. This is not to say that bad faith is ‘established by a showing that a
settling defendant paid less than his theoretical proportionate or fair share.’
[Citation.] Such a rule would unduly discourage settlements. ‘For the damages
are often speculative, and the probability of legal liability therefor is often
uncertain or remote. And even where the claimant's damages are obviously great,
and the liability therefor certain, a disproportionately low settlement figure
is often reasonable in the case of a relatively insolvent, and uninsured, or
underinsured, joint tortfeasor.’ [Citation.] Moreover, such a rule would tend
to convert the pretrial settlement approval procedure into a full scale mini
trial [citation].
 
But these considerations do not lead to 
the conclusion that the amount of the
settlement is irrelevant in determining good faith. Rather, the intent and
policies underlying section 877.6 require that a number of factors be taken
into account including a rough approximation of plaintiffs' total recovery and
the settlor's proportionate liability, the amount paid in settlement, the
allocation of settlement proceeds among plaintiffs, and a recognition that a
settlor should pay less in settlement than he would if he were found liable
after a trial. Other relevant considerations include the financial conditions
and insurance policy limits of settling defendants, as well as the existence of
collusion, fraud, or tortious conduct aimed to injure the interests of
nonsettling defendants. [Citation.]
 
Finally, practical considerations obviously
require that the evaluation be made on the basis of information available at
the time of settlement. ‘[A] defendant's settlement figure must not be grossly
disproportionate to what a reasonable person, at the time of the settlement,
would estimate the settling defendant's liability to be.’ [Citation.] The party
asserting the lack of good faith, who has the burden of proof on that issue
(§877.6(d)), should be permitted to demonstrate, if he can, that the settlement
is so far ‘out of the ballpark’ in relation to these factors as to be
inconsistent with the equitable objectives of the statute. Such a demonstration
would establish that the proposed settlement was not a ‘settlement made in good
faith’ within the terms of section 877.6.”
 
(Tech-Bilt, Inc., 38 Cal.3d at
499-500.)
 
Preliminary Matter
 
An order that the denial of a motion is made “without prejudice”
allows the motion to be made at a later time, potentially without the need to
show new facts, as is generally required by Section 1008. (Cal. Prac.
Guide Civ. Pro. Before Trial, Posthearing Procedures, Ch. 9(I)-E.) Courts often
indicate that a motion is being denied “without prejudice” in order to signal
that the matter is not yet ripe but that relief may later be available. (Id.
at [9:338].) Some courts have suggested that denying a motion without
prejudice “impliedly invites the moving party to renew the motion at a later
date, when he can correct the deficiency that led to the denial.” (Farber
v. Bay View Terrace Homeowners Assn. (2006) 141 Cal.App.4th 1007, 1015; National Grange of Order of Patrons of Husbandry v.
California Guild (2019) 38
Cal.App.5th 706, 716 fn.10.) 
 
The Court denied the initial application
without prejudice due to insufficient evidence of a rough approximation of the
total recovery necessary to evaluate a good faith settlement. In the renewed
motion, the settling defendants provided the requisite evidence and addressed
all the Tech-Bilt factors. Consequently, the current motion has
rectified the previous deficiency, and is procedurally proper.
 
Analysis 
 
The Court examined the evidence presented by
both parties and determined that liability may rest with both the settling
defendants and Personal Touch. On one hand, evidence suggests that the settling
defendants failed to repair the leaky pipes that allegedly caused the water
damage. On the other hand, Personal Touch was contractually responsible for the
cleaning and maintenance of the garage, which included mopping water, placing
cones or "wet floor" signs, and reporting the presence of water to
the property manager (Morales Depo. at 34:11-20, 37:22-38:1). There is evidence
both supporting and contesting each party’s liability.
 
Personal Touch estimates its liability at
approximately 25%, with the Settling Defendants' liability at around 75%
(Opposition at pg. 11). While this approximation may be generous to Personal
Touch (as one would expect given that Personal Touch is the one presenting this
estimation of liability), the Court considers it reasonable based on the
provided evidence.
 
Personal Touch alleges the total value of the
case to be $250,000, based on Plaintiff’s §998 offer served on December 19,
2023. (Opposition at pg. 14). However, the Court notes that this offer was made
after Plaintiff claimed $180,000 - $220,000 in future damages for potential
lumbar surgery on November 2, 2023. The settlement agreement was entered into
in May 2023, well before the future damages increased from approximately
$60,000 to $200,000. Under Tech-Bilt, supra., the evaluation of the good
faith of a settlement must be based on information available at the time of
settlement. Therefore, the value of the case at the time of settlement should
align more closely with Personal Touch’s own §998 offer of $30,001, served on
October 25, 2023, before the drastic increase in future damages.
 
Considering Personal Touch’s estimation that
the settling defendants are 75% liable and Personal Touch is 25% liable, the
settlement value of $80,000 is almost three times the $30,001 §998 offer by
Personal Touch. This closely matches Personal Touch’s estimation of the
liability distribution between the parties.
 
Moreover, even accepting Personal Touch’s
assertion that the total case value is $250,000 and the settling defendants are
75% liable, a settlement of $80,000 remains within a reasonable range. "A
settlor should pay less in settlement than he would if found liable at
trial" (Tech-Bilt, supra, 38 Cal.3d at 499; Abbott Ford, Inc.
v. Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 858, 874 ["In order to encourage
settlements, it is quite proper for a settling defendant to pay less than his
proportional share."]). Courts have found settlements to be in good faith
with significantly lower settlement to value ratio than the present case.  See, e.g., Bay Development, Ltd. v.
Superior Court (1990) 50 Cal.3d 1012, 1028 (finding a $30,000 settlement
reasonable in a litigation involving a claim for $1 million in damages; Cahill
v. San Diego Gas & Electric Co. (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 939, 969-970 ($25,000
settlement on a $40 million estimated value.)  Furthermore, based on the
Court’s own experience, the ratio in the present case is reasonable even based
on the total value and proportion of liability presented by Personal Touch.
 
Thus, the motion for good faith settlement is
GRANTED.
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
¿ 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date
and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party
submitting.¿ 
¿ 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the
hearing to argue.¿ 
¿ 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.