  Case Number:  20PSCV00658    Hearing Date:   October 11, 2023    Dept:  G Plaintiff Vermont Avenue Lofts Homeowners’
Association’s Motion to Select Arbitrator
Respondent: Defendant Joseph
Ruiz
TENTATIVE RULING
Plaintiff Vermont Avenue Lofts Homeowners’
Association’s Motion to Select Arbitrator is GRANTED.
The court hereby appoints the Honorable Lisa Hart Cole
(Ret.) of Signature Resolution as the arbitrator in this action.
BACKGROUND
This
case arises from a dispute between the Vermont Avenue Lofts Homeowners’
Association (Vermont Avenue Lofts HOA) and Defendant Joseph Ruiz, a homeowner. Vermont
Avenue Lofts HOA claims Ruiz has violated a declaration of covenants,
conditions, and restrictions, as well as their bylaws, by harassing,
intimidating, and interfering with their board members, employees, and vendors.
On October 6, 2020, Vermont Avenue Lofts HOA filed a complaint against Ruiz and
Does 1-25, alleging the following causes of action: (1) breach of covenant of
governing documents; (2) declaratory relief; and (3) abatement of and nuisance
per se.
On
December 14, 2020, Ruiz answered by refusing to admit or deny the allegations
and asserting affirmative defenses. Ruiz moved for summary judgment on Vermont Avenue
Lofts HOA’s claims on May 10, 2021, which the court denied on August 12.
During
a status conference on May 24, 2022, the parties agreed to an arbitrator and
the court stayed this action pending the outcome of arbitration.
On
September 28, 2022, Vermont Avenue Lofts HOA filed a motion to compel
arbitration. On November 23, the court granted their motion and again stayed
this action pending the outcome of arbitration.
On August 11,
2023, Vermont Avenue Lofts HOA filed the present motion. A hearing on the
motion is set for October 11 with a case management conference and OSC Re:
Arbitration Completion set for November 9.
ANALYSIS
Vermont Avenue Lofts HOA
moves for the court to select a list of arbitrators after they and Ruiz were
allegedly unable to agree on one. For the following reasons, the court GRANTS
Plaintiff’s motion.
Legal Standard
Pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 1281.6, the following applies to the appointment of
arbitrators:
“If
the arbitration agreement provides a method of appointing an arbitrator, that
method shall be followed. If the arbitration agreement does not provide a
method for appointing an arbitrator, the parties to the agreement who seek
arbitration and against whom arbitration is sought may agree on a method of
appointing an arbitrator and that method shall be followed. In the absence of
an agreed method, or if the agreed method fails or for any reason cannot be
followed, or when an arbitrator appointed fails to act and his or her successor
has not been appointed, the court, on petition of a party to the arbitration
agreement, shall appoint the arbitrator.
When
a petition is made to the court to appoint a neutral arbitrator, the court
shall nominate five persons from lists of persons supplied jointly by the
parties to the arbitration or obtained from a governmental agency concerned
with arbitration or private disinterested association concerned with
arbitration. The parties to the agreement who seek arbitration and against whom
arbitration is sought may within five days of receipt of notice of the nominees
from the court jointly select the arbitrator whether or not the arbitrator is
among the nominees. If the parties fail to select an arbitrator within the
five-day period, the court shall appoint the arbitrator from the nominees.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.6.)
Discussion
In this case, the parties’
agreement to arbitrate was based on an oral stipulation before the court. (See
11/23/2022 Ruling, p. 2.) Because the parties’ agreement was oral and not
written, the process for the appointment of an arbitrator is governed by Code
of Civil Procedure section 1281.6. Here, the previously agreed-upon arbitrator withdrew,
and Defendant Ruiz has allegedly refused to participate in the selection of a new
arbitrator. (Moreno Decl., ¶ 3-4.)
While Vermont Avenue Lofts
HOA proposed a list of five arbitrators in their motion, Ruiz failed to select
an arbitrator from that list or propose other arbitrators. (Moreno Decl., ¶
3-4, Ex. B.) Furthermore, while Ruiz filed an opposition to Vermont Avenue
Lofts HOA’s motion, Ruiz did not address the selection of arbitrators. Thus,
the court finds Ruiz has waived any challenge to the proposed list of
arbitrators.
Accordingly, the court GRANTS
Vermont Avenue Lofts HOA’s motion.
CONCLUSION
Based on the foregoing, Vermont
Avenue Lofts HOA’s motion is GRANTED and the court hereby appoints the
Honorable Lisa Hart Cole (Ret.) of Signature Resolution as the arbitrator in
this action.
