 Case Number:  22STCV05815    Hearing Date:   September 29, 2023    Dept:  52 Plaintiff Dana Moon’s Motion for Order
Imposing Issue and Evidence Sanctions Against Defendant Chong Park and
Terminating Sanction Against Defendants Chong Park and Howard Park Plaintiff
Dana Moon moves for terminating sanctions against defendants Chong Park and
Howard Park.  She also moves for issue
and evidence sanctions against Chong Park.When
a party misuses the discovery process, courts may “impose a monetary sanction”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030(a)), “an issue sanction ordering that designated
facts shall be taken as established” or prohibiting a party “from supporting or
opposing designated claims or defenses” (id., subd. (b)), “an evidence
sanction by an order prohibiting” a party “from introducing designated matters
in evidence” (id., subd. (c)), or “a terminating sanction” by striking a
party’s pleadings, staying the action, dismissing the action, or entering a
default judgment (id., subd. (d)). 
Discovery
sanctions should be imposed incrementally, “starting with monetary sanctions and ending with the ultimate
sanction of termination.”  (Lopez v.
Watchtower Bible & Tract Society of New York, Inc. (2016) 246
Cal.App.4th 566, 604.)  Appropriate sanctions are those “such as are
suitable and necessary to enable the party seeking discovery to obtain the
objects of the discovery he seeks, but [not] which are designed not to
accomplish the objects of discovery but to impose punishment.”  (Laguna Auto Body v. Farmers Ins. Exchange (1991)
231 Cal.App.3d 481, 488.)  Generally,
terminating sanctions are only appropriate when a party willfully disobeys a
court order.  (Biles v. Exxon Mobil
Corp. (2004) 124 Cal.App.4th 1315, 1327.)Plaintiff
does not show good cause for the sanctions she seeks.  At most, plaintiff shows
defendant Chong Park disobeyed the court’s order compelling him to produce
documents at his deposition.  At this
stage, issue, evidence, or terminating sanctions would cross the line from
accomplishing the objects of discovery to imposing punishment.  As discussed with respect to Chong Park’s
motion for protective order, the court will permit plaintiff to further depose
Chong Park.  He therefore may yet produce
documents requested in the notice of his deposition.  Moreover, the record shows no more than that
Chong Park did not diligently search for responsive documents—not that he is
withholding responsive documents in his possession, custody, or control.Plaintiff
makes conclusory arguments that Chong Park and Howard Park misused the
discovery process.  The gravamen of the
motion, however, is that Chong Park has lied and given sworn discovery
responses that were really from his father and co-defendant Howard Park.  Whether true or false, Chong Park provided
further responses to plaintiff’s written discovery.  Giving false answers is generally not a
misuse of the discovery process subject to sanctions under the Civil Discovery
Act.  (See CCP § 2023.010 [listing
misuses of discovery process]; Saxena
v. Goffney (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 316, 333 [“serving a
willfully false answer to an interrogatory” is “not specifically covered by the
Civil Discovery Act”].)  Issue,
evidence, or terminating sanctions are not necessary for plaintiff to oppose any
false testimony.  She already has
adequate remedies.  If Chong Park seeks
to testify without personal knowledge of the facts, plaintiff can object under
Evidence Code section 702.  The evidence
in support of this motion can also be used to impeach Chong Park’s testimony.  Escalating sanctions under the Civil
Discovery Act are not warranted.  DispositionPlaintiff
Dana Moon’s motion for discovery sanctions is denied.Defendant Howard Park’s Motion to
Compel Plaintiff Dana Moon to Appear at Her DepositionDefendant
Howard Park moves to compel the deposition of plaintiff Dana Moon.  One may
move to compel the deposition of a party who fails to appear at deposition
“without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410.”  (CCP § 2025.450(a).)  Order Compelling DepositionDefendant is entitled to an order compelling
plaintiff to testify at her deposition.  Plaintiff
did not serve a valid objection under section 2025.410.  She objected “on the
ground that Defendant’s counsel failed to meet and confer on the date and
deposing Plaintiff to discover the specific fraudulent transfer is not
appropriate in that such is protected by attorney-client privilege, work
product, and calls for legal conclusion.” 
(J. Dorsett Decl., Ex. A.)Meeting
and conferring on the date is not required. 
Though it may be a professional
courtesy to mutually schedule a deposition, the Civil Discovery Act does not
require that.  “The service of a
deposition notice under Section 2025.240 is effective to require any deponent
who is a party to the action… to attend and to testify.”  (CCP § 2025.280(a).)  “An oral deposition shall be scheduled for a date at least 10 days after
service of the deposition notice.”  (CCP
§ 2025.270(a).)  The party serving the
notice of deposition can choose the date so long as he complies with these
requirements.As for privilege, work product, and calling for a
legal conclusion, at most these objections may be appropriate for specific
questions asked at the deposition.  They are
not a basis for precluding defendant from deposing plaintiff entirely.  Sanctions            Defendant moves for $4,461.65 in
sanctions against plaintiff Dana Moon and plaintiff’s counsel Jeffrey E.
Dorsett.  When granting a motion to
compel deposition, the court must impose monetary sanctions “in favor of the
party who noticed the deposition and against the deponent or the party with
whom the deponent is affiliated, unless the court finds that the one subject to
the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances
make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” 
(CCP § 2025.450(g)(1).)  “Making
or opposing, unsuccessfully and without substantial justification, a motion to
compel or to limit discovery” is also a misuse of the discovery process subject
to monetary sanctions.  (CCP §
2023.010(h).)Plaintiff
did not act with substantial justification. 
Sanctions are just under the circumstances.  Plaintiff made only meritless objections and
weak arguments in trying to avoid one of the most elementary forms of discovery
in every civil case: a party’s deposition. 
The court will therefore impose $4,461.65 in sanctions against plaintiff
and her counsel.Disposition  Defendant
Howard Park’s motion to compel the deposition of plaintiff Dana Moon is granted.  Plaintiff Dana Moon is ordered to
appear and testify at her deposition within 20 days.    Plaintiff
Dana Moon and plaintiff’s counsel Jeffrey E. Dorsett are ordered to pay
defendant Howard Park $4,461.65 in sanctions within 20 days.  Plaintiff Dana Moon and plaintiff’s counsel
Jeffrey E. Dorsett shall be jointly and severally liable for the sanctions.    Defendant Chong Park’s Motion for
Protective Order Defendant
Chong Park moves for a protective order to prevent plaintiff Dana Moon from
taking his deposition.  A party or
deponent may move for a protective order “that justice requires to protect” him
or her “from unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, or oppression, or undue
burden and expense.”  (CCP §
2025.420(b).)  Further
DepositionChong
Park does not show good cause to prevent all further deposition.  Generally, “the burden is on the party
seeking the protective order to show good cause for whatever order is
sought.”  (Fairmont Ins. Co. v.
Superior Court (2000) 22 Cal.4th 245, 255.) 
Both sides were responsible for the harassment or annoyance that
occurred during Chong Park’s deposition. 
Defendant’s counsel repeatedly argued with plaintiff and her counsel
during the examination.  (E.g.,
Derbarseghian Decl., Ex. 4, pp. 157-162; J. Dorsett Decl., Ex. A, pp.
76-80.)  Plaintiff and her counsel,
however, should not have walked out of the second session of the
deposition.  Though defendant’s counsel
stated he and his client would be leaving, he soon asked to proceed with the
deposition.  (Id., pp.
160-161.)  Plaintiff refused to
continue.  (Id., pp.
161-162.)  The
court admonishes counsel for all parties to behave in a civil and professional
manner.  (See Local Rules, Appendix 3.A,
Guidelines for Civility in Litigation.)  Time
LimitChong
Park shows good cause to limit his deposition to three more hours.  Generally, “a deposition examination of the
witness by all counsel, other than the witness’ counsel of record, shall be
limited to seven hours of total testimony. 
The court shall allow additional time, beyond any limits imposed by this
section, if needed to fairly examine the deponent or if the deponent, another
person, or any other circumstance impedes or delays the examination.”  (CCP § 2025.290(a).)Chong
Park already testified at deposition in two sessions.  First, he testified on June 27, 2023, for just
over 30 minutes.  (Derbarseghian Decl.,
Ex. 3 [transcript beginning at 10:15 and ending at 10:48 a.m.].)  Second, he testified on July 18 for just over
three hours.  Though the deposition transcript
began at 9:52 a.m. and ended at 2:31 p.m. (id., Ex. 4, pp. 39, 163),
there were breaks totaling about 90 minutes (J. Dorsett Decl., ¶ 6).  In
her opposition, plaintiff seeks to depose Chong Park for up to another 10
hours.  (Opp., p. 10.)  Plaintiff argues that time should only count
as five hours of examination because Chong Park will use a Korean interpreter.  Despite the delay inherent in using an
interpreter, plaintiff does not show that an additional 10 hours are necessary
to fairly examine the deponent.  The
court concludes further examination of defendant Chong Park is appropriate.  Because he has already testified for a total
of nearly four hours, the court will grant a protective order only to limit the
length of the deposition to another three hours.Questioning by Plaintiff Dana Moon            Chong
Park also moves for an order prohibiting plaintiff from asking questions at the
deposition.  In May 2023, however,
plaintiff filed a notice of association of counsel stating she represents
herself along with counsel Jason W. Shim and Jeffrey E. Dorsett.  As an attorney representing herself with
co-counsel, she may ask questions at the deposition. Sanctions            Defendant moves for $4,061.65 in
sanctions against plaintiff Dana Moon and plaintiff’s counsel Jeffrey E.
Dorsett.  No sanctions are
warranted.  Plaintiff’s opposition was
largely successful.  Plaintiff acted with
substantial justification.Disposition  Defendant
Chong Park’s motion for protective order is granted in part.  The court hereby limits further
deposition of Chong Park to three hours of testimony.
