 Case Number:  22STCV39648    Hearing Date:   September 29, 2023    Dept:  52 Defendant Doe 1’s Demurrer and Motion to Strike Portions of Plaintiff
T.S.’s Complaint
Requests for Judicial Notice
Defendant Doe 1 requests judicial notice of the assertion that “Elders
and Ministerial Servants in the religious tradition of DOE 1 are lay clergy who
are unpaid, volunteers of their respective congregations and not employees.”  (Def. RJN, ¶ 1.)  This matter is not subject to judicial
notice.  Doe 1 cites Evidence Code
section 452, subdivision (h), which permits judicial notice of “[f]acts and
propositions that are not reasonably subject to dispute and are capable of
immediate and accurate determination by resort to sources of reasonably
indisputable accuracy.”  This provision
“is intended to cover facts which are not reasonably subject to dispute and are
easily verified,” such as “facts which are widely accepted as established by
experts and specialists in the natural, physical, and social sciences which can
be verified by reference to treatises, encyclopedias, almanacs and the like or
by persons learned in the subject matter.” 
(Gould v. Maryland Sound Industries, Inc. (1995) 31 Cal.App.4th
1137, 1145.)  
This matter is reasonably subject to dispute.  It includes both the factual assertion that
Doe 1 does not pay clergy and the legal conclusion that they are not
employees.  In its reply in support of
the motion to strike, Doe 1 argues this assertion can be determined by
resorting to Wikipedia.  That is not a
source of reasonably indisputable accuracy. 
Even if it were, this is not the sort of fact subject to Evidence Code
section 452, subdivision (h).  This
assertion concerns the conduct of one particular entity, not a general fact
about the world.
Doe 1’s reliance on Semple v. Andrews (1938) 27 Cal.App.2d 228 is
misplaced.  There, the court stated, “A
court can take notice of the relation in which a minister of the gospel stands
to the church with which he or she is connected and with the community in which
he or she lives, so far as personal morality and the fundamental principles
upon which religion is based are concerned.  The profession of evangelist peculiarly
requires that a member of such profession be morally and ethically beyond
reproach and abstain from intimidation, threats, or blackmail or attempted
blackmail.”  (Id. at pp. 234-235.)  
Though the Court of Appeal used the phrase “take notice of,” it did
not clearly apply the concept of taking judicial notice of facts or other
matters.  Semple predates the
statutes on judicial notice.  Moreover,
the court took “notice” of these matters to apply the rule of defamation per
se.  The court thus referred to the
nature of the “profession” of evangelism to determine whether the complaint
alleged a defamatory statement that tended to injure plaintiff in her
profession.  Doe 1 requests judicial
notice of a fact and legal conclusion about its own behavior, not a fact about
the general subject of religion or clergy.
In her opposition to the demurrer, plaintiff T.S. requests judicial
notice of two statutes: the prior version of Code of Civil Procedure section
340.1 effective from 2003 to 2018 (Amaro Decl., Ex. 1) and the current version
of section 340.1 (id., Ex. 2).  Though
these exhibits are statutes subject to judicial notice under Evidence Code
section 452(a), taking judicial notice of them is unnecessary.  (See Jordache Enterprises, Inc. v.
Brobeck, Phleger & Harrison (1998) 18 Cal.4th 739, 748, fn. 6; Appel v. Superior Court (2013) 214
Cal.App.4th 329, 342, fn. 6.)  Requesting
judicial notice of California law is not necessary.     
            All requests for
judicial notice are denied.
Summary of Allegations
Plaintiff brings this action under Code of Civil Procedure section
340.1.  The action arises from alleged childhood
sexual assault in the 1980s by former defendant Doe 3.  Plaintiff alleges Doe 3 was an “Elder and/or
Ministerial Servant” appointed by Doe 1. 
(Comp., ¶ 14.b.)  Doe 1 “is a
religious non-profit corporation” that “purposefully conducts substantial
business activities in the County of Los Angeles.”  (¶ 6.) 
“Doe 1 finalized the appointments of Elders and Ministerial Servants,
including Doe 3, supervised Doe 3, and formulated organizational policies from
its headquarters in New York.”  (¶ 8.)  
The complaint alleges, “Plaintiff was a member of Defendants’
religious group at the Inglewood Congregation.” 
(¶ 21.)  It further alleges, “Beginning
in approximately 1981, when Plaintiff was just five years old, through 1989, Doe
3 sexually assaulted, abused, and molested Plaintiff.  During that same time period, Doe 3 was an
agent, active member, and participant in the congregation and congregation
leadership Entity Defendants’ Inglewood Congregation.”  (¶ 22.) 
“Doe 3 accomplished the sexual assault and/or sexual abuse, and
molestation of Plaintiff by use of the trust, position, and authority he held
as a fellow member, agent, and leader of Defendants’ Inglewood Congregation.”  (¶ 23.) 
“Plaintiff first met Doe 3 through Entity Defendants’ Inglewood
Congregation.  Doe 3 held out to be an
upstanding member and Elder of Entity Defendants’ Inglewood Congregation.  Doe 3 married Plaintiff’s mother and lived
with Plaintiff prior to 1981.”  (¶
24.)  
Plaintiff alleges Doe 1 “knew or should have known of Doe 3’s
dangerous propensities and prior inappropriate behavior with minor children but
failed to warn Plaintiff or Plaintiff’s mother prior to Doe 3’s sexual assault
and abuse of Plaintiff which began in 1981.” 
(¶ 25.)  “Doe 3 isolated Plaintiff
following Plaintiff into Plaintiff’s room at Plaintiff’s home on numerous
occasions.  Doe 3 would then sexually
assault” plaintiff.  (¶ 26.)  He “would sexually abuse Plaintiff
approximately five to six times per month between 1981 and 1989.”  (¶ 26.) 

The complaint alleges, “Plaintiff reported Doe 3’s sexual abuse,
assault, and molestation of Plaintiff to Entity Defendants’ Inglewood
Congregation’s Elders and Elders and Plaintiff’s mother prior to 1989.  However, Entity Defendants’ Elders and leaders
failed to investigate, report, terminate Doe 3’s employment or agency with
Entity Defendants, restrict Doe 3 from staying proximity [sic] to Plaintiff and
other minor children, or any other reasonable remedial measures.  Instead, Entity Defendants’ Elders and leaders
attempted to conceal Doe 3’s actions and abuse by forbidding Plaintiff and
Plaintiff’s mother from reporting or discussing Doe 3’s sexual assault and
abuse of Plaintiff.”  (¶ 27.)  “Doe 3’s sexual assault, abuse, and
molestation of Plaintiff continued despite Plaintiff’s reporting of Doe 3’s
sexual assault to Entity Defendants’ Elders and leaders.”  (¶ 28.) 

Demurrer
            Defendant Doe 1
demurs to plaintiff T.S.’s third and fourth causes of action.
3rd Cause of Action: Negligent Hiring, Supervision, and Retention
            Plaintiff does not
allege sufficient facts for this cause of action.  “The elements of a cause of action for
negligence are (1) a legal duty to use reasonable care, (2) breach of that
duty, and (3) proximate cause between the breach and (4) the plaintiff’s
injury.”  (Mendoza v. City of Los
Angeles (1998) 66 Cal.App.4th 1333, 1339.) 
“Liability for negligent hiring and supervision is based upon the
reasoning that if an enterprise hires individuals with characteristics which
might pose a danger to customers or other employees, the enterprise should bear
the loss caused by the wrongdoing of its incompetent or unfit employees.”  (Ibid.)
Plaintiff
does not allege sufficient facts showing defendant Doe 1 had a duty to protect
her from the sexual abuse she suffered.  “The existence of a duty is a question of law
that must be determined on a case-by-case basis.”  (Doe v. Superior Court (2015) 237
Cal.App.4th 239, 244.)  “ ‘As a general
rule one has no duty to control the conduct of another, and no duty to warn
those who may be endangered by such conduct. 
[Citations.]  A duty may arise,
however, where “(a) a special relation exists between the actor and the third
person which imposes a duty upon the actor to control the third person's
conduct, or (b) a special relation exists between the actor and the other which
gives the other a right to protection.” ’ ” 
(Hoff v. Vacaville Unified School Dist. (1998) 19 Cal.4th 925,
933.)  
The complaint does not establish a special
relationship that required Doe 1 to protect plaintiff from the sexual assaults she
alleges Doe 3 committed in their home.  “A
special relationship between the defendant and the victim is one that ‘gives
the victim a right to expect’ protection from the defendant, while a special
relationship between the defendant and the dangerous third party is one that ‘entails
an ability to control [the third party’s] conduct.’ ”  (Brown v. USA Taekwondo (2021) 11
Cal.5th 204, 216 (Brown).)  
There
is generally “no special relationship between [a] church and all of the
children in the Congregation simply because they were members of the church.”  (Conti v. Watchtower Bible & Tract
Society of New York, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 1214, 1231 (Conti).)  As for the relationship between the defendant
and the dangerous third party, “[a]n employer is not charged with guaranteeing
the safety of anyone his employee might incidentally meet while on the job
against injuries inflicted independent of the performance of work-related
functions.”  (Federico v. Superior
Court (Jenry G.) (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 1207, 1215.)
The
duty resulting from a defendant’s special relationship with either the victim
or perpetrator has limits.  The duty only
requires the defendant to protect people from harm connected to the special
relationship where it exercises a degree of control.  For example, the California Supreme Court has
stated, “Colleges are in a special relationship with their enrolled students
only in the context of school-sponsored activities over which the college has
some measure of control.”  (Regents of
University of California v. Superior Court (2018) 4 Cal.5th 607, 626.)  “[T]his relationship supports a duty of care
only with respect to ‘risks that arise within the scope of the school-student
relationship.’ ”  (Ibid.)
The
Court of Appeal has equally limited the scope of an employer’s duty to protect
employees.  An employer’s “duty to
protect his employees is limited to while they are ‘at work’ or otherwise in a
locale the employer controls.”  (Musgrove
v. Silver (2022) 82 Cal.App.5th 694, 712.) 
An employer had no duty to protect an employee “while in a private
bungalow” while “she was not ‘at work’ or undertaking any work-related
activities” and the employer “had no control over [the] private bungalow.”  (Ibid.)  
Similarly,
in Colonial Van & Storage, Inc. v. Superior Court (2022) 76
Cal.App.5th 487, 501, the court held an employer had no duty to protect an employee
from a shooting that occurred at a coworker’s “private residence that” the
employer “did not control.”  The employee
“could not reasonably expect any protection afforded by [the] special
relationship with” the employer “to reach into the setting of a private
residence.”  (Ibid. at p.
501.)  The court reached this conclusion
even though the people at the home “were socializing, but also networking and
engaged in job-related tasks.”  (Id.
at p. 493.)  As for the shooter, who was not
a fellow employee, the court reasoned the plaintiff “failed to show” the
employer “had a special relationship with [him] that enabled it to prevent his
unprovoked assault.”  (Ibid.)
While
plaintiff may have had a right to expect protection from Doe 1 at the church or
during church-related activities, any duty to protect her did not extend indefinitely
to every place and time she might be around Doe 3.  And while Doe 1 allegedly employed Doe 3 and exercised
control over him as an Elder in the church, Doe 1 did not exercise control over
him as plaintiff’s stepfather in their shared home.  Doe 3 happened to meet plaintiff and her
mother through the congregation where he was an Elder.  Though plaintiff alleges Doe 1 had reason to
know Doe 3 was likely to sexually assault children, that knowledge did not require
Doe 1 to protect children he met through the congregation from sexual assault always,
at all locations, and in every context. 
Plaintiff provides no authority that a church’s duty to protect people
from an employee’s or agent’s criminal conduct extends to non-church activities
in the plaintiff’s or agent’s private home. 

In
cases holding an entity owed a duty to protect a plaintiff from harm by its employees
or agents, the harm was connected to the entity’s relationship with the abuser
and victim.  For example, in Conti, the
plaintiff was assaulted during “ ‘field service,’ a church-sponsored activity
where members go door to door preaching in the community.”  (Conti, supra, 235 Cal.App.4th at pp.
1217, 1233.)  There, the court noted the church “could have controlled”
the abuser’s “access to” the victim plaintiff “during the field service.” (Id.
at p. 1234.)  Similarly, in Doe v.
Superior Court (2015) 237 Cal.App.4th 239, 246, a summer camp “acted as a
daycare provider, creating a special relationship which imposed a duty to
exercise reasonable care to prevent harm to [plaintiff] while attending the
summer camp.”  In Santillan v.
Roman Catholic Bishop of Fresno (2012) 202 Cal.App.4th 708, 711, a “parish
priest” sexually assaulted children in his “living quarters in the parish
rectory.”  
That
Doe 1 allegedly “failed to investigate, report, terminate Doe 3’s employment or
agency with Entity Defendants, restrict Doe 3 from staying proximity [sic] to
Plaintiff and other minor children, or” take “any other reasonable remedial
measures” (Comp., ¶ 27) is of no consequence because the alleged sexual assault
is unrelated to his status (employee or not) as an Elder at the
congregation.  Plaintiff’s mother married
Doe 3.  (¶ 24.)  He assaulted plaintiff in the home they shared.  (¶ 26.) 
Plaintiff does not allege these assaults were connected to any religious
activities.  Ousting Doe 3 from his
position as Elder would not oust him from his home and his marriage.  Doe 1 allegedly controlled Doe 3’s conduct as
an elder in the church.  It did not
control him as a man in his own home in the family setting not tied to any
church activity.  Doe 1’s only connection
to the sexual assault is that plaintiff’s mother happened to meet Doe 3 via the
congregation.  Though he held a position
of trust and authority in the congregation, that does not require Doe 1 to
generally protect everyone he met there during all their future interactions unrelated
to the church.
As
the California Supreme Court has recognized, “although it may sometimes produce
outcomes that appear ‘[m]orally questionable’ [citation], there are several
reasons the no-duty-to-protect rule has endured.”  (Brown, supra, 11 Cal.5th at p.
215.)  Plaintiff has not alleged
sufficient facts to fall under any exception to that rule.  Plaintiff alleges her mother married an Elder
she met at Doe 1’s church, and the Elder repeatedly sexually assaulted her.  Doe 1 had no duty to protect plaintiff from
her stepfather in general or to protect plaintiff from the tragic consequences
of her mother’s actions.  
4th Cause of Action: Negligent Supervision of a Minor
            The complaint does
not allege sufficient facts for this cause of action.  Plaintiff’s allegations again do not
establish that defendant owed a duty to protect her from the harm she suffered.  Plaintiff does not allege Doe 1 was
supervising her at all when she was assaulted. 
As discussed above, plaintiff alleges she was repeatedly sexually
assaulted at her home.  The complaint
does not allege she was sexually assaulted at the church or in any circumstance
where Doe 1 exercised any degree of control. 
Being a member of Doe 1’s religious organization did not give Doe 1 a general
duty to protect plaintiff from all harm at any time and place.     
Motion to Strike
            Defendant Doe 1 moves
to strike 29 portions of plaintiff T.S.’s complaint.
A. Treble Damages
            Plaintiff concedes
that the prayer for treble damages should be stricken but reserves the right to
move for leave to seek treble damages under Code of Civil Procedure section
425.14.
B.  Allegations After the Abuse
            Doe 1 moves to strike
numerous portions of the complaint because they purportedly concern events that
occurred after the abuse.  But plaintiff
alleges the abuse took place repeatedly from 1981 to 1989.  (Comp., ¶ 26.)  None of the allegations Doe 1 targets expressly
took place after all harm to plaintiff ended. 
  
C. Reporting
            Doe 1 moves to strike
numerous allegations about its failure to “report” sexual assault to its
congregation or to law enforcement.  Doe
1 argues there was no mandatory reporting requirement for clergy during the
relevant time.  Plaintiff, however, does
not allege Doe 1 violated the Child Abuse and Neglect Reporting Act (CANRA).  That Doe 1 had no statutory duty to report
child abuse does not necessarily mean the allegation is “irrelevant, false, or
improper.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436,
subd. (a).)
D. Confidentiality
            Doe 1 also moves to
strike unspecified portions of the complaint that “provide for disclosure of
confidential communications” under the clergy-penitent privilege or under the
First Amendment.  Doe 1 provides no
authority that either constitutes a basis for striking portions of a
complaint.  The clergy-penitent privilege
is a rule of evidence  (Evid. Code, §§
1030-1034), not pleading.  Assuming the
complaint refers to any “penitential communication” under section 1032, the
penitent may disclose his or her own communications.  (§ 1033.) 
The privilege permits “a member of the clergy …  to refuse to disclose a penitential
communication.”  (Evid. Code, § 1034.)  Plaintiff’s complaint makes factual
allegations and demands damages.  It does
not demand Doe 1 to disclose anything. 
            As for the First
Amendment, Doe 1 argues, “[T]o the extent the Complaint alleges compelling
speech or religious beliefs to the Congregation or law enforcement such conduct
would violate the Constitutional free speech and religion rights of DOE 1,
especially when such compelled conduct would pre-date CANRA.”  (Motion, p. 9.)  The complaint does not seek to compel any
speech or religious beliefs.  It alleges
Doe 1 violated tort duties and demands damages. 
All relevant laws that could be applied to Doe 1 in this action are “ ‘neutral
and of general applicability’ ” and thus “ ‘need not be justified by a
compelling governmental interest even if the law has the incidental effect of
burdening a particular religious practice.’ ” 
(Roman Catholic Archbishop of Los Angeles v. Superior Court
(2005) 131 Cal.App.4th 417, 431.)
E. Employees
            Finally, Doe 1 moves to
strike numerous portions of the complaint referring to Elders and Ministerial
Servants as employees.  It relies solely
on its request for judicial notice, which the court denied as discussed above.
Disposition
Defendant Doe 1’s demurrer to plaintiff T.S.’s
third and fourth causes of action is sustained with 20 days’ leave to
amend.  
Defendant Doe 1’s motion to strike is granted
in part only as to the prayer for treble damages.  The court hereby strikes the following
portions of the complaint, without prejudice to plaintiff moving for leave to
amend under Code of Civil Procedure section 425.14: paragraph 71 and prayer,
paragraph 3.  