 Case Number:  22CMCV00304    Hearing Date:   January 7, 2025    Dept:  A SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES – SOUTH CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



R. B.,
                    Plaintiff, 
          vs.
 
LOS
   ANGELES UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT,
 
                    Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO: 22CMCV00304
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER GRANTING PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSITION OF DEFENDANT
 
Dept.
  A
 
DATE:
  January 7, 2025
TIME:
  8:30 A.M. 
 
FIRST
  AMENDED COMPLAINT FILED: 02/17/2023
TRIAL:
  04/07/2025
 



Moving Party:        Plaintiff R.B.
Opposing Party:    Defendant Los Angeles Unified School
District
1.    
Background
This is a childhood sexual assault revival action
filed pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 340.1. Plaintiff R.B. (“Plaintiff”)
alleges in the complaint that, when he was a student at Gompers Middle School
within defendant Los Angeles Unified School District (“Defendant”), he was
sexually assaulted by Robert Crumb, a teacher employed at Gompers Middle
School.  The complaint alleges causes of
action against to Defendant for negligence and negligent hiring, retention, and
supervision.
          Plaintiff filed the instant motion to
compel deposition of Defendant’s Person Most Knowledgeable (“PMK”) after Defendant
failed to appear to a deposition set for October 31, 2024. Plaintiff contends
that Defendant objected to the scheduled deposition date without providing
alternative dates and that Defendant claimed that no PMK exists for the
categories noticed in the Notice of Deposition despite the fact that
Plaintiff’s counsel has previously taken depositions of Defendant’s PMK on the
noticed categories in different matters. 
The deposition categories noticed by Plaintiff are:
“1. Any and all complaints against PERPETRATOR while
he was employed by YOU. 2. Any and all investigations into allegations
PERPETRATOR committed CHILDHOOD SEXUAL ASSAULT while he was employed by YOU. 3.
Any and all discipline imposed on PERPETRATOR by YOU while he was employed by
YOU. 4. PERPETRATOR’S employment with YOU.”
          After objecting
to Plaintiff’s first PMK deposition notice, Defendant agreed to produce a
witness at a mutually agreeable time.  (Rineer
Dec., ¶ 3.)  Nonetheless, Defendant subsequently
objected to the second noticed deposition based again upon the unilaterally
selected date, and also contending that it does not have a PMK on any of the four
deposition categories because Defendant has been unable to find Robert Crumb’s
employment file, outside of a few microfiched pages containing minimal
information.  (Id., Ex. 4.)  Plaintiff noticed a third PMK deposition, for
which Defendant failed to appear or produce a PMK.  Defendant opposes the motion on the basis
that it has no PMK on the four PMK categories, because it is unable to locate
Robert Crumb’s employment file.  (Id.,
Ex. 7.)  
Under Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.450, where
a party or party-affiliated deponent fails to appear for a noticed deposition
without having served a valid objection, the noticing party may move for an
order compelling the deponent’s attendance and testimony and the production of
any document or tangible thing described in the deposition notice. Such a
motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450.)
The
issue presented here is whether Defendant’s objection to the deposition notice is
valid.  Under Code of Civil Procedure
section 2025.230, an organization is obligated to present their person most
qualified to testify as to noticed deposition categories. If this person lacks knowledge as to the noticed
deposition categories, the organization must prepare and inform the designated
PMK so that they can adequately give knowledgeable answers on behalf of the
organization based on responsive documents. (Maldonado v.
Superior Court (2002) 94 Cal.App.4th 1390, 1396 (Maldonado) [“[d]espite the fact that defendant’s counsel
was handicapped by the loss of personnel due to defendant’s having filed for
bankruptcy, the deponent’s appearance without the necessary documentation and
with no further explanation for the deficiency was inexcusable.”].)
          2. Discussion

If the deponent named is not
a natural person, the deposition notice shall describe with reasonable
particularity the matters on which examination is requested. In that event, the
deponent shall designate and produce at the deposition those of its officers,
directors, managing agents, employees, or agents who are most qualified to
testify on its behalf as to those matters to the extent of any information
known or reasonably available to the deponent. 
(Cal. Code of Civ. Proc. § 2025.230.) 
When a request for documents is made, the witness or someone in
authority is expected to make an inquiry of everyone who might be holding
responsive documents or everyone who knows where such documents might be
held.  (Maldonado, supra, 94 Cal.App.4th 1396
[a loss of personnel and pending bankruptcy proceedings does not justify
appearing at depositions without documents that were readily available, such as
a personnel file, or with no explanation as to whether other responsive
documents existed or when they would be produced].)  Thus, even if the designated deponent does
not have personal knowledge of the subject matter of the deposition, they have
an affirmative duty to take reasonable efforts to discover the information, and
should be prepared to testify as to the nature and extent of those efforts made
by Defendant and the deponent themselves, and to explain any inability to comply.
The court
finds that the deposition notice identifies the matters on which examination is
requested are described with reasonable particularity.  As a result, upon receipt of Plaintiff’s
notice of deposition, Defendant was required to designate an individual to
testify on its behalf as to those matters, to the extent of any information
known or reasonably available to the deponent.
Defendant
contends that they have no PMK as to the noticed deposition categories because
it is unable to locate Robert Crumb’s employment file and therefore cannot
inform and then produce a knowledgeable witness. However, Defendant’s reading
of the PMK categories is artificially narrow. 
Plaintiff does not seek a PMK to testify as to the contents of Robert
Crumb’s employment file.  The categories
are much broader than that, particularly when viewed alongside the requests for
production of documents contained in the deposition notice.  
While
Defendant’s difficulty in locating the entirety of Mr. Crumb’s employment file
is understandable given the passage of time, it is difficult to conclude or
assume that Defendant maintains no records of sexual abuse complaints,
investigations into allegations of sexual abuse, discipline of an employee, or an
employee’s employment other than those records maintained in the particular employee’s
employment file.  Again, given the
passage of time it is entirely possible that no other records exist outside of
Mr. Crumbs full employment file, but even so Defendant has a duty to make a diligent,
reasonable and good faith attempt to search for any such information falling
within the PMK categories along with any documents requested in the deposition
notice, and to produce one or more persons most knowledgeable to testify as to
those efforts and any results, along with the categories included in the
deposition notice.  
Moreover, Defendant
is, by its own admission, in possession of part of Robert Crumb’s employment
file. (Opp. Ex. D.) Although Defendant may or may not be in possession of
information as to all noticed categories, and although the information and/or
documents Defendant has in its possession, custody or control may not be complete,
Defendant is obligated to inform and then produce a knowledgeable witness to
the best of its ability, using its readily available responsive documents. (Maldonado,
supra, 94 Cal.App.4th at p. 1396.) For example, payroll records referred
to by Defendant very well may confirm dates of Mr. Crumb’s employment by
Defendant.  As to any information beyond
the portion of Mr. Crumb’s employment file that has been located, if Defendant
has no additional information its designated PMK must be prepared to testify to
that fact under oath, and must further be prepared to describe in detail all
efforts undertaken by Defendant and the deponent to ascertain the information.  Plaintiff is entitled to know the extent to
which Defendant possesses or does not possess information on the noticed
categories in any and all locations under its possession, custody or control,
including but not limited to the individual’s employment file, through
testimony given under oath.  Assertions
by Defendant’s counsel of any purported inability by Defendant to comply with
its statutory obligations are simply inadequate.
Based on the foregoing,
the court will grant Plaintiff’s motion to compel the deposition of Defendant’s
PMK.
3.
Sanctions
If a motion to compel is granted, the court shall
impose a monetary sanction in favor of the noticing party and against the party
with whom the deponent is affiliated, unless the court finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.450, subd. (g)(1).) The burden is on the party opposing sanctions to show
substantial justification. (Doe v. United States Swimming, Inc. (2011)
200 Cal.App.4th 1424, 1436.)
With respect to Plaintiff’s request for
monetary sanctions, Defendant contends Plaintiff’s meet and confer efforts were
inadequate.  A meet and confer
declaration in support of a motion shall state facts showing a reasonable and
good faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue presented by the
motion. (Code of Civ. Proc. §2016.040.) The Discovery Act requires that, prior
to the initiation of a motion to compel, the moving party declare that he or
she has made a serious effort at negotiation and informal resolution of each
issue. This rule is designed to encourage the parties to work out their
differences informally so as to avoid the necessity for a formal order…’
“Argument is not the same as informal negotiation” (Clement v. Alegre (2009) 177 Cal.App.4th 1277, 1293-1294,
citing Townsend v. Superior Court (1998) 61 Cal.App.4th 1431 1435, 1437.) Attempting
informal resolution means more than the mere attempt by the discovery proponent
“to persuade the objector of the error of his ways.” (Townsend, supra at p.
1435). A reasonable and good faith attempt at informal resolution entails
something more than bickering with [opposing] counsel.... (Id.) Rather, the law
requires that counsel attempt to talk the matter over, compare their views,
consult, and deliberate.” (Id. at p. 1439.)
 Plaintiff’s meet and confer efforts were adequate.
Plaintiff’s July 22, 2024 letter and October 16, 2024 letter each demanded that
Defendant produce a PMK on the noticed categories, noting that Defendant has an
obligation to educate a witness on Plaintiff’s categories of inquiry even where
witnesses have no knowledge and requesting dates and times of availability from
Defendant. Plaintiff’s counsel supported her position with applicable legal
authorities.  (Mot. Ex. 6; Opp. Ex. C.) Plaintiff
met his burden to meet and confer in good faith, as although Plaintiff was
unwilling to negotiate on the existence of a PMK, there simply was no room to
negotiate between Plaintiff’s and Defendant’s positions on the issue.
Conversely, Defendant repeatedly
failed to provide dates of availability, even after agreeing to produce a
witness, and subsequently insisted that no PMK could be produced because none exists
for the noticed categories. Defendant failed to meet and confer in good
faith, and failed to provide any legal authority supporting its position that it
had no duty to comply with Code of Civ. Proc. § 2025.230, including in opposition
to this motion.  
Plaintiff
requests $3,200 in sanctions, based on attorney Allegra Rineer’s hourly rate of
$450, comprised of 5.5 hours preparing the motion and reply, reviewing the
opposition and attending the hearing, and $724.00 in costs.  The court finds counsel’s hourly rate reasonable,
and awards monetary sanctions in the total amount of $2,700.00
4.  Conclusion

Based on the
foregoing, the court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion to compel the deposition of
Defendant’s Person Most Knowledgeable. Defendant is ordered to produce one or more
persons most knowledgeable to testify to the subject matters identified in the
deposition notice, and to testify as to Defendant’s ability or inability to
comply with the document requests contained in the notice, as well as to the
efforts by the deponent(s) and Defendant to comply with those requests.  The deposition shall commence on or before
February 7, 2025. If the parties are unable to agree by January 13, 2025 on a mutually
convenient date, then not later than 5:00 p.m. on January 13, 2025 Defendant shall
provide Plaintiff with three alternate deposition dates from which Plaintiff shall
choose to proceed.  
The court
GRANTS Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions in the amount of amount of $2,500.00
against Defendant Los Angeles Unified School District and Rudy Ruiz, Esq. 

Plaintiff is ordered to give notice. 
  
DATED: January 7, 2025
   
Hon. Elizabeth L. Bradley
Judge of the Superior Court