 Case Number:  24STCV11832    Hearing Date:   September 25, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     September 25, 2024               TRIAL DATE: NOT
SET
                                                           
CASE:                         Dylan Scott Perry v. Board of Trustees
of California Physicians’ Service, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 24STCV11832            
 
DEMURRER
TO COMPLAINT; MOTION TO STRIKE COMPLAINT

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant California Physicians’ Service, d/b/a Blue
Shield of California; also erroneously sued as The Board of Trustees Members
for California Physicians’ Service (years 2007-2022).
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff Dylan
Scott Perry, in pro per 
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
In his May 10, 2024 Complaint, Plaintiff alleges that Defendants
cancelled his health insurance without adequate justification. 
 
Defendant demurs to the Complaint
in its entirety and moves to strike the Complaint.
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
            Defendant’s Demurrer to the
Complaint in its entirety is SUSTAINED without leave to
amend. 
 
            Defendant’s Motion to Strike is
MOOT.
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Demurrer to
Complaint
 
            Defendant California Physicians’
Service, d/b/a Blue Shield of California and also erroneously sued as the Board
of Trustees members for California Physicians’ Service (years 2007-2022),
demurs to the Complaint in its entirety. 
Legal Standard
 
A demurrer tests whether the
complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147
Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations
liberally and in context. (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and
Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.) In a demurrer proceeding, the
defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial
notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968,
994.) “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other
extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face
of the pleading or are judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court
(1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) “The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing
is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters,
states a cause of action.” (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at p. 747.) The
ultimate facts alleged in the complaint must be deemed true, as well as all
facts that may be implied or inferred from those expressly alleged. (Marshall
v. Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1397, 1403; see also Shields
v. County of San Diego (1984) 155 Cal.App.3d 103, 133 [stating, “[o]n
demurrer, pleadings are read liberally and allegations contained therein are
assumed to be true”].) “This rule of liberal construction means that the
reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not the
defendant.” (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th
1228, 1238.) 
 
Meet and Confer
 
Before filing a demurrer, the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who has filed the pleading subject to the demurrer and file a declaration
detailing their meet and confer efforts.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41(a).)
However, an insufficient meet-and-confer process is not grounds
to overrule or sustain a demurrer.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41(a)(4).)
 
The Declaration of Jason Y. Wu
filed with the demurrer states that the parties met and conferred via email on
June 3, June 11, June 12, and June 13, 2024, but were unable to resolve the
disputes presented here. (Declaration of Jason Wu ISO Demurrer ¶ 3; Exh. A.) Defendant
has therefore satisfied its statutory meet-and-confer obligations. 
 
Requests for Judicial Notice
 
            Defendant requests
that the Court take judicial notice of the following records:
 
1.     
The Complaint in Perry v. Markovich, LASC Case
No. 22STCV03956 (hereafter, Perry I); 
 
2.     
The Memorandum in support of the Demurrer in Perry I;

 
3.      The
Notice of Ruling sustaining the Demurrer in Perry I and dismissing the
action with prejudice; 
 
4.      The Complaint in the action Perry v. Blue
Shield of California, Case No. 22STCV27904 (Perry II) 
 
5.      The Notice of Ruling Sustaining the Demurrer
by this same Defendant in Perry II
 
6.      The First Amended Complaint in Perry II
 
7.      Defendant’s Memorandum of Points and
Authorities in support of the demurrer to the First Amended Complaint in Perry
II
 
8.      The Notice of Ruling sustaining the Demurrer
without leave to amend in Perry II
 
9.      The Notice of Entry of Judgment in Perry
II
 
10.  The Opinion by the Court of Appeal, Second
Appellate District, Case No. B332384 on Appeal from the Judgment.
 
11.  The Complaint in the action Perry v. Blue
Shield of California, Case No. 23STCV14531 (Perry III) 
 
12.  The Amended Complaint in Perry III
 
13.  Defendant’s Notice of Minute Order &
Order of Dismissal in Perry III
 
14.  The Complaint in the action Perry v. Blue
Shield of California, Case No. 23STCV16396 (Perry IV)
 
15.  The Minute Order for Hearing on Ex Parte
Application for Motion for Leave to File 2nd Amended Complaint in Perry
IV
 
16.  The Complaint for Civil Rights Action filed
in the action Perry v. California Physician’s Service d.b.a Blue Shield of
California, Case No. 23STCV18383 (Perry V)
 
17.  The Request for Dismissal in Perry V
 
18.  A print-out from the Alameda County Clerk-Recorder,
Fictitious Business Name Search website, accessible at
https://rechart1.acgov.org/BusinessLicense/SearchEntry.aspx?AccessDetail=false
 
Defendant’s Requests
Nos. 1-17 are GRANTED pursuant to Evidence Code section 452(d) (court records).
Defendant’s Request No. 18 is GRANTED pursuant to Evidence Code section 452(c)
(official acts). 
 
//
 
Plaintiff’s
Amended Opposition
 
            Plaintiff filed and served a
purported “First Amended Objection to Demurrer” on September 10, 2024. Plaintiff
did not seek leave before filing this supplemental brief and does not explain
why amendment or supplemental briefing was necessary or proper. The Court
therefore refuses to consider this unauthorized filing.
 
Analysis
 
            Defendant demurs to the Complaint in
its entirety on the grounds that it is barred by res judicata.
 
In determining the validity of a
plea of res judicata, also known as claim preclusion, the questions to be
resolved are (1) whether the cause of action decided in the prior adjudication
is identical to the one in the current action; (2) whether there was a final
judgment on the merits in the previous adjudication; and (3) whether the party
against whom the plea is asserted a party or in privity with a party to the
prior adjudication. (See Bernhard v. Bank of Am. Nat. Tr. & Sav. Ass’n
(1942) 19 Cal.2d 807, 813.) For the purposes of this doctrine, the phrase
“cause of action” means “the right to obtain redress for a harm suffered,
regardless of the specific remedy sought or the legal theory (common law or
statutory) advanced.” (Franceschi v. Franchise Tax Bd. (2016) 1
Cal.App.5th 247, 257 [abrogated on other grounds in Guerrero v. Dep't of
Corr. & Rehab. (2018) 28 Cal. App. 5th 1091].) As our Supreme Court has
explained, this definition arises out of the primary right theory:
 
The primary right theory is a theory of
code pleading that has long been followed in California. It provides that a
“cause of action” is comprised of a “primary right” of the plaintiff, a
corresponding “primary duty” of the defendant, and a wrongful act by the
defendant constituting a breach of that duty. [Citation] The most salient
characteristic of a primary right is that it is indivisible: the violation of a
single primary right gives rise to but a single cause of action. [Citation] A
pleading that states the violation of one primary right in two causes of action
contravenes the rule against “splitting” a cause of action. [Citation] . . . 
 
[T]he primary right is simply the
plaintiff’s right to be free from the particular injury suffered. [Citation] It
must therefore be distinguished from the legal theory on which liability for
that injury is premised: “Even where there are multiple legal theories upon
which recovery might be predicated, one injury gives rise to only one claim for
relief.” . . . The primary right theory . . . is invoked most often when a
plaintiff attempts to divide a primary right and enforce it in two suits. The
theory prevents this result by either of two means: (1) if the first suit is
still pending when the second is filed, the defendant in the second suit may
plead that fact in abatement [citations]; or (2) if the first suit has
terminated in a judgment on the merits adverse to the plaintiff, the defendant
in the second suit may set up that judgment as a bar under the principles of
res judicata.
 
(Crowley v. Katleman (1994) 8 Cal.4th 666, 681-82.)
If a single primary right is invaded, only one cause of action arises, even if
the defendant allegedly breached that right in multiple ways, or under
different legal theories. (Bay Cities Paving & Grading, Inc. v. Lawyers'
Mut. Ins. Co. (1993) 5 Cal.4th 854, 860-61.) Res judicata thus precludes
litigation of claims that could have been brought in a prior action but were
not. (Franceschi, supra, 1 Cal.App.5th at 258.)
 
            Defendant states that Plaintiff has
filed five other civil actions offering essentially the same allegations: that
Blue Shield of California cancelled Plaintiff’s health insurance policy without
justification. (See RJN Exhs. 1; 4, 11, 14, 16; Wu Decl. Exhs. B, E, L, O, Q.) The
first action, Perry I, was brought against Defendant’s CEO, Paul
Markovich, and dismissed with prejudice. (RJN Exhs. 2-3; Wu Decl. Exhs. C-D.)
The second action was brought against this Defendant and dismissed with
prejudice on August 23, 2023, following a successful demurrer for failure to
state a claim and uncertainty. (RJN Exhs. 7-9; Wu Decl. Exhs H-J.) The
dismissal was affirmed on appeal on May 23, 2024. (RJN Exh. 10; Wu. Decl. Exh.
K.) A third action, also against this Defendant, was dismissed on claim
preclusion grounds on January 4, 2024. (RJN Exhs. 12-13; Wu Decl. Exhs. M-N.) Two
other actions against this Defendant have been dismissed at Plaintiff’s
request. (RJN Exhs. 15, 17; Wu Decl. Exhs. P, R.) 
 
            The Complaints in Perry II and
Perry III both allege that Blue Shield of California improperly
cancelled Plaintiff’s health insurance policy, thereby causing him physical injury
and emotional distress. (Wu. Decl. Ex. G; M.) Plaintiff has alleged the same
harm here, that Blue Shield cancelled his insurance policy, causing him
emotional distress and physical injury. (Complaint pp. 5-6.) Plaintiff is
therefore seeking to adjudicate the same wrongs here as he did in his second
and third actions, both of which were dismissed in response to demurrers. Judgment
for a defendant following a demurrer is a determination on the merits for
preclusive purposes. (Keidatz v. Albany, (1952) 39 Cal. 2d 826, 828.) Further,
Plaintiff is seeking relief from the same Defendant, California Physicians’ Association
d/b/a Blue Shield of California. Although this Complaint purports to name the
members of the Board of Trustees of California Physicians’ Association as
additional Defendants, California Physicians’ Association states that there is
no such entity. Moreover, even if that entity existed, the Board of Trustees
would stand in privity with this Defendant. (See Servente v. Murray (1935)
10 Cal.App.2d 355, 360 [claim preclusion applies where one action was against
pension board and the other against other city officials, as all were part of
one entity].)  It thus appears from the
judicially noticed record that there are at least two actions, Perry II and
Perry III, seeking redress for the same injury—i.e., cancellation of
Plaintiff’s health insurance—from the same Defendant, both of which were
dismissed following a determination on the merits. Plaintiff’s claims in this
action are therefore barred by the doctrine of claim preclusion.
 
            As the Court finds that the
Complaint is barred by the doctrine of claim preclusion, the Court declines to
consider Defendant’s remaining arguments in support of the demurrer. 
 
Leave to Amend
 
            When a
demurrer is sustained, the Court determines whether there is a reasonable
possibility that the defect can be cured by amendment. (Blank v. Kirwan
(1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) California law imposes the burden on the party
who filed the pleading to demonstrate the manner in which they can amend their
pleadings to state their claims.  (See Goodman v. Kennedy
(1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349.) “Denial of leave to amend constitutes an abuse of
discretion unless the [pleading] shows on its face it is incapable of
amendment.  [Citation.]  Liberality in permitting amendment is the
rule, if a fair opportunity to correct any defect has not been given."
(Angie M. v. Superior Court (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1217, 1227.)
 
            Plaintiff has not demonstrated how
the Complaint might be amended to cure this deficiency. Moreover, as the claims
which Plaintiff has asserted are barred by res judicata, leave to amend would
be futile in this case.
 
Conclusion
 
            Accordingly, Defendant’s Demurrer to
the Complaint is SUSTAINED without leave to amend.
 
Motion to Strike
Complaint
 
            Defendant also moves to strike the
complaint. As the Court has sustained the demurrer without leave to amend, the
motion to strike is MOOT. 
 
CONCLUSION:
 
            Accordingly,
Defendant’s Demurrer to the Complaint
in its entirety is SUSTAINED without leave to amend. 
 
            Defendant’s Motion to Strike is
MOOT.
 
            Moving Party to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  September 25,
2024                           ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 