 Case Number:  23STCV25757    Hearing Date:   September 25, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     September 25, 2024               TRIAL DATE: July
1, 2025
                                                           
CASE:                         Hortense Medina, et al. v. Ruben Cruz,
et al. 
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV25757            
 
MOTION
TO CONSOLIDATE

 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiffs Hortense Medina & Alex Ornelas
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Defendants Ruben
& Elizabeth Cruz
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
09/06/23: Claim filed [Small Claims; Cruz v.
Ornelas, et al. Case No. 23BFSC01099]
·        
10/20/23: Complaint filed.
·        
11/13/23: First Amended Complaint filed.
·        
01/11/24: Application and Order for Transfer
granted. Small claims action transferred to this Court. 
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an action for housing discrimination. Plaintiffs contend that
their former landlords denied Plaintiffs accommodations for their disabilities
in the use of the rental property, threatened eviction based on their
disabilities, and failed to provide a habitable premises. 
 
Plaintiffs move to consolidate this
action with the small claims limited civil action Cruz v. Ornelas, et al.,
Case No. 23BFSC01099. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Plaintiffs move to consolidate this
action with the small claims limited civil action Cruz v. Ornelas, et al.,
Case No. 23BFSC01099. 
 
            Motions to
consolidate are generally governed by Code of Civil Procedure section 1048.
This section provides:
 
When
actions involving a common question of law or fact are pending before the
court, it may order a joint hearing or trial of any or all the matters
in issue in the actions; it may order all the actions consolidated and
it may make such orders concerning proceedings therein as may tend to avoid
unnecessary costs or delay. 
 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 1048(a), bold emphasis added.) A motion to consolidate must
also satisfy the requirements of California Rules of Court Rule 3.350, which
provides, in relevant part: 
 
(a)
Requirements of motion 
 
(1) A
notice of motion to consolidate must: 
 
(A) List
all named parties in each case, the names of those who have appeared, and the
names of their respective attorneys of record; 
 
(B) Contain
the captions of all the cases sought to be consolidated, with the lowest
numbered case shown first; and 
 
(C) Be
filed in each case sought to be consolidated. 
 
(2) The
motion to consolidate: 
 
(A) Is
deemed a single motion for the purpose of determining the appropriate filing
fee, but memorandums, declarations, and other supporting papers must be filed
only in the lowest numbered case; 
 
(B) Must be
served on all attorneys of record and all nonrepresented parties in all of the cases sought to be consolidated; and 
 
(C) Must
have a proof of service filed as part of the motion. 
 
(Cal. Rules
of Court Rule 3.350(a).) 
 
The moving party has not listed the parties who have
appeared in each case in the notice of motion, as required by Rule
3.350(a)(1)(A). The moving party also has not listed the names of the
respective attorneys of record, as required by Rule 3.350(a)(1)(A). 
 
The moving party has not included the captions of both
cases, as required by Rule 3.350(a)(1)(B). Further, the notice of motion was
not filed in the Unlawful Detainer Action, as required by Rule
3.350(a)(1)(C).  
 
It
appears that the moving party served the attorneys of record for each party, as
required by Rule 3.350(a)(2)(B).
 
Crucially,
before consolidation may be ordered, the Small Claims action must be
reclassified as an unlimited civil action and the reclassification fee paid
pursuant to Los Angeles Superior Court Local Rule 3.3(g)(3). Although the Small
Claims action has been transferred to this Court, it has not been reclassified
as an unlimited civil action. Controlling authority indicates that
consolidation of small claims actions with unlimited civil actions are in
excess of the Court’s jurisdiction. In Acuna v. Gunderson Chevrolet Inc.
(1993) 19 Cal.App.4th 1467, the Court of Appeal affirmed the trial court’s
denial of a motion to consolidate a small claims appeal with a related
unlimited civil case, reasoning:
 
If the request had
been granted, several of the statutory limitations would have been violated
including the prohibitions against pretrial discovery, jury trial and a
plaintiff's appeal. Such an order would also have violated the requirement that
the matter be transferred back to small claims court upon termination of the
appellate proceedings. Most importantly, the effect of an order granting
consolidation would have been to thrust this action into the morass of superior
court litigation, with its attendant delays and complexities, in direct
contravention of the Legislature's intent that small claims cases be resolved
expeditiously and inexpensively.
 
(Acuna v. Gunderson Chevrolet Inc. (1993) 19
Cal.App.4th 1467, 1472.) The Court therefore concludes that it does not have
jurisdiction to grant the relief requested in these circumstances. At minimum, consolidation
is not proper so long as the Small Claims action remains so classified. 
 
            Accordingly,
Plaintiffs’ Motion to Consolidate is DENIED. 
 
Moving Parties to give notice.
 
Dated:  September 25,
2024                           ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 