 Case Number:  22SMCV02220    Hearing Date:   September 21, 2023    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Cutze
Product LLC, et al., v. Scaling Group LLC, et al.
CASE NO.:                22SMCV02220
MOTION:                  Motion
to Compel Initial Discovery Responses
HEARING DATE:   9/21/2023

 
Legal
Standard
 
Where
there has been no timely response to a CCP section 2031.010 inspection demand,
the demanding party must seek an order compelling a response. (CCP § 2031.300.)
Failure to timely respond waives all objections, including privilege and work
product. Thus, unless the party to whom the demand was directed obtains relief
from waiver, he or she cannot raise objections to the documents demanded. There
is no deadline for a motion to compel responses. Likewise, for failure to
respond, the moving party need not attempt to resolve the matter outside court
before filing the motion. Where the motion seeks only a response to the
inspection demand, no showing of "good cause" is required.
 
If a party to whom interrogatories are directed fails to
serve a timely response, the propounding party may move for an order compelling responses and for a monetary sanction. (CCP § 2030.290(b).) The
statute contains no time limit for a motion to compel where no responses have
been served. All that need be shown in the moving papers is that a set of
interrogatories was properly served on the opposing party, that the time to
respond has expired, and that no response of any kind has been served. (Leach
v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal. App. 3d 902, 905-906.) 
 
Analysis
 
Plaintiff Seller Partner LLC moves
to compel initial discovery responses from Defendant Scaling Group LLC as to 1)
form interrogatories, 2) special interrogatories, and 3) requests for
production of documents. Plaintiff requests sanctions against Defendant and its
counsel of record, jointly and severally. Defendant opposes the sanctions
request against counsel. 
 
            Here, there is no dispute that
Plaintiff served the three discovery sets at issue, including Demand for
Production of Documents, Set One; Form Interrogatories, Set One; and Special
Interrogatories, Set One. Defense counsel admits that they received the
discovery. Counsel explains that since March 2023 there has been virtually no
communication with Scaling Group, LLC or its principal Alex Martino. (Lampel
Decl., ¶ 3.) Thus, it is impossible for counsel to respond to discovery. 
 
            As there is no dispute that
Defendant received the discovery at issue and failed to respond to said
discovery, the motions must be granted. Accordingly, the motions are GRANTED.
 
Sanctions
 
Monetary sanctions are mandatory,
unless the imposition of sanctions would be unjust or the party subject to the
sanctions acted with substantial justification. (See CCP § 2030.290(c).) 
 
Defense counsel’s declaration
provides that Defendant alone was responsible for the discovery abuse.  Plaintiff request $698.00 per motion in
sanctions, which account for 3 hours of drafting and preparing the motions at
issue at a rate of $400 per hour for counsel and $125 per hour for counsel’s
paralegal. Counsel estimates that they will spend one hour of paralegal time
and one hour of attorney time in reviewing Defendant’s oppositions and drafting
replies in support of the three (3) motions, for a total of $525 (Joyce Ma:
$400; Paralegal: $125). Counsel also anticipates spending 1.5 hours preparing
for and appearing at the hearing on these three (3) motions, or $600. Plaintiff
incurred $180 in filing fees. Thus, Plaintiff requests a total sanction of
$2,095.00. However, no reply was submitted. Accordingly, Plaintiff’s request
for sanctions is GRANTED in the reduced total amount of $1,570.00, inclusive of
costs, against Defendant only. Sanctions to be paid within 30 days.