 Case Number:  SC124873    Hearing Date:   September 21, 2023    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Melamed, v. Parallax
Health Sciences Inc., et al.
CASE NO.:                SC124873
MOTION:                  Motion
for Assignment Order
HEARING DATE:   9/21/2023

 
Legal
Standard
 
            Code of Civil Procedure section
708.510 provides in pertinent part:
 
(a)
Except as otherwise provided by law, upon application of the judgment creditor
on noticed motion, the court may order the judgment debtor to assign to the
judgment creditor or to a receiver appointed pursuant to Article 7 (commencing
with Section 708.610) all or part of a right to payment due or to become due,
whether or not the right is conditioned on future developments, including but
not limited to the following types of payments:
 
(1)
Wages due from the federal government that are not subject to withholding under
an earnings withholding order.
(2)
Rents.
(3)
Commissions.
(4)
Royalties.
(5)
Payments due from a patent or copyright.
(6)
Insurance policy loan value.
 
(b)
The notice of the motion shall be served on the judgment debtor. Service shall
be made personally or by mail.
 
(c) …[I]n determining whether
to order an assignment or the amount of an assignment… the court may take into
consideration all relevant factors, including the following:
 
(1) The reasonable requirements
of a judgment debtor who is a natural person and of persons supported in whole
or in part by the judgment debtor.
(2) Payments the judgment
debtor is required to make or that are deducted in satisfaction of other
judgments and wage assignments, including earnings assignment orders for
support.
(3) The amount remaining due on
the money judgment.
(4) The amount being or to be
received in satisfaction of the right to payment that may be assigned.
 
(d) A right to payment may be
assigned pursuant to this article only to the extent necessary to satisfy the
money judgment.
 
Analysis
 
Judgment Creditor Shahla Melamed moves for an
assignment order, assigning to Plaintiff the right, title and/or interest,
along with any future right to payment held by judgment debtor Parallax Health
Sciences, Inc. ("Parallax") in that certain Secured Promissory Note
and/or the Royalty Agreement issued in its favor by Data Health Partners, Inc.
("DHP") in connection with DHP's acquisition of that certain
intellectual property formerly held by Parallax and identified within Exhibit
"A" to that certain Intellectual Property Purchase Agreement by and
among Parallax Behavioral health, Inc., Parallax Health Sciences, Inc. and Data
Health Partners, Inc., identified as "Purchased Assets" and expressly
including all of the collateral identified in the notice of motion. This includes
certain Patents, Trademarks, Copyrights and other intellectual property. The
motion is unopposed.
 
Reviewing the entirety of the
record, an assignment of the cited repayment rights would be appropriate. There is no
indication that the sought property supports any natural person.  The judgment debtor has not paid Melamed
anything on the $20,000,000+ judgment. The record does not indicate that
Parallax owes any other senior creditor ahead of Melamed. Further, the
stated value of the secured promissory note would almost fully satisfy the
judgment here.
 
“When an application is made
pursuant to Section 708.510 or thereafter, the judgment creditor may apply to
the court for an order restraining the judgment debtor from assigning or
otherwise disposing of the right to payment that is sought to be assigned.”  (C.C.P. §708.520(a).)
 
Accordingly, the motion is
GRANTED.
 