 Case Number:  23SMCP00011    Hearing Date:   September 21, 2023    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           LMS v. WLS,
et al.
CASE NO.:                23SMCP00011
MOTION:                  Special
Motion to Strike, Demurrer, and Motion to Strike
HEARING DATE:   9/21/2023
 
ANTI-SLAPP
MOTION
 
            Code
of Civil Procedure section 425.16 permits the Court to strike causes of action
arising from an act in furtherance of the defendant's right of free speech or
petition, unless the plaintiff establishes that there is a probability that the
plaintiff will prevail on the claim.  “The
anti-SLAPP procedures are designed to shield a defendant’s constitutionally
protected conduct from the undue
burden of frivolous litigation.” (Baral
v. Schnitt (2016) 1 Cal.5th 376, 393.) “The anti-SLAPP statute does
not insulate defendants from any
liability for claims arising from the protected rights of petition or speech.
It only provides a procedure for weeding out, at an early stage, meritless claims arising from protected
activity.” (Id. at 384.)
 
            “Resolution of an anti-SLAPP motion
involves two steps. First, the defendant must establish that the challenged
claim arises from activity protected by section 425.16. If the defendant makes
the required showing, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to demonstrate the
merit of the claim by establishing a probability of success.” (Baral, supra, 1 Cal.5th at 384, citation omitted.) The California Supreme Court
has “described this second step as a ‘summary-judgment-like procedure.’ The
court does not weigh evidence or resolve conflicting factual claims. Its
inquiry is limited to whether the plaintiff has stated a legally sufficient
claim and made a prima facie factual showing sufficient to sustain a favorable
judgment. It accepts the plaintiff’s evidence as true, and evaluates the
defendant’s showing only to determine if it defeats the plaintiff’s claim as a
matter of law. ‘[C]laims with the requisite minimal merit may proceed.’” (Id. at 384-385 [citations omitted].)
 
ANTI-SLAPP
Analysis
 
Defendant
moves to strike specific portions of the Second Amended Complaint (SAC), including
the following underlined allegations:
 
·       “Defendant
Lauren Sanchez breached the contract. Lauren Sanchez stopped paying our agreed
upon $25,001.00 per month fee. Then to halt my legitimate pending lawsuit
(and my other lawsuit against Jeff Bezos), as a negotiation tactic, Ms. Sanchez
falsely accused Mr. Sanchez of an escalating series of crimes including
insurance fraud, theft, breaking-and-entering, selling stolen goods, and
childhood incest rape ... in California, although they lived in New Mexico
throughout their childhood. When the dust began to settle in January 2020, in
anticipation that Mr. Sanchez would soon be suing her for Breach of Contract,
Undue Enrichment and other claims, Ms. Sanchez offered a preemptive $6 million
global settlement to end all current and pending litigation.” (SAC, ¶ 21
(emphasis added).)
·       “Mr.
Sanchez was harmed by Ms. Sanchez’ failure to honor her contractual obligations
to Mr. Sanchez, her false and defamatory statements intended to halt Mr.
Sanchez’ lawsuits, as well as the loss of agreed upon compensation from Ms.
Sanchez’ oral agreement to install Mr. Sanchez in the lucrative role as her
Shadow CEO and oral and written agreements concerning real estate purchases,
property management, and lost commissions (15%) on Ms. Sanchez’ $150 million
divorce settlement. In addition, the reputational damage cannot be
overstated, as evidenced by the destruction of Mr. Sanchez’ personal and
professional relationship with the richest man in the world; the destruction of
his producing partnership with Dyan Traynor; and the destruction and/or extreme
strain inflicted on Mr. Sanchez’ invaluable personal relationships with key
members of his family.” (SAC ¶ 22 (emphasis added).)
·       •
“Defendant Lauren Sanchez’s breach of contract was a substantial factor in
causing Mr. Sanchez’s harm. Aside from the practical damages, the Breach of
Contract sent the false message to journalists and everyone in the
entertainment [sic] that Mr. Sanchez had betrayed his sister and Mr. Bezos even
though everything he did protected Ms. Sanchez, Mr. Bezos and their families.”
(SAC ¶ 23 (emphasis added).)
·       “The
benefit Defendant Lauren Sanchez received was at Mr. Sanchez’s expense. Ms.
Sanchez withheld monthly Consulting fees and commissions, as well as
reputational cover for the lies Ms. Sanchez told Mr. Bezos, her attorneys, the
media, and others, all at Mr. Sanchez’s expense.” (SAC ¶ 26 (emphasis
added).)
 
            Code of Civil Procedure section
425.16(e) defines protected acts as the following: 1) any written or oral
statement or writing made before a legislative, executive, or judicial
proceeding, or any other official proceeding authorized by law; 2) any written
or oral statement or writing made in connection with an issue under
consideration or review by a legislative, executive, or judicial body, or any
other official proceeding authorized by law; 3) any written or oral statement
or writing made in a place open to the public or a public forum in connection
with an issue of public interest; or 4) any other conduct in furtherance of the
exercise of the constitutional right of petition or the constitutional right of
free speech in connection with a public issue or an issue of public interest.
 
            For a cause of action to “arise
from” protected activity, “the defendant’s act underlying the plaintiff’s cause
of action must itself have been an act in furtherance of the right of petition
or free speech.”  (City of Cotati v.
Cashman (2002) 29 Cal.4th 69, 78.) 
“The anti-SLAPP statute’s definitional focus is not the form of the
plaintiff’s cause of action but, rather, the defendant’s activity that gives
rise to his or her asserted liability-and whether that activity constitutes
protected speech or petitioning.”  (Navellier,
supra, 29 Cal.4th at 92.)  CCP §
425.16 applies to any claim arising from protected conduct, regardless of its
label.  (Navellier, supra, 29
Cal.4th at 92; see Martinez v. Metabolife Intern., Inc. (2003) 113
Cal.App.4th 181, 188 [the “principal thrust or gravamen of the plaintiff’s
cause of action” determines whether the anti-SLAPP statute applies].)
 
Analysis
 
            Examining the cited allegations in
context of the alleged causes of action, liability is not premised on any
protected conduct. Defendant argues that the Court already found the above
alleged acts to be protected activity. This is inaccurate. The Court found that
the extortion claim concerning statements made during settlement negotiations arose
from protected conduct. The Court did not hold that any alleged defamation was
protected conduct. In fact, the Court denied the anti-SLAPP targeted at the
breach of contract causes of action, and granted leave to amend those causes of
action since the breach of contract would be based on non-protected conduct. 
 
            To the extent that the allegations
are framed as a breach of contract, the allegations do not actually support
liability for breach of contract and, in any event, are not protected
activities. As noted by Defendant, her alleged false and defamatory statements
do not breach any term of the consulting agreement. The contract and unjust
enrichment claims are premised on Defendant’s non-payment of consulting fees.
(SAC ¶¶ 19-22, 25-26.) Thus, it is difficult to conclude that such conduct
forms the gravamen of the breach of contract claims. The alleged false and
defamatory statements are also not protected activity. Defendant does not meet
her burden to show that these statements were made in the context of any official
proceeding, made in a place open to the public or a public forum, or made in
connection with an issue of public interest. At best, the allegations of
defamation and resulting damages are incidental context to the causes of
action, and do not form the gravamen of the causes of action. Thus, there is no
basis to apply the anti-SLAPP statute here. 
 
            The only potentially protected
activity identified is the offer of settlement. (SAC ¶ 21.) Unlike the stricken
extortion-based claims, the SAC does not allege that Defendant breached the
contract by offering to settle. Like the defamation allegations, the settlement
offer merely provides context to the claims and does not premise liability upon
that offer. Thus, the settlement offer would not form the basis for any
liability. 
 
            Accordingly, the anti-SLAPP motion
is DENIED.
 
DEMURRER
AND MOTION TO STRIKE
 
            A
demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action.
(Hahn v. Mirda (2007)
147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers, courts read the
allegations liberally and in context. In a demurrer proceeding, the defects
must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co.
(2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not
the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects
appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. (CCP §§ 430.30,
430.70.) At the pleading stage, a plaintiff need only allege ultimate facts
sufficient to apprise the defendant of the factual basis for the claim against
him. (Semole v. Sansoucie
(1972) 28 Cal. App. 3d 714, 721.) A “demurrer does not, however, admit
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law alleged in the pleading,
or the construction of instruments pleaded, or facts impossible in law.” (S. Shore Land Co. v. Petersen
(1964) 226 Cal.App.2d 725, 732, internal citations omitted.)
 
            Any party, within the time allowed
to respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the
whole or any part thereof. (CCP § 435(b)(1); Cal. Rules of Court, Rule
3.1322(b).) The court may, upon a motion or at any time in its discretion and
upon terms it deems proper: (1) strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper
matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike out all or any part of any
pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of California, a court
rule, or an order of the court. (CCP §§ 436(a)-(b); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767, 782 [“Matter in a
pleading which is not essential to the claim is surplusage; probative facts are
surplusage and may be stricken out or disregarded”].)
 
            “Liberality in permitting amendment
is the rule, if a fair opportunity to correct any defect has not been given.” (Angie
M. v. Superior Court (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1217, 1227.) It is an abuse of
discretion for the court to deny leave to amend where there is any reasonable
possibility that plaintiff can state a good cause of action. (Goodman v.
Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349.) The burden is on plaintiff to
show in what manner plaintiff can amend the complaint,
and how that amendment will change the legal effect of the
pleading. (Id.)
 
First
Cause of Action: Breach of Contract 
 
            Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s
breach of contract cause of action fails because: (1) Plaintiff fails to allege
an actionable breach of the Consulting Agreement; (2) Plaintiff fails to allege
he performed under the Agreement; (3) Plaintiff fails to allege any legally
cognizable damages; and (4) it ostensibly relies on oral agreements that are
both time-barred and precluded as a matter of law under the parol evidence
rule.
 
            “The standard elements of a claim
for breach of contract are: ‘(1) the contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or
excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach, and (4) damage to plaintiff
therefrom.’” (Wall Street Network, Ltd. v. New York Times Co. (2008) 164
Cal.App.4th 1171, 1178.) 
 
            The Court concurs that Plaintiff
fails to allege a cognizable breach of contract under the pled facts and
attached contract. Plaintiff alleges that Ms. Sanchez breached the Consulting
Agreement when she “stopped paying our agreed upon $25,001.00 per month fee.”
(SAC ¶ 21.) However, this does not allege a breach of the Consulting Agreement
because the terms did not require Defendant to pay Plaintiff any such monthly
fee. Instead, Defendant was required to pay Plaintiff a “fixed project fee of
Twenty-Five Thousand and One Dollar ($25,001.00)” for an “Initial Term” of “six
(6) weeks” with two automatic 6-week extensions unless either party “otifie[d]
the other, in writing, of their desire to terminate the Agreement.” (SAC Ex. A
at §§ 1, 3-4.) Thus, Defendant was obliged pay for the six-week initial term,
and for each six-week extended terms, if any. 
 
            The contract does provide for
monthly payments in the form of cost reimbursement. “At the end of each month,
Dream will send Client a report of key activities performed on her behalf,
along with an email Invoice which will include approved third-party expenditures,
travel costs and routine out-of-pocket expenses during the month.” (SAC, Ex. A
at § 3.) Plaintiff does not allege that he ever sent Ms. Sanchez any such
Invoices, or that she failed to pay for any “approved third- party
expenditures,” “travel costs” or “out-of-pocket expenses.”
 
            The SAC also states that Defendant
breached the contract by making defamatory statements. However, the Consulting
Agreement did not provide any obligation to refrain from making any statements.
(SAC Ex. A.) It did not prohibit Defendant from disparaging Plaintiff. Thus,
the alleged defamation cannot have breached the Consulting Agreement as a
matter of law. 
 
            Therefore, the SAC does not allege a
breach of contract.
 
            Accordingly, the demurrer is
SUSTAINED with leave to amend on this basis.
 
      Performance
 
            Defendant argues that Plaintiff
fails to allege he performed under the Agreement. However, as a matter of fact,
Plaintiff alleges that he performed under the Agreement. “Mr. Sanchez did all,
or substantially all, of the significant things that the contract required him
to do.” (SAC ¶ 20.) Further, Plaintiff provides examples of services he
provided. (See SAC ¶¶ 13-14.) At this stage, the Court must accept this
ultimate fact as true. 
 
      Damages 
 
            Defendant challenges the alleged
damages. Plaintiff alleges that Defendant failed to pay him under the contract.
While the claim for those damages is lacking for other reasons, these monetary
damages are legally cognizable under breach of contract.
 
      Breach of Oral Contract
 
            Defendant argues that the references
to any oral contracts are defeated by the integration clause and the statute of
limitations. The Court agrees.  Here, any
breach of an oral contract  claim would
be outside of the two-year statute of limitations. However, the claims are
premised on a breach of a written contract. Thus, the oral contract arguments
would not defeat the cause of action pled in the SAC.
 
Second
Cause of Action:  Unjust Enrichment
 
            Defendant argues that the unjust
enrichment claim fails because it is technically not a cause of action. Indeed,
“there is no cause of action in California for unjust enrichment.” (Melchior
v. New Line Prods., Inc. (2003 – 2nd Dist.) 106 Cal.App.4th 779, 793; McKell
v. Wash. Mut., Inc. (2006 – 2nd Dist.) 142 Cal.App.4th 1457, 1490; Jogani
v. Superior Court (2008 – 2nd Dist.) 165 Cal.App.4th 901, 911.) These
courts conclude that unjust enrichment is “not a cause of action ... or even a
remedy, but rather a principle, underlying various legal doctrines and
remedies. It is synonymous with restitution.” (McBride v. Boughton
(2004) 123 Cal.App.4th 379, 387 [internal quotation marks and citations omitted].)

 
            Accordingly,
the demurrer is SUSTAINED without leave to amend as to the second caue of
action for unjust enrichment.
 
Motion
to Strike Irrelevant Allegations
 
            Defendant identifies certain
allegations as irrelevant and in violation of the Court’s order granting leave
to amend the FAC. The Court does not find that the allegations breach the
Court’s order. However, the Court concurs that the following allegations of
defamation are irrelevant to this complaint, as they do not support a breach of
contract or damages thereto:
 
Paragraph
21 alleges as follows: 
 
“….
Then, to halt my legitimate pending lawsuit (and my other lawsuit against Jeff
Bezos), as a negotiation tactic, Ms. Sanchez falsely accused Mr. Sanchez of an
escalating series of crimes including insurance fraud, theft, breaking and-entering,
selling stolen goods, and childhood incest rape ... in California, although
they lived in New Mexico throughout their childhood. When the dust began to
settle in January 2020, in anticipation that Mr. Sanchez would soon be suing
her for Breach of Contract, Undue Enrichment and other claims, Ms. Sanchez
offered a preemptive $6 million global settlement to end all current and
pending litigation.” 
 
Paragraph
22 alleges as follows: 
 
“Mr.
Sanchez was harmed by Ms. Sanchez’ … false and defamatory statements intended
to halt [his] lawsuits … In addition, the reputational damage cannot be
overstated, as evidenced by the destruction of Mr. Sanchez’ personal and
professional relationship with the richest man in the world; the destruction of
his producing partnership with Dyan Traynor; and the destruction and/or extreme
strain inflicted on [his] invaluable personal relationships with key members of
his family.” 
 
Paragraph
23 alleges as follows: “…. Aside from the practical damages, the Breach of
Contract sent the false message to journalists and everyone in the
entertainment [sic] that Mr. Sanchez had betrayed his sister and Mr. Bezos even
though everything he did protected Ms. Sanchez, Mr. Bezos and their families.”
 
            Each of these allegations pertain to
facts that are outside the scope of the sole breach of contract cause of
action. The contract does not forbid disparagement. Further, “damages to
reputation … are not recoverable in an action for breach of contract.” (Frangipani
v. Boecker (1998) 64 Cal. App. 4th 860, 865 [collecting cases].) Thus, the
above allegations are irrelevant and ask for improper relief.
 
            Plaintiff also seeks a 15%
commission on Ms. Sanchez’s $150 million divorce settlement (SAC ¶ 22 ( “the
loss of agreed upon compensation from Ms. Sanchez’ oral agreement to install
Mr. Sanchez in the lucrative role as her Shadow CEO and … lost commissions
(15%) on Ms. Sanchez’ $150 million divorce settlement”); ¶ 25 (“Defendant
Lauren Sanchez received benefit [sic], which included, but not limited to [sic]
… approximately $100 million more in her divorce settlement with Mr. Whitesell
(i.e., the $150 million final settlement figure versus the $50 Million she
agreed to accept before Mr. Sanchez’ intervention and advice).”)]) This relief
is unavailable as a matter of law, because the written Consulting Agreement at
issue does not relate to those services. To the extent that that relief relies
on an oral agreement(s), such claims would be time-barred since the breach
occurred more than two years prior to the filing of this action. (CCP §339(1).)
 
            Accordingly, the motion to strike is
GRANTED as to the cited allegations without leave to amend. The motion is
DENIED as to paragraphs 13-14, and 16. While these allegations mention oral
agreements, they provide factual context to the breach of written contract
cause of action.
 
Punitive
Damages
 
            Defendant asserts that there is no basis
for an award of punitive damages. Indeed, the request fails as a matter of law
because a breach of contract claim cannot support a punitive damages award. (Civ.
Code § 3294(a).) Accordingly, the motion to strike is GRANTED as to punitive
damages, without leave to amend.
 
Plaintiff
has 10 days to file an amended complaint.
 