  Case Number:  21TRCV00668    Hearing Date:   June 13, 2024    Dept:  M LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                                     Thursday,
June 13, 2024 
Department M                                                                                                                       Calendar No. 13
  
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Imperial-Inglewood, LLC v. Maribel
Vasquez, et al.     
21TRCV00668
1.      MCT Group’s Motion for Leave to Amend Judgment        


TENTATIVE RULING
 
            MCT
Group’s Motion for Leave to Amend Judgment is denied without prejudice. 
 
Background
 
            Plaintiff filed the Complaint on September 15, 2021.
Plaintiff alleges the following facts. Plaintiff alleges a sole cause of action
for Unlawful Detainer with respect to residential property located at 11416
Inglewood Avenue, 101, Hawthorne, CA 90250. On March 25, 2022, a stipulated
judgment that was executed by Plaintiff Imperial-Inglewood LLC and Defendant
Maribel Vazquez was filed and entered by the Court.  As moving party, MCT Group correctly points
out Defendant Edsel Rodas never signed the judgment, and, thus, no judgment
naming Edsel Rodas currently exists.
 
            Motion to Amend Judgment
 
            Purported assignee MCT Group moves for
leave to amend the judgment. MCT Group states that it wishes to amend the
judgment such that the amended judgment now includes money damages for unpaid
rent, holdover damages, and other damages. MCT Group also states that it seeks
to amend the judgment as to both Defendants including non-judgment debtor Edsel
Rodas. MCT Group also seeks to have this action converted from an unlawful
detainer to a regular civil unlimited action. 
 
             The motion is denied without
prejudice. 
 
            First,
MCT Group fails to establish it is an assignee of record such that it can then
attempt to enforce a judgment. MCT Group has failed to show that it has
complied procedurally with all the requirements necessary to be deemed the
assignee of record and to enforce the judgment, or, that other authority exists
to allow it to be excused from these procedural requirements. CCP § 673; CCP § 681.020.
 
            Second,
MCT Group fails to provide any legal authority for the order to amend the
judgment. In addition, MCT Group fails to provide any competent evidence to
establish grounds to amend the judgment to add Edsel Rodas as a judgment
debtor.
 
            Finally,
the Court notes that MCT Group did not file a copy of the proposed amended
judgment.
 
            Therefore,
MCT Group’s Motion for Leave to Amend Judgment is denied without prejudice. 
 
            MCT
Group is ordered to give notice of this ruling.