 Case Number:  23SMCV00462    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2024    Dept:  205  
 
 
Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles – West District 
Beverly Hills Courthouse / Department 205
 



ACKERMAN INVESTMENT PARTNERSHIP, L.P., 
 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
MOUCHE, LLC,
  et al., 
 
                        Defendants.


 
  Case
  No.:  23SMCV00462 
  Hearing Date:  December 6, 2024
  [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
  plaintiff’s motion to 
  strike answer and enter 
  default of unrepresented 
  llc defendants
 



 
BACKGROUND
This
case arises from a failure to pay rent. 
Plaintiff Ackerman Investment Partnership L.P. is seeking to recover
unpaid rent from its former tenant, Defendant Mouche, LLC.  
Defendant
filed an Answer on May 23, 2023.  On
October 4, 2024, the Court entered an order permitting Defendant’s counsel to
withdraw.  Defendant did not retain new
counsel.  
This
hearing is on Plaintiff’s motion to strike the answer of Defendant.  Plaintiff argues that Defendant is without
counsel; an LLC cannot appear in pro per, and therefore, Defendant’s answer
must be stricken, and default must be entered against it.  No opposition was filed as of the posting of
this tentative ruling.    
LEGAL STANDARD
The court may, upon motion, or at any time in
its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false,
or improper matter inserted in any pleading. 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 436, subd. (a).) 
The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or
filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of
the court. (Code Civ. Proc. § 436, subd. (b).) 
The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading
or by way of judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc. § 437.)
MEET AND CONFER
Code Civ. Proc. § 435.5 requires that before
the filing of a motion to strike, the moving party “shall meet and confer in
person or by telephone” with the party who filed the pleading that is subject
to the motion to strike for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can
be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the motion to
strike.  (Code Civ. Proc. §
435.5(a).)  The parties are to meet and
confer at least five days before the date the responsive pleading is due. (Code
Civ. Proc. § 435.5(a)(2).)  Thereafter,
the moving party shall file and serve a declaration detailing their meet and
confer efforts. (Code Civ. Proc. §435.5(a)(3).) 
Plaintiff submits the Declaration of Terry J. Kent which attests counsel
attempted to reach Defendant without success. 
The Court concludes Plaintiff has satisfied its meet and confer obligations.  
DISCUSSION
Under
California law, a corporation can only appear in a civil matter through a
licensed attorney.  (Merco Construction Engineers, Inc. v.
Municipal Court
(1978) 21 Cal.3d 724, 727; Paradise v.
Nowlin (1948) 86
Cal.App.2d 897, 898.)  This rule extends to LLCs. (See Clean Air
Transport Systems v. San Mateo County Transit District (1988) 198
Cal.App.3d 576, 578-579.)
Defendant is not currently represented
by counsel.  It cannot represent itself in
pro per.  Because Defendant cannot
represent itself, its answer is not filed in conformity with the laws and must
be stricken pursuant to Code Civ. Proc. § 436.
Further, the striking of an answer
leads inexorably to the entry of default. 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 585, subds.
(a), (b) (stating that
the clerk “shall enter the default of the defendant” who fails to
respond to a duly served complaint).) 
Because the Court has stricken Defendant’s answer, Defendant is subject
to an entry of default against it.  Accordingly,
the Court enters default against Defendant.
CONCLUSION
Based on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s
motion to strike Defendant’s answer and enters default against Defendant.  Plaintiff is ordered to submit a default
judgment package within 30 days of this Order.  The Court further sets an Order to Show Cause
re: Default Judgment on February 6, 2025 at 9:00 a.m.     
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  December 6, 2024                                               ___________________________
Edward
B. Moreton, Jr.
Judge
of the Superior Court