 Case Number:  24PSCV01437    Hearing Date:   November 7, 2024    Dept:  H Pimentel v.
Rentokil North America, Inc., et al.,
Case No. 24PSCV01437ORDER
ON PRO HAC VICE APPLICATIONDefendants Rentokil North
America, Inc. and Richard Thongsavanh’s Application for Russell W. Jackson to
Appear Pro Hac Vice is GRANTED. 
Background
In this
wrongful termination case, plaintiff Jose Antonio Pimentel (“Plaintiff”) asserts
several causes of action against his former employer, Rentokil North America,
Inc. (“Rentokil”), and his former manager, Richard Thongsavanh (“Thongsavanh”),
in connection with Plaintiff’s brain cancer diagnosis.  Specifically, Plaintiff alleges that before
being diagnosed with cancer, he worked as a pest control technician for
Rentokil but never received the proper training for the handling of hazardous
chemicals, even though his manager falsely certified that Plaintiff had received
the requisite training.  Plaintiff
further alleges that after being diagnosed with cancer and while he was
undergoing chemotherapy, Rentokil unlawfully discriminated against him and terminated
him based on his medical condition. 
The
First Amendment Complaint asserts several causes of action against Rentokil, Thongsavanh, and Does 1 through 10,
including, among others, discrimination, retaliation, wrongful termination,
failure to provide overtime wages, unlawful and unfair business practices, and
negligent hiring, supervising, and retention.
On August 5, 2024, Guadalupe Pimentel (“G.
Pimentel”) was substituted in as Plaintiff pursuant to a motion granted by the
Court.
A Case Management Conference is set for January 9,
2025.
Pending before the Court is Rentokil and Thongsavanh’s
unopposed application for Russell W. Jackson to appear pro hac vice. For the
reasons stated herein, the motion is granted.
 
Legal
Standard 
“A person
who is not a licensee of the State Bar of California but who is an attorney in
good standing of and eligible to practice before the bar of any United States
court or the highest court in any state, territory, or insular possession of
the United States, and who has been retained to appear in a particular cause
pending in a court of this state, may in the discretion of such court be
permitted upon written application to appear as counsel pro hac vice, provided that an active licensee of the
State Bar of California is associated as attorney of record. No person is
eligible to appear as counsel pro hac vice under
this rule if the person is: (1) A resident of the State of California; (2)
Regularly employed in the State of California; or (3) Regularly engaged in
substantial business, professional, or other activities in the State of
California.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 9.40(a).)
“A person desiring to
appear as counsel pro hac vice in a superior
court must file with the court a verified application together with proof of
service by mail in accordance with Code of Civil Procedure section 1013a of a
copy of the application and of the notice of hearing of the application on all parties
who have appeared in the cause and on the State Bar of California at its San
Francisco office. The notice of hearing must be given at the time prescribed in
Code of Civil Procedure section 1005 unless the court has prescribed a shorter
period.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 9.40(c)(1).)
“The application must state: (1) The
applicant’s residence and office address; 
(2) The courts to which the applicant has
been admitted to practice and the dates of admission; (3) That the applicant is
a licensee in good standing in those courts; (4) That the applicant is not
currently suspended or disbarred in any court; (5) The title of each court and
cause in which the applicant has filed an application to appear as
counsel pro hac vice in this state in the preceding two
years, the date of each application, and whether or not it was granted; and (6)
The name, address, and telephone number of the active licensee of the State Bar
of California who is attorney of record.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 9.40(d).)
“The State Bar of
California may set an appropriate fee to be paid by counsel pro hac vice.”
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 9.40(e)[FN1].) 
Discussion 
Rentokil
and Thongsavanh (“together, “Defendants”) move, pursuant to California Rules of
Court Rule 9.40, for an order allowing the pro hac vice admission of Russell W.
Jackson.
The application, coupled with Defendants’ “Notice of
Filing of Proof of Service and Proof of Payment to the State Bar for Pro Hac
Vice Application of Russell Jackson” filed October 1, 2024, reflect compliance with
the requirements of California
Rules of Court Rule 9.40. Accordingly,
the application is granted.                                                              

