  Case Number:  23PSCP00030    Hearing Date:   November 7, 2024    Dept:  H Castro
v. City of Pomona, et al., Case No. 23PSCP00030

ORDER
ON PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE
Plaintiff Andrew Castro’s Complaint
for Declaratory and Injunctive Relief and Verified Petition for Writ of
Mandate is DENIED.
 
I.        Background
Plaintiff
Andrew Castro (“Castro”) is Arthur Martinez’s (“Martinez”) nephew. Martinez was
murdered in 1973. On November 15, 2021, Castro made a California Public Records
Act request to the City of Pomona (the “City”) and the Pomona Police Department
(the “Department”) seeking the disclosure of “all investigative reports
including supplemental reports, all audio recordings, pictures, and physical
evidence” pertaining to Martinez’s murder. The City denied Castro’s request on
November 16, 2022.
On
January 19, 2023, Castro filed a “Complaint for Declaratory and Injunctive
Relief and Verified Petition for Writ of Mandate” (“Complaint/Petition”)
against the City, the Department, and Does 1-10. For the reasons stated herein,
Castor’s petition is denied. 
II.      Legal Standard 
Individual
citizens have a right to access government records pursuant to the California
Public Records Act (the “Act”) (Gov. Code § 7921.000, et seq.).[FN1] In
enacting the Act, the California Legislature determined that “access to
information concerning the conduct of the people’s business is a fundamental
and necessary right of every person in this state.” (Gov. Code, § 7921.000.)
Further,
Article 1, Section 3(b) of the California Constitution affirms that “[t]he
people have the right of access to information concerning the conduct of the
people’s business” and that “[a] statute . . . shall be broadly construed if it
furthers the people’s right of access, and narrowly construed if it limits the
right of access.” 
The
Act “does not allow limitations on access to a public record based upon the
purpose for which the record is being requested, if the record is otherwise
subject to disclosure.” (Gov. Code § 7921.300.) “Any reasonably segregable
portion of a record shall be available for inspection by any person requesting
the record after deletion of the portions that are exempted by law.” (Gov. Code
§ 7922.525(b).) 
“To
establish an agency has a duty to disclose under [the Act], the petitioner must
show that: (1) the record qualif[ies] as [a] public record[ ] …; and (2) the
record is in the possession of the agency.” 
(Anderson-Barker v Sup.Ct. (2019) 31 Cal.App.5th 528, 538
[quotations and citation omitted].) Once that initial burden is met, the agency
has the burden to prove “that a particular record is exempt from
disclosure.”  (Sacramento County Employees’ Retirement System v. Superior Court
(2013) 195 Cal.App.4th 440, 453.)  
 
III.     Discussion
Castro seeks a writ of mandate directing the City and the
Department to comply with the Act and produce all public documents, including,
but not limited to “all investigative reports including supplemental reports,
all audio recordings, pictures, and physical evidence.” (Complaint/Petition,
5:3-6.) In the alternative, Castro seeks the issuance of an order to show cause
why the Court should not issue a writ. Castro also seeks a judicial declaration
that the City and the Department violated the Act by failing to produce the
requested documents.[FN2] Castro further seeks nominal damages and an award of costs.
Castro’s uncle, Martinez, was murdered in 1973.
(Complaint/Petition, 1:21-25.) In the verified Complaint/Petition, Castro
alleges that the Department investigated the case for years and knew who
murdered Martinez but was unable to gather sufficient evidence for the District
Attorney’s office to be able to file the case. (Id., 1:25-27.) Castro
alleges that he contacted the Department in 2004 “to request that the case be
reopened” and that he worked closely with Department detectives “[f]or the past
18 years” investigating the case. (Id., 2:4-5.) Castro alleges that the
suspect, Michael Andrade (“Andrade”), passed away before murder charges could
be filed against him. (Id., 2:10-12.) Castro alleges that after learning
Andrade had passed away, he asked Department Detective Rodriguez (“Rodriguez”)
if he could have the whole case file and evidence pertaining to the case and
was subsequently told by “Matt,” a supervisor from the records department at the
Department, that while the Department was willing to release everything in
Castro’s request it “had to be done legally through the courts.” (Id.,
2:13-17.) Castro alleges that on November 15, 2021, he made request under the
Act for “all investigative reports including supplemental reports, all audio
recordings, pictures and physical evidence, and that the City denied his
request on November 16, 2022. (Id., 3:21-27.) 
In opposition to the Complaint/Petition, the City and
the Department submit a declaration from Rodriguez, a Department police officer
who has been serving as a homicide detective for the past four years and who
was involved in the investigation of Martinez’s murder between approximately
2020 and 2022. (Rodriguez Decl., ¶¶ 2 and 3.) Rodriguez represents that, over
the years, the Department named Andrade as a suspect and gathered
circumstantial evidence that led it to believe that Andrade committed the
murder, that the Department brought its evidence to the District Attorney’s
office in different counties on multiple occasions, and that each time the
District Attorney’s office declined to file the case on the grounds of
insufficient evidence, including in 2022, when he personally requested that the
case be filed. (Id., ¶ 3.) Rodriguez confirms that the investigation of
Martinez’s murder has not been closed and that a homicide case may remain open
indefinitely. (Id., ¶ 4.) 
Castro argues that disclosure of the records is
governed by Government Code section 7923.605. The City and the Department, in turn, contend that the
records sought by Castro are exempt from disclosure pursuant to Government Code
sections 7923.600, 7923.605, 7923.610, and 7922.000. 
Government Code section 7923.605 provides, in relevant part, that notwithstanding
Section 7923.600,[FN3] “a
state or local law enforcement agency shall disclose the names and
addresses of persons involved in, or
witnesses other than confidential informants to, the incident, the description
of any property involved, the date, time, and location of the incident, all
diagrams, statements of the parties involved in the incident, the statements of all witnesses, other
than confidential informants, to the victims of an incident, or an authorized
representative thereof, . . . unless the disclosure would  endanger” (1) the
“safety of a witness or other person involved in the investigation” or (2) the “successful
completion of the investigation or a related investigation.”
The City and the Department contend that the records Castro requests are
“per se investigatory records” exempt under Government Code section 7923.600
(Opp., 4:6-7 and 16-17) and that this exemption “extends indefinitely, even
after an investigation is closed.” (Rivero v. Superior Court (1997) 54
Cal.App.4th 1048, 1052).[FN4] They
further posit that disclosure of the records is prohibited by Government Code
section 7923.605, because it would “endanger both the safety of witnesses and
other individuals involved, as well as hinder successful completion of the
investigation.” (Id., 5:3-5.)
Rodriguez represents that, while the Department “sometimes allows a
family member to review certain aspects of [a] [homicide] case file at the
station,” it “does not have a practice of turning over an entire homicide file
case file to any individual.” (Rodriguez Decl., ¶ 5.) He attests that “turning
over an entire homicide case file may endanger the victim’s family and
witnesses or subject the [suspect’s] family to retaliation,” or “may affect the
integrity of the investigation and the case itself, or may hinder successful
resolution of the case.” (Id.)
He notes that the disclosure of
the names of potential suspects, or information known about them potentially
linking them to the crime could be used to alert a suspect or result in
evidence being hidden or destroyed,” and could “dissuade individuals with
information from coming forward.” (Id.) He represents that such “concerns exist
even if there has only ever been one suspect in a case,” as “[t]here is always
a chance that the police department is incorrect or that new evidence may
emerge.” (Id.) 
Neither Uribe v. Howie (1971) 19 Cal.App.3d 194
nor Black Panther Party v. Kehoe (1974) 42 Cal.App.3d 645 supports
Castro’s position that he is entitled to the Department’s investigatory files
of Martinez’s murder. In Uribe, the petitioner was refused permission to
inspect monthly pesticide spray reports submitted to the county agricultural
commissioner to determine whether she had been exposed to pesticides. The trial
court held that these records were exempt from disclosure because they were
reports of a local agency compiled for correctional, law enforcement, or
licensing purposes within the meaning of former Government Code section 6254,
subdivision (f). The appellate court, however, determined that only reports
that “were currently being used to investigate” a pesticide applicator would be
exempt. In Black Panther Party, the plaintiffs sought disclosure of
letters of complaint alleging unethical or abusive practices by licensed
collection agencies, which the trial court deemed were exempt under former
Government Code section 6254, subdivision (f). The appellate court rejected the
plaintiffs’ argument (based on Uribe) that the complaints were not the
subject of current investigations and were thus subject to disclosure; in doing
so, the appellate court noted that “[i]n Uribe,
the record in question was not a complaint but a routine report in a public
file. It could gain exemption not because of its content but because of the use
to which it was put, that is, when and if it became part of an investigatory
file. Here, by their very content, the documents are independently entitled to
exemption as ‘records of complaints;’ their exemption is not dependent upon the
creation of an investigatory file.” (Id. at 654.)
Here, Castro seeks the Department’s investigation
files, not just complaints or reports that were not originally created for
investigatory purposes or that might lead to an investigation at some later
date. Martinez’s murder case file, moreover, is not merely labeled
“investigatory,” but is being used in the Department’s investigation.
The City and the Department further argue that the
records are exempt under Government Code section 7923.610, to the extent Castro
seeks any arrest information related to Martinez’s murder. Section 7923.610
requires a local law enforcement agency to disclose certain arrest information,
such as the name and occupation of every individual arrested by the agency, the
individual’s physical description, the time, date and location of arrest, the
time and date of booking, the factual circumstances surrounding the arrest, and
such other information, unless “disclosure of a particular item of information
would endanger the safety of a person involved in an investigation or would
endanger the successful completion of the investigation or a related
investigation.” As noted in Rodriguez’s declaration, the disclosing investigatory
records in an open case poses a danger to the safety of witnesses, the
integrity of the investigation, and the successful completion of the
investigation. (Rodriguez Decl., ¶ 5.) 
Finally, the City and the Department contend that the
records are exempt from disclosure pursuant to Government Code section
7922.000, which permits a public agency to justify withholding any record by
demonstrating “that on the facts of the particular case the public interest
served by not disclosing the record clearly outweighs the public interest
served by disclosure of the record.” “[A] public interest is not the same as a
private interest. . . just because a member of the public has an interest in
something that does not necessarily make that interest one of public concern.”
(Los Angeles Unified School Dist. v. Superior Court (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th
222, 240.) Castro’s interest in disclosure here is private and personal in
nature based on his familial relationship to Martinez; in contrast, there is a
strong public interest against disclosing the investigatory records, as noted
above.
Under
the circumstances of this case, Castro has not established that the City and the
Department failed to disclose any non-exempt, responsive public records or
information. The petition for writ of mandate is thus denied. The Court further
declines to issue an order to show cause or to issue declaratory and/or
injunctive relief because it finds that the City and the Department have complied
with the Act. The Court denies Castro’s request for
nominal damages for the same reason. Finally, the Court denies Castro’s request
for costs because he did not prevail in this action. (Gov. Code § 7923.115, subd. (a).)
 

