 Case Number:  23STCV13829    Hearing Date:   October 5, 2023    Dept:  61  
I.                  
SPECIAL
MOTION TO STRIKE
In 1992 the Legislature enacted Code of Civil
Procedure section 425.16 as a remedy for the “disturbing increase in lawsuits
brought primarily to chill the valid exercise of the constitutional rights of
freedom of speech and petition for the redress of grievances.” (Code Civ.
Proc., §425.16, subd. (a); Wilcox v.
Superior Court (1994) 27 Cal.App.4th 809, 817.)  The lawsuits are commonly referred to as
“SLAPP” lawsuits, an acronym for “strategic lawsuit against public
participation.” (Equilon Enterprises, LLC
v. Consumer Cause, Inc. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 53, 57, fn. 1.) A defendant
opposing a SLAPP claim may bring an “anti-SLAPP” special motion to strike any
cause of action “arising from any act of that person in furtherance of the
person's right of petition or free speech under the United States Constitution
or the California Constitution in connection with a public issue . . . .” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subd. (b)(1).) An anti-SLAPP motion may be addressed to
individual causes of action and need not be directed to the complaint as a
whole. (Shekhter v. Financial Indemnity
Co. (2001) 89 Cal.app.4th 141, 150.) 
 
In ruling on an anti-SLAPP motion, a trial
court uses a “summary-judgment-like procedure at any early stage of the
litigation.” (Varian Medical Systems,
Inc. v. Delfino (2005) 35 Cal.4th 180, 192.) This is a two-step
process.  First, the defendants must show
that the acts of which the plaintiff complains were taken “in furtherance of
the [defendant]’s right of petition or free speech under the United States of
California Constitution in connection with a public issue.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§425.16 subd. (b)(1).) Next, if the defendant carries that burden, the burden
shift to the plaintiff to demonstrate a probability of prevailing on the claim.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16 subd. (b)(3).) 
 
In making both
determinations the trial court considers “the pleadings, and supporting and
opposing affidavits stating the facts upon which the liability or defense is
based.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subd. (b)(2); Equilon Enterprises, supra,
29 Cal.4th at p. 67.)
 
A.   
PROTECTED ACTIVITY
 
The anti-SLAPP statute defines protected
activities as:
 
(1) any written or oral statement or writing
made before a legislative, executive, or judicial proceeding, or any other
official proceeding authorized by law, (2) any written or oral statement or
writing made in connection with an issue under consideration or review by a
legislative, executive, or judicial body, or any other official proceeding
authorized by law, (3) any written or oral statement or writing made in a place
open to the public or a public forum in connection with an issue of public
interest, or (4) any other conduct in furtherance of the exercise of the
constitutional right of petition or the constitutional right of free speech in
connection with a public issue or an issue of public interest.
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subd. (e),
emphasis added.)
 
Defendant Mary Ellen Attridge (Defendant)
argues that Plaintiff Okorie Okorocha’s (Plaintiff) claims against her arise
from protected activity within the meaning of subdivisions (3) and (4) of the
above statute, as Plaintiff’s claims derive from emails concerning Plaintiff’s
qualifications made in a listserv maintained by and for the San Diego Criminal
Defense Bar Association (CDBA), in which he was attempting to promote his
services. (Motion at pp. 6–9.) The court agrees that these emails took place in
a public forum concerning a matter of public interest, and that Plaintiff’s
claims accordingly arise from protected activity. (See Gilbert v. Sykes
(2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 13, 23 [holding that website publication
concerning qualifications of plastic surgeon was matter of public interest].)
 
Accordingly, the burden now shifts to
Plaintiff on the second prong of the anti-SLAPP analysis.
 
B.    
LIKELIHOOD OF PREVAILING
After a defendant meets their burden of
showing that the gravamen of the complaint involves protected activity, the
plaintiff must then “demonstrate that the complaint is both legally sufficient
and supported by a sufficient prima facie showing of facts to sustain a
favorable judgment if the evidence submitted by the plaintiff is credited.” (Matson v. Dvorak (1995) 40 Cal.App.4th
539, 548.) A defendant can meet its burden if it can establish that the
plaintiff cannot overcome an affirmative defense. (Birkner v. Lam (2007) 156 Cal.App.4th 275 at 285.) 
 
“[A] plaintiff cannot simply rely on his or her pleadings, even if
verified. Rather, the plaintiff must adduce competent, admissible evidence.” (Grenier
v. Taylor (2015) 234 Cal.App.4th 471, 480.)
“Legally sufficient”
means that the cause of action would satisfy a demurrer. (Dowling v. Zimmerman (2001) 85 Cal.App.4th 1400, 1421.) The
evidentiary showing must be made by competent and admissible evidence. (Morrow v. Los Angeles Unified School
District (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 1424, 1444.) Proof, however, cannot be made
by declaration based on information and belief. (Evans v. Unkow (1995) 38 Cal.App.4th 1490, 1497–1498.) The question
is whether the plaintiff has presented evidence in opposition to the
defendant’s motion that, if believed by the trier of fact, is sufficient to
support a judgment in the plaintiff’s favor. (Zamos v. Stroud (2004) 32 Cal.4th 958, 965.)
 
Defamation
is “(a) a publication that is (b) false, (c)
defamatory, and (d) unprivileged, and that (e) has a natural tendency to injure
or that causes special damage.” (Price v. Operating Engineers Local Union
No. 3 (2011) 195 Cal.App.4th 962, 970.) Defendant argues that because
Plaintiff entered the CDBA listserv in order to promote his services, he is a
limited purpose public figure who must prove that Defendant made the statements
at issue with actual malice. (Motion at pp. 13–14; see Balla v. Hall
(2021) 59 Cal.App.5th 652, 675.)
The underlying facts are undisputed. On March 25, 2023,
Plaintiff sent an email in the CDBA listserv, an email-based web forum for
criminal defense attorneys in the San Diego area. (Britt Decl. ¶¶ 5–7, Exh. A.)
The email attached an excerpt from his testimony as a toxicology expert during
cross examination. (Britt Decl. Exh. A.) Plaintiff provided the context in the
email: “This is from a murder case: Rule number 4 for cross-examining the
opposing expert who happens to also been an attorney for 20 years: Always ask
questions that do not leave wiggle-room and ALWAYS end cross scoring a great
point. Do not end a cross after being bodied by the witness.” (Ibid.) On
March 27, 2023, another member of the listserv sent the message: “Wow. Glad you
got a chance to say that. Just wow.” (Britt Decl. Exh. B.) 
The same day, Plaintiff sent the following message:
Thank you, but the defendant was too stupid
for his own good. I am getting on my soapbox so please delete and do not read
further
I have qualified as a Tox expert over 3,500
times, in 53 California counties, 23 U.S. states and in Germany and Japan in Military
cases. So, I have this on lock!
If the jury is there, I am the most reasonable
person in the room.
If the jury is NOT there, I slap the DA silly
in cross. It makes DAs blow it big time.
So, after all that, the Defendant decided it
wanted to go with a former state hack that screwed over the defense bar for 20
years. I won’t say any names because it does not matter. The state hacks are
interchangeable. So, any of them!!!
There is a misconception that the person who
runs the instrument is the most knowledgeable. That is incorrect. In science
and medicine, technicians are the least educated people the lab has. Some have
no formal education. If you get an MRI or CT scan done, it is performed by a
technician. No one is will to pay the radiologist $700 an hour to run the instrument
which can be done by a technician more cost effectively. Or if a Doctor orders
a blood test, he/she never draws the blood, never sees it and does not go to
the laboratory. But that doesn’t mean you want the test results or MRI results
reviewed by the technician.
Same in toxicology. Imperial County paid me
$400/hour for over 100 hours in one Kelly Frye case. What are the odds that
they would spend $40,000 plus to have me run the instrument. A lab has techs
that don’t even have any college education.
So, the genius defendant wanted the Caucasian
former state hack, despite the fact that there was a 5000+ page file that I
reviewed that the state hack did not.
I was already maxed on billing so I would have
been testifying for free.
So, he is getting 25 to life. The state hack
has taken over my cases twice on retrials and they lost all of them big time.
(Britt Decl. Exh. C.) 
 
The next morning, Defendant joined
the conversation with the following message: “’State hack’ is offensive. Stop
your self-aggrandizement.” (Britt Decl. Exh. D.) Defendant then sent another
message linking to a Los Angeles Times story, reporting an instance in which
Plaintiff helped to bring and then dismiss questionable civil claims against
John Travolta. (Britt Decl. Exh. E.) Another listserv user posted in response,
“Thank you for the link to the article, it is most appreciated and should be
required reading for people posting on this listserv.” (Britt Decl. Exh. F.)
 
Plaintiff responded with his own
email, stating: “Not sure why you posted that article. If you are going to post
an article, my favorites are these ones in which “Mini Me” talkin’ ‘bout I
stole his sex tape.” (Britt Decl. Exh. G.) Plaintiff provided links to the
articles in question. (Ibid.)
 
Defendant answered with the reason
why she posted the article: “Because you insulted Public Defenders as ‘hacks’
and made unprofessional remarks about your former client in a public forum.
That’s why.” (Britt Decl. Exh. H.) 
 
Plaintiff countered with two
lengthy messages, stating: “You must have misread what I said,” denying that he
had called public defenders “hacks,” and going on to explain that public
defenders are “diligent” and “detailed” and that most of his clients are public
defenders. (Britt Decl. Exhs. I, J.) Plaintiff further stated, “English is my
second language so bear with me, but a ‘state hack’ referred to the state
‘expert witness’ that the government relies on to screw over innocent people.”
(Britt Decl. Exh. I.)  
 
Defendant responded by asking two
questions: “1. Have you testified for free in any of these jurisdictions to
augment your resume? 2. Are your scientific degrees from an online university?”
(Britt Decl. Exh. K.) 
 
Plaintiff answered:
“Not sure where the intense hostility comes from,” repeating that he had not
called public defenders “state hacks,” and stating that he would no longer
participate in the listserv. (Britt Decl. Exh. L.)
 
Defendant offered
the final email in the chain: “I’m not hostile. I’m frank and I fear you are a
potential danger to the legal community.” (Britt Decl. Exh. M.) 
 
Plaintiff’s case
here does not concern Defendant’s posting of the Los Angeles Times article
relating to the dismissed suits he helped to bring against John Travolta. It
does not concern her criticism of what she called his “self-aggrandizement,”
her characterization of his “unprofessional remarks about [his] former client
in a public forum,” or her questions about whether Plaintiff had ever testified
for free to augment his resume or obtained his scientific degrees from an
online university. Plaintiff’s case alleges that Defendant committed defamation
by stating, “I fear you are a potential danger to the legal community,” and further
stating that he had called public defenders “hacks.” (FAC ¶¶ 5, 8.)
 
Plaintiff argues
that the comment about him being “a potential danger to the legal community”
was defamatory because it was “an attack on his integrity both as a toxicology
expert witness and as an attorney,” and implied that he had “breach[ed] his
community’s confidence and trust.” (Opposition at p. 12.) Plaintiff further
argues that the mischaracterization of his “hacks” comments are defamatory
because Plaintiff derives his livelihood as a toxicology expert from business
provided in substantial part by public defenders. (Opposition at pp. 18–19.)
 
Plaintiff’s
claims are legally and factually insufficient.[1]
First, the statement concerning Plaintiff’s purported “danger” to the legal
community was a non-actionable statement of opinion. 
The critical determination of whether the
allegedly defamatory statement constitutes fact or opinion is a question of
law. The distinction frequently is a difficult one, and what constitutes a
statement of fact in one context may be treated as a statement of opinion in
another, in light of the nature and content of the communication taken as a
whole. Thus, where potentially defamatory statements are published in a public
debate, a heated labor dispute, or in another setting in which the audience may
anticipate efforts by the parties to persuade others to their positions by use
of epithets, fiery rhetoric or hyperbole, language which generally might be
considered as statements of fact may well assume the character of statements of
opinion.
(Gregory v. McDonnell Douglas Corp. (1976) 17 Cal.3d 596, 601.)
Like referring to another person as “immoral,” the phrase
that Plaintiff here attacks is “incapable of being interpreted as implying a
provably false assertion of fact,” because “[b]ehvaior that might qualify as
immoral to one person, although being perfectly acceptable to another person,
demonstrates that an amorphous assertion of immoral behavior is within the
range of statements of opinion that are not actionable.”  (McGarry v. University of San Diego
(2007) 154 Cal.App.4th 97, 117.) The “danger” phrase here is subject to a
similarly amorphous range of meanings. One may pose a danger to the legal
community through incompetence, violence, dishonesty, cruelty, greed, or use of
the legal system for political ends that the speaker disfavors. Plaintiff’s own
pleadings and moving papers demonstrate the absence of factual content in the
language at issue. His opposition here contends the “danger” phrase carries a
meaning that he “breached his community’s confidence and trust.” (Opposition at
p. 12.) Yet in a prior motion, Plaintiff claimed that the phrase carried an
imputation of “incompetence.” (See 8/11/2023 Motion at p. 3.) And in his
FAC, he claims that it “ma[de] him sound like Jack the Ripper fresh out of the
insane asylum.” (FAC ¶ 8.) That the language here is capable of such variegated
constructions in Plaintiff’s own reasoning forecloses the possibility that the
statement constitutes a “provably false factual assertion” on which a
defamation claim may lie. (Nygard, Inc. v. Uusi-Kerttula (2008) 159
Cal.App.4th 1027, 1049.) 
Plaintiff’s claims concerning the “hacks” statement are
also deficient, since Defendant’s statement concerning the meaning of his
“state hacks” email was nonactionable opinion. Although Plaintiff makes much of
the fact that his lengthy “state hacks” email did not mention public defenders
by name, it also made no express reference to state toxicology experts, the
people whom Plaintiff contends he meant to insult. Plaintiff’s “hacks” email managed
to be abrasive toward its targets yet vague as to precisely who those targets were,
and Defendant’s interpretation — that Plaintiff, an attorney with his own
practice, was referring to public defenders — was a reasonable interpretation
of an ambiguous and bellicose text. Even by Plaintiff’s own evidence, Defendant
(and the other readers of the email chain) had no reason to believe differently
until Plaintiff sent further emails belatedly clarifying his subjective intent,
after which Defendant did not repeat the statement. Indeed, the colloquial tone
and insulting character of Plaintiff’s own emails suggests that the environment
of his exchange with Defendant  was one
in which “use of epithets, fiery rhetoric or hyperbole” was likely. (Gregory,
supra, 17 Cal.3d at p. 601.) Such an environment is one in which
participants would understand the opinionated character of Defendant’s email. 
The claim also fails because
Plaintiff has presented no proof of special damages. A statement that Plaintiff
referred to public defenders as “state hacks” is not defamation per se, as the
statement is not “libelous on its face,” or at least not any more libelous than
the contention, which Plaintiff acknowledges to be true, that he actually meant
to insult state toxicology experts. (Selleck v. Globe International, Inc.
(1985) 166 Cal.App.3d 1123, 1130.) “[I]f the listener would not recognize the
defamatory meaning without knowledge of specific facts and circumstances,
extrinsic to the publication, which are not matters of common knowledge
rationally attributable to all reasonable persons, the matter is deemed
defamatory per quod and requires pleading and proof of special damages.” (McGarry
v. University of San Diego (2007) 154 Cal.App.4th 97, 112.) Here, the
contention that Plaintiff insulted public defenders can only be made defamatory
by reference to extrinsic matters — namely that Plaintiff derives substantial
income from employment with public defenders. The statement, even if defamatory,
is only “defamatory per quod and requires pleading and proof of special
damages.” (Ibid.)  Plaintiff has
not alleged or presented such proof here.
 
The special motion to strike is therefore GRANTED.
  
 




