  Case Number:  21STCV29883    Hearing Date:   October 5, 2023    Dept:  61 Defendant State Farm Mutual
Automobile Insurance Company’s Motion for Summary Judgment or Adjudication is
DENIED.
I.                  
SUMMARY
JUDGMENT
A party may move for summary judgment “if it
is contended that the action has no merit or that there is no defense to the
action or proceeding.”  (Code Civ. Proc.
§ 437c, subd. (a).) “[I]f all the evidence submitted, and all inferences
reasonably deducible from the evidence and uncontradicted by other inferences
or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and
that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law,” the moving
party will be entitled to summary judgment.  (Adler
v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) A motion for
summary adjudication may be made by itself or as an alternative to a motion for
summary judgment and shall proceed in all procedural respects as a motion for
summary judgment.  (Code Civ. Proc. §
437c, subd. (f)(2).)
 
The moving party bears an initial burden of
production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable
issue of material fact, and if he does so, the burden shifts to the opposing
party to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of
material fact.  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850;
accord Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)
 
Once the defendant
has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a triable
issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action or a
defense thereto.  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at 850.) 
The plaintiff may not rely upon the mere allegations or denials of its
pleadings to show that a triable issue of material fact exists but, instead,
shall set forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue of material
fact exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto.  (Ibid.) 
To establish a triable issue of material fact, the party opposing the
motion must produce substantial responsive evidence.  (Sangster
v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)
 
Defendant State Farm
Mutual Automobile Insurance Company (Defendant) moves for summary judgment or
adjudication of Plaintiff Araik Kostandyan’s (Plaintiff) first and second
causes of action for breach of insurance contract and breach of the implied
covenant of good faith and fair dealing. Defendant argues that there are no
triable issues as to whether Plaintiff was entitled to benefits under the
policy, because Plaintiff failed to cooperate with Defendant’s investigation as
required under the policy, and further that the evidence establishes that the
damage to the subject vehicle was not for the reasons that Plaintiff claims.
(Motion at pp. 16–18.) For the same reason, Defendant claims that Plaintiff
cannot prevail on the breach of covenant claim, as there was a genuine dispute
as to coverage in which Defendant was permitted to rely on the advice of its
experts. (Motion at pp. 18–23.)
 
The
elements of a breach of contract claim are “(1)
the existence of the contract, (2) plaintiff's performance or excuse for
nonperformance, (3) defendant's breach, and (4) the resulting damages to the
plaintiff.” (D'Arrigo Bros. of California v. United Farmworkers of America
(2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 790, 800.) 
 
 
“California law
recognizes in every contract, including insurance policies, an implied covenant
of good faith and fair dealing. In the insurance context the implied covenant
requires the insurer to refrain from injuring its insured's right to receive
the benefits of the insurance agreement. The covenant is implied as a
supplement to the express contractual covenants, to prevent a contracting party
from engaging in conduct that frustrates the other party's rights to the
benefits of the agreement.” (Brehm v. 21st
Century Ins. Co. (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 1225, 1235, internal citations and
quotation marks omitted.)
“[A]n insurer denying or delaying
the payment of policy benefits due to the existence of a genuine dispute with
its insured as to the existence of coverage liability or the amount of the
insured's coverage claim is not liable in bad faith even though it might be
liable for breach of contract.” (Id.
at p. 1237, alterations omitted.) The covenant of good faith and fair dealing
may “be breached for objectively unreasonable conduct, regardless of the
actor’s motive,” and “[n]ot only is subjective bad faith unnecessary to establish a bad faith cause of action, it is also insufficient to do so.” (Bosetti v. U.S. Life Ins. Co. in City of New
York (2009) 175 Cal.App.4th 1208, 1236.) The “genuine dispute” doctrine “enables
an insurer to obtain summary adjudication of a bad faith cause of action by establishing
that its denial of coverage, even if ultimately erroneous and a breach of
contract, was due to a genuine
dispute
with its insured.”
(Bosetti v. United States Life Ins. Co. in City of New York (2009) 175
Cal.App.4th 1208, 1237.)
The undisputed facts are these. Plaintiff was insured by
Defendant. (Plaintiff’s Separate Statement of Undisputed Material Facts (PUMF)
No. 1.) The policy requires Defendant to pay for loss or destruction of
property “caused by accident resulting from the ownership, maintenance or use
of your car.” (PUMF No. 35.) The policy states that “[t]he insured shall
cooperate with us and, when asked, assist us in: (1) making settlements; (2)
securing and giving evidence; (3) attending and getting witnesses to attend depositions,
hearings, and trials.” (PUMF No. 36.) The policy prohibits coverage “if you or
any other person insured under this policy has made false statements with the
intent to conceal or misrepresent any material fact or circumstance in
connection with any claim under this policy.” (PUMF No. 37.) 
Plaintiff reported that on December 25, 2019, his nephew
Gevork George Ayrapetyan (Ayrapetyan) was driving Plaintiff’s vehicle with his
permission, and was involved in a motor vehicle collision with a vehicle being
driven by Anicento Garcia-Montalvo (Garcia-Montalvo). (PUMF No. 2.) Defendant
obtained photographs and statements from the two drivers. (PUMF No. 4–6.) There
was a conflict as to who was at fault for the accident, so Defendant retained
Akerson & Miller, Consulting Engineers, Inc. (AMCE), an accident
reconstruction expert, to investigate the collision. (PUMF No. 9.) 
The AMCE report, dated March 11, 2020, states as follows in
the “Analysis” section:
According to the drivers of the BMW
[Ayrapetian] and Hyundai [Garcia-Montalvo] there was mutual contact on a
freeway. The BMW driver reported he was in the process of making a lane change
to the left and when he returned his attention to the roadway the Hyundai was
stopped. The Hyundai driver reported contract occurred as he was driving 60 to
70 miles per hour.
The Hyundai has damage that is offset to the
left side at the rear of the car. The BMW has damage that is offset to the
front right side. The damage would suggest that when mutual contact occurred
the BMW was offset to the left of the Hyundai. However, the damage to the
Hyundai quarter panel was primarily from contact by a narrow horizontal object.
There is no horizontal narrow object on the right front of the BMW that is
compatible with the Hyundai quarter panel damage. The Hyundai has scuffing that
is compatible with the Hyundai quarter panel damage. The Hyundai has scuffing
damage or black transfer on the rear bumper left side return that is
horizontal. There is no feature that is black on the BMW that is compatible
with the nature of the Hyundai bumper return damage. 
Distortion occurred to the leading edge of the
BMW right front door from contract at approximately mid-panel height. There is
no corresponding feature on the Hyundai that matches the nature and height of
the BMW right front door leading edge damage. 
Overall the nature of the damage to the left
rear of the Hyundai is incompatible with the nature of the damage to the right
front of the BMW. The physical evidence denies mutual contact occurred as
claimed. 
(Motion Exh. 13.) Under the “CONCLUSION” heading, the
report stated, “It is our opinion that the physical evidence denies mutual
contact occurred between the BMW and Hundai as claimed by the drivers.” (Ibid.)
Defendant retained Lloyd Michaelson as legal counsel on
March 11, 2023, to investigate the claims. (PUMF No. 13.) Michaelson requested
documents and an examination from Ayrapetyan on May 18, 2023. (PUMF No. 19.)
Arapetyan submitted to an examination under oath on June 15, 2020. (PUMF No.
21.) Michaelson repeatedly requested records from Plaintiff and Ayrapetyan,
including the phone number of Ayrapetyan’s ex-girlfriend, whom he had claimed
picked him up after the accident, as well as his cell phone records for the
days surrounding the accident. (PUMF No. 25, 27, 28.) Ayrapetyan did not
produce his cell phone records, did not produce his ex-girlfriend phone number,
and did not execute his sworn statement transcript. (PUMF No. 29.)[1]

On August 20, 2020, Defendant notified Plaintiff that it
had concluded its investigation and was denying Plaintiff’s claim, based on a
breach of the insured’s duty to cooperate and on misrepresentation of facts
presented in the claim. (PUMF No. 34.)
Defendant argues that there are no triable issues as to
whether it breached the insurance contract, because Plaintiff himself failed to
cooperate with the investigation by turning over all documents requested.
Additionally, Defendant argues that the report of its expert established a
basis for the denial of coverage, namely the fact that the nature of the
incident and damage was misrepresented. (Motion at pp. 16–18.) 
Plaintiff in opposition argues that there was no failure to
cooperate with Defendant, because all alleged failures of cooperation were on
the part of Ayrapetian, not himself, who is the named insured under the policy.
(Opposition at pp. 16–17.) Plaintiff also argues that Defendant’s investigation
concluded that there was no connection between Plaintiff or Ayrapetian and the
other driver, and thus Defendant had no basis for believing the accident was a
collusive event. (Opposition at pp. 17–20.) 
Triable issues of fact prevent the adjudication of
Plaintiff’s claim for breach of contract, specifically as to the issue of
Plaintif’s cooperation and as to the facts of the underlying collision.
Although Defendant makes much of Ayrapetian’s failure to supply relevant
information, it makes no attempt to show the second necessary element of its
lack-of-cooperation defense, namely that it was prejudiced by any such lack of
cooperation: “Under California law, an insured's breach of a notice provision or a cooperation
clause does not excuse the insurer's performance unless the insurer can show that it
suffered prejudice.” (Belz v. Clarendon America Ins. Co. (2007) 158
Cal.App.4th 615, 625.) Defendant makes no argument as to any prejudice suffered
by it as a result of Ayrapetian’s failure to cooperate.
Moreover, triable issues exist as to whether Plaintiff
engaged in misrepresentation or fraud, for the simple reason that both
Plaintiff and Ayrapetian deny that any such fraud took place. Plaintiff denies
knowing the other driver prior to the accident and denies colluding with his
nephew or anyone else to make it happen. (Kostandyan Decl. ¶¶ 10–12.)
Ayrapetian presents a declaration attesting to his narrative of the accident
and denying any fraud or collusion. (Ayrapetian Decl. ¶¶ 5–15.)[2]
Thus triable issues exist as to whether Defendant breached the policy by
denying Plaintiff benefits owed.
Triable
issues further exist as to the bad faith breach of covenant claim. Although
Defendnat cites its reliance on its AMCE expert report, “an expert's
testimony will not automatically insulate an insurer from a bad faith
claim based on a biased investigation.” (Chateau Chamberay Homeowners Ass'n
v. Associated Intern. Ins. Co. (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 335, 348.) An insured
may rebut an insurer’s reliance on experts by showing:
 
(1) the insurer was guilty of misrepresenting
the nature of the investigatory proceedings; (2) the insurer's employees lied during the
depositions or to the insured;
(3) the insurer dishonestly selected its experts; (4) the insurer's experts were
unreasonable; and (5) the insurer failed to conduct a thorough investigation.
(Chateau
Chamberay Homeowners Ass'n v. Associated Intern. Ins. Co. (2001) 90
Cal.App.4th 335, 348–349, internal citations and quotation marks omitted.)
 
Triable
issues exist here as to whether Defendant’s reliance on the AMCE report was
reasonable. The ACME relied solely on points of inconsistency between the
damage suffered by the vehicles, namely that, although both sustained damage to
the relevant quadrants as described by both drivers, the Hyundai had sustained
“narrow horizontal” damage and damage to its bumper inconsistent with the
features evident on the BMW, and that the BMW had sustained damage to its
right-front door inconsistent with any feature on the Hyundai. (Motion Exh.
13.) The investigation was conducted by reference to the statements offered by
the drivers and the post-accident photos submitted thereby. (Ibid.) Yet
when Defendant denied the claim, it had no basis for believing that Plaintiff
was connected with the driver of the Hyundai, who otherwise corroborated the
testimony of Ayrapetian that a traffic collision had caused the damage. Although
Defendant contends that there were other indicators of fraud, it presents no
evidence to support the contention that any of the underlying indicators
existed, or that it reasonably relied upon their existence. (Motion Separate
Statement No. 3.) Triable issues therefore exist as to whether Defendant
reasonably relied upon its expert report, and thus whether a genuine dispute
existed.
 
The
motion is therefore DENIED.  
 


