  Case Number:  23VECV00989    Hearing Date:   December 4, 2024    Dept:  T 23VECV00989 JOURABCHI V CITY OF LA
[TENTATIVE]
ORDER:  Defendants John C. McManus and Patricia A. McManus, as Trustees of
the John C. McManus and Patricia A. McManus Living Trust, Dated July 4, 1996,
Demurrer to the Second Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.
Defendants
John C. McManus and Patricia A. McManus, as Trustees of the John C. McManus and
Patricia A. McManus Living Trust, Dated July 4, 1996, Motion to Strike Portions
of the Second Amended Complaint is MOOT.
Defendants
John C. McManus and Patricia A. McManus, as Trustees of the John C. McManus and
Patricia A. McManus Living Trust, Dated July 4, 1996, Request for Judicial
Notice is GRANTED but only as to the existence of the documents and not as to
any facts in dispute or hearsay.
Introduction
Defendants
John C. McManus and Patricia A. McManus, as Trustees of the John C. McManus and
Patricia A. McManus Living Trust, Dated July 4, 1996, (collectively,
Defendants) demurred to Plaintiffs' Parivash Jourabchi, Natanel Jourabchi,
Mikel Jourabchi, and David Jourabchi’s (collectively, Plaintiffs) Second
Amended Complaint (SAC).  The injured person/decedent in this action is
alleged to be Feraidoun Jourabchi (Decedent).
The
demurrer placed into issue the first cause of action (COA) for premises
liability and the second COA for negligence.  The motion to strike placed
into issue the request for survival damages pursuant Code of Civil Procedure,
section 377.34.
Procedure
Defendants’
request judicial notice of a Misdemeanor Complaint and Plea Agreement (Exh. A);
Approval Letter issued by Los Angeles City (Exh B); and Court’s Docket (Exh.
C).  The Court only takes judicial notice of the existence of these
documents and does not take judicial notice of the hearsay found therein and
facts that are in dispute. 
Discussion
Defendants
argued that the two COAs failed to plead sufficient facts and are uncertain as
to the elements of duty and causation.  In the first COA, Plaintiffs
alleged that Defendants had a duty in using or maintaining their
property.  (SAC pg. 4, par. 2.)  In the second COA, Plaintiffs
alleged that Defendants had a duty of care in the design, operation,
maintenance, and creation of the property.  (SAC pg. 5, par. GN-1.) 
Defendants argued that the SAC alleged that Rivera “was traveling westbound on
Ventura Boulevard and made a legal left turn, across a double yellow line, in
front of the oncoming eastbound vehicle driven by Defendant, Para Azadi
(“Azadi”) (who was speeding).  The vehicle driven by Azadi, after the
impact from the Rivera vehicle, traveled up onto the public sidewalk and struck
Fereidoun Jourabchi (“Decedent”) who was sitting on an MTA bus bench.” 
(Demurrer, pg. 4:5-9.)  
Some
of the fact allegations, as detailed as they are described in the demurrer, are
not alleged in the SAC.  The allegation in the SAC is that Defendants
“harbored a dangerous condition that existed in the front parking lot and drive
aisle of the property, Namely, the direction of travel for traffic using the
drive-aisle was incorrect and the reverse as it should have been.  The
drive-aisle as it was constructed required that vehicles enter from Ventura
Boulevard, and exit on to Shirley Ave.  This was a dangerous construction
of the drive aisle and parking lot because it invited entering vehicles to make
an illegal left turn from Ventura Boulevard and across the double yellow lines
on Ventura boulevard [sic] in the Subject Property.  Instead, the property
should  have had vehicles enter from Shirley Ave and exit onto Ventura
Blvd.  That would have avoided the crash in this case and prevented
Fereidoun Jourabchi’s death.  [Bolding added.]”  (SAC pg. 4, par. 4
and pg. 5, par. GN-1.)  These factual allegations show that Plaintiffs are
alleging that the ingress into Defendants’ parking lot to be a dangerous
condition because it invited patrons to make an allegedly “illegal” left turn
by crossing over double yellow lines.  However, as argued by Defendants,
the ingress into Defendants’ parking lot via a left turn that goes across
double yellow lines is not, in and of itself, illegal.  
The
Plaintiffs' allegation of “illegality” of the left turn by crossing over a single
set of double yellow lines into Defendants’ parking lot is not supported by the
facts or the law.
Even
it were illegal, Defendants then argued that there is no duty owed in
performing an illegal act (i.e., switching the points of ingress and
egress).  However, the argument presupposes that switching the
ingress/egress into the parking lot is illegal.  The argument is not
grounded on any facts alleged in the SAC and is thus unpersuasive. 
Defendants
then argued that there are insufficient facts as to duty especially as to
reasonable foreseeability since: Decedent was not alleged to be Defendants’
patron; Decedent was not alleged to have been injured on Defendant’s property;
and Decedent was allegedly injured by third parties.  The
instrumentalities in Decedent’s injuries were allegedly vehicles that were
unsafely operated.  The connection between the design of the ingress of
the parking lot is seen to be tenuous with Decedent’s injuries, especially when
the duty imposed upon the drivers crossing a single set of double yellow lines is,
under the law, to make left turns when it is safe.  Alleging that the
ingress/egress of the driveway should have been switched is not seen to make
the roadway any safer and/or is not seen to provide a prophylactic effect
because vehicles would still be crossing into the flow of traffic, whether they
make a left or right turn out of the parking lot.  Further, the moral
blameworthiness of Defendants’ conduct for allegedly creating the ingress into
the parking lot is seen to be minimal.   The Court does not find, as
a matter of law, that Defendants owed a duty to Plaintiffs.
Even
if a duty is owed to Plaintiffs, the allegations are deficient in pleading
facts to support causation.  With the facts alleged in the SAC,
Defendants’ alleged misconduct as to the ingress of their parking lot is not
seen as the actual cause of Plaintiffs’ injuries.  Decedent was allegedly
not on Defendants’ property and allegedly struck by one of two vehicles that
collided with each other on the public street and due to an unsafe left
turn.  The alleged facts are insufficient to show that the driveway for
ingress was a substantial factor in bringing the harm.  Without actual
cause, there is insufficient allegations as to legal or proximate cause. 
However, even if actual cause is somehow alleged, the alleged ingress into
Defendants’ property is seen as the condition upon which the two vehicles came
together.  The link between Plaintiffs’ injuries and the condition of the
property is tenuous.  The Court finds that Plaintiffs failed to plead
sufficient facts to support actual or legal causation as well.
Defendants
further argued that there are insufficient facts to plead prior notice as to
support duty.  Whether notice is sufficiently alleged or not, the Court
found that facts are lacking as to the duty element, as reviewed above.
Plaintiffs
argued that the issues raised by the demurrer are issues of fact and are better
reviewed by way of a motion for summary judgment.  However, the Court
finds that the facts alleged in the SAC are sufficient for the Court to
determine whether facts are sufficiently pled to support the elements of duty
and causation as a matter of law.
Plaintiffs
did not present any additional facts to show that the above pleading defects
can be cured.  Without additional facts that could be pled, there is
insufficient grounds to grant leave to amend.
The
demurrer to the SAC is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.
The
motion to strike is MOOT. 
IT
IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE NOTICE.  
The
court will enter a Judgment of Dismissal with prejudice as to moving parties.