 Case Number:  24VECV02910    Hearing Date:   December 4, 2024    Dept:  T 24VECV02910
HAROONIAN V MASERATI (MNA)
 
Tentative ruling:  Objections are stricken as irrelevant and
without merit.  Defendant MNA is ordered
to provide VERIFIED Code Compliant responses without objection including a complete
privilege log within 10 days.  On the one
hand, defendant says it will comply in full but on the other hand defendant
objects.  Therefore, it is impossible to
determine whether any documents that are otherwise responsive have not been
identified and produced because of the objections.  Plaintiff has attached a copy of the response
and it is unverified. That issue was not addressed in the opposition.
 
Furthermore,
defendant was in the wrong by failing to produce documents because there was no
protective order.  At the outset of this
case, defendant knew it would not produce the documents without a protective
order and should have sought the protective order prior to the responses being
served.  It is not proper to refuse to
produce per a lack of a protective order and then not make efforts to get the
protective order prior to the response.  Defendant appeared in the case in July 2024
and did not respond to discovery until September 2024.
A protective
order should have been obtained in that period.
 
Defendant
states in the opposition that further responses would be served. The Reply does
not mention whether further responses were served or not and, if so, they are
not attached.
 
Therefore,
the court orders defendant to serve VERIFIED fully Code Compliant responses
without objection within 10 days, including a privilege log which identifies
otherwise responsive documents being withheld per privilege.  The court will set a hearing after that date
to review the responses to decide the next step.
 
Monetary
sanctions will be assessed against MNA once this process is complete and the
court finalizes its orders concerning this motion.  This will be based on the improper
objections, the lack of Code Compliant responses and document production, for
failure to obtain a protective order and refusing to produce documents, and for
failure to verify the initial responses, all of which constitutes discovery
abuse.
 
 