 Case Number:  23VECV03864    Hearing Date:   December 4, 2024    Dept:  T Abazari v VW 23VECV03864 Tentative rulings on MILs All rulings on all motions in limine apply with equal effect on all parties, counsel, and witnesses.  Counsel are required to advise their clients and witnesses of these court rulings. Plaintiff's Motions in Limine  To exclude mention, discussion, questions, answers, arguments, re settlement negotiations: Grant To exclude evidence, testimony, questions, answers, or argument, etc that defendant proposed arbitration: Grant. To exclude any reference to attorney fees and litigation costs: Grant To exclude evidence, questions, answers,  testimony, or argument re plaintiff's application for financing (only as to financial condition) and financial condition: Grant To exclude any mention referring or relating to attorney advertising: Grant To exclude evidence, questions, answers, or argument that plaintiff was required to revoke acceptance of the vehicle in order to recover restitution: Grant. To establish that statements by dealership personnel are not hearsay and admissible: Grant as to representations made to plaintiff about the vehicle by dealer employees. To exclude evidence or any mention of CCP 998 offer: Grant  Defendant's Motions in Limine  To preclude mention of one time and unreported complaints: Deny as to 1 time, Grant as to unreported. To exclude evidence of other similar incidents: Deny. To preclude reference to Golden Rule or reptile arguments: Grant To preclude mention of defendant's size, financial condition or foreign ownership: Grant To exclude reference to bad reputation of VW: Grant. To exclude evidence or argument of other manufacturers: Grant. To exclude mention of non-warranty concerns: Grant. To preclude evidence of non authorize service centers or dealerships: Deny. To preclude reference to technical bulletins and recall campaigns unrelated to plaintiff's claims: Grant To preclude evidence not produced in discovery: It depends on what discovery, what was requested, what was the answer and was a motion made. To preclude evidence of costs of vehicle use: Grant.To preclude reference to AEB system based on res judicata under class settlement: Grant.