 Case Number:  23STCV25609    Hearing Date:   April 26, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



POWERHOUSE ENTERPRISE LTD., a California Corporation; GILI
  COHEN, an individual,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
JLR LOS ANGELES LLC, a Delaware Limited Liability Company; and
  DOES 1 through 30, inclusive,
                        Defendants.


 Case No.:          23STCV25609
 Hearing Date:   4/26/24
 Trial Date:        2/11/25
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Defendant JLR Los
  Angeles LLC’s Motion for Order Compelling Plaintiff Gili Cohen to Provide
  Responses to Requests for Production of Documents, Set One, and Request for
  $2,356.65 in Monetary Sanctions [CRS# 9791]; and
Defendant JLR Los
  Angeles LLC’s Motion for Order Compelling Plaintiff Powerhouse
  Enterprise Ltd. to Provide Responses
  to Requests for Production of Documents, Set One, and Request for $2,271.65
  in Monetary Sanctions [CRS# 9791].



 
I. Background
The complaint in this
case alleges violations of the California Consumer Legal Remedies Act, fraud
and deceit, and related claims arising from the purchase of an automobile with
an undisclosed markup. On November 30, 2023, Defendant JLR Los Angeles LLC
(JLR) served Requests for Production of Documents (RPDs), Set One, on
Plaintiffs Powerhouse Enterprise Ltd. (Powerhouse) and Gili Cohen. Responses
were due around January 2, 2024.
On January 5, 2024,
JLR’s counsel emailed Plaintiffs’ counsel seeking responses to RPDs, Set One,
from each Plaintiff by January 15, 2024. Plaintiffs’ counsel represents that counsel
missed this email based on a technical issue.
On January 22, 2024,
based on Plaintiffs’ and counsel’s nonresponse, JLR filed motions to compel
initial production to RPDs, Set One, from Plaintiffs Powerhouse and Cohen
respectively. The motions also request monetary sanctions against Plaintiffs
and their counsel of record.
On April 11, 2024, Plaintiffs
Powerhouse and Cohen filed their respective oppositions to JLR’s motions. Both
oppositions attach a declaration from counsel indicating that counsel
inadvertently did not respond to the meet and confer efforts and that
Plaintiffs served responses to RPDs, Set One, on January 31, 2024, with supplemental
responses served on March 19, 2024. The oppositions attach Plaintiffs’ ‘supplemental’
responses.
On April 18, 2024, JLR replied
to Plaintiffs Powerhouse’s and Cohen’s oppositions. JLR’s replies do not
address the sufficiency of Plaintiffs’ responses to RPDs, Set One, instead
briefly noting that unverified responses were served on January 31, 2024, and
were later verified on March 19, 2024. The replies instead primarily limit
themselves to arguing in favor of monetary sanctions.
JLR’s motions are now
before the Court.
 
II. Motion to Compel Initial
Production and Requests for Sanctions
A.
Note – Same Analysis Based on Identical Papers Filed in Relation Plaintiffs
The
Court notes that the moving papers, the opposition papers, and the reply
papers, including the declarations from counsel, facts related to production, and
exhibits related to meet and confer, are essentially identical as between
Plaintiff Powerhouse and Plaintiff Cohen, only changing, for example, the name
of the Plaintiff at issue.
As
such, the Court proceeds with a single analysis as to both motions.
B.
Motions to Compel Production: MOOT.
On
January 31, 2024, Plaintiffs served what the reply characterizes as unverified responses
to RPDs, Set One, with verification following on March 19, 2024. (Reply, p. 2;
see Opp’ns, Margarian Decls., ¶¶ 8; Opp’ns, Exs. 2 [responses with March 19,
2024, verification, and no proofs of service].)
JLR’s
reply does not dispute service of these responses, nor does JLR contest their
sufficiency. JLR thus does not oppose the concept that its motions were mooted
as to initial production in relation to RPDs, Set One.
JLR’s
motions are thus MOOT as to compelling initial production to RPDs, Set One,
from Plaintiffs Powerhouse and Cohen.
C.
Requests for Sanctions: DENIED.
1. Legal Standard
The Court must impose monetary
sanctions against anyone—party, nonparty, or attorney—who unsuccessfully makes
or opposes the motion, unless it finds that the person to be sanctioned acted
with substantial justification or other circumstances make the imposition of
the sanctions unjust. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300, subd. (c).)
2. Court’s
Determination
Here, the Court finds that the
imposition of sanctions would be unjust.
Plaintiffs’ counsel’s declaration explains
that the failure to respond to JLR’s meet and confer effort was a result of
inadvertence—a “technical issue”—and that Plaintiffs complied with their
discovery obligations by serving responses to RPDs, Set One, on January 31,
2024, nine days after JLR filed the motions before the Court, later ‘supplementing’
those responses on March 19, 2024. (Opp’ns, Margarian Decls., ¶¶ 4-8.) Under
these circumstances—and even if the responses were first served unverified on
January 31, 2024, and later verified on March 19, 2024—the Court agrees with
Plaintiffs when they argue that they course-corrected in good faith, serving
responses to RPDs, Set One, as of March 19, 2024, at the latest.
JLR’s reply does not advance
arguments convincing the Court to find to the contrary. Both replies primarily
focus on relating the procedural history for RPDs, Set One. The substantive
argument for monetary sanctions is brief and states: “Because it is patently
clear that Plaintiff and his attorney would have never served verified
responses to this discovery if Defendant had not filed this motion, the Court
should impose sanctions … to reimburse Defendant for the fees and costs it incurred
in pursuing the motion.” (Replies, pp. 2.) The Court disagrees with this
argument. As discussed in the preceding paragraph, the Court finds it more
reasonable to interpret Plaintiffs’ and counsel’s conduct as delay based on
some kind of mistake or inadvertence, with Plaintiffs showing good faith in
serving responses to RPDs, Set One, a mere nine days after JLR filed its
motions. Even if those responses were unverified—thus not constituting any
responses at all until verification on March 19, 2024—the substance of
Plaintiffs’ responses was clear as of January 31, 2024. Plaintiffs are
admonished for not serving verifications more quickly after January 31, 2024, instead
delaying until March 19, 2024, to do so. However, again, in the whole,
Plaintiffs have, if belatedly, satisfied their obligations under the Discovery
Act.
Based on the above, the Court
determines that sanctions here would be unjust.
JLR’s requests for monetary
sanctions are thus DENIED. 
III. Conclusion
A. RPDs, Set One, Gili Cohen
Defendant JLR Los Angeles LLC’s
Motion for Order Compelling Plaintiff Gili Cohen to Provide Responses to
Requests for Production of Documents, Set One, and Request for $2,356.65 in
Monetary Sanctions [CRS# 9791] is:
(1) MOOT as to compelling initial
production responses in relation to Requests for Production of Documents, Set
One, from Plaintiff Gili Cohen.
(2) DENIED as to monetary
sanctions.
B. RPDs, Set One, Powerhouse
Enterprise Ltd.
Defendant JLR Los Angeles LLC’s
Motion for Order Compelling Plaintiff Powerhouse Enterprise Ltd. to Provide
Responses to Requests for Production of Documents, Set One, and Request for $2,271.65 in Monetary Sanctions [CRS#
9791] is:
(1) MOOT as to compelling initial
production responses in relation to Requests for Production of Documents, Set
One, from Plaintiff Powerhouse Enterprise Ltd.
(2) DENIED as to monetary
sanctions.