  Case Number:  BC349267    Hearing Date:   August 1, 2024    Dept:  11 BC349267 (Booker)
 
Tentative Ruling
Re: Severability and Scope of Discovery
 
Date:                           8/1/24
Time:                          1:45 pm
Moving Party:           Nate Booker, et al. (“Plaintiffs”)
Opposing Party:        Telecom Network Specialists, Inc.
(“TNS”)

Department:              11
Judge:                        David S. Cunningham III
 

 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
The Court intends to comply with
the Court of Appeal’s opinion and will follow the Court of Appeal’s
rulings.  Consequently, for now, the
overtime cause of action is out of the case, and the Court declines to reopen
discovery as to the overtime claim.
 
The severability doctrine does
not apply.
 
The Court is inclined to order Plaintiffs
to submit a trial plan that includes a manageable plan for trying TNS’s
defenses.
 
Plaintiffs’ discovery proposal is
too limited.  Prior to reopening
discovery, the Court is inclined to see/hear expert evidence on what discovery
would be needed to make each side’s sample representative.    
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is a wage-and-hour class
action.  The extensive procedural history
is summarized in the Court of Appeal’s October 2023 opinion.  Relevantly, the Court of Appeal reversed several
summary-adjudication rulings and remanded the case with instructions.  (See Doshi Decl., Ex. F.)  
 
Here, the Court must consider the
parties’ briefs concerning severability and the scope of discovery post-remand.
 
DISCUSSION
 
Relevant Prior Rulings
 
“In May 2012, Plaintiffs moved
for class certification.”  (Doshi Decl.,
Ex. D, p. 4.)  Judge (now Justice) John
Shepard Wiley, Jr. denied it, “concluding that Plaintiffs were incapable of
establishing liability against TNS through common proof because of the
diversity of work conditions and policies of the Staffing Companies.”  (Ibid.)
 
“Plaintiffs appealed, and the
Court of Appeal reversed. 
[Citation.]”  (Ibid.)
 
“In September 2015, following
remand and reconsideration,” Judge Wiley “granted Plaintiffs’ motion for class
certification.”  (Ibid.)
 
“On January 27, 2017, Judge Wiley
granted Plaintiffs’ motion for summary adjudication, ruling that TNS employed
the class and had a statutory duty to give class members proper breaks and
overtime pay.  [Citation.]”  (Ibid.) 
“Judge Wiley found that TNS failed to pay some class members their
overtime as well as failing to provide meal and rest breaks to many class
members.  [Citation.]”  (Ibid.)
 
“On February 26, 2018, Judge
Wiley granted Plaintiffs’ motion for summary adjudication on the first three
causes of action for unpaid overtime, meal break premiums and rest break
premiums.  [Citation.]”  (Ibid.) 
“Judge Wiley found that Plaintiffs’ expert, Dr. Brian Kriegler,
‘proposed a fundamentally sound method’ for approximating damages but neglected
to account for evidence that certain employees either took breaks or willingly
skipped them.  [Citation.]”  (Ibid.) 

 
“Judge Wiley denied Plaintiffs’
motion for summary adjudication of the claims for wage statement and waiting
time penalties[.]”  (Ibid.)  He found that “Plaintiffs improperly assessed
penalties based on TNS’s failure to pay meal and rest break premiums[,]” and he
“ordered Plaintiffs to re-file with revised damages calculations.  [Citation.]” 
(Ibid.)
 
“On February 5, 2019,” Judge Amy
Hogue (now retired) “granted Plaintiffs’ revised motion for summary
adjudication as to the amount of overtime, meal and rest break damages and
interest[.]”  (Ibid.)  “Relying on” Kriegler’s calculations, “Judge
Hogue concluded that TNS owed $927,270 in overtime damages, $3,142,766 for meal
break omissions and $3,375,053 [for] rest break omissions.  [Citation.]” 
(Ibid.)  She found the total to be
$7,445,089.  (See ibid.)
 
Judge Hogue “denied summary
adjudication for Plaintiffs for additional wage statement penalties based on
meal and rest break violations under” Labor Code section 226.7.  (Id. at Ex. D, pp. 4-5.)
 
“Judge Hogue allowed for
potential liability for wage statement penalties under Section 226 that were
unrelated to meal and rest break violations.” 
(Id. at Ex. D, p. 5.)  She “noted
that ‘TNS produced wage statements that accurately reflect the total number of
hours worked by class members, but omit the additional pay earned by class
members who worked overtime.’ 
[Citations.]”  (Ibid.)  Citing Maldonado v. Epsilon Plastics, Inc.
(2018) 22 Cal.App.5th 1308,” she “explained that injury is not
presumed when a wage statement fails to include wages earned and observed that
only the absence of hours worked gives rise to an inference of an injury
supporting penalties.”  (Ibid.)
 
“Judge Hogue further found that
TNS had raised a triable issue regarding a possible ‘good faith’ defense to
Labor Code section 203 penalties. 
[Citation.]”  (Ibid.)
 
“On July 9, 2019,” this Court
“granted in part and denied in part TNS’s subsequent motion for summary
adjudication as to the Sections 203 and 226 penalty claims.”  (Ibid.) 
“The Court granted summary adjudication in favor of TNS, holding that
penalties for Section 226.7 for meal and rest break violations cannot support
any additional wage statement penalties under Section 226.”  (Ibid.) 

 
“However, summary adjudication of
this limited issue did not fully dispose of Plaintiffs’ fifth and seventh
causes of action for civil penalties.” 
(Ibid.)  “The Court denied summary
adjudication for TNS as to ‘injury’ under Section 226, and as to willfulness
and the good faith defense under Section 203, subject to a bench trial on these
disputed claims.”  (Id. at Ex. D, pp.
5-6.) 
 
This Court held the bench trial
in 2020.  “Kriegler submitted a
declaration calculating penalties for the class and testified at trial.”  (Id. at Ex. F, p. 14.)  He “assumed each staffing company
technician’s employment with TNS ended on the final day TNS’s timekeeping
records showed the technician worked on a TNS project.”  (Ibid.) 
“Because no technicians worked for TNS after 2013, Kriegler determined
all technicians who had unpaid overtime compensation were entitled to the
maximum waiting time penalty of 30 days’ pay at their regular hourly rate.  [Citation.]” 
(Ibid.)  “Using his prior
determinations of which technicians had unpaid overtime compensation[,]” he
“calculated waiting time penalties for each technician.”  (Ibid.) 
“The total waiting time penalties for the class was $1,177,943.”  (Ibid.)
 
“TNS argued it was not liable for
any waiting time penalties under section 203 because there were good faith
disputes whether the staffing company technicians were independent contractors
rather than employees and whether TNS therefore had to pay any overtime
compensation to the technicians. 
[Citation.]”  (Ibid.)  “TNS also argued there was a good faith
dispute whether it was responsible for paying the technician’s wages because,
under its agreements with the staffing companies, the staffing companies were
supposed to pay wages.”  (Ibid.)
 
The Court disagreed and “found in
favor of the class on the cause of action for waiting time penalties under
section 203 and accepted Kriegler’s calculations for penalties.”  (Id. at Ex. F, p. 15.)  The Court held that “TNS failed to meet its
burden to establish a good faith dispute for two reasons.”  (Ibid.) 
“First, the evidence showed ‘TNS took no reasonable action to determine
whether it was the employer’ of the staffing company technicians, for example,
by ‘seek[ing] attorney advice, seek[ing] guidance from [s]tate agencies,’ or
comparing its practices with similar employers.”  (Ibid.) 
“Second, there was no evidence TNS took any steps to audit the staffing
companies to determine whether the companies were paying the technicians
legally required overtime wages.” 
(Ibid.)
 
Plaintiffs “also sought penalties
for various wage statement violations under section 226.”  (Id. at Ex. F, p. 15 n.4.)  The Court ruled “in favor of TNS on this
claim, ruling Benton did not meet his burden to prove the class suffered any
injury from the asserted wage statement violations.”  (Ibid. [citing Maldonado, supra, 22
Cal.App.5th at 1334-1335].)
 
The Court of Appeal’s
October 13, 2023 Opinion
 
The Court of Appeal’s opinion
contains at least nine primary rulings:
 
(1) it reverses the judgment (see
id. at Ex. F, p. 62);
 
(2) it vacates the “January 27,
2017, February 26, 2018 and February 5, 2019 orders granting [Plaintiffs’]
motions for summary adjudication” (ibid.);
 
(3) it instructs the Court to
“enter a new order granting [Plaintiffs’] motion for summary adjudication on
the cause of action for failure to pay overtime compensation” (ibid.; see also
id. at Ex. F, pp. 43-48 [finding that “[t]he trial court did not err in
granting [Plaintiffs’] motion for summary adjudication on the cause of action
for failure to pay overtime compensation”], capitalizing and italicizing
deleted; id. at Ex. F, p. 3); 
 
(4) it instructs the Court to
“enter a new order . . . denying [Plaintiffs’] motion for summary adjudication
on the causes of action for failure to provide meal and rest breaks” (id. at
Ex. F, p. 62; see also id. at Ex. F, pp. 20-37 [finding that “[t]he trial court
erred in granting [Plaintiffs’] motion for summary adjudication on the causes
of action for failure to provide meal and rest breaks”], capitalizing and
italicizing deleted; id. at Ex. F, p. 3);
 
(5) it vacates the “order
granting TNS’s motion for summary adjudication on the claims for waiting time
and wage statement penalties for unpaid and unreported meal and rest break
premiums” (id. at Ex. F, pp. 62-63);
 
(6) it instructs the Court to
“enter a new order denying [TNS’s] motion” (id. at Ex. F, p. 63; see also id.
at Ex. F, pp. 38-42 [finding that “[t]he trial court erred in granting TNS’s
motion for summary adjudication on the claims for waiting time and wage
statement penalties for failing to provide meal and rest breaks”], capitalizing
and italicizing deleted; id. at Ex. F, pp. 3-4);
 
(7) with respect to the bench
trial, it holds that the Court “did not err in finding in favor of the class on
the claim for waiting time penalties for unpaid overtime” (id. at Ex. F, p. 48,
capitalizing and italicizing deleted; see also id. at Ex. F, pp. 49-55; id. at
Ex. F, p. 4);
 
(8) it holds that the Court “did
not err in denying TNS’s motion to decertify the class” (id. at Ex. F., p. 56,
capitalizing and italicizing deleted; see also id. at Ex. F, pp. 4, 57-62); and
 
(9) it directs the Court to
“conduct further proceedings on the causes of action for failure to permit meal
and rest breaks and the associated claims for waiting time and wage statement
penalties” (id. at Ex. F, p. 4).
 
Law of the Case
 
TNS claims the Court of Appeal’s
reversal of the judgment is an unqualified reversal.  TNS contends “[t]he effect of an unqualified
reversal . . . is to vacate the judgment ,and to leave the case ‘at large’ for
further proceedings as if it had never been tried, and as if no judgment had
ever been rendered.”  (TNS’s Opening
Brief, p. 6; see also TNS’s Reply Brief, pp. 3-6.)  As a result, TNS contends none of the Court
of Appeal’s rulings constitutes law of the case.  (See TNS’s Opening Brief, p. 7; see also TNS’s
Reply Brief, pp. 6-8.)
 
Given the multiple instructions
in the opinion, and the fact that the opinion essentially upholds Judge Wiley’s
ruling as to the overtime cause of action, it is questionable whether the
reversal qualifies as an unqualified reversal. 
(See, e.g., Doshi Decl., Ex. F, pp. 62-63.)  
 
Even assuming it is an
unqualified reversal, though, TNS admits that the Court of Appeal’s opinion
“must be followed[.]”  (TNS’s Opening
Brief, p. 6 [quoting Ellsworth v. City of Berkeley (2023) 89 Cal.App.5th
258, 268].)  For example, TNS concedes
that the Court must obey the Court of Appeal’s instruction to “enter a new
order granting [Plaintiffs’] motion for summary adjudication on the cause of
action for failure to pay overtime compensation[.]”  (Id. at p. 7 [quoting page 62 of the Court of
Appeal’s opinion].)  Undisputedly, the
new order, once issued, “will ‘remove[]’ that cause of action ‘from the
case[.]’”  (Ibid. [quoting Raghavan v.
Boeing Co. (2005) 133 Cal.App.4th 1120, 1137].)  
 
TNS’s argument – the new order
will not be law of the case because the Court will still be able to reconsider
it “if proper grounds arise” (ibid.) – does not change the result.  Code of Civil Procedure section 1008 sets a
10-day deadline for reconsideration. 
(See Code Civ. Proc. § 1008, subd. (a).) 
The Court doubts that there will be a new fact, circumstance, or law
justifying reconsideration within 10 days. 
After 10 days, the Court would have to act sua sponte to
reconsider.  The Court of Appeal’s opinion
appears to chastise the parties and the trial judges for the delay that has
already occurred in this case.  (See
Doshi Decl., Ex. F, p. 2.)  Absent a
clear change in law, the Court would be disinclined to grant reconsideration
since it would create additional delay. 
Bottom line, the likelihood of reconsideration is small.
 
Whether treated as actual law of
the case or quasi-law of the case, the Court intends to comply with the opinion
and to follow the Court of Appeal’s rulings. 
At this time, the Court finds that the overtime cause of action is out
of the case and that discovery should not be reopened as to the overtime claim.
 
Severability
 
The severability doctrine allows
“[a]n aggrieved party . . . to take only a partial appeal from a
‘severable’ part of a judgment.” 
(Eisenberg, et al., Cal. Practice Guide: Civ. Appeals and Writs (The
Rutter Group December 2023 Update) ¶ 2:312, emphasis in original.)  “A portion of a judgment is nonseverable
(and hence not subject to a partial appeal) if it is so interwoven with all other provisions of the judgment as to
preclude independent examination.” 
(Ibid., emphasis in original.)  “Thus,
the ‘test’ of severability is whether the matters or issues embraced by the
portion in question are ‘the same as, or interdependent upon, the matters or
issues which have not been attacked’” – i.e., “whether any appellate
disposition on the portion in question would affect the other provisions of the
judgment.”  (Ibid. [citing Gonzales v.
R.J. Novick Construction Co. (1978) 20 Cal.3d 798, American Enterprise,
Inc. v. Van Winkle (1952) 39 Cal.2d 210 (“American Enterprise”), and
Marriage of Garrity & Bishton (1986) 181 Cal.App.3d 675].)
 
“If a judgment is severable, the unappealed portions
are final and left in full force.” 
(Id. at ¶ 2:317, emphasis in original.) 
“The appellate court lacks jurisdiction to consider the portions
not appealed; and a reversal or modification of the appealed portion has no
effect on the unappealed portions.” 
(Ibid., emphasis in original.) 
“In other words, a partial appeal effectively ‘abandons’ the right to
appellate review of the severable parts of a judgment that were not
appealed.”  (Ibid. [citing Gonzales,
supra, 20 Cal.3d 798 and ReadyLink Healthcare v. Cotton (2005) 126
Cal.App.4th 1006].)
 
Nevertheless, “a purported partial appeal from a nonseverable judgment normally brings before the reviewing
court all of the
nonseverable portions[.]”  (Id. at ¶
2:318, emphasis in original.)  The
reviewing court “has
jurisdiction to review not only the specific portion appealed but also the ‘interdependent’ nonappealed portions (the appeal
need not be dismissed).”  (Ibid. [citing Gonzales,
supra, 20 Cal.3d 798, American Enterprise, supra, 39 Cal.2d 210, and Everly
Enterprises, Inc. v. Altman (1960) 54 Cal.2d 761], emphasis in original.)
 
According to Plaintiffs, “[t]hese rules [] mean that
the portion of the case that has been finally determined – the overtime claim
and the claim for section 203 penalties for class members owed overtime – are
no longer appealable.”  (Plaintiffs’
Opening Brief, p. 2.)  Plaintiffs contend
“[t]he remaining portions of the case which have been returned to active
litigation – the meal break claim, the rest break claim, the section 203 claim
for class members owed meal or rest breaks, and the wage statement claim – will
be separately appealable from the final judgment.”  (Ibid.; see also Plaintiffs’ Reply Brief, pp.
1, 5-7.)
 
TNS claims the Court of Appeal’s
unqualified reversal of the judgment renders the severability doctrine
inapplicable.  (See TNS’s Opening Brief,
p. 8; see also TNS’s Reply Brief, pp. 3-8.)
 
Again, it is questionable whether
the reversal qualifies as an unqualified reversal.  
 
Regardless, because of the
reversal, and because reconsideration is unlikely, the severability doctrine
“is not implicated.”  (TNS’s Opening
Brief, p. 8.)  
 
Trial Plan
 
TNS contends the Court should
require Plaintiffs file a new “class action trial plan” to show that the case,
especially TNS’s affirmative defenses, can be tried in a manageable way.  (Id. at p. 11; see also id. at p. 12; TNS’s
Reply Brief, pp. 15-16.)
 
On one hand, case law recognizes
the ongoing obligation of courts to evaluate manageability and to “decertify .
. . if individual issues prove unmanageable.” 
(Duran v. U.S. Bank N.A. (2014) 59 Cal.4th 1,
29.)  The Court has discretion to order a
trial plan to help the Court carry out this evaluation duty, and there is a
reasonable basis for requiring a trial plan under the circumstances.  The class is made up of employees from more
than 30 staffing companies.  (See TNS’s
Reply Brief, pp. 11-12.)  TNS expects to
pursue affirmative defenses pertaining to how the staffing companies
communicated and carried out their meal and rest break polices
employee-by-employee.  This could make
the trial unmanageable.  Ordering a trial
plan would help to see if it is feasible to try these issues.
 
On the other hand, the sequence
of events arguably demonstrates that the Court of Appeal believes this case
should be certified.  The Court of Appeal
overturned Judge Wiley’s initial denial of certification.  On remand, he certified the class.  Subsequently, this Court denied TNS’s motion
to decertify, and the Court of Appeal found that the Court “did not err[.]”  (Doshi Decl., Ex. F., p. 56, capitalizing and
italicizing deleted; see also id. at Ex. F, pp. 4, 57-62.)  To order a trial plan now, and to take another
look at manageability, causing more delay, might invite another reversal.
 
On balance, the Court is inclined
to order a trial plan.  The total number
of class members is 655 – 113 direct hire class members plus 542 staffing
company class members.  (See TNS’s Reply
Brief, p. 11.)  In opposing summary
adjudication, TNS presented declarations from just 13 class members.  The Court of Appeal found those declarations
sufficient to raise triable issues.  (See
Doshi Decl., Ex. F, pp. 25-37.)  But, as
TNS’s chart shows, to date, it has received zero discovery from most class
members and staffing companies.  (See
TNS’s Reply Brief, pp. 11-12.)  The
Court’s reading of the Court of Appeal’s opinion is that TNS is entitled to
present individualized evidence as to both liability and damages to prove its
defense to the meal and rest break causes of action.  (See Doshi Decl., Ex. F, pp. 25-37.)  Potentially, this could lead to hundreds of
new depositions and document requests and, perhaps, to hundreds of new
witnesses at trial.  Before reopening
discovery, the Court believes the best approach is to have Plaintiffs submit a trial
plan that, among other things, sets out a manageable plan as to TNS’s defenses.
 
One more point.  On the current
record, the Court is not convinced that bifurcating liability would make a
difference in Plaintiffs’ favor.  The
Court of Appeal found triable issues conerning liability based on a small
number of declarations.  (See id. at Ex.
F, pp. 25-28, 34-36.)  The insinuation in
the opinion is that TNS should receive an opportunity to challenge liability as
to the other class members in the same way. 
(See, e.g., id. at Ex. F, p. 35 [noting that, “[b]y granting the motion
for summary adjudication,” the trial court “denied TNS its right to challenge
Benton’s showing at a trial that would allow TNS to present case-specific
evidence on liability and the class’s damages”], emphasis added.)
 
Indeed, Duran v. U.S. Bank
N.A. (2014) 59 Cal.4th 1 states that “any procedure to determine the
defendant’s liability to the class must still permit the defendant to introduce
its own evidence, both to challenge the plaintiffs’ showing and to reduce
overall damages.”  (Duran, supra,
59 Cal.4th at 38.)  “Moreover,
‘[i]f a defense depends upon questions individual to each class member,’ the
evidence ‘must be designed to accommodate these case-specific deviations,’ and
‘statistical proof may not be appropriate.’” 
(Doshi Decl., Ex. F, p. 34 [quoting page 40 of Duran].)  The Court of Appeal criticized two
assumptions made by Judge Wiley – “(1) that every single class member who had
not (yet) submitted testimony in the action was not provided a meal or rest
break and (2) that TNS (or a staffing company) did not authorize a class member
to take a break in every instance the time records did not reflect the class
member took a break” – and found that Plaintiffs failed to submit a “reliable
and representative model of proof” to support an inference of liability.  (Id. at Ex. F, pp. 35, 37.)  The opinion recognizes that TNS has a right
to “introduce . . . individual declarations” under these circumstances.  (Id. at Ex. F, p. 37.)
 
Scope of Discovery
 
Plaintiffs propose:
 
* “no additional direct hire
depositions should be permitted” (Plaintiffs’ Opening Brief, p. 10);
 
* “four [staffing company] class
member depositions with a limit of two hours of questions by each party” (id.
at p. 12);
 
* three staffing company
representative depositions “with questioning limited to two hours from each
party” (id. at p. 13);
 
* that Plaintiffs’ amount of
discovery be reciprocal to TNS’s amount (see ibid.);
 
* that “requests to supplement
prior discovery responses . . . be allowed” (ibid.); and
 
* that expert discovery issues be
deferred (see id. at pp. 13-14).
 
TNS wants to “take discovery of
the class members for whom discovery has not been completed and the staffing
companies.”  (TNS’s Opening Brief, p.
10.)  
 
To repeat, there are 655 class
members – 113 direct hire class members plus 542 staffing company class members
– yes TNS has not received discovery from most class members and staffing
companies.  (See TNS’s Reply Brief, pp.
11-12.)
 
TNS does not cite a case holding
that it is entitled to depose all absent class members; however, case law
permits depositions of “a reasonable number of unnamed class
members.”  (National Solar Equipment
Owners’ Assn., Inc. v. Grumman Corp. (1991) 235 Cal.App.3d 1273, 1284,
emphasis in original.)  “Oral, written and business
records depositions may be sought from unnamed class
members who have not appeared in the action, through service of a subpoena and
without court order.”  (Edmon &
Karnow, Cal. Practice Guide: Civ. Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter Group June
2023 Update) ¶ 8:463.1, emphasis deleted; see also Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.768, subd. (a).)
 
But protective orders are available.  “A party representative or deponent or other
affected person may move for an order prohibiting or limiting depositions of
unnamed class members.”  (Edmon &
Karnow, supra, at ¶ 8:463.3; see also Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.768, subd.
(b).)
 
Per Rule of Court 3.768(d), the following factors should be
considered in deciding whether to grant a protective order:
 
(1) The timing of the
request;
 
(2) The subject matter to
be covered;
 
(3) The materiality of the
information being sought;
 
(4) The likelihood that
class members have such information;
 
(5) The possibility of
reaching factual stipulations that eliminate the need for such discovery;
 
(6) Whether class
representatives are seeking discovery on the subject to be covered; and
 
(7) Whether discovery will
result in annoyance, oppression, or undue burden or expense for the members of
the class.
 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3/768, subd. (d).)
 
Here, there is neither a pending discovery request to depose
absent class members nor a motion for protective order.
 
That said, the Court believes Plaintiffs’ proposal is too limited.  At minimum, assuming TNS does not have a
right to depose all absent class members, it at least probably has a right to
depose a representative sample to counter Plaintiffs’ sample (as explained in
the Court of Appeal’s opinion, Plaintiffs have not presented a representative
sample yet).  With over 30 staffing
companies in play, it seems improbable that granting only four staffing
company class member depositions and three staffing company representative
depositions would be enough to generate a representative sample.  Before discovery is reopened, the Court
probably needs see/hear expert testimony on what discovery is necessary to
allow each side to make sampled that are representative.    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 