 Case Number:  22STCV18013    Hearing Date:   October 1, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     October 1, 2024                     TRIAL
DATE: February 4, 2025
                                                           
CASE:                         Michelle Bernardino et al. v. American
Honda Motor Co.
 
CASE NO.:                 22STCV18013            
 
(1)  
MOTION TO TRANSFER VENUE
(2)  
MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSITIONS

 
MOVING PARTY:               (1)(2) Defendant American Honda Motor Co.
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): (1)(2) Plaintiffs
Michelle and Anthony Bernardino.
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
06/01/22: Complaint filed.
·        
01/24/23: First Amended Complaint filed. 
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is a lemon law action filed on June 1, 2022. Plaintiffs purchased a
2019 Honda Pilot which they allege developed defects in the infotainment,
electrical, transmission, and engine systems. 
 
Defendant moves to transfer venue
to Yuba County and to compel Plaintiffs’ depositions. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Defendant’s Motion to Transfer
Venue is DENIED. 
 
Defendant’s Motion to Compel
Deposition of Plaintiff Michelle Bernardino is GRANTED. Plaintiff is ordered to
sit for deposition by Defendant on Thursday, October 31, 2024, or on an earlier
date mutually agreed upon by the parties.
 
            Defendant’s
Motion to Compel Deposition of Plaintiff Anthony Bernardino is GRANTED.
Plaintiff is ordered to sit for deposition by Defendant on Thursday, October
31, 2024, or on an earlier date mutually agreed upon by the parties. 
 
            The Court’s
ruling on the Motion to Compel Deposition is conditioned on Defendant’s payment
of $60 in filing fees within 10 days of this order. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Motion to Transfer
Venue
 
Defendant moves to transfer venue
to Yuba County. 
 
Request for Judicial Notice
 
Plaintiffs
request that the Court take judicial notice of Defendant’s Statement of
Information filed with the California Secretary of State on June 28, 2024.
Plaintiff’s Request for Judicial Notice is DENIED as immaterial to the Court’s
ruling. (Gbur v. Cohen (1979) 93 Cal.App.3d
296, 301 (“[J]udicial notice . . . is always confined to those matters which
are relevant to the issue at hand.”].) 
 
Timeliness
of Motion
 
            Plaintiff, in opposition, contends
that Defendant’s motion to transfer venue is not timely because Defendant demurred
to both the original Complaint and the First Amended Complaint and subsequently
filed an answer, without moving to transfer venue. Under the plain language of
Code of Civil Procedure section 396b subdivision (a), a motion to transfer must
be brought by the Defendant “at the time he or she answers, demurs, or moves to
strike, or, at his or her option, without answering, demurring, or moving to
strike and within the time otherwise allowed to respond to the complaint.”
(Code Civ. Proc. § 396b subd. (a).) Defendant indisputably did not do so, and
Defendant’s assertion in reply that it did not waive any challenge to venue is
unsupported by legal authority. Although Defendant cites to Owens v. Kings
Supermarket (1988) 198 Cal.App.3d 379, nothing in that opinion has any
bearing on the issue of venue. The Court therefore finds that Defendant has
waived its right to challenge venue. 
 
Conclusion
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s Motion to
Transfer Venue is DENIED. 
 
Motion to Compel Deposition
 
Defendant moves to compel
depositions of Plaintiffs Michelle and Anthony Bernardino.
 
Multiple Motions
 
Multiple motions should not be
combined into a single filing.¿(See¿Govt. Code,¿§ 70617(a)(4) [setting forth
the required filing fee for each motion, application, or any other paper or
request requiring a hearing];¿see¿also¿Weil & Brown, Civil Procedure Before
Trial, [8:1140.1] at 8F-60 (The Rutter Group 2011)¿[“Motions to compel
compliance with separate discovery requests ordinarily should be filed
separately.”].) 
 
Here, Defendant improperly moved to
compel deposition of two different parties in one motion. Combining multiple
motions under the guise of one motion with one hearing reservation manipulates
the Court Reservation System and unfairly jumps ahead of other litigants.
Moreover, combining motions to avoid payment of separate filing fees deprives
the Court of filing fees it is otherwise entitled to collect. The Court
therefore conditions its ruling on the payment of an additional $60 in filing
fees within 10 days of this order.
 
Analysis
 
Defendant moves to compel
depositions of Plaintiffs Michelle and Anthony Bernardino. Plaintiffs, in
opposition, represent that they are willing to sit for deposition and do not
challenge Defendant’s right to take their deposition. The Court therefore finds
that Defendant is entitled to an order compelling these depositions and will
require Plaintiffs to attend deposition on or before Thursday, October 31,
2024. 
 
Conclusion
 
            Accordingly,
Defendant’s Motion to Compel Deposition of Plaintiff Michelle Bernardino is
GRANTED. Plaintiff is ordered to sit for deposition by Defendant on Thursday,
October 31, 2024, or on an earlier date mutually agreed upon by the parties.
 
            Defendant’s
Motion to Compel Deposition of Plaintiff Anthony Bernardino is GRANTED.
Plaintiff is ordered to sit for deposition by Defendant on Thursday, October
31, 2024, or on an earlier date mutually agreed upon by the parties.
 
CONCLUSION:
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s Motion to
Transfer Venue is DENIED. 
 
Defendant’s Motion to Compel
Deposition of Plaintiff Michelle Bernardino is GRANTED. Plaintiff is ordered to
sit for deposition by Defendant on Thursday, October 31, 2024, or on an earlier
date mutually agreed upon by the parties.
 
            Defendant’s
Motion to Compel Deposition of Plaintiff Anthony Bernardino is GRANTED.
Plaintiff is ordered to sit for deposition by Defendant on Thursday, October
31, 2024, or on an earlier date mutually agreed upon by the parties. 
 
            The Court’s
ruling on the Motion to Compel Deposition is conditioned on Defendant’s payment
of $60 in filing fees within 10 days of this order. 
 
            Moving Party to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  October 1,
2024                                  ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 