 Case Number:  23STCV08596    Hearing Date:   October 1, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     October 1, 2024                     TRIAL
DATE: June 10, 2025
                                                           
CASE:                         Martin Melendez-Murillo et al. v. AKG
Trading (USA), Inc., et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV08596            
 
MOTION
TO QUASH SERVICE OF SUMMONS AND COMPLAINT

 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiffs Martin Melendez-Murillo and Rufina Barajas
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Defendants Home
Depot, USA, Inc., et al. (24 Defendants)
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
04/18/23: Complaint filed.
·        
12/05/23: Cross-Complaint filed by Caesarstone
USA, Inc.
·        
12/12/23: Cross-Complaint filed by Global Stone
Trading, Inc.
·        
12/28/23: Cross-Complaint filed by Lowe’s Home
Centers, LLC
·        
04/02/24: Cross-Complaint filed by Arizona Tile,
LLC.
·        
05/14/24: First Amended Complaint filed.
·        
06/27/24: Cross-Complaint filed by WilsonArt LLC
·        
07/03/24: Cross-Complaint filed by Marbolis,
Inc.
·        
08/12/24: Cross-Complaint filed by Caesarstone
Ltd.
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is a toxic tort action alleging that Plaintiff Melendez-Murillo
developed silicosis and consequential injuries by breathing in dust from
Defendants’ stone products generated by his work as a fabricator and polisher
of stone countertops.
 
Plaintiffs move for trial
preference pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 36 subdivisions (d) and
(e).
 
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Plaintiffs move for trial
preference pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 36 subdivisions (d) and
(e).
Subdivision (d) of section 36 of
the Code of Civil Procedure states that the Court, in its discretion, may grant
a motion for preference “that is accompanied by clear and convincing medical
documentation that concludes that one of the parties suffers from an illness or
condition raising substantial medical doubt of survival of that party beyond
six months, and that satisfies the court that the interests of justice will be
served by granting the preference.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 36(d).) If the motion is
granted, the Court “shall set the matter for trial not more than 120 days from
that date.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 36(f).)
 
Plaintiff Martin Melendez-Murillo
states that he was diagnosed with silicosis and progressive massive fibrosis in
December 2022. (Declaration of Martin Melendez-Murillo ISO Mot. ¶1.) Plaintiff’s
treating physician, Dr. Jane Fazio, M.D., states she last examined Plaintiff on
March 20, 2024, and, at that time, his CT scans and pulmonary function tests
show progression of his disease. (Declaration of Jane Fazio ISO Mot. ¶ 3.) Dr.
Fazio states there is no known cure for Plaintiff’s condition, and the damage
to his lungs is not reversible. (Id. ¶ 4.) Dr. Fazio further declares it
is reasonably medically likely that Plaintiff will die within six months absent
a lung transplant, but such a procedure is inherently risky, and there is no
way of knowing if or when donor organs will become available. (Id. ¶ 5.)
Dr. Fazio contends that, based on her knowledge of Plaintiff’s condition and
her knowledge of typical outcomes for this type of illness, there is a
substantial medical doubt of Plaintiff’s survival beyond six months. (Id.
¶ 9.)
 
Dr. Fazio’s declaration was not
accompanied by any medical documentation. Moreover, while the Declaration of
David R. Donadio in support of the motion purported to attach certain medical
records for the Court’s review, it does not appear that those materials were
ever presented to the Court. (See Declaration of David R. Donadio ISO Mot.) Given
the “clear and convincing” standard for trial preference under Code of Civil
Procedure section 36(d), the Court considers those materials necessary,
especially to the extent those records informed Dr. Fazio’s testimony. 
 
The Court also observes that the
numerous Defendants who have opposed this motion raise concerns regarding the
course of discovery, identification and deposition of witnesses, and pre-trial
dispositive motions (i.e., motions for summary judgment or adjudication). The
Court believes it would be helpful for the Parties to meet and confer regarding
these issues to explore what agreements could be reached to structure discovery
and motion proceedings in the event preference is granted. 
 
To that end, Plaintiff’s Motion for
Trial Preference is CONTINUED to October 30, 2024, at 9:00 AM. Plaintiffs are
directed to lodge the medical documentation referenced in the Donadio
Declaration with the Court on or before Friday, October 4, 2024. 
 
The Parties are also directed to
meet and confer in person, telephonically, or by video conference regarding
joint stipulations governing discovery and pre-trial motion proceedings in the
event trial preference is granted. The Parties are ordered to file a Joint
Statement setting forth the results of those efforts on or before Thursday,
October 24, 2024. 
 
            Moving
Parties to give notice. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  October 1,
2024                                  ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 