 Case Number:  22STCV21242    Hearing Date:   February 28, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are encouraged to meet
and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if a resolution may be
reached.  If the parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party
intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the
Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to
submit.  The email shall include the case number, date and time of the
hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the identity of the
party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive
an email indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and
there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off
calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all
parties do not submit on this tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear
in-person or remotely.  Further, after the Court
has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent authority to
prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the tentative ruling as
the order of the Court.   
 
TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPT: 


32 




HEARING DATE: 


February 28, 2024 




CASE NUMBER: 


22STCV21242




MOTIONS:   


Compel Deposition of Defendants’ Employee Gilbert Lopez




MOVING PARTY: 


Plaintiffs Phillip Tirman, M.D., Jung Sik Jung,
  and Insoon Jung




OPPOSING PARTY: 


Defendant The Bicycle Casino, LP



 
 
BACKGROUND 
 
On June 29, 2022, Plaintiffs Vanessa Jung Tirman, Estate of Jonathan
Dongin Jung, Jung Sik Jung, and Insoon Jung filed a complaint against Defendant
The Bicycle Casino, Inc. for the wrongful death of Decedent Jonathan Dongin
Jung (“Decedent”). Plaintiffs alleges that Defendant’s security guards attacked
Decedent and caused his death.¿¿ 
 
Plaintiffs Phillip Tirman, M.D., Jung Sik Jung, and
Insoon Jung (“Plaintiffs”) now move to compel the in-person deposition of Defendant The Bicycle Casino, LP’s (“Defendant”) employee,
Gilbert Lopez. Both parties seek monetary sanctions. Defendant opposes and
Plaintiff replies. 
 
LEGAL STANDARD  
 
Any party may obtain discovery,
subject to restrictions, by taking the oral deposition of any person, including
any party to the action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.010.) A party desiring to
take an oral deposition shall give a notice in writing which states the
specification of reasonably particularly of any materials to be produced by the
deponent. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.220, subd. (a)(4).) A properly served
deposition notice is effective to require a party to attend and to testify, as
well as to produce documents for inspection and copying. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.280, subd. (a).) The party served with a deposition notice waives any
error or irregularity unless that party promptly serves a written objection at
least three calendar days prior to the date for which the deposition is
scheduled. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.410, subd. (a).)¿¿ 
¿ 
Code of Civil Procedure section
2025.450(a) provides: “If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the
action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party, or a
person designated by an organization that is a party under Section 2025.230,
without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to appear
for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any
document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order compelling
the deponent's attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of
any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in
the deposition notice.”¿ Section 2025.450 requires the Court to compel the
deposition unless it finds a valid objection was served under section
2025.410.¿ 
¿ 
A motion brought to compel a
deposition “shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to attend the deposition … by a
declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire
about the nonappearance.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (b)(2).)¿¿ 
¿¿ 
If a motion to compel deposition
is granted, sanctions are mandatory in favor of the party who noticed the
deposition and against the deponent or the party with whom the deponent is
affiliated, unless the court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (g)(1).)¿ 
 
MEET AND CONFER
 
On January 23, 2024, after receiving Defendant’s objection,
Plaintiffs sent a letter to Defendant’s counsel regarding Lopez’s deposition.
(Jones Decl. ¶ 37, Exh. J.) Defendant did not respond. Therefore, it appears
Plaintiffs attempted to resolve the issue in good faith.  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
Here, Plaintiffs seek the deposition of Gilbert Lopez
(“Lopez”), an employee of Defendant, who allegedly was part of the security
team that was present during Decedent’s death. (Jones Decl. ¶ 11.) Plaintiffs
initially sought to take Lopez’s deposition, but Plaintiffs would not agree to
a remote deposition, arguing that Defendant offered no legitimate reason for
the request. (Id. ¶ 16–18.) Plaintiffs then sent letters to Defendant on
November 16, 2023, December 4, 2023, and December 11, 2023, seeking dates for a
deposition. Defendant did not respond. (Id. ¶¶ 25–28.) Then, Plaintiff unilaterally
served a deposition notice. In response to Plaintiffs’ notice, on January 9,
2024, Defendant offered three dates in January 2024 for a deposition. (Id. ¶
30, Exh. G.) 
 
On January 11, 2024, Plaintiffs served Defendant a Second
Amended Notice of Deposition setting an in-person deposition for January 25,
2024. (Id. ¶ 14, Exh. A.) Defendant’s counsel sent a letter on January 19, 2024,
insisting that Lopez be deposed remotely because his work schedule makes it
difficult to travel. (Id. ¶ 32, Exh. H.) Defendant served a formal objection
that day. (Id. ¶ 24, Exh. I.) The deposition did not go forward. In their meet
and confer letter, Plaintiffs inquired about whether conducting the deposition
in a conference room at Lopez’s work, or at a location 1.3 miles away would be
more convenient. (Id. ¶ 43–44.) Defendant did not respond. 
 
In opposition, Defendant reveals that Lopez is no longer
employed by Defendant, and thus, is under no obligation to present him for
deposition. (Opp., 3; Gaddini Decl. ¶ 5.) Defendant also states that every
other deposition in this case took place remotely. (Opp., 4.) This conflicts
with Plaintiffs’ assertion that three other security guards in this case
appeared in-person for their depositions. (Jones Decl. ¶ 5.)
 
In reply, Plaintiffs argue that Defendant never informed
them that Lopez was no longer employed, despite seeking to depose him since
June 2023. (Reply Jone Decl. ¶ 3.) 
 
California Rules of Court, rule 3.1010(b) provides in relevant part,
“[a]ny party, other than the deponent, or attorney of record may appear
and participate in an oral deposition by telephone, videoconference, or other
remote electronic means.” (emphasis added.)  Additionally, before a deposition, any party
or deponent may move for a protective order. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.420(a).) “The
court, for good cause shown, may make any order that justice requires to
protect any party, deponent, or other natural person or organization from
unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, or oppression, or undue burden and
expense. This protective order may include, but is not limited to, one or more
of the following directions: . . . (4) That the deposition be taken at a place
other than that specified in the deposition notice, if it is within a distance
permitted by Sections 2025.250 and 2025.260.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
2025.420(b)(4).) 
 
First, Defendant did not move for a protective order to request a
remote deposition. Moreover, Defendant’s argument appears to relate to the
costs of an in-person deposition, but does not establish unwarranted annoyance,
embarrassment, or oppression, or undue burden and expense. Next, Defendant does
not indicate exactly when Lopez ended his employment with Defendant. Defendant
attaches no evidence other than an attorney declaration in support. Plaintiffs
argue that Lopez may still be employed by the Casino, through Parkwest Bicycle
Casino LLC which is also represented by Defendant’s counsel in this matter.
(Reply Jones Decl. ¶ 7–9.) 
 
Therefore, given this ambiguity, counsel for Defendant is
to appear at the hearing and answer whether Lopez is an employee of a party to
this case, and if not, when his employment was terminated. If Lopez was not an
employee when the notices of deposition were served, then Plaintiff must pursue
a subpoena to compel Lopez’s attendance at a deposition and follow the proper
procedures for deposing a non-party witness. Otherwise, the Court will compel
an in-person deposition of Lopez.
 
 
PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are encouraged to meet
and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if a resolution may be
reached.  If the parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party
intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the
Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to
submit.  The email shall include the case number, date and time of the
hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the identity of the
party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive
an email indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and
there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off
calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all
parties do not submit on this tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear
in-person or remotely.  Further, after the Court
has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent authority to
prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the tentative ruling as
the order of the Court.   
 
TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPT: 


32 




HEARING DATE: 


February 28, 2024 




CASE NUMBER: 


22STCV21242




MOTIONS:   


Motion for Protective Order 




MOVING PARTY: 


Plaintiffs Vanessa Jung Tirman, Jung Sik Jung, and Insoon
  Jung 




OPPOSING PARTY: 


None 



 
BACKGROUND 
 
On June 29, 2022, Plaintiffs Vanessa Jung Tirman, Estate of Jonathan
Dongin Jung, Jung Sik Jung, and Insoon Jung filed a complaint against Defendant
The Bicycle Casino, Inc. for the wrongful death of Decedent Jonathan Dongin
Jung (“Decedent”). Plaintiffs alleges that Defendant’s security guards attacked
Decedent and caused his death.¿¿ 
  
 Plaintiffs Vanessa Jung Tirman, Jung Sik Jung, and
Insoon Jung (“Plaintiffs”) now move for a
protective order allowing Insoon Jung (“Insoon”) to not respond to written
discovery from Defendant TBC, L.P. [The Bicycle Casino LP] (“Defendant”).
Plaintiffs argue that Insoon suffers from dementia, Alzheimer’s Disease and
would be burdened by responding to the following discovery responses: Special
Interrogatories, Set Three, Requests for Admissions, Set Two, Request for
Production of Documents, Set Three, Form Interrogatories, Set Two, Supplemental
Interrogatories, and Supplemental Requests for Production. No opposition has
been filed. 
 
LEGAL STANDARD 
  
Under Code of Civil
Procedure section 2017.020, a court shall limit the scope of discovery if the
court “determines that the burden, expense, or intrusiveness of that discovery
clearly outweighs the likelihood that the information sought will lead to the
discovery of admissible evidence.” A “court may make this determination
pursuant to a motion for protective order by a party or other affected person.”
(Id.)¿The “motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration.” (Id.)¿ 
 
The
court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section
2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes a motion for a protective order, unless it finds that the one subject
to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc. §
2017.020(b).) 
 
MEET AND CONFER 
 
Plaintiffs’ counsel declares that
he asked Defendant’s counsel to withdraw its discovery requests regarding
Insoon. (Jones Decl. ¶ 43, Exh. A.) Defendant’s counsel did not respond.
Therefore, Plaintiffs attempted to resolve the matter in good faith. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
As an initial
matter, although Plaintiff also moves for a protective order under Code of
Civil Procedure section 2025.420, that section applies to depositions. Here, it
appears Plaintiff is only seeking to limit written discovery. Therefore, the
Court will only rule based on section 2017.020.  
 
Here, Plaintiffs argue that Defendant is aware of Insoon’s cognitive
inability to respond and argue the discovery was intended to harass her. (Jones
Decl. ¶ 4–5.) Plaintiffs note they have filed a motion to preclude Insoon from
testifying at trial under Evidence Code section 701. Nevertheless, Plaintiffs’
counsel asserts that he directed Insoon’s husband to help gather evidence in
response to the written discovery. (Id. ¶ 40.) The responses therefore contain
objections and factual assertions. (Id. ¶ 41.)
 
The Court notes that it previously granted a motion for a trial
preference based on Insoon’s condition. (Min. Order, 1/30/24.) However, the argument
that Insoon is not competent to respond to the discovery suggests the need for
a guardian ad litem. (See Regency Health Services, Inc. v. Superior
Court (1998) 64 Cal.App.4th 1496, 1504–05 [A guardian ad litem is allowed
to verify discovery responses].) The Court notes that no application to appoint
a guardian ad litem in this case has been filed. Plaintiffs also do not address
this in their motion. Since a guardian ad litem could verify Insoon’s
responses, and seeing that Plaintiffs’ counsel has enlisted her husband in
responding, Plaintiffs have not shown that the burden, expense, or intrusiveness of the
discovery clearly outweighs the likelihood that the information sought will
lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. Therefore, the motion for a
protective order is denied.
 
Seeing as no
opposition was filed, the Court declines to impose monetary sanctions. 
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER 
 
Therefore, the Court denies Plaintiffs’ Motion for
Protective Order.  
 
Plaintiffs shall provide notice of the Court’s order and
file a proof of service of such. 
 
 
 
PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


February
  28, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV21242




MOTIONS:  


(1)  
  Compel Plaintiffs’ Responses to Form Interrogatories
(2)  
  Compel Plaintiffs’ Responses to Special
  Interrogatories
(3)  
  Compel Plaintiffs’ Responses to Request for
  Production of Documents
(4)  
  Deem Admitted Request for Admissions




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant The Bicycle Casino, LP




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiffs
  Vanessa Jung Tirman, Jung Sik Jung, and Insoon Jung



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On
June 29, 2022, Plaintiffs Vanessa Jung Tirman, Estate of Jonathan Dongin Jung,
Jung Sik Jung, and Insoon Jung filed a complaint against Defendant The Bicycle
Casino, Inc. for the wrongful death of Decedent Jonathan Dongin Jung
(“Decedent”). Plaintiffs alleges that Defendant’s security guards attacked
Decedent and caused his death.¿¿ 
            
Defendant The Bicycle Casino, LP (“Defendant”) moves to deem admitted
Requests for Admissions, Set One and Set Two, to Compel Plaintiffs Vanessa Jung
Tirman, Jung Sik Jung, and Insoon Jung (“Plaintiffs”) responses to: Form
Interrogatories, Set One, Set Two, and Supplemental Interrogatories; Special
Interrogatories, Set One, Two, and Three, and Supplemental Special
Interrogatories; Request for Production of Documents, Set One, Set Two, Set
Three and Supplemental requests. Defendant also seeks monetary sanctions
against Plaintiffs and their counsel. Plaintiffs oppose and Defendant replies. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Deem
admitted
 
Where
there has been no timely response to a request for admission under Code of
Civil Procedure section 2033.010, the propounding party may move for an order
that the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters specified in
the requests be deemed admitted, as well as for a monetary sanction. 
(Code of Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (b).)  The party who failed to
respond waives any objections to the demand, unless the court grants that party
relief from the waiver, upon a showing that the party (1) has subsequently
served a substantially compliant response, and (2) that the party’s failure to
respond was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect. 
(Code of Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subds. (a)(1)-(2).)  The court “shall”
grant a motion to deem admitted requests for admissions, “unless it finds that
the party to whom the requests for admission have been directed has served,
before the hearing on the motion, a proposed response to the requests for
admission that is in substantial compliance with Section 2033.220.”  (Code
of Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c).) 
 
Where
a party fails to provide a timely response to requests for admission, “[i]t is mandatory
that the court impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with
Section 2023.010) on the party or attorney, or both, whose failure to serve a
timely response to requests for admission necessitated this motion.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c).)
 
Compel
Interrogatories
 
If a party to whom interrogatories are directed fails to serve a
timely response, the propounding party may move for an order compelling
responses. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.290 (b).) Failure to timely respond waives
all objections, including privilege and work product, unless “[t]he party has
subsequently served a response that is in substantial compliance” and “[t]he
party’s failure to serve a timely response was the result of mistake,
inadvertence, or excusable neglect.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290 (a)(1),
(a)(2).) The statute contains no time limit for a motion to compel where no
responses have been served and no meet and confer is required when a party does
not respond to discovery requests. All that need be shown in the moving papers
is that a set of interrogatories was properly served on the opposing party,
that the time to respond has expired, and that no response of any kind has been
served. (Leach v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 902, 905-906.) 
 
Compel
Request for Production
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure Section 2031.300, if a party fails to
serve a timely response to a demand for inspection, the party making the demand
may move for an order compelling response to the demand. (Code Civ. Pro §
2031.300 (b).) The party who fails to serve a timely response to a demand for
inspection waives any objection to the demand unless the court finds that the
party has subsequently served a response that is in substantial compliance or
party’s failure was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect.
(Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.300 (a)(1)- (2).) 
 
If a motion to compel responses is filed, the Court shall impose a
monetary sanction against the losing party “unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., §§
2030.290(c); Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.300(c).) Further, “[t]he court may award
sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor of a party who files a motion to
compel discovery, even though no opposition to the motion was filed, or
opposition to the motion was withdrawn, or the requested discovery was provided
to the moving party after the motion was filed.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1348(a).)
 
DISCUSSION
 
Here, Defendant asserts that it served Request for Admissions, Set One,
Form Interrogatories, Set One, Special Interrogatories, Set One, and Request
for Production of Documents, Set One on all three Plaintiffs on August 18, 2022.
(Derflinger Decl. ¶ 2, Exh. 1–3.) Defendant granted an extension and on January
13, 2023, Plaintiffs provided responses without verifications. (Id. ¶ 3, Exh.
4–6.) 
 
On June 6, 2023, Defendant served Special Interrogatories, Set Two and
Requests for Production of Documents, Set Two on all three Plaintiffs.
Plaintiffs provided responses without verifications on July 6, 2023. 
 
On October 24, 2023, Defendant served Requests for Admission, Set Two;
Form Interrogatories, Set Two, and Supplemental Interrogatories; Special
Interrogatories, Set Three and Supplemental Interrogatories; and Request for
Production of Documents, Set Three and Supplemental Requests on Plaintiffs
Insoon Jung and Jung Sik Jung only. (Id. ¶ 4, Exh. 7–10.) The responses were
due November 24, 2023, and on November 22, 2023, Plaintiffs Insoon Jung and
Jung Sik Jung served responses without verifications. (Id. ¶ 5, Exh. 11–14.)
Defendant argues that no verifications to the discovery have been served.
Defendant’s counsel acknowledges that it cannot receive verified responses from
Vanessa Jung Tirman, who has since passed away, and Insoon Jung, who appears to
lack capacity to verify the discovery. (Id. ¶ 9.) 
 
In opposition, Plaintiffs show that Insoon Jung and Jung Sik Jung served
verifications to Request for Admissions, Set One, and Special Interrogatories,
Set One, on January 23, 2023. (See Jones Decl., Exh. C.) Vanessa Jung Tirman
also provided a verification for Special Interrogatories, Set One. (Ibid.)
Insoon Jung signed a verification for RFP, Set Two and Special Interrogatories,
Set Two. (Id., Exh. D.) Plaintiffs also show verifications from Jung Sik Jung
to RFP, Set Two, Special Interrogatories, Set Two, Form Interrogatories, Sets
1–3;[1]
Request for Production, Set One, and Supplemental Requests for Production, Form
Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories, and Admissions. (Ibid.) These
verifications were signed on January 17, 2024. 
 
Accordingly, Plaintiffs argue the motions are moot since Jung Sik Jung
has served verifications. (Jones Decl. ¶ 10.) They also argue the motions are
moot since Vanessa Jung Tirman is deceased, and Insoon Jung’s cognition is
impaired. (Jones Decl. ¶¶ 7, 20–22; Opp., 3.) Plaintiffs argue sanctions should
not be imposed because they were working to retrieve the verifications, and
Defendant was aware of Vanessa Jung Tirman’s death and Insoon Jung’s declining
health. (Opp., 10.) 
 
            In reply, Defendant acknowledges
that Vanessa Jung Tirman cannot provide verifications due to her death and that
Insoon Jung is not mentally competent. (Reply, 3.) However, it asks the Court
to either “affirm that the discovery has no responses and cannot be responded
to or that the individual with power of attorney who has the legal ability to
provide verifications on her behalf provide verifications.” (Ibid.) 
 
While Plaintiffs contend that Jung Sik Jung has served verifications
of all outstanding discovery, they did not provide proof of verifications of
Defendant’s Request for Admissions, Set Two, Special Interrogatories, Set Three,
and Requests for Production, Set Three. (See Jones Decl., Exh. C–D.) Unverified
discovery responses are tantamount to no response at all, and are subject to a
motion to compel responses (rather than a motion to compel further responses).¿
(Appleton v. Superior Court (1988) 206 Cal. App. 3d 632, 635-36.)¿
Therefore, because verifications have not been served, the motion to deem
admitted Request for Admission, Set Two is granted. Additionally, the motions
to compel responses to Special Interrogatories, Set Three and Requests for
Production, Set Three are granted. The motions to compel the remaining
responses are denied as moot since verifications were served prior to this
hearing. 
 
Similarly, because Vanessa Jung Tirman is deceased, the motions against
her are denied as moot. 
 
As for Insoon Jung, the Court notes that a party who is incompetent or
lacks capacity may have a guardian ad litem appointed, who is allowed to verify
discovery responses. (See Regency Health Services, Inc. v. Superior Court
(1998) 64 Cal.App.4th 1496, 1504–05.) Therefore, the motion to compel is
granted as to all discovery responses that have not received verifications from
Insoon Jung.[2]
Plaintiffs may file an application to appoint a guardian ad litem and have the
guardian ad litem verify the responses. Additionally, since verified responses
were not served, the motion to deem admitted Request for Admissions, Set Two is
granted.
 
Defendant
requests $1,800 in monetary sanctions against Plaintiffs and their counsel of
record for each separate motion, representing an hourly rate of $225.00 and the
$60.00 filing fee. (Derflinger Decl. ¶ 12.) The Court finds sanctions are
warranted as to the motions against Jung Sik Jung since verifications were
served after the motion was filed. However, the amount requested is excessive. Therefore,
the Court awards sanctions in the amount of $1,072.50 (4.5 hours of attorney
time to file and appear at the hearing, plus the $60 filing fee).       
 
As for Insoon Jung, the Court finds that imposing sanctions would be
unjust. However, sanctions are mandatory for the motion to deem admitted.
Therefore, the Court will award $60 against Insoon Jung for the filing cost of
this motion. 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, as to Plaintiff Vanessa Jung Tirman, the motions to
compel responses and deem admitted are DENIED as moot. 
 
As to Plaintiff Jung Sik Jung, the motions to compel responses to Special
Interrogatories, Set Three and Requests for Production, Set Three are GRANTED.
Plaintiff Jung Sik Jung shall serve verified responses, without objections,
within 30 days. Additionally, the motion to deem admitted Requests for
Admission, Set Two, against Jung Sik Jung is GRANTED.
 
The Court further GRANTS Defendant’s request for monetary sanctions
against Plaintiff Jung Sik Jung and his counsel of record, jointly and
severally, in the reduced amount of $1,072.50. Said monetary sanctions are to be
paid to counsel for Defendant within 30 days of the date of this order.
 
 The motions to compel the
remaining discovery responses and deem admitted Request for Admission, Set One
against Jung Sik Jung are DENIED as moot. 
 
As to Plaintiff Insoon Jung, the motions to compel responses to Form
Interrogatories, Set One and Set Two, Requests for Production, Set One and Set
Three and Supplemental Requests,  and
Special Interrogatories, Set Three and Supplemental Interrogatories are
GRANTED. Plaintiff Insoon Jung shall serve verified responses, without
objections, within 30 days. Additionally, the motion to deem admitted Requests
for Admission, Set Two, against Insoon Jung is GRANTED.
 
The Court further GRANTS Defendant’s request for monetary sanctions
against Plaintiff Insoon Jung and her counsel of record, jointly and severally,
in the reduced amount of $60. Said monetary sanctions are to be paid to counsel for
Defendant within 30 days of the date of this order. 
 
The remaining motions to compel responses and deem admitted Request
for Admission, Set One against Insoon Jung are DENIED as moot. 
 
 
Defendant
shall provide notice of the Court’s order and file a proof of
service of such. 
 
 
 
 
 
 


