 Case Number:  24CHCV02702    Hearing Date:   November 14, 2024    Dept:  F47 Dept. F47
Date: 11/14/24
Case #24CHCV02702
 
DEMURRER &
MOTION TO STRIKE TO THE ORIGINAL COMPLAINT
 
Demurrer & Motion to Strike filed on 10/14/24.
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant Magic Mountain LLC
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiffs Serene
Fakhouri; Cassandra Fakhouri and Reyan Fakhouri

NOTICE: ok
 
Demurrer is to the 3rd cause of action:
            1.  General Negligence
            2.  Premises Liability
            3.  Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress
            4.  Strict Products Liability – Manufacturing
Defect
            5.  Strict Products Liability – Design Defect
            6.  Strict Products Liability – Failure to Warn
 
RELIEF REQUESTED: An order striking portions of
Plaintiffs’ complaint regarding punitive and exemplary damages.
 
RULING: The demurrer is overruled.  The motion to strike is granted with 30 days
leave to amend.  
 
SUMMARY OF FACTS & PROCEDURAL HISTORY
 
This action arises out of injuries allegedly sustained by
Plaintiffs Serene Fakhouri (Serene); Cassandra Fakhouri (Cassandra) and Reyan
Fakhouri (Reyan) (collectively, Plaintiffs) as a result of riding the Riddler’s
Revenge roller coaster at Defendant Magic Mountain, LLC’s (Defendant) theme
park.  Reyan is the mother of Serene and
Cassandra.  (Complaint ¶4).  
 
On 7/24/24, Plaintiffs visited Defendant’s amusement park
and rode the Riddler’s Revenge roller coaster. 
(Complaint ¶16).  Plaintiffs
allege that while on the ride, their heads and bodies were jerked around like
rag dolls to the point where they all sustained traumatic brain injuries.  (See Complaint ¶¶19-21).  Plaintiffs allege that Serene, who was a
minor at the time, sustained an acute stroke as a result of the ride.  Id.  Additionally, Plaintiffs allege that when they
got off the ride, all three exhibited signs consistent with post-concussion
syndrome.  Id.  Serene also exhibited left facial droop and
slurred speech.  Id.  Plaintiffs allege that they each perceived
the harm and injuries suffered by one another and were physically present at
the scene.  (Complaint ¶¶41-42).  
 
On 7/29/24, Plaintiffs filed this action against
Defendant and others alleging causes of action for: (1) General Negligence, (2)
Premises Liability, (3) Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress, (4) Strict
Products Liability – Manufacturing Defect, (5) Strict Products Liability –
Design Defect, and (6) Strict Products Liability – Failure to Warn.  After meet and confer efforts failed to
resolve the issues Defendant had with Plaintiffs’ complaint, on 10/14/24,
Defendant filed and served the instant demurrer to the 3rd cause of
action for Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress and the instant motion to
strike which seeks to strike allegations regarding punitive and exemplary
damages contained in Plaintiffs’ 4th(¶60), 5th (¶75), and
6th (¶93) causes of action and the prayer for relief (¶G).  Plaintiffs have opposed the demurrer and
motion to strike and Defendants have filed replies to the oppositions.
 
ANALYSIS 

 
Demurrer
 
Plaintiffs’ 3rd cause of action for negligent
infliction of emotional distress cause of action is based on their perception
of the harm and injuries suffered by each other rather than their own harm and
injuries which is the subject of the 1st cause of action for
negligence.  (See Complaint ¶¶30,
41-42).  As such, this case is
distinguishable from Belen (2021) 65 CA5th 1145, relied on by Defendant
for the proposition that there is no separate cause of action for negligent
infliction of emotional distress.  In Belen,
the plaintiff was seeking to recover for her own emotional distress in a
separate cause of action when she already had a negligence cause of action
based on the same conduct.  Id. at
1165-1166.  In Ess (2002) 97 CA4th
120, also relied on by Defendant for the proposition that negligent infliction
of emotional distress is not a separate cause of action, the plaintiff could
not satisfy the requirements of making a claim under a bystander theory.  Id. at 126-127.  
 
To recover on a claim for negligent infliction of
emotional distress under a bystander theory, the plaintiff must be closely
related to the injury victim, the plaintiff must be present at the scene of the
injury-producing event at the time it occurs and be aware that it is causing
injury to the victim and as a result, the plaintiff must suffer serious
emotional distress beyond that which would be anticipated in a disinterested
witness.  Thing (1989) 48 C3d 644,
647.
 
The allegations in the complaint meet the foregoing
requirements.  Plaintiffs have alleged they
have either a mother/daughter or sibling relationship.  (Complaint ¶4).  Plaintiffs were all present at the scene of
the injury-producing event.  (Complaint ¶¶16,
42).  Plaintiffs allege that they
suffered serious emotional distress injuries as a result of perceiving the harm
and injuries suffered by each other. 
(Complaint ¶41).  With regard to a
negligence based claim, at the pleading stage, Plaintiffs do not have to prove
their case by alleging specific facts as to how they observed the other
Plaintiffs being injured or how they were aware that the ride was causing injury
to another Plaintiff at the time of the event. 

 
Motion to Strike
 
Punitive damages may be imposed where it is proven by
clear and convincing evidence that a defendant has been guilty of oppression,
fraud or malice.  Civil Code 3294.  Conclusory allegations unsupported by
ultimate facts are insufficient to support a claim for punitive damages.  Blegen (1981) 125 CA3d 959, 963; Brousseau
(1977) 73 CA3d 864; G.D. Searle & Co. (1975) 49 CA3d 22, 24, 27, 29,
32.
 
Here, Plaintiffs have not pled sufficient facts to
support their conclusory allegations regarding punitive and exemplary damages.  (See Complaint ¶¶56, 71, 89).  For example, Plaintiffs do not allege how
Defendant and its officers, directors or managing agents knew that the Riddler
was defective and dangerous.  (See
Complaint ¶¶57, 72, 90). 
 
CONCLUSION
 
The demurrer is overruled.  The motion to strike is granted with 30 days
leave to amend.  Given the liberal policy
of allowing leave to amend and because this is only the original complaint,
Plaintiffs are given the opportunity to try to cure the defects in their
complaint regarding punitive and exemplary damages.    
 
The Court notes that Defendant has failed to
electronically bookmark the exhibits attached to the moving papers in violation
of CRC 3.1110(f)(4).  Counsel for the
parties are warned that failure to comply with this rule in the future may
result in matters being continued so that papers can be resubmitted in
compliance with the rule, papers not being considered and/or the imposition of
sanctions.  