 Case Number:  23STCV00238    Hearing Date:   March 29, 2024    Dept:  61  
Defendant
Arizona Tile, LLC’s Motion to Strike Portions of the First Amended Complaint is
GRANTED without leave to amend. 
 
I.                  
MOTION TO
STRIKE
Any
party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading, may serve and file a
notice of motion to strike the whole or any part thereof. (Code Civ. Proc., §
435(b)(1)). The notice of motion to strike a portion of a pleading shall quote
in full the portions sought to be stricken except where the motion is to strike
an entire paragraph, cause of action, count or defense. (California Rules of
Court Rule 3.1322.)
 
The grounds for a motion to strike shall appear on the face
of the challenged pleading or form any matter of which the court is required to
take judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437(a)). The court then may strike
out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading and
strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity
with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 436.) When the defect which justifies striking a complaint is capable
of cure, the court should allow leave to amend. (Perlman v. Municipal Court (1979) 99 Cal.App.3d 568, 575.)
 
Defendant Arizona Tile, LLC (Defendant) moves to strike language
from the First Amended Complaint (FAC) including among Defendant’s products
alleged to have injured Plaintiffs Demetrio Luna-Reyes and Guillemina Valdez
(Plaintiffs) “other stone products to be identified during the course of
discovery.” (FAC at p. 7.) 
 
Defendant 
argues that this “other products” language is improper because the
California Supreme Court in Bockrath v.
Aldrich Chemical Co. (1999) 21 Cal.4th 71, prescribed, among the essential
pleaded elements for a toxic products liability tort the requirement that the
plaintiff “must identify each product that allegedly caused the injury. It is
insufficient to allege that the toxins in defendants' products caused it.” (Id.
at p. 80.) Defendant thus argues that language leaving open the products at
issue to “further discovery” is improper.
Defendant’s argument is persuasive. Bockrath specifically forbade plaintiffs
from prosecuting toxic torts by generally alleging that “the toxins in
defendants’ products” caused injury. This language was directed to prevent
claims from “plaintiffs who lack any real notion of the identity of the product
which was a substantial factor in causing their injury.” (Rivas v. Safety-Kleen Corp. (2002) 98 Cal.App.4th 218, 241.) But by
including this “other products” language in the FAC, Plaintiffs have
effectively obviated any utility that such a requirement was meant to provide.
The motion to strike is therefore GRANTED as
to the language regarding “other stone products to be identified during
discovery.”
 