 Case Number:  24STCP00089    Hearing Date:   May 23, 2024    Dept:  85 
 
Paul Dawson v. Housing Authority for the City of
Los Angeles, 24STCP00089
 
 
Tentative decision on motion for reconsideration:
denied 




 
Petitioner Paul Dawson (“Dawson”) moves for the court to
reconsider its order denying Dawson leave to present a late claim against
Respondents Housing Authority for the City of Los Angeles (“Housing Authority”).

The court has read and considered the moving papers, opposition,
and reply, and renders the following tentative decision. 
 
A. Statement of
the Case
Petitioner Dawson commenced this proceeding on January 10,
2024. The Petition alleges in pertinent part as follows. 
The Housing Authority was made aware of Dawson’s claim as
early as April 12, 2023.  Pet., ¶2.  There were 31 or more communications between Dawson’s
attorneys and claims adjusters for the Housing Authority between April 12, 2023
and October 4, 2023.  Pet., ¶2.  The City is claiming that Dawson failed to
present the claim in compliance with Government Code sections 910-911.2 and
945.4.  Pet., ¶2.
Dawson filed a late claim on November 6, 2023 and thereafter
filed a late claim application on November 21, 2023.  Pet., ¶4. 
These dates were 32 days and 46 days after the six-month presentation
requirement window.  Pet., ¶4.
Dawson seeks leave to file suit due to excusable neglect and
mistake.  Pet., Prayer.  Alternatively, Dawson seeks a finding that he
substantially complied with the Claims Act. 
Id.
 
B. Applicable Law
Code of Civil Procedure section 1008(a) (“section 1008(a)”)
provides for reconsideration of court orders. 
Section 1008(a)’s motion to reconsider is broad in scope and allows any
party affected by the order to seek reconsideration and modification, amendment
or vacation of prior orders.  Relief
under section 1008(a) is strictly limited; motions to reconsider must be
brought within ten days of service of written notice of the original
order.  
A motion for reconsideration constitutes the exclusive means
for a party seeking modification, amendment or revocation of an order.  Morite of Calif. v. Superior Court,
(1993) 19 Cal.App.4th 485, 490.  To be
entitled to reconsideration, a party must show (1) new or different facts, and
(2) a satisfactory explanation for failing to produce such evidence earlier.  Kalivas v. Barry Controls Corp., (“Kalivas”)
(1996) 49 Cal.App.4th 1152, 1160-61.  The
requirement of satisfactory explanation for failing to provide the
evidence earlier can only be described as a strict requirement of
diligence.  Garcia v. Hejmadi
(1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 674, 690.  A motion
for reconsideration cannot be granted on the ground that the court misapplied
the law in its initial ruling.  Gilberd
v. AC Transit (1995) 32 Cal.App.4th 1494, 1500.
Apart from the parties, the court has inherent power to
reconsider its rulings in a particular case for any reason.  Darling, Hall & Rae v. Kritt,
(1999) 75 Cal.App. 4th 1148. 
The court may even entertain suggestions from the parties for such sua
sponte reconsideration.  However, the
inherent power to reconsider, unlike the power under section 1008, is entirely
up to the court.  Other than a
“suggestion,” the court need not, and will not, entertain argument from a party
as to why it should exercise this inherent power.  
 
C. Governing Law
Under the Government Claims Act (the “Claims Act”), a
plaintiff bringing suit for monetary damages against a public entity or
employees thereof must first present a claim to the public entity (“government
claim”) which must be acted upon or deemed rejected by the public entity.  Government Code[1]
§§945.4, 950.2, 950.6(a).  To be timely,
a government claim for damages must be presented to the public entity within six
months of the date the cause of action accrued. 
§911.2. 
If a plaintiff fails to file a government claim within the six-month
period, he or she may apply to the public entity for permission to file a late
claim. §911.4.  Such an application must
be presented within a reasonable time, and not later than one year after the
cause of action’s accrual. 
§911.4(b).  
If the public entity denies the application for permission
to file a late claim, the plaintiff may file a civil petition for relief from
section 945.4's requirement of timely claim presentation prior to suit.  §946.6. 
The petition must be filed within six months after the application to
the public entity is denied or deemed to be denied.  §946.6(b). The petition must show: (1) that
an application was made to the public entity under section 911.4 and was denied
or deemed denied; (2) the reason for failure to timely present the claim to the
public entity within the time limit specified in section 911.2; and (3) the
information required by section 910. 
§946.6(b).



The court shall grant relief only if it finds that (1) the
application to the public entity for leave to file a late claim was made within
a reasonable time not to exceed one year after accrual of the claim as
specified in section 911.4(b), (2) was denied or deemed denied by the public
agency pursuant to section 911.6,  and
(3) one or more of the following is applicable: (a) the failure to timely
present the claim was through mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable
neglect, unless the public entity establishes that it would be prejudiced in
the defense of the claim if the court relieves the petitioner from the
requirements of section 945.4; (b) the person who sustained the alleged injury,
damage or loss was a minor during all of the time specified in section 911.2
for the presentation of the claim; (c) the person who sustained the alleged
injury, damage or loss was physically or mentally incapacitated during all of
the time specified in section 911.2 for the presentation of the claim and by
reason of that disability failed to present a claim during that time; or (d)
the person who sustained the alleged injury, damage or loss died before the
expiration of the time specified in section 911.2 for the presentation of the
claim.  §946.6(c).
 
C. Analysis
Petitioner Dawson seeks reconsideration of the court’s
denial of his Petition for leave to present a late claim.  
 
1. Previous Ruling
In the court’s denial of the Petition, the period at issue
for excusable neglect from failure to timely present a claim to the Housing
Authority was the six-month period from Dawson’s accident on April 5 to October
5, 2023.  Dawson provided evidence about
his Former Counsel’s communications beginning April 5 until Current Counsel was
retained on July 5, 2023.  Most
important, on June 14, 2023, Koning & Associates informed Former Counsel
that it had been retained to assist in gathering facts about the incident and
that Housing Authority Risk Retention Group, the liability insurer for Housing
Authority, would make all decisions on liability and damages.  Kocaj Decl. ¶20, Ex. C.  Thus, Former Counsel – and Current Counsel
when it retained the file – knew that it was communicating with the Housing
Authority Risk Retention Group, Inc. (“HARRG”), the liability insurer for
Housing Authority, and with HARRG’s claims adjuster, Koning &
Associates.  Neither of these entities is
Housing Authority.[2]  Former Counsel never contacted or
communicated with Housing Authority. 
Former Counsel failed to make a claim with Housing Authority and did not
act diligently in the three months it represented Dawson.
Current Counsel merely stated that it was “under the
impression” that Former Counsel had submitted a claim. Kocaj Decl., ¶22.  This also was not reasonable diligence.  A reasonable attorney would have inquired of
both Former Counsel and Housing Authority whether a claim had been made.  Current Counsel obviously knew that a claim
against Housing Authority was required. 
It cannot rely on communications with a third-party insurer, including
the claim number it created, or that third party’s claims adjuster.  This was not excusable neglect, and the
Petition was denied.
 
2. Timeliness
A motion to reconsider must be made within ten days of
service of written notice of the original order.  At the April 11 hearing, Dawson’s counsel was
ordered to give notice.  He gave notice
on  April 18.  He filed the motion to reconsider on April
24.  It is timely.
 
3. Reconsideration
A motion to reconsider has two components: whether the court
should reconsider and, if so, does the new evidence or circumstance warrant a
change of the order.  Dawson does not
satisfy either element.
First, Dawson fails to satisfy the procedural requirement in
section 1008(a) that he provide an attorney affidavit (declaration) stating what
application was made, when and to what judge it was made, what new or different
facts, circumstances, or law are claimed to be shown.  While Dawson’s counsel provides a
declaration, nowhere does he discuss these required elements of section
1008(a).  See generally Kocaj
Decl.  While his notice of motion
presents new facts, it is not made under penalty of perjury.
Second, Dawson presents new evidence but fails to show that
it could not have been presented in the exercise of due diligence.  Garcia v. Hejmadi, supra, 58
Cal.App.4th at 690.  He relies on (1) his
own new declaration stating that the Housing Authority Risk Retention Group
employee Monica Corrigan came to his house and identified herself as “an
adjustor for the Housing Authority”. 
Dawson Decl., ¶4; (2) Housing Authority’s 1996 Accident Losses Policy
required its employees to report a traffic accident involving serious injury to
a supervisor, the Finance Officer or Insurance Administrator; (3) evidence that
the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development requires Housing Authority
to maintain automobile liability insurance, Housing Authority on May 26, 2022
adopted a resolution authorizing purchase of insurance from the Housing
Authority Insurance Group, the Housing Authority Insurance Group established
the Housing Authority Risk Retention Group, Inc. (“HARRG”) as its first
insurance company, and HARRG is delegated authority by Housing Authority to investigate
and settle claims; and (4) Former Counsel’s notes show that on April 12, 2023
its employee called Housing Authority to attempt to file a claim and would obtain
information the next day on how to do so. 
Mot. at 2-10.
As Housing Authority argues (Opp. at 3-4), Dawson fails to
provide any evidence that this information was not available in the exercise of
due diligence.  None of it was obtained
in discovery.  Dawson clearly could have
provided the information in his new declaration on a timely basis.  Housing Authority’s Accident Losses Policy
and HARRG’s relationship to Housing Authority required digging by Dawson’s
counsel, but all the information was available over the internet.  Finally, the notes of Former Counsel clearly
were available to Dawson.  Therefore,
reconsideration is denied.
Even if the court did reconsider based on the new evidence, none
of it shows excusable neglect in an effort to file a claim with Housing
Authority.  Rather, the new evidence
concerns Housing Authority’s knowledge and issues of agency.  Yet, even actual knowledge of the incident by
the public entity is insufficient to satisfy the claims presentation
requirement.  City of San Jose v.
Superior Court, (1974) 12 Cal.3d 447, 455. 
Dawson relies on his new evidence to show that HARRG is an agent of the
Housing Authority Insurance Group, which in turn is an agent of the Housing
Authority.  Assuming that this is true –
Housing Authority argues that HARRG is an insurance cooperative in which
Housing Authority is a member which probably reflects an agency relationship
for insurance purposes (Opp. at 5-6) – there is no evidence that HARRG was Housing
Authority’s agent for purposes of accepting a claim under the Claims
Act.  Nor does Dawson cite any authority
that an agent can accept a claim to satisfy a claimant’s obligation under the
Claims Act.
The motion to reconsider is denied.


