 Case Number:  23STCP02905    Hearing Date:   May 23, 2024    Dept:  85 
Criselda Calayan Abad-Santos,
M.D. v. Medical Board of California, 23STCP02905

Tentative decision on petition for
writ of administrative mandamus:  denied




 



 
Petitioner Criselda Calayan Abad-Santos, M.D.
(“Abad-Santos”) seeks a writ of administrative mandamus directing Respondent
Medical Board of California (“Medical Board”) to set aside its decision
revoking her medical license. 
The court has read and considered the moving papers,
opposition, and reply, and renders the following tentative decision. 
 
A. Statement of
the Case
1. Petition
On August 11, 2023, Petitioner Abad-Santos filed the
Petition against Respondent Medical Board for writ of administrative
mandamus.  The Petition alleges in
pertinent as follows.
Abad-Santos is a practicing psychiatrist, licensed in the
State of California since 2008.  Pet., ¶¶
1,6.
On or about March 1, 2022, an Accusation was filed against
Abad-Santos alleging that she had committed gross negligence, repeated
negligent acts, prescribed without an appropriate prior examination, and failed
to maintain adequate records.  Pet.,
¶5.  The allegations were that
Abad-Santos engaged in repeated negligent acts in the care and treatment of
Patients 1 and 2, gross negligence in the care and treatment of Patient 2,
prescribed for both patients without appropriate prior examination, and failed
to maintain adequate records for both patients. 
Pet., ¶6.
An administrative hearing was held before Administrative Law
Judge Joseph Montoya (the “ALJ”).  Pet.,
¶7.  Abad-Santos presented testimony and
documentary evidence that she had not acted below the standard of care with
respect to both patients.  Pet., ¶7.  
On August 14, 2023, the Medical Board adopted the ALJ’s
proposed decision and revoked Abad-Santos’ medical license.  Pet., ¶8, Ex. 1.
Abad-Santos contends the Medical Board committed a
prejudicial abuse of discretion by failing to proceed in the manner provided by
law and did not provide her with a fair hearing.  Pet., ¶11. 
The Medical Board’s decision also is not supported by the findings, and
the findings are not supported by the evidence, because Abad-Santos showed through
her own and expert witness testimony that her care and treatment were not below
the standard of care.  Pet., ¶12.
Abad-Santos seeks (1) a writ of mandamus directing the Medical
Board to set aside its decision and reinstate her medical license, (2)
reasonable attorney fees, (3) costs of the action, and (4) such other relief as
the court deems just and proper.  Pet. at
3.
 
2. Course of Proceedings
On August 28, 2023, the court denied Abad-Santos’ ex
parte application for stay of the Medical Board’s decision. 
On September 14, 2023, the Medical Board filed its Answer. 
 
B. Standard of Review
            CCP
section 1094.5 is the administrative mandamus provision which structures the
procedure for judicial review of adjudicatory decisions rendered by
administrative agencies.  Topanga
Ass’n for a Scenic Community v. County of Los Angeles, (“Topanga”)
(1974) 11 Cal.3d 506, 514-15.  
            CCP
section 1094.5 does not in its face specify which cases are subject to
independent review, leaving that issue to the courts.  Fukuda v. City of Angels, (“Fukuda”)
(1999) 20 Cal.4th 805, 811.  In cases
reviewing decisions which affect a vested, fundamental right the trial court
exercises independent judgment on the evidence. Bixby v. Pierno, (“Bixby”)
(1971) 4 Cal.3d 130, 143; see CCP
§1094.5(c).  An administrative decision imposing
discipline on a professional licensee is decided under the independent judgment
standard.  Griffiths v. Superior Court, (2002) 96 Cal.App.4th 757,
767. 

            Under
the independent judgment test, “the trial court not only examines the
administrative record for errors of law but also exercises its independent
judgment upon the evidence disclosed in a limited trial de novo.”  Bixby, supra, 4 Cal.3d at 143.  The court must draw its own reasonable
inferences from the evidence and make its own credibility determinations.  Morrison v. Housing Authority of the City
of Los Angeles Board of Commissioners, (2003) 107 Cal.App.4th 860,
868.  In short, the court substitutes its
judgment for the agency’s regarding the basic facts of what happened, when,
why, and the credibility of witnesses.  Guymon
v. Board of Accountancy, (1976) 55 Cal.App.3d 1010, 1013-16.
            “In
exercising its independent judgment, a trial court must afford a strong
presumption of correctness concerning the administrative findings, and the
party challenging the administrative decision bears the burden of convincing
the court that the administrative findings are contrary to the weight of the
evidence.”  Fukuda, supra, 20 Cal.4th at 817.  Unless it can be demonstrated by petitioner
that the agency’s actions are not grounded upon any reasonable basis in law or
any substantial basis in fact, the courts should not interfere with the
agency’s discretion or substitute their wisdom for that of the agency.  Bixby, supra, 4 Cal.3d 130, 150-51;
Bank of America v. State Water Resources Control Board, (1974) 42
Cal.App.3d 198, 208.
            An
agency is presumed to have regularly performed its official duties (Evid. Code
§664), and the petitioner therefore has the burden of proof.  Steele v. Los Angeles County Civil Service
Commission, (1958) 166 Cal.App.2d 129, 137. 
“[T]he burden of proof falls upon the party attacking the administrative
decision to demonstrate wherein the proceedings were unfair, in excess of
jurisdiction or showed prejudicial abuse of discretion.  Afford v. Pierno, (1972) 27 Cal.App.3d
682, 691. 
The agency’s decision must be based on the evidence
presented at the hearing.  Board of
Medical Quality Assurance v. Superior Court, (1977) 73 Cal.App.3d 860,
862.  The hearing officer is only
required to issue findings that give enough explanation so that parties may
determine whether, and upon what basis, to review the decision. Topanga,
supra, 11 Cal.3d 506, 514-15. 
Implicit in CCP section 1094.5 is a requirement that the agency set
forth findings to bridge the analytic gap between the raw evidence and ultimate
decision or order.  Id. at 115.
            The standard of
proof in administrative proceeding is relevant on mandamus review.  Li
v. Superior Court (Sacramento County), (2021) 69 Cal.App.5th
836, 844.  Where the administrative
burden of proof is clear and convincing evidence, the trial court must account
for that standard of proof when exercising its independent judgment on the
sufficiency of the evidence.  Id.
at 865.   The trial court must apply the
principles of deference and presumptive correctness in the context of whether
the findings are supported by clear and convincing evidence rather than a mere
preponderance of the evidence.  Id.
 
C. Statement of Facts
1. Prior
Discipline 
The Medical Board
disciplined Abad-Santos’ medical license three times prior to the present matter,
in the years of 2012, 2015, and 2017.  AR
174-334.  Abad-Santos completed her
probation on September 1, 2018.  AR 174.
 
a. The 2012
Decision
On March 30, 2012,
in the case titled In the Matter of the Accusation Against Criselda Calayan
Abadsantos, M.D. (Board Case No. 2010-205633) (the “2012 Decision”) Abad-Santos’
had been accused of negligent prescribing of controlled substances to family
members and friends.  AR
195-208.  
Pursuant to a
stipulated settlement, the Medical Board revoked Abad-Santos medical license
and stayed the revocation, placing her on probation for three years with the
following terms and conditions: (a) she must successfully complete a
medical clinical training program; (b) she was restricted from prescribing or
furnishing controlled substances to her family members; (c) she was obligated
to maintain a record of all controlled drugs that she prescribed; and (d) she
must complete coursework in prescribing practices, medical record keeping, and
ethics.  AR 178-82.  
 
b. The 2015
Decision
In April 2014, in the
case titled In the Matter of the Petition to Revoke Probation Against
Criselda Calayan Abadsantos, M.D. (Board Case No. D1-2010-205633)
(the “2015 Decision”), the Medical
Board filed a petition to revoke probation because Abad-Santos failed to successfully
complete the clinical training program probation condition.  AR 225. 
The facts giving rise to the 2015 Decision were that Abad-Santos had
enrolled, participated in, and failed the Physician Assessment and Clinical
Education Program (“PACE”) at the University of California San Diego Medical
School.  AR 225-27.  
Pursuant to a stipulated settlement, Abat-Santos admitted
that, during phase II of PACE, the clinical education and assessment portion,
she was assessed as a Category 4 Fail (i.e., poor performance not compatible
with overall competency and safe practice). 
AR 212, 225-27.  The 2015
Decision, effective April 1, 2015, extended Abad-Santos’ probationary term by
one year and imposed additional probation terms, including requirements that she
(1) re-enroll in and successfully complete a clinical training program, (2) not
prescribe or furnish controlled substances to her family members, (3) continue
to make records of her prescriptions of controlled substances, and (4) complete
a Master Class in psychopharmacology offered at Harvard Medical School and
other courses.  AR 212-20.
 
c. The 2017
Decision
In November 2016, in
the case titled In the Matter of the Petition to Revoke Probation Against
Criselda Calayan Abadsantos, M.D. (Board Case No. 800-2016-027627)
(the “2017 Decision”), the Medical
Board filed a second petition to revoke Abad-Santos’ probation.  AR 264.
Pursuant to a
stipulated settlement, Abad-Santos admitted that she had participated in
the PACE program and passed, but with significant deficiencies.  AR 264, 276-78.  The PACE program recommended several remedial
measures which were incorporated into the terms of her probation.  AR 276-78. 
The 2017 Decision, effective
September 1, 2017, extended Abad-Santos’ probationary term for another
year.  AR 265-72.  The conditions and terms of her probation included
that she (1) repeat the medical record keeping course, (2) subject her
practice to monitoring for at least a year, (3) participate in a
psychopharmacology course, (4) retake the buprenorphine waiver training course,
(5) not prescribe or furnish controlled substances to family members, and (6)
maintain a log of all controlled substances that she prescribed.  AR 265-72. 

 
2. The Accusation
On March 1, 2022,
the Board’s Executive Director, acting as the Complainant, initiated the
Accusation against Abad-Santos alleging gross negligence, repeated negligent
acts, prescribing without an appropriate prior examination, and failure to
maintain adequate records in connection with the care of two patients.  AR 151-63. 
Thereafter, a First Amended Accusation was filed alleging the same
causes for discipline.  AR 680-92.
The first cause for discipline (gross negligence as to
Patient 2) alleged that Abad-Santos (1) relied on Patient 2’s report of her medications
and medical co-morbidities without attempting to obtain appropriate medical
records, consultation with concurrent prescribers, or consideration of other
physicians’ treatment plans, (2) prescribed psychotropic medications to Patient
2 without obtaining thorough records or conducting baseline examinations and
periodically monitoring for changes in the patient’s physical health through
physical examinations, vital signs, laboratory studies, and ECGs for a known
co-morbid cardiovascular condition, (3) failed to complete medication
reconciliations, (4) prescribed stimulant medications to Patient 2, who had a co-morbid
cardiovascular condition, without the consideration of possible safety issues,
and (4) prescribed benzodiazepines to Patient 2, who was taking opioids, and
relied solely on psychoeducation of the risks rather than exercising restraint
in prescribing or collaborating with the other physicians regarding the
importance and handling of benzodiazepine versus opioid indication
alternatives.  AR 688-89.
The second cause for discipline (repeated acts of negligence)
alleged that Abad-Santos repeatedly committed simple negligence with respect to
her treatment of Patient 1 by (1) failing to obtain and monitor Patient 1’s
pulse and blood pressure levels while prescribing her Vyvanse, at baseline and
thereafter, and (2) failing to obtain and monitor Patient 1’s pulse, blood
pressure, and serum creatinine levels while prescribing her Cymbalta, at
baseline and thereafter.  AR 689-90.
The third cause for discipline alleged that Abad-Santos
prescribed controlled substances and/or dangerous drugs to Patients 1 and 2
without an appropriate prior examination. 
AR 690.
The fourth cause for discipline (failure to maintain
adequate records) alleged that Abad-Santos is subject to disciplinary action
under Business and Professions Code section 2266 in that she failed to maintain
adequate records for Patients 1 and 2.  AR
690.
 
3. The Hearing
The hearing was held before the ALJ on March 20, March 22,
and March 23, 2023. AR 851-1299.  The
witnesses were Complainant’s expert, Dr. Peter Maxwell Ferren (“Ferren”), Abad-Santos’
expert, Dr. Samuel Miles (“Miles”), and Abat-Santos herself.[1]  
 
a. Ferren
Psychiatrist Ferren,
the Complainant’s expert, testified in pertinent part as follows.  
 
Patient 1
Abad-Santos
identified Patient 1 as a 28-year-old single, Korean-American female, but Abad-Santos’
mental status examination documented Patient 1 as a “young, white female”.  AR 880.
Abad-Santos
prescribed Vyvanse (lisdexamfetamine), a stimulant medication, which is a Schedule II controlled substance used to treat
attention deficit hyperactivity disorder.  AR 880. 
She also prescribed Cymbalta (duloxetine), a psychotropic
medication.  When prescribing Vyvanse and
Cymbalta to a patient, the standard of care requires a physician to obtain the
patient’s baseline pulse and blood pressure, and periodically monitor those
vital signs for patient safety.  AR 453,[2] 888-89.  Abad-Santos never
obtained Patient 1’s blood pressure or pulse.[3] AR
453. 888-89.  There should also have been
a baseline cardiac evaluation for both drugs. 
AR 885, 887.  There also should
have been a serum creatinine level at the baseline for Cymbalta.  AR 453. 
Her failures were a simple departure from the standard of care.   AR 453, 889.
Xanax (alprazolam),
a benzodiazepine, is a Schedule IV
controlled substance.  AR 885-86.  Because of the risk of psychological and/or
physiological dependence on Xanax, it is important to explain to the patient
the risks, benefits, and alternatives to taking this medication.  AR 451-52, 885-87.  Abad-Santos did not document that she warned
Patient 1 about the risk of developing dependence on Xanax.  AR 451-52, 886.  This was a simple departure from the standard
of care.  AR 887.
 
Patient 2
Patient 2 was 69
years old when Abad-Santos started treating her.  AR 890. 
When a patient is of advanced age like Patient 2, or reports medical
co-morbidities, the standard of care requires medication reconciliation.  AR 890. 
It is important to develop a treatment plan that is compatible with the
treatment plans of other physicians.  AR
891.  If there are co-morbidities, it
means that there are medical problems or conditions besides those identified by
the psychiatrist as mental health disorders. 
AR 891.  When a patient is
advanced in age, it is important to be mindful that they may metabolize
medications differently than when they were younger.   AR 891-92. 
The patient’s self-reporting may not be accurate, and the psychiatrist should
collaborate with the patient’s concurrent medical providers to verify
self-reported medical conditions by obtaining medical records, including
medications prescribed by other physicians, and consult with these physicians
regarding the safety of the recommended psychotropic medication treatment
plan.  AR 455, 890-92, 912.
When she first
presented to Abad-Santos, Patient 2 self-reported that she was taking five
medications:  Celebrex, Cardizem,
Atacand, hydrocodone, and Opana ER.  AR 455,
892-93.  Cardizem and Atacand are blood
pressure medications that suggest a medical condition involving the
cardiovascular system that Patient 2 did not disclose to Abad-Santos.  AR 455, 892-93.  Additionally, Patient 2 reported that she had
type II diabetes.  AR 893.  Many patients would be expected to be taking
medication for this condition, but Patient 2 did not report taking any
diabetes medication.  AR 893.  Nor was there any indication that Abas-Santos
asked about diabetes medication.  AR 893.  Despite the fact that Patient 2 provided the
name of her primary care physician, Abad-Santos made no attempt to verify the
information provided by Patient 2 regarding her medications and her medical
co-morbidities.  AR 455-56, 893-94.  Nor did Abad-Santos attempt to communicate
with Patient 2’s cardiologist or pain management physicians.  AR 455-56, 904-06.  She relied solely on Patient 2’s report of
her medications and medical co-morbidities. 
AR 894-95.
There was no
evidence that Abad-Santos conducted her own monitoring of basic vital
signs.  AR 455, 978-79.  Abad-Santos noted that Patient 2 was taking a
new antihypertensive medication but did not know the name of the medication
because Patient 2 did not know the name. 
AR 898-99.  Despite this, Abad-Santos
never contacted Patient 2’s other treating providers, and therefore, did not
verify Patient 2’s concurrent medications. 
AR 455-56, 893-94, 898.  This
failure was an extreme departure from the standard of care.  AR 456.
The standard of
care does not depend on where one practices. 
AR 911-12.  “The issue is that
there is there is no attempt to obtain records to ask the patient for
authorization to do that, to undertake any process of verifying medical
conditions and medications….So the concerning part of the extreme departure is
the failure to even ask the patient and to try to do this.”  AR 911-12. 

The process of
medication reconciliation is ongoing and includes documenting a list of
medications from medical records, and reviewing each medication with the
patient at the time of evaluation to determine if each medication is being
taken or not and when the last dose was taken as well as adding any missing
medications and subtracting any incorrect or obsolete medications.  AR 455-56, 890-91.  The purpose is to provide a current, accurate
list of medications to inform a safe, appropriate treatment plan moving forward
including both psychotropic and non-psychotropic medication.  AR 455-56, 890-92.  As a patient’s medications prescribed by
another physician may change during the course of treatment, medication
reconciliation is indicated at every appointment as there may be an impact on
the psychiatrist's psychotropic medication treatment plan.  AR 455-56, 895, 906.  Abad-Santos’ failure to perform medication
reconciliations was an extreme departure from the standard of care.  AR 456, 895, 899.
The standard of
care for prescribing psychotropic medication is to conduct a psychiatric
evaluation, discuss with the patient the diagnoses made, develop a recommended
treatment plan discussed with and agreed to by the patient, and obtain informed
consent following discussion of risks, benefits, and alternatives for each
medication.   AR 455, 890-92.  A psychiatric evaluation includes a review of
medical records.  AR 455, 890-92.  This is indicated to ensure, in part, that
medication is prescribed with considerations for contraindications such as an
allergy or dosing modifications due to co-morbid medical conditions such as an
impairment in liver functioning that might alter metabolism of medication.  AR 455, 890-92.  Because the safe prescribing of psychotropic
medications may require baseline and periodic screening examinations, including
physical examination, vital signs, laboratory studies, and electrodcardiogram, the
psychiatrist may be able to rely on examinations conducted by primary care and
medical specialty physicians as part of their medical safety monitoring of
psychotropic medications prescribed by the psychiatrist.  AR 455, 895, 899-900.  Abad-Santos failed to conduct a baseline
examination and ongoing medication reconciliation, which was an extreme
departure from the standard of care.  AR 456,
895.
At the first visit,
Abad-Santos diagnosed Patient 2 as having major depressive disorder, post-traumatic
stress disorder, panic disorder, and generalized anxiety disorder.  AR 895. She prescribed Lexapro, Adderall, a
stimulant and Schedule II controlled
substance, and Klonopin, a benzodiazepine and Scheduled IV controlled
substance, to be taken regularly.  AR 455-56,
895-96.  Abad-Santos also prescribed
Xanax, another benzodiazepine, on an as-needed basis.  AR 455-56, 895-96.  She continued to prescribe controlled
substances that could affect the cardiovascular system and increase the level
of risk and danger to the patient.  AR 456,
896-97.  Despite continuing to prescribe
psychotropic medications, Abad-Santos never communicated with Patient 2’s other
treating physicians, such as her cardiologist.  AR 456, 896-901, 904-06, 911-12.  This was an extreme departure from the
standard of care.  AR 456, 899.
Abad-Santos knew
that Patient 2 had significant medical co-morbidities, including a
cardiovascular condition.  AR 455-56, 896-97.
Abad-Santos prescribed Adderall where there was an indication of cardiovascular
condition.  AR 457, 899.[4]  In this situation, the psychiatrist needs to
go further because this type of stimulant medication can have adverse effects
on the heart.  AR 457, 899.  In her interview, Abad-Santos demonstrated a
lack of knowledge about stimulants.  AR 457,
900-01.  
At Patient 2’s first visit, Abad-Santos prescribed both
long-acting and short-acting benzodiazepines, clonazepam (Klonopin) and
alprazolam (Xanax), respectively.  AR 457-58,
902.   The difference between a long-acting and
short-acting benzodiazepine is how long the medication remains available in the
body.  AR 903.  Klonopin might be expected to last for 12
hours whereas Xanax might be bioavailable for two hours.  AR 903. 
Prescribing the two benzodiazepines together has the potential for an
additive effect.  AR 458-59, 904-05.  In addition, because of Patient 2’s advanced
age, her metabolism may be reduced compared to that of a younger person, and
thus her body may retain the benzodiazepines for a longer period, necessitating
lower doses of the medications.  AR 458-59,
912-13.  The dose of benzodiazepine
prescribed to a patient cannot be evaluated in a vacuum because the “a low dose
might have a different bioavailability than the same dose might have a
different bioavailability in a different patient, particularly an older
patient.”  AR 913.  The prescription of two benzodiapzepines of
different duration for two different indications represents a simple departure
from the standard of care.  AR 458-59.
Patient 2 disclosed to Abad-Santos that she was taking two
opioids, hydrocodone and extended release oxymorphone (Opana).  AR 457, 902. 
There is a known risk of respiratory suppression in patients who are
concurrently taking opioid medications and benzodiazepines.  AR 457, 0901-02.  Although counseling a patient about the
individual risks of a benzodiazepine medication prescribed alone and the
increased risk when prescribed in combination with an opioid is important, the
standard of care is higher than simply providing psychoeducation.  AR 457, 904-05.  The standard of care requires physician
restraint in prescribing benzodiazepines in combination with opioids to
minimize the risk of mortality.  AR 457, 904-05.  Accordingly, Abad-Santos should have either
exercised restraint in prescribing benzodiazepines to Patient 2 or collaborated
with the other treating physicians.  AR 458-59,
904-06.  Her reliance solely on
psychoeducation of the risks rather than restraint was an extreme departure
from the standard of care.  AR 459.
 
b. Miles
Psychiatrist Samuel
Miles, M.D. (“Miles”), Abad-Santos’ expert, testified in pertinent part as follows.  
 
Patient 1
When prescribing
Vyvanse and Cymbalta to a patient, the standard of care requires a physician to
obtain the patient’s baseline pulse and blood pressure, and periodically
monitor those vital signs for patient safety. 
AR 1037.  Abad-Santos was
not required to conduct a baseline serum creatinine examination before
prescribing Cymbalta because, with one exception, every reference that he
reviewed, including the manufacturer’s package insert, states that there is no
need for any kind of laboratory testing. 
AR 1037-38.  
Abad-Santos was not
required to have a separate signed informed consent for Xanax.  That is something physicians in institutions
do, and only for certain medications, but physicians with outpatient practices
do not do so.  AR 1037.  Miles agreed that failing to inform a patient about the risk of
developing dependence on Xanax would fall below the standard of care.  AR 1066. 

Abad-Santos’
documentation error concerning a “young white female” versus a “Korean American
female” was not below the standard of care because it was a typographical
mistake that has no clinical relevance 99% of the time.  AR 1038-39.
 
Patient 2
Abad-Santos did
not commit gross negligence by relying on Patient 2’s self-reporting of medications
and medical co-morbidities without attempting to obtain appropriate medical
records, consult with concurrent prescribers, or consider other physicians’
treatment plans because Patient 2 appeared to be a patient who was articulate
about her medical condition and completed intake forms with great
specificity.  AR 1040.  Obtaining information
from other physicians is not always necessary when a patient is sufficiently informed
of their own medical issues to describe the treatments they are getting.  AR 1040-41.
Abad-Santos was not required to conduct baseline
examinations before prescribing psychotropic medication because Patient 2 was
receiving treatment from other physicians. 
AR 1040-41.  Abad-Santos could
rely on the patient’s involvement with other physicians.  AR 1041. 
A physician can make calls and
send out emails, but often other doctors do not respond.  AR 1042. 
While it is good practice to try to obtain information from other
physicians, physicians do not always have the opportunity to do so.  AR 1040-42.  Miles acknowledged that Abad-Santos made no attempt to contact other providers and there
was no documentation of any attempts of phone calls or e-mails to other
physicians.  AR 1072-73.
Miles acknowledged
that the prescribing of psychotropic medications requires periodic monitoring
of the patient’s mental and physical conditions, and that the failure to do so
would be a departure from the standard of care. 
AR 1071.  
Abad-Santos did not engage in gross negligence by failing to
complete medication reconciliation because a reconciliation is only necessary
when a physician first sees their patient and then to check in from time to
time if there have been any changes.  AR 1042.  
Abad-Santos was not grossly negligent in prescribing stimulant
medications to a Patient 2, who had a co-morbid cardiovascular condition,
without the consideration of possible safety issues. AR 1051.  Miles believed that Abad-Santos was
considering the safety issues, and she was aware that Patient 2 was seeing her
primary care physician and cardiologist and they communicated with Patient 2
regarding these issues.  AR 1051-52. 
There is a known risk of respiratory suppression in patients
who are concurrently taking opioid medications and benzodiazepines.  AR 1074. 
Abad-Santos was not grossly negligent by prescribing benzodiazepines to
Patient 2, who was taking opioid medication concurrently prescribed by another
physician, or by relying solely on psychoeducation of the risks rather than
exercising restraint in prescribing or collaborating with the other physicians
regarding the importance and handling of benzodiazepine versus opioid
indication alternatives.  AR 1052.  She prescribed benzodiazepines to Patient 2
with restraint because the patient was also taking opioid medication prescribed
by another physician.  It is not
reasonable that a patient be required to choose between treatment for pain, or treatment
for anxiety and muscle cramps; the patient needed treatment for all these
conditions.  AR 1051-52.  It is usually difficult
to speak to pain management doctors.  AR
1052.  He admitted that there was no evidence of an impediment
to Abad-Santos collaborating with Patient 2’s pain management physician.  AR 1072, 1074-75.
Abad-Santos was not guilty of simple negligence by
prescribing low doses of alprazolam (Xanax), a short-acting benzodiazepine, and
Valium, a long-acting benzodiazepine.  AR
1056-58.  Patient 2 had been on
short-acting medication for a while for anxiety and sleep in very low
doses.  AR 1056.  The longer-acting medication, Valium, was
being prescribed for muscle spasm and it is an effective muscle relaxer.  AR 1057. 
It needs to be prescribed cautiously with lower dosages when someone is
on an opiate or an older patient.  AR
1057.  Patient 2 was given Valium twice a
day whereas someone in her 30s might have it four times a day.  AR 1057. 
The dosage of Valium was reasonable, and the Xanax prescription was a
low dose.  AR 1058.  Abad-Santos also warned Patient 2 about the
risk of drug interaction when she wanted to return to diazepam for muscle
spasms.  AR 1058.
It also was not below the standard of care to record in a
progress note that Provigil is denied and that Patient 2 would still like to
take Adderall.  AR 1060. Abad-Santos was
reinforcing the need for blood pressure medication and Patient 2 was being
followed by a cardiologist.  AR 1060.  Abad-Santos could rely on Patient 2 to inform
her cardiologist and/or Abad-Santos if her blood pressure went up again.  AR 1060.
 
4. The ALJ’s
Proposed Decision
On June 12, 2023,
the ALJ issued his proposed decision.  AR
805-35.  The ALJ summarized Abad-Santos’
education and training, prior discipline (AR 807-10) and the testimony of
experts Ferren and Miles (AR 810-16).
 
a. The Experts
Ferren opined that
Abad-Santos committed simple negligence in her care and treatment of Patient 1 when
she (a) prescribed Vyvance and Cmbalta without obtaining a baseline pulse and
blood pressure and by failing to monitor them during treatment, (b) failed to
check creatine levels when prescribing Cymbalta, and (c) failed to obtain
informed written consent to the risk of dependence on Xanax.  AR 817.
Ferren opined that
Abad-Santos committed extreme departures from the standard of care for Patient
2 when she (a) relied solely on Patient 2’s report of her medications and
co-morbidities without attempting to obtain records or consult her treating
physicians, (b) prescribed psychotropic medications without conducting baseline
examinations or obtaining medical records, and failed to periodically monitor
for changes related to a known cardiovascular condition, and (c) failed to
conduct a baseline and ongoing medication reconciliation.  AR 817. 
Abad-Santos’ (d) prescription of a stimulant, Adderall, to a patient
with cardiovascular morbidity without considering safety issues represented a
lack of knowledge (e) her prescription of short and long-acting benzodiazepine
was a simple departure of the standard of care, and (f) her prescription of
these drugs to a patient taking opioids without collaborating with her other physicians
was an extreme departure.  AR 817-18.
Miles opined that,
if Abad-Santos prescribed Xanax to Patient 1 without informing her of the risk
of dependence, that would be a departure from the standard of care.  However, he believed her when she told him that
she did so.  AR 818.  He agreed that periodic monitoring of pulse
and blood pressure is required when prescribing Vyvance and Cymbalta.  He disagreed with Ferren that a baseline
serum creatine is required when prescribing Cymbalta.  AR 819. 
He opined that Patient 1’s chart shows adequate informed consent about
the prescription of Xanax.  A separate
written consent is not required outside of institutional settings.  AR 820.
Miles agreed that
the prescription of psychotropic medication requires periodic monitoring and
optimally this can occur through conversations with treating physicians.  He disagreed with Ferren that Abad-Santos
could not rely on a patient’s reports of medications and co-morbidities, noting
that the patient is often the only source of information.  AR 819. 
Abad-Santos was making adequate assessments and monitoring of Patient
2’s condition and could rely on Patient 2’s other doctors to treat her other
conditions.  AR 820.  Miles opined that Abad-Santos used adequate
restraint in prescribing benzodiazepines to a patient taking opioids and that
she adequately educated Patient 2 about the risks.  AR 819. 

The ALJ summarized Abad-Santos’ testimony (AR 820-21) and
made findings regarding the expert testimony. 
AR 824-26.  The ALJ mostly
credited Ferren’s testimony but did not criticize Miles’ qualifications.  AR 824. 

 
b. Patient 1
The ALJ concluded that Abad-Santos committed a simple
departure from the standard of care by prescribing Vyvance and Cymbalta to
Patient 1 without obtaining a baseline pulse and blood pressure and by failing
to monitor those vital signs during the course of treatment.  AR 824-25. 
Miles’ opinion was credited that she did not depart from the standard of
care by failing to monitor creatine.  AR
825.
Miles’ opinion also was credited that Abad-Santos did not
commit a simple departure from the standard of care by failing to have a
written informed consent warning Patient 1 about the risks of dependence when
taking Xanax.  AR 825.  Abad-Santos’ failure to document this advice
was a simple departure from the standard of care.  AR 825.
 
c. Patient 2
Ferren’s opinions were
credited that Abad-Santos committed extreme departures from the standard of
care for Patient 2 when she (a) relied solely on Patient 2’s report of her
medications and co-morbidities without attempting to obtain records or consult
her treating physicians, (b) prescribed psychotropic medications without
conducting baseline examinations or obtaining medical records, and without periodically
monitor for changes related to a known cardiovascular condition, and (c) failed
to conduct a baseline and ongoing medication reconciliation.  AR 825-26. 

Ferren’s opinion
also was credited that Abad-Santos’ prescription of short and long-acting
benzodiazepine was a simple departure of the standard of care.  His opinion further was credited that
Abad-Santos’ prescription of these drugs to a patient taking opioids without
collaborating with her other physicians was an extreme departure.  AR 826.
 
d. Conclusion
All four causes to
discipline Abad-Santos’ license were established.  AR 832. 
The ALJ noted that this case was not Abad-Santos’ first brush with
discipline.  She had been on probation
from March 30, 2012 to September 1, 2018. 
During that probationary period, she failed PACE, barely passed it a
second time (with deficiencies), twice took a pharmacology course and twice
took a record-keeping course.  AR
834.  She first saw both Patients 1 and 2
while she was on probation and her breaches occurred during her probation.  AR 834. 
Consequently, her contemporaneous remedial education did not appear to have
improved her practice.  AR 834-35.  The Complainant’s argument that the Board
should not have to wait until Abad-Santos harms a patient was well taken.  Therefore, the ALJ recommended that
Abad-Santos’ license be revoked.  AR 835.
 
5. The Medical Board’s Decision
On July 13, 2023,
the Medical Board adopted the ALJ’s proposed decision.  AR 804. 

 
D. Analysis
Petitioner Abad-Santos argues that the Medical Board’s
decision is not supported by substantial evidence.  
 
1. Procedural Failure
When
a petitioner challenges an administrative decision as unsupported by
substantial evidence in light of the record as a whole, it is the petitioner’s
burden to demonstrate that the administrative record does not contain
sufficient evidence to support the agency’s decision.  State Water Resources Control Board Cases,
(2006) 136 Cal.App.4th 674, 749.  A
recitation of only the part of the evidence that supports the petitioner’s
position is not the “demonstration” contemplated by this rule.  Accordingly, if a petitioner contends that
some issue of fact is not sustained, he is required to set forth in his brief
all the material evidence on the point and note merely his own evidence.  Unless this is done, the error is deemed to
be waived.  Id. (quoting Foreman
& Clark Corp. v. Fallon, (1971) 3 Cal.3d 875, 881).  The "[f]ailure to do so is fatal"
to any substantial evidence challenge and "is deemed a concession that the
evidence supports the findings."  Defend
the Bay v. City of Irvine, (2004) 11928 Cal.App.4th 1261, 1266.  The reviewing court should "not
independently review the record to make up for appellant's failure to carry his
burden."  Ibid.  
Abad-Santos’
opening brief cites only the testimony of her expert without citing Ferren’s
opinions.  As a consequence, Abad-Santos
has not met her burden and the Petition must be denied.
 
2.
Merits
If, arguendo, the court considered the
merits, the Petition still would be denied. 

 
a. Expert Credibility
Abad-Santos argues that the ALJ’s[5] decision
overlooks credible testimony by Miles contradicting gross negligence.  The decision
gave greater credit to the Complainant’s expert, Ferren, over that of her expert,
Miles.  AR 824-26.  She argues that Ferren’s medical practice is
completely different than Abad-Santos’ because he works full-time as a hospital-based
psychiatrist where the standard of care is different, given that hospitals are
more sophisticated and have more resources than a solo psychiatric
practice.  Pet. Op. Br. at 9.
This argument both
contradicts the testimony and the ALJ’s decision.  Ferren expressly testified that the standard
of care is the same whatever the location where one practices.  AR 911-12.  Additionally, the ALJ mostly credited
Ferren’s testimony but did not criticize Miles’ qualifications.  AR 824. 
He also credited Miles’ opinion for Patient 1 that Abad-Santos did not
depart from the standard of care by failing to monitor creatine, and that Abad-Santos
did not depart from the standard of care by failing to have a written informed
consent warning Patient 1 about the risks of dependence when taking Xanax.  AR 825. 
The ALJ did not overlook Miles’ credible testimony for Patient 2; he
simply agreed with Ferren.
 
b. Failure to Obtain Patient 2’s Medical Records and
Consult with Her Other Providers
The ALJ credited
Ferren’s opinion that Abad-Santos committed an extreme departure from the
standard of care for Patient 2 when she relied solely on Patient 2’s report of
her medications and co-morbidities without attempting to obtain records or
consult her treating physicians.  AR 825-26.
Abad-Santos notes that Miles testified that “in an ideal
world, a treating psychiatrist would be able to communicate with other
physician’s treating one’s patient. Unfortunately, this is not always possible.
 Yet, “collaboration with other treating
physicians, here pain management physicians, is often difficult.”  Miles opined that Abad-Santos “was making
adequate assessment and monitoring of Patient 2’s condition, and that she could
essentially rely on the patient’s other doctors to treat her other conditions.”
 Pet. Op. Br. at 9.
No doubt this often
is true.  However, Ferren opined that when
a patient is of advanced age or reports medical co-morbidities, such as Patient
2, the standard of care requires a psychiatrist to contact the patient’s
concurrent medical providers to verify self-reported medical conditions by
obtaining medical records and consulting with these physicians whenever
possible regarding the safety of the recommended psychotropic medication
treatment plan.  AR 455.
When she first
presented to Abad-Santos, Patient 2 self-reported taking five medications:  Celebrex, Cardizem, Atacand, hydrocodone, and
Opana.   Contrary to Miles’s contention that Patient 2
was articulate about her medical conditions, she reported taking Cardizem and
Atacand, which are blood pressure medications. 
This suggested a cardiovascular medical condition that Patient 2 did not
disclose.  Additionally, Patient 2
reported that she had type II diabetes, for which many patients would be
expected to be taking medication.  Yet, Patient 2
did not report taking any diabetes medication. Nor was there any indication
that Abad-Santos asked about such medication. 

Abad-Santos had the
name of Patient 2’s primary care physician but made no attempt to verify the
information provided by Patient 2 regarding her medications and medical
co-morbidities.  Nor did Abad-Santos attempt
to communicate with Patient 2’s cardiologist or pain management physician.  AR 456, 911-12.  Although Miles opined that it is not always
feasible to communicate with a patients other physicians, he admitted that
there was no evidence of an impediment to Abad-Santos doing so, or that she
even tried.   AR 1042.
The weight of the
expert testimony shows that Abad-Santos’ failure to obtain medical records or
consult other physicians for Patient 2 was an extreme departure from the
standard of care.  
c.
Failure to Perform Medication Reconciliation
The ALJ credited
Ferren’s opinion that Abad-Santos committed an extreme departure from the
standard of care for Patient 2 when she failed to conduct a baseline and
ongoing medication reconciliation.  AR 825-26.
Abat-Santos notes that Miles testified that medication
reconciliation is needed when you first see the patient and thereafter only
from time to time. Pet. Op. Br. at 9-10.
As the Medical
Board argues (Opp. at 18-19), Ferren’s uncontroverted testimony is that the
process of medication reconciliation is ongoing and includes the initial
documentation of medications and reviewing each medication with the patient at
the time of evaluation to determine if each medication is being taken and when
the last dose was taken, adding any new or missing medications, and subtracting
any incorrect or obsolete medications.  AR
455.  The purpose is to provide a
current, accurate list of medications to inform a safe, appropriate treatment
plan moving forward including both psychotropic and non-psychotropic
medication.  AR 455.  Because a patient’s medications prescribed by
another physician may change during the course of treatment, medication
reconciliation is indicated at every appointment; there may be an impact on the
psychiatrist's psychotropic medication treatment plan.  AR 455.
Abad-Santos failed
to contact other providers to verify Patient 2’s medications.  In fact, she noted that Patient 2 was taking
a new antihypertensive medication, but Patient 2 did not know the name of the
medication.  AR 456, 898-99.  Despite this, Abat-Santos never contacted
Patient 2’s treating providers to find out. 
AR 456.
Miles did not seriously contradict Ferren’s opinion.  He merely opined that Abad-Santos was not
required to conduct baseline examinations before prescribing psychotropic
medication because Patient 2 was receiving treatment from other physicians and Abad-Santos
could rely on the patient’s involvement with other physicians.  AR 1040-41. 
However, he also acknowledged
that the prescribing of psychotropic medications requires periodic monitoring
of the patient’s mental and physical conditions, and that the failure to do so
would be a departure from the standard of care. 
AR 1071.  Abat-Santos did not
monitor Patient’s ongoing medication.
The weight of the
expert testimony shows that Abad-Santos’ failure to perform at least ongoing
medication reconciliations was an extreme departure from the standard of care.
 
d. Prescribing Psychotropic Medications to Patient 2
Without Baseline Examination and Periodic Monitoring of Physical Health

The ALJ concluded that Abat-Santos committed an extreme
departure from the standard of care when she prescribed psychotropic medications for Patient 2 without conducting
baseline examinations and without periodically monitor for changes related to a
known cardiovascular condition.  AR 825-26.
Ferren credibly opined
that the standard of care for prescribing psychotropic medication requires a
psychiatric evaluation, a discussion with the patient of the diagnoses made,
the development of a recommended treatment plan discussed with and agreed to by
the patient, and informed consent following discussion of risks, benefits, and
alternatives for each medication.  AR 455.  A psychiatric evaluation includes a review of
medical records.  AR 455.  This ensures, in part, that medication is
prescribed with considerations for contraindications such as an allergy or
dosing modifications due to co-morbid medical conditions such as an impairment
in liver functioning that might alter metabolism of medication.  AR 455. 
The safe prescribing of psychotropic medications may require baseline
and periodic screening examinations, including physical examination, vital
signs, laboratory studies, and electrocardiogram.  AR 455. 
Collaboration with primary care and medical specialty physicians may
enable the psychiatrist to use examinations conducted in these other settings
as part of their medical safety monitoring of psychotropic medications
prescribed by the psychiatrist.  AR
455.  
Miles agreed that
the prescribing of psychotropic medications requires periodic monitoring of the
patient’s mental and physical conditions, and that the failure to do so would
be a departure from the standard of care. 
AR 1071.  Opp. at 17.
At Patient 2’s
first visit, Abat-Santos prescribed Lexapro, Adderall, a stimulant and Schedule
II controlled substance, and Klonopin, a benzodiazepine and Scheduled IV
controlled substance, to be taken regularly. 
AR 455-56.  She also prescribed
Xanax, another benzodiazepine, on an as-needed basis.  AR 456. Within a matter of two months,
Petitioner increased Patient 2’s Adderall dosage by six-fold.  AR 1190. 

Abat-Santos knew
that Patient 2 had significant medical co-morbidities, including a
cardiovascular condition.  AR 455-56.  She also admitted that she was concerned that
Patient 2 was taking her husband’s prescribed medication (Provigil).  AR 1191-92. 
Yet, Abat-Santos prescribed controlled substances that could affect the
cardiovascular system and increase the level of risk and danger to the patient
without any evidence of a baseline examination. 
AR 456.  Despite continuing to
prescribe psychotropic medications, Abat-Santos never monitored Patient 2’s physical
health – e.g., basic vital signs. 
AR 456.
Abat-Santos argues that Miles testified that she was not
required to conduct a baseline examination before prescribing psychotropic
medication because Patient 2 was receiving treatment from other
physicians.  AR 1041-42.  Pet. Op. Br. at 10.  However,
Abat-Santos failed to contact other physicians so that she could rely on their
examinations and monitoring of Patient 2’s physical condition.  
The weight of the
expert testimony shows that Abad-Santos prescribed psychotropic medications
without evidence of a baseline examination and monitoring of Patient 2’s
physical health and that this was an extreme departure from the standard of
care. 
 
e. Prescribing Short and Long-Acting Benzodiazepines
to Patient 2 While Relying Solely on Psychoeducation of Risk 
The ALJ found that
Abad-Santos’ prescription of short and long-acting benzodiazepine was a simple
departure of the standard of care. 
Abad-Santos’ prescription of these drugs to a patient taking opioids
without collaborating with her other physicians was an extreme departure.  AR 826.
Patient 2 disclosed to Abat-Santos in her first visit that
she was taking two opioids: hydrocodone and extended release oxymorphone
(Opana).  AR 457.  Abat-Santos prescribed both long-acting and
short-acting benzodiazepines, clonazepam (Klonopin) and alprazolam (Xanax),
respectively.  AR 457-58.  Ferren explained that the difference between
a long-acting and short-acting benzodiazepine is how long the medication
remains in the body.  AR 903.  Klonopin might be expected to last for 12
hours whereas Xanax might be bioavailable for two hours.  AR 903. 
Prescribing the two benzodiazepines together has the potential for an
additive effect.  AR 458-59.  In addition, because of Patient 2’s advanced
age, her metabolism may be reduced compared to that of a younger person, and
thus her body may retain the benzodiazepines for a longer period, necessitating
lower doses of the medications.  AR 457-58.  Accordingly, the dose of benzodiazepine
prescribed to a patient cannot be evaluated in a vacuum because the “a low dose
might have a different bioavailability than the same dose might have a
different bioavailability in a different patient, particularly an older
patient.”  AR 913.  Opp. at 19-20.
Abat-Santos argues that she was not negligent because she
prescribed reasonable low doses of Xanax and Valium.  AR 1056-58. 
Pet. Op. Br. at 10.  Miles opined
that Abad-Santos was not guilty of simple negligence by prescribing low doses
of alprazolam (Xanax), a short-acting benzodiazepine, and Valium, a long-acting
benzodiazepine.  AR 1056-58.  Patient 2 had been on short-acting medication
for a while for anxiety and sleep in very low doses.  AR 1056. 
The longer-acting medication, Valium, was being prescribed for muscle
spasm; Valium is an effective muscle relaxer. 
AR 1057.  Patient 2 was given
Valium twice a day whereas someone in her 30s might have it four times a day.  AR 1057. 
The dosage of Valium was reasonable, and the Xanax was a low dose.  AR 1058. 
The court accepts Miles’ opinion that combining low doses of Xanax and
Valium may have been appropriate without further actions (which Ferren did not
articulate).
However, Ferren also opined that there is a known risk of
respiratory suppression in patients who are concurrently taking opioid
medications and benzodiazepines.  AR 457.  Miles agreed that benzodiazepine needs to be
prescribed cautiously with lower dosages when someone is on an opiate or an
older patient.  AR 1057.  Ferren opined that, although counseling a
patient about the increased risk of benzodiazepine medication prescribed in
combination with an opioid is important, the standard of care is higher than
simply providing psychoeducation.  AR
457.  The standard of care requires
physician restraint in prescribing benzodiazepines in combination with opioids
to minimize the risk of mortality.  AR 457.  Abat-Santos should have either exercised
restraint in prescribing benzodiazepines to Patient 2 or collaborated with the
other treating physicians.  AR 459.  Her failure to do so was an extreme departure
from the standard of care.
Miles opined that Abad-Santos was not grossly negligent by
prescribing benzodiazepines to Patient 2 by relying solely on psychoeducation because
she prescribed benzodiazepines to Patient 2 with restraint.  AR 1052. 
It is not reasonable to require a patient to choose between treatment
for pain, or treatment for anxiety and muscle cramps, because the patient
needed treatment for all these conditions. 
AR 1051-52.  
The court agrees
with the ALJ that the weight of expert testimony shows that Abad-Santos’
prescription of these drugs to a patient taking opioids without collaborating
with her other physicians was an extreme departure.  The undisputed expert testimony was that it
is insufficient to rely on psychoeducation or low doses of Xanax and
Valium.  Contrary to Miles’ opinion, no
one asked Patient 2 to choose between medications.  Rather, Abad-Santos should  have collaborated with Patient 2’s other
physicians.  Yet, she did not even
attempt to contact Patient 2’s pain physician.
 
f. Repeated Acts
of Negligence for Patient 1
The ALJ concluded that Abad-Santos committed a simple
departure from the standard of care by prescribing Vyvance and Cymbalta to
Patient 1 without obtaining a baseline pulse and blood pressure and by failing
to monitor those vital signs during the course of treatment.  AR 824-25. 
Miles’ opinion was credited that she did not depart from the standard of
care by failing to monitor creatine.  AR
825.  Miles’ opinion also was credited
that Abad-Santos did not commit a simple departure from the standard of care by
failing to have a written informed consent warning Patient 1 about the risks of
dependence when taking Xanax.  AR
825.  However, Abad-Santos’ failure to
document this advice was a simple departure from the standard of care.  AR 825.
Perren testified
that Abad-Santos prescribed Vyvanse (lisdexamfetamine), a stimulant medication,
which is a Schedule II controlled substance used to treat attention deficit
hyperactivity disorder.  AR 880.  Cymbalta (duloxetine) is a psychotropic
medication for which a prescription is required.  When prescribing Vyvanse and Cymbalta to a
patient, the standard of care requires a physician to obtain the patient’s
baseline pulse and blood pressure, and periodically monitor those vital signs
for patient safety.  AR 453, 888-89.  Abad-Santos never
obtained Patient 1’s blood pressure or pulse.  AR 453, 888-89.  There should also have been a baseline
cardiac evaluation for both drugs.  AR
885, 887.  Her failures were a simple
departure from the standard of care.   AR
453, 889.
Additionally, because
of the risk of psychological and/or physiological dependence on Xanax, Perren
opined that it is important to explain to the patient the risks, benefits, and
alternatives to taking this medication.  AR
451-52, 885-87.  Miles agreed that
failing to inform a patient about the risk of developing dependence on Xanax
would fall below the standard of care.  AR
1066.  Abad-Santos did not document that
she warned Patient 1 about the risk of developing dependence on Xanax.  AR 451-52, 886.  This was a simple departure from the standard
of care.  AR 887.
Abat-Santos argues that Miles testified that she was not
negligent because the standard generally requires that a patient’s pulse and
blood pressure be taken before starting a medication and from time to time
afterwards.  AR 1037.  Pet. Op. Br. at 10.  
Miles did not testify that Abat-Santos was not
negligent.  Rather, he testified that, when prescribing Vyvanse and Cymbalta to a
patient, the standard of care requires a physician to obtain the patient’s
baseline pulse and blood pressure, and periodically monitor those vital signs
for patient safety.  AR 1037.  Abat-Santos did neither for Patient 1 (AR
1169-70), and it is undisputed that she was negligent.
The weight of the evidence shows that Abat-Santos committed simple
departures from the standard of care by prescribing drugs to Patient 1 without a
baseline examination of pulse and blood pressure and by failing to monitor
those vital signs during the course of treatment and by failing to document her
discussion about the risks of dependence on Xanax.
 
g. Failure to Maintain Adequate Records
Abad-Santos argues that Miles testified that her documentation
error in describing Patient 1 as a “young white female” and elsewhere as a
“Korean American female” was not below the standard of care because it was a
typographical mistake that has no clinical relevance 99 percent of the
time.  AR 1038-39.  Pet. Op. Br. at 10.
True, but Abat-Santos
failed to document advice about the risk of dependence on Xanax in Patient 1’s medical
record.  AR 451-52.  Abat-Santos also admitted there is no
documentation in Patient 2's charts of her efforts to contact other treating
physicians.  AR 1184, 1191, 1205.  She further offered into evidence copies of
emails and text messages from Patient 2 that she acknowledged should have been
placed in Patient 2’s medical record.  AR
1199.
The weight of the
evidence shows that Abat-Santos failed to maintain adequate and accurate
medical records in violation of Business
and Professions Code sections 2266.
 
E. Conclusion
The Medical Board’s
decision is supported by substantial evidence and the Petition is denied.  The Medical Board’s counsel is ordered
to prepare a proposed judgment, serve it on Petitioner Abad-Santos’ counsel for
approval as to form, wait ten days after service for any objections, meet and
confer if there are objections, and then submit the proposed judgment along with
a declaration stating the existence/non-existence of any unresolved
objections.  An OSC re: judgment is set
for June 27, 2024 at 9:30 a.m.


