 Case Number:  23STCV25484    Hearing Date:   December 4, 2023    Dept:  49 Vipan Kant Bhola v. Gregory T. Royston, et al.DEFENDANTS’ APPLICATION FOR AN ORDER EXPUNGING LIS PENDENS MOVING PARTY: Defendants Gregory Royston, Yuko Royston, and YGR Living TrustRESPONDING PARTY(S): Vipan BholaSTATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:  Plaintiff Vipan Bhola brings this action against Defendants Gregory Royston, Yuko Royston, and YGR Living Trust for an alleged violation of the Uniform Fraudulent Transfers Act.Defendants now move for an order expunging the lis pendens recorded on the subject property. Bhola opposed. The matter first came for hearing on an ex parte basis on October 24, 2023, where it was set for hearing on shortened time. TENTATIVE RULING:Defendants’ Application for an Order Expunging Lis Pendens is GRANTED.Moving parties to give notice.DISCUSSION:Application to Expunge Lis PendensA. Objections to EvidenceDefendants have submitted various objections to evidence. Based on Defendant’s response to Plaintiff’s objections, it appears Plaintiff may have also submitted objections with his opposition papers. The court, however, is not in receipt of Plaintiff’s objections. This Court is unaware of any legal authority which requires a court to rule on evidentiary objections on a motion, except as to a motion for summary motion/adjudication (CCP § 437c (q)] or a special motion to strike (CCP § 425.16 (b)(2)); see also, Sweetwater Union High School Dist. v. Gilbane Building Co. (2019) 6 Cal.5th 931, 947-949.)As such, this Court respectfully declines to rule on any of these objections.  This Court is well aware of the rules of evidence, and how much weight, if any, should be given to any of the proposed evidence.B. Legal StandardA lis pendens can be ordered removed from the record title based upon an argument that it is improper because it does not contain a real property claim (CCP § 405.31) or that the plaintiff cannot establish its probable validity by a preponderance of the evidence (CCP § 405.32; see also Kirkeby v. Superior Court (2004) 33 Cal.4th 642, 648.).  “Unlike most other motions, the burden of proof is on the party opposing the motion to expunge.  The lis pendens claimant (plaintiff) bears the burden of establishing the existence of a ‘real property claim’ and that it is ‘probably valid.’  (CCP § 405.32) C. BackgroundThis action arises from related case Vista Land, LLC, v. EIJ, Inc., et al, LASC case no. 20STCV47123. There, Vipan Bhola, as attorney for Plaintiff Vista Land, prosecuted a contempt proceeding against Defendant Gregory Royston and his attorney, Raymond Robinson. On July 15, 2022, following an eight-hour contempt trial, this Court adjudged Respondents guilty of contempt.On June 1, 2023, after noticed motion by Attorney Vip Bhola as former counsel for Vista Land, this court awarded Mr. Bhola an award of attorney’s fees in the total amount of $61,875.00, against Defendants Greg Royston and Raymond Robinson, jointly and severally. (See June 01, 2023, Minute Order in 20STCV47123.)In the instant action, Bhola alleges that Defendant Royston and his wife, Yuko Royston, have transferred all of their interest in real property in Rancho Palos Verdes, CA, to Defendant The YGR Living Trust. (Compl. ¶ 16.) Plaintiff alleges this transfer “leaves the Judgment issued on June 1, 2023, uncollectable,” and was “intended to hinder, delay, or defraud the collection of plaintiff’s aforementioned claim.” (Id. ¶ 24.) Plaintiff brings one cause of action against Defendants for violation of the Uniform Fraudulent Transfers Act, Cal. Civ. Code section 3439 et seq.D. AnalysisDefendants Gregory Royston, Yuko Royston, and YGR Living Trust move to expunge the lis pendens from real property located at 6338 Sattes Drive, Rancho Palos Verdes, CA 90275. Plaintiff opposed.Defendants argue the lis pendens should be expunged because Plaintiff cannot establish the probable validity of his claim. Defendants contend the YGR Trust is a revocable trust. They further contend that the alleged transfer of assets to a revocable trust cannot constitute a violation of the Uniform Fraudulent Transfers Act because the revocable trust can be reached by creditors. Defendants rely on Gagan v. Gouyd (1999) 73 Cal. App. 4th 835, 842. That case involved two alleged fraudulent transfers, one of property to a revocable trust, and another of property through a marital settlement agreement. As to the conveyance of property to a revocable trust, the Court of Appeal held that the transfer was not a fraudulent transfer because the defendants remained the beneficiaries of the trust. Thus, under Probate Code section 18200, which provides that property in a revocable trust is subject to creditor claims to the extent of the debtor's power of revocation, the property in trust remained available to creditors. Therefore, “the trial court erred in finding that transfer of the real property to the trust was a fraudulent conveyance.” (Id.) As to the transfer via the marital settlement agreement, the Court likewise held that the UFTA did not apply. In opposition, Plaintiff argues that the case of Mejia v. Reed (2003) 31 Cal. 4th 657 overruled the “very proposition” from Gagan on which Defendant relies. Not so. The portion of Mejia disproving of Gagan only addressed Gagan’s conclusion that the UFTA does not apply to marital settlement agreements. (Id. at 663.) The Court did not address application of the UFTA to revocable trusts. Therefore, the rule from Gagan remains valid that the transfer of property to a revocable trust does not support a claim under the UFTA. Here, Defendants provided a redacted version of the trust. It provides that Gregory Thomas Royston and Yuko Royston are the grantors, each of whom have the “authority, power, and right to revoke the Trust.” (Exh. 1, ¶¶ 1, 3 [emphasis added].) Defendant Royston, himself an attorney, attests under penalty of perjury that the trust is revocable, and that he and his wife are lifetime beneficiaries of the Trust. (Royston Decl. ¶ 3.) Therefore, this court considers the trust as a revocable trust with Defendant Gregory and Yuko Royston as its grantors and lifetime beneficiaries. Plaintiff fails to offer any argument disputing this conclusion.Plaintiff goes on to cite general authority recognizing that a lis pendens can attach for alleged violations of the UFTA. That is not in dispute. The issue, however, is that the particular facts alleged here—the transfer of real property to a revocable trust in which Defendants are beneficiaries—cannot support a claim under the UFTA. Therefore, Plaintiff has failed to carry his burden to establish the probable validity of his claim. Last, but not least, as aptly noted by Defendants in their initial moving papers, is the simple fact that Defendant Gregory Royston has actually posted a bond of almost $100,000 in the related case, which would more than adequately protect Plaintiff from collecting upon his entire judgment.  See, Defendants’ Ex Parte Application, Argument “C”, pp. 8-9.  This reason alone justifies the granting of this motion to expunge the lis pendens at issue.In short, the instant case is based solely upon the judgment of approximately $60,000 Plaintiff obtained against Royston and Robinson in the underlying related case.  In other words, Plaintiff could potentially utilize the subject property at issue to collect upon that judgment.  However, the full amount of his judgment (including past and future interest) is adequately protected by Royston’s recent posting of his appeal bond in the underlying related case.  Hence, unless the bond is somehow inadequate, there is no need for the lis pendens, nor any actually any need for this entire case!  Plaintiff has not even responded to that very compelling argument, nor has he demonstrated the inadequacy of this bond.Accordingly, Defendants’ Application to Expunge Lis Pendens is GRANTED.Moving parties to give notice.IT IS SO ORDERED.Dated:   December 4, 2023 ___________________________________ Randolph M. Hammock Judge of the Superior Court  Any party may submit on the tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept49@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day before the hearing.  All interested parties must be copied on the email.  It should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.