  Case Number:  21STCV41076    Hearing Date:   November 19, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



MICHAEL AMINI, 
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
4525 ROSEMEAD BLVD., LLC,
 
                                  Defendant.
 


 Case No: 
  21STCV41076
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  September 19, 2024
 Calendar Number:  1



 
 
 
Defendant 4525 Rosemead Blvd., LLC (“Defendant”) moves for
an order setting this case for trial preference.
            
The Court GRANTS the motion. The Court sets trial for March
17, 2025 at 9:30 a.m.  The Court sets a
Final Status Conference for March 7, 2025 at 8:30 a.m.  The parties are directed to strictly comply
with the Court’s trial preparation order in advance of the Final Status
Conference.  
 
Background
 
This is a property case.
 
Plaintiff Michael Amin (“Plaintiff”) filed this action on
November 8, 2021, seeking specific performance to compel the sale of the
property located at 4525 Rosemead Boulevard, Pico Rivera, California 90660 (the
“Property”). Defendant is a limited liability company that owns the Property.
 
The Complaint raises claims for (1) breach of contract; and
(2) specific performance.
 
Bahram Mashhood (“Mashhood”) is the managing member of
Defendant. Defendant contends that Mashhood is also an individual Doe
defendant. (Mashhood Decl. ¶ 2.)
 
            Mashhood
as Stage 4 cancer, a terminal illness that raises a substantial medical doubt
of Mashhood’s survival beyond six months. (Sanani Decl. ¶ 4.)
 
On March 4, 2024, Defendant notified the Court that Mashhood
had Stage Four cancer. Judge Stephen Goodrich in Department 39, where this case
was assigned, set trial for July 23, 2024. The Court invited Defendant to bring
an ex parte application to protect the trial date.
 
On May 15, 2024, the Court reassigned this case to Judge
Tony Richardson in Department 39. Defendant filed an ex parte application for
trial preference on June 3, 2024. On June 5, 2024, Judge Richardson recused
himself from this case, vacated all dates, and transferred the case to
Department 1 for reassignment.
 
On June 10, 2024, this case was reassigned to Department 72.
 
Defendant moved for trial preference on August 2, 2024.
Plaintiff filed an opposition and Defendant filed a reply.  The Court held a hearing on September 19,
2024 and, at Defendant’s request, continued the hearing to today.
 
Legal Standard
 
Actions can be set for trial preference under several
circumstances.
 
First, “[a] party to a civil action who is over 70 years of
age may petition the court for a preference, which the court shall grant if the
court makes both of the following findings: 
 
(1) The party has a substantial interest in the action as a
whole. 
 
(2) The health of
the party is such that a preference is necessary to prevent prejudicing the
party's interest in the litigation.”
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 36, subd. (a).)
 
Second, “[a] civil action to recover damages for wrongful
death or personal injury shall be entitled to preference upon the motion of any
party to the action who is under 14 years of age unless the court finds that
the party does not have a substantial interest in the case as a whole. A civil
action subject to subdivision (a) shall be given preference over a case subject
to this subdivision.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 36, subd. (b).)
 
Third, “[i]n its discretion, the court may also grant a
motion for preference that is accompanied by clear and convincing medical
documentation that concludes that one of the parties suffers from an illness or
condition raising substantial medical doubt of survival of that party beyond
six months, and that satisfies the court that the interests of justice will be
served by granting the preference.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 36, subd. (d).)
 
Fourth, “[n]otwithstanding any other provision of law, the
court may in its discretion grant a motion for preference that is supported by
a showing that satisfies the court that the interests of justice will be served
by granting this preference.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 36, subd. (e).)
 
When a court grants a request for a preference, “the court
shall set the matter for trial not more than 120 days from the date and there
shall be no continuance beyond 120 days,” except for a 15 day continuance in
certain specified circumstances.  (Code
Civ. Proc. § 36, subd. (f).)
 
Discussion
 
            Defendant
seeks a setting of preference under the third statutory ground.
 
As noted, Mashhood is the managing member of Defendant.
Defendant contends that Mashhood is also an individual Doe defendant. (Mashhood
Decl. ¶ 2.)
 
            Mashhood
as Stage 4 cancer, a terminal illness that raises a substantial medical doubt
of Mashhood’s survival beyond six months. (Sanani Decl. ¶ 4.)
 
Plaintiff argues that Defendant has unduly delayed in
seeking trial preference and argues that Mashhood’s survival for six months
past the date of his diagnosis suggests that his medical prognosis has changed.
The Court disagrees with this argument. Mashhood still has Stage 4 cancer,
which still creates a substantial doubt about his survival for six months going
forward. The fact that he has not yet passed away does not diminish this risk.
 
Plaintiff requests that trial not be set before January 2025
because Plaintiff’s counsel has trials during the weeks of November 12,
December 9, December 16, and December 30. Defendant states that it agrees with
Plaintiff and wishes for trial to be set in February, 2025 or as soon as
possible thereafter.  For this reason,
Defendant agreed to continue this hearing to today’s date.  The Court has set this matter for trial on
March 17, 2025, within the 120 day limit.
 