 Case Number:  23STCV30913    Hearing Date:   November 19, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DOOMARINA SARDARBEKIANS, 
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
WAHIB MASHINI, et al.,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No: 
  23STCV30913
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  November 19, 2024
 Calendar Number:  5



 
 
 
Plaintiff Doomarina Sardarbekians (“Plaintiff”) moves to
compel Defendant PLG Staffing LLC (“PLG”) to serve further responses to her
First Set of Requests for Production of Documents, Nos. 4-9, 11-16, 19-29, 30,
31-35, 37, 40-45, 47-52, 53, 54-74, 76-80, and 82-84.
 
The Court CONTINUES Plaintiff’s motion to December 24, 2024
at 8:30 a.m. so that the parties can meet and confer to attempt to take some or
all of the issues out of contention.  The
Court orders the parties to meet and confer telephonically for no less than an
hour-and-a-half, or until the full resolution of all issues in all pending
discovery motions, whichever is sooner.
 
Background
 
This is an employment case between Plaintiff and Defendants Wahib
Mashini (“Mashini”); Desmond Adams (“Adams”); PLG; Clarity Debt Resolution,
Inc. (“Clarity Debt”); J.W. FS LLC (“J.W.”); and Clarity Capital Solutions LLC
(“Clarity Capital”) (collectively, “Defendants”).
 
Plaintiff filed this action on December 13, 2023. The
operative complaint is now the First Amended Complaint (“FAC”), which raises
claims for (1) assault and battery; (2) sex and/or gender discrimination; (3)
sexual harassment; (4) disability discrimination; (5) failure to accommodate;
(6) failure to engage in the interactive process; (7) retaliation for opposing
discrimination, harassment, and retaliation; (8) failure to prevent
discrimination, harassment, and retaliation; (9) violation of the Bane Act;
(10) negligent hiring, supervision, and retention; (11) invasion of privacy;
(12) whistleblower retaliation; (13) wrongful constructive termination in
violation of public policy; and (14) declaratory relief.
 
On July 16, 2024, Plaintiff served PLG with Plaintiff’s
Request for Production of Documents, Set One.
 
On September 9, following a stipulated extension, PLG served
responses to the discovery at issue.
 
Plaintiff filed this motion on October 24, 2024.
 
On October 28, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Notice of Rescheduled
Hearing Date indicating that the hearing date had been advanced from December
24, 2024, when it was originally set, to November 19, 2024.
 
On November 5, 2024, CLG filed an opposition. Plaintiff has
not filed a reply.
 
Legal Standard
 
“Unless otherwise limited by order of the court in
accordance with this title, any party may obtain discovery regarding any
matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter involved in the
pending action or to the determination of any motion made in that action, if
the matter either is itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. Discovery may
relate to the claim or defense of the party seeking discovery or of any other
party to the action. Discovery may be obtained of the identity and location of
persons having knowledge of any discoverable matter, as well as of the
existence, description, nature, custody, condition, and location of any
document, electronically stored information, tangible thing, or land or other
property.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2017.010.)
 
“ ‘Relevant evidence’ means evidence, including evidence
relevant to the credibility of a witness or hearsay declarant, having any
tendency in reason to prove or disprove any disputed fact that is of
consequence to the determination of the action.” (Evid. Code, § 210.)
 
“A statement that the party to whom a demand for inspection,
copying, testing, or sampling has been directed will comply with the particular
demand shall state that the production, inspection, copying, testing, or
sampling, and related activity demanded, will be allowed either in whole or in
part, and that all documents or things in the demanded category that are in the
possession, custody, or control of that party and to which no objection is
being made will be included in the production.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.220.)
 
“A representation of inability to comply with the particular
demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling shall affirm that a
diligent search and a reasonable inquiry has been made in an effort to comply
with that demand. This statement shall also specify whether the inability to
comply is because the particular item or category has never existed, has been
destroyed, has been lost, misplaced, or stolen, or has never been, or is no
longer, in the possession, custody, or control of the responding party. The
statement shall set forth the name and address of any natural person or
organization known or believed by that party to have possession, custody, or
control of that item or category of item.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.230.)
 
“(a) On receipt of a
response to a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling, the
demanding party may move for an order compelling further response to the demand
if the demanding party deems that any of the following apply:
            (1)
A statement of compliance with the demand is incomplete.
(2) A representation
of inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive.
            (3)
An objection in the response is without merit or too general.
 
(b) A motion under subdivision (a)
shall comply with each of the following:
(1) The motion shall
set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the discovery sought by
the demand.
(2) The motion shall
be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.
(3) In lieu of a
separate statement required under the California Rules of Court, the court may
allow the moving party to submit a concise outline of the discovery request and
each response in dispute.
 
(c) Unless notice of
this motion is given within 45 days of the service of the verified response, or
any supplemental verified response, or on or before any specific later date to
which the demanding party and the responding party have agreed in writing, the
demanding party waives any right to compel a further response to the demand.
 
… (h) Except as
provided in subdivision (j), the court shall impose a monetary sanction under
Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or
attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel further
response to a demand, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction
acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the
imposition of the sanction unjust.”
 
(Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2031.310.)
 
            The
burden is on the moving party to show both relevance to the subject matter and
specific facts justifying discovery. (Glenfed Develop. Corp. v. Superior
Court (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 1113, 1117.) Once good cause is established by
the moving party, the burden then shifts to the responding party to justify any
objections made to document disclosure. (Hartbrodt v. Burke (1996) 42
Cal.App.4th 168, 172-174.)
 
Discussion
 
Meet and Confer
 
Due to unique circumstances, it appears that the parties
were unable to meet and confer through no fault of their own.
 
            Plaintiff
received the discovery responses at issue on September 9, 2024. (Jain Decl. ¶
6.) 
 
            Defendants’
counsel was on paternity leave from September 16, 2024 through November 4,
2024. (Soliman Decl. ¶ 3.) Defendants’ counsel activated an out-of-office
notification indicating that he would be on paternity leave until November 4,
2024. (Soliman Decl. ¶ 3.) 
 
On September 24, 2024, Plaintiff sent a meet and confer
email to Defendants’ counsel and requested a response by September 30, 2024.
(Jain Decl. ¶ 9.) Plaintiff’s counsel filed this motion on October 24, 2024.
 
Because Defendants’ counsel was on paternity leave, the
parties were never able to effectively meet and confer. (Solimon Decl. ¶¶ 3-4.)
However, the Court finds that Plaintiff’s filing of the motion was
substantially justified because Plaintiff’s deadline to file a motion to compel
would have lapsed before defense counsel returned to the office. The deadline
for a motion to compel further responses for requests for production is 45 days
after the service of the initial responses (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd.
(c)), with an additional 5 days added if the responses are mailed from within
California. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1013, subd. (a).) Thus, Plaintiff’s initial
motion deadline was October 29, 2024 at the latest, and the parties do not
appear to have agreed to extend it. Plaintiff could not have waited for
Defendants’ counsel to return to the office without risking that her motion
deadline would lapse. The Court therefore finds that Plaintiff’s filing of the
motion without waiting for a response email was substantially justified.
 
However, Defendants’ counsel appears to suggest that they
are willing to attempt a cooperative resolution of the issues in this motion.
The Court therefore continues Plaintiff’s motion so that the parties can meet
and confer to attempt to take some or all of the issues out of contention.