 Case Number:  23STCV03260    Hearing Date:   January 3, 2025    Dept:  50  
 
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 50
 



MITAL TAMORO,

 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
QUANTUM CORPORATION,
  et al., 
 
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


23STCV03260




Hearing Date:


January 3, 2025




Hearing
  Time:    2:00 p.m. 
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:
 
MOTION FOR
  JUDGMENT ON THE PLEADINGS BY THIRD PARTY DEFENDANT THE LARKIN COMPANY




AND RELATED CROSS-ACTION


 



 
Background
Plaintiff Mital Tamoro (“Plaintiff”) filed this action on February
14, 2023 against Defendant Quantum Corporation (“Quantum”). The Complaint
alleges causes of action for 
(1)
pregnancy discrimination, (2) disability discrimination, (3) failure to
accommodate,
(4)
failure to engage in the interactive process, (5) denial of CFRA rights, (6)
failure to reimburse expenses, and (7) interference with prospective economic
advantage. 
On May 7, 2024, Quantum filed a Cross-Complaint against Larkin
Benefit Administrators, d/b/a The Larkin Company, alleging causes of action for
(1) breach of contract – failure to perform, (2) breach of contract – failure
to defend and indemnify,
(3)
negligence, (4) comparative indemnity, (5) equitable indemnity, and (6)
declaratory relief.
            The Larkin Company (“Larkin”) now
moves for an order granting judgment on the pleadings as to each
of the causes of action of Quantum’s Cross-Complaint. Quantum opposes. 
 
Request for Judicial Notice 
The Court grants Larkin’s request for judicial notice. 
Discussion
A.   
Legal Standard 
A
motion for judgment on the pleadings has the same function as a general
demurrer but is made after the time for demurrer has expired. Except as
provided by ¿Code of Civil
Procedure section 438¿, the rules
governing demurrers apply. (¿Cloud v. Northrop Grumman Corp.
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 995, 999¿.) A motion by a
defendant can be made on the ground that the complaint (or any cause of action
therein) “¿does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action against that defendant.¿” (¿Code Civ. Proc., § 438, subd.
(c)(1)(B)(ii)¿.) Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 438, subdivision (d), “[t]he grounds for motion provided for in this section shall appear on
the face of the challenged pleading or from any matter of which the court is
required to take judicial notice.” 
¿“¿To survive a
demurrer, the complaint need only allege facts sufficient to state a cause of
action; each evidentiary fact that might eventually form part of the
plaintiff’s proof need not be alleged.¿” (¿C.A. v. William S. Hart Union High School Dist.
(2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 872¿.) For the
purpose of testing the sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer
admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded. (¿Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist.
(1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967¿.) A demurrer “¿does not admit
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.¿” (¿Daar v. Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d
695, 713¿.)
B.   
Allegations of the Cross-Complaint 
In
the Cross-Complaint, Quantum alleges, inter alia, as follows: 
 
“Plaintiff,
Mital Tamoro (‘Plaintiff’ or ‘Tamoro’), brought the underlying action against
Quantum alleging various labor code violations premised on her allegation that
she was terminated while in a protected employment status following her
pregnancy. Quantum denies any liability to Tamoro, but to the extent it is
found to be liable, Larkin is the real party at fault. During all relevant
times before and after Quantum’s decision to terminate Tamoro, Quantum did not
determine protected leave eligibility status for its employees, or administer
employee leave programs, because it paid Larkin to fill that role. When Larkin
informed Quantum that it would not violate the law by terminating Tamoro (which
Quantum asserts it did not) Quantum believed that determination to be correct
based on Larkin’s expertise and specialized knowledge. Quantum relied on the
accuracy of the advice that Larkin provided with respect to Tamoro’s leave
status, and thus, if Quantum is found to have violated the law, Larkin is the
party who should answer for such violations and required to satisfy any
judgment rendered against Quantum.” 
(Cross-Compl., ¶
1.) 
Quantum
alleges that it “relied on Larkin’s determination that Tamoro was not
under a protected leave status to its detriment should Plaintiff prove her
case. If Tamoro proves that she was a protected employee and that her
termination was unlawful, then Larkin should pay any monetary relief and other
legal fees because it is the direct and proximate cause of any harm.” (Cross-Compl., ¶
3.) Quantum further alleges that “Larkin was obligated under its
agreement with Quantum to administer Quantum’s employee leave programs. If
Quantum were to suffer ‘any costs, claims, liabilities, damages, judgments, or
expenses (including reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs of litigation)’ as a
result of a claim brought by a third party arising from Larkin’s alleged
negligence, willful or gross misconduct in the performance of this agreement,
then Larkin agreed to ‘defend and indemnify [Quantum] and its affiliates,
directors, officers, and employees.’ Therefore, Larkin is also in breach for
failing to indemnify Quantum for Tamoro’s claims that arise out of Larkin’s alleged
negligence.  (Cross-Compl., ¶ 2.) 
C.   
Third
Cause of Action 
First,
Larkin asserts that Quantum’s third cause of action for negligence is barred by
the economic loss rule. Larkin cites to Sheen v. Wells
Fargo Bank, N.A. (2022) 12 Cal.5th 905, 922, where the
California Supreme Court noted that “[w]e begin with a review of
the contours of the economic loss rule. The rule itself is deceptively
easy to state: In general, there is no recovery in tort for negligently
inflicted ‘purely economic losses,’ meaning financial harm unaccompanied by
physical or property damage.” The Sheen Court noted that “the rule functions
to bar claims in negligence for pure economic losses in deference to a contract
between litigating parties,” and that “[t]he Restatement states this form of
the economic loss rule thusly: [T]here is no liability in tort for economic
loss caused by negligence in the performance or negotiation of a contract
between the parties.” ((Id. at pp. 922-923 [internal quotations omitted].) 
In
the Cross-Complaint, Quantum alleges that “[o]n or about January 1,
2011, Quantum and Larkin entered into The Larkin Company Service Agreement (the
“Larkin Agreement”), a copy of which is attached to the Cross-Complaint as
Exhibit A. The Larkin Agreement remained in effect at all times relevant to the
allegations in the Tamoro Complaint.” (Cross-Compl., ¶ 15.) Larkin asserts that
“Quantum’s Third Cause of Action for Negligence contained in its
Cross-Complaint arises directly from the Agreement and the contractual
relationship of the parties…and it alleges no damages related to physical
injury or property damage: it only alleges economic losses.” (Mot. at p.
10:2-6.) Larkin
asserts that here, “[u]nder the Economic Loss Rule, Quantum’s negligence
claim against Larkin is barred because it seeks to recover in tort for purely
economic losses.” (Mot. at p. 10:12-14.) 
In the negligence cause of action, Quantum alleges that “[u]nder the
Larkin Agreement, Larkin was responsible for, among other things, administering
Quantum employee’s leaves in accordance with state and federal law and
Quantum’s internal policies, determining Quantum employee’s eligibility for
protected leave under state and federal law, and advising Quantum as to the
status of employee’s leaves…Larkin had a duty to exercise reasonable and due
care in carrying out its obligations under the Larkin Agreement.”
(Cross-Compl., ¶¶ 57-58.) 
Quantum alleges that “if held liable to Tamoro, Larkin breached and
otherwise failed to meet the standard of care by, among other things, wrongly
administering Tamoro’s leave in violation of applicable state or federal law,
wrongly determining Tamoro’s eligibility for protected leave under state or
federal law, wrongly determining the duration and end date of any protected
leave under state or federal law, wrongly tracking and applying Tamoro’s
eligibility for or accumulation of protected leave under state or federal law,
and wrongly advising or counseling Quantum with respect to Tamoro’s protected
status and/or the duration of her protected leave.” (Cross-Compl., ¶ 59.)
Quantum further alleges that “[i]f Tamoro succeeds in proving liability against
Quantum, then it will be as a direct and proximate result of Larkin’s
negligence. In such an event, Quantum will have suffered damages in an amount
to be determined at trial in the form of costs, liabilities, damages,
judgments, or expenses (including attorneys’ fees and costs of litigation) in
defending the Tamoro Complaint and in the form of any liability that may arise
from the Tamoro Complaint.” (Cross-Compl., ¶ 60.) 
In
the opposition, Quantum argues, inter alia, that its negligence
cause of action falls within an exception to the economic loss rule applicable
to contracts for professional services. In Sheen, the California
Supreme Court noted that “[i]t is true that we have, in certain
contexts, allowed tort actions to proceed even though they arise from, and are
not independent of, a contract, despite the economic loss rule. Specifically,
we have allowed for tort recovery in some cases involving insurance policies
and contracts for professional services.” ((Id. at p.
929.) The Sheen
Court further noted that certain “considerations distinguish this
case from the recognized exception to the economic loss rule for consumers who
contract for certain kinds of professional services. In that context, as in the
insurance setting, a cause of action for negligence ensures that the consumer
receives the services the professional agreed to provide. In such settings,
professionals generally agree to provide careful efforts in rendering
contracted-for services, but most clients do not know enough to protect
themselves by inspecting the professional’s work or by other independent means.
Given this disparity, a claim for
professional negligence can serve the important purpose of ensuring that
professionals render the careful efforts they have contracted to provide.” ((Id.
at p. 933 [internal quotations and
citations omitted].) 
Quantum notes that the
Cross-Complaint alleges that “[w]hen Larkin informed Quantum that it
would not violate the law by terminating Tamoro (which Quantum asserts it did
not) Quantum believed that determination to be correct based on Larkin’s
expertise and specialized knowledge. Quantum relied on the accuracy of the
advice that Larkin provided with respect to Tamoro’s leave status…”
(Cross-Compl., ¶ 1.) Quantum asserts that it “relied on Larkin’s professional
determination that Plaintiff was not under a protected leave status to
Quantum’s detriment should Plaintiff prove her case, which resulted in damages
in the form of costs, liabilities, damages, and attorneys’ fees and costs in
this litigation, among other things…Thus, Quantum has sufficiently pleaded a
professional negligence claim to which the economic loss rule does not apply.”
(Opp’n at p. 12:17-21.) 
Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that Quantum has shown that an
exception to the economic loss rule is applicable here, i.e., the exception
applicable to contracts for
professional services.
Thus, the Court denies Larkin’s motion as to the third cause of action for
negligence. 
D.   
Fourth and Fifth Causes of Action 
Next, Larkin asserts that Quantum’s fourth cause of action for
comparative indemnity and fifth cause of action for equitable indemnity fail. In
the comparative indemnity cause of action, Quantum alleges, inter alia,
that “[s]hould it be determined that Quantum, by virtue of the allegations in
the Tamoro Complaint, is liable to Tamoro, Quantum is entitled to indemnity and
contribution from Larkin for the portion of the damages that were determined to
be caused by the wrongful acts or omissions of Larkin or any allocation of
proportionate fault of Larkin.” (Cross-Compl., ¶ 65.) In the equitable
indemnity cause of action, Quantum alleges, inter alia, that “Quantum
seeks a determination from the Court as to the respective degrees of liability,
if any, on its part and on the part of Larkin, and requests that Larkin be
required, to the fullest extent allowable by law, to: a. pay a share of any
judgment which may be rendered against Quantum in proportion to Larkin’s fault
in causing such alleged damages from which the judgment(s) resulted; and; b.
reimburse Quantum for any payments made to defendant and counterclaimant Tamoro
or any party in excess of Quantum’ proportional fault.” (Cross-Compl., ¶ 68.)
Larkin cites to Stop Loss Ins.
Brokers, Inc. v. Brown & Toland Medical Group (2006) 143 Cal.App.4th
1036, 1040, where the Court of Appeal noted that “[i]t is well settled in California that equitable
indemnity is only available among tortfeasors who are jointly and severally
liable for the plaintiff’s injury. With limited exception, there must be some basis for tort
liability against the proposed indemnitor.” (Internal citations omitted,
emphasis in original.) Larkin also cites to Expressions at Rancho Niguel Assn. v. Ahmanson
Developments, Inc. (2001) 86 Cal.App.4th 1135, 1139-1140, where the Court of Appeal noted that “[e]quitable
indemnity principles govern the allocation of loss or damages among multiple
tortfeasors whose liability for the underlying injury is joint and several.
Such principles are designed, generally, to do equity among defendants who are
legally responsible for an indivisible injury by providing a basis on which
liability for damage will be borne by each joint tortfeasor in direct
proportion to [its] respective fault. Under comparative indemnity principles, a
full range of allocations is possible, from no indemnity to complete indemnity
for the amounts paid by the indemnitee.” (Internal quotations and citations
omitted.) 
Larkin argues that here, “Tamoro’s claims against Quantum are based on
Tamoro’s employment relationship with Quantum…Tamoro was not Larkin’s
employee…Larkin cannot, therefore, be liable to Tamoro for wrongful
termination. Since Larkin has no liability to Tamoro for wrongful termination,
which is the gravamen of Tamoro’s complaint, there can be ‘no indemnity without
liability,’…” (Mot. at p. 12:5-11.)[1] Larkin
also argues that it “cannot be a joint tortfeasor in this case, because Larkin
owed no duty to Tamoro to exercise due care to avoid her termination by
Quantum…That duty belongs to Quantum, and only Quantum.” (Mot. at p. 12:13-15.)

            In
the opposition, Quantum asserts that “this case cannot be boiled down to a ‘no
liability’ scenario simply because Larkin did not employ Plaintiff.” (Opp’n at
p. 15:13-14.) Quantum notes that in Stop Loss, the Court of Appeal noted that “[a]s
plaintiff maintains, joint and several liability in the context of equitable
indemnity is fairly expansive. We agree it is not limited to ‘the old common
term ‘joint tortfeasor’…It can apply to acts that are concurrent or successive,
joint or several, as long as they create a detriment caused by several actors.” (Stop Loss Ins. Brokers, Inc. v. Brown
& Toland Medical Group, supra,
143 Cal.App.4th at p. 1050.) The Stop Loss Court
noted that “[o]ne factor is necessary, however. With limited
exception, there must be some basis for tort
liability against the proposed indemnitor…Generally, it is based on a duty owed to the underlying
plaintiff.” (Ibid.) 
Quantum notes that the Cross-Complaint alleges that “Larkin had a duty
to exercise reasonable and due care in carrying out its obligations under the
Larkin Agreement.” (Cross-Compl., ¶ 58.) Quantum asserts that such “duty
extends to Plaintiff because they were in a ‘special relationship.’” (Opp’n at
p. 14:7-8.) Quantum also argues that “because Quantum has demonstrated that
Larkin owed Plaintiff a duty arising from their ‘special relationship,’ Quantum
has sufficiently pleaded a comparative indemnity claim.” (Opp’n at p.
16:16-17.) 
But Quantum does not appear to point to any allegations of the
Cross-Complaint stating that Larkin had a duty to Plaintiff to exercise care in
carrying out its obligations under the “Larkin Agreement.” The Cross-Complaint
does not contain any allegations concerning a purported “special relationship”
between Plaintiff and Larkin. As Quantum acknowledges, “Larkin’s MJP challenges
the sufficiency of the pleadings…” (Opp’n at p. 16, fn. 8, emphasis omitted.)
The Court does not find that Quantum has alleged “a
duty owed [by Larkin] to the underlying plaintiff…” (Stop Loss
Ins. Brokers, Inc. v. Brown & Toland Medical Group, supra, 143 Cal.App.4th at p. 1040.)
In light of the foregoing, the Court grants Larkin’s motion as to
Quantum’s fourth and fifth causes of action, with leave to amend. 
E.    
First, Second, and Sixth Causes of Action 
Lastly, Larkin asserts that “Quantum’s first and second causes of
action for breach of contract and sixth cause of action for declaratory relief
are barred because Quantum admitted it terminated Plaintiff Tamoro based on her
job performance.” (Mot. at p. 13:4-8.)
In the first cause of action for breach of contract – failure to
perform, Quantum alleges, inter alia, that “if held liable to Tamoro,
the cause will be due to Larkin’s material and substantial breach of the Larkin
Agreement, including its failure to accurately and competently advise Quantum
as obligated under the Larkin Agreement, and/or by negligently, or though
willful or gross misconduct, administering Tamoro’s leave in violation of
applicable state or federal law, determining Tamoro’s eligibility for protected
leave under applicable state or federal law, and/or advising Quantum as to
Tamoro’s eligibility for protected leave and/or duration of protected leave
under state or federal law.” (Cross-Compl., ¶ 46.) In the second cause of
action for breach of contract – failure to defend or indemnify, Quantum
alleges, inter alia, that “Larkin has, and is currently, in material and
substantial breach of the Larkin Agreement by its failure or refusal to assume
the defense of the Tamoro Complaint and by its failure or refusal to indemnify
Quantum against all costs, liabilities, damages, judgments, or expenses,
including attorneys’ fees and costs of litigation arising from the Tamoro
Complaint. Tamoro’s allegations arise due to Larkin’s alleged negligence in
advising Quantum as to her employee leave status. Under the Larkin Agreement,
Larkin is obligated to defend and indemnify Quantum for these acts that arise
out of Larkin’s alleged negligence. Its refusal to defend and indemnify Quantum
is an ongoing breach of the Larkin Agreement.” (Cross-Compl., ¶ 53.) 
Larkin argues that “[s]ince Quantum admits that it terminated Tamoro
based on her job performance and not because it relied on any information
provided by Larkin, Quantum cannot satisfy the fourth element of a breach of
contract action that any damages must be ‘as a result of the breach.’…Quantum’s
damages, if any, are the result of its decision to terminate Tamoro based on
her job performance.” (Mot. at pp. 13:27-14:4.)[2] Exhibit
A to Larkin’s Request for Judicial Notice (“RJN”) is a copy of “Defendant
Quantum Corporation’s Memorandum of Points and Authorities in Support of Motion
for Leave to File Cross-Complaint.” Larkin notes that Quantum’s Memorandum of
Points and Authorities provides, inter alia, as follows: 
 
“Plaintiff Mital Tamoro
(‘Plaintiff’ or ‘Ms. Tamoro’) filed suit against Defendant Quantum Corporation
(‘Quantum’ or the ‘Company’) on February 14, 2023, alleging, among other
things, that Quantum unlawfully discriminated against her by terminating her employment
because of her pregnancy and disability. (See Complaint, ¶¶ 33-37.) This, of
course, is not true, as Quantum actually decided to end its employment
relationship with Plaintiff because of certain hardships posed by her job
performance, which included her inability to work effectively with her team and
her inability to effectively manage her time in a manner that would lead to the
completion or management of her tasks or responsibilities in manners required
by her position.” (Larkin’s RJN, Ex. A, p. 2:2-9.) 
Larkin cites to Mangini v.
Aerojet-General Corp. (1996) 12 Cal.4th 1087, 1097-1098, where the
Court of Appeal noted that “both at trial and on appeal
plaintiffs conceded the lack of evidence of the extent of contamination and
what it would take to decontaminate the property. The concessions appear in
plaintiffs’ closing argument to the jury and in their appellate brief, both of
which may be taken as admissions against the party.” 
In the opposition, Quantum asserts that it has “sufficiently pleaded
its breach of contract claim (failure to perform).” (Opp’n at p. 17:6.) Quantum
asserts that “[a]s pleaded in the Cross-Complaint, Quantum’s reliance on
Larkin’s failed performance—e.g., its confirmation that Plaintiff was not a
protected employee—led to the decision of when to terminate Plaintiff, even if
Quantum decision [sic] that she should be terminated was based on performance.
Had Larkin not breached—i.e., had Larkin accurately determined and advised
Quantum of Plaintiff’s alleged protected leave status—then Quantum would not
have terminated her when it did.” (Opp’n at p. 17:10-15, emphasis omitted.) Quantum
argues that “Larkin’s breach gave rise to the decision of when to terminate
Plaintiff, and the ‘when’—i.e., while she claims she was ‘job protected’ on
leave—is precisely why Plaintiff alleges Quantum is liable for her purported
injuries, to the extent any exist in the first instance.” (Opp’n at p. 7:3-6,
emphasis omitted.) 
But Quantum does not appear to point to any allegations of the
Cross-Complaint stating that “Larkin’s breach gave rise to the decision of when
to terminate Plaintiff,” or that “had Larkin advised Quantum that Plaintiff was
a protected employee, Quantum would not have terminated her, regardless of her
performance.” (Opp’n at p. 7:2-4, emphasis omitted.) As discussed, Quantum
admitted that it “decided to end its employment relationship with Plaintiff
because of certain hardships posed by her job performance, which included her
inability to work effectively with her team and her inability to effectively
manage her time in a manner that would lead to the completion or management of
her tasks or responsibilities in manners required by her position.” (Larkin’s RJN,
Ex. A, p. 2:6-9.) 
            Quantum also asserts that it
“sufficiently alleged facts in support of the essential elements for its claim
that Larkin breached the Indemnity Provision of the Larkin Agreement because
Larkin has refused to defend and indemnify Quantum for the claims that arose
due to Larkin’s alleged negligence in advising Quantum as to Plaintiff’s
employee leave status, which caused damages to Quantum in the form of costs,
liabilities, damages, and attorneys’ fees and costs of this litigation.” (Opp’n
at pp. 17:21-18:2.) But as discussed, Quantum admitted that it “decided to end
its employment relationship with Plaintiff because of certain hardships posed
by her job performance…” (Larkin’s RJN, Ex. A, p. 2:6-7.) As set forth above,
the Cross-Complaint does not appear to allege that “had Larkin advised Quantum
that Plaintiff was a protected employee, Quantum would not have terminated her,
regardless of her performance.” (Opp’n at p. 7:2-3, emphasis omitted.) 
            In light of the foregoing, the Court
grants Larkin’s motion as to Quantum’s first and second causes of action, with
leave to amend.
As to the declaratory judgment cause of action, Larkin argues that
“Quantum’s claim for declaratory relief fails as a matter of law because Larkin
did not breach the Agreement and accordingly there is no actual controversy
with regard to the Agreement.” (Mot. at p. 14:4-6.)[3] 
But
the relevant inquiry on Larkin’s motion for judgment on the pleadings is
whether the declaratory judgment cause of action states facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. The
Court agrees with Quantum that Larkin’s argument that it “did not breach
the Agreement” (Mot. at p. 14:5) is a legal conclusion. The Court does not find
that Larkin has shown that the declaratory judgment cause of action fails. Accordingly, the Court denies Larkin’s motion as to
the sixth cause of action. 
Conclusion 
Based on the
foregoing, the Court grants Larkin’s motion
for judgment on the pleadings as to the first, second, fourth, and fifth causes
of action of Quantum’s Cross-Complaint, with leave to amend. The Court denies
Larkin’s motion as to the third and sixth causes of action of Quantum’s
Cross-Complaint. 
The Court orders Quantum to file and serve an amended cross-complaint,
if any, within 20 days of the date of this Order. 
Larkin is ordered to give
notice of this Order.  
 
DATED:  January 3, 2025                              ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court


