  Case Number:  23TRCV01833    Hearing Date:   October 15, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿ 
¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                    October 15, 2024
¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                   23TRCV01833
¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Dywidag
Systems International USA Inc. v. Fluor Flatiron Balfour Beatty Dragados, et
al.  
¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                Defendants,
Fluor Flatiron Balfour Beatty Dragados dba Linxs Constructors, a joint venture;
Liberty Mutual Insurance Company and Zurich American Insurance Company  
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff,
Dywidag Systems International USA Inc.
 
TRIAL DATE:                           September 22, 2025 
¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                                  (1) Motion to Compel Further
Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set 2
                                                (2) Motion to Compel
Further Responses to Requests for Production of Documents, Set 2. 
                                                (3) Requests for
Sanctions
 
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) GRANTED. Verified further responses are due within 30 days.  
                                                (2) GRANTED. Verified further
responses and the production of responsible documents are due within 30
days.  
                                                (3) GRANTED in a
lowered amount.
¿¿ 
¿ 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A. Factual¿¿ 
¿
On June 7, 2023, Plaintiff, Dywidag Systems
International USA Inc., a New York corporation (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint
against Defendants, Fluor Flatiron Balfour Beatty Dragados dba Linxs
Constructors, a joint venture, Los Angeles World Airports, a public entity, and
DOES 1 through 50. On October 4, 2023, Plaintiff filed a First Amended
Complaint (“FAC”) against Defendants, Fluor Flatiron Balfour Beatty Dragados
dba Linxs Constructors, a joint venture, Liberty Mutual Insurance Company, a
Massachusetts corporation, Zurich American Insurance Company, a New York
corporation, and DOES 1 through 50. The FAC alleges causes of action for: (1)
Breach of Contract; (2) Unjust Enrichment in Quasi Contract; (3) Open Book
Account; (4) Quantum Meruit; (5) Enforcement of Stop Payment Notice Release
Bond; and (6) Enforcement of Payment Bond. 
 
On July 3, 2024, Fluor Flatiron Balfour Beatty
Dragados dba Linxs Constructors (hereinafter, “Linxs”) propounded Special
Interrogatories, Set Two and Requests for Production of Documents, Set Two on
Plaintiff. Each propounded discovery relate to Plaintiff’s “A General
Engineering Contractor” license and “C-50 Steel, Reinforcing” license.
Defendant Linxs asserts that the purpose of what its moving papers characterize
as targeted and narrowly tailored discovery was to gather additional relevant
and admissible evidence from Plaintiff regarding the circumstances surrounding
the suspension of Plaintiff’s licenses. Although Defendant Linxs asserts that
Plaintiff responded to both the special interrogatories and requests for
production of documents, set two that related to its “C-50 Steel, Reinforcing”
license, Plaintiff objected to the special interrogatories and requests for
production of documents related to its “A General Engineering Contractors”
license. 
 
Thus, Defendant Linxs is moving for a court order
ordering Plaintiff to respond to Special Interrogatories, Set Two Nos.  1-4, 13-15, 22, 23, 26-28, 32-39, and 51.
Further, Defendant Linx moves for an order ordering Plaintiff to respond to
Requests for Production of Documents, Set Two Nos. 2, 4, 6, 11, 13, 15, and 18.

 
B. Procedural¿¿ 
 
            On September 13, 2024, Defendants filed these Motions to
Compel Further Responses from Plaintiff. On October 2, 2024 Plaintiff filed its
opposition briefs. On October 8, 2024, Defendants filed reply briefs.  
 
¿II. ANALYSIS¿ 
¿ 
A.   
Legal
Standard 
 
A party must respond to
interrogatories within 30 days after service. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.260,
subd. (a).) If a party to whom interrogatories are directed does not provide
timely responses, the requesting party may move for an order compelling responses
to the discovery. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (b).) The party also
waives the right to make any objections, including one based on privilege or
work-product protection. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (a).) There is no
time limit for a motion to compel responses to interrogatories other than the
cut-off on hearing discovery motions 15 days before trial. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2024.020, subd. (a); Code Civ. Proc., 2030.290.) No meet and confer efforts are
required before filing a motion to compel responses to the discovery. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2030.290; Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific
Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 41
“Unless otherwise limited by order
of the court in accordance with this title, any party may obtain discovery
regarding any matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter
involved in the pending action or to the determination of any motion made in
that action, if the matter either is itself admissible in evidence or appears
reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.” (Code
of Civ. Proc. § 2017.010.) For discovery purposes, information is regarded as
relevant “if it might reasonably assist a party in evaluating the case,
preparing for trial, or facilitating settlement thereof.” (City of Los
Angeles v. Superior Court (2017) 9 Cal.App.5th 272, 288.)  
A motion to compel further
responses to a demand for inspection or production of documents (“RFP”) may be
brought based on: (1) incomplete statements of compliance; (2) inadequate,
evasive, or incomplete claims of inability to comply; or (3) unmerited or
overly generalized objections.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310(c).) A
motion to compel further production must set forth specific facts showing good
cause justifying the discovery sought by the inspection demand. (See Code Civ.
Proc., § 2031.310(b)(1).) In Digital Music News LLC v Superior Court
(2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 216 at 224, the Court defined “good cause” as a showing
that there “a disputed fact that is of consequence in the action and the
discovery sought will tend in reason to prove or disprove that fact or lead to
other evidence that will tend to prove or disprove the fact.” If the
moving party has shown good cause for the requests for production, the burden
is on the objecting party to justify the objections. (Kirkland v. Sup.Ct
(2002) 95 Cal. App.4th 92, 98.) ¿ 
"The court shall limit the
scope of discovery if it determines that the burden, expense, or intrusiveness
of that discovery clearly outweighs the likelihood that the information sought
will lead to the discovery of admissible evidence." (Cal. Code of Civ.
Proc. § 2017.020(a).) Generally, objections on the ground of burden require the
objecting party to produce evidence of (a) the propounding party's subjective
intent to create burden or (b) the amount of time and effort it would take to
respond. (See West Pico Furniture Co. of Los Angeles v. Superior Court In
and For Los Angeles County (1961) 56 Cal.2d 407, 417.) However, no such
evidence is necessary where discovery is obviously overbroad on its face. (See Obregon
v. Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 424, 431.)
B.    Discussion 
 
                                  
i.         
Special Interrogatories
 
            Defendant Linxs
seeks this Court to order further responses to Special Interrogatories, Set Two
Nos. 1-4, 13-15, 22, 23, 26-28, 32-39, and 51. Defendant Linxs
argues that these interrogatories are targeted and narrowly tailored
interrogatories that are essential in determining whether Plaintiff is barred
from bringing this action. The crux of the discoverability issue in this case
is the applicability of Business & Professions Code section 7031,
subdivision (a), which states: 
 
"(a) Except as provided in
subdivision (e), no person engaged in the business or acting in the capacity of
a contractor, may bring or maintain any action, or recover in law or equity in
any action, in any court of this state for the collection of compensation for
the performance of any act or contract where a license is required by this
chapter without alleging that they were a duly licensed contractor at all times
during the performance of that act or contract regardless of the merits of the
cause of action brought by the person..."
 
(Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 7031, subd. (a).) 
 
            Here, Defendant Linxs notes that its
fourth affirmative defense in its answer states, "Plaintiff's claim is
barred because Plaintiff failed to possess a valid contractor's license, and
failed to comply with the applicable provisions of the Business and Professions
Code regarding such license, including §7031." (See Answer to First
Amended Complaint, ¶ 4.) In furtherance of this defense, Defendant Linxs notes
its counsel obtained a “Certification of Records” from the CSLB for Plaintiff,
referred to by them as the “CSLB License History,” which indicates that: (1)
DSI' s "C-50 Steel, Reinforcing" license was suspended from January
9, 2023 to February 8, 2023; and (2) DSI' s "A General Engineering
Contractor" license was suspended on January 9, 2023, and has never been
reinstated. Defendant Linxs asserts that Plaintiff was not a duly licensed
contractor in the State of California from January 9, 2023 to February 7, 2023,
i.e., a period of 29 days during its work on the project. Defendant thus argues
Plaintiff was not fully licensed “at all times during the performance” as
required by Section 7031.
 
            In opposition, Plaintiff argues that
the factual circumstances surrounding what it characterizes as its “election to
not renew” its Class A license are not relevant to this litigation because the
Prime Contract does not obligate Plaintiff to have a Class A License, and
instead, required Defendant Linxs to maintain such a license, which it
expressly recognizes. Further, to the extent Plaintiff was required to issue a
document in furtherance of its contractual obligations that includes an
engineer stamp, Plaintiff argues that such a requirement is entirely different
from maintaining a contractor’s license. Plaintiff contends that a licensed
engineer undergoes requirements that are completely different and have zero
relation to the processes and purposes of being a licensed contractor.
Plaintiff asserts that a C-50 licensed contractor can submit shop drawings with
an engineer stamp on a post tensioning scope of work without violating any
California laws. 
 
            The parties here do not disagree
about the relevant case law, or that Plaintiff’s work could have been completed
with either a Class A license or a Class C-50 license. However, in its reply
brief, Defendant Linxs argues that to gather the necessary evidence for the
submission of a motion for summary judgment, it sought the interrogatories and
requests for production of documents pertaining to the circumstances related to
the suspension of Plaintiff’s Class A and Class C-50 licenses for the very
reason that the work performed on the project could have been done under either
license. Defendant Linxs notes that to prevail on a motion for summary judgment
it would have to demonstrate that Plaintiff allowed both of its licenses to
lapse, including Plaintiff’s Class A license, and thus, the inquiries made
regarding Plaintiff’s Class A license are not only appropriate, but also
comprise an essential part of Defendant Linxs’ anticipated motion for summary
judgment.
 
            The Court is not at this time making
a determination on the future motion for summary judgment, but rather whether the
interrogatories and RFPs seek information reasonably calculated to lead to the
discovery of admissible evidence. 
Discovery need not be of facts or bear on issues that are determinative or
dispositive of a claim or a defense.  For
example, in a personal injury action that the defendant asserts is barred by the
statute of limitations, discovery bearing on plaintiff’s medical expenses and treatment
status is discoverable even though later in the case that defendant might
establish the statute of limitations defense as a matter of law.  The Court agrees with the moving party
Defendant here that both the subject special interrogatories and the below
requests for production of documents are discoverable in the context laid out
by Defendant Linxs. Thus, the motion to compel further responses to Special
Interrogatories Nos. 1-4, 13-15, 22, 23, 26-28, 32-39, and 51 is GRANTED.  Verified further responses are due within 30
days.  The Court reserves for a later day
whether the licensure status evidence being sought by this discovery are or are
not sufficient to carry the moving party’s burden on the future dispositive
motion. 
 
                                 
ii.         
Requests for Production of
Documents
 
            Defendant Linxs seeks this Court to order further responses to Requests
for Production of Documents, Set Two Nos. 2, 4, 6, 11, 13, 15,
and 18. The Court will discuss each below. For the same reasons listed above,
the Court GRANTS the motion to compel Requests for Production of Documents. Verified
further responses and the production of responsible documents are due within 30
days.  
 
 
                               
iii.         
Requests for Monetary Sanctions
 
With
the Motion to compel Further Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set Two,
Defendant Linxs has requested monetary sanctions be imposed against Plaintiff
in the amount of $3,150 per motion ($6,300 total). These amounts are based on
the declaration of Giorgio A. Sassine (“Sassine Decl.”) which asserts that his
billing rate is $350, and that in preparing both motions, he spent a total of
18 billing hours.  The Court finds that Plaintiff’s
objections to providing the discoverable information and documents to lack
substantial justification for the reasons discussed above.  The court finds an average of nine (9) hours
per motion for an attorney experienced enough to justify a $350 hourly rate to
be excessive. As such, the court GRANTS monetary sanctions in the lowered
amount of $2,000 per motion for a total of $4,000, payable by Plaintiff and/or counsel
for Plaintiff to counsel for defendant within 30 days. 
 
III.
CONCLUSION
 
For the foregoing reasons, the court GRANTS Defendant Linxs motions
to compel further responses to Special Interrogatories, Set Two and Requests
for Production of Documents, Set Two. Further, the Request for Monetary
sanctions is GRANTED in the lowered amount of $2,000 per motion.  The verified further responses, responsive documents,
and sanctions payment are all due within 30 days. 
 
Defendant Linxs is ordered to provide notice of this ruling. ¿¿ 
¿¿ 
¿ 
                                        
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 