 Case Number:  23TRCV02570    Hearing Date:   October 15, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿ 
¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 October 15, 2024
¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                   23TRCV02570
¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Kevin
Symons v. General Motors, LLC 
¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                 Plaintiff,
Kevin Symons 
 
RESPONDING PARTY:        Defendant,
General Motors, LLC
 
TRIAL DATE:                        Not set. 
¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Motion to Compel Further
Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One
                                                (2) Motion to Compel
Further Responses to Requests for Production of Documents, Set One. 
 
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) Motion to Compel Further Responses
to Special Interrogatories, Set One is GRANTED in part and DENIED in part
                                                (2) Motion to Compel
Further Responses to Requests for Production of Documents, Set One is DENIED
 
¿¿ 
¿ 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A. Factual¿¿ 
¿
On August 9, 2023, Plaintiff, Kevin Symons
(“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against Defendant General Motors (“GM”) and
DOES 1 through 20. On November 20, 2023, Plaintiff filed a First Amended
Complaint (“FAC”). On March 22, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Second Amended
Complaint (“SAC”) alleging causes of action for: (1) Fraud – Concealment; (2)
Business and Professions Code § 17200; (3) Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act –
Breach of Express Warranty; (4) Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act – Breach of
Implied Warranty; (5) Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act – Civil Code §
1793.2(b). 
 
On January 30, 2024, Plaintiff notes it served GM with
Special Interrogatories, Set One, and Requests for Production of Documents, Set
One. On February 12, 2024, Plaintiff notes that GM served responses, but that
no documents were produced until February 29, 2024. On March 4, 2024, counsel
for Plaintiff notes that a meet and confer letter was sent to Defendant to
discuss the failure to produce a single document, and requested documents be
produced by March 11, 2024. On March 19, 2024, Plaintiff notes that defense
counsel responded with a letter ad a stipulated protective order for Plaintiff
to sign. On March 20, 2024, Plaintiff notes that his counsel’s office signed
and executed a copy of the stipulated protective order. 
Thereafter, on April 4, 2024, Plaintiff notes that
Defendant served its supplemental production pursuant to the signed protective
order. On April 11, 2023, Plaintiff’s counsel sent defense counsel another meet
and confer letter further highlighting the deficiencies with Defendant’s
responses and lack of document production, and requested responses and complete
document production be produced by April 18, 2024. On April 22, 2024, Plaintiff
notes that defense counsel responded to the meet and confer, noting that
Defendant maintained its objections and responses for most of its requests at
issue, and that Defendant’s document production was missing its consumer
complaints, which Defendant initially agreed to produce. 
 
As such, Plaintiff now moves to compel Defendant’s
further responses to Special Interrogatories Nos. 14, 20, 23, 25, 26, 39, 41,
and 43 as well as Requests for Production of Documents Nos. 28-29, 37-64,
67-76, and 80-86 and to produce all corresponding documents. 
 
B. Procedural¿¿ 
 
            On May 7, 2024, Plaintiff filed these Motions to Compel
Further Responses. On May 31, 2024, Defendant filed opposition briefs. On May
6, 2024, Plaintiff filed reply briefs. 
 
            This motion was originally heard on June 13, 2024, but
was continued to July 15, 2024. 
 
            On July 15, 2024, the hearing was continued to August 7,
2024. Subsequently, the hearing was continued to August 20, 2024. 
 
            The hearing was continued to September 19, 2024. On
September 19, 2024, the motions were continued to October 15, 2024. 
 
            On October 8, 2024, Defendant filed a Joint Statement of
Discovery Issues in Dispute. 
 
¿II. ANALYSIS¿ 
¿ 
A.   
Legal
Standard 
 
A party must respond to
interrogatories within 30 days after service. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.260,
subd. (a).) If a party to whom interrogatories are directed does not provide
timely responses, the requesting party may move for an order compelling responses
to the discovery. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (b).) The party also
waives the right to make any objections, including one based on privilege or
work-product protection. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (a).) There is no
time limit for a motion to compel responses to interrogatories other than the
cut-off on hearing discovery motions 15 days before trial. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2024.020, subd. (a); Code Civ. Proc., 2030.290.) No meet and confer efforts are
required before filing a motion to compel responses to the discovery. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2030.290; Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific
Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 41
“Unless otherwise limited by order
of the court in accordance with this title, any party may obtain discovery
regarding any matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter
involved in the pending action or to the determination of any motion made in
that action, if the matter either is itself admissible in evidence or appears
reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.” (Code
of Civ. Proc. § 2017.010.) For discovery purposes, information is regarded as
relevant “if it might reasonably assist a party in evaluating the case,
preparing for trial, or facilitating settlement thereof.” (City of Los
Angeles v. Superior Court (2017) 9 Cal.App.5th 272, 288.)  
A motion to compel further
responses to a demand for inspection or production of documents (“RFP”) may be
brought based on: (1) incomplete statements of compliance; (2) inadequate,
evasive, or incomplete claims of inability to comply; or (3) unmerited or
overly generalized objections.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310(c).) A
motion to compel further production must set forth specific facts showing good
cause justifying the discovery sought by the inspection demand. (See Code Civ.
Proc., § 2031.310(b)(1).) In Digital Music News LLC v Superior Court
(2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 216 at 224, the Court defined “good cause” as a showing
that there “a disputed fact that is of consequence in the action and the
discovery sought will tend in reason to prove or disprove that fact or lead to
other evidence that will tend to prove or disprove the fact.” If the
moving party has shown good cause for the requests for production, the burden
is on the objecting party to justify the objections. (Kirkland v. Sup.Ct
(2002) 95 Cal. App.4th 92, 98.) ¿ 
"The court shall limit the
scope of discovery if it determines that the burden, expense, or intrusiveness
of that discovery clearly outweighs the likelihood that the information sought
will lead to the discovery of admissible evidence." (Cal. Code of Civ.
Proc. § 2017.020(a).) Generally, objections on the ground of burden require the
objecting party to produce evidence of (a) the propounding party's subjective
intent to create burden or (b) the amount of time and effort it would take to
respond. (See West Pico Furniture Co. of Los Angeles v. Superior Court In
and For Los Angeles County (1961) 56 Cal.2d 407, 417.) However, no such
evidence is necessary where discovery is obviously overbroad on its face. (See Obregon
v. Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 424, 431.)
B.    Discussion 
 
                                    
i.         
Meet and
Confer Efforts 
 
            In both of GM’s
opposition briefs, it argues that Plaintiff failed to meet and confer in good
faith prior to bringing these motions. GM contends that Plaintiff’s letter
cannot be deemed a genuine effort to meet and confer, because that letter did
not try to resolve any dispute, and instead, simply declared the remaining
requests at issue valid, declared GM’s objections invalid, and demanded that GM
supplement its previous responses, which contained documents relevant to the
pending claim and defenses.         
 
            Moreover, GM
argues that when it responded to Plaintiff’s letter, offering to produce
additional information and participate in an informal discovery conference to
resolve any disputes, Plaintiff agreed to stipulate to GM’s proposed protective
order so that GM could produce materials that Plaintiff claims to need.
Nevertheless, GM argues that when it made its supplemental production,
Plaintiff again argued that this was not enough. 
 
            On October 8,
2024, Plaintiff’s counsel filed a declaration regarding Plaintiff’s various
meet and confer efforts with Defendant. 
 
                                  
ii.         
Special Interrogatories
 
            Plaintiff seeks
this Court to order further responses to Special Interrogatories Nos.
14, 20, 23, 25, 26, 39, 41, and 43. The Court will discuss each below. 
 
Special
Interrogatory No. 14, 20, 23: These interrogatories ask GM to identify all
persons who performed warranty repairs upon the subject vehicle, who inspected
or tested the subject vehicle during the relevant period, and who have
knowledge of Plaintiffs’ notices of defect. 
 
To
each of these requests, GM objected generally on the grounds of terms being
vague, ambiguous, and overbroad. Those objections lack merit.  However, GM also responded after these objections
that it referred Plaintiff to the documents it has produced in responses to
Plaintiff’s Requests for Production of Documents, particularly, and Service
Request Activity Report(s), the Global Warranty History Report for the subject
vehicle, and any repair orders that GM may have obtained from GM-authorized
dealerships who may have serviced, maintained, or repaired the subject vehicle.
GM asserted that these documents identified the individuals, transactions,
including dates and times, of which GM is familiar regarding the subject
vehicle. 
 
            Plaintiff is requesting further
responses to this request on the grounds he argues that a complete response would
require GM to identify all of the service technicians form the identified documents.
The Court disagrees, and notes that referencing Plaintiff to specific documents
from which either side can make a summary or abstract by expending substantially
the same effort is a compliant response.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.230.)  The
motion is DENIED as to these requests. 
 
Special
Interrogatory No. 25: This interrogatory asks GM to identify all persons
responsible for the customer relations department in the district or region
having jurisdiction over Plaintiff’s complaint during the relevant period. 
 
            GM objected to this interrogatory on
the grounds the terms “customer relations department” and “jurisdiction” are
vague and ambiguous, and that the interrogatory seeks information which is
irrelevant and not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible
information as it is not limited to the subject vehicle or the issue in this
action. The Court disagrees that these terms are vague and ambiguous. The SROGs
at issue ask GM to identify the leader, or the head, or the supervisor of the
division or agency within GM responsible for customer relations in the geographic
area Plaintiff had the subject vehicle serviced, i.e., the greater Los Angeles
area.  Because of this, the Court’s
tentative ruling is to GRANT this motion as to SROG 25. 
 
Special
Interrogatory No. 26: This interrogatory seeks GM to identify its present
employee in California who is most knowledgeable regarding GM’s warranty
policies, including but not limited to any policies GM may have had regarding
the replacement or reimbursement of alleged defective automobiles during the
relevant periods. 
 
            GM objected to this interrogatory on
the grounds it argued the term “defective automobiles” is vague, ambiguous, and
overbroad. 
 
The Court
does not find the interrogatory to be vague or ambiguous as phrased. 
Interrogatory No. 26 seeks to identify persons responsible for the service and
warranty of the subject vehicle in this lawsuit, and “defect automobiles” means
automobiles claimed or alleged to have warranty-covered defects.  The inclusion of the final phrase of the definition
as to the
replacement or reimbursement of alleged defective automobiles means and refers
to the knowledgeable person as to any policies for compliance with the refund or
replace requirement of the Song-Beverly Act. 
Furthermore, Defendant fails to show how the
interrogatories are so overbroad as to make responding to the interrogatories
unduly burdensome and oppressive.  (See West Pico Furniture Co. of Los
Angeles v. Superior Court (1961) 56 Cal.2d 407, 417-18.)  Because of this, the Court’s tentative ruling is to GRANT
this motion as to SROG 26. 
 
 
Special
Interrogatory No. 39: This interrogatory seeks GM to identify the
individuals whose responsibility it is to supervise to ensure that GM is
properly determining whether a vehicle should be repurchased or replaced
pursuant to the Song-Beverly Warranty Act. 
 
            GM objected on the grounds it argued
that the interrogatory is overbroad, vague, ambiguous, irrelevant, and not
reasonably calculated to lead to discovery of admissible evidence, as it is not
limited to the subject vehicle or the issues in this litigation. The Court disagrees
and Defendant’s
objections are overruled.  This is relevant to Plaintiff’s allegations
that Defendant willfully failed to comply with its claimed repurchase or
replacement obligation as t the subject vehicle.  If there is no
supervisor or process to ensure that persons making decisions as to whether vehicles
should be reacquired, then GM can so state that there is not such supervisor.  But the objections are overruled and the
motion is GRANTED.
 
Special
Interrogatory No. 41: This interrogatory asks GM to identify all person(s)
involved in GM’s investigation, including any individuals with whom GM
communicated regarding the subject vehicle. 
 
            GM objected on the grounds that this
interrogatory was overbroad, vague, ambiguous, irrelevant, and not reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence, but referred
Plaintiff to the documents it produced in response to Plaintiff’s Requests for
Production of Documents, Set One, particularly the New Vehicle Limited
Warranty, any Service Request Activity Report(s), the Global Warranty History
Report for the subject vehicle, and any repair orders that GM may have obtained
from GM-authorized dealerships who may have serviced, maintained, or repaired
the subject vehicle. 
 
            This Court does not find this to be a compliant
response.  Repair orders and the warranty and GM’s warranty records do not
identify persons at GM involved in any investigation of the subject vehicle.  If there was no person who performed a
pre-litigation investigation, GM can so state. 
If there was a pre-suit investigation, that person or persons must be identified.  For example, if Jane Smith investigated whether
GM should have repurchased Plaintiff’s vehicle, she must be named as well as
any person with who she communicated before making a decision, i.e., a service
manager, the Plaintiff, a technical specialist, a lawyer, etc.  The motion is GRANTED as to this
interrogatory.
 
Special
Interrogatory No. 43: This interrogatory asks GM to identify all
individuals responsible for GM’s decision whether or not to repurchase or
replace a subject vehicle.
            
            Again, GM objected on the grounds
that this interrogatory was overbroad, vague, ambiguous, irrelevant, and not
reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence, but
referred Plaintiff to the documents it produced in response to Plaintiff’s
Requests for Production of Documents, Set One, particularly the New Vehicle
Limited Warranty, any Service Request Activity Report(s), the Global Warranty
History Report for the subject vehicle, and any repair orders that GM may have
obtained from GM-authorized dealerships who may have serviced, maintained, or
repaired the subject vehicle. 
 
            This finds this to be non-compliant for the reasons
discussed as to SROG 42.  response. 
(See Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.230.)  The motion is GRANTED as to this
interrogatory.
 
                                
iii.         
Requests for Production of
Documents
 
            Based on the amended separate
statement Plaintiff seeks an order from this Court compelling GM’s further
responses to Requests for Production of Documents Nos. 37-43, 48-55, and 80-86 and
production of all corresponding documents. 
 
RFP
Nos. 37, 51-53 – DENIED. These requests seek documents of ESI
regarding 2017 – 2022 Chevrolet Bolt Vehicles manufactured by GM, and all
documents relating or concerning any communications between GM and its
authorized repair facilities concerning the battery and related recalls. The Court
sustains GM’s objections to these request. Typically, this Court will allow ESI
regarding Plaintiff’s subject vehicle, and some relevant ESI regarding vehicles
of he same make, model, and year as the subject vehicle that actually
experience the symptoms and defects actually experienced by the subject
vehicle. The Court thus DENIES this request because as written, it is entirely
overbroad, unduly burdensome, and oppressive. Moreover, as to RFP No. 51, the Court
notes that requesting all communications concerning “the battery and related
recalls” is also overbroad. Because this request is not limited to symptoms
actually experienced by the subject vehicle, this request may be
overburdensome. As to RFP No. 52, similarly, the request seeking all
communications regarding “the batteries” is not narrowly tailored enough to
warrant an order from this Court. Lastly, as to RFP No. 53, the court emphasizes
that “the batteries” is entirely overbroad in seeking all communications.   The Court’s ruling is without prejudice to a more
narrowly tailed requests as to the same model year at Plaintiff’s vehicle, and
as to a specific symptom or repair complaint such as “battery will not hold a
charge,” rather than any complaint about a battery.  
 
RFP
Nos. 38-41: DENIED in part – seek documents evidencing, relating, or
referring to complaints by owners and lessees of 2017-2022 model year Chevrolet
bolt vehicles regarding the vehicles’ battery (38) and vehicle fires (39), and
charging system (40), and loss of power (41) . This Court notes that although
it has ordered further responses to similar documents, this occurs when the
requests are narrowed to the same year, make, and model as the subject vehicle
of said vehicles sold in California. See the Court’s ruling as to the previous group
of RFPs. 
 
RFP
No. 42, 43:  DENIED in part –
seeks all documents which evidence, describe, relate or refer to the number of
owners and lessees of 2017 through 2022 model year Chevrolet Bolt vehicles who
have complained of the battery and/or charging system in their vehicles, as
well as the number of vehicles which have been repurchased or replaced. Again,
the court notes that it would be inclined to grant these requests in part if it
was narrowed to number of customer complaints in California of battery and/or
charging system defects actually experienced by the subject
vehicle, and limited to the same model year as Plaintiff’s. 
 
RFP
No. 48: DENIED. This request seeks all documents, including electronically
stored information and electronic mails, which GM has produced in any lawsuit
concerning defects in the battery and related systems in 2017 through 2022
model year Chevrolet Bolt Vehicles. The court DENIES this request as this is a
single-vehicle case, and “battery and related system” is too vague of a
definition.  See the Court’s ruling as to the previous group of RFPs.  
RFP No. 49: DENIED as written. The
court notes that it typically finds reasonable, any internal analysis
and/or investigation regarding the primary or other recurring alleged defects
claimed by plaintiff in her/his vehicle, applicable to the same year, make and
model of the subject vehicle. The Court tends to focus on the claimed symptom
experienced by the plaintiff as described in the dealers’ repair records,
rather than a broad and vague characterization of the claimed defect as
described by counsel in the litigation. For example, as written, this request
seeks documents relating to “possible defects in the battery and related
system,” which is far too overbroad of a definition. See the Court’s ruling as
to the previous group of RFPs.  
RFP No. 50: DENIED as written. The term “battery
testing” is vague as it does not per se include the symptoms and experiences of
the subject vehicle’s battery. Thus, as written, this request is overbroad. 
RFP No. 54 & 55: DENIED as written. The Court
notes that each of these requests seek all documents which refer, relate to or
concern all investigations conducted or directed by GM regarding the battery
and/or vehicle fires in 2017 through 2022 model year Chevrolet Bolt vehicles.
As noted above, the requests – at minimum – need to be limited in scope to the
same year, make, and model as the subject vehicle, as well as be vehicles sold
in California. Further, “the battery” and “vehicle fires” on their own, are not
defined terms that are narrowly tailored. As noted above, the defects would be
required to be narrowly tailored to the symptoms and defects actually
suffered by the subject vehicle. For example, there is nothing in the moving
papers that indicates that this Plaintiff experienced a vehicle fire.  
RFP
Nos. 80-81: DENIED as written. The court denies the requests as they seek
all documents evidencing, relating, or referring to the failure rates of the
battery modules (80), battery pack (81) in 2017 through 2022 model year
Chevrolet Bolt vehicles. As noted above, the blanket terms of battery modules
or battery pack are overbroad as they do not per se only include actual
symptoms or defects suffered by the subject vehicle. Further, the 2017 to 2022
range is overbroad as well, and should be limited to the same year, make, and model
as the subject vehicle. 
 
RFP
Nos. 82-83: DENIED as written. The court denies the requests as they seek
all documents evidencing, relating ,or referring to the number of warranty
claims for battery modules (82) and battery packs (83) in 2017 through 2022
model year Chevrolet Bolts. For the same reasons listed above, the court denies
the motion as to these requests. 
 
RFP
Nos. 84-86: DENIED as written. The court denies the requests as they seek
all documents evidencing, relating, or referring to the number of warranty
claims for reprogramming the hybrid powertrain control module (84),
reprogramming the hybrid propulsion control module (85), and reprogramming the
hybrid propulsion control module 2 in 2017 through 2022 model year Chevrolet
Bolt vehicles. The court finds the term, “reprogramming the hybrid powertrain
control module” and the “hybrid propulsion control module/module 2” to be
overbroad as this may be caused by a multiply of symptoms caused or not by the
same symptoms or defects in the subject vehicle. Moreover, for the same reasons
listed above, the 2017 through 2022 year is too broad. 
 
 
III.
CONCLUSION
 
            For the foregoing reasons, the court
DENIES in part and GRANTS in part the Motion for to Compel Further Responses to
Special Interrogatories. However, the Court DENIES in full the Motion to Compel
Further Responses to Requests for Production of Documents, without prejudice to
a future RFP being more narrowly tailored. 
 
 
            GM is ordered to provide notice. 
 
                                        
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 