  Case Number:  21STCV34329    Hearing Date:   August 9, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTION TO VACATE
Hearing Date: 8/9/24¿ 
CASE NO./NAME: 21STCV34329 ALEJANDRO CASTRO vs
JOSE MORALES
Moving Party: Plaintiff, in pro per,
Responding Party: Unopposed
Notice: Sufficient¿ 
Ruling: MOTION TO VACATE IS DENIED
 
Background
 
CCP § 473(b) allows a court to vacate a prior order upon a showing
that the order was entered due to a party’s mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
excusable neglect. Additionally, the motion “shall be made within a reasonable
time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment, dismissal, order, or
proceeding was taken.” The terms mistake, inadvertence, surprise, and excusable
neglect which warrant relief under Code of Civil Procedure § 473(b) are defined
as follows:  
 
Mistake is not a ground for relief under section
473, subdivision (b), when ‘the court finds that the “mistake” is simply the
result of professional incompetence, general ignorance of the law, or
unjustifiable negligence in discovering the law ....’ [Citation] Further,
‘[t]he term “surprise,” as used in section 473, refers to “some condition or
situation in which a party ... is unexpectedly placed to his injury, without
any default or negligence of his own, which ordinary prudence could not have
guarded against.” [Citation] Finally, as for inadvertence or neglect, ‘[t]o
warrant relief under section 473 a litigant's neglect must have been such as
might have been the act of a reasonably prudent person under the same
circumstances. The inadvertence contemplated by the statute does not mean mere
inadvertence in the abstract. If it is wholly inexcusable it does not justify
relief.’ [Citation] 
 
(Henderson v. Pacific Gas & Electric Co. (2010) 187
Cal.App.4th 215, 229-230.) 
 
Discussion
On September 17, 2021, Plaintiff
filed the complaint. On March 7, 2023, Plaintiff filed the Proof of Service of
summons.  On  July 26, 2023, Plaintiff appeared Pro Per on
an Order to Show Cause Re Dismissal for Failure to Enter Default/Default
Judgment.  The Court granted Plaintiff a continuance
to file the default/default judgment, setting another OSC for January 18,
2024.  On January 18, 2024, Plaintiff
appeared Pro Per on an Order to Show Cause Re Dismissal for Failure to Enter
Default/Default Judgment.  The Court
granted Plaintiff a continuance to file the default/default judgment, setting
another OSC for April 18, 2024.  Plaintiff
did not attend the April 18 hearing.  
On April 18, 2024, the
court dismissed Plaintiff’s entire action and issued a minute order on the same
day stating that “after adequate notice was given, no declaration was submitted
showing cause why the case should not be dismissed for failure to enter default
and lack of prosecution. Plaintiff has a duty to exercise reasonable diligence
to ensure that a case is brought to trial or other conclusion within statutory
time constraints. (Hughes v. Kimble (1992) 5 Cal.App.4th 59, 70; CCP §
583.420(a)(2)(B).) California Rules of Court, rule 3.110 requires Plaintiff to
obtain entry of default within 10 days after the time for service has elapsed.
As this case is over two years old and no movement has been made to comply with
the deadlines and timetable, as well as the Court's orders, the Court exercises
its discretion and dismisses the complaint with prejudice.” (4/18/24 Minute
Order.)
Plaintiff
now moves the court to vacate its order, alleging that he mistakenly thought
the hearing was to be held on April 19, 2024, and therefore did not attend the
hearing, leading to the dismissal. However, his failure to attend is not the
reason why the court dismissed the case on April 18, 2024. The minute order
states that the case was dismissed because Plaintiff “failed to act with
reasonable diligence.” A proof of service was filed on March 7, 2023; however,
as of April 18, 2024, more than a year later, no request for default had been
filed when Plaintiff is supposed to obtain entry of default within 10 days
after the time for service has elapsed. And, that failure occurred despite two
intervening court appearances to address the failure to file a default/default
judgment.  Furthermore, Plaintiff did not
file a declaration showing why the case should not be dismissed for failure to
enter default and lack of prosecution despite being provided adequate notice to
do so by the Court.
 
Additionally,
CCP § 473(b) requires “application for this relief shall be accompanied by a
copy of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed therein; otherwise,
the application shall not be granted.” 
In the present motion, no request for default, which has been
outstanding for over a year, was attached.  Plaintiff is essentially seeking to have the Court
start this process all over again with no indication that he will do what is
required of him.  In any event, Section473(b)
is clear and uses mandatory language: without the proposed pleading that led to
the dismissal, the Court “shall” not grant the application.   
 
Thus,
Plaintiff’s motion is denied as the court finds, based on the argument
presented, it was not the party’s mistake, inadvertence, or excuse that led to
the dismissal.
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party
intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party
must send an email to the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the
Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.  The body of
the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact
information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless all parties
submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear
remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.  You should
assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the
parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off
calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the
Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of
the subject motion without leave.
 
 
 