 Case Number:  22STCV27123    Hearing Date:   August 9, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSITION AND REQUESTS FOR EVIDENTIARY SANCTIONS
Hearing Date: 8/9/24¿ 
CASE NO./NAME: 22STCV27123 COREY BROWN vs
EGL PROPERTIES, INCORPORATED et al.
Moving Party: EGL Properties 
Responding Party: Plaintiff¿ 
Notice: Sufficient¿ 
Ruling:  
MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSITION IS GRANTED; REQUESTS FOR EVIDENTIARY
SANCTIONS IS DENIED
 
Defendant initially
noticed Plaintiff’s deposition for December 19, 2023. While Plaintiff appeared
for his deposition with his then counsel of record, Plaintiff testified that he
was unable to provide his best testimony due to feeling under the weather and
experiencing immense pain, describing a headache rated at nine out of ten on
the pain scale. Consequently, counsel for Defendant met and conferred with
Plaintiff’s then counsel, and an agreement was reached to suspend the
deposition, rescheduling it for a date when Plaintiff could provide his best
and most accurate testimony.
On May 3, 2024,
Defendant served an amended deposition notice for the deposition to proceed on
June 7, 2024. Plaintiff did not respond to this amended deposition notice, nor
was any objection formally served to this amended notice. It was not until June
6, 2024, the day before the scheduled deposition, that Plaintiff’s then counsel
informed Defendant that counsel had had no contact with Plaintiff and that Plaintiff
would not be appearing at his deposition. Despite this, Defendant and
Plaintiff’s then counsel appeared for Plaintiff’s second noticed deposition on
June 7, 2024, and waited 15 minutes for Plaintiff to appear. Plaintiff did not
appear, and a certificate of non-appearance was taken. On June 11, 2024,
Plaintiff’s then attorney was relieved as counsel. Plaintiff is now appearing
in Pro-Per. Defendant now moves the court to compel Plaintiff to appear at his
deposition and for evidentiary sanctions.
Defendant has met its
obligation to meet and confer, having waited many months before re-noticing
Plaintiff's deposition due to his physical condition. Further, Plaintiff did
not serve a timely, formal, and written objection to the notice of deposition
and failed to appear as scheduled. Thus, all requirements to compel Plaintiff’s
deposition have been met, and the present motion is GRANTED. Plaintiff is
ordered to appear for his deposition within 30 days from today.
Defendant requests
evidentiary sanctions; however, the court finds such sanctions inappropriate
under the circumstances. The Civil Discovery Act provides for escalating and
"incremental approach to discovery sanctions, starting with monetary
sanctions and culminating with the ultimate sanction of termination." (Lopez
v. Watchtower Bible & Tract Society of New York, Inc. (2016) 246
Cal.App.4th 566, 604.) "If a lesser sanction fails to curb misuse, a
greater sanction is warranted: continuing misuses of the discovery process
warrant incrementally harsher sanctions until the sanction is reached that will
curb the abuse." (Ibid.; see also, e.g., Mileikowsky v. Tenet
Healthsystem (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 262, 279-280.) Defendant, in the moving
papers, has not presented evidence of a history of willful disobedience of
court orders, nor has it shown that lesser sanctions, such as monetary
sanctions, would fail to curb misuse of the discovery process. Thus, the court
will not jump straight to evidentiary sanctions given the incremental approach
that the Civil Discovery Act provides for discovery sanctions.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party
intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party
must send an email to the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the
Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.  The body of
the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact
information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless all parties
submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear
remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.  You should
assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the
parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off
calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the
Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of
the subject motion without leave.
 