 Case Number:  22STCV29036    Hearing Date:   August 9, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTION TO COMPEL COMPLIANCE WITH SUBPOENA AND REQUESTS FOR SANCTIONS
Hearing Date: 8/9/24¿ 
CASE NO./NAME: 22STCV29036 BLANCA PENATE vs
RALPHS GROCERY COMPANY, et al. 
Moving Party: Defendant Ralphs Grocery Company
Responding Party: Plaintiff¿ 
Notice: Insufficient¿ 
Ruling: MOTION TO COMPEL COMPLIANCE WITH
SUBPOENA AND REQUESTS FOR SANCTIONS
ARE DENIED.
 
Legal Standard 
 
CCP § 2020.010 permits discovery of non-party witnesses through
oral and written depositions. (See CCP § 2020.010(a)(1), (2); Hawkins v.
TACA International Airlines, S.A. (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 466, 476.) A
deposition subpoena may command the attendance and testimony of the deponent,
the production of business records, or both. (CCP § 2020.020.) Additional
requirements regarding notification and a right to object are in place where
the records sought are consumer records, including personal medical records.
(See CCP § 1985.3.)  
 
Two provisions in the Code of Civil Procedure govern motions to
compel responses to deposition subpoenas. CCP § 1987.1 provides that “[i]f a
subpoena requires the attendance of a witness or the production of books,
documents, electronically stored information, or other things before a court,
or at the trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the
court, upon motion reasonably made by [a party or a witness] . . . may make an
order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance
with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including
protective orders.”  
 
CCP § 2025.480(a) similarly provides that “[i]f a deponent fails to answer any question or to produce any
document, electronically stored information,¿or tangible thing under the deponent's control that is specified
in the deposition notice or a deposition subpoena, the party seeking discovery
may move the court for an order compelling that answer or production.” Unlike CCP § 1987.1, CCP § 2025.480 also includes a time limit
(“[t]his motion shall be made no later than 60 days after the completion of the
record of the deposition”) and a meet and confer requirement (“[t]his motion .
. . shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040”). (CCP § 2025.480(b).) Finally, CCP § 2025.480(c) requires that
notice of the motion be given to all parties and to the deponent. 
 
Background
 
On August 29, 2023,
Defendant served a subpoena for employment records on Penate Customer Service,
the alleged employer for Plaintiff Blanca Penate, with a production date of
September 26, 2023. The subpoena requested any and all employment records of
Plaintiff Blanca Penate, including but not limited to earnings, profits,
commissions, bonuses, business income, salary, payroll, attendance, health
records, workers' compensation claims, medical information, employment applications,
job performance evaluations, date of hire, date and reason for termination,
personnel records, and records related to employment or employee benefits,
including any and all W2's and/or 1099's from any and all dates. The subpoenaed
nonparty did not file an objection, or any type of response. Defendant now
moves the court to compel nonparty’s compliance with the subpoena.
Timeliness 
CCP § 2025.480(b)
requires that a motion be made no later than “60 days after the completion of
the record of the deposition.” Courts have interpreted this to mean the date
upon which the party noticing a subpoena receives objections to that subpoena.
(See Unzipped Apparel, LLC v. Bader, 156 Cal.App.4th at 136.)
In this case, where no
objections (or any other response) have been received, the Court concludes that
the record of the deposition cannot be deemed complete. This interpretation
aligns with other discovery statutes, which provide no time limit within which
a party must bring a motion to compel initial responses, while imposing strict
time limits for motions to compel further responses. (Compare CCP §§
2030.290 and 2031.010, which provide no time limit for motions to compel
responses to interrogatories or requests for production of documents, with CCP
§§ 2030.300(c) and 2031.310(c), which set a 45-day limit for motions to compel
further responses to interrogatories or requests for document production.)
Procedural Defects
Although the motion is
timely, there are several procedural defects present. First, Plaintiff, in the
opposition, raised the argument that there is no declaration of meet and confer
in the moving papers. A meet and confer declaration is required pursuant to CCP
§ 2025.480(b), and the court notes the absence of such a declaration in the
motion. Defendant also did not address this issue in the reply.
Second, the proof of
service of the deposition subpoena is missing. CCP § 2020.220 requires personal
service for the subpoena. The court is unsure if the subpoenas have been
personally served on the nonparty. 
Third, and similarly, under
California Rules of Court Rule 3.1346, a written notice and all moving papers
supporting a motion to compel production of a document or tangible thing from a
nonparty deponent must be personally served on the nonparty deponent unless
they agree to accept service by mail or electronic service at an address or
electronic service address specified on the deposition record. The proof of
service for the present motion to compel indicates that the nonparty was served
through mail, and not personally as required. There is also no evidence showing
there is agreement from the nonparty to be served by mail.
Thus, the court denies
the present motion.
The court declines to
issue sanctions against Defendant as Defendant’s motion is timely. However, the
court will also not issue sanctions against Plaintiff, as the court did not
grant the present motion due to the absence of a meet and confer declaration
and issues relating to service.
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party
intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to
the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.  The body of
the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact
information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless all parties submit by email to this tentative
ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person
for oral argument.  You should
assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the
parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off
calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion
without leave.
 