  Case Number:  21STCV41652    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2024    Dept:  57 The Court is granting Plaintiff's Motion to Compel a Further Deposition by the Defendant's Person Most Qualified along the following lines. First, Defendant must produce for further deposition the same PMQ who initially was deposed, Tammy Alameda.  The Court accepts Defendant's contention that no current employee of the Defendant is more qualified for the deposition.   Second, Defendant must ensure that Ms. Alameda is better prepared for the deposition the second time around.  In particular,  Ms. Alameda must consult with current and former employees about the topics in the PMQ deposition notice and review relevant employee handbooks in effect during Plaintiff's tenure with the Defendant.   And perhaps most importantly, Ms. Alameda needs to be able to have a better response to topics 1-9 in the deposition notice than that she is  not qualified to answer the questions within those topics.  If Defendant is designating Ms. Alameda as the PMQ, she needs to be prepared to address topics  1-9.  Third, Ms. Alameda must answer questions embraced within the topics in the PMQ deposition notice.  Counsel shall refrain from instructing Ms. Alameda not to answer.   Fourth, the Court agrees with Plaintiff that the fact that Plaintiff has deposed/will be deposing former employees of Defendant who have knowledge of the topics in the PMQ deposition notice is not a substitute for a proper PMQ deposition,   Fifth, the second deposition of Ms. Alameda shall be limited to 3 hours, given that Plaintiff already had 8 hours of deposition time with Ms. Alameda and obtained some information -- in other words, the initial deposition was not, even on Plaintiff's account, totally useless.   Sixth, the Court is declining to impose sanctions on the Defendant and its counsel as requested by Plaintiff.At the hearing today, the Court will discuss with counsel the timing of four motions to quash renewed subpoenas to Plaintiff's former employers, all of which have been set for hearing after the scheduled trial date in this case. 