  Case Number:  21STCV13870    Hearing Date:   December 12, 2023    Dept:  X    Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Joel L. Lofton,
Department X
 
 
HEARING DATE:      December 12, 2023                                         TRIAL
DATE: July 9, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                         K REPUBLIC
ENTERTAINMENT GROUP, a California Corporation doing business as K REPUBLIC
KARAOKE, v. SOUTH ATLANTIC INVESTMENT LLC, a California limited liability
company; 111 NORTH ATLANTIC LLC, a California limited liability company; WEI
“JASON” CHEN, an individual and sole managing member of SOUTH ATLANTIC
INVESTMENT LLC, CUONG “ROBERT” LUU, an individual; GLOBAL INDEMNITY INSURANCE
AGENCY LLC, a California limited liability company; and DOES 1 through 100,
inclusive,  
 
CASE NO.:                 21STCV13870
 
            
 
MOTION
FOR ORDER

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendants South Atlantic
Investment LLC, Wei “Jason” Chen, and Coung C. Luu
 
RESPONDING PARTY:      Plaintiff
K Republic Entertainment Group
 
SERVICE:                              Filed November 3, 2023
 
OPPOSITION:                       Filed November 27, 2023
 
REPLY:                                   Filed December 5, 2023
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED 
 
             Defendants move for an order enforcing
the waiver of jury trial. 
 
BACKGROUND
             
             This complaint arises out of Plaintiff K Republic Entertainment Group’s
(“Plaintiff”) allegations that the landlord and property manager to its leased
property failed to properly maintain and repair the premises when multiple
leaks occurred. Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint on February 16, 2022,
alleging ten causes of action for (1)
negligence, (2) gross negligence, (3) res ipsa loquitor negligence, (4)
negligence per se, (5) breach of contract, (6) breach of contract, (7) breach
of contract, (8) intentional misrepresentation, (9) negligent
misrepresentation, and (10 ) unfair and fraudulent business practices in
violation of Business and Professions Code section 17200.
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Defendants’ motion to enforce is DENIED.
             
DISCUSSION
 
            Defendants
move to enforce Plaintiff’s purported waiver of jury trial. As a preliminary
note, Defendant does not identify the procedural mechanism for that basis of
this motion to “enforce”. Nonetheless, the court looks to Defendants’
substantive arguments. 
 
            “A
party waives trial by jury in any of the following ways: [¶] (1) By failing to appear at
the trial. [¶] (2) By
written consent filed with the clerk or judge. [¶] (3) By oral consent, in open court, entered in
the minutes. [¶] (4) By
failing to announce that a jury is required, at the time the cause is first set
for trial, if it is set upon notice or stipulation, or within five days after
notice of setting if it is set without notice or stipulation. [¶] (5) By failing to timely pay the fee described in subdivision (b), unless another party on the same side of the
case has paid that fee. [¶] (6) By failing to deposit with the clerk or
judge, at the beginning of the second and each succeeding day's session, the
sum provided in subdivision (e).” (Code Civ. Proc. §
631, subd. (f).) 
 
            A
jury trial is currently set in this matter for July 9, 2024. Defendants makes
various arguments that Plaintiff waived its right to a jury trial. First,
Defendant argues that Plaintiff failed to ever make a demand for jury trial.
The caption of Plaintiff’s complaint and first amended complaint both contain
and bolded, all capital letters “request for jury trial”. Defendant argues that
request was improper, citing various local rules for federal district courts located
in California. The cited rules are not applicable to this present case.
 
            Next,
Defendant argues that Plaintiff failed to timely pay jury fees. Code of Civil
Procedure section 631, subdivisions (b) and (c), provide that a fee of $150
must be paid “on or before the date scheduled for the initial case management
conference”. In opposition Plaintiff contends its posting of jury fees on April
26, 2023, was timely because it was prior to the matter was set for trial.
However, that is not the applicable deadline under Code of Civil Procedure
section 631, which requires the advance jury fee to be posted on or before the
initial case management conference. It appears that the first case management
conference in this case was held on January 12, 2022. Thus, Plaintiff has
waived its jury trial rights pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 631,
subdivision (f)(5) by failing to deposit an advance jury fee. 
 
            Third,
Defendant argues that the parties entered into an agreement to waive jury
trial. Defendants provide that the parties entered into a lease agreement in
2015 that contained a provision to waive jury trial. (Nguyen Decl. ¶ 2, Exhibit A.) 
 
            “Our Constitution treats the historical right to a
jury resolution of disputes that have been brought to a judicial forum as
fundamental, providing that in ‘a civil cause,’ any waiver of the inviolate
right to a jury determination must occur by the consent of the parties to the
cause as provided by statute.” (Grafton Partners v. Superior Court (2005)
36 Cal.4th 944, 951.) The California Supreme Court stated that “ ‘unless
the Legislature prescribes a jury waiver method, we cannot enforce it.’
” (Id. at p. 956.) “[N]either section 631 nor any
other statute authorizes predispute waivers of the right to jury trial by
parties who submit their disputes to a judicial forum. [Citation.] Such waivers
therefore are not enforceable.” (Rincon EV Realty LLC v. CP III Rincon
Towers, Inc. (2017) 8 Cal.App.5th 1, 12.) 
 
            Defendants’
arguments that Grafton is inapplicable because the parties in the
current circumstances may elect to resolve this dispute through alternative
means finds no support in Grafton. The crux of the Court’s holding in Grafton
was that the means of waiving the right to jury trial must be prescribed by the
legislature. (Grafton, supra, 36 Cal.4th at p. 956.) Thus, because
Defendants fail to point to any statutory basis for a predispute agreement to
waive a jury trial, Defendants’ attempt to enforce such an agreement is invalid
as a matter of law. 
 
            Lastly,
Defendant argues no jury trial right exists for an Unfair Competition Law
claim. However, this argument ignores Plaintiff’s other causes of action and is
rejected. 
 
            The
remaining issue is the impact of Plaintiff’s failure to file an advance jury
fee. Code of Civil Procedure section 631, subdivision (g), provides: “The court may, in
its discretion upon just terms, allow a trial by jury although there may have
been a waiver of a trial by jury.” 
 
Although Plaintiff waived its jury
trial, in consideration of the weight given to the right to trial by jury and
the fact that jury trial has been scheduled and a fee has been paid, the court
denies Defendants’ motion to enforce waiver. 
 
CONCLUSION
 
            Defendants’ motion to enforce is DENIED.
 
 
 
 
            
Dated:   December 12,
2023                                       ___________________________________
                                                                                    Joel
L. Lofton
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court


Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the court
indicating their 
intention to submit.  alhdeptx@lacourt.org
