  Case Number:  24PSCV01690    Hearing Date:   September 19, 2024    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
Defendant
National Distribution Centers, LLC’s (“NDC”) Motion to Compel Arbitration and
to Stay Proceedings is TBD; this is not a PAGA action because no relief
or remedy is sought for individual claims. 
 
Background
 
On May 23,
2024, Plaintiff JOSEPH GRANADOS, on behalf of all other Aggrieved Employees
only, filed suit against Defendant NATIONAL DISTRIBUTION CENTERS, LLC for
Violation of California Labor Code § 2698, et seq. (California Labor Code
Private Attorneys General Act of 2004).
 
On July 26,
2024, Defendant filed its answer.
 
On August 12,
2024, Defendant filed the instant motion.
 
On September
6, 2024, Plaintiff filed his opposition.
 
On September
12, 2024, Defendant filed its reply.
 
Request
for Judicial Notice (RJN): DENIED[1]
 
Defendant
asks the court to take judicial notice of an ‘Order Granting Defendant’s Motion
to Compel Arbitration issued by Judge Jessica Morgan of San Bernardino Superior
Court in the matter of Enrique Rocco v. National Distribution Centers, et al.
(Case No. CIVSB2304978)’ dated October 3, 2023. 
 
Pursuant to
Evidence Code section 452(d), a court is authorized to take judicial notice of
“[r]ecords of . . . any court of record of the United States . . . .”  (Kilroy v. State (2004) 119 Cal. App.
4th 140, 145].) When the Court is requested by a party to take judicial notice
and is supplied with sufficient information and the party gives each adverse
party sufficient notice of the request, taking judicial notice becomes mandatory.
(Cal. Evid. Code § 453.) 
 
Here, the
court DENIES the RJN because the order does not provide the tentative ruling
(i.e., the analysis) to render the order relevant nor does it pertain to the
same plaintiff. (See also Bolanos v. Superior Court (2008) 169
Cal.App.4th 744, 761 [“Shortly after filing the
petition, Bolanos requested that we judicially notice a minute order issued by
a trial court in an unrelated case involving a Medi–Cal lien. Bolanos does
not explain the relevance of the order. To the extent she offers it as legal
authority supporting her position, the request is improper. Even assuming for
the sake of argument that the case in question involves the same issue as the
case before us (a point disputed by the Department), a written trial court
ruling has no precedential value.”].) 
 
Discussion
 
Based on the papers, the threshold issue is
whether Plaintiff has standing for a PAGA action when he is not bringing an
individual claim against his employer/Defendant?[2] 
 
For reasons
to be discussed below, based on binding authority and plain language of Labor
Code section 2699, Plaintiff does not have standing because a plaintiff cannot
elect to file a PAGA lawsuit that excludes his own grievances. The court will
discuss the main triad of cases: Viking River Cruises, Inc. v. Moriana (2022)
596 U.S. 639 (Viking River), Adolph v. Uber Technologies, Inc. (2023)
14 Cal.5th 11014 (Adolph), and Balderas v. Fresh Start Harvesting,
Inc. (2024) 101 Cal.App.5th 533. 
 
A.
Legal Overview 
 
PAGA
authorizes any “aggrieved employee” to initiate a civil action against a
former employer “on behalf of the employee and other current or former
employees against whom a violation of the same provision was committed” to
recover civil penalties for violations of the Labor Code ordinarily “assessed
and collected by the Labor and Workforce Development Agency." (Labor Code
section 2699, subd. (a), emphasis added.) 
 
In Viking River, the United States Supreme Court held that
a rule against bifurcated proceedings for individual and non-individual claims
under PAGA frustrates the Federal Arbitration Act (FAA) by defeating the
parties’ ability to contractually determine which claims are subject to
arbitration and which are not. (Viking River, supra, 596 U.S. at pp.
660-662.)[3]
With that, the Court a plaintiff whose individual claims have been sent
to arbitration no longer has standing under PAGA to advance non-individual
claims in court, and the non-individual claims must therefore be dismissed. (Ibid.)
That said, as observed in Justice Sotomayor’s concurrence, "if this
Court's understanding of state law is wrong, California courts, in an
appropriate case, will have the last word.” (Viking River, supra, 596
U.S. at p. 664 (conc. Opn. of Sotomayor, J.) 
 
And in Adolph,
the California Supreme Court effectively said the high court got California law
wrong. The state’s Supreme Court in Adolph reached the opposition
conclusion as Viking River holding that once a court has ordered
arbitration of an employee's individual claims under PAGA, the employee retains
standing to pursue non-individual claims in court. (Adolph, supra, 14
Cal.5th at pp. 1119-1123.)[4] 
 
In sum, the rule is that a plaintiff’s individual claims can
be arbitrated—unless the arbitration agreement is unenforceable on some other
ground—and there is no limitation precluding the non-individual PAGA claims
from being arbitrated in the same proceeding as the individual PAGA claims. 
 
B.
Facts of This Case
 
Here, however, there are no individual claims. And that, is the “death knell” to
Plaintiff’s attempt at proceeding on a representative basis. (Reply p.
2:24-25.) "[F]or Plaintiff to have standing, Plaintiff’s individual PAGA
claim must exist, either implied or explicit... If the Court finds Defendant’s
instant motion moot on the grounds that Plaintiff is not alleging an individual
PAGA claim, Defendant will seek to file a motion for judgment on the pleadings,
inter alia, based on theory that Plaintiff lacks standing." (Motion p. 8,
fn. 1.) Indeed, it is
abundantly clear that every PAGA action is
properly understood as a combination of two
claims: an individual claim arising from the Labor Code violations
suffered by the plaintiff themselves and non-individual claims arising from
violations suffered by other employees.  (See Motion p. 14, citing
Arias v. Superior Ct. (2009) 46 Cal. 4th 969, 986; Reply p. 3 citing Piplack
v. In-N-Out Burgers (2023) 88 Cal.App.5th 1281, 1288-1289.)[5] 
 
C. Balderas v. Fresh Start Harvesting
Inc. (2024),
101 Cal. App. 5th 533
 
To the extent that Plaintiff relies
upon Balderas to argue he need not allege individualized claims, Plaintiff
misconstrues Balderas. (Reply pp. 4-5.) 
 
First and foremost, Balderas did
not involve a motion to compel arbitration but rather an appeal from the trial
court sua sponte striking the plaintiff’s complaint. This is of import as the
relevant cases (Viking River, Adolph, etc.) discuss the issue of whether an aggrieved employee who has been compelled
to arbitrate individual claims premised on Labor Code violations sustained by
the plaintiff (i.e., individual claims) maintains statutory standing to pursue
non-individual PAGA claims arising out of events involving other employees
(i.e., non-individual claims). (See e.g., Adolph, supra, 14 Cal.5th at
p. 1119.) 
 
Second, Plaintiff’s contention that
“[l]ike the plaintiff-employee in Balderas, Plaintiff in this action is
pursuing representative-only claims misrepresents the facts of Balderas.
(Opp. p. 3:23-25.) In Balderas, the plaintiff’s
complaint alleged that she is “not suing in her individual capacity; she is
proceeding herein solely under the PAGA, on behalf of the State of California
for all aggrieved employees, INCLUDING HERSELF and other
aggrieved employees.” (Balderas, supra, 101 Cal.App.5th at p.
536, emphasis, capitalization, and underline added.) The trial court “ruled Balderas lacked standing to bring a
representative PAGA action on behalf of other employees because she did not
allege ‘an individual claim’ in the action.” (Balderas, supra, 101
Cal.App.5th at p. 536.) But
the plaintiff did allege individual claims. Here, however,
Plaintiff’s complaint makes it clear that although Plaintiff has
suffered "at least one labor code violation,” he "does NOT seek any redress or
remedy for any of his individuals claims." (Complaint ¶6,
emphasis and capitalization added.)[6]
Effectively, the court agrees with Defendant that because the plaintiff in Balderas
never sought to proceed only on non-individual claims, the case’s
discussion of PAGA concepts constitutes dicta.[7]
 
Therefore, as
Plaintiff does not seek redress for labor code violations on behalf of himself
(which is a necessary condition of the statute), it appears no valid complaint
exists rendering any decision about arbitration moot (i.e., no controversy
exists). The court is inclined to strike the complaint sua sponte. 
 
Conclusion
 
Based on the
foregoing, the motion is TBD. 


