 Case Number:  22STCV40227    Hearing Date:   September 12, 2024    Dept:  48 SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



JULIO PEREIRA, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
JRDTSP LLC, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 22STCV40227
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING MOTIONS TO
  COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO DISCOVERY; GRANTING MOTION TO BIFURCATE
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
September 12, 2024



 
On
March 26, 2024, Plaintiff Julio Pereira filed motions to compel further responses
from Defendant FCA US LLC for Special Interrogatories and Requests for Production.
On
July 12, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion to bifurcate issues relating to the legality
of Defendant’s repurchase request under the Song-Beverly Act.
MOTIONS TO COMPEL FURTHER
RESPONSES
A
party may move to compel a further response to interrogatories if the demanding
party deems an answer to be evasive or incomplete, if an exercise of the option
to produce documents is unwarranted or inadequate, or if objection is without merit
or too general.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300,
subd. (a).)
A
party may move to compel a further response to a demand for production of documents
if the demanding party deems that the statement of compliance with the demand is
incomplete; the representation of inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete,
or evasive; or an objection in the response is without merit or too general.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (a).)  The motion must set forth specific facts showing
good cause justifying the discovery sought by the demand.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (b)(1).)
For
a motion to compel further, the moving party must meet and confer with the opposing
party and file a Separate Statement or follow the Court’s alternative method of
outlining the disputes.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2031.310, subd. (b); California Rules of Court, rule 3.1345(b).)  This Department requires the parties to follow
the procedures outlined in Exhibit A of Department 48’s Courtroom Information (available
on the Court’s website, www.lacourt.org) and file a joint statement.  Plaintiff did not comply with these requirements.  Plaintiff filed a motion with separate statement.  Nevertheless, Defendant did not file any oppositions.
Plaintiff
seeks further responses to Special Interrogatories Nos. 45 and 59.  Defendant’s response to Special Rog No. 45 does
not answer the question asked.  Defendant’s
response to Special Rog No. 59 contained only objections to the straightforward
question, “Do YOU contend that your response to Plaintiff’s pre-litigation repurchase
request is a defense to liability under the Song-Beverly Act?”  Defendant’s objections are overruled.  The motion is granted.
Plaintiff
seeks further responses to Request for Production Nos. 31, 37, and 38, which relate
to Defendant’s procedures for pre-litigation repurchases and Defendant’s template
“goodwill” pre-litigation repurchase letter. 
Defendant’s objections are overruled. 
The motion is granted.
The
unopposed motions to compel further responses are GRANTED.  Defendant is ordered to provide supplemental responses
within 30 days.
The
requests for sanctions are granted.  Defendant’s
counsel is ordered to pay a total sanction of $5,400.00 ($2,620.00 plus $2,780.00)
within 30 days.
MOTION
TO BIFURCATE
Plaintiff
seeks a bench trial on the following issues: (1) Defendant’s pre-litigation letter
conditioning a repurchase on Plaintiff waiving other rights and potential claims
outside of the Song-Beverly Act; (2) Defendant’s pre-litigation letter conditioning
a repurchase on the condition of the vehicle; (3) Defendant’s pre-litigation letter
conditioning a repurchase on an illegal confidentiality agreement; and (4) Defendant’s
pre-litigation letter deducting negative equity.  Defendant does not oppose bifurcating the trial
in this manner.  (See generally Opposition.)
The
Court may order a separate trial of any cause of action or any separate issue in
furtherance of convenience or when separate trials will be conducive to expedition
and economy.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1048, subd.
(b).)  The Court may also order the trial
of an issue to precede the trial on another issue.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 598.)
The
motion to bifurcate is GRANTED.
Counsel
is ordered to appear at the hearing to discuss whether there needs to be additional
evidence and testimony in a bench trial on the current trial date of November 25,
2024, or whether the issues can be decided based on the existing briefing.
 
        
Dated this 12th day of September 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 