  Case Number:  21STCV30981    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2023    Dept:  14 Instant Motion 
 
Plaintiff now moves this court for
an order taxing the request for attorney’s fees included in the Memorandum of
Costs. 
 
Decision
 
            The motion
is GRANTED, without prejudice to a formal motion for attorney’s fees.
 
Governing Statute
 
            Code of
Civil Procedure § 1033.5 provides in relevant part as follows:

            “(a) The following items are
allowable as costs under Section 1032:
            …
                        (10) Attorney's fees, when
authorized by any of the following:
(A) Contract.
(B) Statute.
(C) Law.
            …
            (c) An
award of costs shall be subject to the following:
            …
(5)(A) If a statute of this state
refers to the award of “costs and attorney's fees,” attorney's fees are an item
and component of the costs to be awarded and are allowable as costs pursuant to
subparagraph (B) of paragraph (10) of subdivision (a). A claim not based upon
the court's established schedule of attorney's fees for actions on a contract
shall bear the burden of proof. Attorney's fees allowable as costs pursuant to
subparagraph (B) of paragraph (10) of subdivision (a) may be fixed as follows:
(i) upon a noticed motion, (ii) at the time a statement of decision is
rendered, (iii) upon application supported by affidavit made concurrently with
a claim for other costs, or (iv) upon entry of default judgment. Attorney's
fees allowable as costs pursuant to subparagraph (A) or (C) of paragraph (10)
of subdivision (a) shall be fixed either upon a noticed motion or upon entry of
a default judgment, unless otherwise provided by stipulation of the parties.
 
Discussion
 
            While
attorney’s fees are technically an item of costs (see Code of Civil Procedure
§ 1033.5(a)(10), they are traditionally evaluated separately, using
separate procedures. It is true that Code of Civil Procedure
§ 1033.5(c)(5)(A) appears on its face to allow a request for attorney’s fees
to be made via a cost bill in one scenario – where the fees are awarded
pursuant to statute. But that provision is narrower than it may appear. 
 
The courts have interpreted the
statute to mean that attorney’s fees can be included in the cost bill only
where the statute not only creates an entitlement to fees, but also fixes their
precise amount. See California Rules of Court Rule 3.1702(a)&(e). Where the
statute merely awards fees in an amount to be determined later by the judge,
due process requires a noticed motion. See Active Properties, LLC v. Cabrera
(2016) 6 Cal.App.5th Supp. 6, 14 (citing Khavarian Enterprises,
Inc. v. Commline, Inc. (2013) 216 Cal.App.4th 310, 327).
 
But even if the procedure adopted
by Defendant had been proper, Section 1033.5(c)(5)(A) places the burden on
Defendant to support their fee request. They failed to do so. The memorandum of
costs does not provide any supporting declarations or documentation to
establish the amount of their fees. And while the memorandum is itself a sworn
statement, it is clearly insufficient for counsel to simply ask for a lump sum
without explanation. 
 
Conclusion
 

            The
request for attorney’s fees was not properly made via the memorandum of costs,
and even if it had been, Defendant AECOM did not fulfil their obligation to
supply supporting documentation with that request. Therefore, the motion is
GRANTED, without prejudice to a formal motion for attorney’s fees.