 Case Number:  223STCV09608    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2023    Dept:  14 (1)       Motion to
Continue
 
            Plaintiff
now moves this court for “a continuance to obtain counsel.”
 
Decision
 
            The motion
is DENIED. 
 
There is no proof of service
indicating that the other parties have been provided with a copy of the motion.
There is no indication in the document itself as to what hearing or proceeding
Plaintiff seeks to delay. The only authority cited is California Rules of Court
Rule 3.1332, which governs trial continuances. But there is no trial date
currently set in this case.
 
(2)       Demurrer
 
            Defendant Leno
now demurs to the Second Amended Complaint on the grounds that it fails to
state any cause of action.
 
Decision
 
            The demurrer
is SUSTAINED, without leave to amend. Plaintiff’s request in the
opposition paperwork for a continuance of this hearing is DENIED.
 
Discussion
 
As explained by the court at the
prior demurrers, the one-page complaint is incomprehensible. This is Plaintiff’s
third attempt to plead this claim, and his pleadings have never improved. There
is no probability that he will be able to amend to state a proper claim at this
point.
 
Plaintiff has filed an opposition,
an “Extraordinary Writ to Over Rule Sustained Demurrer” and a “Motion for Continuance
to Obtain Counsel,” denied above. None of these papers explains the substance
of Plaintiff’s claim, instead they repeatedly ask for more time so that
Plaintiff can find counsel and obtain evidence.
 
Writ petitions are heard in the Court
of Appeal, and the motion is woefully untimely. But even if these requests for more
time were procedurally proper, they are substantively deficient. This case has
been pending for almost a year and a half. Plaintiff has had plenty of time to
seek counsel and gather evidence.
 
Conclusion
 
            Plaintiff’s
Second Amended Complaint remains unintelligible. He has had more than sufficient
time to cure it, or to obtain counsel to cure it for him. That hasn’t happened.
The court has no reason to believe that Plaintiff will be able to amend to
state a proper claim at this point. Therefore, the demurrer is SUSTAINED, without
leave to amend. Plaintiff’s request for a continuance is DENIED.