 Case Number:  BC680213    Hearing Date:   November 5, 2024    Dept:  52 Plaintiff
Andrew Rodriguez’s Motion for Leave to File Second Amended Complaint and Motion
for Leave to Amend to Conform to Proof
Motion
for Leave to File Second Amended Complaint
Plaintiff
Andrew Rodriguez moves for leave to file a second amended complaint under Code
of Civil Procedure sections 473(a) and 576. 
Plaintiff seeks to add causes of action for “violation of CFRA [the
California Family Rights Act] rights” and for “CFRA – retaliation.”  
Code
of Civil Procedure section 473(a)(1) provides, “The court may, in furtherance
of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any
pleading.”  Courts
exercise their discretion “liberally to permit amendment,” and “[t]he policy
favoring amendment is so strong that it is a rare case in which denial of leave
to amend can be justified.”  (Howard
v. County of San Diego (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 1422, 1428.)  A
motion for leave to amend will normally be granted unless (a) the party seeking
to amend has delayed bringing the proposed amendment; and (b) the delay in
seeking leave to amend will cause prejudice to an opposing party. (Hirsa v. Superior Court (1981) 118
Cal.App.3d 486, 490.) 
Plaintiff unreasonably delayed bringing this
proposed amendment.  Plaintiff filed this
action seven years ago.  After reversal
of the judgment on appeal, the Court of Appeal issued a remittitur almost two
years ago.  Plaintiff makes no attempt to
explain why he waited until one month before trial to bring this motion.  His counsel’s declaration in support of this
motion does not state “[w]hen the facts giving rise to the amended allegations
were discovered.”  (Cal. Rules of Court,
rule 3.1324(b)(3).)  To the contrary,
plaintiff argues, “These two additional causes of action relate back to and
share the same factual and legal nexus” as the existing claims.  (Motion, p. 1.)  Plaintiff did not discover any new facts
giving rise to the amendment.  
Defendant County of Los Angeles, however, shows no prejudice
from allowing plaintiff to add the proposed fourth cause of action for CFRA
retaliation.  In its unpublished opinion
reversing the judgment, the Court of Appeal expressly considered such a cause
of action.  “On appeal, the County
contends that taking medical leave is not a protected activity under FEHA.  While taking medical leave may not be an
activity protected under section 12940, subdivision (h), retaliation for taking
medical leave constitutes a violation of section 12945.2, subdivision (k) of
the California Family Rights Act (CFRA).  Further, CFRA is a part of FEHA.”  (Rodriguez v. County of Los Angeles
(Cal. Ct. App., Sept. 20, 2022, No. B304818) 2022 WL 4354328, at *7 (Rodriguez).)  The court noted, “The County also argues that
plaintiff failed to properly proceed on a violation of CFRA.  The record, however, demonstrates that the
County acquiesced to permitting plaintiff to
proceed on a claim of retaliation for taking medical leave.”  (Id. at
p. *7, fn. 3.)  The court further stated, “The County does not dispute on appeal that: it is
an employer covered by the CFRA; plaintiff was an employee eligible to take
medical leave; and plaintiff took medical leave for a qualifying purpose.  Thus, substantial evidence supports a finding
that plaintiff engaged in ‘protected activity’ by taking medical leave.”  (Id. at p. *7.)
Defendant does not and cannot show any prejudice
resulting from an amendment to add a claim for CFRA retaliation after it
“acquiesced” to permitting that cause of action at the first trial and actually
litigated that cause of action on appeal. 

Defendant
relies in part on authority that courts may deny leave to amend solely due to
unwarranted delay.  “ ‘[E]ven
if a good amendment is proposed in proper form, unwarranted delay in presenting
it may—of itself—be a valid reason for denial.’ ”  (Record v. Reason (1999) 73
Cal.App.4th 472, 486.) 
But nearly all the cases restating that authority found prejudice or
other reasons to deny leave to amend.  (Id.
at p. 487 [“we do not see how appellant could have been prejudiced by the
rejection of the proposed amendment” because he “put forth nearly identical
evidence in opposition to summary judgment as he did in support of the motion
to amend”]; Tariwala v. Mack
(2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 807, 812 [trial court “found allowing the amendment would
prejudice respondents”]; Duchrow v. Forrest (2013) 215 Cal.App.4th 1359,
1381 [“The amendment of the complaint prejudiced Forrest in several ways”]; P&D
Consultants, Inc. v. City of Carlsbad (2010) 190 Cal.App.4th 1332, 1345 (P&D Consultants) [trial court found the “amendment would
require additional discovery and perhaps result in a demurrer or other pretrial
motion”]; Huff v. Wilkins (2006) 138 Cal.App.4th 732, 746 [“Leave to
amend is properly denied when the facts are undisputed and as a substantive
matter no liability exists under the plaintiff’s new theory”].)
Permitting plaintiff to bring his proposed third
cause of action for violation of CFRA would substantially prejudice
defendant.  As discussed above, on appeal
the record showed it was undisputed that “plaintiff took medical leave for a
qualifying purpose.”  (Rodriguez,
supra, 2022 WL 4354328, at *7.) 
Plaintiff now seeks to allege that, despite allowing plaintiff to take
the medical leave required by CFRA, defendant violated his CFRA rights,
including by “refus[ing] to grant Plaintiff’s request for family care or
medical leave.”  (Prop. SAC, ¶ 73.)  That is a materially different legal theory than
any alleged in plaintiff’s first amended complaint.  
As in P&D Consultants, permitting plaintiff
to bring this new cause of action on the day before trial would deprive
defendant of the opportunity to bring a pretrial motion based on defenses including
failure to timely exhaust administrative remedies, would require allowing
defendant to conduct additional discovery, or would require significantly delaying
the trial.  Plaintiff’s lengthy and unexplained
delay in moving for leave to bring a cause of action for violating CFRA has
substantially prejudiced defendant.  
The court therefore will permit plaintiff to file a
second amended complaint but will strike all portions that only apply to the
proposed third cause of action for violation of CFRA rights.
Motion
for Leave to Amend to Conform to Proof
Plaintiff
also moves for leave to file a second amended complaint to conform to proof.  Code of Civil Procedure section 469 provides,
“Variance between the allegation in a pleading and the proof shall not be
deemed material, unless it has actually misled the adverse party to his or her
prejudice in maintaining his or her action or defense upon the merits.  If it appears that a party has been so
misled, the court may order the pleading to be amended, upon such terms as may
be just.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 469.)
For
the reasons discussed above, permitting plaintiff to amend the complaint to add
a new cause of action for violation of CFRA rights would prejudice
defendant.  That variation would be
material and would mislead defendant in maintaining its defense upon the
merits.
This
motion is also premature.  “Section 469
specifically governs motions to amend at trial to conform to proof.”  (Garcia v. Roberts (2009) 173
Cal.App.4th 900, 909.)  The new trial has
not begun.  There is no proof before the
court yet.  Section 469 does not apply.
Disposition
            Plaintiff Andrew Rodriguez’s motion
for leave to file a second amended complaint is granted in part as to
the proposed fourth cause of action and denied as to the proposed third
cause of action.  Plaintiff is ordered
to file his proposed second amended complaint forthwith.  The court hereby strikes the following
portions of plaintiff’s second amended complaint without leave to amend: the entire third cause of action, paragraphs
35, and 67-75 in their entirety, and paragraph 3 of the prayer for relief.  
            Plaintiff
Andrew Rodriguez’s motion for leave to amend to conform to proof is denied.