  Case Number:  22STCV15941    Hearing Date:   November 5, 2024    Dept:  52 Plaintiff Sara Simms’s Motion for Protective
Order and Motion to Compel Deposition of Defendant Simon Ourian
Protective
Order
Plaintiff
Sara Simms moves for a protective order regarding her deposition.  A party or deponent may move for a protective
order “that justice requires to protect” him or her “from unwarranted
annoyance, embarrassment, or oppression, or undue burden and expense.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.420, subd. (b).)  Generally, “the burden is on the party
seeking the protective order to show good cause for whatever order is
sought.”  (Fairmont Ins. Co. v.
Superior Court (2000) 22 Cal.4th 245, 255.) 

Plaintiff
moves for two orders regarding her deposition. 

1.
Date of Deposition
Plaintiff
seeks an order precluding defendants from taking her deposition on the date previously
scheduled, September 11, 2024.  Protective
orders may include one “[t]hat the deposition be taken at a different time.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.420, subd. (b)(2).)  September 11, 2024, was almost two months
ago.  The motion is moot as to this
order.  Moreover, though it is a
professional courtesy to mutually schedule a deposition, the Civil Discovery
Act does not require that.  “An oral deposition shall be scheduled for a date at least
10 days after service of the deposition notice.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.270, subd.
(a).)  “The service of a deposition
notice under Section 2025.240 is effective to require any deponent who is a
party to the action… to attend and to testify.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.280, subd. (a).)  
2.
Remote Testimony
Plaintiff
moves for an order permitting her to testify at deposition remotely.  Unless the court issues a protective order, “any
party or attorney of record may … be physically present at the deposition at
the location of the deponent.”  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2025.310, subd. (b).)  Plaintiff
does not meet her burden of showing good cause to prohibit defendants’ counsel
from being physically present at her location during the deposition. 
Plaintiff
argues the court should issue such an order for three reasons.  First, she argues defendants originally
planned to take the deposition remotely in 2022.  Plaintiff gives no reason why defendants should
be bound by their original notice of deposition two years later.  Second, plaintiff argues the deposition may
be delayed if someone contracts COVID-19. 
This reason is speculative.  And
if it occurs, defendants may prefer to delay the deposition rather than take it
remotely.  Finally, plaintiff argues the
arbitrator in the former arbitration proceeding ordered that her deposition be
taken remotely.  Plaintiff chose to
withdraw this entire case from arbitration. 
The arbitrator’s order no longer applies.  This court does not find good cause to
prohibit defendants from taking plaintiff’s deposition in person.  
Order
Compelling Simon Ourian’s Deposition
            Plaintiff moves to compel the
deposition of defendant Simon Ourian.  Code
of Civil Procedure section 2025.450(a) provides, “If, after service of a
deposition notice, a party to the action … without having served a valid
objection under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for examination,” the
deposing party “may move for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance and
testimony.”  
            Defendants argue Ourian never failed
to appear for examination after service of a deposition notice.  Defendants present evidence plaintiff took
his deposition set for May 31, 2024, off calendar (Kroll Decl., Exs. 3 & 4)
and has not served a new notice of deposition since then (Kroll Decl., ¶
19).  Plaintiff, however, initially noticed
Ourian’s deposition for April 29, 2024. 
(Gutierrez Decl., Ex. D.)  When
defendants’ counsel stated he and Ourian were “not available for deposition on
April 29, 2024” and offered to have the deposition between June 17 and July 19,
plaintiff’s counsel agreed to reschedule and proposed several dates within that
range.  (Id., Ex. I.)
            Despite several letters from
plaintiff’s counsel asking defendants to propose a date for the deposition (Gutierrez
Decl., Exs. J, K, L, O), defendants did not do so (id., ¶ 17).  Plaintiff’s counsel extended the courtesy of
rescheduling the deposition instead of taking it on April 29 so that the
parties could cooperate in picking a date. 
Filing this motion after taking the May 31 deposition off calendar but
without serving a new deposition notice was reasonable in the circumstances.  Plaintiff shows good cause for an order
compelling Ourian’s deposition.
Sanctions
            Plaintiff and defendants move for
monetary sanctions against one another.  All
parties were partially successful on this combined motion for protective order
and to compel Ourian’s deposition.  All
parties acted with substantial justification and made reasonable arguments in
support of their positions.  The court
will not impose sanctions.
Disposition
Plaintiff
Sara Simms’s motion for protective order is denied.  Plaintiff Sara Simms’s motion to compel the
deposition of defendant Simon Ourian is granted.  The court hereby orders defendant
Simon Ourian to testify at deposition no later than December 8.  By November 8, defendant shall propose three
dates between November 11 and December 8 for the deposition.  Plaintiff shall choose one of the three dates
defendant proposes.