 Case Number:  23STCV25056    Hearing Date:   June 3, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion to Strike filed by
Defendant Los Angeles Unified School District
Tentative
The motion is denied.
Background
This case arises out of a tragic accident at a
Los Angeles high school on September 13, 2022. 
According to the allegations, Plaintiff H.W. and another student, her
friend, overdosed.  H.W.’s friend died,
and H.W. suffered injuries.
On October 13, 2023, H.W., by and through her Guardian
Ad Litem, Amber Garza (“Plaintiff”) filed the complaint against Los Angeles Unified School District (“LAUSD”)
and Does 1 through 20. On January 18, 2024, Plaintiff filed the First
Amended Complaint (“FAC”).  In the FAC,
Plaintiff asserts what is presented as a single cause of action for negligence,
but which also includes allegations of negligent hiring, supervision, or
retention.
LAUSD filed a motion to strike certain allegations in the FAC on March
21, 2024. Plaintiff filed an opposition on April 11, and LAUSD filed a reply on
April 17.  The hearing was continued,
including so that the parties could meet and confer.  It is now set for hearing on June 3.
Legal Standard 
Under Code of Civil Procedure section 435, “Any party, within the
time allowed to respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of motion to
strike the whole or any part thereof.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 435, subd. (b)(1).)
Code of Civil Procedure section 436 provides as follows:
“The court may, upon a motion made pursuant to
Section 435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper:
(a) Strike out any irrelevant, false, or
improper matter inserted in any pleading.
(b) Strike out all or any part of any
pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court
rule, or an order of the court.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 436.)  In ruling on a motion to
strike, the court must assume the truth of the properly pleaded facts in the
complaint or other pleading. (Turman v. Turning Point of Central California,
Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 63.)
“Before filing a motion to strike
pursuant to this chapter, the moving party shall meet and confer in person or
by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to the
motion to strike for the purpose of determining if an agreement can be reached
that resolves the objections to be raised in the motion to strike.  (Code of Civ. Proc. § 435.5, subd. (a).)
Discussion
The statutory requirement to meet and confer has been
satisfied.  (Mullane Supp. Decl., ¶ 2.)
LAUSD seeks to strike ten items in the First Amended
Complaint (“FAC”):
(1)  Page 6, ¶
3, line 24: “820”; 
(2)  Paragraph 51, p. 15, line 1 to p. 16, line
6 (including Paragraphs a to m); 
(3)  Paragraph 63, p. 20, line 10: “820”; 
(4)  Paragraph 54, p. 16, line 23 to p. 17, line
4; 
(5)  Paragraph 58, p. 18, lines 4 to 11; 
(6)  Paragraph 71, p. 22, lines 13 to 18; 
(7)  Paragraph 72, p. 22, lines 19 to 21; 
(8)  Paragraph 73, p. 22, lines 22 to 27;
(9)  Paragraph 70: p. 21, line 20 to p. 22, line
11; and 
(10)                    
Paragraph
4 of Prayer for Damages: p. 23, line 4: “Attorneys’ fees pursuant to C.C.P.
section 1021.5”
As set forth in its Memorandum, LAUSD makes, in effect, four
arguments: (1) that liability against a public entity must be based on a specific
statute imposing a mandatory duty, not generalized allegations of duty or decisions
made in the exercise of discretionary authority (Mem. at 3-4, relating to items
1-3); (2) that the allegations regarding lack of safety protocols relate to
discretionary duties that cannot give rise to liability under the Government
claims Act (Mem. at 4-5, relating to items 4-5); (3) that the allegations of
negligent hiring, supervision, or hiring are not sufficiently specific (Mem. at
5, relating to items 6-8); and (4) that there is no basis for Plaintiff to recovery
attorney’s fees under Code of Civil Procedure section 1021.5 (Mem. at 5-7,
relating to items 9-10).
Motion to Strike Items Nos. 1-3: Mandatory Duties and Respondeat
Superior
LAUSD is a public entity under the Government Claims
Act.  Accordingly, the Court begins its
analysis with Government Code section 815:
“Except as otherwise provided by statute:
(a)             
A public entity is not liable for an injury,
whether such injury arises out of an act or omission of the public entity or a
public employee or any other person.
(b)             
The liability of a public entity established by
this part [Government Code sections 814 through 895.8] is subject to any
immunity of the public entity provided by statute, including this part, and is
subject to any defenses that would be available to the public entity if it were
a private person.”
(Gov. Code, § 815.)
Government Code section 815.2 provides:
“(a) A public entity is liable for injury
proximately caused by an act or omission of an employee of the public entity within
the scope of his employment if the act or omission would, apart from this
section, have given rise to a cause of action against that employee or his
personal representative.
(b)             
Except as otherwise provided by statute, a
public entity is not liable for an injury resulting from an act or omission of
any employee of the public entity where the employee is immune from liability.”
(Gov. Code, § 815.2.)
Government Code section 820, in turn, states:
“(a) Except as otherwise provided by statute (including
Section 820.2), a public employee is liable for injury caused by his act or
omission to the same extent as a private person.
(b)             
The liability of a public employee
established by this part [Government Code sections 814 through 895.8] is
subject to any defenses that would be available to the public employee if he
were a private person.”
(Gov. Code, § 820.)
As the California Supreme Court has summarized:
“[T]he general rule is that an employee of a
public entity is liable for his torts to the same extent as a private person and
the public entity is vicariously liable for any injury which its employee
causses to the same extent as a private employer.”
(C.A. v. William S. Hart Union High School Dist. (2012)
53 Cal.4th 861, 704.)
With regard liability as it relates to mandatory versus discretionary
duties, Government Code section 815.6 provides:
“Where a public entity is under a mandatory
duty imposed by an enactment that is designed to protect against the risk of a
particular kind of injury, the public entity is liable for an injury of that
kind proximately caused by its failure to discharge the duty unless the public
entity establishes that it exercised reasonable diligence to discharge the
duty.”
(Gov. Code, § 815.6.)
And Government Code section 820.2 states:
“Except as otherwise provided by statute, a
public employee is not liable for an injury resulting from his act or omission
where the act or omission was the result of the exercise of discretion vested
in him, whether or not such discretion is abused.”
(Gov. Code, § 820.2.)
Turning now to the challenged passages of the FAC,
Plaintiff alleges respondeat superior liability under Government Code section
820 for the failure of school employees to supervise, keep safe, and protect
from known or foreseeable dangers Plaintiff, a student of the school.  Some of the school officials are identified
by name in the FAC, and others are identified as Does.  At the pleading stage, a plaintiff may assert
causes of action under section 820 without identifying each school employee by
name.  (C.A., supra, 53 Cal.4th at
p. 706.)  The FAC adequately puts LAUSD
on notice of the causes of action asserted against it, and it is not reasonable
to require Plaintiff, at the pleading stage, to identify each specific act that
each specific school employee did, or failed to do, that breached the
obligation.  School districts and
personnel have an obligation to exercise ordinary care (at the least) in
supervising students on school grounds. 
(Id., at p. 704.) 
The motion to strike Items Nos. 1-3 is denied.  
Motion to Strike Items Nos. 4-5: Discretionary Safety
Protocols
Under the express provisions of Government Code section
820.2, school officials cannot be held liable (and the district cannot be held
vicariously liable) for an act or omission “where the act or omission was the
result of the exercise of discretion vested in him, whether or not such
discretion is abused.”  Reading the FAC in
context and in the light most favorable to the pleader, however, Plaintiff is
alleging a violation of a mandatory duty to exercise ordinary care in
supervising students on school grounds; the alleged failure to develop and
implement safety protocols, while itself a discretionary function, is offered
to support the allegation of a breach of a mandatory duty.  In other words, Plaintiff alleges, in essence
that LAUSD personnel had a mandatory duty; that one way (not necessarily the
only way) that LAUSD personnel could have discharged this mandatory duty would
have been to develop and implement effective safety protocols; and LAUSD
personnel did not do so.  Viewed in this
light, the allegations are proper, and the motion to strike Items Nos. 4-5 is
denied.
Motion to Strike Items Nos. 6-8: Negligent Hiring,
Supervision, or Retention
Plaintiff pleads that LAUSD and its personnel (named
individuals and the Doe defendants) negligently hired, supervised, and retained
unidentified school personnel who breached their mandatory duties with regard
to student safety.  (FAC, ¶ 71.)  This negligent hiring, supervision, and
retention, Plaintiff alleges, proximately caused Plaintiff to suffer
injuries.  (Id., ¶¶ 72-73.)  This is a sufficient, at the pleading stage,
and puts LAUSD on notice as to Plaintiff’s claims; it is neither required nor reasonable,
at the pleading stage, prior to discovery, to expect Plaintiff to be able to
provide additional details.
The motion to strike Items Nos. 6-8 is denied.
Motion to Strike Items Nos. 9-10: Statutory Attorney’s
Fees
Code of
Civil Procedure section 1021.5 provides, in part:
 “Upon
motion, a court may award attorneys’ fees to a successful party against one or
more opposing parties in any action which has resulted in the enforcement of an
important right affecting the public interest if: (a) a significant benefit,
whether pecuniary or nonpecuniary, has been conferred on the general public or
a large class of persons, (b) the necessity and financial burden of private
enforcement, or of enforcement by one public entity against another public
entity, are such as to make the award appropriate, and (c) such fees should not
in the interest of justice be paid out of the recovery, if any.“
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 1021.5.) 
The purpose of section 1021.5
is “to provide some incentive for the plaintiff who acts as a true private
attorney general, prosecuting a lawsuit that enforces an important public right
and confers a significant benefit, despite the fact that his or her own
financial stake in the outcome would not by itself constitute an adequate
incentive to litigate.” (Nelson v. County of Los Angeles (2003) 113 Cal.App.4th 783, 795.) 
The Court has a healthy degree of
skepticism regarding whether Plaintiff will be able to make the factual showing
required for a recovery of attorney’s fees under section 1021.5.  In most personal injury cases, the potential
for the recovery of damages provides a sufficient incentive for the plaintiff
(and plaintiff’s counsel) to prosecute the action.  
Having said that, this case
does involve the right of students to be reasonably safe on school campuses
(or, perhaps more technically, the right of students to expect that school personnel
will exercise ordinary care on matters relating to their safety on school
grounds).  That is an important right affecting
the public interest.  The underlying
facts, if true, reflect a horrible tragedy that affects the community at large,
not just private individuals in private capacities.  At the outset of the case, the Court in
unable to assess, for example, the likely recovery, what benefit (if any)
students across LAUSD might receive from the litigation, and what burdens are associated
with private enforcement.  
Despite the Court’s healthy
skepticism, the Court cannot determine, on this record, and at this time, that attorney’s
fees under section 1021.5 cannot be recovered as a matter of law.  Accordingly, the motion to strike Items Nos.
9-10 is denied.
Conclusion
The Court DENIES LAUSD’s motion to strike.
Moving party is ordered to give notice. 