 Case Number:  22STCV34488    Hearing Date:   June 3, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion for Leave to Conduct Additional
Medical Examination of Plaintiff filed by Defendant Lyft, Inc.
Tentative
 
The motion is granted, subject to conditions
set forth below.
 
Background
 
On October 27, 2022, Eric Jason Austin (“Plaintiff”) filed a
complaint against Lyft, Inc. (“Lyft”), Amadu Tejan Bah (“Bah”), and Does 1 to
100, asserting causes of action for general negligence; negligent hiring,
training, retention, and supervision; and motor vehicle negligence arising out
of an automobile accident that occurred on October 14, 2021, at or near the
intersection of Vermont Avenue and 43rd Street in Los Angeles. Lyft and Bah
filed their answers on January 27 and May 1, 2023.
 
On May 9,
2024, Lyft filed this motion for leave to conduct an additional medical
examination of Plaintiff. Plaintiff filed an opposition, and a request for
sanctions, on May 20, 2024. Lyft filed a reply on May 24, 2024.
 

Objections to Evidence
 
Lyft objects to Exhibits B and C of Plaintiff’s
opposition. The Court OVERRULES these objections. 
 
Legal Standard
 
“Any party may obtain discovery . . . by
means of a physical or mental examination of (1) a party to the action, (2) an
agent of any party, or (3) a natural person in the custody or under the legal
control of a party, in any action in which the mental or physical condition
(including the blood group) of that party or other person is in controversy in
the action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.020, subd. (a).) 
 
In a personal injury action, the defendant
may demand one physical examination of plaintiff as of right, without advance
leave of the court. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.220.) 
 
If a defendant seeks a further physical
examination of plaintiff, or a mental examination, the defendant must first
file a motion and “obtain leave of court.” (Id., § 2032.310, subd. (a).) Such a
motion must “specify the time, place, manner, conditions, scope, and nature of
the examination, as well as the identity and the specialty, if any, of the
person or persons who will perform the examination.” (Id., subd. (b).) The
court may grant such a motion “only for good cause shown.” (Id., § 2032.320,
subd. (a).) A showing of good cause generally requires “that the party produce
specific facts justifying discovery and that the inquiry be relevant to the
subject matter of the action or reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery
of admissible evidence.” (Vinson v. Super. Ct. (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 840.)
 
“An order granting a physical or mental
examination shall specify the person or persons who may perform the
examination, as well as the time, place, manner, diagnostic tests and
procedures, conditions, scope, and nature of the examination.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2032.320, subd. (d).) “The court is to describe in detail who will conduct
the examination, where and when it will be conducted, the conditions, scope and
nature of the examination, and the diagnostic tests and procedures to be
employed. The way to describe these ‘diagnostic tests and procedures’—fully and
in detail—is to list them by name.” (Carpenter v. Super. Ct. (2006) 141
Cal.App.4th 249, 260.) 
 
The moving party must support the motion
with a meet and confer declaration. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.310, subd. (b).) A
meet and confer declaration must state facts “showing a reasonable and good
faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue presented by the motion.”
(Id., § 2016.040.)
 
The examination will be limited to whatever
condition is “in controversy” in the action. (Id., § 2032.020, subd. (a).) 
 
Discussion
Lyft has satisfied the meet and confer
requirement of section 2032.310 subdivision (b). (Blackburn Decl., ¶ 3 & Exh.
1.)  Lyft has also met all of the
procedural requirements for the motion.
Lyft seeks leave of court for
a third physical examination of Plaintiff. 
Plaintiff has already been subject to an orthopedic examination (by Dr.
Mark Spoonamore on May 20) and has agreed to a neurological examination (by Dr.
Edwin Amos on a date to be determined). 
(Domingto Decl., ¶¶ 7-8.)  Lyft
seeks leave for an additional physical examination by
Dr. Joshua Prager regarding pain management, including (but not limited to) the
spinal cord stimulator implant that Plaintiff has received.  (Prager Decl., ¶¶ 6-9.)
 
The
Court has reviewed the evidence and the argument of both sides and finds that
Lyft has shown good cause for the additional medical examination.  Although there is some overlap between the other
examinations and the proposed examination by Dr. Prager, the Court understands
that Dr. Prager has a particular expertise not shared by the other examiners as
it relates to spinal cord stimulation. 
(Prager Decl., ¶¶ 6-7.)  The
examination by Dr. Prager will be reasonably brief, not to exceed two hours,
and any burden on Plaintiff will be slight in relation to the scope of this
case, in which the medical special damages are (according to Lyft) in excess of
$1 million.  (Prager Decl., ¶ 9; Reply,
at p. 3; Blackburn Decl., Exh. 3.) 
Although Plaintiff offers to share the data from the spinal cord stimulator,
and that is part of what Dr. Prager’s examination will involve, there is more
to it, for which Lyft has shown good cause.
 
Plaintiff argues, in the alternative,
that any examination be limited and subject to the following conditions:
 
(1) Dr. Prager’s examination be limited to
the mechanical scanning of Plaintiff’s spine implant in order to retrieve
and/or download all downloadable data from Plaintiff’s implant.  This request is DENIED. 
 
(2) Dr. Prager shall not duplicate the
examinations performed or to be performed by Dr. Spoonamore and Dr. Amos. This
request is reasonable on its face but is DENIED for the reasons explained in
Dr. Prager’s declaration.  Given the
limited time period for the examination, and the scope of the case, some minor
overlap will be permitted, as each expert could perform the same or similar
examination for a substantially different purpose. 
 
(3) Dr. Prager to not question Plaintiff
about any discussions between Plaintiff and his counsel.  GRANTED. 
 
(4) Plaintiff not be required to fill out
any patient information forms.  GRANTED. 
 
(5) The total examination may not exceed 2
hours, not including any reasonable and appropriate breaks or lunch Plaintiff
may take as needed.  GRANTED. 
 
(6) Dr. Prager does not delve into
unrelated areas protected by the California Constitutional right of privacy.  DENIED. 
All medical information is protected by the right of privacy, and Dr.
Prager will be permitted to inquire regarding Plaintiff’s medical history.
 
(7) Plaintiff is not questioned regarding
the specifics of any treatment, names of treating physicians and details of the
medical or mental conditions of family members. 
GRANTED.  The medical or mental
conditions of family members has not been shown to be relevant. 
 
(8) Plaintiff be allowed to make an audio
recording of the entire examination. 
GRANTED.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2032.510, subd. (a).) 
 
(9) Plaintiff be entitled to take
reasonable breaks, including but not limited to lunch, rest, and bathroom
breaks, and Plaintiff is allowed to notify his counsel if he feels in
reasonable good faith that the proceeding has become abusive.  GRANTED. 
 
(10) Defendants produce a copy of Dr.
Prager's written report and any related reports to Plaintiff's counsel no later
than 30 days after the examination. 
DENIED.  The parties must comply
with Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.610 as to any reports. 
 
(11) Plaintiff be allowed to be assisted by
counsel or authorized representative. 
GRANTED in part.  Counsel or
counsel’s representative may attend, monitor, and observe but many not
participate in or disrupt it.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2032.510, subds. (a) & (b).) 
 
(12) The examination not start before 10:30
a.m.  GRANTED. 
 
(13) The examination be administered only
by Dr. Prager.  GRANTED.
 
Plaintiff’s request for
sanctions is denied.
Conclusion

The Court GRANTS  the physical examination of Plaintiff.
The Court ORDERS Plaintiff to
appear for a physical examination by Dr. Prager on June 6, 2024, at 2001 Santa Monica Blvd., Suite 1280 – West, Santa Monica CA 90404, at
10:30 a.m. The exam shall consist of a general
physical examination, a neurological examination, a myofascial examination, a
medical history, and interrogation of the spinal cord simulator system. The
exam shall not exceed two hours in length, not including reasonable breaks. Dr.
Prager is not to question Plaintiff about any discussions between Plaintiff and
his counsel. Plaintiff is not required to fill out any patient information forms.
The examination is to be administered only by Dr. Prager.
The Court
ORDERS the parties to comply with Code of Civil Procedure sections 2032.510 and
2032.610 with regard to the conduct of the examination and the production of
reports.
Moving
Party is to give notice.
 