 Case Number:  21STCV00910    Hearing Date:   June 3, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion for Leave to Conduct Additional Neuropsychological Examination
of Plaintiff 
 
Tentative
 
The
motion is granted.
  
Background 
  
On January 8, 2021, Plaintiff Bethany Estrada (“Plaintiff”) filed
a complaint against Defendant Richard Estrada (“Defendant”) and Does 1 through
10 for general negligence and motor vehicle negligence. The complaint alleges
that on January 19, 2021, Plaintiff was sitting in the right front passenger
seat of the motor vehicle owned and driven by Defendant when Defendant suddenly
and without warning, negligently veered right, off US-395, across the asphalt
shoulder, down an embankment, striking a metal fence. 
 
On May 1, 2024, Defendant filed this motion for leave to conduct a
mental (neuropsychological) examination of Plaintiff. 
 
Plaintiff has not filed an opposition.  
  
Legal Standard¿ 
¿
“Any party may obtain discovery . . . by means of a
physical or mental examination of (1) a party to the action, (2) an agent of
any party, or (3) a natural person in the custody or under the legal control of
a party, in any action in which the mental or physical condition (including the
blood group) of that party or other person is in controversy in the action.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.020, subd. (a).)
In a personal injury action, the defendant may
demand one physical examination of plaintiff as of right, without advance leave
of the court.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2032.220.)  
If a defendant seeks a further physical examination
of plaintiff, or a mental examination, the defendant must first file a motion
and “obtain leave of court.” (Id., § 2032.310, subd. (a).) Such a motion
must “specify the time, place, manner, conditions, scope, and nature of the
examination, as well as the identity and the specialty, if any, of the person
or persons who will perform the examination.” (Id., subd. (b).) The
court may grant such a motion “only for good cause shown.” (Id., §
2032.320, subd. (a).) A showing of good cause generally requires “that the
party produce specific facts justifying discovery and that the inquiry be
relevant to the subject matter of the action or reasonably calculated to lead
to the discovery of admissible evidence.” (Vinson v. Super. Ct. (1987)
43 Cal.3d 833, 840.)  
“An order granting a physical or mental examination
shall specify the person or persons who may perform the examination, as well as
the time, place, manner, diagnostic tests and procedures, conditions, scope,
and nature of the examination.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.320, subd.
(d).) “The court is to describe¿in detail¿who will conduct the
examination, where and when it will be conducted, the conditions, scope and
nature of the examination, and the diagnostic tests and procedures to be
employed.  The way to describe these ‘diagnostic tests and procedures’—fully¿and¿in
detail—is to list them by name.” (Carpenter v. Super. Ct.¿(2006)
141 Cal.App.4th 249, 260.)¿¿ 
The examination will be limited to whatever
condition is “in controversy” in the action.¿ (Id., § 2032.020, subd.
(a).) A mental examination is appropriate only if the plaintiff alleges
continuing emotional distress. (Doyle v. Super. Ct. ¿(1996) 50
Cal.App.4th¿1878, 1886-1887.) “While a plaintiff may place his mental
state in controversy by a general allegation of severe emotional distress, the
opposing party may not require him to undergo psychiatric testing solely on the
basis of speculation that something of interest may surface.”  (Vinson,¿supra,
43 Cal.3d at 840.) By alleging a causal link between the emotional
distress and the defendant's conduct, however, a plaintiff “implicitly claims
it was not caused by a preexisting mental condition, thereby raising the
question of alternative sources for the distress.” (Ibid.)  
The moving party¿must support the motion with a meet
and confer declaration.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.310, subd. (b).) A
meet and confer declaration must state facts “showing a reasonable and good
faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue presented by the
motion.”¿ (Id., § 2016.040.)¿¿¿¿ 
Discussion  
Defendant
has satisfied the meet and confer requirement of the statute. (Mendoza Decl.,
¶¶ 4-8.) 
The Court
finds that Defendant has shown good cause for the requested neuropsychological examination.  Plaintiff has put her psychological condition at issue in this
action by stating that she suffers from emotional distress, mental suffering,
loss of enjoyment of life, inconvenience, grief, anxiety, depression, and
humiliation; Plaintiff also states that she was treated by her own therapist.
(Mendoza Decl., ¶ 3 & Exh. B.)
Further,
the Court finds that Defendant’s motion complies with all procedural
requirements, including those set forth in Code of Civil Procedure section
2032.310. 
Based on
the foregoing, Defendant’s motion for leave to conduct a mental
(neuropsychological) examination of Plaintiff is granted.  
Conclusion 
  
The Court GRANTS Defendant’s motion for leave to conduct a
neuropsychological examination of Plaintiff.
 
The Court ORDERS Plaintiff to appear for and submit to a neuropsychological
examination on June 23, 2024, at 9:00 am, at 8616 La Tijera Boulevard, Suite
400, Los Angeles, California 90045.  The
examination will be conducted by Manuel Saint Martin, M.D., J.D., whose specialty
includes neuropsychology. 
 
Plaintiff is ORDERED to appear at an examination before Dr. Manuel
Saint Martin on June 23, 2024 at 9:00 a.m. at 8616 La Tijera Blvd., Suite 400 Los
Angeles, California 90045, unless otherwise agreed by the parties. 
 
The examination will include taking a
history through a clinical interview and the administration of the following
tests: the Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory Second Edition
Restructured or Third Edition; Millon Clinical Multiaxial Inventory Fourth
Edition; Personality Assessment Inventory Second Edition; Comprehensive
Trail-Making Test Second Edition; Test of Non Verbal Intelligence; B-Test;
Wechsler Memory Scale-IV; Test of Memory Malingering; Test of Brief Attention;
Neuropsychological Assessment Battery; Hopkins Verbal Learning Test; and Speed
Capacity and Language Processing Test.  
 
The examiner may choose to omit or not to
administer some of these tests, but the examiner may not add any additional
tests or substitute different tests.
 
The entire examination may not take more
than eight hours, including breaks.
 
The examination must be conducted in full
compliance with the applicable requirements of the Code of Civil Procedure,
including, but not limited to, sections 2032.510 through 2032.650. 
 
Moving party is ordered to give notice. 