 Case Number:  23STCV30834    Hearing Date:   February 2, 2024    Dept:  53 Ramirez v. California Landmark
Group  23STCV30834 
Ex
Parte Application 2/2/24
The
court grants in part, and denies in part, defendant Intersolutions, LLC’s ex
parte application as follows.
First,
on January 19, 2024, defendant Intersolutions, LLC filed a motion to deem
plaintiff a vexatious litigant pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 391.1.  Therefore, “the litigation is stayed, and the
moving defendant need not plead, until 10 days after the motion shall have been
denied, or if granted, until 10 days after the required security has been
furnished and the moving defendant given written notice thereof.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 391.6.)  The court expects all parties and counsel to
comply with the stay by not filing papers other than in connection with
defendant Intersolutions, LLC’s motion to deem plaintiff a vexatious litigant
and by not conducting any discovery until the stay is lifted.  
Second,
the court orders that “Plaintiff’s Request for Default of Defendants Intersolutions,
LLC and NPM Staffing, LLC and Default Court Judgment Entered for Both,” filed January
26, 2024, is stricken because it was filed in violation of the stay imposed by
Code of Civil Procedure section 391.6.   

Third,
the court expects all counsel and self-represented parties to read the
“Courtroom Information for Department 53” posted on the Los Angeles Superior
Court’s website and to comply with its requirements and expectations.  In particular, Section 1 of Department 53’s
Courtroom Information states as follows: 
 
 
1.    
Civility
and Professionalism
The court places a very high value on
civility, courtesy, and professionalism in the practice of law and the judicial
process.  The court expects all attorneys
and parties to treat each other, witnesses, jurors, court personnel, the court,
and others with the highest level of civility, courtesy, and professionalism,
both inside and outside the courtroom. 
The court expects all attorneys and parties to grant reasonable requests
for professional courtesies, such as requests for reasonable extensions of time
for deadlines to respond to pleadings, discovery, or other matters.   
The Los Angeles County Bar Association has
adopted “Guidelines for Civility in Litigation,” which the Los Angeles Superior
Court has adopted as civility in litigation recommendations to members of the
bar.  (Los Angeles Superior Court Local
Rules, Rule 3.26, Appendix 3.A.)  The
court expects all attorneys and parties to read and to follow those guidelines.

 
Fourth,
the court expects that, if a party represented by counsel requests that another
party only communicate with them through their counsel, the party requested to
do so shall honor that request.  
Fifth,
the court is concerned about the tone and content of a number of the
communications from plaintiff to counsel and others involved in this litigation
set forth in defendant’s ex parte application and supporting papers.  Although the court denies all other relief
requested in defendant Intersolutions, LLC’s ex parte application at this time
because the court expects that its statements as to how it expects all
attorneys and parties to treat each other will make issuing orders addressing
such conduct unnecessary, the court denies such other relief without prejudice
to seeking the same or other appropriate relief in the future if there is
further conduct which would establish good cause for the court to order such
relief in order to protect attorneys, parties, others involved in the
litigation, or the integrity of the judicial process.       
The court
orders defendant Intersolutions, LLC to give notice of this order.       
 