 Case Number:  23STCV02490    Hearing Date:   February 2, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




mark alan valdes, individually and on behalf of all others
   similarly situated

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
twofer, llc

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


23STCV02490




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


February
   2, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[Tentative]
  Order RE:
 
(1)  
  defendant’s
  demurrer to first amended complaint
(2)  
  defendant’s
  motion to strike allegations of first amended complaint
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                Defendant Twofer, LLC
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff Mark Alan Valdes, individually and on behalf of all
others similarly situated
(1)  
Demurrer
to First Amended Complaint
(2)  
Motion
to Strike Allegations of First Amended Complaint
The court considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in
connection with the demurrer and motion to strike.
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
The court grants defendant
Twofer, LLC’s requests for judicial notice. 
(Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (h).) 
 
 
 
BACKGROUND
Plaintiff Mark Alan Valdes (“Plaintiff”) filed the operative First
Amended Class and Representative Action Complaint in this action on April 18,
2023, against defendant Twofer, LLC and Entertainment Partners Services, LLC.  The court dismissed defendant Entertainment
Partner Services, LLC pursuant to Plaintiff’s request on March 14, 2023. 
Thereafter, on May 3, 2023, Plaintiff filed a “Request for Dismissal
of Class and Individual Claims without Prejudice,” requesting that the court
dismiss his class and individual claims. 
The court issued an order dismissing the class and individual
allegations pursuant to Plaintiff’s request on May 4, 2023. 
Defendant Twofer, LLC (“Defendant”) now moves the court for an order
(1) sustaining its demurrer to Plaintiff’s ninth cause of action for civil
penalties under
the Private Attorneys General Act of 2004 (Labor Code § 2698, et seq.) (“PAGA”),
and (2) striking from the First Amended Complaint various allegations relating
to the alleged overtime pay violations, timely wage payment violations, and
meal period premium violations as preempted. 
DEMURRER TO FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT
The court overrules Defendant’s demurrer to the ninth cause of action
for civil penalties under PAGA on the ground that it is unmanageable because Defendant
no longer requests that the court sustain its demurrer on this ground in light
of the California Supreme Court’s recent decision in Estrada v. Royalty
Carpet Mills, Inc. (January 18, 2024, S274340) ___ Cal.5th ___, 2024 WL
188863. (Notice of Demurrer, p. 3, ¶ 1; Reply, p. 2:1-5.)  
The court overrules Defendant’s demurrer to the ninth cause of action
for civil penalties under PAGA on the ground of uncertainty because the ninth
cause of action is not ambiguous or unintelligible.  (Notice of Demurrer, p. 3, ¶ 2; Code
Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (f); A.J. Fistes Corp. v. GDL Best
Contractors, Inc. (2019) 38 Cal.App.5th 677, 695 [“‘ “[D]emurrers for
uncertainty are disfavored, and are granted only if the pleading is so
incomprehensible that a defendant cannot reasonably respond” ’”].) 
The court overrules Defendant’s demurrer to the ninth cause of action
for civil penalties under PAGA on the ground that the court does not have
jurisdiction of the subject of this cause of action because Defendant has not
shown that Plaintiff did not comply with the statutory requirements regarding
notice to the Labor and Workforce Development Agency since Plaintiff’s notice set
forth “the specific provisions of [the Labor Code] alleged to have been
violated, including the facts and theories to support the alleged violation.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (a);
Lab. Code, § 2699.3, subd. (a)(1)(A); Khan v. Dunn-Edwards Corp. (2018)
19 Cal.App.5th 804, 808-809 [“‘Before bringing a PAGA claim, a plaintiff must
comply with administrative procedures outlined in section 2699.3, regarding
notice to the [Labor and Workforce Development Agency]’”]; RJN, Ex. D.) 
The court denies Defendant’s alternative request that the court
require Plaintiff to plead each legal theory for penalties under PAGA as a
separate cause of action.  
MOTION TO STRIKE ALLEGATIONS OF FIRST
AMENDED COMPLAINT
Defendant moves the court for an order
striking from the First Amended Complaint the following: (1) the allegations
that Defendant failed to pay overtime wages, failed to provide meal periods,
and failed to pay all wages to terminated employees as set forth (i) in the
portions of paragraphs 1, 5, 15, 16, 21, 28, and (ii) in paragraphs 17 and 20,
in their entirety; (2) the second, third, and sixth causes of action in their
entirety; and (3) Plaintiff’s request for a declaration that Defendant failed
to pay overtime wages, failed to provide meal periods, and failed to pay final
wages at termination, as set forth in the portion of paragraph 46 of the
prayer.  Defendant moves for this relief
on the ground that these claims and requests for relief are preempted by the
Labor Management Relations Act. 
“[S]ection 301 of the [Labor Management
Relations Act] has been construed by the United States Supreme Court to cover
and preempt state-law actions seeking to enforce the [collective bargaining
agreement] itself and those state law claims that require interpretation or
construction of a labor agreement.”  (Gola
v. University of San Francisco (2023) 90 Cal.App.5th 548, 569 [internal
quotations omitted].)  “‘Under section
301 preemption analysis, it is helpful to apply a two-part test to determine
whether a claim is preempted.  First, the
court should evaluate whether the claim arises from independent state law or
from the collective bargaining agreement. 
If the claim arises from the collective bargaining agreement, the claim
is preempted as a matter of law. 
[Citation.]  However, if the claim
arises from independent state law, the court must then proceed to the second
step.  In this step, the court determines
whether the claim requires “interpretation or construction of a labor
agreement,” or whether a collective bargaining agreement will merely be
“reference[d]” in the litigation. 
[Citations.]  A state law claim is
preempted if a court must interpret a disputed provision of the
collective bargaining agreement to determine whether the plaintiff’s state law
claim has merit.’”  (Melendez v. San
Francisco Baseball Associates LLC (2019) 7 Cal.5th 1, 9-10 [emphasis in
original].) 
First, the court denies as moot Defendant’s
motion to strike the second, third, and sixth causes of action in their
entirety.  On May 4, 2023, the court
ordered “that the class and individual allegations set forth in the First
Amended Complaint shall be dismissed, without prejudice.”  (May 4, 2023 Order, p. 1:1-5.)  According to the First Amended Complaint,
“the First through Eighth Causes of Action [have been alleged by Plaintiff]
individually and as a class action on behalf of himself and certain current and
former employees of Defendant[.]”  (FAC
¶ 2.)  Thus, it appears that the
effect of the May 4, 2023 order was to dismiss the first through eighth causes
of action.
Second, the court finds that Defendant has shown
that Plaintiff’s claims based on Defendant’s alleged failure to pay overtime
wages are preempted.  The court therefore
grants Defendant’s motion to strike the allegations relating to Defendant’s
alleged failure to pay overtime wages.
Defendant has argued, based on the
collective bargaining agreement of which the court has taken judicial notice,
that (1) Labor Code section 510, on which Plaintiff relies in support of his
claim that the aggrieved employees were not paid overtime compensation in
violation of the Labor Code, does not apply since the agreement satisfies the
requirements of Labor Code section 514, such that (2) the claims for overtime
wages are governed by the parties’ collective bargaining agreement and not
state law.  (Mot., pp. 11:4-12:16; Lab.
Code, § 514 [“Sections 510 and 511 do not apply to an employee covered by
a valid collective bargaining agreement if the agreement expressly provides
for” certain requirements set forth by statute].)  The court agrees.
The parties’ collective bargaining agreement
provides for the wages, hours of work, and working conditions of the employees,
premium wages for all overtime hours worked, and a regular hourly rate of pay
for those employees not less than 30 percent more than the California minimum
wage and therefore satisfies the requirements of Labor Code section 514.  (RJN Ex. A, pp. 29-34 [minimum wage scales],
p. 33 [minimum wage for August 2020 through July 2021 was $46.02], p. 38, § 7
[overtime provisions].)  Thus, the court
finds that Plaintiff’s claims that Defendant failed to pay all overtime wages
pursuant to the Labor Code are preempted by the Labor Management Relations Act
because (1) Labor Code section 510 does not apply to Plaintiff for the reasons
set forth above, and therefore (2) his claims instead arise under the
collective bargaining agreement, not state law. 
(Melendez, supra, 7 Cal.5th at p. 9.)
Third, the court finds that Defendant has
shown that Plaintiff’s claims based on Defendant’s alleged failure to timely
pay wages and to pay wages upon termination are preempted.  (FAC ¶¶ 15, 20.)  The court therefore grants Defendant’s motion
to strike the allegations relating to Defendant’s alleged failure to timely pay
wages and to timely pay wages upon termination.
“All wages, other than those mentioned in
Section 201, 201.3, 202, 204.1, or 204.2, earned by any person in any
employment are due and payable twice during each calendar month, on days
designated in advance by the employer as the regular paydays.”  (Lab. Code, § 204, subd. (a).)  “However, when employees are covered by a
collective bargaining agreement that provides different pay arrangements, those
arrangements shall apply to the covered employees.”  (Lab. Code, § 204.)  The court finds that Plaintiff’s claims that
Defendant did not timely pay the aggrieved employees as required by Labor Code
section 204 are preempted by the Labor Management Relations Act because (1) the
parties’ collective bargaining agreement sets forth different pay arrangements,
such that (2) the claims regarding untimely payment of wages therefore arise
from the collective bargaining agreement, not state law.  (RJN Ex. A, p. 36, § 3 [“The full payroll week
shall be from midnight Saturday to midnight Saturday”]; Lab. Code, § 204,
subd. (c); Melendez, supra, 7 Cal.5th at p. 9; Landy v.
Pettigrew Crewing, Inc. (C.D. Cal. 2019) 2019 WL 6245525 at *4 [in
analyzing section 204, subdivision (c), concluding that “where a CBA provides
for a different pay arrangement from that which exists under state law, a
covered employee’s right to timely payment ‘exists solely as a result of the
CBA’”].) 
Further, under Labor Code section 201, “[i]f
an employer discharges an employee, the wages earned and unpaid at the time of
discharge are due and payable immediately.” 
(Lab. Code, § 201, subd. (a).) 
However, “[w]hen a CBA has alternate pay arrangements to those in the
Labor Code, wage payments arise under the CBA and not state law . . . .  [The] alternate pay arrangements . . . apply
to the regular payment of wages and payment of final wages . . . .”  (Rodriguez v. Gonsalves & Santucci,
Inc. (N.D. Cal. 2022) 2022 WL 161892 at *5.)  Here, the parties’ collective bargaining
agreement provides that, if an employee is laid off and requests pay, “he shall
be paid at the time of layoff or his paycheck will be mailed within twenty-four
(24) hours, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and holidays.”  (RJN Ex. A, p. 55, § 19, subd. (a).)  Thus, the court finds that Plaintiff’s claims
that Defendant did not timely pay the aggrieved employees their wages due upon
termination are preempted by the Labor Management Relations Act because (1) the
collective bargaining agreement provides for alternative pay arrangements for
the payment of final wages, such that (2) these claims arise from the
collective bargaining agreement, not state law. 
(Melendez, supra, 7 Cal.5th at p. 9; Rodriguez, supra,
2022 WL 161892 at *5.)
Fourth, the court finds that Defendant has
shown that Plaintiff’s claims based on Defendant’s alleged failure to provide
meal periods are preempted.  (FAC
¶ 17.)  The court therefore grants
Defendant’s motion to strike the allegations relating to Defendant’s alleged
failure to provide meal periods. 
Pursuant to Labor Code section 512,
subdivision (a), “[a]n employer shall not employ an employee for a work period
of more than five hours per day without providing the employee with a meal
period of not less than 30 minutes, except that if the total work period per
day of the employee is no more than six hours, the meal period may be waived by
mutual consent of both the employer and employee.”  (Lab. Code, § 512, subd. (a).)  However, if an employee in the motion picture
industry “is covered by a valid collective bargaining agreement that provides
for meal periods and includes a monetary remedy if the employee does not
receive a meal period required by the agreement, then the terms, conditions,
and remedies of the agreement pertaining to meal periods apply in lieu of the
applicable provisions pertaining to meal periods of subdivision (a) of [section
512], Section 226.7, and Industrial Welfare Commission Wage Order Numbers 11
and 12.”  (Lab. Code, § 512, subd.
(d).)
Here, the collective bargaining agreement (1)
provides for meal periods, and (2) sets forth a monetary penalty for delayed
meal periods.  (RJN Ex. A, p. 56,
§ 20, subd. (a), pp. 57-58, § 20, subd. (h).)  Thus, the court finds that, because the
collective bargaining agreement includes the information required by Labor Code
section 512, subdivision (d), Plaintiff’s claims that Defendant did not provide
meal periods are governed by the collective bargaining agreement, and not the
Labor Code, and therefore are preempted by the Labor Management Relations Act.  (Melendez, supra, 7 Cal.5th at
p. 9; Lab. Code, § 512, subd. (d).) 
The burden is on the plaintiff “to
articulate how it could amend its pleading to render it sufficient.”¿ (Palm
Springs Villas II Homeowners Assn., Inc. v. Parth (2016) 248 Cal.App.4th
268, 290.)¿ To satisfy that burden, a plaintiff “must show in what manner he
can amend his complaint and how that amendment will change the legal effect of
his pleading.”¿ (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349.) 
The court finds that Plaintiff has not met his burden to show how he can amend
the complaint to render it sufficient and outside of the scope of the Labor
Management Relations Act.  The court
therefore grants Defendant’s motion to strike the preempted claims without
leave to amend. 
ORDER

The court overrules defendant Twofer, LLC’s demurrer to plaintiff Mark
Alan Valdes’s ninth cause of action for civil penalties under PAGA.
The court grants in part defendant Twofer, LLC’s motion to strike as
follows. 
The court orders that the following portions of plaintiff Mark Alan
Valdes’s First Amended Class and Representative Action Complaint are stricken
without leave to amend:
·      
The allegation “failure to pay overtime wages”
as set forth in paragraph 1, located on page 1, line 7-8.
·      
The allegation “failure to provide meal periods”
as set forth in paragraph 1, located on page 1, line 8.
·      
The allegation “overtime wages” in paragraph 5,
subdivision (a), located on page 2, line 4. 
·      
Paragraph 5, subdivision (b) in its entirety,
located on page 2, lines 6-10.
·      
Paragraph 5, subdivision (e) in its entirety,
located on page 2, lines 16-18.
·      
The allegation “overtime wages” as set forth in
paragraph 15, located on page 4, line 27.
·      
The allegation “failed to provide Plaintiff with
uninterrupted meal periods” as set forth in paragraph 15, located on page 4,
lines 27-28.
·      
The allegation “failed to timely pay all final
wages to Plaintiff when Defendants terminated Plaintiff’s employment” as set
forth in paragraph 15, located on page 5, lines 1-2.
·      
The allegation “including all overtime wages” as
set forth in paragraph 16, located on page 5, lines 6-7.
·      
Paragraph 17 in its entirety, located on page 5,
line 23 through page 6, line 5.
·      
Paragraph 20 in its entirety, located on page 7,
lines 3-7.
·      
The allegation “overtime wages” as set forth in
paragraph 21, subdivision (a), located on page 7, line 18.
·      
The allegation “meal period premium wages” as
set forth in paragraph 21, subdivision (a), located on page 7, line 18.
·      
The allegation “overtime” as set forth in
paragraph 21, subdivision (b), located on page 7, line 18. 
·      
The allegation “meal period premium” as set
forth in paragraph 21, subdivision (b), located on page 7, line 18. 
·      
The allegation “overtime” as set forth in
paragraph 21, subdivision (c), located on page 7, line 25. 
·      
The allegation “meal period premium” as set
forth in paragraph 21, subdivision (c), located on page 7, line 25.
·      
The allegation “overtime” as set forth in
paragraph 21, subdivision (d), located on page 8, line 1. 
·      
The allegation “meal period premium” as set
forth in paragraph 21, subdivision (d), located on page 8, line 2. 
·      
The allegation “overtime” as set forth in
paragraph 21, subdivision (e), located on page 8, line 5. 
·      
The allegation “meal period premium” as set
forth in paragraph 21, subdivision (e), located on page 8, line 5. 
·      
The allegation “overtime wages” as set forth in
paragraph 28, subdivision (a), located on page 10, line 25.
·      
Paragraph 28, subdivision (b) in its entirety,
located on page 10, lines 26-27.
·      
Paragraph 28, subdivision (d) in its entirety,
located on page 11, lines 2-3.
·      
The allegation “and all meal periods Class
Members took or missed” as set forth in paragraph 28, subdivision (e), located
on page 11, line 5.
·      
The allegations “overtime, failure to provide
meal periods, failure to maintain accurate records of meal periods,” and
“failing to pay final wages at termination” as set forth in paragraph 46 of the
Prayer, located on page 28, lines 15-16 and 17-18.
The court orders defendant Twofer, LLC to give notice of this
ruling.  
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  February 2, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court