 Case Number:  22STCV30742    Hearing Date:   October 21, 2024    Dept:  27  
Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27¿ 
¿ 
MOTION FOR DETERMINATION OF GOOD FAITH
SETTLEMENT 
Hearing Date: 10/21/24¿¿ 
CASE NO./NAME: 22STCV30742 CORALINE RIVERA
MARTINO et al vs THE CITY OF INDUSTRY, et al.¿ 
Moving Party: Defendants City of Industry
Responding Party: Unopposed
Notice: Sufficient
Ruling: MOTION FOR DETERMINATION OF GOOD FAITH
SETTLEMENT IS GRANTED 
 
Legal Standard 
¿ 
CCP section 877.6(a)(1) provides that “[a]ny
party to an action wherein it is alleged that two or more parties are joint
tortfeasors or co-obligors on a contract debt shall be entitled to a hearing on
the issue of the good faith of a settlement entered into by the plaintiff . . .
and one or more alleged tortfeasors or co-obligors . . . .” (Code. Civ. Proc.,
§ 877.6(a)(1).) “A determination by the court that the settlement was made in
good faith shall bar any other joint tortfeasor or co-obligor from any further
claims against the settling tortfeasor or co-obligor for equitable comparative
contribution, or partial or comparative indemnity, based on comparative
negligence or comparative fault.”¿(Id.,
§ 877.6(c).)¿Although a determination that a settlement was
in good faith does not discharge any other party from liability, “it shall
reduce the claims against the others in the amount stipulated” by the
settlement.¿(Id., § 877(a).)¿ 
Factors to consider in determining if a
settlement was made in good faith include “a rough approximation of plaintiffs’
total recovery and the settlor’s proportionate liability, the amount paid in
settlement, the allocation of settlement proceeds among plaintiffs, and a
recognition that a settlor should pay less in settlement than he would if he
were found liable after a trial.”¿(Tech-Bilt,
Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde & Associates (1985) 38 Cal.3d 488, 499.)¿“Other relevant considerations include the financial conditions and
insurance policy limits of settling defendants, as well as the existence of
collusion, fraud, or tortious conduct aimed to injure the interests of
nonsettling defendants.”¿(Id.) 
 
The evaluation of whether a settlement was
made in good faith is required to “be made on the basis of information
available at the time of settlement.”¿(Tech-Bilt,
Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde & Associates (1985) 38 Cal.3d 488, 499.)¿“[A] court not only looks at the alleged tortfeasor’s potential
liability to the plaintiff, but it must also consider the culpability of the
tortfeasor vis-à-vis other parties alleged to be responsible for the same
injury.”¿(TSI Seismic Tenant Space, Inc. v. Superior
Court (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 159, 166.)¿ “Potential liability for indemnity to a nonsettling defendant is
an important consideration for the trial court in determining whether to
approve a settlement by an alleged tortfeasor.” (Id.)¿ 
 
“The party asserting the lack of good faith
shall have the burden of proof on that issue.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6(d).)¿The party asserting the lack of good faith can establish that the
proposed settlement was not a settlement made in good faith by showing the
settlement is so far “out of the ballpark” in relation to the Tech-Bilt
factors as to be inconsistent with the equitable objectives of the statute.¿(Tech-Bilt, Inc., supra, 38 Cal.3d at 499-500.) 
 
Unopposed Motion 
 
An unopposed motion for determination of good
faith of settlement need not contain a full and complete discussion of the Tech-Bilt
factors (Tech-Bilt, Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde & Associates (1985) 38
Cal.3d 488) by declaration or affidavit; rather, a bare bones motion setting
forth the grounds of good faith and a declaration containing a brief background
of the case is sufficient. (City of Grand Terrace v. Superior Court (1987)
192 Cal.App.3d 1251, 1261.)¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
Analysis and Conclusion 
 
This motion concerns the $250,000.00
settlement agreement entered into between Defendant City of Industry and
Plaintiffs Caraline Martino and Daniel Martino. Defendant now moves the Court
for a determination of good faith settlement. The motion is unopposed, and
there are no filings objecting to the settlement. The motion demonstrates that
the settlement agreement was reached in good faith and provides a brief
background of the case. Although not required, the Settling Defendants
addressed all relevant Tech-Bilt factors. The moving party has made a
sufficient showing. Thus, the motion is GRANTED.
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date
and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party
submitting. 
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the
hearing to argue. 
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion
without leave. 
 
 