 Case Number:  23STCV16269    Hearing Date:   October 21, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTION FOR RELIEF AND RECONSIDERATION 
Hearing Date: 10/21/24¿ 
CASE NO./NAME: 23STCV16269 PHALLY YOU, et
al. vs CHRISTOPHER DANTE JONES 
Moving Party: Defendant Christopher Jones
Responding Party: Plaintiffs
Notice: Sufficient¿ 
Ruling: MOTION FOR RELIEF IS GRANTED 
 
Background
On July 13, 2023,
Plaintiffs filed the present complaint. On May 6, 2024, Defendant filed his
answer. On the same day, Plaintiffs served Defendant with written discovery,
including Requests for Admission, Set One. Responses to written discovery were
due on July 24, 2024.
On July 25, 2024,
Plaintiff filed a Motion to Deem Facts Admitted after not receiving any
responses. No opposition was filed. On August 26, 2024, no party appeared at
the hearing, and Plaintiffs’ Requests for Admission, Set One, were deemed
admitted. 
Defendant now moves the
Court to reconsider pursuant to CCP 1008 or vacate its prior ruling pursuant to
CCP 473 because (1) among other reasons, the court was not aware of the fact
that Defendant filed responses to the Requests for Admission before the Motion
was heard; or (2) due to a calendaring error, Defendant failed to file an
opposition or appear at the hearing on the Motion to Deem Facts Admitted.  Plaintiff opposes the motion, arguing that the bases for reconsideration are insufficient
and the basis for vacating the order falls below the professional standard for
lawyers.
Legal Standard
A motion for
reconsideration must be made “…within 10 days after service upon the party of
written notice of entry of the order…” (CCP §1008(a).)   The
moving party must present new facts, circumstances or law in order to grant a
motion for reconsideration.  (See CCP § 1008(a); see also Mink v.
Superior Court (1992) 2 Cal.App.4th 1338, 1342.)  The party seeking
reconsideration of an order shall state by affidavit what application was made
before, what order or decisions were made, and what new or different facts or
circumstances are claimed to be shown. (CCP § 1008(a).) “Facts of which a
party seeking reconsideration was aware at the time of the original ruling are
not "new or different facts," as would support a trial court's grant
of reconsideration. (People v. Safety National Casualty Insurance Co.
(2010) 186 Cal.App.4th 959, 974.) 
Further, “…the party
seeking reconsideration must provide not only new evidence but also a
satisfactory explanation for the failure to produce that evidence at an earlier
time.” (Glade v. Glade (1995) 38 Cal.App.4th 1441, 1457 [emphasis
added].)  The legislative intent was to restrict motions for
reconsideration to circumstances where a party offers the court some fact or
circumstance not previously considered and some valid reason for not offering
it earlier. (Gilberd v. AC Transit (1995) 32 Cal.App.4th 1494, 1500.)
Under CCP 473(b), a
court may relieve a party from an order taken against him or her due to
excusable neglect.    
Discussion
On August 26, 2024, the
Court Deemed Plaintiff’s Requests for Admission, Set One, admitted. The Court
finds good cause to vacate its prior ruling based on excusable neglect and a
fact unknown to the Court at the time of the initial motion, namely, that Defendant
had responded to the RFAs prior to the date the motion to deem them admitted
was heard. Defendant’s counsel submitted a declaration stating that the
responses to the RFAs were served shortly after Plaintiff filed the motion.
However, the motion was not calendared because counsel’s paralegal failed to
download the motion to the relevant case file and did not calendar the
opposition deadline or the motion hearing date, resulting in counsel’s failure
to file an opposition or appear at the hearing. 
Defendant also asserts
that Plaintiff will not be prejudiced by this error because defense counsel
acted promptly and without delay to rectify their oversight regarding
Plaintiff’s Motion.
Although Plaintiff
filed an opposition, it does not dispute defense counsel’s declaration that
Defendant provided RFA responses prior to the motion to have the RFAs deemed
admitted. Furthermore, Plaintiff does not allege any prejudice resulting from
the error. The Court also finds prejudice unlikely, as the motion for
reconsideration/to vacate was promptly filed after the initial motion was
granted, and there was insufficient time for Plaintiff to rely on the
admissions. Typically, calendaring errors are excusable as long as the opposing
party is not prejudiced, and relief is warranted when uncontradicted evidence
in affidavits supports the request. (Segal v. S. Cal. Rapid Transit Dist.
(1970) 12 Cal.App.3d 509, 512.) Both elements are present in this case;
therefore, the motion is granted.
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party
intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party
must send an email to the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the
Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.  The body of
the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact
information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless all parties
submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear
remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.  You should
assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the
parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off
calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the
Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of
the subject motion without leave.
 
 
 