 Case Number:  22STCV14316    Hearing Date:   October 21, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTION TO AMEND RFA
Hearing Date: 10/21/24¿ 
CASE NO./NAME: 22STCV14316 STEPHEN LEPORE
vs MF RIKO, INC., et al.
Moving Party: Defendant Michael Green
Responding Party: Plaintiff
Notice: Sufficient¿ 
Ruling: MOTION TO AMEND RFA IS
GRANTED. 
 
Background
On April 29, 2022,
Plaintiff filed the present action, alleging injuries from a multi-car accident
in which he was rear-ended by a vehicle driven by Defendant Michael Green. 
On October 20, 2023,
Defendant Michael Green admitted, in response to Plaintiff’s Request for
Admission (RFA) No. 17, that he did not dispute being negligent with respect to
the incident. Defendant Green testified at deposition that he recalled
rear-ending Plaintiff’s car before being rear-ended by the Dauki Defendants. On
August 8, 2024, both parties inspected the vehicles and downloaded the Event
Data Recorder (EDR) data. The EDR data indicated that Green's vehicle was
pushed from behind just before the accident, suggesting that Green may have
been rear-ended prior to hitting Plaintiff’s car and therefore may not have
been negligent. Defendant now moves the Court to amend his response to
Plaintiff’s RFA No. 17.
Legal Standard
CCP section 2033.300
provides that “[a] party may withdraw or amend an admission made in response to
a request for admission only on leave of court granted after notice to all
parties.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.300(a).)  “The court may permit withdrawal
or amendment of an admission only if it determines that the admission was the
result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect, and that the party who
obtained the admission will not be substantially prejudiced in maintaining that
party’s action or defense on the merits.”  (Id., §
2033.300(b).)  “The court may impose conditions on the granting of the
motion that are just, including, but not limited to, the following: [¶] (1)
[a]n order that the party who obtained the admission be permitted to pursue
additional discovery related to the matter involved in the withdrawn or amended
admission[;] [¶] (2) [a]n order that the costs of any additional discovery be
borne in whole or in part by the party withdrawing or amending the
admission.”  (Id., § 2033.300(c).)
“Section 2033.300
eliminates undeserved windfalls obtained through requests for admission and furthers
the policy favoring the resolution of lawsuits on the merits.”  (New
Albertsons, Inc. v. Superior Court (2008) 168 Cal.App.4th 1403,
1418.)  “Because the law strongly favors trial and disposition on the
merits, any doubts in applying section 2033.300 must be resolved in favor of
the party seeking relief.”  (Id. at 1420.)  “Accordingly, the
court’s discretion to deny a motion under the statute is limited to
circumstances where it is clear that the mistake, inadvertence, or neglect was
inexcusable, or where it is clear that the withdrawal or amendment would
substantially prejudice the party who obtained the admission in maintaining
that party’s action or defense on the merits.”  (Id. at 1420-21.)


Discussion
The parties agree that,
prior to getting access to the EDR data in August 2024, Defendant Green's
position was that he rear-ended Plaintiff before being rear-ended by the Dauki
Defendants himself, as reflected in Defendant's deposition testimony and
written discovery responses. The issue is whether Defendant is allowed leave to
amend based on the new information discovered in the EDR. Defendant argues that
this information was not discovered sooner due to counsel’s excusable neglect and
that the admission of negligence was a mistake. 
Plaintiff filed an
opposition, arguing that the motion is procedurally flawed because amending the
RFA would inevitably lead to an amendment of Form Interrogatory 17.1, which was
not requested in the present motion. However, Plaintiff cites no legal authority
to support this argument. Furthermore, unlike amendments to RFAs, amendments to
interrogatories can be made without leave of court. (CCP § 2030.310(a).)
Plaintiff argues that
defense counsel’s declaration accompanying the motion does not allege any fault
in support of the motion, but merely states that new information from the EDR
was recently discovered. The Court disagrees with this interpretation.  Counsel’s declaration accepts fault in
failing to obtain the EDR results prior to the RFA response.  And, on any event, the RFA response appears
to have been a mistake based on faulty recollection or a reasonable
misperception.
Defendant’s admission
to RFA No. 17 was based on his recollection that he rear-ended Plaintiff before
being rear-ended himself. The oversight here was Defendant’s failure to obtain
the EDR data earlier. Until the EDR data was acquired, there was no reason for
defense counsel to question Defendant’s recollection of the events. While
Defendant could have exercised greater due diligence and obtained the EDR data
sooner, this oversight constitutes excusable neglect and mistake.
Given that the law
strongly favors trials and disposition on the merits, any doubts in applying
section 2033.300 must be resolved in favor of the party seeking relief. (New
Albertsons, Inc. v. Superior Court (2008) 168 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1420.)
“Accordingly, the Court’s discretion to deny a motion under the statute is
limited to circumstances where it is clear that the mistake, inadvertence, or
neglect was inexcusable.” (Id. at 1420-21.) The conduct here, while
certainly not ideal, does not amount to “inexcusable.”
Plaintiff cites to Luna
v. JFC Int'l, 2021 Cal. Super. LEXIS 121523 to support his position.  In Luna, the plaintiff admitted that
he was not wearing a seatbelt but later sought to withdraw the admission after
a Biomechanical and Accident Reconstruction expert concluded that the
plaintiff’s injuries were consistent with seatbelt usage.  The court refused allow the plaintiff to withdraw
his admission based on the clarity of his answer and the prejudice to the
defendant with trial in less than two weeks. 
Luna
is a trial court decision and is not binding on this Court. In any event, the
cases are distinguishable. In Luna, the issue was whether the plaintiff
wore his seat belt. Here, the issue is whether Defendant was rear-ended before
rear-ending the car in front of him. The timing in this case involves
milliseconds or seconds, which increases the likelihood of a faulty
recollection or even a misperception at the time, as compared to the
straightforward question of whether a person was wearing a seat belt. Additionally,
the EDR data in this case shows that Defendant’s car was hit from behind before
it struck the car in front. This is raw data, not opinion testimony. These
differences warrant a different result in relation to Defendant’s admission.
Overall, given
California’s strong policy favoring adjudication on the merits, as well as the
limited nature of the Court’s discretion to deny a motion under CCP 2033.300,
the Court will allow Defendant to amend his response to RFA No. 17.
Plaintiff raises a
valid concern about potential prejudice, as trial is only a few months away and
discovery is currently closed. However, the Dauki Defendants were recently
served, and it is likely that the trial will be continued to allow the parties
to conduct discovery related to the Dauki Defendants. Even if the trail is not
continued, three months is sufficient time to address any issue that results
from the RFA amendment.  While negligence
may have been addressed through Mr. Green’s initial admission, the issue of
causation remains unresolved, as Defendant testified that he was rear-ended by
the Dauki Defendants after rear-ending Plaintiff. This raises the question of
the second collision’s impact on Plaintiff’s injuries.
Therefore, the Court
finds that any potential prejudice to Plaintiff is not substantial and declines
Plaintiff’s request to require Defendant to bear the costs of any additional
discovery.
 PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party
intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to
the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.  The body of
the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact
information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless all parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.  You should
assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the
parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off
calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion
without leave.
 
 