 Case Number:  21STCV08885    Hearing Date:   October 21, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSITION AND REQUESTS FOR
SANCTIONS
Hearing Date: 10/21/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 21STCV08885 ERNESTO RIVERA,
AN INDIVIDUAL vs BIMBO BAKERIES USA, INC.
Moving Party: Defendant BIMBO BAKERIES
Responding Party: Unopposed
Notice: Sufficient 
Ruling: MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSITION IS GRANTED
AND REQUESTS FOR SANCTIONS ARE GRANTED
 
Background
On March 5, 2021,
Plaintiff filed the present case against Bimbo Bakeries. On May 20, 2022,
Defendant Bimbo filed a cross-complaint against various cross-defendants,
including Logistics Academy. After substantial meet and confer efforts and
serving multiple notices of depositions, Defendant Bimbo and Cross-Defendant
Logistics Academy agreed that Logistics Academy’s Person Most Qualified (PMQ)
deposition would take place on September 4, 2024, and Defendant Bimbo noticed
the deposition for that date. Cross-Defendant Logisitics Academy did not serve
a formal, written objection to the notice of deposition. On August 23, 2024,
Cross-Defendant Logistics Academy informally notified Bimbo via email that it
would not appear at the deposition and would be filing for bankruptcy shortly.
Defendant Bimbo responded that unless a bankruptcy stay was instituted, the
deposition would proceed. No notice of bankruptcy has been filed by
Cross-Defendant Logistics Academy.
On September 4, 2024,
Bimbo proceeded with the deposition as noticed. Cross-Defendant Logistics
Academy did not attend, as indicated, and Bimbo took a certificate of
non-appearance. Bimbo now moves the Court to compel the deposition of Logistics
Academy’s PMQ. No opposition was filed.
Legal Standard 
¿¿¿¿ 
Any party may obtain any discovery
of information, documents, land, property, or electronically stored information
so long as the discoverable matter is not privileged, is relevant to the
subject matter and can lead one to admissible evidence.¿(Code Civ. Proc. § 2017.010.)
¿¿¿¿¿ 
Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450¿provides in pertinent part the
following:
 
“(a) If, after service of a
deposition notice, a party to the action or an officer, director, managing
agent, or employee of a party, or a person designated by an organization that
is a party under Section 2025.230, without having served a valid objection
under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it,
or to produce for inspection any document, electronically stored information,
or tangible thing described in the deposition notice, the party giving the
notice may move for an order compelling the deponent's attendance and
testimony, and the production for inspection of any document, electronically
stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
(b) A motion under subdivision (a)
shall comply with both of the following:¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿ 
(1) The motion shall set forth specific facts showing
good cause justifying the production for inspection of any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice.¿¿¿¿¿ 
 
(2) The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and
confer declaration under Section 2016.040¿or, when the deponent fails to
attend the deposition and produce the documents, electronically stored
information, or things described in the deposition notice, by a declaration
stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the
nonappearance.
 
Discussion
All requirements to
compel the deposition have been satisfied. A valid notice was served, and
Cross-Defendant did not formally object as required under CCP Section 2025.410.
Additionally, Cross-Defendant failed to appear for the deposition, and the
parties have adequately met and conferred on this issue. There is no filing
before the Court indicating that Logistics Academy has filed for bankruptcy.
Therefore, the motion to compel the deposition is granted.
Discovery
sanctions are mandatory except when a party acts with substantial
justification.  Given that Logistics
Academy has not filed any document indicating that it filed for bankruptcy, nor
did it provide Bimbo with any such document, its has not demonstrated
substantial justification for failing to appear for deposition and for causing
Bimbo to incur costs and fees related to this motion.  Bimbo has requested $1524.45 in sanctions
against Logistics Academy and its counsel. 
The Court finds this amount reasonable and hereby awards $1524.45 in
sanctions against Cross-Defendant Logistics Academy and its counsel, jointly
and severally, to be paid to Bimbo within 20 days.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿The body of the email must include the hearing date and
time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿You should assume that others may appear at the hearing
to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.
 