 Case Number:  24STCV16279    Hearing Date:   December 16, 2024    Dept:  39  TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


39




HEARING DATE


December
  16, 2024




CASE NUMBER


24STCV16279




MOTION


Motion
  for Summary Judgment, or, in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication




MOVING PARTY


Plaintiff
  594 Mapleton LLC




OPPOSING PARTY


Defendant
  Mirga Phipps White 



 
 
BACKGROUND
Plaintiff 594
Mapleton LLC (“Plaintiff”) filed this action to quiet title on real
property.  Plaintiff alleges Defendants
Nicholas Phipps White, Mirga Phipps White, and their company, the Hollywood
Land Development Company, LLC (“Defendants”) have wrongfully claimed title to
594 South Mapleton Drive in Los Angeles, which Plaintiff owns.  
Plaintiff moves
for summary judgment, or, in the alternative, summary adjudication of the causes
of action in Plaintiff’s complaint.  However,
Plaintiff has not “repeated, verbatim, in the separate statement of undisputed
material facts” each issue on which Plaintiff seeks summary adjudication and
identified “each supporting material fact claimed to be without dispute with
respect to” each issue.  (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1350, subds. (b), (d).)  Accordingly,
the Court denies the motion for summary adjudication as procedurally improper.
“There is little flexibility in the procedural imperatives of [Code of Civil
Procedure section 437c], and the issues raised by a motion for summary judgment
(or summary adjudication) are pure questions of law.  As a result, section 437c is unforgiving; a
failure to comply with any one of its myriad requirements is likely to be fatal
to the offending party.”  (Brantley v.
Pisaro (1996) 42 Cal.App.4th 1591, 1607.) 
The Court considers the motion as a motion for summary judgment
only.  
Defendants filed
an opposition to the motion on December 12, 2024.[1]  The opposition was due 14 days before the
date set for hearing.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
437c, subd. (b)(2).  Although the Court acknowledges
the late filing of the opposition have not provided Plaintiff with an opportunity
to respond to it, the Court exercises its discretion to consider the late filed
brief.
LEGAL STANDARD – MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
“[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears the
burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue of material fact and that
he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law[.] There is a triable issue of
material fact if, and only if, the evidence would allow a reasonable trier of
fact to find the underlying fact in favor of the party opposing the motion in
accordance with the applicable standard of proof.”  (Aguilar v.
Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)  “[T]he party
moving for summary judgment bears an initial burden of production to make a
prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact;
if he carries his burden of production, he causes a shift, and the opposing
party is then subjected to a burden of production of his
own to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of
material fact.”  (Ibid.)             
DISCUSSION
First Cause of Action: Quiet Title
            To
prevail on a claim for quiet title, Plaintiff must show it has title to the
property at issue.  (See Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 761.020.)  
            Plaintiff
advances the declaration of Dennis Roach (“Roach”), an attorney who Plaintiff
retained in connection with Plaintiff’s purchase of the property at issue.  Roach states Plaintiff purchased the property
in July 2019 and has not sold the property or transferred its interest to it.  (Declaration of Dennis Roach, ¶¶ 3, 8.)
Plaintiff also
advances the grant deed Plaintiff recorded on the property on July 2,
2019.  (Request for Judicial Notice,
Exhibit A.)  Defendants filed a grant
deed on June 6, 2024 “to confirm a change of name” of the owner of the
property.  That deed reflects Plaintiff transferred
title to Defendant Nicholas Phipps White. 
(Request for Judicial Notice, Exhibit B.)   As Plaintiff advances evidence Plaintiff did
not sell or otherwise transfer its interest in the property, Plaintiff’s
evidence demonstrates the interest Defendants claim to the property is
invalid.  Plaintiff’s evidence satisfies
its burden of showing Plaintiff holds title to the property at issue and will
prevail on its claim for quiet title. 
Plaintiff, therefore, has shifted the burden to Defendants to raise
triable issues of material fact as to the cause of action for quiet title.  
White’s opposition
amounts to an attack on the pleadings Plaintiff has filed, including allegations
Roach’s declaration is forged and Plaintiff’s “facts” are fake.  White has neither responded to Plaintiff’s
Separate Statement nor submitted one of her own and a Declaration through which
she has presented admissible evidence to counter that provided by
Plaintiff.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 437c,
subd. (b)(3) [“The opposition papers shall include a separate statement that
responds to each of the material facts contended by the moving party to be
disputed, indicating if the opposing party agrees or disagrees that those facts
are undisputed.  The statement also shall
set forth plainly and concisely any other material facts the opposing party
contends are disputed”]; see also Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68
Cal.App.4th 151, 163 [bare assertion moving party fabricated evidence insufficient
to avoid grant of summary judgment].) 
As she has not effectively
opposed the motion, White has not satisfied her burden of establishing any
triable issue of material fact concerning Plaintiff’s quiet title claim.  
Second Cause of Action:
Cancellation of Instrument
To prevail on its
cause of action for cancellation of instrument, Plaintiff must show the
instrument at issue is void or voidable as against Plaintiff.  (Civ. Code, § 3412.)  As set forth above, Plaintiff’s evidence
shows the grant deed Defendants filed is invalid.  Such evidence satisfies Plaintiff’s burden of
showing Plaintiff will prevail on the claim for cancellation of instrument,
because the deed Defendants filed is void. 
Plaintiff, therefore, has shifted the burden to White to raise a triable
issue of material fact as to the cause of action for cancellation of
instrument. As discussed above, Defendants have not done so.
Third Cause of Action:
Declaratory Relief 
To prevail on the
cause of action for declaratory relief, Plaintiff must show it has an interest in
real property about which an actual controversy exists.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1060.)   As set
forth above, Plaintiff advances evidence it did not sell or otherwise transfer
its interest in the property and, therefore, Defendants’ claim to the property
is invalid.  Plaintiff’s evidence meets
its burden of showing it is entitled to a declaration Plaintiff holds title to
the property at issue.  Having shifted
the burden to Defendants to raise a triable issue as to this cause of action,
White has failed to do so. 
Fourth Cause of Action:
Injunctive Relief
“To qualify for a
permanent injunction, the plaintiff must prove (1) the elements of a cause of
action involving the wrongful act sought to be enjoined . . . ; and (2) the
grounds for equitable relief.”  San
Diego Unif. Port Dist. v. Gallagher (1998) 62 Cal.App.4th 501, 503.)  As Plaintiff advances evidence it did not
sell or otherwise transfer its interest in the property, Defendants’ claim to
the property is invalid.  Because real
property is unique, Plaintiff’s evidence meets its burden of showing Plaintiff
holds title to the property at issue and is entitled to enjoin Defendants’
claims to interests in the property.  Plaintiff
has shifted the burden to White to raise a triable issue of material fact as to
the cause of action for injunctive relief. 
As White had essentially not opposed the motion, she cannot meet that
burden.  
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
White fails to demonstrate triable issues of
material fact exist as to whether Plaintiff is entitled to judgment in this
matter.  Therefore, the Court grants Plaintiff’s
motion for summary judgment.  
Plaintiff is ordered to give notice of the
Court’s order and to file a proof of service of same.
 


