 Case Number:  BC652028    Hearing Date:   May 14, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




justin cato

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
county of los angeles

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


BC652028




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


May
   14, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[tentative]
  Order RE:
 
defendants’ demurrer to first amended
  complaint
 



 
MOVING PARTIES:              Defendants County of Los Angeles
and Law Offices of Los Angeles County Alternate Public Defender                    
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff Justin Cato
Demurrer to First Amended Complaint
The court considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in
connection with this demurrer. 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
The court grants defendants County
of Los Angeles and Law Offices of the Los Angeles County Alternate Public
Defender’s request for judicial notice, filed on March 19, 2024.[1]  (Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (d).) 
DISCUSSION
Plaintiff Justin Cato (“Plaintiff”) filed the operative First Amended
Complaint in this action on January 16, 2024, against defendants County of Los
Angeles, Law Offices of the Los Angeles County Alternate Public Defender, and
Michael Waldinger, Deputy Alternate Public Defender.  The First Amended Complaint alleges five
causes of action against Defendants for  (1)
legal malpractice, (2) negligence in staffing, supervision, customs, policies,
procedures, etc., (3) restitution, (4) prima facie tort, and (5) common count –
work and labor done. 
Defendants County of Los Angeles and Law Offices of the Los Angeles
County Alternate Public Defender (“Defendants”) now move the court for an order
sustaining their demurrer to each cause of action alleged in the First Amended
Complaint. 
The court sustains Defendants’ demurrer to the first cause of action
for professional negligence (legal malpractice) because it does not state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action since Plaintiff has not alleged
facts establishing the element of actual innocence.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e); Coscia
v. McKenna & Cuneo (2001) 25 Cal.4th 1194, 1200 [“In a legal
malpractice case arising out of a criminal proceeding, California, like most
jurisdictions, also requires proof of actual innocence”].) 
“In
any action for legal malpractice against criminal defense counsel, the
plaintiff, as the former criminal defendant, must necessarily allege and prove
actual innocence of the criminal charges.”  (Genis v. Schainbaum (2021)
66 Cal.App.5th 1007, 1015; Wiley v. County of San Diego (1998) 19
Cal.4th 532, 534 [actual innocence is a necessary element of a cause of action
for legal malpractice when alleged by a former criminal defendant].)  Thus, “a plaintiff must obtain postconviction
relief in the form of a final disposition of the underlying criminal case—for
example, by acquittal after retrial, reversal on appeal with directions to
dismiss the charges, reversal followed by the People’s refusal to continue the
prosecution, or a grant of habeas corpus relief—as a prerequisite to proving
actual innocence in a malpractice action against former criminal defense
counsel.”  (Coscia, supra, 25
Cal.4th at p. 1205 [internal footnote omitted].) 
Plaintiff
has alleged the following.  First, in
early October 2015, the jury in the underlying criminal matter against
Plaintiff reached a guilty verdict on various charges, including second-degree
homicide.  (FAC ¶ 37.)  Second, Plaintiff’s defense attorney, nonmoving
defendant Michael Waldinger (“Waldinger”), committed legal malpractice, for
which Defendants are liable pursuant to the doctrine of vicarious
liability.  (FAC ¶¶ 57-60, 115-116.)  Third, on March 22, 2021, Plaintiff brought a
petition for writ of habeas corpus, which was granted on October 3, 2022.  (FAC ¶¶ 91-92.)  The memorandum granting Plaintiff’s writ of
habeas corpus vacated Plaintiff’s conviction and sentence and reappointed the
Alternate Public Defender to represent Plaintiff in the trial court
proceedings.  (FAC ¶ 92.)  The Alternate Public Defender appointed
Waldinger to represent Plaintiff “despite the fact that there was an actual
conflict of interests, in that the existence of the legal malpractice action
gave Mr. Waldinger an economic disincentive to obtain an acquittal or dismissal
in the Criminal Case.”  (FAC ¶ 98.)  Fourth, in October 2023, the prosecution
offered a compromise plea bargain for a plea to manslaughter rather than the
homicide charges for which Plaintiff had been convicted at the original
trial.  (FAC ¶ 104.)  Plaintiff alleges that his plea bargain
“lacks sufficient probative value of guilt to provide grounds for dismissal of
legal malpractice claims.”  (FAC ¶
107.)  
The docket in the underlying criminal matter, of which the court has
taken judicial notice, states that (1) on October 10, 2023, Plaintiff
personally withdrew the plea of not guilty to count 03 and pleaded nolo
contendere with the approval of the court to a violation of Penal Code section
246, and the court found Plaintiff guilty; (2) on October 10, 2023, Plaintiff
personally withdrew the plea of not guilty to count 53 and pleaded nolo
contendere with the approval of the court to a violation of Penal Code section
192(A), and the court found Plaintiff guilty; and (3) on October 10, 2023,
counsel informed the court that a plea deal had been reached, and Plaintiff
admitted the gun allegation pursuant to Penal Code section 12022.5(A).  (Def. RJN, Choi Decl., Ex. E, pp.
61-62.)  On October 24, 2023, Plaintiff
was sentenced to serve 21 years in any state prison.  (Id. at p. 64.) 
Thus, the allegations of the First Amended Complaint and the court
docket reflect that Plaintiff was convicted in the underlying criminal
matter.  Plaintiff has not alleged facts
establishing that he has since “obtain[ed] postconviction relief in the form of
a final disposition of the underlying criminal case[,]” and therefore has not
alleged facts establishing the element of actual innocence.  (Coscia, supra, 25 Cal.4th at
p. 1205; Wilkinson v. Zelen (2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 37, 46 [noting that
the plaintiff “entered no contest pleas to two misdemeanors in order to
compromise the charges which resulted in her conviction by jury, a result
inconsistent with factual innocence in that ‘defendant has in fact committed a
crime’”].) 
The court acknowledges that Plaintiff has also alleged that (1) he “is
innocent of all charged offenses” and that he “did not commit any of the
charged offenses” (FAC ¶ 38), and   
 (2) although a legal malpractice
action in a criminal case generally requires an acquittal or dismissal of
criminal charges, those cases “presuppose[] that, in retrial proceedings, the
criminal defendant has had successor counsel (or has waived any conflict of
interest with prior counsel)” (FAC ¶ 106).  However, Plaintiff has not cited authority in
his opposition establishing that the actual innocence rule does not apply because
Defendants reappointed Waldinger to represent Plaintiff despite the conflicts
of interest in that representation. 
The court also notes that Plaintiff appears to argue that Defendants’
intentional wrongdoing estops them from arguing that Plaintiff has not
satisfied the actual innocence element. 
(Opp., p. 8:20-21.)  However,
Plaintiff has not cited authority establishing that the doctrine of equitable
estoppel does not require him to satisfy or allege the element of actual
innocence.  Moreover, even if Plaintiff
had done so, Plaintiff did not allege facts establishing that he was “ignorant
of the true state of facts” of Defendants’ actions.  (Feduniak v. California Coastal Com. (2007)
148 Cal.App.4th 1346, 1359 [elements of doctrine of equitable estoppel]; FAC ¶
103 [due to Waldinger’s assignment, Plaintiff “reasonably believed that any
protest . . . would be met with resistance and would be futile” and therefore
knew of that conflict].)  
Thus, the court finds that Plaintiff has not alleged facts
establishing the element of actual innocence.
The court sustains Defendants’ demurrer to the second cause of action
for negligence in staffing, training, supervision, customs, policies,
procedures, etc. because it does not state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action since (1) this cause of action is based on the allegations that
Defendants are liable because they “knew or should have known of the improper
practices of Waldinger” (FAC ¶ 130) but failed to prevent the instances of
deficient legal representation (FAC ¶¶ 133-134), and therefore this cause
of action is seeking to hold Defendants liable for the malpractice of
Waldinger, which requires Plaintiff to allege actual innocence, and (2)
Plaintiff did not allege facts establishing the element of actual innocence for
the reasons set forth above.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e); Coscia, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p.
1200 [“In
a legal malpractice case arising out of a criminal proceeding, California, like
most jurisdictions, also requires proof of actual innocence”].)
The court sustains Defendants’ demurrer to the third cause of action
for restitution because it does not state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action against Defendants since Plaintiff did not allege a statutory
basis for this claim.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).) 
“Government Code section 815 sets forth the general rule of immunity
for public entities under the Government Claims Act.  Government Code section 815 provides that
‘[e]xcept as otherwise provided by statute’ ‘[a] public entity is not liable
for injury, whether such injury arises out of an act or omission of the public
entity or any other person.’  However,
another provision within the Government Claims Act, Government Code section
814, makes clear that ‘[n]othing in this part affects liability based on contract
or the right to obtain relief other than money or damages against a public
entity or public employee.’”  (County
of Santa Clara v. Superior Court (2023) 14 Cal.5th 1034, 1045.)  The Government Claims Act is not concerned
with shielding public entities from “every conceivable claim that might be
pressed against a public entity.”  (Id.
at p. 1049.)  Thus, “[i]n various
circumstances, the appellate courts have construed equitable claims for payment
related to statutory obligations as not being subject to the Government Claims
Act.”  (Id. at p. 1048.) 
Here, Plaintiff’s third cause of action for restitution, although
alleging that Plaintiff is entitled to recover restitution from Defendants
“under the quasi-contract and/or similar equitable doctrines[,]” including
unjust enrichment (FAC ¶¶ 148, 155), does not allege facts establishing that
this cause of action may be considered (1) to allege liability against
Defendants based on contract, or (2) to allege that Defendants are liable to
Plaintiff under obligations imposed by statute. 
(Gov. Code, § 814; County of Santa Clara, supra, 14
Cal.th at p. 1048.)  Instead, Plaintiff seeks
monetary damages against Defendants on the ground that, due to “[t]he
deficiency in Defendants’ legal work” (i.e., their alleged malpractice),
Defendants “caused Plaintiff to need to retain private successor counsel in
bringing a motion for a new trial” and to perform other post-trial services,
for which Plaintiff is financially indebted. 
(FAC ¶¶ 149-150.)  Thus, as
pleaded, Plaintiff has alleged this cause of action as seeking damages based on
the alleged torts of professional negligence.[2]
 (FAC ¶¶ 20, 72 [alleging
entitlement to attorney’s fees and costs because Defendants’ malpractice
required Plaintiff to engage successor counsel in post-trial work], 108
[alleging that Defendants “free-rided on the services of private counsel whom
[Plaintiff] retained”], 109 [“Defendants have refused to offer any financial
compensation whatsoever to private counsel on whose services Defendants
free-rided”], 149-150.)  
Because Plaintiff seeks money damages from Defendants based on tort,
Plaintiff was required to allege a statutory basis for his claim.  (County of Santa Clara, supra,
14 Cal.5th at p. 1045; Gov. Code, § 815, subd. (a) [public entity is not
liable for an injury “[e]xcept as otherwise provided by statute”].)  Plaintiff did not do so.  Thus, the court finds that Plaintiff has not
alleged facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action for restitution
against Defendants.
The court sustains Defendants’ demurrer to the fourth cause of action
for prima facie tort because it does not state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action since (1) Plaintiff alleges tort liability against Defendants,
but (2) has not alleged the existence of a statutory basis in support of this
cause of action as required by the Government Claims Act.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e);
Gov. Code, § 815, subd. (a).)
The court sustains Defendants’ demurrer to the fifth cause of action
for common count – work and labor done because it does not state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action since (1) Plaintiff seeks monetary
damages from Defendants based on the attorney’s fees incurred by Plaintiff as a
result of Defendants’ alleged malpractice (FAC ¶ 165) and therefore was
required to allege a statutory basis for liability (Gov. Code, § 815,
subd. (a)), but (2) Plaintiff did not allege a statutory basis as required by
the Government Claims Act.[3]  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).) 
The
burden is on the plaintiff “to articulate how it could amend its pleading to
render it sufficient.”¿ (Palm Springs Villas II Homeowners Assn., Inc. v.
Parth (2016) 248 Cal.App.4th 268, 290.)¿ To satisfy that burden, a
plaintiff “must show in what manner he can amend his complaint and how that
amendment will change the legal effect of his pleading.”¿ (Goodman v.
Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349.) 
As to the first two causes of action, Plaintiff has not identified facts
that he can allege that would be sufficient to plead actual innocence, and
therefore has not met his burden to show that he can amend those causes of
action.  (Genis, supra, 66
Cal.App.5th at p. 1015 [“When it is clear the plaintiff cannot in good faith
plead factual innocence or exoneration, leave to amend the complaint should not
be granted”].)  As to the third through
fifth causes of action, Plaintiff has not identified a statutory basis for
those causes of action.  Although the
court notes that Plaintiff has cited Government Code section 27706, which sets
forth the duties of a public defender, Plaintiff did not cite authority showing
that he may sue Defendants for Waldinger’s alleged violations of that statute
pursuant to the Government Claims Act. 
(Opp., p. 9:1-3.)  Thus, Plaintiff
has not met his burden to show that he can amend those causes of action to cure
the defects in them discussed above.  The
court therefore sustains Defendants’ demurrer to the First Amended Complaint
without leave to amend. 
ORDER
            The court sustains defendants County of Los Angeles and
Law Offices of the Los Angeles County Alternate Public Defender’s demurrer to
plaintiff Justin Cato’s First Amended Complaint without leave to amend. 
            The court orders defendants County of Los Angeles and
Law Offices of the Los Angeles County Alternate Public Defender to prepare,
serve, and lodge a proposed judgment of dismissal within 10 days of the date of
this order.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 581,
subd. (f)(1).) 
            The court orders defendants County of Los Angeles and
Law Offices of the Los Angeles County Alternate Public Defender to give notice
of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  May 14, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court


