


[1]
The court notes that the request for judicial notice asks the court take
judicial notice of the certified docket in the matter The People of the
State of California v. Justin Charles Cato (Case No. BA432098), “a true and
correct copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit ‘1.’”  (Def. RJN p. 2:7-9 [internal boldface
omitted].)  However, there is no “Exhibit
‘1’” attached to the request for judicial notice.  Attached to the demurrer is the declaration
of counsel for moving defendants, which (1) attaches as Exhibit E “the
certified docket of the proceedings” in the underlying criminal matter, and (2)
states that their “Request for Judicial Notice of this docket” was filed
concurrently with the demurrer.  (Choi
Decl., ¶ 9.)  Thus, the court takes
judicial notice of the docket attached as Exhibit E to the declaration of Jin
S. Choi.  The court does not take
judicial notice of any of the other documents referred to in the declaration of
Jin S. Choi (i.e., the December 7, 2023 Status Report and October 3, 2022
Memorandum Decision in the habeas corpus proceeding) because defendants did not
request the court take judicial notice of those documents. 
 


[2]
Although not argued by Defendants, because this cause of action appears to seek
damages based on the alleged torts of malpractice, it does not state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action on the additional ground that
Plaintiff did not allege actual innocence as set forth above. 


[3] The
court notes that, as with the third cause of action, this cause of action also
appears to seek monetary damages caused by the alleged legal malpractice on the
part of Defendants and therefore does not state facts sufficient to constitute
a cause of action on the additional ground that Plaintiff did not allege actual
innocence as set forth above.  (FAC
¶ 165 [Defendants are “indebted to reimburse Plaintiff for the amounts
that Plaintiff owes to private counsel” as a result of Defendants’ alleged
wrongdoing “that proximately caused this indebtedness”].) 

