  Case Number:  24SMCV00313    Hearing Date:   October 15, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:             Razavi v. Nigro, et al. 
CASE NO.:                   24SMCV00313
MOTION:                     Demurrer and Motion to Strike
the First Amended Complaint
HEARING DATE:   10/15/2024
 
 
LEGAL STANDARD 
 
A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether
the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147
Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations
liberally and in context. In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be
apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) A demurrer tests the
pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it
lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are
judicially noticed. (CCP §§ 430.30, 430.70.) At the pleading stage, a plaintiff
need only allege ultimate facts sufficient to apprise the defendant of the
factual basis for the claim against him. (Semole v. Sansoucie (1972) 28
Cal. App. 3d 714, 721.) A “demurrer does not, however, admit contentions,
deductions or conclusions of fact or law alleged in the pleading, or the
construction of instruments pleaded, or facts impossible in law.” (S. Shore
Land Co. v. Petersen (1964) 226 Cal.App.2d 725, 732, internal citations
omitted.) 
 
A special demurrer for uncertainty is
disfavored and will only be sustained where the pleading is so bad that
defendant cannot reasonably respond—i.e., cannot reasonably determine what
issues must be admitted or denied, or what counts or claims are directed
against him/her. (CCP § 430.10(f); Khoury v. Maly’s of Calif., Inc.
(1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) Moreover, even if the pleading is somewhat
vague, “ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Ibid.)  
 
Any party, within the time allowed to
respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole
or any part thereof. (CCP § 435(b)(1); Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1322(b).)
The court may, upon a motion or at any time in its discretion and upon terms it
deems proper: (1) strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted
in any pleading; or (2) strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or
filed in conformity with the laws of California, a court rule, or an order of
the court. (CCP §§ 436(a)-(b); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767,
782 [“Matter in a pleading which is not essential to the claim is surplusage;
probative facts are surplusage and may be stricken out or disregarded”].) 
 
“Liberality in permitting amendment is
the rule, if a fair opportunity to correct any defect has not been given.” (Angie
M. v. Superior Court (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1217, 1227.) It is an abuse of
discretion for the court to deny leave to amend where there is any reasonable
possibility that plaintiff can state a good cause of action. (Goodman v.
Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349.) The burden is on plaintiff to show¿in
what manner¿plaintiff can amend the complaint, and¿how¿that
amendment will change the legal effect of the pleading.¿(Id.) 
 
 
 
 
ANALYSIS 
 
Defendants Greg Nigro, Italia Nigro, and Tommy Nigro demur to
the Second Cause of Action for Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress
(NEID), Third Cause of Action for Gross Negligence, Eleventh Cause of Action
for Violation of the Uniform Avoidable Transfer Act-Intent, Twelfth Cause of
Action for Violation of the Uniform Avoidable Transfer Act- Intent, Thirteenth
Cause of Action for Violation of the Uniform Avoidable Transfer Act-no
reasonably equivalent value, and Fourteenth Cause of Action for Violation of
the Uniform Avoidable Transfer Act-Insolvency. 
Defendants argue that the claims fail to state facts sufficient to
constitute each cause of action. 
 
Demurrer - NIED
 
Defendants argue that
this claim simply restates the first cause of action for negligence. Indeed, negligent
infliction of emotional distress is not an independent cause of action, but the
tort of negligence and the traditional elements of negligence must be alleged -
i.e. duty, breach, causation and damages. (Zavala v. Arche (1997) 58
Cal.App.4th 915, 928; Marlene F. v. Psychiatric Medical Clinic (1989) 48
Cal.3d 583, 588 [“Damages for severe emotional distress, rather, are
recoverable in a negligence action when they result from the breach of a duty
owed the plaintiff that is assumed by the defendant or imposed on the defendant
as a matter of law, or that arises out of a relationship between the
two”].)  However, this does not justify sustaining the demurrer. A
demurrer should only be sustained when a duplicative cause of action “adds
nothing to the complaint by way of fact or theory of recovery.” (Rodrigues
v. Campbell Industries (1978) 87 Cal.App.3d 494, 501; see Palm Springs
Villas II Homeowners Association, Inc. v. Parth (2016) 248 Cal.App.4th 268,
290.) Here, the negligence causes of action state distinct theories of
recovery for different primary rights. The first cause of action pertains to
the alleged direct assault of plaintiff. (FAC ¶ 13.)
 
Otherwise, the claim
states the elements of a NIED theory. Under NIED theory, the plaintiff must be a
direct victim or a bystander who witnessed another’s injury. (Smith v. Pust
(1993) 19 Cal.App.4th 263, 273.) To recover for NIED on a bystander
theory, plaintiff must allege facts demonstrating that she “(1) is closely
related to the injury victim; (2) is present at the scene of the injury
producing event at the time it occurs and is then aware that it is causing
injury to the victim; and (3) as a result suffers serious emotional distress—a
reaction beyond that which would be anticipated in a disinterested witness and
which is not an abnormal response to the circumstances.”  (Thing v. La
Chusa (1989) 48 Cal.3d 644, 667-68.) Plaintiff
alleges that Defendants have annoyed, bullied, harassed, and intimated
Plaintiff over the years. (¶ 3.) Plaintiff alleges that Defendants attacked her
daughter, Ghazian, in front of her. On October 30, 2022, Defendants allegedly assisted
in choking and then punching Ghazian, causing Plaintiff emotional distress. (¶¶5,
20-21.) Greg pushed Ghazian backwards, threw her to the ground, and strangled
her while on top of her. (Id.) Italia and Tommy did not attempt to stop Nigro.
(Id.) Tommy grabbed and held Razavi from attempting to help her daughter. (Id.)
As a result of defendants’ breach of duty, Plaintiff suffered serious emotional
distress including suffering, anguish, fright, horror, nervousness, grief,
anxiety, worry, shock, humiliation, and shame. (¶¶ 22-23.) 
 
Accordingly, the
demurrer is OVERRULED as to the NIED-bystander cause of action.
 
Gross Negligence
 
Defendants also argue that the gross
negligence cause of action is duplicative with the other negligence-based
causes of action.
 
A cause of action for gross negligence is
also not an independent cause of action, but another theory of negligence. (Jones
v. Wells Fargo Bank¿(2003) 112 Cal.App.4th 1527, 1541.) California Courts
do not generally recognize a cause of action for gross negligence because “any
attempt to categorize gross negligence separately from ordinary negligence is
unnecessary.” (Cont'l Ins. Co. v. Am. Prot. Indus., (1987) 197 Cal. App.
3d 322, 329.) Gross negligence relevantly applies in circumstances involving express
waivers of liability or assumption of the risk. (See Chavez v. 24 Hour
Fitness USA, Inc. (2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 632, 640; Jimenez v. 24 Hour
Fitness USA, Inc. (2015) 237 Cal.App.4th 546, 555.) Gross negligence
may be relevant to statutory liability and defenses. (See Eastburn v. Reg'l
Fire Prot. Auth., (2003) 31 Cal.4th 1175, 1178 [gross negligence or bad
faith required to impose vicarious liability for public entities for emergency dispatcher's
failure or delay in responding to a 911 call]; see also Cont'l Ins. Co.,
supra, 197 Cal. App. 3d at 329 [“Invariably these cases have turned upon an
interpretation of a statute which has used the words ‘gross negligence’ in the
text.”].) However, case law does not support a stand-alone cause of action for
gross negligence in the present circumstances.  
 
Accordingly, the demurrer to the gross
negligence cause of action is SUSTAINED without leave to amend.
 
Fraudulent
Conveyance
 
In California, a fraudulent conveyance
under the Uniform Fraudulent Transfer Act (“UFTA”) involves “a transfer by the
debtor of property to a third person undertaken with the intent to prevent a
creditor from reaching that interest to satisfy its claim.” (Filip v.
Bucurenciu (2005) 129 Cal.App.4th 825, 829.) A transfer under the UFTA is
fraudulent as to a creditor if the debtor made the transfer with actual intent
to hinder, delay, or defraud any creditor of the debtor. (Civ. Code, §
3439.04(a).) Civil Code section 3439.08(b)(1)(A) provides that to the extent a
transfer is avoidable, a creditor may recover judgment for the value of the
asset transferred or the amount necessary to satisfy the creditor’s claim,
whichever is less, from the first transferee of the asset or the person for
whose benefit the transfer was made. 
 
Factors that may be considered in
determining actual intent are: (1) whether the transfer or obligation was to an
insider; (2) whether the debtor retained possession or control of the property
transferred after the transfer; (3) whether the transfer or obligation was
disclosed or concealed; (4) whether before the transfer was made or obligation
was incurred, the debtor had been sued or threatened with suit; (5) whether the
transfer was of substantially all the debtor’s assets; (6) whether the debtor
absconded; (7) whether the debtor removed or concealed assets; (8) whether the
value of the consideration received by the debtor was reasonably equivalent to
the value of the asset transferred or the amount of the obligation incurred;
(9) whether the debtor was insolvent or became insolvent shortly after the
transfer was made or the obligation was incurred; (10) whether the transfer
occurred shortly before or shortly after a substantial debt was incurred; and
(11) whether the debtor transferred the essential assets of the business to a
lienor that transferred the assets to an insider of the debtor. (Id., §
3439.04(b).) Generally, fraudulent intent requires evidentiary issues more
suitable for determination on summary judgment or trial. (Filip, supra,
129 Cal.App.4th at 834.)
 
The
FAC alleges that Greg and Italia transferred their real property they owned
(“Residence”) on September 22, 2023, to a third party, in order to avoid paying
a debt to Plaintiff. (FAC ¶90.) Greg and Italia transferred their residence by
sale to a third party with the intent to hinder, delay, or defraud Plaintiff as
their creditor. (¶¶ 91-92.) Nigro and Italia’s conduct was a
substantial factor in causing Razavi’s harm. (Id., ¶¶93-94.) “Italia did not
receive a reasonably equivalent value in exchange for the transfer (pursuant to
the judgment of dissolution of Greg and Italia entered January 23, 2024 in Los
Angeles County).” (¶ 99.) Greg and Italia remaining assets were
unreasonably small for the transaction. (¶ 100.) Greg received all the net
proceeds from the $1,040,000 sale and has not purchased a new dwelling but
secreted the cash. (¶ 101.) As a result of the transfer, Greg and Italia were unable
to pay Razavi money that was owed. (¶ 106.) Plaintiff’s right to receive
payment from Defendants arose before they transferred the property. (¶ 117.) Nigro
and Italia was insolvent at that time or became insolvent as a result of the
transfer or obligation. (¶ 118.)
 
Defendants argue that the fraudulent
transfer causes of action fail because the allegations are ambiguous as to when
Defendants were made aware of Plaintiff’s pending claim. The Court finds no
such ambiguity with the FAC. The FAC alleges that Defendants were aware of the
claim because they were necessarily aware of the October 2022 incident, and
Plaintiff’s counsel sent Defendants a letter informing them to preserve all
evidence due to the pending claim the day after the incident. (FAC ¶90.) Thus,
as of the transfer on September 22, 2023, Defendants were allegedly aware of
the debt.
 
Defendants
argue that no “liability exists against those participating in a fraudulent
transfer, at least where the creditor at the time of transfer has not reduced
his claim to judgment and holds no lien upon the property conveyed.” (Brunvold
v. Victor Johnson & Co. (1943) 59 Cal.App.2d 75, 82.) However, Burnvold
refers to damages in tort beyond returning the fraudulently transferred
amounts. That case regarded a deficiency judgment against an attorney and
secretary of a judgment debtor where the defendants obtained no property from
the transaction save one share of stock and a small dividend worth about $15.00.
(See Id., [“Since no property, except the trifling amount above stated,
came into the hands of either of these defendants the judgment against them
must be based on the theory of damages for tort. It is settled, however, that
no tort liability exists …” unless the transfer was reduced to a judgment or
lien].) Thus, no claim for damages existed against the defendants
without notice of the underlying claim. Moreover, UFTA expressly provides that
a “claim” includes a right to payment, whether or not it has been reduced to
judgment. (Civ. Code § 3439.01(b).) 
 
Defendants
argue that Plaintiff does not allege how they became insolvent as a result of
the transfer. Indeed, it is unlikely that Greg is insolvent as he has the
proceeds from the sale. That said, this fact does not indisputably establish
his solvency. Further, this is not the only pled factor which would establish
the necessary intent to support a statutory fraudulent transfer cause of
action. The FAC establishes that before the transfer was made, the debtors had
been threatened with suit. (FAC ¶ 90.) The FAC alleges, as a matter of fact,
that Italia did not receive an equivalent value for the property because she
received nothing. (¶¶ 99, 108, 116.) Italia is allegedly insolvent. (¶ 118.) Therefore,
several factors are pled which suggest “actual” fraud.  
 
Accordingly,
the demurrer is OVERRULED as to these causes.
 
Motion to Strike - Punitive Damages
 
Defendants move to
strike the claim for punitive damages, making the same arguments discussed as
to the gross negligence and UFTA causes. Civil Code section 3294 defines malice
as conduct “intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff,” or
“despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and
conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.” Despicable is a
powerful term used to describe circumstances that are “base,” “vile,” or
“contemptible.” (Coll. Hosp. v. Superior Ct. (1994) 9 Cal.4th 704, 726.)
The statute “plainly indicates that absent an intent to injure the plaintiff,
“malice” requires more than a “willful and conscious” disregard of the
plaintiffs' interests. The additional component of “despicable conduct” must be
found.” (Id.) 
 
Here, the FAC alleges
facts which show that Defendants intended to harm Plaintiff or committed
“despicable” acts with a willful and conscious disregard of Plaintiff’s safety.
Defendants assisted in throwing Plaintiff
to the concrete ground and proceeded to pin her down with knees and body weight
with her limbs hyper-extended back. (FAC ¶ 6.) While pinning her down,
Defendants came into contact with Plaintiff’s breasts. (Id.) Defendants
assisted each other, acted in concert, and/or did nothing to stop the others
from such conduct. (¶ 7.) Defendants’ actions caused bruising, pain and
suffering, emotional distress, fear, anxiety, stress, pain through present day,
mental suffering, and mental anguish. (¶ 13.) Specifically, Greg and Tommy had
direct contact with Plaintiff, while Italia came “very close” to actual contact
with Plaintiff, causing Plaintiff anxiety, stress, and fear. (Id.) Such conduct
was intended to cause emotional distress and harm to Plaintiff. (¶¶ 38-40.) As
discussed above, Plaintiff states a claim under the UFTA under a theory of
“actual” fraud. Thus, Plaintiff alleges sufficient facts showing malice or
fraud as defined by section 3294.
 
Accordingly,
the motion is DENIED.