  Case Number:  19PSCV01160    Hearing Date:   July 3, 2024    Dept:  G Defendant Terry L. Vechik’s Motion to Unseal the 2024 Smith
Report
Respondent: Plaintiff Mohammed Khodabakhsh
Defendant Terry L. Vechik’s Motion to Vacate Default
Judgment
Respondent: Plaintiff Mohammed Khodabakhsh
Plaintiff
Mohammed Khodabakhsh’s Motion for Judicial Determination Regarding Discoverability
of Email Communications
Respondent:
Defendant Terry L. Vechik
TENTATIVE RULING
Defendant Terry L. Vechik’s Motion to Unseal the 2024
Smith Report is STRICKEN as Defendant Terry L. Vechik is in default.
Defendant Terry L. Vechik’s Motion to Vacate Default
Judgment is DENIED.
Plaintiff Mohammed
Khodabakhsh’s Motion for Judicial Determination Regarding Discoverability of
Email Communications is DENIED.
BACKGROUND
Plaintiff
Mohammed Khodabakhsh is an engineer and inventor in the clean energy technology
field. Defendant Terry L. Vechik is a marketer of inventions. In 2008,
Khodabakhsh began working with Vechik to help monetize clean energy technology
developed by Khodabakhsh. Subsequently, Khodabakhsh alleges Vechik began
falsely claiming to be an equal partner in Khodabakhsh’s work. Khodabakhsh then
claims Vechik took a laptop computer and flash drive from Khodabakhsh that
contained designs, drawings, and marketing materials for Khodabakhsh’s
technology and refused to return it. When Khodabakhsh confronted Vechik about
the laptop computer and flash drive, Khodabakhsh alleges Vechik threatened to
kill Khodabakhsh. After that, Khodabakhsh claims a mutual friend informed
Khodabakhsh that Vechik told the friend how Vechik was going to kill
Khodabakhsh. Another friend informed Khodabakhsh that Vechik had offered the
friend money to conduct surveillance on Khodabakhsh and inform Vechik of
Khodabakhsh’s whereabouts.
On
December 30, 2019, Khodabakhsh filed a complaint against Vechik; Rudd Koekkoek,
also known as Rudoph Koekkoek; Matchcorp Fin. Services BV; Rene Aemig; Hyperion
Capital; Ali Mir Zadeh; Vesten Food Concept AG, Hofstr. 2 CH 6004; and Does
1-25, alleging the following causes of action: (1) declaratory relief, (2)
injunctive relief, and (3) conversion.
On
September 30, 2020, Khodabakhsh filed a First Amended Complaint (FAC) against
Vechik and Does 1-25, alleging the following causes of action: (1) conversion,
(2) violation of the California Data Access and Fraud Act, (3) intentional
interference with prospective economic advantage, (4) misappropriation of trade
secrets, (5) violation of Penal Code section 496, (6) intentional infliction of
emotional distress (IIED), and (7) violations of Business and Professions Code
section 17200.
On
September 22, 2022, after Vechik repeatedly refused to comply with discovery
orders by the court and pay sanctions, the Court granted Khodabakhsh’s request
to impose terminating sanctions on Vechik and struck Vechik’s answer.
On
October 26, 2022, default was entered against Vechik. On January 4, 2023,
Khodabakhsh applied for a default judgment that the Court denied without
prejudice on January 10, 2023. On January 26, 2023, Khodabakhsh filed a second
application for default judgment that the Court again denied without prejudice
on February 2, 2023. On March 16, 2023, Khodabakhsh filed a third application
for default judgment that the Court granted on March 23, 2023. On July 3, 2023,
the Court granted a motion by Vechik to vacate the default judgment.
On
October 10, 2023, Khodabakhsh filed a fourth application for default judgment
that the Court granted on October 20, 2023. On January 10, 2024, the Court
granted a motion by Vechik to vacate the default judgment.
On
February 22, 2024, Khodabakhsh filed a fifth application for default judgment that
the Court granted on April 18, 2024. The Court also granted Khodabakhsh’s
application to file the expert report of Joseph Smith (Smith Report) under
seal.
On May 16,
2024, Vechik filed the present motion to unseal the Smith Report. On May 17,
2024, Vechik filed the present motion to vacate the default judgment entered April
18, 2024. On May 21, 2024, Khodabakhsh filed the present motion for a judicial
determination regarding discoverability of email communications.
A
hearing on the present motions is set for July 3, 2024.
MOTION TO UNSEAL
Vechik moves the court to
unseal the Smith Report. But as a defaulted defendant, Vechik is prohibited
from taking “affirmative steps such as filing a pleading or motion” until the
entry of default is set aside. (Sporn v. Home Depot USA, Inc. (2005) 126
Cal.App.4th 1294, 1301.) Accordingly, the court STRIKES Vechik’s motion
as improper.
Additionally, the court notes
that Defendant Vechik received an unredacted copy of the Smith Report pursuant
to court order on March 26, 2024.
MOTION TO VACATE
JUDGMENT
Defendant
Vechik moves to vacate and set aside the default judgment entered on April 18,
2024, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 657. For the following
reasons, the court DENIES Vechik’s motion.
Legal
Standard
Pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure section 657, a decision or verdict may be vacated
and a new trial may be ordered based on “excessive or inadequate damages” or an
“[e]rror in law, occurring at the trial and excepted to by the party making the
application.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 657.) “A new trial shall not be granted . .
.  upon the ground of excessive or inadequate damages, unless after
weighing the evidence the court is convinced from the entire record, including
reasonable inferences therefrom, that the court or jury clearly should have
reached a different verdict or decision.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 657.) This
procedure is also applicable to default judgments. (Siry Investment, L.P. v.
Farkhondehpour (2022) 13 Cal.5th 333, 345-346 (Siry).)
Discussion
In
this case, Vechik claims the default judgment entered April 18, 2024, was
erroneous or excessive because (1) Khodabakhsh’s alleged trade secrets do not
qualify as trade secrets, (2) Khodabakhsh inappropriately seeks a double
recovery, and (3) Khodabakhsh failed to submit sufficient evidence. The court
addresses each claim below.
First,
Defendant Vechik argues Khodabakhsh’s alleged trade secrets do not qualify as
trade secrets because Khodabakhsh previously disclosed them and allegedly
misled the court. (Motion, p. 7:11-9:18.) Vechik argues Khodabakhsh disclosed
the trade secrets at issue in other patent applications. (Motion, p. 8:8-9:11.)
Vechik, however, fails to point to any evidence in the record that establishes
these contentions. And while Vechik submits evidence of these additional patent
applications, Vechik fails to point to any legal authority that allows Vechik
to contest a default judgment with new or additional evidence. In fact, damages
awarded in a default judgment may only be set aside if they were (1) erroneous
as a matter of law or (2) not supported by or disproportionate in light of the
evidence submitted. (See Siry, supra, 13 Cal.5th at p. 343.) Therefore,
the court finds that any arguments by Vechik that rely on new evidence are
improper in determining whether the default judgment at issue is supported by
sufficient evidence.
Next,
Defendant Vechik contends the judgment is improper because Khodabakhsh is
seeking double recovery. (Motion, p. 9:20-10:16.) “Regardless of the nature or
number of legal theories advanced by the plaintiff, he is not entitled to more
than a single recovery for each distinct item of compensable damage supported
by the evidence. [Citation.] Double or duplicative recovery for the same items
of damage amounts to overcompensation and is therefore prohibited.” (Tavaglione
v. Billings (1993) 4 Cal.4th 1150, 1158-1159.)
Here,
while Vechik notes Khodabakhsh admitted to filing a patent lawsuit in the
Netherlands, Vechik fails to establish how this constitutes double recovery as there
is no evidence Khodabakhsh received a recovery in the Netherlands case.
Instead, it appears this issue should be raised with the court where the other
action is pending.
Last,
Defendant Vechik maintains there is insufficient evidence to support
Khodabakhsh’s request for damages. To the extent Vechik contests the support
for actual or unjust enrichment damages (Motion, p. 11:1-12:16), the court notes
it only awarded damages in the form of a reasonable royalty. (See 3/26/2024
Ruling, p. 3; 1/10/2024 Ruling, p. 3; 7/3/2023 Ruling, p. 4.) Vechik also
maintains there is insufficient evidence to support reasonable royalty damages because
(1) the Smith Report contains conclusory analysis (Motion, p. 13:7-23), (2) the
Smith Report contains incorrect analysis (Motion, p. 13:24-14:17), (3) the FES
Report is speculative and based on false assumptions (Motion, p. 14:18-15:9),
and (4) alternative evidence of a reasonable royalty rate exists (Motion, p.
15:9-26.)
As
to the first contention that the Smith Report contains conclusory analysis, the
court rejects this contention for the reasons outlined in its order granting
Khodabakhsh’s application for default judgment. There, the court found the Smith Report identified trade secret
numbers 2-5, 7-14, and 19-24 as the key trade secrets that were essential to
the implementation and operation of the hydrogen generator and E-F generator. (3/26/2024
Ruling, p. 3, citing Dr. Smith Decl., p. 22.)
As to the second contention that the Smith Report contains
incorrect analysis, the court finds Vechik’s
attempt to contradict Dr. Smith’s analysis with the declaration of Gunther Schmalz
is impermissible since Vechik is in default. As noted above, the court’s review
is limited to the sufficiency of Khodabakhsh’s evidence submitted in support of the default judgment.  The court is not permitted to hear new evidence
submitted by Vechik in making that determination.
As to the third contention that the FES Report is speculative
and based on false assumptions, Vechik
argues the FES Report relies on unsupported assumptions and speculation. Vechik
maintains the FES Report relied on the assumption that Khodabakhsh’s 907
Patent could be used in conjunction with other patents. (Motion, p. 14:25-15:3.)
Vechik also maintains that the FES Report relied on the assumption that Khodabakhsh
would have been able to bring the hydrogen generator system to market in 2022
and capture one percent of the market share. (Motion, p. 15:3-5.) Here,
however, some assumption and speculation is expected since determining a
reasonable royalty involves “a purely theoretical” and “hypothetical inquiry”
with “no promise of mathematical precision.” (See Ajaxo, Inc. v. E*Trade
Financial Corporation (2020) 48 Cal.App.5th 129, 161-162.) Ultimately, Vechik’s
argument on this ground fails to resonate with the court since Vechik’s
misappropriation of Khodabakhsh’s trade secrets is the reason the court must
rely on these assumptions or speculations to calculate Khodabakhsh’s damages.
As
to the fourth and last contention that alternative evidence of a reasonable
royalty rate exists, Vechik maintains the court should look to an actual proposed
licensing agreement for Khodabakhsh’s technology. In 2019, Khodabakhsh proposed
forming Smiljan Power Solutions AG (Smiljan) with investors in exchange for
licensing the use of Khodabakhsh’s patents and trade secrets. (Khodabakhsh
Decl., ¶ 27; Ex. K.) In Exhibit 2 of Exhibit K, Khodabakhsh included a copy of
an October 2017 licensing agreement between Khodabakhsh and Vesten Food Concept
AG (Vesten) in which Khodabakhsh agreed to license all patents and trade
secrets to Vesten in exchange for receiving 0.1% of the royalties. (Khodabakhsh
Decl., Ex. K-2.) While Vechik suggests royalties here should also be capped at
0.1%, the court recognizes this argument ignores the fact that part of the deal
also included Khodabakhsh receiving 71% of Smiljan’s shares, which were valued
at $470,474,400. (Khodabakhsh Decl., ¶ 27, Ex. K-1.) Because the hypothetical value
of Khodabakhsh’s license fees and shares in Smiljan exceed the $7,000,000 pled
in Khodabakhsh’s FAC, the result of utilizing these agreements would be the
same and does not merit a reduction in Khodabakhsh’s awarded damages.
Accordingly, the court finds
Defendant Vechik failed to establish how the damages awarded to Khodabakhsh are
excessive, unsupported, or contrary to the law. 
Therefore, Defendant Vechik’s motion is DENIED.
MOTION FOR JUDICIAL DETERMINATION REGARDING
DISCOVERABILITY OF EMAIL COMMUNICATIONS
Khodabakhsh moves for a
judicial determination regarding whether a series of emails that were sent from
Vechik’s counsel to Khodabakhsh’s counsel are privileged. Khodabakhsh has failed,
however, to provide any legal authority for such a motion. Furthermore, it is
unclear why the discoverability of emails between counsel is at issue when discovery
is closed and default judgment has already been rendered in Khodabakhsh’s favor.
Instead, the court views the
motion as an improper attempt to obtain an advisory opinion, which are not
permitted. (See Stonehouse Homes LLC v. City of Sierra Madre (2008) 167
Cal.App.4th 531, 542 [“Courts may not render advisory opinions on disputes
which the parties anticipate might arise but which do not presently exist.”].)
Accordingly,
Khodabakhsh’s motion is DENIED.
CONCLUSION
Based on the foregoing, Vechik’s
motion to vacate default judgment is DENIED.
Furthermore, Vechik’s motion to
unseal is STRICKEN and Khodabakhsh’s
motion for a judicial determination of discoverability is DENIED.