 Case Number:  24LBCV00827    Hearing Date:   November 14, 2024    Dept:  S27 1. Background
Plaintiffs Michael Wagih Mena Saad and Mariamgeregeszari Labib
(“Plaintiffs”) filed this lemon law action against defendants Tesla, Inc. and
Tesla Long Beach on April 23, 2024. Plaintiffs allege they purchased a new 2023
Tesla Model X (“the Vehicle”), manufactured by defendant Tesla, Inc., from
defendant Tesla Long Beach, a Tesla dealership, on March 10, 2023; the Vehicle
exhibited serious defects and noncomforties that could not be fixed after a
reasonable number of attempts, and Defendants failed to replace the Vehicle or
make restitution.
On May 24, 2024, defendant Tesla, Inc. (“Defendant”) moved for an order
compelling Plaintiffs to pursue their claim in binding arbitration rather than
litigation.
On October 31, 2024, Plaintiffs filed their opposition. On November 6,
2024, Defendant replied.
 
/ / /
 
2. Legal Standard
Under
California and federal law, public policy favors arbitration as an efficient
and less expensive means of resolving private disputes. (Moncharsh v. Heily
& Blasé (1992) 3 Cal.4th 1, 8-9 (Moncharsh); AT&T
Mobility LLC v. Concepcion (2011) 563 U.S. 333, 339.) Accordingly, whether
an agreement is governed by the California Arbitration Act or the Federal
Arbitration Act, courts resolve doubt about an arbitration agreement’s scope in
favor of arbitration. (Moncharsh, supra, 3 Cal.4th at p. 9; Comedy
Club, Inc. v. Improv West Associates (9th Cir. 2009) 553 F.3d 1277, 1284;
see also Engalla v. Permanente Med. Grp., Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 951,
971-72 [“California law incorporates many of the basic policy objectives
contained in the Federal Arbitration Act, including a presumption in favor of
arbitrability [citation] and a requirement that an arbitration agreement must
be enforced on the basis of state law standards that apply to contracts in
general [citation].”].) “[U]nder both the FAA and California law, ‘arbitration
agreements are valid, irrevocable, and enforceable, save upon such grounds as
exist at law or in equity for the revocation of any contract.’” (Higgins v.
Superior Court (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 1238, 1247.)
The party seeking
to compel arbitration bears the burden of proving the existence of a valid
arbitration agreement by the preponderance of the evidence.  (Engalla, supra, 15 Cal.4th
951, 972.)  A petition to compel
arbitration must allege both a “written agreement to arbitrate” the
controversy, and that a party to that agreement “refuses to arbitrate” the
controversy. (Code Civ. Proc. § 1281.2.) It then becomes plaintiff’s burden, in
opposing the motion, to prove by a preponderance of the evidence any fact
necessary to her opposition. (Ibid.) 
“Code of Civil
Procedure section 1281.2 requires a trial court to grant a petition to compel
arbitration ‘if the court determines that an agreement to arbitrate the
controversy exists.’”  (Avery v.
Integrated Healthcare Holdings, Inc. (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 50, 59 (Avery),
quoting Code Civ. Proc. § 1281.2).) Accordingly, “when presented with a
petition to compel arbitration, the court’s first task is to determine whether
the parties have in fact agreed to arbitrate the dispute.” (Id., at p.
59.) Generally, on a petition to compel arbitration, the court must grant the
petition unless it finds either (1) no written agreement to arbitrate exists;
(2) the right to compel arbitration has been waived; (3) grounds exist for
revocation of the agreement; or (4) litigation is pending that may render the
arbitration unnecessary or create conflicting rulings on common issues. (Ibid.;
see also Condee v. Longwood Management Corp. (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215,
218-219.) “In these summary proceedings the trial court sits as a trier of
fact, weighing all the affidavits, declarations, and other documentary
evidence, as well as oral testimony received at the court’s discretion, to
reach a final determination.” (Avery, supra, 218 Cal.App.4th at
p. 59; accord Rosenthal v. Great Western Financial Securities Corp.
(1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413.)
 
            3.
Request for Judicial Notice
            Defendant
requests judicial notice of Plaintiffs’ complaint. The request is granted.
 
            4.
Discussion
a.
Defendant carries its threshold burden to show an arbitration agreement exists.
            In order to
carry its threshold burden under Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.2,
Defendant must demonstrate the parties have a written agreement to arbitrate
the controversy in question and that Plaintiffs refuse to do so.
                                    i.
Defendant shows Plaintiffs signed an arbitration agreement.
            Defendant offers
both the Motor Vehicle Order Agreement (“MVOA”) and Retail Installment Sales
Contract (“RISC”) that Plaintiffs executed during the course of their purchase
of the Vehicle. (Kim Decl., Exh. 1 [MVOA} and Exh 2 [RISC].) Both contain
arbitration clauses. (Id., ¶¶ 6, 12, Exhs. 1-2.)
            Defendant
claims it made the MVOA available to Plaintiffs via hyperlink during the sales
process, and Plaintiffs were required to attest they agreed to its terms before
placing their order. (Id., ¶ 4.)
            The RISC
carries Plaintiffs’ electronic signatures, and Defendant attests they signed it
as a condition to the Vehicle’s purchase. (Id., ¶ 13 and Exh. 2.)
            Plaintiffs
do not deny they confirmed they agreed to the MVOA during purchase. They state
their order “simply required [plaintiff Saad] to enter personal information and
place a nominal deposit”, but they concede “[t]here was a large ‘Place Order’
button”, and they do not deny they clicked it in the course of their purchase.
(Saad Decl., ¶¶ 4-5.) And although plaintiff Saad protests he “did not see a
hyperlink” as Defendant contends, he does not expressly deny it was there. (Id.,
¶ 6.)
Plaintiffs also suggest the RISC
cannot be enforced because they “never provided any digital signatures.” (Saad
Decl., ¶ 14.) But they concede “Tesla staff … had [Plaintiffs’] typed name[s]
inserted into the agreement in various places”, and they imply these electronic
signatures were present when they reviewed the RISC and they did not protest. (Id.,
¶¶ 11-12, 14.) Plaintiffs’ entire claim depends on their assertion that they
bought the Vehicle, and they do not deny they signed the RISC in order to do
so.
The RISC is counter-signed by
defendant Tesla, Inc. as seller of the Vehicle. (Kim Decl., Exh. 2, pp.
1, 6.)
Defendantas have carried their
threshold burden to show an arbitration agreement exists.
                        ii.
The RISC covers the dispute in question.
            Because of
the dispute regarding the presence of an MVOA hyperlink, the Court focuses on
the arbitration provision in the RISC. The RISC states, in relevant part:
“Any claim or dispute, whether in
contract, tort, statute or otherwise (including the interpretation and scope of
this Arbitration Provision, any allegation of waiver of rights under this
Arbitration Provision, and the arbitrability of the claim or dispute), between
you and us or our employees, agents, successors or assigns, which arises out of
or relates to your credit application, purchase or condition of this Vehicle,
this contract or any resulting transaction or relationship (including any such
relationship with third parties who do not sign this contract) shall, at your
or our election, be resolved by neutral, binding arbitration and not by a court
action.”
(Kim Decl., Exh. 2, p. 5.)
            This is a
statutory claim between Plaintiffs and Defendants (“you and us”), which arises
out of the purchase or condition of the Vehicle. The dispute falls within the
scope of the arbitration agreement.
                                    iii.
Plaintiffs refuse to arbitrate.
            Defendant’s
counsel attests, uncontradicted, that Plaintiffs refused his request to
stipulate to arbitration. (Ameripuour Decl., ¶ 3.) Their opposition to the
instant motion confirms their refusal. The final element of section 1281.2 is
satisfied.
                        
b.
Plaintiffs do not carry their burden in opposition.
            Because
Defendant carried its threshold burden, it falls to Plaintiffs to show why the
agreement should not be enforced.
                                    i.
The Court disregards the MVOA for purposes of this ruling.
            Plaintiffs
focus a considerable portion of their opposition on the enforceability of the
MVOA. (See Opp., pp. 3-9.) As noted above, the Court declines to take up
the applicability of the MVOA here, because the RISC carries Defendant’s
burden. Plaintiffs also argue Defendant “fails to demonstrate that the
Song-Beverly statutory violation claims against [Defendant] … are related in
any way to the [MVOA] and its arbitration clause.” (Opp., 7:15-17.) Again, the
arbitration agreement in question for purposes of this motion is the one that
appears in the RISC. For clarity of analysis, the Court disregards the MVOA and
makes no ruling on its enforceability. All the arguments in Section III of
Plaintiffs’ opposition are irrelevant to this ruling.
                                    ii.
Defendant is not equitably estopped from enforcing the RISC.
            Plaintiffs
contend Defendant is equitably estopped from enforcing the parties’ agreement.
Plaintiffs’ case law is irrelevant, because it refers to circumstances where a
third party executed a sales agreement with a lemon law plaintiff. Here, the
RISC directly designates Defendant as the seller of the vehicle, and it
counter-signed the contract.
/ / / 
                                    iii.
The RISC arbitration agreement is not unconscionable.
            The
unconscionability analysis focuses on two elements: the procedural and the
substantive. “ ‘[U]nconscionability has both a “procedural” and a
“substantive” element,’ the former focusing on ‘oppression’ or ‘surprise’ due
to unequal bargaining power, the latter on ‘overly harsh’ or ‘one-sided’
results. ... ‘The prevailing view is that [procedural and substantive
unconscionability] must both be present in order for a court to exercise its
discretion to refuse to enforce a contract or clause under the doctrine of
unconscionability.’ ... But [procedural and substantive unconscionability] need
not be present in the same degree. ‘Essentially a sliding scale is invoked
which disregards the regularity of the procedural process of the contract
formation, that creates the terms, in proportion to the greater harshness or
unreasonableness of the substantive terms themselves.’ ... In other words, the
more substantively oppressive the contract term, the less evidence of
procedural unconscionability is required to come to the conclusion that the
term is unenforceable, and vice versa.” (Armendariz v. Foundation Health
Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 114, citations omitted; see
also A&M Produce Co. v. FMC Corp. (1982) 135 Cal.App.3d 473,
486-488.)
            Procedural
unconscionability depends on two factors: oppression and surprise. (Crippen
v. Central Valley RV Outlet (2004) 124 Cal.App.4th 1159, 1164-1165.) Plaintiffs
do not demonstrate oppression. Oppression depends on “no real negotiation and
the absence of meaningful choice[.]” (Olsen v. Breeze, Inc. (1996) 48
Cal.App.4th 608, 621.) Plaintiffs protest they did not negotiate the terms of
their agreement, but nothing suggests they were prevented from doing so. No one
forced them to buy their Tesla. Plaintiffs have demonstrated minimal surprise
at best. “Surprise involves the extent to which the terms of the bargain are
hidden in a ‘prolix printed form’ drafted by a party in a superior bargaining
position.” (Ibid.) Even assuming the arbitration agreement in the RISC
qualifies as a hidden term in a prolix form – and the Court is not convinced it
does – nothing suggests Defendant was in a superior bargaining position. As
with oppression, however rushed Plaintiffs felt to buy their car, there is
nothing in the record that shows why. Defendant was not in such a superior
bargaining position as to establish surprise for purposes of procedural unconscionability.
Plaintiffs have at best
demonstrated a modicum of procedural unconscionability. Plaintiffs must
demonstrate considerable substantive unconscionability to prevail on their
opposition.
            But Plaintiffs
have also shown, at best, a modicum of substantive unconscionability, not
enough to carry their opposition. Two of Plaintiffs’ three arguments on this
point, as directed to the RISC, refer to procedure and not substance. (See
Opp., 12:11-14 [Plaintiffs “not informed of th[e arbitration] provision” and Defendant
“pushed through [the] contract”].) Plaintiffs’ only colorable claim to
substantive unconscionability is their assertion that Defendant only agrees to
pay the first $5,000.00 of arbitration fees. That is insufficient by itself. “A
consumer seeking to avoid an arbitration agreement must make ‘a showing that …
fees and costs in fact would be unaffordable or would have a substantial
deterrent effect’ on his or decision to seek relief, which the court must
determine ‘on a case-by-case basis … .’ ” (Swain v. LaserAway Medical Group,
Inc. (2020) 57 Cal.App.5th 59, 73-74.) Plaintiffs offer no evidence that the
cost of arbitration would be unreasonable in their case. They only recite the
point as a conclusion in their opposition, without support.
            Defendant
carries its burden to produce an enforceable arbitration agreement, and
Plaintiffs do not carry their burden to show why it should not be enforced.
 
            5.
Conclusion.
The motion is granted. The parties
are ordered to submit their dispute to binding arbitration according to the
terms of the RISC. The Court stays this action in its entirety pending
completion of arbitration, or until further order of the Court. The Court sets
an OSC Re: Status of Arbitration for February 19, 2025.
 
            Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If
the department does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting
on the tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be
placed off calendar.  If a party
submits on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and
must identify the party submitting on the tentative.