 Case Number:  23LBCV00205    Hearing Date:   November 14, 2024    Dept:  S27 Plaintiff, A.D. filed this action
against Defendant Long Beach Unified School District. The complaint alleges
that Plaintiff is autistic and nonverbal and was subjected by physical and
verbal abuse by his teacher, who pulled his hair and threw things at his face. Plaintiff
later amended the complaint to also name as Defendant, Carolyn Deis. A.D. is a minor
and is appearing by and through his guardian ad litem, Sandra Diaz.  Plaintiff filed his complaint on 2/3/23.
 
At this time, the parties have
agreed to settle the entire action.  The
settlement provides for payment to Plaintiff A.D. in the amount of $131,250.
 
If the settlement is approved, A.D.’s
settlement amount will be distributed as follows: $0 for medical expenses, $32,812.50
for attorneys’ fees (25% of the settlement amount), and $29,526.18 for costs
(Barrantes Decl.; Attachment 13b), with the net balance of $68,911.32 to be invested
in a deferred annuity.
 
The court notes that costs are in
the amount of $29,526.18, which appears to be high. There are some charges that
raises questions. First, counsel provides that they mediated the case in August
2024, for which there is a charge from Judicate West. However, there is also a
charge from Judicate West in May of 2024 for $5,325. But there is no
explanation what this cost is for. Were there two mediations?
 
Further, there are numerous charges
from Steno, which no explanation for what these charges are for. Notably, it
appears Plaintiff’s counsel took 3 depositions, and hired an expert, which cost
$10,000 to retain. It is unclear what the rest of the charges are for. As such,
the court requires further information of the costs in order to determine
whether the costs were reasonable.
 
Lastly, counsel’s retainer
agreement with Plaintiff has not been attached to the petition.
 
As a result, the hearing on the petition
is CONTINUED to allow Plaintiff’s counsel to: (1) provide a declaration
explaining the costs; and (2) file the retainer agreement. The hearing is
continued to January 7, 2025.
 
Plaintiff is ordered to give
notice.
 
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the court at
gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org. If
the department does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting
on the tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be
placed off calendar. If a party submits on the tentative, the party’s email
must include the case number and must identify the party submitting on the
tentative.