 Case Number:  22STCV19600    Hearing Date:   November 14, 2024    Dept:  S27  
Plaintiffs, Leslie Ungar and Sophia
Ungar filed this habitability action against Defendants, Smart Real Estate, and
Westland Real Estate Group, and arising out of Plaintiffs’ claims that there
was mold in their unit.  Plaintiffs later
amended the complaint to also name as Defendants, Albert Yamada, as trustee for
the Yamada Albert H 2016 Trust, and Albert Yamada. Sophia is a minor and is
appearing by and through her mother and guardian ad litem, Leslie Ungar.  Plaintiffs filed their complaint on 6/16/22.
 
At this time, the parties have
agreed to settle the entire action.  The
settlement provides for payments to Plaintiffs in the following amounts:
Leslie Ungar:                 $30,900
Sophia:                         $10,000
If the settlement is approved, Sophia’s
settlement amount will be distributed as follows: $0 for medical expenses, $0
for attorneys’ fees, and $3,318 for costs, with $2,529.32 of the net balance to
be deposited in a blocked account, and $4,152 of the net balance to be held on
the conditions that the court determines to the in the best interest of the
minor. The proposed conditions are: Petitioner and Minor wish to direct
a portion of settlement funds towards insurance premiums for the purchase of a
one-year health insurance plan to provide Sophia Ungar with options under a PPO
medical plan, instead of relying on the current DHCS/Medi-Cal plan. 
Item 12b(5) of the petition indicates the
reason for the apportionment of the settlement payments between the Claimant
and Plaintiff is specified in Attachment 12. However, Attachment 12 does not
explain the reason that the apportionment of the settlement payments; it only
states that the amount of costs are split between the two plaintiffs.  
Further, there is no explanation provided
as to why Plaintiffs wish to purchase insurance premiums with part of the net
settlement for Sophia, when they have a Medi-Cal plan. Moreover, were the court
agree to this proposal, the court requires an affidavit attesting that $4,152
of the settlement amount for Sophia would be used for this purpose. 
Lastly, the court notes that there
is no proposed order granting the petition, nor is there an order to deposit
into the blocked account.
 
As a result, the hearing on the expedited
petition is CONTINUED to allow Plaintiffs to: (1) explain the reason for the
apportionment of the settlement payments between Sophia and Plaintiff in
Attachment 12; (2) explain further why Plaintiffs wish to purchase insurance
rather than continuing with their insurance plan under Medi-Cal; (3) file a
declaration attesting that the $4,152 will be used to purchase insurance for
Sophia; and (4) file the proposed order granting the petition, and the order to
deposit into a blocked account.  The
hearing is continued to January 16, 2025.
Plaintiffs are ordered to give
notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the court at
gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org. If
the department does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting
on the tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be
placed off calendar. If a party submits on the tentative, the party’s email
must include the case number and must identify the party submitting on the
tentative.