

Hearing Date:             September 20, 2024    
Case Name:                 Oscar Alvarado Ortiz v.
Architectural Surfaces, Inc., et al.
Case
No.:                    23STCV06568
Motion:                       Motion
for Order Prohibiting Destruction of Evidence 
Moving
Party:             Plaintiff Oscar
Alvarado Ortiz

Responding Party:      Defendants


 

Tentative
Ruling:      Plaintiff Oscar Alvarado
Ortiz’s Motion for Order Prohibiting Destruction of Evidence is GRANTED.
 

 
On March 23, 2023, Plaintiff Oscar
Alvarado Ortiz (“Ortiz”) filed a personal injury action against Architectural
Surfaces, Inc. and 48 other defendants for alleged injuries resulting from
exposure to toxic silica, metals, and other fibrogenic substances in the scope
of his employment.  On April 22, 2024,
Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint against more than 70 defendants for
(1) negligence, (2) products liability – failure to warn, (3) products
liability – design defect, (4) fraudulent concealment, and (5) breach of
implied warranties.  Several parties have
filed cross-complaints against Plaintiff.
 
On August 13, 2024, Plaintiff filed
the instant Motion for Order Prohibiting Destruction of Evidence. On August 28,
2024 and September 9, 2024, Defendants Class Tile & Mosaic, Inc., Francini,
Inc., Lilly Industries, Inc. dba The Slab Studio, Dal-Tile Defendants, and
Mohawk Industries, Inc. (“Opposing Defendants”) filed separate oppositions. The
remaining defendants filed joinders to the oppositions. On September 13, 2024,
Plaintiff filed a reply. 
 
Evidentiary Objections
 
The Court OVERRULES Dal-Tile
Defendants and Mohawk Industries, Inc.’s objections to the Declaration of
Raphael Metzger. 
 
Legal Standard
 
“Under section 128, subdivision
(a)(4), “[e]very court shall have the power .... [¶] ... [¶] [t]o compel
obedience to its judgments, orders, and process, and to the orders of a judge
out of court, in an action or proceeding pending therein.” This statute has
codified the principle of “[t]he inherent power of the trial court to exercise
reasonable control over litigation before it, as well as the inherent and
equitable power to achieve justice and prevent misuse of processes lawfully
issued....” (Blueberry Properties, LLC v. Chow (2014) 230 Cal.App.4th
1017, 1021; see also Code Civ. Proc., § 128(a)(4).)
 
“When jurisdiction is, by the
Constitution or this Code, or by any other statute, conferred on a Court or
judicial officer, all the means necessary to carry it into effect are also
given; and in the exercise of this jurisdiction, if the course of proceeding be
not specifically pointed out by this Code or the statute, any suitable process
or mode of proceeding may be adopted which may appear most conformable to the
spirit of this Code.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 187.)
 
Discussion
 
            Here,
Plaintiff moves for an order prohibiting all parties and all other persons and
entities served with subpoenas and the order sought from destroying product
supply records, i.e., records regarding the sale, distribution, supply,
delivery, and/or receipt of all stone slabs. The motion is made on the grounds
that the supply records are critical evidence in determining each Defendants
proportionate liability in supplying stone slab products to the fabrication
shops where Plaintiff worked and which purportedly caused Plaintiff’s alleged
silicosis.  
 
            Although
Plaintiff contends the motion does not a seek a mandatory preliminary
injunction, the order seeks preservation of evidence to maintain the status
quo. In Northpoint Homeowners Assn v. Superior Court (1979) 95
Cal.App.3d 241, the court found that a protective order for the preservation of
evidence, i.e., maintaining the status quo, was essentially a prohibitory
injunction. (Northpoint Homeowners Assn v. Superior Court (1979) 95
Cal.App.3d 241, 246.) “Trial courts traditionally consider and weigh two
factors in determining whether to issue a preliminary injunction. They are (1)
how likely it is that the moving party will prevail on the merits, and (2) the
relative harm the parties will suffer in the interim due to the issuance or
nonissuance of the injunction.” (Dodge, Warren & Peters Ins. Services,
Inc. v. Riley (2003) 105 Cal.App.4th 1414, 1420.) The Opposing Defendants argue
that Plaintiff cannot meet the two-prong test for a preliminary injunction
because he submits no evidence showing he will likely prevail on the merits of
his claims and cannot point out any wrongful conduct by defendant or prospect
that will engage in any wrongful conduct. Specifically, Opposing Defendants
assert Plaintiff fails to produce evidence showing their failure to abide by
their legal duties to preserve evidence. A duty to preserve material evidence arises
during litigation or when a party reasonably should know that the evidence may
be relevant to anticipated litigation including the duty to suspend any existing
policies related to deleting or destroying files. (See Victor Valley Union
High School District v. Superior Court of San Bernardino County (2023) 91
Cal.App.5th 1121, 1143.) 
 
In this instant case, Plaintiff
seeks an order prohibiting Opposing Defendants and non-parties/entities from
destroying product supply records including:
 
“All WRITINGS regarding the purchase,
sale, distribution, supply and/or receipt of STONE PRODUCTS, including but not
limited to purchase orders, blanket purchase orders, invoices, packing slips,
bills of lading, shipping documents, import documents, shipping logs, delivery
receipts, checks, accounts receivable, accounts payable, etc. including all
electronic data on computers, local disk drives, servers, and electronic
storage devices, created from 2007 and 2022.” 
 
(Category 1 of Proposed
Preservation Order – Metzger Reply Decl., ¶5, Ex. B.)
 
These are records Opposing
Defendants regularly keep in their ordinary course of business and no party
disputes they are relevant to Plaintiff’s claimed injuries, thus Opposing
Defendants have a duty to preserve these records. Even though Plaintiff does
not present any evidence that Opposing Defendants have engaged in conduct that gives
rise to apprehension about their ability to abide their duty to preserve
evidence, Plaintiff contends the mere fact that majority of defendants in this
case filed oppositions and joinders to oppositions to the present motion makes
the order necessary. Furthermore, Plaintiff argues there is no tort cause of
action for spoliation of evidence. In Cedars-Sinai Medical Center v.
Superior Court (1998) 18 Cal.4th 1, our Supreme Court held that “there is
no tort remedy for the intentional spoliation of evidence by a party to the
cause of action….” (Cedars-Sinai Medical Center v. Superior Court (1998)
18 Cal.4th 1, 17.) Instead, the Cedars-Sinai Medical Center court
recognized the existence of non-tort remedies such as sanctions and criminal
penalties. (Id. at ) Moreover, the Cedars-Sinai Medical Center
court “did not disapprove of injunctive relief as another non-tort alternative”
and “in recognizing the difficulty in proving damages for intentional evidence
spoliation…also recognized that irreparable harm is likely to result when
evidence is destroyed.” (Dodge, Warren & Peters Ins. Services, Inc.,
supra, 105 Cal.App.4th 1419.) 
 
Moreover, Plaintiff contends the
third-party employers and other entities who he plans on subpoenaing do not
have a duty to preserve evidence as they are not parties to this case. As such,
Plaintiff contends they could destroy evidence in efforts to avoid liability. Indeed,
nonparties do not have a duty to preserve evidence until they are served with a
subpoena and absent a statutory or contractual relationship will not be liable
for failure to preserve evidence unless a party litigant specifically requested
preservation of evidence before to the destruction of such evidence. (See In
re Napster, Inc. v. Copyright Litigation (2006) 462 F.Supp.2d 1060, 1068 [third
party under legal obligation to preserve documents based on subpoena]; Temple
Community Hospital v. Superior Court (1999) 20 Cal.4th 464, 477 [no tort recognized
for third party intentional spoliation of evidence].)
 
Opposing Defendants assert this
Court lacks jurisdiction over the unidentified third-parties who are nonparties
to this instant lawsuit and who Plaintiff’s proposed order is requested to
cover. In support of this argument, Opposing Defendants cite to People ex
rel Gwinn v. Kothari (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 759, which held “injunctions are
not effective against the world at large.” (People ex rel Gwinn, 83
Cal.App.4th at p. 765.) On the other hand, as discussed above, Plaintiff plans
to serve subpoenas requesting the product supply records on these third-party
employers and entities. To the extent the subpoenas will be served on these
nonparties, the Court has jurisdiction to enforce the subpoenas pursuant to
Code of Civil Procedure Section 2025.480. 
 
Next, Opposing Defendants contend the
preservation order sought is overbroad and overreaching because it is
unrestricted by geography, product, Plaintiff’s employers, and Plaintiff’s
years of work. In response, Plaintiff argues the preservation order seeks
records from the time period he worked for the fabrication shops and was
exposed to the stone slabs at issue, i.e., 2007 through 2022; some of the
categories may not apply to the Opposing Defendants such as records for
fabrication shop countertops, so they just simply don’t have any to preserve in
such instance; and the single proposed order is simple, understandable, and
avoids confusion. In reviewing the proposed order, the Court finds that it is
not overbroad because it is limited to the time period Plaintiff alleges he
worked for the third-party employers and was exposed to the stone slabs giving
to his injuries in this case; provides clear definitions for the type of
products the supply records should entail; and seeks non-duplicative records. 
 
Finally, the parties dispute whether
or not there was a reasonable meet and confer prior to the filing of this
motion. The Court notes this motion relates to preservation of potentially
discoverable evidence but is not a discovery motion pursuant to the Civil
Discovery Act. Nevertheless, parties are always encouraged to try to resolve
disputes informally. 
 
Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff
Oscar Alvarado Ortiz’s Motion for Order Prohibiting Destruction of Evidence is
GRANTED. 