This is an action in which Plaintiff Marvin Vivas, a pro per litigant, alleges that “[o]n July 9, 2020, Plaintiff presented to Defendant's Dental Center for a tooth extraction performed by Dr. Nam Soo Cho. While in Defendant's care, Defendants negligently allowed a student to perform an anesthesia injection which caused nerve damage to Plaintiff. Plaintiff presented to an urgent care in the following days because of the excruciating pain and was diagnosed with Trigeminal Neuralgia.” Defendant Los Angeles County University of Southern California Medical Center seeks summary judgment or, alternatively, summary adjudication of all causes of action—specifically, Plaintiff’s claims for professional negligence, general negligence, and lack of informed consent. Defendant contends that “[a]s set forth in the attached declaration of board-certified Oral and Maxillofacial surgeon Alan Shelhamer, D.D.S., all of the care and treatment rendered to the Plaintiff by LACUSC and its staff and physicians was appropriate and within the standard of care. (Shelhamer Decl. ¶7; SSUMF #24.) Plaintiff’s dental records provide that prior to the extraction, Plaintiff complained of pain in the tooth, and there was adequate assessment of the tooth that included high quality panoramic radiographs showing an impacted tooth. (Shelhamer Decl. ¶7(a); SSUMF #25.) Plaintiff was then informed of risks of the procedure, and he signed an informed consent form that indicated Dr. Kelson was authorized to perform the extraction of tooth #16. (Shelhamer Decl. ¶7(b); SSUMF #25; SSUF #26.) . . . [T]o a reasonable degree of medical probability, no act or omission on the part of LACUSC or its staff or physicians caused or contributed to any injury or damage to the Plaintiff. (Shelhamer Decl. ¶8; SSUF #30.) Symptoms of trigeminal neuralgia usually present immediately following a local anesthetic. Here, Plaintiff went three weeks without complaints of dysesthesia (a hyperactive pain response), or any other symptom associated with trigeminal neuralgia. (Shelhamer Decl. ¶8(a); SSUF #31.) Additionally, trigeminal nerve injuries are mostly a concern with regard to lower jaw procedures. Here, Plaintiff had an upper tooth extracted on July 9, 2020. It is highly unlikely to have nerve injuries occur when an upper tooth is extracted. An upper tooth extraction could possibly result in nerve injury in the event of a complication requiring additional or more concentrated anesthetic injections; however, here, there is no record of any such complication. Plaintiff’s dental chart from the date of the procedure show that only one injection of conventional 2% lidocaine was administered. (Shelhamer Decl. ¶8(b); SSUF #32.)”The law of summary judgment provides courts “a mechanism to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.”  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  In reviewing a motion for summary judgment or adjudication, courts employ a three-step analysis: “(1) identify the issues framed by the pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving party has negated the opponent’s claims; and (3) determine whether the opposition has demonstrated the existence of a triable, material factual issue.”  (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.)  The moving party bears the initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue, in which case the burden shifts to the opposing party to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a triable issue.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c(p)(2).)  To show a triable issue of material fact exists, the opposing party may not rely on the mere allegations or denials of the pleadings, but instead must set forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto.  (Aguilar, at p. 849.)  Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.”  (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)The Motion for Summary Judgment is granted because Plaintiff failed to submit a separate statement of undisputed fact.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c(b)(3).)  Plaintiff also did not submit any declarations.  Moving party to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic.