  Case Number:  23TRCV00942    Hearing Date:   August 6, 2024    Dept:  E 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Southwest District
Torrance Dept. E




 
ASHLEY
  STRAUSS, et al., 


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
24TRCV00942




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  ORDER SUSTAINING DEMURRER AND GRANTING MOTION TO STRIKE WITHOUT LEAVE TO
  AMEND
 




 
NORTH
  OAK REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT, INC, et al..


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:             August 6, 2024
 
Moving
Party:             Defendant North Oak
Real Estate Investment, Inc.
Responding Party:      None    
 
Demurrer with Motion
to Strike
 
            The court considered the moving
papers. No opposition was filed.
 
RULING
 
            Defendant’s demurrer is SUSTAINED
without leave to amend. The motion to strike is GRANTED without leave to amend.
 
BACKGROUND
 
            On March 29, 2023, Plaintiffs Ashley
Strauss and Evelyn Carney (“Plaintiffs”) initiated this action against
Defendant North Oak Real Estate Investment, Inc. (“Defendant”).
            On
December 11, 2023, Plaintiffs filed the first amended complaint (“FAC”) against
Defendant, and KS Builder, LLC, alleging causes of action for (1) breach of the
implied warranty of habitability, breach of the covenant of quiet enjoyment,
(3) violation of California Civil Code Section 1708.5 (sexual battery) as to
Plaintiff Evelyn by KS Builders, LLC, (4) constructive eviction, (5)
intentional infliction of emotional distress as to North Oak, and (6) negligent
infliction of emotional distress. 
The FAC alleges that Plaintiffs
were tenants in a building owned, managed, or controlled by Defendant North
Oak. The property, located at 604 Venice Way #4, Inglewood, CA 90302, suffered
from numerous problems including water leaks, mold, as well as rodent and
termite infestation. 
            On
March 5, 2024, Defendant filed this demurrer and motion to strike. No
opposition has been filed.
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL
NOTICE
            Defendant requests the court
take judicial notice of the November 15, 2023, minute order in this case, and
the notice of ruling. 
            The
request is GRANTED pursuant to Evidence Code section 452(d).
 
LEGAL AUTHORITY
 
            Demurrer
A demurrer for sufficiency tests
whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007)
147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers, courts read the
allegations liberally and in context. (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept.
of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.) The court “treat[s]
the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but not
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law ….” (Berkley v. Dowds
(2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518, 525).) In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must
be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994).) A demurrer tests the
pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters; therefore, it
lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are
judicially noticed. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.30, 430.70.) The only issue
involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands,
unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action. (Hahn, supra,
147 Cal.App.4th at 747.) 
A special demurrer for uncertainty, Code of Civil Procedure
§430.10(f), is disfavored and will only be sustained where the pleading is so
bad that defendant cannot reasonably respond—i.e., cannot reasonably determine
what issues must be admitted or denied, or what counts or claims are directed
against him/her.  (Khoury v. Maly’s of Calif., Inc. (1993) 14
Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)  Moreover, even if the pleading is somewhat vague,
“ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Ibid.) 
Motion to Strike
Any party, within the time allowed
to respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the
whole or any part thereof. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435(b)(1).) The court may, upon
a motion or at any time in its discretion and upon terms it deems proper: (1)
strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading;
or (2) strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of California, a court rule, or an order of the court.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 436; Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767, 782.)
Leave to amend must be allowed
where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v.
Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) The burden is on the complainant
to show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.) 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Meet
and Confer
 
Before
filing a demurrer or a motion to strike, the demurring or moving party is
required to meet and confer with the party who filed the pleading demurred to
or the pleading that is subject to the motion to strike for the purposes of
determining whether an agreement can be reached through a filing of an amended
pleading that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer or
motion to strike. (Code
Civ. Proc., §§ 430.41, 435.5.)
 
Defense counsel has submitted a declaration showing the
parties discussed the issues over the telephone. (Torres-Brito Decl., ¶ 5.) The meet and confer requirements
have been met.
 
Demurrer
 
Defendant
demurs to the fifth cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional
distress in the FAC, arguing it fails to state sufficient facts to constitute a
cause of action because the FAC fails to allege any acts rising to the level of
extreme conduct or intent to cause severe emotional distress. 
 
“‘The elements of a prima facie case for the tort of
intentional infliction of emotional distress were summarized in [citation], as
follows: “(1) extreme and outrageous conduct by the defendant with the
intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the probability of causing,
emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff’s suffering severe or extreme emotional
distress; and (3) actual and proximate causation of the emotional distress by
the defendant’s outrageous conduct.”’ [Citation.]”  (Flynn v. Higham (1983)
149 Cal.App.3d 677, 681.)
 
“Extreme and outrageous conduct is conduct that is ‘“so
extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized
community”’ [citation] and must be ‘“of a nature which is especially calculated
to cause, and does cause, mental distress.”’  [Citation.] ‘“‘[I]t is for
the court to determine, in the first instance, whether the defendant’s conduct
may reasonably be regarded as so extreme and outrageous as to permit
recovery.’”’  [Citation.]”  (Chang v. Lederman (2009) 172
Cal.App.4th 67, 86–87.)
 
“[I]t is clear that the
availability of a remedy for breach of implied warranty of habitability does
not preclude a tenant from suing his landlord for intentional infliction of
mental distress if the landlord's acts are extreme and outrageous and result in
severe mental distress.” (Stoiber v. Honeychuck (1980) 101 Cal.App.3d
903, 921.) “Behavior may be considered outrageous if a defendant (1) abuses a
relation or position which gives him power to damage the plaintiff's interest;
(2) knows the plaintiff is susceptible to injuries through mental distress; or
(3) acts intentionally or unreasonably with the recognition that the acts are
likely to result in illness through mental distress.” (Id.)
Here, as the court noted before in its prior ruling to
Defendant’s demurrer, the allegations are not sufficient to show that
Defendant abused a position of power. Further, there are no facts which would show that Defendant
had any knowledge of the Plaintiffs’ susceptibility to emotional distress and
that it acted unreasonably knowing that emotional distress would occur from
Defendant’s actions. Plaintiffs were allowed leave to amend the pleadings, but
have not pled additional facts sufficient to state a cause of action for IIED. 
Additionally, the allegations
relating to severe emotional distress are insufficient to meet the high bar to
establish severe emotional distress.  (See e.g., Pittman v. City of
Oakland (1988) 197 Cal.App.3d 1037, 1047 [mere allegation that plaintiff
suffered shame, humiliation and embarrassment without further factual
explanation fails to state claim for intentional infliction of emotional
distress]; see also Hughes (2009) 46 Cal.4th at 1051.) Here,
Plaintiffs have not pled any facts that they suffered severe emotional
distress, and merely allege they suffered severe emotional distress, along with
a list of symptoms, without any factual basis. (FAC, ¶ 82.)
The
demurrer is therefore sustained.

Plaintiffs have not filed an
opposition and thus have failed to show how the FAC can be successfully amended
to adequately state a cause of action for IIED. As such, leave to amend will
not be permitted unless Plaintiffs can show at the hearing how they will
successfully amend their FAC.
 
Motion to Strike 
 
To
support a claim for punitive damages, a plaintiff must allege facts and
circumstances showing conduct constituting malice, fraud or oppression.¿(Grieves
v. Superior Court¿(1984) 157 Cal. App. 3d 159, 166.) The predicate acts to
support a claim for punitive damages must be intended to cause injury or must
constitute “malicious conduct,” defined as “despicable conduct” carried on by
Defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights of others. (Code
Civ. Proc. § 3294(a).) Oppressive conduct is defined as “despicable conduct”
that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of a
person’s rights. (Code Civ. Proc. § 3294(c).)¿¿Plaintiff must allege facts
demonstrating that “the defendant acted in such an outrageous and reprehensible
manner that the jury could infer that he knowingly disregarded the substantial
certainty of injury to others." (Dawes v. Superior Court (1980) 111
Cal. App. 3d 82, 90.) Moreover, a claim for punitive damages cannot be pleaded
generally and allegations that a defendant acted "with oppression, fraud
and malice" toward plaintiff are insufficient legal conclusions to show
that the plaintiff is entitled to an award of punitive damages. (Brousseau
v. Jarrett (1977) 73 Cal.App.3d 864, 872.) Rather, specific factual
allegations are required to support a claim for punitive damages. (Id.)
 
 Further, in order to state a claim for
punitive damages against an employer based upon the acts of the employees, the
plaintiff must plead that “the employer had advance knowledge of the unfitness
of the employee and employed him or her with a conscious disregard of the
rights or safety of others or authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct for
which the damages are awarded or was personally guilty of oppression, fraud,
or malice.  With respect to a
corporate employer, the advance knowledge and conscious disregard,
authorization, ratification or act of oppression, fraud, or malice must be on
the part of an officer, director, or managing agent of the corporation.”  (Civ. Code § 3294(b).)
 
Here, the FAC does not
plead punitive damages against a corporate defendant such as Defendant, as it
is silent as to whether an officer, director or managing agent of Defendant had
advance knowledge of an unfit employee and employed him or her with a conscious disregard of the
rights or safety of others, or authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct or
was personally guilty of malice. Therefore, the motion to strike is
granted.
 
Plaintiffs have failed to show how
the FAC can be successfully amended to adequately state a claim for punitive
damages against a corporate employee as they have failed to file an opposition.
As such, leave to amend will not be permitted unless Plaintiffs can show at the
hearing how they will successfully amend their FAC.
 
CONCLUSION
Defendant’s demurrer is SUSTAINED
without leave to amend. The motion to strike is GRANTED without leave to amend.
 
Moving party is ordered to give
notice.