 Case Number:  23AHCV02049    Hearing Date:   January 15, 2025    Dept:  X #17 - Jerome Vaughn v. Monrovia Police DepartmentPLAINTIFF’S  MOTION TO SET ASIDE/VACATE DISMISSALPlaintiff moves to set aside the dismissal  and reinstate the case.  Plaintiff failed  to appear at a hearing for an Order to Show Cause re Failure to File Proof of  Service on November 6, 2023.  The FAC was  dismissed.  Plaintiff asserts that he  never received notice of the OSC hearing, because it was sent to an old  address.Tentative RulingPlaintiff’s motion to set aside the dismissal is GRANTED.  The dismissal order is hereby VACATED, and the  case is reinstated.Plaintiff already filed proof of the September 14, 2023  service on May 8, 2024.  However, the  Court orders Plaintiff to serve the summons and complaint upon Defendant once  again, as well as serving notice of this order, as Defendant must have notice  of the case’s reinstatement.An Order to Show Cause re: Failure to File Proof of Service is set for March  26, 2025 at 8:30 a.m. in Department X of the Alhambra Courthouse.Legal Authority and  AnalysisCode of Civil Procedure section 473(d) provides: “The court  may, upon motion of the injured party, or its own motion, correct clerical  mistakes in its judgment or orders as entered, so as to conform to the judgment  or order directed, and may, on motion of either party after notice to the other  party, set aside any void judgment or order.”Plaintiff Jerome  Vaughn, in pro per, has filed a motion to vacate the dismissal of his case  against Defendant Monrovia Police Department, pursuant to Code of Civil  Procedure section 473(d).On November 6, 2023,  the Court heard an Order to Show Cause Re: Failure to File Proof of Service.  There was no appearance by/for the plaintiff  and no proof of service of the proceedings on the named defendant.  (11/6/23 Minute Order.)  For Plaintiff’s failure to appear and for  failing to serve the complaint, the Court ordered the first amended complaint  dismissed without prejudice.  (11/6/23  Minute Order.)On November 17,  2023, Plaintiff filed a motion to vacate order of dismissal, which was denied  on February 7, 2024.  (2/7/24 Minute  Order.)  On August 23, 2024, Plaintiff  filed another amended motion to vacate order of dismissal, which was denied on  October 7, 2024.  (10/7/24 Minute Order.)   On November 12, 2024, Plaintiff filed a  third amended motion to vacate order of dismissal, which was denied on December  4, 2024 due to procedural issues.Plaintiff argues  that the 11/6/23 dismissal order is void because he did not receive notice of  the OSC hearing.  (Vaughn Decl., ¶ 8.)  The record supports Plaintiff’s contention  that the notice of the OSC hearing was mailed to an outdated address and  returned to the Court as undeliverable.  The  lack of notice deprived Plaintiff of the opportunity to address the OSC and  file the proof of service, which had already been completed by Deputy Richard  S. Reinaga on September 14, 2023.  (Vaughn Decl., Exh. A; see also Proof of  Personal Service (filed 5/8/24).)Furthermore,  Plaintiff has demonstrated diligence in seeking relief.  Plaintiff filed multiple motions to vacate the  dismissal order within a year of its entry, albeit ineffectively.  The instant motion, filed within a reasonable  time, reflects Plaintiff’s continued effort to have the case reinstated.The Court notes  California’s strong policy favoring resolution of cases on their merits rather  than dismissal for procedural deficiencies.  Given that the summons and complaint were  served on Defendant, and the failure to file proof of service was the result of  mistake and inadvertence, reinstating the case would not prejudice Defendant.Plaintiff’s motion  is granted.Court is to give notice.