  Case Number:  21STCV23784    Hearing Date:   August 16, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:      August 16, 2024                                            TRIAL DATE:  Not
set
                                                           
CASE:                                GH Palmer, Inc., et al. v. Aquatherm, L.P., et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 21STCV23784
 





















 
DEMURRER
TO CROSS-COMPLAINT WITHOUT MOTION TO STRIKE



 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant
GH Palmer, Inc.
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Defendants/Cross-Complainants
Aquatherm GMBH Aquatherm L.P., AETNA NA, L.C. fa Aquatherm NA, LC
 
 
I.          INTRODUCTION

 
On June 25, 2021, Plaintiffs, GH Palmer, Inc., Palmer/Flower
Street Properties (GH Palmer) and GHP Management Corporation, initiated this
action against Defendants Aquatherm, L.P., AETNA NA, L.C., and Aquatherm GMBH for
(1) Breach of Express Warranty, (2) Strict Products Liability – Manufacturing
Defect, and (3) Strict Products Liability – Design Defect.  GH Palmer, a real estate developer, owns and
operates apartment complexes known as “The Lorenzo,” the “Da Vinci,” and
“Broadway Palace” (the Subject Properties). 
The Complaint alleges that Defendants sold defective Aquatherm piping to
Plaintiffs which were installed in the Subject Properties.  The pipes were sold with a warranty, which
Defendants have refused to honor.
 
On February 23, 2024, Defendants filed a Cross-Complaint
against GH Palmer, Inc. and GJM Engineering, Inc. (GJM) for (1) Negligence, (2)
Contribution, and (3) Implied and Equitable Indemnity.  The Cross-Complaint alleges as follows: GJM
is a plumbing contractor that installed the allegedly defective piping in the
Subject Properties.  After construction
on the Lorenzo was completed, Aquatherm L.P. identified and advised GH Palmer
and/or GJM that GJM used improper installation methods, system design, system
maintenance, and system operations for the Aquatherm piping.
 
On May 9, 2024, GH Palmer filed this Demurrer to the
Cross-Complaint.
 
Defendants filed an opposition.  GH Palmer replied.
 
II.        LEGAL STANDARD 
 
            A demurrer
for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action.¿ (Hahn
v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)¿ When considering demurrers,
courts read the allegations liberally and in context, accepting the alleged
facts as true.¿ (Nolte v. Cedars-Sinai Medical Center (2015) 236
Cal.App.4th 1401, 1406.)¿ “Because a demurrer challenges defects on the face of
the complaint, it can only refer to matters outside the pleading that are
subject to judicial notice.”¿ (Arce ex rel. Arce v. Kaiser Found. Health
Plan, Inc. (2010) 181 Cal.App.4th 471, 556.)¿ 
 
III.       DISCUSSION
 
A.   
Meet and Confer¿¿ 
¿ 
“Before filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person, by telephone, or by video
conference with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer
for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would
resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.”¿(Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41, subd. (a).)  Plaintiff’s counsel has complied with the meet and
confer requirement.¿ (See Declaration of Elliott Z. Chen, ¶ 3.)   
¿ 
B.    
Analysis¿ 
 
GH Palmer demurs to each cause of action in the
Cross-Complaint.  The court addresses
each in turn.
 
1.     
Negligence (1st Cause of Action)
 
“‘The elements for a cause of action for negligence are well
established. They are “(a) a legal duty to use due care; (b) a breach of such
legal duty; [and] (c) the breach as the proximate or legal cause of the
resulting injury.”  (Ladd v. County of San Mateo (1996) 12 Cal.4th
913, 917.) 
 
Defendants’ negligence claim can be summarized as follows:
GH Palmer and GJM negligently, carelessly, and wrongfully failed to use
reasonable care in the design, development, manufacture, supervision,
maintenance, repair, supply of materials, installation, inspection, and/or construction
of the Subject Properties. 
(Cross-Complaint, ¶¶ 16, 22.)  GH
Palmer’s claims and damages are a result of GH Palmer and GJM’s own negligent conduct.
 Because GH Palmer was negligent in maintaining,
installing, and operating the Aquatherm piping, Cross-Defendants have suffered
damages by expending money on consultants’ fees to inspect, repair, and
mitigate damages arising out of said negligent design, construction, repair,
and maintenance and to defend this action. 
(Cross-Complaint, ¶¶ 16, 17, 24.) 
 
GH Palmer argues the negligence claim fails because the duty
and damages elements are not met.  The
court agrees with these observations.  The
crux of Defendants’ negligence claim is that GH Palmer had a duty as a
developer of the Subject Properties to ensure that Defendants’ recommendations
for the installation of Aquatherm green piping were observed.  This position is unsupported by the law.  Defendants do not cite any authority for the
proposition that the user of a product owes a duty to the manufacturer to
follow the manufacturer’s recommendations. 
Instead, Defendants appear to create a duty where none exists.    
 
Mega RV Corp. v. HWH Corp.
(2014) 225 Cal.App.4th 1318 (Mega RV) is instructive. There, the Ertzes
purchased a motor home from retailer Mega RV, which they claimed was
defective.  (Id. at p. 1322.)  Mega RV cross-complained against HWH—a
component part manufacturer—for total or partial indemnification.  HWH, in turn, cross-complained against Mega
RV, asserting that Mega RV was negligent in the servicing of the Ertzes’ motor
home, thereby causing HWH to incur damages (i.e., its attorney’s fees in the
underlying action).  (Id. at p.
1338.)  After a bench trial, the trial
court awarded damages against Mega RV on HWH’s cross-complaint. The Court of
Appeal reversed, holding that “[t]he most fundamental problem with this line of
argument is that Mega RV did not owe a duty of care to HWH in connection with
its servicing of the Ertzes’ motor home.” (Id. at p. 1339.)  The Court rejected the manufacturer’s
position “as a matter of law” because “[the manufacturer] did not suffer
personal injury or injury to other property as a result of [the repairer’s]
alleged tort.”  (Id. at p.
1338.)  
 
Like Mega RV, GH Palmer did not owe a duty of care to
Defendants to properly maintain, install, or operate the Aquatherm green piping
at the Subject Properties.  Defendants
attempt to distinguish Mega RV by pointing to other alleged breaches of
GH Palmer’s duty of care, including the duty to follow manufacturer
instructions,[1] the
duty to follow industry standards, and the broader duty to act reasonably.  But the point remains; Defendants do not
establish that GH Palmer owed any duty to Defendants.[2]  The failure to sufficiently allege the
element of duty is fatal to the claim.
 
            GH Palmer’s
challenge to the element of damages is likewise meritorious. Defendants cannot
suffer damages where no duty existed.  Further,
Defendants’ alleged damages are purely economic losses in the form of
litigation costs, attorneys’ fees and consultants’ fees.  (Cross-Complaint, ¶ 24.)  “In general, there is no recovery in tort for
negligently inflicted ‘purely economic losses,’ meaning financial harm
unaccompanied by physical or property damage.” 
(Sheen v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2022) 12 Cal.5th 905,
948.)  “An actor has no general duty to
avoid the unintentional infliction of economic loss on another.” (Id.
(quoting Restatement (Third) of Torts: Liability for Economic Harm § 1); accord
S. California Gas Leak Cases (2019) 7 Cal.5th 391, 414.)  Consultant fees are also unrecoverable.  This is so because Defendants allege
that it “paid for troubleshooting and repairs out of goodwill.” (Opp., p.
9:16-17.)  By definition, goodwill
payments are voluntary payments. California law is clear that “[p]ayments
voluntarily made, with knowledge of the facts, cannot be recovered.”  (W. Gulf Oil Co. v. Title Ins. & Tr.
Co. (1949) 92 Cal.App.2d 257, 265; accord, Steinman v. Malamed (2010)
185 Cal.App.4th 1550, 1557.)  Accordingly,
Defendants cannot recover damages.  The
negligence claim fails.
 
2.     
Contribution
(2nd Cause of Action)
 
Equitable contribution is the right to recover from a
co-obligor who shares liability with the party seeking contribution.  (Fireman’s
Fund Ins. Co. v. Md. Cas. Co. (1998) 65 Cal.App.4th 1279, 1293.)  A
right of contribution requires: 1) two or more parties jointly at fault; 2)
common liability between or among those parties because of that fault; and 3)
one party paying an unequal portion of the common liability.  (4
Restatement (Second) of Torts § 886A. Rev. 191, 240.) Contribution requires a
joint obligation.  (Civ. Code, § 1432.) “An action to enforce the right of
contribution is governed by equitable principles.  (Overholser v. Glynn
(1968) 267 Cal.App.2d 800, 807; Jans v. Nelson (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th
848, 855.)  Contribution presupposes a common liability which is shared by
joint tortfeasors on a pro rata basis.  (Rollins v. State of California
(1971) 14 Cal.App.3d 160, 165.) 
 
            Defendants
alleges that “[i]f it is determined that Cross-Complainant is liable to any
party for any part of their alleged damages, then Cross-Defendants, and each of
them, are jointly liable and obligated to contribute toward the payment or
repayment of said damage according to their respective proportions.”  (Cross-Complaint, ¶ 26.) 
 
            GH Palmer
argues the contribution claim fails because it is not ripe.  The point is well taken.  Code of Civil Procedure section 875 provides
that “[w]here a money judgment has been rendered jointly against two or more
defendants in a tort action there shall be a right of contribution among them
as hereinafter provided.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 875, subd. (a).) “Such right of contribution may be enforced only after
one tortfeasor has, by payment, discharged the joint judgment or paid more than
his pro rata share thereof.”  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 875, subd. (c), emphasis added.)  In other words, “[a] right of contribution can
come into existence only after rendition of a judgment declaring more than one
defendant jointly liable to the plaintiff.”  (Coca– Cola Bottling Co. v. Lucky Stores,
Inc. (1992) 11 Cal.App.4th 1372, 1378.) 
Defendants cannot sustain their contribution claim where, as here, no
money judgment has been rendered.
 
            Defendants
attempt to avoid this result by arguing that a contribution cause of action
could arise because a judgment could result against a joint tortfeasors.  But Defendants own conditional language confirms
that they do not yet have a contribution claim. 
(See Cross-Complaint, ¶ 26.)
 
3.     
Implied and Equitable
Indemnity (3rd Cause of Action) 
 
The elements of a cause of action for indemnity are (1) a
showing of fault on the part of the indemnitor and (2) resulting damages
to the indemnitee for which the indemnitor is contractually or equitably
responsible. (Expressions at Rancho Niguel Ass’n v. Ahmanson Developments,
Inc. (2001) 86 Cal.App.4th 1135, 1139 (italics in original).)  To
sustain a claim for equitable indemnity, “there must be some basis for tort
liability against the proposed indemnitor.” 
(Stop Loss Ins. Brokers, Inc. v. Brown & Toland Med. Grp.
(2006) 143 Cal.App.4th 1036, 1040.)  “Generally,
it is based on a duty owed to the underlying plaintiff [citations], although
vicarious liability [citation] and strict liability [citation] also may sustain
application of equitable indemnity. In addition, implied contractual indemnity
between the indemnitor and the indemnitee can provide a basis for equitable
indemnity.”  (BFGC Architects Planners, Inc. v. Forcum/Mackey
Construction, Inc. (2004) 119 Cal.App.4th 848, 852.) “[T]there can be
no indemnity without liability.”  (Prince v. Pac. Gas & Elec. Co. (2009)
45 Cal.4th 1151, 1156.)  
 
Here, the third cause of action fails for the same reason as
the negligence claim: the missing element of duty.  The Cross-Complaint likewise fails to show
any other ground such as vicarious liability, strict liability, or a contractual
relationship that might sustain Defendants’ indemnity cause of action.  The third cause of action is deficient.
  
IV.       CONCLUSION 
 
            Based on
the foregoing, Plaintiff and Cross-Defendant GH Palmer, Inc.’s Demurrer to Defendants
and Cross-Complainants Aquatherm GMBH Aquatherm L.P., AETNA NA, L.C. fa
Aquatherm NA, LC’s Cross-Complaint is SUSTAINED.  
 
            Leave to amend
is DENIED.  
 
Demurring party to give notice.  
 
Dated:   August 16,
2024                                          




 


  


 




 


  Kerry Bensinger 
  Judge of the
  Superior Court


 




 


