 Case Number:  24STCV03856    Hearing Date:   August 16, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     August
16, 2024                                 TRIAL
DATE:  Not set
                                                           
CASE:                                Jose Del Toro
Cervantes v. City of Los Angeles, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 24STCV03856
 





















 
PETITION
FOR AN ORDER RELIEVING PLAINTIFF FROM GOVERNMENT ENTITY CLAIM FILING
REQUIREMENTS, OR IN THE ALTERNATIVE, FOR AN ORDER THAT PLAINTIFF HAS
SUBSTANTIALLY COMPLIED WITH SAID REQUIREMENTS 



 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff
Jose Del Toro Cervantes
 
RESPONDING PARTY:      Defendant
Housing Authority of the City of Los Angeles 
 
 
I.          BACKGROUND
 
            On March 23, 2023, Plaintiff Jose Del Toro Cervantes
(Cervantes or Plaintiff) was traveling on Long beach Avene when he was struck
by a vehicle owned by the Housing Authority of the City of Los Angeles (HACLA).  The vehicle was driven by HACLA employee Raul
Garcia Bueno (Bueno) while in the course and scope of his employment.  As a result, Cervantes sustained injury and
damages.  
 
Believing that the HACLA was not a separate entity from the
City of Los Angeles (City), Cervantes filed a claim for damages on September
14, 2023 with the City only. [1]
  The time to file a government claim closed on
September 23, 2023.  Cervantes then
initiated this action against City and Bueno on February 15, 2024.  The City denied Cervantes’s claim on February
28, 2024.
 
On March 6, 2024, Plaintiff determined that HACLA was a
separate entity.[2] 
 
On March 13, 2024, Plaintiff filed an amendment to the
Complaint naming HACLA as Doe 1.  
 
On March 14, 2024, Plaintiff filed an application with HACLA
for permission to file a late claim. 
HACLA did not respond to the application.
 
Plaintiff now petitions this court for relief from the claim
filing requirements pursuant to Government Code section 946.6.
 
HACLA filed an opposition. 
Plaintiff replied.
 
II.        LEGAL STANDARD 
 
Except as provided in Sections
946.4 and 946.6, a written claim must be presented to a public entity and must
be denied or deemed denied before a suit for money or damages may be brought
against the public entity on a cause of action for which a claim is required to
be presented.  (Gov. Code, § 945.4; Munoz
v. State of California (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1767, 1777.)  The claim
must be filed within six months.  (Gov.
Code, § 911.2, subd. (a); Munoz, 33 Cal.App.4th at p. 1777.)
 
When a claim that is required by
Section 911.2 to be presented not later than six months after the accrual of
the cause of action is not presented within that time, a written application
may be made to the public entity for leave to present that claim.  (Gov. Code, § 911.4, subd. (a).) The
application shall be presented to the public entity as provided in Article 2
(commencing with Section 915) within a reasonable time not to exceed one year
after the accrual of the cause of action and shall state the reason for the
delay in presenting the claim.  The
proposed claim shall be attached to the application.  (Gov. Code, § 911.4, subd. (b).)
 
If an injured party who has failed
to timely file a claim has submitted a written application to the public entity
for leave to present such claim and the application has been denied, the
injured party may petition to the court for relief from the claim requirements.¿
A petition pursuant to Government Code section 946.6 must be “filed within six
months after the application to the board is denied or deemed to be denied
pursuant to section 911.6.”¿ (Gov. Code, § 946.6, subd. (b); see also City
of Los Angeles v. Superior Court (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 621, 627.)¿¿ 
 
Section 946.6 further provides, in
relevant part: 
 
The petition shall show each of
the following:  (1) That application was made to the board under
Section 911.4 and was denied or deemed denied. (2) The reason for failure
to present the claim within the time limit specified in Section 911.2. (3)
The information required by Section 910.  (Gov. Code, § 946.6, subd.
(b).) 
 
The court shall relieve the
petitioner from the requirements of Section 945.4 if the court finds that the
application to the board under Section 911.4 was made within a reasonable time
not to exceed that specified in subdivision (b) of Section 911.4 and was denied
or deemed denied pursuant to Section 911.6 and that one or more of the
following is applicable: 
 
(1)¿The failure to present the
claim was through mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect unless
the public entity establishes that it would be prejudiced in the defense of the
claim if the court relieves the petitioner from the requirements of Section
945.4. 
 
(2)¿The person who sustained the alleged injury, damage, or
loss was a minor during all of the time specified in Section 911.2 for the
presentation of the claim. 
 
(3)¿The person who sustained the
alleged injury, damage, or loss was a minor during any of the time specified in
Section 911.2 for the presentation of the claim, provided the application is
presented within six months of the person turning 18 years of age or a year
after the claim accrues, whichever occurs first. 
 
(4)¿The person who sustained the
alleged injury, damage, or loss was physically or mentally incapacitated during
all of the time specified in Section 911.2 for the presentation of the claim
and by reason of that disability failed to present a claim during that
time. 
 
(5)¿The person who sustained the
alleged injury, damage, or loss was physically or mentally incapacitated during
any of the time specified in Section 911.2 for the presentation of the claim
and by reason of that disability failed to present a claim during that time,
provided the application is presented within six months of the person no longer
being physically or mentally incapacitated, or a year after the claim accrues,
whichever occurs first. 
 
(6)¿The person who sustained the
alleged injury, damage, or loss died before the expiration of the time
specified in Section 911.2 for the presentation of the claim. 
 
(Gov. Code, § 946.6, subd.
(c).) 
 
III.      DISCUSSION
 
A petition for section 946.6
relief must show all the following: (1) That application was made to the board
under Section 911.4 and was denied or deemed denied. (2) The reason for
failure to present the claim within the time limit specified in Section
911.2. (3) The information required by Section 910.  (Gov. Code, §
946.6, subd. (b).) 
 
Here, it is undisputed that Plaintiff timely submitted an
application to HACLA seeking permission to file a late claim on March 14,
2024.  It is further undisputed that HACLA
did not respond to Plaintiff’s application within 45 days, resulting in a
deemed denial of the application.  Instead,
the issue presented is whether Plaintiff’s failure to timely present a claim to
HACLA was the result of excusable neglect. 

 
Plaintiff argues his failure to present a timely claim to
HACLA is because Mr. Ohanian “mistakenly, inadvertently, surprisingly and/or
with excusable neglect failed to realize that the Defendant HACLA was a
separate government entity from Defendant COLA. 
As such, [he] did not file a separate claim for damages form with
Defendant HACLA on or before September 23, 2023, the 6-month date from the date
of the accident.”  (Ohanian Decl., ¶ 7.)  
 
HACLA takes issue with Plaintiff’s showing of mistake or excusable
neglect.  It argues that the petition does
not describe any effort made by Plaintiff/Petitioner or his counsel to confirm the
assumption that HACLA was a part of the City of Los Angeles.  HACLA argues Plaintiff cannot claim mistake
or excusable neglect on the part of his counsel when counsel fails to demonstrate
that he diligently researched the claims. 
 
Here, Plaintiff submits the declaration of his counsel, Sark
Ohanian, in support of his claim for relief. 
Mr. Ohanian states:
 
“Acting
expeditiously, I reviewed this matter in September 2023 and determined that:
(1) it involved a government entity (i.e., the Housing Authority of the City of
Los Angeles; and (2) believed that the responsible government entity was
Defendant CITY OF LOS ANGELES ("Defendant COLA") under the mistaken
belief that the Housing Authority of Los Angeles was the name of the department
within Defendant COLA.” 
 
(Ohanian Decl., ¶ 5.)
 
  Plaintiff’s reliance
upon the name of the defendant Housing Authority of the City of Los Angeles provides
a reasonable basis to believe the City of Los Angeles was the proper entity
with which to file a claim.  True, Mr.
Ohanian could have done more but his declaration demonstrates his mistaken
belief that the City of Los Angeles was the proper entity and that he
mistakenly relied upon the target’s name to determine the filing location.  Moreover, after he learned of his error, he
acted expeditiously to file the claims and to name HACLA as a defendant.  
 
HACLA correctly cites to authority for the proposition
diligence is required. Nonetheless, here, Mr. Ohanian made a reasonable mistake
based upon the name of the entity and acted diligently once he learned of his
error.  Under these circumstances the
remedial nature of the statute, Government Code section 946.6, controls. 
 
IV.       CONCLUSION 
 
Accordingly, the petition is GRANTED. 
 
Plaintiff to give notice. 

 
 
Dated:   August 16, 2024          





 


   


 




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 


 




 
 
 


