 On December 22, 2023, Plaintiffs Evelin Liseth Gonzalez Rodriguez, individually and as successor-in-interest of her deceased husband, Wilmer Ruben Martinez Paredes, Brianna Magali Martinez Gonzalez, Andy Ruben Martinez, and Aliyah Liseth Martinez Gonzalez filed the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) for (1) negligence, (2) strict liability—warning defect, (3) strict liability—design defect, (4) fraudulent concealment, and (5) breach of implied warranties.  The primary allegations of the FAC are as follows.  “From about 2004 to 2021, Decedent, WILMER RUBEN MARTINEZ PAREDES, cut, ground, drilled, edged, polished, fabricated and installed artificial stone and natural stone countertops for kitchens and bathrooms.”  “Decedent, WILMER RUBEN MARTINEZ PAREDES, was thereby exposed to and inhaled respirable crystalline silica, metals and other toxins from said products. As a direct and proximate result of WILMER RUBEN MARTINEZPAREDES’ exposure to silica, metals and other toxins within said products manufactured, distributed and/or supplied by Defendants, Decedent, WILMER RUBEN MARTINEZ PAREDES, developed and suffered from silicosis, pulmonary fibrosis, progressive massive fibrosis, rheumatoid arthritis, tuberculosis, and other medical conditions that required medical treatment and hospitalizations, from which he died.”Demurrer Defendant Costco Wholesale Corporation demurs to the FAC’s concealment claim for uncertainty and failure to state sufficient facts.  Specifically, Costco contends that the FAC is conclusory as to it and that none of the elements for fraud have been pleaded.When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context, and “treat the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Serrano v. Priest (1971) 5 Cal.3d 584, 591.)  “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”  (Hahn v. Mirda¿(2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)  It is error “to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if the plaintiff shows there is a reasonable possibility any defect identified by the defendant can be cured by amendment.”  (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist.¿(1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)“The required elements for fraudulent concealment are (1) concealment or suppression of a material fact; (2) by a defendant with a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff; (3) the defendant intended to defraud the plaintiff by intentionally concealing or suppressing the fact; (4) the plaintiff was unaware of the fact and would not have acted as he or she did if he or she had known of the concealed or suppressed fact; and (5) plaintiff sustained damage as a result of the concealment or suppression of the fact. [Citation.]”  (Graham v. Bank of America, N.A. (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 594, 606.)There are “four circumstances in which nondisclosure or concealment may constitute actionable fraud: (1) when the defendant is in a fiduciary relationship with the plaintiff; (2) when the defendant had exclusive knowledge of material facts not known to the plaintiff; (3) when the defendant actively conceals a material fact from the plaintiff; and (4) when the defendant makes partial representations but also suppresses some material facts.”  (Heliotis v. Schuman (1986) 181 Cal. App. 3d 646, 651.)  In other words, where a “fiduciary relationship is not involved, a nondisclosure claim arises when the defendant makes representations but fails to disclose additional facts which materially qualify the facts disclosed, or which render the disclosure likely to mislead.”  (Roddenberry v. Roddenberry (1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 634, 666.)  In order to establish a non-fiduciary duty to disclose for the purposes of a concealment claim, there must be a transactional relationship.  (Bigler-Engler v. Breg, Inc. (2017) 7 Cal.App.5th 276, 312.)Here, sufficient facts have not been pleaded to indicate that Costco—a retailer—actively knew that the subject products were harmful but sold them anyway at the expense of people’s health so as to obtain profits.  The allegations make sense within the context of some of the manufacturers; however, it is not clear how retailers, who would ordinarily be defendants for a products liability claim, are involved in a fraudulent scheme.  The Demurrer is sustained.  The Court is inclined to deny leave to amend, but will hear arguments on this issue. Motion to StrikeCostco also seeks to strike the FAC’s references to (1) punitive damages and (2) the phrase, “[a]nd other stone products to be identified through the course of discovery.”Motions to strike are used to challenge defects in the pleadings not subject to demurrer.  Any party may move to strike the whole or any part of a pleading within the time allotted to respond to the pleading.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 435(b)(1).)  The grounds for a motion to strike shall appear on the face of the challenged pleading or from any matter of which the Court is required to take judicial notice.  (Id. § 437(a).)  The Court may strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading, and strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.  (Id. § 436.)  An “irrelevant” matter includes any “demand for judgment requesting relief not supported by the allegations of the complaint or cross-complaint.”  (Id. § 431.10(b)(3), (c); see also Smith v. Superior Court (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1033, 1036-1042.)Punitive damages are available when the plaintiff establishes oppression, fraud, or malice by clear and convincing evidence.  (Civ. Code § 3294(a).)  Malice means “conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.”  (Civ. Code § 3294(c)(1).)  In this context, despicable conduct is conduct considered “so vile, base, contemptible, miserable, wretched or loathsome that it would be looked down upon and despised by ordinary decent people.”  (Scott v. Phoenix Schools, Inc. (2009) 175 Cal.App.4th 702, 715, internal quotation marks omitted.)  Oppression means “despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s rights.”  (Civ. Code § 3294(c)(2).)  Fraud means “an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.”  (Id. § 3294(c)(3).)“[M]alice does not require actual intent to harm. (Id. at p. 895, 157 Cal.Rptr. 693, 598 P.2d 854.) Conscious disregard for the safety of another may be sufficient where the defendant is aware of the probable dangerous consequences of his or her conduct and he or she willfully fails to avoid such consequences. (Id. at pp. 895–896, 157 Cal.Rptr. 693, 598 P.2d 854.) Malice may be proved either expressly through direct evidence or by implication through indirect evidence from which the jury draws inferences.”  (Angie M. v. Superior Ct. (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1217, 1228.)The Motion to Strike is granted as to punitive damages because the FAC has very few facts relating specifically to Costco and there are certainly no allegations that rise to the level of malice, fraud, or oppression.  Leave to amend is denied.As to the reference of liability for “other stone products to be identified through the course of discovery”, the Court believes this is a nonissue to the extent that specific products have already been identified within the FAC.  That is, the Motion to Strike is denied on this issue as an improper line-item veto.  (See PH II, Inc. v. Superior Court (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1680, 1683.)In sum, the Motion to Strike is granted in part, without leave to amend.Moving party to give notice to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 