  Case Number:  22CHCV01440    Hearing Date:   December 5, 2024    Dept:  F51  DECEMBER 4,  2024    MOTIONS FOR  PROTECTIVE ORDERS  Los Angeles Superior Court Case # 22CHCV01440    Motions filed: 7/26/24, 7/29/24   MOVING PARTY: Defendants Jose Armando Priego; and  West Coast Arborists, Inc. (collectively, “Defendants”)  RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff Kirk Dietrich  Mullins (“Plaintiff”)  NOTICE: ok    RELIEF REQUESTED: Protective orders prohibiting  the noticed depositions of the following deponents from being taken, and  further precluding any attempt to enforce the related production demands: ·          David Evans; ·          Heriberto Coronel; ·          Jose M. Chavarria Manzo; ·          Daniel Villa; and ·          Maria Berry. Defendants also  seek monetary sanctions against Plaintiff and/or his counsel in the total  amount of $4,575.00.   TENTATIVE RULING: The  motions are granted. The Court declines to issue monetary sanctions.   BACKGROUND   This is a personal injury action in  which Plaintiff alleges that on 6/1/22, he was injured when a commercial truck  operated by defendant Jose Armando Priego collided with Plaintiff’s motorcycle at  the intersection of Del Monte Drive and Park View Road in the City of Santa  Clarita. (Compl. ¶ 1.) Plaintiff alleges that at the time of the subject  incident, Priego was acting in the course and scope of his employment with  defendant West Coast Arborists, Inc. (“WCA”). (Id.  at ¶ 6.)   On 12/19/22, Plaintiff filed his  complaint, alleging the following causes of action: (1) Negligence/Negligence  Per Se; and (2) Statutory Liability. On 2/15/23, Defendants filed their answers.   On 7/3/24, Plaintiff  served Defendants with notices of deposition of the five subject deponents.  (Ex. A to Decl. of Martin S. McMahan.) On 7/26/24 and 7/29/24, Defendants filed  the instant motions. On 11/20/24, Plaintiff filed his opposition. On 11/26/24,  Defendants filed their reply.   ANALYSIS   “Before, during, or after a  deposition, any party, any deponent, or any other affected natural person or  organization may promptly move for a protective order.” (Code Civ. Proc. §  2025.420, subd. (a).) “The court, for good cause shown, may make any order that  justice requires to protect any party, deponent, or other natural person or  organization from unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, or oppression, or undue  burden and expense.” (Id. at subd. (b).)   Here, Defendants move for protective  orders preventing Plaintiff from deposing each of the five subject deponents,  arguing that the deponents have no relevant testimony to offer, therefore their  depositions would be unduly burdensome.              1.      Meet and Confer   A motion for a protective order must  “be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.” (Code  Civ. Proc. § 2025.420, subd. (a).) Here, Defendants’ counsel declares that beginning  on 3/28/24, he began meet and confer efforts with Plaintiff’s counsel regarding  the issues raised herein. (McMahan Decl. ¶ 9.) Counsel for the parties  continued to meet and confer but were unable to come to a resolution. (Id. at  ¶¶ 10–16.) Accordingly, the Court finds that counsel has satisfied the meet and  confer requirements under Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.420, subdivision  (a).   2.      Relevance/Undue Burden   Here, Defendants assert that none of  the noticed deponents “has any knowledge regarding the underlying  traffic accident, the fault of either driver, the cause of any claimed injuries  or the extent of those injuries. Without such knowledge, their deposition(s)  would be pointless and the pursuit of such discovery is abusive and harassing.”  (Defs.’ Mot. 2:16–20.)   Discovery is relevant if it is  admissible as evidence, or “appears reasonably calculated to lead to the  discovery of admissible evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2017.010.) “Discovery may  relate to the claim or defense of the party seeking discovery or of any other  party to the action.” (Ibid.)   Here, Defendants argue that “with  vicarious liability conceded, there are only four remaining issues to be  decided by the jury. First, whether Mr. Priego was negligent while operating  the WCA vehicle. Second, whether Mr. Mullins contributed to the accident due to  his own negligence. Third, whether the accident caused Mr. Mullins’s claimed  injuries. And, lastly, the nature and extent of Mr. Mullins’ damages.” (Defs.’  Mot. 8:13–16.) The instant motions concern “the following five persons: Maria  Berry (WCA Claims Coordinator; Jose M. Chavarria Manzo (Field Supervisor);  Heriberto Coronel (Shop Foreman); David Evans (Area Manager, no longer employed  by WCA); and Daniel Villa (Field Supervisor).” (Id. at 14:17–20.) Defendants  assert that “the testimony of these individuals is pointless in this case as  they can offer nothing that bears any relevance to the four issues that remain  to be decided by the jury. In other words, the other five persons whose  depositions were re-noticed by Mr. Mullins have no knowledge relevant to either  liability, causation, or damages.” (Id. at 11:3–6.)   Defendants cite to Armenta v. Churchill (1954)  42 Cal.2d 448, and Diaz v. Carcamo (2011) 51 Cal.4th 1148, in support of  Defendants’ argument that “if the employee was acting in the course and scope  of his employment, then the employer is vicariously liable for the  actions of its employee and there is therefore no basis for establishing direct  negligence against the employer.” (Id. at 17:9–11 [emphasis in  original].) Specifically, in Diaz, the California Supreme Court opined  that if a plaintiff injured by a person driving a car in the course of  employment asserts theories of both respondeat superior and negligent  entrustment, hiring, or retention against the employer, and the employer admits  vicarious liability for any negligent driving by its employee, the plaintiff  may not still pursue the negligent entrustment, hiring, or retention claim. (51  Cal.4th at 1152, citing Armenta, 42 Cal.2d at 457–458.) “If, as here, an  employer offers to admit vicarious liability for its employee’s negligent  driving, then claims against the employer based on theories of negligent  entrustment, hiring, or retention become superfluous. To allow such claims in  that situation would subject the employer to a share of fault in addition to  the share of fault assigned to the employee, for which the employer has already  accepted liability.” (Id. at 1160 [emphasis in original].)   In opposition, Plaintiff concedes that he “has since  clarified that the information is being sought only to pursue Defendant  Priego’s negligence.” (Pl.’s Opp. 2:23–24.) Nevertheless, Plaintiff asserts  that the testimony would be relevant because “the purpose of the sought  depositions is not to delve into WCA’s broader employment policies, but rather  to obtain first-hand knowledge from employees who may have direct insights into  the events leading up to and immediately following the crash, and Defendant  Priego’s overall compliance with safety standards and his fitness to operate  the truck he was driving at the time of the incident.” (Id. at 3:4–8.)  Plaintiff argues that “each of these five WCA employees have direct knowledge  of Defendant Priego’s complete unfitness and incompetence to operate the truck  at the time of the incident.” (Id. at 11:15–16.)   Plaintiff further argues that despite the holdings in Diaz  and Armenta, “an employer’s admission of liability does not preclude  punitive damages claims related to employer misconduct.” (Id. at 12:16–18,  citing CRST, Inc. v. Superior Court (2017) 11 Cal.App.5th 1255.) In CSRT,  the Court of Appeal held that “upon a suitable demonstration of employer  misconduct, a vicariously liable employer may be subject to an award of  punitive damages when an employee was negligent.” (11 Cal.App.5th at 1261.) The  CSRT court continued to opine that “because neither Diaz nor Armenta  addressed an action in which punitive damages were sought, in each case the  employer’s admission of vicarious liability necessarily rendered superfluous  any allegations or evidence bearing on the employer’s own misconduct. That is  not the case, however, when the plaintiff seeks compensatory damages from the  employer on a theory of vicarious liability, and also requests punitive  damages from the employer.” (Id. at 1264 [emphasis added].)   To this extent, Plaintiff contends that “the requested  testimony is further critical to establish potential punitive damages, for  which Plaintiff may seek leave from Court to amend his complaint to add these  allegations depending on the outcome of the depositions and address lingering  factual disputes.” (Id. at 3:9–11.) “Plaintiff intends to establish that  Priego’s conduct was more than just negligent; rather, it demonstrated a severe  disregard for the safety of others. … Evidence of such conduct could substantiate  claims that Priego’s actions were reckless or exhibited a conscious disregard  for safety, thus qualifying for punitive damages. … The depositions of WCA  employees who interacted with Priego regularly are crucial to uncovering  evidence of this nature, as these individuals possess firsthand knowledge of  Priego’s habitual behavior, compliance with safety procedures (or lack  thereof), and attitude towards operational protocols.” (Id. at 5:4–10.)  Plaintiff therefore maintains that he “has the right to find out exactly how  and why Defendant WCA turned a blind eye to Defendant Priego’s blatant  inability to safely operate this truck to pursue a potential punitive damages  claim.” (Id. at 11:22–24.)   In reply, Defendants argue that “there is no punitive  damage claim in this case and there never will be because there is nothing to  even suggest recklessness or substance abuse on the part of Mr. Priego or his  employer.” (Defs.’ Reply 5:11–13.) Defendants further assert that the CSRT case  is inapposite here, as the “opinion says nothing about allowing a plaintiff to  engage in a fishing expedition to seek any possible evidence that might support  a doubtful claim for punitive damages in a case where no punitive damages  have been alleged.” (Id. at 9:8–10 [emphasis added].) Defendants  argue that here, unlike in CSRT, “there isn’t a shred of evidence to  even suggest recklessness, intoxication, lying on an employment application,  termination from prior employment for intoxication or any other indication of  behavior on the part of Mr. Priego that might support punitive damages against  either WCA or Mr. Priego in this case.” (Id. at 10:6–9.) Defendants  further argue that to accept Plaintiff’s argument that the CSRT holding  creates an exception to the rule set forth under Diaz and Armenta  would imply that “any party could simply get around the Diaz holding  simply by claiming that he might find support for a punitive damage claim or by  making frivolous punitive damage claims in his complaint.” (Id. at 10:16–18.)   Defendants further argue that even if Court finds  testimony regarding Priego’s prior compliance with WCA’s safety protocols to be  relevant, this testimony would be inadmissible because “Evidence Code section  1101 specifically excludes character evidence to prove fault on a particular  occasion.” (Id. at 5:17–18.) Defendants further argue that the noticed  depositions would be fruitless because “the only persons who would have  knowledge regarding Jose Priego’s regular driving practices are Alejandro  Priego, Clemente Priego, and Francis Malabuyoc. Each of those persons have been  deposed.” (Id. at 7:10–12.) The Court agrees with Defendants, and finds  that the CSRT exception is inapplicable here, where Plaintiff has not  prayed for punitive damages in his complaint. The Court takes note that this case  was initiated nearly two years ago, and that discovery efforts have long been  underway, and therefore is not persuaded by Plaintiff’s argument that he may,  at an unspecified later date, potentially seek leave to add a prayer for  punitive damages against Defendants.   Defendants further argue that “there is no basis for taking the  deposition of [each deponent] in this case and causing [them] to attend a  lengthy deposition so that Plaintiff’s counsel can engage in a fishing  expedition is improper, unfair and unduly burdensome both to [the deponents]  and to WCA.” (Defs.’ Mot. 15:10–12.) The Court agrees, noting each deponent’s  sworn declaration attesting that they do not possess any responsive documents  or personal knowledge of the subject incident or Plaintiff’s claimed damages,  and that under these circumstances it would cause a substantial hardship for  each individual to attend the noticed deposition. (Decl. of David Evans ¶¶ 3–8;  Decl. of Heriberto Coronel ¶¶ 3–8; Decl. of Jose M. Chavarria Manzo ¶¶ 3–8;  Decl. of Daniel Villa ¶¶ 3–8; Decl. of Maria Berry ¶¶ 3–8.)   Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that the  requested testimony and related document productions are not relevant here,  where WCA has admitted vicarious liability and Plaintiff does not seek punitive  damages against Defendants. The Court further finds that under these  circumstances, deposing each of the five noticed individuals would cause undue  burden to both the deponents and to counsel. Accordingly, the motions for  protective orders are granted.   3.      Sanctions   “The court shall impose a monetary sanction … against  any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion for  a protective order, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted  with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition  of the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.420, subd. (h).)  Additionally, “the court may impose a monetary sanction ordering that one  engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any attorney advising that  conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees,  incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2023.030,  subd. (a).)   Here, Defendants request monetary  sanctions in the amount of $915.00 per motion, totaling $4,575.00, to be  imposed against Plaintiff and/or his counsel. While the Court grants the  instant motions, it finds the imposition of sanctions to be unjust because each  party appears to have substantial justification for making and opposing the  motion. Accordingly, the Court declines to issue monetary sanctions against  either party.   CONCLUSION   The  motions are granted. The Court declines to issue monetary sanctions.