 Case Number:  23NWCV00185    Hearing Date:   October 3, 2024    Dept:  C RACK LEE LLC v.
UNICORN, INC. 
CASE NO.:  23NWCV00185
HEARING:  10/03/24
 
#4
 
Defendant/Cross-Complainant M.G. UNICORN, INC.’s Motion: (1)
To Compel Cross-Defendant XIANGMEI LI’s Attendance at Deposition for Answering
Questions is DENIED; (2) For a Protective Order Prohibiting Plaintiff/Cross-Defendants’
Counsel from Obstructing Deposition with Speaking Objections and Misconduct is GRANTED
in part; (3) For Appointment of a Discovery Referee is DENIED; and
(4) For Monetary Sanctions is DENIED. 
 
Moving Party to give notice. 
 
In an exercise of its discretion, this Court has reviewed
and considered the untimely Reply filed on September 30, 2024 (due by September
25, 2024). (CCP §1005(b).) 
 
This breach of contract action was filed by Plaintiff RACK
LEE LLC (“Plaintiff”) against Defendant M.G. UNICORN, INC. (“Defendant” or
“Cross-Complainant” or “M.G. Unicorn”) 
on January 18, 2023. On March 29, 2023, the operative First Amended
Complaint (“FAC”) was filed. Plaintiff alleges that “[i]n or about March 2019,
Plaintiff and Defendants… entered into an oral agreement for the sale and
purchase of the Product….” (FAC ¶12.) “Plaintiff performed all, or
substantially all, of its obligations under the contract except those things
Plaintiff was prevented and/or excused from performing by the actions/inactions
of Defendants, and each of them.” (FAC ¶13.) “Defendants and each of them, have
breached the Contract by, at a minimum, failing to perform the terms of the
contract as understood by the parties….” (FAC ¶14.) 
 
The FAC asserts the following causes of action: 
 
(1) Breach
of Contract; 
(2) Common
Counts – Goods and Services Rendered; and 
(3) Conversion
 
On March 28, 2024, Defendant/Cross-Complainant M.G. Unicorn,
Inc. filed the operative First Amended Cross-Complaint (“FAXC”) against
Cross-Defendants RACK LEE LLC; XIANGMEI LI; ZHANG CHENG GUANG; SHANDONG
SHENGXIANG SMART WAREHOUSE TECHNOLOGY COMPANY LIMITED (collectively
“Cross-Defendants”). The FAXC alleges that “[u]ntil April 2022, the business
relationship got strained because of Cross-Defendant’s repeated deliveries of
wrong sized and poor-quality products and containers Cross-Complainant did not
order. Cross-Complainant requested Li to either return or lower the price of
those containers she delivered. After multiple times of negotiation through
phone, WeChat or in person, Li agreed to lower the price, she also agreed to
return some of those wrong sized products and sell those on her own. However,
Li never picked up those wrong sized products. At this time , the parties
continued to do business together although their relationship was in doubt.”
(FAXC ¶11.) 
 
The FAXC asserts the following causes of action: 


(1) Common
[Count] – Goods and Services Rendered; and
(2) Conversion

 
M.G. Unicorn served a Notice of Taking the Deposition of Cross-Defendant
Xiangmei Li, the principal of Rack Lee LLC for December 18, 2023. Xiangmei Li
appeared on the time and date noticed. However, before the conclusion of the
deposition,  Counsel for M.G. Unicorn, the
deposing party, Long v. Liu, abruptly ended the deposition stating: “I am
suspending this deposition right now, and I am going to file a motion against
you and your client.” (Liu Decl., ¶2, Ex. A., p. 47.) 
 
M.G. Unicorn now moves: (1) To Compel Cross-Defendant
XIANGMEI LI’s Attendance at Deposition for Answering Questions; (2) For a
Protective Order Prohibiting Xiangmei Li’s Counsel from Obstructing Deposition
with Speaking Objections and Misconduct; (3) For Appointment of a Discovery
Referee; and (4) For Monetary Sanctions. M.G. Unicorn argues that this Motion
should be granted because Attorney Luan (counsel for Plaintiff and
Cross-Defendant Xiangmei Li) engaged in inappropriate conduct which prevented
the deposition from moving forward.  
 
In Opposition, Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Rack Lee, LLC and
Cross-Defendant Xiangmei Li argue that the Motion should be denied because “[t]he
failure of the deposition on December 18, 2023 is solely and completely due to
the deposing attorneys’ unpreparedness in that (1) they did not have a single
piece of evidence or exhibits for the deposition; (2) they did not know what
question to ask: [3] they did not know how to lay foundation to make their
questions understandable to the deponent; and (4) they did not even know how to
use ‘Share Screen’ of Zoom to do a deposition, etc.” (Opp. p. 2, ¶4.) 
 
          Motion to
Compel Attendance/Answers at Deposition 
 
CCP §2025.460(e) states, “If a deponent fails to answer any
questions or to produce any document, electronically stored information, or
tangible thing under the deponent’s control that is specified in the deposition
notice or a deposition subpoena, the party seeking that answer or production
may adjourn the deposition or complete the examination on other matters without
waiving the right at a later time to move for an order compelling that answer
or production under section 2025.480.” (Id.) 
 
Under CCP §2025.480, “(a) If a deponent fails to answer any
question or to produce any document… that is specified in the deposition notice
or a deposition subpoena, the party seeking discovery may move the court for an
order compelling that answer or production. (b) The motion shall be made no
later than 60 days after the completion of the record of the deposition, and
shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040….
If the court determines that the answer or production sought is subject to
discovery, it shall order that the answer be given or the production be made on
the resumption of the deposition…. The court shall impose a monetary sanction
under Chapter 7… against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully
makes or opposes a motion to compel an answer or production, unless it finds that
the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that
other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust….” (Id.) 
 
The Court has reviewed the Separate Statement and the
deposition transcript. The Court finds that at no point during the deposition
did Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Li’s Counsel instruct Cross-Defendant Li not to
answer certain questions. Although a number of speaking objections that
appeared to coach, and which interrupted the flow of questioning were improper,
the transcript does not indicate that Ms. Li failed to answer any questions or
produce any documents. Moreover, it is undisputed that Ms. Li appeared for the
deposition on the time and date noticed. 
 
The Motion to Compel Attendance/Answer Questions at
Deposition is DENIED. 
 
Motion for a Protective Order 
 
CCP §2025.470 provides that: “The deposition officer may not
suspend the taking of testimony without the stipulation of all parties present
unless any party attending the deposition, including the deponent, demands that
the deposition officer suspend taking the testimony to enable that party or
deponent to move for a protective order under Section 2025.420 on the ground
that the examination is being conducted in bad faith or in a manner that
unreasonably annoys, embarrasses, or oppresses that deponent or party.” (CCP
§2025.470) 
 
The Court finds that the initial session of Xiangmei Li’s
deposition was not suspended. The Motion is not supported by any
evidence of a stipulation to suspend Ms. Li’s deposition, or that any party
demanded such a suspension so that a Motion for Protective Order could be
brought. The deposition transcript shows that M.G. Unicorn’s Counsel ended the
deposition by stating “I am suspending this deposition right now, and I am
going to file a motion against you and your client.” (Liu Decl., ¶2, Ex. A., p.
47.) M.G. Unicorn’s Counsel did not state what Motion would be filed, and at no
time was a protective order expressly mentioned. 
 
Because Ms. Li’s deposition was completed, the present
motion should be one to compel a second deposition. To obtain this relief, the moving
party must satisfy the requirements of CCP §2025.610. “[F]or good cause shown,
the court may grant leave to take a subsequent deposition….” (CCP
§2025.610(b).) 
 
The Court has reviewed the transcript of the deposition.
Based on the Court’s review of this evidence, the Court finds that unnecessary
obstructive conduct prevented the deposition from proceeding as it should. Mr.
Luan (counsel for Plaintiff and Cross-Defendants) interrupted the line of
questioning and insulted M.G. Unicorn’s counsel numerous times—including
calling them “stupid”. Given Mr. Luan’s conduct during the initial deposition
of Ms. Li, the Court finds good cause to grant M.G. Unicorn leave to take the
subsequent deposition of Ms. Li, and will proceed to rule on the merits as to the
request for a protective order under CCP §2025.420.
 
“Before, during, or after a deposition, any party, any
deponent, or any other affected natural person or organization may promptly
move for a protective order. The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and
confer declaration under Section 2016.040.” (CCP §2025.420(a).) “The court, for
good cause shown, may make any order that justice requires to protect any
party, deponent, or other natural person or organization from unwarranted
annoyance, embarrassment, or oppression, or undue burden or expense.” (CCP §2025.420(b).)

 
The Court finds that the parties have satisfied the meet and
confer requirement.  
 
The Court also finds that there is good cause to issue some
form of a protective order under CCP §2025.420, which vests the Court with
discretion to issue any protective order “that justice requires,” to protect a
party—in this case, Defendant/Cross-Complainant M.G. Unicorn, Inc. from the
unwarranted annoyance and undue burden of having to ask questions over the
constant interruptions, unnecessary commentary, and speaking objections of
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant’s Counsel. 
 
At a discovery deposition, all objections except as to the
form of the question and privilege are preserved, and the testimony is to be
taken subject to those questions. A proper objection states the legal ground
for the objection. If the objection is proper, it can be sustained, and the
answer will not be used. If the objection is overruled, the answer will stand.
Instructions not to answer are ordinarily only made for privilege, work
product, and some privacy and trade secret objections. 
 
Counsel are ORDERED to refrain from “speaking objections.”
Objections should state the legal ground for the objection. Instructions not to
answer shall only be made for valid legal grounds. 
 
The parties are ORDERED to meet and confer to schedule a
resumption of the deposition to be taken within 20 days from the date of the
Court’s issuance of this Order. The Court notes that trial is currently
scheduled to begin on January 3, 2025. 
 
          Request
for Appointment of Discovery Referee
 
M.G. Unicorn argues that a discovery referee is necessary as
to the continued deposition of Xiangmei Li because Plaintiff/Cross-Defendants’
Counsel’s conduct was obstructive and offensive. 
 
The Court has power to appoint a referee to supervise the
deposition, if necessary, to hear and determine any and all discovery motions
and disputes relevant to discovery in the action, and to report findings and
make recommendations thereon. (CCP §639(a)(5).) Under CCP §639(d), all
appointments of referees pursuant to this section shall be by written order and
shall include the following: “When the referee is appointed pursuant to
paragraph (a)(5), the exceptional circumstances requiring the reference, which
must be specific to the circumstances of the particular case.” “Exceptional
circumstances” are required to appoint a referee to hear and determine any and
all discovery motions and disputes relevant to discovery in the action and to
report findings and make a recommendation thereon. (CCP §639(d)(2).) 
 
This request is DENIED. Exceptional circumstances do not
exist. The conflict here is between counsel, and the imposition of the
protective order above should eliminate the need for the appointment of a
discovery referee. Counsel are reminded that name calling is unprofessional.
Counsel are reminded of their oath to conduct themselves at all times with
dignity, courtesy, and integrity. 
 
Monetary Sanctions
 
CCP §2017.020(b) requires the Court to impose a monetary
sanction “against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes a motion for a protective order, unless it finds that the one subject
to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (CCP §2017.020(b).) 
 
Given the mixed ruling, both requests for sanctions are
DENIED. Both parties acted with substantial justification. 
 
 
 
 