 Case Number:  24STCV20897    Hearing Date:   December 10, 2024    Dept:  34  
1.              
Defendant Duane Heights L.P.’s Demurrer to Plaintiffs Ashley Miers LaRosa
and John LaRosa’s Complaint is SUSTAINED in part as to Plaintiffs’ third cause
of action and OVERULLED in part as to Plaintiffs’ eighth cause of action. 
 
2.              
Defendant Duane Heights L.P.’s Motion to Strike Portions of Plaintiffs
Ashley Miers Larosa and John Larosa’s Complaint is DENIED.
 
Background
 
            On August 19, 2024, Plaintiffs Ashley Miers Larosa and
John Larosa (“Plaintiffs”) filed a complaint against Defendants Duane Heights
L.P., DDCM Inc., and Does 1-20 (“Defendants”) arising from Plaintiffs’ tenancy in
Defendants’ property located at 2271 Duane St., Unit 1, Los Angeles, CA 90039
(“Subject Property”) alleging cause of action for: 
            
1.              
 Negligence;
2.              
Premises Liability; 
3.              
Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress; 
4.              
Breach of the Implied Warranty of Habitability;
5.              
Breach of the Implied Warranty of Quiet
Enjoyment; 
6.              
Breach of Covenant of Good Faith and Fair
Dealing;
7.              
Breach of Contract;
8.              
Nuisance; and 
9.              
Constructive Eviction. 
 
On October
9, 2024, Defendant Duane Heights L.P. (“Duane”) filed its Demurrer and Motion
to Strike Plaintiffs’ complaint. On November 18, 2024, Plaintiffs filed
oppositions to Duane’s motions. On December 3, 2024, Duane filed replies to
Plaintiffs’ oppositions. 
 
1.    
Demurrer 
 
Legal Standard
 
            “The
party against whom a complaint or cross-complaint has been filed may object, by
demurrer or answer as provided in Section 430.30, to the pleading on any one or
more of” various grounds listed in statute. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10.)
 
            When considering demurrers, courts
read the allegations liberally and in context. In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent
on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A demurrer
tests the pleading alone, and not the evidence or facts alleged.” (E-Fab,
Inc. v. Accountants, Inc. Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.)
As such, the court assumes the truth of the complaint’s properly pleaded or
implied factual allegations. (Ibid.) The only issue a demurrer is
concerned with is whether the complaint, as it stands, states a cause of
action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)
 
            Where
a demurrer is sustained, leave to amend must be allowed where there is a
reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy
(1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) The burden is on the plaintiff to show the court
that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.; Lewis v. YouTube, LLC
(2015) 244 Cal.App.4th 118, 226.) However, “[i]f there is any reasonable
possibility that the plaintiff can state a good cause of action, it is error to
sustain a demurrer without leave to amend.” (Youngman v. Nevada Irrigation
Dist. (1969) 70 Cal.2d 240, 245). 
 
Discussion 
 
            Duane
demurs to Plaintiffs’ third cause of action for negligent infliction of
emotional distress and eighth cause of action for nuisance.  
 
Third
Cause of Action (Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress) 
 
            “The law of negligent infliction of
emotional distress in California is typically analyzed by reference to two
theories of recovery: the ‘bystander’ theory and the ‘direct victim’ theory. The key distinction between a “bystander” and a
“direct victim” case is whether the defendant owed a duty uniquely to the
plaintiff, due to a preexisting relationship or otherwise (a “direct victim”
case), or whether the plaintiff was a stranger to whom defendant owed only the
general tort duty of care that each person owes each other person (a “bystander”
case). (Burgess v. Superior Court (1992) 2 Cal.4th 1064, 1073.) The negligent causing of emotional distress is not an
independent tort, but the tort of negligence. The traditional elements of duty,
breach of duty, causation, and damages apply. Whether a defendant owes a duty
of care is a question of law. (Spates v. Dameron Hosp. Ass’n (2003) 114
Cal.App.4th 208, 213, ellipses, quotation marks, brackets, and paragraph breaks
omitted.) 
 
            Duane argues that Plaintiffs’ third
cause of action for negligent infliction of emotional distress does not appear
to be based on a “bystander” theory. (Demurrer, at p. 5.) Duane contends that Plaintiffs
allege to have suffered emotional distress as a direct result of Defendants’
negligence which is improperly pled. (Ibid.) Additionally, Duane argues
that Plaintiffs’ third cause of action is duplicative of Plaintiffs’ first
cause of action for negligence. (Id., at p. 6.)
 
            In opposition, Plaintiffs make no
arguments in support of overruling Duane’s demurrer to Plaintiffs’ third cause
of action. 
 
            In reply, Duane argues that Plaintiffs’
failure to address the demurring arguments pertaining to the negligent
infliction of emotional distress claim implicitly admits that the demurrer
should be sustained without leave to amend as to that cause of action. (Reply,
at p. 1.)
 
            Plaintiffs allege that Defendants had
a duty which arose from the lease of the Subject Property to Plaintiffs and that
Defendants breached that duty causing damages to Plaintiffs including severe
emotional distress. (Compl., ¶¶ 62-65. )  
 
            The court finds that Plaintiffs did
not sufficiently plead a cause of action for negligent infliction of emotional
distress as they simply restate the elements for negligence without alleging either
a “bystander”
theory or “direct victim” theory for recovery. Additionally, the court agrees
that the negligent
causation of emotional distress is not an independent tort; rather it is the
tort of negligence. (Burgess, supra, 2 Cal.4th at 1072; Potter
v. Firestone Tire & Rubber Co. (1993) 6 Cal.4th 965, 984.) 
 
            The
demurrer to the third cause of action is SUSTAINED.
 
Eighth
Cause of Action (Nuisance) 
 
            To
establish an action for private nuisance, (1) “the plaintiff must prove an
interference with his use and enjoyment of his property”; (2) “the invasion of
the plaintiff’s interest in the use and enjoyment of the land must be
substantial, that is, that it causes the plaintiff to suffer substantial actual
damage”; (3) “the interference with the protected interest must not only be
substantial, but it must also be unreasonable, i.e., it must be of such a
nature, duration, or amount as to constitute unreasonable interference with the
use and enjoyment of the land.” (Mendez v. Rancho Valencia Resort Partners,
LLC (2016) 3 Cal.App.5th 248, 262-263, citations, italics, brackets, and
quotation marks omitted.) 
 
            Duane
argues that Plaintiffs’ first cause of action for negligence and eighth cause
of action for nuisance arise out of Defendants’ alleged breach of due care to
maintain the Subject Property in a habitable condition. (Demurrer, at p. 7.) Duane
references the courts in El Escorial Owners’ Association (2007) 154
Cal.App.4th 1337, 1349 and Melton v. Boustred (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 521,
542 to argue that Plaintiffs’ allegations for their negligence and nuisance
claim are conclusory and duplicative failing to provide the additional
allegations necessary to state a separate cause of action for private nuisance.
(Demurrer, at p. 7.) 
 
            In
opposition, Plaintiffs argue that their negligence and nuisance claims are two
separate causes of action addressing two different harms with different sets of
elements and facts. (Opp., at p. 4.) Plaintiffs contend that the allegations in
their complaint satisfy each element to plead nuisance cause of action which
Duane does not dispute. (Id., at p. 5.) Instead, Plaintiffs argue that their
negligence and nuisance claims are not duplicative invoking Paterno v. State
of California (1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 68, 104 and Lussier v. San Lorenzo
Valley Water Dist. (1988) 206 Cal.App.3d 92, 101 to argue that Plaintiffs
are permitted to bring claims for both negligence and nuisance. (Opp., at pp. 5-6.)
Plaintiffs concede that there is an overlap between the claims but contend that
they are not identical since the nuisance claim focuses on the conditions that
were allowed to continue on the Subject Premises and the negligence claims
focuses on Defendants’ breach of duty. (Id., at p. 6.) Additionally,
Plaintiffs argue that Lussier permits evidence of Defendants’ negligence
to prove an element of nuisance provided that Defendants’ negligent conduct led
to a substantial interference with Plaintiffs’ property right. (Ibid.)
 
            In
reply, Duane argues that Plaintiffs failed to allege additional facts to their
nuisance cause of action, such as intentional maintenance of the nuisance that separates
it from Plaintiffs’ negligence claim. (Reply, at p. 2.) As such, Duane again
argues that the nuisance claim is a duplication of the negligence cause of
action in that it is based on the same facts and seeks the same damages. (Ibid.)
 
            The
court notes that at the pleading stage it is permissible to plead alternative
theories for liability. (Paterno v. State of California¿(1999) 74
Cal.App.4th 68, 104 (“That a given set of facts fortuitously supports liability
on two legal theories is not a principled reason to deny a party the right to
pursue each theory.”).) “Where the exact nature of the facts is in doubt, or
where the exact legal nature of plaintiff's right and defendant's liability
depend on facts not well known to the plaintiff, the pleading may properly set
forth alternative theories in varied and inconsistent counts.” (Rader Co. v.
Stone¿(1986) 178 Cal.App.3d 10, 29.) Thus, the demurrer may not be
sustained on Duane’s argument that Plaintiffs’ nuisance claim is duplicative. 
            
            Additionally,
the court finds that Plaintiffs nuisance claim is sufficiently pled. (Compl.,
¶¶ 101-109.) 
 
            The
demurrer to the eighth cause of action is OVERRULED.  
 
2.    
Motion to Strike 
 
Legal Standard
 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
436, “the court may, upon a motion made pursuant to Section 435, or at any time
in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper: (a) Strike out any
irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (b) Strike out
all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws
of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.” The grounds for a
motion to strike must “appear on the face of the challenged pleading or from
any matter of which the court is required to take judicial notice.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 437.)
 
Discussion 
 
            Duane
moves to strike Plaintiffs’ request for punitive damages. 
 
            Punitive
damages may be recovered upon a proper showing of malice, fraud, or oppression.
(Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).) “Malice” is defined as conduct intended to
cause injury to a person or despicable conduct carried on with a willful and
conscious disregard for the rights or safety of others. (Turman v. Turning
Point of Cent. Cal., Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 63.) “Oppression”
means despicable conduct subjecting a person to cruel and unjust hardship, in
conscious disregard of the person’s rights. (Ibid.) “Fraud” is an
intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known
by defendant, with intent to deprive a person of property, rights or otherwise
cause injury. (Ibid.) Conclusory allegations, devoid of any factual
assertions, are insufficient to support a conclusion that parties acted with
oppression, fraud, or malice. (Smith v. Superior Court (1992) 10
Cal.App.4th 1033, 1042.)
 
“In order to survive a motion to
strike an allegation of punitive damages, the ultimate facts showing an
entitlement to such relief must be pled by a plaintiff.” (Clauson v.
Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.) “In passing on the
correctness of a ruling on a motion to strike, judges read allegations of a
pleading subject to a motion to strike as a whole, all parts in their context,
and assume their truth.” (Ibid.) “In ruling on a motion to strike,
courts do not read allegations in isolation.” (Ibid.) Conclusory
allegations, devoid of any factual assertions, are insufficient to support a
conclusion that parties acted with oppression, fraud or malice. (Smith v. Superior Court (1992) 10
Cal.App.4th 1033, 1042.)
            Duane
argues that punitive damages are requested against Defendants based on the
failure to remedy issues existing at the Subject Property during Plaintiffs’
tenancy. (MTS, at p. 4.) However, Duane contends that the allegations do not
reflect the heightened level of conduct required to impose punitive damages on
an entity such as Duane. (Ibid.) Additionally, Duane argues that as
Plaintiffs claim breach of contract, punitive damages are not permitted for
cause of action arising in contract. (Id., at p. 5) Duane also argues that
the complaint lacks any specificity necessary for the imposition of punitive
damages against Duane as Plaintiffs fail to show how negligent or insufficient
repairs are evidence of malice, fraud, or oppression and fail to show how Duane
could have further prevented loss of personal property as allegedly suffered by
Plaintiffs. (Id., at p. 7.) Lastly, Duane contends that Plaintiffs’
allegations fail to satisfy the heightened pleading standard applicable to
punitive damages claims against corporate entities and employes under Civil
Code section 3294. (Id., at p. 12.)
 
            In
opposition, Plaintiffs argue that they simply plead that Defendants refused to
remedy any of the habitability defects that Plaintiffs brought to their
attention which affected their health, safety, and mental wellbeing suffering
harm. (Opp., at p. 5.). As such, Plaintiffs contend that the pleadings provide
the imposition of punitive damages for malice, fraud, or oppression. (Ibid.)
Plaintiffs also argue that Defendants argument under Civil Code section 3294 is
flawed in that this section applies in cases where a plaintiff is claiming that
a corporate entity should be held responsible for the independent act of its
employees which Plaintiffs do not allege here. (Id., at p. 6.)
 
            In
reply, Duane restates the arguments made in his motion. 
 
            California
courts have approved punitive damages where a landlord persistently fails to
address substandard conditions. (Penner v. Falk (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d
858, 867.) Reading the complaint as a whole, the court finds that Plaintiffs have
adequately alleged malice and oppression. Plaintiffs allege that during
Plaintiffs’ tenancy, there were several conditions in violation of the Health
and Safety Code and Civil Code along with safety hazards in the Subject
Premises. (Compl., ¶¶ 13-15.) Additionally, Plaintiffs have alleged a pattern
of Defendants’ failure to repair these defects in spite of Plaintiffs’
complaints. These facts, taken together, could allow a reasonable jury to make
a finding of malice or oppression.
 
            The
court therefore denies the motion to strike.
 
Conclusion
 
1.    
Defendant Duane Heights L.P.’s Demurrer to Plaintiffs Ashley Miers LaRosa
and John LaRosa’s Complaint is SUSTAINED in part as to Plaintiffs’ third cause
of action and OVERULLED in part as to Plaintiffs’ eighth cause of action. 
 
2.    
Defendant Duane Heights L.P.’s Motion to Strike Portions of Plaintiffs
Ashley Miers LaRosa and John LaRosa’s Complaint is DENIED.