 Case Number:  24GDCV00391    Hearing Date:   September 19, 2024    Dept:  E Hearing Date: 09/19/2024 – 8:30am
Case No: 24GDCV00391
Trial Date: UNSET
Case Name: HERMELINDA MARTINEZ, on behalf of all Aggrieved Employees only, v.
LAKESIDE MEDICAL ORGANIZATION, A MEDICAL GROUP, INC., ET AL.
TENTATIVE
RULING MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION
RELIEF REQUESTED
“Defendants
Lakeside Medical Organization, A Medical Group, Inc., (dba Lakeside Community
Healthcare) (“Lakeside”), ADOC Acquisition Co., A Medical Group, Inc., (dba
ADOC Medical Group) (“ADOC”), Regal Medical Group, Inc. (“Regal”), and Heritage
Provider Network, Inc. (“HPN”) (collectively “Defendants”) will and hereby do
move this Court for an order compelling Plaintiff Hermelinda Martinez
(“Plaintiff”) to arbitrate the claims alleged in this action and staying this
action pending the completion of arbitration.
 
This Motion is made
pursuant to 9 U.S.C. § 1, et seq. (the Federal Arbitration Act) and the terms
of the Mutual Arbitration Agreement (the “Agreement”) which are attached to the
Declaration of Ijeoma Ekwunife and incorporated by reference herein. This Motion
is based on the grounds that: (1) Plaintiff entered into a binding arbitration
agreement with her employer, Lakeside; and (2) the claims alleged in
Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint are all covered by the binding arbitration
agreement.
 
The Motion is based on
this Notice of Motion, the accompanying Memorandum of Points and Authorities,
the accompanying Declarations of Ijeoma Ekwunife and Regina Agopian, and all
exhibits thereto, all papers and records on file with the Court, and on all oral
and documentary evidence as may be presented at or before the time of the
hearing on the Motion.”
 
(Def. Notice, p. 2.)
 
PROCEDURAL
Moving Party: Defendants - Lakeside Medical Organization,
A Medical Group, Inc., (dba Lakeside Community Healthcare) (“Lakeside”); ADOC
Acquisition Co., A Medical Group, Inc., (dba ADOC Medical Group) (“ADOC”);
Regal Medical Group, Inc. (“Regal”); and Heritage Provider Network, Inc.
(“HPN”) (collectively “Defendants”)
Responding Party: Plaintiff, Hermelinda Martinez on
behalf of all Aggrieved Employees
Moving Papers: Notice; Memorandum; Regina Agopian
Declaration;  Proposed Order; Ijeoma
Ekwunife Declaration; 
Opposing Papers: Opposition; Proof of Service;
Hermelinda Declaration; Mirzaie Declaration; 
Reply Papers: Reply
Proof of Service Timely Filed (CRC Rule 3.1300(c)): Ok
16/21 Court Days Lapsed (CCP § 1005(b), CRC 3.1300(a)): Ok
Correct Address: (CCP § 1013, § 1013a, § 1013b): Ok
TENTATIVE RULING
The
Court requests further briefing from the parties with respect to 
(1) whether this FAC is
bringing only a representative claim, and 
(2) whether Plaintiff can
bring only a representative claim.
In Defendants’ motion, Defendants argue:
While Plaintiff claims in her FAC that she
is only seeking civil penalties on behalf of all other aggrieved employees and
not on her own behalf, the FAC contains requests for relief on behalf of
Plaintiff in her individual capacity, both because she does not exclude herself
from the definition of the “aggrieved employees” she seeks to represent and
through an express request in her Prayer for Relief. See FAC.
(Def. Memo. p. 13.)
As can be seen from the citation
above, Defendants simply cite to “See FAC.” This is unhelpful to the
Court as it does not provide a specific citation to support their argument.
Defendants should be prepared to cite to specific paragraphs in the FAC to
support their arguments.
Defendants also argue
that this FAC brings an individual PAGA action by pointing to ¶ 83, ¶ 102, and
the Prayer in the FAC.
When reading these
paragraphs, as a practical matter, the Court tends to agree with Defendants and
fails to see how Plaintiff is only bringing a representative PAGA claim.
In Opposition, arguing
that Plaintiff is bringing only a representative claim, Plaintiff cites to ¶ 16
of the FAC which states:
REPRESENTATIVE PLAINTIFF suffered at least
one labor code violation as a result of DEFENDANTS’ policies and practices, and
as a result has standing to pursue a representative PAGA claim. Although
REPRESENTATIVE PLAINTIFF has suffered labor code violations, REPRESENTATIVE
PLAINTIFF does not seek any redress or remedy for any of her individual claims,
including, but not limited to her individual PAGA claims. As this is only a
PAGA case, no wages are sought on behalf on anyone. The only recovery
REPRESENTATIVE PLAINTIFF seeks in this case are for representative PAGA
penalties, attorneys’ fees, and costs.
(FAC ¶ 16.)
The Court is confused by
the Opposition’s argument because despite alleging that Representative
Plaintiff does not seek any redress or remedy for any of her individual claims,
the FAC at ¶ 16 also admits that the Representative Plaintiff is seeking
representative PAGA penalties, attorneys’ fees, and costs. 
The Court is confused as
to how Plaintiff’s admission that the Representative Plaintiff is seeking
representative PAGA penalties, attorneys’ fees, and costs is not considered seeking
redress for any of her individual claims.
The Court is also unclear
on how the Plaintiff has standing if Plaintiff is not claiming any individual
injury. Can anyone, even someone entirely unrelated to the parties here, insert
themselves into this kind of action and argue that they are bringing only
“representative” claims?  
Further, the Prayer
states:
THEREFORE, REPRESENTATIVE PLAINTIFF prays
for judgment against DEFENDANTS, and Does 1 through 50, and each of them, as
follows: 
1. Statutory attorneys’ fees and costs
under PAGA and California Code of Civil Procedure Section 1021.5; 
2. Statutory penalties under PAGA; 
3. Costs of suit; and
4. Such further relief as the Court deems
just and proper.
(FAC, Prayer.)
The Court would like
briefing as to how the Prayer is not requesting redress for Representative
Plaintiff’s individual PAGA claim.
“To have standing to
bring a PAGA action, a plaintiff must be an “aggrieved employee,” which the
statute defines as “any person who was employed by the alleged violator and
against whom one or more of the alleged violations was committed.”” (Adolph
v. Uber Technologies, Inc. (2023) 14 Cal.5th 1104, 1116.)
Here, Representative
Plaintiff clearly appears to be alleging PAGA standing as an aggrieved employee,
but the Court is confused as to how Opposition is arguing that Plaintiff is not
seeking redress or remedy for any of her individual claims.
Opposition seems to rely
on Adolph v. Uber Technologies (2023) 14 Cal.5th 1104; Balderas v.
Fresh Start Harvesting, Inc. (2024) 101 Cal.App.5th 533; and Johnson v.
Maxim Healthcare Services, Inc. (2021) 66 Cal.App.5th 924 to argue that as
a matter of law a Plaintiff can bring a representative claim without brining an
individual PAGA claim.
Both parties should be prepared to cite to on-point
legal authority and specific paragraphs in the FAC to support their arguments
as to whether Plaintiff is or is not alleging only a representative PAGA claim
and not an individual PAGA claim.