  Case Number:  19SMCV00603    Hearing Date:   January 18, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Snukal, et al.
v. 926 Broadway LLC, et al.
CASE NO.:                19SMCV00603
MOTION:                  Motion
to Tax Costs
HEARING DATE:   1/18/2024

 
Legal
Standard
 
In general, the “prevailing party” is entitled as a matter of right to
recover costs for suit in any action or proceeding. (CCP § 1032(b); Santisas v. Goodin (1998) 17
Cal.4th 599, 606.) “Prevailing party” includes the party with a net
monetary recovery, a defendant in whose favor a dismissal is entered, a
defendant where neither plaintiff nor defendant obtains any relief, and a
defendant as against those plaintiffs who do not recover any relief against
that defendant. (CCP § 1032 (a)(4).)
 
            “Allowable costs shall be reasonably
necessary to the conduct of the litigation rather than merely convenient or beneficial
to its preparation.” (CCP § 1033.5(c)(2).) “If the items appearing in a cost
bill appear to be proper charges, the burden is on the party seeking to tax
costs to show that they were not reasonable or necessary.” (Ladas v. California State Auto. Assn. (1993) 19 Cal.App.4th 761, 774.) On
the other hand, if the items are properly objected to, they are put in issue
and the burden of proof is on the party claiming them as costs. (Ibid.)
 
            Unless objection is made to the
entire cost memorandum, the motion to strike or tax costs must refer to each
item objected to by the same number and appear in the same order as the
corresponding cost item claimed on the memorandum of costs and state why each
item is objectionable. (CRC rule 3.1700(b)(2).) Any grounds not stated are
waived. (Boyd v. Oscar Fisher Co. (1989) 210 Cal. App. 3d 368, 383.)
 
Analysis
 
Defendant/Cross-Complainant 926 Broadway LLC and
Defendant Fortuna Asset Management (“Defendants”) move to tax the costs claimed
by prevailing Plaintiffs Daniel Snukal, Robert Snukal, Mark Mittleman,
and TCP II LLC. On August
22, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a memorandum of costs seeking a total of $87,377.14
in costs, including the following categories:
 
1.     Filing
and motion fees -                                                          $
5,886.82
2.     Jury
fees -                                                                               $
2,065.73
4.   Deposition costs -                                                                   $
8,899.54
9.   Court-ordered transcripts -                                                     $
6,458.60
11. Court reporter fees as established by statute -
                       $ 11,211.81
12. Models,
enlargements, and photocopies of exhibits –            $
11,728.83
16. Other –
                                                                                   $
41,125.81
 
Defendants object to the
above categories of costs. 
 
Filing and Motion Fees
 
            Defendants argue that Plaintiffs' claimed costs of $5,886.82
facially exceed recoverable filing and motion fees. Defendants observe, for
instance, that Plaintiffs seek fees related to "delivery,"
"electronic service," "rush" and/or "electronic filing
fees," which Defendants contend are unrecoverable. Defendants suggest that
only two of the $435 filing fees associated with the complaint and answer and
the two ex parte filing fees of $60 are recoverable, leaving $990 in filing
fees.
 
            Notably, all filing and motion fees are set by statute in
the Government Code section 70600 et seq. or other California statute (e.g.,
the Probate Code, Family Code, CCP, etc.). For instance, all motion fees are
generally set at $60. (Gov. Code § 70617(a).) With these rates in mind, and the
in light of the entire record, the claimed fees would facially exceed the
amount of possible filing and motion fees in this action. Indeed, Plaintiffs
claim “delivery,” “rush” ($138.20), or “courier” ($405.10) fees as motion fees,
which are not properly charged as filing or motion fees, as they are neither
filing nor motion fees charged by the Court. Plaintiffs argue that $2,839.66
are proper filing fees, as the costs were incurred by Plaintiffs for filing
documents with the Court. However, the cited items are not filing or motion
fees, but apparently delivery fees charged by third party vendors. While they
may have been delivering or serving files to the court, such costs are not
filing or motion fees. 
 
            Plaintiffs also claim $1,193.25 under section
1033.5(a)(14), as “[f]ees for the electronic filing or service of documents
through an electronic filing service provider if a court requires or orders
electronic filing or service of documents.” (Connolly Decl., ¶ 31.)  Plaintiffs reason that since electronic filing
is mandated by the Los Angeles Superior Court, Plaintiffs are expressly allowed
to recover their e-filing fees. (See Los Angeles Superior Court First Amended
General Order [“[L]itigants are required to electronically file documents with
the Court through an approved EFSP.”].) The court questions why this was not
claimed in item 14, which are fees for “electronic filing or service.” However,
the Court would generally permit e-filing fees required by the Court as costs. As
such, the Court is not inclined to tax these costs.  
 
            Plaintiffs also concede that $317.73 in costs are not
properly supported. 
 
            Accordingly, the court will tax this item, allowing $2,183.25
in costs.
 
Jury Fees
 
            Plaintiffs claim $2,065.73 in jury fees. Defendants
contend that this is high for a trial that lasted less than two full weeks. Defendants’
counsel “does not recall jury fees running as high” to reach Plaintiffs’
claimed total. (Vivoldi Decl., ¶7.) Counsel’s lack of recollection does not
support the objection. Counsel does not provide what the proper fees should be.

 
            Notably, the fees are set by statute. (CCP §§ 215(c),
631(b), (e).) With the daily fee of $15 per juror over two weeks, mileage, and
the $150 advance, Plaintiffs’ claimed jury fees appear in the ballpark of what
the Court would expect. Further, Plaintiffs substantiate their payment of the
fees. (See Connolly Decl., ¶ 14, Ex. 3.)  Also, there were multiple alternate jurors
selected in this matter, which would have raised fees.
 
            Thus, the jury fees claimed will not be taxed.
 
Deposition Costs
 
Defendants argue that some of the
claimed deposition expenses are improper. Specifically, Defendants object to
certain travel expenses, a cancellation fee, and the full costs of certain
transcripts.  Defendants argue that the
$151.44 charge for "travel" to the deposition of Daniel Snukal is not
proper. Defendants do not explain why this charge would be improper where
“[t]ravel expenses to attend depositions” are recoverable. (CCP §
1033.5(a)(3)(C).)
 
Defendants claim that the "cancellation"
charges of $945 for the court reporter and $395 for a videographer for a
session of deposition of Farhad Abolfathi are not properly sought, since Defendants’
conduct did not require the deposition to be cancelled. Defendants reason that
because Plaintiffs chose to "cancel" the deposition instead of taking
it that day, Defendants should not be held accountable for the cancellation
fee. However, for Plaintiffs to claim this cost, Defendants would not have to cause
the cancellation. In any event, Defendants expressly agreed to pay for these
costs during meet and confer efforts regarding the deposition scheduling.
(Connolly Decl., Ex. 2.) Thus, the Court will not tax these costs.
 
Defendants also claim that the
costs associated with Abolfathi’s deposition transcript are unreasonably high.
Defendants reason that $4,351.70 for transcribing Mr. Abolfathi's deposition
and another $1,673.00 for videotaping a deposition which only lasted 4.5 hours
would be unreasonable. (Vivoli Decl., ¶ 13.) Defendants assert that over $1,000
per hour to transcribe a deposition and roughly $400 per hour to videotape
appears facially excessive. Defendants' cost for a copy of that deposition
transcript was only $966.64. Similarly, Defendants assert that the claimed cost
of $788.70 for a copy of Josiah Citrin's deposition, which took less than an
hour, is excessive. (Vivoli Decl., ¶ 14.)
 
However, the costs are expressly
recoverable. As the objecting party, Defendants fail to meet their burden of
showing that the costs are unreasonable. Defendants only contend that
their transcript cost only $966.64. Of course, obtaining a copy of the
transcript would necessarily be less than transcribing or taping the
deposition. Thus, Defendants do not persuasively show that the amounts claimed
are excessive. In opposition, Plaintiffs provide the full invoice related to
these expenses. (Connolly Decl., Ex. 6.) Defendants argue that some of the
individual items within the invoice are expensive or unclear. This condition
would also not meet Defendants’ burden, as Plaintiffs still incurred the
recoverable costs. 
 
Therefore, the Court will not tax
the claimed deposition costs.
 
Court Ordered Transcripts
 
Under Item 9, Plaintiffs seek
$6,458.60 for "court-ordered transcripts." However, the Court did not
order any proceedings transcribed. The item also does not specify which
transcripts are at issue. Plaintiffs do not address this item in opposition. As
such, this cost is disallowed. (CCP § 1033.5(b)(5).)
 
Accordingly, the Court taxes this
cost in the full amount.
 
Court Reporter Fees
 
Plaintiffs contend that the entire
claimed amount of $11,211.81 is expressly recoverable. (Connolly, Decl., Ex.
22; CCP § 1033.5(a)(9); Govt. Code, § 68086(d).) Court reporter fees are
expressly allowed under section 1033.5(a)(11) court reporter fees "as
established by statute." Government Code section 68086(a) establishes such
fees. “In addition to any other fee required in civil actions or cases: [¶¶]
(2) (2) For each proceeding lasting more than one hour, a fee equal to the
actual cost of providing that service shall be charged per one-half day of
services to the parties, on a pro rata basis, for the services of an
official court reporter on the first and each succeeding judicial day those
services are provided[.]” (Emphasis added, see also CRC Rule 2.956(c).) Plaintiffs
assert that exhibit 22 shows the court reporter fees claimed herein. Reviewing
the exhibit, Plaintiffs claim fees for “court transcript”, “trial transcript”,
“hearing transcript” as well as the actual costs of providing reporter services.
Transcript costs such as these would not be recoverable as costs here.
Only the fees and charges of the reporter are recoverable as costs, as
described above. 
 
In total, excluding the
unrecoverable transcript costs, Plaintiffs demonstrate that the reporter
charged $7,895.00 in fees. The Court, however, is not inclined to grant the
transcript related fees (e.g., transcript services/rough draft) or the charges
unrelated to the court reporter (“litigation package” and “hosting” services by
Veritext). Accordingly, the Court would tax this item $3,316.81, leaving
$7,895.00.  
 
Models, enlargements, and
photocopies of exhibits 
 
            Plaintiffs proffer invoices from iDiscover showing the
costs of printing exhibits for use during trial. This includes their own
evidence, as well as copies of Defendants’ evidence.
 
            Defendants argue that the $11,728.83 claimed should be
taxed because Plaintiffs cannot demonstrate that the entirety of this amount
was "reasonably helpful to aid the trier of fact," instead of just
the exhibits entered into evidence. (Crister v. Express Messenger Systems,
Inc. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 72, 90-91; Ripley v. Pappadopoulos (1994)
23 Cal.App.4th 1616, 1623; Rozanova v. Uribe (2021) 68 Cal.App.5th 392,
406.) Defendants reason that the costs of exhibits not used during trial are
generally not recoverable because they are not "reasonably helpful to aid
the trier of fact.” Of course, Defendants admit that Plaintiffs admitted into evidence
four binders. Considering Plaintiffs’ success on the merits, the presented
exhibits were likely helpful to the trier of fact. The Court is not inclined to
arbitrarily cut these costs based on Defendants’ speculation as to what may
have been helpful to the trier of fact. 
 
            The Court is inclined to tax the costs related to
Defendants’ exhibits. Plaintiffs presumably did not present these exhibits. The
exhibit’s reproduction did not aid the trier of fact. Having such exhibits
available to trial counsel would be merely convenient, and not necessary for
the litigation. Thus, the Court will tax this item $458.49, leaving $11,270.34 remaining
as to this item.


Other, Conference Room
 
Defendants object to multiple
categories within the catchall “other” category claiming a total of $41,125.81
in costs. Code of Civil Procedure section 1033.5(c) provides that items not otherwise
mentioned may be allowed or denied in the court's discretion, so long as such
costs were “reasonably necessary to the conduct of the litigation rather than
merely convenient or beneficial to its preparation” and “reasonable in amount”.
(CCP §1033.5(c)(2)-(4).) The Court will address each sub-category. 
 
First, Plaintiffs claim costs
related to renting a conference room before and during trial for the purpose of
trial preparation. Plaintiffs argue that it was reasonably necessary for the
litigation. Plaintiffs reason that counsel spent a significant amount of time
preparing for the eight-day jury trial, including meeting with witnesses that
lived in Santa Monica as well as working during the trial. To facilitate this,
Plaintiffs rented a conference room on May 20 and May 24, 2023. (Connolly
Decl., ¶ 21, Ex. 10.) Plaintiffs also note that traffic can be over an hour
from counsels’ downtown offices and the Santa Monica Courthouse. Even
considering these facts, the Court would not find that the rental was
reasonably necessary for conducting the trial, rather than convenient
for counsel and witnesses for trial preparation. Avoiding freeway traffic,
while understandable, does not create a need for a conference room.
Therefore, the Court would not be inclined to award this discretionary cost.
 
Other, hosting of electronic documents produced and
received during discovery 
 
Plaintiffs claim $8,844.23 for
hosting documents produced during discovery. The trial court has discretion to
award such costs, as it is in the best position to decide “whether expenses
associated with managing electronic data were necessarily incurred.” (Hooked
Media Grp., Inc. v. Apple Inc., (2020) 55 Cal. App. 5th 323, 339 [finding
no abuse of discretion for allowing 92,000 in ‘e-discovery’ costs, see also
conc. opn. of J. Mihara at 354].)
 
Defendants argue that these costs
should not be allowed because Plaintiffs refused to produce financial documents
or documents beyond those produced in June 2020 until expert discovery. With
this argument, Defendants fail to show that these costs were not reasonably
necessary to conduct the litigation. It is undisputed that the parties engaged
in e-discovery, and would be expected to host electronic documents in an
accessible format over the course of this 4-year litigation. Costs associated
with hosting electronic documents during this period were therefore reasonably
necessary for the litigation, even if Plaintiffs did not produce the documents
until expert discovery. Thus, the Court is not inclined to tax these costs.
 
Trial lodging, travel, food, parking (for parties and
counsel)
 
The Court has discretion to award
travel, meal and lodging expenses incident to trial if such expenses were
reasonably necessary to conduct the litigation. (CCP § 1035.5(c); see Segal
v. Asics Am. Corp., (2020) 50 Cal. App. 5th 659, 669 [trial court could
exercise its discretion under the catchall provision to conclude that the
prevailing party may recover travel costs to send two attorneys to Kobe, Japan,
a week before a deposition to prepare the deponents for their depositions and
defend the depositions]; Howard v. Am. Nat'l Fire Ins. Co., (2010) 187
Cal. App. 4th 498, 541 [“meal expenses may be merely convenient to an attorney
attending a local deposition, meal expenses may be reasonably necessary where
an out-of-state attorney must travel to the deposition”]; but see also Ladas
v. California State Auto. Assn., (1993) 19 Cal. App. 4th 761, 776 [“local”
and “routine” travel expenses are not reasonably necessary for the
litigation].) Plaintiffs claim $13,742.20 in costs associated with living
expenses during the trial for travel, lodging, food and parking. 
 
Plaintiffs claim that James Turken
and Neil Thakor drove to and from Santa Monica each day for trial, incurring
expenses for parking and Ubers. (Connolly Decl., ¶ 22, Ex. 11.) However, such
“local” and “routine” travel expenses are not reasonably necessary for the
litigation. The Court is therefore inclined to tax $544.90 associated with this
claim. 
 
Daniel Snukal had to travel from
the Palm Desert area to attend trial, and chose to rent a hotel room, rather
than travel 2 hours one-way every day. (Connolly Decl., ¶ 23, Ex. 12.) From
this, Plaintiffs claim $6,246.36 in costs. While it would be a burden to travel
over 4 hours every day for trial, this fact would not necessarily render the
travel expenses “necessary.” Strictly speaking, this travel was not reasonably necessary
to conduct the trial, but merely beneficial for one individual plaintiff. The Court
would tax the $1,246.36 claimed. (Connolly Decl., ¶ 23, Ex. 12.)
 
Counsel for Plaintiffs, Ms. Connolly,
lives in Northern California, and therefore had to travel for the trial in Santa
Monica. Her flights, hotel and food while traveling totaled $6,396.80. (Connolly
Decl., ¶ 24., Ex. 13) The Court is also not inclined to grant travel expenses
or food for counsel. First, there were other, presumably local, counsel that
could have handled the trial. Counsel and Plaintiffs chose Ms. Connolly to
represent them, knowing that she would need to travel a great distance to
attend trial. Counsel’s in-state travel and food expenses were not reasonably necessary
for the litigation, as Plaintiffs chose to hire counsel that practices out of
Northern California for this case and thereby created this otherwise
unnecessary expense. Further, the Court does not generally view meals as recoverable
costs. While these meals may have been “working” meals, this does not mean that
the meal was incident to, or reasonably necessary for, the litigation. All
parties involved would still have to eat regardless of this action. Thus, the
Court is not inclined to find that these expenses were reasonably necessary, as
opposed to merely beneficial to its preparation. The Court is accordingly inclined
to tax $6,396.80 from this item. 
 
Additionally, the court is inclined
to tax the $280.32 for meals. Accordingly, the entirety of this item is taxed.
 
Other, Mediation 
 
The Court has the discretion to
award mediation fees. “[M]ediation fees incurred for mediation that was not
ordered by the court are not categorically nonrecoverable as ‘not reasonably
necessary to the conduct of litigation.’ The question whether mediation fees
should be awarded as costs in a particular matter must be determined based on
the facts and circumstances of the particular action.” (Berkeley Cement,
Inc. v. Regents of University of California (2019) 30 Cal.App.5th 1133,
1143.) Plaintiff seeks $4,250.00 in mediation costs. (Connolly Decl., ¶ 36, Ex.
18.) 
 
Here, there was no court-ordered
mediation. The record does not indicate that the mediation was reasonably
necessary to conduct the litigation or even helpful for the resolution of this
action. Notably, the parties did not settle, and do not explain whether the
mediation was otherwise helpful in resolving any issues. As there is no record
here supporting the claim that the mediation was reasonably necessary to
conduct the litigation, the Court is not inclined to award such costs.
 
Accordingly, the item is taxed in
the full amount.
 
Printing and Courier Fees
(pre-trial) 
 
            Plaintiffs claim $1,694.96 in courier and “related” fees.
The pre-trial printing and courier fees were not reasonably “necessary” to
conduct the litigation. Courrier fees, as noted above, are for the convenience
of counsel and not expressly recoverable. The invoices cited show that all of
the expenses relate to courier fees. Plaintiffs claim that they should have
included $1025.61 of this item in their costs for photocopying exhibits,
however, they do not substantiate their claim that this cost was for photocopying
exhibits. (See Connolly Decl., ¶ 28.) Otherwise, printing and photocopying
expenses are disallowed “except for exhibits.” (CCP § 1035.5(b)(3).) Therefore,
the Court is inclined to tax this cost in the full amount.
 
Other, Legal Research
 
Plaintiff requests $79.16 in legal
research costs. Notably, Civil Code section 1033.5(b)(2) prohibits the recovery
of “Investigation expenses.” Based on this provision, the Court of Appeals held
in Ladas that “[f]ees for legal research, computer or otherwise, may not
be recovered under section 1033.5.” (Ladas, supra, 19 Cal.App.4th at 776.)
Plaintiffs cite no published authority to the contrary. Therefore, the Court is
inclined to tax this item.
 
Other, Technician During Trial 
 
Plaintiff claims $10,676 incurred
for a trial technician who assisted both parties, as well as the jury, to
project documentary, photography and videography exhibits during trial.
(Connolly Decl., ¶ 27, Ex. 15.) Plaintiffs claims these costs as a matter of
right under section 1033.5(a)(13) and as discretionary costs. Plaintiffs argue
that this process would have taken longer and the jury would not have been able
to view the exhibits as clearly. 
 
The Court has the discretion to
award such costs. (See Bender v. Cnty. of Los Angeles (2013) 217 Cal.
App. 4th 968.) In Bender, the Second District found the cost of a trial
technician for nine days of trial would be recoverable under the trial court’s
discretion. (Id. at 990.) The plaintiff “used a PowerPoint presentation
in closing argument that consisted of a detailed summary of trial testimony,
documents and other evidence as well as a ‘comprehensive evaluation of such
evidence vis a vis jury instructions.’ The costs included charges for creating
designated excerpts from deposition transcripts and video, converting exhibits
to computer formats (TIFF's & JPEG's), and design and production of
electronic presentations.” (Id.) The second district upheld the trial court’s
order granting these costs under such circumstance, finding that the
technician’s synchronizing of the videotaped depositions and retrieving excerpts
selected by counsel both “enhanced counsel's advocacy during trial” and “was
reasonably necessary to the conduct of the litigation.” (Id.) The Second
District explained in 2013 that the legal landscape had changed from prior,
older cases finding such costs to be unrecoverable.
 
Almost 20 years have passed since Science
Applications was decided, during which time the use of technology in the
courtroom has become commonplace (including a technician to monitor the
equipment and quickly resolve any glitches), and technology costs have
dramatically declined. In a witness credibility case such as this, it would be
inconceivable for plaintiff's counsel to forego the use of technology to
display the videotapes of plaintiff's interviews after his beating, in the
patrol car and at the sheriff's station, and key parts of other witnesses'
depositions. […] The costs at issue total just over $24,000, and the trial
court specifically found the trial technology enhanced counsel's advocacy and
was reasonably necessary to the conduct of the litigation. The court acted well
within its discretion in allowing recovery of these costs.
 
(Id., at 991; see Science Applications Internat.
Corp. v. Superior Court (1995) 39 Cal.App.4th 1095, 1103.) 
 
Defendants argue that the
technician did not rise to the high level of services rendered in Bender.
Defendants contend that the technician merely pulled up exhibits, usually
taking some time to do so, and just displayed them on the screen. (Vivoli
Decl., ¶ 9; Supp. Vivoli Decl., ¶ 8.) Based on counsel’s recollection, counsel
believes that the technician did not do anything that either of Plaintiffs' own
attorneys present at trial could have done. At the same time, counsel explains
how trial technicians can be extremely important for the presentation of
evidence at trial. (Id.) This would include being present in case any
unforeseen glitch arises with the technology. Further, the fact that, in
counsel’s judgment, the technician was not very good at his job is not
dispositive. 
 
In light of the record, and the court’s
recollection of the trial, the technician was reasonably necessary for the
presentation of evidence. Therefore, the Court is not inclined to tax the
technician’s costs.
 
Accordingly, the motion to tax is
GRANTED in part. The allowed costs are as follows:
 
1.     Filing
and motion fees -                                                          $
2,183.25 
2.     Jury
fees -                                                                               $
2,065.73
4.   Deposition costs -                                                                   $
8,899.54
11. Court reporter fees as established by statute -
                       $ 7,895.00
12. Models,
enlargements, and photocopies of exhibits –            $
11,270.34
16. Other, E-Hosting                                                                    $
8,844.23
            Other, Technician                                                                   $
10,676.00
 
TOTAL: $51,834.09