 Case Number:  24STCP02215    Hearing Date:   November 21, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



DUSTIN HENSLEY, et al, 
                        Petitioners,
            vs.
 
SEGA OF AMERICA, INC., 
                                                                             
  
                        Respondent.                               


 


 


     
  CASE NO.:  24STCP02215
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION
 
Date: November 21, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



MOVING PARTY: Petitioners
Dustin Hensley, et al.
RESPONDING PARTY: Respondent
Sega of America, Inc. 
 
            The Court has considered the moving,
opposition and reply papers. 
 
            The motion to compel arbitration is
GRANTED. 
 
BACKGROUND
             On July 10, 2024, Petitioner Dustin Hensley—along
with 19,516 other petitioners (collectively, “Petitioners”)—filed a petition (the
“Petition”) to compel their claims against Respondent Sega of America, Inc. (“Respondent”)
be sent to arbitration. Petitioners allege that Respondent is a video game development
company and Petitioners are individuals who played Respondent’s games and were illegally
targeted with ads based on their gender and ages in violation of the Unruh
Civil Rights Act. Petitioners contend that their claims are covered by Respondent’s
user agreement which requires the arbitration of disputes over game services. On
August 20, 2024, Petitioners filed the instant motion for an order compelling
arbitration (the “Motion”), by which they seek to enforce the arbitration agreement.
Respondent opposes the Motion and Petitioners filed responsive papers thereto.
 
DISCUSSION
            Under Code of Civil Procedure
section 1281.2, a court may order arbitration of a controversy if it finds that
the parties have agreed to arbitrate that dispute. Because the obligation to
arbitrate arises from contract, the court may compel arbitration only if the
dispute in question is one in which the parties have agreed to arbitrate. (Weeks
v. Crow (1980) 113 Cal.App.3d 350, 352.) Since arbitration is a favored
method of dispute resolution, arbitration agreements should be liberally
interpreted, and arbitration should be ordered unless the agreement clearly
does not apply to the dispute in question. (Id. at p. 353; Segal v.
Silberstein (2007) 156 Cal.App.4th 627, 633.) 
 
Prima Facie Evidence of the Existence of a Valid
Agreement to Arbitrate
In ruling on a petition to compel arbitration, a
court must determine two threshold matters: first, whether a valid agreement to
arbitrate exists; and second, whether that agreement encompasses the dispute at
issue. (See Code Civ. Proc. § 1281.2.)   
 
            The moving party seeking
arbitration bears the initial burden “of producing prima facie evidence of a
written agreement to arbitrate the controversy.” (Gamboa
v. Northeast Community Clinic (2021) 72
Cal.App.5th 158, 165-66 (Gamboa).) The moving party must establish “the existence of a valid
arbitration agreement by the preponderance of the evidence.” (Engalla v. Permanente Med. Grp., Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 972.) The moving party can meet this burden “by
attaching to the motion or petition a copy of the arbitration agreement
purporting to bear the opposing party’s signature.” (Gamboa, supra, 72
Cal.App.5th at pp. 165-66.) “If the moving party meets its initial prima facie
burden and the opposing party does not dispute the existence of the arbitration
agreement, then nothing more is required for the moving party to meet its
burden of persuasion.” (Ibid.)
 
            Here, there are 19,513[1]
Petitioners. In support of the petition, Petitioners’ counsel David Rosenthal,
attaches the declaration of Petitioner Dusten Hensley (the “Hensley Decl.”) and
declares that “[a]ll Petitioners executed substantially similar declarations.”
(Declaration of David Rosenthal [“Rosenthal I Decl.”], ¶4 and Ex. D.) Petitioners
also manually filed with the Court the declarations of the other 19,513
Petitioners. 
 
The Court has reviewed the manually filed declarations
and confirmed they are nearly identical to the Hensley declaration. Given the parallel
language, the court refers to Hensley’s declaration hereinafter. Hensley
declares that he “played [Respondent’s] mobile games in California, including
Sonic the Hedgehog, within the last ten months.” (Hensley Decl., ¶3.) The Hensley
Declaration is dated February 29, 2024. 
 
            Petitioners’ counsel,
Bryan Weir, attaches to his declaration Respondent’s End User License Agreement
dated September 6, 2021, which was operative[2]
during Petitioners’ play. (Declaration of Bryan Weir [“Weir Decl.”], ¶3, Ex. A.
[“2021 Agreement”].) The 2021 Agreement provides that “BY PURCHASING,
INSTALLING, OPENING, COPYING, AND/OR OTHERWISE USING THIS PRODUCT YOU HEREBY
ACKNOWLEDGE, ACCEPT AND AGREE TO BE BOUND BY THE TERMS OF THIS AGREEMENT.”
(2021 Agreement, ¶Introduction [emphasis in original.) It further states that:
            
You and [Respondent] (each a “party” for purposes
of this Section, and collectively “the parties”) agree that all claims arising
out of or relating to this Agreement (including its interpretation, formation,
performance and breach), our relationship with each other, or your use of the
Product shall be finally settled solely by binding arbitration unless the claim
is within the exceptions described below. THIS AGREEMENT MEANS THAT YOU AND [RESPONDENT]
AGREE NOT HAVE SUCH CLAIMS RESOLVED IN A TRIAL BY A JUDGE OR JURY. This
agreement applies to all kinds of claims, including legal, equitable, or
statutory claims, under any legal theory. It also applies even after you stop
using or delete, destroy, or otherwise no longer possess the Product. If you or
[Respondent] brings a claim in court that is subject to arbitration under this
section, either party can ask the court to order the parties to resolve the
claim by arbitration. The arbitrator, and not a court, shall have the exclusive
authority to decided whether any portion of this section is valid or
enforcement [sic], or whether it applies to a claim. 
 
(2021 Agreement,
¶19.) 
Petitioners’ declarations confirm that each of them
played the game in the past 10 months and viewed at least ten advertisements
while playing. As referenced above, the 2021 Agreement states that by using the
product, the parties have consented to be bound by the 2021 Agreement. The declarations
coupled with the 2021 Agreement are sufficient to meet Petitioners’  initial burden “of producing prima facie
evidence of a written agreement to arbitrate the controversy.” [3] (Gamboa, supra, 72 Cal.App.5th at 165-66; see also B.D. v. Blizzard Entertainment Inc. (2022) 76 Cal.App.5th 931,949-950 [finding evidence
that a user license agreement was a “sign-in wrap” agreement that the user had
signed was sufficient to enforce a motion to compel arbitration against a user].)

 
Mr. Hensley declares that he does “not want
[Respondent’s] advertising partners to discriminate against [him] by using [his]
age or gender to determine or influence which advertisements [he] see[s] or
cannot see.” (Hensley Decl., ¶4.) The 2021 Agreement applies to “your use of
the Product.” (2021
Agreement, ¶19.) A plain reading of the claims supports a finding that they
fall within the parameters of the 2021 Agreement. 
 
            Contrary to
Respondent’s position, the court finds the declarations sufficient for a prima
facie case. Respondent’s critique that the declarations are unnotarized,
electronically signed and identical is unpersuasive. First, there are no
requirements that a declaration must be notarized; it is adequate that they are
made under penalty of perjury. (Code Civ. Proc., §2015.5; see also 28 U.S.
Code, § 1746.) Second, electronic signatures are an accepted signature. (See
Civ. Code, § 1633.7, subd. (a) [“a record or signature may not be denied legal
effect or enforceability solely because it is in electronic form”].) Finally, the
similar language makes sense in the context of this case, where the Petitioners
are all making similar claims. 
 
            Respondent also makes
much of the fact that the declarations include the statement that Petitioners played
“Sonic the Hedgehog, within the last ten months.” (Hensley Decl., ¶3.) Mike
Evans, Respondent’s Senior Vice President, declares that there is “no game
called ‘Sonic the Hedgehog’ on the Apple App or Google Play Stores available in
the United States.” (Declaration of Mike Evans [“Evans Decl.”], ¶5.) However, Evans
notes there is Sonic Dash, Sonic Boom, Sonic Force, and Sonic the Hedgehog
Classic. (Evans Decl., ¶5.) The use of an umbrella term “Sonic the Hedgehog”
does not demonstrate that the declarations are so unreliable that they should
be disregarded. 
 
Accordingly, Petitioners have met their prima facie
case.
 
Evidence Challenging the Prima Facie Case of an
Agreement to Arbitrate
Once a party makes a prima facie case, and if “the
opposing party disputes the agreement, then in the second step, the opposing
party bears the burden of producing evidence to challenge the authenticity of
the agreement.” (Gamboa, supra, 72 Cal.App.5th at pp. 165-66.) The opposing party can produce
evidence via “testify[ing] under oath or declar[ing] under penalty of perjury
that the party never saw or does not remember seeing the agreement, or that the
party never signed or does not remember signing the agreement.” (Gamboa, supra, 72
Cal.App.5th at pp. 165-66.)  Should the
opposing party meet this burden, then “the moving party must establish with
admissible evidence a valid arbitration agreement between the parties” by a
preponderance of the evidence. (Id. at 166.) “In these summary proceedings, the trial court sits as a
trier of fact, weighing all the affidavits, declarations, and other documentary
evidence, as well as oral testimony received at the court’s discretion, to
reach a final determination.” (Engalla, supra, 15 Cal.4th at p. 972.)
 
            In opposition, Respondent argues that numerous Petitioners are either
non-existent or not bona fide players of Respondent’s games and, thus, should
not be permitted to compel arbitration. As to the issue of whether any specific
petitioner has standing to bring the claim as an injured party, that is a
question for the arbitrator. The court’s role is limited on a motion to compel
arbitration to the question of whether a valid arbitration agreement exists. 
 
However, the Court takes Respondent’s secondary
argument—that there are non-existent Petitioners—as an argument that a valid
agreement does not exist with some of Petitioners. Thus, the question is
whether Respondent’s showing is sufficient to shift the burden back to
Petitioners to establish the existence of a valid agreement to arbitrate. It is
not. 
 
Here,
Respondent relies on the declarations of Robert Crandall, William Johnson, and
Mike Evans. The Court addresses each declaration separately. 
 
The
first Crandall Declaration Regarding Duplicative Petitioners
In
his first declaration (the “Crandall I Decl.”), Mr. Crandall declares that he
is Respondent’s retained expert. He is a Partner at Resolution Economics LLC; a
firm whose activities include conducting labor studies and performing economic
and statistical analyses in connection with litigation. He has previously
performed large-scale forensic data studies. 
 
Mr.
Crandall declares that he performed a series of data verifications based on the
excel file he was given which included the name, phone number, address, and
email for all Petitioners. (Declaration of Robert Crandall [“Crandall I
Decl.”], ¶1.) He makes three broad points: (1) that a group of Petitioners may
be duplicative of one another based on the fact that these Petitioners had the
same name and address but slightly different emails and phone numbers,  (2) that a group of Petitioners may be
duplicative of one another because they had the same address, and (3) based on
a random sample of 377 claimants, the information of approximately one to two
thousand of the Petitioners would likely not match publicly available
information. 
 
The
Court finds that the Crandall I Declaration is insufficient to rebut
Petitioners’ showing for several reasons.
 
First,
with respect to potentially duplicative names, Mr. Crandall does not conclude
there are non-existent Petitioners. His analysis concludes there are a potential
subset of duplicative Petitioners. (Crandell I Decl., ¶10.) Within that subset,
he has no information regarding whether any individual person submitted a false
claim. In fact, Mr. Crandall identified only twenty-one incidents of potential
duplicative claims, based on similar names, among the approximately nineteen
thousand Petitioners. (Crandell I Decl., ¶10.) No further information is
provided about these twenty-one persons to support the possibility that they are
false Petitioners. This showing is insufficient to rebut Petitioners’
declarations. Moreover, the arbitrator can address any issues as to duplicative
claims by valid Petitioners.
 
Second,
with respect to duplicative addresses, Mr. Crandall concedes that multiple
conclusions can be drawn. He declares “[w]hile it is possible there are
multiple valid claims from people living at the same address, it is also
possible for the same person to submit multiple claims from the same street
address or make a claim on behalf of other residents who have not downloaded a
Sega game.” (Crandall I Decl., ¶12.) Again, Crandall’s conclusions, which are
drawn from a limited set of data, only introduces the possibility of
duplicative claims.  He does not rebut
the existence of any specific agreement with proof duplicative claims from any
specific Petitioners. 
Finally,
Mr. Crandall’s sample showing that publicly available information can only
confirm a percentage of Petitioners is unhelpful to the Court. In fact, he does
not provide information about what it means that a person cannot be confirmed
by publicly available information. For example, Mr. Crandall does not conclude
that this issue proves that a particular identity has a high probability of
being false. Respondent argues only that this information means a risk exists
that “1,000 to 2,000 claimants either do not exist, have had their identities
stolen for purposes of filing a fraudulent demand, or have fabricated their
contact information.” (Opp. at p. 7:09-12.) Mr. Crandall’s report does not
support any of these conclusions. 
 
The
Court therefore finds that the Crandall I Declaration is insufficient to rebut
Petitioners’ evidence.  
 
Crandall
I Declaration Regarding Anticipated Annual Earnings
            Mr. Crandall also submitted a second
declaration (the “Crandall II Decl.”), in which he seeks to provide “additional
information regarding research into the occupations of some claimants and
whether their anticipated annual earnings likely exceed $45,180, which is 300%
of the 2024 federal poverty limit of $15,050.” (Declaration of Robert Crandall,
¶1.) The Crandall II Declaration is irrelevant to the issue at hand. Whether
any of the Petitioner qualified for fee waivers when they submitted their
arbitration demand is not an issue for Respondent to attack in connection with
the Motion, as it has no impact on whether a valid arbitration agreement exists
between said petitioner and Respondent. The Court therefore does not rely on
this declaration.
 
Johnston
Declaration Regarding Petitioners’ Recruit Forms
            Mr. Johnston declares that he is an
attorney for Respondent. In his declaration (the “Johnson Decl.”), Mr. Johnston
declares that in 2023, his colleague—Alec Cronin— (and not Mr. Johnston
himself) clicked on a link for Sega’s recruitment campaign for petitioners. (Johnson
Decl., ¶3.) Johnston then conveys Cronin’s alleged observation of what the form
contained; however, these statements are hearsay with no valid exception and,
thus, are inadmissible. (Cal. Evid. Code, §1200, et seq.) Even if
those statements were admissible, however, Cronin’s alleged observations about
a single promotional form would not demonstrate that Petitioners used that form
exclusively as the basis of developing their petitioner pool or that the
declarations are fraudulent.  The Court therefore
does not rely on the Johnston Declaration. 
 
            Evans Declaration Regarding
Petitioners’ Emails
            Mr. Evans declares that Respondent
maintains a database which collects email addresses. (Declaration of Mike Evans
(the “Evans Decl.”) He states that players of Respondent’s games have the
option to share their email addresses in exchange for in-game promotions. Mr. Evans
then compares the opt-in rate for email promotions for U.S. based players (a
rate of approximately 6.82%) to the opt-in rate for emails promotions among
Petitioners (approximately 1.47%) and concludes this “strongly suggests that
the claimant pool is not representative of the actual pool of bona fide
[Respondent] mobile users.” (Evans Decl., ¶9.) 
 
The
Evans Declaration is not, however, admissible as evidence on the Motion because
it is neither a lay opinion nor an admissible expert opinion.  Lay opinion is limited to an opinion that is
rationally based on the perception of the witness and helpful to a clear
understanding of the witness’ testimony. (Evid. Code, §800.) The Evans Decl.
does not serve this purpose for the Court, and it is therefore not admissible
as lay opinion.  Expert testimony, on the
other hand, is opinion which relates to a subject that is sufficiently beyond
common experience that the opinion would assist the trier of fact. (Evid. Code,
§801.) Here, Mr. Evans is drawing conclusions from statistical information and
relaying to the Court that the information has a 95% confidence interval. This
is expert, not lay opinion. Evans is not a designated expert. The Court has no
information regarding his background, if any, in large scale statistical
analysis. Therefore, it cannot rely on his opinions.
 
            Having reviewed all of the evidence submitted
to the Court by Respondent, the Court finds that Respondent has not met its
burden “of producing evidence to
challenge the authenticity of the agreement.” (Gamboa, supra, 72
Cal.App.5th at pp. 165-66.) 
 
Evidence Rebutting the Opposition to the Prima Facie
Case
            Although Respondent
did not meet its burden to rebut Petitioners’ showing, the Court nevertheless
addresses the rebuttal evidence to the opposition. Based on the rebuttal
evidence the court concludes that, even if Respondent’s showing had shifted the
burden to Petitioners, Petitioners submitted sufficient rebuttal evidence to
demonstrate by a preponderance po the evidence that an agreement to arbitrate
exists. 
 
            Specifically, Petitioners presented
a second declaration from its counsel, David Rosenthal (the “Rosenfeld II Decl.”).
The Rosenthal II Declaration states that with respect to the individuals who
were not found in Mr. Crandall’s search, Petitioners were able to contact
sixteen of them to obtain supplemental declarations from them, and confirms
that three were presently in police custody. (Rosenthal II Decl., ¶¶12-14 and
20, Exhibit U.) As to the other twelve Petitioners, Rosenthal declares that he
believes they are bona fide clients based on information available, i.e. they
completed the intake process and signed declarations authorizing counsel to
represent them. (Rosenthal II Decl., ¶16.) Rosenthal also declares that since
October 11, 2024—when Respondent filed the opposition—the firm has ben able to
obtain additional declarations from approximately half the Petitioners
confirming the games they played. (Rosenthal II Decl., ¶20.) 
 
Petitioners
manually filed these additional declarations with the Court, which has reviewed
them. In the declarations, the declarants confirm their prior declarations and specify
which Sonic the Hedgehog games they played. For example, Aaron Zepeda declares
that “[i]n the ten months prior to 3/22/2024 I played at least the following
Sonic the Hedgehog mobile games on my mobile device: Sonic Dash.” (Declaration
of Aaron Zepeda, ¶5.) Kareem Ahmed declares that “[i]n the 10 months prior to
3/7/2024 I played at least the following Sonic the Hedgehog mobile games on my
mobile device: Sonic Dash, Sonic Forces, Sonic Boom, Sonic 1, Sonic 2, Sonic
CD.” (Declaration of Kareem Ahmed, ¶5.)
 
Therefore,
even if Respondent had shifted the burden to Petitioners to demonstrate the
existence of an arbitration agreement based on its generalized argument of
fraud, which the Court finds it did not, Petitioners have met that additional
burden. Petitioners have submitted declarations from 10,468 Petitioners
confirming their existence and their standing to assert the claims. Given the
scope of the group and the limited time frame, the ability to obtain secondary
declarations from ten thousand Petitioners assuages any concern the Court may
have had about fraud. 
 
By
reason of the foregoing, the motion is GRANTED. 
 
Moving
Party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 21st day of November, 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 




 


