  Case Number:  19STCV34550    Hearing Date:   November 21, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



HANS H. KIM, an
  individual and AQUA WETCLEAN, LLC, a California Limited Liability Company, 
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
CUIL INVESTMENTS LLC, et al.,
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.:  19STCV34550
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
 
PLAINTIFFS HANS H. KIM AND AQUA
  WETCLEAN, LLC’s: 
 
MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSITION OF XIANG HAO
  CUI AND PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS; and
 
MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSITION OF PERSON
  MOST QUALIFIED AND PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS
 
 
Date: November 21, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 




 


 


 



 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiffs
Hans H. Kim and Aqua Wetclean, LLC (“Plaintiffs”)
 
RESPONDING PARTY: Defendant
Xiang Hao Cui (“Cui”) (only as to Cui Motion)
 
            The Court has considered the moving,
opposition and reply papers. 
 
BACKGROUND
On
September 8, 2020, Plaintiffs filed the operative Second Amended Complaint
(“SAC”) against Defendants CIL, Jane’s Management Systems, LLC, Magic
Properties, Inc., Cui, John Ko (“Ko”) and David Yoo (collectively,
“Defendants”) and DOES 1 through 10, inclusive for: (1) Breach of Contract; (2)
Breach of The Covenant of Repair; (3) Contractual Abatement of Rent; (4) Fraud
and Deceit; (5) Fraudulent Concealment; (6) Conspiracy to Defraud; (7)
Negligent Misrepresentation; (8) Breach of Fiduciary Duty; (9) Intentional
Interference with Prospective Economic Advantage; and (10) Unfair Business
Practices. 
 
The
SAC alleges Defendants deliberately concealed a roof leak on the subject
premises prior to Plaintiffs’ tenancy and refused to repair the leak. (Compl.,
§ IV, ¶¶21-37.) 
 
The Cui Motion 
On
September 30, 2024, Plaintiffs filed the instant motion to compel deposition of
Defendant Cui and production of documents (the “Cui Motion”). On November 7,
2024, Defendant Cui filed an Opposition to the Cui Motion. On November 14,
2024, Plaintiffs filed a Reply. 
 
DISCUSSION
            “If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the action or an
officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party, or a person
designated by an organization that is a party under Section 2025.230, without
having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for
examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance and
testimony, and the production for inspection of any document, electronically
stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a)
(emphasis added).) 
 
Meet and Confer
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure Section
2025.450, subdivision (b), “A motion under subdivision (a)… shall be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040, or, when
the deponent fails to attend the deposition and produce the documents,
electronically stored information, or things described in the deposition
notice, by a declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent
to inquire about the nonappearance.”¿¿(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd.
(b).)¿
 
Here, Plaintiffs’ counsel Tatian Ingman (“Ingman”)
attests to meet and confer efforts made to prior to the filing of this motion
and inquiry about the nonappearance of Defendant Cui for deposition. (Ingman
Decl., § C,  ¶¶60-119, Exs. V-BB.) 
 
Thus, Plaintiffs have fulfilled the meet and confer
requirement. 
 
Merits of Motion
            Plaintiffs move for an
order compelling Defendant to produce for deposition its managing agent
Defendant Cui and produce requested documents on October 14, 2024. As a
preliminary matter, the Court notes that Defendant Cui asserts he appeared for
deposition on November 5, 2024 per agreement of the parties and stipulation
entered by the Court. (Bjorgum Decl., Ex. A.) Plaintiff concedes the requested
deposition took place but argues the motion is not moot because Defendant Cui
failed to produce the requested documents. As such, the only issue for the
Court to consider is whether Defendant Cui should be compelled to produce the
requested documents. 
 
Here, Defendant Cui contends he timely served
objections to the requests for production. (Bjorgum Decl., Ex. B.) Although
Defendant Cui cites to the declaration of his counsel Eric Bjorgum, the
declaration is not attached to the opposition nor concurrently filed with the
Court. As such, the Court cannot assess the validity of Defendant Cui’s
assertion that he timely served objections nor the merit of these alleged
objections. Similarly, Defendant Cui argues he personally has no responsive
documents and testified to this fact at his deposition because he is not
involved in the day-to-day details of maintenance. On the other hand,
Plaintiffs contend the actual evidence shows that Defendant Cui has testified
that he has responsive documents that he has not produced and never looked for
other documents he believes that he has that would be responsive. 
 
            The Court finds that
good cause exists to compel the production of the requested documents. Plaintiffs
have submitted evidence demonstrating Defendant Cui testified to having a copy
of the signed purchase agreement, which Plaintiffs have requested. (Ingman
Reply Decl., ¶13, Ex. B.) Likewise, Defendant Cui testified to having a
specific email address that he uses for communications with Defendant Ko
concerning important information, which he does not delete and Plaintiffs have
requested all communications between Cui and Ko pertaining to the subject
premises. (Id. at ¶14, Exs. C-D.) Plaintiffs assert there is at least
one email in particular that is important to their claims because it relates to
the roofer Defendant CIL eventually hired to repair the roof and cover up its
prior condition. (Reply 3:17-20.) 
Moreover, Plaintiffs are entitled to take an additional session of Cui’s
deposition as to the documents once produced.
 
            Therefore, the Court GRANTS Plaintiffs’
Cui Motion insofar as it seeks to compel the further deposition of Defendant Cui
and further GRANTS it insofar as it requests the production of documents. 
 
Defendant
Cui is ordered to produce the requested documents to Plaintiffs within twenty
days of this order and to appear for a further session of his deposition on the
subject of said produced documents within twenty days after said production.. 
 
The PMQ Motion
 
On
September 23, 2024, Plaintiffs filed the instant motion to compel deposition of
person most qualified and production of documents (the “PMQ Motion”). The PMQ Motion
is unopposed.  
 
DISCUSSION
            Meet and Confer
Here, Plaintiffs’ counsel Ingman attests to meet and
confer efforts made to prior to the filing of this motion and inquiry about the
nonappearance of Defendant CIL’s person most qualified (“PMQ”) for deposition.
(Ingman Decl., § C,  ¶¶60-119, Exs. Y-BB.)

 
Thus, Plaintiffs have fulfilled the meet and confer
requirement. 
 
Merits of Motion
            Plaintiffs move for an
order compelling Defendant CIL to produce for deposition at a date, time, and
location selected by Plaintiffs its PMQ and produce requested documents
including text messages between Defendant Ko and witnesses to the events at
issue in this case, faxes to and from witnesses relating to the property,
invoices regarding repairs to the roof done since Defendant Cui purchased the
property, etc. (Ingman Decl., ¶¶40-44, 120-128.) Plaintiffs argue these
documents were requested in the deposition notice served on Defendant CIL on
June 6, 2024. Furthermore, Plaintiffs assert the Court has already ordered
Defendant CIL to produce these documents, thus failure to produce the documents
constitute willful disobedience. Plaintiffs also assert production of these
documents is relevant to the claims made by Plaintiffs and defenses asserted by
Defendants. 
 
            The Court finds that
good cause exists to compel the deposition of Defendant CIL’s PMQ and
production of the requested documents. First, the Court notes its prior ruling
on December 14, 2023, wherein Defendant CIL was ordered to produce documents
responsive to the request for a prior scheduled deposition on December 17,
2023. (Ingman Decl., ¶23, Ex. K.) Plaintiffs contend those documents are the
same as the ones requested in the latest deposition notice. (Mot. at 7:9-8:1.)
Defendant CIL has not opposed this instant motion to dispute this contention.
Moreover, Defendant CIL failed to timely object to the deposition notice served
on June 6, 2024. Specifically, the deposition was noticed for Tuesday, July 23,
2024, thus Defendant CIL had to have objected by July 18, 2024 because that
would be three days before the deposition date per Code of Civil Procedure
Section 2025.410, subdivision (a). Defendant CIL served its objections on July
19, 2024. (Ingman Decl., ¶79, Ex. X.) These objections were served late despite
Plaintiffs’ counsel inquiries regarding nonappearance on late June and early
July. (Id. at ¶¶60-70.)
 
Request for Monetary Sanctions 
If a motion under Code of Civil Procedure¿2025.450,
subdivision (a) is granted, the court shall impose a monetary sanction in favor
of the party who noticed the deposition and against the deponent or the party
with whom the deponent is affiliated, unless the court finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc.,
§¿2025.450, subd. (g)(1).)
            
Here, Plaintiffs’ counsel Ingman seeks a total of $12,471.50
in monetary sanctions against Defendant CIL for (1) 25.0 hours meeting and
conferring with opposing counsel, preparing the moving papers, and preparing
the supporting declaration @$275.00/hr (Ingman), 15.0 hours of assistance with
moving papers @$125/hr (Contract Counsel), and 20.0 hours of assistance with
declaration @$80/hr (Administrative Assistant); (2) 5.0 hours in anticipation
of preparing a reply brief and participating in a hearing; and $746.50 in costs
consisting of $60.00 filing fee and $686.50 court-reporter transcript of July
23, 2024. The motion is unopposed.  The
Court does not award sanctions for meet and confer efforts, and it exercises
its discretion in awarding 4 hours for preparing the moving papers including
the supporting declaration, as well as .5 hour for attending the hearing, for a
total of 4.5 hours at Ingman’s rate of $275, for a total attorney’s fee award
of $1,237.50, plus $60 for the filing fee, for a total of $1,297.50, to be paid
by Defendant CIL to Plaintiffs within twenty days of the date of this order. 
 
            Therefore, the Court GRANTS
Plaintiffs’ PMQ Motion. Defendant CIL is ordered to produce its PMQ and the
requested documents for deposition at a date, time, and location selected by
Plaintiffs within twenty days of the date of this order, and to pay Plaintiffs $1,297.50
in sanctions within twenty days of the date of this order. 
 
 
Moving
Party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 21st day of November 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 




 