 Case Number:  24STCV16814    Hearing Date:   November 21, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



XAVIER NAILING., et al.,
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
ODETTE
  ALKIRE,
 
                        Defendants.





      CASE NO.: 24STCV16814
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: DEMURRER WITH
  MOTION TO STRIKE
 
Date: November 21, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 



 
MOVING
PARTY: Defendant Odette Alkire (“Defendant”)
RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiffs Xavier Nailing and Philip Addington (“Plaintiffs”)
 
The
Court has considered the moving papers, the opposition and the reply papers.  
 
BACKGROUND
Plaintiffs’
complaint (the “Complaint”) alleges claims against Defendant for: (1) discrimination;
(2) negligence; and (3) retaliation. 
 
On
October 21, 2024, the Defendant filed a demurrer (the “Demurrer”) to the
Complaint. On October 23, 2024, Defendant filed a motion to strike. On November
5, 2024, Plaintiffs filed an opposition to the Demurrer. On November 12, 2024,
Defendant filed a notice of non-opposition to the motion to strike. On the same
day, Defendant filed a reply in support of the Demurrer. 
 
JUDICIAL
NOTICE 
            Defendant requests that the Court
take judicial notice of the document attached as Exhibit “A”  (screenshot from the California Bar website)
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure sections 430.10 and 430.30, Evidence Code
sections 452 and 453, and Rule of Court 3.1306(c), which indicates that
Plaintiff Xavier Nailing is not an admitted attorney in the State of California.

 
            The Court takes judicial notice of
the document. 
 
MEET
AND CONFER
            Defendant’s counsel declares that he
attempted to meet and confer with Plaintiffs over email, priority mail, and
phone call but Plaintiffs failed to respond. (Riddick Decl. ¶ 3; Exh. 1.)
Plaintiffs argue that the meet and confer efforts were not in good faith but
fail to provide any evidence for this allegation. Therefore, the Court finds
that the meet and confer requirement has been met. 
 
LEGAL STANDARD 
            When any ground for objection to a
complaint appears on the face thereof, the objection on that ground may be
taken by demurrer to the pleading. (Cal. Code Civ. Pro. § 430.30(a).) A
demurrer to a complaint may be taken either to the whole complaint or to any of
the causes of action stated therein. (Cal. Code. Civ. Pro. 430.50(a).)
California Code of Civil Procedure §430.10 provides that a party may file a
demurrer if “[]he pleading does not state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action.” “A demurrer tests the sufficiency of the complaint by raising
questions of law.” (Boxer v. City of Beverly Hills, 246 Cal. App. 4th
1212, 1217 (2016) (citing Aragon–Haas v. Family Security Ins. Services, Inc.,
231 Cal.App.3d 232, 238 (1991).) “A general demurrer admits the truth of all
material factual allegations of the complaint, but not the truth of
contentions, deductions, or conclusions of fact or law.” (Id. (citing Moore
v. Regents of University of California, 51 Cal.3d 120, 125 (1990).) In
determining whether leave to amend should be granted, courts must consider
“whether there is a reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by
amendment.” (Blank v. Kirwan, 39 Cal.3d 311, 318 (1985).)
 
            Motions to strike are used to reach
defects or objections to pleadings that are not challengeable by demurrer, such
as words, phrases, and prayers for damages. (See Code Civ Proc., §§ 435-437.) A
motion to strike can be made to strike irrelevant, false, or improper matter
inserted in any pleading or to strike any pleading or part thereof not drawn or
filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule or order of the
court. (§ 436.)
 
DISCUSSION
Demurrer

            Defendant requests that the Demurrer
be sustained as to all causes of action for failure to state facts sufficient
to constitute causes of action pursuant to Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 430.10(e).
Moreover, Defendant asserts that each cause of action is ambiguous and
unintelligible pursuant to Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 430.10(f). 
 
            Timeliness

            In opposition, Plaintiffs argue that
the demurrer is untimely because they were not served with the demurrer within
30 days after service of the Complaint and therefore it should be overruled. In
reply, Defendant notes that Plaintiffs do not substantively oppose Defendant’s
demurrer and the demurrer is not untimely. Further, Defendant contends that the
demurrer should be considered because CCP 430.40 is permissive, not mandatory,
by its plain language. (McAllister v. County of Monterey (2007) 147
Cal.App.4th 253, 280; Jackson v. Doe (2011) 192 Cal.App.4th 742, 750
[permitting hearing of demurrers filed more than 30 days after service of
complaint where no showing of prejudice].) (Reply at p. 2.) Moreover, Defendant
asserts that even if this time period were mandatory, Plaintiffs failed to
adequately serve the Complaint and Summons on Defendant until after July 17,
2024. Plaintiffs’ proof of service was invalid on July 17, 2024, because the
clerk of court rejected Plaintiffs’ request for default based on this proof of
service on September 19, 2024. 
 
On October 2, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a proof of
service showing service of the summons and complaint on August 13, 2024. On that
same day, Defendant’s counsel filed a request for an automatic thirty (30) day
extension of the time in which to file a demurrer, and thereafter filed this
demurrer within nineteen (19) days, on October 21, 2024.
 
            Due to the proof of service date
discrepancies, the Court will exercise its discretion to consider the Demurrer.
Moreover, Plaintiffs failed to provide any evidence showing any prejudice
against them. 
 
            Causes of Action: Discrimination,
Negligence, and Retaliation
            Defendant requests that the Demurrer
be sustained as to all causes of action for failure to state facts sufficient
to constitute causes of action pursuant to Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 430.10(e).
Moreover, Defendant contends that each cause of action is ambiguous and
unintelligible pursuant to Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 430.10(f). Additionally, Defendant
asserts that the Demurrer should be sustained as to all causes of action
because the Complaint is not signed by an attorney and instead was signed by
one pro per plaintiff who cannot represent the other plaintiff.  Further,  Defendant contends that Plaintiffs do not
directly assert any claim or request any relief. 
 
            As a preliminary matter, the Court
notes that the Complaint is ambiguous, unintelligible, and uncertain. First, it
is unclear what cause of action is being brought for “retaliation” as this is
not an employment case. Second, the “discrimination” cause of action is also
unclear because the only allegation about discrimination is as follows: “On
06/19/2024 the trustee called plaintiff addington he told plaintiff that the
defendant said “PHILIP IS MENTALLY ILL AND SHOULD NOT BE GIVEN ANYTHING” . . .
And the defendant discriminated against plaintiff addington adding credence to
the defendant orchestrating bigotry towards plaintiff addington six years ago.”
(Complaint at p. 5.) These are insufficient facts to state a cause of action
for discrimination because they are conclusory and unclear as to what legal
duty was owed under California law. 
 
            The
negligence cause of action also fails because none of the elements is
sufficiently alleged. Negligence requires the allegation of “duty, breach,
causation and damages.” (County of Santa Clara v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2006) 137 Cal.App.4th 292, 318.)¿ “Ordinarily, negligence may be alleged
in general terms, without specific facts showing how the injury occurred, but
there are limits to the generality with which a plaintiff is permitted to state
his cause of action, and the plaintiff must indicate the acts or omissions
which are said to have been negligently performed.  He may not recover
upon the bare statement that the defendant’s negligence has caused him
injury.”  (Berkley v. Dowds (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518, 527 [Internal
quotations and ellipses omitted].) Here, the Complaint alleges “the
defendant retaliated against plaintiff and is thus [n]egligent of her duty.”
(Complaint at pp. 5-6.) This alleged fact is both confusing and  conclusory and therefore insufficient to state
a cause of action. 
 
            The Court also notes that it is
unclear whether Xavier Nailing has any capacity to sue on these purported
claims as it seems he is solely acting as Mr. Addington’s power of attorney and
did not assert any claims on his behalf or seek any relief directly but only
signed the Complaint. Just as the Court of Appeal in Drake v. Superior concluded
“[defendant] may not use the statutory form power of attorney as a device to
practice law for his principal,” here, if Mr. Nailing is solely acting as a
representative based on the power of attorney statutory form, he would not have
any standing to sue. (Drake v. Superior Court (1994) 21 Cal.App.4th
1826, 1832.) “By definition, one cannot appear in "propria" persona
for another person.” (Id. at 1830.) 
 
            From the record, it is very unclear
whether the Complaint can be amended to allege any valid claims against
Defendant.  Nevertheless, the Court will
grant Plaintiffs the opportunity to amend the Complaint. It is not, however,
yet persuaded that there is no reasonable possibility that Plaintiffs can cure
the defects identified above. As “[l]eave to amend is liberally allowed,” the
Court will grant Plaintiffs leave to file a First Amended Complaint. (Kempton
v. City of Los Angeles (2008) 165 Cal.App.4th 1344, 1348.)  The Court warns Plaintiffs, however, that if
they are unable to cure all of the major defects set forth above in a First
Amended Complaint, and if Defendant were to file another demurrer thereto, the
Court would be inclined to sustain any such demurrer without leave to
amend.  
 
            Thus, the Court SUSTAINS the
demurrer WITH THIRTY DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
Motion
to Strike        
            Defendant moves to strike Plaintiffs’
Complaint in its entirety. (Mot. to Strike at p.1.) Plaintiffs failed to file
any opposition.  Nevertheless, as the
Court SUSTAINED the demurrer WITH LEAVE TO AMEND, the motion to strike is
DENIED as MOOT. 
 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.
 
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at
SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If the
department does not receive an email and there are no appearances at the
hearing, the motion will be placed off calendar.
 
        
Dated this 21st day of November 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 




 