  Case Number:  21STCV21293    Hearing Date:   May 1, 2024    Dept:  F47 Dept. F47
Date: 5/1/24                                                            

Case #21STCV21293
 
SUMMARY
JUDGMENT/SUMMARY ADJUDICATION 
 
Motion filed on 2/8/24.
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant Right
Choice In-Home
Care, Inc.

RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff
Phyllis Ginolfi
NOTICE: ok
 
RELIEF REQUESTED: An order granting summary judgment in favor of
Defendant Right Choice In-Home Care, Inc. (Right Choice) and against Plaintiff
Phyllis Ginolfi, by and through her Conservator, Christin C. Solis (Plaintiff).  
 
Alternatively,
Right Choice requests summary adjudication of the following issues in its favor
and against Plaintiff: 
 
Issue
No. 1: Plaintiff’s Cause of Action for Negligence against Right Choice
has no merit because there is no triable issue of material fact supporting
Plaintiff’s claim, that Right Choice was the proximate cause of Plaintiff’s
injuries. 
 
Issue
No. 2: Plaintiff’s Cause of Action for Dependent Care/Elder Abuse has
no merit because there is no triable issue of material fact supporting
Plaintiff’s Claim that Right Choice was the proximate cause of Plaintiff’s
injuries. 
 
Issue
No. 3: Plaintiff’s Cause of Action for Dependent Care/Elder Abuse has
no merit because Plaintiff cannot establish physical abuse or neglect and
recklessness, malice, oppression, or fraud as to Right Choice to prevail under
the Elder Abuse Statute.
 

RULING: The motion is denied in its entirety.  
 
SUMMARY OF FACTS & PROCEDURAL HISTORY
 
This action arises out of an alleged fall that occurred
while Plaintiff Phyllis Ginolfi (Plaintiff) 
attended Defendant HDL, Inc. dba Pacoima Adult Day Care’s
(HDL) adult day care facility on 8/20/19. 

 
Plaintiff is a developmentally disabled adult.  (Separate Statement (SS 1)).  Plaintiff resides with her niece and
conservator Christin C. Solis (Solis) and her husband.  (SS 2). 
HDL is an adult day care facility located in Pacoima, California.  (SS 4). 
 
On 8/20/19, Plaintiff attended HDL, an adult day care
program that she had been attending since earlier in the year 2019.  (SS 3). 
On that day, Plaintiff had a one-to-one caregiver at HDL named Miriam
Muwummuza.  (SS 5).  Muwummuza was an employee of Right Choice In-Home
Care, Inc. (Right Choice).  (SS 6).  Right Choice provides non-medical support
services to individuals for both short- and long-term assistance, including
senior care, temporary respite care, day care, and supported or independent
living.  (SS 7).  
 
On 8/20/19, Plaintiff attended the program at HDL from
approximately 10:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. (SS 8). 
On that day, Plaintiff was dropped off and picked up by a paratransit
service to and from HDL.  (SS 9).  
 
After arriving at HDL on 8/20/19, at approximately 10:10
a.m., Plaintiff was wheeled in her wheelchair into the bathroom by Muwummuza as
seen in surveillance video.  (SS 10).  There was no video surveillance in the
bathroom at HDL.  (SS 11).  Right Choice contends that after Plaintiff
used the toilet, Muwummuza noticed Plaintiff was wobbly and gently assisted
Plaintiff to the floor of the facility’s restroom and obtained help from HDL staff,
Mireya Delgadillo to place Plaintiff back into her wheelchair.  (SS 12). 
Right Choice claims that prior to transferring Plaintiff back to her
wheelchair, Muwummuza and Delgadillo performed a body examination of Plaintiff to
check for any signs of injury before placing her back in her wheelchair.  (SS 13). Right Choice claims that no broken
skin, deformity, redness, resistance, distress, crying or any indication of any
kind of injury was observed by Muwummuza and Delgadillo on the body exam of Plaintiff.
 (SS 14). 

 
Thereafter, there is video surveillance of Plaintiff at
HDL.  (SS 15-16).  At approximately 3:00 p.m., Plaintiff is
wheeled by Muwummuza outside to the paratransit van.  (SS 21). 
Plaintiff was dropped off by Defendant Keolis Transit America, Inc.’s (Keolis)
paratransit van back to her home at approximately 4:05 p.m.  (SS 22). 
Plaintiff’s private at-home caregiver, met Plaintiff when she returned
home.  (SS 23).  Solis referred to Plaintiff’s private at-home
caretaker on 8/20/19 as “Justin” at her deposition, in Plaintiff’s responses to
Special Interrogatories, Plaintiff has since clarified that “Justin” is
actually named “Dustin” [Stothoff].  (SS 24).  
 
While in the company of her at-home caregiver, Dustin
called Solis and told her that Plaintiff  could not stand and that she was yelling and
upset.  (SS 25).  Solis was not home and could hear Plaintiff yelling
in the background when Dustin called her.  (SS 26). 
Solis returned home, found Plaintiff agitated and upset, and called for
the paramedics.  (SS 27).  Los Angeles City Fire Department emergency
medical services was dispatched at approximately 6:08 p.m. (18:08:14 military
time) to Plaintiff’s/Solis’ home.  (SS 28).
 
Plaintiff was transported from her home at approximately
6:28 p.m. (18:28:06 military time) to Providence Cedars Sinai Tarzana Medical
Center (Tarzana Hospital).  (SS 29).  At Tarzana Hospital, Plaintiff was diagnosed
with a serious femur fracture where she was diagnosed as having broken her left
leg in three places.  (SS 30). 
 
On 6/7/21, Plaintiff filed this action against HDL and
Right Choice for: (1) Dependent Adult/Elder Abuse and (2) Negligence.  Keolis was later named in place of Doe 1.  Right Choice answered on 8/3/21.  
 
Right Choice claims that it is medically impossible that
Plaintiff sustained the left femur fracture while at HDL on 8/20/19 and that
Right Choice did not cause Plaintiff to fracture her left femur. (SS
31-32).  
 
On 2/8/24, Right Choice filed and served the instant
motion seeking an order granting summary judgment in favor of Right Choice and
against Plaintiff.    
 
Alternatively, Right Choice requests summary adjudication
of the following issues in its favor and against Plaintiff: 
 
Issue No. 1: Plaintiff’s Cause of Action for
Negligence against Right Choice has no merit because there is no triable issue
of material fact supporting Plaintiff’s claim, that Right Choice was the
proximate cause of Plaintiff’s injuries. 
 
Issue No. 2: Plaintiff’s Cause of Action for
Dependent Care/Elder Abuse has no merit because there is no triable issue of
material fact supporting Plaintiff’s Claim that Right Choice was the proximate
cause of Plaintiff’s injuries. 
 
Issue No. 3: Plaintiff’s Cause of Action for
Dependent Care/Elder Abuse has no merit because Plaintiff cannot establish
physical abuse or neglect and recklessness, malice, oppression, or fraud as to
Right Choice to prevail under the Elder Abuse Statute.
 
Plaintiff has opposed the motion and Right Choice has
filed a reply to the opposition.  
 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
Right Choice’s Request for Judicial Notice (RJN) is
denied.  Right Choice has failed to
establish that the Los Angeles City Fire Department Emergency Medical Services
Report is/are “[f]acts and propositions that are of such common knowledge
within the territorial jurisdiction of the court that they cannot reasonably be
the subject of dispute” or “[f]acts and propositions that are not reasonably
subject to dispute and are capable of immediate and accurate determination by
resort to sources of reasonably indisputable accuracy.”  Evidence Code 452(g), (h).  Even if the Court did take judicial notice of
the contents of the report, it does not establish that Plaintiff’s injury could
not have occurred while she was at HDL on 8/20/19.
 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
 
Right Choice’s objection to the entire “declaration” of
Dustin Stothoff is sustained.  The
document is not a declaration signed under penalty of perjury.  See CCP 2015.5.  The handwritten statement is referred to in
Plaintiff’s evidence as a “witness statement.” 
Based on the sustaining of the objection to the entire declaration, the
Court declines to rule on the remaining objections to this declaration.   
 
Right Choice’s objections to the declaration of Jabob
Tauber are overruled.
 
Right Choice’s objections to the declaration of Christin
C. Solis are overruled.  
ANALYSIS
 
On this motion, Right Choice bears the initial burden of
showing that Plaintiff’s causes of action have no merit.  CCP 437c(a)(1), (p)(2).  A defendant has met its burden of showing a
cause of action has no merit if the defendant
has shown that one or more elements of the cause of action, even if not
separately pleaded, cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense
to the cause of action.  CCP 437c(o), (p)(2).  Once the defendant has met this initial burden,
the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to the cause
of action or a defense thereto.  CCP
437c(p)(2).  The plaintiff may not rely
upon the allegations or denials of its pleadings to show that a triable
issue of material fact exists but, instead, must set forth the specific facts
showing that a triable issue of material fact exists as to the cause of action or a defense
thereto.  Id.  
 
In ruling on a motion for summary judgment/adjudication,
the moving party’s evidence must be strictly construed while the opposing
party’s evidence must be liberally construed. 
Schachter (2009) 47 C4th 610, 618.  Doubts about the propriety of granting
summary judgment or summary adjudication must be resolved in favor of the party
opposing the motion.  Johnson
(2006) 143 CA4th 297, 304.
 
CCP 437c(f)(1) provides: 
 
“A party may move for summary
adjudication as to one or more causes of action within an action, one or more
affirmative defenses, one or more claims for damages, or one or more issues of
duty, if the party contends that
the cause of action has no merit, that
there is no affirmative defense to the cause of
action, that there is no merit to an affirmative defense as
to any cause of action, that there is no merit to a claim for damages, as
specified in Section
3294 of the Civil Code, or that one or more defendants either owed or did
not owe a duty to the plaintiff or plaintiffs. A motion for summary
adjudication shall be granted only if it completely disposes of a cause of
action, an affirmative defense, a claim for damages, or an issue of duty.”
 
Right Choice’s first two alternative issues for summary
adjudication are oddly worded, at best.  As
noted above, in the alternative to an order granting summary judgment in its
favor, Right Choice seeks summary adjudication of the following issues:   
 
Issue No. 1: “Plaintiff’s Cause of Action for
Negligence against Right Choice has no merit because there is no triable issue
of material fact supporting Plaintiff’s claim, that
Right Choice was the proximate cause of Plaintiff’s injuries.” 

 
Issue No. 2: “Plaintiff’s Cause of Action for
Dependent Care/Elder Abuse has no merit because there is no triable issue of
material fact supporting Plaintiff’s Claim that Right Choice was the proximate
cause of Plaintiff’s injuries.” 
 
Issue No. 3: “Plaintiff’s Cause of Action for
Dependent Care/Elder Abuse has no merit because Plaintiff cannot establish
physical abuse or neglect and recklessness, malice, oppression, or fraud as to
Right Choice to prevail under the Elder Abuse Statute.”
 
Right Choice’s first two alternative issues for summary
adjudication are oddly worded.  It is not
clear what a finding that “there is no triable issue of material fact supporting
Plaintiff’s claim that Right Choice was the proximate cause of Plaintiff’s
injuries” would establish.  It seems that
Right Choice intended its first two alternative issues for summary adjudication
to be that there is no triable issue of material fact that Right Choice did not
cause Plaintiff’s injuries or, in other words, that Plaintiff’s 1st
cause of action for dependent adult/elder abuse and 2nd cause of
action for negligence fail because Plaintiff cannot establish that Right Choice
was the proximate cause of Plaintiff’s injuries.    
 
However, even if these alternative issues for summary
adjudication had been properly/clearly set forth, the motion would still be
denied in its entirety.  
 
NEGLIGENCE
 
The elements of a negligence cause of action are: (1) a
legal duty to use due care, (2) breach, (3) proximate cause and (4) damages/injury.  Ladd (1996) 12 C4th 913, 917  Berkley (2007) 152 CA4th 518, 526.  In this motion, Right Choice addresses only the
element of causation.  (See
Motion, p.6:4-p.8:23).  
 
With regard to causation, a plaintiff must show the
defendant’s act or omission was a substantial factor in bringing about the
plaintiff’s harm.  Leyva (2018) 20
CA5th 1095, 1104; Saelzler (2001) 25 C4th 763, 778; Coyle (2018)
24 CA5th 627, 645.  A plaintiff must set
forth evidence which affords a reasonable basis for the conclusion that it is
more likely than not that the conduct of the defendant was a cause in fact of
the result.  See Ortega
(2001) 26 C4th 1200, 1205.  A mere
possibility that the defendant caused the injury is insufficient to defeat
summary judgment.  Id.
 
Ordinarily proximate causation is a question of fact;
however, where the facts are such that the only reasonable conclusion is an
absence of causation, the question is one of law.  State Department of State Hospitals
(2015) 61 C4th 339, 353; Constance B. (1986) 178 CA3d 200, 201.
 
Here, Right Choice’s contends that “[a]fter Plaintiff
used the toilet, Ms. 
Muwummuza noticed Plaintiff was wobbly and gently assisted Plaintiff
to the floor of the facility’s restroom and obtained help from Pacoima ADC [HDL]
staff, Mireya Delgadillo to place Plaintiff back into her wheelchair. (UMF 12.).”  (See Motion, p.3:16-19).  Right Choice also claims that “[p]rior to
transferring Ms. Ginolfi back to her wheelchair, Ms. Muwummuza and Ms.
Delgadillo performed a body examination of Ms. Ginolfi to check for any signs
of injury before placing her back in her wheelchair. (UMF 13.) No broken skin, deformity,
redness, resistance, distress, crying or any indication of any kind of injury
was observed by Ms. Muwummuza and Ms. Delgadillo on the body exam of Ms.
Ginolfi. (UMF 14.)”  (See Motion,
p.3:19-24).  The fact that there was an
out of the ordinary incident in the restroom at HDL which resulted in Plaintiff
being on the floor, body exam for injuries being conduct and multiple people
needed to assist Plaintiff back in her wheelchair establishes that it is more
than a mere possibility that Plaintiff was injured at HDL on 8/20/19 while in
being cared for by Muwummuza.  (See
Right Choice’s Ex.H, I). 
 
Contrary to Right Choice’s assertion, the facts do not “show
that it was not until after Ms. Ginolfi left Pacoima ADC [HDL], while in the
care of her private caretaker at home, did Ms. Ginolfi exhibit any identifiable
signs of injury or pain.”  The
surveillance videos do not have any sound; therefore, it cannot be determined
from the videos whether Plaintiff cried out or made some other audible sound in
pain while in the bathroom (which may have been heard in the hallway where
there were cameras) or thereafter. 
Additionally, the surveillance video of Plaintiff while in the “quiet
room” shows Plaintiff shifting in her wheelchair which Plaintiff’s niece and
conservator, Solis, who has assisted in caring for Plaintiff since 2001, opines
shows signs of distress.  (See
Solis Decl. ¶5).  Solis also opines that
Plaintiff was calling attention to her knee/injury while in the “kitchen area”
video.  Id.
 
Right Choice’s reliance on Leyva, supra,
and the declaration of Theodore K. Gregorius, M.D. (Dr. Gregorious) for the
proposition that the evidence establishes as a matter of law that it is
medically impossible that Plaintiff suffered a left distal femur fracture while
at HDL on 8/20/19 is unavailing.  
 
Leyva, supra, is distinguishable from the
instant case.  There, the issue was the
cause of a fire and the defendant moving for summary judgment presented the
testimony of two fire investigators with expertise in determining the cause of
fires.  See Leyva, supra
at 1105.  Both of the experts opined that
the possible causes of the fire were: (1) combustible materials (e.g., the sofa
or a blanket) were placed against or too close to the wall heater by
plaintiffs, or (2) the wall heater itself malfunctioned.  Id. 
The plaintiffs in Leyva did not provide any evidence in
opposition to the motion or a responsive separate statement, which alone is a
ground for granting a motion for summary judgment.  Id. at 1100, 1105; CCP
437c(b)(3).   
 
Here, Right Choice has submitted the declaration of Dr.
Gregorious, a medical doctor specializing in Orthopedic Surgery and Sports
Medicine.  (Dr. Gregorious Decl. ¶1).  First, this is not a medical malpractice
action where a physician’s opinion is necessary to establish the standard of
care and whether another physician has met such standard and/or whether a
defendant physician’s conduct did or did not cause the Plaintiff’s injury to a
reasonable medical certainty.  Second,
Dr. Gregorious has not established that he is a behavioral expert that is
qualified to testify that Plaintiff’s behavior (viewed solely from surveillance
videos without sound) after the restroom incident at HDL establishes that she
was not in pain and did not suffer injury to her leg.  (See Dr. Gregorious Decl. ¶¶21-22, 24,
26).  
 
As such, even without considering the declaration of
Jacob Tauber offered by Plaintiff, a triable issue of material fact exists as
to whether Plaintiff was injured while at HDL and while being tended to by Muwummuza,
Right Choice’s employee, and whether a breach of duty owed by Right Choice to
Plaintiff caused such injury.  As noted
above, in this motion, Right Choice does not dispute that it owed Plaintiff and
duty of care or that such duty was breached. 
Rather, Right Choice addresses only the element of causation.   
 
The declaration of Lina Ann Latimer, offered in support
of the motion, which claims that Solis told Latimer Dustin dropped Phyllis
weighs against Plaintiff’s case against Right Choice.  (See Right Choice’s Ex.M).  The declaration is insufficient to establish
as a matter of law that Plaintiff was injured as a result of being dropped by
Dustin and not something that occurred at HDL. 
Even if Solis did make the statement to Latimer, there seems to be no
dispute that Solis was not present when the injury occurred, whether it was at
HDL or at home with Dustin.  As such, she
may not have had all of the information and/or may have been confused when she
made the statement a few days after 8/20/19. 
(See Latimer Decl.).  Ms.
Latimer’s statement and the credibility of Plaintiff’s expert, if his opinion
is offered at trial, will all be issues for the trier of fact to consider in
weighing the evidence.      
 
DEPENDENT ADULT/ELDER ABUSE 
 
To recover heightened remedies under the Dependent
Adult/Elder Abuse Act (the Act), a plaintiff must prove, by “clear and
convincing evidence,” that a defendant is liable for either physical abuse or
neglect of an elder or dependent adult and that the defendant committed the
abuse with “recklessness, oppression, fraud, or malice.”  Welfare & Institutions Code 15610.63,
15610.57, 15657; Delaney (1999) 20 C4th 23, 31.   
 
Under the Act, neglect means “[t]he negligent failure of
any person having the care or custody of an elder or a dependent adult to
exercise that degree of care that a reasonable person in a like position would
exercise.”  Welfare & Institutions
Code 15610.57(a)(1).
 
To establish recklessness, a plaintiff must show that the
defendant acted with “deliberate disregard of the high degree of probability
that an injury will occur.”  See Delaney,
supra at 31.   “Recklessness, unlike negligence, involves
more than inadvertence, incompetence, unskillfulness, or a failure to take
precautions, but rather rises to the level of a conscious choice of a course of
action with knowledge of the serious danger to others involved.”  Id. at 31-32.  “Acts of simple or gross negligence” are not
sufficient to plead elder abuse.  Berkley
(2007) 152 CA4th 518, 529.  “[A]
plaintiff must allege conduct essentially equivalent to conduct that would
support recovery of punitive damages.”  Covenant
Care, Inc. (2004) 32 C4th 771, 789.
 
Right Choice’s argument that the dependent adult/elder
abuse claim fails for lack of causation fails for the same reasons set forth
above with regard to the negligence cause of action.
 
Alternatively, Right Choice argues that the cause of
action fails because Plaintiff cannot establish physical abuse or neglect and
recklessness, oppression, fraud or malice. 
Under the Act, “neglect refers not to the substandard performance of
medical services but, rather, to the failure of those responsible for attending
to the basic needs and comforts of elderly or dependent adults...to carry out
their custodial obligations.”  Carter
(2011) 198 CA4th 396, 404; Welfare & Institutions Code 15610.57(a).  
 
One of the surveillance video clips shows: (1) Plaintiff
being wheeled into the restroom, where there is no video surveillance, by one
individual, presumably Muwummuza and Plaintiff seemingly being left alone as
the motion admits that Muwummuza had to summon others to assist her to put
Plaintiff back in her wheelchair after she used the restroom; (2) several
individuals who seem to work at or for HDL are in the hallway outside the
restroom; (3) the individual who wheeled Plaintiff into the restroom,
presumably Muwummuza, re-entering the restroom; and
(4) thereafter three more individuals being summoned and entering the restroom
before Plaintiff is wheeled back out in her wheelchair.  Considering Plaintiff’s known disabilities and
the need for assistance while using the restroom, a triable issue of material
fact exists as to whether Muwummuza, Right Choice’s employee, acted recklessly
in leaving Plaintiff alone in the restroom. 
 
 
CONCLUSION
 
The motion is denied in its entirety.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 