 Case Number:  24STLC03411    Hearing Date:   September 9, 2024    Dept:  26  Mariscos
Bahia, Inc. v. Beer & Grill, Inc., et al.DEMURRER(CCP § 430.10, et seq.)
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Defendants Edgar Yazbeck and Iris
Asuncion Yazbeck’s Demurrer to the Complaint is OVERRULED. DEFENDANTS EDGAR YAZBECK AND IRIS ASUNCION ARE TO FILE AND
SERVE AN ANSWER TO THE COMPLAINT WITHIN 20 DAYS’ NOTICE OF THIS ORDER.
 
 
 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 

On February 22, 2024, Plaintiff Mariscos Bahia, Inc.
(“Plaintiff”) filed the Complaint in this action
against Defendants Beer & Grill, Inc., Edgar Yazbeck and Iris Asuncion Yazbeck
(“the Yazbeck Defendants”). The Yazbeck Defendants filed the instant Demurrer
to the Complaint on May 28, 2024. Plaintiff filed an opposition on May 29,
2024. Thereafter, the case was reassigned from the Collections Hub to
Department 26 in the Limited Jurisdiction Department. The Yazbeck Defendants
re-filed the Demurrer to the Complaint on July 30, 2024. Plaintiffs re-filed
their opposition on August 26, 2024 and Defendants replied on August 29, 2024. 
 
Discussion
 
The Demurrer is accompanied by a
meet and confer declaration as required by Code of Civil Procedure section
430.41. (Reply, Tabone Decl., ¶¶5-7.) Defendants demur to the fifth cause of
action for personal guaranty for failure to allege facts sufficient to state a
cause of action. (Notice of Demurrer, p. 3.) Contrary to Plaintiff’s contention
in opposition, the Notice of Demurrer states on what grounds the Demurrer is
brought, and to which cause of action. 
 
The Complaint alleges the
following facts. On or about January 6, 2022 and July 26, 2023, Defendants
Edgar and Iris executed written Credit Application forms guaranteeing the
payment of any and all past, present or future obligations of the Defendants. (Compl.,
¶33 and Exh. 2.) The purpose of the Guaranty was to induce Plaintiff to extend
credit to Defendants. (Id. at ¶34.) 
Plaintiff relied on the Guaranty
to sell and deliver goods to Defendants on credit, for which the Defendants are
now indebted to Plaintiff in amount of $9,938.73. (Id. at ¶35.) Defendants
Edgar and Iris have not paid any part of the amount due under the Guaranty
despite demand by Plaintiff. (Id. at ¶36.) There is now due, owing and
unpaid from Defendants Edgar and Iris, the principal sum of $9,938.73, plus
attorney’s fees and interest at the rate of 24 percent per annum. (Id.
at ¶37.) 
 
5th Cause of Action for Breach
of Personal Guaranty
 
The Demurrer is brought on three
grounds: (1) the obligation of a surety must be neither larger in amount nor in
other respects more burdensome than that of the principal; (2) certain
agreements must be signed and evidenced by a writing to comply with the Statute
of Frauds; and (3) a personal guaranty must be signed by the party making the
guaranty. 
 
For the first argument, which was
apparently dropped by Defendants Edgar and Iris from their reply, the Demurrer
cites no part of the Complaint or attached exhibits to demonstrate that the
obligation imposed by the Guaranty exceeds the obligation of the underlying
agreement. (Demurrer, p. 5:18-23.) The second and third arguments are based on
the same apparent defect in the Guaranty: that despite the Complaint alleging
both Defendants Edgar and Iris executed the Guaranty, the document is only
signed by one, unidentifiable person. (Id. at pp. 5:24-6:16.) The
Demurrer is unhelpful in providing any legal authority to show how this fails
to allege a cause of action for breach of personal guaranty. It, and the reply,
rely entirely on unsupported statements of what is required for a personal
guaranty. (Id; Reply, p. 5:16-20.) 
 
The only authority cited with
respect to Defendants’ Statute of Frauds argument is that surety agreements
must be signed. (Citing Civil Code § 1624.) Civil Code section 1624,
subdivision (a), however, states that compliance with the Statute of Frauds
requires certain contracts to be “in writing and subscribed by the party
to be charged or by the party’s agent.” (Civ. Code, § 1624, subd. (a) [emphasis
added].) The Demurrer does not show through citation to authority how the
Guaranty fails to meet these requirements. 
 
Conclusion
 
Defendants Edgar Yazbeck and Iris
Asuncion Yazbeck’s Demurrer to the Complaint is OVERRULED. DEFENDANTS EDGAR YAZBECK AND IRIS ASUNCION ARE TO FILE AND
SERVE AN ANSWER TO THE COMPLAINT WITHIN 20 DAYS’ NOTICE OF THIS ORDER.
 
 
Court clerk to give notice. 