  Case Number:  24STCV19250    Hearing Date:   January 9, 2025    Dept:  45 JON ADAM HINZE v. TESLA MOTORS INC., ET al.
 
MOTION to
compel arbitration
 
Date of Hearing:          January
9, 2025                       Trial
Date:       None 
Department:               45                                            Case
No.:         24STCV19250  
Complaint Filed:            August 1,
2024
 
Moving Party:             Defendant
Tesla Motors, LLC
Responding Party:       Plaintiff Jon Adam Hinze
Notice:                         Proper

 
BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiff Jon Adam Hinze
(“Plaintiff”) alleges that Defendant Tesla Motors LLC (“Tesla”) wrongfully
terminated his employment after he complained about alleged fraud in the form
of senior management overcharging customers. Plaintiff alleges that his
supervisor Defendant Justin Barlage (“Barlage”) defamed Plaintiff for his
refusal to participate in the fraud. 
 
On August 1, 2024, Plaintiff filed a complaint against Tesla and
Barlage (collectively, “Defendants”) alleging (1) Wrongful Termination in
Violation of Labor Code section 1102.5 against Tesla; (2) Wrongful Termination
in Violation of Labor Code section 6310 against Tesla; (3) Retaliation in
Violation of Fair Employment and Housing Act against Tesla; and (4) Defamation
Per Se against all Defendants. 
 
On August 29, 2024, Tesla filed its Answer.
 
On October 29, 2024, Tesla filed the instant Motion
to Compel Arbitration. 
 
On December 24, 2024, Plaintiff filed his Opposition.

 
On January 2, 2025, Tesla filed its Reply. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
1.
Defendant’s Motion to Compel Arbitration is conditionally GRANTED pending an
evidentiary hearing on the issue of lack of mutuality and potential
severability of the following provision: “you and Tesla each have the right to
resolve any issue or dispute arising under the Proprietary Information and
Inventions Agreement by Court action instead of arbitration.” The Parties are
ordered to produce the Proprietary Information and Inventions Agreement, if
possible. 
 
2. The Court orders arbitration among Tesla and Plaintiff of Plaintiff’s three causes of action
solely against Tesla: (1) Wrongful Termination in Violation of Labor
Code section 1102.5; (2) Wrongful Termination in Violation of Labor Code
section 6310; and (3) Retaliation in Violation of Fair Employment and Housing
Act. 
 
3. The Court orders a stay of the
instant action as to Plaintiff’s fourth cause of action for Defamation against
Tesla and Barlage, pending the outcome of the arbitration proceeding.
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
Under both the Federal Arbitration Act
and California law, arbitration agreements are valid, irrevocable, and
enforceable, except on such grounds that exist at law or equity for voiding a
contract.  (Winter v. Window Fashions Professions, Inc. (2008) 166
Cal.App.4th 943, 947.)  In ruling on a motion to compel arbitration, the
court must first determine whether the parties actually agreed to arbitrate the
dispute, and general principles of California contract law help guide the court
in making this determination. (Mendez v. Mid-Wilshire Health Care Center
(2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 534, 541.)  “With respect to the moving party’s
burden to provide evidence of the existence of an agreement to arbitrate, it is
generally sufficient for that party to present a copy of the contract to the
court.”  (Baker v. Italian Maple Holdings, LLC (2017) 13
Cal.App.5th 1152, 1160.)    
 
The right to compel arbitration exists
unless the court finds that the right has been waived by a party’s conduct,
other grounds exist for revocation of the agreement, or where a pending court
action arising out of the same transaction creates the possibility of
conflicting rulings on a common issue of law or fact. (Code Civ. Proc., §
1281.2(a)-(c).)
 
ANALYSIS
 
Request for Judicial Notice 
 
Tesla asks the Court to take judicial notice of 36 orders of
other trial courts compelling arbitration of actions against Tesla under
similar circumstances. Judicial notice may be taken only of the existence and
legal effect of the records of other courts; here, Tesla asks this Court to
take judicial notice of the legal reasoning in the records. This is an improper
use of judicial notice, as it represents an attempt to sidestep the rule that
unpublished cases are non-citable. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 8.1115(a).
Further, the orders of other trial courts on motions to compel arbitration filed
by Tesla are not relevant to the determination of this Motion. 
 
Thus, Tesla’s Requests for Judicial Notice Nos. 1-36 are DENIED. 
 
 
Existence of a Valid Arbitration
Agreement
 
The party moving to compel arbitration must establish the existence of
a written arbitration agreement between the parties. (Code of Civ. Proc. §
1281.2.)  “With respect to the moving
party's burden to provide evidence of the existence of an agreement to
arbitrate, it is generally sufficient for that party to present a copy of the
contract to the court. (See Condee v. Longwood Management Corp. (2001)
88 Cal.App.4th 215, 218; see also Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1330 [“A petition
to compel arbitration or to stay proceedings pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure sections 1281.2 and 1281.4 must state, in addition to other required
allegations, the provisions of the written agreement and the paragraph that
provides for arbitration. The provisions must be stated verbatim or a copy must
be physically or electronically attached to the petition and incorporated by
reference”].) Once such a document is presented to the court, the burden shifts
to the party opposing the motion to compel, who may present any challenges to
the enforcement of the agreement and evidence in support of those challenges.
[Citation]” (Baker v. Italian Maple Holdings, LLC (2017) 13 Cal.App.5th
1152, 1160.) 
 
Here, Tesla seeks to compel arbitration of Plaintiff’s claims based on
an offer of employment letter, containing an arbitration clause (the
“Agreement”), signed by Plaintiff on April 20, 2015. (Flesch Decl., Exhibit A.)
In support of the existence of an arbitration agreement, Tesla submits evidence
of a copy of the offer letter executed by Tesla and Plaintiff on April 20, 2015.
(Id.) The offer letter contains provisions obligating Plaintiff to
arbitrate any claim or dispute with Tesla. (Id.) The pertinent provision
reads:  
 
In addition, to ensure the rapid and
economical resolution of disputes that may arise in connection with your
employment with Tesla, you and Tesla agree that any and all disputes, claims,
or causes of action, in law or equity, arising from or relating to your
employment, or the termination of your employment, will be resolved, to the
fullest extent permitted by law by final, binding and confidential
arbitration in your city and state of employment conducted by the Judicial
Arbitration and Mediation Services/Endispute, Inc. (“JAMS”), or its successors,
under the then current rules of JAMS for employment disputes; provided that: 
 
a. Any claim, dispute, or cause of action must
be brought in a party’s individual capacity, and not as a plaintiff or class
member in any purported class or representative proceeding; and 
b. The arbitrator shall have the authority to
compel adequate discovery for the resolution of the dispute and to award such
relief as would otherwise be permitted by law; and 
c. The arbitrator shall not have the authority
to consolidate the claims of other employees and shall not have the authority
to fashion a proceeding as a class or collective action or to award relief to a
group or class of employees in one arbitration proceeding; and 
d. The arbitrator shall issue a written
arbitration decision including the arbitrator’s essential findings and
conclusions and a statement of the award; and e. Both you and Tesla shall be
entitled to all rights and remedies that you or Tesla would be entitled to
pursue in a court of law; and f. Tesla shall pay all fees in excess of those
which would be required if the dispute was decided in a court of law. 
 
Nothing in this agreement is intended to
prevent either you or Tesla from obtaining injunctive relief in court to
prevent irreparable harm pending the conclusion of any such arbitration.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, you and Tesla each have the right to resolve any
issue or dispute arising under the Proprietary Information and Inventions
Agreement by Court action instead of arbitration. 
 
Arbitrable claims do not include, and this
Agreement does not apply to or otherwise restrict, administrative claims you
may bring before any government agency where, as a matter of law, the parties
may not restrict your ability to file such claims (including discrimination
and/or retaliation claims filed with the Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission and unfair labor practice charges filed with the National Labor
Relations Board). Otherwise, it is agreed that arbitration shall be the
exclusive remedy for administrative claims.
 
(Flesch Decl., Ex. A.) 
 
Plaintiff does not contest that he signed the Agreement, declaring
that, “[b]ased upon the signature and date which Defendant Tesla has attached
to its motion as Exhibit A to the Declaration of Benjamin Flesch, it appears I
e-signed this document on that same day.” (Hinze Decl., ¶ 3.) 
 
Thus, Tesla has met its burden to demonstrate the existence of a valid
arbitration agreement between Plaintiff and Tesla by presenting a copy of the offer
letter containing the arbitration provision to the Court. 
 
Applicability of the Federal
Arbitration Act (“FAA”)
 
“The party seeking to enforce an arbitration agreement has the burden
of showing FAA preemption.” (Lane v. Francis Capital Mgmt. LLC (2014)
224 Cal.App.4th 676, 684.) California law provides that parties may expressly
designate that any arbitration proceeding should move forward under the FAA's
procedural provisions rather than under state procedural law. (Cronus
Investments, Inc. v. Concierge Services (2005) 35 Cal. 4th 376,
394). Otherwise, the FAA provides for enforcement of arbitration
provisions in any “‘contract evidencing a transaction involving commerce.’ (9
USC § 2.)” (Allied-Bruce Terminix Companies, Inc. v. Dobson (1995)
513 U.S. 265, 277.) Accordingly, “[t]he party asserting the FAA bears the
burden to show it applies by presenting evidence establishing the contract with
the arbitration provision has a substantial relationship to interstate
commerce[.]” (Carbajal v. CWPSC, Inc. (2016) 245 Cal.App.4th
227, 234, [italics added].)  Moreover, as noted above, California contract
law applies to the validity of the arbitration agreement.  (Winter,
supra, 166 Cal.App.4th at p. 947.)   

 
Tesla argues that the FAA governs this dispute because the Agreement
constitutes a contract involving interstate commerce, and it is well settled
that corporations with multi-state business operations are engaged in
“commerce” for purposes of the FAA per  Giuliano
v. Inland Empire Personnel, Inc. (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 1276. In
Opposition, Plaintiff does not dispute the application of the FAA and instead
cites to the FAA’s authority in determining the validity of the instant
agreement. (Opposition, 2:8-13.)
 
In Giuliano, the FAA’s interstate commerce requirement was met
based on an employer’s “undisputed interstate business activities” of operating
in California and Arizona, and the interstate nature of the employment contract
including business trips outside of California and negotiation of business
loans from out-of-state lenders. (Guiliano, supra, 149 Cal.App.4th 1276,
1286-1287.) The Guiliano court found the FAA applicable based on the
“broad construction we must give to the phrase ‘evidencing a transaction
involving commerce.’” (Id.) 
 
Here, the offer letter containing the arbitration agreement states, “[t]his
letter agreement shall be construed and interpreted in accordance with the laws
of the State of California.” (Flesch Decl., Ex. A.) The agreement specifically
invokes California law rather than the FAA, such that Tesla must prove that the
agreement evidences a transaction involving commerce. 
 
Unlike in Guiliano where the employment contract containing the
arbitration clause was of an interstate nature due to the employee’s business trips
outside of California and negotiation of business loans from out-of-state
lenders, Tesla provides no similar evidence indicating that Plaintiff’s
employment was of an interstate nature. Tesla merely makes conclusory
statements that Plaintiff’s employment contract containing the Agreement
“facilitated interstate commerce because Tesla’s business, and Plaintiff’s
concomitant job duties, ultimately affected interstate commerce... Plaintiff’s
work directly helped to facilitate these transactions in interstate commerce,
thereby triggering the application of the FAA to the Arbitration Agreement.”
(Motion, 3:14-18.) While Tesla operates in multiple states, it is unclear
without further evidence how Plaintiff’s specific employment was of an
interstate nature, how the agreement evidences a transaction involving
commerce, or how it affected interstate commerce. 
 
Overall, Tesla fails to meet its burden to establish that the FAA
governs the Agreement. Thus, California law governs.  
 
Claims Covered by the Agreement
 
There does not appear to be any dispute that the arbitration clause,
by its terms, covers the claims set forth by Plaintiff in the instant case.
Aside from exceptions not applicable here, the arbitration clause broadly
applies to “any and all disputes, claims, or cause of action, in law or equity,
arising from or relating to your employment, or the termination of your
employment.” (Flesch Decl., Exh. A.)  
  
Defenses to Enforcement - Unconscionability

 
The burden now
shifts to Plaintiff to establish that the Agreement is unenforceable. Plaintiff
argues that the Agreement is unenforceable due to unconscionability. Under California
law, an arbitration agreement must be in some measure both procedurally and
substantively unconscionable in order for the agreement to be unenforceable. (Armendariz
v. Foundation Health Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 114; De
La Torre v. CashCall, Inc. (2018) 5 Cal.5th 966, 982.) “But they need not
be present in the same degree. . . . [T]he more substantively oppressive the
contract term, the less evidence of procedural unconscionability is required to
come to the conclusion that the term is unenforceable, and vice versa.” (Armendariz,
supra, 24 Cal.4th at p. 114.) “The party
resisting arbitration bears the burden of proving unconscionability.” (Pinnacle
Museum Tower Ass’n v. Pinnacle Market Dev., 55 Cal.4th 223,
247.)   
 
Procedural
Unconscionability 
 
Plaintiff
argues that the Agreement is tainted with a high level of procedural
unconscionability because it is an adhesion contract, and the arbitration
provision constituted unfair surprise.
 
Procedural unconscionability
“addresses the circumstances of contract negotiation and formation, focusing on
oppression or surprise due to unequal bargaining power.” (Pinnacle, supra, 55
Cal.4th 223, 246.) A contract of adhesion typically denotes a standardized
contract imposed and drafted by the party of superior bargaining strength which
relegates to the subscribing party only the opportunity to adhere to the
contract or reject it. (Armendariz, supra, 24 Cal.4th at 113.)  The
adhesive nature of a contract is one factor that the courts may consider in
determining the degree of procedural unconscionability. (Carmona v.
Lincoln Millennium Car Wash, Inc. (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 74, 84
fn.4.)    
 
Here, the
agreement was presented on a take-it-or-leave-it basis, illustrating the
adhesive nature of the contract. (Armendariz, supra, 24 Cal.4th at p.
115; Carmona, supra, 226 Cal.App.4th at p. 84, fn.4). A prospective
employee, like Plaintiff, could reasonably believe that the arbitration clause
in the offer letter was a condition of employment, which would be rescinded if
they chose not to sign the Agreement. (“The Agreement containing that clause
was adhesive in that it was imposed on respondent ‘as a condition of employment’
and with ‘no opportunity to negotiate.’” Subcontracting Concepts (CT), LLC
v. De Melo (2019) 34 Cal. App. 5th 201, 211, citing Armendariz, supra,
24 Cal.4th at p. 115 [“in the case of preemployment arbitration contracts, the
economic pressure exerted by employers on all but the most sought-after
employees may be particularly acute, for the arbitration agreement stands
between the employee and necessary employment, and few employees are in a
position to refuse a job because of an arbitration requirement”].) Further,
Tesla, a large company, imposed and drafted the Agreement with sophistication
and superior bargaining power compared to Plaintiff, their prospective
employee, who had no legal representative and limited sophistication as to
legal documents.


The foregoing
indicates moderate oppression based on an inequality of bargaining power and an
absence of meaningful choice.
 
As to
Plaintiff’s argument of unfair surprise, the terms of the agreement were
somewhat hidden in the document as there was no clear heading separating the
arbitration provisions from the other provisions of the offer letter. In other
cases, no surprise was found where the arbitration clause was clearly
delineated by a heading. (Pinnacle, supra, 55 Cal.4th 223 at p. 247, fn.
12 (finding no surprise as arbitration provisions “appear in a separate article
under a bold, capitalized, and underlined caption titled ‘ARTICLE XVIII
CONSTRUCTION DISPUTES’”); Bigler v. Harker School (2013) 213
Cal.App.4th 727, 737 (finding no surprise where arbitration clause was “located
at the top of the second page in a two-page document with the heading
‘Arbitration’ in boldfaced font”); Crippen v. Central Valley
RV Outlet (2004) 124 Cal.App.4th 1159, 1165 (finding no surprise where
arbitration provision “was printed on a separate page” with “‘Arbitration
Addendum’ at the top,” and “was signed separately”).
 
However, the
first paragraph of the arbitration provision contains the following language in
bold: 
 
In addition, to ensure the rapid and
economical resolution of disputes that may arise in connection with your
employment with Tesla, you and Tesla agree that any and all disputes, claims,
or causes of action, in law or equity, arising from or relating to your
employment, or the termination of your employment, will be resolved, to the
fullest extent permitted by law by final, binding and confidential
arbitration in your city... 
 
(Flesch Decl., Ex. A.) 
 
This bolded
language is not a heading, but it is not necessarily hidden in “the same small
print as the letter with no headings, boldface, italicized, or otherwise
emphasized text” as Plaintiff argues. (Motion, pp. 6-7.) Plaintiff includes a
footnote conceding that “[i]n the instant employment offer, there is boldface
and italics embedded in the text.” Additionally, the offer letter is only five
pages long, such that the language likely did not get lost in a lengthy
document. Thus, Plaintiff was sufficiently put on notice of the arbitration
clause such that there was no unfair surprise.
Plaintiff also
argues that the agreement is unconscionable as it makes reference to other
sources such as the JAMS rules without providing a method to access and review
such rules or specifying which rules therein would govern. However, no
increased showing of procedural unconscionability is found where an arbitration
agreement set forth rules that would govern arbitration, but a copy of the
rules was not provided. (See Baltazar v. Forever 21, Inc. (2016) 62
Cal.4th 1237, 1246.) Although Tesla did not provide a copy of “the current
rules of JAMS for employment disputes,” the Agreement clearly specified which
rules would govern the dispute. Thus, there is no increased showing of
procedural unconscionability on this basis. 
Overall, there
is a moderate showing of procedural unconscionability. In the employment
context, “[a]lthough procedural unconscionability alone does not invalidate a
contract, its existence requires courts to closely scrutinize the substantive
terms ‘to ensure they are not manifestly unfair or one-sided.’ [Citation.]” (OTO,
L.L.C. v. Kho (2019) 8 Cal.5th 111, 130.)
 
Substantive
Unconscionability 
 
Plaintiff
argues that the Agreement is permeated with a high level of substantive unconscionability
because the Agreement prevents an arbitrator from awarding public injunctive
relief, the agreement allows Tesla to make unilateral changes, and the
agreement provides a carve-out for claims which Tesla is most likely to bring. 
 
An agreement
is substantively unconscionable if it imposes terms that are “overly harsh,”
“unduly oppressive,” “unreasonably favorable,” or “so one-sided as to ‘shock
the conscience.’”  (Sanchez v. Valencia Holding Co., LLC (2015)
61 Cal.4th 899, 910-911.)  “All of these formulations point to the
central idea that unconscionability doctrine is concerned not with ‘a simple
old-fashioned bad bargain’ [citation], but with terms that are ‘unreasonably
favorable to the more powerful party.’ [Citation.]”  (Id. at p.
911.)  “These include ‘terms that impair the integrity of the bargaining
process or otherwise contravene the public interest or public policy; terms
(usually of an adhesion or boilerplate nature) that attempt to alter in an
impermissible manner fundamental duties otherwise imposed by the law,
fine-print terms, or provisions that seek to negate the reasonable expectations
of the nondrafting party, or unreasonably and unexpectedly harsh
terms having to do with price or other central aspects of the transaction.’
”  (Id.) 
 
First,
Plaintiff argues that the Agreement is unconscionable because it prevents an
arbitrator from awarding public injunctive relief. Plaintiff
has alleged Retaliation in Violation of the Fair Employment and Housing Act
(“FEHA”). Plaintiff cites
Vaughn v. Tesla, Inc. (2023) 87 Cal.App.5th 208, which held that
trial courts must refuse to enforce a contractual waiver of a plaintiff’s right
to seek a public injunction under FEHA. “[A]n arbitration agreement waiving a
statutory right to seek a public injunction ‘in any forum’ is invalid as
‘contrary to California public policy’ because it ‘would seriously compromise
the public purposes the statute[ was] intended to serve.’” (Id. at p. 227,
quoting McGill v. Citibank, N.A. (2017) 2 Cal.5th 945, 952, 961.)
 
The arbitration agreement at issue in Vaughn provided that,
“Any claim, dispute, or cause of action must be brought in a party's individual
capacity, and not as a plaintiff or class member in any purported class or
representative proceeding ... The arbitrator shall not have the authority to
... award relief to a group or class of employees in one arbitration
proceeding.” (Vaughn, supra, 87 Cal.App.5th at p. 228.) The Vaughn court
found that “because the Arbitration Provision provided for resolution of all
covered disputes in arbitration, but prohibits an arbitrator from granting
nonindividual relief, the provision does waive Plaintiffs’ right to seek a
public injunction ‘in any forum.’” (Id.)
 
The Agreement at issue here states that, “Any claim, dispute, or cause
of action must be brought in a party's individual capacity, and not as a
plaintiff or class member in any purported class or representative proceeding
... The arbitrator shall not have the authority to ... award relief to a group
or class of employees in one arbitration proceeding.” (Flesch Decl., Ex. A.) 
 
“Injunctive relief is available in a FEHA action.” (Vaughn, supra,
87 Cal.App.5th at p. 229.) Plaintiff alleges Retaliation under FEHA against
Tesla and Barlage and may seek public injunctive relief at some point. The Vaughn
provisions and the provisions in the instant Agreement have the exact same
wording and legal effect. Accordingly, the Agreement here, as in Vaughn,
waives Plaintiff’s right to seek a public injunction in any forum. Thus, the
provision is unconscionable and unenforceable.  
 
Tesla argues in Reply that Vaughn is not applicable here
because Plaintiff has not alleged any representative claims and has not sought
public injunctive relief. However, Vaughn makes clear that “an
arbitration agreement that precludes a plaintiff from pursuing public
injunctive relief in any forum is invalid and unenforceable as a matter of
state law,” making no mention of a requirement that the plaintiff be actually seeking
such relief in order to invalidate that provision of the agreement. (Vaughn,
supra, 87 Cal.App.5th at p. 228.) California's rule against contractual
waivers of the right to seek a public injunction clearly applies here, regardless
of whether Plaintiff has alleged any representative claims or sought public
injunctive relief.  Considering all of
the above, the provision in the Agreement prohibiting such relief is
unenforceable. 
 
Second,
Plaintiff argues that the Agreement is unconscionable because it allows Tesla
to make unilateral changes to the Agreement. Plaintiff takes issue with two
clauses in the Agreement: “Your duties, responsibilities, job title, and
work location may be changed at any time by Tesla.” and “This Agreement cannot
be changed, amended, or modified except in a written agreement signed by an
officer of Tesla.” (Flesch Decl., Exh. A.) In support of this argument,
Plaintiff cites to a federal case, Ramirez-Baker v. Beazer Homes, Inc.,
(2008) 636 F.Supp.2d 1008, which is not binding on this Court. Thus, Plaintiff
has failed to meet their burden on this argument. 
 
Finally,
Plaintiff argues that the Agreement is unconscionable because it lacks
mutuality by providing a carve-out for claims which Tesla is most likely to
bring. The provision at issue states, “you and Tesla each have the right to resolve
any issue or dispute arising under the Proprietary Information and Inventions
Agreement by Court action instead of arbitration.” (Flesch Decl., Ex. A.) 
 
“An arbitration agreement need not ‘mandate the arbitration of all
claims between the parties. [Citation] However, if an agreement singles out
certain claims for arbitration, there must be ‘mutuality.’ [Citation] The
agreement cannot require ‘one contracting party, but not the other, to arbitrate
all claims arising out of the same transaction or occurrence or series of
transactions or occurrences.’” (Ramirez v. Charter Commc'ns, Inc (2024)
16 Cal.5th 478, 495, citing Armendariz, supra, 24 Cal.4th at p. 120.) 
 
In Ramirez, the Supreme Court of California held that an
employment arbitration agreement lacked mutuality as it excluded claims more
likely to be employer-initiated, specifically claims related to intellectual
property rights and severance or noncompete agreements, and claims for
equitable relief related to unfair competition or the disclosure of trade
secrets or confidential information. (See Ramirez, supra, 16 Cal. 5th at
p. 498.)
 
Like the Ramirez agreement’s exclusion of claims related to intellectual
property rights and disclosure of trade secrets or confidential information, the
Agreement here excludes any issue or dispute arising under the Proprietary
Information and Inventions Agreement, which would seemingly be claims related
to intellectual property rights, trade secrets, and confidential information.
However, the scope of the Proprietary Information and Inventions Agreement is
unclear as neither party submits it in evidence. Plaintiff declares that Tesla
did not provide him with the Proprietary Information and Inventions Agreement.
(Hinze Decl., ¶ 6.) Tesla does not confirm or deny the existence of the
Proprietary Information and Inventions Agreement, stating in Reply that “none
of these referenced documents are in evidence and Plaintiff argues that because
he does not have a copy of them, that they do not exist.” (Reply, 3:26-27.) As
such, the Court can only speculate as to which claims are excluded under the
Agreement. 
 
In the event that the Proprietary Information and Inventions Agreement
comprises claims related to intellectual property rights and disclosure of
trade secrets or confidential information, exclusion from the Agreement of such
claims that Tesla is most likely to bring would evidence a lack of mutuality
and resulting substantive unconscionability. 
 
In Reply, Tesla argues that so long as there is “at least some
reasonable justification” for the scope of the arbitration clause, based on
“business realities,” the scope of the clause will not render an agreement
unconscionable per Armendariz, supra,  24 Cal.4th at 117. Tesla fails to offer a
reasonable justification for the scope of the arbitration clause based on
business realities. 
 
However, as the burden on this issue is Plaintiff’s, Plaintiff’s
failure to submit the Proprietary Information and Inventions Agreement in
evidence precludes this Court from making findings based on its scope and
potential lack of mutuality at this time. Thus, Plaintiff fails to establish
substantive unconscionability for lack of mutuality on this basis. 
 
However, the Court finds that an evidentiary hearing on this issue is
appropriate as Tesla, the author of the purported Proprietary Information and
Inventions Agreement, is likely to be in possession of it. Thus, the Court
reserves the ruling on the issue of lack of mutuality and potential
severability of the provision stating, “you and Tesla each have the right to
resolve any issue or dispute arising under the Proprietary Information and
Inventions Agreement by Court action instead of arbitration,” pending an
evidentiary hearing on the same. 
 
Overall, there is a moderate degree of substantive unconscionability
based on the Agreement’s purported waiver of Plaintiff’s right to seek a public
injunction in any forum. 
 
Severability
A court has discretion to refuse to enforce
an arbitration agreement if the agreement is permeated by unconscionability by
containing more than one unlawful provision and the court cannot remove the
unconscionability without reforming the contract. (Ramirez v. Charter
Commc'ns, Inc. (2024) 16 Cal.5th 478, 547; Trivedi v. Curexo Technology
Corp. (2010) 189 Cal.App.4th 387, 398 (judge had discretion to deny
severing, as to agreement having fee provision conflicting with FEHA, and
injunction exemption favoring employer), disapproved on other grounds by
Baltazar v. Forever 21, Inc. (2016) 62 Cal.4th 1237, 1248.) “When an
arbitration agreement is ‘permeated’ by unconscionability the decision whether
to sever the objectionable clauses or refuse to compel arbitration is within
the trial court's exercise of discretion.” (Samaniego v. Empire Today LLC
(2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 1138, 1149.)
In Reply, Tesla argues that in the event the
Court finds a provision to be unconscionable, such provision may be severed
pursuant to the terms of the Agreement rather than invalidating the entire
agreement citing Armendariz, 24 Cal.4th at p. 124 (if “the illegal provision
can be extirpated from the contract by means of severance or restriction, then
such severance and restriction are appropriate”).
Here, the clause in the
present Agreement stating that “The arbitrator shall not have the authority to
. . . fashion a proceeding as a class or collective action to award relief to a
group or class of employees in one arbitration proceeding. . .” is invalid and
unenforceable under California law as it precludes Plaintiff from pursuing
public injunctive relief in any forum. (Flesch Decl., Exh. A.) Thus, the Court
orders this clause severed from the Agreement to cure the unconscionability. Upon
severance, the Court finds the Agreement enforceable. 
 
 
 
Claims Against Non-Signatory
Defendant Barlage
 
“Nonsignatories of arbitration
agreements may be bound by the agreement under ordinary contract and agency
principles.” (Comer v. Micor, Inc. (2006) 436 F.3d 1098, 1101.) “The
nonsignatory bears the burden to establish he or she is a party to the
arbitration agreement/provision covering the dispute. (Jones v. Jacobson (2011)
195 Cal. App. 4th 1, 15.) 
 
Defendant argues that “as
the moving party opposing arbitration, Plaintiff bears the burden of proving
that the Arbitration Agreement cannot be interpreted to cover the claims
alleged in this Action” citing Efund Capital Partners v. Pless (2007)
150 Cal.App.4th 1311, 1321. (Motion, 5:23-24.) However, Efund establishes
the burden for proving which claims are covered by an
arbitration agreement, not which parties are bound by the
agreement. Plaintiff correctly points out that the burden for establishing that
a nonsignatory is a party to an arbitration agreement lies with the
nonsignatory. As the nonsignatory Defendant Barlage has not yet appeared in
this case and makes no argument here, Barlage’s burden to establish their right
to invoke the Agreement has not been met. Thus, the Agreement is not binding on
Defendant Barlage, a non-signatory. 
 
Risk of Conflicting Rulings  
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.2 states:
 
On petition of a party to an arbitration
agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a
controversy and that a party thereto refuses to arbitrate such controversy, the
court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the
controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy
exists, unless it determines that: 
(a) The right to compel arbitration has been
waived by the petitioner; or 
(b) Grounds exist for the revocation of the
agreement. 
(c) A party to the arbitration agreement is
also a party to a pending court action or special proceeding with a third
party, arising out of the same transaction or series of related transactions
and there is a possibility of conflicting rulings on a common issue of law or
fact. . . .
 
(CCP §1281.2.)  
 
“[A] trial court must decide whether section
1281.2(c) applies based only on the three conditions identified in that
subdivision.”  (Acquire II, Ltd. v. Colton Real Estate Group (2013)
213 Cal.App.4th 959, 978.)  The last paragraph of section 1281.2 sets
forth four options available to the Court when the Court makes a finding that
there is a possibility of conflicting rulings:  
  
If the court
determines that a party to the arbitration is also a party to litigation in a
pending court action or special proceeding with a third party as set forth
under subdivision (c), the court   
  
(1)        may refuse to
enforce the arbitration agreement and may order intervention or joinder of all
parties in a single action or special proceeding;   
(2)        may order
intervention or joinder as to all or only certain issues;   
(3)        may order
arbitration among the parties who have agreed to arbitration and stay the
pending court action or special proceeding pending the outcome of the
arbitration proceeding; or   
(4)        may stay
arbitration pending the outcome of the court action or special
proceeding.  
 
(CCP § 1281.2.)  
 
“Section 1281.2(c)'s primary purpose
is to avoid conflicting rulings, not further judicial economy.”  (Acquire
II, Ltd., supra, 213 Cal.App.4th at p.978; see also Whaley v. Sony
Computer Entertainment America, Inc. (2004) 121 Cal.App.4th 479, 488 [“the
statute was intended primarily to prevent conflicting rulings resulting from
arbitration proceedings and other related litigation arising out of the same
transaction.”].) 
 
Here, Plaintiff alleges three
causes of action solely against Tesla: (1) Wrongful Termination in Violation of
Labor Code section 1102.5; (2) Wrongful Termination in Violation of Labor Code
section 6310; and (3) Retaliation in Violation of Fair Employment and Housing
Act.) Plaintiff also alleges the fourth cause of action, Defamation Per Se, jointly
against Tesla and Barlage. 
 
Tesla, a party
to the arbitration agreement, is also a party to the instant pending court
action with a third-party non-signatory, Barlage. The Defamation claim against
Tesla that is subject to arbitration arises out of the same transaction or
series of related transactions as the non-arbitrable Defamation claim against
Barlage. Tesla and Barlage’s alleged liability under the Defamation claim is
based on same series of events that took place during Plaintiff’s employment,
specifically Plaintiff’s complaints about fraud and management’s response to
such complaints. There is also a possibility of conflicting rulings on a common
issue of law or fact as the arbitrator could find that Barlage never made
defamatory statements to Tesla and Tesla did not repeat such statements, while
the Court could find that Barlage did in fact make defamatory statements to
Tesla and Tesla did in fact repeat such statements. Therefore, there is a possibility of conflicting
rulings should the Court enforce the Agreement binding only Tesla and Plaintiff.

 
Accordingly, the Court orders arbitration among Tesla and Plaintiff,
the parties who have agreed to arbitration, of Plaintiff’s three causes of action solely against Tesla (1)
Wrongful Termination in Violation of Labor Code section 1102.5; (2) Wrongful
Termination in Violation of Labor Code section 6310; and (3) Retaliation in
Violation of Fair Employment and Housing Act.) The Court stays the instant action as to Plaintiff’s
fourth cause of action for Defamation against Tesla and Barlage pending the
outcome of the arbitration proceeding. 
 
CONCLUSION
 
Defendant’s Motion
to Compel Arbitration is conditionally GRANTED pending an evidentiary hearing
on the issue of lack of mutuality and potential severability of the
following provision: “you and Tesla each have the right to resolve any issue or
dispute arising under the Proprietary Information and Inventions Agreement by
Court action instead of arbitration.” The Parties are ordered to produce the
Proprietary Information and Inventions Agreement, if possible, and to provide
supplemental briefs of no more than 5 pages addressing how this agreement
should affect the court’s evaluation of the motion to compel arbitration.  
 
The Court orders arbitration among Tesla and Plaintiff of Plaintiff’s three causes of action
solely against Tesla: (1) Wrongful Termination in Violation of Labor
Code section 1102.5; (2) Wrongful Termination in Violation of Labor Code
section 6310; and (3) Retaliation in Violation of Fair Employment and Housing
Act. 
 
The Court orders a stay of the
instant action as to Plaintiff’s fourth cause of action for Defamation against
Tesla and Barlage, pending the outcome of the arbitration proceeding.
 
Moving party to give notice.  