 Case Number:  24STCV19478    Hearing Date:   January 9, 2025    Dept:  45 Fn logistics, llc v. adecco usa,
inc.
 
APPLICATION TO
APPEAR PRO HAC VICE
 
Date of Hearing:          January
9, 2025                       Trial
Date:       None 
Department:               45                                            Case
No.:         24STCV19478  
Complaint Filed:            August 5,
2024 
FAC Filed:                    September
23, 2024
 
Applicant:                    Attorney
Samantha W. Frankel for Plaintiff FN Logistics, LLC
Responding Party:       None
Notice:                         Proper

 
BACKGROUND
 
On September 23, 2024, Plaintiff FN Logistics, LLC
(“Plaintiff”) filed a first-amended complaint against Defendant
Adecco USA, Inc. (“Defendant”) for (1) Contractual Indemnity; (2) Comparative
Indemnity; and (3) Declaratory Relief. 
 
On November 1, 2024, Defendant filed a
Cross-Complaint against Plaintiff. 
 
On November 25, 2024, Attorney Samantha W.
Frankel filed an application to appear pro hac vice on behalf of
Plaintiff FN Logistics, LLC. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
1. Application for Pro Hac Vice
Admission of Samantha W. Frankel to Appear as Counsel for Plaintiff is GRANTED.  
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
CRC, Rule 9.40 provides that an
attorney in good standing in another jurisdiction may apply to appear pro
hac vice in this State by way of written application upon due notice to all
interested parties, as well as service on the State Bar in San Francisco with
payment of a $50 fee, provided that the attorney (a) is not a California
resident, (b) does not work in California, and (c) does not perform regular or
substantial business, professional or other activities in California.
 
An application for pro hac vice
admission must set forth: (1) the applicant attorney’s residence and office
addresses; (2) the courts to which the applicant attorney has been admitted and
dates of admission; (3) a representation that the attorney applicant is a
member in good standing in the courts of admission and is not currently
suspended or disbarred in any court; (4) the title of each court and action in
which the applicant attorney has appeared pro hac vice in this State in
the prior two years; and (5) the name, address and phone number of the active
California State Bar member with whom the applicant is associated. (CRC, Rule
9.40(d).)
 
Under CRC, Rule 9.40(b), “[a]bsent
special circumstances, repeated appearances by any person under this rule is a
cause for denial of an application.”
 
ANALYSIS
 
Kevin E. Gaut, counsel for Plaintiff, declares that the
required fee for Samantha W. Frankel’s application was submitted. (Gaut Decl.,
¶ 3.) Ms. Frankel attests that she is a member of good standing in the State
Bar of New York and has been admitted to practice in the U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York and Eastern District of New York. (Frankel Decl.,
¶ 4.) Ms. Frankel is a New York resident and not a resident of California, is
not regularly employed in California, and is not regularly engaged in
substantial business, professional or other activities in California. (Id.
at ¶¶ 1, 6.) Ms. Frankel submits the name, address and phone number of the
active California State Bar member with whom the applicant is associated. (Id.
at ¶ 8.) 
 
A copy of the application has been served on the State Bar
of California and all interested parties. (Gaut Decl., ¶ 3, Proof of Service.)
Ms. Frankel attests that, in the preceding two years, she has submitted two
applications to appear as counsel pro hac vice. (Frankel Decl., ¶ 7.) First,
in California in what counsel believes is a related case, FN
Logistics, LLC et al v. Bluecrew, LLC, U.S. District Court, Central District of
California, Case No. 2:24-CV-07635. (Id.) Ms.
Frankel has another application currently pending in California in what counsel
believes is also a related case, FN Logistics, LLC et al v. v. Randstad Inhouse
Services, LLC, Los Angeles Superior Court,
Case No. 24STCV19483. (Id.) The Court finds this is
sufficient to establish that Ms. Frankel has not made repeated appearances
under CRC, Rule 9.40(b). 
 
Based on the foregoing, the court finds that Ms. Frankel establishes
that she satisfied the requirements to appear as counsel pro hac vice
pursuant to CRC, Rule 9.40.
 
CONCLUSION
 
Application for Pro Hac Vice Admission
of Samantha W. Frankel to Appear as Counsel for Plaintiff is GRANTED.  
 
Moving party to give notice. 
 