 Case Number:  22STCV38966    Hearing Date:   May 9, 2024    Dept:  73 05/09/24
Dept. 73
Hon.
Rolf Treu, Judge presiding 
 
GONZALEZ v. REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY
OF CALIFORNIA, et al. (22STCV38966)
 
Counsel
for Plaintiff/opposing party:  Omid
Nosrati (Nosrati Law)
Counsel
for Defendant Frederick Bush/moving party: 
Kathleen Rager (Law Offices of Kathleen Rager)
 
MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT (filed by Defendant Frederick Bush 02/21/2024)
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 
Defendant Bush’s motion for summary
adjudication as to Plaintiff’s third and fourth causes of action
is GRANTED. 
Background
 
On December
15, 2022, Plaintiff Ana Gonzalez (“Plaintiff”) filed this employment action
against Defendants The Regents of the University of California (“the Regents”)
and Frederick Bush (“Bush”) alleging the following causes of action:
            
C/A
1: Discrimination Based on Gender [Gov. Code § 12940(a)] against the Regents
C/A
2: Discrimination Based on Race [Gov. Code § 12940(a)] against the Regents
C/A
3: Harassment Based on Gender [Gov’t Code § 12940(j) against the Regents and
Bush
C/A
4: Harassment Based on Race [Gov’t Code § 12940(j)] against the Regents and
Bush
C/A
5: Discrimination Based on Disability [Gov. Code § 12940(a)] against the
Regents
C/A
6: Failure to Prevent Discrimination and Harassment [Gov’t Code § 12940(k)] against
the 
Regents
C/A
7: Failure to Provide Reasonable Accommodations [Gov. Code § 12940(m)] against
the 
Regents
C/A
8: Failure to Engage in the Interactive Process [Gov. Code § 12940(n)] against
the Regents
C/A
9: Retaliation in Violation of the FEHA [Gov. Code § 12940(h) and 12940(m)(2)] against
the 
Regents
C/A
10: Whistleblower Retaliation [Labor Code § 1102.5] against the Regents
 
The Complaint alleges the following. On or around July 2020, Plaintiff, a Hispanic woman, was hired by
the Regents as a Director of Development at the UCLA School of Theater, Film
& Television (“TFT”). (Compl., ¶ 12.)
Plaintiff’s direct supervisor was Bush, the Assistant Dean, Development
& Alumni Affairs; UCLA School of Theater, Film and Television. (Ibid.)
Throughout Plaintiff’s employment, Bush regularly displayed sexist, racist, and
aggressive behavior directly to Plaintiff as well as other female employees.
Plaintiff alleges Bush had a preference for hiring minority and/or disabled
female employees because he believed he could control them and they would be
unable to advance further within in the organization due to their female, minority,
and/or disabled status. (Id., ¶ 13.)
Plaintiff made multiple complaints about Bush’s conduct, such as to the Human
Resource Director for UCLA External Affairs, but she alleges her complaints
were not taken seriously. (Id., ¶¶
25-29.) Plaintiff was constructively terminated on August 30, 2022. (Id.,
¶ 59.)

 
On 02/21/2024, Defendant Bush filed a motion for summary judgment or
alternatively, summary adjudication.
·       Plaintiff alleges
two causes of action against Bush: her Third Cause of Action for Harassment
Based Upon Gender and her Fourth Cause of Action for Harassment Based Upon Race.
·       However, the alleged acts of which Plaintiff complains are either: (1)
baseless allegations based upon Plaintiff’s tendency to speculate without
verifying the serious allegations she recklessly makes; (2) not related to her
protected classes of gender and race, or (3) not sufficiently severe or
pervasive to constitute legally actionable harassment. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues that:
·       There are
genuine issues of material fact regarding Plaintiff’s third cause of action for
gender harassment 
o   Bush
subjected Plaintiff and other female coworkers to a pattern of abuse on the
basis of their female gender and created a general atmosphere of intimidation.
§  Based on the
totality of the circumstances, Bush’s harassment of Plaintiff was sufficiently
pervasive.
§  Plaintiff’s
knowledge of Bush’s harassing conduct towards Ms. Tsalik, Ms. Stankowski, and
Ms. Biggi further demonstrated the pervasiveness of Bush’s harassing conduct
towards women.
§  Bush’s
harassment of Plaintiff unreasonably interfered with Plaintiff’s work
performance.
o   Bush’s
February 3, 2022 act of intimidation with the perceived threat of physical
violence was sufficiently severe harassment.
§  Moreover, the
retaliatory acts that Bush engaged in after the February 3, 2022 confrontation
further demonstrates the severity of Bush’s harassment of Plaintiff
o   Defendant
Bush’s harassment of Plaintiff was objectively and subjectively offensive to
create a hostile work environment
·       There are
genuine issues of material fact regarding Plaintiff’s fourth cause of action
for race harassment 
o   In Dee v.
Vintage Petroleum, Inc. (2003) 106 Cal.App.4th 30, 36, the Court of Appeal
reversed summary judgment entered in favor of the employer, concluding that the
supervisor’s lone ethnic slur, combined with other evidence of abuse, raised a
triable issue of fact as to whether the employer had created a hostile work
environment due to national origin discrimination. (Id. at 35, 37.)
o   Bush harassed
Plaintiff due to her Hispanic race by regularly making disparaging comments
about Hispanics
In reply, Defendant Bush argues that:
·      
Plaintiff’s declaration contradicts her deposition testimony and must
be disregarded as evidence in this matter
·      
Plaintiff cannot use “me too” documentation to show harassment of
employees outside of her protected class
o  
Plaintiff cannot attempt to submit evidence of “me too”
discrimination concerning employees outside of the plaintiff’s protected class
to show discrimination or harassment against the plaintiff, nor can it be used
to prove a defendant’s propensity to harass. See Pinter-Brown v. Regents of
University of California (UCLA) (2020) 48 Cal.App.5th 55, 96
·      
Bush’s alleged conduct is not sufficiently severe or pervasive
o  
Plaintiff alleges that the February 3, 2022 incident in her office
after the Zoom meeting is sufficiently severe to withstand summary judgment, citing
EEOC v. National Educ. Ass’n, Alaska (9th Circuit 2005), 422 F.3d 840.
 
ANALYSIS
 
A.     Legal
Standard for Motion for Summary Judgment 
 
A party may move for summary judgment “if it is contended that the
action has no merit or that there is no defense to the action or
proceeding.”  (Cal. Civ. Proc. Code § 437c(a).)   “Summary
judgment shall be granted if all the papers submitted show that there is no
triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to
a judgment as a matter of law.  In determining if the papers show that
there is no triable issue as to any material fact, the court shall consider all
of the evidence set forth in the papers, except the evidence to which
objections have been made and sustained by the court, and all inferences
reasonably deducible from the evidence, except summary judgment shall not be
granted by the court based on inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence
if contradicted by other inferences or evidence that raise a triable issue as
to any material fact.”  (Id., § 437c, subd. (c).) 
 
A defendant moving for summary judgment must show “that one or
more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be established, or that there
is a complete defense to the cause of action.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c,
subd. (p)(2); see also, Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (o).) 
 
“The defendant may, but need not, present evidence that
conclusively negates an element of the plaintiff's cause of action.  The
defendant may also present evidence that the plaintiff does not possess, and
cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence—as through admissions by the
plaintiff following extensive discovery to the effect that he has discovered
nothing.  But… the defendant must indeed present
evidence."  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25
Cal.4th 826, 855 [italics in original].)   “In other words, all that
the defendant need do is to show that the plaintiff cannot establish at least
one element of the cause of action--for example, that the plaintiff cannot
prove element¿X.”  (Id., at 853.) The court in Aguilar
distilled summary judgment to “a single proposition:  If a party moving
for summary judgment in any action . . . would prevail at trial without
submission of any issue of material fact to a trier of fact for determination,
then he should prevail on summary judgment.  In such a case . . . the
‘court should grant’ the motion ‘and “avoid a . . . trial’ rendered ‘useless’
by nonsuit or directed verdict or similar device.  (Id. at
855.) 
 
As noted in Aguilar, “the party moving for summary judgment
bears an initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the
nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact; if he carries his burden of
production, he causes a shift, and the opposing party is then subjected to a
burden of production of his own to make a prima facie showing of the existence
of a triable issue of material fact.”  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th
at 850.)  Thus, courts usually follow a three-step analysis: “First, we
identify the issues framed by the pleadings . . . . [¶] Secondly, we determine
whether the moving party’s showing has established facts which negate the
opponent’s claim and justify a judgment in movant’s favor. . . . [¶] When a . .
. motion prima facie justifies a judgment, the third and final step is to
determine whether the opposition demonstrates the existence of a triable,
material factual issue.”  (Ojavan Investors, Inc. v. Cal. Coastal Comm.
(1997) 54 Cal.App.4th 373, 385 [citation and footnote omitted].) 
  
Opposing parties must present substantial evidence in order to
avoid summary judgment.  (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th
151, 163.)  “In some instances…, ‘evidence may be so lacking in probative
value that it fails to raise any triable issue.’”  (Whitmire v.
Ingersoll-Rand Co. (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 1078, 1083-1084.)  “A
complete failure of proof concerning an essential element of the nonmoving
party's case necessarily renders all other facts immaterial.”  (Hunter
v. Pacific Mechanical Corp (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1282, 1286, disapproved on
other grounds by Aguilar, supra, at 865; accord Saelzler v. Advanced
Group 400 (2001) 25 Cal.4th 763, 780 [“‘If the plaintiff is unable to meet
her burden of proof regarding an essential element of her case, all other facts
are rendered immaterial.’”].) 
 
Courts “construe the moving party's affidavits strictly, construe
the opponent's affidavits liberally, and resolve doubts about the¿propriety¿of
granting the motion in favor of the party opposing it.’” (Unilab Corp.v.
Angeles-IPA (2016) 244 Cal.App.4th 622, 636; internal citation
omitted.)  “The court focuses on issue finding; it does not resolve issues
of fact. The court seeks to find contradictions in the evidence, or inferences
reasonably deducible from the evidence, which raise a triable issue of material
fact.”  (Johnson v. United Cerebral Palsy, etc. (2009) 173
Cal.App.4th 740, 754; internal citation omitted.)   
"[S]ummary judgment cannot be granted when the facts are susceptible [of]
more than one reasonable inference...” (Rosas v. BASF Corp.¿(2015) 236
Cal.App.4th 1378, 1392.) 
 
B.    
Evidentiary Objections
 
The Court rules on Defendant Bush’s objections
Nos. 1-176 to Plaintiff’s evidence in support of her opposition as follows:
                                                   
i.     Plaintiff’s
Declaration (Nos. 1-39)
·       Nos. 1-3: Overruled.
·       No. 4: Sustained as to “For example, Ms. Tsalik informed me that Bush regularly referred
to Ms. Tsalik as the office’s “token Jew.” (Evidence Code §1101(a).)
·       Nos. 5-23:
Overruled.
·       No. 24:
Sustained as to “[Bush] regularly made fun of her for being deaf”. (Evidence
Code §1101(a).)
·       No. 25: Sustained
as to “Bush made fun of Ms. Biggi due to her Native American race”. (Evidence
Code §1101(a).)
·       Nos. 26-39: Overruled. 
 
                                                  
ii.     Tsalik’s
Declaration (Nos. 40-46)
·      
No. 40: Sustained. (Evidence Code §1101(a).)
·      
Nos. 41-45: Overruled. 
·      
No. 46: Sustained as to “I told Ms. Gonzalez about the comments
that Mr. Bush made about my perceived Jewish race”. (Evidence Code §1101(a).)
 
                                                
iii.     Stankowski’s
Declaration (Nos. 47-56)
·       No. 47:
Sustained, except as to “I also believe that Mr. Bush targeted me because I am
a woman.” (Evidence Code §1101(a).)
·       Nos. 48-49:
Sustained. (Evidence Code §1101(a).)
·       No. 50:
Overruled.
·       No. 51:
Sustained as to “and hearing disability.” (Evidence Code §1101(a).)
·       No. 52:
Sustained as to “regularly made fun of me for being deaf” and “I provided Ms.
Gonzalez with examples of how Mr. Bush made fun of me due to my hearing
disability.” (Evidence Code §1101(a).)
·       No. 53:
Sustained as to “regularly made fun of me for being deaf”. (Evidence Code
§1101(a).)
·       Nos. 54-55:
Overruled. 
·       No. 56:
Sustained. (Evidence Code §1101(a).)
 
                                                
iv.     Plaintiff’s
Deposition Testimony (Nos. 57-87)
·      
Nos. 57-87: Overruled. 
 
                                                  
v.     Bush’s
Deposition Testimony (Nos. 88-113)
·      
Nos: 81-113: Overruled. 
 
                                                
vi.     Larner’s
Deposition Testimony (Nos. 114-132)
·      
Nos: 114-132: Overruled. 
 
                                               
vii.     Biggi’s
Deposition Testimony (Nos. 133-148)
·      
Nos: 133-148: Overruled. 
 
                                             
viii.    
Plaintiff’s Exhibits (Nos. 149-166)
·      
Nos: 133-148: Overruled. 
 
                                                
ix.     Evan’s
Deposition Testimony (Nos. 167-176)
·      
Nos: 167-176: Overruled. 
 
C.    
Third Cause of Action for Harassment based on Gender
 
Bush moves for summary judgment as
to the third cause of action on the ground that
Plaintiff is unable to establish a
prima facie claim for harassment based on her gender. 
 
To establish a prima facie case for¿harassment, a
plaintiff must show that (1) he was a member of a protected class; (2) he was
subjected to unwelcome¿harassment; (3) the¿harassment¿was based on¿a protected
characteristic; and (4) the¿harassment¿unreasonably interfered with his work
performance by creating an intimidating, hostile, or offensive work environment.
(Thompson v. City of Monrovia¿(2010) 186 Cal.App.4th 860, 876.)¿¿“The
law prohibiting harassment is violated when the workplace is permeated with
discriminatory intimidation, ridicule and insult that is sufficiently severe or
pervasive to alter the¿conditions of the victim’s employment and create an
abusive working environment.” (Nazir v. United Airlines, Inc.¿(2009) 178
Cal.App.4th 243, 263 [internal quotations¿and brackets¿omitted].)
 
A single incident of harassment may be enough to
constitute a hostile work environment if it “unreasonably interfered with the
plaintiff’s work performance or created an intimidating, hostile, or offensive
working environment.”¿ (Gov. Code, § 12923, subd. (b).)¿ The court shall use
the totality of the circumstances to determine whether there exists a hostile
work environment.¿ (Gov. Code, § 12923, subd. (c).)¿ Where the evidence
establishes that Plaintiff did not endure conduct "so severe and pervasive
as to alter the conditions of his employment," summary judgement is
appropriate. (McCoy v. Pacific Maritime Association (2013) 216 Cal. App.
4th 283, 294.)
 
The Complaint alleges the following conduct
constituted harassment based on Plaintiff’s gender: 
(1) “In or around December 2021, Plaintiff, her husband, and their six
year-old daughter attended a holiday theatre performance at the behest of BUSH
who said he attended the performance every holiday season. However, shortly
after the performance began, Plaintiff and her family left due to the
performance's sexually explicit pornography and explicit language. BUSH
appeared amused when Plaintiff and her family left the performance.” (Compl., ¶ 17.); 
(2) “In or around December 2021, Plaintiff was holding a Zoom meeting
to tell her coworker about their assigned roles on a project. While Plaintiff
was telling one of her female coworkers about the coworker's role, BUSH cutoff
Plaintiff by interrupting her and took over the remainder of the presentation.
After the Zoom call, BUSH went into Plaintiff’s office and said, "Sorry,
but I needed to mansplain that for you" or words similar to that effect.
After making the comment, BUSH stood in Plaintiff's office and stared at her
for several minutes in an intimidating manner.” (Compl., ¶ 18.);
(3) “While talking to Plaintiff, BUSH would routinely make disparaging
comments about a female co-worker, Noela Hueso. BUSH called her names such as
"idiot” '"stupid," and made disparaging comment such as
"she's a disaster" and "she can't tell the difference between
her contacts and her dry cleaner," or words similar to that effect”, which
GONZALEZ considered sexist.” (Compl., ¶
20.);
(4)
“In addition, BUSH would regularly disparage Deb Widener, a female board
member, making comments such as "she's unhappy because nobody wants to
fuck her” or words similar to that effect.” (Ibid.);
(5)
On or around February 3, 2022, Plaintiff alleged that Bush yelled at her for
contradicting him with his arms at his side and fists clenched, which frightened
Plaintiff, who felt threatened.
(Compl., ¶ 23.);
(6)
“On or around July 11, 2022, BUSH returned to work from vacation. Immediately
upon his return, BUSH emailed Plaintiff demanding that she add him back on team
Slack channel. In response, Plaintiff made a complaint of harassment to Rachel
Rappaport.” (Compl., ¶ 45.).
 
In Bush’s motion, he argues that even if Plaintiff’s
allegations were true, Bush’s conduct does not rise to the level of actionable
harassment because (1) Plaintiff has not sufficiently shown Bush’s alleged
harassment was based on Plaintiff’s gender and (2) the alleged conduct is not
sufficiently severe or pervasive. The Court agrees. While Plaintiff alleges she
considered Bush’s actions “sexist”, Plaintiff does not specify how Bush’s
actions were based on Plaintiff being a woman and that Bush would not have taken
such actions if Plaintiff was not a woman. While Plaintiff alleges Bush regularly
made disparaging comments about female coworkers, it does not appear that the
comments he made were sufficiently severe or pervasive. The “law does
not exhibit ‘zero tolerance’ for offensive words and conduct. Rather, the law
requires the plaintiff to meet a threshold standard of severity or
pervasiveness.” (Etter v. Veriflo Corp. (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 457, 467.)
“FEHA’s prohibitions are not a ‘civility code’ and are not designed to rid the
workplace of vulgarity.” (Sheffield v. Los Angeles County Dept. of Social
Services (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 153, 162–162.) Bush’s comments about Noela Hueso and Deb Widener appear to be
offensive utterances but do not appear to be “severe” such as by being
physically threatening, epithets or slurs. Further, the few incidents that
Plaintiff also alleged was harassing conduct, such as the comment Bush made
about mansplaining, yelling at Plaintiff for contradicting him in a Zoom
meeting, Bush’s email that Plaintiff invite him to the Slack channel and
inviting her to an inappropriate performance, do not appear to be based on
Plaintiff’s gender and appear to be isolated incidents. Plaintiff must show harassment of a repeated, routine or
generalized nature, especially when harassing conduct is not severe. (Hughes
v. Pair (2009) 46 Cal.4th 1035, 1043.) Bush has
shown that the alleged conduct does not constitute actionable harassment. Bush thus
carries his initial burden. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues Bush’s conduct was
sufficiently pervasive and severe to create a hostile work environment. First,
Plaintiff asserts Bush’s alleged harassment was based on her gender and Plaintiff
submits as evidence the declarations of past female employees who assert that Bush
also harassed them based on their gender. Courts have allowed “me too” evidence
to “prove a defendant's motive or intent even where the conduct occurred
outside the plaintiff's presence and at times other than when the plaintiff was
employed.” (Meeks v. Autozone, Inc. (2018) 24 Cal. App. 5th 855,
871.) Plaintiff provides the declarations as circumstantial evidence as to
Bush’s motive. However, the declarations provide conclusory testimony. For
example, in the declaration of Kristen Stankowski, she merely states she
believes “that Mr. Bush targeted me because I am a woman” and that she filed
complaints of harassment and discrimination based on her gender. (Stankowski
Decl., ¶¶ 5, 14.) The other employees do not allege specific facts or
incidents. Thus, the Court does not find Plaintiff’s circumstantial evidence very
persuasive. 
 
Second,
Plaintiff asserts that the February 3, 2022 incident was sufficiently severe. The
Complaint alleges that on or around February 3, 2022, Plaintiff, Bush, and
other coworkers had a Zoom meeting, during which Plaintiff expressed
disagreement with Bush. “Immediately after the Zoom meeting ended, BUSH barged
into Plaintiff’s office and pushed open her door so forcefully that Plaintiff
stumbled back. BUSH, who is at least six inches taller and weighs approximately
100 pounds more than Plaintiff, closed the door to Plaintiff’s office, blocked
Plaintiff from leaving the office, and positioned himself only inches away from
Plaintiff’s face. Then with his fists clenched at his side, BUSH screamed,
“Don’t you ever confront or contradict me like that again!” BUSH continued to
scream at Plaintiff for being confrontational because she simply disagreed with
him about his comments regarding Ms. Hobson. BUSH then sat in Plaintiff’s
office and aggressively stared at her for several minutes before leaving.
During this encounter, Plaintiff feared that BUSH was going to physically
attack her.” (Compl., ¶ 23.) Plaintiff
cites to EEOC v. National Educ. Ass’n, Alaska (9th Circuit 2005), 422
F.3d 840, in which the supervisor regularly yelled at the female plaintiffs,
regularly invaded their physical space by grabbing their shoulders, lunged
across a table and shook his fists. Here, the incident with Bush doesn’t seem
to rise to the level of severity to constitute harassment as it only occurred
once, Bush did not yell at her regularly, publicly, with profanity, grabbed or
lunged at her. Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff has not shown the alleged
conduct is severe and pervasive to constitute harassment. Plaintiff fails to
create a triable issue of material fact regarding her third cause of action. 
 
In sum, the Court finds that Bush has met his burden
to show his conduct did not constitute harassment. Plaintiff failed to meet her
burden of raising triable issues of material fact. As such, summary
adjudication for the third cause of action in the Complaint for harassment
based on gender is GRANTED.
 
D.    
Fourth Cause of Action for Harassment based on Race
 
Bush also moves for summary judgment
as to the fourth cause of action on the ground that
Plaintiff is unable to establish a
prima facie claim for harassment based on her race. 
 
The Complaint alleges the following conduct constituted harassment based
on Plaintiff’s race:
(1) “In or
around March 2021, BUSH informed Plaintiff that he would be recommending that
she serve as the Development Liaison to the Chancellor's Council of the Arts
because the council was too white, Plaintiff was Latina, and had a background
fundraising in the arts. Plaintiff felt tokenized due to her Hispanic race.” (Compl., ¶ 14.);
(2) “In
response to Plaintiff stating that she drove to Boyle Heights to get tamales,
BUSH stated, "I don't go to the East Side of LA, it's too Latino,'' or
words similar to that effect.” (Compl.,
¶ 16.);
(3) BUSH made
derogatory remarks about black donors. “Specifically, when speaking about
Felicia Henderson, an African-American female donor, BUSH told Plaintiff,
''You'll never see a dime from her," or words similar to that effect.” (Compl., ¶ 20.);
(4) “BUSH
complained to Plaintiff about having to research potential Mexican donor leads”
…and “handed Plaintiff the list to review and asked if she knew any of the
donors. Plaintiff was offended because she felt like she was being tokenized
due to her Hispanic race.” (Compl., ¶
19.);
(5) “On or
around February 3, 2022, Plaintiff, BUSH, and other coworkers had a Zoom
meeting to discuss a proposal to a private foundation for the cinema collection
of the first African American female filmmaker. During the meeting, BUSH stated
that the proposal would be a good project for Mellody Hobson and stated, “it’s
so great that Mellody has her little pet project,” or words similar to that
effect. Plaintiff immediately stated that she did not agree with BUSH and she
did not feel it was appropriate to tokenize Ms. Hobson based on her race or to
diminish her role in the Hobson-Luca Foundation based on her sex.” (Compl., ¶ 22.)
 
Bush argues these
occasional comments were not severe or pervasive to constitute actionable
harassment. The Court agrees. Although
it appears that the comments are based on race and Plaintiff alleges she found
them offensive, the Court finds these statements do not rise to the level of
severe or pervasive. Harassment that is occasional, isolated, or sporadic is
insufficient. Plaintiff must show harassment of a repeated, routine or
generalized nature, especially when harassing conduct is not severe. (Hughes
v. Pair (2009) 46 Cal.4th 1035, 1043; see McCoy v. Pacific Maritime
Assn. (2013) 216 Cal.App.4th 283, 294 [finding that, over the four months
plaintiff worked in the office, at the most nine comments were made to
plaintiff, and this was insufficient to show that the workplace was permeated
with harassment].) Here, Plaintiff only points to five incidents where she felt
that Bush made racial comments. Bush has shown that the comments he made were not severe or
pervasive. Bush thus carries its initial burden. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff fails to carry her burden. Plaintiff
submits as evidence the declaration of another female employee who had worked
with Bush who stated that Bush made disparaging comments about her boyfriend’s
Mexican race. She states “at one point Jonathan was purchasing a new vehicle,
which Mr. Bush learned about. In response, Mr. Bush stated that he imagined
that Jonathan would drive a lowrider, which is a stereotype of the type of
vehicle that Mexican individuals drive. Mr. Bush also made comments saying, “I
feel like Jonathan would have his hair slicked back” which is another
stereotype relating to Mexicans. Bush also said, “I don’t go east of La Brea
Avenue,” and he would make negative comments about the fact that Jonathan’s
family lived in Monterey Park. Mr. Bush would tell me “why are you going over
there?” as if it was a bad thing.” (Tsalik Decl., ¶ 8.) While these comments
provide circumstantial evidence of Bush’s motive and intent, they do not prove
Bush had a propensity to harass or the pervasiveness of harassment in
Plaintiff’s work environment. (Brennan v. Townsend &
O'Leary Enterprises, Inc. (2011) 199 Cal. App.
4th 1336, 1359.) Next, Plaintiff cites to Dee v. Vintage
Petroleum, Inc. (2003) 106 Cal.App.4th 30, 36, in which the court found a
single discriminatory comment, combined with other evidence of abuse, made by a
supervisor about the plaintiff’s ethnicity, “it is your Filipino understanding
versus mine,” as sufficient to raise a triable issue of fact. The Court of
Appeal concluded the “Filipino understanding” comment was “an ethnic slur, both
abusive and hostile.” (Ibid.) On the other hand here, while Bush’s
comments are offensive to Plaintiff, they do not consist of ethnic slurs or
other abusive language. Plaintiff fails to show that Bush’s conduct was severe
or pervasive, thus, Plaintiff fails to carry her burden.
 
Therefore,
the court grants summary adjudication as to Plaintiff’s fourth cause of action
for harassment based on her race.
 
E.    
Conclusion
 
Defendant Bush’s motion for summary judgment
on Plaintiff’s third and fourth causes of action is GRANTED.