 Case Number:  23STC27537    Hearing Date:   May 9, 2024    Dept:  73 05/09/24
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf Treu, Judge presiding
 
LESTER JIMENEZ v. WHOLE FOODS MARKET,
INC., et al. (23STCV27537)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiff/opposing party:  Jack
Bazerkanian (C & B Law Group LLP)
Counsel for
Defendants/moving party:  Michael Kibbe (Littler
Mendelson, APC)
 
demurrer TO FIRST AMENDED complaint (filed 3/29/24)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Defendant’s demurrer to the First Amended Complaint’s sixth cause of
action for harassment is SUSTAINED with leave to amend. 
 
Defendant’s demurrer to the First Amended Complaint’s seventh cause of
action for wrongful termination is MOOT.
 
Defendants’ motion
to strike is GRANTED.
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On November 9, 2023, Plaintiff Lester Jimenez (“Plaintiff”) filed this
employment action against Defendants Whole Foods Market, Inc.; Whole Foods
Market California, Inc.; Mrs. Gooch’s Natural Food Markets, Inc.; Wild Oats
Marketing, LLC; and John Kirkpatrick (collectively “Defendants.”) 
 
On
February 13, 2024, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) alleging
the following causes of action: (1) disability discrimination in violation of Government Code §
12940(a); (2) failure to accommodate
disability in violation of Government Code § 12940(m); (3) failure to engage in an
interactive process in violation of Government Code § 12940(n); (4) failure to prevent
discrimination in violation of Government Code § 12940(k); (5) retaliation in violation
of FEHA; (6) harassment in violation of Government Code § 12940(j); and (7) wrongful
termination of employment in violation of public policy.
 
The FAC alleges the following. Plaintiff began working for
Defendants on or about April 7, 2005. (FAC, ¶ 14.) On or about
April 17, 2020, Plaintiff was injured. (Id., ¶ 16.)
Plaintiff’s physician informed Defendants that Plaintiff was placed on
disability and would not be able to return to work for the time being. (Id.,
¶ 17.) On or about September
17, 2020, Plaintiff received a notice from Defendants’ insurance company
stating that Defendants had approved Plaintiff’s medical leave from August 3,
2020, to April 18, 2021. (Id., ¶ 18.) In March
2021, Plaintiff’s physician extended Plaintiff’s restriction from
working to April 18, 2022. (Id., ¶ 19.)
On or about March 4, 2021, Defendants’ manager contacted Plaintiff and notified
him that he would lose his health coverage as of May 1, 2021. (Id., ¶ 20.) On or about April 16,
2021, Defendants terminated Plaintiff’s employment and falsely labeled his
termination as a voluntary resignation for Plaintiff’s failure to return from
his leave of absence. (Id., ¶¶ 23-24.)
 
 
On March 29, 2024, Defendants filed the instant demurrer and
motion to strike, arguing:
·       The FAC’s seventh
cause of action for wrongful termination is time barred by the applicable
statute of limitations.
·       The FAC’s sixth
cause of action for harassment fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action. 
·       Defendants
filed a motion to strike the FAC’s references to punitive damages because Plaintiff
fails to plead facts to demonstrate that Defendants acted with malice,
oppression or fraud.
 
Plaintiff filed an opposition, arguing:
·       The FAC
alleges sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action for harassment. 
·       Defendants’
demurrer to the seventh cause of action is moot because Plaintiff has dismissed
that cause of action. 
·       Plaintiff has
pled that Defendants acted maliciously. Specifically, Defendants failed to remedy
their or their employees’ treatment of Plaintiff and accommodate Plaintiff’s
disability, and instead authorized Plaintiff’s manager and Defendant
Kirkpatrick’s decision to terminate Plaintiff.
 
Defendants filed a reply maintaining that Plaintiff failed to
plead facts to constitute harassment and that Plaintiff has not pled facts
warranting punitive damages.  
 
II. ANALYSIS
 
A.     Meet and
Confer Requirement 
 
“Before
filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the demurring party shall meet and
confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is
subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be
reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a).)  
 
Here, counsel for Defendants submitted a declaration stating she
discussed the grounds of the Demurrer and Motion to Strike with Plaintiff’s
counsel by telephone on March 8, 2024. (Leon Decl., ¶ 5.)
The Court finds the moving party satisfied its
meet and confer obligations.   
 
B.     Legal
Standard for Demurrer
 
A demurrer
tests the sufficiency of whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn
v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers,
courts read the allegations liberally and in context—any defects must be
apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A demurrer tests the
pleading alone, and not the evidence or facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v.
Accountants, Inc. Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the
court assumes the truth of the complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual
allegations. (Id.) The only issue a demurrer is concerned with is
whether the complaint, as it stands, states a cause of action. (Hahn,
supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at p. 747.)
 
C.     Sixth Cause
of Action: Harassment
 
Defendants
argue that Plaintiff fails to allege facts sufficient to state a cause of
action for harassment based on his disability.
 
The elements for a hostile work environment
harassment are: (1) plaintiff belongs to a protected group; (2) plaintiff was
subject to unwelcome harassment; (3) the harassment complained of was based on
membership in the protected class, (4) the harassment complained of was
sufficiently pervasive so as to alter the conditions of employment and create
an abusive working environment; and (5) respondeat superior.  Further, for
hostile work environment harassment to be actionable, it must be sufficiently
severe or pervasive to alter the conditions of the victim's employment and
create an abusive working environment… (Fisher v. Penninsula Hospital (1989)
214 Cal.App.3d 590, 608.)   
 
In determining what constitutes sufficiently
pervasive harassment, the courts have held that acts of harassment cannot be
occasional, isolated, sporadic, or trivial, rather the plaintiff must show a
concerted pattern of harassment of a repeated, routine or a generalized
nature.  (Fisher, supra, 214 Cal.App.3d at pp. 610-611.) 
 
The FAC alleges the following conduct by Defendants. Plaintiff was
injured on or about April 17, 2020. (FAC ¶ 16.) On or about September 17, 2020,
Plaintiff received a notice from Defendants’ insurance company stating that
Defendants had approved Plaintiff’s medical leave from August 3, 2020, to April
18, 2021. (Id., ¶ 18.) In March 2021, Plaintiff’s
physician extended Plaintiff’s restriction from working to April 18, 2022. (Id.,
¶ 19.) On or about March 4,
2021, Defendants’ manager contacted Plaintiff and notified him that he would
lose his health coverage as of May 1, 2021. (Id., ¶ 20.) On or about April 16,
2021, Defendants terminated Plaintiff’s employment and falsely labeled his
termination as a voluntary resignation for Plaintiff’s failure to return from
his leave of absence. (Id., ¶¶ 23-24.) Towards
the end of Plaintiff’s employment, Plaintiff’s supervisor, Defendant
Kirkpatrick commented that Defendants cannot have an employee in a wheelchair.
(FAC ¶ 21.) 
 
The Court
does not find these allegations sufficient to show harassment by Defendants. In
Plaintiff’s opposition, he argues that Defendants’ conduct constituted
harassment because Plaintiff was prevented from doing his job and Defendants’
failed to accommodate him by refusing Plaintiff’s request to work an alternate
position. However, the FAC does not contain any allegations that Plaintiff
requested to work an alternate position and that Defendants refused Plaintiff’s
request. Further, the allegation pertaining to the singular comment made by
Defendant Kirkpatrick does not appear to rise to the level of actionable
harassment. Plaintiff argues that a single discriminatory comment can be
sufficient to constitute harassment. For example, in Dee v. Vintage
Petroleum, Inc., 106 Cal.App.4th 30, 33, the court found a discriminatory
comment made by a supervisor about the plaintiff’s ethnicity, “it is your
Filipino understanding versus mine,” as sufficient. On the other hand, here, the
comment made by Defendant Kirkpatrick does not include “epithets, derogatory
comments or slurs.” (Id. at 35.) In addition, Plaintiff does not provide
the context for the comment and whether it was made in relation to the
evaluation of Plaintiff’s performance of his job duties. Plaintiff also does
not specify to whom Defendant Kirkpatrick made the wheelchair comment to and
whether it was made directly to Plaintiff. Thus, the Court finds the FAC has
not alleged enough facts to state a cause of action for harassment against
Defendants based on Plaintiff’s disability.
 
Accordingly,
the Court sustains the demurrer to the FAC’s sixth cause of action for
harassment with leave to amend.
 
D.     Seventh Cause
of Action: Wrongful Termination of Employment in Violation of Public Policy
 
Defendants demur to the FAC’s seventh cause of action for wrongful
termination arguing that it is time barred by the applicable statute of limitations.
On April 9, 2024, Plaintiff dismissed his seventh cause of action for wrongful
termination. Thus, this issue is moot and the Court does not discuss
Defendants’ argument. 
 
Accordingly, Defendants’ demurrer to the FAC’s seventh cause of action
for wrongful termination is MOOT.
 
E.    
Motion to
Strike 
 
A motion to strike lies only where the
pleading has irrelevant, false or improper matter, or has not been drawn or
filed in conformity with laws. (Civ. Proc. Code § 436.) The grounds for moving
to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.
(Id. § 437.) 
 
Defendants request the Court to strike
all allegations of punitive damages as follows:
1.     FAC,
paragraph 33;
2.     FAC,
paragraph 40; 
3.     FAC,
paragraph 53;
4.     FAC,
paragraph 61;
5.     FAC,
paragraph 69;
6.     FAC,
paragraph 76;
7.     FAC’s Prayer
for Relief page 15, line 1: “For exemplary and punitive damages”.
 
The adequacy of a claim for punitive damages is properly tested by a
motion to strike. (Grieves v. Superior
Court (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 164.) Civil Code section 3294, subdivision
(a) authorizes the recovery of punitive damages where the defendant has been
guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice, express or implied. Malice means
conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or
despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and
conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others. (Civ. Code, § 3294,
subd. (c)(1).) Oppression is despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel
and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s rights. (Id., subd. (c)(2).) Fraud means an
intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known
to the defendant with the intention on the party of the defendant of thereby
depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury. (Id., subd. (c)(3).) 
 
Pursuant to
Civil Code section 3294, subdivision (b), an entity employer cannot be liable
for punitive damages based on the acts of tis employee unless an officer,
director or managing agent of the corporation “was personally guilty of
oppression, fraud, or malice,” or “had advance knowledge of the unfitness of
the employee and employed him or her with a conscious disregard of the rights
or safety or others or authorized or ratified the [unfit employee’s] wrongful
conduct.” (Cal. Civ. Code § 3294(b); see also Coll. Hosp., Inc. v.
Sup. Ct. (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 721, 726.) A
managing agent is not merely a supervisory employee, but rather is limited to
those “who exercise[] substantial
discretionary authority over decisions that ultimately determine corporate
policy.” (White v. Ultramar, Inc. (1999) 21 Cal. 4th 563, 577.) Corporate
policies are “the general principles which guide a corporation, or rules
intended to be followed consistently over time in corporate operations” and a
managing agent is “one with substantial authority over decisions that set these
general principles and rules.” (Cruz v. Homebase (2000) 83 Cal. App. 4th
160, 167-68.)
 
Plaintiff alleges “[T]he wrongful acts against Plaintiff were carried out,
authorized or ratified by Defendants’ directors, officers and/or managing
agents, acting with malice, oppression or fraud, or deliberate, willful and conscious
disregard of the probability of causing injury to Plaintiff and with the intent
to deprive Plaintiff of his employment rights. The conduct of Defendants was
also malicious and oppressive in that Plaintiff was terminated in violation of
Government Code §12940, et seq.” (FAC, ¶¶ 33, 40, 53, 61, 69). Further,
Plaintiff alleges that conduct “through their agents…was malicious, fraudulent,
and oppressive and/or done with knowledge that they were acting in violation of
federal and state law, and/or with a willful and conscious disregard for
Plaintiff’s rights and for the deleterious consequences of their actions.” (FAC,
¶ 76).
 
The Court does not find these conclusory
allegations sufficient to warrant punitive damages. Further, Plaintiff has not specifically
pled conduct by Defendants that constitute malice, oppression or fraud. In
Plaintiff’s opposition, he argues that he has pled that Defendants’ acted with
malice and cites to Colucci v.
T-Mobile USA, Inc. (2020) 48
Cal.App.5th 442 in support. In Colucci, the plaintiff was terminated
when he complained that he was being discriminated against based on his medical
disability. (Id., at 454-55.) The court found that the defendant
willfully and consciously retaliated against the plaintiff when the defendant
terminated him. (Id. at 456.) The court found these facts to be
sufficient evidence of malicious and oppressive behavior by the defendant. (Ibid.)
However, the Court does not find this case helpful since here, Plaintiff has
not alleged that he complained he was being discriminated against based on his
medical disability. 
 
In addition, Plaintiff has not pled
specific facts showing oppression, fraud or malice by an officer, director or
managing agent for Defendants. Plaintiff does not allege that Defendant
Kirkpatrick is an officer, director or managing agent. Thus, Plaintiff has failed to set forth allegations that
would warrant punitive damages.
 
Accordingly, Defendants’ motion to
strike punitive damages is GRANTED.
 
III. DISPOSITION
 

Defendant’s demurrer to the First Amended Complaint’s
sixth cause of action for harassment is SUSTAINED with 20 days leave to amend. 
 
Defendant’s demurrer to the First Amended Complaint’s
seventh cause of action for wrongful termination is MOOT.
 
Defendants’ motion to strike is
GRANTED.