 Case Number:  23STCP04047    Hearing Date:   April 9, 2024    Dept:  85 
Anthony Dennis v. Tony Tseng et al., 23STCP04047


Tentative decision on motion
for protective order:  granted



 
 
 
Respondents Tony Tseng (“Tseng”), Snapwize, Inc.
(“Snapwise”), and Totencarry, Inc. (“Totencarry”) moves for a protective order with
respect to discovery sought by Anthony Dennis (“Dennis”).  The court has read and considered the moving
and opposition papers (no reply was filed) and renders the following tentative
decision. 
 
            A. Statement of the
Case
1. Petition
Dennis commenced this lawsuit on November 2, 2023, against
Respondents Tony Tseng, individually, Snapwize, Inc., a corporation, and
Totencarry Inc., a corporation.  The operative
pleading is t he First Amended Petition (“FAP”), which was filed on January 26,
2024 and seekig mandamus to permit inspection of corporate records.  The FAP alleges in pertinent part as follows.
Dennis filed this action because Respondents’ co-founder,
Tseng, has been hiding books, withholding dividends, and running the business
afoul with disregard of fiduciary duties owed to the stockholders—namely,
Petitioner Dennis.  
On July 20, 2023 and September 13, 2023, pursuant to
Corporations Code section 1601, Petitioner Dennis demanded in writing that
Respondents permit Petitioner or his agents to inspect and copy the books and
records of Snapwize and Totencarry. 
Respondents refused and continue to refuse to provide the requested
books and records.  
Dennis requests (1) a writ of mandamus commanding
Respondents permit Petitioner or his agent to inspect and copy the demanded
corporate records; (2) an alternative writ of mandamus for the demanded
corporate records or to appear before this court and show cause why Respondents
have not done so; (3) costs of proceeding, including attorney’s fees; and (4) any
other and further relief that the Court considers proper.  
 
2. Course of Proceedings
On February 2, 2024 Respondents filed an Answer. 
 
B. Shareholder
Inspection 
The accounting books and
records of a corporation and minutes of proceedings of the board of directors,
committees of the board, and shareholders shall be open to inspection upon the
written demand of any shareholder for a purpose reasonably related to such
holder’s interests as a shareholder.  §1601(a).  A shareholder of
more than five percent of the corporation also has a right to “inspection and
copy the record of shareholders’ names, addresses, and percentage of
ownership.” Id.  The inspection may be made in person or by agent
or attorney, and the right of inspection includes the right to copy and make
extracts.  Id.  The right of shareholders to inspect corporate
records may not be limited by a corporation’s articles or bylaws.  §1601(b). 
A corporation also must keep at its principal executive or business office in
California the original or a copy of its bylaws, which shall be open for
inspection by shareholders.  §213.   
A shareholder has only a
limited right to access to corporate financial records.  Thomas v.
Gordon, (2000) 85 Cal.App.4th 113, 122.  Shareholder status does not
entitle and individual to unfettered access to corporate confidences and
secrets.  Id.  (Citation omitted.)  Section 1601 does not
impose an affirmative duty on the corporation to respond to written requests
falling outside the statute.  Singhania v. Uttarwar, (“Singhania”)
(2006) 136 Cal.App.4th 416, 431.   
A shareholder’s statutory
right to inspect corporate records is supplemented by a common law right to
inspect any corporate record or property if a proper and reasonable purpose is
shown.  Schnabel v. Superior Court, (“Schnabel”) (1993) 5
Cal.4th 704, 72223.  A court has discretion to limit this common law
discovery.  Id.  A shareholder does not have expanded rights
to demand access to corporate records for the purpose of deciding whether to
exercise his or her dissenters’ right under section 1312 to require the
corporation to purchase his or her shares when the corporation merges or
undergoes reorganization.  Singhania, supra, 136 Cal.App.4th
at 427.  Shareholder inspection demands should be denied when it appears
the shareholder is merely on a fishing expedition.  Dandini v. Superior
Court, (1940) 38 Cal.App.2d 32, 35. 
A shareholder has recourse
to the courts if a corporation does not comply with a lawful demand for
inspection of corporate records.  §1603.  Upon refusal of a lawful
demand for inspection, the court may enforce the right of inspection with just
and proper conditions.  §1603(a); Singhania, supra, 136
Cal.App.4th at 431, 432 (citing §1603, CCP §1085); Johnson v. Langdon,
(1902) 135 Cal. 624, 626 (mandamus is the appropriate remedy of a stockholder
who is refused his statutory right to inspect corporate documents); Webster
v. Bartlett Estate Co. (1917) 35 Cal.App. 283, 285 (stockholder’s right to
inspect corporate books may be enforced by writ of mandate).  A court may
award reasonable expenses including attorneys’ fees against a corporation where
a shareholder must resort to court action as a result of a corporation’s
unjustified failure to comply with a proper demand.  §1604. 
 
C.  Applicable
Law
The court shall limit the scope of discovery if it
determines that the burden, expense, or intrusiveness of that discovery clearly
outweighs the likelihood that the information sought will lead to the discovery
of admissible evidence.  CCP
§2017.020(a).  The court may make this
determination pursuant to a motion for protective order by a party or other
affected person.  Id.  A protective order cannot be granted ex parte.  St Paul Fire & Marine Ins. Co. v.
Superior Court, (1984) 156 Cal.App.3d 82, 85-86.  CCP sections 2025.420, 2030.090, 2031.060,
2032.510, and 2033.080 provide that a party upon whom interrogatories,
inspection demands or request for admissions have been propounded may promptly
move for a protective order.  This motion
shall be accompanied by a declaration stating facts showing a good faith
attempt at an informal resolution of each issue presented by the motion.  CCP §§ 2017.020(b), 2016.040.
The court shall restrict the frequency or extent of use of
the discovery methods listed in CCP section 2019.010 if it determines either of
the following:  (1) The discovery sought
is unreasonably cumulative or duplicative, or is obtainable from some other
source that is more convenient, less burdensome, or less expensive; (2) The
selected method of discovery is unduly burdensome or expensive, taking into
account the needs of the case, the amount in controversy, and the importance of
the issues at stake in the litigation. 
CCP §2019.030(a).  The court may
then make any order as may be appropriate to protect the parties, the witness,
or the consumer from unreasonable or oppressive demands including unreasonable
violation of a witness's or consumer's right of privacy.  CCP §1987.1(a). 
 
D. Analysis
Respondents seek a protective order to prevent Petitioner Dennis
from obtaining discovery on the merits of the shareholder’s suit.
On February 2, 2024, Dennis propounded two discovery
requests, (1) Petitioner’s Request for Production of Documents to Snapwize—Set
One; and (2) Petitioner’s Request for Production of Documents of Totencarry,
Inc.—Set One. 
On March 12, 2024, Scott C. Lee, Esq. (“Lee”) Respondents’
attorney, filed a declaration stating that he spoke with Dennis’s counsel on
the telephone and over email in an attempt to resolve the issue prior to filing
the motion.  Lee Decl., ¶3. Lee’s office
will continue to meet and confer until the date of the proposed hearing.  Lee Decl., ¶5.  If a resolution is found, Lee will
appropriately withdraw the motion.  Lee
Decl., ¶6.  Lee reviewed the propounded
discovery requests and concluded the documents being requested include
documents that would only be provided if the Petition were granted in favor of
Dennis.  Lee Decl., ¶7.  Respondents have complied with their
obligations under CCP sections 2017.020(b), 2016.040.
Respondents argue that Petitioner Dennis has propounded
discovery in an attempt to receive any and all of the documents that he would
only be entitled to receive if the Petition were ultimately granted and
Petitioner was declared a shareholder and/or owner of the responding business
entities. Petitioner has always been paid as an independent contractor and has
never had any ownership rights.  Tseng
Decl., ¶5.  
Petitioner Dennis responds that it should be uncontested
that Petitioner Dennis is a shareholder of every company associated with Tote
& Carry brand, including but not limited to Snapwize and Totencarry.  Opp. at 6. 
The court should deny the requested protective order because Respondents
do not delve into any information demonstrating why the requested discovery
requests may be too sensitive to share with the public.  Id. 
Petitioner believes that the corporate books are being intentionally
withheld to conceal Respondents’ mis-dealings, and it would be preferred if the
court would issue an injunction on any future dealings.  Additionally, the court can enter a
protective order stipulated between the parties (similar to Non-Disclosure
Agreement) to keep any produced documents under the designation of
“confidential” or “attorneys-eyes-only.” 
Opp. at 7.  
Dennis’ Discovery Requests for Snapwize, Inc. and
Totencarry, Inc. each contain identical requests for production of documents.  Mot. Pro. Order, Ex A.  RFP Nos. 1-3 request documents pertaining to
the operating agreements of each company, along with their original corporate
bylaws, articles of incorporation, and amendments; RFP Nos. 4-9 request
documents pertaining to the corporations’ finances, such as accounting records,
and profit and loss statements, QuickBooks, bank and credit card statements,
and tax returns; RFP Nos. 1-11 request equipment or office space leases; RFP
Nos. 12-19 request further financial documents, including tax liabilities,
mortgage payables, debt, deferred tax liabilities, current liabilities, working
capital, payrolls, expenses and net and gross income; RFP Nos. 20-21 request
corporate filings and corporate check registers; RFP No. 22 requests records of
all real property; RFP No. 23 requests financial statements; and lastly, RFP Nos.
24-25 request the minute records of corporate and shareholder meetings, along
with documents evidencing any corporate resolutions.
These requests are at best overbroad.  Dennis may not obtain through discovery the
very documents he seeks for the merits of this shareholder action.   Such
documents are not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible
evidence on whether he is a shareholder. 
There may be some documents pertinent to the shareholder issue in the
documents sought, but the RFPs clearly are not designed to unearth that
information.
The motion for a protective order is granted.  Respondents need not respond further to the
RFPs or produce any responsive documents.