


[1]
All further statutory references are to the Public Resources Code unless
otherwise stated.


[2]An LUP is
defined in section 30108.5 as: “[T]he relevant portions of a local government’s
general plan, or local coastal element which are sufficiently detailed to
indicate the kinds, location, and intensity of land uses, the applicable
resource protection and development policies and, where necessary, a listing of
implementing actions.”


[3] Real
Parties ask the court to judicially notice (1) Citizens’ articles of
incorporation, filed with the Secretary of State on October 5, 2018 (Ex. A),
(2) Citizens’ Statement of Information, filed with the Secretary of State on
April 9, 2021 (Ex. B), (3) Citizens’ Annual Registration Renewal Fee Report,
filed wit the Attorney General on November 16, 2021 (Ex. C), (4) Citizens’
Statement of Information, filed with the Secretary of State on April 4, 2023
(Ex. D), and (5) four appellate decisions in which Robin Rudisell, a Citizens
member, was a party (Exs. E-H). Petitioner objects on relevance grounds.  The objection is overruled for Exhibits A-D,
which are judicially noticed.  Evid. Code
§452(c).  Exhibits E-H are both irrelevant
and do not need to be judicially noticed.


[4] As
Petitioner notes, the oppositions do not dispute that Commission staff gave
advice to the Applicants on how to make the Project comply with Coastal Act
policies.  Reply at 1.  


[5]
Petitioner notes that a staff report must be “supported by specific findings
with analysis of whether the proposed development conforms to the applicable
standard of review”. 14 CCR §13057(a)(3).  The staff report must be made publicly
available and in enough time prior to a hearing in front of the Commission.  14 CCR
§13059.  An applicant may obtain a
postponement to respond to a staff report recommendation. 14 CCR §13073.  Pet. Op. Br. at 16, n. 5.


[6]
Petitioner fairly replies that the Commission’s reference to local government
is a red herring because the LCP process specifically calls for the Commission
to consult with local governments, and no similar statute requires consultation
with CDP applicants.  See §30336
(commission “shall assist” local governments). 
Reply at 4. 
Petitioner also correctly distinguishes the Commission
opposition’s cited case law mentioning that Commission staff communicated with
others.  See City of
San Diego v. California Coastal Commission, (1981) 119 Cal.App.3d 228, 237 (observing that staff worked
directly with developers after Commission’s identification of issue for LCP regarding
transportation network plans for the area); San Mateo County Coastal
Landowners’ Assn. v. County of San Mateo, supra, 38 Cal.App.4th 523, 540-41 (observing that normal method
for adoption of LCP amendments includes informal consultations between the local
entity and Commission staff).  Opp. at
17.  Aside from the fact that staff
communication is not part of their holding, both cases are distinguishable
because staff worked with local government for certification of a LCP, and the
Commission is required to assist local governments.  See Reply at 2, n. 3.


[7]
Real Party correctly notes that Petitioner’s interpretation is undermined by
its own conduct.  Petitioner’s members, Sue
Kaplan, Richard Stanger, and Robin Rudisill, engaged in private discussions and
communications with Commission staff and Commissioners prior to the public
hearing to discuss their demanded changes to the Project.  AR 580-86, 590, 591, 602, 603-07, 608, 831,
833, 860-61.  Petitioner’s written
comment ahead of the de novo hearing stated: “Staff must make it clear
to the applicant that they need to reduce the size of the home!”  AR 718. 
RPI Opp. at 13.


[8] Because
there was no violation, the court need not address Petitioner’s argument that the
violation was prejudicial.  Pet. Op. Br.
at 15-16; Reply at 6-7.


[9] Petitioner replies that Real Parties
demonstrates a fundamental misunderstanding about how a certified LUP operates
in the absence of a certified LIP because they mistakenly equate the City’s
setback requirements with the LUP’s requirements.  The City’s zoning ordinances have no force and
effect in the Coastal Zone because they are not certified by the Commission
whereas the LUP does have force and effect as state law because it is
certified.  See §§ 30604(b), 30604(c). See
Reddell v. California Coastal Commission, (2009) 180 Cal. App. 4th
956, 967-68 (rejecting argument that the Commission should use the standard
generally applicable in the City instead of those in the LCP for building
height and setbacks).  Reply at 14-15.
            Neither
Real Parties nor the Commission suggest that the City’s setback requirements
are controlling.  But since the Venice
LUP does not have setback requirements, and since it “implies a focus on
objective measurements, such as bulk, height, buffer and setback, while also
allowing for a subjective assessment based on the surrounding ‘community
development’” (AR 13, n. 3), the Commission found the City’s setback standards
to be relevant.


[10]
Petitioner relies on section 30212(b)(5) to define “bulk,” but that definition
is located in a section relating to public access.  See §30212.  RPI Opp. at 10-11.  In any event, it does not matter whether the
Commission expressly addressed bulk.  Not
every finding need be based on substantial evidence as long as those findings
that are supported by substantial evidence are sufficient to support the
Commission’s decision.  Greene v.
California Coastal Comm., supra, 40 Cal.App.5th at 1234. 


            [11]
Petitioner also argues that staff’s recommendation
for approval of the revised Project
was based on Special Condition 1 that “[t]he proposed
development is subject
to the review and approval of the City of Los Angeles (City)”.  AR 6. 
Petitioner contend that the Special Condition does nothing
to bring the
Project into compliance with the Coastal Act.  AR 610-11 (staff
addendum rejecting Applicants’ argument that compliance with City setback requirements makes the Project consistent with Chapter 3).  Petitioner also argues that the Special Condition
is imaginary since the conditions are not referred to in the CDP
issued after the de novo hearing. 
Pet. Op. Br. at 11, 17, 19.  In other words, the Commission’s
finding that the Project complies with the Coastal Act was dependent upon a Special
Condition that is absent from the CDP and thus is unenforceable.  Reply at 8-9. 

            Petitioner fails to show
that the Commission’s conditions for issuance of the CDP are unenforceable against
the Applicants simply because they are not in the CDP itself.  Additionally, Petitioner’s two arguments –
that the Special Condition adds nothing to bring the Project into compliance
with Chapter 3 policies and that the Commission’s finding that the Project
complies with the Coastal Act is dependent upon an unenforceable Special Condition
– are inconsistent.


[12]
Staff admitted at the
de novo hearing: “And in
this case, we believe that [the Project is] consistent with community character. But these larger
questions of what is the community
character, how that should be protected is very difficult to address on
a case by case basis and appeal by appeal
and are really best addressed and the true solution is to have an LUP update by the
city.” AR 877.  Pet. Op. Br. at 20, n. 6.

