  Case Number:  24STCV06670    Hearing Date:   August 7, 2024    Dept:  52 Defendant Auto Finance Solutions,
LLC’s Demurrer to First Amended Complaint
Defendant Auto Finance Solutions, LLC
demurs to the first and second causes of action alleged by plaintiff Auto
Auction Group, Inc.’s first amended complaint.
First
and Second Causes of Action
Plaintiff’s first amended complaint does
not allege sufficient facts for the first cause of action for breach of
contract or the second cause of action for “unlawful repossession – conversion
in absence of security interest.”  On
demurrer, courts “assume that the
complaint’s properly pleaded material allegations are true” but do not “assume
the truth of contentions, deductions, or conclusions of fact or law.”  (Moore v. Regents of University of
California (1990) 51 Cal.3d 120, 125.) 
Courts also do not accept the truth of allegations contradicted by
exhibits attached to the complaint.  (Brakke
v. Economic Concepts, Inc. (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 761, 767.) 
  Plaintiff’s
first two causes of action rely on allegations that in January 2024, defendant
repossessed vehicles on plaintiff’s premises without a valid security interest
in them.  (FAC, ¶¶ 9, 12-13.)  Plaintiff alleges “defendants did not possess
a secured interest and did not have legal authority” to repossess the
vehicles.  (¶ 9.)  It further alleges, “[T]here was no valid
security interest in the vehicles because plaintiff never granted a valid
security interest to” defendant.  (FAC, ¶
12, italics added.)  Those allegations
are conclusions of law, which the court does not assume are true.  Exhibit 1 to the first amended complaint
contradicts those allegations.  
The exhibit is a contract titled “Demand
Promissory Note and Security Agreement – Flooring Agreement (Used Car
Facility).”  (FAC, Ex. 1, p. 1.)  It provides that plaintiff “hereby grants to
Lender [defendant] a lien and a purchase money security interest in the
Purchase Money Inventory and the Titles thereto” and “hereby grants to Lender a
lien and security interest in all of the Collateral except the Purchase Money
Inventory.”  (Id., § 3.0.)  The contract defines “Purchase Money
Inventory” as “any and all Vehicles … now or hereafter acquired by Dealer with
an Advance” (id., § 1.16) and defines “Collateral” as “all of Dealer’s
assets and properties wherever located, including … all Vehicles, Vehicle
parts, and other inventory of any kind now owned or hereafter acquired by
Dealer” (id., § 1.4).  The
contract further provides that defendant may “take possession of the Collateral
and sell the same.”  (Id., §
8.1(f).)  
The
contract gives defendant a security interest in all vehicles plaintiff owned.  The first amended complaint alleges no facts supporting
any basis for the legal conclusion that defendant’s security interest was not
valid.  Plaintiff’s factual allegations
therefore do not suffice to constitute a cause of action for breach of contract
or for conversion in absence of security interest.       
Possibility
of Amendment
After a
successful demurrer, where “there is a reasonable possibility that the defects
can be cured by amendment, leave to amend must be granted.”  (Stevens v. Superior Court (1999)
75 Cal.App.4th 594, 601.)  The plaintiff
bears the burden of “demonstrat[ing] how the complaint can be amended.”  (Smith v. State Farm Mutual Automobile
Ins. Co. (2001) 93 Cal.App.4th 700, 711.) 
Plaintiff does
not meet its burden of showing a reasonable possibility of curing the defects
in the first two causes of action. 
Plaintiff’s opposition does not address the demurrer’s arguments.  The opposition neither requests leave to file
a second amended complaint nor proposes any way plaintiff can allege new facts
to cure the defects in these causes of action.
Disposition  
Defendant Auto Finance Solutions, LLC’s
demurrer to the first amended complaint’s first and second causes of action is sustained
without leave to amend.