  Case Number:  23STCV07604    Hearing Date:   March 7, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Shana Smith,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23STCV07604




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation
  Authority, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: March
7, 2024
Department 54,
Judge Maurice A. Leiter
(2) Motions to
Compel Further Responses to Discovery;
(2) Motions to
Quash Subpoenas for Business Records
Moving Party: Plaintiff
Shana Smith
Responding
Party: Defendants LACMTA and Felipe Gutierrez Olea
 
T/R:      PLAINTIFF’S MOTIONS TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES ARE
GRANTED.
 
DEFENDANTS TO
SERVE FURTHER RESPONSE TO THE SUBJECT DISCOVERY WITHIN 20 DAYS OF NOTICE OF
RULING.
 
PLAINTIFF’S
REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS IN ASSOCIATION WITH THE MOTIONS TO COMPEL FURTHER ARE
GRANTED IN THE AMOUNT OF $2,010.00 AGAINST LACMTA AND $1,950.00 AGAINST OLEA.
 
PLAINTIFF’S
MOTIONS TO QUASH ARE GRANTED IN PART. THE PARTIES’ REQUESTS FOR SANCTIONS IN
ASSOCIATION WITH THE MOTIONS TO QUASH ARE DENIED.
 
PLAINTIFF TO NOTICE. 
 
If the parties
wish to submit on the tentative, please email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with notice to opposing
counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the day of the hearing.
 
The Court considers the moving papers, opposition, and reply.
 
A. Motion to
Compel Further Responses to Requests for Production of Documents
 
The moving party on a motion to compel
further responses to requests for production of documents (“RPDs”) must submit
“specific facts showing good cause justifying the discovery sought by the
inspection demand.”  (CCP §
2031.310(b)(1).)  If the moving party has
shown good cause for the RPDs, the burden is on the objecting party to justify
the objections.  (Kirkland v. Sup.Ct
(2002) 95 Cal. App.4th 92, 98.)
 
Plaintiff moves to compel further
responses to RPDs, set one, to Defendant LACMTA. The requests seek documents related to other complaints of sexual harassment, training
for supervisors of LACMTA, Plaintiff’s complaint of sexual harassment, and
Defendant Olea’s personnel file. 
 
In opposition, Defendant asserts it has supplemented its production,
making the motion largely moot. Defendant represents that the only remaining
issue is whether Defendant must produce documents evidencing other claims of
sexual harrassment by non-party employees against other non-party employees. Defendant
argues that these requests are overly burdensome, overbroad, infringe on the
privacy rights of third-party employees, and are protected by the official information privilege and
deliberative process privilege. Defendant also contends the motion is
untimely. In reply, Plaintiff asserts Defendant’s supplemental responses are
not code compliant, failing to identify the documents responsive to each
request. 
 
Plaintiff alleges she was sexually harassed by her supervisor while
working for Defendant. The above categories of documents are relevant to that
claim. Defendant has failed to show how the official information privilege and
deliberative process privilege applies to this employment action. If there are
documents protected by the attorney-client privilege, Defendant must provide a
privilege log. Further responses are necessary.
 
The motion is not untimely. Plaintiff served notice of this motion
within 45 days of service of responses. Code of Civil Procedure § 2031.310(c). This
Court generally requires an informal discovery conference (IDC) before a motion
to compel further may be heard. Plaintiff filed this motion within 30 days of
the IDC, as ordered by the Court. 
 
Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses to RPDs is GRANTED. The
request for sanctions is GRANTED in the amount of $2,010.00.
 
B. Motion to
Compel Further Responses to Form Interrogatories
 
On receipt of a response to interrogatories, the propounding party may
move for an order compelling a further response if the propounding party deems
that an objection to an interrogatory is without merit or too general. (CCP
2030.300(a)(3).) The responding party has the burden of justifying the
objections to the form interrogatories (“FIs”) and special interrogatories
(“SIs”).  (Coy v. Sup.Ct. (1962)
58 Cal.2d 210, 220-221.) 
 
Plaintiff moves to compel further response to FI No. 15.1 from Defendant
Olea, which requests Defendant identify evidence supporting his affirmative
defenses. Defendant has objected to the request on the ground that it is
premature. This request seeks the most basic of information from Defendant
Olea. This evidence is discoverable and not premature. Further response is
necessary.
 
Plaintiff’s motion to compel further response to FI no. 15.1 from
Defendant Olea is GRANTED. Plaintiff’s request for sanctions is GRANTED in the
amount of $1,950.00.
 
C. Motions to
Quash Subpoenas to UCLA Health System and Maria Mendoza, LMFT
 
“If a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness or the production of
books, documents, electronically stored information, or other things before a
court, or at the trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of a deposition,
the court, upon motion reasonably made by any person described in subdivision
(b), or upon the court's own motion after giving counsel notice and an
opportunity to be heard, may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely,
modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as
the court shall declare, including protective orders. In addition, the court
may make any other order as may be appropriate to protect the person from
unreasonable or oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the
right of privacy of the person.”  (CCP §
1987.1(a).)
 
Plaintiff moves to quash subpoenas for medical records served on UCLA
Health System and Maria Mendoza, LMFT. Plaintiff asserts the requests are
overbroad as to scope and time and infringe on her right to privacy. In
opposition, Defendant asserts it has agreed to limit the time frame to the last
seven years. In reply, Plaintiff requests that he Court quash the subpoenas
entirely or limit them to the last five years. The Court finds five years to be
an appropriate temporal scope.
 
Plaintiff’s motions are GRANTED in part. The subpoenas are limited to
the last five years. The Court declines to award sanctions to either party.
 