  Case Number:  23SMCV00920    Hearing Date:   February 2, 2024    Dept:  I The motion to compel arbitration is CONTINUED to allow
further briefing as to whether plaintiff entered into the agreement.
Plaintiff sues defendant for personal injury and products
liability concerning a scooter. 
Defendant asserts that in order to rent the scooter, plaintiff had to
sign an agreement that included an arbitration provision and further delegated
issues about arbitrability to the arbitrator. 
Defendant now moves to compel arbitration and stay the case pending the
arbitration’s outcome.  Plaintiff opposes
on a number of grounds discussed below. 
(The court agrees that the FAA applies to this case.)
First, it is defendant’s burden to prove the existence of a
valid arbitration agreement.  Defendant
claims to have done so here through the Xie declaration, in which Xie contends
that in order to rent a scooter the renter must agree to the standard
arbitration form because doing so is required in order to create an account
(which is in turn required to rent a scooter). 
Exhibit B to the Xie declaration is purportedly a record that plaintiff
created an account on May 12, 2021 at 10:44 am. 
Because one cannot create an account without agreeing to the contract
(which includes the arbitration clause), if credited that is enough.  In opposition, plaintiff asserts that there
is no admissible evidence that plaintiff actually agreed to the account.  Looking at Exhibit B, it is a screenshot of
what Xie says is plaintiff’s account. 
The problem is that there is nothing in that exhibit that demonstrates that
this customer is the plaintiff.  There is
no email address or any other identifying information other than that the
“Area” is New York.  If Xie had some
knowledge linking Exhibit B to plaintiff, and testified about it, that might be
enough but there is nothing in the evidence before the court.  The business record exception to the hearsay
rule does not help.  That exception might
well be enough to get through hearsay, but the business record does not itself
include any statement that the account is associated with plaintiff.  Thus, defendant has not shown that plaintiff
agreed to the contract with the arbitration agreement in it, and so has not
established the agreement to arbitrate. 
In reply, defendant insists that a scooter cannot be used without a user
account and that the sign-up date matches the date of the incident.  But that is not enough.  First, it is possible that plaintiff used the
scooter using someone else’s account. 
Second, the fact that an account was opened on a particular date in New
York is not enough to establish that it was plaintiff’s account.  That said, though, the opposition includes
only a carefully worded declaration by plaintiff stating that “To the best of
my recollection I do not remember acknowledging a user agreement.”  That is a far cry from an actual denial.  The court believes that the better practice
is to allow defendant to shore up the evidence, if it can, linking plaintiff to
the account.  The court notes that the
question whether or not there is a contract is a question that cannot be
delegated to the arbitrator.  The court
also notes that while the area is identified as New York, the accident occurred
in Florida.
Next, the court turns to whether (assuming there is a
contract) it is broad enough to cover this. 
The language extends to “All claims arising out of or relating to this
Agreement.”  That is the broad form
language.  While it will ultimately be up
to the arbitrator to determine whether the case fits within that language due
to the delegation provision, it is certainly more than colorable enough to meet
the court’s inquiry.
Third, plaintiff asserts that the contract is illusory
because it contains a clause requiring that arbitration occur in Tippecanoe
County in Indiana under JAMS auspices, but JAMS has no office there.  That is not enough to show that the contract
is illusory.  The venue can be changed by
mutual agreement.  Further, the fact that
JAMS does not have an office there does not mean it cannot hold an arbitration
there.  The arbitration provision is not
illusory or impossible.
Plaintiff also contends that the contract is
unconscionable.  The court believes that
this, too, is for the court, not the arbitrator because this goes to the
question whether a valid contract exists, and that is typically for the court
to decide at least in the first instance. 
In California, unconscionability requires two showings: procedural and
substantive unconscionability.  The
stronger the showing on one prong, the less strong it must be on the
other.  (Ajamian v. CantorCO2e, L.P.
(2012) 203 Cal.App.4th 771.)  The court
notes, though, that it is not clear that California law governs.  The contract itself provides that it is
governed by Indiana law (generally).  And
to the extent the FAA governs, it has certain rules of its own.  And the incident occurred in Florida, not
California.  Further, the “area”
designated in Exhibit B is New York.  But
no one is suggesting that California law on unconscionability is meaningfully
different from the FAA or Indiana law or Florida law or New York law.  And the court at least suspects that
California law on unconscionability is more robust than any other potential
choice.  Thus, if the clause passes
muster here, it will probably pass muster under any other potentially applicable
law.  Plaintiff contends that this
contract is one of adhesion, which is sufficient to meet the first prong.  Certainly the defense admits that plaintiff
did not have the ability to alter the contract or refuse to enter into it (at
least if plaintiff wanted to rent a scooter from defendant).  The court tends to agree that it is a
contract of adhesion, but with an important caveat.  The arbitration provision had an opt out
clause.  Thus, if plaintiff had wanted to
do so, plaintiff could have elected to opt out of the arbitration requirement
and preserved the right to a judicial determination.  That sets it apart from most contracts of
adhesion because at least the arbitration provision was not presented on a
take-it-or-leave-it basis.  Rather, it
was presented on a take-it-or-don’t basis. 
That said, though, it is a remarkable plaintiff that would actually read
the contract with the level of care such that the opt out was seen and
understood and then exercised.  It would
be interesting to know how many (if any) opt outs defendant has ever
received.  The court is convinced that
plaintiff has shown enough to satisfy this prong, but the showing is not so
strong as is usually the case where no opt out is available.  That brings the court to substantive
unconscionability.  Plaintiff contends
that even if the Tippecanoe location does not make the contract illusory, it
makes it unconscionable.  And the court
also has some misgivings about this. 
Tippecanoe might well be convenient for the defense (although it might
not be—it appears that California might be defendant’s principal place of
business), but it is anything but convenient for the majority of those using
the scooters.  And while there is a
clause allowing the parties to agree to other locations, there must be an
agreement to that effect.  Plaintiff
cannot unilaterally choose the location; defendant must agree.  But that said, there is at least some
evidence that defendant routinely arbitrates in other venues and there is no
indication here that defendant is insisting on Tippecanoe.  Indeed, the motion seeks to arbitrate here in
California.  The court would be inclined
to strike the venue clause rather than deem the provision unconscionable,
especially given the opt out provision, at least to the extent that the issue
is one for the court rather than one delegated to the arbitrator.  The court finds plaintiff’s other arguments
regarding unconscionability unavailing.
Plaintiff also claims waiver. The case was filed in March
2023 but the motion was not brought until January 2024.  However, the court is aware of no actual
waiver.  Delay of months is not in and of
itself a waiver.  Here, defendant did
nothing inconsistent with arbitration. 
It raised the issue in its answer and it has not tried to take discovery
that would not be allowed in arbitration. 
To the extent it is the court’s call, the court does not find there to
be a waiver here.
Finally, plaintiff contends that defendant did not act in
good faith, which appears to be a prerequisite to arbitration.  Specifically, plaintiff argues that when
defendant was asked if there was insurance, defendant falsely said that there
was not.  It was only after suit was
filed (according to plaintiff) that defendant finally admitted that there is
insurance.  In reply, defendant contends
that plaintiff is mistaken, but the court does not fully understand the reply
argument.  Plaintiff also claims that defendant
refused to engage in meaningful discussions with plaintiff.  Specifically, plaintiff sent the information
concerning the incident to defendant and asked for documentary information and
also for a response such that a dialogue could go forward.  Instead, plaintiff states that it got a terse
rejection letter and nothing else of note. 
Plaintiff states that this is hardly the stuff of “best efforts” to
resolve the case, such as the contract seems to require.  Frankly, the court is concerned about this
one.  Defendant says that it did an
investigation, but the results were not provided to plaintiff and there was no
effort to discuss with plaintiff why defendant was not liable.  It is not best efforts, at least in the
court’s view, for defendant just to say “no” with no explanation or
discussion.  Even if defendant in fact
did a thorough investigation (and the court has no evidence that it did), at a
minimum there ought to have been some kind of dialogue explaining why the claim
was rejected or sharing the results with plaintiff.  The problem with this argument, though, is
that whether there was a good faith effort to resolve the case prior to
rejection is precisely the kind of question that the delegation clause commits
to the arbitrator.  While the court’s
view is that defendant failed to meet the precondition, the court also thinks
that is the arbitrator’s decision.  The
court thus cannot deny the motion on that basis.
In sum, the only argument that the court finds persuasive
and that would defeat the motion is defendant’s failure to prove plaintiff
actually entered into the contract.  The
court will therefore CONTINUE the matter to allow defendant to prove, if it
can, that this plaintiff entered into the specific contract at issue.  The court will allow defendant to file a
supplemental brief and allow plaintiff to file a supplemental response to that
brief, which will be the final papers submitted on the subject.  The court will also discuss a date to
reconvene to decide this motion.