  Case Number:  19STCV31123    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2023    Dept:  61 Farmers
Insurance Corporation’s Motion for Leave to Intervene is GRANTED. 
 
Defendant in intervention to
give notice.
 
I.               
MOTION TO
INTERVENE
 
The
court shall, upon timely application, permit a nonparty to intervene in the
action or proceeding if either of the following conditions is satisfied:
 
(A)
A provision of law confers an unconditional right to intervene.
 
(B)
The person seeking intervention claims an interest relating to the property or
transaction that is the subject of the action and that person is so situated
that the disposition of the action may impair or impede that person's ability
to protect that interest, unless that person's interest is adequately
represented by one or more of the existing parties.
 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 387, subd. (d)(1).)
 
The above provisions describe the circumstances where leave
to intervene is mandatory. Discretionary intervention, however, is appropriate
“(1) where the proposed intervenor has a direct interest, (2) intervention will
not enlarge the issues in the litigation, and (3) the reasons for the
intervention outweigh any opposition by the present parties.” (Lindelli v. Town of San Anselmo (2006)
139 Cal.App.4th 1499, 1504.)
 
Defendant
Dennis Sprague seeks leave to allow the intervention of Farmers Insurance
Corporation (Farmers), on the grounds that Farmers is Defendant’s liability
insurer, and Defendant, being of advanced age and having become
non-communicative, is not in a position to effectively comply with the
obligations of this litigation. (Motion at p. 1.) Farmers has an interest in
the present matter as Defendant’s insurer, since under Insurance Code § 11580,
subd. (b)(2), Farmers, as Defendant’s liability insurer, may be liable to
Plaintiffs to recover upon the judgment. (Motion at p. 2; see Kaufman & Broad Communities,
Inc. v. Performance Plastering, Inc. (2006) 136 Cal.App.4th 212, 223 [“Thus, a judgment
creditor who has prevailed in a lawsuit against an insured party may bring a
direct action against the insurer subject to the terms and limitations of the
policy.”].) Because Defendant has ceased to defend the action, Farmers has a
grounds by which to seek intervention: “Intervention may . . . be allowed in
the insurance context, where third party claimants are involved, when the
insurer is allowed to take over in litigation if its insured is not defending
an action, to avoid harm to the insurer.” (Royal Indemnity Co. v. United
Enterprises, Inc. (2008) 162 Cal.App.4th 194, 206.)
Defendant has shown that Farmers
has a direct interest in the action, and that intervention will not enlarge the
issues of this litigation. Farmers agrees to limit its defenses to those that
Sprague himself could raise if he were defending himself. (Motion at p. 3.)
Plaintiffs do not oppose the motion, as indicated in a stipulation filed on
September 7, 2023.
The motion is therefore GRANTED.