 Case Number:  22STCV22519    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2023    Dept:  61 Cross-Defendant
Express Employment Professionals’ Demurrer to Active Transport, LLC’s First
Amended Cross-Complaint is OVERRULED. Cross-Defendant to answer within 30 days.
 
I.               
DEMURRER
A demurrer should be sustained only where the defects appear
on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. (Code Civ. Pro., §§
430.30, et seq.) In particular, as is
relevant here, a court should sustain a demurrer if a complaint does not allege
facts that are legally sufficient to constitute a cause of action. (See
id. § 430.10, subd. (e).) As the Supreme Court held in Blank v. Kirwan (1985) Cal.3d 311: “We
treat the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but not
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law. . . . Further, we give
the complaint a reasonable interpretation, reading it as a whole and its parts
in their context.” (Id. at p.
318; see also Hahn. V. Mirda (2007)
147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747 [“A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and
not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the
defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed.
[Citation.]”] 
 
“In determining whether the complaint is sufficient as
against the demurrer … if on consideration of all the facts stated it appears
the plaintiff is entitled to any relief at the hands of the court against the
defendants the complaint will be held good although the facts may not be
clearly stated.”  (Gressley v. Williams (1961) 193 Cal.App.2d 636, 639.)
 
“A demurrer
for uncertainty is strictly construed, even where a complaint is in some
respects uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery
procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly’s of Cal., Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th
612, 616.) Such demurrers “are
disfavored, and are granted only if the pleading is so incomprehensible that a
defendant cannot reasonably respond.” (Mahan
v. Charles W. Chan Insurance Agency, Inc. (2017) 14 Cal.App.5th
841, 848.)
 
A demurrer should not be sustained without leave to amend if
the complaint, liberally construed, can state a cause of action under any
theory or if there is a reasonable possibility the defect can be cured by
amendment. (Schifando v. City of Los Angeles, supra, 31 Cal.4th
at p. 1081.) The demurrer also may be sustained without leave to amend where
the nature of the defects and previous unsuccessful attempts to plead render it
probable plaintiff cannot state a cause of action. (Krawitz v. Rusch
(1989) 209 Cal.App.3d 957, 967.)
 
Cross-Defendant Express Employment
Professionals (Cross-Defendant) demurrers to the first amended cross-complaint
(FAXC) of Defendant Active Transport LLC. Cross-Defendant contends that the
first cause of action for indemnification is defective because Active Transport
has not yet been found liable to Plaintiff John Hernandez. (Demurrer at pp.
7–8.) Cross-Defendant further contends that insufficient facts are pleaded upon
which to ground the indemnification claim. (Demurrer at p. 8.) Finally,
Cross-Defendant contends that the second cause of action for declaratory relief
is derivative of the indemnity claim and therefore fails. (Demurrer at pp.
8–9.)
“The elements of a cause of action for indemnity are
(1) a showing of fault on the part of the indemnitor and (2) resulting damages
to the indemnitee for which the indemnitor is ... equitably responsible.” (Bailey
v. Safeway, Inc. (2011) 199 Cal.App.4th 206, 217.) This court previously
sustained Cross-Defendant’s unopposed demurrer to Active Transport’s original
cross-complaint on the grounds that it stated no supporting facts supporting
liability, but only conclusions of law.
 
The defects of the original cross-complaint have been
rectified. The FAXC states that liability is proper against Cross-Defendant for
this employment retaliation case because Cross-Defendant was Plaintiff’s
employer, and responsible for all relevant employer functions. (FAXC ¶¶ 2–3.)
Cross-Defendant contends that the matter is unripe, since no judgment has been
entered against Active Transport, and thus no liability can yet be found
against Cross-Defendant. But Cross-Defendant cites no authority holding for
this proposition, and it is indeed customary for defendants to plead equitable
indemnity against cross-defendants prior to an ultimate adjudication. “[A] cross-complaint for equitable indemnity
against an alleged joint tortfeasor states a cause of action unless, under the
particular facts alleged, the cross-complaint would operate inequitably.” (Paragon Real
Estate Group of San Francisco, Inc. v. Hansen (2009) 178 Cal.App.4th 177,
186.)
The demurrer is therefore OVERRULED.