 Case Number:  23PSCV01485    Hearing Date:   May 1, 2024    Dept:  K Defendant Barry
Anthony Braun dba Trueblue Pool Care’s Demurrer to [First Amended] Complaint is
OVERRULED in part (i.e., as to the fourth cause of action) and SUSTAINED in
part (i.e., as to the fifth through ninth causes of action). The court will
hear from counsel for Plaintiff as to whether leave to amend is requested, and as
to which cause(s) of action, and will require an offer of proof if so.
Background   
Plaintiff Jose Martin Reyes dba JMR Pool Pro (“Plaintiff”)
alleges as follows:
On January 15, 2021, Plaintiff and Barry Anthony Braun dba Trueblue Pool Care
(“Braun”) entered into an agreement wherein Plaintiff agreed to purchase 20 pool
service accounts from Braun for $22,608.00 (“Agreement”). Braun also executed a
Non-Competition Agreement (“Non-Compete Agreement”) wherein he agreed not to
compete with Plaintiff for 5 years from the date of the Agreement. After the
agreements were executed, Braun proposed providing administrative services to
manage Plaintiff’s newly acquired and future pool service accounts. Plaintiff
and Braun entered into an oral agreement, wherein Braun would handle
administrative tasks in exchange for a 15% monthly service fee from the total
amount collected (“Administrative Agreement”). Braun asked Plaintiff to have
each of Plaintiff’s clients endorse a TrueBlue Pool Care Traditional Service
Agreement (“Service Agreement”) under the pretense that they would be used to
streamline the collection of client information to establish profiles and
schedule service appointments. 
 
Plaintiff’s
business greatly expanded and Plaintiff provided the Service Agreement to each
new client. The relationship between Plaintiff and Braun subsequently soured
and Plaintiff informed Braun of his intent to terminate their business
relationship; in response, Braun claimed ownership of all of the pool service
accounts Plaintiff had acquired during their association, minus the original 20
accounts Plaintiff had purchased. Braun demanded that Plaintiff buy these
accounts from him. 
 
On
November 12, 2022, Plaintiff contacted Braun’s office to request that Brun
inform Plaintiff’s pool service accounts that Plaintiff would be taking time
off during Thanksgiving week but that he would provide extra treatment to their
pools and spas the week beforehand to maintain the correct levels until his
return. Braun purposely failed to communicate this information and instead sent
correspondence to each of Plaintiff’s clients, unbeknownst to Plaintiff,
advising them that Plaintiff had taken the week off without notice, did not
maintain the required qualifications to perform swimming pool maintenance in
Los Angeles County and that Plaintiff was resigning as their pool servicer.
Braun’s false communications resulted in some of Plaintiff’s clients switching
to Braun for their pool service needs. 
On October 13, 2023, Plaintiff filed a First Amended
Complaint (“FAC”), asserting causes of action against Braun and Does 1-50 for:
1.                 
Breach of Contract
2.                 
Breach of Oral Contract
3.                 
Breach of Implied Contract
4.                 
Breach of Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair
Dealing
5.                 
Conversion
6.                 
Intentional Interference with Contractual Relations
7.                 
Intentional Interference with Prospective Economic
Relations
8.                 
Fraudulent Misrepresentation 
9.                 
Negligent Misrepresentation 
10.             
Unjust Enrichment 
11.             
Unfair Business Practice
12.             
Libel 
A Case Management Conference is set for May 1, 2024.
Legal Standard
A
demurrer may be made on the grounds that the pleading, inter alia, does not
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.10, subd. (e).)
When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in
context. In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of
the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A
demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic
matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the
pleading or are judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984)
153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905 [citations omitted].) At the pleading stage, a
plaintiff need only allege ultimate facts sufficient to apprise the defendant
of the factual basis for the claim against him. (Semole v. Sansoucie (1972) 28 Cal. App. 3d 714, 721.) “[A] demurrer
does not, however, admit contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law
alleged in the pleading, or the construction placed on an instrument pleaded
therein, or facts impossible in law, or allegations contrary to facts of which
a court may take judicial knowledge.” (S.
Shore Land Co. v. Petersen (1964) 226 Cal.App.2d 725, 732 [citations
omitted].)
Discussion 
Braun demurs, per
Code of Civil Procedure § 430.10, to the fourth through ninth causes of action[1]
in Plaintiff’s FAC, on the basis that they each fail to state facts sufficient
to constitute causes of action.
Untimeliness
At the outset, the court addresses Plaintiff’s contention
that Braun’s instant demurrer is untimely. The court has reviewed the
declarations of Charles K. Stec (“Stec”) and Edgar Martirosyan (“Martirosyan”).
Stec represents that counsel agreed during their November 15, 2023 telephone
conference that Braun would withhold filing a demurrer until after the parties
first participated in mediation (Stec Decl., ¶¶ 3 and 4), whereas Martirosyan
represents that he only agreed to Braun filing an answer (Martirosyan Decl., ¶
5).
It is unclear to the court, based upon the competing
declarations, whether or not the instant demurrer is untimely; with that said,
it is within the court’s discretion to consider an untimely demurrer. (Jackson
v. Doe (2011) 192 Cal.App.4th 742, 750.) The court elects to consider the
demurrer on its merits.
Fourth Cause of Action (i.e., Breach of Implied Covenant
of Good Faith and Fair Dealing)
“If the allegations do not go beyond the statement of a mere
contract breach and, relying on the same alleged acts, simply seek the same
damages or other relief already claimed in a companion contract cause of
action, they may be disregarded as superfluous as no additional claim is
actually stated.” (Careau & Co. v. Security Pacific Business Credit,
Inc. (1990) 222 Cal.App.3d 1371, 1395).
Braun asserts that Plaintiff’s fourth cause of action is “nothing
more than a retread of [his] first cause of action for breach of contract.”
(Dem., 3:18-19). Plaintiff’s first cause of action, however, is directed only
towards Braun’s alleged breach of the parties’ Non-Compete Agreement, whereas
Plaintiff’s fourth cause of action pertains to Braun’s alleged breach of the
parties’ Agreement, Non-Compete Agreement, and Administrative Agreement. The
court will overrule Braun’s demurrer to the fourth cause of action on this
basis.
Fifth Cause of Action (i.e., Conversion)
“The elements of a
conversion claim are: (1) the plaintiff's ownership or right to possession of
the property; (2) the defendant's conversion by a wrongful act or disposition
of property rights; and (3) damages.” (Lee v. Hanley (2015) 61 Cal.4th
1225, 1240 [internal quotations and citation omitted].) “Where plaintiff
neither has title to the property alleged to have been converted, nor
possession thereof, he cannot maintain an action for conversion.” (Moore v.
Regents of University of California (1990) 51 Cal.3d 120, 136 [quotations
and citation omitted].)
Plaintiff has alleged that Braun interfered with Plaintiff’s
property interest (i.e., comprised of 70 pool service accounts) by taking
possession of 40 pool service accounts. (FAC, ¶ 50). Plaintiff previously
alleged that “the Service Agreement. . . result[ed] in a contractual
relationship between Braun and Plaintiff’s new acquired clients, effectively
designating those who signed it as Braun’s pool service clients rather than
Plaintiff’s.” (Id., ¶ 10). Braun asserts that Plaintiff cannot plead the
first element of Plaintiff’s fifth cause of action, because the service
accounts are accounts between Braun and various customers under the Service
Agreement and that, as such, Plaintiff had no ownership or right to possession
of these accounts. The court will sustain Braun’s demurrer to the fifth cause
of action on this basis.
Sixth and Seventh Causes of Action (i.e., Intentional
Interference with Contractual Relations and Intentional Interference with
Prospective Economic Relations, Respectively)
“The elements which a plaintiff must plead to state the cause
of action for intentional interference with contractual relations are (1) a
valid contract between plaintiff and a third party; (2) defendant's knowledge
of this contract; (3) defendant's intentional acts designed to induce a breach
or disruption of the contractual relationship; (4) actual breach or disruption
of the contractual relationship; and (5) resulting damage.”
“The five elements for
intentional interference with prospective economic advantage are: (1) an
economic relationship between the plaintiff and some third party, with the
probability of future economic benefit to the plaintiff; (2) the defendant's
knowledge of the relationship; (3) intentional acts on the part of the
defendant designed to disrupt the relationship; (4) actual disruption of the
relationship; and (5) economic harm to the plaintiff proximately caused by the
acts of the defendant.” (Youst v. Longo
(1987) 43 Cal.3d 64, 71, fn. 6.) “[A]n essential element of the tort of
intentional interference with prospective business advantage is the existence
of a business relationship with which the tortfeasor interfered. Although this
need not be a contractual relationship, an existing relationship is required.”
(Roth v. Rhodes (1994) 25 Cal.App.4th 530,
546.)
Braun asserts that Plaintiff cannot
plead the first element of both the sixth and seventh causes of action, because
the written pool service agreements are between a third party and Braun, not
Plaintiff. (FAC, ¶ 10). The court will sustain Braun’s
demurrer to the sixth and seventh causes of action on this basis.
Eight and Ninth Causes of Action (i.e., Fraudulent
Misrepresentation and Negligent Misrepresentation, Respectively)
“Fraud must be pleaded with specificity…[t]o withstand a
demurrer, the facts constituting
every element of the fraud must be alleged with particularity, and the claim
cannot be salvaged by references to the general policy favoring the liberal
construction of pleadings.” (Goldrich v.
Natural Y Surgical Specialties, Inc. (1994) 25 Cal.App.4th 772, 782
[emphasis in original].) “This particularity requirement necessitates pleading facts which show how, when, where, to
whom, and by what means the representations were tendered.” (Stansfield v. Starkey (1990) 220
Cal.App.3d 59, 73 (emphasis in original; internal quotations and citation
omitted].)
Braun asserts that
Plaintiff’s eighth and ninth causes of action are not pled with specificity.
The court agrees. Braun also assets that these causes of action are a
regurgitation of Plaintiff’s contract-based causes of action. “[C]onduct
amounting to a breach of contract becomes tortious only when it also violates a
duty independent of the contract arising from principles of tort law.” (Erlich
v. Menezes (1999) 21 Cal.4th 543, 551.) The court agrees. The court will
sustain Braun’s demurrer to the eighth and ninth causes of action on this
basis.


