 Case Number:  23STCV02556    Hearing Date:   May 1, 2024    Dept:  K Plaintiff Jacqueline
Brady’s Motion for Leave to File Second Amended Complaint is DENIED on the
basis of lack of jurisdiction.
Background   
Plaintiff Jacqueline Brady,
individually and as successor-in-interest to the Estate of Eric Smith
(“Plaintiff”) alleges as follows:
Plaintiff and her husband, Eric Smith
(“Smith”), lived near a battery recycling plant (“Plant”) located in the City
of Industry, California. Smith contracted terminal cancer due to toxic
emissions from Plant and died by suicide on February 5, 2021.
On February 6, 2023, Plaintiff,
apparently as an individual, filed a Complaint against Quemetco, Inc. and nine other
defendants. On February 24, 2023, the case was ordered reassigned from
Department 11 to the instant department.
On August 16, 2023, Plaintiff
filed five “Amendment[s] to Complaint,” wherein Quemetco West, LLC (“Quemetco
West”) was named in lieu of Doe 1, Ecobat Resources California, Inc. (“Ecobat”)
was named in lieu of Doe 2, Bruce Davis (“Davis”) was named in lieu of Doe 3,
Michael Buckantz (“Buckantz”) was named in lieu of Doe 4 and Craig Clark (“Clark”)
was named in lieu of Doe 5.
On August 22, 2023, Plaintiff filed a First Amended
Complaint, asserting causes of action therein against Quemetco, Inc.
(“Quemetco”), Quemetco West, Ecobat, Davis, Buckantz, Clark (collectively,
“Defendants”) and Does 6-100 for:
1.                 
Negligence
2.                 
Negligence Per Se
3.                 
Strict Liability for Ultra-hazardous Activity
4.                 
Misrepresentation and Fraudulent Concealment 
5.                 
Nuisance 
6.                 
Trespass
On January 24, 2024, the court sustained Defendants’
demurrer to the FAC, without leave to amend.
A Case Management Conference is set for May 1, 2024.
Legal Standard
“The court may, in furtherance of justice, and on
any terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading or proceeding
by adding or striking out the name of any party, or by correcting a mistake in
the name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect; and may, upon like
terms, enlarge the time for answer or demurrer. The court may likewise, in its
discretion, after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be
just, an amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may
upon like terms allow an answer to be made after the time limited by this code.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (a)(1).)
“The court may, upon any terms as may be just,
relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a judgment, dismissal,
order, or other proceeding taken against him or her through his or her mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. Application for this relief shall
be accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed
therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted, and shall be made
within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment,
dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken. . . Notwithstanding any other
requirements of this section, the court shall, whenever an application for
relief is made no more than six months after entry of judgment, is in proper
form, and is accompanied by an attorney's sworn affidavit attesting to his or
her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect, vacate any (1) resulting
default entered by the clerk against his or her client, and which will result
in entry of a default judgment, or (2) resulting default judgment or dismissal
entered against his or her client, unless the court finds that the default or
dismissal was not in fact caused by the attorney's mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or neglect. . .” (Code Civ. Proc., §
473, subd. (b).)

Discussion
Plaintiff moves the
court, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 473, for leave to file her
proposed Second Amended Complaint.
The motion is
denied on the basis of lack of jurisdiction. At the outset, “[t]he name of a
motion is not controlling, and, regardless of the name, a motion asking the
trial court to decide the same matter previously ruled on is a motion for
reconsideration under Code of Civil Procedure section 1008.” (Powell v. County of Orange (2011) 197 Cal.App.4th 1573, 1577.) Plaintiff
concedes that she is seeking reconsideration of the court’s January 24, 2024
order sustaining Defendants’ demurrer to the FAC without leave to amend [See Mandell Decl., ¶ 4: “In the court’s ruling sustaining the demurrer
without leave to amend, the court mentioned that we did not plead facts in
support of a delayed discovery in the FAC. . . Accordingly, we now move
pursuant to CCP Section 473 for relief from that portion of the court’s order
denying leave to amend . . .”].[1]
Plaintiff, however,
has failed to comply with the requirements of Code of Civil Procedure § 1008[2].
Subdivision (e) of Section 1008 provides as follows: “This section
specifies the court's jurisdiction with regard to applications for
reconsideration of its orders and renewals of previous motions, and applies
to all applications to reconsider any order of a judge or court, or for the
renewal of a previous motion, whether the order deciding the previous matter or
motion is interim or final. No application to reconsider any order or for
the renewal of a previous motion may be considered by any judge or court unless
made according to this section.” (Emphasis added).


