  Case Number:  21STCV36715    Hearing Date:   May 13, 2024    Dept:  31  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     May
13, 2024                         TRIAL
DATE:  December 9, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                         People of the State of California ex Rel. Heath & Yuen,
APC v. Silver Bird Auto Leasing LLC, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 21STCV36715
 





















 
MOTION
FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendants
Silver Bird Auto Leasing LLC; The X-Law Group, PC; and Filippo Marchino
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Plaintiff People
of the State of California ex Rel. Heath & Yuen, APC
 
 
I.          FACTUAL AND PROCEDURAL BACKGROUND
 
This is an insurance fraud case arising from a separately
filed action.  The underlying action arose from a motor vehicle accident
between a 2015 McLaren 650S Spider (“Subject Vehicle”) and a tourism van.[1] 
Silver Bird Auto Leasing LLC (hereinafter, “Silver Bird”) owned the Subject
Vehicle and leased it to a third-party driver who was operating it at the time
of the accident.  The tourism van was owned and operated by Los Angeles
USA Tours LLC, Sadegh Fatoorechi (“Fatoorechi”), and Ali Dayekh (collectively,
“Prior Litigation Defendants”).¿ Silver Bird’s complaint alleged that the
third-party driver of the Subject Vehicle was making a legal turn when the
Subject Vehicle was struck by the tourism van.  Silver Bird’s complaint sought
damages for the motor vehicle collision, contending the collision was caused by
the Prior Litigation Defendants’ negligence. 
¿ 
The Prior Litigation Defendants were insured by Gateway
Insurance Company dba Alano Insurance Company (“Gateway”).¿ Gateway hired law firm
Heath & Yuen, APC (“Heath & Yuen”) for the purposes of defending the
Prior Litigation Defendants against Silver Bird’s complaint.¿ Later, when
Gateway became insolvent, California Insurance Guarantee Association (“CIGA”) stepped
into the case.  In relevant part, Silver
Bird was represented by The X-Law Firm (“X-Law”) in the latter part of the
underlying action.  After participating in a Mandatory Settlement
Conference, the parties agreed to settle the underlying action for
$25,000. 
 
In this action, Heath & Yuen alleges that the
prosecution of the underlying action constituted a violation of the California
Insurance Frauds Prevention Act (“IFPA”).  The IFPA proscribes the
presentation of a false or fraudulent claim for the payment of a loss or
injury, including the payment of a loss or injury under a contract of
insurance.¿ Based on a post-collision photograph, Heath & Yuen alleges
Silver Bird’s prior claim that the driver of the Subject Vehicle made a “legal
turn” was a false representation.  The photograph purportedly proves the
driver made an illegal U-turn over a double-set of parallel yellow lines
immediately in front of the tourism van.   
 
Heath & Yuen also alleges that Silver Bird withheld and
concealed the fact that the third-party driver of the Subject Vehicle was
Filippo Marchino (“Marchino”), Silver Bird’s equity owner and a principal in
X-Law.  Heath & Yuen further alleges that Silver Bird and Marchino (1)
obstructed discovery during the prior litigation by failing to provide, and
willfully withholding information concerning the name of their insurer (GEICO);
(2) produced a false and fabricated cost repair bill for the purpose of proving
their damages; and (3) wrongfully continued to prosecute the prior action
following CIGA’s substitution into the action, while knowing that the claim
arising from the motor vehicle accident was not a “covered claim” under CIGA’s
policies. 
 
Procedural Background 
 
On October 5, 2021, Health & Yuen[2]
(“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against Silver Bird, X-Law, and Marchino
(collectively, “Defendants”).¿ 
¿ 
Subsequently, on October 6, 2021, Plaintiff filed the
operative Verified First Amended Complaint (FAC) against Defendants, alleging a
single cause of action for Violation of the Insurance Fraud Prevention Act
(Ins. Code § 1871 et seq.) based on violation of Penal Code section 550.
 
On February 26, 2024, Defendants filed this Motion for
Summary Judgment. 
 
On April 29, 2024, Plaintiff filed its opposition.  
 
On May 6, 2024, Defendants filed a reply.
 
II.        LEGAL STANDARD
 
            When
reviewing a motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication, courts must
apply a three-step analysis: “(1) identify the issues framed by the pleadings;
(2) determine whether the moving party has negated the opponent’s claims; and
(3) determine whether the opposition has demonstrated the existence of a
triable, material factual issue.”¿ (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Center
(2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.)¿ A motion for summary judgment must be granted “if all the
papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact
and that the moving party is entitled to a judgment as a matter of law.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).)  
 
            “[T]he
initial burden is always on the moving party to make a prima facia showing that
there are no triable issues of material fact.”¿ (Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes,
Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.)¿ A defendant seeking summary judgment “bears the burden of
persuasion that there is no triable issue of material fact and that he is
entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”  (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850 (Aguilar).)  A
defendant moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or
her burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party has
shown that one or more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be
established, or that there is a complete defense to the cause of action.”¿
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)¿ A moving defendant need not
conclusively negate an element of plaintiff’s cause of action.¿ (Aguilar, 25
Cal.4th at p. 854.)¿ 
 
            To
meet this burden of showing a cause of action cannot be established, a
defendant must show not only “that the plaintiff does not possess needed
evidence” but also that “the plaintiff cannot reasonably obtain needed
evidence.”¿ (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 854.)¿ It is
insufficient for the defendant to merely point out the absence of evidence.¿ (Gaggero
v. Yura (2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 884, 891.)¿ The defendant “must also produce
evidence that the plaintiff cannot reasonably obtain evidence to support his or
her claim.”¿ (Ibid.)¿ The supporting evidence can be in the form of
affidavits, declarations, admissions, depositions, answers to interrogatories,
and matters of which judicial notice may be taken.¿ (Aguilar, supra,
25 Cal.4th at p. 855.)¿ 
 
            “Once the defendant …
has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff … to show that a
triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or
a defense thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)¿The plaintiff may not
merely rely on allegations or denials of its pleadings to show that a triable
issue of material fact exists, but instead, “shall set forth the specific facts
showing that a triable issue of material fact exists as to the cause of
action.”¿(Ibid.)¿A plaintiff opposing
summary judgment defeats the motion by showing one or more triable issues of
material fact exist as to the challenged element. (Aguilar, supra, 25
Cal.4th at p. 849.) “If the plaintiff
cannot do so, summary judgment should be granted.” (Avivi v. Centro Medico
Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)¿ 
 
            The
court must “liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing
summary judgment and resolve all doubts concerning the evidence in favor of
that party,” including “all inferences reasonably drawn therefrom.”¿ (Yanowitz
v. L’Oreal USA, Inc. (2005) 36 Cal.4th 1028, 1037 (Yanowitz); Aguilar,
25 Cal.4th at pp. 844-45.)¿ “On a summary judgment motion, the court must
therefore consider what inferences favoring the opposing party a factfinder
could reasonably draw from the evidence.¿ While viewing the evidence in this
manner, the court must bear in mind that its primary function is to identify
issues rather than to determine issues.¿ [Citation.]¿ Only when the inferences
are indisputable may the court decide the issues as a matter of law.¿ If the
evidence is in conflict, the factual issues must be resolved by trial.” (Binder
v. Aetna Life Ins. Co. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839.)¿ “Put another way,
have defendants conclusively negated a necessary element of the [plaintiff’s]
case or demonstrated that under no hypothesis is there a material issue of fact
that requires the process of trial?”  (Jeld-Wen, Inc. v. Superior Court
(2005) 131 Cal.App.4th 853, 860, internal citation omitted.) Further, “the
trial court may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a factfinder to
determine whose version is more likely true.¿ [Citation.]¿ Nor may the trial
court grant summary judgment based on the court’s evaluation of credibility.¿
[Citation.]” ¿(Id. at p. 840; see also Weiss v. People ex
rel.¿Department of Transportation (2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 (Weiss)
[“Courts deciding motions for summary judgment or summary adjudication may not
weigh the evidence but must instead view it in the light most favorable to the
opposing party and draw all reasonable inferences in favor of that party”].)¿¿
 
III.       EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
 
A.     Plaintiff’s Objections
 
            Plaintiff
submits five (5) objections to the declarations of Beau LeBlanc (objection nos.
1-3), Robert Berkstresser (objection no. 4), and Juan Ponce (objection no. 5.)[3]   The
objections are OVERRULED.  
 
B.     Defendants’ Objections
      
Defendants submitted six (6) objections to Plaintiff’s
evidence.  The court declines to rule on
these objections because they are not relevant to the disposition of this
motion.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (q).) 
 
IV.       DISCUSSION
 
A.    Issues Framed by the First Amended Complaint
 
            The FAC alleges the following points in support of the IFPA
claim:
 
1.     
Silver Bird withheld the fact that
the third-party driver of the Subject Vehicle was Marchino, Silver Bird’s
equity owner and a principal in X-Law. 
(FAC, ¶ 14.)
2.     
In the Prior Litigation, Silver Bird
falsely alleged that the Subject Vehicle was making a legal turn when the
collision occurred.  (FAC, ¶¶ 15-17, 22.)
3.     
Defendants obstructed discovery
during the prior litigation by failing to provide, and willfully withholding
information concerning the name of their insurer (GEICO).  (FAC, ¶ 23.)
4.     
Defendants wrongfully continued to
prosecute the prior action following CIGA’s substitution into the action, while
knowing that the claim arising from the motor vehicle accident was not a
“covered claim” under CIGA’s policies.  (FAC, ¶¶ 36-38.)
5.     
Defendants produced a false and
fabricated cost repair bill for the purpose of proving their damages.  (FAC, ¶ 41.)
 
B.    
Analysis
 
Plaintiff asserts a cause of action under Insurance Code
section 1871.7, subdivision (b).  (FAC,
¶¶ 56-60.)  As relevant here, subdivision
(b) provides, a person who violates any provision of Penal Code section 550 is
liable under the IFPA.  In its Opposition
Plaintiff argues that Defendants violated Penal Code section 550 (b)(1) and
(2). Those sections state: 
 
(b) It is unlawful
to do, or to knowingly assist or conspire with any person to do, any of the
following: 
 
(1) Present or
cause to be presented any written or oral statement as part of, or in support
of or opposition to, a claim for payment or other benefit pursuant to an
insurance policy, knowing that the statement contains any false or misleading
information concerning any material fact. 
(2) Prepare or
make any written or oral statement that is intended to be presented to any
insurer or any insurance claimant in connection with, or in support of or
opposition to, any claim or payment or other benefit pursuant to an insurance
policy, knowing that the statement contains any false or misleading information
concerning any material fact. (Emphasis added.)
 
“The elements generally necessary to find a violation of
Penal Code section 550 are (1) the defendant’s knowing presentation of a false
claim, (2) with the intent to defraud.”  (People
ex rel. Government Employees Ins. Co. v. Cruz (2016) 244 Cal.App.4th
1184, 1193; People v. Booth (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 1247, 1252.)  A “violation of [Penal Code section 550]
is complete when a false claim for payment of loss is presented to an insurance
company or a false writing is prepared or presented with intent to use it in
connection with such a claim whether or not anything of value is taken or
received.  It is not necessary that
anyone actually be defrauded or actually suffer a financial, legal, or
property loss as a result of the defendant's acts.”  (Cruz, 244 Cal.App.4th at p.
119 (cleaned up).)  “California law uses
the words ‘fraud’ and ‘deceit’ interchangeably,” and a “claim is ‘fraudulent’
if it is characterized by deceit, dishonesty, or trickery, perpetrated to gain
some unfair or dishonest advantage.”  (State
ex rel. Wilson v. Superior Court (2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 579, 600.)  An insurance claim is fraudulent under
section 550 and section 1871.7, subdivision (b), when it is “characterized in
any way by deceit.”  (Id. at p.
601.)  
 
Based upon the foregoing, to prevail on a cause of action premised
on a violation of Penal Code section 550(b), a plaintiff must present by a
preponderance of the evidence that (1) a defendant (2) presented or caused to
be presented (3) any written or oral statement (4) as part of or in support of
a claim for payment to an insurance company (5) knowing that the statement
contains any false or misleading information (6) concerning any material fact.[4]  
 
1.  Framing the
Issues
 
In opposition to Defendants’ motion, Plaintiff narrows the issues
as follows: “(1)
[whether] defendants falsely stated Mr. Marchino had made a lawful turn when he
had not, and (2) [whether] defendants submitted a fraudulent invoice in support
of their auto damage.” (Plaintiff’s Opp. pg. 5.)[5]  Defendants have the initial burden to show
that one or more elements of the cause of action cannot be established.  
 
(a) Marchino’s
False Statement re: Lawful Left Turn 
 
            Defendants make two attacks.  First, Defendants argue Plaintiffs failed to
connect the false statement to any of the Defendants (the first element of the
cause of action).  Second, Defendants
argue that even if a false statement were made, it was not material to the
resolution of and in the context of the underlying case (the sixth element).
The court addresses each argument in turn.       
 
            Defendants argue Plaintiff cannot
establish the first element of the cause of action because Plaintiff fails to identify
who, if any of the Defendants, presented or caused to be presented the alleged
false statement in the underlying Complaint.[6]  The
relevant statement is: “At about 17:56, while the car was making a legal turn,
the car was impacted by a Ford E-series tourism van (hereinafter “Van”) owned
and operated by Defendant, Los Angeles USA Tours LLC and Ali Dayekh.”
(Defendant’s Compendium of Exhibits, Exh.1, para. 7.)(Emphasis added.)  Defendants are correct. Plaintiff has not
identified the source of the false statement other than pointing in the Defendants’
direction.  Plaintiff fails to connect the statement in the Complaint to
anyone, let alone Marchino, the X-Law Group, or anyone from Silver Bird.  Indeed, the Complaint was drafted by prior
counsel, not the current Defendants. 
Plaintiff does not provide the court with any authority that a party, based
upon the language included in a complaint, can be held liable for a false
statement included in an unverified complaint drafted by prior counsel.
 
            Nonetheless, Defendants misperceive
their burden.  As stated above, it is insufficient for a defendant
to merely point out the absence of evidence.¿(Gaggero v. Yura (2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 884,
891.)  The defendant “must also produce
evidence that the plaintiff cannot reasonably obtain evidence to support his or
her claim.”¿ (Ibid.)¿ The supporting evidence can be in the form of
affidavits, declarations, admissions, depositions, answers to interrogatories,
and matters of which judicial notice may be taken.¿ (Aguilar, supra,
25 Cal.4th at p. 855.)¿ Defendants failed to present any affirmative
evidence that they did not present or cause to be presented the false
statement.  Defendants certainly could
have presented declarations to the effect that they did not present or cause to
be presented the false information.  But
they did not.  Defendants have not met
their burden. 
 
The court reaches a different
conclusion with respect to materiality.  Defendants
argue Plaintiff fails to meet its burden to show the false statement is
material.  Defendants present the
following evidence:  Defendants point to expert evidence establishing that the
Subject Vehicle was stationary at impact (LeBlanc Decl., ¶ 8f), Fatoorechi (the
driver of the tourism van involved in the accident) breached his duty of
reasonable care by not scanning ahead to avoid the impact (Berkstresser Decl.,
¶ 7b), and Fatoorechi did not brake prior to impact (LeBlanc Decl., ¶¶  1-5, 8d). [7]
Defendants
cite portions of Fatoorechi’s deposition testimony to establish Fatoorechi was
not paying attention at the time of the collision. 
Defendants
present this evidence to support the proposition that comparative negligence
was a legitimate concern at the settlement conference.  
 
Defendants also offer the declaration of CIGA claims
adjuster Juan Ponce (“Ponce”).  Ponce
participated in the Mandatory Settlement Conference with Judge Zukin and
ultimately accepted the $25,000 settlement proposal on CIGA’s behalf.  In his declaration, Ponce stated in relevant
part:
 
Through
defense counsel, Heath & Yuen, Defendants and CIGA in the Silver Bird
action disputed the merits of Silver's Bird's claim, and disputed that Mr.
Fatoorechi was negligent. It was the position of the defense that Mr.
Marchino was fully at fault for the accident. While CIGA disputed the
merits of Silver Bird's claim, CIGA did not view Silver Bird's claims to be
fraudulent.[8]  
[¶] 
I
am informed that Heath & Yuen have alleged in the First Amended Complaint
in this action that CIGA agreed to the $25,000 settlement "to avoid the
continued incurring of defense costs." While it is accurate that avoiding
further defense costs was part of the reason CIGA agreed to pay the $25,000
settlement, it was not the only reason. Based on the information and evidence
developed by the Parties and their respective counsel, CIGA determined there
remained a potential that Silver Bird could establish some liability as to
Defendants on the basis of comparative fault, a potential factual issue that
could not be eliminated entirely. There remained the reasonable possibility
that a jury could award Silver Bird some damages for loss of use and/or
diminution in value of the subject McLaren. While CIGA disputed Silver Bird's
entitlement to the recovery of damages, CIGA did not view Silver Bird's damages
claims to be fraudulent.”
 
(Ponce Decl., ¶¶  8,
11.) (Emphasis added.)  Further, it is
undisputed that the parties in the Prior Litigation agreed to the settlement
proposal of $25,000.  (Defendants’
Undisputed Material Facts (UMF) 48.)  
 
            Because the
false statement goes to the issue of fault, the fact CIGA presumed Marchino was
at fault, notwithstanding the statement in the Complaint, undermines entirely the
materiality of the false statement.  Notwithstanding
the fact that Marchino may have been at fault (as believed by CIGA), defense
costs and concerns about comparative negligence provide a legitimate basis for
the settlement of the case.  Defendants
meet their initial burden to show the false statement was not material.  
 
            For
example, in People ex re; Allstate Ins. Co. v. Suh (2019) 37 Cal.App.5th
253 (Suh), plaintiff sued the defendants for violation of Insurance Code
1871.7 because Defendant Suh made up sham law firms to submit insurance claims
on behalf of the insureds and absconded with the proceeds.  Suh argued the underlying claims were not
fraudulent.  The court of appeal rejected
this argument.  The Suh Court
wrote: 
 
Suh
and Chang perpetrated a deceitful insurance scheme designed to acquire
insurance proceeds illegally for personal gain. Suh and Chang deceived Allstate
into believing the attorneys whose names they were using actually and lawfully
represented its insureds. (See Cal. Code Regs., tit. 10, § 2695.2(c) [only
attorneys, family members, adjusters, or other persons authorized by law may
represent insureds].) In their communications with Allstate, Suh and Chang
misrepresented that attorneys represented the insureds. They concealed the fact
they were masquerading as attorneys when they filed the insurance claims. And
the misrepresentations were material: Allstate would not have released
settlement proceeds to Suh or Chang or their sham law firms had Allstate known
the truth. The conduct of Suh and Chang constituted insurance fraud under
section 550 and section 1871.7.   (Id. at p. 260.) (Emphasis added.)
 
Here, had CIGA known that the left
turn was illegal, it would not have made a difference because CIGA already assumed
Marchino was at fault.  The false
statement in the Complaint is not material. The burden shifts.  
 
Plaintiff does not
present any evidence in response. 
Plaintiff did not present an insurance expert to rebut Mr. Ponce’s
declaration.  Plaintiff did not present
any evidence to demonstrate that in the context of this case, the false
statement was material.  There is no
evidence that had CIGA known the left turn was illegal, CIGA would not have
paid out on the claim or would have paid a different amount.    
 
            (b)  Defendants’ Submission of a Fraudulent Invoice.

 
            Defendants
replay the same materiality argument with respect to the allegedly false PFS
invoice.  Defendants argue that the PFS
invoice is not material because they withdrew the request for property damages
and the PFS invoice was only relevant to the request for property damages.  Defendants submit declarations and supporting
evidence to establish they withdrew the property damage claim. Defendants meet
their initial burden to show the PFS invoice is not material.  The burden shifts.
 
            Plaintiff
fails to present any contrary evidence. 
Plaintiff raises a host of questions about whether the PFS invoice is
legitimate but fails to rebut the dispositive point that the request for
property damages was withdrawn.  Plaintiff
fails to present a triable issue of material fact.  
 
            Request
for Continuance
 
             A continuance is
warranted if the opposing party shows “that facts essential to justify
opposition may exist but cannot, for reasons stated, be presented….” (Code Civ.
Proc. § 437c, subd. (h).) To obtain a continuance, a declaration must be
provided and must show: “(1) the facts to be obtained are essential to opposing
the motion; (2) there is reason to believe such facts may exist; and (3) the
reasons why additional time is needed to obtain these facts.” (Cooksey v.
Alexakis (2004) 123 Cal.App.4th 246, 254.) 
“The statute mandates a continuance of a summary judgment hearing upon a
good faith showing by affidavit that additional time is needed to obtain facts
essential to justify opposition to the motion. [Citations] Continuance of a
summary judgment hearing is not mandatory, however, when no affidavit is
submitted or when the submitted affidavit fails to make the necessary showing
under section 437c, subdivision (h).”  (Ibid.)  “The purpose of the affidavit required by
Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (h) is to inform the court of
outstanding discovery which is necessary to resist the summary judgment
motion.  It is not sufficient under the
statute merely to indicate further discovery or investigation is contemplated.
The statute makes it a condition that the party moving for a continuance show
facts essential to justify opposition may exist.” (Ibid)(cleaned
up.)  
            Here, Plaintiff requests additional
time to conduct further discovery on 13 issues. The court is not inclined to
grant the request but will hear from counsel. 
Plaintiff does not explain the connection between the 13 categories of
discovery and the two relevant issues raised in its opposition.  Plaintiff has not submitted declarations or
affidavits covering the necessary categories to obtain a continuance.  Indeed, Plaintiff did not submit any
declaration in support of its request for a continuance.  The court cannot glean from its various
submissions what evidence it hopes to obtain, from whom it hopes to obtain it, how
such evidence will assist in its opposition, and why the discovery was not
previously obtained.  In sum, Plaintiff
does not point to evidence that is essential to oppose the motion, does not
explain why the court should believe the evidentiary facts exits, and why
additional time is necessary to obtain these facts.  Plaintiff does not carry its burden to show a
continuance of the motion is warranted.
 
V.        CONCLUSION 
 
            Based on
the foregoing, the motion for summary judgment is GRANTED.
            Clerk of
the court to give notice.
 
 
Dated:   May 13, 2024                                    




 


  


 




 


  Kerry Bensinger 
  Judge of the Superior Court


 




 
 
 
 
 
 


