


[1] Given the facts of this case, the
parties were obligated to file a notice of related case.  Neither party did so. If this matters
proceeds, the parties are ordered to file a notice of related case. 


[2]  In the name of the People of
the State of California pursuant to Insurance Code section 1871.


[3] Several of the objections were not
presented properly as they referenced numerous portions of the targeted
declarations without separating the statements into divisible parts.  (CRC 3.1354(b)(4).) 


[4] Sections (b)(2) differs from (b)(1)
in that (b)(2) criminalizes the preparation and intention to submit false claims
whereas (b)(1) criminalizes the knowing presentation false claims.    


[5] Plaintiff also advances a
scattershot of other issues including standing, discovery, and
registration.  Plaintiff fails to explain
how these peripheral issues tie into or advance its argument that Defendants
presented a false insurance claim.  Even
if the court could make sense of the arguments, Plaintiff fails to present
evidence that establishes a causal connection and materiality.  Nonetheless, taking Plaintiff at its word, the
court addresses the two arguments as framed by the Plaintiff: “(1) [whether] defendants falsely
stated Mr. Marchino had made a lawful turn when he had not, and (2) [whether]
defendants submitted a fraudulent invoice in support of their auto damage.” 


[6]
The court
finds Plaintiff presented sufficient evidence to demonstrate the statement is
false. Plaintiff cites to Marchino’s
discovery response wherein he states he made a turn over a set of double yellow
lines.  (Plaintiff’s Evidence, Exh. X,
Response to Request for Admission No. 27.) The turn occurred in a business
district.  (Plaintiff’s Evidence, Exh. A
at ¶¶ 23, 12, Exh. V at LA000001, LA000002, LA000004, LA000005, Exh. L.)  It is illegal to make a U-turn in a business
district except at an intersection or on a divided highway where an opening has
been provided.  (Veh. Code, §
22102.)  Plaintiff established Marchino
made an illegal left turn. Of
course, this does not establish that the person or persons who made the
statement knew the statement was false at the time he/she/they made it. 
 


[7] 
Defendants argue Fatoorechi was operating a vehicle without a valid
driver’s license.  However, Defendants
misconstrue Fatoorrechi’s testimony and ignore evidence which conclusively
establishes that Fatoorechi had a valid driver’s license at the time of the
incident.  The court therefore does not
rely on this “evidence” in determining whether Defendants meet their initial
burden.


[8]  Had
Plaintiff properly tailored its objection, the court would have sustained the objection
to Mr. Ponce’s statement that CIGA did not view Silver’s Claims to be
fraudulent.  The court would have
sustained this objection because it is vague with reference to the “claim” and states
a legal conclusion.  The remainder of the
quoted portion is admissible.  

