 Case Number:  23TRCV01412    Hearing Date:   November 30, 2023    Dept:  M 


Superior Court
  of California
County of Los
  Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance Dept. M




 
JANIE
  VIERYA, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV01412




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative] RULING




 
GENERAL
  MOTORS, LLC,


 
 
 
Defendant.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                         November 30, 2023
 
Moving
Parties:                      Defendant General Motors, LLC
Responding Party:                  Plaintiff Janie Vierya 
(1)  
Demurrer
to FAC
(2)  
Motion
to Strike
 
            The court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.
RULING
            The demurrer is OVERRULED as
to the 5th cause of action in the FAC.  The motion to strike is DENIED.
BACKGROUND
On May 3,
2023, plaintiff Janie Vieyra filed a complaint against General Motors, LLC for
violation of (1) violation of Civil Code §1793.2(d), (2) violation of Civil
Code §1793.2(b), (3) violation of Civil Code §1793.2(a)(3), (4) breach of the
implied warranty of merchantability, and (5) fraudulent concealment. 
On August
25, 2023, plaintiff filed a FAC.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
Demurrer
When considering demurrers, courts
read the allegations liberally and in context. 
Taylor v. City of Los Angeles
Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th 1216, 1228.  “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not
the evidence or other extrinsic matters. 
Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the
pleading or are judicially noticed.”  SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153
Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.  “The only issue
involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands,
unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”  Hahn v.
Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App. 4th 740, 747.
Strike
“The court may, upon a motion . . .
, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper:  (a) Strike any irrelevant, false, or improper
matter inserted in any pleading.  (b)
Strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity
with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.”  CCP §436(b).
            CCP §431.10 states:  “(a) A material allegation in a pleading is
one essential to the claim or defense and which could not be stricken from the
pleading without leaving it insufficient as to that claim or defense.  
(b) An immaterial allegation in a
pleading is any of the following:  (1) An
allegation that is not essential to the statement of a claim or defense.  (2) An allegation that is neither pertinent
to nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or defense.  (3) A demand for judgment requesting relief
not supported by the allegations of the complaint or cross-complaint.  
(c) An ‘immaterial allegation’
means ‘irrelevant matter’ as that term is used in Section 436.”
The grounds for moving to strike
must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.  CCP §437.
DISCUSSION
            Demurrer
Defendant
GM demurs to the 5th cause of action for fraudulent concealment in
the FAC on the ground that it fails to state sufficient facts to constitute a
cause of action.
            The
FAC alleges that on February 15, 2017, plaintiff entered into a warranty
contract with GM regarding a 2018 Cadillac XT5 vehicle, which was manufactured
and or distributed by GM.  Subject
vehicle was purchased at Penske Cadillac of South Bay in Cerritos.  FAC, ¶6. 
The warranty contract contained various warranties, including the
bumper-to-bumper warranty, powertrain warranty, and emission warranty.  Id., ¶7. 
Defects and nonconformities to warranty manifested themselves within the
applicable express warranty period, including transmission defects,
infotainment defects, electrical defects, suspension defects, body defects,
brake system defects, and engine defects. 
Id., ¶11.  GM has failed to either
promptly relace the vehicle or to promptly make restitution in accordance with
Song-Beverly.  Id., ¶14.
            The
FAC further alleges that on July 11, 2020, with 19,861 miles on the odometer,
plaintiff presented the vehicle to defendant’s authorized repair facility with
various concerns, including airbag concerns. 
The repair facility performed warranty repairs and represented to
plaintiff that the vehicle had been repaired. 
Id., ¶21.  On July 13, 2021, with
28,155 miles on the odometer, plaintiff presented the vehicle to defendant’s
authorized repair facility with various concerns, including airbag
concerns.  The repair facility performed
warranty repairs and represented to plaintiff that the vehicle had been
repaired.  Id., ¶22.  On September 28, 2021, with 29,923 miles on
the odometer, plaintiff presented the vehicle to defendant’s authorized repair
facility with various concerns, including airbag concerns.  The repair facility performed warranty
repairs.  The vehicle remained at the
repair facility for 32 days after which the repair facility represented to
plaintiff that the vehicle had been repaired. 
Id., ¶23.
5th cause of action for
fraudulent inducement - concealment
“’The required elements for fraudulent
concealment are (1) concealment or suppression of a material fact; (2) by a
defendant with a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff; (3) the defendant
intended to defraud the plaintiff by intentionally concealing or suppressing
the fact; (4) the plaintiff was unaware of the fact and would not have acted as
he or she did if he or she had known of the concealed or suppressed fact; and
(5) plaintiff sustained damage as a result of the concealment or suppression of
fact.’”  Hambridge v. Healthcare
Partners Medical Group, Inc. (2015) 238 Cal. App. 4th 124, 162 (citation
omitted).  “One who willfully deceives
another with intent to induce him to alter his position to his injury or risk,
is liable for any damage which he thereby suffers.”  Civil Code §1709.
“[T]o establish fraud through
nondisclosure or concealment of facts, it is necessary to show the defendant
‘was under a legal duty to disclose them.’” 
OCM Principal Opportunities Fund v. CIBC World Markets Corp.
(2007) 157 Cal. App. 4th 835, 845. 
Nondisclosure or concealment may constitute actionable fraud when:  (1) there is a fiduciary relationship between
the parties; (2) the defendant had exclusive knowledge of material facts not
known to the plaintiff; (3) the defendant actively conceals a material fact
from the plaintiff; and (4) the defendant makes partial representations but
also suppresses some material facts.  Los
Angeles Memorial Coliseum Commission v. Insomniac, Inc. (2015) 233 Cal.
App. 4th 803, 831.
Rules of specifically pleading how,
when, where, to whom, and by what means, misrepresentations were communicated,
is intended to apply to affirmative misrepresentations, and not to concealment.  See Alfaro v. Community Housing
Improvement System & Planning Assn., Inc. (2009) 171 Cal. App. 4th
1356, 1384.  The specificity requirement
of fraud is “relaxed when it is apparent from the allegations that the
defendant necessarily possesses knowledge of the facts.”  Quelimane Co. v. Steward Title Guaranty
Co. (1998) 19 Cal. 4th 26, 27.
The FAC alleges that GM committed
fraud by allowing the vehicle to be sold to plaintiff without disclosing that
the vehicle and its 8-speed transmission were defective and susceptible to
sudden and premature failure.  Plaintiff
purchased the vehicle equipped with GM’s defective 8-speed transmission.  FAC, ¶64.  Prior to plaintiff acquiring the vehicle, GM
was well aware and knew that the 8-speed transmission installed on the vehicle
was defective but failed to disclose this fact to plaintiff prior to and at the
time of sale and thereafter.  Id., ¶65. 
Specifically, GM knew that the 8-speed transmission had one or more
defects that can result in various problems, including hard or harsh shifts,
jerking, hesitation on acceleration, surging and/or inability to control the
vehicle’s speed, acceleration, or deceleration. 
These conditions present a safety hazard and are unreasonably dangerous
to consumers because they can suddenly and unexpectedly dangerous to consumers
because they can suddenly and unexpectedly cause the driver to be unable to
control the speed and acceleration/deceleration of the vehicle.  Such unexpected inability to control the
vehicle’s speed and acceleration/deceleration thereby exposes plaintiff and her
passengers to serious risk or accident and injury.  Id., ¶66.  GM acquired its knowledge of the Transmission
Defect prior to plaintiff acquiring the vehicle, through sources not available
to consumers such as plaintiffs, including pre-production and post-production
testing data, early consumer complaints about the Transmission Defect made
directly to GM and its network of dealers, aggregate warranty data compiled
from GM’s network of dealers, testing conducted by GM in response to these
complaints, as well as warranty repair and part replacements data received by
GM from GM’s network of dealers.  Id., ¶67.
The FAC also alleges that plaintiff
is a reasonable consumer who interacted with sales representatives, considered
GM’s advertisement, and/or other marketing materials concerning GM vehicles
prior to purchasing vehicle.  Had GM and
its dealership revealed the Transmission Defect in these disclosures, plaintiff
would have been aware of it and would not have purchased the vehicle.  For example, GM marketed and sold its new
8-speed automatic transmissions as having “world-class performance” rivaling
top performance vehicles, lightning-fast and smooth shifting, along with
improved fuel efficiency, among other representations.  GM’s own press release dated January 13, 2014
introduced the new 8-speed transmission as being “tuned for world-class
shift-response times,” and “delivering shift performance that rivals the
dual-clutch/semi-automatic transmissions found in many supercars—but with the
smoothness and refinement that comes with a conventional automatic fitted with
a torque converter.”  Id., ¶68. 
However, prior to plaintiff’s purchase of the vehicle, GM was internally
referring the 8-speed transmission as a “neck snapper.”  GM engineers even considered stopping
production in 2015 (but did not) and in 2016, President Johan de Nysschen
acknowledged customer frustration surrounding the Transmission Defect
internally and meeting with its authorized repair facility.  Nonetheless, GM continued to conceal the
Transmission Defect from consumers, including in its marketing materials, and
advised any complaining customers that poor shifts were “normal.”  Id., ¶69.  GM’s Mark Gordon lamented in February 2019
that “shift quality issues are an ongoing concern with the 8-speed
transmission.  Unfortunately, these
issues have been through an Op-ex and a service solution is not going to be
developed due to cost.”  Id., ¶70. 
From September 2014 to at least February 2019, GM issued many service
bulletins and service bulletin updates to its dealers in the U.S but not its
customers, acknowledging problems of harsh shifting, jerking, clunking, and
delays in acceleration or deceleration relating to the 8-speed
transmission.  Id., ¶71. 
While GM knew about the Transmission Defect, and its safety risks since
prior to plaintiff’s purchase of the vehicle, GM concealed and failed to
disclose the defective nature of the vehicle, its 8-speed transmission to
plaintiff prior to and at the time of sale. 
Had plaintiff know of the Transmission Defect, plaintiff would not have
purchased the vehicle.  Id., ¶72. 
GM continued to conceal the defect and its inability to repair it,
making it difficult for plaintiff to discover GM’s wrongdoing.  Id., ¶73.  GM was under a duty to plaintiff to disclose
the defective nature of the vehicle, its transmission, its safety consequences
and/or the associated repair costs.  Id.,
¶75.
                        Statute of
limitations
“A demurrer based on a statute of
limitations will not lie where the action may be, but is not necessarily,
barred.  In order for the bar of the
statute of limitations to be raised by demurrer, the defect must clearly and
affirmatively appear on the face of the complaint; it is not enough that the
complaint shows that the action may be barred.” 
Geneva Towers Ltd. Partnership v. City and County of San Francisco
(2003) 29 Cal. 4th 769, 781 (citation omitted).
The FAC alleges tolling of the
statute of limitations under equitable tolling, the discovery rule, equitable
estoppel, the repair rule, and/or class action tolling.  FAC, ¶¶27-43. 
Plaintiff alleges that she discovered defendant’s wrongful conduct
shortly before filing the complaint as the vehicle continued to exhibit
symptoms of defects following defendant’s unsuccessful attempts to repair
them.  Id., ¶28.
Defendant argues that this cause of
action is barred by the three-year statute of limitations under CCP §338 and
that plaintiff cannot invoke the delayed discovery rule.  
In opposition, plaintiff argues
that the complaint was timely filed and that the running of the statute of
limitations does not appear “clearly and affirmatively” on the face of the
FAC.  Plaintiff also asserts that the
claim did not accrue as of the date of sale; rather it accrued once plaintiff
discovered the facts constituting the fraud. 
Plaintiff contends that she alleges that the wrongful conduct began on
September 14, 2017, when she purchased the subject vehicle and that the
fraudulent inducement-concealment continued throughout various repair visits to
GM’s authorized repair facilities and/or dealerships.  She argues that she had not way of uncovering
GM’s deception with respect to the Transmission Defect given that GM performed
repairs under warranty and claimed that nothing was wrong with the vehicle or
that the vehicle had been repaired. 
Plaintiff also argues that the discovery rule delayed expiry of
plaintiff’s claim.
The court finds that whether the
statute of limitations bars the claim does not appear “clearly and
affirmatively” and that, in any event, the allegations are sufficient as to
tolling based on delayed discovery.
            Whether
allegations are sufficient
            Defendant further argues that
plaintiff has not pled with the requisite specificity and facts to support the
elements.  Defendant contends that the
FAC does not allege whether plaintiff had any interaction with GM before or
after the sale, GM’s knowledge of the alleged “defects,” and how GM intended to
“defraud” plaintiff.
            Defendant also argues that plaintiff
fails to allege a transactional relationship giving rise to a duty to disclose
on the part of GM.
            In opposition, plaintiff argues that
the allegations meet the elements. 
Further, plaintiff argues, a “transactional relationship” is not
required under California law for the manufacturer to have a duty to disclose.
The court finds that the
allegations are sufficient to support the elements at the pleading stage for
fraudulent concealment.  Plaintiff
alleges that defendant concealed or suppressed a material fact.  See FAC, ¶¶64, 69, 74, 77.  Plaintiff alleges that defendant had a duty
to disclose the fact.  See FAC, ¶75.  See OCM Principal Opportunities Fund, L.P.
v. CIBC World Markets Corp. (2007) 157 Cal. App. 4th 835, 859
(“Under California law, a vendor has a duty to disclose material facts not only
to immediate purchasers, but also to subsequent purchasers when the vendor has
reason to expect that the item will be resold.”); see also Khan v. Shiley
Inc. (1990) 217 Cal. App. 3d 848, 858 (“[A] manufacturer of a product may
be liable for fraud when it conceals material product information from
potential users.”).  Plaintiff alleges
that defendant intentionally concealed the fact with an intent to defraud.  The court can infer that defendant placed the
vehicle into the stream of commerce, presumably for profit.  Plaintiff was unaware of the fact, and she
would not have purchased the vehicle, had she known of such defects and
sustained damages.  See FAC, ¶¶68, 72.   Further, plaintiff alleges that defendant had
exclusive knowledge.  See FAC, ¶¶66, 67.  Moreover, noting that the specificity
requirement is “relaxed” when defendant possesses knowledge of the facts and
reading the allegations liberally and in context, the court finds that
plaintiff has pled with sufficient particularity.
            Accordingly, the demurrer is
OVERRULED.
 
            Motion
to Strike
            Defendant
GM requests that the court strike the demand for punitive damages in the prayer
for relief.
            Defendant
argues the same as in its demurrer that plaintiff has not pled a viable fraud
claim and such a claim is barred by GM’s defenses.
            In
light of the ruling on the demurrer overruling it as to the 5th
cause of action for fraudulent concealment, the motion to strike is DENIED.
            Moving
party is ordered to give notice of ruling.