 Case Number:  23TRCP00386    Hearing Date:   November 30, 2023    Dept:  M 


Superior Court
  of California
County of Los
  Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance Dept. M




 
IN THE
  MATTER OF AN APPLICATION OF THE CITY OF MANHATTAN BEACH FOR A WARRANT TO
  ABATE A PUBLIC NUISANCE AT 116 9TH STREET, MANHATTAN BEACH, CA
  90266, 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Applicant,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCP00386




 
 


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 


 
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:              November
30, 2023    
 
Moving
Parties:          Applicant City of
Manhattan Beach   
Responding Party:       None
Application for
Warrant to Enter and Abate a Dangerous Condition
 
            The court considered the moving
papers.  No opposition papers have been
filed. 
RULING
            The application is GRANTED.  See order.
BACKGROUND
            On October 12, 2023, applicant City
of Manhattan Beach filed an application for warrant to enter and abate a
dangerous condition on the property located at 116 9th Street,
Manhattan Beach, Los Angeles County Assessor’s Parcel No. 4179-014-017. 
LEGAL AUTHORITY
            Health and Safety Code §17980.6
states, in part:  “If any building is
maintained in a manner that violates any provisions of this part, . . . or any
provision in a local ordinance that is similar to a provision in this part, and
the violations are so extensive and of such a nature that the health and safety
of residents or the public is substantially endangered, the enforcement agency
may issue an order or notice to repair or abate pursuant to this part.  Any order or notice pursuant to this
subdivision shall be provided either by both posting a copy of the order or
notice in a conspicuous place on the property and by first–class mail to each
affected residential unit, or by posting a copy of the order or notice in a
conspicuous place on the property and in a prominent place on each affected
residential unit.”
Health & Safety Code §
17980(c)(1), states in pertinent part, “Whenever the enforcement agency has
inspected or caused to be inspected a building and has determined that the
building is a substandard building or a building described in Section 17920.10,
the enforcement agency shall commence proceedings to abate the violation by
repair, rehabilitation, vacation, or demolition of the building.  The enforcement agency shall not require the
vacating of a residential building unless it concurrently requires expeditious
demolition or repair to comply with this part, the building standards published
in the California Building Standards Code, or other rules and regulations
adopted pursuant to this part.  The owner
shall have the choice of repairing or demolishing.  However, if the owner chooses to repair, the
enforcement agency shall require that the building be brought into compliance
according to a reasonable and feasible schedule for expeditious repair.  The enforcement agency may require vacation
and demolition or may itself vacate the building, repair, demolish, or
institute any other appropriate action or proceeding, if any of the following
occur:  (A) The repair work is not
done within the period required by the notice. 
(B) The owner does not make a timely choice of repair or demolition.  (C) The owner selects an option which
cannot be completed within a reasonable period of time, as determined by the
enforcement agency, for any reason, including, but not limited to, an
outstanding judicial or administrative order.”
CCP §1822.50 states:  “An inspection warrant is an order, in
writing, in the name of the people, signed by a judge of a court of record,
directed to a state or local official, commanding him to conduct any inspection
required or authorized by state or local law or regulation relating to
building, fire, safety, plumbing, electrical, health, labor, or zoning.”
CCP §1822.51 states:  “An inspection warrant shall be issued upon
cause, unless some other provision of state or federal law makes another
standard applicable.  An inspection
warrant shall be supported by an affidavit, particularly describing the place,
dwelling, structure, premises, or vehicle to be inspected and the purpose for
which the inspection is made.  In
addition, the affidavit shall contain either a statement that consent to
inspect has been sought and refused or facts or circumstances reasonably justifying
the failure to seek such consent.”
CCP §1822.52 states:  “Cause shall be deemed to exist if either
reasonable legislative or administrative standards for conducting a routine or
area inspection are satisfied with respect to the particular place, dwelling,
structure, premises, or vehicle, or there is reason to believe that a condition
of nonconformity exists with respect to the particular place, dwelling,
structure, premises, or vehicle.”
DISCUSSION
Applicant City of Manhattan Beach
requests an abatement order against the real property located at 116 9th
Street, Manhattan Beach, Los Angeles County Assessor’s Parcel No. 4179-014-017,
owned by the William Victor Revocable Trust, trustee William Victor.  See Ezra Siegel decl., Exh. C.
The City seeks:
(1)   Authority to enter the real
property for the sole and exclusive purpose of demolishing the three-story
residential apartment building (structure), and abating any nuisance thereupon,
including but not limited to, removing debris or foliage constituting a fire
hazard on the property;
(2)   Authority to enter the real
property with or without the owner’s presence, and to restrict entry onto the
property, including by the owner and his agents and representatives; 
(3)   That the warrant may be executed
following 24 hours in writing, which will be posted on the property; 
(4)   That the warrant be effective from
the order date and for a period not to exceed 90 days, and shall be returned to
the court within that period;
(5)   That the warrant may be executed
only between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. and by City staff members,
technical assistants, law enforcement, personnel, attorneys, contractors,
engineers, and other experts whose professional and expert advice and assistance
are necessary to remedy the conditions that exist on the property.
The City contends that the property
is a nuisance and contains extensive building code, fire code, health and
safety code, and municipal code violations that substantially endanger the
health and safety of the public, in violation of Health & Safety Code §17980(a).  On July 29, 2022, a fire severely damaged the
three-story residential apartment on the property.  On August 2, 2022, the City’s Senior Building
Inspector Doug Atkisson inspected the structure and placed a “red-tag” on it,
deeming it unsafe to occupy.  Ryan Heise
(Building Official for City of Manhattan Beach) decl., ¶3, Exhs. A, B.  On August 11, 2022, Victor’s insurance
company sent a structural engineer to inspect the structure.  The engineer deemed the structure “not
suitable for occupancy.”  The engineer
recommended “an inspection by the Engineer after all debris is removed to
further assess the condition of the structure.” 
The engineer indicated that the structure could be entered for the sole
purpose of removing personal property. 
The City modified the red-tag to yellow-tag under the assumption that
Victor would follow his engineer’s recommendations to remove the debris,
re-inspect, and to secure permits to remediate the fire damage.  Id., ¶4, Exh. C.  Between August and November 2022, the City
communicated steps for the fire damage repair to Victor.  On November 22, 2022, Victor submitted
initial construction plans through his engineer.  On December 8, 2022, declarant Heise informed
Victor’s engineer that the scope of work proposed in the plans did not match
the site conditions.  For example, the engineer
proposed keeping the existing roof rafters although there was visible fire
damage.  Id., ¶5.  On December 30, 2022, Victor submitted
revised plans.  The City conducted
further reviews, and on January 30, 2023, the City returned the plans with
corrections.  The City did not approve
the permit and waited for Victor to resubmit corrected plans but never
did.  Over the next several months,
declarant Heise had multiple discussions with Victor, several contractors,
architects, and engineers, none of whom committed to doing the work for
Victor.  Id., ¶6.  On May 11, 2023, Heise conducted an exterior
inspection of the structure and observed structural damages and further
deterioration.  The structure was deemed
unsafe and “red-tagged.”  Id., ¶7, Exh.
D.
Heise further states in his
declaration that on May 18, 2023, he sent Victor a letter advising that the
structure was in violation of the 2022 Cal. Building Code, section 116.  Id., ¶8, Exh. E.  On April 14, 2023, the City initiated a code
enforcement case due to complaints from surrounding residents.  On May 16, 2023, the City’s Code Enforcement
Office issued and sent Victor a First Notice of Violation, requiring Victor to
submit a Statement of Intent by May 25, 2023, which was not received.  Id., ¶9, Exh. F.  The City attempted to set up a meeting with
Heise, Victor, and Kevin Bass, but, after rescheduling three times, Victor
failed to appear.  Id., ¶10.  On August 2, 2023, the City received
complaints of trespassers inside the property. 
Id., ¶11, Exh. G.  On October 3,
2023, Victor submitted a letter to the City stating what was required to make
the property safe enough to remove personal property.  Id., ¶12. 
On October 27, 2023, Heise’s office posted a Notice and Order to Abate
under Health & Safety Code §17980.6 on the property on a conspicuous
place.  Id., ¶13, Exh. H.  Heise opines that the conditions of the
structure are unsafe and pose a great threat to the neighboring properties and
the general public and that the structure is a dangerous condition and requires
immediate demolition to abate the nuisance and ensure the safety of the public
and nearby residents.  The building is a
substandard building in violation of Health & Safety Code §17980(c)(1).  Id., ¶14. 
The cost of the demolition is estimated at $55,300, and will include
removal of personal property and hazardous waste removal.  Id., ¶5. 
See also declaration of the City’s Fire Marshal Kevin Bass, who states
that “[c]onsidering the condition of the Structure, the ability to easily
ignite another fire to the building and/or the abutting vegetation, and the
danger to the surrounding residents, the general public, and the responding
emergency personnel, I have determined that the Structure is an ‘Unsafe
Structure’ and dangerous condition in violation of the Fire Code.”  Kevin Bass decl., ¶5.
The City asserts that on September
6, 2023, the City held a Council meeting, in which Victor and his attorney were
present, and after hearing testimony, the Council declared the property a
nuisance and gave Victor 30 days to abate it. 
See Ezra Siegel decl., ¶6, Exh. E.
There is no opposition.
            The
court rules as follows:  The court finds
that applicant City has
shown that expeditious demolition of the property is required in compliance
with Health & Safety Code §17980(c)(1). 
Owner William Victor was given a reasonable time and opportunity to
repair or abate the purported nuisance and dangerous condition on the property
and he has not done so. 
            The motion is thus GRANTED.
            Applicant
City of Manhattan Beach is ordered to give notice of ruling.