 Case Number:  22STCV40378    Hearing Date:   October 1, 2024    Dept:  61 XINWU CHENG vs CITY OF FONTANA, et al.TENTATIVEPlaintiff Xinwu Cheng’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests for Production from Defendant City of Fontana is CONTINUED to allow the parties to participate in an Informal Discovery Conference with the Court, and to allow Defendant to present evidence concerning the status of the DEA investigation and its relation to the evidence sought here.Defendant City of Fontana’s Motion for Protective Order is DENIED. Sanctions are awarded against Defendant and its counsel in the amount of $1,575.00.Plaintiff to provide notice.DISCUSSIONI. Motion for Protective Order“When an inspection, copying, testing, or sampling of documents, tangible things, places, or electronically stored information has been demanded, the party to whom the demand has been directed, and any other party or affected person, may promptly move for a protective order.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.060, subd. (a).) The party moving for the order must make a showing of good cause to spare them from “unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, or oppression, or undue burden and expense.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.060, subd. (b).)Defendant City of Fontana (Defendant) seeks a protective order governing its responses to Plaintiff Xinwu Cheng (Plaintiff) based on the official information privilege embodied in Evidence Code § 1040, as well as the public interest in maintaining the confidentiality of police investigation records. (Motion at pp. 6–8.) Defendant specifically argues that even though the investigation is complete, and thus not necessarily subject to absolute protection, some of the information sought — a DEA Task Force officer’s investigation report, phone call transcripts, and search warrant applications — were still prepared in confidence and are entitled to protection against disclosure. (Motion at p. 7.)Plaintiff in opposition argues that Defendant has failed to promptly seek a protective order, as required under Code of Civil Procedure § 2031.060, because the requests at issue were initially served in May of 2023, several months before Defendant brought this motion in January 2024. (Opposition at pp. 3–4.) Plaintiff also argues that no good cause supports the protective order sought, as Defendant acknowledges that the investigation at issue has concluded, and Defendant’s objections to the discovery have been withdrawn. (Opposition at p. 4.)The present motion is untimely and unsupported by good cause. A motion for protective order must be brought “promptly.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.060, subd. (a).) Defendant has contended that a protective order was necessary since it first responded to Plaintiff’s discovery responses in May 2023. (Williams Decl. ¶¶ 2–4.) Yet Defendant let the matter drop in July 2023, until a further set of discovery requests served by Plaintiff in November 2023 evidently revived its interest in the protective order. (Williams Decl. ¶¶ 8–24.) Defendant has not been prompt in seeking the present relief.Nor is the motion supported by good cause. Defendant relies on the official information privilege, and yet in the same argument, seems to disclaim reliance upon it. That privilege permits a public entity to object to disclosure of “information acquired in confidence by a public employee in the course of his or her duty and not open, or officially disclosed, to the public prior to the time the claim of privilege is made,” provided that “[d]isclosure of the information is against the public interest because there is a necessity for preserving the confidentiality of the information that outweighs the necessity for disclosure in the interest of justice.” (Evid. Code, § 1040, subd. (a), (b)(2).)Defendant relies on authority stating that “[e]vidence gathered by police as part of an ongoing criminal investigation is by its nature confidential.” (County of Orange v. Superior Court (2000) 79 Cal.App.4th 759, 764.) But Defendant affirmatively states, “the DEA investigation is complete,” and “the release of the records related to Plaintiff will not compromise a criminal investigation.” (Motion at p. 7.) Defendant speaks of any applicable privilege that it had in thepast tense, and states that it “does not contend that the information requested is not discoverable,” but only that it wishes disclosure “be made only on the specified terms and conditions of the Protective Order.” (Motion at p. 7.) Defendant does not articulate what prejudice will result from failing to implement the proposed protective order now that the investigation is concluded, nor provide any argument as to how the public interest requires implementation of this order.The motion is therefore DENIED.Sanctions are mandatory against a party or attorney “who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion for a protective order,” unless the motion or opposition was made “with substantial justification, or . . . other circumstances make the imposition of the sanctions unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.060, subd. (h).)Plaintiff here seeks $1,635.00 in sanctions, representing 4.5 hours of attorney work at $350 per hour, plus a $60 filing fee. (Le Decl. ¶ 5.) But given that there is no filing fee for oppositions to discovery motions, Plaintiff is entitled to sanctions against Defendant and its counsel in the amount of $1,575.00.II. Motion to Compel Further“A party may demand that any other party produce . . . a document that is in the possession, custody, or control of the party on whom the demand is made.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.010(b).) The demanding party may move for an order compelling further response to the demand if the demanding party deems that (1) a statement of compliance with the demand is incomplete, (2) a representation of inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive, or (3) an objection in the response is without merit or too general. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310(a).) “The motion shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the discovery sought by the demand,” and “[t]he motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310(b).)A motion to compel a further response to an inspection demand must set forth specific facts showing “good cause” justifying the discovery sought by the inspection demand. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310(b)(1); Kirkland v. Superior Court (2002) 95 Cal.App.4th 92, 98.) Unless there is a legitimate privilege issue or claim of attorney work product, that burden is met simply by a fact-specific showing of relevance. (TBG Ins. Services Corp. v. Superior Court (2002) 96 Cal.App.4th 443, 444.) Once the moving party demonstrates good cause for the discovery, the burden is on the responding party to justify any objection or failure to fully respond to the inspection demand. (Coy v Superior Court (1962) 58 Cal.2d 210, 220.)Plaintiff moves to compel further responses to Requests for Production No. 24–26, served on Defendant in March 2024, which seeking documents related to the transfer of $50,000 seized from Plaintiff by Defendant to the DEA. (Motion at p. 4.) Defendant responded with objections based on the official information privilege and the identification of two documents — an officer report dated August 3, 2022, and Defendant’s policy on searches and seizures — as responsive. (Ibid.) Plaintiff contends that these documents are non-responsive, as the policy cited relates to the recording of verbal consents to search, and the report pre-dates the transfer of the funds. (Motion at p. 5.)Defendant’s opposition offers inconsistent and unconvincing argumentation. In contradiction of its earlier-filed motion for protective order, in which it stated that it did not seek to withhold production of any documents based on the official information privilege, and that the DEA investigation had concluded, it now contends that it is entitled to withhold production of responsive documents based on the official information privilege, on the grounds that the DEA investigation is ongoing. (Opposition at pp. 2, 6.) Defendant presents no evidence to support this point.Defendant also argues that the motion is defective because Plaintiff did not include the date of hearing in its notice of motion. (Opposition at pp. 3–4.) But the notice they present as an exhibit clearly prescribes the date of hearing on the front caption. (Ballard Decl. ¶ 7, Exh. 1.) Defendant contends that Plaintiff cannot present a settlement communication under Evidence Code § 1152, neglecting that that section prohibits the admission of settlement communications “to prove . . . liability. . . . or damages,” not, as here, to prove the existence of discoverable information. (Opposition at p. 9.) Defendant finally argues that the information it identified in its responses — an off-topic policy and a report pre-dating the seizure of funds — are not necessarily unresponsive. (Opposition at pp. 5–7.) Yet Defendant presents no argument as to how the evidence identified plausibly relates to Plaintiff’s request for information concerning Defendant’s transfer of the funds to the DEA.The court at present lacks any evidence concerning the status of the DEA investigation. Defendant’s representations on this point are entirely inconsistent, and the only evidence presented is the declaration of Danielle Williams, Defendant’s counsel, in support of Defendant’s motion for protective order, in which she states she was informed on January 16, 2024, that the DEA would not be recommending criminal charges be filed against Plaintiff related to his August 3, 2022 arrest. (Williams Decl. ¶ 21.)Because of the public interest in solving drug-related crimes (See County of Orange v. Superior Court (2000) 79 Cal.App.4th at p. 766.), it would be inappropriate to resolve the present discovery question on such meager and conflicting materials as Defendant now presents.The motion is therefore CONTINUED to allow the Parties to conduct an Informal Discovery Conference with the Court and to allow Defendant to present evidence concerning the status of the DEA investigation and its relation to the evidence sought here.