  Case Number:  24AVCV01031    Hearing Date:   November 12, 2024    Dept:  A14 Background
 
This is a wrongful death action. Plaintiffs
Antonia Marrone, individually and as Successor-In-Interest to the Estate of
Vincenzo Licari (“Marrone”); Christian Licari (“Christian”)[1];
Antonino Licari (“Antonino”); and Rosa Maria Licari (“Rosa” and collectively “Plaintiffs”)
allege that on July 05, 2023, (1) Vincenzo Licari (“Decedent”) suffered
traumatic and fatal injuries; and (2) Marrone suffered multiple debilitating injuries
following a crash that occurred while riding in a buggy being towed by a horse.
Plaintiffs allege that both the buggy and the horse were owned by Defendant
Debbie Indelicato Colicci (“Colicci”) and Defendant Jospeh Indelicato
(“Indelicato”) hosted the party and offered the rides in the buggy. Indelicato
is alleged to be a trustee of Defendant Indelicato Family Trust (“Indelicato
Family Trust”) and is sued in both capacities. Indelicato Family Trust is sued
as a separate defendant. 
 
On August 21, 2024, Plaintiffs
filed their Complaint, alleging six causes of action for: (1) Wrongful Death
Sounding in Negligence against Colicci; (2) Wrongful Death Sounding in
Negligence against Indelicato, as an individual and as trustee of the
Indelicato Family Trust, and the Indelicato Family Trust; (3) Wrongful Death
Sounding in Strict Liability for Injury Caused by Domestic Animal with
Dangerous Propensities against Colicci; (4) Survival Action against all
Defendants; (5) Negligence by Marrone only against all defendants; and (6)
Strict Liability for Injury Caused by Domestic Animal with Dangerous
Propensities brought by Marrone against all defendants. 
 
On October 04, 2024, Indelicato
and the Indelicato Family Trust (collectively “Indelicato Defendants”) filed
this instant Demurrer.
 
On October 07, 2024, Indelicato Defendants
filed an Amended Demurrer.
 
On October 23, 2024, Plaintiffs
filed their Opposition to the Amended Demurrer.
 
On November 05, 2024, Indelicato
Defendants filed their Reply.
 
-----
 
Legal Standard
 
Standard for Demurrer – A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether
the complaint states a cause of action.¿ (Hahn v.¿Mirda¿(2007) 147
Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) ¿When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations
liberally and in context.¿ (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and
Power¿(2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th 1216, 1228.)¿ In a demurrer proceeding, the
defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or by proper judicial
notice.¿ (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 430.30(a).)¿A demurrer tests the pleadings
alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters.¿ (SKF Farms v.
Superior Court¿(1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.)¿ Therefore, it lies only
where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially
noticed.¿¿(Ibid.)¿¿The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is
whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters,
states a cause of action.¿ (Hahn,¿supra,¿147 Cal.App.4th at
747.)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
A general demurrer admits the truth of all
factual, material allegations properly pled in the challenged pleading,
regardless of possible difficulties of proof.¿¿(Blank,¿supra, 39
Cal.3d at p. 318.)¿ Thus, no matter how unlikely or improbable, plaintiff’s
allegations must be accepted as true for the purpose of ruling on the
demurrer.¿¿(Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co.¿(1981) 123
Cal.App.3d 593, 604.)¿ Nevertheless, this rule does not apply to allegations
expressing mere conclusions of law, or allegations contradicted by the exhibits
to the complaint or by matters of which judicial notice may be taken.¿¿(Vance
v. Villa Park¿Mobilehome¿Estates¿(1995) 36 Cal.App.4th 698, 709.)¿ A
general demurrer does not admit contentions, deductions, or conclusions of fact
or law alleged in the complaint; facts impossible in law; or allegations
contrary to facts of which a court may take judicial notice.¿¿(Blank,¿supra,
39 Cal.3d at p. 318.)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
Pursuant to¿Code Civ. Proc.¿§430.10(e), the
party against whom a complaint has been filed may object by demurrer to the
pleading on the grounds that the pleading does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action.¿ It is an abuse of discretion to sustain a
demurrer without leave to amend if there is a reasonable probability that the
defect can be cured by amendment.¿¿(Schifando¿v. City of Los Angeles¿(2003)
31 Cal.4th 1074, 1082,¿as modified (Dec. 23, 2003).)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
 
-----¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿¿ 
Meet and Confer Requirement– Before filing a demurrer, the demurring
party is required to meet and confer with the party who filed the pleading
demurred to for the purposes of determining whether an agreement can be reached
through a filing of an amended pleading that would resolve the objections to be
raised in the demurrer. (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41.) Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §
430.41 provides that a declaration may be filed where the party who filed the
pleading subject to demurrer failed to respond to the meet and confer request
of the demurring party or otherwise failed to meet and confer in good faith. (Id.
at (a)(3)(B).) It appears that this requirement has been met. (See Decl. Andrew
J. Chan ¶¶ 4-7.) 
 
-----
 
Discussion
 
Application – 
 
       
i.           
Second Cause of Action (Wrongful Death Sounding
in Negligence against Indelicato, as an individual and as trustee of the
Indelicato Family Trust, and the Indelicato Family Trust)
 
Indelicato Defendants argue that
they are not commercial operators and, as such, are social hots or independent
actors who have no duty to avoid increasing the risks inherent in a plaintiff’s
activity. Indelicato Defendants cite to Levinson v. Owens (2009) 176
Cal.App.4th 1543 (“Levinson”) as further support for this argument. Indelicato
Defendants further argue that, under Harrold v. Rolling J Ranch (1993)
19 Cal. App. 4th 578 (“Harrold”), they did not breach any alleged duty
to avoid increasing the risks inherent in Plaintiffs’ buggy ride or otherwise
cause Plaintiffs’ claimed injuries as a matter of law because (1) the horse in
this action was behaving as a horse; and (2) one prior incident of a horse
being spooked does not rise to the level of a dangerous propensity; (3) there
are no allegations that Indelicato Defendants provided the buggy rides; and (4)
there are no allegations that the incident was not an inherent danger in taking
a horse-drawn carriage ride. 
 
Plaintiffs argue that they have
alleged that Indelicato hosted Decedent and Marrone at 2445 Trails End Road,
Acton, CA 93510 (the “Subject Property”) at a party (see Complaint ¶ 13); Indelicato
offered horse and carriage rides at the Subject property, which he owned,
possessed, maintained, and controlled (see id. ¶ 14); Indelicato owned,
maintained, controlled, or had the authority to maintain and manage the horse
and carriage which he offered as an entertainment attraction at the Subject
Property (see id. at ¶ 32); and Decedent and Marrone were loaded onto
the horse and carriage buggy ride at the Subject Property (see id. at ¶
15). Plaintiffs contend that the alleged facts show that Defendants owed a duty
to use reasonable care to discover any unsafe conditions and the horse and
carriage rides presented a dangerous condition on the Property because the
horse did not have blinders on prior to and at the time of the alleged incident
and Indelicato Defendants failed to inspect the horse and put blinders on the
horse, and failed to warn Decedent and Marrone of the same. Plaintiffs further
argue that the case law Indelicato Defendants cited do not apply as (1) Parsons
v. Crown Disposal Co. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 456 (“Parsons”) focuses on
horseback riding, defined as a recreational activity under Cal. Civ. Code § 846,
and horse carriage rides are not a recreational activity, horseback riding is a
sport which is distinguished from the facts in this case, and Parsons has no
association with horses; and (2) Levinson focuses on the inherent risk
of horseback riding and the dangers one undertakes when they ride a horse
themselves. Plaintiffs present that this case is not about the horses, but
rather all defendants themselves as they offered rides to guests at the party
and their negligence occurred prior to any alleged spooking incident.  Plaintiffs emphasize they do not take issue with
the holding of Harrold.
 
“ ‘The elements of a cause of
action for negligence are well established. They are “(a) a legal duty to use
due care; (b) a breach of such legal duty; [and] (c)the breach as the proximate
or legal cause of the resulting injury.” ’ ” (Ladd v. County of San Mateo
(1996) 12 Cal.4th 913, 917.)
 
The Court notes that the
Complaint is vague as to what occurred to constitute the alleged incident. The
Complaint informs the reader that “a crash that occurred while riding in a
buggy. . . being towed by a horse. . .” (Complaint ¶ 12.) However, what is
presented to this Court is an issue on the face of the Complaint as to duty. 
 
The Court agrees with Plaintiff’s
arguments that horseback riding is distinguished from horse-drawn vehicles such
as the buggy in this action. 
 
Regarding duty and horse-drawn
vehicles, the California Supreme Court provides: 
 
Carriers of persons
for reward have long been subject to a heightened duty of care. (3 Harper &
James, The Law of Torts (2d ed. 1986) The Nature of Negligence, § 16.14, p.
506.) This heightened duty imposed upon carriers of persons for reward stems from
the English common law rule that common carriers of goods were absolutely
responsible for the loss of, or damage to, such goods. (Beale, The History of
the Carrier's Liability in Selected Essays in Anglo-American Legal History
(Assn. of Am. Law Schools, edit., 1909) p. 148.) Carriers of goods are bailees
and, at “early law goods bailed were absolutely at the risk of the bailee.” (Ibid.)
Thus, carriers of goods for reward were “ ‘responsible absolutely for the goods
delivered, even when lost by theft, and regardless of negligence.’ ” (Id.
at p. 149, fn. 4.) This rule was applied in California in Agnew v. Steamer
Contra Costa (1865) 27 Cal. 425, 429, which held that a common carrier of
goods (in that case a horse), “was an insurer against all injury not resulting
from the act of God or the public enemies, or from the conduct of the animal.”
 
The precursor to
recognizing a heightened duty of care for carriers of persons came in 1680,
when an English court applied the rule regarding carriers of goods to personal
property that a passenger on a stagecoach had delivered to the driver, but
which the driver failed to return at the end of the journey. (Lovett v.
Hobbs (1680) 89 Eng. Rep. 836.) The court rejected the argument that the
driver of a stagecoach could not be a common carrier regarding property brought
by a passenger, stating: “[I]f a coachman commonly carry goods, and take money
for so doing, he will be in the same case with a common carrier, and is a
carrier for that purpose, whether the goods are a passenger's or a stranger's …
.” (Id. at p. 837.) The extension of applying the heightened duty of
care for carriers of goods to carriers of persons for reward “is probably of
American origin, finding its earliest expression in 1839 in Stokes v.
Saltonstall [(1839) 38 U.S. 181 [10 L. Ed. 115]].? (3 Harper & James,
The Law of Torts, supra, The Nature of Negligence, § 16.14, p. 507.) In Stokes,
a passenger in a stagecoach was injured when the coach was upset. The court
noted that a carrier of goods was absolutely liable for the loss of or damage
to such goods regardless of the cause “except the act of God, and the public
enemy,” but recognized that “a contract to carry passengers differs from a
contract to carry goods.” ( Stokes, supra, 38 U.S. at p. 191.)
“But although he does not warrant the safety of the passengers, at all events,
yet his undertaking and liability as to them, go to this extent: that he …
shall possess competent skill; and that as far as human care and foresight can
go, he will transport them safely.” (Ibid.) Restating this standard, the
court required the driver to act “with reasonable skill, and with the utmost
prudence and caution.” ( Id. at p. 193.)
 
The rule that
carriers of persons for reward must exercise great care for the safety of their
passengers was adopted in California in 1859 in Fairchild v. The California
Stage Company (1859) 13 Cal. 599, in which a passenger was injured when the
stagecoach in which she was riding overturned. The court rejected the
proposition that a carrier of persons for reward warrants the safety of its
passengers, but held the carrier to a high duty of care: “While it is true that
the proprietors of a stage-coach do not warrant the safety of passengers in the
same sense that they warrant the safe carriage of goods, yet they do warrant
that safety so far as to covenant for the exercise of extraordinary diligence
and care to insure it; and they do this as common carriers.” ( Id. at p.
605.)
 
The California
Legislature soon adopted a comprehensive scheme governing carriage. Civil Code
section 2085, 2 which was enacted in 1872 and remains unchanged today, defines
a “contract of carriage” in extremely broad terms as “a contract for the
conveyance of property, persons, or messages, from one place to another.”
Similarly, section 2168 defines a “common carrier” in expansive terms: “Every
one who offers to the public to carry persons, property, or messages, excepting
only telegraphic messages, is a common carrier of whatever he thus offers to
carry.”
 
Carriers of persons
are treated differently under the statutory scheme depending upon whether they
act gratuitously or are paid. A carrier of persons “without reward” is subject
only to a duty to “use ordinary care and diligence for their safe carriage.” (§
2096.) But a carrier of persons for reward, as was true at common law, is
subject to a heightened duty. Section 2100, upon which plaintiffs rely in the
present case, states: “A carrier of persons for reward must use the utmost care
and diligence for their safe carriage, must provide everything necessary for
that purpose, and must exercise to that end a reasonable degree of skill.”
“Common carriers are not, however, insurers of their passengers' safety.
Rather, the degree of care and diligence which they must exercise is only such
as can reasonably be exercised consistent with the character and mode of
conveyance adopted and the practical operation of the business of the carrier.
[Citations.]” ( Lopez v. Southern Cal. Rapid Transit Dist. (1985) 40
Cal. 3d 780, 785 [221 Cal. Rptr. 840, 710 P.2d 907].)
Section 2101, upon
which plaintiffs also rely, further imposes a duty to provide safe vehicles: “A
carrier of persons for reward is bound to provide vehicles safe and fit for the
purpose to which they are put, and is not excused for default in this respect
by any degree of care.”
 
(Gomez v. Superior Court
(2005) 35 Cal.4th 1125, 1128-31 (“Gomez”) [footnotes omitted].) 
 
Regarding attractions, Gomez
provides: 
 
The first California
case to address whether the operator of a roller coaster was a carrier of
persons for reward was Barr v. Venice Giant Dipper Co., Ltd. (1934) 138
Cal. App. 563, 563–564 [32 P.2d 980], which described the ride upon which the
plaintiff was injured as a “roller coaster” that was “in the nature of a
miniature scenic railway consisting of a train of small cars constructed to
carry two passengers each.” The Court of Appeal held that the operator of the
ride was a common carrier and, therefore, the trial court properly had
instructed the jury under section 2100. The appellate court relied upon “the
general and accepted rule which is thus stated in 10 C. J. 609: ‘The owner and
operator of a scenic railway in an amusement park is subject, where he has
accepted passengers on such railway for hire, to the liabilities of a carrier
of passengers generally.’ ” ( Barr v. Venice Giant Dipper Co., Ltd., supra,
138 Cal. App. at p. 564.)
 
In Kohl v.
Disneyland, Inc. (1962) 201 Cal. App. 2d 780 [20 Cal. Rptr. 367], the Court
of Appeal held that the operators of a stagecoach ride at Disneyland were
common carriers. The plaintiffs were riding on The Surrey with the Fringe on
Top ride, which was a horse-drawn stagecoach, when the horses became frightened
and ran, causing the coach to tip over. The Court of Appeal held that “because
of the passenger-carrier relationship between the parties, the duty imposed
upon the defendant was to exercise the utmost care and diligence … .” ( Id.
at p. 784.)
 
A federal district
court in California echoed the result in Kohl, holding that the
operators of the Pirates of the Caribbean amusement ride at Disneyland were
common carriers. ( Neubauer v. Disneyland, Inc. (C.D.Cal. 1995) 875 F.
Supp. 672.) The plaintiffs in Neubauer were injured when the boat in which they
were riding was struck from behind by another boat. The federal district court
held: “Under plaintiffs' allegations, Disneyland's amusement park boat ride
falls within California's broad statutory definition of a common carrier. At
the ‘Pirates of the Caribbean,’ defendant offered to the public to carry
patrons. Under these allegations, the duty of utmost care and diligence would
apply to Disneyland.” ( Id. at p. 674.) 
 
Although California
law has consistently defined broadly the term “carrier of persons for reward”
(§§ 2100, 2101), and included within that definition amusement park rides like
roller coasters, and other recreational forms of carriage, the same has not always
been true in other jurisdictions.
 
[. . .]
 
As noted above, in
1932 this court rejected the view later espoused in Harlan[. Lamb
v. B & B Amusements Corp. (Utah 1993) 869 P.2d 926] and its progeny
that whether a form of transportation constitutes carriage of persons for
reward depends upon the purpose of the transportation. We held instead in Smith
v. O'Donnell, supra, 215 Cal. 714, that the operator of a sightseeing airplane
was a carrier of persons for reward. We found persuasive the contrary reasoning
in O'Callaghan v. Dellwood Park Co., supra, 242 Ill. 336, that a
passenger's motive for seeking transportation was irrelevant in determining the
carrier's liability and that the carrier owed the same high duty of care
whether the passenger rode for pleasure or business.
 
We continue to
adhere to the view we adopted in Smith v. O'Donnell, supra, 215
Cal. 714. As the cases cited above make clear, our conclusion that the operator
of a roller coaster or similar amusement park ride can be a carrier of persons
for reward is consistent with the authority holding that operators of ski lifts
are common carriers, despite the fact that the skiers who ride such lifts are
engaged in recreation. ( Squaw Valley Ski Corp. v. Superior Court, supra,
2 Cal. App. 4th 1499.) A passenger's purpose in purchasing transportation,
whether it be to get from one place to another or to travel simply for pleasure
or sightseeing, does not determine whether the provider of the transportation
is a carrier for reward. The passenger's purpose does not affect the duty of
the carrier to exercise the highest degree of care for the safety of the
passenger.
 
Certainly there is
no justification for imposing a lesser duty of care on the operators of roller
coasters simply because the primary purpose of the transportation provided is
entertainment. As one federal court noted, “amusement rides have inherent dangers
owing to speed or mechanical complexities. They are operated for profit and are
held out to the public to be safe. They are operated in the expectation that
thousands of patrons, many of them children, will occupy their seats.” ( U.S.
Fidelity & Guaranty Co. v. Brian (5th Cir. 1964) 337 F.2d 881, 883.)
Riders of roller coasters and other “thrill” rides seek the illusion of danger
while being assured of their actual safety. The rider expects to be surprised
and perhaps even frightened, but not hurt. The rule that carriers of passengers
are held to the highest degree of care is based on the recognition that “ ‘[t]o
his diligence and fidelity are intrusted the lives and safety of large numbers
of human beings.’ ” ( Treadwell v. Whittier, supra, 80 Cal. 574,
591.) This applies equally to the rider of a roller coaster as it does to the
rider of a bus, airplane, or train. 
 
[. . .]
 
It is of course true
that not all the statutes pertaining to carriers of persons for reward apply to
every form of transportation. But it does not follow that any form of
transportation to which these statutes do not apply cannot be a common carrier
and carrier of persons. It is well established that commercial operators of
elevators are carriers of persons for reward, although it would make little
sense to require that they travel at a reasonable rate, or not deviate from
their proper route, or start at an announced time in order to connect with
other forms of travel. The same can be said of operators of ski lifts or those
offering sight-seeing rides on airplanes or helicopters.
 
(Gomez, supra,
1133-41 [footnotes omitted].)
 
Based on Gomez, the operator of the
horse and buggy, a recreation ride at Indelicato’s party, has a duty of a
common carrier to Decedent and Marrone. 
 
The Complaint provides, in
relevant part: 
 
On July 5, 2023,
68-year-old Vincenzo Licari (“Decedent”) suffered traumatic and fatal injuries
following a crash that occurred while riding in a buggy (the “Subject Buggy”)
being towed by a horse (the “Subject Horse”) (collectively, the “Entertainment
Attraction”) both of which were owned by Defendant DEBBIE INDELICATO COLICCI
(the “Incident”). Plaintiff ANTONIA MARRONE also suffered multiple
debilitating injuries as a result of the Incident.
 
On the date of the
Incident, Defendant JOSEPH INDELICATO was hosting a party at the SUBJECT
PROPERTY.
 
Defendant JOSEPH
INDELICATO offered rides on the Subject Buggy as an entertainment attraction to
guests at his party.
 
[. . .]
 
At all times
mentioned herein, DEBBIE INDELICATO COLICCI and DOES 1-25 had a duty to
exercise ordinary care to avoid exposing persons to unreasonable risks of harm
due to their ownership, control, operation, management, possession and/or
authority to maintain and manage the Entertainment Attraction.
 
DEBBIE INDELICATO
COLICCI and DOES 1-25 breached their aforementioned duty of care because they,
inter alia, (1) failed to properly train the Subject Horse such that it would
safely tow the Subject Buggy without causing harm to those riding in the Subject
Buggy, (2) failed to properly maintain the Subject Buggy such that it was safe
for passengers to ride in and (3) failed to put blinders on the Subject Horse
at the time of the Incident.
 
[. . .]
 
Prior to and at the
time of the incident, Defendants owned, controlled, managed, possessed and/or
had the authority to maintain and manage the Entertainment Attraction located
on the Subject Property at the party hosted by Defendant JOSEPH INDELICATO on
the Subject Property
 
Prior to and at the
time of the incident, JOSEPH INDELICATO, the INDELICATO FAMILY TRUST, and DOES
1-25 had a duty to exercise ordinary care to avoid exposing persons to unreasonable
risks of harm due to their ownership, control, management, possession and/or
authority to maintain the Entertainment Attraction provided at the party hosted
by Defendant JOSEPH INDELICATO at the Subject Property.
 
JOSEPH INDELICATO,
the INDELICATO FAMILY TRUST, and DOES 1-25 were also required to use reasonable
care to discover any unsafe conditions related to the Entertainment Attraction
and to repair, replace, or give adequate warning of anything that could reasonably
be expected to harm others.
 
JOSEPH
INDELICATO, the INDELICATO FAMILY TRUST, and DOES 1-25 breached their
aforementioned duty by (1) failing to properly train the Subject Horse such
that it would safely tow the Subject Buggy without causing harm to those riding
in the Subject Buggy, (2) failing to properly maintain the Subject Buggy such
that it was safe for passengers to ride in and (3) failing to put blinders on
the Subject Horse at the time of the Incident such that it created a condition
of unreasonable harm to Plaintiffs and others that proximately caused the
injuries to Plaintiffs during the Incident.
 
(Complaint ¶¶ 12-35 [emphasis
added].)
 
While inconsistent theories of recovery
are permitted, a pleader cannot blow hot and cold as to
the facts positively stated, regardless of whether the pleading is verified. (Manti
v. Gunari (1970) 5 Cal. App. 3d 442, 449, 450) In reference to the
antagonistic allegations in the single cause of action the court is required to
take as true the averments in the complaint which bear most strongly against
the pleader.  (Manti, supra, 5 Cal. App. 3d at 450.) In
other words, “the general rule [. . .] is that material factual allegations in
a verified pleading that are omitted in a subsequent amended pleading without
adequate explanation will be considered by the court in ruling on a demurrer to
the later pleading.” (Shoemaker v. Myers (1990) 52 Cal.3d 1, 12.) As
alleged, the material allegations that bear most strongly against the
Plaintiffs are such that Plaintiffs have distinguished Colicci and Indelicato
Defendants as one who owns the horse and buggy (Colicci) and ones who offered
the recreational activity (Idelicato Defendants). Despite that, Plaintiffs have
alleged the same duty. Based on Gomez, it appears that Colicci is the operator
and not Indelicato Defendants. (See Gomez, supra, at 1133.)
Plaintiffs have not provided a basis for the same duty as that of the operator
to be imposed on Indelicato Defendants.
 
Accordingly, the Demurrer to the
Second Cause of Action is SUSTAINED. 
 
     
ii.           
Fourth Cause of Action (Survival Action against
all Defendants)
 
Indelicato Defendants argue that
a survivor cause of action is not a separate cause of action and vests in the
heirs upon the death of a decedent. Indelicato Defendants further argue that
the damages recoverable in a survivor action are limited by statute to the loss
or damage that the decedent sustained or incurred before death, including any
penalties or punitive or exemplary damages that the decedent would have been
entitled to recover had the decedent lived, and do not include damages for
pain, suffering, or disfigurement.
 
Plaintiffs argue that the
analysis for a survival cause of action sounding in negligence is the same as a
wrongful death action sounding in action and refers the Court and the parties
to its previous argument (i.e., duty, breach, and damages). Plaintiffs present
that Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 377.34 has been amended to allow damages to be
recovered for a decedent's pain, suffering, or disfigurement, in an action
brought by the decedent's personal representative or successor in interest, if
the action or proceeding was granted a specified preference under Code of Civil
Procedure section 36 before January 1, 2022, or was filed on or after January
1, 2022, and before January 1, 2026 and, here, Marrone maintains a survival
action as the successor-in-interest to the Decedent in an action that was filed
after January 1, 2022 which allows for a claim of general damages, including
pain and suffering. 
 
Plaintiffs are bringing both
survival actions and a wrongful death action in one single lawsuit. Cal. Code
Civ. Proc. § 377.62 allows these actions to be joined. (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §
377.62(a) [“An action under Section 377.30 may be joined with an action under
Section 377.60 arising out of the same wrongful act or neglect.”].) Regarding
standing, a wrongful death action may be brought by “[t]he decedent’s surviving
spouse, domestic partner, children, and issue of deceased children, or, if
there is no surviving issue of the decedent, the persons, including the
surviving spouse or domestic partner, who would be entitled to the property of
the decedent by intestate succession” (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 377.60(a)) while
a survival action may only be brought by the decedent’s successor in interest
or personal representative. (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 377.30.) 
 
Here, Plaintiffs are proceeding
individually except for Marrone who is proceeding as both an individual and a
successor-in-interest. (See Complaint headers.) Marrone is alleged to be
Decedent’s surviving spouse and the remainder of plaintiffs are all alleged to
be Decedent’s surviving children. (See Complaint ¶¶ 1-5.) 
 
By Plaintiffs’ Opposition, it
appears that the survival action is being brought by Marrone only:
 
Here, Plaintiff
Marrone maintains a survival action as the successor-in-interest to the
Decedent in an action that was filed after January 1, 2022. As such, Plaintiffs
are entitled to claim general damages including pain and suffering.
 
(Opp. 11:4-6.) 
 
Further, Marrone, only, has also
filed a declaration pursuant to Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 377.32.
 
As to pain and suffering, Cal.
Code Civ. Proc. § 377.34 provides: 
 
(a) In an action or
proceeding by a decedent’s personal representative or successor in interest on
the decedent’s cause of action, the damages recoverable are limited to the loss
or damage that the decedent sustained or incurred before death, including any
penalties or punitive or exemplary damages that the decedent would have been
entitled to recover had the decedent lived, and do not include damages for
pain, suffering, or disfigurement.
(b) Notwithstanding
subdivision (a), in an action or proceeding by a decedent’s personal
representative or successor in interest on the decedent’s cause of action, the
damages recoverable may include damages for pain, suffering, or disfigurement
if the action or proceeding was granted a preference pursuant to Section 36
before January 1, 2022, or was filed on or after January 1, 2022, and before
January 1, 2026.
(c) A plaintiff who
recovers damages pursuant to subdivision (b) between January 1, 2022, and
January 1, 2025, inclusive, shall, within 60 days after obtaining a judgment,
consent judgment, or court-approved settlement agreement entitling the
plaintiff to the damages, submit to the Judicial Council a copy of the
judgment, consent judgment, or court-approved settlement agreement, along with
a cover sheet detailing all of the following information:
(1) The date the
action was filed.
(2) The date of the
final disposition of the action.
(3) The amount and
type of damages awarded, including economic damages and damages for pain,
suffering, or disfigurement.
(d)
(1) On or before
January 1, 2025, the Judicial Council shall transmit to the Legislature a
report detailing the information received pursuant to subdivision (c) for all
judgments, consent judgments, or court-approved settlement agreements rendered
from January 1, 2022, to July 31, 2024, inclusive, in which damages were
recovered pursuant to subdivision (b). The report shall comply with Section
9795 of the Government Code.
(2) This subdivision
shall become inoperative on January 1, 2029, pursuant to Section 10231.5 of the
Government Code.
(e) Nothing in this
section alters Section 3333.2 of the Civil Code.
(f) Nothing in this
section affects claims brought pursuant to Chapter 11 (commencing with Section
15600) of Part 3 of Division 9 of the Welfare and Institutions Code.
 
(Emphasis added.)
 
This is a case brought by
Decedent’s successor-in-interest on Decedent’s cause of action, filed on August
21, 2024. It appears that under Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 377.34, pain and
suffering is recoverable.
 
Accordingly, the Demurrer to the
Fourth Cause of Action is OVERRULED.
 
   
iii.           
Fifth Cause of Action (Negligence by Marrone
only against all defendants)
 
Both parties direct the Court to
their arguments for the Second Cause of Action. (See Demurrer 7:20-23; see also
Opp. 11:7-13.) 
 
The Court adopts its negligence
analysis, ante, for the Second Cause of Action as discussed for the Fifth
Cause of Action.
 
Accordingly, the Demurrer to the
Second Cause of Action is SUSTAINED.
 
   
iv.           
Sixth Cause of Action (Strict Liability for
Injury Caused by Domestic Animal with Dangerous Propensities brought by Marrone
against all defendants)
 
Indelicato Defendants argue that
the Complaint admits that the horse and buggy were owned by Colicci, fails to
allege that Indelicato Defendants provided the buggy rides, or that the cause
of the incident was not an inherent danger in taking a horse-drawn carriage
ride. Indelicato Defendants further present that the allegation that the hors
had a unusually dangerous nature or tendency is conclusory. Thus, Indelicato
Defendants believe that Plaintiffs have failed to allege the ultimate facts
regarding strict liability for injury caused by a domestic animal and the cause
of action must fail. 
 
Plaintiffs present that
Indelicato Defendants’ Subject Property boasts an array of horse stables and
housed the horse and buggy in question. Plaintiffs concede that they have
alleged that the horse and buggy are owned by Colicci, but contend that they have
properly pled that Indelicato Defendants owned, kept, or controlled the horse.
Plaintiffs further argue that Defendants offer no authority to suggest that
Plaintiffs are required to plead the exact nature and/or tendency of the horse
that is unusually dangerous. 
 
"A common law strict
liability cause of action may … be maintained if the owner of a domestic animal
that bites or injures another person knew or had reason to know of the animal's
vicious propensities." (Priebe v. Nelson (2006) 39 Cal.4th 1112,
1115 [citing CACI No. 462].) A person who harbors or keeps a wild animal or a
domestic animal with known dangerous tendencies may be strictly liable for the
harm the animal causes. (Smith v. Royer (1919) 181 Cal. 165, 168; see Drake
v. Dean (1993) 15 Cal.App.4th 915, 921 ["California has long followed
the common law rule of strict liability for harm done by a domestic animal with
known vicious or dangerous propensities abnormal to its class."]; accord. Baugh
v. Beatty (1949) 91 Cal.App.2d 786, 791 [owner of wild animal or animal
which is known by owner to be vicious and dangerous is an insurer against acts
of animal to anyone who is injured].) “There is no dispute as to that rule. ‘The
keeper of an animal of a species dangerous by nature, or of any animal which he
knows, or has reason to know, to have dangerous propensities, is liable,
without wrongful intent or negligence, for damage to others resulting from such
a propensity.’ [Citations.]” (Hillman v. Garcia-Ruby (1955) 44 Cal.2d
625, 626.)
 
As discussed, ante,
Plaintiffs have pled that Colicci owned the horse while Indelicato Defendants
offered the horse and buggy ride. As such, liability appears to fall on Colicci
and not Indelicato Defendants. 
 
Further, as Indelicato Defendants
correctly point out, the allegations regarding the horse’s dangerous
propensities are conclusory: 
 
Defendants owned,
kept, or controlled the Subject Horse.
 
The Subject Horse
had an unusually dangerous nature or tendency.
 
Prior to the
incident which caused Decedents death and ANTONIA MARRONE’S injuries as alleged
herein, Defendants knew or should have known that the Subject Horse had this
nature or tendency.
 
The Subject Horse’s
unusually dangerous nature or tendency was a substantial factor in causing
Plaintiff ANTONIA MARRONE’S harm.
(Complaint ¶¶ 69-72.)
 
The Court notes that this
allegation regarding “Defendants” does not distinguish between Colicci and
Indelicato Defendants. 
 
Regarding conclusory allegations
on a demurrer, the Court directs the parties to the legal standard, ante. (See
Legal Standard [“Nevertheless, this
rule does not apply to allegations expressing mere conclusions of law, or
allegations contradicted by the exhibits to the complaint or by matters of
which judicial notice may be taken.¿¿(Vance v. Villa Park¿Mobilehome¿Estates¿(1995)
36 Cal.App.4th 698, 709.)¿”].) 
 
Thus, Plaintiffs have not alleged facts that would give rise to strict
liability as to the horse on behalf of Indelicato Defendants.
 
Accordingly, the Demurrer to the Sixth Cause of Action is SUSTAINED.
 
-----
 
Reply
 
Indelicato Defendants’ Reply
reiterates a majority of the arguments within its moving papers. Indelicato
Defendants have provided a new argument regarding Wang v. Nibbelink (2016)
4 Cal.App.5th 1 (“Wang”). Indelicato Defendants argue that Wang shows
that the statutory list in Cal. Civ. Code § 846(a) is not exhaustive and holds
that a wagon train and horse for a historical reenactment constituted
recreational activity and, as such, the horse and buggy ride in this action is
a recreational activity. 
 
The Court directs the parties to Hoffman
v. Young (2022)) 13 Cal.5th 1257. (“Hoffman”). In Hoffman,
the California Supreme Court affirmatively stated: 
 
Section 846 immunity
is broad, but it is not absolute. There are three statutory exceptions to the
general rule of nonliability. At issue here is the express invitee exception,
which is found in section 846(d)(3). It provides that section 846(a) “does not
limit the liability which otherwise exists for [¶] ... [¶] [a]ny persons who
are expressly invited rather than merely permitted to come upon
the premises by the landowner.” (§ 846(d)(3), italics added.)
 
(Hoffman, supra, 13
Cal.5th at 1268.) 
 
The California Supreme Court
addressed Wang directly in a footnote, stating: 
 
Some appellate
opinions have suggested or held that a “direct, personal request” from the
landowner to the injured entrant is required to bring section 846(d)(3) into
play. (Johnson v. Unocal Corp. (1993) 21 Cal.App.4th 310, 317, 26
Cal.Rptr.2d 148; see also Jackson v. Pacific Gas & Electric Co.
(2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1116, 114 Cal.Rptr.2d 831; Wang v. Nibbelink
(2016) 4 Cal.App.5th 1, 32, 208 Cal.Rptr.3d 461.) We disapprove of those
decisions to the extent they held that a qualifying invitation under section
846(d)(3) may only be extended by the landowner personally.
 
(Id. at 1279, fn. 13.) 
 
As alleged, Indelicato was
hosting a party. It is unclear whether there was an invitation to Plaintiffs
which would trigger a statutory exception to Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 846
immunity. 
 
The Court’s analysis, ante,
remains unchanged. 
 
-----
 
Leave to Amend
 
Leave to amend must be allowed where there
is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy¿(1976),
18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) While under California law leave to amend is liberally
granted, “leave to amend should not be granted where, in all probability,
amendment would be futile.” (Vaillette v. Fireman's Fund Ins. Co.
(1993), 18 Cal. App. 4th 680, 685).¿ “A trial court does not abuse its
discretion when it sustains a demurrer without¿leave to amend¿if either (a) the
facts and the nature of the claims are clear and no liability exists, or (b) it
is probable from the nature of the defects and previous unsuccessful attempts
to plead that the plaintiff cannot state a claim.” (Cantu v. Resolution
Trust Corp.¿(1992)¿4 Cal.App.4th 857, 889.)¿ 
 
Based on Hoffman, it appears that
there may be facts which would lead to a reasonable possibility of successful
amendment for the Second Cause of Action and Fifth Cause of Action. 
 
As to the Sixth Cause of Action, it is
unclear due to the term “Defendants.” Out of an abundance of caution, the Court
allows leave to amend. 
 
-----
 
Conclusion
 
Defendants Joseph Indelicato and Indelicato
Family Trust’s Demurrer is SUSTAINED in part as to the Second Cause of Action,
Fifth Cause of Action, and Sixth Cause of Action with leave to amend; and
OVERRULED as to the Fourth Cause of Action.
 
Plaintiffs Antonia Marrone, individually and as
Successor-in-Interest to The Estate of Vincenzo Licari; Christian Liari, an
individual; Antonio Licari, an individual; and Rosa Maria Licari, an
individual, are to file an amended pleading within thirty days of this Court
Order.


