  Case Number:  22NWCV01386    Hearing Date:   January 17, 2025    Dept:  C TRUCK INSURANCE EXCHANGE, et
al. vs ERNESTO MARTINEZ
Case No.: 22NWCV01386 
Hearing Date: January 17, 2024 @ 10:30 a.m. 
 
#ADD-ON
Tentative Ruling 
Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants Fire Insurance
Exchange and Truck Insurance Exchange’s Motion to Strike Cross-Complaint is
DENIED. 
Defendant/Cross-Complainant to give notice. 
 
Background 
In this Complaint for Reimbursement filed on November 21,
2022, Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants Fire Insurance Exchange and Truck Insurance
Exchange (“Plaintiffs”) seek reimbursement of settlement payments made on
behalf of Defendant Ernesto Martinez (“Defendant” or “Martinez”) in Sharishi
Kobayashi v. Ernesto Gabriel Martinez, Jr. (LASC Case No. BC706454).
(Complaint, ¶5.) 
The Complaint alleges that Fire Insurance Exchange issued a
Landlords Protector liability policy to Defendant for the property located at
207 N. Lake Shore Terrace in Los Angeles, California. (Complaint, ¶6.) Truck
Insurance Exchange issued a Personal Umbrella policy to Defendant that listed
the Fire Insurance Exchange Landlords Protector policy in the schedule of
underlying insurance. (Id., ¶12.) Sharishi Kobayashi was a tenant who
rented 207 N. Lake Shore Terrace from Defendant. (Id., ¶19.) Kobayashi’s
apartment was rent-stabilized under the Los Angeles Rent Stabilization
Ordinance. (Ibid.) As such, Kobayashi could only be evicted on one of 14
grounds.  One of the grounds included
evicting a tenant so that a landlord’s family member can occupy the unit. (Id.,
¶20.) On May 11, 2016, Defendant filed a Declaration of Intent to Evict for
Landlord Occupancy, declaring that his parents were going to live in the unit
rented to Kobayashi. (Id., ¶21.) On August 2, 2016, Kobayashi received a
notice that her tenancy would be terminated, and she moved out of the unit on
March 26, 2017. (Id., ¶22.)
On May 15, 2018, Kobayashi filed suit against Defendant for
fraudulent (bad faith) eviction, among other causes of action (“The Kobayashi
Lawsuit”). (Complaint, ¶23.) Defendant tendered the lawsuit to Plaintiffs for
defense and indemnity, which Plaintiffs agreed to defend under a reservation of
rights. (Id, ¶24.) After the case was referred to mediation,
Plaintiffs advised Defendant that they intended to settle the case and, if
Defendant objected to the settlement, Defendant could assume responsibility for
the defense at his own expense. (Id., ¶¶25-26.) Defendant did not object
to the settlement, nor did he contribute his own funds toward the settlement or
assume responsibility for his own defense. (Id., ¶27.) The Kobayashi
Lawsuit settled for $700,000 and the case was dismissed. (Id., ¶28.) 
The insurance policies issued to Defendant contain
exclusions for intentional acts. (Complaint, ¶¶9, 15.) Because Kobayashi
claimed Defendant had fraudulently represented that his parents were moving
into the Kobayashi’s unit, the settlement extinguished significant uncovered
liabilities Defendant would have otherwise faced, including significant punitive
damages. (Id., ¶34.) Plaintiffs assert they are entitled to
reimbursement of settlement payments for non-covered claims. (Id., ¶35.)
On May 29, 2024, Defendant filed a Cross-Complaint for
Breach of Contract and Breach of the Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair
Dealing.  
On July 25, 2024, Plaintiffs moved to strike Defendant’s
cross-complaint pursuant to CCP §425.16. 
Plaintiffs argue that Defendant’s cross-complaint chills Plaintiffs’
right to petition the court for reimbursement as expressly provided by Blue
Ridge v. Jacobsen (2001) 25 Cal.4th 489.  Moreover, Defendant’s bad faith claim fails
as a matter of law because no policy benefits were withheld, a defense was
provided, and Plaintiffs paid 100% of the settlement. (Old Republic Ins. Co.
v. Fsr Brokerage (2000) 80 Cal.App.4th 666.)
Evidentiary Objections 
The Court rules on Defendant’s evidentiary objections as
follows: 
Objections No. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13,
14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, and 31 are
OVERRULED.
Legal Standard 
In 1992, the Legislature enacted CCP §
425.16 in an effort to curtail lawsuits brought primarily
"to chill the valid exercise of . . . freedom of speech and petition for
redress of grievances" and "to encourage continued participation in
matters of public significance." (CCP §
425.16, subd. (a).) The section authorizes a special motion
to strike "[a] cause of action against a person arising from any act
of that person in furtherance of the person's right of petition or free speech
under the United States or California Constitution in connection with a public
issue . . . ." (§
425.16, subd. (b)(1).) The statute directs the trial
court to grant the special motion to strike "unless the court determines
that the plaintiff has established that there is a probability that the
plaintiff will prevail on the claim." (Ibid.)
In assessing a CCP § 425.16 special motion to strike, the
court must engage in a two-step process. (Shekhter v. Financial Indem. Co.
(2001) 89 Cal.App.4th 141, 150.)¿First, the court must decide whether the moving
party has met the threshold burden of showing that the
cause of action arises from the moving party’s constitutional rights of free speech or
petition for redress of grievances. (Id.) This burden may be
met by showing the act which forms the basis for the cause of action was an act
that falls within one of the four categories of conduct set forth in 425.16,
subd. (e).¿ Pursuant to section 425.16, subd. (e), an “act in furtherance of a
person’s right of petition or free speech under the United States or California
Constitution in connection with a public issue” includes: 
(1)  any
written or oral statement or writing made before a legislative, executive, or
judicial body, or any other official proceeding authorized by law, 
(2)  any
written or oral statement or writing made in connection with an issue under
consideration or review by a legislative, executive, or judicial body, or any
other official proceeding authorized by law, 
(3)  any
written or oral statement or writing made in a place open to the public or a
public forum in connection with an issue of public interest, or 
(4)  any
other conduct in furtherance of the exercise of the constitutional right of
petition or the constitutional right of free speech in connection with a public
issue or an issue of public interest. 
If the moving party meets its initial burden, then the
burden shifts to the opposing party to establish a probability that the opposing
party will prevail on the claim—i.e., present facts which would, if proved at
trial, support a judgment in the party’s favor.¿ (Id. at 15051.)¿ 
Discussion
Plaintiffs argue that the allegations in Defendant’s
cross-complaint arise out of and are responses to Plaintiffs’ decision to petition the court for reimbursement under
Blue Ridge.  “If [Plaintiffs] had
not sued for reimbursement, [Defendant] would have had no reason to sue his
insurers for purported breach of contract and bad faith.” (Motion, p. 7:12-13.)

The gravamen of the cross-complaint, however, does not
support Plaintiffs’ argument.  In its
summary of the “nature of the case”, the cross-complaint asserts “[t]his bad
faith lawsuit arises from the Cross-Defendants’ wrongful misrepresentations to
the Insured and its refusal to defend the Insured by refusing and thwarting the
Insured’s efforts to obtain independent counsel pursuant to Cal. Civil Code
section 2860 to defend against a wrongful eviction lawsuit filed against the
Insured.” (XC, ¶1.) “Instead of honoring their obligations to the Insured under
the policies they sold to him, Cross-Defendants appointed defense counsel who
worked in concert with Cross-Defendants’ coverage counsel to do nothing more
than find grounds to disprove coverage and institute an action for
reimbursement against the Insured.” (Id., ¶2.) 
More specifically, as to the First Cause of Action for
Breach of Contract, Defendant alleges Plaintiffs breached the policies by,
among other things: (a) refusing to appoint Cumis
counsel to provide a complete defense to the Insured in defense of the
Underlying Action; (b) failing and refusing to conduct a fair and thorough
investigation of coverage for the Claim; and (c) withholding benefits due under
the Policy. (XC, ¶47.)

As to the Second Cause of Action for Breach of the Implied
Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing, Defendant alleges Plaintiffs committed
the following acts: (a) refusing to provide a complete defense of the Insured
in the Underlying Action by refusing to appoint Cumis counsel to represent only
the Insured’s interests; (b)  misrepresenting
to the Insured the coverages under the Policies; (c) threatening and coercing
the Insured in order to obtain information to increase their settlement demand;
(d) misrepresenting to the Insured his right to Cumis counsel; (e) failing to
obtain the Insured’s written consent to allow panel defense counsel to continue
representing the Insured once a clear conflict of interest arose; (f) misrepresenting
to the Insured his potential liability in this Reimbursement Action in order to
force a significant settlement amount from the Insured; (g) failing and
refusing to give any reasonable interpretation to the coverage provisions of
the Policies or the Insured’s reasonable expectation of coverage or to any
reasonable application of such provisions to the Insured’s claim and defense of
the Underlying Action and acting to protect their own financial interests
therein at the expense of the Insured’s rights; (h) failing and refusing to
acknowledge and act reasonably promptly upon communications with the Insured; (i)
violating California’s administrative regulations governing claims settlement
practices in its adjustment of the Insured’s claim; (j) giving greater
consideration to its own interests than to the Insured’s interests; (k) failing
and refusing to provide the Insured with reasonably justifiable basis for its
pursuit of reimbursement of amounts paid under the Policies in relation to the
Policies, the facts or applicable law; and (l) compelling the Insured to engage
legal counsel to defend himself and to preserve benefits owed under the
Policies.
Based on these allegations, the Court determines that the
causes of action in the cross-complaint arise from the
manner in which Plaintiffs investigated and defended the claims against Martinez
in the Kobayashi Lawsuit, not Plaintiffs’ decision to petition the court
for reimbursement in the instant case.  “The
mere fact that an action was filed after protected activity took place does not
mean the action arose from that activity for the purposes of the anti-SLAPP
statute.” (Gallimore v. State Farm Fire & Casualty Ins. Co. (2002)
102 Cal.App.4th 1388, 1398 (quoting Navellier v. Sletten
(2002) 29 Cal.4th 82, 89).) Here, the fact that Defendant’s causes
of action were asserted in a cross-complaint does not mean that the claims
arose from Plaintiffs’ decision to sue for reimbursement.  “[T]hat a cause of action arguably may have
been ‘triggered’ by protected activity does not entail that it is one arising
from such. (Ibid.) In the anti-SLAPP context, the critical consideration
is whether the cause of action is based on the defendant’s protected
free speech or petitioning activity.” (Ibid., italics in original.) The cross-complaint
alleges, among other things, that Plaintiffs refused to appoint Cumis counsel
to provide a complete defense, refused to conduct a fair and thorough
investigation of coverage for the Claim, and withheld benefits due under the
Policy. (XC, ¶47.)  Allegations such as
these, which form the gravamen of the cross-complaint, are entirely separate from
Plaintiffs’ decision to sue for reimbursement. 
Accordingly, Plaintiffs have not met their threshold burden of showing
that the cross-complaint arises from their constitutional rights of free speech
or petition for redress of grievances.
Plaintiffs rely upon Old Republic Ins. Co. v. Fsr
Brokerage (2000) 80 Cal.App.4th 666 for the proposition that “where
an insurer accepts a request for defense, funds the defense, funds the
settlement, and then seeks reimbursement of the settlement payment because it
believes the claim was not covered, the policyholder has not been deprived of
policy benefits, and a retaliatory bad faith cross-complaint is meritless.”
(Motion, p. 1:11-15.) Indeed, in Old Republic, as in the present case, it
was undisputed that the insurer fully and promptly paid the claim.  However, a situation where an insurer fully
pays a claim is not, by itself, fatal to a bad faith cause of action.  The Court in Old Republic held that a
bad faith claim fails as a matter of law “when the insured does not contend
that the insurer acted unreasonably in investigating or paying the
underlying insurance claim.” (Id., at 669-70, italics added.) Here, the
gravamen of Defendant’s cross-complaint is that Plaintiffs wrongfully investigated
and defended the claims against Martinez in the Kobayashi Lawsuit.  Thus, Old Republic does not support Plaintiffs’
motion to strike Defendant’s bad faith claims. 

Because Plaintiffs have not met their initial burden, the
burden does not shift to Defendant to establish a probability of success on his
claims.  Plaintiffs raise other arguments
as to why Defendant could not meet this burden, but they need not be addressed
here.    
Plaintiffs’ anti-SLAPP motion is
DENIED.   
 