 Case Number:  22STLC07638    Hearing Date:   January 23, 2024    Dept:  26  
Ramirez v. Reyes, et al.VACATE DEFAULT AND DEFAULT JUDGMENT;
QUASH SERVICE(CCP §§ 418.10, 473.5)
TENTATIVE RULING: 
 
Defendant William Reyes’ Motion to Vacate Default and
Default Judgment; and Quash Service of Summons is DENIED.
 
                                                                                                                                
ANALYSIS:
 
On November 10, 2022, Plaintiff Karla Ramirez (“Plaintiff”)
filed the instant Complaint on Rejected Creditor’s Claim under Probate Code
sections 9351 and 9354 against Defendant William Reyes (“Defendant”). Following
Defendant’s failure to file a responsive pleading, the Court entered default on
August 7, 2023 and default judgment on September 29, 2023. On November 1, 2023,
Defendant filed the instant Motion to Vacate Default and Default Judgment;
Quash Service of Summons. Plaintiff filed an opposition on December 20, 2023
and a supplemental declaration on January 5, 2024. 
 
Discussion
 
Defendant moves to vacate the entry of default pursuant to
Code of Civil Procedure section 473.5 which states in
relevant part: 
 
When service of a summons has not resulted
in actual notice to a party in time to defend the action and a default or
default judgment has been entered against him or
her in the action, he or she may serve and file a
notice of motion to set aside the default or default judgment and for
leave to defend the action.  The notice of
motion shall be served and filed within a reasonable time, but in no event
exceeding the earlier of: (i) two years after entry of a default judgment
against him or her; or (ii) 180 days after service on him or
her of a written notice that the default or default judgment has
been entered.
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 473.5, subd. (a).)
Additionally, the motion “shall be accompanied by an affidavit showing under
oath that the party’s lack of actual notice in time to defend the action was
not caused by his or her avoidance of service or inexcusable neglect. The party
shall serve and file with the notice a copy of the answer, motion, or other
pleading proposed to be filed in the action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 473.5, subd.
(b).) 
 
The Motion was timely filed just one month after
entry of default judgment. However, the declaration does not state that
Defendant’s lack of actual notice was not caused by avoidance of service or
inexcusable neglect. (Motion, Reyes Decl., ¶¶1-4.) Nor does the declaration
actually state that Defendant lacked actual notice of the action. (Ibid.)
Instead, the declaration only states that Defendant was not able to respond
because he was not personally served with the Summons and Complaint. (Id.
at ¶4.) Finally, the Motion does not attach a copy of Defendant’s proposed
response to the Complaint, which is also required by the statute. The Motion
and its supporting declaration, therefore, are not sufficient to demonstrate
entitlement to relief under Code of Civil Procedure section 473.5.
 
The Motion also cites Civil Code section 1788.61
for relief. However, that statute only pertains to an “action brought by a debt
buyer” and does not apply to this action. (Civ. Code, § 1788.61, subd. (a)(1).)

 
Conclusion
 
Defendant William Reyes’ Motion to Vacate Default and
Default Judgment; and Quash Service of Summons is DENIED.
 
 
Court clerk to give notice.
 