 Case Number:  22STCV39450    Hearing Date:   January 23, 2024    Dept:  26  Peter v. Cedars Sinai Health Ventures, et al.DEMURRER;
MOTION TO STRIKE(CCP §§ 430.31,
et seq., 435, et seq.)
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Defendant Cedars-Sinai
Medical Center’s Demurrer to the First Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE
TO AMEND AS TO THE FIRST, SECOND, THIRD, FOURTH, FIFTH, SIXTH, SEVENTH, EIGHTH,
NINTH, TENTH, AND TWELFTH CAUSES OF ACTION. THE DEMURRER IS OVERRULED AS TO THE
ELEVENTH CAUSE OF ACTION. 
 
Defendant Cedars-Sinai
Medical Center’s Motion to Strike Portions of the First Amended Complaint is
GRANTED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.
 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
Plaintiff Emeka
V. Peter (“Plaintiff”), in pro per, filed the instant action for numerous
causes of action against Defendant Cedars-Sinai Medical Center (“Defendant”) on
December 21, 2022. Following Defendant’s filing of a demurrer and motion to
strike with respect to the Complaint, Plaintiff filed the First Amended
Complaint on February 28, 2023. Defendant filed a demurrer and motion to strike
with respect to the First Amended Complaint on April 20, 2023. The demurrer and
motion to strike came for hearing on July 7, 2023 but the unlimited
jurisdiction court did not rule on the motions. Instead, the case was
transferred to the limited jurisdiction court.   
 
Defendant
refiled the Demurrer and Motion to Strike First Amended Complaint on December
26, 2023. Plaintiff filed oppositions on January 12, 2024 and Defendant replied
on January 16, 2024. 
 
Discussion
 
Demurrer to First Amended Complaint
 
Defendant demurs to the First Amended Complaint for failure to
allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action. (Citing Code Civ. Proc., §
430.10, subd. (e).) The Demurrer is
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration that complies with Code of Civil
Procedure section 430.41. (Meet and Confer Decl., filed 12/26/23, ¶2.) 
 
            Allegations in the
First Amended Complaint
 
Plaintiff alleges 12 causes of action in the First Amended Complaint for:
(1) Declaratory Relief; (2) Civil Conspiracy; (3) Intentional Infliction Of
Emotional Distress; (4) Negligent Infliction Of Emotional Distress; (5)
Replevin; (6) Breach Of An Express Oral Contract; (7) Deceit Based On Concealment;
(8) Conversion; (9) Promissory Fraud; (10) Negligent Hiring & Retention Of
Employee; (11) Negligence; And (12) Promissory Estoppel/Detrimental Reliance.
The causes of action are all based on the following alleged facts. 
 
The personal property that is the subject of this action includes
jewelry, an iPhone, an iPad, women’s clothing and shoes, makeup, and music.
(FAC, ¶2.) Plaintiff had these personal items with him when he visited
Defendant’s facility on March 14, 2022. (Id. at ¶11.) Plaintiff was
going to visit a family member named “Yago” who was admitted to the hospital. (Id.
at ¶12.) Due to COVID-19 protocols, Plaintiff was denied entry to the facility.
(Ibid.) Plaintiff suggested that a family member come down to pick up
the personal property but the security guard said the only way was for a nurse
to pick up the property and deliver it to Plaintiff’s relative. (Id. at
¶13.) Plaintiff gave the personal property to a nurse and called their relative
after five to ten minutes to see if the property had been received. (Ibid.)
The relative said the personal property had not been received; even hours after
Plaintiff visited the facility, their relative had not received the property. (Id.
at ¶14.) Plaintiff followed up the next day to no avail and was advised to file
a complaint with Risk Management. (Id. at ¶¶17-19.) Months after filing
the complaint, no one from the office contacted Plaintiff to resolve the issue.
(Id. at ¶20.) Plaintiff has suffered “significant emotional
stress, trauma, anger, anxiety” as a result of the loss of the property. (Id.
at ¶22.) 
 
Defendant demurs to the first cause of action for declaratory relief on
the ground that there is another form of relief available to Plaintiff. (Citing
General of America Ins. Co. v. Lilly (1968) 258 Cal.App.2d 465, 471.)
Plaintiff has alleged multiple causes of action for money damages based on the
same facts that give rise to the claim for declaratory relief. Nor does the
opposition address the case law cited in the Demurrer. Instead, Plaintiff cites
the rule that declaratory relief is proper if the complaint shows the existence
of a controversy arising from a written instrument. (Opp., p. 5:6-12.) This
authority is inapplicable because there is no alleged written instrument. Therefore,
the demurrer to the first cause of action is sustained.
 
The third cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional
distress requires facts alleging (1) extreme and outrageous conduct by
the defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the
probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff suffered severe
or extreme emotional distress; and (3) the plaintiff's injuries were actually
and proximately caused by the defendant's outrageous conduct. (Cochran v.
Cochran (1998) 65 Cal.App.4th 488, 494.) The First Amended Complaint does
not allege extreme and outrageous conduct by Defendant. It alleges that
personal property given into Defendant’s possession by Plaintiff was not
delivered. Whether done intentionally or recklessly, neither of which is
alleged, Defendant’s conduct does not rise to the level required for a cause of
action for intentional infliction of emotional distress. The demurrer to the
third cause of action is sustained.
 
Negligent infliction of emotional
distress is not a claim permitted concerning the loss of only personal
property. (Cooper v. Superior Court (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 1008, 1012.) Plaintiff’s
opposition does not provide any authority to dispute this rule. The demurrer to
the fourth cause of action is sustained. 
 
For the replevin cause of action, Defendant demurs on the grounds that
Plaintiff has not pled facts showing that Defendant is in possession of the
personal property, as opposed to it being in the possession of Plaintiff or
some other person. Defendant cites Ramacciotti v. Galiano (1943), 59
Cal. App. 2d 8, which held a cause of action for replvin “will not lie unless
at the time
the action is commenced defendant has the possession of the property or
the power to deliver it in satisfaction of a judgment for its possession . . .
.” (Ramacciotti v. Galiano (1943), 59 Cal. App. 2d 8, 11-12.) The First
Amended Complaint, however, sufficiently alleges that the personal property was
delivered into Defendant’s possession. (FAC, ¶¶13, 27, 54.) The demurrer
provides no analysis of these allegations to demonstrate their insufficiency. 
 
In the reply, however, Defendant points out that “Under current
California law, the common law forms of action named replevin, detinue and
trover are addressed by the tort of conversion of tangible personal property.”
(Foster v. Sexton (2021) 61 Cal.App.5th 998, 1020.) The cause of
action for conversion is subject to a 90-day statute of limitations. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 341a.) The incident regarding Plaintiff’s property took place nine
months before the instant action was filed, and therefore, more than 90 days
passed before the conversion action was brought. Plaintiff argues in opposition
that this rule does not apply when there has been fraudulent concealment but
points to no allegations of fraudulent concealment in the First Amended
Complaint. (Opp., p. 10:1-22.) The demurrer to the fifth cause of action for
replevin and the eighth cause of action for conversion are sustained.
 
The cause of action for breach of oral contract does not allege the
existence of a contract between the parties, which requires a meeting of the
minds, consideration, and an understanding of the goals of the agreement. (See Aton
Center, Inc. v. United Healthcare Ins. Co. (2023) 93 Cal.App.5th 1214, 1231.)
As with the rest of the First Amended Complaint, Plaintiff simply alleges
leaving the personal property with the nurse. (FAC, ¶¶59-64.) The demurrer to
the sixth cause of action is sustained. 
 
The seventh cause of action is for fraud and alleges Plaintiff was the
victim of an intentional act of deception. The elements
of fraud are (1) misrepresentation; (2) knowledge of falsity (or “scienter”);
(3) intent to defraud (induce reliance); (4) justifiable reliance; and (5) resulting
damage. (Conroy v. Regents of Univ. of Cal. (2009) 45 Cal. 4th 1244,
1255.) It is also black letter law that fraud must be alleged with
specificity, meaning that the pleadings must allege facts as to “‘how,
when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations were tendered.”  (Stansfield v. Starkey (1990) 220 Cal.
App. 3d 59, 73.) Plaintiff does not provide facts identifying any
misrepresentation, any specific person making the misrepresentation, or an
intent to deceive. (FAC, ¶¶66-69.) The demurrer to the seventh cause of action
is sustained. Regarding the other fraud causes of action (conspiracy,
promissory fraud, and promissory estoppel), the First Amended Complaint also does
not satisfy the heightened pleading standard. (Id. at ¶¶ 81-87, 98-101.) The
demurrer to the second, ninth, and twelfth causes of action are also sustained.
 
The tenth cause of action is for
negligent hiring. “To establish negligent supervision, a plaintiff must show
that a person in a supervisorial position over the actor had prior knowledge of
the actor’s propensity to do the bad act.” (Z.V. v. County of Riverside
(2015) 238Cal.App.4th 889, 902.) The First Amended Complaint does not allege
the existence of any person in a supervisorial position. In fact, it does not
even allege a specific person acting on Defendant’s behalf. (FAC, ¶¶89-91.) The
demurrer to the tenth cause of action is sustained. 
 
The Court notes that the notice
of demurrer refers to the 11th cause of action for negligence but does not
address it in the demurrer itself. Therefore, the demurrer to the 11th cause of
action is overruled. 
 
Motion to Strike Portions of First Amended Complaint
 
Defendant moves to strike the portions of the First Amended Complaint in
which Plaintiff asks for punitive damages. The Motion is brought pursuant to
Code of Civil Procedure section 436, on the grounds that the Court may “strike
out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a).) As with the Demurrer, Defendant has filed the
required meet and confer declaration required by Code of Civil Procedure
section 435.5. (Meet and Confer Decl., filed 12/26/23, ¶2.)
 
Punitive damages are authorized by Civil Code section 3294
in non-contract cases “where the defendant has been guilty of oppression,
fraud, or malice, express or implied . . . .” 
(Civil Code, § 3294, subd. (a).) Malice means conduct that is intended
by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct that is
carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the
rights or safety of others. (Civil Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1).) Oppression
means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in
conscious disregard of that person’s rights. (Civil Code, § 3294, subd.
(c)(2).) Fraud means an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment
of a material fact known to the defendant with the intention on the party of
the defendant of thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or
otherwise causing injury. (Civil Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(3).) 
 
Following the ruling on the demurrer, the only remaining
cause of action is for negligence. This cause of action, nor the facts alleged
in support thereof, rise to the level of oppression, fraud, or malice.
Furthermore, “section 3294, subdivision (b), requires that the wrongful act
giving rise to the exemplary damages be committed by an ‘officer, director, or
managing agent.’” (Civil Code, § 3294, subd. (b).) The First Amended Complaint
does not specify what person at the facility is responsible for the wrongful
conduct such that an award of punitive damages is proper against Defendant as a
corporation. The Motion to Strike, therefore, is granted.
 
Leave to Amend
 
Leave to amend must be allowed
where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment, however, the
burden is on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be amended
successfully. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) Regarding
the causes of action for which the demurrer was sustained, and the request for
punitive damages, Plaintiffs’ oppositions provide no information demonstrating
additional facts can be alleged to amend those claims. Therefore, leave to
amend is denied.
 
Conclusion
 
Defendant Cedars-Sinai
Medical Center’s Demurrer to the First Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE
TO AMEND AS TO THE FIRST, SECOND, THIRD, FOURTH, FIFTH, SIXTH, SEVENTH, EIGHTH,
NINTH, TENTH, AND TWELFTH CAUSES OF ACTION. THE DEMURRER IS OVERRULED AS TO THE
ELEVENTH CAUSE OF ACTION. 
 
Defendant Cedars-Sinai Medical
Center’s Motion to Strike Portions of the First Amended Complaint is GRANTED
WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
 
Moving party to give notice. 
 