

Hearing Date:             July 12, 2024  
Case Name:                 Hanmi Bank v. Kassma, Inc., et
al.
Case
No.:                    23STCV21191
Motion:                       Demurrer
to Cross-Complaint
Moving
Party:             Complainant/Cross-Defendant
Hanmi Bank

Responding Party:      N/A - Unopposed


 

Tentative
Ruling:      Hanmi’s Demurrer to
Cross-Complainants Cross-Complaint is sustained in its entirety.
Cross-Complainants are granted 10 days leave to amend, with the First Amended
Complaint to be filed by July 22, 2024.   
 
 

 
            
Procedural Background
 
            On
September 1, 2023, Hanmi Bank (Hanmi) filed a Complaint containing fifteen (15)
causes of action against several defendants, including Mark D. Crabtree
(Crabtree) and Anju Sharma aka Anju Crabtree (Sharma) in both their individual
capacities, and their capacities as trustees. Then on February 2, 2024,
Crabtree and Sharma (collectively, Cross-Complainants) filed a Cross-Complaint
(XC) against Hanmi alleging two causes of action. The motion now before the
Court is Hanmi’s Demurrer to Cross-Complainants Cross-Complaint. The demurrer
is unopposed. 
 
            The
demurrer is sustained.
 
Factual Background
 
            The case
stems from allegations that the Cross-Complainants defaulted on a loan (Loan)
from Hanmi for $1,900,000.00. (Complaint, ¶ 13.) The Loan was secured by a Deed
of Trust encumbering real property located at 5121 E. State Highway 58, Boron
CA 93516, where the Cross-Complainants owned and operated an ARCO gas station
and convenience store (the Property). (Complaint, ¶ 18.) After defaulting on
the loan, Hanmi alleges that Cross-Complainants sold the property with net
proceeds amounting to $413,314.07. (Complaint, ¶ 21.) Hanmi alleges that no
sale notice to creditors, including Hanmi was given, despite the fact that
Hanmi held a first-priority security interest in the proceeds. (Complaint, ¶
21-23.) Hanmi then filed suit alleging the following fifteen (15) causes of
action: 
 
1.    
Breach of Note (as to Kassma, Inc.)
2.    
Breach of Note (as to Crabtree)
3.    
Breach of Note (as to Sharma)
4.    
Claim and Delivery 
5.    
Conversion
6.    
Money Lent
7.    
Account Stated
8.    
Fair Valuation
9.    
Fraud
10.  Negligence
11.  Intentional
Interreference with Prospective Economic Advantage
12.  Negligent
Interreference with Prospective Economic Advantage
13.  Interference
with Contractual Relations
14.  Judicial
Foreclosure
15.  Appointment
of Receiver
 
            In their Cross-Complaint,
Cross-Complainants allege that in granting the Loan to Cross-Complainants,
Hanmi made certain representations with regard to assisting Cross-Complainants
with staying in compliance with Small Business Administration regulations. (XC,
¶ 9.) However, Cross-Complainants also allege that Hanmi negligently managed
the loan and Cross-Complainants lost their Small Business Administration
qualifications and suffered damages. (XC, ¶¶ 10-12.) Cross-Complainants filed
suit alleging the following causes of action against Hanmi: (1) negligence and
(2) intentional misrepresentation – fraud.  
          
 
Request for Judicial Notice
 
            Concurrently
filed with their demurrer, Hanmi files their Request for Judicial Notice (RJN)
and requests that this Court judicially recognize the following:
 
Exhibit 1 - The initial
Complaint filed by Hanmi Bank
Exhibit 2 – Treasury Offset
Program
 
            The Court
need not judicially notice the initial Complaint, as it is unnecessary for the
Court to judicially notice filings in its own docket that it will inevitably
refer to. The Court will also deny judicial notice as to Exhibit 2 because the
documents attached do not correlate with the request, and Hanmi makes no formal
request for the documents actually attached (the Commercial Security Agreement,
the UCC Financing Statement, the Deed of Trust, the Grant Deed, and a Mayflower
Escrow document) to be judicially noticed. Therefore, the RJN is denied.  
 
Meet and Confer
 
            “Before
filing a demurrer…the demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by
telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for
the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would
resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc.
§430.41(a).) Attached to the demurrer is the Declaration of J. Alexandra Rhim
(Rhim Decl.) which states that the parties conferred over telephone on April
23, 2024, but the parties were unable to reach an agreement. Nonetheless, the
requirements of Code Civ. Proc. §430.41(a) have been satisfied. Therefore, the
Court turns its attention to the demurrer. 
 
 
Legal Standard for Demurrer
            “[A]
demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the allegations in a complaint.” (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235
Cal.App.4th 385, 388.) A demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that
appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters outside the
pleading that are judicially noticeable. (See Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 [in
ruling on a demurrer, a court may not consider declarations, matters not
subject to judicial notice, or documents not accepted for the truth of their
contents].) For purposes of ruling on a demurrer, all facts pleaded in a
complaint are assumed to be true, but the reviewing court does not assume the
truth of conclusions of law. (Aubry v.
Tri-City Hosp. Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)
 
Analysis for Demurrer
 
            Hanmi
demurs on the grounds that both causes of action fail to state facts sufficient
to support their respective causes of action. The Court agrees, sustains the
demurrer, and grants Cross-Complainants ten days leave to amend, with the First
Amended Complaint to be filed by July 22, 2024. 
 
 
(1)  First
Cause of Action: Negligence
            In order to state a claim for
negligence, Plaintiff must allege the elements of (1) “the existence of a legal
duty of care,” (2) “breach of that duty,” and (3) “proximate cause resulting in
an injury.” (McIntyre v.
Colonies-Pacific, LLC (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 664, 671.)
 
            The Cross-Complaint is devoid of any
facts demonstrating that Hanmi breached a legal duty. It is unclear what
wrongdoing was committed by Hanmi. The Cross-Complaint only alleges that Hanmi
provided a loan to Cross-Complainants and that – somehow – Hanmi’s negligence
in managing the loan caused harm. With no detail as to Hami’s alleged
misconduct, the first cause of action must fall to demurrer. 
 
(2)  Second
Cause of Action: Negligent Misrepresentation – Fraud
 
            The
elements of a cause of action for negligent misrepresentation include
“[m]isrepresentation of a past or existing material fact, without reasonable
ground for believing it to be true, and with intent to induce another’s
reliance on the fact misrepresented; ignorance of the truth and justifiable
reliance on the misrepresentation by the party to whom it was directed; and
resulting damage.” (Hydro-Mill Co., Inc.
v. Hayward, Tilton & Rolapp Ins. Associates, Inc. (2004) 115
Cal.App.4th 1145, 1154, quotation marks omitted.) The facts constituting the
alleged fraud must be alleged factually and specifically as to every element of
fraud, as the policy of “liberal construction” of the pleadings will not
ordinarily be invoked. (Lazar v. Superior
Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.) To properly allege fraud against a
corporation, the plaintiff must plead the names of the persons allegedly making
the false representations, their authority to speak, to whom they spoke, what
they said or wrote, and when it was said or written. (Tarmann v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153,
157.)
 
            The same
deficiency in the first cause of action persists in the second cause of action.
Specifically in relation to Hanmi’s status as a corporation, Cross-Complainants
are required to plead which representative of Hanmi articulated the false
representation to Cross-Complainants and when it was said. However, those
details are wholly absent. 
 
            With regard
to Cross-Complainants’ negligence action, they are required to set forth
essential facts with reasonable particularity sufficient to acquaint their
defendant with the nature, source, and extent of the cause of action. (See Doe
v. City of Los Angeles (2007) 42 Cal.4th 531, 550.) With causes
of action based in fraud, the pleading requirement is heightened. (See Furia
v. Helm, (2003) 111 Cal.App.4th 945, 956.) The Cross-Complaint
here meets neither threshold, therefore, the demurrer to both causes of action is
sustained. 
 
Leave to Amend
 
            Leave to
amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful
amendment. (See Goodman v. Kennedy
(1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349 [court shall not “sustain a demurrer without leave to
amend if there is any reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by
amendment”]. As there is reasonable possibility of successful amendment, the
Court shall grant ten (10) days leave to amend, with the First Amended
Complaint to be filed and served by July 22, 2024.    
    
 
Conclusion 
 
            Accordingly,
Hanmi’s Demurrer to Cross-Complainants Cross-Complaint is sustained in its
entirety. Cross-Complainant is granted ten days leave to amend, with the First
Amended Complaint to be filed by July 22, 2024.    
 