  Case Number:  22BBCV00813    Hearing Date:   October 30, 2023    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
OCTOBER 30,
2023

DEMURRER
TO CROSS-COMPLAINT

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 22BBCV00813

 



MP:  


Kelly Walsh Sweeny (Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant) 




RP:  


Richard M. Foster
  (Defendant/Cross-Complainant) 



 
NOTICE:
 
The
Court is not requesting oral argument on this matter.  Pursuant to
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) notice of intent to appear is
required.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling, no
argument will be permitted unless a “party notifies all other parties and the
court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the party’s intention
to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become the ruling of the
court if no notice of intent to appear is received.”   
 
Notice
may be given either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818)
260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
On
October 20, 2022, Kelly Walsh Sweeny (“Sweeny”) brought this action against
Richard M. Foster (“Foster”) for declaratory relief. Sweeny seeks a declaration
that settlement proceeds held by her, as survivor of Robert J. Walsh, are not
subject to the attorney lien claimed by Foster.  
 
On
January 25, 2023, Foster filed a Cross-Complaint containing a single cause of
action for breach of contract. On May 19, 2023, the Court sustained Sweeny’s
demurrer to the Cross-Complaint with leave to amend, finding it lacked factual
allegations to constitute its cause of action. 
 
Sweeny
now demurs to the First Amended Cross-Complaint (“FACC”) on grounds Foster
fails to allege sufficient facts to sustain his cause of action. 
 
This
matter was originally scheduled for hearing on October 6, 2023. At the hearing,
counsel for Foster represented that he never received notice of the demurrer.
As such, the Court continued the matter so that Foster could file his
opposition and Sweeny could file her reply. The matter now comes on for hearing
and the Court, having reviewed the subsequent submissions, rules as follows: 
 
JUDICIAL
NOTICE: 
 
Sweeny requests
the Court take notice of a ruling on a Petition for Instructions re
Distribution of Trust Assets and the Order After Hearing on Petition for
Instructions re Distribution of Trusts Assets, in the California Superior
County of Los Angeles Case No. 19STP8002. 
 
Pursuant to
Evidence Code § 452(c), the Court may take judicial notice of records of any
court in the state of California. However,
while courts may take judicial notice of court records, the truth of matters asserted
in such documents is not subject to judicial notice. (Arce v. Kaiser
Foundation Health Plan, Inc. (2010) 181 Cal.App.4th 471, 482.) “[W]hile the existence of any document in a court file may
be judicially noticed, the truth of the matters asserted in those documents,
including the factual findings of the judge who was sitting as the trier of
fact, is not entitled to notice.” (Steed v. Department of Consumer Affairs (2012)
204 Cal.App.4th 112, 121.) 
 
Sweeny wishes to
judicially notice this ruling for the factual findings of Judge Gus T. May. The
factual findings of a judge in a previous court record are not judicially
noticeable. As such, the Court grants Sweeny’s request only insofar as it
acknowledges the ruling in the probate matter exists. The Court does not take
notice of the factual findings in that ruling. 
 
The Court
reiterates its position from the previous demurrer that Sweeny cannot utilize
the ruling for res judicata purposes. It is true that even though a factual
finding in a prior judicial decision may not establish the truth of that fact
for purposes of judicial notice, the finding itself may be a proper subject of
judicial notice if it has a res judicata effect in a subsequent action. (Hawkins
supra, 246 Cal.App.4th 1387, at 1392.) However, the petition Sweeny wishes
to judicially notice does not include her as a party and concerns only the
distribution among her late husband’s children. As such, there is no res
judicata effect to the ruling. 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.               
LEGAL STANDARD 
 
The grounds for a demurrer must appear on the
face of the pleading or from judicially noticeable matters. (C.C.P. §
430.30(a); Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal. 3d 311, 318.) A demurrer for
sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v.
Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) The only issue involved in a
demurrer hearing is whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Ibid.)
 
A demurrer assumes the truth of all factual,
material allegations properly pled in the challenged pleading. (Blank v.
Kirwan, supra, 39 Cal. 3d at p. 318.) No matter how unlikely or improbable,
the plaintiff’s allegations must be accepted as true for the purpose of ruling
on the demurrer. (Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co. (1981)
123 Cal.  App. 3d 593, 604.) But this does not include contentions;
deductions; conclusions of fact or law alleged in the complaint; facts
impossible in law; or allegations contrary to facts of which a court may take
judicial notice.  (Blank, supra, 39 Cal. 3d at p. 318.)
 
Pursuant to C.C.P. §§ 430.10(e) and (f), the
party against whom a complaint has been filed may demur to the pleading on the
grounds that the pleading does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause
of action, or that the pleading is uncertain, ambiguous and/or unintelligible.
It is an abuse of discretion to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if
there is a reasonable probability that the defect can be cured by amendment. (Schifando
v. City of Los Angeles (2003) 31 Cal. 4th 1074, 1082.)
 
II.             
MEET & CONFER 
 
C.C.P. §§ 430.41(a) requires that the moving party meet
and confer with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to the
demurrer. Upon review the Court finds the meet and confer requirements were
met. (Goldman Decl.) 
 
III.           
MERITS 
 
Timeline
 
In clarification of the issues on
demurrer, the Court finds it would be helpful to provide a timeline of events
as they are stated in the FACC and Sweeny’s moving papers. The timeline is as
follows:
 
·       June 4, 1999, Walsh retained Foster to represent
him in the matter of Walsh v. Walker, LASC case number LC045254. (Exh.
B.)
 
·       April 12, 2002, judgement was rendered in favor
of Walsh and against Walker in the sum of $1.9 million (hereinafter the “Walker
Judgment”). (Exh. A.)
 
·       At some point thereafter, a lien was attached to
Walker’s home, but no other collection of the judgment occurred. 
 
·       Oct 21, 2004, Walsh and Sweeny divorced as per
judgment in LASC case number BD 360 422. As part of this judgment, Sweeny was
assigned 50% of the judgment against Walker. (Exh. C.)
 
·       March 10, 2006, the Acknowledgement of Partition and
Assignment of the Walker Judgment for 50% was officially transferred to Ms.
Sweeney. (Exh. D.)
 
·       September 23, 2011, the judgment against Walsh was
renewed on Walsh and Sweeny’s behalf by Foster.
 
·       September 2, 2018, Walsh died. 
 
·       October 17, 2019, Melissa Walsh, Deanna Sims,
Stephanie Walsh, and Patrick Walsh (Walsh Beneficiaries) reached a settlement
agreement with the Kilborn Trust in settlement of their portion of the Walker
judgment (hereinafter known as the “Heir Settlement”). 
 
·       February 20, 2020, an order approving the Heir
Settlement was entered in LASC case number 19STP800299. 
 
·       April 7, 2021, Sweeny applied to renew the judgment (She
claims it was renewed as to Sweeny only). 
 
·       September 2021, Walker’s home was sold. Sweeny accepts
$450,000 in settlement of the judgment lien on Walker’s home. 
 
·       October 3, 2022, an order re: distribution of trust
asset was entered which actualized the Heir Settlement. The order states any
claims/liens of Foster were invalid for being time barred under C.C.P. § 366.2.
 
Breach of Contract
 
To state a cause of action
for breach of contract, Plaintiff must be able to establish “(1) the existence
of the contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3)
defendant’s breach, and (4) the resulting damages to the plaintiff.” (Oasis West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011)
51 Cal.4th 811, 821.)
 
If a breach of contract
claim “is based on alleged breach of a written contract, the terms must be set
out verbatim in the body of the complaint or a copy of the written agreement
must be attached and incorporated by reference.” (Harris v. Rudin, Richman & Appel (1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 299,
307.) In some circumstances, a plaintiff may also “plead the legal effect of
the contract rather than its precise language.” (Construction Protective Services, Inc. v. TIG Specialty Ins. Co.
(2002) 29 Cal.4th 189, 198-199.)
 
The Court previously
sustained Sweeny’s demurrer because it found the Cross-Complaint did not attach
any contract between Foster and Sweeny, nor did it allege facts which would
attach liability to Sweeny for the agreement between Foster and Walsh. The FACC
still fails to allege appropriate theory of liability even after attaching the
order in which Walsh assigned 50% of his interest in the Walker Judgment to
Sweeny as a condition of their divorce.  (Exhs.
C & D.) The assignment reads as follows: 
 
Respondent shall assign to Petitioner her one-half of the judgment
in regards to the matter of Walsh v. Walker, subject to the Respondent's
reimbursement of the attorney fees and costs paid by the Respondent, to obtain
and protect the judgment.
 
(FAC, Exh. C p. 7.) 
 
In attaching this order, Foster
clearly alleges half of the legal entitlement to the Walker judgment is now in
possession of Sweeny; however, the assignment of an interest in a judgment does
not concomitantly assign obligations under a contract. Foster also alleges
Sweeny took this 50% subject to the attorneys’ fees and costs owed by Walsh,
but that does not necessarily mean that Sweeny is liable for breach of contract.
Sweeny demurs solely on the basis of failure to allege sufficient facts
attesting to her contractual liability. Foster has still not pled such facts to
justify this cause of action.   Walker
argues in their opposition that there may be liability under a theory of
quasi-contract; however that is not the same cause of action as breach of
contract.
 
Foster also attaches the
contract between himself and Walsh as Exhibit B. The contract appears to have
been executed in 1999 and the sole client designated is Robert J. Walsh. The
contract also appears to entitle Foster to 45% of the gross recovery in the
matter. (Exh. B. ¶4(a).)   As discussed
in the Demurrer, Cross-defendant is not a signatory to the contract.  The Court agrees.
 
Together Exhibits B, C, and
D are insufficient to allege the legal effect of a contractual relationship
between Foster and Sweeny. Foster held an interest in the Walker judgment, 50%
of which was thereafter assigned to Sweeny. Foster alleges Sweeny accepted $450,000
in settlement of her portion of the Walker Judgment without consulting Foster.
Foster also alleges Sweeny is now attempting to bar him from his legal
entitlement to a portion of the settlement proceeds as established in the
original retainer agreement. Nevertheless, this does not arise to a breach of
contract to an agreement which cross-defendant is not a party.  
 
Collateral Estoppel
 
The Court finds Sweeny’s
arguments that Foster is collaterally estopped from pursuing his claim to be
unpersuasive. Sweeny argues the judgment approving the Heir Settlement
completely bars any attempt of Foster to pursue his portion of the judgment.
The language of the judgement is as follows: 
 
Any and all claims/liens of attorney Richard Foster to the
Settlement Amount, as described in the subject Petition, are invalid, and/or
untimely and/or bared under CCP § 366.2. 
 
(RJI p. 4.) 
 
The Court disagrees that
this language is insufficient at the pleading stage for Foster’s claim to
Sweeny’s portion of the Walker Judgment. Sweeny was not a party to the petition
and the probate court was never rendering any opinion as to Sweeny’s 50%
interest. The order makes it clear the claims of Foster are barred as to the
Settlement Amount as described in the petition, that being the $225,000
recovered by the Walsh Beneficiaries. (RJI p. 9.) The settlement of the Walsh
Beneficiaries and the settlement obtained by Sweeny are two separate things, the
latter of which was not involved in the probate court’s decision.   Furthermore, Sweeny, the cross-defendant,
acquired her right to the judgment prior to the death.   Her interest was never before Judge May.
 
Sweeny further argues that
C.C.P. § 366.2 precludes recovery by Foster by matter of statute.  C.C.P. § 366.2(a) provides: 
 
If a person against whom an action may be brought on a liability
of the person, whether arising in contract, tort, or otherwise, and whether
accrued or not accrued, dies before the expiration of the applicable
limitations period, and the cause of action survives, an action may be
commenced within one year after the date of death, and the limitations period
that would have been applicable does not apply.
 
The Court finds C.C.P. §
366.2 does not apply to Sweeny’s portion of the judgment. Sweeny was assigned
her portion of the judgment while Walsh was living, at which point she came to own
a 50% interest in the judgment. The FACC alleges its cause of action against
Sweeny in connection with that 50% interest, not against Walsh for any portion
he retained. 
 
Lastly, the Court disagrees
with Sweeny’s argument that Foster is precluded from his claim because Sweeny
renewed the judgment only as to herself. Sweeny’s renewal of the judgment in
her name does not change the fact that the judgment was obtained pursuant to
the contract between Foster and Walsh. Sweeny cites no authority that her
renewal invalidates Foster’s claim to her assigned interest.  
 
Finally, in the moving
party’s reply they raise issues concerning whether responding party received
sufficient notice concerning the original demurrer.   That is not an issue that the Court need
address in this ruling and does not seek any argument on the issue.
--- 
 
RULING:
In the event the parties
submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed order or the
court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the following form will
be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and entered into the
court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Kelly
Walsh Sweeny’s Demurrer
came on regularly for hearing on October 30, 2023, with appearances/submissions
as noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the court, being fully
advised in the premises, did then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE DEMURRER IS SUSTAINED WITH 20 DAYS’ LEAVE TO
AMEND.  
 
CASE MANAGEMENT CONFERENCE IS CONTINUED TO JANUARY
30, 2024 AT 9:00 A.M.
 
PLAINTIFF AND CROSS-DEFENDANT TO GIVE NOTICE
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
October 30, 2023                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
     F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 