

 
            This is a
habitability case. Plaintiff Caitlin Morris (Plaintiff) filed a complaint for unhabitable living conditions in her apartment
located at 32 Echo Park Ave, Los Angeles, CA 90026 against the owner, Defendant
Echo Park Properties, LLC, and the property management company, Defendant Vesa
Commercial, Inc.
 
Plaintiff
now moves the Court for an order directing service of summons and complaint to
be made on Defendant Echo Park Properties, LLC and Vesa Commercial Inc. by
service on the California Secretary of State. The motions are unopposed.
 
            The Motion
for Order Directing Service of Summons on Defendant Echo Park Properties, LLC
by delivery of process to Secretary of State is denied. The Motion for Order
Directing Service of Summons on Defendant Vesa Commercial, Inc. by delivery of
process to Secretary of State is denied.
 
Discussion
 
            Plaintiff moves the Court for an
order directing service of summons and complaint to be made on Defendant Echo
Park Properties, LLC and Defendant Vesa Commercial, Inc. by service on the
California Secretary of State. 
 
First, Plaintiff contends that designated Agent for Service
of Process for Defendant Echo Park has intentionally evaded service of process.
 
Pursuant to California law, a court
may order, under certain circumstances, that service be made on a corporation
by hand-delivery of process and an order authorizing such service to the
Secretary of State. Corporation Code section 1702, subdivision (a), provides:
 
“If an agent for the purpose of
service of process has resigned and has not been replaced or if the agent
designated cannot with reasonable diligence be found at the address designated
for personally delivering the process, or if no agent has been designated and
it is shown by affidavit to the satisfaction of the court that process against
a domestic corporation cannot be served with reasonable diligence upon the
designated agent by hand in the manner provided in Section 415.10, subdivision
(a) of Section 415.20 or subdivision (a) of Section 415.30 of the Code of Civil
Procedure or upon the corporation in the manner provided in subdivision (a),
(b) or (c) of Section 416.10 or subdivision (a) of Section 416.20 of the Code
of Civil Procedure, the court may make an order that the service be made upon
the corporation by delivering by hand to the Secretary of State, or to any
person employed in the Secretary of State's office in the capacity of assistant
or deputy, one copy of the process for each defendant to be served, together
with a copy of the order authorizing such service. Service in this manner is
deemed complete on the 10th day after delivery of the process to the Secretary
of State.”
 
“[A]s a condition precedent to the
issuance of an order for such substituted service,” a plaintiff's affidavit
must establish that “the corporation cannot be served with the exercise of due
diligence in any other manner provided by law.” (Batte v. Bandy (1958)
165 Cal.App.2d 527, 528.)
 
Here, the California Secretary of Business identified Defendant
Echo Park Properties, LLC as an active California corporation and the agent for
service of process or Registered Agent was Norman Pedersen. The address
designated Agent for Service of Process for Defendant Echo Park Properties, LLC
is 444 Flower St 2530, Los Angeles, CA 90071. (Zolfaghari Decl., ¶ 4.) Plaintiff’s
counsel instructed their registered process server at One Legal to serve
Defendant Echo Park Properties, LLC via Norman Pedersen at the address listed
with the Secretary of State with a copy of the Summons, Complaint, Civil Case
Cover Sheet and Addendum, Notice of Case Assignment, and Notice – ADR Package.
(Zolfaghari Decl., ¶ 5.) The process server made eight unsuccessful attempts at
this registered address. (Zolfaghari Decl., ¶ 6-8, Ex. A-B). 
 
Thereafter, Plaintiff retained a private investigator and
performed a Skip Trace on the Defendant’s registered agent Norman Pedersen and
found his home address to be 608 Starlight Crest Dr, La Cañada Flintridge, CA
91011. (Zolfaghari Decl., ¶ 9.) Plaintiff’s registered process then made four unsuccessful
attempts to serve Defendant’s registered process server at this home address. (Zolfaghari
Decl., ¶ 10, Ex. C.) 
 
This affidavit is insufficient. 
 
In addition to delivery to the
designated agent under subdivision (a), California Code of Civil Procedure
Section 416.10 also provides under subdivision (b) that a summons may be served
on a corporation by any of the following methods:
 
“To the president, chief executive
officer, or other head of the corporation, a vice president, a secretary or
assistant secretary, a treasurer or assistant treasurer, a controller or chief
financial officer, a general manager, or a person authorized by the corporation
to receive service of process.”
 
Where a plaintiff’s affidavit fails
to demonstrate that a diligent search for officers as well as agents was
performed, the affidavit is inadequate. (Batte, 165 Cal.App.2d at 536.) In
Batte, the court found an affidavit insufficient because it failed “to
disclose that any effort was made to locate any [corporate] officer within the
state.” (Batte, 165 Cal.App.2d at 535-536.)  
 
In the instant case, Plaintiff's
affidavit is insufficient for the same reason. It shows her attempts to serve
consisted of multiple attempted service at address listed for Defendant's
principal place of business on the designated agent and attempts at service at
the designated agent’s home address. There is no indication Plaintiff has made
any attempt to locate officers of the corporation. 
 
Accordingly, although Plaintiff has
made some good faith attempts to serve the corporation's designated agent, it
has failed to show “that the corporation cannot be served with the exercise of
due diligence in any other manner provided by law.” (Batte, 165
Cal.App.2d at 535; see also Viewtech, Inc. v. Skytech USA, Inc. (S.D.
Cal., May 14, 2007, No. CIV. 07CV541-L(NLS)) 2007 WL 1429903, at *2.) Until
Plaintiff can show she attempted to comply with section 416.10 but nevertheless
could not effect service, it is not appropriate “to seek the assistance of the
court and the Secretary of State in obtaining jurisdiction.” (Gibble v.
Car-Lene Research, Inc. (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 295, 312.)
 
Plaintiff has not established that process cannot be served with
reasonable diligence pursuant to Corporations Code section 1702. Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s request to serve Defendant Echo Park Properties, LLC by delivery of
process to the California Secretary of State is denied.
 
With respect to Defendant Vesa Commercial, the California
Secretary of Business identified Defendant Vesa Commercial as an active
California corporation and the agent for service of process or Registered Agent
as “1505 Corporation, Registered Agents Inc.” (Zolfaghari Decl., ¶ 4.) There was no address for the agent for service of
process. Instead, the principal address was 3801 Eagle Rock Blvd., #8, Los
Angeles, CA 90065 and the mailing address was PO Box 65645, Los Angeles, CA
90065. (Zolfaghari Deccl., ¶ 4.)
 
Plaintiff’s counsel then instructed their registered process
server at One Legal to serve Vesa Commercial via “1505 Corporation, Registered
Agents Inc.” listed with the Secretary of State with a copy of the Summons,
Complaint, Civil Case Cover Sheet and Addendum, Notice of Case Assignment, and
Notice – ADR Package. (Zolfaghari Decl., ¶ 5.) 
 
On June 24, 2024, service was attempted on Vesa Commercial
via CSC Lawyers Incorporating Service - Nicole Stauss - Person Authorized to
Accept Service of Process. (Zolfaghari Decl., ¶ 6). Three days later, Plaintiff’s
counsel was notified by CSC Lawyers Incorporating Services via a letter that
the service of process could not be forwarded to the intended party.
(Zolfaghari Decl., ¶ 7.)
 
Thereafter, Plaintiff retained a private investigator to
confirm that the address of Vesa Commercial’s owner/principal, Matthew Parrish,
was the principal address listed on the Secretary of State at 3801 Eagle Rock
Blvd., #8, Los Angeles, CA 90065. (Zolfaghari Decl., ¶ 8.) Plaintiff’s process
server made eight attempts to serve Matthew Parrish at this address. (Zolfaghari
Decl., ¶¶ 10-11, Exs. B-C.) 
 
Plaintiff's affidavit is again insufficient.
It shows her attempts to serve consisted of one attempt of service at the
designated agent’s address and multiple attempts at service at the address
listed for Defendant’s principal place of business on the owner. There is no
indication Plaintiff has made any attempt to locate any other officers of the
corporation. 
 
Thus, for similar reasons as Defendant Echo Properties, LLC, the Motion for Order Directing Service of Summons on Defendant Vesa
Commercial, Inc. by delivery of process to Secretary of State is denied.
 