 Case Number:  20STCV49421    Hearing Date:   April 4, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
 



NALLELI COBO-URIARTE,
  
        
  vs.
 
ALLENCO ENERGY
  INC., et al.
 


 Case
  No.:  20STCV49421
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  April 4, 2024



 
            Plaintiff’s motion to strike or
tax costs is GRANTED in part. 
 
The Court taxes the costs for “Other.” The motion is
otherwise denied.
 
 
            On August 26, 2022, Plaintiff
Nalleli Cobo Uriarte (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants Allenco
Energy Inc., Timothy James Parker, Clifford E. Peter Allen, St James Oil
Corporation, and Archdiocese of Los Angeles. Plaintiff filed the operative
Second Amended Complaint on September 3, 2021 for (1) negligence and (2) strict
liability for ultrahazardous activity. 
 
Plaintiff now moves to strike or tax costs set forth in
Defendant Roman Catholic Archdiocese’s (“Defendant”) memorandum of costs. Defendant
opposes.
 
Legal
Standard
 
In general, the “prevailing party” is
entitled as a matter of right to recover costs for suit in any action or
proceeding. (CCP § 1032(b); Santisas v. Goodin (1998) 17 Cal.4th 599,
606; Scott Co. Of Calif. v. Blount, Inc. (1999) 20 Cal.4th 1103, 1108.)¿
Assuming the “prevailing party” requirements are met, the trial court has no
discretion to order each party to bear his or her own costs of suit.¿ (Michell
v. Olick (1996) 49 Cal.App.4th 1194, 1198; Nelson v. Anderson (1999)
72 Cal.App.4th 111, 129.) A defendant who is dismissed from the action is the
“prevailing party.”¿ (CCP § 1032(a)(4).) This is so whether the dismissal is
voluntary or involuntary.¿ (Santisas, supra, 17 Cal.4th at 606.)¿
 
Allowable costs under Section 1033.5 must be
reasonably necessary to the conduct of the litigation, rather than merely
convenient or beneficial to its preparation, and must be reasonable in amount.¿
An item not specifically allowable under Section 1033.5(a) nor prohibited under
subdivision (b) may nevertheless be recoverable in the discretion of the court
if they meet the above requirements (i.e., reasonably necessary and reasonable
in amount).¿ If the items appearing in a cost bill appear to be proper charges,
the burden is on the party seeking to tax costs to show that they were not
reasonable or necessary. (Ladas v. California State Automotive Assoc.
(1993) 19 Cal.App.4th 761, 773-774.)¿ On the other hand, if the items are properly
objected to, they are put in issue and the burden of proof is on the party
claiming them as costs.¿ (Ibid.) Whether a cost item was reasonably
necessary to the litigation presents a question of fact for the trial court and
its decision is reviewed for abuse of discretion.¿ (Ibid.)¿ However,
because the right to costs is governed strictly by statute, a court has no
discretion to award costs not statutorily authorized.¿ (Ibid.)¿
Discretion is abused only when, in its exercise, the court “exceeds the bounds
of reason, all of the circumstances being considered.”¿ (Ibid.)¿¿¿
 
Discussion

 
            Plaintiff does not dispute that
Defendant is the prevailing party, but argues the memorandum should be stricken
as untimely, or alternatively, taxed. 
 
Timeliness
 
Plaintiff argues that the memorandum is
untimely because it was filed more than 15 days after the notice of entry of
judgment. The notice of entry of judgment was electronically served on November
28, 2023. The memorandum of costs was filed on December 14, 2023, which is 16
days from the service of the notice. 
 
“A prevailing party who claims costs
must serve and file a memorandum of costs within 15 days after the date of
mailing of the notice of entry of judgment or dismissal by the clerk under Code
of Civil Procedure section 664.5 or the date of service of written notice of
entry of judgment or dismissal, or within 180 days after entry of judgment,
whichever is first. The memorandum of costs must be verified by a statement of
the party, attorney, or agent that to the best of his or her knowledge the
items of cost are correct and were necessarily incurred in the case.” (CRC Rule
3.1700(a)(1).) “Any notice of motion to strike or to tax costs must be served
and filed 15 days after service of the cost memorandum. If the cost memorandum
was served by mail, the period is extended as provided in Code of Civil
Procedure section 1013.” (CRC Rule 3.1700(b)(1)).) Any period of notice, or any
right or duty to do any act or make any response within any period or on a date
certain after the service of the document, which time period or date is
prescribed by statute or rule of court, shall be extended after service by
electronic means by two court days. (CCP § 1010.6(a)(3)(B).)
 
Plaintiff neglected to add the 2 days
for email. Accordingly, the memorandum of costs was timely filed and served.
 
Tax Costs
 
“[T]he verified memorandum of costs is
prima facie evidence of their propriety, and the burden is on the party seeking
to tax costs to show they were not reasonable or necessary.” (612 South LLC
v. Laconic Ltd. Partnership (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 1270, 1285.) Evidence is
generally required in order to support an objection, and the mere submission of
conclusions or bare allegations typically does not justify taxing costs. (See County
of Kern v. Ginn (1983) 146 Cal.App.3d 1107) (bare allegation that
depositions were neither necessary nor reasonable insufficient to overcome
right to costs). Allegations are sufficient, however, if they depend upon
undisputed facts where nothing more needed to be, or could have been, added by
additional declarations or affidavits. (Fennessy v. Deleuw-Cather Corp.
(1990) 218 Cal.App.3d 1192, 1196.)
 
Plaintiff moves to tax certain costs but
does not support the request with any evidence as to why the costs are not
reasonable or necessary. Further, Plaintiff’s arguments are generally conclusory.

 
Plaintiff argues that the filing fee for
a stipulation is not recoverable, but argues that it was $435, but it was only
$20. Further, Plaintiff argues that “Item 63 of the California Statewide Civil
Fee Schedule states that there is no fee for a Stipulation that does not
require an order. The stipulation that Defendant filed did not require any sort
of order.” However, the memorandum of costs actually states that it is a
stipulation and proposed order. 
 
Plaintiff also makes the argument that
the deposition fees are vague and for example, it should not be charged for
service fees from the deposition companies. However, the memorandum of costs
does not require Defendant to itemize the deposition fees to such a degree of
specificity. Thus, the argument fails. 
 
Plaintiff also argues that service of
process fees are unclear and Plaintiff cannot determine who completed the
alleged service and what was served. However, the memorandum of costs clearly
states the registered name of the person served. As Defendant points out in
opposition, it is clear that these were costs incurred for serving subpoenas
for production of medical records to each of plaintiff’s medical providers. 
 
Lastly, Plaintiff argues that the costs
for “other” are improper. Plaintiff argues that the court reporter fees for the
ex parte hearing on 8/3/22 were not necessary because it was uncontested. While
Plaintiff does not present any evidence in support of this, Defendant does not
appear to deny this assertion and does not make any substantive argument as to
this point. Accordingly, Defendant has failed to show this cost is necessary
and reasonable. Plaintiff also argues that the investigator fees are not recoverable
under CCP § 1033.5(b). Defendant offers no counter argument to this point.
Accordingly, this cost is not recoverable. 
 
Thus, the motion to strike
or tax costs is GRANTED in part and DENIED in part. The Court taxes the costs
for “Other.” The motion is otherwise denied.
 
 
Dated:
April 4, 2024
                                                                                                                                                
Hon. Jon R. Takasugi
Judge of the Superior Court
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517. 
 