 Case Number:  23TRCV01893    Hearing Date:   January 19, 2024    Dept:  B Moving
Parties:                      Defendants Paul Plotkin and 923 1st Street MB,
LLC
Responding Party:                  Plaintiff Jorge Alberto Marenco
(1)  
Motion
to Compel Plaintiff to Provide Substantive Responses to Defendants’ Interrogatories,
Set One
(2)  
Motion
to Compel Plaintiff to Provide Substantive Responses to Defendants’ Requests
for Production, Set One
 
            The court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.
RULING
            The motions are GRANTED.  The court orders plaintiff to respond further
without objections to defendants’ form and special interrogatories, set one and
requests for production of documents, set one within 30 days. 
BACKGROUND
On June 12, 2023, plaintiff Jorge
Alberto Marenco filed a complaint against defendants Paul Plotkin and 923 1st
Street MB, LLC for general negligence and premises liability.
On August 18, 2023, Paul Plotkin
and 923 1st Street MB, LLC filed a cross-complaint against West Side
Design and Construction Group, Inc. and Ruben Camacho for breach of contract,
indemnity, and declaratory relief.
            On November 20, 2023, West Side
Design and Construction Group, Inc. and Ruben Camacho filed a cross-complaint
against Moes 1-150 for indemnity, contribution, and negligence.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
45-Day Rule: 
This motion must be served within 45 days after service of the response
in question (extended if served by mail, overnight delivery, or fax; see CCP
§1013); otherwise, the demanding party waives the right to compel any further
response to the CCP §2031.010 demand. 
CCP §§2031.310(c), 2016.050; see Sperber
v. Robinson (1994) 26 Cal. App. 4th 736, 745.  The 45-day time limit is mandatory and
jurisdictional.  Sexton v. Superior Court (1997) 58 Cal. App. 4th 1403, 1410.  The parties, however, can also agree in
writing on a specific later date by which to file the motion to compel.  CCP §2031.310(c). 
Meet-and-Confer Requirement: 
The motion to compel further responses must be accompanied by a
declaration showing “a reasonable and good faith attempt” to resolve the issues
outside of court (so-called “meet and confer”). 
CCP §§2016.040, 2031.310(b)(2).
Separate Statement: 
Any motion involving the content of a discovery request or the responses
to such a request shall be accompanied by a separate statement.  This includes a motion to compel further
responses to demand for inspection of documents or tangible things.  CRC Rule 3.1020(a)(3).  
Interrogatories
CCP §2030.300 states:  “(a) On receipt of a response to
interrogatories, the propounding party may move for an order compelling a
further response if the propounding party deems that any of the following
apply:   (1) An answer to a particular
interrogatory is evasive or incomplete. . . . (3) An objection to an
interrogatory is without merit or too general. 
(b) A motion under subdivision (a) shall be accompanied by a meet and
confer declaration under Section 2016.040. (c) Unless notice of this motion is
given within 45 days of the service of the verified response, or any
supplemental verified response, or on or before any specific later date to
which the propounding party and the responding party have agreed in writing,
the propounding party waives any right to compel a further response to the
interrogatories. . . .”
CCP §2030.220 states:  “(a) Each answer in a response to
interrogatories shall be as complete and straightforward as the information
reasonably available to the responding party permits.  (b) If an interrogatory cannot be answered
completely, it shall be answered to the extent possible.  (c) If the responding party does not have
personal knowledge sufficient to respond fully to an interrogatory, that party
shall so state, but shall make a reasonable and good faith effort to obtain the
information by inquiry to other natural persons or organizations, except where
the information is equally available to the propounding party.”
Request for Production of Documents
On receipt of a response to an
inspection demand, the demanding party may move for an order compelling further
responses to the demand if the demanding party deems that any of the following
apply:  (1) a statement of compliance
with the demand is incomplete; (2) a representation of inability to comply is
inadequate, incomplete, or evasive; or (3) an objection in the response is
without merit or too general.  CCP
§2031.310(a).  A statement of compliance
shall state that the production, inspection, and related activity demanded will
be allowed either in whole or in part, and that all documents or things in the
demanded category that are in the possession, custody, or control of that party
and to which no objection is being made will be included in the production.  CCP §2031.220.  “A representation of inability to comply with
[a] particular demand for inspection . . . shall affirm that a diligent search
and reasonable inquiry has been made in an effort to comply with that
demand.  This statement shall also specify
whether the inability to comply is because the particular item or category has
never existed, has been destroyed, has been lost, misplaced, or stolen, or has
never been, or is no longer, in the possession, custody, or control of the
responding party.  This statement shall
set forth the name and address of any natural person or organization known or
believed by that party to have possession, custody, or control of that item or
category of item.”  CCP §2031.230. 
A motion to compel further response
to requests for production “shall set forth specific facts showing good cause
justifying the discovery sought by the inspection demand.”  CCP § 2031.310(b)(1).  “To establish ‘good cause,’ the burden is on
the moving party to show both:  [1] Relevance to the subject matter (e.g.,
how the information in the documents would tend to prove or disprove some issue
in the case); and [2] Specific facts justifying discovery
(e.g., why such information is necessary for trial preparation or to prevent
surprise at trial).  The fact that there
is no alternative source for the
information sought is an important factor in establishing ‘good cause’ for
inspection.  But it is not essential in every case.”  Weil & Brown, Civil Procedure Before Trial, 8:1495.6 (citations omitted).  “Declarations are generally used to show the
requisite ‘good cause’ for an order to compel inspection.  The declarations must contain ‘specific facts’
rather than mere conclusions.”  Id. at 8:1495.7 (citation omitted).  “The declarations may be on information and
belief, if necessary.  However, in such
cases, the ‘specific facts’ supporting such information and belief (the sources
of the information) must also be alleged.” 
Id. at 8:1495.8 (citation
omitted).  “Most declarations are made by
the attorney for the moving party, who is usually more familiar with the
relevancy and ‘specific facts’ constituting ‘good cause’ for inspection.”  Id.
at 8:1495.9.
“If ‘good cause’ is shown by the moving
party, the burden is then on the responding party to justify any objections
made to document disclosure (the same as on motions to compel answers to
interrogatories or deposition questions. . . ).”  Id.
at 8:1496 (citation omitted).  
DISCUSSION
            Defendants
Paul Plotkin and 923 1st Street MB, LLC request that the court order
plaintiff Jorge Alberto Marenco to respond further to their Form Interrogatories,
Special Interrogatories, and Requests for Production of Documents, Set One in
their entirety.
            The
complaint alleges that on June 14, 2021, plaintiff was working at the property
located at 923 1st Street, Manhattan Beach, owned by defendants Paul
Plotkin and 923 1st Street MB, LLC, as an employee of Ruben Camacho
Construction and Inspection Service. 
Defendants provided Ruben Camacho Construction and Inspection Service
with a ladder for its employees to use while working at the property.  Unbeknownst to plaintiff, but known to
defendants, the ladder was broken, and when plaintiff climbed up on it, it
collapsed, thereby causing plaintiff to sustain severe bodily injuries.
            Defendants
explain that the written discovery requests were served on plaintiff on August
18, 2023.  On September 25, 2023, defense
counsel met and conferred with plaintiff’s counsel about the overdue
responses.  On September 26, 2023,
plaintiff requested an extension to respond, to October 30, 2023.  On October 27, 2023, plaintiff served only
objections.  On October 30, 2023, defense
counsel provided plaintiff with a 30-day extension, due on November 29,
2023.  On November 30, 2023, defense
counsel sent a meet and confer letter to plaintiff’s counsel because plaintiff
had not served substantive responses. 
Plaintiff’s counsel responded, “we aren’t in a position to respond to
discovery right now.”  On December 2 and
7, defense counsel requested substantive responses.  Defendants contend that as defense counsel
did not receive a response, defendants served their motions on December 11,
2023.
            In
opposition, plaintiff requests that the court issue a protective order that the
requests need not be answered or that the time to respond be extended.  He asserts that on July 26, 2023, he
“received a threatening text message” from “Tony MacKaren,” an employee of
Ruben Camacho Construction aka West Side Design and Construction Group, Inc.,
which states, “don’t ever let me see you man.” 
Plaintiff contends that on October 27, 2023, due to his fears of the
repercussions for providing substantive responses to said discovery, plaintiff
requested an extension to respond and after not hearing back from defense
counsel, plaintiff “was forced to serve objections to the discovery
requests.”  On November 30, 2023,
plaintiff’s counsel wrote to defense counsel “advising them of the threats that
plaintiff received, explaining that plaintiff needed time to figure out a
solution, and that plaintiff was willing to work with defendants to get them
responses when possible.”  On December 1,
2023, plaintiff asserts, he informally provided and/or offered to provide
information and documents to defendants, including plaintiff’s date of birth
and a copy of the worker’s compensation file. 
Plaintiff also offered defendants an extension of time to file motions
to compel responses.  Plaintiff explains
that on December 7, 2023, defense counsel requested a date certain that they
would receive responses or else they would file a motion to compel, but,
unfortunately, plaintiff’s counsel was unable to respond to defense counsel’s
email before defendants filed the motions.
            In
reply, defendants contend that plaintiff appears to be asking for an indefinite
stay on discovery, a request which is not properly made via opposition to a
motion to compel, and even if it were, plaintiff does not present good cause
and has not promptly moved for a protective order.  Defendants argue that a text message from an
employee of a different party six months ago is not a basis for failing to
respond.
            The
court finds that defendants properly served written discovery requests and that
plaintiff’s objections lack merit. 
Plaintiff made no arguments otherwise. 
Further, plaintiff did not promptly file a protective order and has not
shown good cause for one based on what appears to be a vague text message from
a purported employee of another party several months ago.
ORDER:
            The
motions are thus GRANTED.
            Moving
defendants are ordered to give notice of ruling. 