  Case Number:  22TRCV01612    Hearing Date:   January 19, 2024    Dept:  B Hearing
Date:                          January 19, 2024
Moving
Parties:                      Plaintiff Yvonne Carol Hrabe
Responding
Party:                  None
Motion
for an Order Filing Under Seal “Certificate of Corroborative Facts” Per CCP §§340.1(L)
and (M)
            The court considered the moving
papers.
RULING
            The motion is GRANTED.
BACKGROUND
            On December 28, 2022, Yvonne Carol
Hrabe filed a complaint under CCP §340.1 against Does 1 through 100 for
childhood sexual assault.
            On February 23, 2023, the court
granted plaintiff’s ex parte application to file certificates of merit under
seal.
LEGAL
AUTHORITY
CCP §340.1 states, in part:  
“(l) At any time after the action
is filed, the plaintiff may apply to the court for permission to amend the
complaint to substitute the name of the defendant or defendants for the
fictitious designation, as follows:
(1) The application shall be
accompanied by a certificate of corroborative fact executed by the attorney for
the plaintiff. The certificate shall declare that the attorney has discovered
one or more facts corroborative of one or more of the charging allegations
against a defendant or defendants, and shall set forth in clear and concise
terms the nature and substance of the corroborative fact. If the corroborative
fact is evidenced by the statement of a witness or the contents of a document,
the certificate shall declare that the attorney has personal knowledge of the
statement of the witness or of the contents of the document, and the identity
and location of the witness or document shall be included in the certificate.
For purposes of this section, a fact is corroborative of an allegation if it
confirms or supports the allegation. The opinion of any mental health
practitioner concerning the plaintiff shall not constitute a corroborative fact
for purposes of this section.
(2) If the application to name a
defendant is made before that defendant’s appearance in the action, neither the
application nor the certificate of corroborative fact by the attorney shall be
served on the defendant or defendants, nor on any other party or their counsel
of record.
(3) If the application to name a
defendant is made after that defendant’s appearance in the action, the
application shall be served on all parties and proof of service provided to the
court, but the certificate of corroborative fact by the attorney shall not be
served on any party or their counsel of record.
(m) The court shall review the
application and the certificate of corroborative fact in camera and, based
solely on the certificate and any reasonable inferences to be drawn from the
certificate, shall, if one or more facts corroborative of one or more of the
charging allegations against a defendant has been shown, order that the
complaint may be amended to substitute the name of the defendant or defendants.
(n) The court shall keep under seal
and confidential from the public and all parties to the litigation, other than
the plaintiff, any and all certificates of corroborative fact filed pursuant to
subdivision (l).”
Cal. Rule
of Court 2.585 states, “(a) If a confidential in-camera proceeding is held in
which a party is excluded from being represented, the clerk must include in the
minutes the nature of the hearing and only such references to writings or
witnesses as will not disclose privileged information.  (b) Records examined by the court in
confidence under (a), or copies of them, must be filed with the clerk under
seal and must not be disclosed without court order.
DISCUSSION
Plaintiff
seeks an order to seal the certificates of corroborative facts pursuant to CCP §340.1(l)
and (m).  
            The
motion is GRANTED in accordance with CCP §§340.1(l)-(n) and Cal. Rules of Court
2.585(b).
            Moving party is ordered to give
notice of ruling.
 