 Case Number:  23TRCV03444    Hearing Date:   January 19, 2024    Dept:  B Hearing
Date:                          January 19, 2024
 
Moving Parties:                      Defendants Fadi K. Rasheed
and Leech Tishman Fuscaldo & Lampl, Inc. 
Responding
Party:                  Plaintiff Larry Tang
Motion
to Stay Further Proceedings
            The court considered the moving
papers and plaintiff’s notice of non-opposition.  (The
Court notes that it is a “best practice” for a party that does not oppose a
motion to file his own papers indicating that fact.)
RULING
            The motion is GRANTED.  The case is STAYED.  
BACKGROUND
            On January 17, 2023, plaintiff Larry
Tang filed a complaint against Fadi K. Rasheed and Leech Tishman Fuscaldo &
Lampl, Inc. for (1) professional negligence (legal malpractice), (2) breach of
contract, and (3) breach of fiduciary duty. 
Plaintiff alleges that in October 2021, plaintiff retained defendants to
represent his interests in a business tort and contract action brought against
one of plaintiff’s former business partners, Brian Horowitz.  Complaint, ¶7.  Defendants assigned Rasheed as the lead trial
counsel to represent plaintiff against Horowitz, and in that regard, defendant
caused a complaint against Horowitz to be filed on November 19, 2021.  Id., ¶8. 
Unbeknownst to plaintiff, defendants spent the next seven months doing
absolutely nothing on the file and allowing it to languish while Horowitz and
his counsel conducted discovery and file a motion for summary judgment.  Id., ¶9. 
On October 25, 2022, plaintiff fired defendants and retained the Law
Offices of Thomas S. Carter, which law firm immediately served written
discovery, obtained a continuance of Horowitz’s summary judgment motion, and
then drafted an opposition.  Horowitz’s
motion was granted, which prompted plaintiff to file an appeal, which appeal is
currently pending.  Id., ¶10.
            On December 13, 2023, defendant
Leech Tishman filed a cross-complaint against Tang for breach of contract and
common counts for failure to pay attorney’s fees.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
            Under CCP §128, “(a) Every court
shall have the power to do all of the following: . . . (3) To provide for the
orderly conduct of proceedings before it, or its officers. . . . (8) To amend
and control its process and orders so as to make them conform to law and
justice. . . .”
DISCUSSION
            Pursuant
to CCP §128, defendants Fadi K. Rasheed and Leech Tishman Fuscaldo &
Lample, Inc. request an order staying all further proceedings pending the
resolution of an underlying appeal in Larry Tang v. Brian Horowitz, California
Court of Appeal, Fourth Appellate District, Case No. G062359 and the resolution
thereafter of any further proceeding arising therefrom in the underlying action
Tang v. Horowitz, Orange County Superior Court, Case No.
30-2021-01232845-CU-BC-CJC.
            Defendants
contend that the unresolved status of the underlying appeal will affect the
issues of liability and damage, which are still uncertain and speculative.  Defendants assert that the California Supreme
Court has “repeatedly held that legal malpractice litigation should be stayed
during the pendency of related, underlying litigation that could impact the
outcome of the legal malpractice litigation,” citing to Beal Bank, SSB v.
Arter & Hadden, LLP (2007) 42 Cal. 4th 503, 513 (“’trial
courts have inherent authority to stay malpractice suits, holding them in
abeyance pending resolution of underlying litigation’”) citing to Coscia v.
McKenna & Cuneo (2001) 25 Cal. 4th 1194, 1210-1211, and
other cases.
            Plaintiff
filed a notice of non-opposition.
            The
court finds that a stay is warranted in that the amount of damages in a legal
malpractice case is contingent upon the outcome of the underlying litigation,
which in this case is pending on appeal.  See Rosenthal v. Wilner, 197 Cal. App.
3d 1327, 1331 (“’Irrespective of whether Rosenthal can establish that [attorney
defendants] negligently represented him, he cannot successfully prove that
their negligence was the proximate cause of the damages he allegedly sustained
until the merits of the [underlying] appeal have been resolved.’”); Sindell
v. Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher, 54 Cal. App. 4th 1457, 1473 n.11
(“since it does appear that the full extent of plaintiffs’ damages cannot be
determined until the resolution of the pending litigation, the trial court has
the inherent authority to stay this action pending that event.”) (citation
omitted).
ORDER:
            The
motion is GRANTED.
            Moving
party is ordered to give notice of ruling.