 Case Number:  23PSCV03769    Hearing Date:   June 12, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE  NAME:  Kelly  Chang, individually and as successor-in-interest to the Estate of Kung Alan  Chang v. Sistine Manor, Inc., et al.  Defendant  Sistine Manor, Inc. dba Springville Residential Care for the Elderly’s Demurrer  to Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint  TENTATIVE  RULING  The Court SUSTAINS the demurrer to the First Cause of Action in  the First Amended Complaint without leave to amend. Defendant must file an  Answer to the First Amended Complaint within 20 days of the Court’s order.  The Court GRANTS the motion to strike, and hereby strikes the  requests for attorney fees and punitive damages in the First Amended Complaint,  located on page 12, lines 23 and 24 of the FAC, respectively.               Defendant is ordered to give notice  of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.  BACKGROUND  This is an elder abuse case  regarding the decedent Kung Alan Chang (Decedent). On November 2, 2022,  Plaintiff Kelly Chang, individually and as successor-in-interest to the Estate  of Kung Alan Chang (Plaintiff), filed this action. On December 5, 2023,  Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended Complaint (FAC) against defendants Sistine  Manor, Inc. dba Springville Residential Care for the Elderly (Defendant),[1] Ping  Sheng Chang, Sherry Lin, Thomas Chang, Shu Ping Chang, Lu Shang Chang, and Does  1 through 100, alleging two causes of action for elder abuse and neglect  resulting in wrongful death and medical malpractice resulting in wrongful death.  On May 2, 2024, Defendant moved to strike portions of the FAC. On  May 7, 2024, Defendant demurred to the FAC. On May 30, 2024, Plaintiff opposed  the demurrer. Plaintiff did not oppose the motion to strike. On June 5, 2024,  Defendant replied to Plaintiff’s opposition to the demurrer.  LEGAL  STANDARD – Demurrer              A demurrer is a pleading used to test the legal sufficiency of  other pleadings. It raises issues of law, not fact, regarding the form or  content of the opposing party's pleading (complaint, answer or  cross-complaint). (Code Civ. Proc., § 422.10; see Donabedian v.  Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) It is not the function  of the demurrer to challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for  purposes of ruling on the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are  assumed to be true. (Id.)  A  demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the  pleading under attack; or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially  noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318; Donabedian,  supra, 116 Cal.App.4th at p. 994.) No other extrinsic evidence can be  considered. (Ion Equip. Corp. v. Nelson (1980) 110 Cal.App.3d 868,  881 [error for court to consider facts asserted in memorandum supporting  demurrer]; see also Afuso v. United States Fid. & Guar. Co. (1985) 169 Cal.App.3d 859, 862, disapproved on other grounds in Moradi-Shalal  v. Fireman’s Fund Ins. Cos. (1988) 46 Cal.3d 287 [error to consider  contents of release not part of court record].)  A  demurrer can be utilized where the “face of the complaint” itself is incomplete  or discloses some defense that would bar recovery. (Guardian North Bay, Inc.  v. Superior Court (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 963, 971-972.) The “face of  the complaint” includes material contained in attached exhibits that are  incorporated by reference into the complaint, or in a superseded complaint in the same action. (Frantz v.  Blackwell (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 91, 94; see also Barnett v. Fireman’s  Fund Ins. Co. (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 500, 505 [“[W]e rely on and accept as true the contents of the exhibits and treat as  surplusage the pleader’s allegations as to the legal effect of the exhibits.”])  A demurrer  can only be sustained when it disposes of an entire pleading, cause of action,  or affirmative defense. (See Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1320, subd. (a); Poizner  v. Fremont General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 119; Kong v. City of  Hawaiian Gardens Redev. Agency (2003) 108  Cal.App.4th 1028, 1046-1047.)  PRELIMINARY  ISSUES – Demurrer              The Court notes that Defendant filed  its demurrer five days after Defendant filed its motion to strike. They should  have been filed together. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5, subd. (b)(3); Cal.  Rules of Court, rule 3.1322, subd. (b).) The Court will still consider the  demurrer, but admonishes Defendant to comply with the requirements of the Code  of Civil Procedure and California Rules of Court going forward.  DISCUSSION  Meet and Confer  Per Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41, subdivision (a),  Defendant was required to meet and confer in person, by telephone, or by video  conference before bringing this demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd.  (a).) The Court finds Defendant’s meet-and-confer efforts sufficient. (Asiryan  Decl., ¶¶ 2-4.)  First Cause of Action – Elder Abuse and Neglect Resulting in  Wrongful Death  The elements of a cause of action for elder abuse and neglect are  determined by the Elder Abuse and Dependent Adult Civil Protection Act  (EADACPA). (Welf. & Inst. Code § 15600 et seq.)  The EADACPA defines “neglect” as “[t]he negligent failure of any person having the care or  custody of an elder or a dependent adult to exercise that degree of care that a  reasonable person in a like position would exercise.” (Welf. & Inst.  Code § 15610.57.) Neglect under the EADACPA “refers not to the substandard  performance of medical services but, rather, to the failure of those  responsible for attending to the basic needs and comforts of elderly or  dependent adults, regardless of their professional standing, to carry out their  custodial obligations. Thus, the statutory definition of ‘neglect’ speaks not  of the undertaking of medical services, but of the failure to provide  medical care.” (Sababin v. Superior Court (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 81, 89,  quotation marks and citation omitted, italics in original.)  Several factors “must be present for conduct to constitute neglect within  the meaning of the Elder Abuse Act and thereby trigger the enhanced remedies  available under the Act. The plaintiff must allege (and ultimately prove by  clear and convincing evidence) facts establishing that the defendant: (1) had  responsibility for meeting the basic needs of the elder or dependent adult,  such as nutrition, hydration, hygiene or medical care; (2) knew of conditions  that made the elder or dependent adult unable to provide for his or her own  basic needs; and (3) denied or withheld goods or services necessary to meet the  elder or dependent adult's basic needs, either with knowledge that injury was  substantially certain to befall the elder or dependent adult (if the plaintiff  alleges oppression, fraud or malice) or with conscious disregard of the high  probability of such injury (if the plaintiff alleges recklessness). The  plaintiff must also allege (and ultimately prove by clear and convincing  evidence) that the neglect caused the elder or dependent adult to suffer  physical harm, pain or mental suffering. Finally, the facts constituting the  neglect and establishing the causal link between the neglect and the injury  must be pleaded with particularity, in accordance with the pleading rules  governing statutory claims.” (Carter v. Prime Healthcare Paradise Valley LLC  (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 396, 406-407, quotation marks and internal citations  omitted.)              Summary of Arguments  Defendant  demurs to the First Cause of Action for elder abuse and neglect resulting in  wrongful death for failure to state a cause of action and for uncertainty.  Defendant contends the FAC fails to plead facts showing egregious abuse or  neglect, facts showing that Defendant acted with recklessness, oppression,  fraud, or malice, and facts showing involvement by an officer, director, or  managing agent of a corporate defendant.  Defendant also  contends this cause of action is uncertain and duplicative of the elder abuse  cause of action asserted in the related case of LASC Case Number 22PSCV01623  (the Related Case). Defendant contends it already filed several demurrers to  Plaintiff’s elder abuse cause of action in the Related Case, which this Court  sustained with leave to amend. Defendant contends both claims arise from the same  set of facts and transactions, care, services, and alleged negligent conduct,  and that Plaintiff may not assert that same cause of action here. Defendant  further contends Kelly Chang does not have standing to bring survival action on  behalf of Plaintiff Kung Alan Chung, who died on December 9, 2022, because  Kelly Chang failed to file a declaration required under Code of Civil Procedure  section 377.32.  In  opposition, Plaintiff contends the FAC pleads sufficient facts to support a  cause of action for elder abuse. Plaintiff contends the allegations of the FAC  make it clear that Decedent suffered major health problems due to bed sores she  contracted due to Defendant’s failure to properly care for her while she was in  Defendant’s care. Plaintiff contends the FAC alleges that Defendant acted with  recklessness, oppression, fraud, or malice, and that the owner of the facility  was explicitly told of Decedent’s decline, but did nothing to remedy the  situation. Plaintiff contends the FAC pleads sufficient facts to show Defendant  acted with recklessness, oppression, fraud, or malice, and that the FAC alleges  Defendant’s managing agents ratified this conduct. Plaintiff contends Plaintiff  notified the director/manager of the nursing home multiple times of Decedent’s  decline.  Plaintiff  further contends this cause of action for elder abuse is not duplicative of the  one in the Related Case. Plaintiff contends Defendant is attempting to deprive  Plaintiff of attorney’s fees and is engaging in gamesmanship by arguing the  causes of action are duplicative. Plaintiff contends this Court held in the  other case that the allegations were sufficient to state a cause of action for  elder abuse, and that Plaintiff has the right to seek damages for elder abuse  from when Decedent was alive and for elder abuse and neglect following her  death. Plaintiff also contends she has standing by virtue of being a guardian  ad litem for Decedent’s estate, and indicates that Plaintiff has filed and  served the declaration and death certificate.  Analysis  Elder abuse  claims must be pleaded with sufficient particularity. (Carter v. Prime  Healthcare Paradise Valley LLC (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 396, 410, internal  citation omitted.) The Court finds the FAC pleads sufficient facts with respect  to the underlying care or lack thereof. The FAC alleges that Defendant: (1) had  responsibility for meeting the basic needs of Decedent, such as nutrition,  hydration, hygiene, medical care, lodging, daily meals and snacks,  housekeeping, security, laundry, utilities, transportation, recreation,  bathing, dressing, eating, toileting, incontinence care, mobility, grooming,  medication assistance, and manually repositioning patients, (FAC, ¶¶ 17, 19, 24);  (2) knew that Decedent had become totally bedridden requiring full time care,  which made Decedent unable to provide for her own basic needs, (Id., ¶  18); and (3) denied or withheld goods or services necessary to meet Decedent’s  basic needs, either with knowledge that injury was substantially certain to  befall Decedent or with conscious disregard of the high probability of such  injury by monitoring Decedent daily, not addressing the bed sores, and failing  to manually reposition Decedent every two hours, (Id., ¶¶ 22-25, 41). Plaintiff  alleges Decedent was ambulatory before residing at Defendants’ facility and  that during her residency, she became bedridden requiring full time care. (Id.,  ¶ 18.) Plaintiff alleges Decedent developed bed sores and decubitus  ulcerations on her back because she was left in her own urine and feces for  extended periods of time and that Defendants left Decedent unattended and  unassisted for long periods of time in her own excrement so that ulcers exposing  muscle and bone became infected. (Id., ¶ 21.) Plaintiff also alleges  that the neglect caused Plaintiff to suffer physical harm in the form of bed  sores and decubitus ulceration. (Id., ¶ 21.) Thus, the Court finds that  the FAC pleads facts with sufficient specificity demonstrating that Defendant  denied or withheld goods or services, either with knowledge that injury was  substantially certain to befall Decedent or with conscious disregard of the  high probability of such injury, and that Plaintiff has pleaded a causal link  with sufficient specificity.  But, despite  the foregoing, the Court finds that the FAC fails to allege sufficient facts to  establish employer liability. Before any damages may be imposed against an  employer for an employee’s conduct, an officer, director, or managing agent of  the employer must have had advance knowledge of the employee’s unfitness and a  conscious disregard of the rights of others or authorized or ratified the  wrongful conduct. (See Welf. & Inst. Code, § 15657, subd. (c).); Civ. Code,  § 3294, subd. (b).) The FAC contains no factual allegations to show advanced  knowledge of or authorization or ratification of the alleged misconduct by an  officer, director, or managing agent of Defendant. The FAC’s references to  “managing agents” are vague and conclusory, and are insufficient to satisfy the  heightened pleading requirements. (FAC, ¶¶ 24, 42.)  More  importantly, the Court finds this cause of action to be duplicative of the  elder abuse cause of action asserted in the Related Case.[2] This case arises from the exact  same set of facts as the Related Case. Plaintiff is  the same plaintiff in the Related Case and Defendant is the same defendant.  (FAC, ¶¶ 2-5; Third Amended Complaint, LASC Case No. 22PSCV01623, ¶¶ 2-5.) Plaintiff  is complaining of the same care or lack thereof that Plaintiff allegedly received  from Defendant and the same alleged injuries incurred during the same  three-month period starting on December 28, 2020. (FAC, ¶ 17; Third Amended  Complaint, LASC Case No. 22PSCV01623, ¶ 12.) Plaintiff’s opposition cites no  legal authority to support the contention that Plaintiff is allowed to file a  separate elder abuse claim for when Decedent was alive and then again once Decedent  died. (Opp., 6:1-23.)  “At common law, personal tort  claims expired when either the victim or the tortfeasor died. Today, a cause of action for wrongful death exists only by virtue of  legislative grace. The statutorily created wrongful death cause of action  does not effect a survival of the decedent's cause of action[. Instead,] it gives  to the representative a totally new right of action, on different principles.  The cause of action for wrongful death belongs not to the decedent [or  prospective decedent], but to the persons specified [by statute]. It is a new  cause of action that arises on the death of the decedent and it is vested in  the decedent's heirs.... A cause of action for wrongful  death is thus a statutory claim. Its  purpose is to compensate specified persons—heirs—for the loss of companionship  and for other losses suffered as a result of a decedent's death.” (Quiroz v.  Seventh Ave. Center (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 1256, 1263 (Quiroz), internal quotations and  citations omitted, brackets in original.)  “Unlike a cause of action for  wrongful death, a survivor cause of action is not a new cause of action that  vests in the heirs on the death of the decedent. It is instead a separate and  distinct cause of action which belonged to the decedent before death but, by  statute, survives that event. [Citation.] The survival statutes do not create a cause of  action. Rather, [t]hey merely prevent the abatement of the cause of action of  the injured person, and provide for its enforcement by or against the personal  representative of the deceased." (Quiroz, supra, 140 Cal.App.4th at p. 1264, brackets in original.)  "A cause of action that survives  the death of a person passes to the decedent's successor in interest and is  enforceable by the 'decedent's personal representative or, if none, by the  decedent's successor in interest.' (Code Civ. Proc., § 377.30.) In the typical  survivor action, the damages recoverable by a personal representative or  successor in interest on a decedent's cause of action are limited by statute to 'the loss or damage that the decedent sustained or incurred before death,  including any penalties or punitive or exemplary damages that the decedent  would have been entitled to recover had the decedent lived, and do not include  damages for pain, suffering, or disfigurement.' (Code Civ. Proc., § 377.34,  italics added.)" (Quiroz, supra, 140 Cal.App.4th at pp. 1264-1265.)   However, damages for the decedent’s  pain, suffering, or disfigurement are expressly recoverable in a survivor  action under the Elder Abuse Act if "it is proven by clear and convincing  evidence that a defendant is liable for physical abuse as defined in Section  15610.63, or neglect as defined in Section 15610.57, and that the defendant has  been guilty of recklessness, oppression, fraud, or malice in the commission of  this abuse... (See Welf. & Inst. Code., § 15657, subds. (a) & (b)." (Quiroz,  supra, 140 Cal.App.4th at p. 1265.)  Thus, Plaintiff may only assert a  survivor cause of action for elder abuse to recover the loss or damage to  Decedent prior to her death. Any claim for damages for the loss of  companionship and for other losses suffered as a result of Decedent's death must  be sought in a wrongful death action by the specified heirs.  Hence, Plaintiff cannot assert  this duplicative elder abuse cause of action in this case since it is already proceeding  in the Related Case. (Third Amended Complaint, LASC Case No. 22PSCV01623, ¶¶ 10-41;  Answer (3/26/24), LASC Case No. 22PSCV01623.) Accordingly, the Court finds this  to be sufficient grounds in and of itself not only to sustain the demurrer to  this cause of action, but to do so without leave to amend.  With respect to Plaintiff’s  standing under Code of Civil Procedure section 377.32, this is ultimately a  moot point in light of the foregoing, but the Court does note that Code of  Civil Procedure section 377.32 does not state that the declaration has to be  attached to or submitted concurrently with the complaint. It only states that  it must be executed and filed, among other things. (See Code Civ. Proc., §  377.32.) Plaintiff filed attached a declaration to the opposition, which  ostensibly would satisfy this requirement. (Opp., Ex. A.)[3].  Based on the foregoing, the Court SUSTAINS the demurrer to the  First Cause of Action without leave to amend.         LEGAL  STANDARD – Motion to Strike              “Any party, within the time allowed to  respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole  or any part thereof, but this time limitation shall not apply to motions  specified in subdivision (e).” (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(2).)  “The court may, upon a motion made pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in  its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper: (a) Strike out any  irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (b) Strike out all or any  part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of  this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.” (Id., § 436.)  DISCUSSION  Meet and Confer  Per Code of Civil Procedure section  435.5, subdivision (a), Defendant was required to meet and confer in person, by  telephone, or by video conference before bringing this motion to strike.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5, subd. (a).) The Court finds Defendant’s  meet-and-confer efforts sufficient. The Court does not Defendant’s meet-and-confer efforts sufficient,  as there is no indication Defendant attempted to meet and confer in person, by  telephone, or by video conference. (Asiryan Decl., ¶¶ 2-4.) Nevertheless, the  Court may not deny a motion to strike for failure to adequately meet and  confer. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5, subd. (a)(4).) The Court admonishes  Defendant to comply with the requirements of the Code of Civil Procedure going  forward.  Punitive Damages  A claim for punitive damages is subject to a motion to strike when  the allegations fail to rise to the level of malice, oppression, or fraud  necessary under Civil Code section 3294. (Turman v. Turning Point of Central  California, Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 64 (Turman).)  Defendant moves to strike Plaintiff’s request for punitive damages  in the prayer for relief on the grounds that Plaintiff has failed to allege  sufficient facts showing oppression, fraud, or malice, for the same reasons set  forth in the demurrer to the FAC. Plaintiff contends the FAC contains  conclusory allegations and fails to allege facts showing that Defendant’s staff  intentionally or recklessly caused Plaintiff’s alleged injuries. Plaintiff also  contends the FAC fails to allege sufficient facts showing that Defendant’s  officer, director, or managing agent was involved, and thereby has failed to  allege facts showing Defendant had advanced knowledge of the alleged misconduct  or authorization or ratification of it. Plaintiff did not oppose this motion to  strike.  The Court agrees that the FAC fails to support Plaintiff’s request  for punitive damages with respect to the First Cause of Action for elder abuse,  but not necessarily for the reasons Defendant argues. As noted above, the Court  sustained the demurrer to the First Cause of Action for elder abuse because the  FAC fails to allege facts demonstrating advanced knowledge of or authorization  or ratification of the alleged misconduct by an officer, director, or managing  agent of Defendant, and because the First Cause of Action is duplicative of  Plaintiff’s elder abuse claim in the Related Case. Thus, the First Cause of  Action does not provide a basis for recovery of punitive damages here. (See Turman,  supra, 191 Cal.App.4th at p. 64.)  However, the Court notes that the request for  punitive damages in the prayer for relief in the FAC is not tied only to the  First Cause of Action for elder abuse, but rather is a general request for  punitive damages. (FAC, 12:23.) The Court reads this to mean that it is also  requested in connection with the Second Cause of Action for medical  malpractice. (See FAC, ¶¶ 47-51.) But, requests for punitive damages in medical  malpractice claims against health care providers requires the plaintiff to  first obtain the Court’s permission under Code of Civil Procedure section  425.13. (Code Civ. Proc., § 425.13, subd. (a) [“In any action  for damages arising out of the professional negligence of a health care  provider, no claim for punitive damages shall be included in a complaint  or other pleading unless the court enters an order allowing an amended pleading  that includes a claim for punitive damages to be filed.”]) Plaintiff may obtain  the Court’s permission via noticed motion. (Id. [“The court may allow  the filing of an amended pleading claiming punitive damages on a motion by the  party seeking the amended pleading and on the basis of the supporting and  opposing affidavits presented that the plaintiff has established that there is  a substantial probability that the plaintiff will prevail on the claim pursuant  to Section 3294 of the Civil Code.”]) Since Plaintiff has not filed a motion or  otherwise obtained the Court’s permission to request punitive damages in this  case, the Court finds the request for punitive damages improper.  Therefore, the Court GRANTS the motion to strike  Plaintiff’s request for punitive damages, located on page 12, line 23 of the  FAC.  Attorney’s Fees  A party who prevails on an elder abuse claim may  recover attorney’s fees. (Welf. & Inst.  Code, § 15657, subd. (a).)  Defendant moves to strike  Plaintiff’s request for attorney’s fees in the FAC on the grounds that the FAC  does not allege facts to support such a request. Defendant reiterates the  argument that the FAC does not allege enough facts to show Defendant engaged in  reckless, malicious, oppressive, or fraudulent acts as required under Welfare  and Institutions Code section 15657. Plaintiff did not oppose this motion to  strike.  The Court finds Plaintiff is not  entitled to attorney’s fees here, although not for the reasons Defendant  argues. As noted above, the Court sustained the demurrer to the First Cause of  Action for elder abuse in the FAC without leave to amend. Without that cause of  action, Plaintiff may not recover attorney’s fees under Welfare and  Institutions Code section 15657. (See Welf. & Inst. Code, § 15657, subd.  (a).) The Court is also unaware of any legal authority that authorizes recovery  of attorney’s fees against an opposing party based on a medical malpractice  claim, and Plaintiff did not provide any such authority.  Based on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS the motion  to strike Plaintiff’s request for attorney’s fees, located on page 12, line 24  of the FAC.  CONCLUSION  The Court SUSTAINS the demurrer to the First Cause of Action in  the First Amended Complaint without leave to amend. Defendant must file an  Answer to the First Amended Complaint within 20 days of the Court’s order.  The Court GRANTS the motion to strike, and hereby strikes the  requests for attorney fees and punitive damages in the First Amended Complaint,  located on page 12, lines 23 and 24 of the FAC, respectively.               Defendant is ordered to give notice  of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.     