  Case Number:  23PSCV01314    Hearing Date:   June 12, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE  NAME:  Fernando  Castillo v. T-Mobile US, Inc.  1  - Defendant T-Mobile USA, Inc.’s Motion to Compel Plaintiff Fernando Castillo’s  Responses to T-Mobile’s Requests for Production of Documents, Set One; 2  - Defendant T-Mobile USA, Inc.’s Motion to Compel Plaintiff Fernando Castillo’s  Responses to T-Mobile’s Form Interrogatories, Set One; and 3  - Defendant T-Mobile USA, Inc.’s Motion to Compel Plaintiff Fernando Castillo’s  Responses to T-Mobile’s Special Interrogatories, Set One  TENTATIVE  RULING  The Court GRANTS Defendant T-Mobile USA, Inc.’s motions to compel  Plaintiff Fernando Castillo’s responses to T-Mobile USA, Inc.’s Requests for  Production of Documents, Set One, Form Interrogatories, Set One, and Special  Interrogatories, Set One. Plaintiff Fernando Castillo must provide verified, code-compliant  responses without objections, and produce responsive documents where  applicable, to T-Mobile USA, Inc.’s Requests for Production of Documents, Set  One, Form Interrogatories, Set One, and Special Interrogatories, Set One, to Defendant  T-Mobile USA, Inc. within 30 days of the Court’s order.  The Court also GRANTS Defendant T-Mobile USA, Inc.’s requests for  monetary sanctions in the reduced amount of $397.50 per motion, for a total of  $1,192.50. Plaintiff Fernando Castillo must pay said monetary sanctions to  counsel for Defendant T-Mobile USA, Inc. within 30 days of the Court’s order.              Defendant T-Mobile USA, Inc. is  ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this  order.  BACKGROUND  This is a products liability action. On May 1, 2023, plaintiff Fernando  Castillo (Plaintiff) filed this action against defendant T-Mobile USA, Inc.  (erroneously sued as T-Mobile US, Inc.) (Defendant) and Does 1 to 20, alleging  causes of action for negligent products liability, strict products liability,  breach of warranty, and negligence (general).  On May 15, 2024, Defendant filed motions to compel Plaintiff’s  responses to Requests for Production of Documents, Set One, Form  Interrogatories, Set One, and Special Interrogatories, Set One. The motions are  unopposed.  LEGAL  STANDARD  When a party fails to serve a timely response  to interrogatories, the party propounding the interrogatories may move for an  order compelling a response. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (b).) A party  who fails to provide a timely response waives any objection, including one  based on privilege or work product. (Id., § 2030.290, subd. (a).) “The  court shall impose a monetary sanction… against any party, person, or attorney  who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to  interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted  with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition  of the sanction unjust.” (Id., § 2030.290, subd. (c).)     When a party fails to serve a timely response  to an inspection demand, the party making the demand may move for an order  compelling a response to the inspection demand. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300,  subd. (b).) A party who fails to provide a timely response waives any  objection, including one based on privilege or work product. (Code Civ. Proc.,  § 2031.300, subd. (a).) “[T]he court shall impose a monetary sanction… against  any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to  compel a response to a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling,  unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial  justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction  unjust.” (Id., § 2031.300, subd. (c).)  DISCUSSION  Meet and Confer              Although meeting and conferring is  not required before bringing motions to compel, (Sinaiko Healthcare  Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th  390, 404), the Court notes and appreciates Defendant’s extensive efforts to  meet and confer with Plaintiff before bringing these motions, (Robinson Decls.,  ¶¶ 5-12).  Analysis                      Defendant indicates having served Requests for Production of  Documents, Set One, Form Interrogatories, Set One, and Special Interrogatories,  Set One, on Plaintiff on February 5, 2024. (Robinson Decls., ¶ 5.) Plaintiff  failed to provide any responses, even after having been granted an extension  and after attempts to get Plaintiff to provide responses. (Id., ¶¶ 5-12.)  The Court finds Defendant’s motions to be well taken. The Court therefore  GRANTS Defendant’s motions, and orders Plaintiff to provide verified,  code-compliant responses without objections, and  produce responsive documents, to Defendant’s Requests for Production of  Documents, Set One, Form Interrogatories, Set One, and Special Interrogatories,  Set One, within 30 days of the Court’s order.  The Court further GRANTS Defendant’s requests for monetary  sanctions in the reduced amount of $397.50 per motion, for a total of $1,192.50,  comprised of 1.0 hour preparing each motion and 0.5 hours for appearing at the  hearing on each motion, multiplied by the hourly rate of $225.00, plus $60.00  for each motion filing fee. Such sanctions are awarded against Plaintiff only  as it appears that no responses have been served because Plaintiff’s counsel  has not been able to reach his client. (Robinson Decls., ¶12, Exhs. H.) The  Court finds Defendant’s alternative request for terminating sanctions  unwarranted since there is no evidence of Plaintiff violating any prior court  orders compelling responses. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (c); Id.,  § 2031.300, subd. (c); Deyo v. Kilbourne (1978) 84 Cal.App.3d 771, 787  [lesser sanctions normally imposed before terminating sanctions].)  CONCLUSION  The Court GRANTS Defendant T-Mobile USA, Inc.’s motions to compel  Plaintiff Fernando Castillo’s responses to T-Mobile USA, Inc.’s Requests for  Production of Documents, Set One, Form Interrogatories, Set One, and Special  Interrogatories, Set One. Plaintiff Fernando Castillo must provide verified, code-compliant  responses without objections, and produce responsive documents where  applicable, to T-Mobile USA, Inc.’s Requests for Production of Documents, Set  One, Form Interrogatories, Set One, and Special Interrogatories, Set One, to Defendant  T-Mobile USA, Inc. within 30 days of the Court’s order.  The Court also GRANTS Defendant T-Mobile USA, Inc.’s requests for  monetary sanctions in the reduced amount of $397.50 per motion, for a total of  $1,192.50. Plaintiff Fernando Castillo must pay said monetary sanctions to  counsel for Defendant T-Mobile USA, Inc. within 30 days of the Court’s order.              Defendant T-Mobile USA, Inc. is  ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this  order.