  Case Number:  22STCP03518    Hearing Date:   May 23, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     May 23, 2024                  TRIAL DATE: April 23, 2024 [Phase 1]
                                                           
CASE:                         Myung Hye Kim v. David Okju An et al. 
 
CASE NO.:                 22STCP03518            
 
MOTION TO BE RELIEVED AS COUNSEL (x2)

 
MOVING PARTY:               Attorney Julie C. Lim, counsel for
Defendant/Cross-Complainants David Okju An and Jhon Taehyo Lee
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): No response on
eCourt as of 05/20/24
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
09/28/22: Complaint filed.
·        
12/22/22: First Amended Complaint filed.
·        
03/03/23: Cross-Complaint filed by
Defendant/Cross-Complainant David Okju An as to Plaintiff.
·        
03/13/23: Cross-Complaint filed by
Defendants/Cross-Complainants Jhon Taehyo Lee and Dong Goon Lim as to Defendant
David Okju An.
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an action for fraud, breach of fiduciary duty, and elder abuse
arising from a series of agreements with Defendants to perform construction
work for Plaintiff.
 
Attorney Julie C. Lim, counsel for
Defendants David Okju An and Jhon Taehyo Lee, moves to be relieved as counsel. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Attorney Julie C. Lim, counsel for
Defendants David Okju An and Jhon Taehyo Lee, moves to be relieved as counsel.
 
Moving counsel filed all three required forms (MC-051,
-052, and -053) and included a proof of service as required by California Rules
of Court rule 3.1362(d) as to each Defendant.  Moving
counsel’s declaration states that she served each Defendant with the papers via
personal service. (MC-052 ¶ 3.) 
In general, an attorney may withdraw with
or without cause as long as the withdrawal would not result in undue prejudice
to the client’s interest – i.e., counsel cannot withdraw at a critical point in
the litigation, because that would prejudice client, but can withdraw
otherwise. (Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994) 21 Cal. App. 4th 904,
915.) The court has discretion to deny an attorney’s request to withdraw where
the withdrawal would work an injustice or cause undue delay in the proceeding,
but the court’s discretion in this area is one to be exercised reasonably. (Mandell
v. Superior Court (1977) 67 Cal.App.3d 1, 4.)   
 
Here, Phase I of trial in this matter
commenced on April 23, 2024, and temporarily adjourned on May 1, 2024. (See
April 23, 2024 Minute Order; May 1, 2024 Minute Order.) The risk of prejudice
to Defendants is therefore extremely high, as Defendants face the possibility
of being without counsel in the middle of trial. That said, Court also observes
that, during the May 1, 2024 hearing, Defendants’ counsel promptly alerted the
Court and Plaintiff’s counsel to the issues raised by these motions, and
Plaintiff’s counsel stipulated orally before the Court that Plaintiff would not
object to a trial continuance if necessary because of Defendants’ counsel being
relieved mid-trial. (May 1, 2024 Minute Order.) Thus, notwithstanding the late
date of the requests, the Court finds that the risk of prejudice to the
Defendants has been mitigated by that stipulation. 
 
 Moving Counsel states under penalty of perjury
that withdrawal is mandated by an actual and irreconcilable conflict of
interest between the two Defendants, pursuant to Rule of Professional Conduct
1.7. This rule states:
 
(a) A lawyer shall not, without informed
written consent* from each client and compliance with paragraph (d), represent
a client if the representation is directly adverse to another client in the
same or a separate matter. 
 
(b) A lawyer shall not, without informed
written consent* from each affected client and compliance with paragraph (d),
represent a client if there is a significant risk the lawyer’s representation
of the client will be materially limited by the lawyer’s responsibilities to or
relationships with another client, a former client or a third person,* or by
the lawyer’s own interests. 
 
(c) Even when a significant risk requiring
a lawyer to comply with paragraph (b) is not present, a lawyer shall not
represent a client without written* disclosure of the relationship to the
client and compliance with paragraph (d) where: 
 
(1) the lawyer has, or knows* that another
lawyer in the lawyer’s firm* has, a legal, business, financial, professional,
or personal relationship with or responsibility to a party or witness in the
same matter; or 
 
(2) the lawyer knows* or reasonably should
know* that another party’s lawyer is a spouse, parent, child, or sibling of the
lawyer, lives with the lawyer, is a client of the lawyer or another lawyer in
the lawyer’s firm,* or has an intimate personal relationship with the lawyer. 
 
(d) Representation is permitted under this
rule only if the lawyer complies with paragraphs (a), (b), and (c), and: 
 
(1) the lawyer reasonably believes* that
the lawyer will be able to provide competent and diligent representation to
each affected client; 
 
(2) the representation is not prohibited
by law; and 
 
(3) the representation does not involve
the assertion of a claim by one client against another client represented by
the lawyer in the same litigation or other proceeding before a tribunal.
 
(Cal.
R. Prof. Conduct Rule 1.7 (a)-(d).) As this recitation demonstrates, Rule 1.7
describes a broad range of circumstances in which withdrawal is required and does
not offer great insight into the circumstances at hand. That said, Moving
Counsel also states that the conflicts of interest between the Defendants are
so severe that representation of any defendant “would result in ineffective
representation and breaches of confidentiality and fiduciary duties.” (MC-052 ¶
7.) Considering these statements as to the severity of the conflict and the
breakdown of the attorney-client relationship, along with Plaintiff’s oral
stipulation not to object to the relief of counsel at this late date, the Court
finds that these circumstances warrant permitting withdrawal. 
 
Accordingly, Attorney Julie C. Lim’s Motion to Be Relieved as
Counsel for Defendant David Okju An is GRANTED, contingent on Moving Counsel
serving notice on all parties within 10 days of this order. 
 
Attorney Julie C. Lim’s Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel
for Defendant Jhon Taehyo Lee is GRANTED, contingent on Moving Counsel serving
notice on all parties within 10 days of this order. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated: May 23, 2024                          ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 