 Case Number:  22STCV30044    Hearing Date:   May 23, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     May 23, 2024             TRIAL DATE: NOT
SET
                                                           
CASE:                         Gerard
Michael Kabala v. Paul Krzemuski as successor trustee of the Violette Krzemuski
a/k/a Violette Adamian 2013 Family Trust et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 22STCV30044            
 
(1)  
MOTION FOR ATTORNEY’S FEES
(2)  
MOTION TO TAX COSTS

 
MOVING PARTY:               (1) Defendant Paul Krzemuski as
successor trustee of the Violette Krzemuski a/k/a Violette Adamian 2013 Family
Trust; (2) Plaintiff Gerard Kabala
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): (1) Plaintiff
Gerard Kabala (2) Defendant Paul Krzemuski as successor trustee of the Violette
Krzemuski a/k/a Violette Adamian 2013 Family Trust;
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
09/13/22: Complaint filed.
·        
10/03/22: Case deemed related to 22STCV29679 Hollywood
Lanai Apartments v. Krzemuski, et al. and 22STCV29709 Adamian v.
Krzemuski, et al. (lead case).
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is a title dispute. Plaintiff challenges a deed of trust recorded
against a property in which he claims an interest located at 520 Olive Street,
Inglewood, CA 90301. 
 
Defendant Paul Krzemuski moves for
an award of attorney’s fees. Plaintiff moves to tax Defendant Paul Krzemuski’s
memorandum of costs. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Defendant’s
Motion for Attorney’s Fees is DENIED.
 
            Plaintiff’s
Motion to Tax Costs is GRANTED. Defendant is entitled to recover costs in the amount of
$14.52 for his electronic filing or service fees
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Motion for
Attorney’s Fees
 
Defendant moves for attorney’s fees
following Plaintiff’s voluntary dismissal of the Complaint.
 
Request for Judicial Notice
 
            Plaintiff
requests that the Court take judicial notice of (1) the Preliminary Injunction
filed October 25, 2022 in the related case Adamian v. Krzemuski, LASC
Case No. 22STCV29709; (2) the June 2, 2023 order modifying that injunction; and
(3) the Full Reconveyance recorded January 4, 2024 as Instrument No.
20240008356 in the Official Records of the Los Angeles County Recorder’s
Office. None of these documents are material to the Court’s ruling.
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s requests are DENIED. (Gbur v. Cohen (1979) 93 Cal.App.3d 296, 301 [“[J]udicial notice .
. . is always confined to those matters which are relevant to the issue at
hand.”].) 
 
Entitlement to Fees
 
Defendant contends that he is
entitled to reasonable attorney’s fees pursuant to an attorney’s fee provision
in the 2001 Deed of Trust that is the underlying basis for this dispute. 
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure
section 1021, the apportionment of attorney’s fees is left to the agreement of
the parties. (Code Civ. Proc. § 1021.) However, a party who prevails in an
action is expressly entitled to recover costs, except where otherwise provided
by statute. (Code Civ. Proc. § 1032(b).) Attorney’s fees, as authorized by
contract, statute, or other law, are among these recoverable costs. (Code Civ.
Proc. § 1033.5(a)(10).) For the purposes of these statutes: 
 
“Prevailing
party” includes the party with a net monetary recovery, a defendant in whose
favor a dismissal is entered, a defendant where neither plaintiff nor defendant
obtains any relief, and a defendant as against those plaintiffs who do not
recover any relief against that defendant. If any party recovers other than
monetary relief and in situations other than as specified, the “prevailing
party” shall be as determined by the court, and under those circumstances, the
court, in its discretion, may allow costs or not and, if allowed, may apportion
costs between the parties on the same or adverse sides pursuant to rules
adopted under Section 1034. 
 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 1032(a)(4).) 
 
Defendant seeks to enforce the
attorney fee provision in the Deed of Trust that was at the heart of this
dispute. This Deed of Trust provides:
 
            TO PROTECT THE SECURITY OF THIS DEED
OF TRUST, TRUSTOR AGREES:
 
            . . . 
 
(3)
To appear in and defend any action or proceeding purporting to affect the
security hereof or affect the security hereof or the rights or powers of
Beneficiary or Trustee; and to pay all costs and expenses, including costs of
evidence of title and attorney's fees in a reasonable sum, in any such action
or proceeding in which Beneficiary or Trustee may appear, and in any suit
brought by Beneficiary to foreclose this Deed.
 
            . . .
 
(13)
That this Deed applies to, insures to the benefit of, and binds all parties
hereto, their heirs, legatees, devisees, administrators, executors, successors
and assigns. The term Beneficiary shall mean the owner and holder, including
pledges, of the note secured hereby, whether or not names as Beneficiary
herein. In this Deed, whenever the context so required, the masculine gender
includes the feminine and/or neuter, and the singular includes the plural.
 
(Declaration of Mary A. Lazarian ISO Opp. Exh. 1.) The Deed
of Trust defines the Trustor as George Adam Adamian, the trustee as Escrow
Professionals, Inc., and the beneficiary as Violette Adamian. (Id.) 
 
            Defendant
contends that he is entitled to enforce the attorney fee provision against
Plaintiff because Plaintiff, as the subsequent purchaser of the property that
is the subject of the Deed of Trust, is the successor in interest to the
Trustor, and therefore subject to the deed with respect to the subject property.
(See Complaint ¶ 16.) Defendant argues that since Plaintiff voluntarily
dismissed this action on February 9, 2024, Defendant is the prevailing party
under section 1032(a)(4) as a matter of law. 
 
            Plaintiff
argues that Defendant is not entitled to attorney’s fees because they are
expressly disallowed in this context pursuant to Civil Code section 1717. This
section entitles any party that prevails in an action “on a contract” to an
award of reasonable attorney’s fees incurred to enforce the contract, in
addition to other costs, if the contract specifically provides for an award of
attorney’s fees and costs incurred in its enforcement to at least one of the
parties. (Civ. Code § 1717(a).) However, subdivision (b)(2) of this section
states that “[w]here an action has been voluntarily dismissed or dismissed
pursuant to a settlement of the case, there shall be no prevailing party for
purposes of this section.” (Civ. Code § 1717(b)(2).) Plaintiff contends that each
of the six causes of action asserted in the instant Complaint are based in
contract, not tort, and, indeed, even a cursory reading of the Complaint bears
this claim out. Plaintiff asserted claims for (1) equitable accounting; (2)
marshalling of liens; (3) injunctive relief; (4) breach of the implied covenant
of warranty of title; (5) indemnity, and (6) contribution) all premised on the
same allegations: that Defendant’s purported copy of the Promissory Note
secured by the 2001 Deed of Trust was not genuine, and that the 2022 Notice of
Default premised on that Note did not accurately set forth the terms of the
Note or the balance owed on that Note. (Complaint ¶¶ 24-25.) As stated in Andrade
v. Western Riverside Council of Governments (2024) 99 Cal.App.5th 1020 – a
case relied on by Defendant – “[w]henever a party seeks to invalidate a
supposed contract on grounds that an enforceable agreement never existed, and
the party opposing such a claim implicitly contends there is a valid contract,
the essential premise for section 1717 is satisfied.”  (Id., at p. 1026.)  This is precisely the situation here.  Although Defendant anticipated this argument
in his moving papers, Defendant offers no basis for his contrary assertion that
these claims do not sound in contract, which is belied by the allegations in
the Complaint. The Court therefore finds that Plaintiff’s claims are claims “on
a contract” and therefore that Defendant is not entitled to recover attorney’s
fees from Plaintiff’s voluntary dismissal pursuant to Civil Code section
1717(b)(2). 
 
Conclusion
 
            Accordingly,
Defendant’s Motion for Attorney’s Fees is DENIED. 
 
Motion to Tax Costs
 
            Plaintiff moves to tax costs sought by Defendant’s
Memorandum of Costs.
Legal Standard 
 
In general, the “prevailing party” is entitled as a matter
of right to recover costs for suit in any action or proceeding. (Code Civ.
Proc. §1032(b); Santisas v. Goodin (1998) 17 Cal.4th 599, 606; Scott Co.
Of Calif. v. Blount, Inc. (1999) 20 Cal.4th 1103, 1108.)  Assuming the
“prevailing party” requirements are met, the trial court has no discretion to
order each party to bear his or her own costs of suit.  (Michell v.
Olick (1996) 49 Cal.App.4th 1194, 1198; Nelson v. Anderson (1999) 72
Cal.App.4th 111, 129.) A defendant who is dismissed from the action is the
“prevailing party.”  (Code Civ. Proc. §1032(a)(4).) This is so whether the
dismissal is voluntary or involuntary.  (Santisas, 17 Cal.4th at 606.)  
 
Allowable costs under Section 1033.5 must be reasonably
necessary to the conduct of the litigation, rather than merely convenient or
beneficial to its preparation, and must be reasonable in amount.  An item
not specifically allowable under Section 1033.5(a) nor prohibited under
subdivision (b) may nevertheless be recoverable in the discretion of the court
if they meet the above requirements (i.e., reasonably necessary and reasonable
in amount).  If the items appearing in a cost bill appear to be proper
charges, the burden is on the party seeking to tax costs to show that they were
not reasonable or necessary. (Ladas v. California State Automotive Assoc.
(1993) 19 Cal.App.4th 761, 773-774.)  On the other hand, if the items are
properly objected to, they are put in issue and the burden of proof is on the
party claiming them as costs.  (Ibid.) Whether a cost item was
reasonably necessary to the litigation presents a question of fact for the
trial court and its decision is reviewed for abuse of discretion.  (Ibid.) 
However, because the right to costs is governed strictly by statute, a court
has no discretion to award costs not statutorily authorized.  (Id.) 
Discretion is abused only when, in its exercise, the court “exceeds the bounds
of reason, all of the circumstances being considered.”  (Ibid.)   
 
Timeliness of Motion
 
“Any notice of motion to strike or to tax costs must be
served and filed 15 days after service of the cost memorandum. If the cost
memorandum was served by mail or email, the period is extended as provided in
Code of Civil Procedure section 1013.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1700(b)(1).) Here,
Defendant served the amended memorandum of costs by electronic service on
February 26, 2024. (Amended Memorandum of Costs POS.) This motion was filed and
served on March 11, 2024. The motion is therefore timely. 
 
Challenged Costs
 
            Plaintiff challenges three items in the memorandum of
costs: (1) Attorney’s Fees in the amount of $7,275 under Item 10; (2) Court
Reporter Fees in the sum of $250 under Item 11, and (3) unspecified other costs
in the amount of $150 under Item 16.
 
1.      Item
10: Attorney’s Fees
 
            Plaintiff
challenges Defendant’s request for attorney’s fees. For the reasons stated
above in connection with Defendant’s Motion for Attorney’s Fees, the Court finds
that this item should be taxed in its entirety. 
 
2.      Item
11: Court Reporter Fees
 
            Plaintiff
contests Defendant’s request for $250 in Court reporter fees from iDepo
Reporters, invoiced for July 13, 2023. (Memo. of Costs Item 11.) Court reporter
fees are expressly recoverable as established by statute. (Code Civ. Proc. §
1033.5(a)(11).) Plaintiff argues that the only hearing occurring near that date
in this matter was a July 17, 2023 Case Management Conference for which a court
reporter was not necessary and therefore should be disallowed under section
1033.5(c(2). In response, Defendant asserts that these costs are reasonably necessary
to the litigation. The Court does not agree. It is not “reasonably necessary to
the litigation” to hire a court reporter for a case management conference. This
cost item should be taxed.
 
3.      Item
16: Other Costs
 
            Plaintiff
seeks to tax Defendant’s request for $150 in other unspecified costs. (Amended
Memo of Costs Item 16.) As Plaintiff states, the Memorandum does not disclose
what this expense was or why it is recoverable. (Id.) In response,
Defendant argues that this cost was for photographs of the property, without
explaining what purpose those photographs served or why they were reasonably
necessary to the litigation. Defendant has not satisfied his burden to justify
this cost item. Item 16 must therefore be taxed.
 
Conclusion
 
            Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s Motion to Tax Costs is GRANTED. 
 
CONCLUSION:
 
            Accordingly,
Defendant’s Motion for Attorney’s Fees is DENIED.
 
            Plaintiff’s
Motion to Tax Costs is GRANTED. 
Defendant is entitled to recover costs in the amount of $14.52 for his
electronic filing or service fees.
 
            Moving
Parties to give notice. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  May 23, 2024                         ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 