 Case Number:  22STCV27841    Hearing Date:   May 23, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     May 23, 2024             TRIAL DATE: VACATED
                                                           
CASE:                         Brenda Manuel Guzman, et al. v. 6604
West Blvd LLC, et al. 
 
CASE NO.:                 22STCV27841            
 
PETITION
TO APPROVE MINOR’S COMPROMISE OF PENDING ACTION (x2)

 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff Brenda Manuel Guzman as parent and Guardian
ad Litem for Bradley Perez Guzman and Hailee Guzman Martinez.
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): No response on
eCourt as of 5/20/24
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
02/01/23: Complaint filed. 
·        
04/25/23: Case deemed related to Case No.
23STCV001663, designated as lead case. 
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is a habitability action. Plaintiffs, who are and were tenants at a
residential apartment building, allege that Defendants permitted the premises to
develop extensive uninhabitable conditions and allowed those conditions to
persist in violation of statutes and municipal ordinances. Plaintiffs seek
monetary and injunctive relief.
 
Plaintiff Brenda Manuel Guzman, as
parent and Guardian ad Litem of Bradley Perez Guzman and Hailee Guzman Martinez,
petitions for approval of a compromise of the minor’s claims. 
 
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
            The
Petitions for Approval of Minor’s Compromise of Claims are GRANTED conditioned
on Plaintiffs providing the Court at the hearing on this motion with the specific
branch of the institution with which the balance of the proceeds are to
be deposited.  
 
DISCUSSION:
 
            Plaintiff Brenda
Manuel Guzman, as parent and Guardian ad Litem of Bradley Perez Guzman (age 6)
and Hailee Guzman Martinez (age 12) seeks approval of the minors’ compromise
with Defendants. As the petitions are substantively identical, the Court
addresses both petitions jointly in the interest of brevity. 
 
Legal Standard
 
Court approval is required
for all settlements of a minor’s claim or that of a person lacking the capacity
to make decisions.  (Prob. Code, §§ 2504, 3500, 3600 et seq.; Code
Civ. Proc., § 372; see Pearson v. Superior Court (2012) 202 Cal.App.4th
1333, 1337.)  “[T]he
protective role the court generally assumes in cases involving minors, [is] a
role to assure that whatever is done is in the minor’s best interests . . . .  [I]ts primary concern is whether the compromise is sufficient to
provide for the minor’s injuries, care and treatment.”  (Goldberg v.
Superior Court (1994) 23 Cal.App.4th 1378, 1382.)   
 
A petition for court
approval of a compromise or covenant not to sue under Code of Civil Procedure
section 372 must comply with California Rules of Court Rules 7.950, 7.951, and
7.952.  The petition must be verified by the petitioner and contain a full
disclosure of all information that has “any bearing upon the reasonableness” of
the compromise or the covenant.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 7.950.) 
The person compromising the claim on behalf of the minor or person who lacks
capacity, and the represented person, must attend the hearing on compromise of
the claim unless the court for good cause dispenses with their personal
appearance.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 7.952(a).) 
An order for deposit of funds of a minor or
person lacking decision-making capacity and a petition for the withdrawal of
such funds must comply with California Rules of Court Rules 7.953 and
7.954.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1384; see also Super. Ct. L.A.
County, Local Rules, rules 4.115-4.118.) 
 
Form MC-350 (Rev. January 1, 2021):
 
The petition has been verified by
Petitioners and presented on a fully completed mandatory Judicial Council Form
MC-350, using the current January 1, 2021 revision. (Cal. Rule of Court Rule
7.950.)
 
Settlement:
 
Plaintiffs are a family of two adults
and two minor children. (Attach. 13a ¶ 2 [Declaration of Christofer Chapman ISO
Petition].) Each amended petition accounts for the full scope of the settlement
between the parties, stating that each of the two minors will receive gross
settlements of $12,500, and each parent will receive $132,500, for a total
settlement of $290,000. (See ¶ 11, Attach. 11.) The net settlement amount for
each minor is $9,262.12, after $150.51 in costs and $3,087.37 in fees. (¶ 10.) 
 
//
Attorney’s Fees
 
The retained attorney’s information
has been disclosed as required by Rule of Court 7.951. (Petition ¶ 17b.)  There is an agreement for services provided
in connection with the underlying claim. (Petition ¶ 17a(2).)  A copy of the agreement was submitted with
the Petition as strictly required by Rule of Court 7.951(6). (Attach. 17a(2).) 
 
Petitioner’s counsel is seeking to
recover $3,087.37 in attorney’s fees on each petition, representing 25% of the
minor’s gross settlement award (assuming a $12,500 settlement), plus $150.51 in
costs, for a total of $3,237.88. (See Petition ¶ 16e.)  Counsel has provided a declaration addressing
the reasonableness of the fee request, as required by Rule of Court 7,995(c),
accounting for the factors specified in Rule of Court 7,955(b). CRC Rule
7.955(b) provides:
 
(b) Factors the court may consider in
determining a reasonable attorney's fee.  
In determining a reasonable attorney's fee, the court may consider the
following nonexclusive factors:
 
 (1) The fact that a minor or person with a
disability is involved and the circumstances of that minor or person with a
disability.
 (2) The amount of the fee in proportion to the
value of the services performed.
 (3) The novelty and difficulty of the
questions involved and the skill required to perform the legal services
properly.
 (4) The amount involved and the results
obtained.
 (5) The time limitations or constraints
imposed by the representative of the minor or person with a disability or by
the circumstances.
 (6) The nature and length of the professional
relationship between the attorney and the representative of the minor or person
with a disability.
 (7) The experience, reputation, and ability of
the attorney or attorneys performing the legal services.
 (8) The time and labor required.
 (9) The informed consent of the representative
of the minor or person with a disability to the fee.
 (10) The relative sophistication of the
attorney and the representative of the minor or person with a disability.
 (11) The likelihood, if apparent to the
representative of the minor or person with a disability when the representation
agreement was made, that the attorney's acceptance of the particular employment
would preclude other employment.
 (12) Whether the fee is fixed, hourly, or
contingent.
 (13) If the fee is contingent:
  
(A) The risk of loss borne by the attorney;
  
(B) The amount of costs advanced by the attorney; and
  
(C) The delay in payment of fees and reimbursement of costs paid by the
attorney.
 (14) Statutory requirements for representation
agreements applicable to particular cases or claims. 
 
(Cal. Rules of Court Rule 7.955(b).) The Court addresses
these factors below.
 
            Amount
of Fee in Proportion to Value of Services Performed
 
            Plaintiff’s
counsel does not speak to the reasonableness of the fees sought in proportion
to the services provided. However, Plaintiffs’ counsel does state that the
greater amounts allocated to the adult Plaintiffs accounts for claims for breach
of contract, medical expenses, property damage, out-of-pocket costs, and other
losses not suffered by the minor children. (Attach. 13 ¶ 3.) 
 
            Novelty
and Difficulty
 
            Plaintiff’s
counsel does not speak to the novelty of this action, but states that this case
involved numerous client meetings, site inspections, depositions, mediation
sessions, court appearances, and written discovery, and involved evaluation of
complex coverage issues, including multiple policy exclusions and application
of multiple policies for multiple owners. (Attach. 13 ¶ 5.) 
 
            Amount
Involved and Results Obtained
 
            Plaintiff’s
counsel does not directly address this factor. 
 
            Nature
and Length of Professional Relationship
 
            Plaintiffs’
counsel has been representing Plaintiffs for approximately two years. (Attach.
13 ¶ 4.) 
 
            Experience,
Reputation, and Ability of Counsel
 
            Plaintiffs’
counsel testifies to his experience, reputation, training, and skills. (Attach
13 ¶ 1.)
 
            Time and
Labor Required
 
            Plaintiffs’
counsel has been working this case for over two years and estimates
approximately 15 hours of attorney time expended on behalf of the minors.
(Attach. 13 ¶ 5.) 
 
            Acceptance
of Case Precluding Other Employment
 
            Plaintiffs’
counsel does not address whether acceptance of this case precluded other
employment.
 
            Contingent
Fee
 
            Plaintiffs’
counsel states this case was taken strictly on a contingency basis, and all
costs and expenses were borne by Plaintiffs’ counsel. (Attach 13 ¶ 4.)
 
            The Court
finds that, although Plaintiffs’ counsel has not addressed all the factors,
Plaintiffs’ counsel has adequately demonstrated the reasonableness of the fee
award. 
 
Medical Bills:
 
            No medical
expenses have been incurred. (Petition ¶ 12.) 
 
Costs
 
            Attorney’s
fees in the amount of $3,087.37, plus costs in the amount of $150.51, which are
owed by Petitioner, will be paid by each claimant, for a total of $3,237.88 in fees
and costs on each petition. (Petition ¶ 16.) 
 
Amount to Be Paid to Minor:
 
The net amount to be paid to each
minor claimant is $9,262.12 (Petition ¶ 15.)
 
Court Appearance:
            
            California
Rule of Court 7.952 requires attendance by the petitioner and claimant unless
the court for good cause dispenses with their personal appearance. The Court
finds that the appearances of the claimants Bradley Perez Guzman and Hailee
Guzman Martinez are not required due to their age.
 
Prognosis:
 
            The minors
have completely recovered from their injuries. (Petition ¶ 8.)
 
Disposition of Balance of Proceeds:
 
            The
petition requests that the balance of the proceeds be deposited into an insured
account in a financial institution in the state subject to withdrawal only on
authorization of the Court (Petition ¶ 18b.) Attachment 18b(2) states that the
funds will be deposited with JP Morgan Chase at 401 E. Ocean Blvd, Long Beach,
CA 90802. (Attach. 18b(2).) The petition does not identify the specific branch
of JP Morgan Chase with which the funds are to be deposited. The Court
previously ordered Plaintiffs to identify the branch of this institution as one
of several deficiencies in the original petition which required correction.
(See April 24, 2024 Minute Order.) 
Plaintiffs have not done so. The Court would therefore be within its
authority to deny the petitions outright for failure to comply with the Court’s
express orders. However, as the Petitions have satisfied all other procedural
requirements, the Court will grant approval conditioned on Plaintiffs
identifying the specific branch of this institution. 
 
Proposed Order MC-351:
 
            Petitioner
has filed a Proposed Order Form MC-351 for each minor claimant. 
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly,
the Petitions for Approval of Minor’s Compromise of Claims are GRANTED
conditioned on Plaintiffs providing the Court at the hearing on this motion
with the specific branch of the institution with which the
balances of the proceeds are to be deposited.  
 
            Moving
Parties to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated: May 23, 2024                          ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 