 Case Number:  22STCV16887    Hearing Date:   May 23, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     May 23, 2024                         JUDGMENT: September 30, 2022
                                                           
CASE:                         Creditors Adjustment Bureau Inc. v.
Senior Hospice Care, Inc. 
 
CASE NO.:                 22STCV16887            
 
MOTION
FOR ASSIGNMENT ORDER OF MEDICARE BENEFITS

 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff/Judgment Creditor Creditors Adjustment
Bureau
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): No response on
eCourt as of 5/20/24
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
05/23/22: Complaint filed. 
·        
08/16/22: Default entered.
·        
09/30/22: Default judgment entered. 
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is a collection action. Plaintiff seeks to collect workers’
compensation insurance premiums owed by Defendant. 
 
Plaintiff and Judgment Creditor moves
for an order assigning Medicare reimbursements and payments on claims submitted
by the Judgment Debtor to the Judgment Creditor. 
 
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Plaintiff/Judgment Creditor’s
Order for Assignment of Medicare Funds is GRANTED. 
 
            Centers
for Medicare and Medicaid Services and Noridian Healthcare Solutions LLC are
ordered to pay to the Judgment Creditor all Medicare reimbursements and
payments on claims submitted by Judgment Debtor.
 
            This
order shall remain in effect until such time as the full balance of the
judgment, including post-judgment costs and interest, has been paid in full. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Plaintiff and Judgment Creditor
moves for an order assigning Medicare reimbursements and payments on claims
submitted by the Judgment Debtor to the Judgment Creditor. 
 
Assignments of Medicare payments
are governed by federal regulations, as set forth in 42 C.F.R. § 424.73, which
states that “Medicare may pay under an assignment established by, or in
accordance with, the order of a court of competent jurisdiction if the
assignment meets the conditions set forth in § 424.90.” (42 C.F.R. §
424.73(b)(2).) Pursuant to section 424.90, such an assignment is effective for
Medicare payments only if:
 
(1) Someone files a certified copy of
the court order and of the executed assignment or reassignment (if it was
necessary to execute one) with the intermediary or carrier responsible for
processing the claim; and
 
(2) The assignment or reassignment—
 
(i) Applies to
all Medicare benefits payable to a
particular person or entity during a specified or
indefinite time period; or
 
(ii) Specifies a particular
amount of money, payable to a
particular person or entity by a particular intermediary or
carrier.
 
(42 C.F.R. § 424.9(a) (1)-(2).) Thus, Judgment Creditor
requires a court order for assignment of these funds to obtain Medicare
reimbursements and payments in satisfaction of the judgment.  
 
Orders for assignment are governed
by Code of Civil Procedure section 708.510, which provides, in relevant part,
that “upon application of the judgment creditor on noticed motion, the court
may order the judgment debtor to assign to the judgment creditor. . . all or
part of a right to payment due or to become due, whether or not the right is
conditioned on future developments.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 708.510(a).) 
 
The effect and priority of such an assignment
is governed by Civil Code section 955.1. (Code Civ. Proc. § 708.530.) For the
purpose of priority, an assignee of a right to payment pursuant to section 708.530
shall be deemed to be a bona fide assignee for value under the terms of Civil
Code section 955.1.  (Code Civ. Proc.§ 708.530(a).) 
 
In determining whether to order an
assignment or the amount of an assignment pursuant to section 708.510(a), the
court may take into consideration all relevant factors, including the
following:  
 

The
     reasonable requirements of a judgment debtor who is a natural person and
     of persons supported in whole or in part by the judgment debtor.

 

Payments
     the judgment debtor is required to make or that are deducted in
     satisfaction of other judgments and wage assignments, including earnings
     assignment orders for support. 

 

The
     amount remaining due on the money judgment.

 

The
     amount being or to be received in satisfaction of the right to payment
     that may be assigned. 

 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 708.510(c)(1)-(4).) A right to payment
may be assigned pursuant to section 708.510 only to the extent necessary to
satisfy the money judgment.  (Code Civ. Proc.  §708.510(d).) 
 
            Here,
the Judgment Debtor is not a natural person. Counsel for Judgment Creditor
states that the current balance on the judgment is $55, 381.95, plus $13.02 per
day in interest. (Declaration of Michael D. Frischer ISO Mot. ¶ 4.) Attorney
Frischer states on information and belief that Judgment Debtor has rights to
payment that are due or will become due from the Centers for Medicare and
Medicaid Services and Noridian Healthcare Solutions, LLC. (¶ 6.) These payment
rights are purportedly related to Judgment Debtor’s unique National Provider
Identifier pursuant to the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act.
(¶¶ 7-8.) Attorney Frischer further states on information and belief that the
Judgment Debtor’s payment rights have not previously been assigned. (¶ 10.) 
 
             As no party has opposed this motion, the Court
finds that Judgment Creditor has properly demonstrated a basis for an
assignment order.  
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly,
Plaintiff/Judgment Creditor’s Order for Assignment of Medicare Funds is
GRANTED. 
 
            Centers
for Medicare and Medicaid Services and Noridian Healthcare Solutions LLC are
ordered to pay to the Judgment Creditor all Medicare reimbursements and
payments on claims submitted by Judgment Debtor.
 
            This
order shall remain in effect until such time as the full balance of the
judgment, including post-judgment costs and interest, has been paid in full. 
 
            Moving
Party to give notice.
 
//
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  May 23, 2024                         ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 