 Case Number:  24NNCV00137    Hearing Date:   November 8, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



JULIAN BENITO ZERMENO, et al., 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
ATLA LOS
   ANGELES HOSPITALS INC., et al.],
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 24NNCV00137
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEMURRER WITH MOTION TO STRIKE FILED BY DEFENDANT ALTA LOS
   ANGELES HOSPITAL, INC.’S MOTION TO STRIKE
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
November
   8, 2024



 
I.      INTRODUCTION
         On March 8,
2024, plaintiffs Beatriz Moreno and Jose Luis Zermeno (collectively,
“Plaintiffs”) filed this action as individuals and as successors in interest of
their son, Julian Benito Zermeno (“Julian”). The named defendants include Alta
Los Angles Hospitals, Inc. dba Los Angeles Community Hospital at Bellflower
(“Bellflower”) (erroneously sued as “Atla Los Angeles Hospitals Inc. dba Los
Angeles Community Hospital”), Valey Manor Guest Home, Valley Vista Residential
Manor, LLC, Care Matters Healthcare Inc. dba Concise Care Group Concise Home
Health Services, and various other individuals. The action arises from Julian’s
death and asserts causes of action for negligence, breach of fiduciary duty,
dependent adult abuse/neglect pursuant to Welfare & Institutions Code
sections 15610.57 and 15657(a) ad (c), and wrongful death.
Plaintiffs
allege Julian was initially admitted to Bellflower’s hospital, a secured
psychiatric facility, with diagnoses including aggressive behaviors,
schizophrenia, bipolar disorder and psychosis, and severe functional impairment
with suicidal intentions. (Compl., ¶ 29.) Julian remained at Bellflower’s
hospital for 26 days through December 14, 2023, during which he was treated
with various psychotropic medications to stabilize his mood. (Id.) He was
assessed as being combative and suicidal with intent to overdose on medications
(amongst other diagnoses). (Compl., ¶ 33.) Bellflower was advised by Plaintiffs
that Julian had previously wandered away from facilities where he was cared for,
which put himself and others in danger of physical harm. (Compl., ¶ 34.)
Bellflower was also advised of Julian’s prior conduct in seeking, acquiring,
and using illicit drugs when he was allowed to leave the facilities in which he
was being cared for. (Compl., ¶ 34.) Plaintiffs expressed that Julian had to be
admitted to a secure “locked down” facility for his safety and health as well
as for the safety of others. (Compl., ¶ 34.) 
Plaintiffs allege
Bellflower, along with the other Defendants, failed to properly assess Julian
to develop a comprehensive care plan prior to being discharged and transferred
to Valley Manor and failed to take adequate and proper measures regarding Julian’s
health and safety despite being a known flight risk. (Compl., ¶ 52.) Julian was
eventually transferred from Bellflower to Valley Manor without confirming that
his needs could be met there. (Compl., ¶ 43.) Plaintiffs allege that Bellflower
discharged Julian without obtaining Plaintiffs’ written authorization (even
though Jose Luis Zermeno was his conservator) and without informing them which
facility he would be transferred to. (Compl., ¶ 46.) When Julian arrived at
Valley Manor, he allegedly underwent a Preplacement Appraisal which
inaccurately reported that he “did not need special observation due to
wandering.” (Compl., ¶ 47.) Julian was also given a 33-page admission agreement
to sign, even though he lacked capacity. Ultimately, on March 10, 2023, Julian was
able to walk out of Valley Manor without supervision, and, within minutes of leaving,
was struck by an automobile. (Compl., ¶ 54.) Julian sustained injuries being
struck by the automobile and eventually died. (Compl., ¶ 54.) Plaintiffs were
not informed of Julian’s accident and were not able to be at his side as he
died. (Compl., ¶ 54.) 
          On
June 24, 2024, Bellflower filed this demurrer and motion to strike. Bellflower
demurs to Plaintiffs’ cause of action for dependent adult abuse and moves to
strike Plaintiffs’ prayer for punitive damages and attorneys’ fees. 
          On
October 28, 2024, Plaintiffs filed an opposition brief. 
          No
reply briefs were filed. 
II.     LEGAL
STANDARDS
A.  
Motion
to Strike
          Any party,
within the time allowed to respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of
motion to strike the whole or any part thereof. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd.
(b)(1).) The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and
upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter
inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767,
782 [“Matter in a pleading which is not essential to the claim is surplusage;
probative facts are surplusage and may be stricken out or disregarded”].) The
court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with California law, a court rule, or an order of the court. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (b).) An immaterial or irrelevant allegation is one
that is not essential to the statement of a claim or defense; is neither
pertinent to nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or defense; or a
demand for judgment requesting relief not supported by the allegations of the
complaint. (Code Civ. Proc., § 431.10, subd. (b).) The grounds for moving to
strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)
B.  
Demurrer
A demurrer may be brought if
insufficient facts are stated to support the cause of action asserted. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).) A demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the
pleadings and will be sustained only where the pleading is defective on its
face. (City of Atascadero v. Merrill
Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Inc. (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 445, 459.)
Allegations are to be liberally construed. (Code Civ. Proc., § 452.) In
construing the allegations, the court is to give effect to specific factual
allegations that may modify or limit inconsistent general or conclusory
allegations. (Financial Corporation of
America v. Wilburn (1987) 189 Cal.App.3rd 764, 769.) 
III.    DISCUSSION
Bellflower demurs to Plaintiffs’ cause
of action for dependent adult abuse on the grounds that they did not have a
custodial relationship with Julian. Bellflower also moves to strike Plaintiff’s
prayer for punitive damages and attorneys’ fees. The Court does not need to
address Bellflower’s arguments on demurrer because Plaintiffs have agreed to
strike their request for punitive damages while reserving the right to later
seek leave from the Court to file an amended complaint seeking said damages. In
conceding that their complaint fails to allege sufficient facts for a punitive
damages claim under Civil Code section 3294, Plaintiffs implicitly concede that
they have failed to plead liability for elder/dependent adult abuse with the
requisite specificity showing recklessness, oppression, fraud, or malice. (W&I
Code, § 15657.) Specifically, section 15657 states: 
Where
it is proven by clear and convincing evidence that a defendant is liable for .
. . neglect as defined in Section 15610.57 . . . and that the defendant has
been guilty of recklessness, oppression, fraud, or malice in the commission of
this abuse, the following shall apply, in addition to all other remedies
otherwise provided by law:  
 
(a)  The court shall award to the plaintiff reasonable attorney's
fees and costs. The term “costs” includes, but is not limited to, reasonable
fees for the services of a conservator, if any, devoted to the litigation of a
claim brought under this article.
….
(c) The standards set forth in subdivision (b) of Section
3294 of the Civil Code regarding the imposition of punitive damages on an
employer based upon the acts of an employee shall be satisfied before any
damages or attorney's fees permitted under this section may be imposed against
an employer.
 
(Welf. & Inst. Code, § 15657.) Additionally, without a
claim for dependent adult abuse, Plaintiffs’ request for attorney’s fees is
also inappropriate. 
IV.    CONCLUSION
Bellflower’s motion to strike
attorneys’ fees is GRANTED without prejudice. 
Bellflower’s motion to strike punitive
damages is GRANTED without prejudice.
Bellflower’s demurrer to the Third
Cause of Action is SUSTAINED without prejudice. 
Moving party to give notice.
Dated
this 8th
day of November
2024
 




 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot 
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 