  Case Number:  21STCV09956    Hearing Date:   November 8, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



RICARDO CALVARIO,
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
MICHAEL
   HOMAYUN, DDS, et al., 
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 21STCV09956
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANTS MICHAEL HOMAYUN, DDS AND MICHAEL HOMAYUN DENTAL
   CORPORATION dba COMFORT DENTAL CENTER’S MOTION FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION
 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
November
   8, 2024



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
On March 15,
2021, plaintiff Ricardo Calvario (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against
defendants Michael Homayun, DDS (“Dr. Homayun”), Michael Homayun Dental
Corporation dba Comfort Dental Center (“Comfort Dental”), and Oral Aesthetic
Advocacy Group, Inc. dba Cosmetic Dentistry Grants (“Cosmetic Dentistry”). 
Plaintiff
filed the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) on September 21, 2021,
which includes causes of action for: (1) professional negligence, (2) medical
battery, (3) intentional misrepresentation, (4) concealment, (5) false promise,
and (6) negligent misrepresentation. 
On April 24,
2024, Dr. Homayun and Comfort Dental Center (collectively, “Defendants”) filed
this motion for summary adjudication of Plaintiff’s claims for medical battery,
intentional misrepresentation, and concealment. 
Plaintiff
filed opposition papers on October 25, 2024. 
Defendants
filed reply papers on November 1, 2024. 
II.         
LEGAL STANDARD
A party may move for summary
adjudication as to one or more causes of action within an action, one or more
affirmative defenses, one or more claims for damages, or one or more issues of
duty, if that party contends that the cause of action has no merit or that
there is no affirmative defense thereto, or that there is no merit to an
affirmative defense as to any cause of action, or both, or that there is no
merit to a claim for damages . . . or that one or more defendants either owed
or did not owe a duty to the plaintiff or plaintiffs. A motion for summary
adjudication shall be granted only if it completely disposes of a cause of
action, an affirmative defense, a claim for damages, or an issue of duty.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1).) A motion for summary adjudication
shall proceed in all procedural respects as a motion for summary judgment.  (Id., subd. (f)(2).)  Therefore, a defendant moving for summary
adjudication “has met his or her burden of showing that a cause of action has
no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the cause of
action . . . cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense to the
cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) To meet this burden
of showing a cause of action cannot be established, a defendant must show not
only “that the plaintiff does not possess needed evidence” but also that
“the plaintiff cannot reasonably obtain needed evidence.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001)
25 Cal.4th 826, 854.) The supporting evidence can be in the form of affidavits,
declarations, admissions, depositions, answers to interrogatories, and matters
of which judicial notice may be taken. (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 855.) “Once the defendant . . . has met
that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a triable
issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a
defense thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) The plaintiff may
not merely rely on allegations or denials of its pleadings to show that a
triable issue of material fact exists, but instead, “shall set forth the
specific facts showing that a triable issue of material fact exists as to the
cause of action.” (Ibid.) “If the
plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment should be granted.” (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical
Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)
III.       
DISCUSSION 
A.  
Plaintiff’s
Second Cause of Action: Medical Battery 
In 2018, Plaintiff was missing four
upper front teeth and desired dental treatment to replace the missing teeth. (FAC,
¶ 10.) Plaintiff applied for grant funding through the program that Cosmetic
Dentistry advertised as a grant program. (FAC, ¶ 11.) Thereafter, Mr. Calvario
was approved for a “grant” and was referred by Cosmetic Dentistry to Defendants.
(Id.) Plaintiff told Dr. Homayun that he wished to have four dental
implants where his four missing teeth were. (FAC, ¶ 18.) Dr. Homayun told
Calvario that four implants would not successfully hold and instead recommended
six implants with individual crowns, which would cost $17,000. (FAC, ¶ 18.) On
or about November 27, 2018, Plaintiff had six implant posts placed by Dr.
Homayun, and various medical problems followed. Plaintiff claims that the
treatment plan recommended by Dr. Homayun was not appropriate and that the
implant posts were inappropriately placed. 
In support of his medical battery
claim, Plaintiff alleges that he “consented to the placement of the implant
posts on the condition that [Defendants] confirmed in their professional
capacity that [Plaintiff[ was an appropriate candidate for the procedure.”
(FAC, ¶ 50.) Plaintiff claims Defendants failed to confirm whether he was an
appropriate candidate yet proceeded anyway, causing him physical, mental, and
financial harm. (FAC, ¶ 54.) 
Defendants move for summary
adjudication of Plaintiff’s medical battery claim on the grounds that Plaintiff
provided informed consent and Plaintiff cannot prove that Defendants deviated
from that consent. As evidence, Defendants refer to a consent form signed by
Plaintiff and contend that he was adequately informed and consented to the
recognized risks and complications of the procedure. (Motion, p. 11;
Compendium, Ex. B.) 
The existence or sufficiency of an
informed consent is usually a question of fact. (See Arato v. Avedon
(1993) 5 Cal.4th 1172, 1186 (leaving jury to evaluate the “uniquely human and
necessarily situational ingredients that contribute to a specific
doctor-patient exchange of information relevant to treatment decisions”). The
process is highly individualized as to the particular plaintiff. (Id., see
also Brown v. Regents of University of California (1984) 151 Cal.App.3d
982, 990 (“a determination of informed consent in each case depends on a
separate inquiry into the facts surrounding each operation and an application
of the facts to the governing legal principles.”); Clemens v. Regents of
University of California (1970) 8 Cal.App.3d 1, 8 (1970).) 
Here, much of Defendants’ Exhibit B,
save for 5 pages, is illegible to the Court. While the document titled “Consent
for Dental Implant Surgery” is legible, it does not show that the procedures
were confirmed to be appropriate for him. Defendants also rely on the expert
declaration of Peter Moy, D.M.D. (“Dr. Moy”). Dr. Moy’s declaration is
conclusory and states that Plaintiff “was adequately informed and consented for
recognized risks and complications of proposed treatment.” (Ex. A, ¶ 25.) Dr.
Moy also vaguely states that Dr. Homayun provided an appropriate plan of care
and made an appropriate dental diagnosis. However, these are mere conclusory statements
and do not make the issue of informed consent any less a triable issue of fact.
Accordingly, the motion for summary adjudication of the Second Cause of Action
is DENEID. 
B.  
Plaintiff’s
Third and Fourth Causes of Action for Intentional Misrepresentation and
Concealment
As an initial matter, the Court notes
that the Sixth Cause of Action is included in Defendants’ notice of motion, but
not actually asserted against Defendants. Therefore, the Court only discusses
Defendants’ arguments with respect to Plaintiff’s Third and Fourth Causes of
Action. 
Plaintiff alleges that Defendants misrepresented
that Cosmetic Dentistry’s grant would cover the dental services and failed to
disclose that their services were “significantly above market price.” (FAC, ¶¶
62, 63, 76.) Plaintiff also alleges that Defendants concealed the fact that Dr.
Homayun never intended to place implants without charging Plaintiff for
additional subsequent work. (FAC, ¶¶ 77-78.)  
Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s fraud
claims are related to promises, representations, and information communicated
to Plaintiff by Cosmetic Dentistry and not any representations by Defendants.
Defendants cite to Plaintiff’s deposition testimony and discovery responses to
show that any representations about receiving grant funding for dental care and
reimbursements for the cost of dental care were made by Cosmetic Dentistry.
Defendants point out, and Plaintiff does not dispute, that at the time
Plaintiff was approved for Cosmetic Dentistry’s grant, he had no contact with
Defendants and did not meet or speak with them until after the grant was
approved. (UMF Nos. 17-37.)
However, Defendants fail to show that
their dental services were not significantly above market price. Defendants
cite to Plaintiff’s testimony that he was given an estimate of $26,000 “to do
all the upper part” and that he could not afford it.  (Ex. C, 58:19-24.) This is not evidence that
Defendants’ dental services were fairly priced since Dr. Homayun only charged
$17,000, because Plaintiff, despite wanting to “have all the upper part”, was
convinced by Dr. Homayun that he only needed six implants, which would cost
$17,000. (Ex. C, 74:2-4, 20-25.) As Defendants cannot prove that the entirety
of the Third and Fourth Causes of Action lack merit, the motion for summary
adjudication of the Third and Fourth Causes of Action is DENIED. 
VI.    CONCLUSION
          In light of
the foregoing, the motion for summary adjudication is DENIED. 
Moving party to give notice.  
Dated
this 8th
day of November
2024 
 




 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to appear
at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the hearing and
argue the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If
the Court does not receive emails from the parties indicating submission on
this tentative ruling and there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court
may, at its discretion, adopt the tentative as the final order or place the
motion off calendar.
 