 Case Number:  24NNCV00626    Hearing Date:   November 8, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



NICKOLE MEDINA, 
                    Plaintiff(s)
          vs.
 
WILBUR
  MILLS, et al.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 24NNCV00626
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION TO QUASH SERVICE OF SUMMONS FILED BY DEFENDANTS RICHARD
  MILLS AND MARYLAND HOTEL 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
November
  8, 2024



 
On March 29, 2024, plaintiff Nickole
Medina (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against defendants Richard Mills
(“Defendant”), Maryland Hotel (“Hotel”), and Wilbur Mills asserting causes of
action for general negligence and premises liability arising from an alleged
infestation of bed bugs and other insects in a hotel room located at 202 E.
Wilson Ave., Glendale, California. 
On September 10, 2024, Plaintiff filed
three proofs of service stating that Wilbur Mills, Defendant, and Hotel were each
served by substituted service at 2:48 p.m. on September 9, 2024. The summons,
complaint, and other case documents were left with “John Doe” at 16726 Bosque
Dr., Los Angeles CA 91436, and copies was mailed to that address on the next
day. The declaration of diligence attached to the proofs of service for
Defendant and Wilbur Mills recounts that the following occurred on September 9:
Defendant
exited garage and pulled vehicle to the mail box at street.
 
Refused
to identify himself, refused to accept documents, denied that defendants live
at property.
 
Left
documents with John Doe despite his protests, he refused to take the documents
and got in vehicle and drove away (leaving documents)
 
Conducted
a motor vehicle ownership search concerning the vehicle he was driving and the
vehicle is registered to Richard Mills. 
 
On September 12, 2024, Plaintiff filed
three more proofs of service which appear to be identical to the three already
on file with the Court. 
On October 17, 2024, Defendant and
Hotel filed this motion to quash service. The motion is unopposed. Defendant
argues he was never served because on September 9, 2024, he had driven down the
driveway of his house at 16726 Bosque Drive and backed his vehicle up so that
the driver’s side door faced the mailbox. (Mills Decl., ¶ 6.) A photo of the
mailbox and the front of Defendant’s house is attached as Exhibit A of his
declaration. Defendant states that he had parked his car and was picking up the
newspaper next to the mailbox when an unknown male walked downhill along the
edge of his driveway towards him. (Mills Decl., ¶ 6.) Defendant states he was not
asked to identify himself, he did not deny living at the property, and there
was no way that anyone could have attempted to hand him documents while he and
his vehicle were parked next to the mailbox. (Mills Decl., ¶ 7, Ex. A.)
Defendant also states he heard this person reference an Armenian-sounding name
that he was unfamiliar with and responded that he did not know what they were
talking about. (Mills Decl., ¶. 7.) Defendant adds that he was “concerned for
his safety and was wary of talking to strangers on the street” due to recent
crimes in the area. (Mills Decl., ¶ 7.) He then got inside his car and drove
away. (Ibid.) 
As for Hotel, Hotel argues that it was
not properly served because it has never used the Bosque address as its
business mailing address or for any other purpose. 
When a defendant moves to quash service
of summons, the plaintiff has “the burden of proving the facts that did give
the court jurisdiction, that is the facts requisite to an effective service.” (Coulston
v. Cooper (1966) 245 Cal.App.2d 866, 868.) Plaintiff did not oppose this
motion and therefore fails to meet her burden to show that service on either
Defendant or Hotel was proper. Accordingly, the motion to quash is GRANTED. 
 
Moving party to give notice.
Dated
this 8th day of November 2024
 




 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 