 Case Number:  23AHCV01968    Hearing Date:   November 8, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



RAUL HERNANDEZ, 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
ARYH
   INDUSTRIES, LLC,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 23AHCV01968
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE SECOND AMENDED COMPLAINT
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
November
   8, 2024



 
This action was originally filed on
August 28, 2023, by plaintiff Raul Hernandez (“Plaintiff”). The original
complaint only named Aryuh Industries LLC as a defendant and Plaintiff alleged
he sustained injuries resulting from a motor vehicle accident when a portable
restroom, which was not properly secured, came loose and struck Plaintiff’s
vehicle. Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint on July 7, 2024, which added
Aryh Portable Restrooms LLC as a defendant.  No defendant has yet appeared in this action. Now,
Plaintiff moves for leave to file a Second Amended Complaint which adds Mario
Chavez as a plaintiff and Misael Hernandez-Delgado as a defendant.
The court may, in its discretion and
after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an
amendment to any pleading, including adding or striking out the name of any
party, or correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any
other respect. (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (a)(1).) “Public policy dictates
that leave to amend be liberally granted.” (Centex
Homes v. St. Paul Fire & Marine Ins. Co. (2015) 237 Cal.App.4th 23,
32.) “Although courts are bound to apply a policy of great liberality in
permitting amendments to the complaint at any stage of the proceedings, up to
and including trial . . . this policy should be applied only ‘where no
prejudice is shown to the adverse party.’ [Citation]. A different result is
indicated ‘where inexcusable delay and probable prejudice to the opposing
party’ is shown. [Citation.]” (Magpali v.
Farmers Group, Inc. (1996) 47 Cal.App.4th 471, 487.)
A motion to amend a pleading must
include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended pleading which must be
serially numbered to differentiate it from previous pleadings or amendments and
must state what allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted
or added, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the
allegations are located.  (Cal. Rules of
Court, Rule 3.1324(a).) The motion shall also be accompanied by a declaration
attesting to the effect of the amendment, why the amendment is necessary and
proper, when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered,
and why the request for amendment was not made earlier. (Cal. Rules of Court,
Rule 1.324(b).)
Plaintiff includes a copy of the
proposed pleading and specifies the proposed changes as well as their effect. Plaintiff’s
counsel declares that “[a]fter the First Amended Complaint was filed, further
investigation of the case uncovered a new defendant, MISAEL HERNANDEZ-DELGADO,
as well as a new Plaintiff, MARIO CHAVEZ, who signed-up to be represented by
Plaintiff’s counsel.” (Murphy Decl., ¶ 4.) Plaintiff’s counsel also declares
that “Lizbeth Vargas” has since reached the age of majority and is now an
adult. (Murphy Decl., ¶ 5.) Since there is no party (or proposed party) named
Lizeth Vargas, the Court assumes that this averment was included in error. 
Plaintiff’s counsel’s declaration only
vaguely describes “when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were
discovered” as required by CRC 1.324. However, given that none of the
defendants have appeared, none will be prejudiced by the proposed amendments.
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s motion is GRANTED. Plaintiff is ordered to file the
proposed Second Amended Complaint within 5 court days of the date of this
Order. 
Moving party to give notice.
Dated
this 8th
day of November
2024
 




 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.