 Case Number:  24STCV01173    Hearing Date:   July 9, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



BRENDA OWEN, 
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
365 CALIFORNIA BLVD, LLC, et al.,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No: 
  24STCV01173
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  July 9, 2024
 Calendar Number:  13



 
 
 
Plaintiff Brenda Owen (“Plaintiff”) moves for an order
setting this case for trial preference.
            
The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion.
 
Background
 
This is a landlord-tenant case.
 
Plaintiff, Jeff Owen (“Owen”), and Lawrence O’Brien
(collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed this action non January 17, 2024, raising
claims for (1) harassment in violation of Pasadena Municipal Code, section
1806, subd. (g); (2) retaliation in violation of Pasadena Municipal Code,
section 1806, subd. (h); (3) negligence; (4) negligent hiring and supervision;
(5) breach of implied warranty of habitability; (6) tortious breach of implied
warranty of habitability; (7) breach of implied covenant of quiet enjoyment;
(8) elder abuse; (9) retaliation under Civil Code, section 1942.5; (10) willful
interruption of services under Civil Code, section 789.3; (11) violation of
Civil Code, section 1940.2; (12) intentional infliction of emotional distress
(“IIED”); and (13) unfair business practices.
 
Owen and O’Brien have resolved their claims and will be
dismissing their claims, leaving Plaintiff Brenda Owen as the only remaining Plaintiff.
 
Plaintiff moved for trial preference on May 31, 2024. No
party filed an opposition.
 
Legal Standard
 
Actions can be set for trial preference under several
circumstances.
 
First, “[a] party to a civil action who is over 70 years of
age may petition the court for a preference, which the court shall grant if the
court makes both of the following findings: 
 
(1) The party has a substantial interest in the action as a
whole. 
 
(2) The health of
the party is such that a preference is necessary to prevent prejudicing the
party's interest in the litigation.”
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 36, subd. (a).)
 
Second, “[a] civil action to recover damages for wrongful
death or personal injury shall be entitled to preference upon the motion of any
party to the action who is under 14 years of age unless the court finds that
the party does not have a substantial interest in the case as a whole. A civil
action subject to subdivision (a) shall be given preference over a case subject
to this subdivision.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 36, subd. (b).)
 
Third, “[i]n its discretion, the court may also grant a
motion for preference that is accompanied by clear and convincing medical
documentation that concludes that one of the parties suffers from an illness or
condition raising substantial medical doubt of survival of that party beyond
six months, and that satisfies the court that the interests of justice will be
served by granting the preference.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 36, subd. (d).)
 
Fourth, “[n]otwithstanding any other provision of law, the
court may in its discretion grant a motion for preference that is supported by
a showing that satisfies the court that the interests of justice will be served
by granting this preference.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 36, subd. (e).)
 
When a court grants a request for a preference, “the court
shall set the matter for trial not more than 120 days from the date and there
shall be no continuance beyond 120 days,” barring specified circumstances.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 36, subd. (f).)
 
Discussion
 
            Plaintiff
seeks a setting of preference under the first statutory ground. 
 
Plaintiff is over 70 years of age. (Owen Decl. ¶ 2.) As the
remaining Plaintiff, she has a substantial interest in the case as a whole.
Plaintiff alleges that she has been injured by Defendants’ alleged failure to
maintain Plaintiff’s unit at a property that is owned and managed by Defendants
and by Defendants’ alleged ongoing harassment of Plaintiff.
 
Plaintiff’s health has declined significantly over the past
year and a half. Plaintiff has experienced a sustained increase in her blood
pressure as well as blood pressure spikes. (Owen Decl. ¶ 13; Reid Decl. ¶¶ 13,
16.) Plaintiff’s consistently elevated blood pressure has led to Plaintiff’s
hospitalization in February 2023. (Owen Decl. ¶¶ 7, 13.) These health changes
have been debilitating due to Plaintiff’s age and have led to an overall
decline in health. (Owen Decl. ¶¶ 14-15.) The Court therefore finds that
Plaintiff’s health is such that a setting of trial preference is necessary in
order to protect her interest in this litigation.
 
Every Defendant has appeared and answered.
 
Having found that the statutory requirements are met, the
Court grants Plaintiff’s request for a setting of trial preference.