 Case Number:  23STCV10720    Hearing Date:   July 9, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



MARIA ELENA GRADO, et al., 
 
                                  Plaintiffs,
  
         v.
 
 
ANTELOPE VALLEY COUNTRY CLUB
  IMPROVEMENT COMPANY, et al.,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No: 
  23STCV10720
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  July 9, 2024
 Calendar Number:  7



 
 
 
Plaintiff Maria Elena Grado seeks terminating, issue, and
evidentiary sanctions against Defendant and Cross-Complainant Antelope Valley
Country Club Improvement Company (“Antelope”). Grado additionally seeks
$4,800.00 in monetary sanctions.
 
The Court DENIES Grado’s motion for terminating sanctions.
 
The Court DENIES Grado’s motion for issue sanctions.
 
The Court DENIES Grado’s motion for evidentiary sanctions.
 
The Court ORDERS Antelope to provide supplemental responses
compliant with the Court’s April 2, 2024 discovery order within 15 days of the
issuance of this order. If Antelope fails to do so, the Court will issue
evidentiary sanctions prohibiting Antelope from introducing any documents not
yet produced and from calling any witnesses not yet identified.
 
The Court GRANTS Grado’s motion for monetary sanctions in
the amount of $4,800.00. Antelope shall pay this amount to Grado’s counsel
within 15 days of the issuance of this order.
 
 
Background
 
This case concerns work done by Plaintiffs Bob and Me
Productions, Inc. DBA The Lemon Leaf (“Lemon Leaf”) and Grado (collectively,
“Plaintiffs”) as food service contractors for Antelope, a country club. On July
23, 2020, the parties entered a contract (the “Agreement”) whereby Plaintiffs
provided food services for Antelope. Plaintiffs occupied and operated a kitchen
on Antelope’s premises as part of the Agreement. The agreement ran for a
three-year term, with automatic three-year extensions up to three times unless
either party delivered a notice of cancelation four months in advance of the
end of the term.
 
On February 13, 2023, Antelope served a “Notice of
Non-Renewal of Agreement” on Plaintiff. The parties dispute whether this notice
validly ended the agreement.
 
As of the filing of this motion, Plaintiffs retained
possession and use of the kitchen.
 
Plaintiffs filed this action against Antelope and other defendants
on May 12, 2023, alleging (1) breach of contract; (2) breach of the covenant of
good faith and fair dealing; (3) declaratory relief; (4) injunctive relief; (5)
negligence; (6) fraudulent promises without intent to perform; (7) negligent
promises without intent to inform; and (8) intentional infliction of emotional
distress (“IIED”). Plaintiffs subsequently dismissed their third claim for
declaratory relief.
 
Antelope filed a Cross-Complaint against Plaintiffs on June
22, 2023. The operative cross-complaint is the Second Amended Cross-Complaint
(“SACC”), which raises claims for (1) breach of contract; (2) wrongful
interference; and (3) declaratory relief.
 
On September 29, 2023, Grado served Antelope with written
discovery requests that included form interrogatories, special interrogatories,
inspection demands, and requests for admission.
 
On December 18, 2023, Grado filed motions to compel further
responses to the interrogatories and inspection demands.
 
On February 8, 2024, the Court continued the hearings on
both motions to April 2, 2024. At the February 8, 2024 hearing, counsel for
Antelope represented that although Plaintiff had not filed a motion to compel
further responses to the RFAs, Antelope would provide further responses so that
there would be no need for Grado to file another motion to compel.
 
On April 2, 2024, the Court granted Grado’s motions to
compel further responses to the interrogatories and inspection demands.
 
Antelope has not subsequently provided further discovery
responses as ordered.
 
Grado filed this motion on June 7, 2024. Antelope filed an
opposition and Grado filed a reply.
 
Legal Standard
 
Where a party misuses the discovery process, courts have
discretion to impose terminating, issue, evidence, or monetary sanctions. (Code
Civ. Proc. §§ 2023.010(g), 2030.290(c); R.S. Creative, Inc. v. Creative
Cotton, Ltd. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 486, 495.) Misuse of the discovery
process includes failure to respond to an authorized method of discovery or
disobeying a court order to provide discovery. (Code Civ. Proc., §§
2023.010(d), (g).)        
 
Monetary sanctions may be imposed “ordering that one engaging in
the misuse of the discovery process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or
both pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney's fees, incurred by anyone
as a result of that conduct…unless [the Court] finds that the one subject to
the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances
make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code of Civ. Proc.,
§ 2030.030, subd. (a).) 
 
Issue sanctions may be imposed “ordering that designated facts
shall be taken as established in the action in accordance with the claim of the
party adversely affected by the misuse of the discovery process. The court may
also impose an issue sanction by an order prohibiting any party engaging in the
misuse of the discovery process from supporting or opposing designated claims
or defenses.” (Code of Civ. Proc., § 2030.030, subd. (b).) 
 
Evidence sanctions may be imposed “by an order prohibiting any
party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process from introducing
designated matters in evidence.” (Code of Civ. Proc.,
§ 2030.030, subd. (c).) 
 
In more extreme cases, the Court may also impose terminating
sanctions by “striking out the pleadings or parts of the pleadings,” “staying
further proceedings,” “dismissing the action, or any part of the action,” or
“rending a judgment by default” against the party misusing the discovery
process. (Code of Civ. Proc. § 2030.030(d).) The court should look to
the totality of the circumstances in determining whether terminating sanctions
are appropriate.  (Lang v. Hochman (2000) 77¿Cal.App.4th 1225,
1246.) Ultimate discovery sanctions are justified where there is a
willful discovery order violation, a history of abuse, and evidence showing
that less severe sanctions would not produce compliance with discovery rules. (Van
Sickle v. Gilbert (2011) 196 Cal.App.4th 1495, 1516.) “[A] penalty as
severe as dismissal or default is not authorized where noncompliance with
discovery is caused by an inability to comply rather than willfulness or bad
faith.” (Brown v. Sup. Ct. (1986) 180 Cal.App.3d 701, 707.) Further,
preventing parties from presenting their cases on the merits is a drastic
measure; terminating sanctions should only be ordered when there has been
previous noncompliance with a rule or order and it appears a less severe
sanction would not be effective. (Link v. Cater (1998) 60 Cal.App.4th
1315, 1326.) 
 
Before any sanctions may be imposed the court must make an
express finding that there has been a willful failure of the party to serve the
required answers. (Fairfield v. Superior Court for Los Angeles County
(1966) 246 Cal.App.2d 113, 118.) Lack of diligence may be deemed willful where
the party understood its obligation, had the ability to comply, and failed to
comply. (Deyo v. Killbourne (1978) 84 Cal.App.3d 771, 787.) The party
who failed to comply with discovery obligations has the burden of showing that
the failure was not willful. (Id. at 788.) 
 
Discussion
 
Antelope’s failure to provide further RFA responses does not
violate a court order because Plaintiff never moved to compel further responses
to the RFAs. The Court will therefore only consider Antelope’s failure to
provide further responses to Grado’s interrogatories and inspection demands.
 
Counsel for Antelope contends that Plaintiffs’ counsel
agreed to take this motion off calendar if Antelope provided responses before
the hearing date on the motion. Counsel’s declaration is not worded quite so
strongly, stating that counsels “discussed the production and responses and
agreed that [counsel for Plaintiffs] would consider taking the motion
off calendar if [Antelope] provided full and complete responses that were
organized in response to the discovery requests.” (Zinder Decl. at p. 1:8-10
[emphasis added].) Further, Plaintiffs’ counsel flatly contradicts this
contention in his own declaration. (Marcus Reply Decl. ¶¶ 3-10.) Plaintiff’s
counsel declares that he offered to take the motion off calendar if full
responses were received by 5:00 p.m. on June 7, 2024. (Marcus Reply Decl.
¶¶ 6-10.) In other words, Plaintiffs’ counsel offered to retract the motion
that he had filed earlier that day if responses were received on the same day.
The Court therefore does not find that this is a basis to deny sanctions.
 
Counsel for Antelope declares that the failure to timely
provide supplemental responses is due to his own inefficiency in handling the
large number of documents that Antelope provided for production. (Zinder Decl.
at p. 1:12-13.) Counsel states that there are 1,107 pages of documents in
total. (Zinder Decl. at p. 1:6-7.) Counsel for Antelope does not provide any
authority indicating that fault of counsel is a basis for the denial of
discovery sanctions. Furthermore, over 60 days have passed since the Court’s
April 2, 2024 discovery order, and over nine months have passed since the
discovery was initially served on September 29, 2023. That is more than enough
time to process 1,107 pages of documents. Lack of diligence may be deemed
willful where the party understood its obligation, had the ability to comply,
and failed to comply. (Deyo v. Killbourne, supra, 84 Cal.App.3d
at p. 787.) The Court therefore finds that Antelope’s failure to comply with
the April 2, 2024 discovery order has been willful and that sanctions are
warranted.
 
Terminating Sanctions
 
As discussed above, terminating sanctions are justified
where there is a willful discovery order violation, a history of abuse, and
evidence showing that less severe sanctions would not produce compliance with
discovery rules. (Van Sickle v. Gilbert, supra, 196 Cal.App.4th at
p. 1516.) Furthermore, terminating sanctions should only be ordered when there
has been previous noncompliance with a rule or order and it appears a less
severe sanction would not be effective. (Link v. Cater, supra, 60
Cal.App.4th at p. 1326.) 
 
Here, there has been no previous noncompliance with a rule
or order. 
 
“[T]he trial court may impose terminating sanctions as a
first measure in extreme cases, or where the record shows lesser sanctions
would be ineffective. (Department of Forestry & Fire Protection v.
Howell (2017) 18 Cal.App.5th 154, 191–192.) In Department of Forestry
& Fire Protection v. Howell, the trial court found that “[plaintiff’s]
willful, repeated and egregious misuses of the discovery process permeated
nearly every single significant issue in this case to an extent that threatened
the integrity of the judicial process and made it implausible that defendants
could ever receive a fair trial. (Id. at 197 [internal quotations
omitted].)
 
Here, however, the conduct is not so extreme as to warrant
terminating sanctions in the first instance, nor does the record show that
lesser sanctions would be unlikely to produce compliance. Counsel for Antelope
states that he has been provided with documents for supplemental production and
is preparing them for production. This is not the kind of “willful, repeated
and egregious misuses of the discovery process” “permeat[ing] every single
significant issue in this case” to which terminating sanctions are intended to
respond. (Department of Forestry & Fire Protection v. Howell, supra,
18 Cal.App.5th at 197.)
 
The Court therefore denies terminating sanctions.
 
Issue Sanctions
 
Grado does not identify any issue sanctions that she
requests apart from the exclusion of any witnesses not yet identified and any
documents not yet produced, which is an evidentiary sanction. The Court will
therefore evaluate this request under evidentiary sanctions, and denies issue
sanctions.
 
Evidentiary Sanctions
 
Grado requests that Antelope be prohibited from introducing
any documents not yet produced and from calling any witnesses not yet
identified. Given counsel for Antelope’s show of contrition, the Court is not
prepared to grant such a sanction at this time. 
 
However, the Court orders that Antelope provide supplemental
responses compliant with the April 2, 2024 order within 15 days of the issuance
of this order. If Antelope does not do so, the Court will issue evidentiary
sanctions prohibiting Antelope from introducing any documents not yet produced
and from calling any witnesses not yet identified.
 
Monetary Sanctions
 
Grado requests $4,800.00 in attorney’s fees. 
 
Grado requests an hourly rate of $600.00 for attorney
Richard Marcus. The Court finds this rate to be reasonable.
 
Marcus spent 5.5 hours preparing this motion. (Marcus Decl.
¶ 60.) Marcus spent 2.0 hours reviewing the opposition and drafting and
revising the reply. (Marcus Reply Decl. ¶ 30.) Marcus anticipated that the
combined time to review the opposition, draft the reply, and attend the hearing
would amount to 4.0 hours. Working off of the 2.0 hours actually spent drafting
the reply, the Court finds that an additional 1.0 hours for the hearing would
be reasonable, for a total of 8.5 hours.. In any event, Plaintiff requests less
than this total, only requesting $4,800.00 – the equivalent of 8.0 hours. The
Court finds this amount to be reasonable.
 
The Court awards $4,800.00 in monetary sanctions.