 Case Number:  23STCV23567    Hearing Date:   July 9, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



KEVIN LAUGHLIN, 
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
LIBERTY MUTUAL INSURANCE COMPANY,
  et al.,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No: 
  23STCV23567
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  July 9, 2024
 Calendar Number:  12



 
 
 
Defendants Ohio Casualty Insurance Company (“Ohio Casualty”)
and Ohio Security Insurance Company (“Ohio Security”) (collectively, the “Ohio
Insurers”) demur to the Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) filed by Plaintiff
Kevin Laughlin (“Laughlin”).
 
The Court SUSTAINS the demurrer to Laughlin’s first, second,
fifth, sixth, and seventh causes of action WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.
 
The Court SUSTAINS the demurrer to Laughlin’s third and
fourth causes of action WITH LEAVE TO AMEND. 

 
Laughlin shall have 20 days to amend the SAC. If Laughlin files
a motion seeking leave to amend to assert claims for concealment, intentional
infliction of emotional distress, negligence, or promissory estoppel, this time
period will be tolled during the pendency of that motion, in the interest of
judicial economy.
 
Background
 
The following facts are taken from the allegations in the SAC
and from the materials in the Ohio Insurers’ request for judicial notice and
other facts of which the Court may take judicial notice.
 
Factual Background
 
This case concerns an insurance dispute. On January 9, 2016,
the Ohio Insurers issued a commercial general liability insurance policy (the
“Policy”) to Sapphire Bakery Company, LLC (“Sapphire”). Sapphire is the named
insured under the Policy. Under the Policy, the named insured can extend
insurance coverage to any person or organization by means of a written contract
or written agreement.
 
Laughlin runs Eagle Mist Corporation d/b/a Osagai
International (“Eagle Mist”), which invents and formulates food products. In
the summer of 2015, Laughlin was asked to re-formulate a protein bar that he
was underselling. Laughlin and Sapphire agreed that Sapphire would manufacture
the bars. 
 
Before production began, Laughlin contacted the CEO of
Sapphire and asked that Laughlin and Eagle Mist be added as additional insureds
under the Policy. Sapphire provided Eagle Mist with a certificate of liability
insurance (the “COI”). As a federal court later found, Laughlin reasonably, but
incorrectly, believed that Laughlin and Eagle Mist were additional insureds
under the Policy.
 
In August 2016, litigation commenced against Eagle Mist,
Sapphire, and other entities involved in the production of the protein bars
(the “Underlying Action”). 
 
Laughlin contacted the Ohio Insurers to tender the defense
of the Underlying Action and confirm coverage under the Policy. In October
2016, the Ohio Insurers  confirmed that Laughlin
and Eagle Mist were covered under the Policy and that they would provide
coverage for Laughlin’s defense in the Underlying Action. From October 2016
through November 2019, Laughlin received numerous coverage position letters
from the Ohio Insurers where they maintained their coverage position. The Ohio
Insurers paid all of Laughlin’s legal bills from 2016 through 2019.
 
The Federal Action
 
On November 5, 2019, a month before trial in the Underlying
Action, the Ohio Insurers filed a lawsuit in the Eastern District of Missouri
(the “Federal Action”). The Ohio Insurers sought declaratory relief absolving
them of any continuing duty to defend Laughlin in the Underlying Action. The
Ohio Insurers also raised a claim for unjust enrichment, seeking repayment from
Laughlin of the defense costs they expended in his defense in the Underlying
Action. Laughlin raised counterclaims for (1) bad faith; and (2) declaratory
relief.
 
The Ohio Insurers subsequently refused to pay for any more
of Laughlin’s defense costs in the Underlying Action. A judgment was entered
against Laughlin in the amount of $51,990.30 in the Underlying Action. The Ohio
Insurers continued to defend Sapphire throughout the entire action.
 
The federal court granted summary judgment in the Ohio
Insurers’ favor on the declaratory relief claims and on Laughlin’s and Eagle
Mist’s bad faith claim. (Ohio Casualty Insurance Company v. Eagle Mist
Corporation (E.D. Mo., Dec. 22, 2021, No. 4:19-CV-2974-MTS) 2021 WL
6062520; (Ohio Casualty Insurance Company v. Eagle Mist Corporation
(E.D. Mo., Oct. 4, 2021, No. 4:19-CV-2974-MTS) 2021 WL 4523146.)
 
Following a bench trial, the federal court issued a judgment
for Laughlin and Eagle Mist on the Ohio Insurers’ unjust enrichment claim. 
 
The federal court found that, although Laughlin was not
actually an additional insured because no contract existed to provide as such, Laughlin
reasonably believed that he was covered. (Ohio Casualty Insurance Company v.
Eagle Mist Corporation (E.D. Mo., Dec. 16, 2022, No. 4:19-CV-2974-MTS) 2022
WL 17735530, at *5.) 
 
The court explained that Laughlin and Eagle Mist “had a good
faith basis to believe they were Additional Insureds under the Policy. [Laughlin
and Eagle Mist] reasonably believed the COI was valid and conferred coverage.
Several written and verbal communications between Laughlin/Sapphire, Laughlin/[the
Ohio Insurers], and Laughlin/Liberty Mutual show the same. The Court also notes
that a single mention in a twenty-five-plus-page boilerplate reservation of
rights letter, without any further action by [the Ohio Insurers] for three
years, was insufficient to put [Laughlin and Eagle Mist] on notice they might
not be covered under the Policy …. [The Ohio Insurers] assumed defense and
investigated their coverage position in 2016 (notably, based on the same Policy
and same documents reviewed in 2019 relied on to disclaim coverage), [the Ohio
Insurers] sent [Laughlin and Eagle Mist] coverage letters in 2017, 2018, and
2019, and [the Ohio Insurers] continuously paid [Laughlin’s and Eagle Mist’s]
legal fees over a three-year period. [The Ohio Insurers] had the ability to
investigate whether [Laughlin and Eagle Mist] were covered under their own
Policy and to clarify their coverage position to [Laughlin and Eagle Mist].
Instead of doing so, for more than three years, [the Ohio Insurers] did not
notify [Laughlin and Eagle Mist] of their lack of coverage, [the Ohio Insurers]
paid [Laughlin and Eagle Mist’s] legal bills without involving [Laughlin and
Eagle Mist], and [the Ohio Insurers] continued to defend [Laughlin and Eagle
Mist] without so much as a peep of this potential coverage issue. [The Ohio
Insurers] offered no evidence to justify, what the Court considers, inconsistent
conduct.” (Ibid.)
 
The federal court further found that “the evidence here
shows, undisputedly,  belatedly asserted
their coverage position when they previously knew of their lack of coverage and
took no steps to enforce their coverage position until [Laughlin and Eagle Mist]
would be, in good faith, most disadvantaged by [the Ohio Insurers’] change in
position. [The Ohio Insurers] failure to provide evidence concerning their
coverage decision is especially pronounced here given that [Laughlin and Eagle
Mist] offered evidence that [the Ohio Insurers’] decision to disclaim coverage
in 2019 may have been for nefarious purposes. While the Court stops short of
granting [Laughlin’s and Eagle Mist’s] unclean hands defense, the Court notes
that [Laughlin and Eagle Mist], at the very least, offered testimony that [the
Ohio Insurers’] change in coverage position was ‘strategic’ and the result of
privileged communications with lawyers.” (Id. at 6.)
 
Procedural History
 
Laughlin filed this case on September 28, 2023 against
Liberty Mutual. Liberty Mutual has since been dismissed from this case. The
remaining Defendants are now the Ohio Insurers: 
Ohio Casualty and Ohio Security. 
 
The First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) raised claims for (1)
breach of covenant of good faith and fair dealing; (2) malicious prosecution;
and (3) unfair competition.
 
On April 2, 2024, the Court sustained the Ohio Insurers’
demurrer as to the breach of contract and malicious prosecution claims without
leave to amend. The Court sustained the demurrer with leave to amend with
respect to the unfair competition claim. The Court additionally granted Laughlin’s
request for leave to amend to add to the complaint claims for negligent
misrepresentation, constructive fraud and/or abuse of process. The Court
determined that Laughlin is precluded from relitigating whether he was an insured
under the Policy because the federal court determined, in a final judgment on
the merits, that Laughlin was not.
 
Laughlin filed the SAC, now the operative complaint, on
April 22, 2024. The SAC raises claims for (1) fraud (concealment); (2) abuse of
process; (3) unfair competition; (4) constructive fraud; (5) intentional
infliction of emotional distress (“IIED”); (6) negligence; and (7) promissory
estoppel.  As discussed below, Laughlin
had not been granted leave to amend to add claims 1, 5, 6, and 7.   
 
Defendants demurred to the SAC on May 31, 2024. Laughlin
filed an opposition and Defendants filed a reply.
 
Request for Judicial Notice
 
The Court grants Defendants’ request for judicial notice and
takes notice of the requested materials from the Federal Action as public
records.
 
Legal Standard
 
As a general matter, in a demurrer proceeding, the defects
must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial
notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins.
Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A demurrer tests the pleading
alone, and not the evidence or facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants,
Inc. Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) The court assumes the truth
of the complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Ibid.) The only issue a demurrer is
concerned with is whether the complaint, as it stands, states a cause of
action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)
 
Where a demurrer is sustained, leave to amend must be
allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335,
348.) The burden is on the plaintiff to show the court that a pleading can be
amended successfully. (Ibid.;
Lewis v. YouTube, LLC (2015) 244 Cal.App.4th 118, 226.) However, “[i]f
there is any reasonable possibility that the plaintiff can state a good cause
of action, it is error to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend.” (Youngman v. Nevada Irrigation Dist.
(1969) 70 Cal.2d 240, 245).
 
Discussion
 
Fraud (Concealment) – First Claim
 
Laughlin’s concealment claim is new in the SAC and Laughlin
did not obtain leave to amend to plead it. The Court granted Laughlin leave to
amend his unfair competition claim and to add to the complaint claims for
negligent misrepresentation, constructive fraud and/or abuse of process, per Laughlin’s
request. 
 
“Following an order sustaining a demurrer … with leave to
amend, the plaintiff may amend his or her complaint only as authorized by the
court's order …. The plaintiff may not amend the complaint to add a new cause
of action without having obtained permission to do so, unless the new cause of
action is within the scope of the order granting leave to amend.” (Zakk v.
Diesel (2019) 33 Cal.App.5th 431, 456 [citations and quotation marks
omitted.)
 
Laughlin argues that he suggested the foregoing claims in
his brief because an associate suggested those claims in the draft opposition
without researching all possible claims Laughlin could assert and without the
intention of limiting an amended pleading to only the claims that Laughlin
suggested. (Opposition at p. 5:4-10.) Laughlin argues that he should be
permitted to assert this claim, along with his new IIED, negligence, and
promissory estoppel claims, because Defendants are not prejudiced by their addition.
 
If Laughlin wishes to assert these new claims, he must seek
leave to amend by a noticed motion. An opposition to a demurrer is not the
proper vehicle to do so. The Court additionally notes that it is inappropriate
to blame an associate for the contents of Laughlin’s prior opposition brief.
Counsel for Laughlin signed Laughlin’s opposition to the demurrer to the FAC,
and is responsible for its contents. Furthermore, if Laughlin’s counsel had
concerns that the claims listed in the prior opposition were not exhaustive, he
could have raised that concern at the hearing for the demurrer to the FAC after
viewing the Court’s tentative order. 
 
The Court sustains the demurrer to this claim without leave
to amend. Laughlin may seek leave to amend by a noticed motion in order to
assert this claim. 
 
Abuse of Process – Second Claim
 
“There are two main elements of a cause of action for abuse
of process: first, an ulterior purpose, and second, a [willful] act in the use
of the process not proper in the regular conduct of the proceeding. Process is
action taken pursuant to judicial authority. Merely obtaining or seeking
process is not enough; there must be subsequent abuse, by a misuse of the
judicial process for a purpose other than that which it was intended to serve.
The gist of the tort is the improper use of the process after it is issued.” (Siam v. Kizilbash (2005) 130 Cal.App.4th
1563, 1580, quotation marks, citations, ellipses, and paragraph breaks
omitted.)
 
            “Abuse
of process is not just another name for malicious prosecution. Simply filing or
maintaining a lawsuit for an improper purpose (such as might support a
malicious prosecution cause of action) is not abuse of process.” (S.A. v.
Maiden (2014) 229 Cal.App.4th 27, 41-42 [citation and quotation marks
omitted].) “Malicious prosecution and abuse of process are
distinct. The former concerns a meritless lawsuit (and all the damage it
inflicted). The latter concerns the misuse of the tools the law
affords litigants once they are in a lawsuit (regardless of whether
there was probable cause to commence that lawsuit in the first place). Hence,
abuse of process claims typically arise for improper or excessive attachments
or improper use of discovery.” (Id. at p. 42 [citation and quotation
marks omitted].)

            The only basis that Laughlin
alleges for this claim is that Defendants pursued an unjust enrichment theory
that was meritless in the Federal Action. Laughlin does not allege the improper
use of tools of litigation within the lawsuit. This is a malicious prosecution
claim – which the Court previously dismissed without leave to amend on the
basis that Laughlin did not entirely prevail in the Federal Action.
 
            Laughlin
has already received notice of the defects in his previous malicious
prosecution claim, and appears to be repackaging it as an abuse of process
claim rather than raising a true independent claim for abuse of process. This
defect could not be cured by amendment.
 
            The
Court therefore sustains the demurrer to this claim without leave to amend. 
 
Unfair Competition – Third Claim
 
To set forth a claim for a violation
of Business and Professions Code section 17200 (“UCL”), a plaintiff must
establish that a defendant was engaged in an “unlawful, unfair or fraudulent
business act or practice” or “unfair, deceptive, untrue or misleading
advertising” and certain specific acts. (Bus. & Prof. Code, § 17200.) A
cause of action for unfair competition “is not an all-purpose substitute for a
tort or contract action.” (Cortez v.
Purolator Air Filtration Products Co. (2000) 23 Cal.4th 163, 173.)
 
Laughlin argued in opposition to the demurrer to the FAC that
he could cure the defects in this claim in the FAC by asserting claims for
constructive trust, negligent misrepresentation and/or abuse of process.  The Court permitted Laughlin to attempt to do
so in the SAC. Because the Court sustains the demurrer to Laughlin’s
constructive fraud claim with leave to amend below, Laughlin once again lacks
an unlawful, unfair, or fraudulent business practice to assert.
 
The Court sustains the demurrer to this claim with leave to
amend.
 
Constructive Fraud – Fourth Claim
 
“Constructive fraud is a unique species of fraud applicable
only to a fiduciary or confidential relationship.” (Prakashpalan v.
Engstrom, Lipscomb & Lack (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 1105, 1131 [citation
and quotation marks omitted].) “Constructive fraud arises on a breach of duty
by one in a confidential or fiduciary relationship to another which induces
justifiable reliance by the latter to his prejudice.” (Ibid. [citation
and quotation marks omitted].) “Constructive fraud exists in cases in which
conduct, although not actually fraudulent, ought to be so treated—that is, in
which such conduct is a constructive or quasi fraud, having all the actual
consequences and all the legal effects of actual fraud.” (Ibid.
[citation and quotation marks omitted].)
 
The elements of a constructive fraud cause of action are (1)
a fiduciary duty or confidential relationship, (2) nondisclosure (breach of
fiduciary duty); (3) intent to deceive, and (4) reliance resulting in injury. (Younan
v. Equifax Inc. (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 498, 516, fn. 14.)
 
The basis for a confidential relationship that Laughlin
alleges is that he was Defendants’ insured. (Opposition at p. 7:18-19.)
However, as discussed in the April 2, 2024 order, the federal court’s finding
that Laughlin was not Defendants’ insured is preclusive in this case.
 
The Court sustains the demurrer to this claim with leave to
amend.
 
Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress – Fifth Claim
 
The Court sustains the demurrer to this claim without leave
to amend. Laughlin may seek leave to amend by a noticed motion in order to
assert this claim. 
 
Negligence – Sixth Claim
 
The Court sustains the demurrer to this claim without leave
to amend. Laughlin may seek leave to amend by a noticed motion in order to
assert this claim. 
 
Promissory Estoppel – Seventh Claim
 
The Court sustains the demurrer to this claim without leave
to amend. Laughlin may seek leave to amend by a noticed motion in order to
assert this claim. 