  Case Number:  LC104978    Hearing Date:   September 18, 2024    Dept:  T Afsary v Everest LC104978[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Judgment Creditor/Assignee of Record Mountain Recovery, LLC’s Amended Motion to Amend Judgment is DENIED. Judgment Creditor/Assignee of Record Mountain Recovery, LLC’s OSC re: Preliminary Injunction is DENIED, and the Temporary Restraining Order is DISSOLVED.Introduction            Judgment Creditor/Assignee of Record Mountain Recovery, LLC (Mountain Recovery) filed an amended motion to amend the judgment to add Non-Parties Atlantic Holiday, LLC (Atlantic Holiday); 1499 Alva Lane LLC (Alva Lane); and 7th Par Holdings LLC (7th Par) (collectively, Entities) as alter ego judgment debtors.  Concurrently with the motion to amend, the OSC re: Preliminary Injunction (PI) is also heard as to Entities, Julianne Everest (Julianne[1]), and Kenneth Carver (Carver).Entities “specially appeared” on their opposition to the motion to amend and the OSC re: PI.  Mountain Recovery filed a reply to support the Motion to Amend.Julianne and Carver did not file oppositions to the Motion to Amend or the OSC re: PI.Judgment against Defendant/Judgment Debtor Alexander Everest (Alexander) was entered on October 18, 2019.            DiscussionThe Entities argued that service of process was defective as to the OSC re: PI.  On July 16, 2024, the Court granted Mountain Recovery’s ex parte application for a temporary restraining order (TRO) and to set an OSC re: PI against Nonparties Julianne, Carver, and the Entities.  Mountain Recovery did not give prior notice of the ex parte hearing to Julianne, Carver, and the Entities.  The Court expressly required Mountain Recovery to personally serve Julianne, Carver, and the Entities with the July 16, 2024 Order.  However, Mountain Recovery failed to file proofs of serve for the OSC re: PI as to Julianne and Carver.  (Proofs of service were filed on August 27, 2024 as to the Entities only.)  Without proofs of service as to Julianne and Carver, service of process is improper.  Without proper service of process, the Court lacks jurisdiction as to Julianne and Carver.  Without jurisdiction over Julianne and Carver on the OSC re: PI, any order issued by the Court would be void.Because service of process upon Julianne and Carver was not performed, the TRO must be dissolved.  (Code Civ. Proc., sec. 527(d)(3).) Julianne and Carver because the motion to amend did not seek any relief against Julianne and Carver.  The motion to amend was only filed against the Entities.  The motion to amend did not seek to add Julianne and Carver as judgment debtors on the judgment against Alexander.The Entities argued that the Court has no personal jurisdiction over them due to defective service of process.  On August 27, 2024, Mountain Recovery filed proofs of service showing personal service of the OSC re: PI as to the Entities.  However, the proofs of service as to the Entities showed that a copy of the complaint was not served upon the Entities.  (Code Civ. Proc., sec. 527(d)(2).)  Because Mountain Recovery failed to serve a copy of the complaint, the proofs of service as to the Entities and service of process are defective.  Without proper service of process, the Court’s jurisdiction over the Entities is at issue. Mountain Recovery argued, without any legal authority, that the Entities’ stipulation and order to continue the instant hearing, filed on July 30, 2024, makes the service of process issue moot.  Without any legal authority to support Mountain Recovery’s contention that the stipulation and order can be considered a general appearance or a waiver of the service of process issue, the argument is unpersuasive.  However, the Entities filed a singular Opposition to the Motion to Amend and OSC re: PI.  The Entities appeared on their Opposition by “special appearance” designation.  Personal jurisdiction may be asserted over a nonresident defendant who makes a general appearance in the action and dispenses with the necessity of service of process.  The designation of “special appearance” is not controlling.  If a party seeks relief on any basis other than lack of personal jurisdiction, it is a general appearance.  (Factor Health Management v. Superior Court (2005) 132 Cal.App.4th 246, 250.)  The Entities’ opposition disputed the Court’s personal jurisdiction over them but then proceeded to argue the merits of the motion to amend and the OSC re: PI.  The Entities argued that the motion to amend/OSC re: PI should be denied based upon a violation of due process regarding the judgment and laches, an affirmative defense in equity.  With these opposition arguments, the Entities have requested relief on grounds other than a lack of personal jurisdiction.  The Entities’ arguments as to defective service of process is unpersuasive.  The Entities made a general appearance in this Court based upon the instant opposition, despite the designation of “special appearance.”  The Court has personal jurisdiction over the Entities despite the defective service of process.  The Entities’ argument as to defective service of process is unpersuasive.The Entities argued that Delaware law, rather than California law, should apply as to Atlantic Holiday and 7th Par because they were formed in Delaware.  The Entities argued that Delaware “does not appear to recognize the outside reverse piercing theory.”  The Entities did not cite any case law showing that Delaware does not expressly recognize reverse veil piercing.  Without legal authority, the Entities rely upon an assumption that a conflict of laws exists.  Assumptions are not facts.  Further, Mountain Recovery provided Delaware case law to show that Delaware recognizes reverse veil piercing.  (Manichaean Capital, LLC v. Exela Techs., Inc. (2021) 251 A.3d 694, 714.)  Because Delaware recognizes reverse veil piercing, there is no conflict.  Without a conflict in laws, the laws of the forum jurisdiction usually governs, and the Court need not engage in a choice-of-law analysis.  (Blizzard Energy, Inc. v. Schaefers (2021) 71 Cal.App.5th 832, 855-856 (Blizzard Energy).)  The Entities argument that Delaware law should apply is unpersuasive because there is no conflict.As to the motion to amend, both Mountain Recovery and the Entities submit that the Court has authority to amend the judgment and add nonparty corporate entities using the reverse veil piercing doctrine.  The doctrine permits a judgment against an individual to be enforced against an entity of which the individual is an insider.  (Curci Investments, LLC v. Baldwin (2017) 14 Cal.App.5th 214, 222 (Curci); Blizzard Energy, supra, 71 Cal.App.5th at pp. 840-841.)  As it is with adding a nonparty individual to a judgment entered against an entity debtor using alter ego theory, reverse veil piercing requires: (1) a unity of interest and ownership between the entity and the individual; and (2) an inequitable result exists if the acts in question are treated as those of the judgment debtor alone.  (Blizzard Energy, supra, 71 Cal.App.5th at pp. 848-849.)As to the first factor of a unity of interest and ownership in 7th Par, Mountain Recovery failed to present any evidence showing Alexander or Julianne’s ownership interest or membership in 7th Par.  Mountain Recovery argued that Julianne owned 7th Par but the Account Agreements creating bank accounts only identify entities other than 7th Par (i.e., Comforting Home Hospice, Inc., Solid Care Home Health Inc., Lakeshore Hospice, Inc. Horizon View Hospice, Inc. – See Shalem Shem-Tov (Shem-Tov) Decl. pars. 16, 18-21, Exhs. Q, S-V.)  Further, Mountain Recovery’s only evidence regarding the commingling of funds is between Alva Lane and 7th Par.  (Shem-Tov Decl. par. 13, Exh. L: Schedule J.)  The bank documents are insufficient to show that Alexander or Julianne have any ownership interest or membership in 7th Par.  For this lack of evidence showing ownership in 7th Par by Alexander or Julianne, Mountain Recovery’s argument of reverse veil piercing as to 7th Par is unpersuasive.The Motion to Amend to add 7th Par as a judgment debtor is DENIED.On the motion to amend to add Alva Lane, Mountain Recovery failed to present any evidence showing Alexander or Julianne’s ownership interest or membership in Alva Lane.  As was the defect above with 7th Par, the documents submitted do not show any Account Agreement with banks or any other documents showing that Alexander or Julianne had any ownership interest or membership in Alva Lane.  However, Alva Lane provided evidence as to the ownership factor.  Alva Lane provided evidence that Kenneth Carver was the member of Alva Lane, as of October 7, 2021.  (Chaney Decl. pars. 3-4, Exhs. B-C.)  Alva Lane’s evidence then presented facts showing that Alexander became a member in February 2023.  (Chaney Decl. pars. 5-6, Exhs. D-E)  With Alva Lane’s own evidence, ownership of Alva Lane by Alexander is sufficiently shown.  However, the evidence of ownership does not coincide with Mountain Recovery’s evidence to support commingling of funds.  Mountain Recovery asserted that Alva Lane commingled funds with Julianne.  Mountain Recovery presented evidence showing that Alva Lane’s bank accounts were used to pay for personal expenses, essentially using Alva Lane’s bank account as Julianne’s personal bank account.  (i.e., payments to masseuse, auto upholstery and repair payments, and personal credit card payments.) (Shem-Tov Decl. par. 13, Exh. L, Schedule H.)  However, the evidence only shows transactions occurring between February 8, 2022 and October 11, 2022, which is prior to Alexander obtaining ownership interest in Alva Lane.  Mountain Recovery’s evidence is insufficient to show the first factor of unity of interest and ownership in relation to Alva Lane. The Motion to Amend as to Alva Lane is DENIED.On the motion to amend against Atlantic Holiday, Mountain Recovery presented evidence showing that Julianne represented that she owned 100% of Atlantic Holiday in an Account Agreement submitted to First Foundation Bank.  (Shem-Tov Decl. par. 17, Exh. R.)  Further, the Entities evidence supported the contention that Julianne is 100% owner of Atlantic Holiday.  The Entities evidence further provide that Atlantic Holiday was formed on or about May 19, 2020.  (Marcus Chaney (Chaney) Decl. pars. 7-9, Exhs. F-H.)  Nothing in the Entities evidence or even Alexander’s declaration shows that Atlantic Holiday is a separate property interest held solely by Julianne.  Alexander testified that Julianne holds Atlantic Holiday as her separate property interest per a marital agreement, but the testimony is conclusory and self-serving.  Alexander did not attach any documentary support for the contention.  The Court does not find Alexander’s testimony to be credible.  Julianne did not file a declaration, in her capacity as Alva Lane’s member owner, to contest that Atlantic Holiday was formed during marriage and is being held as community property.  Because Atlantic Holiday is seen to be community property, Alexander is seen to have some ownership interest in Atlantic Holiday.  Mountain Recovery argued that Alexander/Julianne commingled their funds with Atlantic Holiday and used Atlantic Holiday’s accounts/funds as their own personal account/funds.  However, Mountain Recovery’s evidence only shows that Atlantic Holiday’s monies came from or transferred to Comforting Home Hospice, Inc., Alva Lane, Lakeshore Hospice, LLC, Leader Health, LLC, Horizon View Hospice, Inc., and Solid Care Home Health Inc.  (Shem-Tov Decl. 13, Exhs. L, Schedules E, K, R, S, T, U, and V.)  However, none of these entities are shown to be alter egos of Alexander or Julianne.  Mountain Recovery argued that Alexander controlled these entities’ accounts, but control alone is insufficient to prove up the first factor of unity of interest and ownership.            The Motion to Amend as to Atlantic Holiday is DENIED.            The Entities’ arguments as to lack of personal jurisdiction due to lack of minimum contacts, violation of due process, and laches are MOOT and not considered because Mountain Recovery failed to meet their initial burden on the motion to amend.            As to Mountain Recovery’s OSC re: PI, "[t]he ultimate questions on a motion for a preliminary injunction are (1) whether the plaintiff is 'likely to suffer greater injury from a denial of the injunction than the defendants are likely to suffer from its grant,' and (2) whether there is 'a reasonable probability that the plaintiffs will prevail on the merits.'"  (Huong Que, Inc. v. Luu (2007) 150 Cal.App.4th 400, 408.)  Mountain Recovery sought to enjoin the Entities from disposing of their assets.  However, with the review above, it is shown that the Entities could not be liable for the judgment against Alexander since Mountain Recovery did not sufficiently prove-  up reverse veil piercing.  Because Mountain Recovery could not show probability of prevailing, the Entities are more likely to suffer the greater injury.  Mountain Recovery failed to meet its burden on the OSC re: PI.             The OSC re: PI is DENIED, and the TRO is DISSOLVED.            IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE NOTICE.Note: When a TRO is granted without notice, the party who obtained the TRO must serve the opposing party “a copy of the complaint if not previously served, the order to show cause stating the date, time, and place of the hearing, any affidavits to be used in the application, and a copy of the points and authorities in support of the application.”  (Code Civ. Proc., sec. 527(d)(2).)  Service of the OSC must be made in the same manner as a summons and complaint.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1150(a).)]   