  Case Number:  21STCV45457    Hearing Date:   October 18, 2024    Dept:  55 NATURE OF PROCEEDINGS: Hearing on Precision’s Motion
to Quash Subpoena
 
Precision’s Motion to Quash Subpoena is denied.  
 
BACKGROUND
Plaintiff, Precision
Construction Group, Inc. (“Precision”), brought this action against ONNI Contracting Inc. (“Onni”) alleging breach
of a written subcontract between the parties and Onni’s failure to pay
Precision for products it provided to Onni. Onni filed a Cross-Complaint
against Precision and Cross Defendant Suretec Insurance Company, alleging that
Precision negligently, defectively, and incompletely performed the subcontract,
and ultimately abandoned it. Onni’s causes of action are: 1. Breach of Written
Contract; 2. Breach of Oral Contract; 3. Breach of Fiduciary Duty; 4.
Negligence; 5. Contractual Indemnity; 6. Unfair Business Practices; 7.
Disgorgement; and 8. Recovery of Contractor’s License Bond. 
Onni subsequently filed a First Amended Cross-Complaint (“FACC”)
adding Jerry Sorrentino, Precision’s sole owner and designated PMQ, as a
cross-defendant under an alter ego theory. 
The motion now before the Court is Precision’s Motion to Quash Subpoena
to U.S. Bank.
 
LEGAL STANDARD
Motion to Quash
Under Code of Civil Procedure section 1987.1, courts may “make
an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance
with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including
protective orders.” Additionally, courts “may make any other order as may be
appropriate to protect the person from unreasonable or oppressive demands,
including unreasonable violations of the right of privacy of the person.” Cal.
Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1, subd. (a).
A motion to quash production of documents pursuant to a
deposition subpoena must be accompanied by a separate statement setting forth
the inspection demand at issue and the factual and legal reasons why production
should not be compelled. See CRC 3.1345(a)(5).
Under California Code of Civil Procedure section 1987.2,
courts have the discretion to award the amount of “reasonable expenses incurred
in making or opposing the motion, including reasonable attorney’s fees, if the
court finds the motion was made or opposed in bad faith or without substantial
justification or that one or more of the requirements of the subpoena was
oppressive.”
 
 
Protective Order
Under Code of Civil Procedure section 2017.020 courts “shall
limit the scope of discovery if” the court “determines that the burden,
expense, or intrusiveness of that discovery clearly outweighs the likelihood
that the information sought will lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.”
A “court may make this determination pursuant to a motion for protective order
by a party or other affected person.” Id.
The burden of proof is generally on the party seeking the
protective order to show good cause for whatever order is sought. Fairmont
Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (2000) 22 Cal.4th 245, 255. The concept of good
cause requires a showing of specific facts demonstrating undue burden, etc.,
and justifying the relief sought. See Goodman v. Citizens Life &
Casualty Ins. Co. (1967) 253 Cal.App.3d 807, 819. The facts are normally
established in declarations by counsel for the party seeking the protective
order. The declaration must contain competent evidence - i.e., first-hand
knowledge of the facts. Hearsay allegations on information and belief and
conclusory statements that particular relief is necessary are not enough. Id.
The granting or denial of relief lies within the sound
discretion of the judge. Greyhound Corp. v. Superior Court (1961) 56
Cal.2d 355, 379-81 (overruled on other grounds pertaining to attorney work
product privilege). The concept of good cause requires a showing of specific
facts demonstrating undue burden, unwarranted embarrassment, oppression, or
unwarranted annoyance, and justifying the relief sought. See Goodman v.
Citizens Life & Casualty Ins. Co. (1967) 253 Cal.App.3d 807, 819.
Unlike other discovery orders, a protective order may be granted simply on the
court’s determination that justice so requires. Greyhound Corp., supra,
56 Cal.2d at pp. 379-81.
A court shall impose sanctions against any party, person, or
attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion for a protective order,
unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust. Code Civ. Pro. section 2030.090, subd. (d).
 
ANALYSIS
Onni’s subpoena seeks U.S. Bank to provide all documents concerning
Precision’s bank accounts from October 1, 2021, to present, including copies of
checks issued, payments or transfers between Precision and Jerry Sorrentino,
copies of all deposits and statements, wires and wire recipients, and a list of
withdrawals and recipients of those withdrawals.  
Meet and Confer
Onni argues that the motions to quash and for a protective
order should be denied because Precision failed to meet and confer.
A party is not required to meet and confer before filing a
motion to quash a subpoena served on a non-party. See Code Civ. Proc. §
1985.3 (requiring an attempt at informal resolution only before the party
propounding the subpoena moves to enforce the subpoena over objections).
Moreover, a discovery motion should not be denied automatically because the
moving parties failed to meet and confer in good faith. Obregon v. Superior
Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 424, 434.
Any motion for a protective order made under Code Civ.
Proc., section 2017.020 must be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration
under Code Civ. Proc., section 2016.040.
Here, U.S. Bank is a non-party. Therefore, Precision was not
required to meet and confer before filing the motion to quash.
However, Precision also moves for a protective order under
Code Civ. Proc., section 2017.020. Precision was required to meet and confer before
filing the motion for a protective order. Nevertheless, the Court will hear the
motion.
Privacy Rights
First, Precision argues that the Court should quash the
subpoena or issue a protective order because the subpoena seeks information
that violates the financial privacy rights of Precision and third parties. 
When evaluating invasions of the right to privacy in
discovery, the party asserting a privacy right must establish “(1) a legally
protected privacy interest; (2) a reasonable expectation of privacy in the
circumstances; and (3) conduct by defendant constituting a serious invasion of
privacy.” Hill v. National Collegiate Athletic Assn. (1994) 26
Cal.Rptr.2d 834, 865. A responding party may prevail by negating any of these
three elements “or by pleading and proving, as an affirmative defense, that the
invasion of privacy is justified because it substantively furthers one or more
countervailing interests.” Ibid. “[T]he party seeking protection may
identify feasible alternatives that serve the same interests or protective
measures that would diminish the loss of privacy.” Williams v. Superior
Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 533.  A
court then balances these competing considerations. Ibid. As guidance in
balancing these competing considerations, it should be noted, “[o]nly obvious
invasions of interest fundamental to personal autonomy must be supported by a
compelling interest.” Ibid. When lesser interests are at stake, “the
strength of the countervailing interest sufficient to warrant disclosure of
private information var[ies] according to the strength of the privacy interest
itself, the seriousness of the invasion, and the availability of alternatives
and protective measures.” Ibid.
“[C]orporations do not have a right of privacy protected by
the California Constitution.” SCC Acquisitions, Inc. v. Superior Court
(2015) 243 Cal.App.4th 741, 755. “While corporations have a right to privacy,
it is not a constitutional right. The corporate right to privacy is a lesser
right than that held by human beings and is not considered a fundamental
right.” Id. at p. 756.
Here, Precision’s limited privacy right as a corporate
entity is not a sufficient basis to quash Onni’s subpoena seeking highly
relevant information. Onni has repeatedly attempted to get information directly
from Precision regarding the $860,001.28 Onni allegedly paid in trust to
Precision to pay its subcontractors.  That
information is essential to Onni’s conversion claim. 
Precision additionally argues that the privacy rights of its
employees may be violated by compliance with the subpoena.  However, the evidence in the record shows
that employees are paid from a separate payroll account. Opposition Ex. D.
Therefore, allowing access to Precision's bank records will not invade the
privacy of Precision’s employees, and Onni was not required to provide notice
to them. 
 
Overbroad
Next, Precision argues that the subpoena is overbroad,
speculative, ambiguous, irrelevant, and not reasonably calculated to lead to
admissible evidence.  
The Court finds that the subpoena is not overbroad.
Precision’s inability to answer deposition questions or otherwise provide
information concerning the $860,001.28 necessitated Onni seeking that
information from a third party.  The time
limitations are sufficient to narrowly tailor the request to information that
is likely to be relevant. Accordingly, Precision’s motion is denied. 
 
Sanctions 
Onni requests $4,687.00 in sanctions, reflecting (1)
$3,052.00 (5.6 hours) to research and prepare the opposition to the motion; (2)
$1,090.00 (2.0 hours) to review any reply papers; and (3) $545.00 (1.0 hours)
to attend the hearing on the motion at an hourly rate of $545.
While the hourly rate is reasonable, the Court finds the
time billed for preparing the opposition and reviewing the reply to be
excessive and reduces the total hours to 6. 
The Court grants Onni’s request for sanctions in the reduced
amount of $3,270.00. 
 
CONCLUSION
Precision’s Motion to Quash Subpoena is denied. The Court
grants Onni sanctions in the reduced amount of $3,270.00. 