


[FN1] Plaintiff represents that it
intends to dismiss the two duty-to-defend declaratory relief causes of action
before trial.



[FN2] All citations to the Agreement
refer to the Master Professional Services Agreement, which is attached as
Exhibit 1 to Plaintiff’s Trial Brief filed on December 12, 2024. Mark Peterson,
Defendant’s representative, confirmed in his deposition that the Agreement was
entered into between Defendant and Plaintiff. (Def. Brief (1/8/25), Ex. A.)


[FN3] The Court’s analysis regarding
the City’s administrative action is contingent upon Plaintiff’s filing of the signed Declaration of Debra Fritz, the
Custodian of Records for the City. Plaintiff anticipates having the signed
declaration on January 22, 2025, the day before the Final Status Conference.
(Pl. Supp. Br. (1/17/25) at p. 2, fn.1.)



[FN4] The Court will also hear
further from the parties as to whether the Court should hold a bench trial to adjudicate
damages under the Agreement.


[FN5] “Claim” and “Professional
Liability Claim” are both broadly defined to include any type of lawsuit or
claim, including any “administrative action.” (Agreement, Section 8.4(a)-(b).)


[FN6] Defendant appears to argue that
one of the settling defendants, Boudreau, was Plaintiff’s contractor on this
project, such that the indemnification agreement is void to the extent that it
would require indemnification for Boudreau’s sole negligence. The Court will
hear further from the parties in this regard at the hearing, but it does not
appear to the Court that Boudreau qualifies as a contractor that is “directly
responsible” to Plaintiff. Armco Steel
Corp. v. Roy H. Cox Co. (1980) 103 Cal. App. 3d 929, 932 [“Section 2782
declares that an agreement which creates a right to indemnity for the ‘sole
negligence’ of the indemnitee or persons for whom it is directly responsible is
void as against public policy and unenforceable.”].) 


[FN7] As reflected in the minute
order dated December 17, 2024, the Court previously ruled on two of Plaintiff’s
motions (Motion in Limine Nos. 3 and 7) following the Final Status Conference
on December 17, 2024.


[FN8] Plaintiff’s initial motion
sought to exclude statements referencing the term “fraud” in describing any “non-settling party’s conduct,” but it is
clear from both the motion and Plaintiff’s subsequent filings that it
principally wishes to exclude referencing the term “fraud” in connection with the settling defendants’ conduct.