  Case Number:  19PSCV00687    Hearing Date:   January 22, 2025    Dept:  H Meritage Homes of California, Inc. v. Michael Baker International, Inc.,

Case No. 19PSCV00687


TENTATIVE
RULINGS ON REQUEST FOR DECLATORY RELIEF 
AND MOTIONS IN LIMINE
 
I.        Introduction
Plaintiff Meritage Homes of California, Inc.
(“Plaintiff”), commenced this lawsuit against Defendant Michael Baker
International (“Defendant”), as well as other defendants who have since
settled, following issues with a sewer lift station that ultimately led the City
of La Verne (the “City”) to revoke Plaintiff’s permits and shut down
Plaintiff’s residential housing development project known as the “Creekside
development.” In its Third Amended Complaint (the “Operative Complaint” or
“TAC”), Plaintiff asserts the following causes of action against Defendant: (1)
breach of contract; (2) breach of implied covenants of good faith and fair dealing;
(3) express indemnity; (4) declaratory relief re: duty to indemnify; (5) declaratory
relief re: duty to defend; and (7) negligence.[FN1] Plaintiff’s causes of action for breach of contract,
breach of implied covenants, express indemnity; and negligence are set to be
tried to a jury on January 28, 2025.
In connection with the Creekside development,
Plaintiff and Defendant entered into a contract, the Master Professional
Services Agreement (the “Agreement”), which contain indemnity provisions that
would require Defendant to indemnify Plaintiff for claims brought against
Plaintiff.[FN2] Before the jury trial commences, Plaintiff
seeks a ruling from the Court on its request for declaratory relief in
connection with the Agreement.
For the reasons stated herein, the Court is
inclined to grant Plaintiff’s request for declaratory relief, at least in part,
inasmuch as the Court agrees with Plaintiff that Section 8.2 of the Agreement
applies to the City’s administrative action against Plaintiff. At the Final
Status Conference on January 22, 2025, the Court will hear further from the
parties on (1) whether they wish to present any additional evidence in
connection with the request for declaratory relief before the Court issues its
final ruling, (2) the parties’ views on whether the Court should hold a court
trial to determine damages under the indemnity agreement or whether that issue
needs to be submitted to a jury, and (3) whether the parties are prepared to
proceed to jury trial on the remaining causes of action on January 28, 2025 or
need a further continuance to meet and confer and/or restructure the trial
based on the Court’s ruling on declaratory relief.
In the event the case proceeds to jury trial
on the remaining causes of action, the Court also provides tentative rulings on
the motions in limine that were not ruled upon at the prior conference. 
 
II.      Plaintiff’s Request for Declaratory
Relief
Plaintiff seeks declaratory relief regarding
its right to indemnity from Defendant under the Agreement. As an initial
matter, the Court concludes that it is appropriate to adjudicate the
declaratory relief cause of action prior to the jury trial, as the declaratory
relief is an equitable cause of action that is to be tried before the court,
not the jury. (Raedeke v.
Gibraltar Savings & Loan Assn. (1974) 19 Cal.3d 665, 671 [“[I]n a case involving
both legal and equitable issues, the trial court may proceed to try the
equitable issues first, without a jury[.]”]; Code Civ. Proc., sec. 1060.)
Moreover, it appears to the Court that it can adjudicate the declaratory relief
cause of action based on the contract itself and on the limited exhibits
attached to Plaintiff’s January 17, 2025 supplemental brief, which shed light
on the nature of the City’s administrative action against Plaintiff.[FN3] However, the Court will hear from the parties at the Final Status Conference as
to whether additional witness testimony or exhibits are necessary or
appropriate.[FN4]
“Indemnity
agreements are construed under the same rules which govern the interpretation
of other contracts.” (Cont’l Heller Corp.
v. Amtech Mech. Servs., Inc. (1997) 53 Cal. App. 4th 500.) In interpreting
an indemnity agreement, the Court must “give effect to the mutual intention of
the parties” as “ascertained from the ‘clear and explicit’ language of the
contract.” (Id. [citing Civ. Code, §§
1636, 1638-1639.)
In the thirteenth cause of action of the
Operative Complaint, Plaintiff seeks declaratory relief as to “the respective
liability of the parties for the damages allegedly incurred by” Plaintiff and
“whether [Defendant] must indemnify [Plaintiff] for damages allegedly incurred
by Plaintiff.” (TAC, ¶ 114.) While Plaintiff seeks broad declaratory relief
(and appears to identify different issues it wants the Court to resolve in its
various briefs and pleadings), the principal issue in dispute is whether
Section 8.1 or Section 8.2 of the Agreement applies to damages incurred as a
result of the City’s administrative action.  
Section 8.1 of the Agreement requires
Defendant to “indemnify and hold harmless” Plaintiff “for, from, and against
any and all Professional Liability Claims
(as defined in Section 8.4).” “Professional Liability Claim” is defined as “(i)
any action . . . made or asserted against [Plaintiff], whether based on tort,
contract or equitable principles . . . and (ii) any damage[s] . . . suffered by
[Plaintiff], which are in any way occurring, incident to, or arising from or in
connection with negligent acts, errors, or omissions in the performance or
nonperformance” of services under the Agreement. (Agreement, Section 8.4(a).)
Section 8.2 of the Agreement provides that
Defendant “shall indemnify, defend, and hold harmless [Plaintiff] for, from,
and against all Claims (as defined in Section 8.4),” but makes clear that
Defendant is not required to indemnify Plaintiff for a “Non-Indemnified
Matter.” “Claim” is defined as “(i) any action . . . made or asserted against
[Plaintiff], whether based on tort, contract or equitable principles, . . . and
(ii) any damage[s] . . . suffered or incurred by [Plaintiff], which are in any
way occurring, incident to, or arising from or in connection with . . . any act
or omission . . by [Defendant].” “Non-Indemnified Matter” is defined as “any
portion . . . of any Claim against [Plaintiff] to the extent the Claim . . . is
determined by entry of a non-appealable final judgment after trial or award
after arbitration to have been caused by the negligent act or willful
misconduct of [Plaintiff], or the negligent act or willful misconduct of any
third party who is not” Defendant’s subconsultant, parent, or affiliate.
(Agreement, Section 8.4(d).) 
Defendant contends that Section 8.1 applies
because Plaintiff’s allegations against Defendant concern its professional
services and thus that Defendant would only have to indemnify Plaintiff upon a
jury finding of negligence. Plaintiff argues that the the City’s administrative
action constitutes a “claim” under Section 8.2, rather than a “professional
liability claim” under Section 8.1, because the City’s administrative action
was a third-party claim grounded in nuisance based on odors from the sewer lift
and did not require any showing of negligence or fault against Plaintiff or any
third-party professional. 
The Court agrees with Plaintiff that in
determining whether a third-party claim is subject to indemnity under the
Agreement, it must be the nature of the third-party claim (and not the
characterization of Defendant’s conduct in a subsequently filed lawsuit), that governs
whether the claim constitutes a “professional liability claim” under the
Agreement. Accordingly, because the nuisance action did not require a finding
of negligent acts, errors, or omissions, the Court concludes that Section 8.2
of the Agreement governs the City’s administrative action.[FN5] 
Under Section 8.2, Plaintiff need not show
that Defendant was negligent but merely that the City’s administrative action
was “incident to . . . any act or omission” by Defendant. (Cont’l Heller Corp. (1997) 53 Cal. App. 4th at 505 [holding under
broad indemnity language that the plaintiff’s entitlement to indemnity did not
depend on a showing of fault].) That standard appears to be satisfied here, but
the Court will hear further from the parties on whether the Court may make the
determination that the action was “incident” to Defendant’s acts or omissions
in connection with the sewage lift station.
Given the breadth of the language of Section
8.2, the Court also agrees with Plaintiff that the indemnity agreement
contemplates Plaintiff’s litigation expenses in connection with its affirmative
lawsuits against the City, which were brought as a result of the City’s
administrative action. (See Citizens
Suburban Co. v. Rosemont Dev. Co. (1966) 244 Cal. App. 2d 666, 683 [“Indemnity
for litigation expenses may be sought not only where the indemnitee defended a
lawsuit brought by a third party but also where he was plaintiff”].) 
In addition to disputing the application of
Section 8.2, Defendant contends that the Agreement requires a jury allocation
of fault as to the settling defendants because if a jury finds that Plaintiff’s
damages were the result of one or more of the settling defendants’ “negligent
act[s] or willful misconduct,” that would absolve Defendant of its obligation
to indemnify Plaintiff. Specifically, Defendant notes that Section 8.2 of the
Agreement makes clear that it need not indemnify Plaintiff for a
“Non-Indemnified Matter,” that is, a claim “determined by entry of a
non-appealable final judgment after trial or award after arbitration to have
been caused by the negligent act or willful misconduct of any third party.”
(Agreement, Section 8.4(d).)
The Court is not persuaded by Defendant’s
reading of the Agreement. Here, there is no “non-appealable final judgment”
after trial or arbitration finding negligence or misconduct on the part of any
third party, which is a necessary condition for the provision to apply.
Moreover, the settling defendants are no longer a part of this case and thus
even after a jury verdict, there still will be no “non-appealable final
judgment” finding negligence or misconduct on the part of any third party. Even
if the jury verdict were worded in such a way to permit such a finding against
parties that are no longer in the case (which the Court is not inclined to do),
it cannot be the case that the same jury tasked with evaluating the express
indemnification claim in the first instance could also render the “non-appeal
final judgment after trial” referenced in the Agreement.
The Court is also not persuaded that Civil
Code Section 2782 imposes any relevant limitations on the Agreement. As an
initial matter, Defendant expressly asserted in discovery responses that the
Agreement is not unenforceable, so presumably Defendant does not view the
Agreement as impermissible under Section 2782. Moreover, Section 2782(a) only voids
indemnity agreements that require indemnitors to indemnify the indemnitee for
the indemnitee’s sole negligence or willful misconduct, and the Agreement does
not require indemnification in that circumstance.[FN6]
Finally, Plaintiff has also sought a court
ruling as to whether it is entitled under the Agreement to attorney’s fees and
costs incurred in enforcing the Agreement. Given that the Agreement defines
“claim” to include “attorney fees and costs” that are “incident to,” “arising
from,” or “in connection with” any “act or omission (including . . . any actual
or alleged breach of any term or provision of the Agreement),” Plaintiff is
entitled to fees and costs incurred in enforcing the Agreement, as the failure
to abide by the indemnification terms in the Agreement would constitute an
“actual or alleged breach” of the Agreement. The Court will hear further from
the parties in this regard at the hearing, including as to the scope of fees
and costs that constitute “attorney’s fees and costs incurred in enforcing the
Agreement.” 
The Court also will hear further from the
parties as to any other legal issues the Court needs to resolve prior to jury
trial.
 
III.     Motions
in Limine [FN7]


A.       Plaintiff’s Motion in Limine No. 4 to
Exclude Reference to SettlementPlaintiff moves to exclude any reference to the settlement
between Plaintiff and the settling defendants. The motion is denied, inasmuch
as the Court will permit reference to the settlement for the sole purpose of establishing witness
bias as to agents or employees of the settling defendants, namely, Boudreau
Pipeline Corporation, John Lisee Pumps, and/or Pentiar. Specifically, so as not
to “deprive[]” the jury “of evidence which could have supported a conclusion
that” certain witnesses were “biased in favor of the plaintiffs now that [they]
had settled” with Plaintiff, Diamond v.
Reshko (2015) 239 Cal. App. 4th 828, 848 (2015), Defendant will be
permitted to elicit from these witnesses (1) the fact of the settlement with
Plaintiff and (2) the fact that the settlement agreement required the settling
defendants to cooperate in making witnesses available prior to and at trial.
However, Defendant is not permitted to introduce any other evidence regarding
the settlement or otherwise reference the settlement. During closing argument,
Defendant is only permitted to reference the settlement in presenting argument
about potential bias of witnesses associated with the settling defendants. 


Moreover, to the extent that Defendant opts to elicit the
limited facts referenced above, the Court will provide a limiting instruction
along these lines: “You have heard evidence that there was a settlement between
Meritage and Boudreau Pipeline Corporation, Alan Boudreau, John Lisee Pumps,
and Pentair. You must not consider this settlement to determine responsibility
for any harm. You may consider this evidence only to decide whether [names of witnesses who provide testimony at
trial and are or were employed by Boudreau Pipeline Corporation, Alan Boudreau,
John Lisee Pumps, and Pentair] are biased and whether their testimony is
believable.”
B.       Plaintiff’s
(Amended) Motion in Limine No. 5 to Exclude Argument and Evidence Referring to
and Concerning the “Empty Chair” Defendants and Any Alleged Proportionate Fault
of the Settling Defendants Plaintiff moves to exclude references to and evidence of the “empty chair”
defense and the alleged allocation of fault of the settling defendants. The
Court grants the motion in part, to the extent that it seeks to exclude
evidence or argument regarding “alleged proportionate
fault,” but denies the motion to the extent that it seeks wholesale exclusion
of evidence or reference to the settling defendants’ alleged conduct. 


Both sides agree that an essential element that Plaintiff
must prove is that Defendant’s breach of contract or negligence was “a
substantial factor in causing Plaintiff’s harm.” Defendant is entitled to
present evidence of the settling defendants’ conduct in support of its defense
that Defendant’s conduct was not a “substantial factor” in causing Plaintiff’s
damages. 


However, the Court reiterates that it will not permit
Defendant to present evidence or argument regarding relative fault as compared to the settling defendants. Moreover, in
order to streamline the trial, the Court will not permit a mini-trial as to
causes of action and issues not before the jury. Accordingly, to the extent
that Defendant seeks to admit evidence regarding the settling defendants, it
must be prepared to articulate how the evidence specifically relates to Defendant’s
defense to one or more causes of action at issue in the trial. 


 

C.       Plaintiff’s Motion in Limine No. 6 to Exclude Statements
Referencing the Term “Fraud” in Describing Any Non-Settling Party’s ConductPlaintiff moves to exclude statements referencing the term
“fraud” in describing the settling defendants’ conduct.[FN8] The motion is granted without prejudice to Defendant asking the Court to
revisit the issue based on the testimony and evidence offered at trial. Absent
testimony and evidence that “fraud” occurred, Defendant is precluded from using
the term “fraud” in questioning witnesses or in its opening statement and
closing argument. However, this ruling does not prevent Defendant from
introducing evidence of the conduct of Boudreau and John Lisee Pumps, including
the failure to disclose the fact an undersized pump had been installed, as part
of its defense, namely, its defense that its conduct did not cause and/or was
not a substantial factor in causing Plaintiff’s damages.


To the extent that witness testimony and evidence
establishes “fraud” – meaning intentional misrepresentation or concealment of
material fact with intent to defraud – the Court will permit Defendant to
revisit this issue at trial. However, the Court will not permit Defendant to
introduce evidence that Plaintiff previously alleged fraud against the settling
defendants, as those parties and causes of action are not part of this trial,
and the Court finds that the prejudicial value of the fact of those allegations
substantially outweighs any probative value as to the remaining causes of
action.
D.      Defendant’s Motion in Limine Re Reference to Emergency Overflow
Tank

Defendant moves for an order requiring all testimony,
reference, or argument presented at trial to properly reflect the name of the
“emergency overflow tank,” which is part of the sewer lift station at issue in
this case, arguing that it would be prejudicial to refer to the emergency tank
as merely a “tank” in that the emergency overflow tank is only used if there is
an emergency and is not a part of normal sewer lift stat operations. 
 
The Court grants the motion in part and denies it in part.
Specifically, the Court orders that counsel
to refer to the emergency overflow tank by the proper term of art in opening
statements and closing arguments, in order to avoid jury confusion as to the
tank being discussed. However, the Court will not prevent witnesses from referring to and describing the emergency overflow
tank in the language they see fit. Any risk of juror confusion from witness
testimony can be mitigated by cross-examination, as the other side may clarify
what tank is being referred to during cross-examination, to the extent that a
witness does not describe the tank as an “emergency overflow tank.” 
E.       Defendant’s Motion in Limine to Preclude Expert Opinions from
Colin Walker 


Defendant moves for an order prohibiting Colin Walker from
providing any expert testimony in this matter as he has not been designated as
an expert and holds no professional licenses. The motion identifies only a
single purported expert opinion, namely, Mr. Walker’s deposition testimony that
the plans and specifications were “definitely invalid.” 
 
Defendant has not supplied the Court with sufficient
information to rule on the motion. (Kelly
v. New W. Fed. Sav. (1996) 49 Cal.App.4th 659, 670 (1996) [motions in
limine must be accompanied by sufficient “factual support” to avoid “the court
[having] to rule in a vacuum”].) There may be reasons the plans and
specifications were “invalid” that do not require special expertise and would
constitute permissible lay testimony. For instance, the reply brief cites to
testimony suggesting confusion as to “which [plan] documents were superseded.”
(Reply at 3.) This strikes the Court as appropriate lay testimony for a project
manager. 


Accordingly, the motion is denied without prejudice.
Defendant may revisit the issue at trial to the extent that Plaintiff asks Mr.
Walker to opine about specific design features. Moreover, if Plaintiff’s
counsel intends to ask Mr. Walker to opine about specific design features,
Plaintiff’s counsel is directed to confer with Defendant’s counsel and raise
the issue with the Court outside the presence of the jury.


  
F.       Defendant’s
Motion in Limine to Preclude Mention of Actual or Potential Dollar Amounts or
Numerical Quantifications During Voir Dire  


Defendant moves in limine to preclude mention of actual or
potential dollar amounts or numerical quantifications during voir dire. The
motion is granted. Counsel may not question jurors on specific amounts or
attempt to precondition jurors. However, while counsel may not mention a
specific dollar amount or number during voir dire, counsel may use qualitative
terms (such as “substantial amount of money” or “substantial award”) in asking
prospective jurors whether they would be reluctant to award a particular
verdict if liability were found. 


