 Case Number:  24PSCV02605    Hearing Date:   January 22, 2025    Dept:  H Alcantara, et al. v. Cullens, et  al., Case No. 24PSCV02605 ORDER  ON DEMURRER AND MOTION TO STRIKE 1.       Defendant Scott Allan Cullens’ Demurrer to Plaintiffs’  Complaint is SUSTAINED, without leave  to amend. 2.       Defendant Scott Allan Cullens’ Motion to Strike Portions of  Plaintiffs’ Complaint is DENIED as MOOT.   I.        Background Plaintiffs
Nepthali Alcantara and Hortencia
Alcantaradelopez (together, “Plaintiffs”) contend that they sustained injuries
and damages in a September 26, 2022 motor vehicle collision on the Interstate
210-West freeway. On
August 13, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a complaint, asserting causes of action
against Scott Allan Cullens (“Cullens”), Jebadiah Scott Cooper, and Does 1-100
for: (1) negligence, (2) negligence per se, (3) negligent infliction of
emotional distress, and (4) negligent hiring, retention, training, and
supervision.









Pending
before the Court is Cullens’ demurrer and motion to strike.   II.      Legal Standard A demurrer may be made on the grounds that the  pleading, inter alia, does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of  action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).) “A demurrer tests the  pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it  lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are  judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d  902, 905 [citations omitted].) At the pleading stage, a plaintiff need only  allege ultimate facts sufficient to apprise the defendant of the factual basis  for the claim against him. (Semole v.  Sansoucie (1972) 28 Cal. App. 3d 714, 721.) “[A] demurrer does not,  however, admit contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law alleged in  the pleading, or the construction placed on an instrument pleaded therein, or  facts impossible in law, or allegations contrary to facts of which a court may  take judicial knowledge.” (S. Shore Land  Co. v. Petersen (1964) 226 Cal.App.2d 725, 732 [citations omitted].) III.     Discussion A.       The Demurrer  Cullens  demurs, per Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivision (e), to the  third cause of action (i.e., for Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress),  on the basis that it fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of  action. Cullens  complains that Plaintiffs’ third cause of action is duplicative of their first  cause of action. Courts have recognized this as a basis for sustaining a  demurrer. (See Rodrigues v. Campbell Industries (1978) 87 Cal.App.3d  494, 501 [“The fifth cause of action contains, by necessary implication, all of  the allegations of each of the preceding four alleged causes and thus adds  nothing to the complaint by way of fact or theory of recovery. There is no  authority for a pleading of this type and the demurrer was properly sustained  without leave to amend as to that cause”] and Award Metals, Inc. v. Superior  Court (1991) 228 Cal.App.3d 1128, 1135 [“But stating them in two causes of action . . . is merely  duplicative pleading which adds nothing to the complaint by way of fact or  theory. For that reason, the demurrer should have been sustained as to this  cause of action . . .”].)  “[The] negligent causing of emotional distress  is not an independent tort but the tort of negligence. The traditional elements  of duty, breach of duty, causation, and damages apply.” (Marlene F. v.  Affiliated Psychiatric Medical Clinic, Inc. (1989) 48 Cal.3d 583, 588  [quotations and citation omitted].) Plaintiffs are seeking to recover emotional  distress damages as a result of Cullens’ alleged negligence. Plaintiffs’ third  cause of action is based on the same alleged facts as the first cause of action  (which already seeks emotional distress damages) and thus “adds nothing to the  complaint by way of fact or theory of recovery.”  Defendant’s demurrer is sustained, without  leave to amend.                   B.       The Motion to Strike  Cullens moves the Court for an order striking out  the third cause of action in Plaintiffs’ complaint.  Cullens’ motion to strike is denied as moot, based  upon the Court’s ruling made on the demurrer.