 Case Number:  24PSCV01802    Hearing Date:   January 22, 2025    Dept:  H Peralta v. Intecann
Security, Inc., Case No. 24PSCV01802
 
ORDER ON MOTION
FOR STAY
Defendant Intecann Security,
Inc.’s Motion to Stay the Proceedings is DENIED.
Background 
Plaintiff
Alexander Peralta (“Plaintiff”) alleges as follows:
Plaintiff
is employed by Intecann Security, Inc. (“Defendant”). On or about February 6,
2024, Plaintiff suffered a work injury. Defendant does not have workers’
compensation insurance coverage and failed to maintain a safe working
environment. 
On June
4, 2024, Plaintiff filed a complaint, asserting causes of action against
Defendant and Does 1-50 for: (1) failure to secure workers’ compensation
insurance and (2) negligence. 
Pending
before the Court is Defendant’s motion to stay the proceedings.
Discussion
Defendant
moves the Court, per Code of Civil Procedure section 404.5 and the Court’s inherent
authority, for an order staying the instant proceedings pending resolution of
the worker’s compensation matter (i.e., Case No. ADJ19011116) filed by
Plaintiff on March 18, 2024 (“WCAB Case”).
At the
outset, the Court notes that section 404.5 is not relevant authority here,
inasmuch as this case is not “being considered for” or “affecting an action
being considered for[ ] coordination.” 
Regardless,
the Court recognizes that “[t]rial courts generally have the inherent power to
stay proceedings in the interests of justice and to promote judicial
efficiency.” (Frieberg v. City of Mission Viejo (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th
1484, 1489.)
Defendant
argues that Plaintiff “cannot be allowed to forum shop and to secure potential
inconsistent decisions from different forums” and that workers’ compensation
“is the sole and exclusive remedy.” (Motion, 2:1-2.)
The Court
acknowledges that “[w]here the conditions of compensation set forth in Section
3600 concur, the right to recover compensation is, except as specifically
provided in this section and Sections 3706 and 4558, the sole and
exclusive remedy of the employee or his or her dependents against the
employer.” (Lab. Code, § 3602, subd. (a) [emphasis added].)
Section
3706, however, provides that “[i]f any employer fails to secure the payment of
compensation, any injured employee or his dependents may bring an action at law
against such employer for damages, as if this division did not apply.” In
addition, section 3715 provides, in relevant part, that: “(a) Any employee. . .
whose employer has failed to secure the payment of compensation as required by
this division. . . may, in addition to proceeding against his or her employer
by civil action in the courts as provided in Section 3706, file his or her
application with the appeals board for compensation . . .”
Here, Plaintiff
alleges that Defendant has failed to obtain workers’ compensation insurance
coverage for its employees; as such, Plaintiff is entitled to maintain both the
instant action and the WCAB Case.
Plaintiff
points out that Defendant’s “double recovery” concern is adequately addressed
by sections 3709 [i.e., “If, as a result of such action for damages, a judgment
is obtained against the employer, any compensation awarded, paid, or secured by
the employer shall be credited against the judgment. . .”] and 3709.5 [i.e.,
judgments or settlements paid in section 3706 actions are credited towards an
employer’s compensation liability].
Finally,
Plaintiff’s counsel represents that Plaintiff is treating the instant case “as
the lead case against Defendant for his work injury,” that “[t]here is no
activity occurring in the WCAB case” and that “the last activity [in the WCAB Case]
was Plaintiff’s deposition back in July 2025 [sic].” (Chen Decl., ¶ 2.)
The
motion is denied.