 Case Number:  21PSCV00808    Hearing Date:   January 22, 2025    Dept:  H  Murillo v. Dr.
Privitera’s Holistic Clinic, et al., Case No. 21PSCV00808
ORDER ON MOTION TO SET ASIDE DEFAULT
The motion, as presented, is denied. However, the parties are ordered to meet and confer at or before the time of the hearing
regarding the legal status of Dr. Privitera’s Holistic Clinic and file a Joint
Status Report by close of business on January 22, 2025.
Background 
Plaintiff Malissa Murillo
(“Plaintiff”) alleges as follows:
Plaintiff worked for Defendants
Dr. Privitera’s Holistic Clinic (the “Clinic”), Alternative Endeavors, Inc.
(“Endeavors”), and Anakin Mark Privitera (“Privitera””) (collectively,
“Defendants”) as an office assistant at the Clinic, first in the fall of 2019
to early 2020 and again from August 2021 to September 9, 2021. Privitera made
lewd and vulgar comments in Plaintiff’s presence on a repeated basis and made sexual
advances to her. 
On October 5, 2021,
Plaintiff filed a complaint, asserting causes of action against Defendants and
Does 1-40 for: (1) discrimination based on sexual harassment in violation of
FEHA and (2) failure to timely pay wages owed. 
On December 23, 2021,
Endeavors’ default was entered. On April 18, 2022, the Clinic’s default was
entered. 
On April 24, 2023, the Court
granted Endeavors’ motion to set aside default.
A
Court Trial is set for January 24, 2025. Pending before the Court is
Defendants’ motion for an order to set aside default. 

Discussion
Privitera and Endeavors move the Court for an order
“requesting that the Default and Default Judgments be set aside, motion to
quash service of summons, sanctions, and leave to defend the action.” (Notice,
2:3-6.)
 
Procedural Non-Compliance
At the outset, the Court notes that the instant
motion does not comply with California Rules of Court rule 3.1113(d) (i.e., no
opening memorandum [excepting a motion for summary judgment or adjudication]
may exceed 20 pages) and (f) (i.e., a memorandum exceeding 10 pages must
include a table of contents and a table of authorities and a memorandum
exceeding 15 pages must also include an opening summary of argument). The Court
admonishes counsel for not complying with these procedural requirements but
proceeds to the merits given the fast-approaching trial date. 
Merits 
Turning to the merits, as an initial matter, the
Court notes that neither Privitera nor Endeavors are currently in default. Although
Endeavors’ default was entered on December 23, 2021, Judge Wesley Hsu granted
Endeavors’ motion to set aside default on April 24, 2023. It appears to the
Court that the Order to Show Cause Re: Default Judgment as to Endeavors,
currently set for January 24, 2025, was calendared in error; as such, that OSC
is vacated. 
Although unclear from the notice of motion, it
appears to the Court that Privitera and Endeavors are contending that service of
the summons and complaint upon them in 2021 was improper. (Motion, 6:5-25.) Any
such argument is summarily rejected as waived and as grossly untimely.
Again, although unclear from the notice of motion,
it also appears to the Court, that the Clinic is likewise moving the Court for
an order setting aside its default pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
473(d), which provides that “[t]he court may, upon
motion of the injured party, or its own motion, correct clerical mistakes in
its judgment or orders as entered, so as to conform to the judgment or order
directed, and may, on motion of either party after notice to the other party,
set aside any void judgment or order.” 
The Clinic asserts that the Court does not have
jurisdiction over it because it is a non-entity. (Motion, 4:25-5:9.) However,
the Clinic has failed to provide the Court with any admissible evidence in this
regard.[FN] Exhibit D is not supported by any declaration. Accordingly, the motion is
denied in this regard.
That said, the Court orders counsel to (1) meet and
confer at or before the time of the hearing regarding the Clinic’s legal status,
and (2) file a Joint Status Report summarizing the results of the meet-and-confer
session and setting forth the parties’ respective positions on the Clinic’s
legal status. Given the trial date of January 24, 2025, the Joint Status Report
shall be filed no later than close of business on January 22, 2025. 

