  Case Number:  24PSCP00264    Hearing Date:   August 12, 2024    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
PLAINTIFFS’ PETITION FOR ORDER PERMITTING A LATE CLAIM
AGAINST A GOVERNMENTAL ENTITY [GOV. CODE SEC. 946.6 is DENIED, namely
because the failure to contact an attorney (even if grieving) and ignorance of
possible facts/legal theories do not qualify as excusable neglect. 
 
Background
 
This is a petition for an order permitting a late claim
against a governmental entity pursuant to Government Code section 946.6.
 
On June 5, 2024, Plaintiffs/Petitioners EMERITA
BARRAGAN, BRITTANY BARRAGAN, CRYSTAL BARRAGAN, RAFAEL BARRAGAN III, and ESTATE
OF RAFAEL BARRAGAN JR. filed the instant petition against
Defendants/Respondents MOUNT SAN ANTONIO COMMUNITY COLLEGE DISTRICT; MT. SAN
ANTONIO COLLEGE DBA MT. SAC; and KNIGHTSCOPE, INC. 
 
On July 30, 2024, MOUNT SAN ANTONIO COMMUNITY COLLEGE
DISTRICT and MT. SAN ANTONIO COLLEGE (“Mt. SAC”) filed an opposition.[1] 
 
On August 5, 2024, Petitioners filed their reply.
 
 
 
 
Legal Standard
 
Pursuant to the claim presentation requirement of the
Government Claims Act (“GCA”), “[b]efore suing a public entity, the plaintiff
must present a timely written claim for damages to the entity.” (Shirk v.
Vista Unified School Dist. (2007) 42 Cal.4th 201, 208 (Shirk);
see also Govt. Code section 945.4 [presentation of a timely claim is a
condition precedent to sue a public entity].) Pursuant to Government Code
section 911.2 section (a), the claim for a wrongful death must be
made no later than six months after the accrual of the cause of action. However,
if the injured party fails to file a timely claim, they can rely upon
Government Code section 946.6, which is a remedial statute intended
to hear cases on their merits whenever possible. (Munoz v. State of
California (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1767, 1778.)[2] 
 
There are two requirements to the statute. First, the
application must be submitted to the public entity “within a reasonable time not
to exceed one year after the accrual of the cause of action.” (§911.4, subd. (a),
emphasis added.) (Here,
one year after the accrual of the COA (death happened on December 1, 2022)
would be December 1, 2023—Petitioners filed their joint application to Mt. SAC
on December 1, 2023.) Second, the application must state the reason
for the delay in presenting the claim. (Ibid.) The reasons, which are
set forth in 946.6 subsection (c), subdivision (1) are that the failure to
present a timely claim “was through mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
excusable neglect.” According to Department of Water & Power
v. Superior Court (2000) 82 Cal. App. 4th 1288, 1293 (DWP), the
petitioner must demonstrate this excusable neglect by “a
preponderance of the evidence.” (emphasis added.)  
 
An application is deemed denied by operation of law 45 days
after submission to the public entity if that public entity declines to act on
the application. (Cal. Gov. Code §911.6(c).) Subsequent to denial of an
application, if a petitioner wishes to continue to pursue the public entity,
then he must file a § 946.6 petition (“Petition”) with the Court within six
(6) months after the application is denied. (Cal. Gov. Code § 946.6.) (Here, the last claim was denied
on January 11, 2024, meaning this petition was to be filed no later than July
11, 2024, meaning the June 6, 2024 filing was timely.)[3]
If the petitioner meets all requirements, the court shall grant
the petition. (946.6(c).)
 
Discussion
 
Plaintiffs (spouse and children of decedent) move for relief
from the untimely filing in presenting their claims related to the death of
Decedent Rafael Barragan Jr (“decedent”). Decedent, a tram driver for Mt. SAC,
was on campus when he was intentionally struck by a vehicle and subsequently
stabbed by a former aggrieved student and employee of Mt. SAC. Plaintiffs
explain that prior to the expiration of the six-month period, they “believed
that their remedies against MT. SAC were limited to the workers’ compensation
system because Decedent was in the course and scope of his employment with MT.
SAC at the time of his death.” (Petition p. 4 of 10 of PDF:18-21.) They did not
learn that the assailant was known by Mt. SAC to have a history of threats
against Mt. SAC and its employees (Petition p. 5:1-4) until “approximately
one week prior to the one-year deadline to file an Application for Leave to
Present Late Claim and Claims with MT SAC, Petitioners contacted counsel,
Richard Alpers of Alpers Law Group, regarding potentially representing them
with respect to their potential wrongful death claims related to Decedent’s
death.” (Petition p. 5:21-24, emphasis added.)[4] 
 
Preliminary, the reason as to excusable neglect changes between
the petition and the reply.[5] The reason set
forth in the petition is that Plaintiffs “did not know or have reason to know
of the grounds for liability against Mt. SAC or the identities of Mt. SAC’s
employees.” (Petition p. 5:21-24.) Then, in Reply, the reason changes to
the (i) “lack of available information,” (ii) “substantial mental anguish,” and
(iii) “the opacity of information regarding the acts and admissions on
the part of Mt. SAC.” (Reply p. 2:25-27, emphasis added.) Notwithstanding
the new argument(s) raised in the Reply,[6]
the court will overlook this defect because the determinative issue turns on
whether Plaintiffs’ failure
to consult an attorney within the six-month period qualifies as excusable
neglect, a point that is thoroughly analyzed by Mt. SAC. 
 
For reasons to be explained below, the court determines that
Petitioners have failed to make the requisite showing required by Government
Code section 946.6 for late claim relief.
 
1.     GCA
 
As summarized by the court in Munoz, “[t]he
intent of the Tort Claims Act is not to expand the rights of plaintiffs against
governmental entities. Rather, the intent of the act is to confine potential
governmental liability to rigidly delineated circumstances.” (Munoz,
supra, 33 Cal.App.4th `at p. 1776.) The act serves several
purposes “provid[ing] a public entity with sufficient information to
enable it to investigate and evaluate the merits of claims, assess liability,
and, where appropriate, to settle claims without the expense of litigation.” (Nguyen
v. Los Angeles County Harbor/UCLA Medical Center (1992) 8 Cal.App.4th
729, 732.)
 
Here, Plaintiffs waited 350 days to pursue their claims.
 
Therefore, Plaintiffs’ (dilatory) delay does not serve the
purpose of allowing Mt. SAC to investigate the claims to possibly settle the
claims without the expense of litigation.
 
2.     Ignorance
 
“Excusable neglect is defined as neglect that might have been
the act or omission of a reasonably prudent person under the same or similar
circumstances. In deciding whether the error in failing to timely file the tort
claim is excusable, the reviewing court looks to the nature of the mistake or
neglect and whether counsel was otherwise diligent in investigating and
pursuing the claim. A claimant is required to show that within the
statutory time period he did not know or have reason to know that a
government entity is involved.” (DWP, supra, 82 Cal.App.4th at
p. 1294, internal citations omitted.)
 
In DWP, which Mt. SAC heavily relies upon in
opposition, the plaintiff sustained an injury when he was involved in a
car accident. (Id. at p. 1291.) The police report stated that
the roadway where the accident occurred was flooded due to DWP work in the
area. (Id. at p. 1292.) The injured party retained counsel and
filed a lawsuit against the driver of the other vehicle but failed to
investigate and determine the potential liability of the DWP “even though at
all relevant times the information was either in the possession of or readily
available to [the plaintiff] and his counsel.” (Ibid.) In denying the
plaintiff’s petition for relief to file a late claim, the court observed the
following:
 
Dzhibinyan and his counsel had easily available
access to a copy of the accident report. There was no misconception
about the identity of the DWP or of the facts.…Dzhibinyan and his
counsel conducted no investigation whatsoever regarding DWP's
potential liability and did not contact or communicate with DWP during
the statutory time period. There was a total failure to act with due
diligence during the claims filing period. (Id. at
p. 1295, emphasis added.)
 
Here, Plaintiffs’ attempt to
distinguish DWP from their case because there “all relevant facts were
at hand in the given police report” (Reply p. 3:9-10) misinterprets the case.
The police report in DWP did not provide for DWP’s liability but
noted DWP’s placement at the scene. Similarly, here, the police report
(presumably) provided where the incident happened--on Mt. SAC’s
campus—for Petitioners to contact or communicate with Mt. SAC about
the incident. In fact, Mt. SAC contends that Petitioners could not have
reasonably been ignorant of the facts giving rise to their claims because the
facts listed in these filings were listed almost verbatim in a December 7, 2022
Los Angeles Times article concerning the incident. (Opp. p. 9:21-23.) The reply
does not address this compelling argument, but the argument nevertheless bears
attention. After
all, it is unclear how information that was (deliberately) withheld but needed
to better understand the incident to file the government tort claim—like social
media posts that were taken down (Reply p. 3:22-23)—were suddenly accessible to
Plaintiffs in one week. This discrepancy further suggests that
Petitioners knew enough information to file their government tort claim
within the six months.
 
To the extent that Plaintiffs argue that any information was
known to Mt. SAC, but Mt. SAC did not divulge information or make admissions,
parties do not generally admit to liability. (See also DWP,
supra, at p. 1925 [“[I]t is totally unreasonable to rely on another
party to determine the parties with potential liability.”].) Additionally,
“It is well-settled that claims statutes must be satisfied even in the
face of the public entity's actual knowledge of the circumstances surrounding
the claim.” (Id. at p. 734.) Moreover, even if not all facts
were known, a plaintiff need not plead every fact with specificity, merely
enough facts to put the public entity on notice of the claims they are
defending. (C.A. v. William S. Hart Union High School Dist. (2012) 53
Cal.4th 861, 872.)
 
Ultimately, ignorance of the possible cause of action against
the public entity is insufficient to constitute excusable neglect. (Opp. p.
9:14-17, citing Harrison v. Cnty. of Del Norte (1985) 168 Cal.
App. 3d 1, 7 [“Failure to discover the alleged basis of the cause of action in
time is also not a compelling showing in the absence of reasonable diligence
exercised for the purpose of discovering the facts.”].)
 
Therefore, granting Plaintiffs’ relief would undermine
the underlying purposes of the claims statutes.
 
3.     Failure
to Contact Counsel
 
Next, though the general rules counsel liberal
construction of the governmental tort claims statutes, a petitioner “must, at a
minimum, make a diligent effort to obtain legal counsel within
six months after the accrual of the cause of action.” (Munoz, supra, at
pp. 1778-1779, emphasis added.) The issue was addressed in Ebersol v.
Cowan (1983) 35 Cal. 3d 427. (Opp. p. 8.) There, a school bus
driver petitioned for leave to file a late claim against county superintendent
of schools for personal injuries which driver suffered when bitten on the hand
by a student she was transporting to a work training program. (Id. at
p. 428.) In reversing the trial court’s decision and finding that failure of
driver to timely file claim against county constituted excusable neglect, the
court observed the following:
 
In the present case, Ms. Ebersol
acted swiftly to place her case in the hands of an attorney on the very day she
was injured. Thereafter, despite repeated rebuffs by the attorneys she
contacted, Ms. Ebersol continued to seek legal advice and
assistance. Despite her physical pain, the progressive deformity of
her left hand, her frequent and prolonged admissions to the hospital, and her
frequent outpatient medical treatments, Ms. Ebersol continued her search.
Clearly, Ms. Ebersol's efforts to obtain counsel during the 100-day limitation
period were both tenacious and diligent. (Id. at p. 437.)
 
Unlike the plaintiff above who despite experiencing anguish in
her own way—wherein she returned to the hospital on consecutive days, was
admitted for intravenous therapy on multiple days, received outpatient care,
and underwent surgery—yet she still telephoned almost ten attorneys (id. at
pp. 433-434), here, Plaintiffs did not even commence the
process of contacting attorneys let alone continuing the process to pursue the
pertinent facts of the cause of action to identify possible defendants/legal
theories.
 
Therefore, like the plaintiff in DWP but
unlike the plaintiff in Ebersol, there was a total failure to
act with due diligence during the claims filing period.
 
4.     Grieving
 
To the extent that Plaintiffs argue that the grieving process
precluded them from contacting an attorney, that is unavailing as the
legislature has already contemplated such instances. A claim is to be
filed within six months if the claim relates to a “cause of action for
death or for injury to person or to personal property be presented not
later than six months after the accrual of the cause of action.” (Government Code section 911.2, emphasis
added.) “The statutory language itself is the most reliable indicator, so
we start with the statute's words, assigning them their usual and ordinary
meanings, and construing them in context. If the words themselves are not
ambiguous, we presume the Legislature meant what it said, and the statute's
plain meaning governs.” (X.M. v. Superior Court (2021) 68
Cal.App.5th 1014, 1021.)
 
Here, the plain language of the statute mentions death amongst
damage to personal property. Had the Legislature intended
to omit death, which clearly carries different emotional consequences than
damage to, say personal property, from the six-month requirement, the
Legislature could have easily said so. “The language the Legislature
employs is the best indicator of its intent. (People v. Cook (2015)
60 Cal.4th 922, 935.) Moreover, the grieving process is different for
individuals; some people take weeks, some months, some years, and for many, the
process never ends. To create an
exception for the grieving process would effectively allow a party to file
their government claims whenever their grieving process subjectively ends.
But that would circumvent the legislature’s intent behind the claims statutes
which is governed by an objective, reasonable standard.
(See DWP, supra, 82 Cal.App.4th at p. 1293.)
  
Conclusion
 
All in all, there is no evidence whatsoever, let
alone evidence by a preponderance of the evidence, that Petitioners undertook
any efforts to determine Mt. SAC’s alleged role in the subject incident within
six months of decedent’s death. In fact, they did not even contact counsel
until one week before their deadline to file the application and filed their
application to Mt. SAC on the last day permissible, further evidencing a lack
of reasonable diligence in pursuing their claims.[7] Based on
the foregoing, the petition is denied.  
 


