Protective Order Plaintiff Zeki Group, LLC seeks a protective order with respect to the deposition of Jeremy Todd, contending that “Defendants failed to provide any notice at all to Plaintiff, let alone 10 days notice. Moreover, the date of the deposition was unilaterally chosen at a time after regular business hours on a night after Plaintiff’s counsel has commenced trial. There is no reason for a deposition to be taken at 7 p.m. after regular business hours. At a minimum, the noticing party should have sought permission from the court or a stipulation to take a deposition at such odd and oppressive times, yet they have done neither.” Defendants Arthur Gulesserian, Hovik Apcarian, Steve Baghoomian, and Artin Melikian contend that Plaintiff failed to meet and confer and that when Defendants were notified of Plaintiff’s objection, they took Todd’s deposition off calendar, seeking to negotiate another time and date.  No reply was filed.Good cause must be shown for the protective order, and the issuance and formulation of the protective order are within the Court’s discretion.  (See, e.g., Mercury Interactive Corp. v. Klein (2007) 158 Cal.App.4th 60, 106-7; Raymond Handling Concepts Corp. v. Superior Court (1995) 39 Cal.App.4th 584, 588.) A protective order is not necessary to the extent the initial deposition was canceled and Defendants remain willing to meet and confer.   The Motion is denied.  The Court declines to award sanctions.Compel Deposition  Defendants Arthur Gulesserian, Hovik Apcarian, Steve Baghoomian, and Artin Melikian seek to compel the deposition of Stephen Brown, who is the principal of Plaintiff.  Defendants contend that Brown will not make himself available for deposition.   No opposition was filed.  Therefore, the Motion to Compel is granted.  (See Sexton v. Superior Court (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1410.)  The deposition is to take place within 30 days.  The Court awards reduced sanctions in the amount of $1,000.Defendants to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 