Defendant Goal Properties Investments seeks to compel Plaintiff Family Christian Cathedral to provide initial responses to its special interrogatories, set three, and requests for production, set two.Defendant Goal Properties Investments seeks to compel further responses to its special interrogatories, set two, from Plaintiff Family Christian Cathedral.Defendant also seeks to compel further responses from Plaintiff Jynonna Norwood to its special interrogatories, set three.  Defendant further seeks an OSC re: striking of Plaintiff Family Christian Cathedral from FAC for failure to obtain counsel.  Because Family Christian is unrepresented, the Motion for an OSC re: striking FAC of Plaintiff Family Christian Cathedral is granted.  The OSC is set for July 29, 2024.  If Plaintiff does not have counsel at that time, its FAC will be stricken from the record. The three Motions to Compel directed at Plaintiff Family Christian Cathedral are continued to July 29, 2024.  The Court will not consider oppositions filed by Jynonna Norwood, on behalf of Family Christian.  These oppositions are hereby stricken from the record.That leaves only the Motion to Compel directed at Norwood.  Defendant contends that the responses provided are evasive, incomplete, and incoherentNorwood has filed an opposition, contending only that “Plaintiff electronically served Verified Responses to Defendant’s Request for Special Interrogatories Set 3 on May 15, 2023. ‘The clock on a motion to compel begins to run once “verified response[s]” or “supplemental verified response[s]” are served’ (Golf & Tennis Pro Shop, Inc. v. Superior Court (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 127 [300 Cal.Rptr.3d 225].). Defendant had until July 9, 2023, which is 45 days, plus two days for electronic service, to bring their discovery motion. Defendant did not file their discovery motion until February 23, 2024, more than a year later.”This lacks merit; there was an agreement by former counsel for Norwood that “the deadline should be stayed until we can work this out (or not).”  Furthermore, the record clearly shows meet and confer attempts through at least February 2024 when the Motion was filed.Because Norwood has failed to address the propriety of her responses, the Motion to Compel is granted.  Further responses are to be provided within 30 days.  The Court awards reduced sanctions in the amount of $1,500.Moving party to give notice. If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic.  