  Case Number:  20STLC02864    Hearing Date:   May 30, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 27
 
 
HEARING DATE:     May
30, 2024                         TRIAL
DATE:  October 14, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                                TCR Services, Inc. v. Great American Insurance Co, et al. 
 
CASE NO.:                      20STLC02864
 





















 
MOTION
TO REOPEN DISCOVERY



 
MOVING PARTY:                   Plaintiff TCR Services
 
RESPONDING PARTY:      Great American Insurance, et. al. 
 
 
I.          BACKGROUND
 
            On March 30, 2020, Plaintiff TCR Services, Inc. (“TCR”
or “Plaintiff”) filed this action for breach of construction contract and
related claims against Defendants AWI Builders, Inc. (“AWI”), Great American
Insurance Company, and The Hanover Insurance Company (“Defendants”).  This action was originally filed in limited
jurisdiction court.  The operative
pleading is the First Amended Complaint which alleges causes of action for (1)
Recovery of stop Payment Notice Release Bond, (2) Recovery on Contractor’s
License Bond, and (3) Recovery on Contractor’s Payment Bond.
 
            Relevant
Procedural Background
            
·        
Plaintiff filed the Complaint on March
30, 2020 in limited jurisdiction court. 
·        
On November 2, 2022, the court
granted AWI’s ex parte application to continue trial and trial related
dates.  The court continued the trial
date to March 28, 2023 and set all discovery and motion cutoffs to the new
trial date.
·        
Concerned that Defendants produced
altered and fabricated documents which they obtained from the City of Pasadena,
Plaintiff filed multiple public records request with the City of Pasadena to obtain
copies of the original documents. 
Plaintiff finally receives the documents on February 22, 2023.  Plaintiff soon after files a motion to amend
the complaint. 
·        
The limited jurisdiction court
granted Plaintiff’s ex parte application to continue trial on March 17,
2023.  Trial was continued to July 11,
2023. 
·        
On May 16, 2023, the court granted
Plaintiff’s motion for leave to file the First Amended Complaint (FAC).  The FAC. 
On the same day, the court granted Plaintiff’s motion to reclassify this
action to a court of unlimited jurisdiction. 

·        
The
case was assigned to this court on June 9, 2023.
·        
Plaintiff serves AWI with Request
for Admissions (RFA) and Form Interrogatories (FROG) on August 25, 2023.
·        
AWI serves objection-only responses
on September 26, 2023 on the grounds that the request were untimely.
·        
On February 22, 2024, the court
suggested to the parties at an informal discovery conference that they
stipulate to reopen discovery. 
Thereafter, Plaintiff secured the first available date of May 30, 2024
for the hearing of this motion.
                                          
            On April 4,
2024, Plaintiff filed this Motion to Reopen Discovery for the limited purpose
of obtaining AWI’s substantive responses to Plaintiff’s discovery.  Defendants oppose and Plaintiff replies.
            
II.           LEGAL STANDARD TO REOPEN DISCOVERY
 
            Except as
otherwise provided, any party shall be entitled as a matter of right to
complete discovery proceedings on or before the 30th day, and to have motions
concerning discovery heard on or before the 15th day, before the date initially
set for trial of the action.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.020, subd. (a).)¿ On
motion of any party, the court may grant leave to complete discovery
proceedings, or to have a motion concerning discovery heard, closer to the
initial trial date, or to reopen discovery after a new trial date has been
set.¿ This motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration
demonstrating a good faith effort at informal resolution.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §
2024.050, subd. (a).)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
            The court
shall take into consideration any matter relevant to the leave requested,
including, but not limited to: (1) the necessity and the reasons for the
discovery, (2) the diligence or lack of diligence of the party seeking the
discovery or the hearing of a discovery motion, and the reasons that the
discovery was not completed or that the discovery motion was not heard earlier,
(3) any likelihood that permitting the discovery or hearing the discovery
motion will prevent the case from going to trial on the date set, or otherwise
interfere with the trial calendar, or result in prejudice to any other party,
and (4) the length of time that has elapsed between any date previously set,
and the date presently set, for the trial of the action.”  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2024.050, subd. (b).)   
 
III.      DISCUSSION
 
Upon consideration of the relevant factors, the Court finds
good cause exists to reopen discovery.
 
The Relevant Factors
 
1) The necessity of and reason for discovery:  Plaintiff obtained multiple documents from
the City of Pasadena which substantially differ from those authored by
Plaintiff or provided by Defendants. 
Plaintiff seeks Defendants response under oath regarding the facts and
genuineness of the documents.   A primary tenet of the judicial system is to
try cases on the merits.  (Au-Yang v.
Barton (1999) 21 Cal.4th 958, 963.)  This
factor weighs heavily in Plaintiff’s favor.
 
2) Diligence or Lack of Diligence; Reasons Discovery Was Not
Completed; Earlier Hearing for the Motion: 
Plaintiff submitted multiple public records requests to the City of
Pasadena and received the documents two and a half years later.  As such, Plaintiff could not conduct
discovery regarding these documents until Plaintiff had possession of the
documents. In other words, Plaintiff did not delay in pursuing discovery. Further,
because Plaintiff was restricted to one deposition in the limited jurisdiction
court, the delay in obtaining documents from the City of Pasadena prevented
scheduled depositions of AWI’s person most qualified from going further.   
 
Defendants argue that Plaintiff delayed in bringing this
motion.  Central to Defendants argument
is the belief that discovery was tied to the prior trial date of March 28, 2023
and not continued to the new trial date of October 14, 2024.  Plaintiff contends discovery was
automatically continued to the new trial date when this case was reassigned to an
unlimited jurisdiction court.  This issue
was raised at the February 22, 2024 IDC. 
To clear up the issue, the court directed Plaintiff to bring a noticed
motion.  Plaintiff reserved the first
available hearing date and timely filed this motion.  Plaintiff did not delay.  This factor weighs in Plaintiff’s favor.
 
3) Likelihood Permitting Discovery Will Prevent The Case
From Going To Trial; Interfere With The Trial Calendar; Result In Prejudice:  Granting the motion will not result in a
continuance.  At the February 22, 2024,
IDC, the parties agreed that if the court granted this motion, discovery would
be due thirty (30) days from the date of the court’s order.  This factor also weighs in Plaintiff’s favor.

 
4) The Length Of Time Between The Prior Trial Date And
The Date Presently Set:  The prior
trial date was March 28, 2023.  The current
trial date is October 14, 2024.  
 
After balancing the factors and considering the equities,
the Court grants the motion to reopen discovery for the limited purpose of
allowing Plaintiff to obtain AWI’s discovery responses, and if necessary, to file
motions to compel. 
 
IV.       CONCLUSION 
 
The motion to reopen discovery is GRANTED.  Discovery is reopened for the limited purpose
of allowing Plaintiff to obtain AWI’s discovery responses to Plaintiff’s August
25, 2023 discovery.  This includes the
filing of motions to compel should Defendant object to that discovery.  AWI’s discovery responses are due thirty (30)
days from the date of this order.  Expert
discovery cut-off dates are to run from the current trial date of October 14,
2024.
 
Moving party to give notice. 

 
Dated:   May 30, 2024                                            




 


  


 




 


  Kerry Bensinger 
  Judge of the Superior Court


 




 
 