 Case Number:  23STCV08715    Hearing Date:   May 30, 2024    Dept:  31 Instead of exp      Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     May
30, 2024                                     TRIAL DATE:  Not set
                                                           
CASE:                         iHeartMedia +
Entertainment, Inc. v. Orange County Flight Center 
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV08715
 





















 
DEMURRER
WITHOUT MOTION TO STRIKE



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant
Orange County Flight Center
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Plaintiff iHeartMedia
+ Entertainment, Inc.
 
 
I.          BACKGROUND
 
            This is a breach
of contract action.  On April 19, 2023,
Plaintiff, iHeartMedia + Entertainment, Inc., filed a Complaint against
Defendant, Orange County Flight Center, Inc., for (1) Breach of Part
Written/Part Oral Contract, (2) Quantum Meruit, and (3) Open Book Account.  Plaintiff alleges Defendant asked Plaintiff
to run radio advertisements.  They agreed
upon advertising schedules (orally and/or in writing) and a Media plan.  Plaintiff issued an Order Confirmation.[1]  Pursuant to the terms of the Agreement, Plaintiff
was to run the advertisements and send Defendant invoices, and Defendant would
pay Plaintiff for the same.  Plaintiff
performed all conditions under the Agreement. 
However, Defendant refused to make payment.  This action followed. 
 
            On June 16,
2023, Defendant filed a demurrer to Plaintiff’s Complaint.  
 
            On January
10, 2024, the court sustained the demurrer to the First and Third Causes of
Action and overruled it as to the Second Cause of Action.  Leave to amend was granted.  
 
            On February
13, 2024, Plaintiff filed the First Amended Complaint (FAC).
 
            On March
13, 2024, Counsel for Defendant filed a motion to be relieved as counsel.  The court granted the motion on May 7, 2024.
 
            On May 22,
2024, Defendant filed a Notice of Limited Scope Representation.  The Notice indicates that attorney Mainak
D’Attaray and Defendant have an agreement for limited scope representation in
this case “for all purposes while the principal of the corporation is out of
country, or June 30, 2024, which [sic] is earlier.”
 
            Demurrer
 
            On March
14, 2024, Defendant filed this Demurrer to the FAC.
 
            Plaintiff
filed an Opposition.  Defendant has not
replied.
 
II.        LEGAL STANDARD FOR DEMURRER  
 
“The primary function of a
pleading is to give the other party notice so that it may prepare its case [citation], and a defect in
a pleading that otherwise properly notifies a party cannot be said to affect
substantial rights.” (Harris v. City of Santa Monica (2013) 56 Cal.4th
203, 240.) 
“A¿demurrer¿tests the legal sufficiency of the factual
allegations in a complaint.” (Ivanoff v. Bank of America, N.A.¿(2017) 9 Cal.App.5th 719, 725.) The Court looks to whether
“the complaint alleges facts sufficient to state a cause
of action or discloses a complete defense.” (Id.) The Court does not “read
passages from a complaint in isolation; in reviewing a ruling on a demurrer, we
read the complaint ‘as a whole and its
parts in their context.’ [Citation.]” (West v. JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (2013) 214 Cal.App.4th 780, 804.)  The Court “assume[s] the truth of the properly
pleaded factual allegations, facts that
reasonably can be inferred from those expressly pleaded and matters of which judicial notice has been
taken.” (Harris, supra, 56 Cal.4th p. 240.) “The court does not, however, assume the truth of
contentions, deductions or conclusions of law. [Citation.]” (Durell v. Sharp Healthcare (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 1350, 1358.) 
 
A demurrer may be brought if insufficient facts are stated
to support the cause of action asserted. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd.
(e).) “A demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed, even where a
complaint is in some respects uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified
under modern discovery procedures.”  (Khoury v. Maly’s of California,
Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)   


Where the complaint contains substantial factual
allegations sufficiently apprising defendant of the issues it is being asked to
meet, a demurrer for uncertainty will be overruled or plaintiff will be given
leave to amend.  (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185
Cal.App.3d 135, 139, fn. 2.)  Leave to amend must be allowed where there
is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment.  (Goodman v.
Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.)  The burden is on the complainant
to show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully.  (Ibid.)  
 
III.      DISCUSSION
 
            Meet and Confer
 
            Before filing a demurrer, the
demurring party must meet and confer in person, by telephone, or by video
conference with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer
for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would
resolve the objections to be raised by the demurrer.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §§
430.41(a).)¿Defense counsel has satisfied the meet and confer requirement.¿ (Declaration
of Karo G. Karapetyan, Form CIV-140.)¿¿¿¿ 
            
            Analysis
 
            In the original Complaint, Plaintiff
alleged that the First Cause of Action for Breach of Contract was based on a
part oral, part written contract.  The
court sustained Defendant’s previous demurrer to the First Cause of Action because
it was barred by the parol evidence rule and because Plaintiff had not
adequately alleged the existence of contract. 
Specifically, the court stated:
 
Here, the Complaint alleges that
the Agreement between the parties is written and oral.  (See Complaint, ¶ 6.)  Further, Section 7.6 of the Order
Confirmation unambiguously states: “This contract and any applicable written
credit agreement, agency commission arrangement and/or merchandising
arrangement contains the entire agreement between the parties
relating to the subject matter in it, and no modification of its terms
shall be effective unless in writing signed by both parties.”  (Complaint, Ex. A, § 7.6, emphasis
added.)  Thus, Defendant is correct that
the oral portion of the agreement is barred by the parol evidence rule, unless
an exception applies, and cannot be considered as part of the contract between
the parties.  
 
Moreover, the Complaint fails to
identify and allege the terms of the oral agreement. The effect of the
foregoing renders the breach of contract claim uncertain.  Plaintiff cannot allege that the contract
between the parties is composed of written and oral agreements when the express
terms of the Order Confirmation directly provide that the Order Confirmation
contains the entire agreement.  
 
(Minute Order,
1/10/24.)
 
            Further, the court sustained
Defendant’s demurrer to the Third Cause of Action for Open Book Account because
it depended on the existence of contract. 
“Defendant argues the open book account fails because there was no
contract.  Given that the Complaint does
not state a cause of action for breach of contract because the existence of a
contract is not sufficiently pled, Plaintiff’s common count claim for an open
book account similarly fails.”  (Minute
Order, 1/10/24.)  
 
            Defendant now argues the First and
Third Causes of Action should be sustained without leave to amend because
Defendant has not addressed the defects noted in the court’s January 10, 2024
order.  Specifically, Defendant points
out that Plaintiff has merely omitted a five word phrase from paragraph 6 of
the First Cause of Action.  In the
Complaint, Plaintiff alleged that “advertising schedule were agreed upon (orally
and/or in writing) and a Media Plan and an Order Confirmation were issued”
and the “advertising schedules agreed upon orally and/or in writing and
written Media Plan Order Confirmation collectively constitute … the
“Agreement”.  (Complaint, ¶ 6, emphasis
added.)  The FAC now omits the “orally
and/or in writing” altogether.  (See FAC,
¶ 6.)  
 
            Defendant argues this is a sham
pleading practice.  The court
agrees.  “Under the sham pleading
doctrine, plaintiffs are precluded from amending complaints to omit harmful
allegations, without explanation, from previous complaints to avoid attacks
raised in demurrers or motions for summary judgment.”  (Deveny v. Entropin, Inc. (2006) 139
Cal.App.4th 408, 425.) “Instead, the plaintiff must satisfactorily explain such
an omission. Failure to provide such an explanation allows the court to
disregard the inconsistent allegations and read into the amended complaint the
allegations of the superseded complaint.  (Tindell v. Murphy (2018) 22
Cal.App.5th 1239, 1248.)
 
            Here, Plaintiff has omitted the very
allegations at issue in the court’s prior ruling on the deficiency of
Plaintiff’s breach of contract claim.[2]  Instead of explaining the terms of the
alleged contract, Plaintiff deletes reference to a written or oral contract in
the hopes the void adds clarity.  It does
not.  Plaintiff makes no effort to
explain the omission.  The court
therefore disregards the “new” allegations in the FAC.  Plaintiff has not sufficiently pleaded the
existence of a contract between the parties. 
The breach of contract claim fails. 
Further, because the open book account claim also relies on the
existence of contract, it likewise fails.
 
V.          CONCLUSION
            
Accordingly, Demurrer to First and Third Causes of Action in
the FAC is SUSTAINED.  Leave to amend is GRANTED.  If Plaintiff is unable to correct the
failings, leave to amend will likely not be granted again.   
 
Plaintiff is ordered to file and serve the Second Amended
Complaint within 20 days.  
 
Demurring party to give notice.  
 
 
Dated:   May 30, 2024                                                




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




 


