 Case Number:  24STCV10981    Hearing Date:   December 30, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior
Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
17
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



JACOB
  C. SIMPSON 
  
         vs.
 
SUNSET
  ATHLETIC CLUB, LLC, et al.  
  
  


 Case No.: 
  24STCV10981 
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date:  December 30, 2024




 
Plaintiff’s
motions to compel further responses to his Special Interrogatories (Set One) and his RFPs (Set One) are
GRANTED. Defendant is sanctioned, jointly and severally with counsel, $3,010
payable within 60 days. 
 
On 5/1/2024,
Plaintiff Jacob C. Simpson (Plaintiff) filed suit against Sunset Athletic Club,
LLC dba Monarch Athletic Club and Dr. Ryan M. Greene (collectively,
Defendants), alleging: (1) untimely payment of final wages; (2) failure to
provide accurate itemized wage statements; (3) breach of written contract; (4)
intentional misrepresentation; and (5) negligent misrepresentation. 
 
            On
11/20/2024, Plaintiff moved to compel Defendant Sunset Athletic Club, LLC dba
Monarch Athletic Club (Defendant) to provide further responses to his Special
Interrogatories (Set One) and his Requests for Production (RFPs) (Set
One).  
 
Discussion

 
            Plaintiff argues that Defendant’s
responses to his Special Interrogatories (Set One) and
his RFPs (Set One) are deficient. 
 
            After
review, the Court agrees.  
 
            In
opposition, Defendant contends that it is “now in the process of amending all
discovery responses at issue in the December Motions to Compel” and intends to
“file a supplemental declaration prior to the hearing on this motion informing
the Court that this has been done.” (Opp., 2: 21-24.)
 
            Defendant
offers no persuasive explanation as to why this production was not, or could
not, be completed sooner. Moreover, Defendant does not contend that its
responses would be compliant without supplementation. Indeed, as of two Court
days before the hearing, no declaration has been filed indicating that the
production has been made. As such, regardless of whether or not the production
is completed, the Court was required to expend resources to prepare for this
motion, and it is unclear whether or not the Court will be provided an
opportunity to review whether or not Defendant’s eventual production is
sufficient. As such, this motion was necessary and sanctions must be imposed.
(CCP § 2031.310(h).)
 
            Based
on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s motions to compel further responses to his
Special Interrogatories (Set One) and his RFPs (Set One) are granted. Defendant
is sanctioned, jointly and severally with counsel, $3,010, the full amount
requested. 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  December   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 
 