 Case Number:  24STCV20353    Hearing Date:   December 30, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los
Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



KAREN DENISE WORKS 
  
        
  vs.
 
KIMANI THOMAS 
  


 Case
  No.:  24STCV20353    
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  December 30, 2024




 
            Defendant’s
demurrer is SUSTAINED, WITH 20 DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
            On
8/13/2024, in propria persona Plaintiff Karen Denise Works (Plaintiff)
filed suit against Kimani Thomas (Defendant).
 
            On
10/25/2024, Defendant demurred to Plaintiff’s Complaint. 
 
Discussion 
 
            Defendant
argues that Plaintiff’s claims are uncertain and ambiguous, and fails to state
facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. 
 
            After
review, the Court agrees. 
 
            As
a preliminary matter, Plaintiff’s Complaint does not set forth any cause of
action, but rather sets forth descriptive allegations. 
 
Plaintiff’s Complaint
alleges that someone allegedly destroyed her child’s medical property and
discharged them without a hotel voucher. Plaintiff also claims that she is a
mental health patient who still has the capacity to make decisions about their
medication and diagnosis and that a psychologist focused on irrelevant personal
history because of Plaintiff’s ongoing negligence claim against a sheriff’s
department. Plaintiff further alleges that DCFS removed her child, citing
mental health issues without a proper diagnosis from an outside source and that
multiple DCFS workers hung up on her when she tried to report a change to her
mental health diagnosis. Finally, Plaintiff seems to allege that she reported
civil claims of neglect to a worker from “Avia Nallis.” (See Complaint).
 
It is unclear
from the Complaint how any of the allegations relate to Defendant, a social
worker at DCFS. Plaintiff has provided no facts to support any claim against
Thomas and further describes no conduct by Thomas that would give rise to a
cause of action or claim against Thomas.
 
Additionally,
to the extent Plaintiff attempts to make any claims against Thomas for any acts
and/or omissions in the provision of Child Protective Services by Thomas, any
such claims are further barred by Government Code §§ 820.2 (discretionary
immunity); 820.4 (execution or enforcement of laws); 820.6 (acting under
unconstitutional, invalid or inapplicable enactment); 820.8 (acts or omissions
of others); 821 (adoption of or failure to adopt or enforce an enactment);
821.2 (issuance, denial, suspension or revocation of permit or license); 821.6
(institution nor prosecution of judicial or administrative proceedings); and/or
822.2 (misrepresentations).
 
Plaintiff
will be afforded an opportunity to amend her Complaint, to set forth cognizable
claims which would not be barred by the various Government Code provisions set
forth above.  
 
Based on the
foregoing, Defendant’s demurrer is sustained, with 20 days leave to amend. 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  December   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 