  Case Number:  23STCV09073    Hearing Date:   January 7, 2025    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Siamak Pishvaee, et al.,


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23STCV09073




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




Cedars-Sinai Health System, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: January 7, 2025
Department 54, Judge Maurice Leiter
Motion for Protective Order
Moving Party: Plaintiff Siamak Pishvaee,
individually and as successor-in-interest to Jamal Pishvaei
Responding Party: Defendants Cedars-Sinai Medical
Center, Smidt Heart Institute, Florian Rader, M.D., Nathan Reuven Stein, Jae
Hyung Cho, M.D., Joshua Goldhaber, M.D., Caitlin Leigh Oldenkamp, M.D., Gene
St. Pierre, Andrew Kondrat, Afshin Afrashteh, Danielle Kahanowitch, And
Achilles Vincent Aiken; and Defendant Neha Jeurkar Darrah, M.D.
 
T/R:     PLAINTIFF’S MOTION FOR PROTECTIVE ORDER
IS DENIED.
 
PLAINTIFF TO NOTICE
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please
email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing.
The Court considers the moving papers,
opposition, and reply. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On October 2, 2023, Plaintiff Siamak
Pishvaee, individually and as successor-in-interest to decedent Jamal Pishvaei,
filed the operative first amended complaint against Defendants, asserting
causes of action for (1) elder abuse; (2) violation of the Bane Act; (3)
violation of the Ralph Act; (4) violation of the Unruh Act; (5) defamation; (6)
assault; (7) battery; (8) violation of Health & Safety Code § 123100; (9)
fraud; (10) negligence; (11) negligent hiring; (12) negligent supervision; (13)
IIED; (14) UCL violations; (15) injunctive relief; and (16) declaratory relief.
Plaintiff alleges Defendants neglected decedent’s health, wrongfully restrained
decedent, withheld food and water for several days and withheld medical care.
Plaintiff alleges Defendants’ wrongful conduct caused decedent’s death.
 
ANALYSIS
 
“The court, for good cause shown, may make
any order that justice requires to protect any party or other person from
unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, or oppression, or undue burden and
expense.” (CCP § 2031.060(b).)
Plaintiff moves for a protective order
implementing restrictions to the deposition of Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s
brother, third-party witness Babak Pishvaee. Plaintiff asserts that the
deposition notices improperly seek identical documents, including those related
to Defendants’ medical malpractice defense. Plaintiff asserts that documents
relating to medical malpractice are irrelevant because the Court ruled that
Plaintiff has sufficiently alleged claims for elder abuse in response to
Defendants’ demurrer. 
Plaintiff also requests a discovery referee
and the following orders,
(1) That the deposition be taken at a place other than that specified in
the deposition notice, if it is within a distance permitted by Sections
2025.250 and 2025.260. Specifically, that it be taken remotely.
(2) That the deposition be taken only on certain specified terms and
conditions. Specifically, that testimony elicited be limited only to the facts
and events that occurred between April 24, 2021-April 30, 2021 at Defendant
CEDARS-SINAI medical center. 
(3) That the deponent Babak Pishvaee’s testimony be taken by written,
instead of oral, examination. 
(4) That the method of discovery be interrogatories to a party instead
of an oral deposition.
(5) That certain matters not be inquired into including any matters
occurring before Plaintiff Jamal Pishvaei’s Admission into Defendant
CEDARS-SINAI medical center on April 24, 2021. 
(6) That the scope of the examination be limited to certain matters.
Specifically, that testimony elicited be limited only to the facts and events
that occurred between April 24, 2021-April 30, 2021 at Defendant CEDARS-SINAI
medical center. 
(7) That all or certain of the writings or tangible things designated in
the deposition notice not be produced. Specifically, that only writing or
tangible thing created between April 24, 2021-April 30, 2021 at Defendant
CEDARS-SINAI medical center be produced.
In opposition, Defendants dispute the need
for a protective order and represent that Plaintiff did not meet and confer
before filing this motion. 
The Court declines to enter a protective
order. Defendants may seek information relating to their defenses and the
parties could have resolved the issues in this motion with meet and confer. The
Court sees no reason to limit the content of discovery as requested. The
discovery is not so voluminous or contentious so as to warrant a discovery
referee.
The motion for protective order is DENIED.


 