  Case Number:  23STCV08440    Hearing Date:   April 10, 2024    Dept:  17  
Superior Court of
California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



JOSE
  GUADALUPE SOTO-
RODRIGUEZ, et
  al. 
 
  
         vs.
 
AKG TRADING
  (USA) INC., et al. 
  


 Case No.: 
  23STCV08440  
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  April 10, 2024




 
 
Defendant’s motion to quash is DENIED, WITHOUT PREJUDICE.   
 
On February
2, 2024, Plaintiffs Jose Guadalupe-Soto Rodriguez and Sara
Sanchez (collectively, Plaintiffs)
filed the operative first amended complaint against
39 Defendants, alleging: (1)
negligence; (2) strict liability—warning defect; (3)
strict liability—design defect; (4)
fraudulent concealment; (5) breach of implied
warranties; and (6) loss of consortium.
 
            Now,
specially appearing Defendant Stylenquaza LLC moves for an order
quashing service of summons and
dismissing the action as to Defendant.
 
Background
 
This is a
toxic tort case arising from Plaintiff Jose Guadalupe Soto-
Rodriguez’ (Plaintiff) claim that he
developed silicosis and consequential injuries
through his employment working with
stone products manufactured, distributed,
and/or supplied by Defendants.
 
Legal Standard
 
Cal Code of Civil Procedure §
418.10(a)(1) states:
 
(a) A
defendant, on or before the last day of his or her time to plead or
within any
further time that the court may for good cause allow, may serve
and file a
notice of motion for one or more of the following purposes:
 
(1) To
quash service of summons on the ground of lack of jurisdiction of the court
over him or her.
(2)
To stay or dismiss the action on the ground of inconvenient forum.
(3) To
dismiss the action pursuant to the applicable provisions of Chapter 1.5 (commencing
with Section 583.110) of Title 8.”
 
Plaintiff
bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of evidence that
service was properly accomplished.
“When a nonresident defendant challenges
personal jurisdiction the burden shifts
to the plaintiff to demonstrate by a
preponderance of the evidence that all
necessary jurisdictional criteria are met.
This burden must be met by competent
evidence in affidavits and authenticated
documentary evidence. An unverified
complaint may not be considered as an
affidavit supplying necessary facts.” (Ziller
Electronics Lab Gmbh v. Superior Court
(1988) 206 Cal. App. 3d 1222,
1232-1233.) “In the absence of a voluntary
submission to the authority of the
court, compliance with the statutes governing
service of process is essential to
establish that court's personal jurisdiction over a
defendant (§ 410.50.) When a defendant
challenges that jurisdiction by bringing a
motion to quash the burden is on the
plaintiff to prove the existence of jurisdiction
by proving, inter alia, the facts
requisite to an effective service.” (Dill v. Berquist
Construction Co.
(1994) 24 Cal.App.4th 1426, 1439-1440.)
 
Discussion
 
Specially
appearing Defendant Stylenquaza LLC (Defendant) moves for an order quashing
service of summons and dismissing the action as to Defendant.
 
Defendant's Moving Argument 
 
Defendant
contends that Plaintiffs are improperly attempting to drag Defendant into this
litigation even though Defendant is not subject to the Court’s personal
jurisdiction.
 
Defendant
first contends that Plaintiffs’ purported service on Defendant in California is
invalid because Defendant does not have a registered agent or other person
authorized to accept service in California.
 
Defendant
next contends that, even if Plaintiffs had properly served Defendant, it would
be unconstitutional to subject Defendant to jurisdiction in California as it
would violate traditional notions of fair play and substantial justice.
 
Defendant
submits the Declaration of An Nguyen, the manager and co-owner of Defendant, as
evidence that Defendant is not subject to personal jurisdiction in
California. According to the Nguyen Declaration:
 
-        
Defendant is a Texas limited liability
company with its principal place of business in Dallas, Texas, where its
registered agent and main office are also located. It was established in Texas
in December 2010, and in 2011 opened a distribution center in Dallas, Texas.
Defendant’s sole business is to distribute quartz slabs supplied by a
Vietnamese quartz manufacturer. Defendant does business under the name
“Vicostone USA.” (Para. 3.)
 
-        
None of Defendant’s owners are
residents of California (Para. 4.)
 
-        
The states Defendant primarily operates
in do not include California (para.
5.)
 
-        
Since 2008, another named defendant,
Pental Granite and Marble, LLC has
been making
Vicostone-made products on the West Coast, the North East, Alaska, and Hawaii
under the Pental brand name. Defendant did not create, control, or employ this
distribution system. (para. 6.)
 
-        
On very rare occasions, when Pental has
emergency shortages, Pental purchases some quartz slabs from Stylenquaza, but
in very insignificant amounts. When these shortages occur, Pental books a
third-party truck company to pick up the products from Stylenquaza. Stylenquaza
has no control over where the products that Pental purchases from Stylenquaza
are distributed. (Para. 7.)
 
-        
Between 2018 and 2022, Defendant
distributed insubstantial amounts of pre-fabricated tops directly to
California, and supplied, via six shipments to California, 22 total stone slabs
representing approximately 0.001 percent of all of the square footage of
product it has ever distributed in its more than a decade of business. (Para.
8.)
 
-        
Other than these extremely rare
instances of shipments to California, Defendant does not conduct, nor has it
ever conducted, any business in California (Para. 9), produce, promote, sell,
market, or distribute any products in California (Para. 10), or directly sell,
ship, or otherwise introduce any products into commerce in California. (Para.
11.)
 
-        
Defendant did not design its products
specifically for the market in California. (Para. 12.)
 
-        
Defendant is not now, nor has it ever
been, qualified, licensed, or authorized to do business in California. (Para.
13.)
 
-        
Defendant does not have and never has
had any offices, officers, employees, sales representatives, or registered
agent or other person authorized to accept service of process in California.
(Para. 14.)
 
-        
Defendant has not entered into joint
business ventures or other such arrangements with any business in California.
(Para. 15.)
 
-        
Defendant does not own, rent, or lease
any real property in California. (Para.
16.)
 
-        
Defendant does not operate any kind of
office or other facility in California. (Para. 17.)
 
-        
 Defendant
does not maintain inventory in California. (Para. 18.)
 
-        
 Defendant does not maintain a bank account in
California. (Para. 19.)
 
-        
 Defendant does not pay any taxes in
California. (Para. 20.)
 
-        
Defendant does not advertise in any
media that is directed toward California.
(Para.
21.)
 
-        
Other than two instances in which
Defendant was dismissed for lack of personal jurisdiction, Defendant has no
record of having been named a party
to a lawsuit
in federal or state court in California prior to December 2022. (Para. 22.)
 
-        
Defendant’s registered and authorized
agent in several states is CT Corporation System; however, not in California.
CT Corporation System did not transmit to Defendant any service of process
related to this case. Nguyen is unaware of any attempts by Plaintiffs to serve
Defendant other than by their purported service in California as indicated on
their Proof of Service of Summons filed in this Court. (Para. 23.)
 
-        
The only allegation in Plaintiffs’ FAC
going towards the issue of jurisdiction was that Defendant was “a Texas limited
liability company doing business as Vicostone US and which at all material
times hereto, was doing business in the County of Los Angeles, State of
California.” (FAC, para. 67.)
 
Plaintiffs’ Opposition
 
In
opposition, Plaintiffs argue that Defendant is a United States based
subsidiary of Vicostone JSC, a Vietnam
based artificial stone manufacturer, and that
Defendant distributed to Decedent the
artificial stone that caused his silicosis.
Plaintiffs submit the Declaration of
Raphael Metzger, Plaintiffs’ counsel, in support
of their position. The Metzger
Declaration states the following:
 
The
information contained in the Nguyen Declaration actually supports
specific jurisdiction, especially the
admissions that Defendant shipped stone slabs
to California six different times between
2018 and 2022, distributed pre-fabricated
tops during that same time period, on
occasion sold Vicostone quartz slabs to
Pental for distribution in California,
and had a distribution agreement with Vicostone
JSC.
 
Furthermore,
even if Defendant’s sales of its products in California could be
considered extremely attenuated, that
should not determine whether specific
jurisdiction applies here because
Defendant operates a website that directs
customers to purchase their product in
California. Plaintiffs contend that
Defendant's website directs prospective
customers to “find a Vicostone authorized
dealer near you” and lists five
authorized dealers throughout California from whom
customers can purchase the product.
Plaintiffs contend that pursuant to the
California Supreme Court’s decision in Snowney
v. Harrah's Entertainment, Inc.,
this establishes specific jurisdiction
regardless how much or how little product was
sold. Plaintiffs contend that Defendant
designated Integrated Resources Group, Inc.
as its regional distributor for
Northern California at three locations and Architectural
Surfaces Company as its regional
distributor for Southern California at two
locations, including one in Los Angeles
County. Further, Plaintiffs contend that
Defendant’s argument that the website
is the website of Vicostone Joint Stock
Company (VJSC) and not Defendant is
misleading because the website's url is
us.vicostone.com and the site itself
contains pages headed “Vicostone USA.”
 
Plaintiffs
also contend that pursuant to distribution contracts between VJSC
and Defendant, which they cannot
produce, Defendant is VJSC’s authorized
distributor in the USA of the company’s
engineered stone slabs that are the subject
of this lawsuit.
 
Furthermore,
VJSC’s annual report describes Defendant as VJSC’s direct
distributor in North America.
 
Finally,
Plaintiffs contend that in LASC Case No. 22STCV31907, which
Defendant relies on to show that its
previous motion to quash was granted, the
Court’s decision was issued based on
Defendant’s perjurious testimony. Specifically,
Plaintiffs contend that Defendant’s
motion to quash in that case was supported by a
separate declaration by An Nguyen in
which he stated that Defendant did not know
where the distributer, Pental, was
distributing its product, and therefore that it had
no knowledge that its product was
distributed in California. Plaintiffs contend that
this contradicts the testimony provided
in Nguyen’s declaration in this case.
 
Personal Jurisdiction Analysis
 
A California
court can exercise personal jurisdiction over a nonresident
defendant who has “minimum contacts”
with the state. (Pavlovich v. Superior Court
(2002) 29 Cal.4th 262, 268; Virtualmagic
Asia, Inc. v. Fil-Cartoons, Inc. (2002) 99
Cal.App.4th 228, 238.) A defendant has
minimum contacts if the quality and nature
of its activity in the forum state
(referred to as “contacts”) is such that it is
reasonable and fair to require the
defendant to conduct a defense in that state.
(Paviovich, supra, at
268; Strasner v. Touchstone Wireless Repair & Logistics, LP
(2016) 5 Cal.App.5th 215, 221.)
 
The focus of
the minimum contacts analysis is the defendant's contacts
with the forum. (Bristol-Myers
Squibb Co. v. Superior Court (2017) 582 U.S. 255,
260.) Depending on the extent of a defendant's
contacts with California, it may be
subject to either general or specific
jurisdiction. (Elkman v. National States Ins.
(2009) 14 Cal.4th 434, 445-446.)
 
A court can
exercise specific jurisdiction over a nonresident defendant if (1)
the defendant has purposefully availed
itself of the forum's benefits and protections
and (2) the cause of action relates to
or arises out of the defendant's contacts with
the forum, and (3) the exercise of
personal jurisdiction would comport with fair play
and substantial justice. (Pavlovich,
supra, 29 Cal.4th at 269.) The contacts for
specific jurisdiction are those that
existed when the plaintiff's cause of action arose.
(Strasner, supra, 5
Cal.App.5th at 226.)
 
To establish
minimum contacts for specific jurisdiction, the plaintiff must show that the
defendant has purposefully availed itself of the privilege of conducting
activities in California to involve its benefits and protections. (See Axiom
Foods, Inc. v. Acerchem Int'l (9th Cir. 2017} 874 F.3d 1064, 1068; Bristol-
Myers Squibb Co. v. Superior Court (2016) 1 Cal.5th 783, 799-800.) In
this analysis, (1) only the defendant's contacts with California are
considered, not the defendant's contacts with persons who reside there, (2) the
defendant's contacts must have been purposeful rather than random, fortuitous,
or attenuated, and (3) the defendant must have sought some benefit by availing
itself of the jurisdiction. (See Walden v. Fiore (2014) 571 U.S. 277,
285-286; Burger King Corp. v.
Rudzewicz (1985) 471 U.S. 462, 474-475;
Vons Cos., supra, 14 Cal.4th at pp. 446,
458.)
 
In its
tentative ruling, the Court concluded that Plaintiffs had not carried their
burden of demonstrating that Defendant has sufficient minimal contacts with
California to allow for a finding of personal jurisdiction. (Jewish Defense
Organization, Inc. v.
Superior Court,
72 Cal. App. 4th 1045, 1054-55 (1999) (plaintiff opposing motion
to quash service of summons has burden
of producing "competent evidence in
affidavits and authenticated
documentary evidence”. )
 
However,
after review of supplemental materials, the Court concludes the motion should
not be denied, and that jurisdictional discovery is necessary. 
 
First, the
Court previously concluded that the contacts Defendant maintained could not be
said to be substantial, continuous, and systematic. However, Plaintiff
submitted evidence that: 
 
-        
Stylenquaza
has sold 22 stone slabs directly to California customers since 2018. 
 
-        
Stylenquaza
admits it sold 544 slabs to Pental (a west coast distributor of Pental Quartz),
but is only “aware” of 11 slabs ending up in California. 
 
-        
By 2016,
the stylenquaza.com website redirected visitors to us.vicostone.com, and
Stylenquaza edits all of the words in English on the site. (PMK for Stylenquaza
LLC An Hai Nguyen, pp.75:24-77:19.)
 
-        
The
stylenquaza.com website does not inform visitors that Stylenquaza LLC dba
Vicostone USA has a limited territory in which it represents Vicostone. (Id.
at p.72:16-22.) 
 
-        
The
warranty section of the site invites visitors to register Vicostone products
for warranty, including visitors from California. (Id. at
pp.70:14-71:2.)
 
-        
By 2016,
the stylenquaza.com website redirected visitors to us.vicostone.com, and
Stylenquaza edits all of the words in English on the site. (Id. at
pp.75:24-77:19.)
 
-        
All of
the content of the us.vicostone.com website had a copyright notice at the
bottom of the web pages stating “Copyright Stylenquaza LLC, Vicostone USA 2015,
all rights reserved.” (Id. at pp.93:16-95:8.) 
 
-        
The
us.vicostone.com website states “Vicostone is being distributed across the
United States of America with four fully stocked warehouses of Vicostone
products (Stylenquaza’s warehouses) and many third-party distributors’
warehouses.” (Id. at pp.91:6-92:9.)
 
-        
The
us.vicostone.com website, with all content edited and owned by Stylenquaza,
directs website visitors, including those from California, where to buy
Vicostone in California. (Id. at pp.92:10-93:15.)
 
-        
Stylenquaza
offers California visitors to us.vicostone.com a 15-year warranty on Vicostone
products warranted expressly by Vicostone USA (Stylenquaza). (Id. at
pp.80:10-81:17.) 
 
-        
At trade
shows, Stylenquaza LLC dba Vicostone USA represents itself as a distributor of
VICOSTONE products and gives leads from prospective California customers to
Vicostone. (Id. at pp.104:23-106:13.)
 
-        
When
importing Vicostone slabs from Vietnam, “a large percentage” of slabs shipped
to Stylenquaza are shipped through the ports of California. (Id. at
pp.104:23-106:13.)
 
As such, Plaintiff has not only submitted evidence
Stylenquaza directly sold 22 slabs to California, but Plaintiff also submitted
evidence which at least supports a reasonable inference that the
us.vicostone.com website is its own. The proper inquiry is the nature and
quality of the defendant's activity in the forum state, not the quantity. (As
You Sow v. Crawford Laboratories, Inc. (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 1859, 1870.)
Here, at the pleading stage, allegations that Defendant maintains a website
which conducts business in California and that it itself has conducted sales in
California could be sufficient to show a purposeful availment of California as
a forum. 
 
Second, in its tentative ruling, the Court’s misfocused
its analysis by relying on the fact that there is nothing in Plaintiffs’ Complaint
tying the 22 stone slabs to the decedent’s injuries. As noted by the Plaintiff,
the California Supreme Court has unanimously held "the defendant's forum
activities need not be directed at the plaintiff in order to give rise to
specific jurisdiction.” (Vons Companies, Inc. v. Seabest Foods, Inc.
(1996) 14 Cal. 4th 434, 455.) As such, there is no requirement that there must
be a plaintiff-specific link between its sales of stone slabs and the
underlying litigation. Rather, the standard is a “relaxed, flexible [one],
rather than one requiring that the plaintiff’s claim arise out of the forum
contact in any narrow sense:
 
The connection between plaintiffs' complaint
and Cassiar's forum-based activities meets the Vons relatedness test.
Plaintiffs who were exposed to asbestos fibers within California are suing
Cassiar only because it purposefully sold asbestos fiber in this state.
Cassiar's obligations (if any) to plaintiffs are connected to its
California-based activities. The goal of fairness to defendants is met by
extending the burdens of California jurisdiction over a defendant who
purposefully availed itself of the benefits of selling asbestos fibers within
the state. Since plaintiffs were harmed " 'while engaged in activities
integral to the relationship [Cassiar] sought to establish, we think the nexus
between the contacts and the cause of action is sufficiently strong to survive
the due process inquiry at least at the relatedness stage.' " (Vons
Companies, Inc. v. Seabest Foods, Inc., supra, 14 Cal. 4th at p.
470.) 
 
(Cassiar Mining Corp. V. Superior Court(1998) 66
Cal. App. 4th 550, 558.)  
 
            Here,
Plaintiff alleges she was harmed through exposure to “fine respirable crystalline
silica dust” created by the Vicostone products which are marketed and sold by
Stlenquaza directly to California customers and third-party distributors. At
the pleading stage, this could be sufficient to show that Plaintiff was harmed
while engaged in activities integral to the relationship Stylenquaza sought to
establish in California.
 
            While
Defendant argues that it sells products which could not be dust-producing,  Plaintiff argues that pre-fabricated tops
have to be polished and edged, which creates “fine respirable crystalline
silica dust.” As such, this issue contemplates further jurisdictional
discovery. After further jurisdictional discovery is conducted, Defendant may
renew its motion if it believes that the evidence establishes that the pre-fabricated
tops sold by Stylenquaza are not themselves dust-producing products. 
 
            Based on the foregoing, Defendant’s
motion to quash is denied, without prejudice. 

 
 
It is so
ordered. 
 
Dated: 
April    , 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
  
Hon. Jon R. Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please
contact the court clerk at (213) 633-0517.  
 
  
Superior Court of California
County of Los
Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



JOSE GUADALUPE SOTO-
RODRIGUEZ, et al. 
 
  
        
  vs.
 
AKG TRADING (USA) INC., et al. 
  


 Case
  No.:  23STCV08440  
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  April 10, 2024




 
Cosentino’s
motion to quash for improper service is DENIED. 
 
Cosentino’s
motion to quash based on lack of jurisdiction is CONTINUED, consistent with the
ruling set forth BELOW.  
 
On February
2, 2024, Plaintiffs Jose Guadalupe-Soto Rodriguez and Sara
Sanchez (collectively, Plaintiffs)
filed the operative first amended complaint against
39 Defendants, alleging: (1)
negligence; (2) strict liability—warning defect; (3)
strict liability—design defect; (4)
fraudulent concealment; (5) breach of implied
warranties; and (6) loss of consortium.
 
Now,
specially appearing Defendant Cosentino Group, S.A. moves for an order
quashing service of summons and
dismissing the action as to Defendant.
 
Background
 
This is a
toxic tort case arising from Plaintiff Jose Guadalupe Soto-
Rodriguez’ (Plaintiff) claim that he
developed silicosis and consequential injuries
through his employment working with
stone products manufactured, distributed,
and/or supplied by Defendants.
 
Legal Standard
 
Cal Code of Civil Procedure §
418.10(a)(1) states:
 
“(a) A
defendant, on or before the last day of his or her time to plead or
within any
further time that the court may for good cause allow, may serve
and file a
notice of motion for one or more of the following purposes:
 
(1) To
quash service of summons on the ground of lack of jurisdiction of the court
over him or her.
(2)
To stay or dismiss the action on the ground of inconvenient forum.
(3) To
dismiss the action pursuant to the applicable provisions of Chapter 1.5 (commencing
with Section 583.110) of Title 8.
 
Plaintiff
bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of evidence that
service was properly accomplished.
“When a nonresident defendant challenges
personal jurisdiction the burden shifts
to the plaintiff to demonstrate by a
preponderance of the evidence that all
necessary jurisdictional criteria are met.
This burden must be met by competent
evidence in affidavits and authenticated
documentary evidence. An unverified
complaint may not be considered as an
affidavit supplying necessary facts.” (Ziller
Electronics Lab Gmbh v. Superior Court
(1988) 206 Cal. App. 3d 1222,
1232-1233.) “In the absence of a voluntary
submission to the authority of the
court, compliance with the statutes governing
service of process is essential to
establish that court's personal jurisdiction over a
defendant(§ 410.50.) When a defendant
challenges that jurisdiction by bringing a
motion to quash the burden is on the
plaintiff to prove the existence of jurisdiction
by proving, inter alia, the facts
requisite to an effective service.” (Dill v. Berquist
Construction Co.
(1994) 24 Cal.App.4th 1426, 1439-1440.)
 
Discussion
 
Specially
appearing Defendant Cosentino Group, S.A. (Defendant) moves
for an order quashing service of
summons and dismissing the action as to
Defendant.
 
Objections
 
Plaintiffs
object to different portions of the Declaration of Jorge Cuervo
Vela.
 
Plaintiffs’
objections are uniformly OVERRULED. The declaration is based on
Vela’s personal knowledge as
Defendant’s Vice President, Legal and Compliance,
and review of the relevant business
records. Vela’s statements are not
conclusionary, nor are they contrary to
other evidence.
 
Defendant
objects to different portions of the Declaration of Raphael
Metzger.
 
Defendant's objections are OVERRULED.
 
Requests for Judicial Notice
 
Plaintiffs
request the Court take judicial notice of the following in support of
Plaintiffs’ position that Defendant was
properly served in compliance with the
Hague Convention:
 
-        
Convention on the Service Abroad of
Judicial and Extrajudicial
Documents
In Civil Or Commercial Matters (the “Hague Convention”)
(RIN,
Exh. A.}
 
-        
Canada - Central Authority &
practical information (RJN, Exh. B.)
  
United States - Central Authority & practical information (RJN, Exh.
C.)
 
-        
Pages 7 and 8 of the Practical Handbook
on the Operation of the Service
Convention
published by the Hague Conference on Private International
Law
Permanent Bureau in 2016 regarding “Place of service as
determining
factor.” (RJN, Exh. D.)
 
-        
Page XL of the Glossary of the
Practical Handbook on the Operation of
the
Service Convention published by the Hague Conference on Private
International
Law Permanent Bureau in 2016 defining State of
destination
as “the State where service is, or will be, effected.” (RIN,
Exh.
E.)
 
Plaintiffs’
requests for judicial notice are GRANTED.
 
Defendant's Moving Argument and
Declaration of Jorge Cuervo Vela
 
Defendant
first contends that Plaintiffs did not serve Defendant properly
according to the requirements of the
Hague Convention. Instead of serving
Defendant through Spain’s central
authority, Plaintiffs made two attempts to serve
Defendant in compliance with the Hague
Service Convention under article 10,
subdivisions (a) and (b), both of which
were invalid.
 
First,
Plaintiffs attempted to personally serve an officer of Defendant while
he was visiting Canada under 10(b) of
the Hague Service Convention and British
Columbia Supreme Court Civil Rule 4-3(2)(b).
Spain did not object to 10(b) of the
Convention, thereby consenting to
personal “service within its boundaries”
(Volkswagenwerk, supra, 486 U.S.
at p. 699), “directly through the
judicial officers, officials or other
competent persons” of Spain. (Hague Service
Convention, art. 10, subd. (b).) A
signatory to the Hague Service Convention that
does not object to 10(b) does not
consent to personal service in any country in the
world that also happens to be a
signatory, even if that country has no connection
whatsoever to the summons being served.
 
Second,
Plaintiffs improperly attempted to serve Defendant using Federal
Express under 10(a). Plaintiffs’
“attempted service by Federal Express did not
constitute valid service of process
under California law, and as a result, did not
comply with the Hague Service
Convention pursuant to article 10, subdivision (a).”
(Inversiones Papaluchi S.A.S. v.
Superior Court (2018) 20 Cal.App.5th 1055, 1067.
 
Defendant
submits the following portions of the Declaration of Jorge
Cuervo Vela in support of its position
that service was not proper:
 
-        
“Suministros” is a location where
supplies and occasionally FedEx deliveries are received. No one working at this
location is authorized to accept service of process on behalf of Defendant.
(3-18-2024 Declaration, para. 5.)
 
-        
Vela reviewed the return receipt that
Plaintiffs’ counsel claims shows service of the summons in this matter by
United States Postal Service registered mail, return receipt requested. In the
space for the signature of the addressee, there is a Cosentino Global, S.L.U.
stamp. This stamp is used by receptionists and mail clerks who are not
authorized to accept service of process on behalf of Defendant. (3-18-2024
Declaration, para. 6.)
 
Next,
Defendant contends that, even if Plaintiffs had properly served Defendant, it would
be unconstitutional to subject Defendant to jurisdiction in California as it
would violate traditional notions of fair play and substantial justice.
 
The FAC
alleges that Plaintiffs were injured from inhaling dust from various stone
products manufactured by 39 defendants, including Defendant and its indirect
United States subsidiary, C & C North America, Inc. (“C & C”).
 
Defendant
submits the Declaration of Jorge Cuervo Vela in support of its position that it
has not established minimum contacts in California to support general or
specific jurisdiction. Vela, Defendant’s and Defendant’s subsidiaries’ current
Vice President, Legal and Compliance, who has held various positions with companies
owned by Cosentino Group since 2011, submitted two declarations, one in support
of the initial moving papers and one in support of the reply, stating:
 
-        
Defendant is organized under the laws
of Spain, its headquarters are in
Spain, and it
operates exclusively in Spain. (10-11-2023 Declaration, para.
4.)
 
-        
Defendant has never conducted any
business in California. (10-11-2023
Declaration,
para. 5.)
 
-        
Defendant is a holding company that
does not develop, design, manufacture,
distribute,
sell, advertise, or market any products. (10-11-2023 Declaration,
para. 6.)
 
-        
C & C is a Delaware corporation
with its principal place of business in Coral
Gables,
Florida. C & C is an indirect subsidiary of Defendant. (10-11-2023
Declaration,
para. 7.)
 
-        
Defendant and C & C are separate
and independent corporate entities. Defendant does not manage or control the
day-to-day operations of C&C. C & C keeps its own separate bank
accounts and business records, and C&C pays and manages its own employees.
(10-11-2023 Declaration, para. 8.)
 
-        
Defendant does not own, maintain, or
control the website www.cosentino.com. (3-18-2024 Declaration, para. 4.)
 
Defendant
contends that Plaintiffs cannot successfully show that C & C's contacts
with California should be imputed to Defendant because Plaintiffs cannot show
Defendant exercised excessive control over C & C’s forum-based operations as
holding companies such as Defendant do not participate in making day-to-day business
decisions in the companies that they own.
 
Plaintiffs’ Opposition
 
In
opposition, Plaintiffs argue that regarding compliance with the service
requirements of the Hague Convention,
the Hague Convention does not apply
where an officer of the foreign
corporation is personally served with the summons
in compliance with the laws of the
forum (California in this case) and the place of
service (British Columbia in this
case).
 
Plaintiffs
contend they attempted to serve the Executive Vice President of
Defendant, Eduardo Cosentino, at his
office and his personal residence in Florida,
but their process server was barred
from entry in the gated community and his
workplace. Therefore, they were forced
to hire an international process server.
However, upon discovering Cosentino was
in Vancouver on September 13, 2023, a
process server served him with the
summons and complaint. Cosentino was
personally served in British Columbia
at a ribbon-cutting event for the opening of a
new Cosentino showroom at 1640 West 3rd
Avenue, in Vancouver, Canada.
Plaintiffs’ counsel also sent copies of
the summons and complaint via Federal
Express International Priority,
Tracking Number 783826293331, to Cosentino’s
corporate headquarters in Spain on
September 15, 2023. The package was
delivered to Cosentino in Spain on
September 20, 2023 and was signed for by S.
Uministros at Cosentino’s corporate
headquarters in Cantoria, Spain. Additionally,
Plaintiffs’ counsel sent copies of the
summons and complaint to Defendant's
corporate headquarters in Spain by
First Class Mail, postage pre-paid, with return
receipt requested, and received written
confirmation of Federal Express service.
 
Plaintiffs
also argue, regarding personal jurisdiction, Plaintiffs have submitted massive
evidence that Defendant has long conducted business in California, even naming
Los Angeles a “Cosentino City.”
 
Compliance with Hague Convention
 
1. Applicability of the Hague Service
Convention
 
Plaintiffs
contend the Hague Service Convention does not apply. Plaintiffs argue that as
long as service is proper under state law and the Due Process Clause, no
official transmittal through the Hague Service Convention need be made. However,
California law is clear that service on a foreign company completed in a foreign
country must be completed through the Hague Service Convention. (Rockefeller
Technology Investments (Asia) VII v. Changzhou SinoType Technology Co.,
Ltd. (2020) 9 Cal.Sth 125, 138.) Thus, Plaintiff’s service on Cosentino
must be valid under the Hague Service Convention, Art. 10(b).
 
2. Application of the Hague Service
Convention
 
In its
tentative ruling, the Court agreed with Defendant that service was not properly
effected in compliance with the Hague Convention. However, after Plaintiff’s
counsel advised the Court of case law he believed supported a contrary
conclusion, the Court continued the hearing and directed the parties to file
supplemental briefing.
 
Having
reviewed the supplemental materials, the Court finds service to be
adequate.  
 
Article 10 of
the Hague Service Convention provides in pertinent part that
“[p]rovided the state of the
destination does not object, the present Convention shall
not interfere with - ... b) the freedom
of judicial officers, officials, or other
competent persons of the State of
origin to effect service of judicial documents
directly through the judicial officers,
officials, or other competent persons of the
State of destination, ... .” (Hague
Service Convention art. 10, Nov. 15, 1965, 20
U.S.T. 361.)
 
Neither Spain
nor Canada have objected to Article 10(b). (A treaty is to be
understood by its plain language unless
such would create a result inconsistent with
the expectations of its signatories. (Landstar
Global Logistics, Inc. v. Robinson &
Robinson, Inc.
(2013) 216 Cal.App.4th 378, 385.)
 
            CCP section 413.10 provides:
Except as otherwise provided by statute, a summons shall
be served on a person:
(a) Within this state, as provided in this
chapter.
(b) Outside this state but within the United States, as
provided in this chapter or as prescribed by the law of the place where the
person is served.
(c) Outside the United States, as provided in this
chapter or as directed by the court in which the action is pending, or, if the
court before or after service finds that the service is reasonably calculated
to give actual notice, as prescribed by the law of the place where the person
is served or as directed by the foreign authority in response to a letter
rogatory. These rules are subject to the provisions
of the Convention on the “Service Abroad of Judicial and Extrajudicial
Documents” in Civil or Commercial Matters (Hague Service Convention).
            CCP
section 416.10 provides: 
 
A summons may be served on a corporation by delivering a copy of the
summons and the complaint by any of the following methods:
(a) To the person designated as agent for service of process
as provided by any provision in Section 202, 1502, 2105,
or 2107 of the Corporations Code (or
Sections 3301 to 3303, inclusive, or Sections 6500 to 6504, inclusive, of the
Corporations Code, as in effect on December 31, 1976, with respect to
corporations to which they remain applicable)
(b) To the president, chief executive officer, or other head
of the corporation, a vice president, a secretary or assistant secretary, a
treasurer or assistant treasurer, a controller or chief financial officer, a
general manager, or a person authorized by the corporation to receive service
of process.
(c) If the corporation is a bank, to a cashier or assistant
cashier or to a person specified in subdivision (a) or (b).
(d) If authorized by any provision in Section 1701, 1702, 2110, or 2111 of
the Corporations Code (or Sections 3301 to 3303, inclusive, or Sections 6500 to
6504, inclusive, of the Corporations Code, as in effect on December 31, 1976,
with respect to corporations to which they remain applicable), as provided by
that provision.
Rule 4-3
provides that, “if the chief place of business of the corporation is outside
British Columbia, every person who, within British Columbia, transacts or
carries on any of the business of, or any business for, that corporation is
deemed to be an agent of the corporation” and that service on a corporation may
be effected “by leaving a copy of the document with the president, chair, mayor
or other chief officer of the corporation.” (Rule 4-3(2)(b)(i).)
 
Here, first, the
Hague Service Convention does not require that service take place only within
the foreigner’s own country. Yamaha Motor Company, Ltd. v. Superior Court (2009)
174 Cal.App.4th is instructive on this point. There, it was claimed by Yamaha,
a Japanese company, that it was not properly served as a foreign entity as the
Hague Service Convention had not been utilized. The Court rejected the claim
that, as a foreign entity service had to be performed under the Hague Service
Convention, rather than merely comply with service rules under California law.
Relying on Volkswagenwerk Aktiengesellschaft v Schlunk (1986) 486 U.S.
694, the Court wrote: “[w]here service on a domestic agent is valid and
complete under both state law and the Due Process Clause, our inquiry ends and
the Convention has no further implications.” The Court in Delinger v.
Chinadotcom (2003) 110 Cal.App.4th reached a similar conclusion.

 
Second,
Canada permits Article 10(b) service, the type of service used in this case,
and the Court finds that “State of destination” refers to the State where
service takes place. 
 
This means
that as long as a means of service authorized by California was used, and the
means of service was authorized by British Columbia law, the service is
consistent with Article 10(b) and is in compliance with the Hague Service
Convention. 
 
Here,
Plaintiff’s service of Cosentino Group was valid under California and British
Columbia law. As for California law, CCP section 416.10 governs service of a
corporation, and authorizes delivery of a copy of the summon and complaint to
an officer of the corporation as was performed here. As for British Columbia
law, the Court agrees with Plaintiffs’ interpretation of Rule 4-3 that “[a]s an
Executive Vice-President of Cosentino Group, Eduardo Cosentino is clearly an ‘agent
of the corporation’ within the meaning of subdivision (iii) and, since, at the
time of service, he was officiating at a ribbon-cutting event of Cosentino at
the opening of a new Cosentino City in Vancouver, he is a person who, ‘within
British Columbia transact[ed] or carrie[d] on . . . business of, or . . . for
[Cosentino Group, he] is deemed to be an agent of the corporation,’ within the
meaning of subdivision (iv) of Rule 4-3 of the Supreme Court Rules of British
Columbia Reg 168/20009.” (Opp., 10: 21-26.) 
 
            This conclusion is reinforced by the
authority set forth in Plaintiff’s supplemental briefing. While the holdings
cited there are not binding here, it is not irrelevant that other Courts have
concluded that that service by the Canadian process server of the summons and
complaints on Eduardo Cosentino in Vancouver was legally valid. Moreover,
Cosentino filed Petitions for Writ of Mandate in the Second Appellate District
challenging those rulings, and in both cases the petitions were denied, concluding
that service of process was valid. When Cosentino filed Petitions for Review in
the California Supreme Court, the California Supreme Court directed Plaintiff’s
counsel to file Answer Briefs. Upon reading and considering the facts and the
law cited in Plaintiff’s Answer Briefs, the California Supreme Court denied
Cosentino’s Petitions for Review. 
 
Therefore,
the court GRANTS Defendant’s motion to quash service of summons.
 
            In
its tentative ruling, the Court also considered the personal jurisdiction
argument set forth by Cosentino. However, upon closer consideration and review
of the other opinions considering Cosentino’s claims, the Court concludes that
the jurisdictional argument is not ripe at this time. Plaintiff has sought
discovery addressing the jurisdictional facts. “A plaintiff attempting to
assert jurisdiction over a nonresident defendant is entitled to an opportunity
to conduct discovery of the jurisdictional facts necessary to sustain its
burden of proof.” (Magnecomp Corp. v. Athene Co. (1989) 209 Cal.App.3d
526, 533.) “In order to prevail on a motion for a continuance for
jurisdictional discovery, the plaintiff should demonstrate that discovery is
likely to lead to the production of evidence of facts establishing
jurisdiction.” (In re Automobile Cases (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 100, 127.)

 
            Accordingly,
the Court directs the parties to meet and confer regarding jurisdictional
discovery, and the Motion to Quash based on a claim of lack of minimum contact
with the State of California is continued to a future hearing date to be set
after the requisite discovery and meet and confer has taken place. 
            
            Based
on the foregoing, Cosentino’s motion to quash for improper service is denied.
Cosentino’s motion to quash based on lack of jurisdiction is continued
consistent with the ruling set forth above. 

 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  April   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 Superior Court of California
County of Los
Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



JOSE GUADALUPE SOTO-
RODRIGUEZ, et al. 
 
  
        
  vs.
 
AKG TRADING (USA) INC., et al. 
  


 Case
  No.:  23STCV08440  
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  April 10, 2024




 
Dal’s motion
to strike is GRANTED. 
 
On 4/17/2023,
Plaintiffs Jose Guadalupe-Soto Rodriguez and Sara Sanchez (collectively,
Plaintiffs) filed suit against 39 Defendants, alleging: (1) negligence; (2)
strict liability—warning defect; (3) strict liability—design defect; (4)
fraudulent concealment; (5) breach of implied warranties; and (6) loss of
consortium. 
 
            Now,
Defendant Dal-Tile Distribution, Inc. (Dal) moves to strike Plaintiff’s FAC. 
 
Discussion 
 
            Dal
moves to strike the generalized product identification language “[a]nd other
stone products to be identified through the course of discovery,” on the
grounds that it violates the toxic tort pleading requirements.
 
            The
Court agrees. 
 
Under Brockrath, “[a]
plaintiff must allege facts albeit as succinctly as possible, explaining how
the conduct caused or contributed to the injury.” (Id. at p. 78.)
Specifically, a plaintiff must plead the following in his or her toxic tort
complaint: 1) That he or she was exposed to each of the toxic materials claimed
to have caused a specific illness; 2) Each product that allegedly caused the
injury; 3) That as a result of the exposure, the toxins entered his body; 4)
That he suffers from a specific illness, and that each toxin that entered his
body was a substantial factor in bringing about, prolonging, or aggravating
that illness; and 5) That each toxin he absorbed was manufactured or supplied
by a named defendant. (Id. at p. 80.) 
 
As such, a
reference to undetermined products is improper: “[t]he law cannot tolerate lawsuits
by prospecting plaintiffs who sue multiple defendants on speculation that their
products may have caused harm over time through exposure to toxins in them, and
who thereafter try to learn through discovery whether their speculation was
well-founded.” (Id. at p. 81.) 
 
            Based
on the foregoing, Dal’s motion to strike is granted. 
 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  April   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 