  Case Number:  23STCV12267    Hearing Date:   November 16, 2023    Dept:  68 Esdras Cristobal Hernandez vs. American Honda Motor, Co.,
Inc., 23STCV12267
Motion to Compel Further Discovery Responses
Moving Party: Plaintiff Esdras Cristobal Hernandez

Responding Party: Defendant
American Honda Motor, Co., Inc.

Motion
            The Court has
reviewed the documents associated with the motion.
The Court finds that the parties
have not adequately met and conferred. 
“In an attempt to avoid motion
practice, Plaintiff, in good faith, sent Defendant´s counsel two detailed
meet and confer letters. Defendant, however, has not yet adequately
responded to Plaintiff´s meet and confer letters or the subject discovery
requests. Given Defendant’s failure to adequately supplement its responses and
produce all responsive documents, Plaintiff now seeks this Court’s intervention.”  Motion pg. 2:22-26.
The parties are ordered to meet and
confer within 15 days. They must discuss each separate item and identify
precisely the issue or issues that remain to be resolved for each item. 
Defendant must make clear precisely
which objections it stands on and which objections it is withdrawing.  It must make clear which responsive documents,
if any, are being withheld.
Plaintiff must articulate what the
Court is being requested to do is instances where Defendant says that it has no
such responsive documents.
After the parties have met and
conferred, they then must prepare one Joint Statement that will list
separately each request that remains to be resolved, Defendant’s response to
the request, Plaintiff’s position on the specific response, and Defendant’s response
to Plaintiff’s position.  (To the extent
that any party is repeating the same response as was given to a prior response
the party shall not repeat the same response but shall instead state “Response
is the same as #___ above.”)  The Joint Statement
shall be filed at least 5 court days prior to the next hearing
The hearing on Plaintiff’s motion
to compel further discovery responses is continued for approximately one month.  The date shall be set at the hearing.