  Case Number:  22STCV12696    Hearing Date:   January 11, 2024    Dept:  15 [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE MOTION FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION
            Defendant
Amcord, Inc. (“Defendant”) filed a motion for summary adjudication of Plaintiffs
Donna Smedley, Kristen Weir, and Suzanna Howard’s third cause of action for fraud,
fourth cause of action for conspiracy, and claim for punitive damages.  
A defendant seeking
summary judgment must “conclusively negate[] a necessary element of the
plaintiff’s case, or . . . demonstrate[] that under no hypothesis is there a
material issue of fact that requires the process of trial.”  (Guz v. Bechtel Nat. Inc. (2000) 24
Cal.4th 317, 334.)  To show that a
plaintiff cannot establish an element of a cause of action, a defendant must
make the initial showing “that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot
reasonably obtain, needed evidence.”  (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 854.)  “The defendant may, but need not, present
evidence that conclusively negates an element of the plaintiff’s cause of
action.  The defendant may also present
evidence that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain,
needed evidence – as through admissions by the plaintiff following extensive
discovery to the effect that he has discovered nothing.”  (Id. at p. 855.)  A plaintiff’s deposition testimony that the
plaintiff has no knowledge of any exposure to the defendant’s products may be
sufficient to shift the burden to the plaintiff to demonstrate the existence of
triable issues of fact.  (McGonnell v.
Kaiser Gypsum Co., Inc. (2002) 98 Cal.App.4th 1098, 1103-1104.)  The plaintiff’s deposition testimony that he
did not recall ever working with a product manufactured by the defendant may
not be sufficient to shift the burden if the plaintiff is able to prove his
case by another means.  (Weber v. John
Crane, Inc. (2006) 143 Cal.App.4th 1433, 1439.)  “ ‘If plaintiffs respond to comprehensive
interrogatories seeking all known facts with boilerplate answers that restate
their allegations, or simply provide laundry lists of people and/or documents,
the burden of production will almost certainly be shifted to them once
defendants move for summary judgment and properly present plaintiff’s factually
devoid discovery responses.’”  (Id.
at p. 1440.)
I.          Objections
            A.        Defendant’s Objections
Defendant included in its
objections references to evidence that it does not object to.  This makes the objections longer and more
difficult to rule on.   
Nos. 1-48:  For the material where Defendant asserted objections,
the court did not reply on this material. 
The court did rely on some of the material to which Defendant stated it
had no objections.
II.        Third
Cause of Action – Fraudulent Concealment
The third cause of action
alleges with no specificity that Defendant “failed to disclose certain facts .
. . regarding the existence of hazardous asbestos that became airborne.”  (FAC at p. 10.)  Defendant contends Plaintiffs’ discovery
responses do not contain evidence supporting this cause of action.
“ ‘[T]he elements of a
cause of action for fraud based on concealment are “ ‘(1) the defendant must
have concealed or suppressed a material fact, (2) the defendant must have been
under a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff, (3) the defendant must have
intentionally concealed or suppressed the fact with the intent to defraud the
plaintiff, (4) the plaintiff must have been unaware of the fact and would not
have acted as he did if he had known of the concealed or suppressed fact, and
(5) as a result of the concealment or suppression of the fact, the plaintiff
must have sustained damage.’ ” 
[Citation.]’ ”  (Bigler-Engler
v. Breg, Inc. (2017) 7 Cal.App.5th 276, 310-311.)  When a fiduciary duty does not exist, a duty
to disclose arises only “when the defendant had exclusive knowledge of material
facts not known to the plaintiff,” or “when the defendant actively conceals a
material fact from the plaintiff,” or “when the defendant makes partial
representations but also suppresses some material facts.”  (Id. at p. 311.)  This type of relationship “ ‘can only come
into being as a result of some sort of transaction between the parties’ ” and
“must necessarily arise from direct dealings between the plaintiff and the
defendant; it cannot arise between the defendant and the public at large.”  (Ibid.)  
Defendant served
interrogatories asking for all facts supporting the cause of action.  (Ex. C at p. 3.)  Plaintiffs responded that Charles Smedley was
exposed to asbestos from Defendant’s products from 1968 to the early 1980s when
he used Defendant’s Riverside Gun Plastic Cement, Defendant knew that the
product released asbestos, Defendant was part of various industry groups,
Defendant began developing substitutes for asbestos in the product in the
1970s, and at some point Defendant placed warnings on the product.  (Ex. D at pp. 3, 4, 15-16.)
            The
discovery response did not identify the specific facts that Defendant concealed
from Charles Smedley and did not provide evidence showing that Charles Smedley
and Defendant were in a fiduciary relationship or that there were direct
dealings or some sort of transaction between them as required by Bigler-Engler.  Therefore, Defendant shifted the burden.
            In
opposition, Plaintiffs submit evidence that Defendant put warnings on the
product only in about 1974.  (Opposition
at p. 10.)  However, Plaintiffs do not establish
that there was a fiduciary duty or that Charles Smedley and Defendant had
direct dealings or transactions. 
Therefore, Plaintiffs did not show a disputed issue on this cause of
action.
III.       Third
Cause of Action – Fraudulent Misrepresentation
            The
third cause of action also alleges that Defendant “represented to Charles
Smedley that certain facts were true: 
the air was safe to breath because it did not contain asbestos, and any
asbestos was not hazardous.”  (FAC at p.
10.)  The first amended complaint is
utterly vague, failing to identify the person who made that statement to
Charles Smedley and when that occurred.
Defendant argues that Plaintiffs’
discovery responses also fail to show any false statement from Defendant to
Plaintiffs or Charles Smedley.  Defendant
served interrogatories asking for all facts supporting the cause of action.  (Ex. C at p. 3.)  Plaintiffs responded that Charles Smedley was
exposed to asbestos from Defendant’s products from 1968 to the early 1980s when
he used Defendant’s Riverside Gun Plastic Cement, Defendant knew that the
product released asbestos, Defendant was part of various industry groups,
Defendant began developing substitutes for asbestos in the product in the
1970s, and at some point Defendant placed warnings on the product.  (Ex. D at pp. 3, 4, 15-16.)  The response does not identify any false
statement to Charles Smedley or who made it. 
In addition, at his deposition, Smedley testified he did not know the
name “Amcord,” never received any documents or communications from Defendant,
and did not have any communications with Defendant.  (Ex. E at pp. 355, 533-534.)  These discovery responses shifted the
burden.  
            In
opposition, Plaintiffs argue they are making a “claim for false representation
under section 402B.”  (Opposition at p.
14.)  The first amended complaint does
not mention Restatement of Torts Section 402-B. 
However, the court will assume that the first amended complaint
adequately alleged a claim under section 402-B.
Section 402-B establishes
“liability for injuries caused by justifiable reliance on false
advertising.”  (Westlye v. Look
Sports, Inc. (1993) 17 Cal.App.4th 1715, 1750.)  Under this section “ ‘[o]ne engaged in the
business of selling chattels who, by advertising, labels, or otherwise, makes
to the public a misrepresentation of a material fact concerning the character
or quality of a chattel sold by him is subject to liability for physical harm
to a consumer of the chattel caused by justifiable reliance upon the
misrepresentation, even though [¶] (a) it is not made fraudulently or
negligently, and [¶] (b) the consumer has not bought the chattel from or
entered into any contractual relation with the seller.’  [Citation.]” 
(Id. at pp. 1750-1751.) 
“The rule ‘is one of strict liability for physical harm to the consumer,
resulting from a misrepresentation of the character or quality of the chattel
sold, even though the misrepresentation is an innocent one, and not made
fraudulently or negligently.’ 
[Citation.]”  (Hauter v.
Zogarts (1975) 14 Cal.3d 104, 114.)  
            Plaintiffs
argue that a section 402-B claim does not require any “affirmative
misrepresentation of fact made by Amcord.” 
(Opposition at p. 14.)  That is
not so.  Section 402-B requires that the
defendant “makes to the public a misrepresentation of a material fact.”  (Westlye, supra, 17 Cal.App.4th at p.
1750.)  Nothing in the first amended
complaint, Plaintiffs’ discovery responses, or Plaintiffs’ opposition provides
evidence of any misrepresentation of a material fact by Defendant to the
public.  Nor did Plaintiffs provide any
evidence that a consumer who purchased Defendant’s product justifiably relied
on a misrepresentation.  (Ibid.)  Thus, Plaintiffs failed to show any disputed
issue concerning the fraudulent misrepresentation claim, whether or not it is
construed as a section 402-B claim.
IV.       Third
Cause of Action – Intentional Misrepresentation
            The
third cause of action also alleges that respirator defendants “represented to
Charles Smedley, both directly and through others, that the respirators would
protect him from inhaling harmful amounts of asbestos.”  (FAC at p. 11.)  Defendant is not a respirator defendant.  (FAC at p. 4.)  
For the reasons stated
above, summary adjudication is granted on the third cause of action.
V.        Fourth
Cause of Action – Conspiracy
            The
fourth cause of action alleges that all twenty defendants engaged in a
conspiracy to conceal information from Charles Smedley and to make false
statements to him.  (FAC at pp.
11-12.)  The first amended complaint
gives no information about how this conspiracy among all of the defendants occurred.  
“Conspiracy is not a cause of
action, but a legal doctrine that imposes liability on persons who, although
not actually committing a tort themselves, share with the immediate tortfeasors
a common plan or design in its perpetration.” 
(Applied Equipment Corp. v. Litton Saudi Arabia Ltd. (1994) 7
Cal.4th 503, 510-511.)  “Standing alone,
a conspiracy does no harm and engenders no tort liability.  It must be activated by the commission of an
actual tort.”  (Id. at p.
511.)  
Because Plaintiffs failed
to show disputed issues of material fact regarding the underlying fraud claims,
the conspiracy cause of action fails. 
Further, neither Plaintiffs’ first amended complaint, nor their discovery
responses, nor their opposition provides any evidence that Defendant had a
common plan with the nineteen other defendants to defraud Plaintiffs.  This cause of action is baseless.
Because Plaintiff failed
to show any disputed issue of material fact, the motion for summary
adjudication is granted as to the fourth cause of action. 
VI.       Punitive
Damages
            Defendant
contends Plaintiffs cannot prove Defendant acted with oppression, malice or
fraud.  When the motion targets a request
for punitive damages, a higher standard of proof is at play.  “Although the clear and convincing
evidentiary standard is a stringent one, ‘it does not impose on a plaintiff the
obligation to “prove” a case for punitive damages at summary judgment [or
summary adjudication.’  [Citations.]  Even so, ‘where the plaintiff’s ultimate
burden of proof will be by clear and convincing evidence, the higher standard
of proof must be taken into account in ruling on a motion for summary judgment
or summary adjudication, since if a plaintiff is to prevail on a claim for
punitive damages, it will be necessary that the evidence presented meet the
higher evidentiary standard.’ 
[Citation.]”  (Butte Fire Cases
(2018) 24 Cal.App.5th 1150, 1158-1159.) 
“Summary judgment or summary adjudication ‘ “ ‘on the issue of punitive
damages is proper’ only ‘when no reasonable jury could find the plaintiff’s
evidence to be clear and convincing proof of malice, fraud or oppression.’ ”
’.  [Citation.]”  (Id. at p. 1159.)
For a corporate
defendant, the oppression, fraud or malice “must be on the part of an officer,
director, or managing agent of the corporation.”  (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (b).)  That requirement can be satisfied “ ‘if the
evidence permits a clear and convincing inference that within the corporate
hierarchy authorized persons acted despicably in “willful and conscious
disregard of the rights or safety of others.” ’ 
[Citation.]”  (Morgan v. J-M
Manufacturing Company, Inc. (2021) 60 Cal.App.5th 1078, 1090.)  A plaintiff also “can satisfy the ‘managing
agent’ requirement ‘through evidence showing the information in the possession
of the corporation and the structure of management decisionmaking that permits
an inference that the information in fact moved upward to a point where
corporate policy was formulated.’ 
[Citation.]”  (Id. at p.
1091.)
“ ‘[I]ntentionally marketing a defective product
knowing that it might cause injury and death is ‘highly reprehensible.’  [Citation.]” 
(Bankhead v. ArvinMeritor, Inc. (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 68,
85.)  Punitive damages may be available
when a defendant knows the dangers of asbestos, took action to protect its own
employees, knew that its products were likely to pose a danger to users, and
did not warn them.  (Pfeifer v. John
Crane, Inc. (2013) 220 Cal.Ap.4th 1270, 1300.)  Such evidence “was sufficient to show malice,
that is, despicable conduct coupled with conscious disregard for the safety of
others.”  (Id. at pp.
1300-1301.)  
            Defendant
cites Plaintiffs’ discovery responses.  (Motion
at p. 7.)  In response to an interrogatory
asking for all facts supporting the claim for punitive damages, Plaintiffs
responded that that Charles Smedley was exposed to asbestos from Defendant’s
products from 1968 to the early 1980s when he used Defendant’s Riverside Gun
Plastic Cement, Defendant knew that the product released asbestos, Defendant
was part of various industry groups, information from those groups informed
Defendant in 1971 about restrictions on asbestos, Defendant began developing
substitutes for asbestos in the product in the 1970s, Defendant was working on
changing the restrictions on asbestos, and at some point Defendant placed
warnings on the product.  (Ex. C at p. 3;
Ex. D at pp. 3-5, 15-16.)  This answer is
not factually-devoid, and therefore Defendant did not shift the burden.
            The
motion for summary adjudication is GRANTED as to the third and fourth causes of
action and DENIED as to the request for punitive damages.
            The
moving party is to give notice.