 Case Number:  22STCV24956    Hearing Date:   January 11, 2024    Dept:  15 [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
            Defendant
Omya, Inc. filed a motion for summary judgment on Plaintiffs Ronald Babb and
James Hefner’s claims that Patricia Balt was exposed to asbestos from
Defendant’s talc.
            Defendant’s
Objections:  The court did not rely on
the objected-to evidence.
            A defendant seeking summary judgment
must “conclusively negate[] a necessary element of the plaintiff’s case, or . .
. demonstrate[] that under no hypothesis is there a material issue of fact that
requires the process of trial.”  (Guz
v. Bechtel Nat. Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 317, 334.)  To show that a plaintiff cannot establish an
element of a cause of action, a defendant must make the initial showing “that
the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed
evidence.”  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield
Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 854.) 
“The defendant may, but need not, present evidence that conclusively
negates an element of the plaintiff’s cause of action.  The defendant may also present evidence that
the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence –
as through admissions by the plaintiff following extensive discovery to the
effect that he has discovered nothing.” 
(Id. at p. 855.)  A
plaintiff’s deposition testimony that the plaintiff has no knowledge of any
exposure to the defendant’s products may be sufficient to shift the burden to
the plaintiff to demonstrate the existence of triable issues of fact.  (McGonnell v. Kaiser Gypsum Co., Inc.
(2002) 98 Cal.App.4th 1098, 1103-1104.) 
The plaintiff’s deposition testimony that he did not recall ever working
with a product manufactured by the defendant may not be sufficient to shift the
burden if the plaintiff is able to prove his case by another means.  (Weber v. John Crane, Inc. (2006) 143
Cal.App.4th 1433, 1439.)  “‘If plaintiffs
respond to comprehensive interrogatories seeking all known facts with
boilerplate answers that restate their allegations, or simply provide laundry
lists of people and/or documents, the burden of production will almost
certainly be shifted to them once defendants move for summary judgment and
properly present plaintiff’s factually devoid discovery responses.’”  (Id. at p. 1440.) 
            Defendant
served interrogatories asking for all facts supporting the contention that
Defendant’s products exposed Patricia Balt to asbestos as alleged in the
complaint.  (Ex. B at pp. 2-3.)  Plaintiffs responded that Balt used talcum
powder products from the early 1960s through the early 2020s, including Avon
products Candid, Skin So Soft, Sweet Honesty, Occur, Honeysuckle,
Unforgettable, Catillion, and Birds of Paradise.  Defendant supplied asbestos-containing talc
to Avon.  (Ex. D at pp. 4-5.)  The response contained no evidence supporting
that assertion.  Similarly, in responding
to a request for documents, Plaintiffs did not identify documents showing
Defendant supplied asbestos-containing talc. 
(Ex. F at p. 4; Ex. H at pp. 3-5.) 
The responses are factually-deficient, shifting the burden.
            In
opposition, Plaintiffs submitted evidence that Avon approved Defendant as a supplier
of in 1982, Avon’s code for Olympic talc was 0752, both Cyprus and Defendant
supplied Olympic talc to Avon, and Olympic talc made up 80-85% of the talc Avon
use.  (Plaintiffs’ Additional Undisputed
Material Facts (“AUMF”) 81-85) 
Plaintiffs contend that because Defendant’s talc came from Vermont, it
must have had asbestos in it. 
(Opposition at pp. 5-6.)  
            Plaintiffs’
evidence does not show the percentage of Olympic talc Avon obtained from
Defendant compared to from Cyprus.  In Izell v. Union
Carbide Corporation (2014) 231 Cal.App.4th 962 the defendant Kelly-Moore had
multiple suppliers of asbestos, of which Union Carbide’s asbestos made up about
8%.  (Id. at p. 971.)  There was no evidence of the percentage of
the asbestos Union Carbide supplied to the Kelly-Moore facility where the
plaintiff worked.  (Ibid.)  Thus it was speculation to conclude the
plaintiff was exposed to Union Carbide asbestos.  (Ibid.)  When a manufacturer has multiple suppliers of
asbestos, the fact that Union Carbide was one of the supplies “does not remove
the issue from the realm of speculation.” 
(Ibid.)  In sum, “ ‘[t]he
mere “possibility” of exposure’ is insufficient to establish causation.”  (Id. at p. 969.)  
Here Plaintiffs did not show that Defendant was
the sole or majority supplier of talc to Avon. 
Based on Plaintiffs’ evidence, Defendant could have supplied only a small
percent (even just 1%) of the Olympic talc Avon used.  It is speculation to assume that Defendant
supplied the majority of the Olympic talc. 

            Further,
Plaintiffs’ evidence does not show that Defendant’s talc ended up in the
specific Avon products Balt used, as opposed to other Avon products.  Again, it is speculation to assume that
Defendant’s talc was used in Avon’s Candid, Skin So Soft, Sweet Honesty, Occur,
Honeysuckle, Unforgettable, Catillion, and Birds of Paradise products and not
some other Avon products.
            Because
Plaintiffs have not submitted evidence of a disputed issue, the motion for
summary judgment is GRANTED.  Defendant
is to file a proposed judgment within five days.
            The
moving party is to give notice.