 Case Number:  23STCV08396    Hearing Date:   January 11, 2024    Dept:  15 [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE MOTION FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE MOTION FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION 
 
On April 14, 2023, Plaintiffs
Kathleen Hiland and John Hiland filed this action alleging Kathleen Hiland developed
mesothelioma as a result of exposure to asbestos.  Defendant Amcord, Inc. filed a motion for
summary adjudication of Plaintiffs’ fourth cause of action for premises
owner/contractor liability and request for punitive damages. 
A.        Objections
Defendant’s Objection
Nos. 1-36, 42:  The court did not rely on
this evidence.
Defendant’s Objection Nos.
37-41:  Overruled. 
B.        Fourth Cause of Action
The
fourth cause of action for premises owner/contractor liability alleges
Defendant “owned, leased, maintained, managed, and/or controlled the premises
at which Plaintiff Kathleen Hiland was exposed to asbestos.”  (Complaint, ¶ 51.)  Defendant propounded a special interrogatory
asking for all facts supporting this claim. 
(Ex. 5 at p. 21.)  In response,
Plaintiffs stated Hiland was exposed “through her father’s home repair work.”  (Ibid.)  Therefore, unless Defendant owned or
controlled Hiland’s home, the fourth cause of action is baseless.  The interrogatory response cites no evidence
that Defendant owned, leased, maintained, managed, or controlled Plaintiff’s
home.  Therefore, Defendant shifted the
burden.  In opposition, Plaintiffs
presented no evidence supporting this cause of action and therefore did not
show any disputed issue concerning the fourth cause of action.  The motion is granted.
C.        Punitive Damages
When the motion targets a
request for punitive damages, a higher standard of proof is at play. “Although
the clear and convincing evidentiary standard is a stringent one, ‘it does not
impose on a plaintiff the obligation to “prove” a case for punitive damages at summary
judgment [or summary adjudication.’ 
[Citations.]  Even so, ‘where the
plaintiff’s ultimate burden of proof will be by clear and convincing evidence,
the higher standard of proof must be taken into account in ruling on a motion
for summary judgment or summary adjudication, since if a plaintiff is to
prevail on a claim for punitive damages, it will be necessary that the evidence
presented meet the higher evidentiary standard.’  [Citation.]” 
(Butte Fire Cases (2018) 24 Cal.App.5th 1150, 1158-1159.)  “Summary judgment or summary adjudication ‘ “
‘on the issue of punitive damages is proper’ only ‘when no reasonable jury
could find the plaintiff’s evidence to be clear and convincing proof of malice,
fraud or oppression.’ ” ’. 
[Citation.]”  (Id. at p.
1159.) 
For a corporate
defendant, the oppression, fraud or malice “must be on the part of an officer,
director, or managing agent of the corporation.”  (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (b).)  That requirement can be satisfied “ ‘if the
evidence permits a clear and convincing inference that within the corporate
hierarchy authorized persons acted despicably in “willful and conscious
disregard of the rights or safety of others.” ’ [Citation.]”  (Morgan v. J-M Manufacturing Company, Inc.
(2021) 60 Cal.App.5th 1078, 1090.)  A
plaintiff also “can satisfy the ‘managing agent’ requirement ‘through evidence
showing the information in the possession of the corporation and the structure
of management decision making that permits an inference that the information in
fact moved upward to a point where corporate policy was formulated.’  [Citation.]”  (Id. at p. 1091.) 
“ ‘[I]ntentionally
marketing a defective product knowing that it might cause injury and death is
‘highly reprehensible.’ 
[Citation.]”  (Bankhead v.
ArvinMeritor, Inc. (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 68, 85.)  Punitive damages may be available when a
defendant knows the dangers of asbestos, took action to protect its own
employees from the hazard, knew that its products were likely to pose a danger
to users, and did not warn them.  (Pfeifer
v. John Crane, Inc. (2013) 220 Cal.Ap.4th 1270, 1300.)  Such evidence “was sufficient to show malice,
that is, despicable conduct coupled with conscious disregard for the safety of
others.”  (Id. at pp. 1300-1301.) 
Defendant contends
Plaintiffs’ discovery responses are factually devoid, citing Plaintiffs’
response to a special interrogatory asking for all facts supporting the
punitive damages claim.  (Motion at p. 2;
Undisputed Material Fact (“UMF”) 10.)  Plaintiffs
responded that Kathleen Hiland was exposed to Defendant’s asbestos-containing
products through her father’s and husband’s repair and maintenance jobs on their
family homes from the 1960s to the 1990s.  (Ex. 5 at p. 27.)  Defendant manufactured, sold, supplied, and/or
distributed asbestos-containing Riverside gun plastic cement between 1959 and
1979.  (Id. at 29.)  The response refers to scientific literature
and unnamed witnesses.  (Id. at
pp. 30-32.)  Providing a laundry list of names is
not sufficient.  (Weber, supra,
143 Cal.App.4th at p. 1440.)  
Defendant also cites
Plaintiffs’ response to a request for production relating to punitive damages.  (UMF 15.) 
Plaintiffs’ response referred to the deposition testimony of Defendant’s
employees and expert witnesses and Plaintiffs, medical providers, and so forth.
 (Ex. 11 at pp. 4-6, 13.)  
The
responses also did not contain specific evidence that Defendant had knowledge
about the hazards of asbestos in its products during the relevant time period
and made a corporate decision to continue selling it despite the danger to consumers.  Therefore, Defendant
shifted the burden.
In opposition, Plaintiffs
argue that Defendant knew of the hazards of asbestos by the early 1970s but
continued to sell its products without warnings.  (Opposition at p. 13.)  Plaintiffs cite Defendant’s interoffice memos
and correspondence to the City of Los Angeles in the 1970s about Defendant
developing asbestos-free products because of regulations against asbestos
products and the higher costs of such alternative products.  (Plaintiffs’ Index, Exs. 10-14.) 
In its reply, Defendants
argue its attempts to develop an alternative formula for gun plastic cement
were to manufacture a better, less expensive product.  (Reply at p. 5.)  Defendants argue its product was tested by
industrial hygienists and did not violate any OSHA or Cal-OSHA regulations.  (Reply at p. 4.)  Defendant does not cite law that complying
with regulations is a defense to punitive damages.
The evidence proffered by
Plaintiffs creates disputed issues of material fact about Defendant’s knowledge
of the hazards of asbestos in its products, the need to minimize exposure, Defendant’s
knowledge about regulations on asbestos, and Defendant’s efforts to continue
selling its products despite regulations limiting or prohibiting such sales. The
court cannot conclude that no reasonable jury could find clear and convincing
proof of malice, fraud, or oppression. 
The motion for summary
adjudication is GRANTED as to the fourth cause of action and DENIED on the request
for punitive damages. 
The moving party is to
give notice. 
 