

Hearing Date:             November
27, 2024    
Case Name:                TrueConnect Communications,
Inc. v. Ground Floor Marketing LLC
Case No.:                    22STCV11771
Matter:                        (1.) Plaintiff’s Motion
for Summary Adjudication
                                    (2.) Defendants’
Motion for Summary Adjudication
Moving Party:             (1.) Plaintiff TrueConnect
Communications, Inc.
                                    (2.) Defendants
Ground Floor Marketing LLC, John
Merrill, and Marisa Voloshin
Responding
Party:      (1.) Defendants Ground Floor Marketing LLC, John Merrill,
And Marisa Voloshin 
(2.) Plaintiff TrueConnect Communications, Inc.


 

 

Tentative Ruling:      Plaintiff’s Motion for Summary Adjudication
is denied. Defendants’ Motion for
Summary Adjudication is granted.  
 

 
             On April 7, 2022, Plaintiff TruConnect
Communications Inc. (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendant Ground
Floor Marketing, LLC, (“Defendant”) alleging breach of agreement. After getting
leave to amend the Complaint, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”)
on August 2, 2022. The operative FAC alleges (1) breach of contract, (2)
intentional interference with prospective economic relations, (3) negligent
interference with prospective economic relations, (4) aiding and abetting
interference with prospective economic relations, (5) fraud, and (6) violation
of California Penal Code § 496.
 
            Plaintiff
manages a free wireless telephone program for qualified, low-income households.
In May 2021, Plaintiff contracted with Defendant. As part of the agreement,
Plaintiff sent cellular devices to Defendant (with zero paid upfront), and
Plaintiff was to provide the devices to qualified individuals who enrolled in
the programs. (FAC ¶¶ 19-20.) On March 8, 2022, Plaintiff exercised its right
to terminate the contract and demanded that Defendant return the devices or
remit payment of $978,899.00 for the devices. (FAC ¶¶ 27-31.) 
 
After filing the initial complaint,
Plaintiff alleges that it discovered an online seller with the pseudonym
“mr.hikmat642” selling its inventory online through eBay. Plaintiff then
requested leave to file an amended complaint, which the court granted. The FAC
additionally alleges that Defendant is selling these cellular tablets and
devices through eBay, using the pseudonym to avoid detection. (FAC ¶ 6.)
Plaintiff alleges that Defendant never intended to enter into the agreement for
legitimate purposes, but instead created the appearance of being a legitimate
company to deceive Plaintiff and take its devices to sell them to the outside
market. (FAC ¶ 64.) 
 
The Court granted a preliminary
injunction to enjoin Defendant from selling or transferring the 20,446 cellular
tablets and devices in its possession.
 
            On January
30, 2023, Defendant filed a demurrer to the second, third, fourth, fifth, and
sixth causes of action. The Court overruled the demurrer.
 
            Then, on
April 24, 2024, Plaintiff TrueConnect Communications, Inc. (Plaintiff) moved for summary adjudication. Defendants
Ground Floor Marketing LLC, John
Merrill, and Marisa Voloshin (Defendants) filed an opposition.
 
On July 30, 2024, Defendants Ground Floor Marketing LLC, John Merrill, and
Marisa Voloshin moved for summary adjudication. Plaintiff filed an opposition. 
 
Plaintiff’s motion for summary adjudication is denied. Defendants’
motion for summary adjudication is granted in its entirety.
 
Legal Standard
 
            “The party moving for summary
judgment bears the burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue of
material fact and that he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.) A triable issue
of material fact exists if the evidence would allow a reasonable trier of fact
to find the underlying fact in favor of the party opposing the motion in
accordance with the applicable standard of proof. (Ibid.) 
 
            “When deciding whether to grant
summary judgment, the court must consider all of the evidence set forth in the
papers (except evidence to which the court has sustained an objection), as well
as all reasonable inferences that may be drawn from that evidence, in the light
most favorable to the party opposing summary judgment.” (Avivi v.
Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal. App. 4th 463,
467; Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (c).)
 
Discussion
 
(1.)  Plaintiff’s Motion for Summary Adjudication 
 
Plaintiff moves for “partial summary adjudication” of the
sixth cause of action for violation of Penal Code section 496. Plaintiff’s
motion for partial summary adjudication is procedurally defective.
 
As a preliminary matter, “[a] motion for summary adjudication tenders
only those issues or causes of action specified in the notice of motion, and
may only be granted as to the matters thus specified.” (Schmidlin v. City of
Palo Alto (2007) 157 Cal.App.4th 728, 743-744.)
 
Plaintiff’s Motion violates the mandatory provisions of California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1350(b). Subsection (b) requires that the specific cause
of action, affirmative defense, claim for damages, or issue of duty as to which
summary adjudication is sought “must be stated specifically in the notice of
motion and be repeated, verbatim, in the separate statement of undisputed
material facts.”


In this case, Plaintiff’s notice of motion seeks adjudication of
different issues than the separate statement. 
 
In the Notice of Motion, Plaintiff seeks summary adjudication in its favor
“as to liability, on Count VI of the SAC [sic], with an order ruling
that Plaintiff is entitled to at least treble actual damages ultimately proved,
as well as costs and reasonable attorney’s fees, pursuant to California Penal
Code § 496, subdivision (c).” (Not., 3:6-8.)
 
Confusingly, the issues are framed as follows: 
 
“ 1. . . . As there are no material issues of fact
that Defendant retains property it has no right to, Plaintiff TruConnect
therefore should prevail—at least as to liability—on Count VI (Violation of
California Penal Code § 496) of its First Amended Complaint, as a matter of
law.” (Not., 2:17-19.) 
“2. The parties disagree about the
number of electronic devices Defendant may be holding that are property of
TruConnect. However, Defendant admits that it is retaining at least 8,589
electronic mobile devices that it was to distribute on behalf of TruConnect on
a consignment basis. (Not., 2:20-22.) 
“3. Defendant cannot claim that it
presently has a legitimate right to the electronic devices, as the devices were
provided on a consignment basis to Defendant, with express terms that Defendant
did not have title to the devices at any time and assumed any loss of them
until distribution to ultimate end users.” (Not., 3:23-26.) 
“4. Defendant has refused to return
the electronic mobile devices, purportedly based on amounts Defendants claims
are owed under a contractual crossclaim, arising out of a billing dispute
between the parties.” (Not., 3:1-3.) 
 
In contrast, the Separate Statement contains three issues for summary
adjudication: (1.) Plaintiff and Defendant entered into a distribution
agreement pursuant to which Defendant was to distribute cellular devices owned
by Plaintiff to low-income individuals; (2.) TruConnect terminated the
Agreement and Ground Floor has returned to pay for or return TruConnect’s
devices; and (3.) Ground Floor continues to refuse to return TruConnect’s
devices for unjustified reasons.
 
“The requirement of a separate statement from the moving party and a
responding statement from the party opposing summary judgment or summary
adjudication “serves two functions: to give the parties notice of the material
facts at issue in the motion and to permit the trial court to focus on whether
those facts are truly undisputed.” (Parkview Villas Assn., Inc. v. State
Farm Fire & Casualty Co. (2005) 133 Cal.App.4th 1197, 1210.) The
failure to comply with this requirement of a separate statement may in the
court's discretion constitute a sufficient ground for denying the motion. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (b)(1); see also Truong v. Glasser (2009) 181
Cal.App.4th 102, 118 [finding the court's power to deny a motion for summary
judgment due to failure to comply with formatting requirements is
“discretionary, not mandatory”].)
 
            The
gist of Plaintiff’s Notice and the Separate Statement is summary adjudication
of the liability issue of Sixth Cause of Action in the First Amended
Complaint. 
 
Even if the Court
overlooked Plaintiff’s defect above, the requested relief in the motion is also
defective, in this instance fatally. 
 
            A
motion for summary adjudication may be granted “only if it completely disposes
of a cause of action, an affirmative defense, a claim for damages, or an issue
of duty.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1).)
 
            The
policy behind summary adjudication motions is, “to ‘promote and protect the
administration of justice, and to expedite litigation by the elimination of
needless trials.’ ” (Lilienthal & Fowler v. Superior Court (1993) 12
Cal.App.4th 1848, 1854.) Said another way, the clear intent of Code of Civil
Procedure section 437c, subdivision (f) is “ ‘to stop the practice of
adjudication of facts or adjudication of issues that do not completely dispose
of a cause of action or defense.’ ” (Lilienthal & Fowler v. Superior
Court, supra, 12 Cal.App.4th at p. 1853; Hood v. Superior Court
(1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 319, 323.) 
 
Plaintiff’s motion
for summary adjudication fails to dispose of an entire cause of action. Plaintiff’s
motion on the single issue of liability does nothing to further this policy as
it does not eliminate the need for trial on the cause of action. As Plaintiff’s
own motion admits, the injury, or damages, is a necessary element of the claim;
the matter must still proceed to trial on this cause of action to determine the
element of damages. (See Mot., 4:21-23 [“The only remaining task for this Court
to determine is the amount of statutory damages that Ground Floor owes to
TruConnect for the theft of its devices.”].) 
 
As such, Plaintiff’s
motion for summary adjudication, which omits this element, is improper. (Paramount
Petroleum Corp. v. Superior Court (2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 226, 241 [“[T]he
plaintiff must “prove[ ] each element of the cause of action entitling the
party to judgment on that cause of action.”].) 
 
Thus, Plaintiff’s
motion for summary adjudication is denied. (See e.g., Department of
Industrial Relations v. UI Video Stores, Inc. (1997) 55 Cal.App.4th 1084,
1097 [error for the trial court to grant summary judgment on the question of
defendant's liability, with damages to be determined in a later accounting
proceeding. Because issues of calculation of damages remained, proper procedure
“would have been a motion to bifurcate the issue of liability, which the
parties could have tried on the undisputed facts,” not a motion for summary
adjudication or summary judgment].)  
 
(2.)  Defendant’s Motion for Summary Adjudication
 
Fourth Cause of Action for
Aiding and Abetting Interference with Prospective Economic Relations and Fifth
Cause of Action for Fraud:
 
            Defendant
moves for summary adjudication of these causes of action. Plaintiff does not
oppose the motion on this ground. (Opp. 2:4-9.)
 
            Accordingly,
the motion for summary adjudication of the Fourth and Fifth causes of action is
granted. 
 
Sixth Cause of Action for
Violation of Penal Code Section 496
 
            Defendant
moves for summary adjudication of the sixth cause of action for violation of
Penal Code section 496.
 
Section 496,
subdivision (a), sets forth the elements of the offense:
 
“Every
person who buys or receives any property that has been stolen or that has been
obtained in any manner constituting theft or extortion, knowing the property to
be so stolen or obtained, or who conceals, sells, withholds, or aids in
concealing, selling, or withholding any property from the owner, knowing the
property to be so stolen or obtained, shall be punished by imprisonment in a
county jail for not more than one year, or imprisonment pursuant to subdivision
(h) of Section 1170.”
 
            Theft
is broadly defined as “the unlawful taking of another's property” and “includes
larceny, embezzlement, larceny by trick, and theft by false pretenses.” (People
v. Shannon (1998) 66 Cal. App. 4th 649, 653.) In the civil context, a
plaintiff injured by such theft “may bring an action for three times the amount
of actual damages, if any, sustained by the plaintiff, costs of suit, and
reasonable attorney's fees.” (Pen. Code, § 496, subd. (c).)
 
            Here,
the First Amended Complaint alleges a violation of Penal Code section 496 based
on a theory of theft by false pretenses. (FAC ¶ 76 [citing Penal Code section
484, subdivision (a)].) 
 
As detailed above,
Defendants intended to defraud TruConnect. Defendants never intended to help
increase LifeLine support participation, and only told TruConnect they would do
so in order to take possession of 20,446 tablets, so that they could then sell
those same tablets on the open market (i.e., rather than provide those devices
to the specific consumers for whom they were intended). That Ground Floor is
now selling those devices under a pseudonym named “mr.hikmat642” is indicative
that it intended for TruConnect never to learn of those online sales. (FAC ¶
79.)
 
The FAC further
states:
 
Further, an actual
fraud was committed: rather than provide devices to qualifying low-income
consumers—as Defendants promised they would do—Ground Floor, Voloshin, and
Merrill made false promises in order to take possession of 20,446 tablets, and
have since been selling those same tablets on e-Bay.com (as opposed to
providing them to qualifying households). Ground Floor, Voloshin, and Merrill
also used false pretenses to perpetrate the fraud: they falsely represented
what they would do with TruConnect’s devices (i.e., supply them to qualifying
low-income households), solely so that they could sell those devices through
unapproved channels and make a profit.” (FAC ¶ 80.)
 
            The
allegations are important to adjudicate this claim because “pleadings play a
key role in a summary judgment motion” in that they “delimit the scope of the
issues’ ” and “frame ‘the outer measure of materiality in a summary judgment
proceeding.’” (Hutton v. Fidelity National Title Co. (2013) 213
Cal.App.4th 486, 493.) In other words, “the burden of a defendant moving for
summary judgment only requires that he or she negate plaintiff's theories of
liability as alleged in the complaint; that is, a moving party need not
refute liability on some theoretical possibility not included in the
pleadings.” (Ibid.)
 
Based on these
allegations in the operative pleading, Defendants moves for summary
adjudication of the sixth cause of action on the grounds that they did not
misrepresent or make any knowingly false representation to Plaintiff and,
consequently, Plaintiff cannot establish a claim for theft by false pretenses.
 
Specifically,
Defendant submits evidence showing Defendants have no affiliation with the
e-Bay seller known as “mr.hikmat642” who was selling Plaintiff’s devices
online. (DSS 9-10.) 
 
In opposition,
Plaintiff argues it had a good faith basis for its belief but essentially concedes
“it is plausible that Defendants do not have a direct association with the eBay
seller “mr.hikmat642” and that this seller may have independently acquired
TruConnect’s devices from other sources.” (PSS 9-10.) But Plaintiff submits no
evidence to dispute Defendants’ material fact. Plaintiff’s speculation is, for
purposes of this motion, worthless.
 
Without any
evidence of Defendant’s action to re-sell the devices, Plaintiff has nothing to
support its false pretenses claim and can only show – at most --
non-performance of the parties’ contract. 
 
Mere
nonperformance is insufficient to establish a lack of intent to perform. “Fraudulent
intent must often be established by circumstantial evidence[, and may be]
inferred from such circumstances as defendant's ... failure even to attempt
performance, or his [or her] assurances after it was clear he [or she] would
not perform. [Citation.]” (Tenzer v. Superscope, Inc. . (1985) 39 Cal.3d
18, 30.)
 
Specifically
relevant to the Penal Code section 496 claim, courts have held that, “not all
commercial or consumer disputes alleging that a defendant obtained money or
property through fraud, misrepresentation, or breach of a contractual promise
will amount to a theft.” (Siry Investment, L.P. v. Farkhondehpour (2022)
13 Cal.5th 333, 361.) “To prove theft, a plaintiff must establish criminal
intent on the part of the defendant beyond ‘mere proof of nonperformance or
actual falsity.’ ” (Id. [citing People v. Ashley (1954) 42 Cal.2d
246, 264.].) “This requirement prevents ordinary commercial defaults from being
transformed into a theft.” (Siry Investment, L.P. v. Farkhondehpour, supra,
13 Cal.5th at 361.)


In opposition, Plaintiff
attempts to recharacterize the underlying conduct to support a claim for
violation of Penal Code section 496. Plaintiff argues that “the grounds for
Plaintiff’s claims also include Defendants’ theft and conversion based on their
failure to return thousands of devices that belong to Plaintiff even though
Defendants have absolutely no right to hold those devices. Defendants have
admitted to wrongfully holding those devices as leverage for Ground Floor’s
Cross-Claim.” (PSS 8; see also Opp., p. 9.) 
 
In addition to not
being a clearly pled basis for this claim, this legal theory is not supported
by the law. As cited by Defendants, the court in Formic Ventures LLC v.
SomaLogic, Inc. (N.D. Cal., Sept. 15, 2023, No. 23-CV-02660-VC) 2023 WL
6037899, emphasized that the criminal intent requirement is not without
substance. Simply arguing that Defendants are “obviously” not in compliance
with the contract is inadequate. (Id. at *1.) This case is consistent
with Siry Investment, L.P. v. Farkhondehpour (2022) 13 Cal.5th 333.
 
            Defendants
have shifted their initial burden on the motion for summary adjudication.
Plaintiffs have failed to present any triable issue of material facts in
dispute. Defendants have negated the element of criminal intent contained
within Penal Code section 496. 
 
Conclusion
 
            Plaintiff’s motion
for summary adjudication is denied. Defendants’ motion for summary adjudication
is granted. 