 Case Number:  24STCV08594    Hearing Date:   December 30, 2024    Dept:  78  Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles Department 78 ¿ ANTHONY J SPARANO, Plaintiff(s), vs. CASEY'S CARS, INC., et al., Defendant(s). Case No.: 24STCV08594 Hearing Date: December 30, 2024   [TENTATIVE] ORDER TAKING DISCHARGE AND DISMISSAL OF SURETY OFF-CALENDAR  I. BACKGROUND Plaintiff Anthony J. Sparano (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against defendants Casey's Cars, Inc., Woodside Credit, LLC, Hudson Insurance Company (“Hudson”), Denali State Bank, and Does 1 through 75 related to the purchase of a 2007 Porsche 911 Carrera. Hudson filed a Cross-Complaint against cross-defendants Anthony J. Sparano, Luis R. Ocampo, Casey’s Cars, Inc., Shohab Khawaja, Lorraine Flores (as Roe 1), and Roes 2 through 100 for interpleader, breach of contract of indemnity, and reimbursement. Woodside Credit, LLC filed a Cross-Complaint against cross-defendants Casey’s Cars, Inc. and Roes 1 through 20. On October 2, 2024, Defendant/Cross-Complainant Hudson filed the instant motion for discharge and dismissal of surety under license bond. Hudson argues that it has deposited $50,000 of its Motor Vehicle Dealer License Bond No. 10034548 (“the Bond”) with the Court, and that it is now requesting to be released from its obligation as a surety and dismissed from the underlying suit because the bond payment fulfills Hudson's liability under Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §996.490(a). Hudson argues Luis R. Ocampo (LASC Case No. 23TRCV03037) and Lorraine Flores (LASC Case No. 24STCV13371) both also filed complaints against Hudson related to the Bond, and requests that these three bond claimants be restrained from further prosecuting their separate lawsuits. Lastly, Hudson requests costs and attorney fees disbursed from the Bond funds. On December 16, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition arguing that the matter was stayed pursuant to the Court’s November 8, 2024 Order. Plaintiff argues that he will file a substantive opposition to the motion once the stay is lifted and a new hearing date is set. Plaintiff requests the motion be taken off-calendar until completion of arbitration. On December 20, 2024, Hudson filed a reply arguing that it is unclear whether the Hon. Michelle Kim intended to apply the interpleader cause of action in Hudson’s Cross-Complaint as opposed to applying the stay only to the indemnity and reimbursement causes of action. Hudson requests that should the Court find the motion falls under the stay order, that the hearing on the motion be continued to the next Status Conference date of May 9, 2025.  II. DISCUSSION On November 8, 2024, Judge Kim granted Casey’s Cars, Inc.’s motion to compel arbitration and stay the action. As for the Cross-Complaints filed in this matter, the Court stated: “The causes of action in both cross-complaints are not severable because they are about indemnification and fault. Thus, the entire action is stayed pending arbitration.” (Min. Order, Nov. 8, 2024.) The Order did not expressly exempt any portion of Hudson’s Cross-Complaint from the stay. As such, this Court finds that the most reasonable interpretation of the stay order was for it to apply broadly. As such, the Court will not address the merits of Hudson’s motion at this time pursuant to the stay.  III. CONCLUSION On the Court’s own motion, Hudson Insurance Company’s Motion for Discharge and Dismissal of Surety Under License Bond is taken off-calendar.  Hudson Insurance Company may re-file the motion and reserve a new hearing date once the stay is lifted after completion of arbitration.  Moving Party is ordered to give notice.  DATED: December 27, 2024 __________________________ Hon. Tiana J. Murillo Judge of the Superior Court  PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: • Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. • If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the court at SMCDEPT78@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number. The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting. • Unless all parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument. You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue. • If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court. After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave. 