 Case Number:  23STCV02134    Hearing Date:   December 30, 2024    Dept:  78  Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles Department 78 ¿ CHARLES BERNAL, et al., Plaintiff(s), vs. CHRISTOPHER MAGGIORE, et al., Defendant(s). Case No.: 23STCV02134 Hearing Date: December 30, 2024   [TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING UNOPPOSED MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE FIRST AMENDED ANSWER  I. BACKGROUND Plaintiffs Charles Bernal and Artist Worldwide Agency, LLC (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed this action against defendants Christopher Maggiore, Artists Worldwide, Jamison Properties, Inc., Force Protection Agency, Inc. (“FPA”), Doe 1, and Does 2-25 premised upon various allegations, such as interference with business, breach of contract, assault, and battery.  On March 24, 2023, FPA filed its Answer to Plaintiffs’ complaint. On August 14, 2024, FPA filed the instant motion for leave to file a First Amended Answer (“FAA”) to Plaintiffs’ complaint. As of December 16, 2024, no opposition has been filed.  II. LEGAL STANDARD CCP § 473(a)(1) provides, in relevant part:¿ “The court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or demurrer.¿ The court may likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like terms allow an answer to be made after the time limited by this code.”¿“This discretion should be exercised liberally in favor of amendments, for judicial policy favors resolution of all disputed matters in the same lawsuit.” (Kittredge Sports Co. v. Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1047.) Under CRC Rule 3.1324(a), a motion to amend a pleading shall (1) include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended pleading, which must be serially numbered to differentiate it from previous pleadings or amendments; (2) state what allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and where, by page, paragraph and line number, the deleted allegations are located; and (3) state what allegations are proposed to be added to the previous pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the additional allegations are located. Under CRC Rule 3.1324(b), a separate declaration must accompany the motion and must specify (1) the effect of the amendment; (2) why the amendment is necessary and proper; (3) when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and (4) the reasons why the request for amendment was not made earlier. Even if a good amendment is proposed in proper form, a long, unwarranted and unexcused delay in presenting it may be a good reason for denial. In most cases, the factors for timeliness are: (1) lack of diligence in discovering the facts or in offering the amendment after knowledge of them; and (2) the effect of the delay on the adverse party. If the party seeking the amendment has been dilatory, and the delay has prejudiced the opposing party, the judge has discretion to deny leave to amend. (Hirsa v. Superior Court (1981) 118 Cal.App.3d 486, 490.) Prejudice exists where the amendment would require delaying the trial, resulting in loss of critical evidence, or added costs of preparation such as an increased burden of discovery. (Magpali v. Farmers Group, Inc. (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 471, 486-488.)  III. DISCUSSION FPA provides that it was previously defended by Cole Sheridan and that Ian Stewart of Wilson Elser substituted as FPA’s counsel of record on May 30, 2024. FPA argues its current counsel evaluated the evidence and Plaintiffs’ allegations and discovered that prior counsel failed to assert any affirmative defenses. FPA seeks to amend the Answer to assert affirmative defenses. The Court notes that FPA’s motion and declaration do not fully conform with the requirements set forth in CRC Rule 3.1324. The motion fails to state where the proposed additions are to be added. Additionally, the separate declaration fails to state when FPA’s current counsel discovered the issue of lack of affirmative defenses nor provides reasons as to why the request for amendment was not made earlier when FPA’s current counsel has been present since May 30, 2024.  Trial is currently set for January 13, 2025. The motion was initially set to be heard on December 5, 2024, but continued to December 30, 2024 due to the Court’s unavailability. (Min. Order, Nov. 22, 2024.) Notwithstanding the above-noted defects, no parties filed any opposition to the motion. A failure to oppose a motion may be deemed a consent to the granting of the motion. (CRC, Rule 8.54(c).) Since no parties identified any prejudice by allowing the filing of the FAA, the motion is granted.  IV. CONCLUSION Accordingly, FPA’s motion for leave to file a FAA is GRANTED. FPA is ordered to file a separate copy of the proposed FAA within five (5) days.  Moving Party is ordered to give notice.  DATED: December 27, 2024 __________________________ Hon. Tiana J. Murillo Judge of the Superior Court  PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: • Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. • If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the court at SMCDEPT78@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number. The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting. • Unless all parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument. You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue. • If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court. After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave. 