 Case Number:  24VECV01239    Hearing Date:   May 21, 2024    Dept:  W ARAM
ADZHIKOSYAN, et al. vs LOS ANGELES UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
 
DEFENDANT LOS
ANGELES UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT’S DEMURRER TO PLAINTIFF’S COMPLAINT FOR DAMAGES
WITH MOTION TO STRIKE
 
Date of Hearing:        May
21, 2024                                     Trial
Date:       None Set
Department:              W                                                        Case No.:        24VECV01239
 
Moving Party:            Defendant
Los Angeles Unified School District  
Responding Party:     No opposition. 
Meet and Confer:      Yes. (Tourkow Decl.) 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On March 21, 2024, Plaintiffs Aram
Adzhikosyan and Armen Adzhikosyan filed a motor vehicle negligence claim
against Defendant Los Angeles Unified School District. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Defendant Los
Angeles Unified School District’s Demurrer to the Complaint is SUSTAINED,
Motion to strike is GRANTED. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
Defendant Los Angeles Unified School
District demurs to the complaint of Plaintiffs Aram Adzhikosyan and Armen
Adzhikosyan on the grounds Plaintiffs’ cause of action against the district fail
to state facts sufficient to constitute a valid cause of action against
Defendants and fails to comply with the Government Tort Claims Act as no
Government Tort claim was filed within the appropriate time frame. Defendant
also moves to strike Plaintiff’s claim for punitive damages. 
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s demurrer to
the complaint is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
Fails to State Facts Sufficient 
 
Defendant LAUSD first demurs to the
complaint on the grounds the sole cause of action against LAUSD fails to state
facts that constitute a valid claim. 
 
Every owner of a motor vehicle is
liable and responsible for death or injury to person or property resulting from
a negligent or wrongful act or omission in the operation of the motor vehicle,
in the business of the owner or otherwise, by any person using or operating the
same with the permission, express or implied, of the owner.  (Veh. Code, §
17150.)  To establish a claim for Motor Vehicle Owner Liability, a
plaintiff must provide: (1) that the driver was negligent in operating the
vehicle; (2) that the defendant was an owner of the vehicle at the time of the
injury to the plaintiff; and (3) that the defendant by words or conduct gave
permission to the driver to use the vehicle.  (CACI
720.)   
 
Defendant argues Plaintiff’s complaint
is devoid of factual allegations, unintelligible, and, in some places,
factually incorrect. The court agrees. The complaint is completely void of any
factual allegations. For example, Section 10 of page 3 fails to mark any causes
of action against Defendants. Moreover, on page 4 of the form complaint, Plaintiffs
state the date of the incident as “to be determined.” 
 
Government Tort Claims
 
Defendant LAUSD demurs to the complaint
on the grounds Plaintiff failed to timely comply with the Government Tort
Claims Act. 
 
Prior to filing a suit against a public
entity, a plaintiff must comply with the Government Tort Claims Act, which
states, in part: “no suit for money or damages may be brought against a public
entity on a cause of action for which a claim is required to be presented . . .
until a written claim therefor has been presented to the public entity and has
been acted upon by the board, or has been deemed to have been rejected by the
board . . .”  (Gov. Code, § 945.4.)  A claim for death or injury to
person or personal property shall be presented not later than six months after
the accrual of the cause of action.  (Gov. Code, § 911.2(a).) 
“‘Local public entity’ includes a county, city, district, public authority,
public agency, and any other political subdivision or public corporation in the
State, but does not include the State.”  (Gov. Code, § 900.4.) 
 
Defendant argues the Complaint fails to
include any allegations that Plaintiff complied with the Government Tort Claims
Act. Moreover, LAUSD has no record of a government tort claim on file. (Tourkow
Decl. ¶4.) 
 
The court agrees. The complaint does
not allege facts demonstrating compliance with the pre-litigation governmental
claims requirements. “[S]ubmission of a claim to a public entity pursuant to
section 900 et seq. ‘is a condition precedent to a tort action and the failure
to present the claim bars the action’” (Phillips v. Desert Hospital Dist.
(1989) 49 Cal.3d 699, 708), and “failure to allege compliance constituted a
failure to state a cause of action and subjected a complaint to a demurrer”. (State
of California v. Superior Court (2004) 32 Cal.4th 1234, 1242-1243.) 
 
Accordingly, the demurrer to the
complaint is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND
 
Motion to Strike 
 
Defendant LAUSD moves to strike the
prayer for punitive damages on the grounds public entities are immune from
claims for damages relating to punitive damages or any damages imposed
primarily for the sake of example and by way of punishing the defendant. 
 
The court agrees. (See Govt. Code
§818.) Accordingly, Defendant’s motion to strike is GRANTED WITHOUT LEAVE TO
AMEND. 