  Case Number:  22SMCV01320    Hearing Date:   November 9, 2023    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Wilborn, v. Compoginis,
et al.
CASE NO.:                22SMCV01320
MOTION:                  Motion
to Compel Answers at Deposition 
HEARING DATE:   11/9/2023

 
Legal
Standard
 
Service of a proper deposition
notice obligates a party or “party-affiliated” witness (officer, director,
managing agent or employee of party) to attend and testify, as well as produce
any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing for
inspection and copying. (CCP § 2025.280(a).) If, after service of a deposition
notice, a party deponent fails to appear, testify, or produce documents or
tangible things for inspection without having served a valid objection under
CCP § 2025.410, the deposing party may move for an order compelling attendance,
testimony, and production. (CCP § 2025.450(a).) The motion must be accompanied
by a meet and confer declaration. (CCP § 2025.450(b).) 
 
Deponents are to answer deposition
questions unless they pertain to privileged matters, or improper matters
revealing a motive to harass or annoy, and “witnesses are expected to endure an
occasional irrelevant question without disrupting the deposition process.” (Stewart
v. Colonial Western Agency, Inc. (2001) 87 Cal.App.4th 1006, 1015.) An objecting deponent
bears the burden of justifying their refusal to answer on a motion to compel
answers. (Weil & Brown (2023) Cal. Prac. Guide Civ. Pro. Before Trial Ch.
8E-15.)
 
The statute requires a
“certified copy” of “any parts” of the transcript lodged. (CCP § 2025.480(h).)
The moving party must “lodge” with the court, at least 5 days before the
hearing on the motion, a certified copy of whatever parts of the transcript are
relevant to the motion.
 
The motion to compel must be
“made no later than 60 days after the completion of the record of the
deposition.” (CCP § 2025.480(b).) This time limit also applies to motions based
on a deposition subpoena for production of documents or a business records subpoena.
The 60-day time limit runs from the date objections are served because the
deposition record is then complete. (Rutledge v. Hewlett-Packard Co.
(2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 1164, 1192.) 
 
 
Analysis
 

Plaintiff Cynthia Wilborn moves to
compel Defendant John M. Compoginis, M.D. to answer certain deposition
questions and all questions reasonably related to the cited questions.
 
At Defendant’s deposition,
Plaintiff’s counsel asked Defendant questions concerning his residence,
potential witnesses, and his medical knowledge and training prior to and at the
time Defendant was treating Plaintiff. Defendant’s counsel objected and instructed
Defendant not to answer. The Court will address each question in turn.
 
Question nos. 1 and 2 - What is your residential address
& Who do you live with? 
 
After asking for Defendant’s name,
Plaintiff’s second question for Defendant was “And can you state your
residential address?” (Compogonis Depo. at 8:6.) Defense counsel objected and
instructed not to answer, stating that Defendant will be “made available by
counsel at all times.” (Id. at 8:7-9.) 
 
Immediately following this
exchange, Plaintiff’s counsel asks “Q Does anyone, other than yourself, reside
with you at your home address. A Yes. Q And who else resides with you? A My fiancé.”
(Id. at 8:13-20.) Defense counsel then objected on the grounds that this line
of questioning would not lead to the discovery of admissible evidence and
instructed his client not to answer any further questions on the topic. (Id. at
9.) 
 
Defendant argues that Plaintiff has
made no showing whatsoever that her need for Dr. Compogonis’s residential
address outweighs his right to privacy. However, Plaintiff has no such burden
on this motion. Defendant has the burden to justify his relevancy and privacy objections.
More specifically, Defendant must show that this question pertains to a
privileged matter or that it was an improper question intended to harass or
annoy and that goes beyond what a witness may be reasonably expected to endure
in the deposition process. (See Stewart, supra, 87 Cal.App.4th 1006,
1015.) Defendant’s relevancy and privacy objections at deposition
cannot justify a refusal to respond. (Id., at 1014.) 
 
While both questions only have
limited direct relevancy, the questions still appear to be reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence under California’s
liberal discovery policies. Plaintiff’s questions seek preliminary information
concerning Defendant himself and potential witnesses relevant to this action.
Plaintiff has a right to question Defendant about his residence and other
potential witnesses which may exist. Even if the answers would ultimately be irrelevant,
the questions do not appear to be calculated to harass or annoy. Deponents
should expect to be asked for personal information. Thus, these questions
asking preliminary personal information would be within the boundary of what
witnesses are expected to endure at deposition. Further, Defendant provides no
argument or evidence that could show that these basic questions were harassing.

 
Notably, as to the second set of
questions, Defendant already responded to all questions posed. However, Defense
counsel cut off all further questions from being asked. This refusal to answer
any further questions on this topic unreasonably precluded Plaintiff from
inquiring further on this line of questioning. Plaintiff will be allowed an
opportunity to ask any follow up questions, if any. 
 
Therefore, the questions should have been
answered despite any privacy or relevancy objection. Accordingly, the Court
will grant the motion as to questions nos. 1-2.
 
Question no. 3 – Standard of Care
 
Plaintiff’s counsel asked Defendant
at deposition the following questions regarding his understanding of the
standard of care: “Q Doctor, in your experience as a specialist in plastic
surgery, what would you say the standard of care is for plastic surgeons when
dealing with a postoperative patient that is evidencing symptoms of infection?”
(Compogonis Depo. at 53:15-19.) Defendant objected and instructed not to answer
on the grounds that he was not yet a designated expert and did not have to
answer questions related to the standard of care. Plaintiff’s counsel then
asked: “Q Doctor, are you aware of what the standard of care is for plastic
surgeons?” (Id. at 54:8-9.) Plaintiff’s counsel also reiterated his initial
question as follows: “Q The question was, Doctor, are you aware of what the
standard of care is for plastic surgeons in dealing with postoperative patients
that are evidencing symptoms of infection?” Defense counsel lodged objections on
the same grounds, that these questions improperly call for after-the-fact expert
testimony. 
 
In the medical malpractice context,
a defendant-physician may provide expert testimony which establishes Plaintiff's
prima facie case. (County of Los Angeles v. Superior Court (1990) 224
Cal.App.3d 1446, 1455.) This is to be distinguished from the present expert
opinions of a party physician concerning the care given. Such testimony is “irrelevant
unless the physician is designated as an expert witness [under the procedure
provided by CCP § 2034.]” (Id.) For example: 
 
“[i]n Scarano v. Schnoor
(1958) 158 Cal.App.2d 612, a medical malpractice case involving eye surgery,
the court held that the trial court properly sustained objections to questions
asked of a defendant physician as to whether he would perform the same surgery
on plaintiff's other eye on the basis of what he knew immediately after the
operation. ‘The circumstances to be considered in deciding defendant's
negligence “are those which the evidence shows may reasonably be supposed to
have been known to such person and to have influenced his mind and actions at
the time.” Negligence is not to be determined by hindsight nor by what a party
subsequently learns.’ ” 
 
(County of LA, supra, 224 Cal.App.3d at 1455,
internal citations omitted.)
 
Plaintiff argues that these
questions are permissible because they go to Defendant’s training, knowledge
and how that knowledge affected the treatment of Plaintiff. Indeed, Defendant’s
knowledge and how that knowledge informed his treatment of Plaintiff would be an
appropriate topic for deposition. Questions regarding Defendant’s medical
training and knowledge at the time of the procedure would certainly be
calculated to lead to the discovery of relevant information. What is not
allowed, however, are questions that call for after-the-fact expert opinions. As
phrased, the above questions do not pertain to Defendant’s knowledge at the
time of the procedure or any training he received before the
procedure. The questions do not directly relate to Defendant’s specific
treatment of Plaintiff. Instead, the questions request Defendant’s
current, after-the-fact knowledge of the standard of care, and his expert
opinion on a hypothetical scenario involving postoperative care. As noted,
Defendant has not designated himself as an expert, and is not yet required to
designate experts. Therefore, defense counsel appropriately objected to the
questions regarding his current awareness of the standard of care of plastic
surgeons and his general opinions on the standard of care. 
 
Conclusion
 
Accordingly, the motion is GRANTED
as to question nos. 1-2, and DENIED as to question no. 3. The parties have not
noticed any sanctions. While Plaintiff requests sanctions at the end of her
memorandum, Plaintiff did not notice, state any amount of sanctions, or provide
any evidence showing her reasonably incurred attorneys’ fees. Thus, the Court would
not grant any sanctions.
 