  Case Number:  23PSCV02302    Hearing Date:   January 18, 2024    Dept:  K Defendant Christian
Herrera’s Demurrer to the Complaint is OVERRULED, in part (i.e., as to the
third cause of action) and SUSTAINED with leave to amend within 20 days, in
part (i.e., as to the fourth cause of action).
Background[1]  
Plaintiff Jackeline Perez (“Plaintiff”)
alleges as follows:
Plaintiff is a competitive bodybuilder.
On July 8, 2023, Plaintiff met Christian Herrera (“Herrera”), a nutrition and
posing coach, for a scheduled consultation and posing session at Self Made
Training Facility in West Covina. Herrera touched Plaintiff inappropriately during
the posing session.
On July 28, 2023, Plaintiff filed a complaint, asserting
causes of action against Herrera and Does 1-50 for:
1.                 
Sexual Assault & Battery (Civ. Code § 1708.5)
2.                 
Assault and Battery
3.                 
Sexual Assault and Intimidation by Violence (Civ. Code
§ 51.7 [The Ralph Civil Rights Act of 1976])
4.                 
Interference with Rights by Threat, Intimidation, or
Coercion (Civ. Code § 52.1 [The Bane Civil Rights Act])

A Case Management Conference is set for January 18, 2024.
Legal Standard
A
demurrer may be made on the grounds that the pleading, inter alia, does not
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.10, subd. (e).)
When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in
context. In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of
the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A
demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic
matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the
pleading or are judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984)
153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905 [citations omitted].) At the pleading stage, a
plaintiff need only allege ultimate facts sufficient to apprise the defendant
of the factual basis for the claim against him. (Semole v. Sansoucie (1972) 28 Cal. App. 3d 714, 721.) “[A] demurrer
does not, however, admit contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law
alleged in the pleading, or the construction placed on an instrument pleaded
therein, or facts impossible in law, or allegations contrary to facts of which
a court may take judicial knowledge.” (S.
Shore Land Co. v. Petersen (1964) 226 Cal.App.2d 725, 732 [citations
omitted].)
Discussion[2]
Herrera demurs, pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure § 430.10, subdivision (e), to the third and fourth
causes of action in Plaintiff’s complaint, on the basis that they both fail to
state facts sufficient to constitute causes of action.
Third Cause of Action (i.e., Sexual Assault and
Intimidation by Violence (Civ. Code § 51.7 [The Ralph Civil Rights Act of
1976]))
The elements of a cause of action for violations of the Ralph Civil
Rights Act (Civil Code § 52.1) are:
(1)       Defendant
threatened to commit, or committed, violent acts against plaintiff or his/her
property; 
(2)       A
motivating reason for defendant’s conduct was his/her perception of plaintiff’s
characteristic [i.e., race/color/religion/ancestry/national origin/political
affiliation/sex/sexual orientation/age/disability/citizenship/primary
language/immigration status/position in a labor dispute/[other actionable characteristic]; 
(3)       Plaintiff
was harmed; and that 
(4)       Defendant’s
conduct was a substantial factor in causing plaintiff harm. 
(Austin B. v. Escondido Union
School Dist. (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 860, 880-881; CACI Nos. 3063 and 3064.)
Herrera focuses on the first element only, claiming that
“[t]he complaint pleads no facts supporting any violence or intimidation by
threat of violence by Defendant.” (Dem., 4:13-14). Plaintiff, however, has
alleged that, when Plaintiff and Herrera were alone together during a posing
session, Herrera came close to Plaintiff suddenly and without warning or
permission, and began pinching and grabbing across Plaintiff’s stomach and
torso, that Herrera moved his hands lower across Plaintiff’s torso and rolled
down Plaintiff’s bikini bottom, and that Herrera pinched Plaintiff’s lower
stomach and rubbed his fingers across Plaintiff’s groin and vagina. (Complaint,
¶¶ 14 and 15).
Plaintiff has also alleged that after she moved her hands to
block Herrera’s hands from continuing to touch her, pulled her bikini bottom
back up and warned Herrera to stop, Herrea continued to pinch Plaintiff’s body,
including her legs and hip, without Plaintiff’s consent. (Id., ¶ 16).
Plaintiff has alleged that Herrera instructed Plaintiff to change her pose
position, which Plaintiff did, and that Herrera, without warning,
consent, or permission, groped and fondled Plaintiff’s vagina again while
standing behind her, this time placing both of his hands between Plaintiff’s
legs. (Id., ¶ 18). Plaintiff has alleged that Herrera placed both of his
hands on Plaintiff’s breasts. (Id., ¶ 19).
Plaintiff’s allegations of a purported sexual assault
constitute “violence or intimidation by threat of violence” sufficient to
withstand demurrer. Herrera’s demurrer to the third cause of action is
overruled.
Fourth Cause of Action (i.e., Interference with Rights by
Threat, Intimidation, or Coercion (Civ. Code § 52.1 [The Bane Civil Rights
Act]))
The elements of a cause of action for violations of the Bane Civil Rights
Act are:
(1)       Defendant’s
actual, or attempted, threats, intimidation, or coercion; 
(2)       Interference
with plaintiff’s exercise or enjoyment of a constitutional or statutory right; 
(3)       By
threatening, or committing, violent acts; 
(4)       Plaintiff
reasonably believed that defendant would commit violence against plaintiff or
plaintiff’s property if plaintiff exercised a constitutional or statutory
right; 
(5)       Defendant
injured plaintiff or plaintiff’s property to prevent plaintiff from exercising
a constitutional or statutory right, or to retaliate against plaintiff’s
exercise of such rights; 
(6)       Plaintiff
was harmed; and 
(7)       Defendant’s
conduct was a substantial factor in causing that harm. 
(Austin B. v. Escondido Union
School Dist., supra, 149 Cal.App.4th at 882; CACI No. 3066.)
Herrera contends
that Plaintiff has failed to delineate the constitutional right alleged to be
violated. The court agrees. However, it appears that Plaintiff may be able to
remedy the insufficiency if leave is granted.
Herrera’s demurrer to the third cause of action is
sustained, with 20 days’ leave to amend.


