  Case Number:  24CHCV00371    Hearing Date:   December 11, 2024    Dept:  F51 DEMURRER WITH  MOTION TO STRIKE  Los Angeles Superior Court Case  # 24CHCV00371    Demurrer with Motion to  Strike Filed: 8/12/24   MOVING PARTY: Defendant Select Portfolio Servicing,  Inc. (“Defendant”) RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff  Arthur Burleigh (“Plaintiff”) NOTICE: OK   RELIEF REQUESTED: Defendant  demurs to Plaintiff’s entire first amended complaint (“FAC”). Defendant also  seeks an order striking various provisions from Plaintiff’s FAC.   TENTATIVE RULING: The demurrer is sustained as to  Plaintiff’s third cause of action and overruled as to the remainder. The motion  to strike is granted as to Plaintiff’s prayer for punitive damages and denied  as to the remainder. Plaintiff is granted 30 days leave to amend. Defendant’s  request for judicial notice is granted.   BACKGROUND    This is a  wrongful foreclosure action wherein Plaintiff, who owns and resides at certain  real property located at 22326 Heritage Pass Place, Chatsworth, CA 91311 (the  “Subject Property”), brings various causes of action against Defendant based on  Defendant’s alleged violations of the California Homeowner Bill of Rights  (“HBOR”). (Civ. Code, § 2923.4 et seq.)     On 2/6/24, Plaintiff filed his  complaint against Defendant, alleging the following causes of action: (1)  Violation of Civil Code Section 2923.7; (2) Breach of the Implied Covenant of  Good Faith and Fair Dealing; (3) Negligent Misrepresentation; and (4) Unfair  Business Practices. On 7/9/24, Plaintiff filed his FAC, alleging the same  causes of action.   On 8/12/24, Defendant filed the  instant demurrer and motion to strike. On 11/26/24, Plaintiff filed his  oppositions thereto. On 12/4/24, Defendant filed its replies.   DEMURRER   As a general matter, a party may respond to a pleading  against it by demurrer on the basis of any single or combination of eight  enumerated grounds, including that “there is a defect or misjoinder of parties,”  or “the pleading does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of  action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subds. (d) and (e).) In a demurrer  proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via  proper judicial notice.¿(Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116  Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)¿   “A demurrer tests the pleading alone, and not the evidence  or facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants, Inc. Servs.  (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the court assumes the truth of the  complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Ibid.) The  only issue a demurrer is concerned with is whether the complaint, as it stands,  states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th  740, 747.)    Here,  Defendant¿demurs to Plaintiff’s entire FAC on the bases that Plaintiff fails to  join all necessary parties and fails¿to allege facts sufficient to¿state¿any of  the causes of action in the FAC.   A.     Meet-and-Confer    Here, Defendant’s counsel declares that on 8/5/24, 8/6/24,  and 8/7/24, he telephoned Plaintiff’s counsel in an attempt to discuss the  issues raised in the instant demurrer and motion to strike but received no  response. (Decl. of Steven M. Dailey ¶¶ 2–5.) The Court finds that  therefore, counsel has satisfied the preliminary meet and confer requirements  of Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41, subdivision (a).   B.      Joinder of Parties   “A person  who is subject to service of process and whose joinder will not deprive the  court of jurisdiction over the subject matter of the action shall be joined as  a party in the action if (1) in his absence complete relief cannot be accorded  among those already parties or (2) he claims an interest relating to the  subject of the action and is so situated that the disposition of the action in  his absence may (i) as a practical matter impair or impede his ability to  protect that interest or (ii) leave any of the persons already parties subject  to a substantial risk of incurring double, multiple, or otherwise inconsistent  obligations by reason of his claimed interest. If he has not been so joined,  the court shall order that he be made a party.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 389.)   As a  preliminary matter, Defendant argues that “in this case, Plaintiff and Marlyn  S. Burleigh are the co-owners of the Property and coborrowers on the loan. … As  the outcome of this action affects the Property and the rights and obligations  on the loan, failure to join Marlyn S. Burleigh subjects the pleading to  special demurrer.” (Dem. 12:17–20, citing Ex. 1 to RJN.)   Plaintiff  argues in opposition that “in the case at hand, Marlyn Burleigh is not an  indispensable party. Plaintiff is not seeking a declaration of property rights  through this action. Rather, he seeks injunctive relief to preserve the status  quo related to the property at issue. Therefore, even without Ms. Burleigh’s  joinder, complete relief pertaining to the status of the property can be  afforded notwithstanding her absence.” (Pl.’s Opp. 5:24–27.)   In reply,  Defendant maintains that “co-borrowers on underlying loans are necessary and  indispensable, because their interests are coterminous with the  plaintiff-borrower, and in their absence there is a risk of inconsistent  obligations being incurred.” (Def.’s Reply 2:21–23.) Therefore, “as the outcome  of this action affects the Property and the rights and obligations on the loan,  failure to join Marlyn S. Burleigh subjects the pleading to special demurrer.”  (Id. at 3:2–4.)   While the  Court agrees with Defendant that Plaintiff’s wife, Marlyn S. Burleigh, has a  direct interest in the subject matter of the instant action, and the Court’s  ruling on the instant action would directly affect her interests therein, the  Court also notes that “it is not necessary in California to name both spouses  in the action in order to bind the community estate.” (Reynolds and Reynolds  Co. v. Universal Forms, Labels & Systems, Inc. (C.D. Cal. 1997) 965  F.Supp. 1392, 1396; see also Code Civ. Proc. § 370 [“A married person … may  sue without his or her spouse being joined as a party in all actions.”].) Here,  as the absent party at issue is Plaintiff’s wife, the Court finds it  permissible, but not necessary, to join Mrs. Burleigh in this action. (Reynolds,  965 F.Supp. at 1396–1397.)   Based on  the foregoing, the Court overrules the demurrer on this basis.   C.     Violation of Civil Code Section 2923.7   Plaintiff’s first cause of action  alleges that Defendant failed to assign a “single point of contact” to Plaintiff  in violation of Civil Code section 2923.7. Under this portion of the HBOR,  “when a borrower requests a foreclosure prevention alternative, the mortgage  servicer shall promptly establish a single point of contact and provide to the  borrower one or more direct means of communication with the single point of  contact.” (Civ. Code § 2923.7, subd. (a).) “For purposes of this section,  ‘single point of contact’ means an individual or team of personnel each of whom  has the ability and authority to perform the responsibilities described” below.  (Id. at subd. (e).)   “The single point of contact shall  be responsible for doing all of the following: (1) Communicating the process by  which a borrower may apply for an available foreclosure prevention alternative  and the deadline for any required submissions to be considered for these  options; (2) Coordinating receipt of all documents associated with available  foreclosure prevention alternatives and notifying the borrower of any missing  documents necessary to complete the application; (3) Having access to current  information and personnel sufficient to timely, accurately, and adequately  inform the borrower of the current status of the foreclosure prevention  alternative; (4) Ensuring that a borrower is considered for all foreclosure  prevention alternatives offered by, or through, the mortgage servicer, if any;  and (5) Having access to individuals with the ability and authority to stop  foreclosure proceedings when necessary.” (Id. at subd. (b).)   Here, Plaintiff alleges that “Defendant  failed to provide Plaintiff with a direct means of communication with  Plaintiff’s assigned single point of contact,” and “Defendant’s representatives  failed to adequately advise Plaintiff of the application process and deadlines  for any required submissions to be reviewed for a foreclosure prevention  alternative” in violation of Civil Code section 2923.7. (FAC ¶¶ 47–49.)   Defendant argues that “Plaintiff  fails to allege this statutory cause of action with particularity.” (Dem. 13:18.)  Specifically, Defendant argues that “Plaintiff’s general claim that  ‘representatives failed to carry out the duties assigned to a single point of  contact,’ and he was not ‘advise[d]…of the application process and deadlines,’  is unsupported by facts.” (Dem. 13:25–27, citing FAC ¶ 47.) In opposition,  Plaintiff argues that his FAC “specifically alleges that during his calls with  SPS, the representatives he spoke to failed to keep Plaintiff apprised of  critical deadlines, stating instead that Plaintiff simply needed to get the  documents in as soon as possible. Yet, Defendant then closed the evaluation for  a purported failure to meet deadlines.” (Pl.’s Opp. 7:21–24.)   Defendant further argues that “Civil  Code section 2924.12 only provides liability for a violation of section 2923.7  where there is a ‘material violation.’” (Dem. 14:23–24, citing Civ. Code §  2924.12 [“If a trustee’s deed upon sale has not been recorded, a borrower may  bring an action for injunctive relief to enjoin a material violation of Section  … 2923.7.”].) “A violation is material if it affected the borrower’s loan  obligations, disrupted the loan-modification process, or otherwise harmed the  borrower in connection with the borrower’s efforts to avoid foreclosure.” (Billesbach  v. Specialized Loan Servicing LLC (2021) 63 Cal.App.5th 830, 845.)   Here, Defendant argues that “Plaintiff  has not alleged any facts to suggest that the loan obligation has been  affected, or any other ‘meaningful harm’ due to the alleged violation.” (Dem.  16:4–5.) In opposition, Plaintiff argues that he “alleges that Defendant’s  representatives essentially failed to inform him that by entering into the  Covid forbearance plan and extending the plan, he was putting his loan into a  position from which he could never recover and that his home is now at risk of  foreclosure. This is certainly a material violation that affected Plaintiff’s  ongoing review.” (Pl.’s Opp. 9:6–9.) On reply, Defendant maintains that “Plaintiff  has not alleged any facts to suggest that the loan obligation has been  affected, or any other “meaningful harm” due to any alleged violation of  section 2923.7.” (Def.’s Reply 4:17–18.)   Based on the foregoing, the Court  finds that at the demurrer stage, Plaintiff has adequately alleged that  Defendant’s representatives violated Civil Code section 2923.7 by repeatedly  failing to adequately advise Plaintiff of foreclosure prevention alternatives.  (FAC ¶¶ 49–50.) Plaintiff further alleges that this lack of assistance “amounts  to a material violation of Civil Code § 2923.7” because Defendant then began to  foreclose on the subject property. (Id. at ¶ 54.) Accordingly, the Court  finds that Plaintiff has alleged facts sufficient to constitute a cause of  action for a material Violation of Civil Code section 2923.7, and the demurrer  against Plaintiff’s first cause of action is therefore overruled.   D.     Breach of Implied Covenant of Good Faith and  Fair Dealing   Plaintiff’s second cause of action  alleges against Defendant a breach of the implied covenant of good faith and  fair dealing. Every contract contains an implied covenant of good faith and  fair dealing that neither party will do anything to interfere with the other  party’s right to receive the benefits of the agreement. (Howard v. American  Nat’l Fire Ins. Co. (2010) 187 Cal.App.4th 498, 528.) The precise nature  and extent of the duty depends on the nature and purpose of the underlying  contract and the parties’ legitimate expectations arising from the contract. (Ibid.)  “A breach of the implied covenant of good faith is a breach of the contract …  and breach of a specific provision of the contract is not ... necessary to a  claim for breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing.” (Thrifty  Payless, Inc. v. The Americana at Brand, LLC (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 1230,  1244.)   Here, Plaintiff alleges that he “was  in a contractual relationship with Defendant SPS under the Deed of Trust and  servicing contract for the mortgage loan. … As such, Defendant SPS had a  contractual obligation to refrain from hindering Plaintiff’s performance under  the contract.” (FAC ¶¶ 59–60.) Plaintiff alleges that “Defendant SPS, induced  Plaintiff to breach the contract and then utilized that very breach as the  event of default upon which it is basing the ongoing foreclosure.” (Id. at  ¶ 64.)   Defendant argues that “it is  unclear what written or oral contractual provision or covenant Plaintiff claims  was breached.” (Dem. 17:1–2.) Defendant further argues that Plaintiff “has not  alleged the material terms of any written forbearance agreement. The facts are  simply lacking as to the details to the allegedly breached contract or  covenant.” (Id. at 17:20–22.) Additionally, Defendant argues that  Plaintiff fails to allege Defendant’s breach and Plaintiff’s own performance  under the purported agreement.   In opposition, Plaintiff argues  that the parties’ contractual duties are outlined in the Deed of Trust,  attached as Exhibit 1 to Defendant’s Request for Judicial Notice. Specifically,  Plaintiff points to his own “duty to ‘pay when due’ the principal and interest  owed on the loan.” (Pl.’s Opp. 11:8–9, citing Ex. 1 to Def.’s RJN, p. 4 [“Borrower  shall pay when due the principal of, and interest on, the debt evidenced by the  Note and any prepayment charges and late charges due under the Note.”].)  Plaintiff further argues that he has adequately alleged that “Defendant’s  actions induced Plaintiff into default and interfered with Plaintiff’s  obligations under the loan. (Id. at 11:10–12, citing FAC ¶¶ 62–64.)   Based on the foregoing, the Court  finds that Plaintiff has alleged facts sufficient to constitute a cause of  action for Breach of the Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing.  Accordingly, the demurrer against Plaintiff’s second cause of action is  overruled.   E.      Negligent Misrepresentation   Plaintiff’s third cause of action  alleges Negligent Misrepresentation against Defendant. The elements of a cause  of action for negligent misrepresentation include “[m]isrepresentation of a  past or existing material fact, without reasonable ground for believing it to  be true, and with intent to induce another’s reliance on the fact  misrepresented; ignorance of the truth and justifiable reliance on the  misrepresentation by the party to whom it was directed; and resulting damage.”  (Hydro-Mill Co., Inc. v. Hayward, Tilton & Rolapp Ins. Associates, Inc. (2004)  115 Cal.App.4th 1145, 1154 [quotations omitted].)   Fairness requires that allegations  of fraud be pled “with particularity” so that the court can weed out  nonmeritorious actions before a defendant is required to answer. (Small v.  Fritz Companies, Inc. (2003) 30 Cal.4th 167, 184.) The particularity  requirement necessitates pleading facts that “show how, when, where, to whom,  and by what means the representations were tendered.” (Lazar v. Superior  Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.)   Here, Defendant argues that  Plaintiff “fails to allege specific or particular facts about the purported  misrepresentation by SPS.” (Dem. 19:3–4.) Specifically, Defendant asserts that  “Plaintiff does not allege any specific facts as to the speaker, the timing,  let alone what was actually represented about the terms of the forbearance  agreement and potential modification at the end.” (Id. at 19:7–9.)   Defendant further argues that “the  claim for negligent misrepresentation fails as it is not based on a past or  existing fact.” (Id. at 19:11–12, citing Richard P. v. Vista Del Mar  Child Care Service (1980) 106 Cal.App.3d 860, 865 [“Fraudulent  representations, to constitute ground for relief, must be as to existing and  material facts; predictions of future events are ordinarily considered  non-actionable expressions of opinion.’].) Additionally, Defendant argues that  “Plaintiff did not reasonably rely on the alleged communication that he could  possibly obtain a modification following participation in the forbearance plan,”  and that “any injury to Plaintiff stems from his own default under the Loan.” (Id.  at 20:3–5, 20:19.)   In opposition, Plaintiff argues  that he has alleged a misrepresentation based on existing facts “about the  structure of the forbearance plan at issue: if the accrued payments cannot be  immediately paid, the loan will be modified. This is not a representation about  a future event. It is a representation about the parameters of the forbearance  program that the parties to the conversation were discussing.” (Pl.’s Opp. 12:21–24,  citing FAC ¶ 69.) Plaintiff further argues that he has alleged the reliance and  damages elements of this cause of action. (Id. at 12:28, 13:3–6, citing  FAC ¶¶ 73–74.) “To the extent that Plaintiff must plead the speaker and timing,  Plaintiff requests leave to amend.” (Id. at 12:25–26.)   Based on the foregoing, the Court  finds that finds that while Plaintiff has alleged facts to support each element  of a cause of action for Negligent Misrepresentation, he has failed to allege  those facts with sufficient particularity to meet the heightened pleading  standard for a fraud cause of action. Specifically, the Court finds that  Plaintiff has not alleged facts to “show how, when, where, to whom, and by what  means the representations were tendered.” (Lazar, 12 Cal.4th at  645.) Accordingly, the demurrer is sustained against Plaintiff’s third cause of  action.   F.      Unfair Business Practices   Plaintiff’s  fourth cause of action alleges Unfair Business Practices against Defendant. To  succeed on a claim for unfair business practices in violation of the Unfair  Competition Law (“UCL”), a plaintiff must establish that the defendant was  engaged in an “unlawful, unfair or fraudulent business act or practice and  unfair, deceptive, untrue or misleading advertising” and certain specific acts.  (Bus. & Prof. Code, § 17200.) “In essence, an action based on Business and  Professions Code section 17200 to redress an unlawful business practice  ‘borrows’ violations of other laws and treats these violations, when committed  pursuant to business activity, as unlawful practices independently actionable  under section 17200 et seq. and subject to the distinct remedies provided  thereunder.” (People ex rel. Bill Lockyer v. Fremont Life Ins. Co.  (2002) 104 Cal.App.4th 508, 515.) A plaintiff alleging an “unfair” business  practice under the UCL must show that the defendant’s conduct is “tethered to  an underlying constitutional, statutory or regulatory provision, or that it  threatens an incipient violation of an antitrust law, or violates the policy or  spirit of an antitrust law.” (Graham v. Bank of America, N.A. (2014) 226  Cal.App.4th 594, 613.) “‘Fraudulent,’ as used in the statute, does not refer to  the common law tort of fraud but only requires a showing members of the public  ‘are likely to be deceived.’” (Olsen v. Breeze, Inc. (1996) 48  Cal.App.4th 608, 618.) In order to have standing under the UCL, a party must  “(1) establish a loss or deprivation of money or property sufficient to qualify  as injury in fact, i.e., economic injury, and (2) show that that economic  injury was the result of, i.e., caused by, the unfair business practice or  false advertising that is the gravamen of the claim.” (Kwikset Corp. v.  Superior Court (2011) 51 Cal.4th 310, 322.)   Here,  Plaintiff alleges that Defendant violated the UCL under the “unlawful” and “unfair”  prongs. (FAC ¶¶ 78–79.) Specifically, Plaintiff’s allegations that Defendant  engaged in unlawful business practices derive from his first and third causes  of action. (Ibid.) Plaintiff further alleges that Defendant engaged in  “unfair” business practices by violating “California’s clear policies (1) of  fostering more cooperative relations between lenders and borrowers who are at  risk of foreclosure, so that homes will not be lost a loan and (2) that a loan  modification be offered if such a modification or plan is consistent with its  authority.” (FAC ¶ 81.)    Defendant  argues that “Plaintiff’s unfair business practices claim must fail with the  other claims upon which it is based.” (Dem. 21:24–25.) Defendant further argues  that Plaintiff lacks the requisite standing to bring a UCL claim because there  is no causal link between the pending foreclosure and Defendant’s allegedly  unlawful acts. (Dem. 22:12–23 [“Plaintiff obtained the loan, and admits  defaulting. Absent lost money or property caused by SPS, this claim must fail.”].)  In Jenkins v. JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (2013) 216 Cal.App.4th 497, the  Court of Appeal found that a plaintiff in a wrongful foreclosure action fails  to satisfy the causation prong of the Unfair Competition Law (UCL) if he or she  would have suffered the same harm whether or not a defendant complied with the  law. (216 Cal.App.4th at 522–523, citing Kwikset, 51 Cal.4th 310.)   As the  Court finds that Plaintiff has alleged facts sufficient to constitute a  violation of Civil Code section 2924.7, Plaintiff has sufficiently shown that  Defendant violated the “unlawful” prong of the UCL. The Court also agrees with  Plaintiff that he has sufficiently alleged that Defendant engaged in “unfair”  business practices by violating “California’s clear policies (1) of fostering  more cooperative relations between lenders and borrowers who are at risk of  foreclosure, so that homes will not be lost a loan and (2) that a loan  modification be offered if such a modification or plan is consistent with its  authority.” (FAC ¶ 81.)   The Court  finds the Jenkins holding on causation of economic injury to be  distinguishable here, as the Jenkins plaintiff’s loan “default occurred prior  to the six unlawful or unfair acts she alleges as the basis of her UCL action.”  (216 Cal.App.4th at 523.) Here, in contrast, Plaintiff alleges that Defendant’s  unlawful conduct occurred prior to Plaintiff’s default. (See, e.g.,  FAC ¶¶ 23–25, 64, 69–71.) Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that  Plaintiff has alleged facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action for  Unfair Business Practices under the UCL. Accordingly, the demurrer against  Plaintiff’s fourth cause of action is overruled.   MOTION TO STRIKE   The  court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it  deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any  pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a).) The court may also strike all or  any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this  state, a court rule, or an order of the court. (Id., § 436, subd. (b).) The grounds for moving  to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.  (Id., § 437.)     A.     Punitive  Damages   Punitive damages may be recovered  upon a proper showing of malice, fraud, or oppression by clear and convincing  evidence. (Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (a).) “Malice” is defined as conduct  intended to cause injury to a person or despicable conduct carried on with a  willful and conscious disregard for the rights or safety of others. (Id.  at subd. (c); Turman v. Turning Point of Cent. Cal., Inc. (2010) 191  Cal.App.4th 53, 63.) “Oppression” means despicable conduct subjecting a person  to cruel and unjust hardship, in conscious disregard of the person’s rights. (Ibid.)  “Fraud” is an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a  material fact known by defendant, with intent to deprive a person of property,  rights or otherwise cause injury. (Ibid.)   1.       Malice, Fraud,  Oppression    Punitive damages must be supported by factual allegations.  Conclusory allegations, devoid of any factual assertions, are insufficient to  support a conclusion that parties acted with oppression, fraud or malice. (Smith  v. Superior Court (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1033, 1042; Anschutz  Entertainment Group, Inc. v. Snepp (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 598, 643.)   Here, Plaintiff prays to recover punitive damages against  Defendant. Defendant argues that this prayer must be struck because “Plaintiff  fails to plead specific facts indicating ‘fraud, malice or oppression.’” (MTS 8:5.)  As the Court finds that Plaintiff’s third cause of action for Negligent  Misrepresentation has not been pled with the requisite specificity, the Court  likewise finds that Plaintiff has failed to allege facts to support a finding  of Defendant’s “malice, fraud, or oppression.”   2.       Employer Liability   “An employer shall not be liable for [punitive] damages …  based upon acts of an employee of the employer, unless the employer had advance  knowledge of the unfitness of the employee and employed him or her with a  conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others or authorized or ratified  the wrongful conduct for which the damages are awarded or was personally guilty  of oppression, fraud, or malice. With respect to a corporate employer, the  advance knowledge and conscious disregard, authorization, ratification or act  of oppression, fraud, or malice must be on the part of an officer, director, or  managing agent of the corporation.” (Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (b).)   Here, Defendant argues that it cannot be subject to  punitive damages because “Plaintiff fails to allege specific facts  indicating that any officer, director or managing agent of SPS directed any  conduct amounting to ‘fraud, malice or oppression’ so as to hold SPS liable for  any punitive damages.” (MTS 8:19–21.) Plaintiff argues in opposition that “the  individual with whom Plaintiff spoke did, in fact have the power to bind  Defendant, as she had the power to (1) speak with Plaintiff about the plan, (2)  offer Plaintiff the plan, and (3) place Plaintiff into the plan.” (MTS  3:22–24.)   However, the Court finds Plaintiff’s argument insufficient  here, where Plaintiff’s complaint is devoid of the requisite allegations of  Defendant’s “advance knowledge and conscious disregard, authorization,  ratification or act of oppression, fraud, or malice [by] an officer, director,  or managing agent of the corporation.” (Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (b).) Based on  the foregoing, the Court grants Defendant’s motion to strike Plaintiff’s prayer  for punitive damages.   B.      Emotional  Distress Damages   Defendant further argues that damages for emotional  distress are unavailable for purely economic losses, absent any physical  injury. (MTS 8:25–26, citing Erlich v. Menezes (1999) 21 Cal.4th 543.)  In Erlich, the California Supreme Court ruled that emotional distress  damages were not recoverable by plaintiffs homeowners for a mere negligent  breach of a construction contract, and although emotional distress caused by a defective  house was foreseeable, the breach did not cause physical injury and the alleged  emotional distress arose solely from property damage. (21 Cal.4th at 554–558.)   Plaintiff argues in opposition that Defendant’s “request is  to strike the very allegations regarding physical manifestations of emotional  distress. Indeed, Plaintiff has alleged that he has suffered from loss of  appetite and sleeplessness.” (MTS Opp. 4:2–4, citing FAC ¶ 75.) Plaintiff also  argues that Erlich is inapplicable here because the Supreme Court  limited its holding to construction defect cases. (Id. at 4:6–13.) While  the Court disagrees with this reading of the Erlich holding, it finds  that Plaintiff has sufficiently presented authority allowing for recovery of  emotional distress damages in wrongful foreclosure actions. (Id. at  4:12–23, citing Miles v. Deutsche Bank National Trust Co. (2015) 236  Cal.App.4th 394, 409 [finding that wrongful foreclosure is based in tort,  rather than contract, thus allowing for tort remedies including emotional  distress damages].)   Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that Plaintiff has  adequate basis to recover emotional damages. Accordingly, the Court denies Defendant’s  motion to strike Plaintiff’s references to emotional distress damages.   C.     Attorney Fees   An award of attorney fees is proper when authorized by  contract, statute, or law. (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 1032, subd. (b); 1033.5, subd.  (a)(10).) Here, Plaintiff prays for the recovery of attorney fees pursuant to  Civil Code section 2924.12. (FAC ¶ 56.) Defendant argues that “Plaintiff fails  to state any applicable statutory or contractual basis supporting the recovery  of attorneys’ fees, and the request should be stricken.” (MTS 10:13–15.)  However, Civil Code section 2924.12 explicitly states that “a court may award a  prevailing borrower reasonable attorney’s fees and costs in an action brought  pursuant to this section.” (Civ. Code § 2924.12, subd. (h).) Based on the  foregoing, the Court finds that Plaintiff has sufficiently alleged a basis for  recover of attorney fees. Accordingly, the Court denies Defendant’s motion to  strike Plaintiff’s references to attorney fees.   D.     Statutory  Damages   Defendant further argues that Plaintiff’s references to  monetary damages under the HBOR and UCL must be stricken because damages are  not available under these statutes. Specifically, Defendant argues that “the  only relief available for Plaintiff’s claim under the Homeowner’s Bill of  Rights would be injunctive relief. Damages are only available under the  Homeowner’s Bill of Rights post-trustee’s sale.” (MTS 10:25–27, citing Civ.  Code § 2924.12.) “Damages are not available under the Unfair Business Practices  Act, and Plaintiff’s allegations of damages for this claim should be stricken.”  (Id. at 11:11–12.)   Plaintiff argues in opposition that his UCL cause of action  specifically seeks injunctive relief and restitution, not the recovery of  damages. (Pl.’s Opp. 4:25–28, citing FAC ¶¶ 84–85.) Plaintiff further argues  that “as Plaintiff’s request for damages at Paragraphs 4-6 of the Prayer are  not limited to the Homeowner’s Bill of Rights and UCL claims, it would be  improper to wholly strike the requests for damages, which are supported by a  claim for negligent misrepresentation.” (Id. at 5:3–6.)   The Court reads Plaintiff’s references to damages in  connection with his UCL cause of action as pleading the necessary element of  injury-in-fact. (FAC ¶ 83.) Additionally, the Court agrees with Plaintiff that  it would be improper to wholly strike Plaintiff’s request for damages from his  prayer for relief, where there remain causes of action that provide for the  recovery of monetary damages. Accordingly, the Court denies Defendant’s motion  to strike Plaintiff’s references to monetary damages.   E.      Credit  Reporting   Defendant argues that “Plaintiff’s stated claims relating  to damages for reporting of purportedly erroneous information to credit  reporting agencies are preempted by FCRA.” (MTS 12:15–16, citing 15 U.S.C. §  1681 et seq [no state may impose requirements or prohibitions on persons  who furnish information to consumer reporting agencies.]) Plaintiff argues in opposition that “Plaintiff is not  seeking credit repair as a request in the lawsuit.” (MTS Opp. 5:9.) “Thus,  Defendant’s arguments regarding credit furnishing is inapposite from  Plaintiff’s actual allegations.” (Id. at 5:12–14.)   The Court agrees, and therefore finds no basis to strike  the phrase “destruction of credit” from paragraph 74 of the FAC. Accordingly, the Court denies Defendant’s motion to strike this  provision.   LEAVE TO AMEND   Where a  demurrer is sustained, leave to amend must be allowed where there is a  reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy  (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) The burden is on the plaintiff to show the court  that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.; Lewis v. YouTube,  LLC (2015) 244 Cal.App.4th 118, 226.) However, “[i]f there is any  reasonable possibility that the plaintiff can state a good cause of action, it  is error to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend.” (Youngman v. Nevada  Irrigation Dist. (1969) 70 Cal.2d 240, 245).    Here, the  Court notes that this is the first demurrer and motion to strike heard against  Plaintiff’s operative pleading, and further notes that Plaintiff seeks leave to  amend to the extent necessary. (Pl.’s Opp. 15:11–12.) Therefore, under the  Court’s liberal policy of granting leave to amend, Plaintiff is granted 30 days  leave to amend the complaint to cure the defects set forth above.     CONCLUSION    The demurrer is sustained as to Plaintiff’s third cause of action  and overruled as to the remainder. The motion to strike is granted as to  Plaintiff’s prayer for punitive damages and denied as to the remainder.  Plaintiff is granted 30 days leave to amend.