  Case Number:  21CHCV00760    Hearing Date:   March 22, 2024    Dept:  F49   Dept. F49  Date: 3/22/24 Case  Name: Maya Shulman, et  al. v. Kapustin Case # 21CHCV00760   LOS  ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT NORTH  VALLEY DISTRICT DEPARTMENT  F49    MARCH 22,  2024    DEMURRER AND MOTION TO STRIKE  THE FIRST AMENDED CROSS-COMPLAINT  Los Angeles Superior Court Case # 21CHCV00760    Motion  filed: 10/18/23   MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Maya  Shulman, a law corporation, and Cross-Defendant Maya Shulman DBA Shulman Family  Law Group (collectively, the “demurring Parties” or “Cross-Defendants”)  RESPONDING PARTY: Defendant/Cross-Complainant Olga  Kapustin (“Defendant/Cross-Complainant” or “Kapustin”)  NOTICE: ok   RELIEF  REQUESTED: An  order sustaining the Demurrer to Defendant/Cross-Complainant’s First Amended Cross-Complaint  (“FACC”).    TENTATIVE  RULING: The Demurrer  is OVERRULED. The Motion to Strike is DENIED.   BACKGROUND   On September 30, 2021, Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Maya  Shulman, a law corporation, (“Plaintiff” or “Shulman”) filed its Complaint against  Defendant/Cross-Complainant Olga Kapustin (“Defendant/Cross-Complainant” or “Kapustin”)  and Does 1 to 10, alleging the following causes of action: (1) breach of  Contract; and (2) common counts. Plaintiff claims to have incurred damages as  Kapustin failed to make payments as required by the terms of the Fee Agreement.  (Compl., ¶ “BC-2.”)   On January 14, 2022, in response to a demurrer filed by  Kapustin on December 29, 2021, Plaintiff filed the operative, First Amended  Complaint (“FAC”), rendering the demurrer moot. Subsequently, on June 6, 2022,  Kapustin filed her Answer to the Complaint.   On the same day, June 6, 2022, Kapustin also filed her  Cross-Complaint against the Plaintiff and Maya Shulman DBA Shulman Family Law Group (collectively, the “demurring  Parties” or “Cross-Defendants”), and Does 1  to 5, alleging causes of action for (1) fraud; and (2) declaratory relief.   On September 19, 2022, Cross-Defendants filed a demurrer with motion  to strike to the Cross-Complaint, which the Court sustained in its February 16,  2023, Minute Order. The Cross-Complaint was granted leave to amend.   On October 9, 2023, Kapustin served Cross-Defendants with the First  Amended Cross-Complaint (“FACC”), which was subsequently filed with the Court  on February 13, 2024.   On October 18, 2023, Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Maya Shulman, a law  corporation, filed  the instant Demurrer with Motion to Strike to the FACC (the “Demurrer”).  On the same day, Cross-Defendant Maya Shulman  DBA Shulman Family Law Group served and filed a Notice of Joinder, joining and  adopting the Demurrer and Motion to Strike FACC of Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant  Maya Shulman, a law corporation.   On February 8, 2024, Kapustin filed her Opposition to the Demurrer  with Motion to Strike. Subsequently, on February 14, 2024, Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant  replied.   ANALYSIS   A.                 Joinder to Demurrer   Cross Defendant Maya Shulman DBA Shulman Family Law  Group filed and served a Notice of Joinder on October 18, 2023, joining and  adopting Plaintiff/Cross-Defenant’s Demurer with Motion to Strike.    The Notice of Joinder was filed concurrently with the Demurrer;  therefore, the Court considers its filing timely. Significantly, the Demurrer  explicitly identifies both parties Maya Shulman DBA Shulman Family Law Group  and Maya Shulman, a Law Corporation, are the “Moving Parties.” (Dem., at 1.)    Consequently, the Court regards Maya Shulman DBA  Shulman Family Law Group as also being a moving party, seeking relief on her own  behalf and will be bound by the Court’s ruling on the instant Demurrer. (See Barak  v. The Quisenberry Law Firm (2006) 135 Cal.App.4th 654.)   B.                  Demurrer    Cross-Defendants Maya Shulman DBA Shulman Family Law  and Maya Shulman, a Law Corporation submit the instant Demurrer to the Fraud  Cause of Action in the FACC, on the grounds of insufficient facts to constitute  a cause of action, citing Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10 subdivision  (e).    A demurrer is an objection to a pleading, the grounds  for which are apparent from either the face of the complaint or a matter of  which the court may take judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd.  (a); see also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) The purpose of  a demurrer is to challenge the sufficiency of a pleading “by raising questions  of law.” (Postley v. Harvey (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.) “In the  construction of a pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its  allegations must be liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice  between the parties.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 452.) The court “treat[s] the  demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions,  deductions or conclusions of fact or law[.]” (Berkley v. Dowds (2007)  152 Cal.App.4th 518, 525 (Berkley).) In applying these standards, the  court liberally construes the complaint to determine whether a cause of action  has been stated. (Picton v. Anderson Union High School Dist. (1996) 50  Cal.App.4th 726, 733.)   In California,  fraud must be pleaded specifically; general and conclusory allegations do not  suffice. (Stansfield v. Starkey (1990) 220 Cal.App.3d 59, 74.)  “[T]he policy of liberal construction of the pleadings ... will not ordinarily  be invoked to sustain a pleading defective in any material respect.”  [Citation.] This particularity requirement necessitates pleading facts which ‘show how, when, where, to whom, and by  what means the representations were tendered.’” (Stansfield, supra, at p. 73, italics in original.)    The Court addressed only the operative document - the  FACC of Kapustin. The FACC alleges causes of action for (1) Fraud, and (2)  Declaratory Relief. Within the Fraud cause of action, the Complaint asserts  liability under the theories of both Misrepresentation and Concealment. (FACC,  at 3.)   1)      Elements  of Concealment   In the instant Demurrer, the Cross-Defendants contend  that the FACC fails to state facts sufficient to support three of the elements  under the Concealment theory: (1) that Cross-Defendants have a duty to disclose  the fact, (2) that Cross-Defendants intended that Kapustin rely on the false  statement, and (3) that Kapustin would have acted differently if she had known  of the fact. (Dem. at 4-6.)   “[T]he elements of an action for fraud and deceit  based on concealment are: (1) the defendant must have concealed or suppressed a  material fact, (2) the defendant must have been under a duty to disclose the  fact to the plaintiff, (3) the defendant must have intentionally concealed or  suppressed the fact with the intent to defraud the plaintiff, (4) the plaintiff  must have been unaware of the fact and would not have acted as he did if he had  known of the concealed or suppressed fact, and (5) as a result of the  concealment or suppression of the fact, the plaintiff must have sustained  damage.” (Marketing West, Inc. v. Sanyo Fisher (USA) Corp. (1992) 6  Cal.App.4th 603, 612–613.)   The Court finds the arguments presented by the demurring  Parties to be without merit for the following reasons.   First, a duty to disclose a material fact arises where  there exists a confidential relationship between the parties, or other special  circumstances require disclosure. (See Shafer v. Berger, et al. (2003)  107 Cal.App.4th 54, 71; LiMandri v. Judkins (1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 326,  336 (LiMandri).) Here, a duty to disclose arises from both an  attorney-client relationship as established by the Fee Agreement, as well as the  presence of special circumstances pertinent to parties entering into a  contractual agreement. (LiMandri, supra, at 337.)    The demurring  Parties do not contest the existence of the attorney-client relationship based  on the Fee Agreement. On the contrary, Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant seeks to  enforce the Fee Agreement. Despite this, the demurring Parties contend that  they do not have a duty to disclose by specially addressing that the “DBA”  belonged to the corporation instead of the individual, maintaining that the  corporation holds proper licenses and registrations. (Dem., at 4.) This  argument, however, misses the point.    On examination of the FACC, it does not claim  Cross-Defendants’ failure to disclose the ownership of the “DBA”; rather, it alleges  that Cross-Defendants failed to disclose the non-existence of Shulman Family  Law Group as a law firm (FACC, ¶ 3a.), which is in contradiction to the representations  made in the Fee Agreement about its staffing. The Fee Agreement purportedly  claimed the staff consisted of three attorneys and two legal assistants. (FACC,  ¶¶ FR-2a, 2b.) The demurring Parties neither address whether their staffing constitutes  a material fact that is subject to disclosure, nor do they challenge that the sufficiency  of the representations as constituting misrepresentation, leading the Court to  conclude that the demurring Parties have not effectively contested the alleged  duty to disclose, as outlined in the FACC.   Second, the demurring Parties argue that the intent  element required for a concealment claim necessitates demonstrating more than merely  knowing the statement is false or recklessly disregarding its truth.  Specifically, it must also show the party accused of fraud intended for the  plaintiff to rely on the false statement., citing Engalla v. Permanent Med.  Grp., Inc., (1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 976.)   Contrary to the demurring Parties’ contention that  “KAPUSTIN fails to even allege the mental state of the Moving Parties” (Dem.,  at 5), the Court observes that the FACC explicitly alleges that “Defendant  concealed or suppressed these facts with the intent to defraud and induce  plaintiff to act as described in item FR-5[.]” (FACC, ¶ FR-3c.) Furthermore, the  paragraph FR-5 details that “Ms. Kapustin signed the December 17, 2018 Fee  Agreement and paid money to Defendants” (FACC, ¶ FR-5), illustrating the alleged  reliance. Consequently, the Court finds the demurring Parties’ argument on this  point to be unconvincing.    Third, for a concealment claim to be viable, the  Cross-Complainant must allege that, had she known of the concealed fact, she  would have acted differently.    Here, the FACC specifically states, “Had Ms. Kapustin  known that Shulman Family Law Group does not exist, she would not have signed  the Free Agreement to allow it to represent her and would have retained a real  law firm[.]” (FACC, ¶ FR-5.)    The demurring Parties counter by arguing that “No  reasonable person would have cared if the contracting law firm was an  individual or a corporation. As such, as there can be no question that the  capacity of the contracting law firm would not have changed OLGA KAPUSTIN’s  decision to retain the MOVING PARTIES.” (Dem., at 5.)    However, when reviewing a Demurrer, the Court’s  examination must be confined to the allegations presented in the complaint  itself or to matters which the Court may take judicial notice. (Code Civ.  Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a).) Here, the demurring Parties’ argument is made on  their own evidence external to the FACC and not from any matter that the Court  may take judicial notice. Consequently, this line of reasoning is not  considered by the Court.   Similarly, the Court dismisses the demurring Parties’ contention  that “even if OLGA KAPUSTIN retained the services of a different law firm, the  costs and fees incurred were reasonable and would have been the same, thus no  damage was suffered by OLGA KAPUSTIN.” (Dem., at 5.) This argument is based on  the conclusion of facts as to the reasonableness of the costs and fees, not  drawn from the FACC’s allegations or subject to judicial notice. Conversely,  the FACC alleges specific damages amounting to $100,000. (FACC, ¶ FR-6.)    Consequently, the Court concludes that the demurring  Parties have not convincingly argued against the particularity required for  FACC’s allegations of fraudulent concealment, failing to undermine the claim’s  established elements.    2)      Elements  of Misrepresentation   “The elements of fraud, which give rise to the tort  action for deceit, are (a) misrepresentation (false representation,  concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) knowledge of falsity (or “scienter”); (c)  intent to defraud, i.e., to induce reliance; (d) justifiable reliance;  and (e) resulting damage.” “‘Promissory fraud’ is a subspecies of the action  for fraud and deceit. A promise to do something necessarily implies the  intention to perform; hence, where a promise is made without such intention,  there is an implied misrepresentation of fact that may be actionable fraud.” (Lazar  v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 638 (Lazar).)   Next, the instant Demurrer neglects to address the  sufficiency of the FACC’s allegations under another legal theory of fraud –  namely, Intentional or Negligence Misrepresentation. (FACC, at 3.) Although this  theory shares the elements of elements with the concealment theory, it requires  the false representation to be stated with particularity, knowledge of falsity,  and justifiable reliance.    Here, the FACC delineates the alleged  misrepresentation clearly: “That Shulman Family Law Group, identified as  ‘Attorney’ in the December 17, 2018 Fee Agreement comprised of attorneys Maya  Shulman, Geroge Seide, and Jordana Walsh and legal assistants Deanna Hayenga  and Mary Dolan would represent Ms. Kapustin in Kapustin Dissolution.” (FACC, ¶  FR-2.) Moreover, the FACC alleges that “When defendant made the representation,  defendant knew they were false.” (FACC, ¶ FR.-3.) Based on these assertions,  the Court finds that the allegations sufficiently detail “how, when, where, to whom, and by what means  the representations were tendered.’” (Stansfield, supra, 220 Cal.App.3d at p. 73.)   At  this stage of the proceeding, “A judge must overrule a demurrer  if the allegations of the complaint adequately state a cause of action under  any legal theory.” (Cellular Plus, Inc. v Superior Court (1993) 14 CA4th  1224, 1231.) Accordingly, the Court concludes that the Demurrer  fails to contest the sufficiency of the pleadings in the First Amended  Cross-Complaint. Therefore, the Court OVERRULES the Demurrer.   C.                 Motion to Strike   “A notice of motion to strike a  portion of a pleading must quote in full the portions sought to be stricken  except where the motion is to strike an entire paragraph, cause of action,  count, or defense. Specifications in a notice must be numbered consecutively.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1322(a).)   Given the instant Demurrer with  Motion to Strike does not specify in the notice the specific portions it aims  to strike, the Court interprets it as targeting all causes of action, in  pursuant to California Rules of Court rule 3.1322(a). With the Court having  already overruled the Demurring concerning the first cause of action, the Court  now turns to consider the Motion to Strike as it pertains to the second cause  of action – declaratory relief.   The remedy of declaratory relief is  “cumulative, and shall not be construed as restricting any remedies.”   (See Code Civ. Proc., § 1062.) “The mere fact that another remedy is available  will not suffice as sufficient grounds for a court to decline a declaration,  because declaratory relief is not intended to be exclusive or  extraordinary.”  (Kirkwood v. California State Automobile Assn.  Inter-Ins. Bureau (2011) 193 Cal.App.4th 49, 59.)    The moving Parties’ main contention is that the second  cause of action for declaratory relief functions as an affirmative defense rather  than a stand-alone action. (Dem., at 3.) However, they fail to substantiate  this claim or explain why declaratory relief is not an appropriate remedy for  resolving disputes over the validity of a contract.   Therefore, the Court DENIES the Motion to Strike,  finding no compelling rationale to exclude declaratory relief as a viable  remedy for the disputes at hand.                CONCLUSION   Cross-Defendants’  Demurrer to the First Amended Cross-Complaint is OVERRULED.    The  Motion to Strike is DENIED.   Moving  parties are ordered to provide notice of this order.