 Case Number:  22SMCV01343    Hearing Date:   March 28, 2024    Dept:  I The court will GRANT the ex parte application’s
alternative request for an OST.  Plaintiff
seeks to re-open discovery, but if this is heard on regular notice it would not
be heard until the court day before trial (on statutory notice and a week later
on the reservation system).  That is a
sufficient showing of exigent circumstances. 
The motion will therefore be advanced to early next week.  Defendant may file a more thorough opposition
no later than 8:00 am on Tuesday, April 2, 2024.  The hearing will be held on Wednesday April
3, 2024, at 9:00 am.
 
The court’s initial thoughts are that: (1) The parties ought
to meet and confer today.  While it is
clear that the defense will not agree to a general re-opening of discovery, it
could be that if plaintiff were more specific and proposed a very limited
re-opening, the defense would agree.  (2)
The court understands why it is that plaintiff did not complete discovery.  The parties thought they had essentially
settled the case so they put “pencils down” to avoid unnecessary expense.  When the settlement fell apart, the cut off
had come and gone.  That is not
unreasonable for plaintiff.  (3) The most
the court would ever consider agreeing to allow would be for discovery already
on the horizon when the informal stay began. 
In other words, written discovery already propounded in terms of
everything but depositions.  As for
depositions, the court would almost certainly allow defendant’s deposition
assuming plaintiff has not taken it. 
Surely defendant knew that had the parties not (almost) settled,
defendant’s deposition would be taken. 
That assumes a deposition, but not a deposition with production of
documents.  (4) The court is not
convinced that discovery should be re-opened for the alleged new
violations.  Plaintiff will need to get
them from the public file (if they are formal citations, they ought to be
available that way), and plaintiff can bring in testimony about communications
between the parties without formal discovery. 
 
If discovery is re-opened, the amount of time defendant will
have to comply will be measured in days and likely not weeks given the trial’s
proximity.
 
The court STRONGLY urges the parties to get their settlement
back on track.  The court also reminds
the parties that it will hold them to the court’s FSC requirements and they can
expect sanctions if they do not fully comply.