  Case Number:  23AHCV00341    Hearing Date:   November 30, 2023    Dept:  X    Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Joel L. Lofton,
Department X
 
 
HEARING DATE:      November 30, 2023                                        TRIAL
DATE: No date set. 
                                                           
CASE:                         PALLICKAL, MALLIK,
PONNEZHAN MEDICAL CORPORATION, a California professional corporation, v. NALIN
MALLIK, M.D., an individual; NM MEDICAL, a California corporation; INNOVATIVE
HEALTH ASSOCIATES, INC., a California corporation; DOES 1 through 20.
 
Cross:                          NALIN MALLICK,
M.D., an individual, v. LEEJOE PALLICKAL, M.D., an individual; VIMAL PONNEZHAN,
M.D., an individual; COMPREHENSIVE CARE PROVIDERS CORPORATION, a California
corporation; PALLICKAL, MALLIK, PONNEZHAN MEDICAL CORPORATION, a California
professional corporation; and ROES 1 through 20. 
 
CASE NO.:                 23AHCV00341
 
            
 
DEMURRER
WITH MOTION TO STRIKE
 
MOTION
FOR ORDER REQUIRING BOND

 
MOVING PARTY:               Comprehensive Care Providers
Corporation, Leejoe Pallickal, M.D. and Vimal Ponnezhan M.D. 
 
                                                Pallickal,
Mallick, Ponnezhan Medical Corporation 
 
RESPONDING PARTY:      Nalin
Mallick M.D. 
 
SERVICE:                              Demurrers separately filed September 11,
2023
 
OPPOSITION:                       Filed November 15, 2023
 
REPLY:                                   Filed November 20 and 21, 2023
 
BACKGROUND
 
             This case arises out of Plaintiff Pallickal,
Mallik, Ponnezhan Medical Corporation’s claim that Defendant Nalin Mallick,
M.D. (“Dr. Mallick”) breached his fiduciary duty to Plaintiff. Plaintiff filed
this complaint on February 16, 2023, alleging two causes of action of action
for breach of fiduciary duty and intentional interference with prospective
economic advantage.
 
            Dr. Mallick filed a first amended
cross-complaint (“FACC”) on July 10, 2023, alleging four causes of action for
breach of fiduciary duty.
 
TENTATIVE RULING
             
            CCPC’s
demurrer to Dr. Mallick’s first and second causes of action is SUSTAINED with
20 days leave to amend.
 
            Dr.
Pallickal and Dr. Ponnezhan’s demurrer to Dr. Mallick’s third cause of action
is SUSTAINED with 20 days leave to amend. The remainder of Dr. Pallickal and
Dr. Ponnezhan’s demurrer is OVERRULED.
 
            PMP’s
demurrer to Dr. Mallick’s second and fourth causes of action is SUSTAINED with
20 days leave to amend.
 
            Cross-Defendants’
motion to strike is DENIED.
 
            PMP’s
motion for an order to furnish a bond is DENIED.
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
            Demurrer 
 
A general
demurrer may be taken to a complaint where “[t]he pleading does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action.” (Code of Civ. Proc. § 430.10(e).) A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the
complaint states a cause of action.  (Hahn
v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App. 4th 740, 747.) In a demurrer proceeding, the
defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or by proper judicial
notice.  (Code Civ. Proc. section
430.30(a).)  A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or
other extrinsic matters.  (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153
Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.)  The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is
whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters,
states a cause of action.  (Hahn v.
Mirda, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)
 
Additionally, a
special demurrer to a complaint may be brought on the ground the pleading is
uncertain, ambiguous, or unintelligible. Code Civ. Proc section 430.10(f); Beresford Neighborhood Assn. v. City of
San Mateo (1989) 207 Cal.App.3d 1180, 1191.) A demurrer based
on uncertainty is disfavored and will be strictly construed even when the
pleading is uncertain in some respects. (Khoury v. Maly's of California, Inc. (1993) 14
Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) A demurrers based on uncertainty are “granted only if
the pleading is so incomprehensible that a defendant cannot reasonably
respond.” (Lickiss v. Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (2012) 208
Cal.App.4th 1125, 1135.) 
 
Motion to Strike
 
Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading
may serve and file a notice of motion to strike a pleading or any part
thereof.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1).)  The
court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms
it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in
any pleading.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a).)  The court may
also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity
with California law, a court rule, or an order of the court.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 436, subd. (b).)  An immaterial or irrelevant allegation is one
that is not essential to the statement of a claim or defense; is neither
pertinent to nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or defense; or a
demand for judgment requesting relief not supported by the allegations of the
complaint.  (Code Civ. Proc., 431.10, subd. (b).)  The grounds for
moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial
notice.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)   
 
DISCUSSION
 
            This
hearing involves two separately filed demurrers. The first demurrer is filed by
Comprehensive Care Providers Corporation (“CCPC”), Leejoe Pallickal, M.D. (“Dr.
Pallickal”), and Vinal Ponnezhan, M.D. (“Dr. Ponnezhan”) (collectively “Cross-Defendants”).
The second demurrer is filed by Pallickal, Mallick, Ponnezhan Medical
Corporation (“PMP” or “Nominal Cross-Defendant”).
 
            Direct
versus Derivative Claims
 
            An overarching theme in the two demurrers is whether Dr. Mallik’s
claims are derivative or direct. The FACC alleges four separate causes of
action for breach of fiduciary duty. “ ‘The elements of a claim for breach of
fiduciary duty are (1) the existence of a fiduciary relationship, (2) its
breach, and (3) damage proximately caused by that breach.’ ” (O’Neal v.
Stanislaus County Employees’ Retirement Assn. (2017) 8 Cal.App.5th 1184, 1215.) The first and third causes of
action are facially listed as direct claims while the second and fourth causes
of action are facially listed as derivative claims.
 
            “Shareholders
may bring two types of actions, ‘a direct action
filed by the shareholder individually (or on behalf of a class of shareholders to which he or she
belongs) for injury to his or her interest as a shareholder,’
or a ‘derivative action filed on behalf of the corporation for injury to the corporation for
which it has failed or refused to sue.’ ” (Schuster v. Gardner (2005)
127 Cal.App.4th 305, 311-12.) “A single cause of action by a shareholder can
give rise to derivative claims, individual claims, or both.” (Goles v.
Sawhney (2016) 5 Cal.App.5th 1014, 1018, fn. 3.) “But where a cause of
action seeks to recover for harms to the corporation, the shareholders have no
direct cause of action ‘[b]ecause a corporation exists as a separate legal
entity’ [citation] and ‘is the ultimate beneficiary of such a derivative suit’
”. (Schrage v. Schrage (2021) 69 Cal.App.5th 126, 149.) 
 
            CCPC, Dr. Pallickal, and Dr.
Ponnezhan’s Demurrer 
 
            Dr.
Mallick’s first cause of action is nominally a direct shareholder claim against
Dr. Pallickal, Dr. Ponnezhan, and CCPC. Cross-Defendants argue that the first
cause of action fails because it is entirely a derivative claim. 
 
“ ‘[T]he action is derivative, i.e.,
in the corporate right, if the gravamen of the complaint is injury to the
corporation, or to the whole body of its stock and property without any
severance or distribution among individual holders, or it seeks to recover
assets for the corporation or to prevent the dissipation of its assets.’ ” (Jara
v. Supreme Meats, Inc. (2004) 121 Cal.App.4th 1238, 1254.) “ ‘The
stockholder's individual suit, on the other hand, is a suit to enforce a right
against the corporation which the stockholder possesses as an individual.’ ”
[citations.]  For example, “ ‘[i]f the
injury is one to the plaintiff as a stockholder and to him individually, and
not to the corporation, as where the action is based on a contract to which he
is a party, or on a right belonging severally to him, or on a fraud affecting
him directly, it is an individual action.’ ” (Schrage v. Schrage, supra, 69
Cal.App.5th at p. 150.) “If the injury is not incidental to an injury to the
corporation, an individual cause of action exists.” (Ibid.)
 
            Dr.
Mallick’s first cause of action, in large part, does allege a derivative claim
because the allegations involve harm to PMP. Dr. Mallick alleges that Cross-Defendants
formed a separate corporation to compete against PMP and took PMP’s funds.
(FACC  ¶¶ 29-30.) Dr. Mallick also alleges that he was harmed because he
was denied a share of PMP’s resulting profits. (Id. ¶ 32.) These
allegations pertain to harm suffered by PMP are therefore the basis of a
derivative claim. 
 
In opposition to Cross-Defendants’ demurrer, Dr. Mallick asserts
that he is asserting a direct claim because he alleges that Cross-Defendants
denied him work hours at Good Samaritan Hospital during May and June of 2022. (FACC ¶¶ 30, 32.)
Dr. Mallick also argues he makes a direct claim when he alleges that Dr.
Pallickal and Dr. Ponnezhan withdrew $116,000 from PMP, relying on Jara v.
Suprema Meats, Inc. (2004) 121 Cal.App.4th 1238. (Ibid.) However,
Dr. Mallick’s reliance on Jara is misplaced. In Jara, the plaintiff
had alleged that the individual defendants had received compensation that
exceeded the amount agreed upon. (Id. at p. 1243.) The Jara court
stated that a “minority shareholder [is allowed] to bring a personal
action alleging ‘a majority stockholders' breach of a fiduciary duty to
minority stockholders, which resulted in the majority stockholders retaining a
disproportionate share of the corporation's ongoing value.’ ” (Id. at
pp. 1257-58.)
 
Here, Dr. Mallick alleges that Cross-Defendants
improperly withdrew $116,000 from PMP’s accounts and paid their personal debts.
(FACC ¶ 30.) Dr. Mallick does not allege he was a minority shareholder
or that Cross-Defendants acted in a way to harm him rather than PMP. Dr. Mallick
alleges that Cross-Defendants improperly took money from PMP, which is harm to
PMP directly and the basis of a derivative claim. 
 
            Dr. Mallick states a direct claim against
Cross-Defendants for denying him shifts. Dr. Mallick alleges facts pertaining
to a derivative claim within his nominally titled direct cause of action. However,
“[o]rdinarily,
a general demurrer does not lie as to a portion of a cause of action, and if
any part of a cause of action is properly pleaded, the demurrer will be
overruled.” (Fire Ins. Exchange v. Superior Court (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th
446, 452.) Thus, Dr. Mallick’s first cause of action states a direct claim. 
            
            The last issue is
whether CCPC is properly named as a Cross-Defendant. CCPC is alleged as a Cross-Defendant
to Dr. Mallick’s first and second causes of action. Dr. Mallick concedes that
he does allege he was a member of CCPC or that CCPC owes him a duty. Dr.
Mallick argues that CCPC is a party because it the appropriate Defendant for a
constructive trust.
 
            “A
constructive trust is an equitable remedy that compels a wrongdoer – one who
has property or proceeds to which he is not justly entitled – to transfer same
to its rightful owner.” (Shoker v. Superior Couty of Alameda County (2022)
81 Cal.App.5th 271, 278.) The elements required to create a constructive trust
are (1) the property, (2) the plaintiff’s right to that property, and (3) the
defendant’s acquisition of the property by some wrongful act. (Optional
Capital, Inc. v. DAS Corp. (2014) 222 Cal.App.4th 1388, 1402.) Dr. Mallick does
not allege that CCPC obtained any property owed to him by wrongful act. Thus, CCPC’s
demurrer to Dr. Mallick’s first and second causes of action is sustained. 
            
            Cross-Defendants
also argue that Dr. Mallick’s sixteenth affirmative defense is a conclusive
rebuttal against Dr. Mallick’s own claims. The court declines to follow Cross-Defendants’
request to read Dr. Mallick's own allegations as making factual claims against
him. To do so would go against the judicial precept of reading the allegations
in the light most favorable to Dr. Mallick. (See Venice Town Council, Inc.
v. City of Los Angeles (1996) 47 Cal.App.4th 1547, 1557.) Dr. Pallickal and Dr. Ponnezhan’s demurrer to Dr. Mallick’s
first cause of action is overruled. 
 
            Dr.
Mallick’s third cause of action focuses on harm solely to PMP. Dr. Mallick
alleges that Dr. Pallickal and Dr. Ponnezhan took business away from PMP and failed
to exercise due care while preparing PMP’s taxes. (FACC ¶¶ 49-51.) The alleged
harm pertain solely to harm experienced by PMP. Thus, Dr. Mallick’s third cause
of action fails as a direct claim. Cross-Defendant’s demurrer to Dr. Mallick’s
third cause of action is sustained. 
 
            PMP’s
Demurrer
 
            PMP
demurrers to Dr. Mallick’s second and fourth causes of action containing
derivative claims. A preliminary issue argued by both parties is the
significance of Dr. Mallick’s prayer for a constructive trust. PMP argues that
Dr. Mallick is trying to enrich himself and not seeking redress to harm to PMP,
the function of a derivative suit. However, PMP cites no authority for the
proposition that a demurrer should be sustained where a party pleads a
particular self-serving remedy. 
 
            The next
issue is whether Dr. Mallick’s FACC complies with Corporations Code section
800, subdivision (b)(2), (“section 800”). Section 800, subdivision (b)(2),
requires a plaintiff to allege “in the complaint with particularity plaintiff’s
efforts to secure from the board such action as plaintiff desires, or the
reasons for not making such effort, and alleges further that plaintiff has
either informed the corporation or the board in writing of the ultimate facts
of each cause of action against each defendant or delivered to the corporation
or the board a true copy of the complaint which plaintiff proposes to file.”
 
            Dr. Mallick argues that he
sufficiently alleged futility because Dr. Pallickal and Dr. Ponnezhan were the
only members of the board and interested in the various transactions. (FACC ¶¶ 42-59.) However, Dr. Mallick concedes that
he did not allege he informed the board in writing of the ultimate facts.
Although Dr. Mallick attempts to skirt around this requirement, the simple fact
of the matter is that his allegations currently fail to comply with the
statutory requirements. 
 
            PMP’s
demurrer to Dr. Mallick’s second and fourth causes of action is sustained.
 
            Cross-Defendants’
Motion to Strike
 
            Cross-Defendants’
move to strike portions or the entirety of sixteen paragraphs of Dr. Mallick’s
FACC based on Dr. Mallick’s sixteenth affirmative defense. As previously
stated, Cross-Defendants request this court to read Dr. Mallick’s allegations
against him. The court declines to do so. Cross-Defendants’ motion to strike is
denied.
 
            Motion
to Furnish Bond 
 
            PMP moves for an order requiring Dr.
Mallick to furnish a bond totaling $50,000. Corporations Code section 800,
subdivision (c), provides: “In any action referred to in subdivision (b), at any time within 30
days after service of summons upon the corporation or upon any defendant who is
an officer or director of the corporation, or held such office at the time of
the acts complained of, the corporation or the defendant may move the court for
an order, upon notice and hearing, requiring the plaintiff to furnish a bond as
hereinafter provided. The motion shall be based upon one or both of the
following grounds: [¶] (1) That
there is no reasonable possibility that the prosecution of the cause of action
alleged in the complaint against the moving party will benefit the corporation
or its shareholders. [¶] (2) That
the moving party, if other than the corporation, did not participate in the
transaction complained of in any capacity. [¶] The court on application of the corporation or
any defendant may, for good cause shown, extend the 30-day period for an
additional period or periods not exceeding 60 days.”
 
            The court
observes that in PMP’s motion, PMP conveniently omits the portion of statute
that provides that the corporation may move for an order within 30 days of
service. This is omission is convenient for PMP because according to the proof
of service attached to Dr. Mallick’s FACC, service of the most recent
cross-complaint was on July 10, 2023. However, this motion for a bond was not
filed until September 11, 2023. PMP does not mention this timing issue. PMP’s
motion for an order requiring Dr. Mallick to file a bond is denied.
 
CONCLUSION
 
            CCPC’s
demurrer to Dr. Mallick’s first and second causes of action is SUSTAINED with
20 days leave to amend.
 
            Dr.
Pallickal and Dr. Ponnezhan’s demurrer to Dr. Mallick’s third cause of action
is SUSTAINED with 20 days leave to amend. The remainder of Dr. Pallickal and
Dr. Ponnezhan’s demurrer is OVERRULED.
 
            PMP’s
demurrer to Dr. Mallick’s second and fourth causes of action is SUSTAINED with
20 days leave to amend.
 
            Cross-Defendants’
motion to strike is DENIED.
 
            PMP’s
motion for an order to furnish a bond is DENIED.
 
 
 
 
 
            
Dated:   November 30,
2023                                       ___________________________________
                                                                                    Joel
L. Lofton
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court


Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the court
indicating their 
intention to submit.  alhdeptx@lacourt.org
