  Case Number:  23TRCV00057    Hearing Date:   September 23, 2024    Dept:  M LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                 
          Monday,
September 23, 2024
Department M                                                                                               
                         Calendar No. 12
 
 
 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
            Ronald Williams v. Torrance Memorial Medical Center, et al.
            23TRCV00057
1.      Ronald Williams’ Motion to Compel Further
Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set Six, and Request for Sanctions 
2.      Ronald Williams’ Motion to Compel the
Deposition of Defendant Torrance Memorial Medical Center
3.      Ronald Williams’ Motion to Compel Answer to
Deposition Question [and Other Numerous Requests]
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Ronald Williams’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Special
Interrogatories, Set Six, and Request for Sanctions is deemed moot, in part,
and denied, in part.
 
            Ronald
Williams’ Motion to Compel the Deposition of Defendant Torrance Memorial
Medical Center and Request for Sanctions is denied.
 
            Ronald
Williams’ Motion to Compel Answer to Deposition Question [and Other Numerous
Requests Including Sanctions] is denied.
 
            Background
 
            Plaintiff
filed the Complaint on January 6, 2023. Plaintiff alleges the following facts. Plaintiff’s
wife, Chionese Agee, died on November 9, 2022, after surgery at defendant’s
hospital. Plaintiff alleges the following cause of action: 1. Wrongful Death.
 
            Motion to
Compel Further Responses to Special Interrogatories 
 
Where
responses to interrogatories have been served but the requesting party believes
that they are deficient because the answers are evasive or incomplete, or,
because an objection is without merit, that party may move for an order
compelling a further response.  CCP §
2030.300(a).  Notice of the motion must
be given within 45 days after service of verified responses in question, or any
verified supplemental responses.  CCP §
2030.300(c).  The motion must be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration in compliance with CCP §
2016.040.  CCP § 2030.300(b).
 
Meet and Confer
 
Plaintiff
set forth a meet and confer declaration in substantial compliance with CCP §§
2031.310(b)(2) and 2016.040.  (Declaration, Neil Howard ¶¶
11-15.)
 
Motion
 
Plaintiff moves for an order for further responses to
Special Interrogatories, Set Six, Numbers 161 to 186 from Defendant Torrance
Memorial Medical Center. The special interrogatories at issue simply seek facts
that may lead to the discovery of admissible evidence in this action. 
 
On June 18, 2024, Defendant served further verified
responses. Therefore, the motion to compel further responses to Special
Interrogatories, Set Six, is deemed moot.
 
Sanctions
 
Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions is denied. It is true that
further responses were only served after Plaintiff incurred the time and
expense to file the motion to compel. Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1348(a)
states: “The court may award sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor of a
party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no opposition to the
motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn, or the requested
discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion was filed.”
However, the meet and confer discussions reveal that Plaintiff filed the motion
prior to the time that the parties agreed that further responses would have
been provided. Therefore, the request for monetary sanctions is denied.
 
Motion to Compel Deposition 
 
The
party noticing the deposition may move for an order compelling appearance at
the deposition and production of documents, pursuant to the deposition notice,
from the party deponent who fails to appear or produce materials requested in
the deposition notice, and who has not served a valid objection under §
2025.410(a).  CCP § 2025.450(a).  
 
“The
motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to attend the deposition and produce the
documents, electronically stored information, or things described in the
deposition notice, by a declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted
the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance.”  CCP § 2025.450(b)(2). Plaintiff set forth a
meet and confer declaration stating that Plaintiff contacted the deponent to
inquire about the nonappearance. ((Declaration, Neil Howard ¶¶ 9-10.)
 
Plaintiff
moves for an order compelling Defendant TMMC to produce twelve different
deponents.  (See, page 2 to 4 of the
notice of motion for the detailed narrative of the different categories of
deponents that Plaintiff seeks to depose for this medical negligence action.)  The motion is made on the grounds that the
deponents failed to appear for the noticed date of the depositions and Defendant
has failed to make these deponents available for deposition. Plaintiff also
seeks sanctions. 
 
Plaintiff’s
motion to compel deposition is granted, in part. The deponents are ordered to
appear for their depositions at a date and time that can be agreed upon by the
parties. 
 
Sanctions
 
Defendant’s
request for sanctions is denied. The Court notes that the depositions were
noticed with dates unilaterally chosen by the moving party. Courtesy and
consideration should be provided in scheduling depositions to attempt to obtain
dates that are amenable to all parties. This is especially true when
considering the sheer number of depositions that were noticed.
 
Motion to Compel Further Deposition Testimony
 
“If a deponent fails to answer any question or to
produce any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing
under the deponent's control that is specified in the deposition notice or a
deposition subpoena, the party seeking discovery may move the court for an
order compelling that answer or production.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.480, subd. (a).)  
 
“This motion shall be made no later than 60 days after
the completion of the record of the deposition, and shall be accompanied by a
meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.480(b).)  The motion must be accompanied by a separate
statement pursuant to Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1345(a)(4) and (5).
 
Where a deposition question seeks discovery of
privileged information, the deponent or his or her counsel must interpose a
specific objection in order to preserve the privilege or work product
protection.  CCP § 2025.460(a).  Refusing to answer a deposition question on
any other ground is improper.  See Stewart v. Colonial Western Agency, Inc.
(2001) 87 Cal.App.4th 1006, 1015. 
Irrelevance alone is an insufficient ground to justify a deponent’s
refusal to answer a deposition question. 
Id. A refusal to answer is
only justified if the questions require the disclosure of privileged matter or
if the questions are manifestly irrelevant or calculated to harass.  Id.

 
Meet and Confer
 
Defendant filed a meet and confer declaration setting
forth a reasonable good faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue
presented by the motion in compliance with CCP § 2025.480(b) and CCP §
2016.040.  (Decl., Neil Howard, ¶ 49.)  
 
Motion to Compel Further Deposition Testimony

Plaintiff moves for an order “to compel answer to
deposition question, an order compelling Amy Letwin, R.N. to appear for a
second deposition session, an order compelling defendant Torrance Memorial
Medical Center to pay all costs associated with the second deposition session;
and request for monetary sanctions against Defendant, Torrance Memorial Medical
Center. This motion is based upon the grounds that: 1. Good cause exists for
Amy Letwin, R.N. to be compelled to answer the deposition question; 2. Good
cause exists for Amy Letwin, R.N. to be compelled to appear again for
deposition; 3. Good cause also exists for counsel to be admonished not to
interrupt the deposition and seek to coach the deponent or suggest answers; 4.
Good cause also exists for counsel to be admonished not to take a break when a
question is pending; 5. Good cause exists for counsel to be admonished for
instructing the witness not to answer on grounds other than privilege, privacy,
trade secrets or other matters statutorily or constitutionally exempt from
discovery; 6. Good cause exists for counsel to be admonished for instructing
the witness not to answer through unfounded objections, (see Los Angeles
Superior Court Rule 3.26, and Appendix 3.A(e)(8); and 7. Good cause exists for
this Court to appoint a referee to supervise the second session of the
deposition of Amy Letwin, R.N.” (Notice of Motion, page 2, lines 3-23.)
 
Issue 1: Defense counsel wanted to take a break during
the deposition when Plaintiff counsel did not want to take a break. 
 
The motion to compel further answers is denied. 
 
First, technically, this issue does not constitute a
situation where a deponent refused to answer a question. Instead, Plaintiff
counsel believes that no break should have been obtained because of Plaintiff’s
counsel suspicion that Defense counsel wanted to further “coach” the deponent
on how to answer the question. There is no authority presented to show that CCP
2025.480 governs this situation since again this is not a situation where the
deponent refused to answer the question. The parties are generally tasked to
act civilly in the context of a deposition and obtain consensus as to when
breaks are needed during a deposition.
 
Issue 2: Questions and answers regarding active
bleeding.
 
The motion to compel further answers is denied.
 
There is no instance where the deponent refused to
answer a question and no instance where Defense counsel instructed the deponent
not to answer the question. The objections that were asserted were appropriate
with the caveat that the deponent then was free to answer the question.
Instead, it is clear that Plaintiff counsel became argumentative with the
deponent when he believed that the deponent was not answering the question in a
manner that he believed was proper or consistent with the facts as Plaintiff
counsel believed to be true. This caused a needless dispute between the
parties’ counsel. The motion as to Issue 2 is denied.
 
The motion to compel further answers to deposition
questions as well as all the other requests sought by Plaintiff, including the
appointment of a referee, is denied. 
 
Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions is denied.
 
Finally, the Court notes that Plaintiff has on
calendar at least 11 additional motions to compel. The Court would simply
advise the parties to review the discovery disputes, perhaps reconsider how the
parties have been acting toward each other and attempt to obtain a resolution
to the disputes without the necessity for Court intervention.
 
Defendant is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 