..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is the summary in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 23STCV08874
Plaintiff's Name: Miguel Esparza
Defendant's Name: Urban Outfitters Inc.
People-Names: Miguel Esparza, Holly J. Fujie
Company-Names: Urban Outfitters Inc., Attentive (spyware company)
Places: Los Angeles
Dates: September 20, 2023, October 24, 2023
Events: Demurrer and motion to strike, Hearing Date
Money: None mentioned
Intentions: Plaintiff intends to state a claim for violation of California Penal Code, Section 631
Facts: Plaintiff's chat communications with Defendant's website were intercepted and recorded by Attentive, a third-party company without consent
Disputes: Defendant argues that it cannot be subject to derivative liability under California Penal Code, Section 631, and that the second cause of action fails because California Penal Code, Section 632.7 does not apply to use of a smart phone to access the Internet
Acts: Defendant filed a demurrer and motion to strike, Plaintiff filed an opposition and reply
Agreements: None mentioned
Laws: California Penal Code, Section 631, California Penal Code, Section 632.7, Code of Civil Procedure ยง 430.10(e)
Case Citations: Valenzuela v. Nationwide Mutual Insurance Co., Rittiman v. Public Utilities Com., Moulton Niguel Water Dist. v. Colombo, Durell v. Sharp Healthcare, Blank v. Kirwan, SKF Farms v. Superior Court, Stevens v. Superior Court, Rakestraw v. California Physicians' Serv.
Statutes: California Penal Code, Section 631, California Penal Code, Section 632.7, Code of Civil Procedure ยง 430.10(e)
Roles: Judge, Plaintiff, Defendant
Significant Statements:

* The Court finds that Plaintiff has stated a cause of action for violation of California Penal Code, Section 631.
* The demurrer of Defendant to the first cause of action is OVERRULED.
* The demurrer of Defendant to the second cause of action is SUSTAINED with 20 days leave to amend.
* The motion to strike is GRANTED with 20 days leave to amend.
```

And here is a brief summary in English text:

This is a tentative ruling on a demurrer and motion to strike in a case involving alleged interception of chat communications on Urban Outfitters Inc.'s website. The court has considered the moving and opposing parties' papers and has ruled that the plaintiff has stated a cause of action for violation of California Penal Code, Section 631. The court has overruled the demurrer to the first cause of action, but sustained the demurrer to the second cause of action with 20 days leave to amend. The court has also granted the motion to strike with 20 days leave to amend.
