  Case Number:  20STCV19331    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2023    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT










 




AIDAN SCIANDRA, and BOUALIENE SYPRASERT,
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
CHRONICPRACTOR CAREGIVER, INC. dba
  EXHALE MED CENTER, DANIELA ALEXANDER, ERIC LOYOLA, and DOES 1-10, 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.: 20STCV19331
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: PLAINTIFFS’ MOTION
  TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO SUPPLEMENTAL SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES 
 
8:30 a.m.
October 24, 2023
Dept. 56



 
 
MOVING PARTIES:             Plaintiffs
and Cross-Defendants Aidan Sciandra, Boualiene Syprasert, and Jack Edjourian
 
RESPONDING PARTIES:    Defendants
and Cross-Complainants Chronicpractor Caregiver, Inc. dba Exhale Med Center and
Eric Loyola
 
            The Court has considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers. 
 
BACKGROUND
This
action arises out of a business relationship concerning a marijuana dispensary
business.  The operative third amended
complaint (the “TAC”) alleges causes of action for (1) breach of contract –
equity purchase agreement, (2) breach of contract – promissory note, (3) breach
of contract – security agreement, (4) breach of written contract by third party
beneficiary, (5) specific performance, (6) demand for accounting, and (7)
unjust enrichment. 
 
Plaintiffs
now move for an order compelling Defendants to provide verified, code-compliant
responses, without objections, to Plaintiffs’ supplemental special
interrogatories, set one. 
 
DISCUSSION
            “In addition to the number of
interrogatories permitted by Sections 2030.030 and 2030.040, a party may
propound a supplemental interrogatory to elicit any later acquired information
bearing on all answers previously made by any party in response to interrogatories.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.070, subd.  (a).)
 
Within
30 days after service of interrogatories, the responding party shall serve
responses to the discovery unless, on motion, the court has shortened or
extended the time for response.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2030.260, subd.  (a).) 
 
The
court must impose monetary sanctions against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to
interrogatories unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of
the sanction unjust.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2030.290, subd.  (c).)
 
            Plaintiffs’ counsel declares that on
May 25, 2023, Plaintiffs served supplemental special interrogatories on
Defendants.  The responses were due on
June 23, 2023.  Defendants never
requested an extension or responded to the discovery.  Therefore, on July 3, 2023, Plaintiffs’
counsel sent defense counsel an email requesting the responses.  Subsequently, on July 12, 2023, defense
counsel responded referencing a prior Dropbox index and bank statements, but
did not serve substantive, verified, code-compliant responses to the discovery.

 
            In opposition, Defendants argue the
motion is moot because they served verified responses stating that their prior
responses to Plaintiffs’ previous interrogatories have not changed. 
 
            Although the Court notes that none
of Defendants’ responses are verified (i.e., they only contain verification
pages with dates but no signatures), Plaintiffs state in their reply that “the
discovery was finally provided ….” (Reply, p. 2:10-11.) 
 
            Therefore, the request to compel the
responses is moot.  Nevertheless, the
Court will impose monetary sanctions because Defendants waited until after the
instant motion was filed to serve their responses. 
            
The
Motion to Compel is DENIED in part and GRANTED in part as follows.  The request to compel Defendants’ responses to
Plaintiffs’ supplemental interrogatories is DENIED.  The request to impose monetary sanctions of
$1,710 against Defendants is GRANTED.  Defendants
are ordered to pay Plaintiffs sanctions of $1,710 within 20 days of this ruling.
 
 
Plaintiffs
are ordered to give notice of this ruling.
 
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
          
Dated this 24th day of October 2023
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 




 