 Case Number:  21STCV44739    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2023    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



NORMA OROZCO, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
BODEGA LATINA CORPORATION, etc., et
  al.,  
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.: 21STCV44739 
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
MOTION FOR TERMINATING SANCTIONS;
  REQUEST FOR ISSUE AND EVIDENTIARY SANCTIONS IN THE ALTERNATIVE; REQUEST FOR
  MONETARY SANCTIONS
 
Date: 
  October 24, 2023
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
Jury Trial: June 3, 2024
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff
Norma Orozco  
 
RESPONDING PARTY: Defendant
Bodega Latina Corporation (“Defendant”)
 
            The Court has considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers. 
 
BACKGROUND
            On
December 7, 2021, Plaintiff filed a complaint against Defendants alleging
causes of action for: (1) hostile work environment harassment; and (2) failure
to prevent and/or remedy harassment. The complaint arises from alleged sexual
harassment during Plaintiff’s employment with Defendant. 
            On
March 28, 2023, Plaintiff filed a motion to compel Defendant’s further
responses to Plaintiff’s Request for Production, Sets One and Two, and for
monetary sanctions against Defendant. On June 12, 2023, after hearing oral
argument, the Court took the matter under submission. On June 14, 2023, the
Court issued its ruling. The Court granted Plaintiff’s motion and ordered
Defendant to provide further responses that contained statements of compliance
within 20 days of the Court’s order.[1] The
Court also granted Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions in the amount of $2,250.00
and ordered Defendant and its counsel to pay monetary sanctions within 20 days
of the Court’s order.         
 
            On
October 2, 2023, Plaintiff filed and served a motion for terminating sanctions
and, alternatively, issue and evidentiary sanctions and monetary sanctions (the
“Motion”). Plaintiff contends that: (1) the Court should strike Defendant’s
Answer and enter its default; (2) in the alternative, the Court should issue
evidentiary and issue sanctions against Defendant; and (3) monetary sanctions
are warranted against Defendant’s counsel. The Motion is made on the grounds
that: (1) Plaintiff viewed security footage of Defendant Mario Morales (“Morales”)
allegedly touching Plaintiff; and (2) Defendant failed to comply with the
Court’s order to produce the footage as it now indicates that no recordings
exist because they either never existed or were destroyed. 
 
            In
opposition to the Motion, Defendant relevantly contends that: (1) the Motion
should be denied because Plaintiff failed to file a separate statement; (2) no
evidence ties Attorney Laura Reathaford (“Reathaford”) to the automatic
self-deletion of the video at issue, which occurred before she was retained;
(3) Defendant’s initial and supplemental response to the RFP was code-compliant
and its supplemental response complied with this Court’s order; (4)
terminating, issue, and evidentiary sanctions would be punitive; and (5) Defendant
should be awarded their own fees and costs in opposing the motion. 
 
Lack of a Separate Statement 
            Any
motion involving the content of a discovery request or the responses to such a
request must be accompanied by a separate statement. (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule
3.1345(a).) A motion for issue and evidentiary sanctions requires a separate
statement. (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1345(a)(7).) A separate statement is
not required when: (1) no response has been provided to the request for
discovery; or (2) a court has allowed the moving party to submit—in place of a
separate statement—a concise outline of the discovery request and each response
in dispute. 
 
            Initially,
the Court finds that the Motion is procedurally improper as to Plaintiff’s
request for issue and evidentiary sanctions. Pursuant to California Rules of
Court, Rule 3.1345, Plaintiff was required to file a separate statement
with the Motion as Plaintiff seeks issue and evidentiary sanctions. Plaintiff,
however, failed to file a separate statement. The Court did not give permission
to Plaintiff to submit a concise outline of the disputed discovery and
Plaintiff does not argue in the Motion that Defendant failed to respond to
discovery as a basis for issue and evidentiary sanctions.
 
The Court therefore DENIES WITHOUT
PREJUDICE Plaintiff’s request for issue and evidentiary sanctions. 


 
Plaintiff’s Improper Request for Monetary Sanctions
A notice of motion must state in
writing the grounds upon which it will be made. (Gonzales v. Superior Court (1987)
189 Cal.App.3d 1542, 1545.) A motion must state the basis for the motion and
the relief sought. (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1112(d).) 
 
The Court finds that Plaintiff seeks
varying amounts of monetary sanctions. The Notice of Motion and concluding
paragraph of Plaintiff’s Memorandum of Points and Authorities request monetary
sanctions against Defendant’s counsel in the amount of $2,460.00. The
declaration of Plaintiff’s counsel, Nick Yasman, Esq. (“Yasman”) in support of
the Motion, however, requests sanctions in the amount of $3,060.00 against Mr.
Donahue. (Yasman Decl., ¶ 20.) Section V of Plaintiff’s Memorandum of Points
and Authorities requests monetary sanctions against Reathaford in the amount of
$3,060.00. 
 
Defendant is entitled to adequate
notice of: (1) the amount of monetary sanctions; and (2) against whom sanctions
are sought. The declaration of Yasman seeks sanctions against a party who is
not counsel for Defendant. Moreover, based on the conflicting amounts of
monetary sanctions requested in the Motion, the Court cannot ascertain whether
Plaintiff seeks sanctions in the amount of $2,460.00 or $3,060.00. The reply
brief states that the correct demand of monetary sanctions is $3,060.00. (Reply
at 5:5-7.) Plaintiff, however, should have set forth the accurate amount of
monetary sanctions in the Notice of Motion. Given that Defendant has a right to
due process, the Court finds that Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions is
improper as the Notice of Motion sets forth a lesser amount of monetary
sanctions than what is actually sought by Plaintiff. 
The Court therefore DENIES WITHOUT
PREJUDICE Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions. Given the procedural
issues as to the Motion, the Court’s discussion below will only address the
issue of terminating sanctions and Defendant’s request for monetary sanctions. 
 
DISCUSSION
             The discovery statutes evince an incremental
approach to discovery sanctions, starting with monetary sanctions and ending
with the ultimate sanction of termination. (Doppes v. Bentley Motors, Inc. (2009)
174 Cal.App.4th 967, 992.) Discovery sanctions should be appropriate to the
dereliction, and should not exceed that which is required to protect the
interests of the party entitled to but denied discovery. (Id.) Continuing misuses of the discovery process warrant
incrementally harsher sanctions until the sanction is reached that will curb
the abuse. (Id.) Where discovery
violations are willful, preceded by a history of abuse, and the evidence shows
that less severe sanctions would not produce compliance with discovery rules,
the trial court is justified in imposing the ultimate sanction. (Id.) A trial court has broad discretion
to impose discovery sanctions, but two facts are generally a prerequisite to
the imposition of nonmonetary sanctions. (Biles
v. Exxon Mobil Corp. (2004) 124 Cal.App.4th 1315, 1327.) Where discovery
sanctions are requested against a party, there must be a failure to comply with
a court order and the failure must be willful. (Id.)  
 
A decision to order terminating
sanctions should not be made lightly. (Creed-21
v. City of Wildomar (2017) 18 Cal.App.5th 690, 702.) A trial court’s order
to impose terminating sanctions will be reversed only if it was arbitrary,
capricious, or whimsical. (Id. at p. 702.)  Where a violation is willful, preceded by a
history of abuse, and the evidence shows that less severe sanctions would not
produce compliance with the discovery rules, the trial court is justified in
imposing the ultimate sanction. (Id.
at p. 702.) Trial courts have properly imposed terminating sanctions when
parties have willfully disobeyed one
or more discovery orders. (Los
Defensores, Inc. v. Gomez (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 377, 390.) Terminating
sanctions are warranted when a party’s lack of compliance with the discovery
process has caused the opposing party prejudice. (Doppes v. Bentley Motors, Inc., supra, 174 Cal.App.4th 967, 989.)
In law and motion practice, factual evidence is supplied to the court by way of
declarations. (Calcor Space Facility, Inc. v. Superior Court (1997) 53
Cal.App.4th 216, 224.) 
 
Issue No.1: Terminating Sanctions
            Declaration
of Plaintiff’s Counsel
            In
support of the Motion, Yasman relevantly declares that: (1) the relevant matter
before the Court as to the Motion involves Defendant’s failure to provide the
item requested in request No. 48 of Plaintiff’s RFPs (Yasman Decl., ¶ 4); (2)
Request No. 48 asks Defendant to produce surveillance or video recordings
relating to Plaintiff during the time period of December 1, 2018 to the present
date, and Plaintiff is informed and believes that Defendant has video
surveillance cameras throughout its store and recorded the interactions between
Plaintiff and Morales, including the complained of sexual harassment (Id.);
(3) on June 4, 2023, Plaintiff testified at deposition that she was shown the
security camera footage of Morales coming behind her and touching her (Id.,
¶¶ 5-6 and Exhibit B); and (4) Plaintiff served Defendant with Plaintiff’s
Request for Production of Documents, Set Two, and Defendant’s responses were
inadequate, not code-compliant, and no documents were produced (Id., ¶¶
7-10 and Exhibits C-D). 
            Yasman
further declares that: (1) Plaintiff filed a motion to compel Defendant’s
further responses to the Request for Production of Documents, Sets One and Two
(Id., ¶¶ 11-12 and Exhibit E); (2) prior to the hearing on the motion to
compel, Defendant provided supplemental responses (Id., ¶ 13); (3)
Defendant’s response to RFP No. 48, which requested the security camera
footage, stated that no recordings exist that reference Plaintiff’s alleged
sexual harassment because they have never existed or were destroyed (Id.,
¶¶ 13-14 and Exhibit F); and (4) the Court granted Plaintiff’s motion to compel
discovery responses on June 14, 2023, and the Court ordered Defendant to
provide further responses that contain statements of compliance as Defendant’s
supplemental responses did not contain proper statements of compliance (Id.,
¶¶ 15-16 and Exhibit G). 
 
            On
June 30, 2023, Defendant provided further supplemental responses to Set Two of
Plaintiff’s Request for Production and such responses repeated that no
recordings exist because they have never existed or were destroyed. (Id.,
¶¶ 17-18 and Exhibit H.) Plaintiff contends that Defendant’s responses are a
clear violation of this Court’s order and a violation of the duty to preserve
evidence. (Id., ¶ 19.) 
 
            Declaration
of Defendant’s Counsel
            Defendant
presents evidence that: (1) Plaintiff filed her complaint with the Court on or
about December 7, 2021 (Reathaford Decl., ¶¶ 2 and Exhibit A); (2) Plaintiff’s
complaint to the Department of Fair Employment and Housing alleges differing
dates of the alleged sexual harassment of July 2020 or July 2021 (Id., ¶
3 and Exhibit B); and (3) the video cameras at Defendant’s store self-deletes
every month (Id., ¶ 5 and Exhibit D). 
            Analysis
            The
Motion is brought on the grounds that, instead of preserving the relevant video
evidence, Defendant either destroyed or concealed the security camera footage. The
Court finds that Plaintiff’s assertion is without support to warrant
terminating sanctions. Defendant complied with the Court’s June 14, 2023 order
as Plaintiff does not indicate that Defendant failed to provide further
responses with a statement of compliance. Plaintiff presents no evidence that
Defendant’s failure to preserve the security camera footage was willful.
Defendant has presented evidence that such footage self-deletes monthly. The
complaint alleges that Morales touched Plaintiff on July 21, 2021 and July 23,
2021. Plaintiff did not file her DFEH complaint until November 15, 2021 and did
not file a complaint with this Court until December 7, 2021. It logically
follows that any evidence would have automatically been deleted by the time any
indication of litigation was forthcoming. The fact that Defendant does not
possess the requested evidence does not mean that such evidence was destroyed
willfully or to prejudice Plaintiff. Moreover, the declaration of Yasman in
support of the Motion does not state how Plaintiff has been prejudiced by the
purported willful destruction of evidence. In sum, Plaintiff has not shown that
there has been a willful failure to comply with a court order. The Court finds
that Plaintiff has not made a showing warranting terminating sanctions.
 
            The
Court therefore DENIES WITHOUT PREJUDICE Plaintiff’s request for terminating
sanctions against Defendant. 
 
            The
Court will now address Defendant’s request for monetary sanctions against
Plaintiff.
 
Issue No.2: Monetary Sanctions Against Plaintiff
            Defendant
requests monetary sanctions in the amount of $15,933.00 against Plaintiff and her
counsel for opposing the Motion. 
 
            A
court may impose monetary sanctions ordering that one engaging in the misuse of
the discovery process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the
reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result
of that conduct. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2023.030(a).) A misuse of the discovery process
includes making or opposing, unsuccessfully and without substantial
justification, a motion to compel or limit discovery. (Code Civ. Proc. §
2023.010(h).) Monetary sanctions must be reasonable and a court has discretion
to fix the amount of monetary sanctions. (Cornerstone Realty Advisors, LLC
v. Summit Healthcare Reit, Inc. (2020) 56 Cal.App.5th 771, 790-791.) 
 
            Reathaford
declares that counsel spent 28.3 hours researching and writing the opposition
to the Motion and anticipates spending 3 hours in connection with the hearing.
(Reathaford Decl., ¶ 8.) Jeffrey Richmond, whose reasonable hourly rate is
$510.00 per hour, did the research and writing. (Id.) Reathaford
declares that her hourly rate is $500.00 per hour and she will prepare for and
attend the hearing. (Id.) Defendant requests monetary sanctions against
Plaintiff and her attorney in the amount of $15,933.00. (Id.) 
 
            The
Court finds that monetary sanctions against Plaintiff and her counsel in the
amount of $15,933.00 is unreasonable. The Court finds that an excessive amount
of time was spent in opposition to the Motion as 28.3 hours is unreasonable
given the scope of the Motion. The Court therefore exercises its discretion and
GRANTS Defendant’s request for monetary sanctions in the reasonable amount of $1,000.00,
which represents 2.0 hours of work on the opposition at the rate of $500.00 per
hour. Monetary sanctions are to be paid by Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s counsel,
jointly and severally, to Defendant within 20 days of the date of this order. 
 
            In
sum, the Motion is DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE in its entirety. 
Moving
Party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 24th
day of October 2023
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 




 


