 Case Number:  21STCV12788    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2023    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



PATIENCE AND FORTITUDE, INC., and WANDER
  AND PONDER, LLC,
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
MOVE SALES, INC., and DOES 1 through 20,
  inclusive, 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               





     
  CASE NO.: 21STCV12788
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: DEFENDANT’S MOTION
  TO COMPEL PLAINTIFF’S FURTHER RESPONSES TO SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES 
 
8:30 a.m.
October 24, 2023
Dept. 56



 
 
MOVING PARTY:                Defendant/Cross-Complainant
Move Sales, Inc.
 
RESPONDING PARTY:        None.
 
            The Court has considered the moving
and reply papers.  No opposition was
filed.
 
BACKGROUND
This
action arises out of the alleged breach of a contractual relationship.  On September 11, 2023, Plaintiffs Patience
and Fortitude, Inc. and Wander and Ponder, LLC (collectively, “Plaintiffs”)
filed their operative Second Amended Complaint against Defendants Move Sales,
Inc. and Does 1 through 20, inclusive, alleging: (1) breach of contract; (2)
fraud by misrepresentation; (3) fraud in the inducement; (4) negligent
misrepresentation; (5) violations of the Unfair Competition Law; and (6) violations
of the Fair Advertising Act Competition Law.
 
On
October 10, 2023, Move Sales, Inc. (“Defendant”) filed its operative First
Amended Cross-Complaint against Plaintiffs and Roes 1 through 5, inclusive,
alleging: (1) breach of contract, (2) account stated, and (3) goods and
services rendered. 
 
On
August 9, 2023, Defendant filed the instant motion to compel Plaintiffs’
further responses to Defendant’s special interrogatories, set five.  The hearing was initially set for October 16,
2023, but on September 29, 2023, the Court rescheduled it to October 24, 2023. 
 
On
October 17, 2023, Defendant filed a reply, updating the Court that Plaintiffs neither
served nor filed any opposition to the motion. 
 
DISCUSSION
            “On receipt of a response to
interrogatories, the propounding party may move for an order compelling a
further response if the propounding party deems that any of the following
apply: ¶ (1) An answer to a particular interrogatory is evasive or incomplete.
¶ (2) An exercise of the option to produce documents under Section 2030.230 is
unwarranted or the required specification of those documents is inadequate. ¶
(3) An objection to an interrogatory is without merit or too general.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (a).)  
 
Meet and Confer
The
instant motion must be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (b)(1).)
            Here, Defense counsel declares that
the parties met and conferred.  (Canepa
Decl. ¶ 3.)  Defendant has thus satisfied
the meet and confer requirement.
 
Separate Statement

Defendant
has also satisfied the separate statement requirement.  (See Cal. 
Rules of Court, rule 3.1345(a)(2) [requiring motions to compel further
responses to requests for interrogatories to be accompanied by a separate
statement]; Defendant’s separate statement filed August 9, 2023, outlines the
interrogatories at issue, Plaintiffs’ responses, and explains why further responses
are warranted].)
 
Interrogatories at
Issue
            Defendant moves for an order
compelling Plaintiff Patience and Fortitude, Inc.’s further responses to
Defendant’s Special Interrogatories, Set Five, Nos.  40-45, and 53, and Plaintiff Wander and
Ponder, LLC’s responses to Set Four, Nos. 
40-44, and 52. 
            
            The Court has reviewed Defendant’s
separate statement.  The Court finds all
of Plaintiffs’ objections to the interrogatories meritless.  The interrogatories seek relevant information
given the allegations in the operative pleadings.  In addition, they are not vague or
ambiguous.  
            
            Accordingly, the Court finds there is
good cause to compel Plaintiffs’ further responses to the interrogatories.  Moreover, the motion is unopposed. if the
motion was timely.  Therefore, the Motion
is GRANTED.  Defendant is not seeking
sanctions in connection with the instant motion. 
 
            Defendant
is ordered to give notice of this ruling.
 
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
          
Dated this 24th day of October 2023
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 




 