 Case Number:  23STCV08874    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2023    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



MIGUEL ESPARZA, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
URBAN OUTFITTERS INC., etc., 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.: 23STCV08874 
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
DEMURRER AND MOTION TO STRIKE
 
Date: 
  October 24, 2023
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant
Urban Outfitters, Inc. 
 
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff
Miguel Esparza 
 
            The Court has considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers. 
 
BACKGROUND
            Plaintiff
filed a complaint arising from the alleged interception of Plaintiff’s chats on
Defendant’s website, alleging causes of action for: (1) violations of the
California Invasion of Privacy Act (“CIPA”) pursuant to California Penal
Code, Section 631; and (2) violations of the CIPA pursuant to California Penal
Code, Section 632.7. 
 
            On
September 20, 2023, Defendant filed and served a demurrer to the first and
second causes of action in the complaint, as well as a motion to strike
portions of the complaint. Both the demurrer and motion to strike are set forth
in the same motion. As to the demurrer to the first cause of action, Defendant
contends that it cannot be subject to derivative CIPA liability because: (1)
the complaint does not allege predicate/direct CIPA liability; (2) the CIPA
“party exception” applies to Defendant’s vendors; and (3) the asserted chat was
not intercepted as required for predicate/direct CIPA liability. As to the
second cause of action, Defendant contends that such cause of action fails
because: (1) Penal Code section 632.7 does not apply to use of a smart phone to
access the Internet; and (2) Penal Code section 632.7 requires the subject
communication to occur between two phones. 
 
            Initially,
the Court finds that Plaintiff has failed to oppose the motion to strike.
Plaintiff’s opposition does not address Defendant’s arguments raised in support
of striking portions of the complaint. The Court therefore finds that Plaintiff
has conceded to such arguments under Moulton Niguel
Water Dist. v. Colombo (2003) 111 Cal.App.4th 1210, 1215. 
 
            Also, while Plaintiff contends that the demurrer should be overruled
because it is untimely, Plaintiff cites no legal authority to support such
argument and the Court finds that Plaintiff has waived such contention under Moulton
Niguel Water Dist. v. Colombo, supra, 111 Cal.App.4th 1210, 1215. The Court
therefore will address the merits of the demurrer. The
Court will also address the motion to strike in this ruling. 
             
 
JUDICIAL NOTICE 
            The Court DENIES
Plaintiff’s Request for Judicial Notice as to Exhibits 1 and 2 therein, as well
as Composite Exhibit 2. Such requests seek judicial notice of rulings by
another Department in this Superior Court and by a Department in the San
Bernardino Superior Court. Citations or reliance on unpublished superior court
cases are improper. (Rittiman v. Public Utilities Com. (2022) 80
Cal.App.5th 1018, 1043, fn. 18.) 
 
            The Court GRANTS
Plaintiff’s Request for Judicial Notice was to Exhibit 4, which is attached to
Plaintiff’s Request for Judicial Notice. (Evid. Code § 452, 453.) 
 
MEET AND CONFER 
            The meet and confer requirement has been met.  
 
DEMURRER

             A demurrer tests the sufficiency of a
complaint as a matter of law.  (Durell
v. Sharp Healthcare (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 1350, 1358.) The court gives the
complaint a reasonable interpretation, and treats the demurrer as admitting all
material facts properly pleaded.  (Id.)  In testing the sufficiency of the complaint,
the court must assume the truth of (1) the properly pleaded factual
allegations; (2) facts that can be reasonably inferred from those expressly
pleaded; and (3) judicially noticed matters. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39
Cal.3d 311, 318.) A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or
other extrinsic matters. (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153 Cal.
App. 3d 902, 905.) Accordingly, “[w]hether the plaintiff will be able to prove
the pleaded facts is irrelevant to ruling upon the demurrer.” (Stevens v.
Superior Court (1986) 180 Cal.App.3d 605, 609-10.) A general demurrer may
be taken to a complaint where “[t]he pleading does not state facts sufficient
to constitute a cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.10(e).) Although
Courts construe pleadings liberally, sufficient facts must be alleged to
support the allegations plead to survive a demurrer. (Rakestraw v.
California Physicians' Serv. (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 39, 43.) 
 
Where a demurrer is sustained, leave
to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful
amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d
335, 348.) The burden is on the plaintiff to show the court that a pleading
can be amended successfully. (Id.) If there is any reasonable
possibility that the plaintiff can state a good cause of action, it is error to
sustain a demurrer without leave to amend. (Youngman v. Nevada Irrigation
Dist. (1969) 70 Cal.2d 240, 245).  
 
Issue No.1: First Cause of Action
            Defendant
contends that the first cause of action in the complaint is insufficiently
alleged because Defendant cannot be subject to derivative liability. Plaintiff
contends that the first cause of action is sufficient because it alleges that
Defendant’s chat provider violated the second and third clauses of California Penal
Code, Section 631. Initially, the Court finds that the complaint only alleges
that Defendant violated the third prong of Penal Code section 631. (Complaint
at ¶ 24.)  Also, while the parties rely
on numerous conflicting decisions of Federal District Courts in support of
their respective arguments, such cases are not binding on this Court although
they are entitled to great weight. (People v. Bocanegra (2023) 90
Cal.App.5th 1236, 1255, fn. 7.) 
 
            California
Penal Code, Section 631 has been interpreted by California courts as
containing three different clauses which cover three distinct and mutually
independent patterns of conduct. (Valenzuela v. Nationwide Mutual Insurance
Co., 2023 WL 5266033 at *3 (C.D. Cal. August 14, 2023).) The three patterns
of conduct that Section 631 prohibits are: (1) intentional wiretapping; (2) attempting
to learn the contents or meaning of a communication in transit over a wire; and
(3) attempting to use or communicate information obtained as a result of
engaging in either of the previous two activities. (Id.) In addition to
these three clauses, Section 631 contains an aiding provision which imposes
liability on anyone who aids, agrees with, employes, or conspires with any
person or persons in violating the three clauses above. (Id.) 
 
            The
second clause of Penal Code section 631 is violated where a party willfully and
without the consent of all parties to the communication, or in any unauthorized
manner, reads, or attempts to read, or to learn the contents or meaning of any
message, report, or communication while the same is in transit or passing over
any wire, line, cable, or is being sent from, or received at any place within
this state. (Id.) 
 
            A
party to a conversation cannot logically be liable for eavesdropping on a
conversation, so a party to a communication is not liable for learning the contents
of that communication. (Id. at *4.) When a party intends to communicate
with a second party, and a computer code automatically directs the
communication to an additional third party, the third party is not construed as
a party to the communication, so the party exception does not shield the third
party. (Id.) Where it is alleged that a third party has violated
California Penal Code, Section 631, it follows that the entity who
engaged such third party is liable for a violation under California Penal
Code, Section 631. (Id.) The protections of Penal Code section 631
extend explicitly to the beginnings and ends of communications, so there is no
reason to consider the first part of an electronic communication beyond the
statute’s reach. (Revitch v. New Moosejaw, LLC, 2019 WL 5485330 at *2
(N.D. Cal. October 29, 2019).)
 
Pertinent Allegations of the Complaint
and Analysis
The Court finds that a discussion of Valenzuela
is instructive. In Valenzuela, plaintiff utilized a chat feature on
defendant insurance company’s website to communicate with defendant; however,
unbeknownst to plaintiff, defendant employed a third-party company to embed
code into the website, which allowed the third-party company to monitor and
store chat conversations. No consent was obtained to share the chat
conversations. In Valenzuela, plaintiff brought a claim for violation of
California Penal Code, Section 631 against defendant insurance company
but not the third-party.  A motion to
dismiss for failure to state a claim was filed by defendant as to the Section
631 claim. 
 
In holding that plaintiff stated a
claim against defendant insurance company for aiding a violation of Penal Code
section 631, the Valenzuela court stated that plaintiff alleged that:
(1) the third-party used the data it collected from the chats; and (2)
defendant insurance company contracted with the third-party in order to benefit
from its data harvesting for financial gain. The Valenzuela court opined
that the facts alleged were sufficient to show that the third-party violated
the third clause of Penal Code section 631. The Valenzuela court further
held that plaintiff had sufficiently alleged that defendant insurance company
aided the actions of the third-party because it engaged the third-party for the
purpose of intercepting messages for financial gain. Additionally, the Valenzuela
court opined that plaintiff alleged defendant’s facilitation of the
embedding of the third-party code into defendant’s website. The Valenzuela court
therefore found that the allegations were sufficient to state a claim for aiding
a violation of California Penal Code, Section 631.
 
Here, the complaint alleges that: (1)
Defendant allowed a third-party spyware company called Attentive to covertly
embed code into Defendant’s chat feature (Complaint, ¶ 10); (2) the secret code
enables and allows Attentive to secretly intercept in real time, eavesdrop
upon, and store transcripts of Defendant’s chat communications with
unsuspecting website visitors (Id.); (3) Defendant neither informs
visitors of this conduct nor obtains their consent to these intrusions (Id.)
; (4) Attentive exploited, monetized, and used the data it gathered through the
chat feature in real time (Id., ¶ 18); and (5) the use of the embedded
code in Defendant’s chat feature was for financial profit (Id., ¶¶
13-17).  Plaintiff alleges that he used
his smart phone to visit Defendant’s website. (Id., ¶ 19.) 
 
Initially, the Court rejects
Defendant’s contention that it cannot be subject to derivative liability under
California Penal Code, Section 631(a). The complaint sufficiently
alleges facts showing that Attentive violated the second clause of California Penal
Code, Section 631. (Id., ¶¶ 11-13, 20-22.) Due to the complaint
alleging facts sufficient to show a violation of the second clause of Penal
Code section 631, Plaintiff has stated facts sufficient to constitute a
violation by Attentive of the third clause of Penal Code section 631. (Valenzuela
v. Nationwide Mutual Insurance Co., supra, at *6.) Plaintiff has also stated
facts alleging that Defendant aided the violations of Attentive. (Id.,
¶¶ 10, 24-30.)  The facts here are akin
to those in Valenzuela and Plaintiff has thus stated a valid cause of
action.  
The demurrer of Defendant to the
first cause of action is OVERRULED as Plaintiff has stated a cause of action
for violation of California Penal Code, Section 631. 
 
Issue No.2: Second Cause of Action
            Defendant
contends that the second cause of action in the complaint fails because
California Penal Code, Section 632.7 does not apply to use of a smart
phone to access the Internet. Plaintiff contends that the complaint plausibly
alleges a claim under California Penal Code, Section 632.7. 
 
            Under
California Penal Code, Section 632.7(a), it is a crime when a person
without the consent of all parties to a communication, intercepts or receives
and intentionally records, or assists in the interception or reception and
intentional recordation of, a communication transmitted between a cellular or
cordless telephone and another telephone. (Smith v. LoanMe, Inc. (2021)
11 Cal.App.5th 183.)  Communication
includes, but is not limited, to communications transmitted by voice, data, or
image, including facsimile. (Cal. Pen. Code § 632.7(d)(3).)  Where a party bases a violation of Penal Code
section 632.7 on the use of a chat feature on a website, such claim will be
deemed insufficient. (Valenzuela v. Nationwide Mutual Insurance Co., supra,
at *6.) 
 
            Here,
the complaint alleges that “Defendant’s chat communications from its website
are transmitted to website visitors by either cellular telephony or landline
telephony.”[1]
(Complaint, ¶ 20.)  As to the second
cause of action, the complaint alleges that “Plaintiff communicated with
Defendant using telephony subject to the mandates and prohibitions of Section
632.7” and “Defendant’s communication from the chat feature on its website is
transmitted via telephony subject to the mandates and prohibitions of Section
632.7.” (Id., ¶¶ 32-33.) 
 
            The
Court finds that the second cause of action is insufficiently alleged pursuant
to Valenzuela. The complaint is based on the alleged interception and
eavesdropping of chat messages on Defendant’s website. Plaintiff does not
explicitly allege that the chat correspondence between the parties was via
telephone as required by Penal Code section 632.7. Plaintiff has not stated a
cause of action for violation of California Penal Code, Section 632.7.
 
            The
demurrer of Defendant to the second cause of action in the complaint is
SUSTAINED with 20 days leave to amend. 
 
MOTION TO STRIKE
            Due
to the lack of any opposition as to Defendant’s motion to strike, the Court
GRANTS Defendant’s motion to strike with 20 days leave to amend under Moulton
Niguel Water Dist. v. Colombo, supra, 111 Cal.App.4th 1210,
1215. 
Moving
Party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 


 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 24th
day of October 2023
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 






