  Case Number:  23AHCV01048    Hearing Date:   October 3, 2023    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



JANE DOE, 
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
SF
   MARKETS, LLC, et al.,
 
                   Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  23AHCV01048
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.

October
   3, 2023




 


 


 



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
On May 9, 2023, plaintiff Jane Doe
(“Plaintiff”) filed this action against defendants SF Markets, LLC dba Sprouts
Farmers Market (“Sprouts”) and George Mares (“Mares”) for violations of the
Fair Employment and Housing Act (“FEHA”) and Labor Code, including hostile work
environment, quid pro quo sexual harassment, retaliation, gender
discrimination, and failure to prevent discrimination, harassment, and
retaliation.  
On June 30, 2023, Sprouts filed its
answer. 
On September 6, 2023, Sprouts filed
this motion for an order compelling Plaintiff to arbitrate her claims. 
Plaintiff filed an opposition brief on September
20, 2023.
Sprouts filed a reply brief on
September 26, 2023. 
II.         
LEGAL
STANDARD
A party may file a petition to compel
arbitration where “an agreement to arbitrate the controversy exists” and “a
party to the agreement refuses to arbitrate that controversy.” (See Code Civ.
Proc., § 1281.2.) “[W]hen a petition to compel arbitration is filed and
accompanied by prima facie evidence of a written agreement to arbitrate the
controversy, the court itself must determine whether the agreement exists and,
if any defense to its enforcement is raised, whether it is enforceable. Because
the existence of the agreement is a statutory prerequisite to granting the
petition, the petitioner bears the burden of proving its existence by a
preponderance of the evidence. If the party opposing the petition raises a
defense to enforcement ... that party bears the burden of producing evidence
of, and proving by a preponderance of the evidence, any fact necessary to the
defense.” (Rosenthal v. Great Western Fin. Securities Corp. (1996) 14
Cal.4th 394, 413–414.) In these summary proceedings, the trial court sits as a
trier of fact, weighing all the affidavits, declarations, and other documentary
evidence, as well as oral testimony received at the court's discretion, to
reach a final determination.” (Engalla v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc.
(1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 972.)
III.       
DISCUSSION
Sprouts claims that an arbitration
agreement was provided to Plaintiff in 2012 as part of her application process.
(Hartline Decl., Ex. 1, ¶ 4.) The document, which is undated, is entitled
“Mutual Binding Arbitration Agreement” (herein, “Agreement”) and is attached to
the declaration of Brandon Hartline, Sprouts’ Human Resources Manager. It states,
in pertinent part: 
This Agreement to arbitrate covers all
complaints, charges, claims, controversies, disputes, courts, or causes of
action of any nature (collectively, “claims”), whether based in contract, tort,
equity, or other legal theory, and whether arising under any federal, state, or
local statute, law ordinance, or regulation, or under the common law, that are
now in existence or that may exist in the future, arising out of or related to
Team Member’s employment with Sprouts and/or the termination thereof.” 
 
(Hartline Decl., Ex. 1, ¶ 4.) The Agreement applies to
claims for discrimination, harassment, or retaliation, including harassment or
discrimination based on sex and gender, in addition to claims for violation of
any federal, state, or other governmental law, statute, regulation, or
ordinance. (Id.) Sprouts argues that Plaintiff’s claims within the scope
of the Agreement and that they are not barred by the Ending Forced Arbitration
of Sexual Assault and Sexual Harassment Act because they arose before March 3,
2022. 
Because Plaintiff filed this action
under a pseudonym, Sprouts filed a copy of the Agreement that has the signature
of the “Team Member” redacted. (Hartline Decl., Ex. 1, p. 5.) While the
redacted signature would ordinarily affect whether Sprouts has met its initial
burden to allege the existence of an arbitration agreement, Plaintiff attached
an unredacted copy of the document to her own declaration in opposition to this
motion. (Pltf. Decl., Ex. A.) The document purports to bear her signature; therefore,
Sprouts has met initial burden and the burden shifts to Plaintiff to identify a
factual dispute as to the authenticity of the signature. (Espejo v. Southern
California Permanente Medical Group (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 1047, 1060 [defendants
met initial burden by attaching a copy of the purported arbitration agreement
bearing employee’s electronic signature].)  If Plaintiff submits sufficient evidence to
create a factual dispute, the burden ships back onto Sprouts, who retains the
ultimate burden of proving, by a preponderance of the evidence, the
authenticity of the signature. 
In her opposition brief, Plaintiff emphasizes
that the Agreement is undated and declares that she does not recall receiving
the Agreement as part of her hiring process in 2012 or signing it. Plaintiff
also declares that the signature on the Agreement does not resemble her own and
that she does not recognize it. Plaintiff’s counsel adds that Sprout’s
representative, Nancy LaMons, did not start working for Sprouts until 2014, and
argues that this casts further doubt on Hartline’s assertion that the Agreement
was given to Plaintiff as part of her onboarding process in 2012.  (Astbury Decl., ¶¶ 6-7.) Plaintiff’s counsel
also states that the Agreement was not produced in response to his request for
Plaintiff’s personnel file; instead, a different 2-page document (also titled
“Mutual Binding Arbitration Agreement”), dated April 24, 2012, was included. (Astbury
Decl., ¶¶ 2-5; Ex. A.)  
On reply, Sprouts argues that
Plaintiff’s declaration that she does not recognize her signature is
insufficient to create a factual dispute. Sprouts argues that whether Plaintiff
can recall signing the Agreement is of no significance because her loss of
memory has no impact on whether she actually signed the Agreement or that the
signature on the Agreement is forged. The Court agrees and notes that Plaintiff
does not unequivocally state under penalty of perjury that the signature on the
Agreement is not hers; only that she does not recognize it. To the extent that
Plaintiff asserts that the signature on the Agreement does not “resemble” her
signature on her declaration, this is an opinion and the Court, as the finder
of fact, disagrees with Plaintiff’s assessment. 
And, even if Plaintiff sufficiently
created a factual dispute as to the authenticity of her signature, Sprouts
still meets its ultimate burden to establish an agreement to arbitrate by the
preponderance of the evidence. In reply, Sprouts files a 92-page declaration with
7 exhibits consisting of 82 pages of documents from Plaintiff’s personnel file
including corrective action forms, witness statements, vacation requests,
job/pay change documents, missed punch forms, and performance evaluations. Many
of these documents bear Plaintiff’s signature and the signatures on them are
virtually identical to the one on the Agreement.  
IV.        
CONCLUSION
In light of the foregoing, Sprouts’
motion is GRANTED. The action is stayed until the completion of arbitration.
The Court sets a status conference re: arbitration for _________ at 8:30 a.m.
in Department 3 of the Alhambra Courthouse. 

Dated
this 3rd
day of October, 2023
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to appear
at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the hearing and
argue the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If
the Court does not receive emails from the parties indicating submission on
this tentative ruling and there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court
may, at its discretion, adopt the tentative as the final order or place the
motion off calendar.
 