  Case Number:  21STCV40792    Hearing Date:   March 5, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



ROCCO DISTEFANO, an individual,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
EQUINOX HOLDINGS, INC., a Delaware Corporation; MELVIN MYLES (AKA
  MELVIN MILES), an individual; and DOES 1 through 22, inclusive,
                        Defendants.


 Case No.:          21STCV40792
 Hearing Date:   2/29/24
 Trial Date:        7/30/24
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Defendant Equinox
  Holdings, Inc.’s Motion to Bifurcate Trial of Plaintiff’s Punitive Damages.



 
Background
Plaintiff Rocco Distefano sues Defendants Equinox Holdings, Inc., Melvin
Myles, and Does 1 through 22 pursuant to February 7, 2022 Complaint alleging
claims of (1) Retaliation – (FEHA) (Gov. Code, § 12940(h)), (2) Wrongful
Termination – Violation of Public Policy, (3) Breach of Implied Contract, (4)
Breach of Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing, (5) Discrimination
(FEHA) – Sexual Harassment, (6) Discrimination (FEHA) – Failure to Fairly
Compensate/Promote, (7) Harassment (FEHA) – Sexual Harassment/Sexual
Orientation/Preference-Hostile Work Environment (Gov. Code, § 12940(j), et.
seq.), (8) Failure to Prevent Harassment/Retaliation (FEHA) (Gov. Code, §
12940(k) et seq.), and (9) Retaliation – Whistleblower Protection (Lab. Code, §
1102.5) (Gov. Code, § 12940(h), et seq.).
On January 31, 2024, Defendant Equinox filed a motion to bifurcate the
trial as to punitive damages.
On February 20, 2024, Plaintiff Distefano opposed Defendant Equinox’s
motion.
On February 27, 2024, Defendant Equinox replied to Plaintiff Distefano’s
opposition.
Defendant Equinox’s motion is now before the Court.
 
Request
for Judicial Notice
Per Defendant Equinox’s request, the Court takes judicial notice of
various filings made with the Superior Court. (Mot., RJN, pp. 1-3; Evid. Code,
§§ 452, subd., (d), 453, subds. (a)-(b).)
 
Motion to Bifurcate Trial
Preliminary
Note – Scope of Requested Bifurcated Trial
Defendant
Equinox seeks a court order:
(1)
“Bifurcating all issues pertaining to Plaintiff Rocco Distefano’s (‘Plaintiff’)
request for and/or alleged entitlement to punitive damages from all other
issues to be tried, pursuant to Civil Code §§ 3294 and 3295; and”
(2)
“Precluding Plaintiff from introducing any reference to and evidence of
Plaintiff’s claim for entitlement to punitive damages pending a finding, by
clear and convincing evidence, that Defendant acted with fraud, oppression, or
malice.”
(Mot.,
p. 2, Notice, ¶¶ 1-2.)
The
Court reads the bifurcation requested as follows:
(1)
Based on the request for “[b]ifurcating all issues pertaining to Plaintiff
Rocco Distefano’s (‘Plaintiff’) request for and/or alleged entitlement to
punitive damages from all other issues to be tried, pursuant to Civil Code §§
3294 and 3295,” Equinox first seeks a bifurcation of the liability phase of
trial from the punitive damages phase of trial; and
(2)
Based on the request for “[p]recluding Plaintiff from introducing any reference
to and evidence of Plaintiff’s claim for entitlement to punitive damages
pending a finding, by clear and convincing evidence, that Defendant acted with
fraud, oppression, or malice,” Equinox seeks a further bifurcation of the
jury’s determination on whether grounds exist for punitive damages from the
jury’s determination on the proper monetary amount of punitive damages.
(Mot.,
p. 2, Notice, ¶¶ 1-2.)
Legal
Standard
“The
court may, when the convenience of witnesses, the ends of justice, or the
economy and efficiency of handling the litigation would be promoted thereby, on
motion of a party, after notice and hearing, make an order, no later than the
close of pretrial conference in cases in which such pretrial conference is to
be held, or, in other cases, no later than 30 days before the trial date, that
the trial of any issue or any part thereof shall precede the trial of any other
issue or any part thereof in the case, except for special defenses which may be
tried first pursuant to Sections 597 and 597.5.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 598.)
“The
court, in furtherance of convenience or to avoid prejudice, or when separate
trials will be conducive to expedition and economy, may order a separate trial
of any cause of action … or of any separate issue or of any number of causes of
action or issues ….” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1048, subd. (b).)
Bifurcation
serves to (1) promote judicial economy by avoiding introduction and
consideration of unnecessary evidence; and (2) prevent the determination of
liability from being tainted by the consideration of irrelevant, confusing,
misleading, and prejudicial evidence related to the issue of damages. (Plaza
Tulare v. Tradewell Stores, Inc. (1989) 207 Cal.App.3d 522, 524; see Foreman
& Clark Corp. v. Fallon (1971) 3 Cal.3d 875, 888, fn. 8 [Bifurcating
trial may be proper to achieve the purpose of affording a more logical
presentation of the evidence and simplifying the issues for the jury].)
Order
Bifurcating Trial: GRANTED.
I. Parties’ Arguments
In
its motion, Equinox argues that Civil Code section 3295, subdivision (d),
supports a mandatory severance relating to a defendant’s profits or financial
condition upon application by the defendant, that Code of Civil Procedure
section 598 empowers courts to order bifurcation of trial, and that bifurcation
here will expedite the trial, avoid jury confusion, and avoid any prejudice.
(Mot., pp. 3-5.)
As
to expediting trial, Equinox more specifically argues that separating the
liability and compensatory damages phase of trial from the punitive damages
phase of trial generally will expedite trial because of the expected
differences of opinion as to what the basis for the calculations will be for
punitive damages, and deferring trial on punitive until any liability and
compensatory damages are established will likely save time, especially considering
that all of the evidence regarding punitive damages will be entirely irrelevant
in the event that no liability is found. (Mot., pp. 4-5.)
As
to expediting trial, Equinox argues that separating the liability and
compensatory damages phase of trial from the punitive damages phase of trial avoid
jury confusion because in light of Plaintiff’s various claims for relief and
prayer for punitive damages, the jury will need to understand and differentiate
the legal standard for each claim, and requesting the jury to determine the
appropriate measure of damages depending on the claim and the type of damages
may result in jury confusion. (Mot., p. 5.)
As
to undue prejudice, Equinox more specifically argues that not separating the
liability and compensatory damages phase of trial from the punitive damages
phase of trial would be unduly prejudicial to Equinox because, citing Adams
v. Murakami (1991) 54 Cal.3d 105, 121 (Adams), there is a risk in
introducing evidence of personal finances given that it places the defendant in
the position of bidding against him- or herself, and, per amendments to section
3295, juries are asked to determine whether to impose punitive damages only
after compensated damages and fraud, malice, or oppression are established. (Mot.,
p. 5.)
Equinox
last adds that it met and conferred on this motion. (Mot., p. 5.)
In
opposition, Plaintiff Distefano cites a number of authorities but only
substantially argues a few points:
(1)
“While bifurcation is a matter within the discretion of the trial court, in
this case the motion should be denied because [a] the facts and evidence in the
case in chief would be exactly the same as the segregating the trying of
punitive damages[,] [b] [i]t is … prejudicial to [Plaintiff] due to the nature
of FEHA and its purpose for punitive damages[,] [and (c)] [d]ue to the inequity
of the employee/employer relationship, the jury should be aware when
determining the other damages such as emotional distress, that the Defendants can be punished for its malicious acts against [Plaintiff]”;

(2)
“The claims and issues for which Equinox has requested to bifurcated share
common issue of law and fact and will necessarily rely upon the same evidence
and witnesses as to the FEHA and contract claims as well as punitive damages”;
and
(3)
“[T]he testimony will be virtually the same and Equinox will not be prejudiced
as the court can address Equinox’s concerns through the jury instructions.”
(Opp’n,
pp. 2-6.)
In
reply, Equinox presents arguments to support the positions that bifurcation is not
a waste of time or judicial resources, that Equinox’s financial condition is not
relevant to issues of liability, and that Equinox would not be prejudiced by
non-bifurcation. (Reply, pp. 2-4.)
II.
The
Court finds in favor of Equinox.
A.
First,
bifurcation would promote judicial economy by avoiding introduction and
consideration of unnecessary evidence. (Plaza Tulare, supra, 207
Cal.App.3d at p. 524.)
“Under
the current procedure, the jury first decides whether to impose liability for
compensatory damages and whether the defendant acted with fraud, oppression, or
malice. (Civ. Code, § 3295, subd. (d); see also CACI 3941, 3946. Only after
finding such misconduct, is the jury then asked to decide whether to impose
punitive damages and, if so, in what amount.” (Adams v. Murakami (1991)
54 Cal.3d 105, 121 (Adams).)
It
thus follows that here, a determination on the amount of punitive damages would
necessarily follow a determination on liability. (Ibid.) And, as argued
by Equinox, here, all the evidence regarding the specific request for punitive
damages will be entirely irrelevant in the event that no liability is found. (Mot.,
p. 5.) 
Second,
the Court determines that bifurcation will prevent the determination of
liability from being tainted by the consideration of irrelevant, confusing,
misleading, and prejudicial evidence related to the issue of damages. (Plaza
Tulare, supra, 207 Cal.App.3d at p. 524.)
Significantly,
the language of the statute at issue here is mandatory, not discretionary:
“The
court shall, on application of any defendant, preclude the admission of evidence
of that defendant’s profits or financial condition until after the trier of
fact returns a verdict for the plaintiff awarding actual damages and finds that
the defendant is guilty of malice, oppression, or fraud in accordance with section
3294.” (Civil Code, section 3295 subd. (d).)
Based
on the foregoing discussion, Defendant Equinox’s motion is GRANTED. To be clear,
Plaintiff will be able to argue and put on evidence that the defendants acted
with malice, fraud or oppression in phase 1. (CACI VF-3900-3904 [see use notes
regarding bifurcation].) But plaintiff will not be able to argue or present
evidence as to the amount of such damages until phase 2. 

Conclusion
Defendant Equinox Holdings, Inc.’s
Motion to Bifurcate Trial of Plaintiff’s Punitive Damages is GRANTED.