 Case Number:  23STCV31794    Hearing Date:   May 6, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
ANGELA HSU,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
TSASU, LLC, et al., 
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  20STCV41059
  Hearing Date:  May 6, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendant pichi lin’s motion to sever 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On October 26, 2020, Plaintiff
Angela Hsu initiated this action against various Defendants for (1) quiet
title, (2) cancellation of instruments, and (3) usury. Plaintiff alleges that
she and her husband (Decedent) were joint tenants of real property located in
Oceanside, California as of September 1977 (the Property). In May 2015 and
October 2017, unbeknownst to Plaintiff, Decedent borrowed $100,000 and $50,000
from Defendants, secured by the Property. Decedent passed away in August 2020,
and Plaintiff alleges that as a result, she wholly owns the Property without
encumbrance. Defendants have refused to remove the subject liens from the
Property, prompting this lawsuit. 
            On March 4, 2021, Defendants Tsasu
LLC and Hestter Investment, LLC (collectively, the creditors) filed a
cross-complaint against Plaintiff for breach of contract and declaratory
relief, alleging that Plaintiff is responsible for the loans made to Decedent. 
            On August 1, 2022, Plaintiff filed
the First Amended Complaint, which added causes of action for unjust enrichment
and equitable indemnification against Pichi Lin (Lin). Plaintiff alleges that
Decedent and Lin made the loans together without Plaintiff’s knowledge and that
Lin benefitted from the money. Plaintiff alleges that if she is held liable to
the creditors, then in fairness Lin should be liable to her, since Lin was the
true beneficiary of the loans. 
On February 17, 2023, the Court sustained
Lin’s demurrer to the FAC because the facts did not support how Lin was
unjustly enriched or at fault for Plaintiff’s liability, since it is undisputed
that Decedent alone made the loans. However, the Court granted Plaintiff leave
to amend to allege a cause of action based on Family Code section 1100(b),
which allows a spouse to void an improper transfer of community property. The
Court also granted leave to assert causes of action based on improper rent
collection and forgery. 
On March 9, 2023, Plaintiff filed the
operative Second Amended Complaint incorporating the Family Code allegations
and adding causes of action for conversion and fraud by forgery. On May 8,
2023, the Court sustained Lin’s demurrer without leave to amend as to the
unjust enrichment and equitable indemnity claims.
On April 10, 2024, Defendant Lin filed the
instant motion to sever the causes of action against her from the causes of
action against the other defendants. Plaintiff filed her opposition on April
23, 2024. Defendant filed her reply on April 29, 2024.       
LEGAL STANDARD
“The court may, when the convenience of
witnesses, the ends of justice, or the economy and efficiency of handling the
litigation would be promoted thereby, on motion of a party, after notice and
hearing, make an order . . . that the trial of any issue or any part thereof
shall precede the trial of any other issue or any part thereof in the case . .
. .” (Code Civ. Proc., § 598.) “The court, in furtherance of convenience or to
avoid prejudice, or when separate trials will be conducive to expedition and economy,
may order a separate trial of any cause of action, including a cause of action
asserted in a cross-complaint, or of any separate issue or of any number of
causes of action or issues . . . .” (Id., § 1048, subd. (b).) “It is
within the discretion of the court to bifurcate issues or order separate trials
of actions . . . and to determine the order in which those issues are to be
decided.” (Royal Surplus Lines Ins. Co. v. Ranger Ins. Co. (2002) 100
Cal.App.4th 193, 205.)
DISCUSSION
            Plaintiff has maintained throughout
this litigation that the subject property was not community property and that
therefore the creditors have no right to pursue Plaintiff for the loans made by
Decedent. This is the premise of Plaintiff’s claims against the creditors. By
contrast, Plaintiff’s primary theory against Lin is premised on the subject
property being community property, thereby entitling Plaintiff to void up to half
of the associated loan proceeds to the extent Decedent transferred them to Lin.
(See Fam. Code, § 1100(b).) In other words, the claim against Lin is pled in
the alternative in the event Plaintiff’s theory against the creditors fails. If
Plaintiff succeeds against the creditors, i.e., establishes that the
property was not community property, then there would be no claim against Lin
under Family Code section 1100. Logically then, the claims against the
creditors should be tried before the claims against Lin. It would be wasteful
to litigate Plaintiff’s entitlement to void a community property transfer under
Section 1100 if it turns out the subject property was not community property at
all. 
            In her opposition, Plaintiff argues
that Lin is intertwined in all of the claims because the entire impetus for
this dispute is Decedent and Lin taking the loans in the first place, thereby
encumbering the subject property and causing the creditors to pursue Plaintiff
for repayment. While the claims naturally involve some common facts and
witnesses, that does not negate the reality that Plaintiff’s community property
theory against Lin necessarily depends on whether Plaintiff succeeds against
the creditors. Depending on the outcome of the claims against the creditors,
the community property claim against Lin may be moot. Therefore, they should
not be tried together. Furthermore, the fraud and conversion claims against Lin
for stealing rent proceeds are distinct from the quiet title claims against the
creditors. Lastly, equitable claims such as quiet title are ordinarily tried by
the Court, whereas statutory and tort claims may be tried by a jury. (See Estate
of Phelps (1990) 223 Cal.App.3d 332, 340 [“Generally, there is no right to
a jury trial in a quiet title action which is fundamentally equitable in nature”].)

            In sum, the Court finds that
severance in this case is “in furtherance of convenience,” necessary “to avoid
prejudice,” and “conducive to expedition and economy.” (See Code Civ. Proc., §
1048(b).) 
CONCLUSION
            Defendant Pichi Lin’s motion to
sever is GRANTED. Plaintiff’s claims against Tsasu LLC, Hestter Investment,
LLC, and Leonard Hsu shall be tried before the claims against Lin. 
 