  Case Number:  20STCV09649    Hearing Date:   May 6, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
MARCUS LAUN,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
JAMES PAKULIS, et al., 
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  20STCV09649
  Hearing Date:  May 6, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendant james pakulis’ motion to order
  clerk to file proposed settled statement 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On March 9, 2020, Plaintiff Marcus
Laun filed the present action against James Pakulis, Arnie Johansson, and
TransCanna Holdings, Inc. The complaint asserts causes of action for breach of
contract, breach of fiduciary duty, fraud, constructive trust, declaratory
relief, interference with contract, and unfair competition.
            The complaint alleges that Plaintiff
and Defendant Pakulis formed a partnership called MarJa for the distribution of
marijuana products. Plaintiff and Pakulis purchased Geopulse Exploration, Inc.
through which to operate their cannabis production and distribution business.
Thereafter, Pakulis allegedly betrayed Plaintiff by stealing Plaintiff’s
proprietary information for use in a competing venture. Pakulis allegedly
formed TransCanna Holdings with Defendant Johansson.  
            On March 23, 2021, TransCanna filed
a cross-complaint against Plaintiff, Geopulse, and MarJa for declaratory
relief. On March 29, 2021, Pakulis filed a cross-complaint against Plaintiff,
Geopulse, and Growth Circle, Inc., asserting fraud, unjust enrichment, and
declaratory relief.     
In a statement of decision following a
bench trial, the Court made the following findings. Plaintiff and Pakulis
formed a partnership. Pakulis breached the partnership agreement and his
fiduciary duties to Plaintiff, and committed constructive fraud. Plaintiff and
Pakulis were entitled to share equally in TransCanna, but Plaintiff was not
entitled to any equitable remedy against TransCanna. The Court awarded
Plaintiff $1.23 million against Pakulis. Pakulis failed to establish fraud but
was entitled to restitution from Geopulse and Growth in the amount of $25,000.
Judgment was entered accordingly on September 25, 2023. Pakulis has since
appealed the judgment. 
            On March 30, April 3, and April 5,
2024, Defendant Pakulis attempted to file his Proposed Settled Statement, which
was rejected each time. On April 3 and April 15, 2024, Defendant filed the
instant two motions for an order directing the clerk to file his Proposed
Settled Statement nunc pro tunc.    
DISCUSSION
            “If a document is presented to the
clerk's office for filing in a form that complies with the rules of court,
the clerk's office has a ministerial duty to file it.” (Voit v. Superior
Court (2011) 201 Cal.App.4th 1285, 1287, emphasis added.) Here, the clerk’s
notices of rejection provided clear and specific reasons why Defendant’s
filings were not compliant. (See Shatford Decl., Ex. A-D.) Defendant’s
continued submission of defective documents does not require the clerk to file
them, nor does Voit support such a requirement. It is unclear why
Defendant chose to file this motion rather than simply cure the defects. 
            The most recent notice of rejection
states that the filing was missing a proof of service. Defendant must properly
serve the documents and attach a corresponding proof of service before the
documents can be filed. The clerk is not otherwise required to file a defective
document. 
            Proof of service is obviously important.  Within in 10 days after filing of the
proposed statement, the respondent has may serve and file proposed amendments
to the statement.  Respondent cannot
serve proposed amendments unless it is served with the initial statement. Within
10 days after the respondent has filed proposed amendments, any party may request
a hearing.  (See. California Rule of Court,
Rule 8.837.) 
CONCLUSION
            Defendant Pakulis’ motions to order
the clerk to file Proposed Settled Statement are DENIED.   Defendant is ordered to properly serve the
proposed settled statement.