 Case Number:  22STCV00007    Hearing Date:   December 7, 2023    Dept:  26  
On the Court’s own motion, the FSC and
trial set for December 7, 2023 are CONTINUED to 12/11/23 at 8:30 am.
 
The OSC re dismissal of all unnamed
Doe defendants is continued to December 11, 2023 at 8:30 am.
 
On December 4, 2023, the parties
jointly reported that they have settled this action in principle.  The Court requested that only after all
parties have signed a settlement agreement may Plaintiff file a notice of
settlement.  Plaintiff has not filed any
notice of settlement, from which the Court infers that the parties do not have
a settlement agreement signed by all parties, and the parties must therefore comply
with the Court’s orders regarding trail preparation.
 
All parties also stated in open court
on November 30, 2023 and that the parties waive jury and that this matter will
proceed as a bench trial.
 
On November 30, 2023, all parties
confirmed in open court that the most recently filed joint exhibit list and
witness list identify all non-impeachment exhibits and witnesses, and they each
do not intend to call any non-impeachment witnesses not identified on the
witness list and do not intent to offer any nonimpeachment exhibits not
identified on the exhibit list.

On November 30, 2023, the Court
ordered that no later than 4:30 pm on December 1, 2023, the parties were to
file revised versions of the following trial preparation documents, consistent
with Department 26's FSC/trial preparation order: (1) A revised joint exhibit
list identifying the universe of all non-impeachment exhibits that all parties
wish to introduce at trial.  The Court advised that the revised joint
exhibit list must have columns reflecting: “Exhibit #,” “Description,”
"Admissibility stipulated?," "Authenticity stipulated?"
"Offered by?" "Objections," "Date Identified,"
and "Date Admitted.”  All columns except for the last two columns
must be fully completed for each exhibit listed;  and (2)  A trial brief from Plaintiff that identifies
the applicable CACI or authoirty that sets forth the elements for each cause of
action of the operative complaint and cross-complaint, which should be added to
the trial readiness binder.  (11/30/23 Minute
Order.)
In its November 30 order, the Court
expressly warned that failure of any party to comply with the Court's order
above requiring preparation of joint trial readiness documents (joint exhibit
list) may result in exclusion of non-impeachment witnesses not identified on a
joint witness list. (11/30/23 Minute Order.)
 
Despite several continuances, all parties
have failed to comply with the Court’s November 30, 2023 order.  The parties have failed to file a revised
joint exhibit list, and Plaintiff has failed to file a trial brief, as ordered.  
 
The court hereby continues the OSC
re exclusion of all non-impeachment exhibits and witnesses to 12/11/23 at 8:30
am. All parties and their counsel are each ordered to file a declaration no
later than 8:30 am on December 8, 2023 setting forth all efforts by that party
to prepare a joint revised exhibit list, joint revised witness list, and trial
brief and explaining why those efforts failed to result in the filing of a
revised joint exhibit list, a revised joint witness list, and trial brief. All
parties and their counsel are also ordered to each appear in Department 26 at 8:30
am on December 11, 2023 and show cause why sanctions, including $1.000 monetary
sanctions, dismissal of the complaint, striking of the answer, or exclusion of
unidentified non-impeachment exhibits or witnesses should not be imposed for failure
to file a revised joint exhibit list, a revised joint witness list, and trial
brief.  
 
The
Court hereby reissues a new order that no later than 10 am on December 8 the
parties are to complete their exchange of all non-impeachment exhibits,
with each page of every exhibit properly labeled to reflect the exhibit number
and page number and the identity of all non-impeachment witnesses  
 
No
later than 10 am on December 8 the parties are also to file:
-       A
revised joint exhibit list identifying the universe of all non-impeachment exhibits
that all parties wish to introduce at trial.  The revised joint exhibit
list must have columns reflecting: “Exhibit #,” “Description,” "Admissibility
stipulated?," "Authenticity stipulated?" "Offered by?"
"Objections," "Date Identified," and "Date Admitted.”  All columns except for the last two columns
must be fully completed for each exhibit listed.
 
-       A
revised joint witness list identifying the universe of all non-impeachment witnesses
that all parties wish to call at trial with columns for time estimates for
"direct examination," "cross examination,"
"redirect," and "total," fully completed for each witness, and
a grand total for all witnesses’ testimony at the bottom.
  
-       A
trial brief from each party that identifies the applicable CACI that sets forth
the elements for each cause of action of the operative complaint and
cross-complaint, which should be added to the trial readiness binder.
 
No
later than 3 pm on December 7, 2023, Plaintiff is ordered to email to all other
parties all of the above proposed joint trial documents in electronic format.  All other parties are ordered to meet and
confer with Plaintiff regarding their proposed changes, and all other parties
are ordered to complete their portions of the joint trial documents, input any
proposed revisions, and email the updated joint trial documents to Plaintiff no
later than 8:30 am on December 8, 2023. 
Defendant’s failure to send an updated version of any trial document (including
all proposed revisions) shall be deemed Defendant’s consent and stipulation to
use Plaintiff’s version as the parties’ joint trial document.
 
Failure of any party to comply with
the Court's order above requiring preparation of a joint witness list and joint
exhibit list may result in exclusion at trial of non-impeachment exhibits and
non-impeachment witnesses that the parties have failed to identify on the
witness list and exhibit list.
 
The Court requests that each Counsel
email Word format versions of the their trial briefs to the court.
 
No later than the continued FSC, Plaintiff
must arrange for one joint trial readiness binder to be delivered to Department
26 in compliance with Department 26's FSC/trial preparation order, including  conformed copies of: all operative pleadings,
the revised joint exhibit list, the revised joint witness list, and the trial
briefs, all in conformity with Department 26’s standing FSC/trial preparation
order.  The documents must be separated
by labelled tabs.
 
Plaintiff must also arrange for
three copies of the parties’ joint exhibit binder (containing all parties’ non-impeachment
exhibits, each properly tabbed, with each page properly paginated to reflect
the exhibit number and page number) to be delivered to Department 26 prior to the
continued FSC date.  Failure of any party
to comply with this order requiring delivery of joint exhibit binders may
result in exclusion at trial of non-impeachment exhibits that the parties have
failed to include in the exhibit binders delivered to Department 26.
 
In preparation for cross-examination
of witnesses, each party should pre-mark five copies of all impeachment
exhibits with each page properly paginated to reflect the exhibit number and
page number so that they are ready for distribution during cross-examination.
 
The parties must meet and confer to
discuss whether they plan to have a court reporter transcribe the trial
proceedings.  In order to ensure a proper record for appellate purposes,
if the parties do not arrange for a court reporter, then Counsel for the
parties will be required to prepare a daily settled statement summarizing witnesses'
testimony who have testified each day at trial.
 
If any party will need a foreign
language interpreter to assist any trial witnesses, that party must reserve and
make arrangements in advance for the interpreters that party will need. 
 
The
parties must meet and confer in advance regarding any witnesses who for health
or other reasons will be testifying remotely.  For any witness who will be
testifying remotely, the party offering that witness’s testimony shall be
responsible for: (1) making a reservation for the witness’s remote video
appearance, including making an LACourtConnect reservation and setting up web
links for the witness’s testimony, (2) providing the witness with the proper
LACourtConnect link in advance of the witness’s testimony, and (3) arranging
for an identical copy of the exhibit binder (containing a complete set of all
exhibits) to be delivered to the remote witness prior to the commencement of
trial.  If any party will be seeking to
present witnesses who will be testifying from a remote location, the parties
should meet and confer to prepare and file a stipulation regarding such virtual
testimony from a remote location.  The
parties are to contact the Judicial Assistant for Department 26 for a sample stipulation
in this regard.
 
As
noted above, the parties have failed to comply with the court’s minute order
from the last Final Status Conference requiring the parties to file revised
joint trial documents.  All parties are
ordered to appear on  December 11, 2023 at 8:30 am and show cause why each
party should not be ordered to pay monetary sanctions of at least $500 for
failure to comply with the Court’s order requiring the parties to file revised
joint trial documents.  No later than 8:30 am on December 8, 2023, each counsel/party shall file a declaration setting forth
all efforts by that party to prepare revised joint trial documents for filing
(specifically identifying efforts as to each trial document, including the joint
exhibit list, joint witness list, and explaining why those efforts have not
resulted in the filing of all required joint trial documents.
 
The Final Status conference is
continued to December 11, 2023 at 9:00 am. 

The trial is continued to December
11, 2023 at 9:30 am.
All
parties must appear in person in Department 26 for the continued FSC and trial.
The
Court’s Judicial Assistant is to give electronic notice to all parties.