 Case Number:  22STCV20940    Hearing Date:   February 2, 2024    Dept:  26 2/2/24:
The Court will sign the proposed order submitted with the parties' stipulation filed on January 26, 2024. The parties need NOT wait for the ex parte application to be called on 2/2/24.
By stipulation of the parties, the trial is continued to August 26, 2024 at 9:30 am.
The Final Status Conference is continued to July 31,2024 at 9:00 am.
The parties’ time estimate for the duration of trial as stated in their original case management statements (7-10 days) has factored in heavily in the Court’s its selection of the new trial date and the Court’s assessment of its availability for trial on that new trial date.  Any party who now believes that the trial may require more than 7-10 days to complete (as stated in their original case management statements) due to developments in the case must file and serve an ex parte application within one week of today to enlarge the time for trial so that the trial date can be adjusted to a new date that can accommodate the lengthier trial (by either advancing or continuing the trial).  If no party brings an ex parte application within one week of today to enlarge the time estimate for trial, the Court will rely on the parties’ time estimate for the duration of trial as stated in their original case management statements (7-10 days) and will hold the parties to such time estimate. 
 
All discovery and discovery motion cut-off will follow the new trial date.
The new trial date of August 26, 2024 that the Court has set is a firm trial date.  All parties are ordered to confirm within 10 days their witnesses’ and trial counsel’s availability on the new trial date and to advise their witnesses and trial counsel to keep their calendars clear for the entire duration of trial, starting on the new trial date (the new trial date plus three weeks).  If after contacting all witnesses and trial counsel, any party learns that a witness or trial counsel is unavailable on the new trial date, that party must bring an ex parte application within 10 days of today to continue or advance the trial to a new date on which all witnesses and trial counsel will be available for the duration of trial.
Plaintiff to give notice.