  Case Number:  20STCV26621    Hearing Date:   February 2, 2024    Dept:  26  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Superior Court of
California
County of Los Angeles
Department 26



 
armando
  temoltzi-ordonez
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
orange
  coast auto group, llc; FCA us llc; et al.,
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.: 
  20STCV26621
 
  Hearing Date:  February 2, 2024
 
  [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
Court’s own motion for reconsideration



 
Procedural
Background
On July 15, 2020, Plaintiff Armando Temoltzi-Ordonez (“Plaintiff”) filed
the instant action against FCA US LLC (“FCA”), and Orange Coast Auto Group, LLC
(“Orange Coast”) (jointly “Defendants”) alleging (1) breach of express
warranty- violation of the Song-Beverly Act; (2) breach of implied warranty-
violation of the Song Beverly Act; (3) violation of the Song-Beverly Act
Section 1793.2; and (4) fraudulent inducement-concealment.  On January 7,
2021, the Court sustained the demurrer in part as to the second cause of action
without leave to amend and as to the fourth cause of action and granted the
motion to strike punitive damages with leave to amend.  (Order 1/7/21.)  No timely amended complaint was filed.  Accordingly, only the first and third cause
of action against Defendant FCA remain.
On August 6,
2021, the Court granted Defendant FCA’s motion to compel arbitration.  The Court stayed the action pending
arbitration, relying on what was then the only California appellate opinion on
the issue, Felisilda v. FCA US LLC (2020) 53 Cal.App.5th
486.  (Order 8/6/21.)
            On
June 12, 2023, Plaintiff filed the instant motion for reconsideration of the
August 6, 2021 Order compelling arbitration. 
On November 14, 2023, Defendant FCA filed an opposition.  On November 17, 2023, Plaintiff filed a
reply.
            Though
Plaintiff’s motion for reconsideration was untimely, the Court gave notice that
it intended to bring its own motion for reconsideration based on new case law
that has reached a conclusion contrary to Felisilda, and the Court solicited
additional briefing.  (Order
11/28/23.)  On January 24, 2023, only
Plaintiff submitted additional briefing. 

 
Request for
Judicial Notice
            In conjunction with the reply
papers, Plaintiff requests that the Court take judicial notice of:
1.    
Third District Court of Appeal’s response
to a Petition for Writ of Mandate in Ortiz, et al. v Superior Court of Sacramento
County (C099135)
2.    
Third District Court of Appeal’s response
to a Petition for Writ of Mandate in Campos v. Superior Court of Butte
County (C098848)
3.    
The Alternative Writ issued by the Second
District Court of Appeal in Contreras v. Superior Court of Los Angeles
(B331737)
As the Court may
take judicial notice of court records and actions of the State, (See Evid.
Code, § 452(c)(d)), Plaintiff’s unopposed request for judicial notice is
GRANTED.  However, the Court does not
take judicial notice of the truth of assertions within the Court records. (See Herrera
v. Deutsche Bank National Trust Co. (2011) 196 Cal.App.4th 1366,
1375.)  
 
Legal Standard
            The court may
reconsider an interim order previously issued on its own motion, but any
written submission that the court do so by a party must comport with either
section 437c(f)(2) or 1008(c).  (Le
Francois v. Goel (2005) 35 Cal.4th 1094, 1107-1108.  If the court wishes to reconsider on its own
motion, “it should inform the parties of this concern, solicit briefing, and
hold a hearing.”  (Id. at
p.1108.)  The responding party does not
bear the burden of opposition unless the court indicates an interest in reconsideration.
(Ibid.)
 
Discussion

            Plaintiff
has moved for reconsideration of the Court’s August 6, 2021 Order based on Ford
Motor Warranty Cases (2023) 89 Cal.App.5th 1324 (“Ochoa”) and
subsequent cases that have followed the rationale of Ochoa.  The Court gave notice that it was bringing
its own motion for reconsideration on the same grounds and invited briefing
from the parties on the Court’s motion for reconsideration.  (Le Francois, supra, 35 Cal.4th at
p.1108, [“To be fair to the parties, if the court is seriously concerned that
one of its prior interim rulings might have been erroneous, and thus that it
might want to reconsider that ruling on its own motion … it should inform the
parties of this concern, solicit briefing, and hold a hearing.”]; accord Reliant Life Shares,
LLC v. Cooper (2023) 90 Cal.App.5th 14, 61 [“the trial court had the
authority to correct its error on its own motion. It did so by acknowledging
its error, soliciting further briefing, and holding a further hearing.”].)
 
Reconsideration of the August 6, 2021 Order Based on
a Change in Law
            In
relevant part, the Court noted in its August 6, 2021 order that “[i]t is
undisputed that the agreement containing the arbitration provision, the Retail
Installment Sale Contract – Simple Finance Charge, was at least originally
between Plaintiff and Defendant Orange Coast -- not Defendant FCA.”  (Order 8/6/21 at p.7:7-9.)
“[W]ith limited exceptions only parties to
an arbitration agreement can enforce it or be required to arbitrate.”  (Jones v. Jacobson (2011) 195
Cal.App.4th 1, 17.)  A nonsignatory
seeking to enforce an arbitration agreement has the burden to establish at
least one of these exceptions applies. (Id. at p.16.)
One such exception is the doctrine of
equitable estoppel.  Under the doctrine
of equitable estoppel, “under both federal and California decisional authority,
a nonsignatory defendant may invoke an arbitration clause to compel a signatory
plaintiff to arbitrate its claims when the causes of action against the
nonsignatory are ‘intimately founded in and intertwined’ with the underlying
contract obligations.”  (Boucher v.
Alliance Title Co., Inc. (2005) 127 Cal.App.4th 262, 271.)  “‘By relying on contract terms in a claim
against a nonsignatory defendant, even if not exclusively, a plaintiff may be
equitably estopped from repudiating the arbitration clause contained in that
agreement.’ [Citations.]”  (JSM
Tuscany, LLC v. Superior Court (2011) 193 Cal.App.4th 1222,
1237.)  “Where the equitable estoppel
doctrine applies, the nonsignatory has a right to enforce the arbitration
agreement.”  (Ibid., Fn. 18.)  “ ‘The fundamental point’ is that a party is
‘not entitled to make use of [a contract containing an arbitration clause] as
long as it worked to [his or] her advantage, then attempt to avoid its
application in defining the forum in which [his or] her dispute ... should be
resolved.’ ” (Jensen v. U-Haul Co. of California (2017) 18 Cal.App.5th
295, 306 [quoting NORCAL Mutual Ins. Co. v. Newton (2000) 84 Cal.App.4th
64, 84].)  “‘In any case
applying equitable estoppel to compel arbitration despite the lack of an
agreement to arbitrate, a nonsignatory may compel arbitration only when the
claims against the nonsignatory are founded in and inextricably bound up
with the obligations imposed by the agreement containing the
arbitration clause.’ [Citation.].”  (Felisilda
v. FCA US LLC (2020) 53 Cal.App.5th 486, 496.)  In determining whether a plaintiff’s claim is
founded on or intimately connected with the sales contract, the Court examines
the facts of the operative complaint.  (Felisilda,
53 Cal.App.5th at 496.)  
In Felisilda, the Court of Appeal
addressed an arbitration clause identical to the one in the instant action and
found that the plaintiff’s claims against nonsignatory FCA – nearly identical
to those asserted in the complaint here – were inextricably intertwined with
the obligations imposed by the sales contract containing the arbitration
clause.   (Felisilda, supra, 53
Cal.App.5th at p. 496-497.)  The
dealership filed a motion to compel arbitration on behalf of itself and the
nonsignatory manufacturer, FCA.  The
trial court granted the motion to compel arbitration as to the entirety of the
action.  (Id. at p.491.)  After the trial court ordered the matter to
arbitration, the buyers dismissed the dealership from the action.  (Ibid.)  
The Third District Court of Appeal
affirmed.  First, the Court noted the
broad language of the arbitration clause within the sales contract, which
encompassed “[a]ny claim or dispute, whether in contract, tort, statute or
otherwise ... between you and us ... which arises out of or relates to ...
[the] condition of this vehicle.”  (Id.
at p.496.)  Turning to the allegations of
the complaint regarding express warranties accompanying the sale of the vehicle
and FCA’s failure to repair the nonconformities or to replace the vehicle or
make restitution, the Court found that “the sales contract was the source of
the warranties at the heart of this case.” 
(Ibid.)  “The [buyers’]
claim against FCA directly relates to the condition of the vehicle that they
allege to have violated warranties they received as a consequence of the sales
contract. Because the [buyers] expressly agreed to arbitrate claims arising out
of the condition of the vehicle — even against third party nonsignatories to
the sales contract — they are estopped from refusing to arbitrate their claim
against FCA.”  (Id. at
p.496.)  Thus, the Court concluded that
“[b]ased on language in the sales contract and the nature of the [buyers] claim
against FCA, the trial court correctly ordered that the entire matter be
submitted to arbitration.”  (Id.
at p.495.)  
In a recent case – the Ford Motor
Warranty Cases (2023) 89 Cal.App.5th 1324 (“Ochoa”) – the Second
District Court of Appeal disagreed with the Third District Court of Appeal’s
conclusion in Felisilda.  In Ochoa,
the defendant manufacturer Ford Motor Company (“Ford”) moved to compel
arbitration of the plaintiffs’ claims relating to alleged defects in vehicles
manufactured by Ford under a preprinted sales contract form that contained an
arbitration provision with identical language to the arbitration agreement in Felisilda.  (Ochoa, supra, 89 Cal.App.5th at p.
1329.)  The trial court denied the
motion, and the Court of Appeal affirmed. 
(Ibid.)  In declining to
follow Felisilda, the Court of Appeal reasoned that the plaintiffs’
warranty claims did not arise from the sales contract.  Instead, the Court of Appeal found that
“manufacturer vehicle warranties that accompany the sale of motor vehicles
without regard to the terms of the sale contract between the purchaser and the
dealer are independent of the sale contract” and noted that “California law
does not treat manufacturer warranties imposed outside the four corners of a
retail sale contract as part of the sale contract.”  (Id. at pp.1334, 1335.)  Hence, the Court of Appeal concluded that
“plaintiffs’ claims are based on Ford’s statutory obligations to reimburse
consumers or replace their vehicles when unable to repair in accordance with its
warranty.”  (Id. at p.1335.) 
The Ochoa Court deemed Ford not to
be a third-party beneficiary because “the sale contracts reflect no intention
to benefit a vehicle manufacturer under [the Goonewardene
standard].”  (Id. at p.1338.)  Finally, the Court of Appeal concluded that
the plaintiffs’ agency allegations were insufficient to confer standing to Ford
to compel arbitration;  “even if plaintiffs
did adequately allege that the dealers acted as Ford's agents in
misrepresenting the qualities of the vehicles prior to sale, any nexus with the
sale contracts, and thus the right to compel arbitration, is lacking [as]
[t]here [we]re no allegations to support the conclusion that the dealers acted
as Ford's agent in executing the sale contracts.”  (Id. at p.1342.)  
In an even more recent case – Montemayor
v. Ford Motor Company (2023) 92
Cal.App.5th 958 (“Montemayor”) – the Second District Court of
Appeal again affirmed the denial of an auto manufacturer’s motion to compel
arbitration.  In Montemayor,
defendant Ford (which was not a signatory to the sales agreement) jointly filed
a motion to compel arbitration with the dealership defendant, asserting that it
had standing to enforce the arbitration provision of the sale agreement under
equitable estoppel and as a third party beneficiary.  In relevant part, the trial court concluded
that the claims did not arise from the sales contract and that Ford was not a
third-party beneficiary.  (Id. at
p.966.)   The Court of Appeal affirmed,
adopting the reasoning of Ochoa and concluding that Ford could not
enforce the arbitration agreement through equitable estoppel or as a
third-party beneficiary.  (Id. at
pp.968-974.)
Similarly, on August 16, 2023, the Third
District Court of Appeal issued its opinion in Kielar v. Superior Court (2023)
94 Cal.App.5th 614, (Kielar), joining the recent decisions that have
disagreed with Felisilda.  The Kielar
Court issued a peremptory writ of mandate compelling the Superior Court to
vacate its order granting the manufacturer’s motion to compel arbitration and
enter a new order denying the motion to compel arbitration.  In doing so, the Kielar Court
expressly adopted the reasoning of Ochoa, Ngo,  and Montemayor and agreed with these
cases that the reasoning of Felisilda was flawed.  (Keilar at p.617.)  The Kielar Court further agreed “with Montemayor
and Ford Motor that the parenthetical language in the arbitration
provision referring to nonsignatory third parties “was a ‘delineation of the
subject matter of claims the purchasers and dealers agreed to arbitrate’ ” and
does not bind the purchaser “ ‘to arbitrate with the universe of unnamed third
parties.’ ”  (Keilar at p.621.)
Finally, on September 6, 2023, the First
District Court of Appeal issued its opinion in Yeh v. Superior Court of
Contra Costa County (2023) 95 Cal.App.5th 264 (Yeh), joining the
chorus of recent decisions that have disagreed with Felisilda.  The Yeh Court issued a peremptory writ
of mandate directing the Superior Court to vacate its order compelling
arbitration and enter a new order denying the manufacturer Mercedes-Benz’s
motion to compel arbitration.  Adopting
the reasoning of Ochoa and Montemayor, the Yeh Court
rejected the manufacturer’s contention that the warranty claims against it were
intimately founded in or intertwined with the underlying contact obligations
set forth in the purchase agreement between the plaintiffs and the dealership.  The Yeh Court noted that the complaint
did not reference the purchase agreements and did not allege that the
manufacturer breached obligations based on the purchase agreements.  (Yeh at p.278.)  Further, the Yeh Court agreed with Ochoa
that the language of the arbitration provision stating that it applied to any
claim “between you and us ... which arises out of or relates to ... [the]
condition of this vehicle, this contract or any resulting transaction or
relationship (including any such relationship with third parties who do not
sign this contract)” delineated the subject matter of claims that the plaintiff
(purchasers) and dealer agreed to arbitrate and did not reflect the plaintiffs’
consent to arbitrate claims with third party nonsignatories.
In light of these recent rulings in Ochoa,
Montemayor, Kielar, and Yeh expressly disagreeing with Felisilda,
there is a clear split of authority as to whether a non-signatory automobile
manufacturer can compel arbitration of warranty claims based on a sales
contract with a third-party dealership containing an arbitration clause.  When presented with conflicting Court of
Appeal authority, “the court exercising inferior jurisdiction can and must make
a choice between the conflicting decisions.” 
(Auto Equity Sales, Inc. v. Superior Court of Santa Clara County
(1962) 57 Cal.2d 450, 456.)  Here, the
Court finds the reasoning in Ochoa, Montemayor, Kielar, and
Yeh to be more compelling.  
As noted above, “a nonsignatory may compel
arbitration only when the claims against the nonsignatory are founded in and
inextricably bound up with the obligations imposed by the agreement
containing the arbitration clause.’ [Citation.].”  (Felisilda, supra, 53 Cal.App.5th at
p.496.)  In Felisilda, the Third
District interpreted the parenthetical language “(including any such
relationship with third parties who do not sign this contract)” in the
arbitration clause of the Sales Agreement to mean that the arbitration clause
included arbitration of claims against third parties.  (Felisilda, supra, 53 Cal.App.5th at
p. 497 [“[T]he arbitration provision in this case provides for arbitration of
disputes that include third parties so long as the dispute pertains to the
condition of the vehicle.”].)  However,
the Court finds this reading of the arbitration clause within the Sales
Agreement to be less persuasive than the interpretation set forth in Keilar
and Yeh.
“When interpreting contracts, the language
used controls if it is clear and explicit. We must view the language of a
contract as a whole, avoiding a piecemeal, strict construction approach. If
possible, we should give effect to every provision and avoid rendering any part
of an agreement surplusage.”  (Segal
v. Silberstein (2007) 156 Cal.App.4th 627, 633.)  To find that the parenthetical phrase “(including
any such relationship with third parties who do not sign this contract)”
provides a basis for any nonsignatory to compel arbitration of claims brought
by vehicle purchasers completely ignores and disregards the preceding
qualifying language “between you and us or our employees, agents, successors or
assigns.”
Therefore, the Court finds that the more
reasonable interpretation – as set forth in Ochoa, Montemayor, and
Yeh – is that “the parenthetical language referring to third-party
nonsignatories was a ‘delineation of the subject matter of claims the
purchasers and dealers agreed to arbitrate,’ but the purchasers clearly agreed
only to arbitrate disputes between ‘ “you and us,” ’ that is, with the
dealership. [Citation.] In other words, ‘[t]he “third party” language in the
arbitration clause means that if a purchaser asserts a claim against the dealer
(or its employees, agents, successors or assigns) that relates to one of these
third party transactions, the dealer can elect to arbitrate that claim. It says
nothing of binding the purchaser to arbitrate with the universe of unnamed
third parties.’ [Citation.]”  (Montemayor, supra, 92 Cal.App.5th at p.971 [quoting Ochoa];
Yeh at pp.277-278.) 
The Court adopts this interpretation of
the arbitration clause as more reasonable. 
Accordingly, the Court finds that the manufacturer – Defendant FCA– was
not an intended party nor intended to benefit from the arbitration agreement
between Plaintiff and the dealership.
Further, the allegations in the complaint
are not inextricably intertwined with the
obligations imposed by the Sales Agreement. 
The first cause of action is for breach of the express warranties
against FCA.  (Complaint ¶¶ 195-209.)  The third cause of action is for failing to
repair the vehicle within 30 days.  (Id.
¶¶ 225-237.)  These are all statutory
claims unrelated to the contractual obligations under the Sales Agreement.  As the Ochoa court explained with
respect to nearly identical allegations, “[P]laintiffs’ claims are based on
[Defendant’s] statutory obligations to reimburse consumers or replace their
vehicles when unable to repair in accordance with its warranty.... Not one of
the plaintiffs sued on any express contractual language in the sale
contracts.”  (Ochoa, supra, 89
Cal.App.5th at p.1335.)   “To be sure,
[Plaintiff] would not have sued [Defendant Ford] for the defective condition of
the vehicle but for the sale of the vehicle by [the dealership] pursuant to the [Sales Agreement]. And [Defendant
Ford] provided an express warranty to the [Plaintiff] as a result of the sale.
But that does not mean [Defendant Ford]'s obligation to provide a non-defective
vehicle under its separate express warranty is in any way founded on an
obligation imposed by the sales contract or is intertwined with those
obligations.”  (Montemayor, supra, 92 Cal.App.5th at 970.)  “‘This argument confuses the concept of
“claims founded in and intertwined with the agreement containing the
arbitration clause” with but-for causation.’ [Citations.]”  (Ibid.)  Rather, as Plaintiff did not allege a breach
of the Sales Agreement, Plaintiff’s claims are not found in or intertwined with
the Sales Agreement.  (Id. at
p.971.)  Therefore, Defendants cannot
enforce the arbitration clause in the Sales Agreement through equitable
estoppel.
Nor is Defendant a third-party beneficiary
under the Sales Agreement.  (See Goonewardene v. ADP, LLC (2019) 6 Cal.5th 817, 821, [discussing
third party beneficiaries and noting that “a third party — that is, an
individual or entity that is not a party to a contract — may bring a breach of
contract action against a party to a contract only if the third party
establishes not only (1) that it is likely to benefit from the contract, but
also (2) that a motivating purpose of the contracting parties is to
provide a benefit to the third party, and further (3) that permitting the third
party to bring its own breach of contract action against a contracting party is
consistent with the objectives of the contract and the reasonable expectations
of the contracting parties.”].)  Here,
there is “‘no indication that a benefit to [Defendant] was the signatories’
“motivating purpose” ... in contracting for the sale and purchase of a
[Defendant] vehicle.’ [Citation.]”  (Montemayor,
supra, 92 Cal.App.5th at p.974.) 
Rather, the clear and “manifest intent of the parties was to buy, sell
and finance a car, and to allow either the purchaser or the dealer to compel
arbitration of the specified categories of disputes between them, or between
the purchaser and any of the dealer's ‘employees, agents, successors or
assigns.’ [Citation.]”  (Ochoa,
supra, 89 Cal.App.5th at p.1339.) 
Thus, Defendant FCA is not a third-party beneficiary entitled to enforce
the arbitration clause in the Sales Agreement. 

Accordingly, reconsideration of the Court’s August 6, 2021 Order
compelling arbitration is warranted due to this new legal authority.  The Court hereby GRANTS its own motion for
reconsideration of its August 6, 2021 Order.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
Based on the
foregoing, the Court’s own motion for reconsideration of its August 6, 2021
Order is GRANTED.  The Order granting
arbitration as to the remaining claims against Defendant FCA US LLC is
vacated.  In its place, the Court hereby
enters the instant order denying Defendant FCA US LLC’s motion to compel
arbitration.
.  The stay on the litigation of this action is
lifted.  Each party is ordered to file a
case management statement and to appear for a case management conference on February
23, 2024 at 8:30 am.
Plaintiff shall
give notice to all parties and file proof of service of such.
 
DATED:  February ___, 2024                                                           ___________________________
Elaine Lu
                                                                                    Judge of the Superior Court
 