 Case Number:  22STCV14368    Hearing Date:   February 2, 2024    Dept:  26  
 
 
 
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 26
 



 
Paul falzon,
 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
SMG HOLDINGS, INC.; SMG HOLDINGS, LLC;
  ASM GLOBAL; STEVE GOODLING, et al.
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.:  22STCV14368
 
  Hearing Date:  February 2, 2024
 
[TENTATIVE] order RE:
plaintiff’s motion for leave to file a
  third amended complaint
 
 



 
Procedural Background
            On April 29, 2022, Plaintiff Paul Falzon
(“Plaintiff”) filed the instant wrongful termination action.  On October 24, 2022, Plaintiff filed a First
Amended Complaint against Defendants SMG Holdings, Inc. (“SMG Inc.”), SMG
Holdings, LLC, (“SMG LLC”), ASM Global (“ASM”), and Steve Goodling
(“Goodling”).  On February 1, 2023,
Plaintiff filed the operative Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”).  The SAC asserts four causes of action for (1)
Retaliation (Labor Code § 1102.5), (2) Wrongful Termination in Violation of Public
Policy, (3) Intentional Interference with Prospective Economic Advantage, and
(4) Negligent Interference with Prospective Economic Advantage.  On June 26, 2023, Plaintiff named SMG, a
general partnership as Doe 3.
            On
August 29, 2023, Plaintiff filed the instant motion for leave to file a third
amended complaint.  On January 22, 2024,
Defendants SMG Inc., SMG LLC, ASM Global, and SMG (collectively “Defendants”)
filed an opposition.  On January 26,
2024, Plaintiff filed a reply.
 
Allegations
of the Operative Complaint 
            The SAC alleges that:
            ASM is a venue and event management
company that manages “over 300 stadiums, arenas and convention centers around
the world.”  (SAC ¶ 11.)  AMS’s subsidiary SMG, Inc. and its successor
SMG LLC “manage[] and operate[] the venue known as the Long Beach Convention
& Entertainment Center (LBCEC) pursuant to a contract between SMG and the
City of Long Beach.”  (SAC ¶¶ 2-3, 11.)  Defendant Goodling is the President and Chief
Executive Officer of the Long Beach Convention & Visitors Bureau.  (SAC ¶ 12.)
            ASM, SMG, Inc., and SMG, LLC hired
Plaintiff to serve as the Director of Finance, and Senior Accounting and
Finance Executive at LBCEC, and Plaintiff reported to the LBCEC’s General
Manager Charlie Beirne.  (SAC ¶ 13.)  Plaintiff had no performance issues and in
fact received a substantial salary increase in August 2021.  (SAC ¶ 15.)
            While serving as Director of
Finance, and Senior Accounting and Finance Executive, Plaintiff uncovered that “Goodling
was spending public money to buy furniture that he converted to his personal
use. Ultimately, Plaintiff calculated that Goodling spent over $1.3 million in
public funds on furniture and unapproved purchases.”  (SAC ¶ 17.) 
“Plaintiff determined that there were no purchase orders, no competitive
bidding, no vendor selection process, and the City of Long Beach, which owns
the LBCEC, was unaware of the full extent of Goodling’s unapproved furniture
shopping activities.”  (SAC ¶ 18.)  “Plaintiff reasonably believed that Goodling,
in his role as President and CEO of the LBCVB was a public officer. As a
certified public accountant charged with accounting for Goodling' s purchases,
Plaintiff believed that he and Goodling shared duties and responsibilities for
the proper handling and disposition of the monies in the Parking Fund and
Facility Fund described above.”  (SAC ¶
19.)
            “Goodling committed financial waste
in other areas. For example, at one event, the client wanted music played off
an iPhone music playlist. Goodling felt this was below standard so he ordered a
DJ with a light package that was paid for by the City of Long Beach.”  (SAC ¶ 22.) 
“Goodling spent City of Long Beach money on extravagant holiday lighting
displays and expensive landscaping projects. Goodling spent approximately
$102,345 for flowers on a rainbow bridge.” 
(SAC ¶ 23.)  “Goodling’s
fraudulent purchases, [] were extravagant and wasteful and violated state and
local laws and regulations because they had not been preapproved as per the
SMG/LBCEC purchasing guidelines.”  (SAC ¶
25.)  
            “Plaintiff complained internally to
Beirne about Goodling operating outside company and city policy. Beirne
threatened Plaintiff, saying that if SMG lost the contract to manage the LBCEC
a new management company would take over and Beirne and Plaintiff would be
terminated. Beirne explained that Goodling’s political influence, i.e., ‘clout,’
with the Mayor and City Council would help ASM / SMG renew the contract without
going to a request for proposal (RFP). Beirne made clear that SMG/ASM
Management would not care about Goodling’s financial abuse because Steve
Goodling was wasting City of Long Beach funds and not SMG/ASM funds. Plaintiff
was essentially told to shut up and remain silent about Goodling’s fraud, or
else lose his job.”  (SAC ¶ 26.)
            “In July 2021, after Plaintiff
complained again, Beirne said that Plaintiff’s complaints of inappropriate
spending and misuse of city funds would be investigated. The City of Long Beach
sent a warning letter to ASM about abiding by the City’s purchasing
requirements. However, there was no investigation by SMG or ASM at that time.
Instead, Goodling and Beirne cornered Plaintiff and threatened him.”  (SAC ¶ 27.)
            “On August 9, 2021, Plaintiff
attended a work-related event in Bogarts Café. After the event, Beirne asked
Plaintiff to meet with him and Goodling. In this impromptu meeting, Goodling
wanted Plaintiff to apologize for complaining. Goodling said he did not think
Plaintiff was ‘on board’ with Goodling’s vision for the LBCEC. Goodling
pressured and bullied Plaintiff, saying to Plaintiff, in an aggressive tone,
that if Plaintiff was unwilling to get on board with his vision, then ‘this was
not the right job’ for him. Goodling stated, in essence, that Plaintiff needed
to get on board with Goodling's vision or else he needed ‘to go.’ Thus,
Goodling had the power, authority, and influence to determine whether
Plaintiffs job was ‘right’ for Plaintiff.” 
(SAC ¶ 28.)  “Goodling exerted his
‘clout’ with the City and the corporate defendants, SMG and ASM by telling
Plaintiff that SMG (and its affiliate/parent, ASM) were making a lot of money
on the City contract (as if the profit on the management contract should
justify or excuse his shopping sprees). Goodling informed Plaintiff that the
contract was up for renewal in an effort to pressure Plaintiff into remaining
silent. Goodling further pressured Plaintiff by telling Plaintiff that
Plaintiff’s complaints were making ‘things difficult’ for Goodling.”  (SAC ¶ 29.)
            “There was a power imbalance in the
special relationship between Goodling, as the Chief Executive Officer of the
facility where Plaintiff worked and officed, and Plaintiff, the Finance
Director responsible for accounting for Goodling's financial transactions.
Goodling expressed his displeasure with Plaintiff because of Plaintiffs
complaints. Goodling acted as a manager and supervisor of LBCEC staff by making
it clear to Plaintiff and SMG/ASM, through his actions and conduct, that
Goodling had the power and authority to silence Plaintiff, by retaliating and
having Plaintiff terminated from his job. Plaintiffs direct supervisor, Beirne
did nothing while Goodling attacked, intimidated and threatened Plaintiff for
making complaints about Goodling's expenditures. Beirne did not defend
Plaintiff at all during or after the meeting. It appeared to Plaintiff that
Beirne sided with Goodling during Goodling's unlawful, verbal assault and
vicious attacks on Plaintiff.”  (SAC ¶
32.)  
            On “August 17, 2021, Plaintiff met
with an auditor and supervisor with the firm of Lance, Soll & Lunghard, the
LBCEC External Auditors.”  (SAC ¶ 34.)  During this audit meeting, “Plaintiff
disclosed Goodling’s inappropriate and unlawful purchasing activities.”  (SAC ¶ 34.) 

            “On September 28, 2021, Beirne
called Plaintiff into a termination meeting. Beirne, and McClintock informed
Plaintiff that Plaintiff was being terminated due to ‘position
elimination.’”  (SAC ¶ 36.)  “SMG purported to offer Plaintiff a corporate
job at SMG’s corporate office in Los Angeles.” 
(SAC ¶ 38.)  However, this was not
a legitimate job offer as “[t]he offer was vague[,] [t]he position was
temporary[,] [and] [t]he Defendant’s Human Resources Manager has confirmed in a
sworn statement that the corporate job offer was pretextual and the termination
was retaliatory.”  (SAC ¶ 38.)  “Plaintiff immediately complained to
McClintock that his termination was based on Goodling retaliating against
Plaintiff.”  (SAC ¶ 39.)  Immediately after, on October 22, 2021, Plaintiff
was placed on administrative leave.  (SAC
¶¶ 39-40.)  On October 25, 2021, ASM’s
Executive Vice-President, Bob McClintock sent an email announcing to SMG Inc.
and SMG LLC employees that Plaintiff had resigned.  (SAC ¶ 41.) 
This was untrue as Plaintiff did not resign.  (SAC ¶ 41.) 
“On October 28, 2021, SMG’s investigator, Ms. Gilkin, finally
interviewed Plaintiff in response to Plaintiff’s complaints.”  (SAC ¶ 42.)
            “Plaintiff was told that he would be
terminated, effective November 12, 2021 or the following Monday, November 15,
2021.  The termination was finalized,
effective November 12, 2021.”  (SAC ¶ 43.)
 
Legal Standard
            Code
of Civil Procedure § 473, subdivision (a)(1) states: “[t]he court may, in
furtherance of justice, and on any terms, as may be proper, allow a party to
amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any
party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any
other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or
demurrer.  The court may likewise, in its
discretion, after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be
just, an amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may
upon like terms allow an answer to be made after the time limited by this
code.”  
            Code
of Civil Procedure § 576 states that: “[a]ny judge, at any time before or after
commencement of trial, in the furtherance of justice, and upon such terms as
may be proper, may allow the amendment of any pleading or pretrial conference
order.”
            Judicial
policy favors resolution of all disputed matters between the parties, and
therefore, courts have held that “there is a strong
policy in favor of liberal allowance of amendments.” (Mesler v. Bragg
Management Co. (1985) 39 Cal.3d 290, 296-97; see also Ventura v. ABM
Industries, Inc. (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 258, 268) [“Trial courts are bound
to apply a policy of great liberality in permitting amendments to the complaint
at any stage of the proceedings, up to and including trial where the adverse
party will not be prejudiced.”].) 
            Pursuant
to California Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(a), a
motion to amend must: (1) include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended
pleading, which must be serially numbered; and (2) state what allegations are
proposed to be deleted from or added to the previous pleading and where such
allegations are located.  Rule 3.1324(b)
requires a separate declaration that accompanies the motion, stating: “(1) the
effect of the amendment; (2) why the amendment is necessary and proper; (3)
when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and (4)
the reason why the request for amendment was not made earlier.”  
 
Discussion
            Plaintiff seeks to file a Third Amended
Complaint that adds a fifth cause of action for Failure to Provide Personnel
Files in violation of Labor Code section 1198.5.  Plaintiff has attached a proposed third
amended complaint and a “redline” copy indicating all proposed modifications
between the proposed third amended complaint and the SAC.  (Barrera Decl. ¶¶ 3-4, Exhs. A-B.)  The only new factual allegation added is that
Plaintiff requested his personnel file in November 2021, and Defendants failed
to produce a copy to Plaintiff.  (Barrera
Decl. ¶ 4, Exh. B, [Redline Copy at ¶ 43].) 
Plaintiff’s Counsel states that he requested that the parties stipulate
to the filing of the proposed third amended complaint, but Defendants
refused.  (Barrera Decl. ¶ 5, Exh. C.)
            In opposition, Defendants contend
that the Court should deny the instant motion because (1) the proposed fifth
cause of action for Failure to Provide Personnel Files in violation of Labor
Code section 1198.5 is barred by the statute of limitations and (2) Defendants are
prejudiced by the delay in bringing this amendment.
            Whether the proposed third amended complaint is deficient is beyond the
scope of a motion for leave to amend.  In
general, there is no requirement that a critical inquiry be made into the
merits of the amendment on a request for leave to amend.  (See Ruiz v. Santa Barbara Gas & Elec.
Co. (1912) 164 Cal. 188, 196 [ “The usual and orderly way to test the
sufficiency of an amended complaint is, in the first instance, by demurrer,
after the same has been filed, when the questions presented in regard thereto
may be considered and determined, and leave given to the pleader to amend if
the pleading be held insufficient and the court deem it proper that the party
should have such leave.”].)  Rather, Defendants
can challenge such deficiency in a motion challenging the claim, such as a demurrer
or motion for summary adjudication.   
            Moreover,
while Plaintiff does appear to have delayed in bringing the instant motion to
amend the complaint, “trial courts are to liberally permit such amendments,
at any stage of the proceeding[.]”  (Hirsa v. Superior Court (1981)
118 Cal.App.3d 486, 488–489.)  Rather, to
justify a denial of a motion for leave to amend, the delay must have caused
prejudice to the adverse parties.  (See Fair
v. Bakhtiari (2011) 195 Cal.App.4th 1135, 1147, [“[W]here there is no
prejudice to the adverse party, it may be an abuse of discretion to deny leave
to amend.”].)  
            Here,
Defendants claim that Plaintiff’s delay in bringing the instant motion is
prejudicial because trial is less than four months away, and the amendment could
result “in delay of the May 13, 2024 trial, along with added costs of
preparation, addition law and motion expenses given the statute of limitations
issue, and increased discovery efforts.” 
(Kroll Decl. ¶ 5.)  Defendants’
explanation is insufficient to show prejudice by the amendment.  The new factual allegations are minimal and
merely that Plaintiff requested his personnel file in November 2021, and
Defendants failed to produce said file within 30 days.  (Barrera Decl. ¶ 4, Exh. B, [Redline Copy at
¶ 43].)  Defendants do not identify what
significant discovery costs would need to be incurred – if any due – as a
result of the simple addition of this new cause of action.  Further, Defendants have been aware of the
proposed amendment since June 2023.  The
mere fact that Defendants may need to file a motion to challenge the pleadings
is similarly insufficient to show prejudice as all amendments to pleadings may give rise to further motions.  Moreover, if Defendants are correct that the
statute of limitations bars the proposed new claim, any prejudice to Defendants
would be minimal as Defendants would defeat such claim with a straightforward demurrer.
            As Defendants
fail to identify prejudice from allowing Plaintiff to file the proposed third
amended complaint, it would be an abuse of discretion to deny the instant
motion.  Accordingly, Plaintiff’s motion
for leave to amend is GRANTED.
 
Conclusion and ORDER
            Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff Paul Falzon’s motion for leave to
file a third amended complaint is GRANTED.
            Plaintiff
is to file and serve the proposed Third Amended Complaint no later than
February 7, 2024.
            A non-appearance
re filing of Defendants’ responsive pleading is set for March 13, 2024 at 8:30
am.
            Moving
Party is to
provide notice of this order and file proof of service of such.
 
DATED: February ___, 2024                                                 ___________________________
                                                                                          Elaine
Lu
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court