  Case Number:  20STCV36767    Hearing Date:   November 7, 2024    Dept:  48 SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



DJAMILEH MAHJOBI, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
DAVID E FERMELIA, MD,
 
                        Defendant.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 20STCV36767
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING IN PART MOTION
  FOR SANCTIONS
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
November 7, 2024




 


 


 



 
On
March 14, 2023, Defendant David E. Fermelia M.D. served a Notice of Taking Deposition
of Plaintiff Djamileh Mahjobi for May 3, 2023. 
(Taylor Decl. ¶ 4.)  Defendant also
propounded Form Interrogatory Requests, Set One; Special Interrogatory Requests,
Set One; and a Demand for Production of Documents, Set One.  (Taylor Decl. ¶ 5.)  On April 17, 2023, Plaintiff served unverified
responses consisting of only objections. 
(Taylor Decl. ¶ 6.)  Defendant attempted
to meet and confer, but Plaintiff stood by her objections.  (Taylor Decl. ¶ 7.)
On
April 27, 2023, Plaintiff served an objection to Defendant’s Notice of Taking Deposition
and objected to “any attorney of Defendant to personally confront or to take deposition
of the Plaintiff.”  (Taylor Decl. ¶ 8.)  Defendant attempted to meet and confer and requested
alternative dates, but Plaintiff did not respond.  (Taylor Decl. ¶¶ 9-10.)  Defendant proceeded with Plaintiff’s May 3, 2023
deposition and took a Certificate of Non-Appearance.  (Taylor Decl. ¶ 10.)
On
December 21, 2023, the Court granted Defendant’s motion to compel Plaintiff’s deposition
and ordered that the deposition occur within 90 days.  (Talyor Decl. ¶ 12.)
On
February 13, 2024, the Court granted in part Defendant’s motions to compel further
responses to Form Interrogatory Requests, Set One; Special Interrogatory Requests,
Set One; and a Demand for Production of Documents, Set One.
Defendant
noticed Plaintiff’s deposition for February 26, 2024, and when Plaintiff refused
to appear in person, Defendant attempted to accommodate Plaintiff by offering other
locations.  (Talyor Decl. ¶¶ 14-17.)
On
April 16, 2024, Plaintiff provided verified responses to Defendant’s discovery requests,
but the responses were objections only, in violation of the Court’s February 13,
2024 order.  (Taylor Decl. ¶ 19.)
Defendant
noticed Plaintiff’s deposition for August 28, 2024, Plaintiff objected and refused
to provide dates to complete her deposition, and Defendant took a Notice of Non-Appearance.  (Taylor Decl. ¶ 20.)
On
October 3, 2024, Defendant filed a motion for terminating, issue, evidentiary, and/or
monetary sanctions.  Defendant contends that
he has been unable to prepare an adequate defense because Plaintiff refuses to appear
for her deposition, no discovery responses have been received, and defense counsel
cannot properly prepare for dispositive motions or trial.  (Taylor Decl. ¶ 21.)
A.        Terminating Sanctions Are Not Warranted
At This Time.
A
court may impose a terminating sanction against anyone engaging in conduct that
is a misuse of the discovery process.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2023.030, subd. (d).)  Misuse
of the discovery process includes failing to respond to discovery, unjustifiably
making unmeritorious objections to discovery, and disobeying a court order to provide
discovery.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010.)  “The trial court may order a terminating sanction
for discovery abuse ‘after considering the totality of the circumstances: [the]
conduct of the party to determine if the actions were willful; the detriment to
the propounding party; and the number of formal and informal attempts to obtain
the discovery.’  [Citation.]  Generally, ‘[a] decision to order terminating
sanctions should not be made lightly.  But
where a violation is willful, preceded by a history of abuse, and the evidence shows
that less severe sanctions would not produce compliance with the discovery rules,
the trial court is justified in imposing the ultimate sanction.’”  (Los Defensores, Inc. v. Gomez (2014) 223
Cal.App.4th 377, 390.)
Plaintiff’s
failure to produce proper written discovery responses and failure to appear for
deposition does not yet demonstrate a history of abuse that justifies “the ultimate
sanction.”  (See Los Defensores, supra,
223 Cal.App.4th at p. 390.)  Additionally,
no trial date has been set.  Under the totality
of the circumstances, Defendant has not shown a history of willful discovery abuse
by Plaintiff, and the Court cannot find that less severe sanctions would be ineffective
and that terminating sanctions are warranted.
The
request for terminating sanctions is denied without prejudice to renewal if Plaintiff
continues to violate her discovery obligations.
B.        The Court Imposes Issue and Evidentiary
Sanctions.
In
the alternative, Defendant requests issue and evidentiary sanctions related to Plaintiff’s
alleged damages.  A court may impose an issue
sanction ordering that designated facts must be taken as established in accordance
with the claim of the party adversely affected by the misuse of the discovery process.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030, subd. (b).)  A court may also impose an issue sanction prohibiting
any party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process from supporting or opposing
designated claims or defenses.  (Ibid.)
The
goal of Defendant’s discovery was to obtain documentary evidence essential for the
defense of Plaintiff’s damages allegations, and Plaintiff’s refusal to participate
in discovery prevents Defendant from defending this action.  (See Motion at pp. 6-7.)
Defendant
therefore seeks an order that it be established that (1) Plaintiff did not sustain
any physical, mental, or emotional injuries as a result of any act or omission by
Defendant; (2) Plaintiff no longer suffers from any physical, mental, or emotional
injuries as a result of any act or omission by Defendant; (3) Plaintiff did not
receive any medical treatment from any health care provider for any injury attributable
to any act or omission by Defendant; and (4) Plaintiff will not receive any medical
treatment in the future from any health care provider for any injury attributable
to any act or omission by Defendant.  (Motion
at pp. 6-7.)
Additionally,
Defendant seeks an order prohibiting Plaintiff from attempting to introduce evidence
that Plaintiff sustained any physical, mental, or emotional injuries or continues
to suffer from any physical, mental, or emotional injuries, as a result of any act
or omission by Defendant.  (Motion at p. 7.)
Plaintiff
still has not produced necessary documents in response to Defendant’s March 14,
2023 discovery, despite the Court’s February 13, 2024 order.  Plaintiff still has not appeared for her noticed
deposition, despite Defendant’s attempts to accommodate her scheduling and location
needs.  Plaintiff is obstructing Defendant
from being able to present his defense.  Accordingly,
the Court will impose sanctions on Plaintiff.
C.        Conclusion
The
motion is GRANTED IN PART.
The
Court ORDERS that it must be taken as established that (1) Plaintiff did not sustain
any physical, mental, or emotional injuries as a result of any act or omission by
Defendant; (2) Plaintiff no longer suffers from any physical, mental, or emotional
injuries as a result of any act or omission by Defendant; (3) Plaintiff did not
receive any medical treatment from any health care provider for any injury attributable
to any act or omission by Defendant; and (4) Plaintiff will not receive any medical
treatment in the future from any health care provider for any injury attributable
to any act or omission by Defendant.  Plaintiff
may not introduce evidence that Plaintiff sustained any physical, mental, or emotional
injuries or continues to suffer from any physical, mental, or emotional injuries,
as a result of any act or omission by Defendant.
The
request for monetary sanctions is denied.
A
Case Management Conference is scheduled for _________________.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 7th day of November 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 