 Case Number:  21STCV09874    Hearing Date:   November 7, 2024    Dept:  48  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



CARLA VEGA, et al., 
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
FCA US LLC,
 
                        Defendant.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 21STCV09874
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING MOTION FOR SUMMARY
  ADJUDICATION
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
November 7, 2024



 
On
March 12, 2021, Plaintiffs Carla Vega and Leonel Torres filed this action against
Defendant FCA US LLC, arising from their purchase of an allegedly defective vehicle.
The
Court initially granted a motion to compel arbitration before granting a motion
for reconsideration of that order on August 22, 2023.  The action resumed in this court.
On
August 14, 2024, Defendant filed a motion for summary adjudication.
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
Plaintiffs’
Objection Nos. 1-3 to the Declaration of James Bielenda are sustained.  The declarant does not demonstrate personal knowledge,
and where he may have sufficient knowledge, the objected-to statements are conclusions,
not facts.
Defendant’s
objections to Plaintiffs’ Additional Material Facts are overruled.  Additionally, the objected-to statements are
not material to the Court’s decision and did not affect the outcome.
REQUEST
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
Defendant’s
request for judicial notice of Plaintiffs’ discovery responses while this case was
pending in arbitration is denied.  These are
not “Official acts of the legislative, executive, and judicial departments of the
United States and of any state of the United States,” “Records of (1) any court
of this state or (2) any court of record of the United States or of any state of
the United States,” or “Rules of court of (1) any court of this state or (2) any
court of record of the United States or of any state of the United States.”  (See RJN at p. 2.)
Even
if the Court could take judicial notice of the documents, it could not notice the
truth of the contents as fact.  “While courts
take judicial notice of public records, they do not take notice of the truth of
matters stated therein.  [Citation.]  ‘When judicial notice is taken of a document,
. . . the truthfulness and proper interpretation of the document are disputable.’  [Citation.]” 
(Herrera v. Deutsche Bank National Trust Co. (2011) 196 Cal.App.4th
1366, 1375.)
SEPARATE
STATEMENT
“Separate
statements are required not to satisfy a sadistic urge to torment lawyers, but rather
to afford due process to opposing parties and to permit trial courts to expeditiously
review complex motions for [summary adjudication] and summary judgment to determine
quickly and efficiently whether material facts are undisputed.”  (United
Community Church v. Garcin (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 327, 335 (United Community Church).)  “The separate statement ‘provides a convenient
and expeditious vehicle permitting the trial court to hone in on the truly disputed
facts.’ [Citation.]”  (Nazir v. United Airlines, Inc. (2009) 178 Cal.App.4th 243, 252 (Nazir).)  “[I]t is no answer to
say the facts set out in the supporting evidence and memorandum of points and authorities
are sufficient.  ‘Such an argument does not
aid the trial court at all since it then has to cull through often discursive argument
to determine what is admitted, what is contested, and where the evidence on each
side of the issue is located.’”  (United Community Church, supra, 231 Cal.App.3d at p. 335.)  “The due process aspect of the separate statement
requirement is self-evident—to inform the opposing party of the evidence to be disputed
to defeat the motion.”  (Id. at p. 337.)
“The separate statement should include only material
facts and not any facts that are not pertinent to the disposition of the motion.”  (California Rules of Court, rule 3.1350(d)(2).)  The parties should not “include in the separate
statement every fact they intend to include in their motion, regardless of
its materiality.”  (Beltran v. Hard Rock Hotel Licensing,
Inc. (2023) 97 Cal.App.5th 865, 875 (Beltran).)  “The paragraphs in a separate statement should be limited to facts that address
the elements of a cause of action or an affirmative defense.  (See Code Civ.
Proc., § 437c, subd. (b)(1); rule 3.1350(a)(2), (d)(2).)  The statute and Rules of Court do not preclude
litigants from including background, nonmaterial information in their papers as
long as they include a cite to the evidence, but nonmaterial facts should not be
included in the separate statement.  The point
of the separate statement is not to craft a narrative, but to be a concise list
of the material facts and the evidence that supports them.”  (Ibid.)  “[A] document
that was intended to be helpful to the court and provide due process to the parties
[citation] is, in many cases, no longer serving either purpose.”  (Id. at p. 874.) 

The separate statement here does not serve its intended
purpose.  Defendant frequently
set forth evidentiary facts rather than ultimate facts, which bury the actual undisputed
(or disputed) issues that are material to this motion.  Additionally,
what a party said or perceived is not a “material fact”; rather, it is evidence
of a fact.  (Reeves v. Safeway Stores, Inc. (2004) 121 Cal.App.4th 95, 106 (Reeves).)  Some of Defendant’s purported “undisputed facts”
are not facts that are material to the motion. 
For example, it is undisputed that “Defendant served Special Interrogatories,
Set One, on Plaintiffs on February 9, 2023 while this case was in the arbitration
forum.”  (UMF 18.)  It is undisputed that “Defendant’s Special Interrogatory
No. 17 requested all facts supporting Plaintiffs’ fourth cause of action and Defendant’s
Special Interrogatory No. 20 requested all facts supporting Plaintiffs’ claim for
punitive damages.”  (UMF 20.)  It is undisputed that “[i]n response to Interrogatory
No. 19, Plaintiffs, after a series of boilerplate objections, identified, ‘Plaintiffs
and Defendant, its agents, representatives, and employees.’  No one was identified by name.”  (UMF 26.) 
These are not “facts that address the elements of a cause of action or an
affirmative defense.”  (Beltran, supra, 97 Cal.App.5th at p. 875.)  The actual
undisputed facts are extremely limited, which affects the Court’s ability to decide
this motion.  This is evident in the
recitation of truly undisputed facts below.
“[T]rial
courts have the inherent power to strike proposed ‘undisputed facts’ that fail to
comply with the statutory requirements and that are formulated so as to impede rather
than aid an orderly determination whether the case presents triable material issues
of fact.  If such an order leaves the required
separate statement insufficient to support the motion, the court is justified in
denying the motion on that basis.”  (Reeves, supra, 121 Cal.App.4th at p. 106.)
Although
the Court will not strike non-material portions of the separate statements here,
counsel is cautioned to include only facts that are truly material to the motion.
BACKGROUND
FACTS
On
July 9, 2015, Plaintiff Carla Vega purchased a 2015 Dodge Charger.  (Undisputed Material Facts “UMF” 1.)
Plaintiffs
allege that Defendant concealed information relating to the PowerNet Electrical
Architecture/Body Control Module.  (See Complaint;
UMF 34, 41-42.)
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
For
each claim in the complaint, the defendant moving for adjudication must satisfy
the initial burden of proof by showing that one or more elements of a cause of action
cannot be established or that there is a complete defense to a cause of action.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2); Scalf
v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520 (Scalf).)  Then the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show
that a triable issue of material fact exists as to that cause of action or a defense.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2); Scalf,
supra, 128 Cal.App.4th at p. 1520.)  To establish a triable issue of material fact,
the party opposing the motion must produce “substantial responsive evidence.”  (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th
151, 162-163.)
DISCUSSION
Defendant
seeks summary adjudication of the fourth cause of action for Fraudulent Inducement
– Concealment and the related prayer for punitive damages.
A.        Defendant Does Not Meet Its Burden of
Showing That Plaintiffs Cannot Support Their Claims.
According
to Defendant, “Plaintiffs have not and cannot produce evidence of concealment, or
intent to conceal and defraud.”  (Motion at
p. 8.)  Defendant points to Plaintiffs’ responses
to special interrogatories and requests for production of documents during their
arbitration proceedings.  (Ibid.)
“[A]
defendant moving for summary judgment [must] present evidence, and not simply point
out that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence.”  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001)
25 Cal.4th 826, 854 (Aguilar), footnote omitted.)  Defendant must therefore “present evidence that
the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence—as
through admissions by the plaintiff following extensive discovery to the effect
that he has discovered nothing.”  (Id.
at p. 855.)
Defendant
has not done so here.  Plaintiffs’ discovery
responses in arbitration are not subject to judicial notice.  Even as authenticated exhibits (see Fisher Decl.
¶¶ 5, 7), they contain statements made in a different proceeding and are hearsay.  Even taken as statements of a party opponent (Evid.
Code, § 1220), the responses are not evidence that Plaintiffs do not possess, and
cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence. 
A response that “[d]iscovery is still continuing and Plaintiffs reserve the
right to supplement or amend this response should additional information become
available” on April 28, 2023 does not show that Plaintiffs cannot prove their claims
over a year and a half later, and Plaintiffs have not admitted that they have no
supporting evidence.
Defendant
also argues that Plaintiffs’ claims “rest entirely on the faulty premise that there
is a defect in all PNAs, deriving from a different electrical architecture, the
TIPM, in all vehicles manufactured by FCA US,” and Plaintiffs cannot show a defect
that Defendant concealed from them.  (Motion
at pp. 8-10.)  Defendant relies on the declaration
of James Bielenda, the former Manager of product investigations for Defendant.
An
expert declaration is admissible to support or defeat summary judgment if the expert’s
testimony would be admissible at trial.  (Fernandez v. Alexander (2019) 31 Cal.App.5th
770, 779.)  “‘Declarations must show the declarant’s
personal knowledge and competency to testify, state facts and not just conclusions,
and not include inadmissible hearsay or opinion.’  [Citation.]” 
(Ibid.)  The expert declaration must also contain a “reasoned
explanation” and not just conclusions.  (Id.
at p. 782.)
Defendant
contends that “witness James Bielenda is not Defendant’s expert witness, contrary
to Plaintiffs’ assertion that he is in their Opposition.”  (Reply at p. 1, fn. 1.)  Yet Bielenda sets forth his opinions on Plaintiffs’
alleged defects without personal knowledge of Plaintiffs’ exact vehicle and defects.  Regardless, the facts he sets forth still do not
establish the lack of a defect known to Defendant.
Plaintiffs
allege that the PowerNet (the particular electrical architecture installed in the
subject vehicle) controls virtually all of the vehicle’s electrical components.  (Complaint ¶ 21.)  Due to the defective PowerNet, windows were inoperable,
gauges fluctuated, the dash got extremely hot, headlights did not light up, the
trunk would not open, and the air conditioning would not turn on.  (Complaint ¶¶ 22-23, 153-156.)  According to Bielenda, “[t]he 2015 Dodge Charger
contains no component called a ‘PowerNet.’ 
It does not utilize a front control module.”  (Bielenda Decl. ¶ 10.)  However, Plaintiffs’ vehicle model has two separate
Power Distribution Centers (“PDCs”): one under hood and the other in the vehicle’s
trunk.  (Bielenda Decl. ¶ 11.)  “Depending on the features on a particular vehicle,
there are more than 18 different modules in a 2015 Dodge Charger.”  (Bielenda Decl. ¶ 12.)  Bielenda then describes various modules and declares,
“There is no defect common to all electrical architectures in all vehicles manufactured
by FCA US,” and, “There have been no recalls associated with the PowerNet Architecture
or Gateway module in the 2015 Dodge Charger.” 
(Bielenda Decl. ¶¶ 13-17, 21.)  This
does not establish that Plaintiffs’ exact vehicle did not suffer the alleged defects.
Additionally,
according to Bielenda, “The subject vehicle does not contain a TIPM.  Plaintiffs make assumptions and derive conclusions
based on complete misunderstandings of the TSB or Recalls they listed.”  (Bielenda Decl. ¶ 22.)  But Plaintiffs also allege Defendant’s knowledge
of problems with the Body Control Module (“BCM”) in other vehicles with the same
BCM as in Plaintiffs’ vehicle.  (E.g., Complaint
¶¶ 16, 29, 33, 36-37, 40-41, 51, 55-56, 70, 72, 74.)  Bielenda acknowledges that “[a] 2015 Dodge Charger
[Plaintiffs’ vehicle] also contains a Body Control Module (‘BCM’), which contains
two gateway modules.”  (Bielenda Decl. ¶ 14.)  This declaration does not satisfy Defendant’s
burden of showing that Plaintiffs’ vehicle was not defective or that Defendant’s
had no knowledge of the alleged concealed defects.
Summary
adjudication is denied on this ground.
B.        Fraudulent Inducement – Concealment Is
Not Barred By The Economic Loss Rule.
Defendant
argues that the economic loss rule bars Plaintiffs’ claim for Fraudulent Inducement
– Concealment.  (Motion at pp. 12-14.)
Under
the economic loss rule, “[w]here a purchaser’s expectations in a sale are frustrated
because the product he bought is not working properly, his remedy is said to be
in contract alone, for he has suffered only ‘economic’ losses.”  (Robinson Helicopter Co., Inc. v. Dana Corp.
(2004) 34 Cal.4th 979, 988 (Robinson), quotation marks omitted.)  However, tort damages may be permitted when the
breach of contract is accompanied by a tort such as fraud.  (Id. at pp. 989-990.)  “[U]nder California law, the economic loss rule
does not bar [a claim] for fraudulent inducement by concealment.  Fraudulent inducement claims fall within an exception
to the economic loss rule recognized by our Supreme Court” in Robinson, and
such claims allege fraudulent conduct that is independent of the alleged warranty
breaches.  (Dhital v. Nissan North America,
Inc. (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 828, 843.)
Defendant
argues that, at the time it filed its motion, “California courts, both state and
federal courts sitting in diversity, are divided on the issue of whether fraudulent
concealment claims are exempt from the economic loss rule.”  (Motion at p. 12.)  Defendant therefore urges the Court to follow
California federal courts in denying a fraudulent inducement claim in standard Song-Beverly
Act breach of warranty actions.  (Id.
at p. 13.) However, since then, the Supreme Court confirmed that “the economic loss
rule does not apply to limit recovery for intentional tort claims like fraud.”  (Rattagan v. Uber Technologies, Inc. (2024)
17 Cal.5th 1, 38.)  “A plaintiff may assert
a tort claim for fraudulent concealment based on conduct occurring in the course
of a contractual relationship, if the elements of the cause of action can be established
independently of the parties' contractual rights and obligations and the tortious
conduct exposes the plaintiff to a risk of harm beyond the reasonable contemplation
of the parties when they entered into the agreement.”  (Ibid.)
Summary
adjudication is denied on this ground.
C.        Punitive Damages Remain At Issue.
Defendant
argues that Plaintiffs cannot produce the required “clear and convincing evidence”
for punitive damages.  (Motion at pp. 10-12.)  Defendant again relies on Plaintiff’s discovery
responses and failure to affirmatively produce evidence.  This is insufficient.  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at pp. 854-855.)
Defendant
also argues that because the prayer for punitive damages is premised solely on the
fourth cause of action, “[w]ithout proof of fraudulent concealment, Plaintiffs’
claim for punitive damages must fail.”
Because
the Court denies summary adjudication of the fourth cause of action, summary adjudication
of punitive damages is also denied.
CONCLUSION
The
motion for summary adjudication is DENIED.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 7th day of November 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 