 Case Number:  22STCV14121    Hearing Date:   November 7, 2024    Dept:  48  
                                                                                                   
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



GONZALO CETINA, et al., 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
CITY OF BALDWIN PARK,
 
                        Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 22STCV14121
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING MOTIONS TO COMPEL
  FURTHER RESPONSES
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
November 7, 2024



 
On
December 19, 2023, Defendant City of Baldwin Park filed three motions to compel
further responses from Plaintiffs Gonzalo Cetina, Jorge Huerta, Jose Jimenez, Edwin
Parra, Francisco Real, and Luis Valdivia.
INTERROGATORIES
A
party may move to compel a further response to interrogatories if the demanding
party deems an answer to be evasive or incomplete, if an exercise of the option
to produce documents is unwarranted or inadequate, or if objection is without merit
or too general.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300,
subd. (a).)
A.        Form Interrogatories – General
The
motion for Defendant’s Form Interrogatories – General, Set One seeks to compel further
responses from (1) Gonzalo Cetina, (2) Jorge Huerta, (3) Edwin Parra, and (4) Francisco
Real.
Gonzalo
Cetina’s response to Rog No. 6.7 is incomplete and does not include the information
required by the Rog’s subsections.
Jorge
Huerta’s responses to Rog Nos. 6.4, 6.7, 12.6, and 14.1 are incomplete and do not
include the information required by the Rogs’ subsections.
Edwin
Parra’s responses to Rog Nos. 8.8 and 10.3 are incomplete and do not include the
information required by the Rogs’ subsections.
Francisco
Real’s responses to Rog Nos. 6.4, 6.5, and 6.7 are incomplete and do not include
the information required by the Rogs’ subsections.  His response to Rog No. 12.6 consists of a long
narrative that still does not include the information required by the Rog’s subsections.
The
motion to compel further responses to Form Interrogatories – General is GRANTED.  Gonzalo Cetina, Jorge Huerta, Edwin Parra, and
Francisco Real are ORDERED to provide code-compliant supplemental responses within
30 days.
B.        Form Interrogatories – Employment
The
motion for Defendant’s Form Interrogatories – Employment, Set One seeks to compel
further responses from (1) Gonzalo Cetina, (2) Jose Jimenez, (3) Jorge Huerta, (4)
Edwin Parra, (5) Francisco Real, and (6) Luis Valdivia.
Gonzalo
Cetina’s responses to Rog Nos. 201.3, 203.1, 207.1, and 207.2 consist of a long
narrative that still does not include the information required by the Rogs’ subsections.
Jose
Jimenez’s response to Rog No. 212.7 is incomplete and does not include the information
required by the Rog’s subsections.
Jorge
Huerta’s responses to Rog Nos. 203.1, 207.1, and 207.2 consist of a long narrative
that still does not include the information required by the Rogs’ subsections.  His responses to Rog Nos. 212.4 and 212.7 are
also incomplete and do not include the information required by the Rogs’ subsections.
Edwin
Parra’s response to Rog No. 210.3 (loss of future income, benefits, or earning capacity)
does not clearly state any future economic losses,  Instead, it appears to be a calculation of past
losses.  His response to Rog No. 212.4 is
incomplete and does not include the information required by the Rog’s subsections.
Francisco
Real’s responses to Rog Nos. 201.3, 203.1, 207.1, and 207.2 consist of a long narrative
that still does not include the information required by the Rogs’ subsections.  His responses to Rog Nos. 212.4, 212.5, and 212.7
are incomplete and do not include the information required by the Rogs’ subsections.
Luis
Valdivia’s responses to Rog Nos. 201.3 and 210.6 consist of long narratives that
still do not include the information required by the Rogs’ subsections.  His response to Rog No. 212.7 is incomplete and
does not include the information required by the Rog’s subsections.
The
motion to compel further responses to Form Interrogatories – Employment is GRANTED.  Gonzalo Cetina, Jose Jimenez, Jorge Huerta, Edwin
Parra, Francisco Real, and Luis Valdivia are ORDERED to provide code-compliant supplemental
responses within 30 days.
REQUESTS
FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS
A
party may move to compel a further response to a demand for production of documents
if the demanding party deems that the statement of compliance with the demand is
incomplete; the representation of inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete,
or evasive; or an objection in the response is without merit or too general.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (a).)  The motion must set forth specific facts showing
good cause justifying the discovery sought by the demand.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (b)(1).)
The
motion for Defendant’s First Set of Requests for Production of Documents seeks to
compel further responses from (1) Gonzalo Cetina, (2) Edwin Parra, and (3) Luis
Valdivia.
Gonzalo
Cetina responded to RFP Nos. 19, 20, and 34 by stating, in part, that he “provides
documents within his custody and control.” 
Defendant correctly notes that he does not indicate that he is providing
all of the responsive documents in his custody or control.  Additionally, for RFP No. 34, he objects to providing
his tax information.  Defendant is requesting
“Any and all DOCUMENTS sufficient to identify YOUR current gross, pre-tax income.”  This does not require production of tax documents.  Gonzalo Cetina is ordered to provide code-compliant
supplemental responses within 30 days.
Edwin
Parra responded to RFP Nos. 36-37 by stating that he “provides documents within
his custody and control.”  Defendant correctly
notes that he does not indicate that he is providing all of the responsive documents
in his custody or control.  Edwin Parra is
ordered to provide code-compliant supplemental responses within 30 days.
Luis
Valdivia responded to RFP Nos. 14, 34, and 36 by stating that he “provides documents
within his custody and control.”  Defendant
correctly notes that he does not indicate that he is providing all of the responsive
documents in his custody or control.  Additionally,
for RFP No. 34, he objects to providing his tax information.  Defendant is requesting “Any and all DOCUMENTS
sufficient to identify YOUR current gross, pre-tax income.”  This does not require production of tax documents.  Luis Valdivia is ordered to provide code-compliant
supplemental responses within 30 days.
The
motion to compel further responses to requests for production of documents is GRANTED.  Gonzalo Cetina, Edwin Parra, and Luis Valdivia
are ORDERED to provide code-compliant supplemental responses within 30 days.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 7th day of November 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 