  Case Number:  21SMCV01617    Hearing Date:   February 14, 2024    Dept:  52 (1) Defendants Tower Goal, Ltd.’s, Future Land, Ltd.’s, and International
Asia Holdings, LLC’s Motion to Compel Deposition of Plaintiffs’ Expert Jeff
Voorheis; and (2) Order to Show Cause Re: Transfer to Limited Jurisdiction
(1) Defendants’ Motion to Compel Deposition of Jeff
Voorheis           
Defendants Tower Goal, Ltd.,
Future Land, Ltd., and International Asia Holdings, LLC move to compel the
deposition of Jeff Voorheis, an expert witness for plaintiffs Donoco
Investments, LLC and Donald Okada. 
The court will not consider
plaintiffs’ opposition.  Marcus, Watanabe
& Enowitz filed the opposition on plaintiffs’ behalf.  That firm is not plaintiffs’ counsel of
record.  The firm has filed two notices
of limited scope representation stating representation was limited to (1)
opposing summary judgment and (2) responding to the order to show cause re:
transfer to limited jurisdiction.  Both
notices of limited scope representation further state, “Specifically excluded
from the retainer is any work on any motion other than” summary judgment or the
order to show cause.  “This exclusion from
the scope of legal services covered by this Contract extends to discovery, including
expert witness disclosure and discovery, and any work relating to trial.”  This motion concerns expert witness
discovery.  Marcus, Watanabe &
Enowitz do not represent plaintiffs for that purpose.  
Defendants’ motion is untimely.  “Any party shall be entitled as a matter of
right to complete discovery proceedings pertaining to” expert witnesses “on or
before the 15th day, and to have motions concerning that discovery heard on or
before the 10th day, before the date initially set for the trial of the action.”  (CCP § 2024.030.)  At latest, the deadline to hear this motion
concerning expert discovery was 10 days before the prior trial date of November
29, 2023.  Granting this untimely motion
would constitute an abuse of discretion. 
(Pelton-Shepherd Industries, Inc. v. Delta Packaging Products, Inc. (2008)
165 Cal.App.4th 1568, 1587-1588.)  
Defendants argue, “While the
Court did not reopen fact discovery when it continued the trial date, it did
not indicate that expert discovery was closed.” 
Indicating that is not necessary. 
Continuing discovery deadlines when continuing the trial is an exception
to the default rule.  (CCP §
2024.020(b).)  The statute governing the
expert discovery cutoff refers to “the date initially set for the
trial.”  (CCP § 2024.030.)
Defendants also
contend, “[S]ince the parties did not conduct expert discovery while settlement
discussions were ongoing through November 2023, it would be unreasonable to
assume that expert discovery is also closed and that Defendants should be
deprived of their ability to depose Plaintiffs’ experts.”  
That the
parties did not conduct expert discovery cannot result in extending the
discovery deadline.  Any “agreement to
extend the time for the completion of discovery proceedings or for the hearing
of motions concerning discovery, or to reopen discovery after a new date for
trial of the action has been set … shall be confirmed in a writing that
specifies the extended date.”  (CCP §
2024.060.)  Defendants present no writing
confirming the parties agreed to extend the deadline to complete expert
discovery to the date they noticed for Voorheis’s deposition, December 29,
2023.  They present no writing confirming
the parties agreed to extend the deadline to hear expert discovery motions to
today or later.  
            Defendants Tower Goal, Ltd.,
Future Land, Ltd., and International Asia Holdings, LLC’s motion to compel the
deposition of Jeff Voorheis is denied. 

(2) Order to Show Cause Re: Transfer to Limited
Jurisdiction
            On January
24, 2024, the court ordered plaintiffs to show cause why this action should not
be transferred to limited jurisdiction.  Plaintiffs
timely responded to the order to show cause.
Plaintiffs show good cause to not
reclassify this action.  An action may be classified “as a limited
civil case” only if it meets three conditions, including that “[t]he relief
sought is a type that may be granted in a limited civil case.”  (CCP § 85(b).)  Code of Civil Procedure section 580(b)
provides, “[T]he following types of relief may not be granted in a limited
civil case: [¶] (2) A permanent injunction, except as otherwise authorized by
statute. [¶] (4) Declaratory relief, except as authorized by Section 86.”
Plaintiffs’
complaint seeks declaratory relief outside the limited exceptions under Code of
Civil Procedure section 86(a)(7).  The
complaint further seeks
a permanent injunction that does not fall within an exception to section
580(b)(2). 
            The court does
not reclassify this action as a limited civil case.