 Case Number:  23STCV09594    Hearing Date:   April 4, 2024    Dept:  52 Tentative Ruling:
            Plaintiff CoriAndre Crane’s Motion to Compel Responses to
Discovery Demands and Document Production
Plaintiff
CoriAndre Crane moves to compel defendants Abraham Melchor Espinoza and Olivia
Valentin to serve responses to plaintiff’s form interrogatories, set one,
requests for production of documents, set one, and requests for admissions, set
one.  Plaintiff further moves to compel
defendants to produce documents in response to the requests for
production.  
When a party fails to timely respond
to interrogatories or demands for inspection, the requesting party may move for
an order compelling responses.  (CCP §§
2030.290(b) [interrogatories]; 2031.300(b) [demands for inspection].)  Failure to timely respond waives any
objections.  (CCP §§ 2030.290(a);
2031.300(a).)
The Civil Discovery Act does not
provide for a motion to compel responses to requests for admission.  It instead provides for a stronger remedy:
“The requesting party may move for an order that the genuineness of any
documents and the truth of any matters specified in the requests be deemed admitted,
as well as for a monetary sanction.” 
(CCP § 2033.280(b).)  Plaintiff, however, did not move for such an
order. 
Plaintiff establishes grounds for
ordering defendants to respond to her interrogatories and requests for
production.  Plaintiff served form
interrogatories, set one, and requests for production, set one, on defendants
Espinoza and Valentin on June 14 and 15, 2023. 
(Jackson Decl., ¶¶ 3-4, Exs. A-B.) 
Defendants did not provide any responses by February 5, 2024, when
plaintiff’s counsel signed his declaration in support of the motion.  (Id., ¶ 6.)  Espinoza
and Valentin therefore did not timely respond to the interrogatories and
requests for production and waived any objections to them.
Sanctions
            Plaintiff
moves for $2,425 in sanctions against defendants Espinoza and Valentin and
their counsel, Keven Steinberg.  Failing to respond to an authorized method of
discovery is a misuse of the discovery process subject to monetary
sanctions.  (CCP § 2023.010(d).)  Espinoza and Valentin failed to respond to
authorized discovery.  They show no basis
to find they acted with substantial justification or that sanctions would be
unjust under the circumstances. 
Sanctions against defendants and their counsel are appropriate.  
            Plaintiff
did not, however, reasonably incur $2,425 in expenses.  That amount includes one hour of attorney
fees at $485 hourly to prepare a reply to defendants’ opposition.  Defendants did not file an opposition.  Plaintiff did not file a reply.  Plaintiff therefore reasonably incurred only $1,940
in expenses.   
Disposition
            Plaintiff CoriAndre Crane’s motion is denied in part
as to compelling defendants to respond to requests for admissions, set one.  The motion is granted as to compelling
responses to form interrogatories, set one and to requests for production, set
one.  
            Defendants Abraham Melchor Espinoza and Olivia Valentin are
each ordered to serve verified responses without objections to
plaintiff’s form interrogatories, set one, within 30 days.  
            Defendants Abraham Melchor Espinoza and Olivia Valentin
are each ordered to serve verified responses without objections to
plaintiff’s requests for production, set one, within 30 days.  Defendants are further ordered to
produce all responsive documents concurrently with their written responses. 
            Defendants Abraham Melchor Espinoza and Olivia Valentin
and defendants’ counsel Keven Steinberg are ordered to pay
plaintiff $1,940 in sanctions within 30 days. 
Defendants Abraham Melchor Espinoza and Olivia Valentin and defendants’
counsel Keven Steinberg shall be jointly and severally liable for the sanctions.