 Case Number:  23STCV27229    Hearing Date:   April 4, 2024    Dept:  52 Tentative Ruling: 
Defendants
Brett I. Ersoff and Lisa C. Ersoff’s Demurrer and Motion to Strike Portions of
Plaintiff’s Complaint
Demurrer
Defendants Brett
I. Ersoff, individually and as trustee of the Ersoff Trust, and Lisa C. Ersoff,
individually and as trustee of the Lisa C. Ersoff Trust, demur to plaintiff
Philip Berardi’s eighth, 10th, and 12th causes of action.
8th Cause of Action: Fraud/Concealment
Plaintiff
alleges sufficient facts for this cause of action.  Fraud by concealment requires: (1) the defendant concealed or suppressed
a material fact; (2) defendant had a duty to disclose the fact to plaintiff;
(3) defendant intentionally concealed or suppressed the fact with intent to
defraud plaintiff; (4) plaintiff must have been unaware of the fact and would
have acted otherwise if she had known of the concealed fact; and (5) plaintiff
suffered damage as a result of the concealment. 
(Boschma v. Home Loan Center, Inc. (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 230,
248.)
Plaintiff alleges Brett and Lisa Ersoff “patched
‘cracks’ on the exterior of the Property to hide the defects from BERARDI” (¶
167), and “never properly disclosed” numerous “structural issues” to plaintiff
though the Ersoffs knew of them “at all relevant times” (¶ 168).  He further alleges the Ersoffs “placed … rags
under the [water] tank to collect water in an attempt to conceal the leak in
the tank that was previously noted in the inspection report and made part of a
request for repairs.”  (¶ 172.)  Plaintiff also alleges, “The ERSOFFS knew
BERARDI would rely on their statements and representations regarding the
condition of the Property in order to finalize the sale of the Property.”  (¶ 177.) 
Plaintiff alleges he relied on the concealment “to conclude the sale,
reside in the Property, and continue residing in the Property during the severe
rainstorms that result[ed] in significant damage to the Property.”  (¶ 178.) 

Defendants rely on arguments that do not apply
on demurrer.  For example, they argue, “Without
any support for the conclusion, Plaintiff asserts the Ersoffs ‘and/or’ the
Oppenheim Defendants must have placed the rag there.”  (Demurrer, p. 4.)  In
reviewing a complaint challenged by demurrer, the court must “accept as true
all the material facts properly pleaded” and does not “go beyond the four
corners of the complaint, except as to matters which may be judicially
noticed.”  (Thornburn v. Department of
Corrections (1998) 66 Cal.App.4th 1284, 1287-1288.)  Any ambiguity in the complaint is viewed in
favor of the plaintiff.  This is because
the court must liberally construe the complaint and make all reasonable
inferences in favor of the party asserting the claims.  (Robertson v. Saadat (2020) 48
Cal.App.5th 630, 639.)  That the
Ersoffs (or other defendants) placed the rag there is a factual
allegation.  On demurrer, the court must
accept it as true.  
10th
Cause of Action: False Promise
            Plaintiff does not specifically
allege the necessary facts for this cause of action.  “The elements of promissory
fraud (i.e., of fraud or deceit based on a promise made without any intention
of performing it) are: (1) a promise made regarding a material fact without any
intention of performing it; (2) the existence of the intent not to perform at
the time the promise was made; (3) intent to deceive or induce the promisee to
enter into a transaction; (4) reasonable reliance by the promisee; (5)
nonperformance by the party making the promise; and (6) resulting damage to the
promisee.”  (Behnke v. State Farm General
Ins. Co. (2011) 196 Cal.App.4th 1443, 1453.)  “[F]raud must be pled specifically” by
“pleading facts which show how, when, where, to whom, and by
what means the representations were tendered.” 
(Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645,
internal quotes omitted.)
Plaintiff’s 10th cause of action, alleged against all defendants,
contains only the following paragraph: “Defendants made false promises to
BERARDI, regarding the sale of the Property, the structural integrity of the
Property, and the integrity of the lot surrounding and upon which the Property
is built. The Defendants made this promise, repeatedly, to BERARDI, during the
course of the Property inspection and the sale of the Property.  The Defendants did not intend to perform this
promise when it was made to the PLAINTIFFS.  Rather, the Defendants intended for the
PLAINTIFFS to rely on these false promises and the Defendants did not perform
their promises.  The PLAINTIFFS were
directly harmed by these false promises regarding the Property, and the
PLAINTIFFS’ reliance on these false promises was a substantial factor in
causing the PLAINTIFFS’ harm.”  (¶
201.)  
            Assuming the remainder
of the complaint contains the necessary facts for this cause of action, this
paragraph muddies the waters such that the complaint fails to apprise
defendants of the basis for this claim.  The
allegation of “false promises … regarding the sale of the Property, the
structural integrity of the property, and the integrity of the lot” fails to
specifically identify the nature of the promise.  Furthermore, plaintiff alleges this cause of
action against all nine defendants, though they served different roles in the events
that gave rise to this action.  By
combining this cause of action as against all the defendants, it is impossible
to understand which defendant is being sued for which purportedly false
promises. 
12th Cause of Action: Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress
Plaintiff
alleges sufficient facts for this cause of action.  Its elements are “(1) extreme and outrageous
conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard
of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff’s
suffering severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual and proximate
causation of the emotional distress by the defendant’s outrageous
conduct.”  (Hughes v. Pair (2009)
46 Cal.4th 1035, 1050.)  “Whether the defendant’s conduct was outrageous
and whether the plaintiff’s emotional distress was severe are
generally questions of fact.”  (Murphy
v. Allstate Ins. Co. (1978) 83 Cal.App.3d 38, 51.)  
As discussed
above, plaintiff alleges the Ersoffs concealed defects in the property they
sold him.  He alleges they intentionally
tricked him into agreeing to purchase the property when he would not have done
so if he knew the truth.  The court
cannot conclude that, as a matter of law, these allegations are not
sufficiently egregious for intentional infliction of emotional distress.
Again,
the Ersoffs’ demurrer makes arguments inappropriate on demurrer.  They argue, “There is nothing, aside from
conclusory allegations, to suggest Ersoffs engaged in any ‘extreme and
outrageous conduct’ with the intention of causing emotional distress.”  (Demurrer, p. 9.)  A defendant’s intent is generally an ultimate
fact sufficient to withstand challenge by demurrer.  (See, e.g., Perkins v. Superior Court
(1981) 117 Cal.App.3d 1, 6 [allegations that defendants acted “wrongfully and
intentionally” and “in retaliation” sufficient to support prayer for punitive
damages]; Rosin v. Superior Court (1960) 181 Cal.App.2d 486, 490 [“the
allegation of petitioner’s intent in removing the children from the
jurisdiction … is an allegation of fact, not a mere conclusion”].)  Plaintiff alleges the ultimate fact that
defendants intended to cause emotional distress: “Defendants committed these
acts and engaged in misconduct knowingly, intentionally, and willfully so as to
cause BERARDI, severe emotional and mental distress.”  (¶ 206.) 
Plaintiff’s allegations may not be specific, but specificity is not
required for this cause of action.  The
12th cause of action meets California’s liberal standard of pleading.
Motion to Strike
Defendants
Brett I. Ersoff, individually and as trustee of the Ersoff Trust, and Lisa C.
Ersoff, individually and as trustee of the Lisa C. Ersoff Trust, move to strike
portions of plaintiff’s complaint regarding punitive damages.  Courts may strike allegations related
to punitive damages where the facts alleged “do not rise to the level of
malice, oppression or fraud necessary” to recover punitive damages under Civil
Code section 3294.  (Turman v. Turning
Point of Central California, Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 64.)  Conclusory allegations are not enough.  (Smith v. Superior Court (1992)
10 Cal.App.4th 1033, 1042.)  The
complaint must make “factual assertions supporting a conclusion [defendants]
acted with oppression, fraud or malice.” 
(Ibid.)  As discussed
above, plaintiff alleges sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action for fraud
by concealment.  The same allegations suffice
to constitute fraud under Civil Code section 3294.
Disposition
            Defendants Brett I. Ersoff and Lisa
C. Ersoff’s demurrer to plaintiff’s 10th cause of action is sustained
with 20 days’ leave to amend. 
Defendants’ demurrer to plaintiff’s 8th and 12th causes of action are overruled.  
            Defendants Brett I. Ersoff and Lisa
C. Ersoff’s motion to strike portions of plaintiff’s complaint is denied.
Tentative Ruling: 
Defendants Jason
Oppenheim and The Oppenheim Group, Inc.’s Demurrer and Motion to Strike
Portions of Plaintiff’s Complaint
Demurrer
Defendants Jason
Oppenheim and The Oppenheim Group, Inc. demur to plaintiff Philip Berardi’s
second, sixth, seventh, ninth, and 12th causes of action.
2nd Cause of Action: Breach of
Contract
            Plaintiff
does not allege sufficient facts for this cause of action.  Breach of contract requires a contract
between the parties.  Plaintiff’s
complaint alleges Oppenheim and The Oppenheim Group “served as the listing
agent for the sale of the Property.”  (¶
73.)  He further alleges, “BERARDI, and
the OPPENHEIM DEFENDANTS, entered into contractual agreements for services
pertaining to the Property in the defendants’ capacity as real estate brokers.”  (¶ 85.) 
The complaint does not allege what “contractual agreements” or what
“services” those were.  
The only potential
contract between plaintiff and the Oppenheim defendants referenced in the
complaint is the Residential Purchase Agreement and Joint Escrow Instructions
attached as Exhibit 1.  When the
plaintiff alleges facts contradicted by exhibits attached to the complaint, the
facts stated in the exhibits will be given precedence.  (Moran v. Prime Healthcare Management,
Inc. (2016) 3 Cal.App.5th 1131, 1145–1146; Barnett v. Fireman’s Fund
Ins. Co. (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 500, 505.)  The first paragraph of the agreement provides,
“Buyer and Seller are referred to herein as the ‘Parties.’  Brokers and Agents are not Parties to this
Agreement.”  (Comp., Ex. 1, ¶ 1.D.)  
Plaintiff’s opposition does not address defendants’
only argument on this cause of action. 
Instead, plaintiff argues real estate brokers have noncontractual or
tort duties.  That is not relevant to
breach of contract.  
Plaintiff further argues, “All allegations herein
are that the Moving Parties had actual knowledge of the defects of the subject
Property and they ratified their contractual duties as fiduciaries and
subsequent breach(es) as the agents to the subject sale.  However, the agency relationship does not
absolve the Moving Parties from its contractual duties owed to Plaintiff.”  (Opp., p. 9.) 
Plaintiff gets agency backwards. 
The point of agency is that agents (here, the Oppenheim defendants) have
authority to bind their principals (the Ersoffs) to contracts with third
parties.  “An agent is one who represents
another, called the principal, in dealings with third persons.”  (Civ. Code, § 2295.)  “An agent represents his principal for all
purposes within the scope of his” authority, “and all the rights and
liabilities which would accrue to the agent from transactions within” that
authority, “if they had been entered into on his own account, accrue to the
principal.”  (Civ. Code, § 2330.)
6th Cause of Action: Intentional
Misrepresentation
Plaintiff does not allege sufficient facts
for this cause of action.  Intentional misrepresentation requires: “(a)
misrepresentation; (b) defendant’s knowledge of the statement’s falsity; (c)
intent to defraud (i.e., to induce action in reliance on the
misrepresentation); (d) justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting damage.”  (Hunter v. Up-Right, Inc. (1993) 6
Cal.4th 1174, 1184.)  “[F]raud must be pled specifically” by “pleading facts which
show how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations were
tendered.”  (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996)
12 Cal.4th 631, 645, internal quotes omitted.)
The complaint does not specifically allege
facts constituting the elements of the cause of action.  This cause of action spans paragraphs 126 to 155.  The name “Oppenheim” appears only in the
sixth cause of action’s label (Comp., p. 24, lines 13-15), in paragraph 136
alleging they “served as the listing agent for the sale of the Property,
knowing the condition of the Property at all times”, and in paragraph 146
alleging: The “ERSOFFS, and/or the OPPENHEIM DEFENDANTS, placed the rags under
the tank to collect water in an attempt to conceal the leak in the tank that
was previously noted in the inspection report and made part of a request for
repairs.  It was clear that certain
repairs promised by the Defendants, ERSOFFS, and by the OPPENHEIM DEFENDANTS,
as their agents, which repairs were a condition of the sale, were never
performed.”  
Not only does the complaint not allege facts
showing how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations were
tendered, but it also fails to apprise the Oppenheim defendants of the purportedly
false representations at the heart of this claim.  Plaintiff makes a vague and conclusory
allegation that “The Defendants, collectively, made false representations that
harmed BERARDI.  The Defendants,
collectively, represented to BERARDI, material facts regarding the Property
that the Defendants represented as true.” 
(¶ 153.)  This allegation about
“material facts regarding the Property” does not explain the nature of those
material facts. 
            Plaintiff’s
opposition makes no cogent argument.  It
first merely asserts that paragraphs 29, 43, 73, 75, 83, and 146 include the
necessary allegations.  (Opp., p. 11.)  Those paragraphs make allegations about the
basic facts of the transaction such as the parties’ roles and the price (¶¶ 29,
73), about real estate agents’ duties in general (¶¶ 43, 83), and the
conditions of the property (¶¶ 75, 146). 
They do not allege any intentional misrepresentation by the Oppenheim defendants.
The opposition further argues, “Plaintiff
alleges the Moving Parties misrepresented the fact they ‘placed the rags under
the tank to collect water in an attempt to conceal the leak in the tank that
was previously noted in the inspection report and made part of a request for
repairs.’ ”  (Opp., p. 11.)  The complaint does not allege that.  Doing so would mean the Oppenheim defendants
affirmatively told plaintiff they did not put rags under the water tank.  Moreover, the complaint does not allege
anything plaintiff did in reliance on any such affirmative misrepresentation.   
7th Cause of Action: Unjust Enrichment
This cause of action fails because “California
does not recognize a cause of action for unjust enrichment.”  (Hooked Media Group, Inc. v. Apple Inc.
(2020) 55 Cal.App.5th 323, 336; accord Everett v. Mountains Recreation &
Conservation Authority (2015) 239 Cal.App.4th 541, 553.)
9th Cause of Action: Fraud/Concealment
Plaintiff
alleges sufficient facts for this cause of action.  Fraud by concealment requires: (1) the defendant concealed or
suppressed a material fact; (2) defendant had a duty to disclose the fact to
plaintiff; (3) defendant intentionally concealed or suppressed the fact with
intent to defraud plaintiff; (4) plaintiff must have been unaware of the fact
and would have acted otherwise if she had known of the concealed fact; and (5)
plaintiff suffered damage as a result of the concealment.  (Boschma v. Home Loan Center, Inc.
(2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 230, 248.)
The complaint alleges that, “at all relevant
times,” the Oppenheim defendants knew of numerous “structural issues with the
Property, including, but not limited to, workmanship, materials, components,
siding” and “never properly disclosed” them to plaintiff.  (¶ 186.) 
It further alleges the “Ersoffs, and/or the Oppenheim defendants, placed
… rags under the [water] tank to collect water in an attempt to conceal the
leak in the tank that was previously noted in the inspection report and made
part of a request for repairs.”  (¶ 190.)  Plaintiff also alleges, “The Defendants knew
BERARDI would rely on their statements and representations regarding the
condition of the Property in order to finalize the sale of the Property.”  (¶ 196.) 
Plaintiff alleges he relied on the concealment “to conclude the sale,
reside in the Property, and continue residing in the Property during the severe
rainstorms that result[ed] in significant damage to the Property.”  (¶ 197.)
  The
demurrer argues plaintiff did not allege the details of how, when, where, to
whom, and by what means the representations were tendered.  The complaint’s ninth cause of action does
vaguely allege, “OPPENHEIM DEFENDANTS represented to BERARDI, the conditions of
the Property.”  (¶ 184.)  But the ninth cause of action alleges fraud
by concealment.  The specificity requirement does not fully apply to concealment claims
because it is difficult to show “how” and “by what means” something did not
happen.  (Alfaro v. Community Housing
Improvement System & Planning Assn., Inc. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1356,
1384.)   
The Oppenheim defendants further argue, “Plaintiffs
do not allege why they believe Oppenheim Defendants, whom Plaintiffs themselves
characterize as real estate brokers and not as the owner or a contractor, would
be able to place a rag under a tank to conceal a leak.”  (Demurrer, p. 10.)  Even if implausible, that is an allegation of
fact that the court must accept as true. 
In reviewing a complaint
challenged by demurrer, the court must “accept as true all the material facts
properly pleaded” and does not “go beyond the four corners of the complaint,
except as to matters which may be judicially noticed.”  (Thornburn v. Department of Corrections (1998)
66 Cal.App.4th 1284, 1287-1288.)  Any
ambiguity in the complaint is viewed in favor of the plaintiff.  This is because the court must liberally
construe the complaint and make all reasonable inferences in favor of the party
asserting the claims.  (Robertson v.
Saadat (2020) 48 Cal.App.5th 630, 639.) 

The demurrer also argues, “Plaintiffs did not
bother stating how they would have reasonably acted differently.”  (Demurrer, p. 10.)  Paragraph 197 sufficiently alleges what
plaintiff did in reliance on the alleged concealment, meaning things he would
not have done otherwise: finalizing the purchase.
12th Cause of Action: Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress
Plaintiff
alleges sufficient facts for this cause of action against the Oppenheim
defendants.  Its elements are “(1)
extreme and outrageous conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing,
or reckless disregard of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2)
the plaintiff’s suffering severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual
and proximate causation of the emotional distress by the defendant’s outrageous
conduct.”  (Hughes v. Pair (2009)
46 Cal.4th 1035, 1050.)  “Whether the defendant’s conduct was outrageous
and whether the plaintiff’s emotional distress was severe are
generally questions of fact.”  (Murphy
v. Allstate Ins. Co. (1978) 83 Cal.App.3d 38, 51.)  
As discussed
above, plaintiff alleges the Oppenheim defendants concealed information they
knew about defective conditions in the property.  He alleges they intentionally tricked him
into agreeing to purchase the property when he would not have done so if he
knew the truth.  The court cannot
conclude that, as a matter of law, these allegations are not sufficiently
egregious for intentional infliction of emotional distress.
Motion to Strike
Defendants
Jason Oppenheim and The Oppenheim Group, Inc. move to strike portions of
plaintiff’s complaint regarding attorney fees and portions regarding punitive
damages.
A.
Attorney Fees      
Plaintiff alleges no valid basis for recovering
attorney fees.  A plaintiff may only
recover attorney fees when authorized by contract, statute, or other law.  (CCP § 1033.5(a)(10).)  Plaintiff relies on the Residential Purchase
Agreement and Joint Escrow Instructions attached to the complaint as Exhibit 1.  As discussed above, the Oppenheim defendants
are not parties to that contract.  
Plaintiff’s opposition invents a quote from the
contract: “On page 12 of ‘Exhibit 1’ to the Complaint, Para. No. 22 of the
Agreement, is an ‘Attorney Fees and Costs’ provision that states ‘In any action
in law or equity the prevailing party is entitled to reasonable attorney
fees…’.”  (Opp., p. 8.)  Paragraph 22 of the agreement does not say
that.  It provides, “In any action,
proceeding, or arbitration between
Buyer and Seller arising out of
this Agreement, the prevailing Buyer
or Seller shall be entitled to
reasonable attorney fees and costs from the non-prevailing Buyer or Seller, except as provided in paragraph 30A.”  (Comp., Ex. 1, p. 12.)  The Oppenheim defendants are not parties to
the contract and are not the Buyer or Seller. 

B.
Punitive Damages
Courts
may strike allegations related to punitive damages where the facts alleged “do
not rise to the level of malice, oppression or fraud necessary” to recover
punitive damages under Civil Code section 3294. 
(Turman v. Turning Point of Central California, Inc. (2010)
191 Cal.App.4th 53, 64.)  Conclusory
allegations are not enough.  (Smith v.
Superior Court (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1033, 1042.)  The complaint must make “factual assertions
supporting a conclusion [defendants] acted with oppression, fraud or malice.”  (Ibid.)  As discussed above, plaintiff alleges
sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action for fraud by concealment.  The same allegations suffice to constitute
fraud under Civil Code section 3294.
Disposition
            Defendants Jason Oppenheim and The
Oppenheim Group, Inc.’s demurrers to plaintiff’s second, sixth, and seventh
causes of action are sustained with 20 days’ leave to amend.  Defendants Jason Oppenheim and The Oppenheim
Group, Inc.’s demurrers to plaintiff’s ninth and 12th causes of action are overruled.
Defendants
Jason Oppenheim and The Oppenheim Group, Inc.’s motion to strike is denied as
to portions of the complaint regarding punitive damages.  The motion is granted with leave to
amend as to portions of the complaint regarding attorney fees.  The court hereby strikes the following
portion of plaintiff’s complaint as to defendants Jason Oppenheim and The
Oppenheim Group, Inc., with 20 days’ leave to amend: “For reasonable attorneys’
fees.”  (Comp., prayer, ¶ 2, p. 40, line 16.)  
 