 Case Number:  21STCV32188    Hearing Date:   December 9, 2024    Dept:  B NATAN TIPS, A MINOR, BY AND THROUGH HIS GAL CHELSEA HILES, ET AL. VS DOE DRIVER, ET AL.MOTION FOR REMOVAL OF CURRENT GUARDIAN AD LITEM AND APPROVAL FOR FILING A NEW APPLICATION AND ORDER FOR APPOINTMENT OF GUARDIAN AD LITEMDate of Hearing: December 9, 2024 Trial Date: NoneDepartment: B Case No.: 21STCV32188Moving Party: Plaintiffs Natan Tips, by and through his guardian ad litem Chelsea Hiles, and Chelsea HilesResponding Party: NoneBACKGROUNDThis action arises from an alleged October 2019 motor vehicle accident. On August 31, 2021, Plaintiffs Natan Tips (“Natan”), a minor by and through his guardian ad litem Chelsea Hiles, and Chelsea Hiles (“Hiles”) sued Defendants Doe Driver (“Driver”), Salvador Flores, (“Flores”), and Does 1 to 20 (collectively “Defendants”) alleging one cause of action for motor vehicle negligence.On September 1, 2021, Hiles was approved as guardian ad litem for Natan.On April 9, 2024, a request for order approving compromise of disputed claim or pending action or disposition of proceeds of judgment for minor or person with a disability (“minor’s comp.”) was granted on behalf of Natan.On June 5, 2024, this action was reassigned to the Honorable Karen Moskowitz in Department B at Van Nuys Courthouse East, effective June 24, 2024.On November 13, 2024, Plaintiffs filed the instant motion requesting the removal of Hiles as guardian ad litem and the appointment of a new guardian ad litem thereof. Plaintiffs also request leave to file a new expedited minor’s comp. petition.[TENTATIVE] RULINGThe Court GRANTS the motion for removal of current guardian ad litem and approval for filing a new application and order for appointment of guardian ad litem. The Court also grants leave for Plaintiffs to file an amended expedited minor’s comp. petition.LEGAL STANDARDCal. Code of Civ. Proc. § 372 provides that a minor must appear in litigation by a guardian or conservator of his estate or a guardian ad litem appointed by the court. A guardian ad litem is an officer of the court appointed to represent a minor in litigation, and to protect and promote the minor's interests. Like any other officer of the court (receiver, conservator, referee, etc.), a guardian ad litem is subject to court supervision; should a guardian ad litem take an action inimical to the legitimate interests of the minor, the court retains the supervisory authority to rescind or modify the action taken. (Regency Health Services, Inc. v. Superior Court (1998) 64 Cal.App.4th 1496, 1501-1502.)A guardian ad litem's removal, as well as his appointment, is also under the control of the court in which the case is pending. (Estate of Anna M. Hathaway v. James A. White (1896) 111 Cal. 270, 271.) Nevertheless, subject to the court's ultimate supervision, the guardian has the authority and the duty to control the litigation for the benefit of the minor and to act on the minor's behalf in the litigation. In making the determination concerning the appointment of a particular guardian ad litem, the court must consider whether the minor and the guardian have divergent interests. (Code Civ. Proc. § 372(b)(1)(D); Regency Health Services, Inc., supra, 64 Cal.App.4th at 1503.)DISCUSSIONThe entire Tips-Hiles family has relocated to Israel. (Motion p. 2:20-21.) Upon relocation to Israel, CHASE Bank unilaterally closed the account that Hiles chose to open a blocked account with. (Motion p. 3:3-6.) Additionally, the family thought that they would visit the U.S. before the end of 2024, therefore expecting to deposit the funds into a blocked account by October 4, 2024. (Motion p. 2:21-24.) However, due to the regional conflict, the family has informed Plaintiff’s counsel that leaving Israel, even temporarily, is challenging. (Ibid. at 24-26.) Therefore, Hiles was unable to deposit the settlement funds into a blocked account by the Court-ordered deadline of October 4, 2024.Hiles has contacted a family friend and U.S. resident, Samuel Lovitch (“Lovitch”), to act as the new guardian ad litem. (Motion p. 4:22-23.) Lovitch has agreed to serve as the new guardian ad litem upon appointment. Lovitch has no financial interest or claim against the current guardian ad litem or minor and will not benefit from the settlement outcome. (Ibid. at p. 5:1-2.)Finally, since the initial minor’s comp. was approved and signed in April 2024, Plaintiffs’ counsel has secured a second settlement for Natan from his parents’ underinsured motorist coverage with State Farm Mutaul Automobile Insurance Company. (Motion p. 6:11-13.) Plaintiffs would like to incorporate this settlement into an amended petition, consolidating State Farm’s settlement with Defendant Flores’s settlement. (Ibid. at 13-14.)CONCLUSIONThe Court finds Plaintiffs’ requests both reasonable and in the best interest of Natan. Therefore, the Court GRANTS Plaintiffs’ motion for removal of current guardian ad litem Chelsea Hiles.Additionally, the Court grants leave to file a new guardian ad litem application and an amended expedited petition to approve compromise of a disputed claim or pending action or disposition of judgment for a minor or a person with a disability.Moving party is ordered to give notice.