 Case Number:  22PSCV00533    Hearing Date:   July 25, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE  NAME:  Yanmin  Han v. Heather Lien, et al.  Plaintiff’s  Motion to Compel Responses to Form Interrogatories, Set No. 2 by Defendant Joe  Mun Yen Chou  TENTATIVE  RULING  The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion to compel responses to Form  Interrogatories, Set No. 2 by Defendant Joe Mun Yen Chou. Defendant Joe Mun Yen  Chou must provide complete verified responses, without objection, to  Plaintiff’s Form Interrogatories, Set No. 2, within 20 days of the Court’s  order.  The Court also GRANTS Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions  in the reduced amount of $585.00. Defendant Joe Mun Yen Chou and his counsel of  record must pay said monetary sanctions to Plaintiff within 20 days of the  Court’s order.               Plaintiff is ordered to give notice  of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.  BACKGROUND  This is a construction dispute. On June 3, 2022, plaintiff Yanmin  Han (Plaintiff) filed this action against defendants Heather Lien, Joe Mun Yen  Chou dba Impact Construction Company (Chou), Luxury Construction, Inc., TZ  Global, Inc. (collectively, Defendants) and Does 1 through 10, alleging causes  of action for breach of contract, intentional misrepresentation, negligent  misrepresentation, negligence, common count: money had and received,  disgorgement under Business and Profession Code section 7031, violation of  Business and Profession Code section 7160, and aiding and abetting unlicensed  contracting.  On May 20, 2024, Plaintiff moved to compel Chou’s responses to  Form Interrogatories – Construction Litigation, Set No. 2. The motion is  unopposed.  LEGAL  STANDARD  When a party fails to serve a timely response  to interrogatories, the party propounding the interrogatories may move for an  order compelling a response. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (b).) A party  who fails to provide a timely response waives any objection, including one  based on privilege or work product. (Id., § 2030.290, subd. (a).) “The  court shall impose a monetary sanction… against any party, person, or attorney  who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to  interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted  with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition  of the sanction unjust.” (Id., § 2030.290, subd. (c).)  DISCUSSION  Meet and Confer  Although meeting and conferring is not required before bringing  motions to compel, (Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific  Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 404), the Court notes  that Plaintiff indicates having attempted to meet and confer, albeit by email  only, before bringing this motion, (Lee Decl., ¶ 3, Exs. 3-4.) The Court requests  that any such future meet-and-confer efforts be conducted by telephone,  videoconference, or in person before resorting to email, as the Court finds these  methods more effective than email.              Analysis  Plaintiff  indicates having electronically served Form Interrogatories –  Construction Litigation,  Set No. 2, on Chou on April 3, 2024. (Lee Decl., ¶ 2, Exs. 1-2.) As of the  filing date of the motion, Plaintiff received no responses. (Lee Decl., ¶ 3.) The  Court finds Plaintiff’s motion to be well taken. The Court hereby GRANTS  Plaintiff’s motion, and orders Defendant Chou to serve verified responses,  without objection, to Plaintiff’s Form Interrogatories –  Construction Litigation,  Set No. 2, within 20 days of the Court’s order.  With  respect to monetary sanctions, the Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s request in the  reduced amount of $585.00, comprised of 1.5 hours preparing the motion and  appearing at the hearing on the motion, multiplied by the hourly rate of  $350.00, plus the $60.00 filing fee. Chou and his counsel of record must pay  said monetary sanctions to Plaintiff within 20 days of the Court’s order.  CONCLUSION  The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion to compel responses to Form  Interrogatories, Set No. 2 by Defendant Joe Mun Yen Chou. Defendant Joe Mun Yen  Chou must provide verified responses, without objection, to Plaintiff’s Form  Interrogatories, Set No. 2, within 20 days of the Court’s order.  The Court also GRANTS Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions  in the reduced amount of $585.00. Defendant Joe Mun Yen Chou and his counsel of  record must pay said monetary sanctions to Plaintiff within 20 days of the  Court’s order.               Plaintiff is ordered to give notice  of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.