  Case Number:  22STCV13243    Hearing Date:   June 20, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



MARIA CRISTINA SOTO, 
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
REAL TIME STAFFING SERVICES, LLC.,
  et al.,
 
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No: 
  22STCV13243
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  June 20, 2024
 Calendar Number:  1



 
 
 
Plaintiff Maria Cristina Soto (“Plaintiff”) moves to quash
the subpoena served by Defendant St. Clair Plastics, Inc. (“St. Clair”) on
Pirate California Holdings, LLC (“Pirate Holdings”) seeking production of the
confidential settlement agreement between Plaintiff and Pirate Holdings.
 
The Court DENIES Plaintiff’s motion. 
 
The Court orders, however, that the parties keep the
settlement agreement strictly confidential and disclose it and its terms only
to the parties, their attorneys and experts in this case and the Court.  If the parties wish to file any portion of
the settlement agreement or a quote from the settlement agreement in a filed
document, they must do so under seal. 
The parties may use the settlement agreement only for purposes of this
litigation and for no other purpose.    
 
Background
 
Plaintiff filed this action on April 20, 2022 against
Defendant Real Time Staffing Servies, LLC d/b/a Select Staffing (“Select
Staffing”), St. Clair, Novel Alamilla, Pirate Staffing (“Pirate”), Pirate Holdings,
and Commerce Temporary Staffing Services, LLC (“Commerce”).
 
Select Staffing employed Plaintiff as a temporary employee
company. Select Staffing entered an agreement with St. Clair, whereby Select
Staffing provided its employees to work at St. Clair’s warehouse. Plaintiff was
one such employee.
 
While Plaintiff worked at the St. Clair Warehouse, another
temporary employee, Novel Alamilla, allegedly harassed and retaliated against
Plaintiff. Alamilla was not employed by Select Staffing, but by Pirate
Holdings.
 
The operative complaint is now the First Amended Complaint
(“FAC”), which raises claims for (1) gender based harassment; (2) sexual
harassment; (3) failure to prevent discrimination and harassment; (4) failure
to correct and remedy discrimination and harassment; (5) retaliation for
complaints of discrimination and harassment; (6) violation of whistle-blowing
law; (7) wrongful termination; (8) hostile work environment; (9) intentional
infliction of emotional distress; (10) negligent infliction of emotional distress;
(11) failure to permit inspection of personnel and payroll records in violation
of Labor Code section 1198.5; (12) failure to provide meal and rest breaks; and
(13) violation of Business & Professions Code, sections 17200, et seq.
 
Around November 2023, Plaintiff reached a settlement
agreement with Alamilla and Pirate Holdings. On December 5, 2023, Alamilla,
Pirate, Pirate Holdings, and Commerce were dismissed from this action pursuant
to Plaintiff’s request.
 
On February 28, 2024, St. Clair issued a deposition subpoena
to Pirate Holdings, seeking production of the settlement agreement. Counsel for
Pirate Holdings indicated that they would not produce the agreement, pending
Plaintiff’s motion to quash.
 
Plaintiff filed this motion on March 21, 2024. St. Clair
filed an opposition. Plaintiff did not file a reply.
 
Legal Standard
 
If a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness or the
production of documents, the court may, upon motion reasonably made, make an
order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance
with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including
protective orders. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1, subd. (a).)  
 
In making an order pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 1987.1, “the court may in its discretion award the amount of the
reasonable expenses incurred in making or opposing the motion, including
reasonable attorney’s fees, if the court finds the motion was made or opposed
in bad faith or without substantial justification or that one or more of the
requirements of the subpoena was oppressive.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.2, subd.
(a).)  
 
Discussion
 
St. Clair argues that it needs to be able to view the
settlement agreement in order to determine whether the settlement was made in
good faith and whether it properly apportioned liability between the settling
defendants.
 
Plaintiff argues that the settlement agreement is subject to
the privacy protections of the Article I, Section 1 of the California
Constitution.
 
Confidential settlement agreements are indeed entitled to
privacy, as a general rule. (Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th
531.) However, “an implicit waiver of a party's constitutional rights [to
privacy] encompasses only discovery directly relevant to the plaintiff's claim
and essential to the fair resolution of the lawsuit.” (Vinson v. Superior
Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 842.)
 
The Court agrees that St. Clair faces a practical litigation
need to determine whether the settlement was entered into in good faith by the
settling parties and whether it fairly apportions liability.
 
Plaintiff’s privacy concerns can be resolved by a protective
order.  The Court will consider any
formal protective order proposed by the parties.  Moreover, the Court has made a
confidentiality order governing the settlement agreement at the beginning of
this order.  
 