 Case Number:  22STCV29610    Hearing Date:   June 20, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



HEATHER ALTEPETER, 
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
ASH PATEL, et al.,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No: 
  22STCV29610
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  April 25, 2024
 Calendar Number:  7



 
 
 
Defendants Ash Patel, Shahzad Khan, Houri Simon, Neel Pinge,
Alex Meruelo, Thomas McCullough, John Friedemann, and Commercial Bank of
California (“Commercial Bank”) (collectively, “Defendants”) move for summary
judgment on Plaintiff’s Complaint.
 
The Court GRANTS the motion for summary judgment as to
Defendants Meruelo, McCullough, and Pinge.
 
The Court DENIES the motion for summary judgment as to the
remaining defendants.
 
The Court GRANTS the motion for summary adjudication as to
the fifth claim.
 
The Court DENIES the motion for summary adjudication as to
the remaining claims.
 
Background
 
Plaintiff is the owner and CEO of National Merchants
Association, Inc. (“NMA”). NMA provides electronic payment processing services
to businesses. CBC served as NMA’s sponsor bank. Plaintiff alleges that CBC
misled her into a business relationship whereby CBC learned and usurped
proprietary information, industry connections, trade secrets, and business
strategies from Plaintiff.
 
Around March 1, 2017, CBC and NMA entered into a Merchant
Marketing and Processing Agreements (“Marketing Agreement”)—the first of three.
(Additional Material Fact (“AMF”) 11.) The parties experienced some
difficulties in the process of rolling out their relationship, and although the
parties continued to move forward, NMA also sought out other banking partners
to facilitate a smoother relationship. (AMF 12.) 
 
In March 2019, MUFG Union Bank (“Union Bank”) filed a
lawsuit against NMA, Plaintiff, and her other business entities. (Undisputed
Material Fact (“UMF”) 8.) Union Bank obtained an order appointing a receiver to
oversee NMA’s operation. That receiver, Howard Grobstein, terminated
Plaintiff’s role and employment as CEO of NMA in October 2019. 
 
Following a settlement with Union Bank, Grobstein was
removed as the receiver and Plaintiff regained her prior position in NMA.
However, CBC provided Plaintiff with a ‘take it or leave it’ Amended Temporary Marketing
Agreement. (AMF 29.) Plaintiff contends that CBC coerced her into entering the
agreement. The new Marketing Agreement was executed on April 14, 2020. (AMF
29.) On April 27, 2020, Plaintiff received compensation form NMA for the first
time since her removal as CEO. 
 
Plaintiff did not receive access to NMA’s company data and
merchant activity records until May 5, 2020. (AMF 30.) When she obtained
access, Plaintiff discovered that, during her absence, CBC had attempted to
steer merchant accounts with NMA to other sponsored payment processing
organizations. (AMF 31.)
 
NMA eventually identified Evolve Bank as its new sponsor
bank. CBC ported NMA’s merchant portfolio to Evolve by the beginning of
November 2020. (UMF 17.) Neither Plaintiff nor NMA have held any business
relationship with CBC since at least January 1, 2021. (UMF 18.) Plaintiff has
not held any depository account at CBC in her own name since at least 2019.
(UMF 19.)
 
In December 2021, NMA filed an action (the “NMA Action”)
against CBC in the Los Angeles County Superior Court, Case No. 21STCV44674.
(UMF 26.) NMA raised claims for breach of written agreement, breach of
contract, breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing, unjust
enrichment, unfair business practices, promissory fraud, and rescission of the
April 14, 2020 Marketing Agreement. (UMF 26.) The court ordered the NMA Action
to a judicial reference on March 8, 2022. (UMF 27.) Shortly before trial in the
NMA Action, NMA filed a request for dismissal, and the NMA Action was dismissed
on February 8, 2023. (UMF 28.)
 
Plaintiff filed this action on April 29, 2022. The operative
complaint is now the First Amended Complaint, which raises claims for (1)
unfair business practices; (2) intentional interference with prospective
economic relations; (3) negligent interference with prospective economic
relations; (4) intentional interference with prospective contractual relations;
(5) inducing breach of contract; and (6) negligence.
 
Plaintiff names as Defendants CBC; Patel, as CBC’s President
and Chairman (FAC ¶ 80); Khan, as its Executive Vice President, Chief Growth
and Strategy Officer (FAC ¶ 81); Simon, as Executive Vice President, Payment
Solutions (FAC ¶ 82); Friedemann, as CBC’s General Counsel (FAC ¶ 83); Pinge,
as Executive Vice President, Chief Risk Officer of CB Cal (FAC ¶ 84); Mr.
Meruelo, as the founder of CBC and a member of its Board of Directors (FAC ¶
85); and McCullough, as CBC’s Executive Vice President, Executive Administration
(CBC ¶ 86).
 
Plaintiff moved for leave to file a Second Amended Complaint
joining NMA as a party, but the Court denied the motion on September 12, 2023.
(UMF 29.)
 
Defendants filed this motion on April 4, 2024. Plaintiff
filed an opposition and Defendants filed a reply.
 
Legal Standard
 
The purpose of a motion for
summary judgment or summary adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism
to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite
their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co., supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 843.) “Code of
Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to
grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences
reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences
or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and
that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v.
Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) 
 
“In ruling on the motion,
the court must consider all of the evidence and all of the inferences
reasonably drawn therefrom [citation] and must view such evidence [citations]
and such inferences [citations] in the light most favorable to the opposing
party.” (Aguilar, supra, at pp. 844-845 [quotation marks
omitted].) 
 
“On a motion for summary
judgment, the initial burden is always on the moving party to make a prima
facie
showing that there are no triable issues of material fact.” (Scalf v. D. B.
Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.) A defendant moving
for summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or her burden of
showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party has shown that one or
more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be established, or that there
is a complete defense to the cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd.
(p)(2).) 
 
“Once the defendant . . .
has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a
triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or
a defense thereto.” (Ibid.) To establish a triable issue of material
fact, the party opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive
evidence. (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.) “If the plaintiff cannot do
so, summary judgment should be granted.” (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente
Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)
 
Discussion
 
Damage to NMA
 
As a preliminary matter, Defendant argues that Plaintiff
does not have standing to recover damages that inured to NMA, rather than to
her.
 
“[A] stockholder may sue as an individual [i.e., not in a
derivative suit] where he is directly and individually injured although the
corporation may also have a cause of action for the same wrong.”  (Sutter v. General Petroleum Corp.
(1946) 28 Cal.2d 525, 530.) “[A]n individual cause of action exists only the
damages were not incidental to an injury to the corporation … only where
it appears that the injury resulted from the violation of some special duty
owed the stockholder by the wrongdoer and having its origin in circumstances
independent of the plaintiff's status as a shareholder.” (Nelson v. Anderson
(1999) 72 Cal.App.4th 111, 112 [citations and quotation marks omitted].) “In
other words, it is the gravamen of the wrong alleged in the pleadings, not
simply the resulting injury, which determines whether an individual action
lies.” (Ibid.)
 
Here, Plaintiff contends that Defendants not only stole NMA
information, but also stole Plaintiff’s trade secret strategies and industry
insights, resulting in the destruction of Plaintiff’s personal reputation in
the payment processing industry. This harm goes beyond mere damage incurred in
Plaintiff’s capacity as a shareholder, and Plaintiff can thus state claims for
it.
 
Unfair business practices – First Claim
 
To set forth a claim for a violation
of Business and Professions Code section 17200 (“UCL”), Plaintiff must establish
Defendant was engaged in an “unlawful, unfair or fraudulent business act or
practice and unfair, deceptive, untrue or misleading advertising” and certain
specific acts. (Bus. & Prof. Code, § 17200.) A cause of action for unfair
competition “is not an all-purpose substitute for a tort or contract action.” (Cortez v. Purolator Air Filtration Products
Co. (2000) 23 Cal.4th 163, 173.) 
 
Defendants argue that a plaintiff may only obtain injunctive
relief under the UCL, and that Plaintiff cannot raise a claim for injunctive
relief because the parties no longer do business with each other.  Plaintiff has admitted that her relationship
with Defendants ended more than three years ago.  (UMF ¶¶ 18-19.)
 
“[T]he remedies provided [under the UCL] are limited. While
any member of the public can bring suit under the act to enjoin a business from
engaging in unfair competition, it is well established that individuals may not
recover damages.” (Madrid v. Perot Systems Corp. (2005) 130 Cal.App.4th
440, 452.) Restitution is also available in certain cases – “in the UCL context
... restitution means the return of money to those persons from whom it was
taken or who had an ownership interest in it.” (Shersher v. Superior Court
(2007) 154 Cal.App.4th 1491, 1497 [citation and quotation marks omitted].)
 
The Court agrees that Defendant have met their initial
burden showing no triable issue of fact on any possible relief to Plaintiff
under the UCL.  Plaintiff, however, has
not demonstrated any triable issue of material fact. Plaintiff argues that CBC
withheld the transfer of funds from NMA’s settlement account to its operating
account, effectively taking possession of money that it never returned, and
that she is therefore entitled to restitution. This is a harm that inures to
NMA, however, and not Plaintiff in a manner separately from her role as a
shareholder. Thus, NMA is the proper plaintiff for this unjust enrichment claim,
not Plaintiff.
 
The Court therefore grants summary adjudication as to this
claim.
 
Statute of Limitations – Second, Third, Fourth, Fifth, and Sixth Claims
 
Defendants contend that Plaintiff’s second, third, and
fourth claims – for intentional and negligent interference with prospective
economic relations, and intentional interference with prospective contractual
relations – are time-barred.
 
“[A] cause of action for interference with prospective
economic advantage, an action involving a property right, is governed by the
two-year limitations period of section 339, subdivision 1[.]” (Augusta v.
United Service Automobile Assn. (1993) 13 Cal.App.4th 4, 10.) Negligence
similarly uses a two-year statute of limitations. (Cyr v. McGovran (2012)
206 Cal.App.4th 645, 652.)
 
“[Courts] have recognized that in some instances, the
accrual of a cause of action in tort is delayed until the plaintiff discovered
(or reasonably should have discovered or suspected) the factual basis for his
or her claim.” (Shively v. Bozanich (2003) 31 Cal.4th 1230, 1248.) “[T]he
discovery rule most frequently applies when it is particularly difficult for
the plaintiff to observe or understand the breach of duty, or when the injury
itself (or its cause) is hidden or beyond what the ordinary person could be
expected to understand.” (Ibid.)
 
Here, Plaintiff has provided evidence that she was not given
access to NMA’s company data and merchant activity records upon her return
until May 5, 2020. (AMF 30.) This is within the two-year timeframe prior to the
filing date of this lawsuit. Because there are disputed facts, the Court does
not grant summary adjudication on this basis.
 
Factual Duplication – Second, Third, and Fourth Claims
 
Defendants argue that these claims are founded on the same
allegations, “save for the element of intent.” (Motion at p. 16:8-9.) Intent is
a critical element, however – a failure to prove the requisite intent level
would result in Plaintiff losing at trial on the claim. Thus, pleading claims
with different levels of intent is not duplicative.
 
Causation
 
Defendants argue that Plaintiff cannot prove causation
because the interruption in her relationship with NMA resulted from the
third-party receiver. However, Plaintiff contends that Defendants committed
misconduct while Plaintiff was absent, using her absence. This is different
from a claim that Defendants procured her absence from NMA.
 
Inducing Breach of Contract – Fifth Claim
 
Defendants argue that there was no contract between
Plaintiff and NMA to breach. The undisputed facts do not show that there was no
contract, however. Plaintiff served as NMA’s CEO for most of its lifetime, and
in fact returned.
 
However, here, causation is a problem for Plaintiff. The
alleged contractual relationship was between Plaintiff and NMA. Defendants have
demonstrated undisputed facts that that relationship (as opposed to any
relationships involving Plaintiff and third parties in the industry) was
disrupted by the court-appointed receiver, not any other party. Further,
Grobstein testified that neither CBC nor CBC’s lawyer influenced his decision
to remove Plaintiff from the position of CEO. (UMF 12-13.) Thus, Defendants have
met their initial burden.
 
The burden shifts to Plaintiff, therefore, to demonstrate a
disputed issue of fact.  Plaintiff has
not done so.  Although Plaintiff points
to evidence showing that Defendants desired to have her removed as CEO, that
does not show that Defendants actually influenced the decision.
 
Plaintiff therefore cannot show causation.
 
The Court grants summary adjudication on this claim.
 
Negligence – Sixth Claim
 
As discussed above, there is sufficient evidence for a jury
to find that CBC’s conduct damaged Plaintiff’s professional reputation in a way
not merely connected to her status as a shareholder. Similarly, the delayed
discovery rule prevents a finding that this claim is time-barred.
 
Defendants Meruelo, McCullough, and Pinge
 
Defendants argue that Defendants Meruelo, McCullough, and
Pinge should be dismissed because there is no evidence that any of them
participated in the alleged conduct by CBC against Plaintiff. The sum total of
Plaintiff’s allegations against them is that (1) they live in California, and
(2) each used his power and authority with CBC to “effectuate the harms done
onto [Plaintiff].” (FAC ¶¶ 7-9; 84-86.) When asked in discovery to identify the
wrongs that Plaintiff claims each of these three committed, Plaintiff had no
answer. (UMF 23-24.) Defendants have therefore met their initial burden to show
a lack of triable issues of fact as to Defendants Meruelo, McCullough, and
Pinge.
 
The burden shifts to Plaintiff, who has not met her
burden.  Plaintiff argues that these
defendants “all held positions where they would have likely been privy to the
intentional conduct as alleged in the FAC and discussed further herein.”
(Opposition at p. 15:20-24.) Plaintiff additionally notes that discovery is
ongoing and that none of these three defendants have affirmatively exculpated
themselves. This is not the standard, however. Summary judgment looks to
whether there is a material dispute of fact showing that the defendant in
question may be liable. Defendant has shown that Plaintiff is not able to
provide evidence to dispute these three defendants’ culpability, or lack
thereof. It is insufficient to contend that they were high-ranking officers – such
a rule would allow parties to routinely drag an organization’s upper officers
through trial merely by virtue of the fact that they held positions of power
within the organization.
 
There is no triable issue of fact that Meruelo, McCullough,
or Pinge committed a wrongful act against Plaintiff. The Court therefore grants
summary judgment as to those three defendants.