 Case Number:  22STCV29253    Hearing Date:   June 20, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



EBONY ELAINE MOSS, 
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
PROPERTY I.D. CORPORATION, et al.,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No: 
  22STCV29253
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  June 20, 2024
 Calendar Number:  2



 
 
 
Defendant Property I.D. Corporation (“Defendant”) moves for terminating
sanctions, issue sanctions, $14,659.00 in monetary sanctions, and a jury
instruction on destruction of evidence against Plaintiff Ebony Elain Moss
(“Plaintiff”) for spoliation of evidence and failure to comply with a discovery
order.
 
The Court GRANTS Defendant’s motion for terminating
sanctions.
 
The Court GRANTS Defendant’s request for monetary sanctions
in the amount of $12,459.00. Plaintiff shall pay this amount to Defendant’s
counsel within 30 days of the issuance of this order.
 
Background
 
Plaintiff filed this action on September 8, 2022 against
Defendant, her former employer, alleging (1) discrimination under FEHA; (2)
retaliation under FEHA; (3) failure to prevent discrimination, harassment, and
retaliation; and (4) wrongful termination.
 
On October 26, 2023, Defendant answered and filed a
Cross-Complaint, raising cross-claims for (1) breach of fiduciary duty of
loyalty; and (2) violation of Comprehensive Computer Data and Access Fraud Act.
 
On August 24, 2023, Defendant served Plaintiff with the discovery
at issue. From September 27, 2023 to October 30, 2023, counsel for Plaintiff
and Defendant met and conferred, resolving a substantial portion of their
disputes.
 
On October 13, 2023, Plaintiff produced documents including
emails that she had forwarded from Defendant to her personal email
account.  Those emails, however, were
missing their attachments.  
 
On January 16, 2024, the Court ordered Plaintiff to provide,
within 30 days, (1) full and complete further responses and responsive
documents to Defendant’s Requests for Production (“RFP”) Nos. 1 and 11 and (2)
full and complete answers to Form Interrogatory – Employment (“FIE”) Nos.
202.1, 203.1, 205.1, and 217.1 (the “January 16 Order”). The RFPs in question
included emails sent from Plaintiff’s work email to her personal emails,
including certain attachments. The attachments are at issue in this case because
Defendant contends that Plaintiff illegally sent herself confidential client
data.
 
On April 4, 2024, the Court granted Defendant’s motion for
monetary sanctions (the “First Sanctions Motion”) against Plaintiff for failure
to comply with the January 16 Order, but denied Defendant’s request for issue
sanctions without prejudice (the “April 4 Order”).
 
On March 5, 2024, Defendant filed a motion to compel
forensic inspection of Plaintiff’s electronic devices.  On April 16, 2024, the Court granted
Defendant’s motion to compel, ordering the production of Plaintiff’s laptop and
cell phone for inspection (the “April 16 Order”). Plaintiff turned over her
laptop and cell phone to a neutral third-party forensic examiner, which
searched the devices and produced the resulting data to both sides. (Corpuz
Decl., ¶ 13.)
 
Defendant filed this motion on May 28, 2024, contending that
Plaintiff intentionally destroyed electronically stored documents subject to
the January 16 Order during the pendency of its motion to compel a forensic
examination of the laptop. Plaintiff filed an opposition and Defendant filed a
reply.
 
Legal Standard
 
Where a party misuses the discovery process, courts have
discretion to impose terminating, issue, evidence, or monetary sanctions. (Code
Civ. Proc. §§ 2023.010(g), 2030.290(c); R.S. Creative, Inc. v. Creative
Cotton, Ltd. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 486, 495.) Misuse of the discovery
process includes failure to respond to an authorized method of discovery or
disobeying a court order to provide discovery. (Code Civ. Proc., §§
2023.010(d), (g).)        
 
Monetary sanctions may be imposed “ordering that one
engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any attorney advising that
conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney's fees,
incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct…unless [the Court] finds that
the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that
other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code of Civ.
Proc., § 2030.030, subd. (a).) 
 
Ultimate discovery sanctions are justified where there is a
willful discovery order violation, a history of abuse, and evidence showing
that less severe sanctions would not produce compliance with discovery rules. (Van
Sickle v. Gilbert (2011) 196 Cal.App.4th 1495, 1516.) “[A] penalty as
severe as dismissal or default is not authorized where noncompliance with
discovery is caused by an inability to comply rather than willfulness or bad
faith.” (Brown v. Sup. Ct. (1986) 180 Cal.App.3d 701, 707.) Further, preventing
parties from presenting their cases on the merits is a drastic measure;
terminating sanctions should only be ordered when there has been previous
noncompliance with a rule or order and it appears a less severe sanction would
not be effective. (Link v. Cater (1998) 60 Cal.App.4th 1315,
1326.) 
 
Before any sanctions may be imposed the court must make an
express finding that there has been a willful failure of the party to serve the
required answers. (Fairfield v. Superior Court for Los Angeles County
(1966) 246 Cal.App.2d 113, 118.) Lack of diligence may be deemed willful where
the party understood its obligation, had the ability to comply, and failed to
comply. (Deyo v. Killbourne (1978) 84 Cal.App.3d 771, 787.) The party
who failed to comply with discovery obligations has the burden of showing that
the failure was not willful. (Id. at 788.) 
 
Discussion
 
Terminating Sanctions
 
The central issue on this motion involves Plaintiff’s
intentional destruction of documents relevant to this lawsuit.  Plaintiff intentionally destroyed these
documents in March 2024, deleting them from her computer.  She conducted word searches for documents
relevant to the case and when she found those documents she deleted them. Plaintiff
does not dispute that this occurred. 
This destruction of evidence took place just a few months ago, long
after Plaintiff filed the litigation and had a duty to preserve evidence.  The documents she destroyed included those
the Court had ordered her to produce on January 16, 2024.  She destroyed the documents that were on her
computer at a time that Defendant had pending before the Court a motion to examine
Plaintiff’s computer. 
 
Plaintiff’s only excuse for this conduct makes little sense
and does not exonerate this behavior in any event.  She claims she destroyed these documents
because she had printed them out and given them to her attorney.  But her attorney has not produced documents
with their original attachments, which would not have printed out automatically
if Plaintiff had printed the emails.  Moreover,
printing out copies of documents does not permit Plaintiff to destroy the
originals.  The original electronic
documents have information like metadata that is relevant to this case.  Moreover, destroying the original documents
plunges this case into chaos, making it impossible to clearly verify what documents
did or did not exist at any given time.
 
The Court finds that there is no other option but to issue
terminating sanctions.  Lesser sanctions
have not worked.  This recent conduct by
Plaintiff is the worst violation thus far. 
Moreover, Defendant cannot get a fair trial where Plaintiff
intentionally searched for and deleted centrally relevant documents—for
example, documents mentioning Defendant’s president who Plaintiff accuses of
misconduct, and documents mention the person who allegedly told Plaintiff about
the bad acts at issue in this lawsuit. 
Terminating sanctions are necessary here.  
 
            Although
this latest conduct is the most serious, this is not the first time that
Plaintiff has not complied with her discovery obligations.  As the Court found in the April 4 Order
granting sanctions, a number of Plaintiff’s discovery responses have not been
forthcoming and honest.  For example, Plaintiff
previously stated that her first post-termination job was in May 2023,
Defendant later learned from a third-party subpoena that Plaintiff had
represented in a job application that she had worked for Uber from December
2020 through October 2023. (Supp. Corpuz Decl. Re First Sanctions Motion ¶¶
5-6.) Although Defendant then requested the production of Plaintiff’s pay
records from Uber, Plaintiff only produced records for part of the period where
she purportedly worked there. (Corpuz Decl. Re First Sanctions Motion ¶ 7.) Defendant
also provided evidence that Plaintiff misrepresented her hourly pay at her
current employer as being $18.00 rather than $18.50 as demonstrated by her pay
stubs, and that Plaintiff had accepted a job with the County of Los Angeles on
October 2, 2023, several days before her initial discovery responses were due,
which she did not disclose in her responses. (Corpuz Decl. Re First Sanctions
Motion ¶ 8.)
 
The documents that Plaintiff recently destroyed on her own
system were documents that she had previously destroyed on Defendant’s computer
system when she had been working at Defendant. 
In Plaintiff’s May 9, 2024 deposition, Defendant questioned her on the
electronically stored information. (Corpuz Decl., Ex. 3 (“Moss Depo.”) at p.
196:18-197:1.) Plaintiff admitted that she had sent those emails from her work
email to her personal email to use as future evidence against Defendant. (Moss
Depo at pp. 196:18-197:1.) Plaintiff admitted that she had ‘double-deleted’ the
forwarded emails – deleting them from her work ‘sent’ folder, and then from her
work ‘trash folder’ – resulting in those emails no longer existing in
Defendant’s system. (Moss Depo. At p. 229:7-23; Corpuz Decl. ¶ 6.)
 
            The
emails included a number of attachments. (Corpuz Decl., Ex. 2.) Defendant
requested production of both the emails and their attachments, leading to the
January 16 Order. Plaintiff declared, under penalty of perjury, that she had
not produced those attachments because they ‘never existed in [Plaintiff’s] custody,
or control, or in my possession.’ (Corpuz Decl., Ex. 4 at p. 1.) Plaintiff
later represented to the Court in a Joint IDC statement that there were no
attachments. (Corpuz Decl., Ex. 5.) 
 
The Court found in the January 16 Order that this contention
was implausible, and ordered Plaintiff to produce the emails and their
attachments. The Court ruled that “Defendant’s request for the email
attachments is eminently reasonable.” (1/16/2024 Minute Order at p. 6.)  
 
On March 5, 2024, Defendant filed a motion to compel
forensic inspection of Plaintiff’s electronic devices. 
 
            In March, 2024, apparently while Defendant’s motion to
review Plaintiff’s electronic devices were pending, Plaintiff destroyed
relevant documents that were on her personal computer.  Plaintiff testified at her deposition that
she intentionally deleted a large number of the emails from her personal
devices and email accounts in 2024 – several months after the Court had issued
its January 16, 2024 Order.  (Moss Depo.
At pp. 220:1-22; 222:18-223:10.) Plaintiff declares that she provided her
attorney with hard copies of the emails. (Moss Decl. ¶ 5.) Plaintiff testified
that she then searched the keywords “Property I.D. Title”; “Denis Laboy”;
“Ani”; “Sami Braszel”; “Giovannni”; and “Norma Melgoza” and deleted every email
that she saw that had those keywords in it. (Moss Depo. pp. 225:10-226:18.) Each
of the foregoing names are key witnesses or actors in Plaintiff’s case alleging
discrimination. For example, “Ani” is the person at Defendant whom Plaintiff
accuses of misconduct.  “Denise Laboy” is
the person who allegedly told Plaintiff about the misconduct and whose
deposition and emails play a key role in Plaintiff’s opposition to Defendant’s
summary judgment motion.
 
 Further, the neutral
forensic examiner retained to examine Plaintiff’s devices was unable to locate the
emails with the attachments at issue. (Corpuz Decl. ¶ 15.) The examiner did
discover evidence that Plaintiff forwarded hundreds of emails to her personal
account – more than double the amount Plaintiff stated she forwarded. (Corpuz Reply
Decl. ¶ 3.) Plaintiff does not contest any of these facts.
 
            These
emails, and their attachments, still have not been produced. (Corpuz Decl. ¶
15.) Plaintiff contends that she provided her attorney with printed copies of
the emails and that “once he had a copy of … the emails, I didn’t need to have
it.” (Moss Depo. at p. 223:16-21.) 
 
Even assuming for the sake of argument that a copy of every
single email destroyed by Plaintiff exists in printed form—an assertion that
seems unlikely—printout of the emails would likely not include the attachments and
would certainly not have included any metadata associated with the emails.  Those would have been destroyed when
Plaintiff destroyed the original documents on her computer.  
 
            There
are additional reasons to believe that Plaintiff was not being truthful when
she declared that she turned over all evidence to her attorney. Plaintiff
admitted in her deposition that she was in possession of a video that Defendant
demanded in discovery, but never gave that video to her counsel. (Reply Corpuz
Decl. Ex. 12, Moss Depo. at pp. 400:17-403:16.) Plaintiff also failed to turn
over an email she sent to a witness containing copious amounts of explicit
language. (Reply Corpuz Decl., Ex. 13.) The party who failed to comply with
discovery obligations has the burden of showing that the failure was not
willful. (Deyo v. Killbourne, supra, 84 Cal.App.3d at p. 788.) (Id.
at 788.) Plaintiff has not made such a showing.
 
            “Spoliation
occurs when evidence is destroyed or significantly altered or when there is a
failure to preserve property for another's use as evidence in current or future
litigation.” (Strong v. State of California (2011) 201 Cal.App.4th 1439,
1458, disapproved of on other grounds by Leon v. County of Riverside
(2023) 14 Cal.5th 910.) The duty to preserve evidence arises when litigation is
“reasonably foreseeable”. (Victor Valley Union High School District v.
Superior Court of San Bernardino County (2023) 91 Cal.App.5th 1121, 1144.)
Spoliation of evidence is considered a “serious form of discovery abuse”. (Id.
at p. 1139.)
 
“[A] party moving for discovery sanctions based on the
spoliation of evidence must make an initial prima facie showing that the
responding party in fact destroyed evidence that had a substantial probability
of damaging the moving party's ability to establish an essential element of his
claim or defense.” (Williams v. Russ (2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 1215, 1227.)
 
            The
Court of Appeal has upheld terminating sanctions for spoliation of evidence
even where the content of the spoliated evidence is unclear. (Williams v.
Russ (2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 1215, 1227, citing Cedars-Sinai Medical
Center v. Superior Court (1998) 18 Cal.4th 1, 14.) “Without knowing the
content and weight of the spoliated evidence, it would be impossible for the
jury to meaningfully assess what role the missing evidence would have played in
the determination of the underlying action. The jury could only speculate as to
what the nature of the spoliated evidence was and what effect it might have had
on the outcome of the underlying litigation.” (Cedars-Sinai Medical Center,
18 Cal.4th at p. 14.) A moving party therefore does not need to show prejudice
in order to obtain terminating sanctions for spoliation, because “[the
responding party’s] own actions make that showing difficult, if not
impossible.” (Electronic Funds Solutions, LLC v. Murphy (2005) 134
Cal.App.4th 1161, 1184.)
 
            Here,
terminating sanctions are warranted not only by the extensive nature of the
spoliation, but by its timing. Plaintiff deleted her electronically stored
information after the Court had already granted a motion to compel its
production and while Defendant’s motion to compel production of Plaintiff’s
devices was being briefed. In other words, Plaintiff knew that she was under an
obligation to produce that electronically stored information and knew that
there was a live issue as to whether she would have to produce her devices for
the specific purpose of allowing Defendant to obtain that electronically stored
information. The presence of both a discovery order and a pending motion
regarding the electronically stored information renders any innocent motive on
Plaintiff’s part implausible.
 
            The
Court has attempted other discovery remedies. The Court has issued monetary
sanctions on multiple occasions and has ordered a neutral third-party
investigation of Plaintiff’s devices. Plaintiff has not only deleted a significant
quantity of electronically stored information in spite of these orders, but
appears to have deleted the information for the purpose of avoiding the
inspection order. The Court’s attempts at lesser sanctions have not only
failed, but appear to have spurred on even worse conduct. Moreover, Defendant cannot
fairly defend the case, given that the spoliation involved documents relating
to the key players relating to Plaintiff’s claims.  Terminating sanctions are therefore
necessary.
 
            Plaintiff
argues that Defendant improperly subpoenaed Plaintiff’s other employers for
information on Plaintiff. This argument is irrelevant to the spoliation issue
and the Court does not consider it. The same is true of Plaintiff’s attempts to
relitigate the April 16 Order, which was issued after the spoliation occurred.
 
            The
Court grants Defendant’s motion for terminating sanctions.
 
Monetary Sanctions
 
Defendant requests monetary sanctions in the amount of $14,659.00,
consisting of the costs of the neutral forensic examiner and the attorney fees
and costs associated with this motion.
 
The forensic examiner has incurred $9,204.00 in fees in
connection with the examination of Plaintiff’s devices. The Court finds this
amount to be reasonable. Defendant requests an additional $2,000.00 in fees not
yet incurred. The Court does not award this additional amount.
 
            Defendant
requests an hourly rate of $355.00 for Olatomiwa Aina. The Court finds this
rate to be reasonable in light of Aina’s four and a half years of experience. 
 
            Defendant
requests a total of 9 hours for Aina. The Court finds this time to be reasonable.
The Court awards an attorney fee of $3,195.00.
 
 
            Defendant
also reasonably requests its $60 filing fee.
 
The Court therefore awards $12,459.00 in sanctions.