  Case Number:  20STCV46671    Hearing Date:   May 16, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




annette turner

   , et al.;
 


   Plaintiffs,
 
 
vs.
 
 
aids healthcare foundations

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


20STCV46671




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


May
   16, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[Tentative]
  Order RE:
 
defendant’s motion for summary adjudication
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendant AIDS Healthcare
Foundation
 
RESPONDING PARTY:        Plaintiff Annette Turner  
Motion for Summary Adjudication
The court
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in connection with
this motion. 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
The court grants defendant AIDS Healthcare Foundation’s February 26,
2024 request to take judicial notice of the Third Amended Complaint filed in
this action by plaintiffs Annette Turner and Tammy Davis on December 28, 2022.  (Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (d).)
LEGAL STANDARD
The purpose of a motion for summary judgment or summary
adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’
pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in
fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” 
(Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  “Code
of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to
grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences
reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences
or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and
that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”  (Adler
v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)
“On a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is always on
the moving party to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues
of material fact.”  (Scalf v. D.B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510,
1519.)  A defendant or cross-defendant
moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or her burden
of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party has shown that one
or more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be established, or that
there is a complete defense to the cause of action.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 437c, subd. (p)(2).)  “Once the
defendant or cross-defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the
plaintiff or cross-complainant to show that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)  “If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary
judgment should be granted.”  (Avivi v. Centro
Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)  “When deciding whether to grant summary
judgment, the court must consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers
(except evidence to which the court has sustained an objection), as well as all
reasonable inferences that may be drawn from that evidence, in the light most
favorable to the party opposing summary judgment.”  (Id. at
p. 467; Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).)
DISCUSSION
Defendant AIDS Healthcare Foundation
(“Defendant”) moves the court for an order granting summary adjudication in its
favor and against plaintiff Annette Turner (“Plaintiff”) as to “[t]wo of the
three incidents” alleged in support of the ninth cause of action for willful or
negligent failure to exercise ordinary care of property in violation of Civil
Code section 1714. 
The court finds that Defendant has
not met its burden of showing that the ninth cause of action for willful or negligent failure to exercise ordinary
care of property in violation of Civil Code section 1714 has no merit because Defendant has not
shown each of the three legal theories alleged in this cause of action has no
merit. 
As to the ninth cause of action, Plaintiff
has alleged that Defendant, as more fully alleged in the Third Amended
Complaint, “failed and refused to maintain, exercise care or review, undertake
measures to correct o[r] otherwise ensure that the [subject] premises are safe
and healthy[,]” and therefore caused her harm. 
(TAC ¶¶ 168-169.)  In its
motion, Defendant asserts that Plaintiff’s cause of action “is based on three
separate and unrelated incidents alleged in a section of the [Third Amended
Complaint] entitled ‘Facts Specific to Plaintiff Annette Turner.’  Two of the three incidents are the subject of
this motion.”  (Mot., p. 3:14-17.)  Pursuant to that representation, all of
Defendant’s arguments are directed to the two theories identified in its motion
(i.e., (1) the Male Security Guard Incident, and (2) the Female Security Guard
Incident).  (Mot. pp. 3:25-26, 4:4-6,
4:27-5:2, 6:26-27.)  
The court notes that Defendant does
not appear to have identified the third legal theory alleged in support of this
cause of action.  However, in her
opposition, Plaintiff points out that she has also alleged that (1) Plaintiff’s
unit became “full of water” after a tenant accidentally set off the sprinkler
system, which caused damage to Plaintiff’s property (TAC ¶ 19); (2)
Plaintiff told Defendant that there was mold forming in her unit, but Defendant
did not remediate the mold even after Plaintiff informed it that the mold was
making her ill (TAC ¶¶ 21, 24, 33-34, 71); and (3) Defendant discarded
Plaintiff’s belongings (TAC ¶¶ 69-70). 
Plaintiff contends, and it appears that Defendant does not dispute, that
these allegations set forth additional legal theories or factual bases in
support of the ninth cause of action for failure to exercise ordinary care of
property.  (Civ. Code, § 1714, subd.
(a) [“Everyone is responsible, not only for the result of his or her willful
acts, but also for an injury occasioned to another by his or her want of
ordinary care or skill in the management of his property or person, except so
far as the latter has, willfully or by want of ordinary care, brought the
injury upon himself or herself”].)  However,
as set forth above, Defendant did not address the third factual basis and legal
theory supporting the ninth cause of action. 
“A motion for summary adjudication
shall be granted only if it completely disposes of a cause of action, an
affirmative defense, a claim for damages, or an issue of duty.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1)
[emphasis added].)  Because Defendant’s
motion does not “completely dispose[]” of the ninth cause of action, it does
not comply with section 437c, subdivision (f) and therefore is improper.[1]
The court notes, as Defendant raises
in reply, that “[a] recognized exception to the statutory language [set forth
in section 437c, subdivision (f)(1)] holds that where two or more separate and
distinct wrongful acts are combined in the same causes of action in a
complaint, a party may present a summary adjudication motion that pertains to
some, but not all, of the separate and distinct wrongful acts.”  (Blue Mountain Enterprises, LLC v. Owen (2022)
74 Cal.App.5th 537, 549, citing Lilienthal & Fowler v. Superior Court (1993)
12 Cal.App.4th 1848, 1854-1855.) “That is because each separate and distinct
wrongful act is an invasion of a separate and distinct primary right, and each
violation of a primary right is a separate and distinct ‘cause of action’ – regardless
of how the claim is presented in the complaint.”  (Ibid.) 
Here, Defendant contends that the
two incidents involving its security guards “involve distinct wrongful acts and
constitute separate causes of action.” 
(Reply, p. 4:21-22.)  However,
Defendant did not set forth this analysis and the authorities supporting it in
its moving papers.  As set forth above,
the primary rights theory is invoked as “[a] recognized exception” to
section 437c, subdivision (f)(1)’s prohibition of motions for summary
adjudication that are directed to portions of a cause of action.  (Blue Mountain Enterprises, LLC, supra,
74 Cal.App.5th at p. 549 [emphasis added].) 
Defendant has not cited authority showing that it was not required to
establish this exception in its moving papers. 
Moreover, failing to argue that it was moving pursuant to this exception
in its moving papers deprived Plaintiff of an opportunity (1) to address and rebut
Defendant’s contention and to argue that the legal theories challenged by
Defendant in its motion are not separate and distinct wrongful acts and
therefore should not be considered to be separate causes of action, or (2) to present
evidence and argument to show that a triable issue of material fact exists as
to those two causes of action if Plaintiff agreed that those legal theories
constitute separate causes of action.  (Tellez
v. Rich Voss Trucking, Inc. (2015) 240 Cal.App.4th 1052, 1066 [noting that
“[p]oints raised for the first time in a reply brief will ordinarily not be
considered, because such consideration would deprive the respondent of an
opportunity to counter the argument”] [internal quotations and citations
omitted].) 
            Thus,
the court finds that Defendant’s motion for summary adjudication does not
“completely dispose[] of a cause of action” and therefore does not comply with
the requirements of Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision
(f)(1).  The court therefore denies
Defendant’s motion for summary adjudication as to the ninth cause of action for willful or negligent failure to exercise
ordinary care of property in violation of Civil Code section 1714, without
prejudice. 

ORDER
            The court denies defendant AIDS
Healthcare Foundation’s motion for summary adjudication, without prejudice. 
The court orders plaintiff Annette Turner to give notice of this
ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  May 16, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court


