  Case Number:  19STCV44782    Hearing Date:   October 16, 2023    Dept:  29 TENTATIVE


The motion to quash the subpoenas issued to SSA and EDD is
DENIED as moot.
 
The Court GRANTS in part and DENIES in part the motion to
quash the subpoena issued to CMS.  The
Court MODIFIES and limits the subpoena to records relating to injuries or treatments
relating to Boren’s neck, back, and spine for the time period of December 22,
2012 to the present.  As modified, the Court
DENIES the request to quash the subpoena.
 
The Court GRANTS
Boren’s request for sanctions.
 
Background 
 
This is a personal injury case arising out of an automobile
collision that occurred on December 22, 2017, in Torrance, California.  On December 12, 2019, Plaintiffs Rommi Lynn
Boren (“Boren”), Cooper Soto (a minor), and Parker Soto (also a minor) (collectively,
“Plaintiffs”) filed a complaint asserting causes of action for motor vehicle
negligence and negligence against Defendants Laura Cuddy (“Cuddy”); Honda North
America, Inc. (“Honda”); and Does 1 through 100.  Plaintiffs allege that Defendant Cuddy caused
the accident (and Plaintiffs’ resulting injuries) by driving her vehicle
negligently and that when she did so she was acting in the course and scope of
her employment with Honda.  (Complaint,
¶¶ 7, 11-13.) 
 
On or about August 9 and 10, 2023, Defendants Cuddy and Honda
(“Defendants”) issued deposition subpoenas for the production of documents to three
entities: (1) the Social Security Administration (“SSA”) (Kim Decl., Exh. 1); (2)
the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (“CMS) (Ibid.); and (3) the
Employment Development Department (“EDD”) (Kim Decl., Exh. 2).  The subpoenas sought (in summary) the
production of all of Boren’s benefit applications, benefit payments, correspondence,
reports, reviews, investigations, adjudications, notices, medical records, payments,
providers, claims forms, and claims files from January 1, 1991 to the present.  The dates for production listed in the
subpoenas were September 6 and 7, 2023.
On September 1, 2023, Boren filed
the instant motion to quash the three subpoenas.  Boren also seeks sanctions. 
On October 3, 2023, Defendants
filed an opposition.  In the opposition,
Defendants noted that SSA sent a response (by letter dated August 29, 2023) refusing
to produce records pursuant to subpoena (Minassian Decl., Exh. D.); and that
EDD sent a response (by letter dated September 15, 2023) refusing to produce
records pursuant to subpoena (Id., Exh. F).
On October 9, 2023, Plaintiff
Boren filed a reply.
Trial is scheduled for
November 6, 2023.
Legal Standard
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure
section 1987.1, when a subpoena has been issued requiring the attendance of a
witness or the production of documents, electronically stored information, or
other things before a court or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon
motion “reasonably made” by the party, the witness, or any consumer whose
personal records are sought, or upon the court's own motion after giving
counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, “may make an order quashing the
subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon those
terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including protective orders.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1, subd. (a); see
also Southern Pac. Co. v. Superior Court (1940) 15 Cal.2d
206.)  “In addition, the court may make any other order as may be appropriate
to protect the person from unreasonable or oppressive demands, including unreasonable
violations of the right of privacy of the person.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1, subd. (a).) 
“[I]n
making an order pursuant to … Section 1987.1, the court may in its discretion
award the amount of the reasonable expenses incurred in making or opposing the
motion, including reasonable attorney’s fees, if the court finds that the
motion was made or opposed in bad faith or without substantial justification or
that one or more of the requirements of the subpoena was oppressive.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.2, subd. (a).)
Discussion
As a preliminary matter, SSA and EDD have
stated, in writing, that they will not comply with the subpoenas.  The parties appear to agree that, as a
result, the motion to quash the subpoenas is moot as it relates to the subpoenas
sent to these two entities.  (Opp. at 8-9;
Reply at 1-2.)
That leaves the subpoena to CMS.  That subpoena requested the production of the
following documents:
“Any and all documents and records pertaining to the
insurance and claim file of [Boren], including, but not limited to, all
payments, policy information, listing of providers, correspondence, all log
notes, declaration of coverage, EOB’s (explanation of benefits), Health
Insurance Claim Forms and Claims Details, medical records, color photographs
pertaining to [Boren] from 01/01/1991 to present.”
(Kim Decl., Exh. 1.)
Boren argues that the subpoenas are overly
broad and, as a result, invade her privacy. 
Boren has received health care benefits through Medi-Cal for most or all
of her adult life, and Boren objects that the subpoena improperly invades her
privacy in that it is (1) not limited to medical records relating to areas of
her body that she is claiming were injured in the accident; and (2) not reasonably
limited in time but rather goes back more than 22 years, to the time that she
was 13 years old.
The starting point of the Court’s
analysis is the broad scope of discovery under the Civil Discovery Act.  “[A]ny party may obtain discovery regarding
any matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter involved in
the pending action or to the determination of any motion made in that action,
if the matter either is itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2017.010; see also Schnabel v. Superior Court (1993) 5 Cal.4th 704, 711.)  That is the starting point, but of course it
is not the ending point.  The Civil
Discovery Act also directs that a “court shall limit the scope of discovery if
it determines that the burden, expense, or intrusiveness of that discovery
clearly outweighs the likelihood that the information sought will lead to the
discovery of admissible evidence.”  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2017.020, subd. (a).)
Where, as here,
a party claims that a discovery request improperly invades a protected right to
privacy, the California Supreme Court has established “a framework for
evaluating potential invasions of privacy” in Williams v. Superior Court (2017)
3 Cal.5th 531, 552, Hill v. Nat'l Collegiate Athletic Assn. (1994) 7
Cal. 4th 1, and other cases.  First, a
party asserting a privacy right must establish “a legally protected privacy
interest, an objectively reasonable expectation of privacy in the given
circumstances, and a threatened intrusion that is serious.”  (Williams, supra, 3 Cal.5th at p. 552,
citing Hill, supra, 7 Cal.4th at pp. 35-37.)  In response, the party seeking the
information may raise “whatever legitimate and important countervailing
interests disclosure serves,” and “the party seeking protection may identify
feasible alternatives that serve the same interests or protective measures that
would diminish the loss of privacy.”  (Ibid.,
citing Hill, supra, 7 Cal.4th at pp. 37-40.)  The court must then “balance these competing
considerations.”  (Ibid.)  The party seeking the information need not,
however, establish a “compelling interest” unless the disclosure would be “an
obvious invasion of an interest fundamental to personal autonomy.”  (Id. at p. 556.)
Under the Williams
and Hill framework, a party seeking to quash or limit a subpoena is
required first to establish a legally protected privacy interest and a
reasonable expectation of privacy.  Here,
Boren has done so.  California’s
Constitutional right to privacy protects against the unwarranted, compelled
disclosure of various private or sensitive information regarding one’s personal
life.¿ (Britt v. Superior Court (1978) 20 Cal.3d 844, 855-856.)¿¿This
includes medical records and financial records. These records are protected by
the right to privacy, and she has an objectively reasonable expectation of
privacy in them.  
 
Next, the
subpoena appears on its face to be a serious intrusion into Boren’s right to
privacy.  Medical records are inherently private,
personal, and sensitive, and a reasonable person would consider it to be
seriously intrusive to be forced to allow a stranger to have access to these
records.
 
At this point, under Williams and
Hill, the party seeking the information must identify the
“legitimate and important countervailing interests” that disclosure would
serve.  For example, the party seeking
the information may attempt to show that the discovery is “directly relevant”
to the claims or defenses in dispute and is “essential to the fair resolution
of the lawsuit.”  (Lantz v. Super. Ct.
(1994) 28 Cal.App.4th 1839, 1854.)  Here,
Defendants have done so, at least in part. 
Boren has asserted a claim in this case for injury to her neck, back,
and spine.  Discovery into Plaintiff’s
medical records relating to her neck, back, and spine, both since the time of
the accident and for some reasonable amount of time prior to the accident, is
directly relevant and essential to the fair resolution of the case.  Nor has Boren identified any feasible alternative
to production of the medical records that would serve the same interests and
diminish the loss of privacy. 
 
Finally, under
the framework set out in Hill and reaffirmed in Williams, the
Court must balance the “competing considerations” of the serious intrusion into
Boren’s privacy and Defendants’ legitimate need for the information.  This balancing of competing considerations is
necessarily a difficult and delicate task, and it is particularly challenging
here as the Court does not know what the subpoenaed records will reveal – and
specifically to what degree the subpoenaed records include particularly
sensitive personal information. 
Information regarding Boren’s health issues (if any) when she was 13 or
14 years old, more than thirty years ago, seems extraordinarily intrusive and appears
to offer little likelihood of leading to the discovery of admissible
evidence.  The same is true with regard
to her OB/GYN records, including records relating to her pregnancies, births,
and (at least potentially) other matters of a highly personal nature.
 
On balance,
because Boren is seeking damages relating to injuries to her neck, back, and
spine, the Court exercises its authority under Code of Civil Procedure section
1987.1 and MODIFIES the subpoena to be limited to injuries or treatments
relating to Boren’s neck, back, and spine. 
In addition, the Court MODIFIES the subpoena to be limited to the time
period of the subpoena to December 22, 2012 (five years before the accident) to
the present.  The Court finds that the
order modifying the subpoena, and denying the motion to quash the subpoena as
modified, strikes the right balance between providing Defendants with the
information that they need to defend the lawsuit and protecting Boren’s privacy.
 
In addition, the
Court exercises its discretion under Code of Civil Procedure section 1987.2,
subdivision (a), to award sanctions against Defendants.  The Court finds that issuing a subpoena that,
included, among its requirements, a demand for the production of Boren’s
medical records from the time that she was thirteen years old, including
records from her OB/GYN, including records regarding her pregnancies and
births, was oppressive.  The Court further
finds that Defendants did not act with substantial justification in opposing
this motion.  Accordingly, the Court GRANTS
Boren’s request for sanctions in the amount of $1,260, calculated as three
hours of attorney time (as requested in the moving papers), multiplied by a
reasonable hourly rate of $400 per hour, plus a $60 filing fee.  (See Kim Decl., ¶ 9.) 
Conclusion
The motion to quash the subpoenas issued to SSA and EDD is
DENIED as moot.
 
The Court GRANTS in part and DENIES in part the motion to
quash the subpoena issued to CMS.  The
Court MODIFIES the subpoena substantially, limiting it to records relating to injuries or treatments
relating to Boren’s neck, back, and spine for the time period of December 22,
2012, to the present.  As modified, the Court
DENIES the request to quash the subpoena.
 
The Court GRANTS
Boren’s request for sanctions.  Defendants
and counsel of record Lewis Brisbois Bisgaard & Smith LLP are ORDERED,
jointly and severally, to pay Boren $1,260 in monetary sanctions under Code of
Civil Procedure section 1987.2, subdivision (a), within 30 days of notice of
this order.
 
Moving party is
ordered to give notice. 