 Case Number:  24VECV00215    Hearing Date:   September 5, 2024    Dept:  W WALTER
BANEGGAS vs JAGUAR LAND ROVER NORTH AMERICA, LLC, et al.
 
PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER
RESPONSES
 
Date
of Hearing:        September
5, 2024                                        Trial Date:       None
set. 
Department:              W                                                                     Case
No.:        24VECV00215
 
Moving
Party:            Plaintiff Walter
Baneggas 
Responding
Party:     Defendant Jaguar Land Rover
North America, LLC   
Meet
and Confer:      Yes. (Thomas decl.
¶¶7-11.) 
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is a lemon law action. On January 17, 2023, Plaintiff Walter
Baneggas filed a complaint against Jaguar Land Rover North America, LLC, Galpin
Jaguar Lincoln-Mercury, Inc. dba Jaguar Van Nuys/Land Rover Van Nuys for
Violation of Song-Beverly Act – Breach of Express Warranty. Plaintiff purchased
a 2018 Lan Rover Range Rover Velar. Plaintiff alleges they delivered the
vehicle to an authorized repair facility for nonconformities, but Defendants
were unable to conform the subject vehicle to the applicable express warranty
after a reasonable number of repair attempts. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
I.                   
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further
Responses to Plaintiffs’ First Set of Special Interrogatories and Request for
Sanctions is GRANTED, IN PART. 
II.                 
Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel Further Responses to
Plaintiffs’ First Set of Requests for Production of Documents is GRANTED, IN
PART. 
III.               
Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel Further Responses to
Plaintiffs’ First Set of Request for Admissions is DENIED.  
 
discussion
 
I.                   
PLAINTIFF’S
MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO PLAINTIFFS’ FIRST SET OF SPECIAL
INTERROGATORIES AND REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS
 
Plaintiff Baneggas
moves
the court for an order compelling further responses to Plaintiffs’ first set of
Special Interrogatories and monetary sanctions in the amount of $3,660.00
against Defendant Jaguar Land Rover North America, LLC and its attorney of
record, Turner Henningsen Wolf and Vandenburg LLP. 
 
“On receipt of a
response to interrogatories, the propounding party may move for an order
compelling a further response if the propounding party deems that any of the
following apply: (1) An answer to a particular interrogatory is evasive or
incomplete. (2) An exercise of the option to produce documents under Section
2030.230 is unwarranted or the required specification of those documents is
inadequate. (3) An objection to an interrogatory is without merit or too
general.”¿ (CCP § 2030.300(a).)¿ “A motion under subdivision (a) [of CCP §
2030.300] shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040.”¿ (CCP § 2030.300(b).)¿ In addition, a separate statement is
required.¿ (California Rules of Court (“CRC”) Rule 3.1345(a)(2).)
 
Plaintiff moves for
further responses to Plaintiff’s special interrogatories, set one. Specifically,
in response to Special Interrogatories 1-3, 8-9, 17 and 42 Defendant referenced
by name certain documents it claimed were “produced concurrently herewith.”
However, Defendant produced no documents. In Response to Special
Interrogatories 10-16 and 19-20, Defendant referred Plaintiff to its response
to Form Interrogatory 15.1. Lastly, in response to Special Interrogatories 18,
21-27, 29-41 and 43-48, Defendant asserted only objections. 
 
In opposition, JLRNA
argues it properly responded to the subject interrogatories. Specifically, JLRNA
has identified the specific documents and as for the rest, the objections are
warranted as the interrogatories are vague and ambiguous. The court disagrees,
in part. Further responses are warranted as to SROG
Nos. 8, 9, 11-17, 19-20. JLRNA cannot just refer to another response or
case. As for the remaining requests, the court finds they are vague or
overbroad as to time and therefore, the objections are not without merit. The
court also notes JLRNA’s response “Discovery is continuing, and JLRNA reserves
the right to supplement its response based upon further investigation” is not
necessarily improper. However, if some information is present, it should be
provided now. If new information does come up during JLRNA’s ongoing
investigation, JLRNA’s should supplement its answers. If after reasonable
inquiry, JLRNA cannot answer the request, JRLNA must state so. 
 
Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to
Plaintiffs’ First Set of Special Interrogatories is GRANTED, in part, as to SROG
Nos. 8, 9, 11-17, 19-20.
 
The request for sanctions in the amount of $3,660.00
is DENIED. 
 
II.                 
PLAINTIFFS’
MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO PLAINTIFF’S FIRST SET OF REQUESTS FOR
PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS AND REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS
 
Plaintiff Baneggas
moves the court for an order compelling further responses to Plaintiff’ first
set of request for production of documents and monetary sanctions in the amount
of $3,660.00 against Defendant JLRNA and its attorney of record, Turner Henningsen
Wolf & Vandenburg, LPP. Plaintiff makes the motion on the grounds JLRNA has
failed and refused to provide code-compliant responses to discovery as to
request for production of documents nos. 1-41 and 44-46. 
 
A motion to compel
further responses to a demand for inspection or production of documents (“RFP”)
may be brought based on: (1) incomplete statements of compliance; (2)
inadequate, evasive or incomplete claims of inability to comply; or (3)
unmerited or overly generalized objections. 
(CCP § 2031.310(c).)
 
Plaintiff argues
Defendant has provided unverified responses on April 9, 2024 and still has not
provided verifications for these responses. In response to RFPs 1-10, 12-13, 15
and 44 Defendant stated it would produce certain documents. In response to RFPs
16, 17 and 33-36, Defendant provided a link to a website where it contended
responsive documents could be accessed “for a nominal fee.” Lastly, in response
to RFPs 11, 14, 18, 19-32, 37-41 and 45-46, Defendant asserted only objections.
Plaintiff notes as to those JLRNA agreed to produce, JLRNA must be held to its
own agreement to produce documents (RFPs 11, 14, and 19-32.) 
 
In opposition, JLRNA
argues the motion was not served with sufficient notice because Plaintiff
forgot to take into consideration the additional two court days required by
Code of Civil Procedure section 1010.6. JLRNA contends the motion should be
denied on this basis alone and if not, requests this court reschedule the
hearing to a later time with sufficient amount of notice. The court finds JLRNA
was not prejudiced by the late filing. The filing was late by two days and
JLRNA was able to oppose the motion on the merits despite forgetting to
properly calendar their opposition. 
 
JLRNA next argues the
motion is procedurally defective because what Plaintiff really seeks is a
production of documents, not further responses. The court finds no grounds to
deny the motion for basis of mislabeling. Plaintiff provided all the necessary
information for a motion to compel compliance and JLRNA was able to oppose the
motion on that basis. 
 
JLRNA lastly argues Plaintiff
has failed to show good cause for the Franchise Agreement between the selling
dealership and JLRNA, Plaintiff has failed to show good cause for documents
identifying all OBDII Codes, and the requests related to vehicles of same make,
model and year are overbroad, vague, and seek third party private information. 
 
The court finds
further responses warranted as to RFP Nos. 18 (only as to sections that relate
to handling of warranties, repairs and customer complaints), 37 (only as to
ODBII codes for the subject complaints presented by Plaintiff), and 45 (only as
to California, same make, model and defect). No further responses are required
as to RFP Nos. 1 – 17, 19 – 36, 38 – 41, 44 and 46.  To the extent that defendant has stated that
it would produce certain documents, those must be produced without further
delay.  
 
Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to
Plaintiffs’ First Set of Requests for Production of Documents is GRANTED, IN
PART. 
 
The request for sanctions in the amount of $3,660.00
is DENIED. 
 
III.               
PLAINTIFF’S
MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO PLAINTIFF’S FIRST SET OF REQUEST FOR
ADMISSIONS AND REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS
 
Plaintiff Baneggas
moves the court for an order compelling further responses to Plaintiffs’ first
set of request for admissions and monetary sanctions in the amount of $3,210.00
against Defendant JLRNA and its attorney of record, Turner Henningsen Wolf &
Vandenburg, LPP. Plaintiff makes the motion on the grounds Defendant has failed
and refused to provide code-compliant discovery responses. 
A
motion to compel further responses be brought based on responses to requests
for admission (“RFA”) that: (1) provide evasive or incomplete answers; or (2)
make unmeritorious or overly-generalized objections.  (CCP §
2033.290(a).)  However, a motion to compel further responses cannot compel
the admission of matters already denied.  (Holguin v. Superior Court
(1972) 22 Cal.App.3d 812, 821.) 
Plaintiff
argues Defendant’s responses to RFAs 12, 13, 15, 20-23 and 33-34 are clearly
deficient and further responses must be ordered. Defendant objects to the RFAs
on the grounds attorney client privilege/work product doctrine, trade secrets,
as well as vague, ambiguous overbroad, calls for a legal conclusion and calls
for information equally available to Plaintiff or in the possession of a third
party. 
In
opposition, Defendant argues the RFAS are vague, ambiguous and overbroad. It is
unclear what Plaintiff is seeking. The court agrees. The RFAs are vague and
ambiguous as to time. These RFAs could be interpreted differently and are not
clear whether to admit or deny. 
Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to
Plaintiffs’ First Set of Request for Admissions is DENIED.  
 
The request for sanctions in the amount of $3,210.00 is DENIED. 
 
 
 