  Case Number:  20STCV43151    Hearing Date:   September 5, 2024    Dept:  W KEITH SMITH vs
LIAT BEROUKHAI
 
motion FOR
SUMMARY JUDGMENT  
 
Date of Hearing:        September
5, 2042               Trial Date:       March 17, 2025
Department:              W                                            Case
No.:        20STCV43151
 
Moving Party:            Defendant
Liat Talasazan 
Responding Party:     No opposition 
 
BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiff Keith Smith (“Plaintiff”)
filed this action against Defendant Liat Talasazan (erroneously sued as Liat
Beroukhai) for damages arising from an automobile incident. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Defendant
Liat Talasazan’s Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED. 
 
Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel Compliance is MOOT. 
 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE 
 
Defendant Liat
Talasazan requests this court take judicial notice of Plaintiff Keith Smith’s
Complaint filed in Los Angeles Superior Court Case No. 20STCV43151, filed on
November 12, 2020. (Exh. A). The court GRANTS Defendant’s request for judicial
notice. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
I.                   
DEFENDANT’S MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT 
 
Defendant Liat Talasazan moves the court for an order granting
summary judgment in favor of Defendant and against Plaintiff on the grounds
that Plaintiff’s alleged injuries and damages were not caused by Defendant and
therefore, Plaintiff’s complaint for negligent against Defendant has no merit
as a matter of law. 
 
The purpose of a motion for summary judgment
or summary adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through
the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their
allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) “Code of Civil
Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to grant
summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably
deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or
evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that
the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v.
Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) 
 
“On a motion for summary judgment, the
initial burden is always on the moving party to make a prima facia showing that
there are no triable issues of material fact.” (Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes,
Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.) A defendant moving for summary
judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or her burden of showing that a
cause of action has no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements
of the cause of action . . . cannot be established, or that there is a complete
defense to the cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c(p)(2).) “Once the
defendant . . . has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . .
to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the
cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Id.) “If the plaintiff cannot do
so, summary judgment should be granted.” (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159
Cal.App.4th 463, 467.) 
 
Defendant Talasazan moves for summary judgment on the grounds
Plaintiff’s cause of action for negligence has no merit. Specifically,
Defendant Talasazan argues Plaintiff cannot establish any breach of duty of
care or that any action or inaction on the part of Defendant Talasazan was the
proximate cause of Plaintiff’s alleged injuries or damages. The court agrees.
Defendant Talasazan submits evidence Plaintiff testified that the car that
struck him was a white Lexus SUV. (UMF 7.) On the date of the accident,
Plaintiff observed a white Lexus SUV illegally parked and when Plaintiff waited
for the driver of the white Lexus SUV to exit the parking lot, Plaintiff
approached the driver and informed her she was parked illegally. (UMF 7.) While
conversing with the woman, Smith was approximately 10 to 15 feet away and standing
to the rear of the passenger side of her vehicle. (UMF 8.) Plaintiff Smith
proceeded to move directly behind the woman’s SUV while trying to get all the
way across the rear of the SUV and out of the path of the SUV. (UMF 9.) However,
Plaintiff failed to get out of the path of the USV in time and the white Lexus
struck the right side of Plaintiff. (UMF 10.) After colliding with Plaintiff Smith,
the driver of the white Lexus SUV continued to back up while rolling down her
window to ask if Plaintiff Smith was ok. (UMF 11.) Plaintiff Smith stated that
he was not ok, but the driver of the SUV just “took off”. (UMF 11.) The white
Lexus SUV that struck Plaintiff did not have a license plate. (UMF 12.) Plaintiff
testified he does not know the identity of the driver or the owner of the white
Lexus USV and did not speak with the driver after the date of the accident.
(UMF 13.) Defendant testified that she was not involved in the incident and
does not know who was involved. (UMF 16.) On the day of the accident, Defendant
was driving a 2017 or 2018 charcoal Cadillac Escalade registered to her
ex-husband. (UMF 18.) She further testified she never owned, drove or had
access to a white Lexus SUV and did not recognize the vehicle. (UMF 20, 21.) 
 
Accordingly, Defendant has met their burden demonstrating no
triable issue of material fact exists. As noted by Defendant, “a non-suit is
properly granted where the plaintiff offers no evidence to show who was the
driver or owner of the vehicle alleged to have negligently caused the injury
claimed by plaintiff.” (Calderon v. Dispatch Trucking Co. (1968) 268
Cal.App.2d 217, 222–223.) 
 
The burden shifts to Plaintiff to show that a triable issue of
fact exists. Plaintiff has failed to oppose the motion. Therefore, Defendant is
entitled to summary judgment.
 
Accordingly, Defendant Talasazan’s Motion for Summary Judgment is
GRANTED.
 
II.                 
PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO COMPEL COMPLIANCE WITH THIRD PARTY SUBPOENA
TO JONATHAN MARSAND BALTER AND REQUEST FOR MONETARY SANCTIONS
 
Plaintiff moves to compel the deposition and production of
documents of non-party Jonathan Marsand Balter (“Balter”).  Plaintiff asserts he served Balter with a
valid deposition subpoena that required Balter to appear for his deposition on
October 18, 2023, but Balter failed to appear.  

 
A party seeking discovery from a person who is not a party to the
action may obtain discovery by oral deposition, written deposition, or
deposition subpoena for production of business records.  (CCP § 2020.010.)  A deposition subpoena may command: (1) only
the attendance and testimony of the deponent, (2) only the production of
business records for copying, or (3) the attendance and testimony of the
deponent, as well as the production of business records, other documents,
electronically stored information, and tangible things.  (CCP § 2020.020.)
 
A “written notice and all moving papers supporting a motion to
compel an answer to a deposition question or to compel production of a document
or tangible thing from a nonparty deponent must be personally served on the
nonparty deponent unless the nonparty deponent agrees to accept service by
mail¿or electronic service¿at an address¿or electronic service
address¿specified on the deposition record.”  (CRC Rule
3.1346.)   
 
In this case, Plaintiff asserts Balter was present at the time of
the incident, and had assisted Plaintiff in identifying Defendant. Plaintiff
avers Balter drafted an incident report, and is in possession of video
surveillance of the incident. Balter allowed Plaintiff to view the video, but
did not send a copy. Defendant provides proof of service showing personal
service upon Balter with the deposition subpoena. (Mot. Exh. 1.) There has been
no objection filed to the subpoena for Balter’s deposition, nor has any
opposition or motion to quash been filed.  
 
The court previously denied the motion on the grounds the proof of
service indicated Balter was served by mail and there was no evidence that
Balter agreed to accept service by mail. Therefore, Plaintiff must serve the
moving papers by personal service. The proof of service now indicates the
motion was served by mail and e-mail. At the hearing, Plaintiff must provide
evidence the parties agreed to service by e-mail. If not, the motion is denied
without prejudice.
 
Nonetheless, the court believes this motion is MOOT given the
court’s intention to grant summary judgment to defendant.  