 Case Number:  22VECV02549    Hearing Date:   September 5, 2024    Dept:  W 14241 VENTURA
LLC v. EMPIRE CONSTRUCTION SERVICES INC., et al.
 
DEMURRER to
the third amended complaint 
 
Date of Hearing:        September
5, 2024                           Trial Date:       None
set.
Department:              W                                                        Case No.:        22VECV02549
 
Moving Party:            Defendant Forms and Surfaces, Inc. 
Responding Party:     Plaintiff 14241 Ventura LLC 
Meet and Confer:      Yes. (Danishwar Decl. ¶¶2-4.)[1]

 
BACKGROUND
 
On December
23, 2022, Plaintiff 14241 Ventura LLC filed a complaint against Defendants Empire
Construction Services Inc. and Kean Christopher Evens for breach of contract,
breach of implied good faith and fair dealing, intentional misrepresentation,
and negligent misrepresentation. Plaintiff alleges on September 6, 2022, Plaintiff
14241 entered into a written contract with the Defendant Empire where Defendant
would perform certain construction work on Plaintiff’s property in exchange for
monetary consideration. However, Defendant Empire breached the contract by
failing to perform the contracted work, abandoning the project in its entirety,
and failing to refund the payments made by Plaintiff.
 
On June 22,
2023, Plaintiff filed an amended complaint, asserting causes of action for breach
of contract, breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, breach
of implied warranty, breach of express warranty, and negligence against Empire
Construction Services Inc., All United Roofing Inc., Beyond Electric Inc.
Calgrove Rentals, Door Max, ESD Euro Image LLC dba ESD European Style Doors,
Forms and Surfaces, Inc., King Iron Works, Inc., Kone, Inc., Pico Glass Inc.,
Sam’s Custom Finishing Inc. dba Meza Painting Company, Santos Lopez Drywall,
and Waterproofing Experts, Inc. Plaintiff alleges they entered into agreements
with each of the named Defendants to provide work on their property; however,
each Defendant failed to fulfill their obligations in performance of the
agreements in that they failed to complete their scope of work, delayed
construction of the Subject Property, failed to perform work that is free from
defects and in compliance with the applicable standards of care in the
industry. Plaintiff filed a Third Amended Complaint on May 17, 2024. 
 
Defendant
Beyond Electric, Inc. filed a cross-complaint against Plaintiff on August 17,
2023. On August 24, 2023, All United Roofing Inc. filed a cross-complaint
against Beyond Electric, Inc. Kone Inc. filed a cross-complaint on January 9,
2024. King Iron Works, Inc. filed a cross-complaint against Plaintiff on
January 26, 2024. Empire Construction Services Inc. filed cross-complaint
against MOES 1-25 on August 30, 2023. Empire dismissed their cross-complaint on
May 6, 2024. Cal Grove Rentals, Inc. filed a cross-complaint against Mikayel
Israelyan and 7007 Riverside LLC. Cal Groves dismissed the cross-complaint on
May 22, 2024. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Defendant Forms and Surfaces Inc.’s
Demurrer is OVERRULED. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
Defendant Forms and Surfaces, Inc.
demurs to Plaintiff’s Third Amended Complaint on the grounds the complaint is
vague, ambiguous and unintelligible as well as fails to state facts sufficient
to constitute any cause of action against Defendant and is duplicative. 
 
Breach of Contract
 
Defendant demurs to the breach of
contract claim on the grounds Plaintiff fails to allege it complied with the
contract and inspected the goods as required. 
 
“The standard elements of a claim for
breach of contract are: ‘(1) the contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or
excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach, and (4) damage to plaintiff
therefrom.’” (Wall Street Network, Ltd. v. New York Times Co. (2008) 164
Cal.App.4th 1171, 1178.) 
 
Defendant argues the complaint fails to
identify what breach occurred and what damages were sustained. Specifically,
Plaintiff’s TAC fails to state that it complied with the “contract” and
inspected the goods as the contract clearly requires that any damage claims are
filed within five business days of delivery. Moreover, Plaintiff’s TAC fails to
allege whether the goods were delivered damaged or whether the alleged
conditions complained about were damaged during installation. 
 
The court disagrees. The complaint has
sufficiently alleged Plaintiff complied with the terms of the contract,
Defendant’s breach and damages resulting from Defendant’s breach. Plaintiff has
sufficiently alleged Defendant breached the contract by supplying architectural
metal sheets that were wavy with distorted surfaces, when they were supposed to
be flat like a mirror, without any waves and distortions, and to have holes in
them. (SAC ¶38.) Taking Plaintiff’s allegations as true, Plaintiff alleges they
fully performed all covenants, conditions, and obligations required of it to be
performed in accordance with the terms and conditions of said agreements, which
would include Plaintiff filing a damage claim within five business days. (SAC
¶21.) Moreover, Plaintiff has alleged damages as a result of receiving the distorted
metal sheets from Defendant. (SAC ¶¶50-51.) 
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s demurrer to
the first cause of action is OVERRULED. 
 
Breach of Implied Covenant of Good
Faith and Fair Dealing
 
Defendant demurs to the breach of
implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing cause of action on the grounds
Plaintiff again fails to state that it complied with the “contract” and
inspected the goods as well as allege whether the goods delivered damaged or
whether the alleged conditions complained of were damaged during installation.
 
The covenant of good faith and fair
dealing is implied by law in every contract, and it acts “as a supplement to
the express contractual covenants, to prevent a contracting party from engaging
in conduct which (while not technically transgressing the express covenants)
frustrates the other party’s rights to the benefits of the contract.” (Racine
& Laramie, Ltd. v. Department of Parks & Recreation (1992) 11
Cal.App.4th 1026, 1031-1032.) 
 
Defendant makes the same arguments as
their breach of contract claim. For the reasons stated above, Defendant’s
demurrer to the second cause of action is OVERRULED. 
 
Breach of Implied Warranty
 
Defendant demurs to the third cause of
action for breach of implied warranty on the grounds the TAC fails to allege
Plaintiff complied with the contract and inspected the goods as required or
that the goods were delivered damaged. 
 
An action for breach of warranty
requires a showing that there was a sale of goods, that defendant expressly or
impliedly warranted the goods sold, and that there was a breach of that
warranty that caused plaintiff to suffer harm. (See Scott v. Metabolife
International, Inc. (2004) 115 Cal.App.4th 404, 415-16.) A breach of
warranty cause of action will not lie where only services have been furnished.
(See Gautier v. General Telephone Co. (1965) 234 Cal.App.2d 302, 307.)
The court looks to the essence of the agreement to determine whether the
agreement was for the sale of goods or the provision of services. (Wall
Street Network, Ltd. v. New York Times Co. (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 1171,
1186.) “When service predominates, the incidental sale of items of personal
property [] does not alter the basic transaction.” (Id. (alteration in
original).)  
 
Defendant makes the same arguments as
the breach of contract cause of action. For reasons stated above, Defendant’s
demurrer to the third cause of action is OVERRULED. 
 
Negligence
 
Defendant demurs to the cause of action
for negligence on the grounds the TAC is utterly devoid of material facts
establishing the elements of negligence. 
 
To plead a cause of action for
negligence, one must allege (1) a legal duty owed to plaintiffs to use due
care; (2) breach of duty; (3) causation; and (4) damage to plaintiff. (County
of Santa Clara v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2006) 137 Cal. App. 4th 292,
318.) “In order to state a cause of action for negligence, the complaint must
allege facts sufficient to show a legal duty on the part of the defendant to
use due care, a breach of such legal duty, and the breach as the proximate or
legal cause of the resulting injury.” (Bellah v. Greenson (1978) 81
Cal.App.3d 614, 619.)  In California, negligence may be pleaded in general
terms. (Landeros v. Flood (1976) 17 Cal.3d 399, 407-408.) 
 
For reasons stated above, Defendant’s
demurrer to this cause of action is OVERRULED.


