  Case Number:  19STCV30516    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2023    Dept:  61 Defendant Miao Li and Plaintiffs
Miaoxin Yu and Jesse Weiner’s Motion to Reopen Discovery is GRANTED in part, in
that Plaintiffs are granted leave to take the deposition of Defendant Jianxiang
Shi. The motion is otherwise DENIED.
 
Plaintiffs
to provide notice. 
 
I.                  
MOTION TO REOPEN DISCOVERY
The discovery cut-off date is 30 days before the original
trial date, and the motion cut-off date is 15-days before the original trial
date. (see Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.020, subd. (a).) “Except as provided in
Section 2024.050, a continuance or postponement of the trial date does not
operate to reopen discovery proceedings.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.020, subd.
(b).) 
 
A party may move to take discovery or have a discovery
motion heard after the cut-off date, as follows: 
 
(a) On motion of any party, the court
may grant leave to complete discovery proceedings, or to have a motion
concerning discovery heard, closer to the initial trial date, or to reopen
discovery after a new trial date has been set. This motion shall be accompanied
by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.
 
(b) In exercising its discretion to
grant or deny this motion, the court shall take into consideration any matter
relevant to the leave requested, including, but not limited to, the following: 
 
(1) The necessity and
the reasons for the discovery. 
 
(2) The diligence or lack of diligence
of the party seeking the discovery or the hearing of a discovery motion, and
the reasons that the discovery was not completed or that the discovery motion
was not heard earlier.
 
(3) Any likelihood that permitting the
discovery or hearing the discovery motion will prevent the case from going to
trial on the date set, or otherwise interfere with the trial calendar, or
result in prejudice to any other party.
 
(4) The length of time that has
elapsed between any date previously set, and the date presently set, for the
trial of the action.
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.050, subds. (a), (b).)
 
Plaintiffs Miaoxin Liu and Jesse Weiner (Plaintiffs) seek to
reopen discovery in this matter, closed with the previous trial date of June 6,
2023. But they do not specifically delineate what discovery they hope to
obtain. Plaintiffs argue that there “remain depositions and other outstanding
discovery requests that must be addressed and responded to by Defendants,” but
they do not identify which depositions or discovery this refers to. (Motion at
p. 4.) The sole reason they provide for seeking further discovery now is the
incarceration and “stonewalling” of Defendant Jianxiang Shi. (Motion at p. 4.)
However, Shi’s incarceration lasted for a 12-month period from 2021 to 2022,
and Plaintiff identifies no outstanding discovery to which Shi has not
responded. (Weiner Decl. ¶¶ 5–6.) Defendants in opposition contend that
Plaintiffs have not sought or noticed their depositions since the inception of
this case, a contention which Plaintiffs make no effort to rebut in their
reply.
 
However, the trial date is currently more than a year
distant. And Plaintiffs in their motion present emails with Jianxiang Shi’s
then-counsel from 2021, seeking deposition dates for this Defendant, only to be
informed that Defendants were changing counsel and that Shi had been
incarcerated. (Motion Exh. 1.)
 
Plaintiffs’ have shown good cause for a limited reopening of
discovery solely to take the deposition of Jianxiang Shi. This is the only
Defendant for whom Plaintiffs have identified any prior efforts to obtain their
deposition, and he is the only defendant for whom Plaintiffs have offered a
reason why his deposition has not yet been taken. Plaintiffs have not, however,
shown good cause to take any other depositions or to propound further written
discovery.
 
The motion to reopen discovery is therefore GRANTED in part,
in that Plaintiffs are granted leave to take the deposition of Defendant
Jianxiang Shi. The motion is otherwise DENIED.