 Case Number:  20STCV17040    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2023    Dept:  61 Defendant
November First Partnership’s Motion to Compel Depositions of Plaintiff Ultimate
Action, LLC’s Person Most Qualified and Ted Fox are GRANTED. No sanctions are
awarded.
 
Defendant to give notice.
 
I.       MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSITION
A party may make a
motion compelling a witness’s deposition “after service of a deposition notice”
if that witness “fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it.” (Code
Civ. Proc. § 2025.450, subd. (a).) The motion must include a meet-and-confer
declaration and show good cause for the discovery sought. (Code Civ. Proc. §
2025.450, subd. (b)(1), (2).)
 
Defendant November
First Partnership seeks to compel the deposition of Plaintiff Ultimate Action,
LLC’s person most qualified (PMQ) and Ted Fox, on the grounds that they have
attempted to secure these depositions since February 2021, to no avail. (Motion
at pp. 2–3.) Defendant notes that the depositions were previously agreed to
take place in May, on dates provided by Plaintiff, but that Plaintiff in the
days preceding the deposition failed to appear, claiming the dates were too
near the date of hearing on Defendant’s motion for summary judgment. ((Donovan
Decl. ¶ 12.) Plaintiff in opposition contends that it has twice proposed to
allow these depositions to take place pursuant to a stipulated schedule of
depositions applicable to all witnesses, but that Defendant has failed to
stipulate to any dates for its own witnesses. (Opposition at pp. 3–4.)
Defendant notes that the proposed stipulation to deposition dates is not a new
proposal, but was offered back in 2021 as well. (White Decl. ¶ 11.) Plaintiff
otherwise states that it agrees to depositions on the dates proposed by
Defendant in its motion. (Opposition at p. 3.)
 
The evidence
presented by the parties reveals substantial delay in the scheduling of
depositions, such that an order compelling the deposition of Plaintiff’s PMQ
and Ted Fox on December 11 and 12, 2023 (the dates identified in the motion and
agreed by Plaintiff in opposition) is appropriate. Trial is set to begin in
March 2024, and further delay of discovery risks further delay in trial.
However, the evidence shows less a unilateral effort at delay by Plaintiff than
irreconcilable differences in the parties’ approaches to scheduling.
Accordingly, while an order compelling depositions is appropriate, no sanctions
are awarded.[1]
 
The motion is
GRANTED.
 


