 Case Number:  24STLC03373    Hearing Date:   June 17, 2024    Dept:  26  Rodriguez
v. CKCK, LLC, et al.DEMURRER(CCP § 430.10, et seq.)
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Therefore,
Defendants CKCK, LLC and Garo Korounian’s Demurrer to the First Amended
Complaint is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND. DEFENDANTS ARE TO FILE AND SERVE
A PROPOSED ORDER OF DISMISSAL WITHIN 20 DAYS OF THIS ORDER.
 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
On May 10, 2024, Plaintiff Enjoli Rodriguez (“Plaintiff”) filed the Complaint in this action against
Defendants CKCK, LLC and Garo Korounian (“Defendants”). The First Amended
Complaint was filed on May 22, 2024. Defendants filed the instant
Demurrer to the First Amended Complaint on May 23,
2024. Plaintiff filed an
opposition (entitled “reply”) on June 5, 2024. 
 
Discussion
 
The Demurrer is accompanied by a
meet and confer declaration as required by Code of Civil Procedure section
430.41. (Demurrer, Hillel Decl. ¶¶3-5.)
The Demurrer is brought on the grounds that the First Amened Complaint fails to
allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10,
subd. (e).) The First Amended Complaint alleges causes of action for breach of
contract and “other.”
 
Allegations in the First
Amended Complaint
 
The First Amended Complaint
is not a model of clarity. On the form pleading, beside the listed causes of
action, Plaintiff sets forth handwritten allegations in incomplete sentences,
as follows. “Section 4 of Stipulation Attachment 1. Receipts or financial
statements to prove anything I have [illegible] recipts [sic]! Garo’s attorney
Ben verbally promised my security deposit back or use toward rent [illegible]!!
Garo has knowingly lied to the commissioner about not receving [sic] my rent
and has had his attorney file a wrongful ex parte on March 22, 2024 retaliation
against me due.” (FAC, ¶9.) There are other allegations that appear to allege
Plaintiff seeks eviction damages due to breaches of contract. (Id. at
¶10.) In a typed attachment to the First Amended Complaint, Plaintiff seeks
“immediate dismissal of the Ex Parte and Stipulation Agreement due to the
plaintiff violating it and asking that the Commissioner ensure my record remain
sealed and allow for this case to be transferred to Stanley Mosk where I have
rightfully filed a lawsuit against my landlord.” (Id. at p. 3.) It is
unclear whether this typed statement is part of the allegations in this action,
or an exhibit of something filed in the underlying unlawful detainer action.
 
The Court takes judicial
notice of the following documents filed in the unlawful detainer action, CKCK,
LLC v. Rodriguez, LASC No. 24PDUD01076: (1) the ex parte
application to enforce the stipulated judgment, and the stipulated judgment
attached thereto; (2) Plaintiff’s response to said ex parte application; (3)
the minute order granting said ex parte application; and (4) the judgment
entered pursuant to the ex parte application. (Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (d).)
However, for the first three documents, judicial notice is limited to the
filing of the document and not their contents. (See Adams v. Bank of
America, N.A. (2020) 51 Cal.App.5th 666, 673-674.) 
 
Failure to Allege Sufficient
Facts
 
Defendants first demur to the
First Amended Complaint for failure to allege facts sufficient to state a cause
of action on the grounds that the dispute in this action over the security
deposit is unripe for adjudication. This argument relies on facts outside of
the pleading—namely that Plaintiff is still in possession of the premises—to
argue that Plaintiff cannot allege a violation of the security deposit. The
Demurrer does not cite any part of the First Amended Complaint nor the request
for judicial notice regarding Plaintiff’s allegation of possession of the
premises. 
 
Next, Defendant Korounian
demurs on the grounds that he has no connection to the stipulated agreement,
which is solely between Plaintiff and Defendant CKCK. A copy of the stipulated
agreement is attached to the Frist Amended Complaint and signed only by
Plaintiff and Defendant CKCK (through Defendant Korouninan). (FAC, p. 8 at
¶12.) In opposition, Plaintiff argues that Defendant Korounian should be liable
as Defendant CKCK’s owner and agent for service. No authority for liability
against an individual based on this status is cited by Plaintiff. (Opp., p.
2:13-15.) Nor does Plaintiff’s contention that Defendant Korouninan violated
several unnamed RSO law and ordinances have any connection to the breach of
contract cause of action. (Id. at p. 2:13-16.) The demurrer with respect
to Defendant Korounian is sustained. 
 
The third
basis for the Demurrer is that the Court lacks jurisdiction over the subject of
the cause of action. (Citing Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (a).) Lack of
subject matter jurisdiction, however, is only grounds for special demurrer. (Workmen’s Comp. Appeals Bd. v. Small Claims Court
(1973) 35 Cal.App.3d 643, 645 n. 3; Middlecoff v. Superior Court of Los
Angeles County (1934) 220 Cal. 410, 414.) Special demurrers are not
permitted in the limited jurisdiction court. (Code Civ. Proc., § 92, subd. (c).)
Therefore, the Court cannot rule on the Demurrer for lack of subject matter
jurisdiction. The same applies to Defendants’ Demurrer for uncertainty. 
Finally, Defendants demur to the First Amended Complaint on
grounds of res judicata. “A prior judgment is not res judicata on a subsequent
action unless three elements are satisfied: ‘1) the issues decided in the prior
adjudication are identical with those presented in the later action; 2) there
was a final judgment on the merits in the prior action; and 3) the party
against whom the plea is raised was a party or was in privity with a party to
the prior adjudication.’” (Consumer Advocacy Group, Inc. v. ExxonMobil Corp.
(2008) 168 Cal.App.4th 675, 686 [citing Citizens for Open Access etc. Tide,
Inc. v. Seadrift Assn. (1998) 60 Cal.App.4th 1053, 1065].) To the extent
this action was brought by Plaintiff to challenge the entry of judgment in the
unlawful detainer action pursuant to the parties’ stipulated agreement, the
Court takes judicial notice of the judgmeny in that action. Specifically, on
May 20, 2024, the unlawful detainer court granted Defendant CKCK’s ex parte
application to enter judgment pursuant to the stipulation. (Demurrer, RJN,
Exhs. 1-3.) Plaintiff had notice of and made a response to the ex parte
application. (Id. at Exh. 2.) This demonstrates that all the elements of
res judicata are satisfied with respect Plaintiff’s cause of action in this
case seeking relief under the parties’ stipulated agreement. Therefore,
the Demurrer to the breach of contract cause of action is sustained on grounds
of res judicata. 
Leave to amend must be
allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman
v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) 
The burden is on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can
be amended successfully. (Id.)
Here, Plaintiff has not shown a basis on which a cause of action can be alleged
against either Defendant with respect to breach of the stipulated agreement. 
Conclusion
Therefore, Defendants CKCK, LLC
and Garo Korounian’s Demurrer to the First Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED
WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND. DEFENDANTS ARE TO FILE AND SERVE A PROPOSED ORDER OF
DISMISSAL WITHIN 20 DAYS OF THIS ORDER.
 
 
Court clerk to give notice. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 