  Case Number:  22STCV37598    Hearing Date:   October 30, 2023    Dept:  34 SUBJECT:        Motion to
Compel Responses from Plaintiff to Form Interrogatories (Set One) [and] Request
for Sanctions
 
Moving Party: Defendant
YMCA of Hollywood, California
Resp. Party:    None
 
SUBJECT:        Motion to
Compel Responses from Plaintiff to Special Interrogatories (Set One) [and]
Request for Sanctions
 
Moving Party: Defendant
YMCA of Hollywood, California
Resp. Party:    None
 
SUBJECT:        Motion to
Compel Responses from Plaintiff to Request for Production (Set One) [and]
Request for Sanctions
 
Moving Party: Defendant
YMCA of Hollywood, California
Resp. Party:    None
 
SUBJECT:        Motion to
Have Its Requests for Admissions to Plaintiff Deemed Admitted [and] Request for
Monetary Sanctions
 
Moving Party: Defendant
YMCA of Hollywood, California
Resp. Party:    None
                                    
 
The FROGs Motion, the SROGs Motion, and the RPDs Motion are GRANTED.
Plaintiff shall provide initial responses to the FROGs, SROGs, and RPDs within 45
days of the issuance of this Order.
 
The RFAs Motion is GRANTED. The RFAs are DEEMED ADMITTED. 
 
        All Requests for Monetary Sanctions are
DENIED. 
 
BACKGROUND:
 
On November 30, 2022, Plaintiff M. R. filed a Complaint
against Defendants Doe 1 and Doe 2. The causes of action arise from an alleged
childhood sexual assault. 
 
On April 17, 2023, Defendant YMCA of Hollywood,
California (“Defendant,” sued as “Doe 1”) filed its Answer to the Complaint. 
 
On May 22, 2023, the Court granted Plaintiff’s
then-Counsel’s Motion to be Relieved as Counsel. 
 
On September 1, 2023, Defendant filed: (1) Motion to Compel Responses from Plaintiff to Form Interrogatories
(Set One) [and] Request for Sanctions (“FROGs Motion”); (2) Motion to Compel
Responses from Plaintiff to Special Interrogatories (Set One) [and] Request for
Sanctions (“SROGs Motion”); (3) Motion to Compel Responses from Plaintiff to
Request for Production (Set One) [and] Request for Sanctions (“RPDs Motion”);
and (4) Motion to Have Its Requests for Admissions to Plaintiff Deemed Admitted
[and] Request for Monetary Sanctions (“RFAs Motion”). 
 
No oppositions or other responses to the motions have
been filed. 

 
ANALYSIS:
 
        For clarity and
ease of analysis, the Court concurrently considers the FROGs Motion, SROGs
Motion, and RPDs Motion. The Court then considers the RFAs Motion. 
 
I.         
FROGs Motion,
SROGs Motion, and RPDs Motion
 
A.      Legal Standard
 
California Code of Civil Procedure requires a
response from the party to whom form interrogatories, special interrogatories, and
demand requests are propounded within 30 days after service of the requests,
unless the time is extended by agreement of the parties. (Code Civ. Proc., §§
2030.260, subd. (a), 2030.270, subd. (a), 2031.260, subd. (a), 2031.270, subd.
(a).) If a party fails to serve timely responses, "the party making the
demand may move for an order compelling response to the demand.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (b).) By failing to respond, the offending party
waives any objection to the demand. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (a).)
 
For a motion to compel, all a propounding
party must show is that it properly served its discovery requests, that the
time to respond has expired, and that the party to whom the requests were
directed failed to provide a timely response. (See Leach v. Super. Ct.
(1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 902, 905, 906.) Indeed, "[o]nce [a party] 'fail[ed]
to serve a timely response,' the trial court had authority to grant [opposing
party's] motion to compel responses." (Sinaiko Healthcare Counseling, Inc.
v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 405.)
 
B.      Discussion
 
Defendant moves the Court to compel
Plaintiff to serve responses to the form interrogatories (“FROGs”), special
interrogatories (“SROGs”), and request for production of documents (“RPDs”)
that Defendant propounded on April 17, 2023. (FROGs Motion, p. 4:23–24 and Exh.
1, p. 9; SROGs Motion, p. 4:23–24 and Exh. 1, p. 14; RPDs Motion, p. 4:13–14
and Exh. 1, p. 9.) According to Defense Counsel, Plaintiff has not responded to
these discovery requests. (FROGs Motion, Decl. Schneider, ¶ 5; SROGs Motion,
Decl. Schneider, ¶ 5; RPDs Motion, Decl. Schneider, ¶ 5.)
 
There is no evidence before the
Court that would indicate Plaintiff responded to these discovery requests. 
 
        The Court GRANTS the FROGs Motion, the
SROGs Motion, and the RPDs Motion. Plaintiff shall provide initial responses to
the FROGs, SROGs, and RPDs within 45 days of the issuance of this Order.
 
 
C. 
    Sanctions
 
Defendant requests monetary sanctions for each of these
motions. However, considering that Plaintiff appears to have been litigating
this case in propria persona since May 22, 2023, monetary sanctions
would be unjust. 
 
The Court DENIES the Requests for Monetary Sanctions. 
 
D. 
    Conclusion
 
The FROGs Motion, the SROGs Motion, and the RPDs Motion are GRANTED.
Plaintiff shall provide initial responses to the FROGs, SROGs, and RPDs within 45
days of the issuance of this Order.
 
The Requests for Monetary Sanctions are DENIED. 
 
II.      
RFAs Motion
 
A. 
    Legal
Standard
 
California Code of Civil Procedure requires a
response from the party to whom the request for admissions is directed within
30 days after service of the request for admissions. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2033.250, subd. (a).)
 
If the party fails to serve a timely response,
“the party to whom the requests for admission are directed waives any objection
to the requests.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (a).)
 
The requesting party may then “move for an
order that the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters
specified in the requests be deemed admitted, as well as for monetary sanction
under Chapter 7.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (b).)
 
A court will deem requests admitted, “unless
it finds that the party to whom the requests for admission have been directed
has served, before the hearing on the motion, a proposed response to the
requests for admission that is in substantial compliance with Section 2033.220.
It is
mandatory that the court impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing
with Section 2023.010) on the party or attorney, or both, whose failure to
serve a timely response to requests for admission necessitated this motion.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c).)
 
B.      Discussion
 
Defendant moves the Court to deem admitted the truth of the
matters specified in the requests for admission (“RFAs”) that Defendant
propounded on June 20, 2023. (RFAs Motion, p. 4:13–14 and Exh. 1, p. 5.)
 
There is no evidence before the Court that would indicate Plaintiff
responded to the RFAs. 
 
The Court GRANTS the RFAs Motion. The RFAs are DEEMED ADMITTED. 
 
C. 
    Sanctions
 
Defendant requests monetary sanctions for the RFAs Motion.
However, considering that Plaintiff appears to have been litigating this case in
propria persona since May 22, 2023, monetary sanctions would be unjust. Further,
assuming that the Court does not vacate this order based on a future motion by
Plaintiff, the admission of these Requests
for Admission basically terminates the case. 
The Court does not believe that any further sanctions are necessary.  
 
The Court DENIES the Requests for Monetary Sanctions. 
 
D. 
    Conclusion
 
The RFAs Motion is GRANTED. The RFAs are DEEMED ADMITTED. 
 
        The Request for Monetary Sanctions is
DENIED. 
 