  Case Number:  22SMCV01913    Hearing Date:   October 16, 2024    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling
Garza v. City of Beverly Hills,
Case no. 22SMCV01913
Hearing date October 16, 2024
Defendants
Café Istanbul and SKB Tura, Inc.’s Motion for Summary Judgment 
Defendant
Beverly Place Partners, LLC’s Motion for Summary Judgment
Defendant
City of Beverly Hills’ Motion for Summary Judgment
Plaintiff
Garza sues defendants City of Beverly Hills, County of Los Angeles, California
Department of Public Transportation, property owner Beverly Place Partners, LLC
and lessee SKB Tura dba Café Istanbul for negligence and premises liability for
injuries sustained when he tripped and fell on a sidewalk crack/uplift/tree
well on South Beverly Boulevard.
Plaintiff
served defendants City of Beverly Hills, County of Los Angeles, and California
Department of Public Transportation with claims pursuant to Gov. Code §911.2 on
4/19/2022. Compl. p. 8. Defendants rejected those claims on 8/24/2022, 5/10/2022
and 7/21/2022. Compl. p. 8. Plaintiff filed this action on 10/17/2022. 
Defendants
City of Beverly Hills, California Department of Public Transportation, Beverly
Place Partners, LLC and SKB Tura dba Café Istanbul separately move for summary
judgement under Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §473. Plaintiff opposes defendants’ MSJs
and offers the declaration of Alex Zaretskiy, BSME, P.E., CXLT, ACTAR.
Defendants’ Evidentiary Objections
to the Zaretskiy Declaration
City:
Objections 1-3 OVERRULED, objection 4 SUSTAINED (lack of foundation), objection
5 OVERRULED.
SKB
Tura: Objections 1-2 OVERRULED, objection 3 SUSTAINED (lack of foundation),
objections 4-7 OVERRULED.
General Law on Summary Judgment
A
court determining a summary judgment motion applies a three-step process: (1)
identifying the issues framed by the complaint, (2) determining whether moving
party made an adequate showing that negates the opponent’s claim, and (3)
determining whether opposing party raised a triable issue of fact. Bostrom
v. County of San Bernardino (1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 1654, 1662. "In
order to state a cause of action for negligence, the complaint must allege
facts sufficient to show a legal duty on the part of the defendant to use due
care, a breach of such legal duty, and the breach as the proximate or legal
cause of the resulting injury." Bellah v. Greenson (1978) 81
Cal.App.3d 614, 619. “The elements of a negligence claim and a premises
liability claim are the same.” Ladd v. County of San Mateo (1996) 12
Cal.4th 913, 917.
Defendant SKB Tura dba Café
Istanbul’s Motion for Summary Judgment
Defendant
SKB Tura argues plaintiff relies on theories not alleged in the complaint. The
operative complaint determines the scope of issues a defendant must address to
prevail on a motion for summary judgment. Laabs v. City of Victorville
(2008) 163 Cal.App.4th 1242, 1253. 
Plaintiff
alleges “the uneven and/or raised and/or broken and/or deteriorating area of
the sidewalk and/or walkway” was the cause of his harm. UMF 2. Defendant argues
plaintiff’s complaint failed to allege SKB Tura’s café tables partially obscured
the sidewalk. Plaintiff argues the allegations are broad and expanded upon
during discovery. Plaintiff argues the café tables’ placement created a lack of
passable sidewalk space that caused plaintiff to walk over the tree well area
and adjacent sidewalk. SSAMF 6. This is within the scope of the complaint.
SKB
Tura argues it does not control the sidewalk. UMF 11-14. Plaintiff argues Beverly
Hills Municipal Code 5-7-3 imposes on SKB Tura a duty to keep and maintain the
right of way abutting the premises in a safe, clean, orderly, sanitary and
aesthetic condition. Plaintiff argues BHMC 10-3-3502 requires a 6-foot minimum
pedestrian travel aisle be maintained to assure the required pedestrian travel
aisle. PMF No. 12.
SKB
Tura’s open air dining permit, no. 468-17, permitted the unobstructed path to
be decreased to 5 feet 9 inches and identified a 5-foot minimum clear zone
between the edge of the tree well and the outdoor dining area. PMF No. 13-14. This
is sufficient to establish a triable issue of material fact as to whether SKB
Tura controlled the walkway and tree well.
SKB
Tura argues plaintiff cannot establish causation, as the café tables did not
injure plaintiff, as he moved to the left, continued walking and tripped on the
walkway/tree grate, not the tables. UMF 2, 4-6, 10. SKB Tura argues its tables
were placed with City permission, and it was unaware of other incidents of
trips/falls. UMF 6-9. 
Plaintiff
argues SKB Tura should have been aware that its placement of the tables caused
pedestrians to be forced to walk near/into the tree well area and SKB had
control of that portion of the sidewalk. PMF 19. Plaintiff’s expert professional
engineer Zaretskiy opines SKB Tura caused a narrowing of the public walkway
which in turn caused plaintiff to walk on, and trip over, an uneven tree well.
Decl. Zaretskiy paras. 13-14. Zaretskiy notes tree well covers exist so
pedestrians may use them as an extension of a public walkway. Decl. Zaretskiy
para. 11.
SKB
Tura argues Zaretskiy’s opinion is based on the scene of the injury in 2024,
two years after plaintiff’s injury. Plaintiff notes Zaretskiy’s opinion cross-referenced
photographs produced during discovery and Google Earth images. Decl. Zaretskiy
para. 8. Nevertheless, this issue goes to weight of the opinion, not its
admissibility. 
SKB
Tura argues it owed plaintiff no duty and BHMC 5-7-5 only applies to curbs,
sidewalks, and driveways. For purposes of summary judgment, the court disagrees
with SKB Tura’s assertion. Plaintiff raises a triable issue of material fact as
to duty, breach and causation. DENIED.
Defendant Beverly Place Partners,
LLC’s Motion for Summary Judgment
Defendant
Beverly Place Partners, which leases the property to SKB Tura, argues plaintiff
fails to establish that it owes plaintiff a duty of care. Beverly Place asserts
it does not own, maintain, or control the walkway and/or tree well. UMF 8-11.
Beverly Place argues it had nothing to do with placement of tables and chairs on
the sidewalk, and SKB Tura – not Beverly Place -- has the outdoor dining permit
and places the tables and chairs. UMF 2-7. 
Plaintiff
argues BHMC 5-7-3 requires landowner Beverly Place to maintain the public
walkway, just as SKB Tura is required to do. Zaretskiy opines that, as property
owner, Beverly Place has a duty under BHMC to maintaining the walkway. Decl.
Zaretskiy para. 12. 
Beverly
Place cites Seabor v. Hotel Del Coronado (1991) 1 Cal.App.4th 184, 487
to argue it does not control the public walkway nor owe a duty to pedestrians
using the walkway. Seabor concerns a crosswalk in a street, not a
sidewalk. Further, plaintiff provided evidence that BHMC imposes a duty on
landowners, such as Beverly Place. 
Beverly
Place argues Cal. Streets and Highway Code sec. 5610, cited by plaintiff, does
not create a duty of care. Section 5610 does not “expressly or unambiguously
create a standard of care for liability in civil damages to pedestrians injured
by a condition of the sidewalk not caused by the defendant.” Selger v.
Steven Bros. (1990) 222 Cal.App.3d 1585, 1591. Zaretskiy opines Beverly
Place, as property owner, should have been aware of the allegedly dangerous
conditions caused by the narrowing of the sidewalk. Decl. Zaretskiy para. 14. 
An
issue of material fact exists, precluding a granting of summary judgment.
DENIED.
Defendant City of Beverly Hills’
Motion for Summary Judgment
Defendant
City of Beverly Hills argues plaintiff’s complaint varies factually from the
allegations of his governmental tort claim, so is barred by Hernandez v.
City of Stockton (2023) 90 Cal.App.5th 1222. The City further argues
plaintiff does not have, and cannot obtain, evidence that the tree well
constitutes a dangerous condition or that defendant City had constructive or
actual knowledge of the condition. 
“As
a general rule, no suit for money or damages may be brought against a public
entity until a written claim, known as a government claim, is presented to and
rejected by that entity.” Hernandez, supra, at 1230-31. The City argues
plaintiff’s 4/19/2022 tort claim alleged plaintiff tripped on an uneven
sidewalk (UMF 1), yet the complaint alleges plaintiff tripped on a fracture in
the tree well. UMF 3. Defendant argues Hernandez bars suit against the
City.
Plaintiff
Hernandez presented a tort claim alleging he tripped on an uplifted sidewalk,
then filed suit alleging he tripped on a hole created by an empty tree well. 90
Cal.App.5th at 1232. Hernandez presents a discrepancy in the alleged cause
of injury – an uplifted sidewalk versus a hole where a tree used to be. Here,
the tort claim alleged an uneven sidewalk; the complaint alleged an uneven
sidewalk adjacent to a tree well and/or tree well cover (see also photograph
City, exh. C-1). Per the deposition testimony, plaintiff stated he tripped
twice. Plaintiff depo, City exh. C, pp. 27-28. Hernandez is distinguishable.
Zaretskiy
notes the tree well is used by pedestrians as a natural extension of a public
walkway. Decl. Zaretskiy para. 11. The existence of a seemingly secure cover is
likely to induce pedestrians, such as plaintiff, to walk over the cover. The
court does not find that tripping on a sidewalk or tripping on a tree well
cover set in the sidewalk to be fundamentally different causes of injury. 
Defendant
City argues to impose liability on the City, plaintiff must prove “the property
was a dangerous condition at the time of the injury” and “the public entity had
actual or constructive notice of the dangerous condition.” Gov. Code § 835.
Defendant City asserts the defect was trivial as a matter of law. Defendant
City notes, under Stack v. City of Lemoore (2023) 91 Cal.App.5th 102,
111, the most important factor in determining whether a defect is trivial is
the size of the defect. Defendant City argues the court should exercise
discretion to find the size of the defect was minimal, unobstructed and
obvious. Carla Smith, an adjustor with George Hills Co., the City’s independent
claims adjustor, states no other claims in their database reference the alleged
defect at issue since 2019. Decl. Smith para. 4; UMF 4. 
The
court declines to decide as a matter of law that the alleged defect was
trivial; that is a question of fact for the jury. Simply because there have been
no other reported claims is not dispositive.
Defendant
City argues it had neither actual nor constructive notice of the alleged defect.
UMF 5. Defendant City notes the sidewalk and tree well cover were inspected in
2018, and no dangerous conditions were reported. UMF 8. Defendant argues, under
Heskel v. City of San Diego (2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 313, 320, that to
show constructive notice, a “plaintiff must establish that the dangerous
condition has existed for a sufficient period of time and that the dangerous
condition was obvious.” Defendant City contends its sidewalk inspection policy
does not apply to tree well covers, as they are not part of the public walkway.
As previously noted, the court finds this contention unavailing, and plaintiff
offered contradictory evidence. See Decl. Zaretskiy para. 14.
Whether
the alleged dangerous condition was obvious or existed for a sufficient period
of time for the City to have been on notice of it is a factual question. Plaintiff
asserts the tree well cover “appeared in a state of damage and disrepair as
evidenced by multiple damaged, broken, and uplifted sections as high as
2-inches.” PMF 7. Plaintiff further asserts the “weathered condition of the
smooth-edged cracks and breaks of the tree well cover indicate that the
condition did not happen due to a recent, singular, or specific event and was
thus a long-term and ongoing condition.” PMF 9.
Photos
included in defendant City’s MSJ support plaintiff’s arguments, and plaintiff submits
personal and expert evidence. This is sufficient to create a triable issue of
fact about whether the alleged dangerous condition was obvious and had existed
for a sufficient period of time that the City should have been on notice.
DENIED.