 Case Number:  24SMCV01892    Hearing Date:   August 13, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Mahgerefteh v.
Nehorayan, et al.
CASE NO.:                24SMCV01892
MOTION:                  Motion
for Summary Judgment
HEARING DATE:   8/13/2024

 
Legal
Standard
 
A party may move for summary judgment in any action or
proceeding if it is contended the action has no merit or that there is no
defense to the action or proceeding. (CCP, § 437c(a).) “The purpose of the law
of summary judgment is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the
parties' pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations,
trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  
 
“A party may move for summary adjudication as to one or
more causes of action within an action, one or more affirmative defenses, one
or more claims for damages, or one or more issues of duty, if the party
contends that the cause of action has no merit, that there is no affirmative
defense to the cause of action, that there is no merit to an affirmative
defense as to any cause of action, that there is no merit to a claim for
damages, as specified in¿Section 3294 of the Civil Code, or that one or more defendants
either owed or did not owe a duty to the plaintiff or plaintiffs.”¿(CCP,¿§
437c(f)(1).)¿If a party seeks summary adjudication as an alternative to a
request for summary judgment, the request must be clearly made in the notice of
the motion. (Gonzales v. Superior Court¿(1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 1542,
1544.)¿ “[A] party may move for summary adjudication of a legal issue or a
claim for damages other than punitive damages that does not completely
dispose of a cause of action, affirmative defense, or issue of duty
pursuant to” subdivision (t). (CCP,¿§ 437c(t).)¿ 
 
To prevail, the evidence submitted must show there is no
triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law.¿(CCP, §¿437c(c).)¿The motion cannot succeed unless
the evidence leaves no room for conflicting inferences as to material facts;
the court has no power to weigh one inference against another or against other
evidence. (Murillo v. Rite Stuff Food Inc. (1998) 65 Cal.App.4th
833, 841.) In determining whether the facts give rise to a triable issue of
material fact, “[a]ll doubts as to whether any material, triable, issues of
fact exist are to be resolved in favor of the party opposing summary judgment…”
(Gold v. Weissman (2004) 114 Cal.App.4th 1195, 1198-99.) “In other
words, the facts alleged in the evidence of the party opposing summary judgment
and the reasonable inferences there from must be accepted as true.” (Jackson
v. County of Los Angeles (1997) 60 Cal.App.4th 171, 179.) However, if
adjudication is otherwise proper the motion “may not be denied on grounds of
credibility,” except when¿a material fact is the witness’s¿state of mind and
“that fact is sought to be established solely by the [witness’s] affirmation
thereof.” (CCP, § 437c(e).)¿ 
 
Once the moving party has met their burden, the burden
shifts to the opposing party “to show that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto.” (CCP §
437c(p)(1).) “[T]here¿is no
obligation on the opposing party... to establish anything by affidavit unless
and until the moving party has by affidavit stated facts establishing every
element... necessary to sustain a judgment in his favor.”¿(Consumer Cause,
Inc. v.¿SmileCare¿(2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 454, 468.)¿ 
¿ 
“The pleadings play a key role in a summary judgment
motion. The function of the pleadings in a motion for summary judgment is to
delimit the scope of the issues and to¿frame¿the outer measure of materiality
in a summary judgment proceeding.” (Hutton v. Fidelity National Title Co.¿(2013)
213 Cal.App.4th 486, 493, quotations and citations omitted.) “Accordingly, the
burden of a defendant moving for summary judgment only requires that he or she
negate plaintiff's theories of liability¿as alleged in the complaint;
that is, a moving party need not refute liability on some theoretical
possibility not included in the pleadings.” (Ibid.)¿ 
 
In an unlawful detainer action,
notice of a motion for summary judgment must be given in compliance with Code
of Civil Procedure sections 1013 and 1170.7. 
(CRC 3.1351(a).)  CCP §¿1170.7
provides that a motion for summary judgment may be made at any time after the
answer is filed upon giving five days’ notice. Summary judgment shall be
granted or denied on the same basis as a motion under Section 437c. (CCP,
§¿1170.7.) Any opposition to the motion and any reply to an opposition may be
made orally at the time of hearing. (CRC 3.1351(b).) If a party seeks to have a
written opposition considered in advance of the hearing, the written opposition
must be filed and served on or before the court day before the hearing. (CRC
3.1351(c).)  Service must be by personal
delivery, facsimile transmission, express mail, or other means consistent with
CCP §§¿1010-1013, and reasonably calculated to ensure delivery to the other
party or parties no later than the close of business on the court day before
the hearing. (Id.) The court, in its discretion, may consider written
opposition filed later. (Id.)
 
Analysis
 
Plaintiff Daniel Mahgerefteh moves for
summary judgment against Defendants Alex and Marjan Nehorayan on his unlawful
detainer complaint.

 
The basic elements of unlawful
detainer are “(1) the tenant is in possession of the premises; (2) that
possession is without permission; (3) the tenant is in default[]; (4) the
tenant has been properly served with a written three-day notice; and (5) the
default continues after the three-day notice period has elapsed.” (Kruger v.
Reyes (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th Supp. 10, 16.) A three-day written notice to
“perform or quit” is proper to evict tenants who have violated any other
material covenant of their rental agreement. (CCP § 1161(3); see Civ. Code § 1946.2(c).)
The sole issue before the court in an unlawful detainer action is the right to
possession. (Briggs v. Electronic Memories & Magnetics Corp. (1975)
53 Cal.App.3d 900, 906.) Proving proper service on lessees of a valid three-day
notice to pay or quit is essential to declaring lessor’s judgment for
possession under Code of Civil Procedure section 1161. (Palm Property
Investments, LLC v. Yadegar (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 1419, 1425.) 
 
Plaintiff owns the residential real
property located at 719 North Bedford Drive; Beverly Hills, CA 90210. (UMF 1.)
Defendants occupy the Premises pursuant to a written rental agreement (the
“Lease”) and are the only named tenants on the Lease. (UMF 2; Mahgerefteh
Decl., Ex. 1.) The Lease provides the following relevant provisions:
 
1. PROPERTY: 
The Premises are for the sole use
as a personal residence by the following named person(s) only: Alex Nehorayan
and Marjan Nehorayan. Any person in the Premises, other than those listed in
this paragraph are considered guests. Guests are not permitted to stay more
than 14 days written consent.
 
[…]
 
17. ALTERATIONS; REPAIRS:
Unless otherwise specified by law
or paragraph 25C, without Housing Provider's prior written consent, (i) Tenant
shall not make any repairs, alterations or improvements in or about the
Premises including: painting, wallpapering, adding or changing locks,
installing antenna or satellite dish(es), placing signs, displays or exhibits,
or using screws, fastening devices, large nails or adhesive materials.


[…]
 
27. TEMPORARY RELOCATION:
Subject to local law, Tenant
agrees, upon demand of Housing Provider, to temporarily vacate Premises for a
reasonable period, to allow for fumigation (or other methods) to control wood
destroying pests or organisms, or other repairs to Premises. Tenant agrees to
comply with all instructions and requirements necessary to prepare Premises to
accommodate pest control, fumigation or other work, including bagging or
storage of food and medicine, and removal of perishables and valuables. Tenant
shall only be entitled to a credit of Rent equal to the per diem Rent for the
period of time Tenant is required to vacate Premises.
 
(UMF 3; Mahgerefteh Decl., Ex. 1.)
 
Plaintiff presents evidence that
Defendants committed three material breaches of the Lease as to the above
provisions, which provided the basis for their notice to quit. First, there are
additional occupants residing at the Premises that are not listed as tenants in
the Lease. (UMF 4.) Second, an unpermitted closet was built upstairs. (UMF 5.) Third,
Defendants failed to comply with Plaintiff’s request to temporarily vacate the
Premises for “repairs” as required by the Lease. On March 13, 2024, Plaintiff sent
Defendants a letter demanding Defendants temporarily vacate the Premises for unspecified
repairs in accordance with paragraph 27 of the Lease and provided alternative housing
options. (UMF 6.) The purpose of the “repairs” is not clear from the UMFs or
from the attached demand letter. (Mahgerefteh Decl., Exs. 2-3.) The only
potential repair mentioned is Plaintiff’s demand that the closet be removed and
brought back to its original condition. (Id.) Defendants failed to vacate or provide
their preferred alternative housing. (UMF 6.)
 
On April 8, 2024, Plaintiff served
Defendants with a Notice to Cure or Quit (First Notice) at the Premises. (UMF
7.) Defendants failed to comply with the first notice. (UMF 8.) On April 12,
2024, Plaintiff served Defendants with a second Notice to Quit at the Premises.
(UMF 9.) Defendants failed to comply with the second Notice. (UMF 10.)
Additional Occupants
 
Strictly construed, Plaintiff does
not demonstrate a breach of paragraph 1 of the Lease. This paragraph states
that “The Premises are for the sole use as a personal residence by the
following named person(s) only: Alex Nehorayan and Marjan Nehorayan. Any person
in the Premises, other than those listed in this paragraph are considered
guests. Guests are not permitted to stay more than 14 days without Housing
Provider’s written consent.” (Ex. 1, ¶ 1, emphasis added.) Plaintiff
presents no evidence that the unauthorized co-occupants have stayed more than
14 days. With all reasonable inferences made in favor of the non-moving party,
the Court must conclude that they are not “unauthorized co-occupants” but permitted
guests as defined under the Lease.
 
Furthermore, as to the
co-occupants, Defendants submit evidence that the allegedly unauthorized
co-occupants, Jonah Neborayan and Kayla Nehorayan, are their adult children who
reside at the 5-bedroom premises “with full knowledge” of Plaintiff. (A.
Nehorayan Decl., ¶¶ 4-6.) Defendants attach letters and texts messages from
Plaintiff, acknowledging the existence of other occupants including their
children during May 2023. (A. Nehorayan Decl., Ex. 1.) This creates a dispute
of material fact as to Defendants’ permission to have their adult children
living with them.
 
Unpermitted Closet
 
Plaintiff shows a breach of paragraph
17. Plaintiff presents evidence that Defendants added a closet to the premises,
which could be considered as “repairs, alterations or improvements” to the
premises. Plaintiff also argues that section 9-1-107 of the City of Beverly
Hills municipal code would require a permit. Plaintiff does not furnish this
section or provide sufficient argument legal argument on this point. Instead,
Plaintiff proffers the declaration of counsel, who states that he talked to
someone at the City of Beverly Hills, and they confirmed that a closet is a
“structure” and would require a permit. Further, this additional basis for
default is unstated in the Notices to Quit. Thus, the Court would limit the
basis of the default to the breach of paragraph 17. 
 
With the above evidence, Plaintiff demonstrates
that Defendants remain in default due to the unpermitted alteration of the
Premises, to wit, the closet. Therefore, Plaintiff meets his burden to show a
prima facie case of unlawful detainer on this basis.


Defendants demonstrate a dispute of
fact as to their breach and default regarding the closet. Defendants argue that
Plaintiff waived the specific breaches in question. “Waiver is the intentional
relinquishment of a known right after knowledge of the facts.” (Roesch v. De
Mota (1944) 24 Cal.2d 563, 572.) A waiver of a contract provision may be
express, based on the waiving party’s words, or implied, based on
conduct. (Lynch v. California Coastal Commission (2017) 3 Cal.5th
470, 475-476.) For example, waiver may apply where a party acts in manner
inconsistent with intent to enforce a right. (Colony Ins. Co. v. Crusader
Ins. Co. (2010) 188 Cal. App.4th 743, 753.) 
 
In the unlawful detainer context,
it has long been held that a landlord's acceptance of rent with knowledge of
breach of condition precludes forfeiture of the lease. (Kern Sunset Oil Co.
v. Good Roads Oil Co., (1931) 214 Cal. 435, 440; see Salton Community
Services Dist. v. Southard (1967) 256 Cal.App.2d 526 [waiver supported where
sublessor accepted rent despite knowing for years about continued camping on
premises].) “The mere breach of a covenant in a lease does not effect its
termination. [Citation.] On the happening of such a breach the lessor may elect
to disregard it and continue the lease in effect, or rely upon it and declare a
forfeiture. [Citation.] Conduct of the lessor, with knowledge of a breach,
consistent with the continued existence of the lease and inconsistent with its
termination by forfeiture supports an inference the lessor has waived the
breach. [Citations.] Acceptance of benefits under the lease is such conduct. [Citation.]”
(Id. at 533.) It has also been repeatedly held that waiver of a
particular breach of a continuing covenant does not waive subsequent similar
breaches. (Budaef v. Huber (1961) 194 Cal. App. 2d 12, 20; citing Extension
Oil Co. v. Richfield Oil Corp., (1944) 52 Cal.App.2d 105, 108-109 [explaining
the nature of continuing covenants].)
 
Defendants submit evidence that
they constructed/repaired the complained-of closet with Plaintiff’s permission.
Mr. Nehorayan states that they had “full permission to reinstate the closet to
it’s previous use.” (A. Nehorayan Decl., ¶ 7.) Mr. Nehorayan also cites a
statement made by Itzhak Bokobza, who explains that in May 2023, he and Mahgerefteh inspected the Premises,
and Mahgerefteh made several positive comments about the closet. (Id., Ex. 2.) This
contradicts Mahgerefteh’s statement that he “discovered” the closet in November
2023. Accordingly, there is a dispute of fact as to whether Plaintiff waived
Defendants’ breach of paragraph 17 by constructing a closet without written permission.
 
Temporary Relocation


There would also be a dispute of
fact as to the default on the temporary relocation request and paragraph 27. The
Lease only requires that tenants agree upon demand to temporarily vacate the
Premises “for a reasonable period” to allow for “other repairs to Premises” and
that they would follow “all instructions and requirements necessary” for such
work. Plaintiff does not show the need for the repairs or that the proposed
length of time (31 days) was reasonable. Therefore, Plaintiff has not
demonstrated that Defendants were obliged to relocate for a “reasonable” period
of time for “necessary” work/repairs. 
 
Also, Plaintiff is not clear on
what repairs or work was needed which required 31 days of temporary relocation.
If Plaintiff desired to repair the closet back to its former state, then
Defendants’ default would depend on whether Plaintiff permitted the closet. In
other words, if Plaintiff waived his objection to the closet, then he would
have necessarily waived his right to force Defendants to vacate the property
for Plaintiff to remove the closet. Therefore, because there is a dispute of
fact as to Plaintiff’s authorization of the closet, there is also a dispute of
fact as to the temporary relocation request. 
 
Plaintiff argues that he could not
have waived these provisions because there is an anti-waiver provision in the
Lease, stating at paragraph 31: “The waiver of any breach shall not be construed
as a continuing waiver of the same or any subsequent breach.” However, Plaintiff
presents no authority that a party cannot waive a particular breach in light of
such a provision. Instead, Plaintiff’s cited authority suggests that this
provision would only operate to limit their waiver from applying to subsequent
similar breaches. (Budaef, supra, 194 Cal. App. 2d at 20.)
 
Accordingly, the motion is DENIED.