 Case Number:  24SMCV00706    Hearing Date:   August 13, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Blanco, et
al., v. HM DG Inc., et al.
CASE NO.:                24SMCV00706
MOTION:                  Motion
to Compel Initial and Further Discovery Responses
HEARING DATE:   8/13/2024

 
Legal
Standard
 
 If a
party to whom interrogatories are directed fails to serve a timely response,
the propounding party may move for an order compelling responses and for a
monetary sanction. (CCP § 2030.290(b).) The statute contains no time limit for
a motion to compel where no responses have been served. All that need be shown
in the moving papers is that a set of interrogatories was properly served on
the opposing party, that the time to respond has expired, and that no response
of any kind has been served. (Leach v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.
App. 3d 902, 905-906.) 
 
Where there has been no timely
response to a CCP section 2031.010 inspection demand, the demanding party must
seek an order compelling a response. (CCP § 2031.300.) Failure to timely
respond waives all objections, including privilege and work product. Thus,
unless the party to whom the demand was directed obtains relief from waiver, he
or she cannot raise objections to the documents demanded. There is no deadline
for a motion to compel responses. Likewise, for failure to respond, the moving
party need not attempt to resolve the matter outside court before filing the
motion. Where the motion seeks only a response to the inspection demand, no
showing of "good cause" is required. 
 
 
ANALYSIS 
 
Plaintiffs Fabrizio and Natalia Blanco move to compel
Defendant HM DG Inc. to provide initial discovery responses within 10 days,
without objections, to the following discovery: 1) Requests for Production of
Documents (RPD), Set One; 2) Special Interrogatories (SROG), Set One; and 3) Form
Interrogatories (FROG), Set One. On July 15, 2024, Plaintiffs also filed a
motion to compel further responses to RPDs, set one and SROGs, set one.
Plaintiff requests sanctions of $1,300.00 per motion.
 
Compel Initial Responses to RPDs; Further Responses to RPDs
and SROGs
 
Plaintiffs show that there were objection-only responses to
the subject RPDs. Thus, the proper motion to bring is a motion to compel
further. (CCP § 2031.300.) 
 
As to the motions to compel further, such motions must
always be accompanied by a separate statement containing the requests and the
responses, verbatim, as well as reasons why a further response is warranted.
(CRC, Rule 3.1345.) Plaintiffs have not provided any separate statement in
support of their motions to compel further. 
 
Accordingly, the motions to compel initial and further
responses to the first set of RPDs and the motion to compel further responses
to the SROGs are DENIED. 
Compel Initial Responses to SROGs/FROGs
 
On
April 29, 2024, Plaintiffs served FROGs, Set One, on HMDG. The original
response deadline was May 31, 2024. (Kakoian Decl., ¶¶ 2-3.) HMDG failed to
serve timely responses. (Id., ¶ 4.) On June 5, 2024, Plaintiffs' counsel sent a
meet and confer email to HMDG's counsel, requesting HMDG's failure to respond
and requesting verified responses within 10 days. (¶ 5.) Over the next month,
HMDG repeatedly requested extensions while failing to provide proper responses
but has not served verified responses to the interrogatories. (¶¶ 6-8.)
 
Defendant
has not filed an opposition to the motions to compel initial responses to the
interrogatories. Accordingly, the motions to compel are
GRANTED. Sanctions are mandatory. The Court must sanction any party that unsuccessfully
makes or opposes a motion to compel a further response, “unless it finds that
the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that
other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (CCP, § 2030.290(c).) As Defendant has failed to oppose, it
has failed to justify its non-response. Sanctions are imposed in the reduced,
total amount of $1,500.00, inclusive of costs against Defendant and counsel of
record. 
 
Responses are ordered within 10 days.  Sanctions are payable to Plaintiff’s counsel within
30 days.
 
 