  Case Number:  24SMCV00099    Hearing Date:   August 13, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:             Fanfixapp LLC v. Passes Inc.,
et al. CASE NO.:                   24SMCV00099MOTION:                     Demurrer and Motion to Strike HEARING DATE:   8/13/2024 LEGAL STANDARD  A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether
the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147
Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations
liberally and in context. In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be
apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) A demurrer tests the
pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it
lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are
judicially noticed. (CCP §§ 430.30, 430.70.) At the pleading stage, a plaintiff
need only allege ultimate facts sufficient to apprise the defendant of the
factual basis for the claim against him. (Semole v. Sansoucie (1972) 28
Cal. App. 3d 714, 721.) A “demurrer does not, however, admit contentions,
deductions or conclusions of fact or law alleged in the pleading, or the
construction of instruments pleaded, or facts impossible in law.” (S. Shore
Land Co. v. Petersen (1964) 226 Cal.App.2d 725, 732, internal citations
omitted.)  A special demurrer for uncertainty is
disfavored and will only be sustained where the pleading is so bad that
defendant cannot reasonably respond—i.e., cannot reasonably determine what
issues must be admitted or denied, or what counts or claims are directed
against him/her. (CCP § 430.10(f); Khoury v. Maly’s of Calif., Inc.
(1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) Moreover, even if the pleading is somewhat
vague, “ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Ibid.)   Any party, within the time allowed to
respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole
or any part thereof. (CCP § 435(b)(1); Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1322(b).)
The court may, upon a motion or at any time in its discretion and upon terms it
deems proper: (1) strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted
in any pleading; or (2) strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or
filed in conformity with the laws of California, a court rule, or an order of
the court. (CCP §§ 436(a)-(b); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767,
782 [“Matter in a pleading which is not essential to the claim is surplusage;
probative facts are surplusage and may be stricken out or disregarded”].)  “Liberality in permitting amendment is
the rule, if a fair opportunity to correct any defect has not been given.” (Angie
M. v. Superior Court (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1217, 1227.) It is an abuse of
discretion for the court to deny leave to amend where there is any reasonable
possibility that plaintiff can state a good cause of action. (Goodman v.
Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349.) The burden is on plaintiff to show¿in
what manner¿plaintiff can amend the complaint, and¿how¿that
amendment will change the legal effect of the pleading.¿(Id.)   ANALYSIS  Defendant
Passes’ Demurrer and Motion to Strike Defendant
Passes Inc. demurs to the fourth cause of action for Unfair Practices (Bus.
& Prof. Code § 17044), fifth cause of action for Unfair Business Practices
(Bus. & Prof. Code § 17200 et seq.) and seventh cause of action for a
violation of Penal Code section 502. Defendant also moves to strike the request
for restitution. Fourth
Cause of Action  Passes
argues that the allegations fail to state a claim under the Unfair Business Act,
and that intent cannot be proven because of the uncertain variables involved in
determining costs. Business
and Professions Code § 17044 prohibits a business from selling or using any
article or product as a “loss leader.” “Loss leader” means any article or
product sold at less than cost where: (a) the purpose is to induce, promote or
encourage the purchase of other merchandise; or (b) the effect is a tendency or
capacity to mislead or deceive purchasers or prospective purchasers; or (c) the
effect is to divert trade from or otherwise injure competitors. (Bus. &
Prof. Code § 17030.) Courts have unanimously interpreted the statute as
containing a mental state requirement, i.e., the purpose to injure competitors
or to destroy competition. (Cel-Tech Commc'ns, Inc. v. Los Angeles Cellular
Tel. Co., (1999) 20 Cal. 4th 163, 175.) A plaintiff may prove purpose to
injure competitors or destroy competition by presenting proof of selling or
giving away any article or product below cost which causes an injurious effect.
(Bus. & Prof. Code § 17071.) The
complaint alleges, as a matter of ultimate fact, that Passes offers certain
services, below cost, and with the purpose of injuring its competitor, Fanfix. Passes
offers certain creator content as a loss leader by offering content to
consumers at less than its cost. (Compl., ¶ 134.) The complaint discusses that Passes
promises minimum guarantees for approximately three months where the creator is
paid 150% to 200% of the creator’s earnings. (Id.) Passes thus offers content
by that creator at a loss for at least some portion of the minimum guarantee
period. (¶ 135.) “Passes offers this minimum guarantee with full knowledge that
these transactions will not be profitable for Passes during at least the period
of the minimum guarantee… with the specific purpose of inducing, promoting, or
encouraging the purchase of future subscriptions and to divert trade from or
otherwise injure Fanfix.” (¶ 136.) Passes offers the minimum guarantee for the
purpose of inducing continued subscriptions to the poached creator and to
induce consumers to purchase other creator content hosted on Passes. (¶ 137.) Because
of this minimum guarantee, Passes is diverting trade and injuring Fanfix. (¶
138.) The complaint alleges how Passes loses money on subscriptions during the
minimum guarantee period. (¶¶ 139-144.) The complaint alleges, for instance, that
Passes does not generate a net operating profit (¶¶ 151-152) and that a
sizeable percentage of Passes’ subscriptions have a fully allocated cost that
exceeds the revenue on a per-subscription unit basis (¶ 155). As such, the
Complaint alleges that Passes offers its services below cost and with the
requisite intent to support liability. Defendant
argues that the relevant product is the “exclusive content to consumers,” which
is the online content that an entertainer-creator provides through an online platform
like Fanfix or Passes to paying subscribers. (Compl. ¶¶ 21-22, 133.) Defendant
observes that the intent requirement is complicated by the unpredictable and
potentially limitless nature of the proceeds from subscriptions. Defendant reasons
that since the amount of subscriptions an audience could pay is potentially
unlimited, and that each creator sets the price that subscribers pay for the
creator’s content, Passes cannot “purposefully” set a price below cost to
injure competitors. Defendant’s arguments are quintessential contentions of
fact which cannot be resolved on demurrer. Essentially, Defendant argues that
the “purpose” and “intent” allegations cannot be true because there is no way it
could reasonably predict its variable costs and profits. Of course, profits are
always uncertain and potentially unlimited. Costs necessarily include all variable
and fixed costs. (Turnbull & Turnbull v. ARA Transportation, Inc.
(1990) 219 Cal.App.3d 811, 819-820; see Bus. & Prof. Code §§ 17026, 17029.)
Defendant’s contentions merely contradict the above averments concerning its
intent, and do not show why the complaint fails to state a claim as a matter of
law. Defendant
also argues that, as a matter of law, section 17044 does not apply to
“entertainer payments.” Defendant too strictly construes the services at issue,
and the terms “articles or products.” The terms “article” and “product” are
broadly defined as to include “any article, product, commodity, thing of value,
service or output of a service trade.” (See Western Union Fin. Servs., Inc.
v. First Data Corp., (1993) 20 Cal. App. 4th 1530, 1536 [e.g. a money
order]; see also Garner v. Journeyman Barbers' etc. Union (1963) 223
Cal.App.2d 101, 107 [a haircut]; Independent Journal Newspapers v. United
Western Newspapers, Inc. (1971) 15 Cal.App.3d 583, 587 [classified
advertising space in a newspaper]; Paramount Gen. Hosp. Co. v. National
Medical Enterprises, Inc. (1974) 42 Cal.App.3d 496, 503-504 [and a
lease-service medical office building rental package].) The Complaint alleges
that Passes offers certain services as an online hosting platform for
fanfiction content, to both content creators and commercial users, below cost, and
with the purpose of injuring its competitor. Passes’ services to consumers are
well within the meaning of section 17044. Accordingly,
the demurrer is OVERRULED as to the fourth cause of action. Fifth
Cause of Action Defendant
argues that the complaint does not state any facts in support of the “unlawful”
or “unfair” prongs of section 17200 claim. Business and Professions Code
section 17200 prohibits “any unlawful, unfair or fraudulent business act or
practice.” (Bus. & Prof. Code § 17200.) “An unlawful business practice or
act is an act or practice, committed pursuant to business activity, that is at
the same time forbidden by law.” (Klein v. Earth Elements, Inc. (1997)
59 Cal.App.4th 965, 969.) A violation of other laws is deemed independently
actionable under the UCL. (Law Offices of Mathew Higbee v. Expungement
Assistance Services (2013) 214 Cal.App.4th 544, 554.) “‘Virtually any
law—federal, state or local—can serve as a predicate for a section 17200
action.’” (Id.) “A
business practice is unfair within the meaning of the UCL if it violates
established public policy or if it is immoral, unethical, oppressive or
unscrupulous and causes injury to consumers which outweighs its benefits.” (McKell
v. Washington Mutual, Inc. (2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 1457, 1473.) This
includes “conduct that threatens an incipient violation of an antitrust law, or
violates the policy or spirit of one of those laws because its effects are
comparable to or the same as a violation of the law, or otherwise significantly
threatens or harms competition.” (Cel-Tech, supra, 20 Cal.4th at 187.) As
discussed above, the Complaint alleges a loss leader a claim, which sounds in
anti-trust law. The complaint establishes that Defendant’s acts harmed competition.
This same claim also establishes a viable cause of action under the “unlawful”
prong. The Court must also note that the causes of action for trade secret
misappropriations are undisputed, which may also provide a basis for unlawful
or unfair business practices. Thus, whether or not the complaint states other
unfair or illegal business practices, including false advertising to consumers,
unlawful junk fees and auto-renewa, the section 17200 claim is well-stated and
would survive a challenge on demurrer. Accordingly,
the demurrer is OVERRULED. Seventh
Cause of Action Penal
Code section 502 provides that “the owner or lessee of the computer, computer
system, computer network, computer program, or data who suffers damage or loss
by reason of a violation of any provisions of subdivision (c) may bring a civil
action against the violator for compensatory damages and injunctive relief or
other equitable relief.” (Pen. Code, § 502(e)(1).) Generally, subsection (c) pertains
to conduct that is colloquially known as hacking, including persons that “[k]nowingly
accesses and without permission alters, damages, deletes, destroys, or
otherwise uses any data, computer, computer system, or computer network in
order to either (A) devise or execute any scheme or artifice to defraud,
deceive, or extort, or (B) wrongfully control or obtain money, property, or
data” or “[k]nowingly and without permission accesses or causes to be accessed
any computer, computer system, or computer network” among other acts. (See Chrisman
v. City of Los Angeles, (2007) 155 Cal. App. 4th 29 [section 502 did not apply
to police officer accused of misusing his computer to seek information that he
was entitled to access, but for which he had no legitimate, work-related
purpose].) The
Complaint alleges as a fact that Celestin was the agent of the other
defendants, including Passes. (Compl., ¶ 19.) The Complaint otherwise states a
section 502 claim against Passes on a respondeat superior theory of liability.  Here,
Plaintiff alleges that Celestin, acting on behalf of Passes, accessed Fanfix’s
computers, computer networks, and computer systems and deleted Fanfix
information to obscure his misconduct, and wiped his laptop prior to returning
it to Fanfix, thereby precluding Fanfix from accessing this information. (Compl.,
¶ 196.) Celestin took data from Fanfix’s computer systems “without
authorization.” (¶ 197.) Celestin used computer services without authorization
by using his Fanfix-issued credentials to obtain access to information for
purposes unrelated to his employment with Fanfix. (¶ 198.) Celestin engaged in
these actions while acting as an agent of Defendants, based on Celestin’s
pre-departure solicitations and unlawful activity to solicit Fanfix’s creators,
agents, and employees to move to Passes or join his management agency. (¶ 199.)
Celestin was not authorized, and did not have permission to take, copy, upload,
or otherwise make use of Fanfix’s electronic data, and was not authorized to
destroy the information on his Fanfix issued laptop. (¶ 200.) Thus, the
complaint alleges that Celestin knowingly and without permission accessed and deleted
certain data on Fanfix’s computers. Defendant
raises CUTSA displacement as a defense. Civil Code sections 3426 through
3426.11 “occupies” the field of common law trade secret misappropriation
claims. (See K.C. Multimedia, Inc. v. Bank of America Technology &
Operations, Inc. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 939, 954.) Civil Code section
3426.7 concerns displacement, and provides that it “does not affect (1)
contractual remedies, whether or not based upon misappropriation of a trade
secret, (2) other civil remedies that are not based upon misappropriation of a
trade secret, or (3) criminal remedies, whether or not based upon misappropriation
of a trade secret.” (Civ. Code, § 3426.7(b).) Otherwise, CUTSA displaces all
civil claims and remedies based on the same nucleus of facts as trade secret
misappropriation. (Silvaco Data Systems v. Intel Corp. (2010) 184
Cal.App.4th 210, 232; K.C., supra, 171 Cal.App.4th at 962.)  CUTSA
“does not displace noncontract claims that, although related to a trade secret
misappropriation, are independent and based on facts distinct from the facts
that support the misappropriation claim.” (Angelica Textile Services, Inc.
v. Park (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 495, 506.) In considering whether a
particular claim has been displaced, [the trial court] must recognize ‘a prime
purpose of the law was to sweep away the adopting states' bewildering web of
rules and rationales and replace it with a uniform set of principles for
determining when one is—and is not—liable for acquiring, disclosing, or using
‘information ... of value.’ [Citation.]” (Silvaco, supra, 184
Cal.App.4th at 239, fn. 22.) “In general, the acquisition, disclosure or
transfer of information that does not fit [C]UTSA's definition of a trade
secret does not give rise to any liability, even when that liability is couched
in terms of a separate tort or statutory violation.” (Park, supra, 220
Cal.App.4th at 506.)   The
Court concurs that the claim arises from misappropriation of trade secrets
insofar as the acquisition of confidential information is concerned. The
Complaint plainly alleges that Celestin unlawfully acquired trade secret
information through his alleged hacking. (Compl., ¶¶ 196-198.) The complaint
alleges that Celestin has access to confidential and proprietary information
owned by Plaintiff, including internal financial information, creator contact
information, and expansion strategies. (Compl., ¶¶ 29-30.) More specifically, while
employed by Fanfix, and in direct violation of his Agreement, Celestin began
implementing a plan to misappropriate Fanfix’s confidential information to form
a competing agency. (¶¶ 43, 50-51.) Celestin began requesting confidential information
unrelated to his job duties. (¶¶ 52-59.) Celestin also misappropriated strategy
information. (¶¶ 63-70.) Thus, to the extent that the section 502 claim is
based on Celestin’s acquisition of information of value, the section 502 claim
is displaced. However,
the Court views Celestin’s alleged deletion of computer information as breaching
a duty independent from any trade secret misappropriation, and thus would not
be displaced by CUTSA. Plaintiff seeks liability against Celestin for deleting
information on Fanfix’s laptop. In doing so, Plaintiff does not seek to make Celestin
liable for acquiring, disclosing, or using trade secret information. Instead,
Celestin deleted non-trade-secret data, which might have implicated him in
acquiring Fanfix’s trade secret information. While such a claim is related to
the misappropriation of trade secrets, Celestin’s deletion was independent of
acquiring, disclosing or using trade secrets. Since the entirety of the cause
of action is not defeated by displacement, the demurrer must be overruled. Accordingly,
the demurrer is OVERRULED. Passes’
Motion to Strike Defendant
moves to strike the request for “restitution” under the UCL because there are
no allegations that it took money from Plaintiff or funds in which Plaintiff
has an interest. The remedies for UCL claims brought by private individuals are
limited to injunctive relief and restitution. (Prakashpalan v. Engstrom,
Lipscomb and Lack (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 1105, 1133.) “The word
‘restitution’ means the return of money or other property obtained through an
improper means to the person from whom the property was taken.”  (Clark
v. Superior Court (2010) 50 Cal.4th 605, 614.) “‘The object of
restitution is to restore the status quo by returning to the plaintiff
funds in which he or she has an ownership interest.’” (Id.) On
the other hand, disgorgement of profits is not an available remedy under a UCL
claim brought by a private individual. (Korea Supply Co. v. Lockheed Martin
Corp. (2003) 29 Cal.4th 1134, 1150-52.)  Plaintiff
does not cite any allegation showing that Passes or its agents took money from
them. Plaintiff does not identify any alleged funds in which it has an
ownership interest. Instead, Plaintiff
cites damage to existing contractual relationships (Compl., ¶¶ 120-186), disgorgement
of profits in the form of subscription fees that should have gone to Passes
(id.), and damages in the form of additional expenses to minimize the harm from
the unfair competition (¶¶ 10, 24, 183). Plaintiff argues that it has a vested
interest in the subscription fees and that, but for the unlawful conduct, these
subscription fees should have been paid to Plaintiff. Plaintiff cites no facts
to support its contention that it has a “vested” interest in third party user’s
subscription fees paid to Passes. Plaintiff argues that this is properly
remedied through restitution, citing Troyk v. Farmers Grp., Inc., (2009)
171 Cal. App. 4th 1305. Plaintiff notes that in Troyk, an insurance company and
its corporate attorney in fact had to pay restitution for unlawful service
charges paid by the class members to a third party billing company. (Id.
at 1338.) However, the insurance, its attorney-in-fact, and its billing agent were
found to be a single enterprise, warranting application of alter ego doctrine
to hold the insurance and its attorney-in-fact liable for restitution under the
UCL. (Id. at 1341.) Here, Plaintiff does not plead the same
circumstances. It is unlikely that Plaintiff can allege that Passes and third-party
users form a single joint enterprise which might justify the use of restitution
here. Accordingly,
the motion to strike is GRANTED without leave to amend. Defendant
Passes to file an answer within 20 days. Defendant Nofhotos
Demurrer and Motion to Strike Defendant
Nofhotos Group LLC demurs to each cause of action of the complaint.   CUTSA
Displacement Defendant
asserts that each of the causes of action in Plaintiff’s Complaint are
preempted by CUTSA. As discussed above, Plaintiff’s claims arise, at least in
part, from Celestin’s alleged misappropriation of trade secrets. The Court must
examine each cause of action to determine whether the entirety of each cause of
action arises from Celestin’s acquisition, disclosure, or use of trade secret information,
or if the cause of action arises from independent and distinct facts from the
misappropriation claims.  Case
law interprets the term “use” to include soliciting customers through the use
of trade secret information and employing confidential information in the
production, research or development, or marketing of goods that embody the
trade secret. (PMC, Inc. v. Kadisha, (2000) 78 Cal.App.4th 1368, 1383.) Reviewing
the allegations, the Court concludes that the first and third causes of action
for tortious interference arise entirely from the acquisition, disclosure or
use of trade secret information.  As
to the first cause of action for tortious interference with contract, the
Complaint alleges that Nofhotos substantially aided, encouraged and caused
Celestin’s violations of his Agreement by “enabling his operation of a
competitive venture during his employment and his pre-departure solicitation of
Fanfix personnel and creators, including by taking intentional steps to
interfere with, and otherwise acting in contravention of, the Celestin Agreement.”
(Compl., ¶ 106.) Notably, Plaintiff required their employees, such as Celestin,
to agree to limitations on their use of trade secret information and instructed
their employees that the information was confidential and was not to be
disclosed to third parties. (¶ 112.) Celestin breached his contract by
soliciting Fanfix employees and creators and operating a competitive business
during his employment with Fanfix. (¶¶ 103.) Nofhotos knew of the Celestin
Agreement. (¶¶ 97, 105.) Celestin operated the competitive venture by acquiring
and using alleged information of value to target certain managers and creators
for solicitation. (¶ 52.) Celestin used information gained from Fanfix to
create a talent roster of potential creators for his talent management agency,
Nofhotos. (¶ 53.) Further, Celestin acquired creator revenue reports (¶¶54-55,
59), downloaded files from Fanfix’s google drive (¶ 57), copied confidential
contact information from Fanfix sources (¶ 62) and misappropriated “strategy
information” concerning Middle Eastern creators (¶¶63-70). While acting as an
agent for Nofhotos, Celestin used this information to contact numerous Fanfix
creators and their managers in an attempt to convince them to move to Passes.
(¶¶ 79-84, 89-94.) In sum, Celestin violated his Agreement by acquiring and using
Fanfix’s confidential information for Nofhotos’s benefit. (¶96.)  The
third cause of action for tortious interference with prospective economic advantage
likewise arises from similar breaches involving the acquisition and use of
trade secret information. It alleges that Nofhotos “intended to disrupt the
relationships between Plaintiffs and the creators and agents with whom they
conduct business and intended to disrupt the relationships between Plaintiffs
and their employees, by engaging in wrongful conduct, as described above, through
breaches of contract, improperly soliciting creators, improperly soliciting
Plaintiffs’ employees, and unfair business practices.” (Compl., ¶123,
emphasis added.) As a result of the alleged acts of interference discussed
above, Plaintiff’s relationships with creators, agents and employees were
disrupted. (¶ 124.) Since Nofhotos disrupted the creator/manager contracts
through the alleged use of trade secrets, the claim arises from the same
nucleus of facts as the misappropriation claim, and CUTSA displacement would
apply. The
sixth cause of action for aiding and abetting Alex Celestin’s breach of duty of
loyalty also arises from similar breaches involving the acquisition and use of
trade secrets. It alleges that “Celestin owed Fanfix a duty of loyalty to,
among other things, act with the utmost candor, loyalty and confidentiality; refrain
from disclosing or misusing trade secret and confidential information to
competitors regarding Fanfix, its employees, and clients; and refrain from
taking other actions detrimental to and against the interests of Plaintiffs,
their employees, and clients.” (Compl., ¶ 188, emphasis added.) Celestin
breached this duty of loyalty by engaging in the acts and omissions alleged
above, including without limitation, the solicitation of Fanfix’s employees,
creators, and suppliers, and by engaging in competitive activity against
Fanfix during his employment.” (¶ 189, emphasis added.) Nofhotos encouraged Celestin’s
breaches of his duty of loyalty “by enabling his operation of a competitive
venture during his employment and his pre-departure solicitation of Fanfix
personnel and creators.” (¶ 190.)  Fanfix
does not identify any factual allegations supporting the above claims which
would comprise a breach of a duty independent of the acquisition or use of
trade secret information. While the complaint repeatedly concludes that the
above claims do not arise in whole or in part on Celestin’s misappropriation of
trade secrets, such legal conclusions are properly ignored. Therefore, the
first, third and sixth causes of action are displaced.  The
remaining causes of action arise from facts and duties which, at least in part,
do not arise from acquisition, disclosure or use of trade secret information.
As discussed above, Plaintiff’s claim in count five under Business and
Professions Code section 17200 is well-stated and without reference to any
acquisition or use of trade secret information. The seventh cause of action under
Penal Code section 502 is likewise well-stated, as it arises from Celestin’s independent
breach of deleting certain non-trade-secret information. Accordingly,
Nofhotos’s demurrer is SUSTAINED without leave to amend as to the first, third and
sixth causes of action. Trade Secrets To establish the misappropriation of a
trade secret, Plaintiff must allege: 1) the existence of a trade secret; 2)
plaintiff’s ownership of the trade secret; 3) defendant’s knowing acquisition,
disclosure or use of the trade secret by improper means; 4) causation; and 5)
resulting damages. (Sargent Fletcher, Inc. v. Able Corp. (2003) 110 Cal.App.4th
1658, 1665.) A trade secret has four elements: (1) it
must be comprised of “information”; (2) it must not be “generally known”; (3)
it must derive “independent economic value” from the fact that it is a secret;
and (4) it must be the subject of “reasonable” efforts to “maintain its
secrecy.” (Cal. Civ. Code § 3426.1(d); see Gemini Aluminum Corp. v.
California Custom Shapes, Inc. (2002) 95 Cal.App.4th 1249, 1263.) The complaint alleges all elements of the
trade secret claim, including reasonably particular identification of the
alleged trade secrets. Plaintiff expressly identifies the following trade
secrets: 1. Fanfix internal financial
information regarding creator engagement on Fanfix, including the revenue
generated by creators. Fanfix regularly generates reports that detail creator
performance and revenue on a 30, 60, or 90 day basis. This information is not
publicly available or generally known, and the information has economic value
because, with this information, a competitor could target Fanfix’s most
successful creators or use information regarding their Fanfix earnings to
solicit them for a competing platform…  2. Consolidated creator contact
information and the contact information for the creator’s agent. This
information is not generally known or publicly available, and the information
has economic value. Creators are often inundated by collaboration proposals,
and the ability to directly contact the creator or the creator’s agent greatly
increases the likelihood that the proposal will be reviewed and considered.  3. Fanfix’s expansion strategy in the
Middle East and North Africa (“MENA”) region. In or around March 2023, Fanfix
began to expand its creator platform to the MENA region and developed preferred
creators to gain a first-mover advantage in this market. Fanfix’s strategy is
not publicly available and has economic value. If a competitor had access to
this information, the competitor could disrupt Fanfix’s efforts to seed its
MENA platform with high-quality creators and reduce its first-mover advantage. (Compl., ¶ 114.)
Plaintiff alleges that they own and derive independent economic value from
these secrets from them not being known to other persons who could obtain
economic value from their disclosure or use. (¶ 112.) This information is generally
not known to members of the public or to Plaintiffs’ competitors in the
industry. (Id.) This information was subject to reasonable efforts to maintain
its secrecy, including via confidentiality agreements. (Id.) Nofhotos misappropriated
these trade secrets via Celestin and by using Plaintiffs’ trade secrets to
solicit creators, to formulate and execute Passes’ business strategy, and to
identify methods to unlawfully compete against Fanfix. (¶¶, 113-115.) It knew
that Plaintiffs’ trade secrets were acquired under circumstances giving rise to
a duty to maintain its secrecy or limit its use. (¶ 116.) The
Court does not find that section 2019.210 creates a pleading standard. “The
penalty for failing to make this [CCP § 2019.210] disclosure is loss of trade
secret protection.” (Coast Hematology-Oncology Assocs. Med. Grp., Inc. v.
Long Beach Mem'l Med. Ctr. (2020) 58 Cal.App.5th 748, 756 [belated attempt to
alter the trade secrets at issue on summary judgment].) Critically, before
commencing discovery relating to trade secrets, the party alleging the
misappropriation must “identify” trade secrets with “reasonable particularity.”
(CCP § 2019.210.)  Accordingly,
the demurrer is OVERRULED as to the second cause of action. Fifth and
Seventh Causes of Action  As
stated, the demurrer is OVERRULED as to the fifth and seventh causes of action
for the same reasons as Passes’ demurrer. 











































































































































































































































Defendant to file an
answer within 20 days.