  Case Number:  20STCV23612    Hearing Date:   May 22, 2024    Dept:  T Determination of
Good Faith Settlement
 
Moving Parties:     Defendants Platinum
Security Inc., Combined Properties, Inc., and Seventy-Fifth LLC (hereinafter “Settling
Defendants”)
 
Responding Party:                   Defendant Ralphs Grocery
Company dba Ralphs 
 
Tentative Ruling:                    Granted.

BACKGROUND
             This is an action for assault, battery, intentional infliction of emotional distress, negligence, premises liability, negligent hiring, and loss of consortium arising from an altercation which took place in June 2018.  Settling
Defendants filed a motion for good faith settlement. The terms of the
settlement include that Plaintiffs would release all claims against Settling
Defendants in exchange for $50,000.00 total as to all three Settling
Defendants.
DISCUSSION
Applicable Law
            California Code of Civil Procedure section 877.6(a)(1), provides,
in relevant part, that, on noticed motion, “[a]ny party to an action wherein it
is alleged that two or more parties are joint tortfeasors or co-obligors on a
contract debt shall be entitled to a hearing on the issue of the good faith of
a settlement entered into by the plaintiff . . . and one or more alleged
tortfeasors or co-obligors . . . .”  “A
determination by the court that the settlement was made in good faith shall bar
any other joint tortfeasor or co-obligor from any further claims against the
settling tortfeasor or co-obligor for equitable comparative contribution, or
partial or comparative indemnity, based on comparative negligence or
comparative fault.”  (Code Civ. Proc.
section 877.6(c).)  Although a
determination that a settlement was in good faith does not discharge any other
party from liability, “it shall reduce the claims against the others in the
amount stipulated” by the settlement. 
(Code Civ. Proc. section 877(a).)
      “The
party asserting the lack of good faith shall have the burden of proof on that
issue.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd. (d).) 
      In City of Grand
View Terrace v. Superior Court (1987) 192 Cal.App.3d 1251, 1261, the court
provided the following guidance regarding a motion for a good faith settlement
determination:  
If the
good faith settlement is contested, section 877.6, subdivision (d), sets forth
a workable ground rule for the hearing by placing the burden of proving the
lack of good faith on the contesting party. Once there is a showing made by the
settlor of the settlement, the burden of proof on the issue of good faith
shifts to the nonsettlor who asserts that the settlement was not made in good
faith. If contested, declarations by the nonsettlor should be filed which in
many cases could require the moving party to file responsive
counterdeclarations to negate the lack of good faith asserted by the
nonsettling contesting party. 
(192 Cal.App.3d 1251, 1260-1261 [citation
omitted].) 
            In Tech-Bilt, Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde
& Associates (1985) 38 Cal.3d 488, 499 (Tech-Bilt, Inc.), the
California Supreme Court identified the following nonexclusive factors courts
are to consider in determining if a settlement is in good faith under section
877.6: “a rough approximation of plaintiffs’ total recovery and the settlor's
proportionate liability, the amount paid in settlement, the allocation of
settlement proceeds among plaintiffs, and a recognition that a settlor should
pay less in settlement than he would if he were found liable after a trial.
Other relevant considerations include the financial conditions and insurance
policy limits of settling defendants, as well as the existence of collusion,
fraud, or tortious conduct aimed to injure the interests of nonsettling
defendants.” 
            The evaluation of whether a settlement was
made in good faith is required to “be made on the basis of information
available at the time of settlement.” (Tech-Bilt, Inc., supra,
38 Cal.3d at p. 499.) “‘[A] defendant’s settlement figure must not be
grossly disproportionate to what a reasonable person, at the time of the
settlement, would estimate the settling defendant’s liability to be.’
[Citation.]” (Ibid.) 
            The
evaluation of whether a settlement was made in good faith is required to “be
made on the basis of information available at the time of settlement.” (Tech-Bilt,
Inc., supra, 38 Cal.3d at p. 499.) “‘[A] defendant’s
settlement figure must not be grossly disproportionate to what a reasonable
person, at the time of the settlement, would estimate the settling defendant’s
liability to be.’ [Citation.]” (Ibid.)
            “The
party asserting the lack of good faith, who has the burden of proof on that
issue (§ 877.6, subd. (d)), should be permitted to demonstrate, if he can, that
the settlement is so far ‘out of the ballpark’ in relation to these factors as
to be inconsistent with the equitable objectives of the statute. Such a
demonstration would establish that the proposed settlement was not a
‘settlement made in good faith’ within the terms of section 877.6.” (Id. at
pp. 499-500.) 
            “[A]
court not only looks at the alleged tortfeasor's potential liability to the
plaintiff, but it must also consider the culpability of the tortfeasor
vis-à-vis other parties alleged to be responsible for the same injury.
Potential liability for indemnity to a nonsettling defendant is an important
consideration for the trial court in determining whether to approve a
settlement by an alleged tortfeasor. [Citation.]” (TSI Seismic Tenant Space,
Inc. v. Superior Court (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 159, 166.) 
Analysis
1.     
A rough approximation of Plaintiff’s total recovery.
      Settling Defendants do not provide an
estimation of Plaintiffs’ damages. The only amount they reference is Plaintiff’s
known medical charges which are approximately $25,000. Settling Defendants also
state that Plaintiff’s neurological symptoms should have resolved by the date
of the Independent Medical Examination (IME) in November 2022.
      In opposition, Ralphs offers a history of
settlement negotiations.  The Court does
not rely on inadmissible evidence from settlement negotiations.  Evidence Code section 1119, et seq.  However, Ralphs states that Plaintiffs are
seeking damages for Turuyan Cungsulu’s injuries, which include severe injuries
to his face, head, right arm, teeth, jaw, and other symptoms, including
difficulty sleeping, lost of sense of smell, anxiety, emotional distress, pain,
and irritability, among others. (Id., ¶9.)  Plaintiff’s interrogatory responses suggest
that many of his neurological symptoms and pain complaints were still present
as of the date of his April 29, 2021 responses. 
Based on this evidence, the Court concludes that Plaintiffs’ gross
recovery would likely be at least $1 million. 
While a jury might award substantially more, the Court will value the
case, for the purposes evaluating this settlement, at $1 million.    
      While this amount might appear to be
disproportionate in comparison to the $50,000 settlement, based on the other
factors set forth below, this proposed settlement can reasonably be said to be
within the ballpark of the Settling Defendants’ liability.
            Thus, this factor weighs in favor of
finding good faith.
2.     
Settling Defendants’ Proportionate Liability.
            Settling Defendants argue that
Plaintiffs have not presented concrete evidence showing that Settling
Defendants owed or breached a duty to prevent the altercation, which began
inside Ralphs, where Platinum Security was not responsible for in-store
security. Plaintiffs claim that Ralphs had a duty to protect customers from
imminent danger as a business proprietor and that Ralphs failed to act despite
being aware of the verbal altercation and the potential threat posed by Mr.
Torres. In contrast, Settling Defendants state that no such allegations have
been directed toward them, and that they owed Plaintiff no duty. Settling
Defendants emphasize that a very high degree of foreseeability is required to
impose a duty on a landowner for criminal acts, and no prior similar
circumstances indicated that a criminal attack was foreseeable on the day of
the incident.
            In opposition, Ralphs argues that
the physical altercation occurred outside the Ralphs store and Plaintiff
Turuyan was injured in the parking lot. Ralphs’ counsel testifies that Combined
Properties, Inc. and Seventy-Fifth LLC are now the owners and property managers
of the subject premises and successors in interest to Granada Hills
Marketplace, LLC, who owned the premises. (Johnson Decl., ¶13.) Defendant
Platinum Security admitted that they had a duty to provide security services
and prevent criminal activities in the parking lot where the incident took
place. (Notice of Lodging Exhibits Exh. I, Alonzo Decl., 45:7-10.) Ralphs also
provides a lease agreement which states that the landlord maintained, operated,
and controlled the common area where the incident took place and was required
to provide reasonable security in the common area. (Notice of Lodging Exhibits,
Exh. F.) The agreement and Platinum Security’s PMK stated that common areas
include the exterior parking lots, including the parking lot where the incident
took place. (Notice of Lodging Exhibits, Exh. F, Alonzo Depo., 55:5-24.)
            The evidence shows that the property
owners contracted Platinum to provide security services and had a duty to
perform the services defined in its agreement with the property owners. The PMK
deposition for the property owners reveals that Platinum Security’s security
guards’ duties were to “observe and report any kind of activity at the center,
not to engage any acts of criminal activity or any in-store activity that
occurs within the tenant spaces,” in other words, the PMK testified that
“They’re just basically there to report incidents that occur in the common
areas.” (Foster Decl. ¶8, Exhib. A.) 
Moreover, there is no evidence presented by Ralphs to support the conclusion
that the Settling Defendants were aware or should have been aware of the
ongoing dispute within the store or that there would have been anything that
the Settling Defendants could have or should done to prevent the attack in the
vestibule just moments after Plaintiff left the store.  In short, there is little basis to find that
the Settling Defendants might face any liability.  Accordingly, the $50,000 settlement does
appear to be reasonable for Settling Defendants’ proportionate liability. 
            Thus, this factor weighs in favor of
finding good faith.

3.     
Financial condition of the settling Defendant.          
             Settling Defendants state that their
financial condition and their limits of insurance are not relevant to the pending good faith settlement. This
factor does not weigh in favor of or against a finding of good faith.
 
4.     
Existence of Collusion, Fraud, or Tortuous Misconduct
Intended to Injure the Interest of Non-Settling Defendants.        
            Settling Defendants assert that the
settlement was reached after arm’s length negotiations between the parties,
their attorneys, and insurance representatives, and that there was no
collusion, fraud, or tortuous conduct on the part of any parties to the proposed
settlement. 
            In opposition, Ralphs states the settlement
was made without their knowledge and that the amount settled for falls
significantly below the amount of claimed general and special damages.  In reply, Settling Defendants state that
Ralphs was informed of the potential settlement and the subject motion prior to
Ralphs agreeing to continue the trial in this matter.
            The Court finds that Ralphs fails to
show any evidence of collusion or fraud amongst the Settling Defendants and Plaintiffs.
            Thus, this factor weighs in favor of
finding good faith.  
CONCLUSION 
In
light of the foregoing, Settling Defendants’ Motion for Determination of Good
Faith is GRANTED.
 