 Case Number:  24SMCV00651    Hearing Date:   December 18, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:             Shen, et al., v. Li, et al. 
CASE NO.:                   24SMCV00651
MOTION:                     Demurrer to the Answer
                                    Motion to Strike Suspended
Entities’ Answers 
HEARING DATE:   12/18/2024
 
LEGAL STANDARD 
 
In
addition to denials, the answer should contain any and all affirmative defenses
or objections to the complaint that defendant may have, and that would
otherwise not be in issue under a simple denial.¿Such defenses or objections
are “new matter.”¿(CCP § 431.30(b).) Generally, a defendant bears the burden of
proving “new matter” and, as such, must be specifically pleaded in the
answer.¿(California Academy of Sciences v. County of Fresno (1987) 192
Cal.App.3d 1436, 1442.) “The phrase ‘new matter’ refers to something relied on
by a defendant which is not put in issue by the plaintiff.”¿(Walsh v. West
Valley Mission Community College District (1998) 66 Cal.App.4th 1532,
1546.)¿Where the answer sets forth facts showing some essential allegation of
the complaint is not true, such facts are not new matter but are denials. (Ibid.)¿ 
 
The
answer must aver facts as carefully and with as much detail as the facts which
constitute the cause of action and which are alleged in the complaint. (FPI
Development, Inc. v. Nakashimi (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 367, 384 [defenses
must be pleaded in the nature of “yes, the allegations [of the complaint] are
true, but . . .”].) The various affirmative defenses must be separately stated
and must refer to the causes of action to which they relate “in a manner by
which they may be intelligently distinguished.”¿(CCP § 431.30(g).)  
 
The
allegations of the pleading demurred to must be regarded as true.¿ (South
Shore Land Co. v. Petersen (1964) 226 Cal.App.2d 725, 730.)¿All that is
necessary against a demurrer is that, upon consideration of all of the facts
stated, it appears that the party whose pleading is attacked by such a demurrer
is entitled to any relief at the hands of the court against his adversary.¿(Id.
at 733.)¿ When considering a demurrer to answer, the “determination of the
sufficiency of the answer requires an examination of the complaint because its
adequacy is with reference to the complaint it purports to answer.”¿ (Ibid.)¿
“[T]he demurrer to the answer admits all issuable facts pleaded therein and
eliminates all allegations of the complaint denied by the answer.”¿ (Ibid.)¿ 
 
“Liberality
in permitting amendment is the rule, if a fair opportunity to correct any
defect has not been given.” (Angie M. v. Superior Court (1995) 37
Cal.App.4th 1217, 1227.) It is an abuse of discretion for the court to deny
leave to amend where there is any reasonable possibility that plaintiff can
state a good cause of action. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335,
349.) The burden is on pleader to show¿in what manner¿they can amend the
pleading, and¿how¿that amendment will change the legal effect of the
pleading.¿(Id.)  
 
ANALYSIS 
 
Plaintiffs Jinwan Shen and Da Bai Niu demur to the
following Defendants’ answer:
1.
Lingxiao Li, A.k.a. Lingxiao D. Li, A.k.a. Tim Li, Individually and As Trustee,
2. Shuo Li, A.k.a. Steve Li; A.k.a. Steven Li; 3. An Hu, 4. Changshuan Wang, 5.
Astro Management LLC, 6. Canyon Lane Trust, 7. 2127 LLC, 8. Apple Blossom
Foundation, 9. Sycamore Holding LLC, 10. Coastline Holding Corp., 11. Horizon
Holding Group, 12. 9920 Holding LLC, 13. 9920 Management LLC, 14. IY
International Inc., 15. Clisen, 16. Clisen Eow Inc., 17. Inspire Lab, 18. Lux
International Group, 19. Lux (Cayman) Limited, 20. Crosslink Holding LLC, 21.
Target Investment Group, LLC, 22. Unite Holding LLC, 23. Garvey Holding LLC,
24. Apple Blossom Us Foundation, 25. Signix Management LLC, 26. Yingxia Sun,
and 27. Ning Li. Plaintiffs assert that the answer fails to plead any facts, lacks
specificity, contains uncertain affirmative defenses, is ambiguous and
unintelligible, and that two of the affirmative defenses are not affirmative
defenses. 
 
The first affirmative defense asserts a failure to state
a cause of action.  This is not an
affirmative defense because it is not a new matter. The fourteenth defense for
“Proximate Cause” is also not a new matter, but a failure to state an element
of a cause of action. Likewise, the twenty-first defense based upon the Parol
Evidence Rule and Twenty-Fifth defense for Failure to Perform Condition
Precedent are not affirmative defenses. The twenty sixth defense states a
“reservation” to amend unstated defenses. As such, the above defenses are neither
new matters nor even defenses. The demurrer to these defenses is SUSTAINED
without leave to amend.
 
As to the remaining defenses, the answer only provides
terse legal conclusions as to each defense. This includes the Second (Offset), Third
(Estoppel), Fourth (Unclean Hands), Fifth (Waiver), Sixth (Lack of
Capacity/Standing), Seventh (Justification), Eighth (Excuse), Ninth (Consent), Tenth
(Privilege), Eleventh (Laches), Twelfth (Statute of Limitations), Fifteenth (Contribution),
Sixteenth (Issue and Claim Preclusion-Res Judicata/Collateral Estoppel), Sixteenth
(Issue and Claim Preclusion-Res Judicata/Collateral Estoppel), Seventeenth
(Adequate Remedy at Law), Eighteenth (Acquiescence) Nineteenth (Ratification), Twentieth
(Failure to Mitigate Damages) Twenty-First (Parol Evidence), Twenty-Second
Affirmative Defense (Statute of Frauds), Twenty-Third (Accord and Satisfaction)
defenses. A modicum of supporting facts is required for each defense.
Accordingly, the demurrer is SUSTAINED with leave to amend as to these
defenses. 
 
Defendants have 10 days to file an amended answer.
 
Motion
to Strike
 
Plaintiffs also move to strike Defendant 2127 LLC,
Coastline Holding Corp., Horizon Holding and IY International Inc.’s answer on
the grounds that each are suspended from doing business in California by the
Secretary of State. Based upon the evidence submitted in the Request for
Judicial Notice, which the Court will grant, the motion is DENIED as these
Defendants are now in good standing. 
 