 Case Number:  23STCV25071    Hearing Date:   December 18, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Hunter v. Krauss,
et al.
CASE NO.:                23STCV25071
MOTION:                  Motion
for Judgment on the Pleadings
HEARING DATE:   12/18/2024

 
 
Legal
Standard
 
A defendant’s motion for judgment
on the pleadings may be made after the time to demur has expired and an answer
has been filed. (CCP § 438(f).) A motion by a defendant may be made on the
grounds that (1) the court “lacks jurisdiction of the subject of one or more of
the causes of action alleged” or (2) the complaint or cross-complaint “does not
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action against that defendant.”
(CCP § 438(c).) 
 
A motion for judgment on the
pleadings has the same function as a general demurrer but is made after the
time for demurrer has expired. Except as provided by statute, the rules
governing demurrers apply. (Cloud v. Northrop Grumman Corp. (1998) 67
Cal.App.4th 995, 999.) “A motion for judgment on the pleadings is akin to a
general demurrer; it tests the sufficiency of the complaint to state a cause of
action. The court must assume the truth of all factual allegations in the
complaint, along with matters subject to judicial notice.” (Wise v. Pacific
Gas and Elec. Co. (2005) 132 Cal.App.4th 725, 738, citations omitted.)
Further, like a general demurrer, a motion for judgment on the pleadings “does
not lie as to a portion of a cause of action, and if any part of a cause of
action is properly pleaded, the [motion] will be overruled.” (Fire Ins.
Exchange v. Superior Court (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 446, 452.)  
 
MEET AND CONFER
 
Before filing a statutory motion
for judgment on the pleadings, a moving party's counsel must meet and confer,
in person or by telephone, with counsel for the party who filed the pleading
subject to the judgment on the pleadings motion “for the purpose of determining
if an agreement can be reached that resolves the claims to be raised in the
motion for judgment on the pleadings.” (CCP § 439(a).) Here, there was no
meet and confer declaration submitted to the Court.
 
REQUEST FOR
JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
Defendant Todd Krauss requests that
the Court take judicial notice of the initial complaint filed in this action,
and his response to Plaintiff’s State Bar complaint. The request is GRANTED as
to the complaint and DENIED as to Defendant’s State Bar response. Defendant’s
response is irrelevant to the outcome of this motion for judgment on the
pleadings.
 
ANALYSIS
 
Defendant Todd Krauss moves for
judgment on the pleadings to Plaintiff James Hunter’s First Amended Complaint
(FAC). Defendant asserts that the legal malpractice cause of action is not
well-pled because there was no malpractice committed in fact, and Plaintiff
relies on false information.
 
To prevail on legal malpractice a
party must prove four elements: “(1) the duty of the attorney to use such
skill, prudence, and diligence as members of his or her profession commonly
possess and exercise; (2) a breach of that duty; (3) a proximate causal
connection between the breach and the resulting injury; and (4) actual loss or
damage resulting from the attorney's negligence.”¿¿(Namikas¿v. Miller¿(2014)
225 Cal.App.4th 1574, 1581.)  
 
The FAC provides sufficient facts
to state a claim for malpractice. The FAC alleges that Plaintiff hired
Defendant Krauss to file a lawsuit against Defendant Fino for breach of
contract and emotional distress. (FAC ¶¶ 8-15.) As such, the parties were in an
attorney-client relationship. Krauss allegedly breached his duties to Plaintiff
by: a) systematically over-billing Plaintiff (¶17); b) conspiring with opposing
counsel to defeat Plaintiff’s claim against Fino (¶¶ 18-20); c) threatening to
terminate his representation if Plaintiff did not settle (¶¶ 21, 25); d) refusing
to keep Plaintiff informed of all correspondence, including refusing to provide
email communications between Glasco and Krauss (¶ 22); e) misleading Plaintiff
about the contents of the settlement agreement and release (¶¶ 29-33, 45-46); f)
refusing to sign the substitution of attorney form (¶¶ 40-44); g) dismissing
Plaintiff’s case against Fino after being instructed not to dismiss the action
(¶¶ 37, 42); and h) providing attorney-client privileged information to
opposing counsel (¶¶ 47-48). As a result, Plaintiff was allegedly damaged in an
amount over $50,000.00, including overbilling and loss of Plaintiff’s claims
against Fino. (FAC ¶¶ 51-52.) 
 
Defendant principally relies on
extrinsic evidence and arguments that go beyond the four corners of the
complaint or judicially noticeable documents. Defendant argues that there is no
damage from the underlying case, and that Plaintiff lacks evidence of damages. This
contention ignores the express allegations of damages. Plaintiff alleges that
he was damaged by Defendant’s unauthorized dismissal of the underlying action,
as he lost his claim for damages against defendant Fino for breach of the actor
employment agreement and for money lent. (FAC ¶ 45.) Plaintiff was also damaged
when Defendant provided attorney-client confidential information to opposing
counsel to help defeat Plaintiff’s cases. (FAC ¶¶ 47-48.) 
 
Defendant further contends that
this was Plaintiff’s fault for not reading the settlement agreement and that Plaintiff
is “making up” the fact that Defendant misrepresented aspects of the agreement.
In essence, Defendant believes that there is no evidence to support
Plaintiff’s claims. However, Defendant’s extrinsic contentions cannot support
dismissal at the pleading stage.
 
Defendant also contends that Plaintiff
made inconsistent allegations between complaints. Reviewing the complaints,
there is no inconsistency that would trigger the sham pleading doctrine.
Plaintiff does not admit to reading the settlement agreement prior to signing
it. (Compl., ¶¶ 17, 18, 22, 30.) Even if this were apparent, there are other
pled breaches that support the malpractice action, including Defendant’s
unauthorized dismissal of the case and giving attorney-client privileged
information to opposing counsel.
 
Accordingly, the motion is DENIED.