  Case Number:  19SMCV00289    Hearing Date:   November 7, 2023    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Wayne Saks, et
al. v. Jeffrey Pink, et al..
CASE NO.:                19SMCV00289
MOTION:                  Motion
for Leave to File a First Amended Answer
HEARING DATE:   7/20/2022

 
Legal
Standard
 
If a party
wishes to amend a pleading after an answer has been filed, or after a demurrer
has been filed and after the hearing on the demurrer, or if he or she has
already amended the pleading as a matter of course, the party must obtain permission
from the court before amendment. (CCP §§ 473(a)(1), 576.) 
 
Motions
for leave to amend the pleadings are directed to the sound discretion of the
court. “The court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be
proper, allow a party to amend any pleading . . ..” (CCP § 473(a)(1); see CCP §
576.) Policy favors liberally granting leave to amend so that all disputed
matters between the parties may be resolved. (See Howard v. County of San Diego (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 1422,
1428.) Absent prejudice to the adverse party, the court may permit amendments
to the complaint “at any stage of the proceedings, up to and including trial.”
(Atkinson v. Elk Corp.
(2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 739, 761 [internal quotes omitted].) Where leave is
sought to add entirely new claims, the court may grant leave to amend if the
new claims are based on the same general set of facts, and the amendment will
not prejudice the opposing party. (Austin
v. Massachusetts Bonding & Ins. Co. (1961) 56 Cal.2d 596, 600-602; Glaser v. Meyers (1982) 137 Cal.App.3d 770, 777 [holding
trial court did not abuse its discretion in permitting amendment of complaint,
which originally alleged constructive eviction, to allege retaliatory eviction
where the new claim was based on the same general set of facts].)
 
Although
denial is rarely justified, a judge has discretion to deny leave to amend if
the party seeking the amendment has been dilatory, and the delay has prejudiced
the opposing party. (Morgan v. Superior
Court (1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530; Hirsa v. Superior Court
(1981) 118 Cal.App.3d 486, 490). An opposing party is prejudiced where the
amendment would necessitate a trial delay along with a loss of critical
evidence, added preparation expense, increased burden of discovery, etc. (Magpali
v. Farmers Group, Inc. (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 471, 486-488 [leave properly
denied where plaintiff sought leave on the eve of trial, nearly two years after
the complaint was originally filed and gave no explanation for the delay which
prejudiced defendant who did not discover or depose many of the witnesses who
would support the new allegations and had not marshaled evidence in opposition
of the new allegations].)
 
Procedurally,
a motion for leave to amend must state with particularity what allegations are
to be amended. Namely, it must state what allegations in the previous pleading
are proposed to be deleted and/or added, if any, and where, by page, paragraph,
and line number. (CRC, Rule 3.1324(a)(2)-(3).) The motion must be accompanied
by a declaration specifying: (1) the effect of the amendment; (2) why the
amendment is necessary and proper; (3) when the facts giving rise to the
amended allegations were discovered; and (4) the reasons why the request for
amendment was not made earlier. (CRC, Rule 3.1324(b).) The motion must also be
accompanied by the proposed amended pleading, numbered to differentiate it from
the prior pleadings or amendments. (CRC, Rule 3.1324(a)(1).) It is within the
court’s discretion to require compliance with Rule 3.1324 before granting leave
to amend. (Hataishi v. First American Home Buyers Protection Corp. (2014)
223 Cal.App.4th 1454, 1469.)
 
Analysis
 

Defendant Beverly Spalding Court
Homeowners Association (the “HOA”) seeks leave to amend its answers to the
complaints of plaintiff Wayne J. Saks (“Saks”) and Mirta Siderman (“Siderman”)
to (1) clarify and assert references to specific sections of California’s
statute of limitations defenses; and (2) add two new affirmative defenses of
the business judgment rule and rule of judicial deference.  
 
Procedurally, Defendant provides
the declaration of counsel. (See Nash Decl.) Counsel states that the facts
giving rise to these proposed amended pleadings were discovered by his firm at
or around the time of the substitution of counsel in August of 2023. However, it
is likely that Defendant had notice of these issues prior to this point, since the
HOA had already asserted a reliance on a ‘good faith’ defense in its pleadings
and summary judgment. Thus, Defendant does not adequately explain why this
amendment was not sought sooner. Despite this, the Court is still inclined to
grant leave since the amendments are technical and do not substantially
prejudice Plaintiffs. 
 
The Court has already dealt with
the statute of limitations in the context of the prior motion to strike
Defendant’s answer. The Court will not retread those arguments, except to note
that the amendments would not prejudice Plaintiffs. 
 
As to the two new affirmative
defenses, Defendant argues that the prior answers and the motion for summary
judgment put Plaintiffs on notice of this defense. Specifically, the
Forty-First Affirmative Defense stated that Defendant’s actions were based “on
good, sufficient, and legal cause, upon reasonable grounds for belief in their
justification, and were taken in good faith and without malice, and as such,
can have no liability towards PLAINTIFF.” While this did not specifically
notice the business judgment or judicial deference rules, the answer did put Plaintiffs
on notice of the same general facts and circumstances which underly the
Business Judgment Rule Defense and Rule of Judicial Deference. Further,
Defendants moved for summary judgment in part based on Corporations Code §
7231, which is the codified section of the business judgment rule as applied to
homeowners associations. At deposition, Plaintiff asked questions regarding
their good faith in their approach, including their reliance on advice of counsel.
(See Excerpt from Deposition of P. Naysan, Vol I, at p. 122, lines 10-25, Ex. 4
to Nash Dec., ¶ 13.) Thus, Plaintiffs were on notice that these were issues in
this action. 
 
On the other hand, denial would
prejudice Defendant by denying them the opportunity to fully litigate their
applicable defenses.
 
Accordingly, the motion is GRANTED.