 Case Number:  21STCV25158    Hearing Date:   November 7, 2023    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Reese, et
al., v. Irwin Naturals, Inc., et al.
CASE NO.:                21STCV25158
MOTION:                  Motion
to Seal; Motion to Dismiss
HEARING DATE:   11/7/2023

 
Legal
Standard
 
Sealing
Order
 
The sealing of trial court records is governed by
CRC Rules 2.550 and 2.551. (Mercury Interactive Corp. v. Klein (2007)
158 Cal.App.4th 60, 68.) Pleadings, motions, discovery documents, and other
papers may not be filed under seal merely by stipulation of the parties—a prior
court order must be obtained. (CRC, Rule 2.551(a); see H.B. Fuller Co. v.
Doe (2007) 151 Cal.App.4th 879, 888.) 
To seal a record, the following requirements are
imposed: (1) the party must file a motion or application for an order
sealing the record, which must be accompanied by a memorandum and a declaration
containing facts sufficient to justify the sealing; (2) the party
must serve a copy of the motion on all parties who have appeared in the case;
and (3) the party requesting that a record be filed under seal must
lodge it with the court when the motion or application is made unless the
record has previously been lodged. (CRC, Rule 2.551(b).)  
 
The Court must make the following express factual
findings in order to seal records: (1) an overriding interest exists
that overcomes the right of public access to the record; (2) the overriding
interest supports sealing the records; (3) a substantial probability exists
that the overriding interest will be prejudiced if the record is not sealed;
(4) the proposed sealing is narrowly tailored; and (5) no less restrictive
means exist to achieve the overriding interest. (CRC, Rule 2.550(d).) These findings embody constitutional requirements
for a request to seal court records, protecting the First Amendment right of
public access to civil trials. (NBC Subsidiary (KNBC-TV), Inc. v. Superior
Court (1999) 20 Cal.4th 1178, 1217-1218.)
 
An order sealing
the record must specifically state the facts that support the findings and
direct the sealing of only those pages and documents or, if reasonably
practicable, portions of those documents and pages, that contain the material
that needs to be placed under seal, and all other portions must be included in
the public file. (CRC, rule 2.550(e).) 
 
Once sealed, a record can only be unsealed by order
of court. (CRC, Rule 2.551(h)(1).) So long as it remains under seal, all
parties must refrain from filing anything not under seal that would disclose
the sealed matter. (Id., Rule 2.551(c).) If a party files a new document
referring to sealed matter, it must submit an unredacted version of the
document under seal and a redacted one for the public record. (Id., Rule
2.551(b)(5).)
 
Forum Non Conveniens
 
            “Forum non conveniens is an
equitable doctrine invoking the discretionary power of a court to decline to
exercise the jurisdiction it has over a transitory cause of action when it
believes that the action may be more appropriately and justly tried elsewhere.
[Citations].” (Stangvik v. Shiley, Inc. (1991) 54 Cal.3d 744, 751.) The
doctrine has been codified in Code of Civil Procedure section 410.30. “The
inquiry is whether ‘in the interest of substantial justice an action should be
heard in a forum outside this state.’ ” (Animal Film, LLC v. D.E.J.
Productions, Inc. (2011) 193 Cal.App.4th 466, 471.) 
 
            In considering motions based on
forum non conveniens, courts undertake a two-part analysis. The moving party
bears the burden to show that the alternate forum is a suitable
place for trial. If it is, the moving party must show that the private
interests of the litigants and the interests of the public in litigating the
matter favors alternative forum over the current forum. (Stangvik, supra,
54 Cal.3d at 751.) 
 
The
private interest factors are those that make trial and the enforceability of
the ensuing judgment expeditious and relatively inexpensive, such as the ease
of access to sources of proof, the cost of obtaining attendance of witnesses,
and the availability of compulsory process for attendance of unwilling
witnesses. The public interest factors include avoidance of overburdening local
courts with congested calendars, protecting the interests of potential jurors
so that they are not called upon to decide cases in which the local community
has little concern, and weighing the competing interests of California and the
alternate jurisdiction in the litigation. 
 
(Ibid.)

 
SEALING
Analysis
 
Defendant Irwin Naturals moves for
an order sealing portions of the following documents related to the forum non
conveniens (“FNC”) motion: a) Plaintiffs' Opposition; b) Declaration of David
P. Mason and attached Exhibits 7, 9, 10, 28, and 34; and c) Declaration of Paul
J. Komyatte.
 
Defendant argues that the cited
redactions and documents should be sealed because each contains Irwin's
confidential, proprietary, and highly sensitive business information. Indeed,
each reference and exhibit contain Irwin's internal company emails and
documents regarding Irwin's products, product formulations, and retailers, and
other information about Irwin's customers who are not parties to this suit.
(Ball Decl., Ex. A.) For instance, Exhibit 7 contains emails discussing various
retailers around the country that sell Irwin's products to the public. Exhibit
Nos. 9, 10, and 34 contain internal emails and documents regarding Irwin's
products and product formulations. Additionally, Exhibit 28 is a list of consumers,
including personal identifying and medical information, that have allegedly experienced
adverse effects by taking Irwin's products. (Schulz Decl., ¶3.) Much of this
information took Irwin years to develop, and garner independent economic value
from their continued confidentiality. (Schulz Dec.¶ 4.) Revealing some of this
information risks causing Irwin tangible economic harm in the competitive
supplement industry.
 
Furthermore, the cited information in
these documents is not essential to the resolution of this motion and does not
materially hinder the public’s interest in this action. Irwin has an overriding
interest in protecting its proprietary business information, including
sensitive information about its products and product formulations. The public
has an interest in protecting the private, sensitive, and/or medical
information of non-party consumers. These interests overcome the right of
public access to these limited records. 
 
The proposed sealing is narrowly
tailored, and it is the least restrictive means to achieve the overriding
interests. Notably, the sensitive information is redacted, leaving most of the
opposition and declarations intact. 
 
Accordingly, the motion to seal is GRANTED.
 
FNC
Analysis
 
Defendant Irwin Naturals moves for
an order dismissing/staying this action because California is an inconvenient
forum for this action and the interests of substantial justice dictate that the
action should further proceed in Colorado, not in California. (CCP §§ 410.30,
418.10.) Defendant Robinson Pharma Inc. joins in the motion.
 
Evidentiary Issues
 
Defendant’s objections to
Plaintiffs’ evidence in support of the opposition are OVERRULED.
 
Defendant’s request for judicial
notice is GRANTED. (Evid. Code § 452(d), (h).)
 
Suitable Alternative Forum
 
            There is no
serious dispute that Colorado is a suitable alternative forum for this action. To
be suitable, a forum need only have personal jurisdiction and not have a
statute of limitations that would bar the action. (Chong v. Superior Court
(1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 1032.) There is no jurisdictional or statutory bar to
this action proceeding in Colorado. Counsel for Irwin agrees that it will
submit to the jurisdiction of Colorado and waive any applicable statute of
limitations. (Axelrod Decl., ¶¶ 4-5.) Robinson represents in its joinder that
it would consent to jurisdiction in Colorado and waive any statute of
limitations defense. (Nguyen Decl.) Colorado law also provides a remedy for the
alleged injuries, which occurred in Colorado. (RJN Ex. 2, Colorado Revised
Statutes § 13-80-106.) Thus, this threshold requirement is met.
 
Private Factors
 
Certainly, several private factors
weigh in favor of Colorado as a forum. Plaintiffs are husband and wife and are
residents of Colorado. Plaintiffs allege personal injuries stemming from Mr.
Reese’s use of a product, Libido Max (a male enhancement supplement,
hereinafter, the “Product”), which Mr. Reese purchased from a Walmart in
Colorado Springs. Mr. Reese alleges he took the Product on three occasions
during sexual activity in Colorado. Following the third occasion, he
experienced physical afflictions and was taken to a hospital and continues to
receive medical treatment in Colorado. Thus, Plaintiffs suffered the injury and
damages in Colorado.
 
            Much of the
evidence related to Plaintiffs’ damages is in Colorado. As noted, Plaintiffs allegedly
purchased the Product from a Walmart in Colorado Springs and used the Product there.
Mr. Reese was treated for those injuries in Colorado. (FROG no. 6.4.) Mr. Reese
also received medical treatment for several heart-related issues by Colorado
practitioners since at least 2012, which is prior to his injury in this matter.
Mr. Reese was also employed as a coach in Colorado Springs. (FROG No. 2.7)
Defendant also explains that there are still outstanding medical records that it
needs to obtain, including records from Mr. Reese’s cardiologist and from the
VA Hospital in Aurora, Colorado. (Stricklin Decl., ¶ 4.) Thus, there is
significant evidence within Colorado’s jurisdiction that may be more convenient
to obtain through an in-state action.
 
On the other hand, there is substantial
evidence and witnesses in California. Defendants are headquartered in
California. (FAC ¶¶ 2, 9.) Robinson Pharma is a California corporation with its
principal place of business in Santa Ana, California. (Ex. 3 [FI nos. 3.1]; Ex.
4 [SI no. 8].) Plaintiffs also emphasize that the bulk of the witnesses and
evidence they will present will be focused on product design and safety issues.
Defendants do not dispute that the product was designed, manufactured, and sold
in California. (FAC ¶ 5.) Irwin markets, sells, and distributes Libido Max in
California (and across the country) through direct sales to retailers like
Walmart, CVS, and many others. (Ex. 5 [SI nos. 16-20].) As such, significant evidence
of the design, production and marketing of the subject product is in
California.
 
Defendants emphasize their need to
access Plaintiff’s medical records in Colorado. However, the record shows that
the parties have informally resolved much of the discovery issues concerning
Plaintiff’s medical history. Plaintiffs claim that they have produced virtually
all of Mr. Reese’s injury-related records and virtually all of his medical
records for a five year period preceding the date of his injuries.  These records consist of over 12,000-pages of
medical records and bills spanning from five years prior to his March 2020
injuries to the present. (Mason Decl., ¶¶ 13-21.) Plaintiffs provided releases
for pre-incident records for a period of 7 years without a formal discovery
demand. (Id., Exs. 12-13.) Plaintiffs note that this motion is the first time
that Defendants have claimed difficulties in obtaining records, except for a
single meet and confer effort by prior counsel. (See Id., Ex. 15.)
Additionally, Plaintiffs have agreed that Defendants may depose and examine
Plaintiffs in California. (H. Reese Decl., ¶¶ 2-5; J. Reese Decl., ¶¶ 2-5.) Defendants
do not persuasively show that any critical witnesses would not be subject to
compulsory discovery methods through foreign subpoenas. Plaintiffs also
identify specific defense witnesses they need to depose who have knowledge of
these and other key issues, the vast majority of whom reside in and around
California. (Mason Decl., ¶ 39, n.4; Komyatte Decl., ¶¶ 22-23, n.2, Exs. 3, 4,
24, 27.) 
 
Defendant emphasizes that the
Plaintiffs and their counsel reside in Colorado. However, this does not weigh
heavily in favor of Colorado, since Plaintiffs and counsel chose to file in
California. Plaintiffs’ choice in forum should generally be respected, and the
fact that they live in Colorado does not heavily weigh against their choice of
forum. 
 
Plaintiffs also note that granting
this motion will substantially prejudice their case. Plaintiffs brought this
action against Irwin on July 8, 2021 – over two years ago – alleging that
Irwin’s Libido Max product was defective and caused Mr. Reese’s injuries.
Plaintiffs added Robinson as a defendant on or about May 5, 2022 – over a year
ago. This case is set for trial in a year, commencing on October 7, 2024. 
 
Since Plaintiffs filed this case in
July 2021, Irwin litigated this action by filing a demurrer and a motion to
strike and serving hundreds of discovery requests. In May 2022, Irwin served
Plaintiffs with six sets of written discovery requests totaling 95 form
interrogatories, 109 special interrogatories, and 64 requests for production,
most of which had nothing to do with this motion. (See Mason Decl., at ¶¶ 12-13,
Exs. 14, 23, 30-33.) Nine months prior to this motion, Plaintiffs provided 120
pages of formal responses and over 10,000 pages of Mr. Reese’s medical records
and bills. Plaintiffs have since produced an additional 2,000-plus pages of
medical records, another 106 pages of supplemental discovery answers, and are
producing additional and updated records on a rolling basis. Irwin participated
in an IDC and multiple hearings on Plaintiffs’ motion to compel discovery in
August and December 2022, which resulted in an order requiring Irwin to produce
extensive internal documents and identify consumers who suffered injuries. Shortly
after receiving these adverse rulings, Irwin fired its counsel, hired new
counsel, and then filed this motion. It is also notable that despite complaints
of discovery difficulties, Irwin has not moved to compel any discovery. 
 
            These
discovery issues would not render this motion untimely. However, the parties
(and, indeed, this California court) has already expended years of time and
effort on this action. The Court concurs with Plaintiffs that a transfer now –
with discovery well under way, rounds of motion practice complete, and trial
less than a year away – would unduly prejudice Plaintiffs by requiring them to
effectively start the entire process over in Colorado. Defendant Irwin had
clear notice from the initial complaint that Colorado could be a suitable
alternate forum. Defendants knew this long before they sought a transfer. Plaintiffs
also note that Colorado law has far more limited discovery than California law.
(Mason Decl., at ¶¶ 60-61; Komyatte Decl. at ¶¶ 31-32; see, e.g., CRCP
26(b)(2)(A).) Thus, Defendants’ delay in bringing this motion may garner a tactical
advantage.
 
On balance, the private factors do
not weigh heavily in favor of Colorado as the more convenient forum. 
 
Public Factors
 
Defendant argues that there is a
backlog for personal injury cases in Los Angeles County and offers statistics
on personal injury cases. Defendant does not provide any comparison data for Colorado
courts. Thus, the Court cannot conclude that Colorado would be a more
appropriate forum on this basis.
 
As to the other factors, California
has a clear interest in the regulation of a product designed, manufactured and
supplied in California. While the site of injury in this action was in
Colorado, this does not mean that California would not be interested in
regulating this product. Since the product is also targeted at California
residents, the local community may be rightfully concerned about this action. In
fact, since the product is designed, manufactured and supplied in California,
California has at least an equal or greater interest in this action than
Colorado.
 
Defendants cite two cases Morris
v. AGFA Corp. (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1452 and 
Roman v. Liberty Univ. Inc. (2008) 162 Cal.App.4th
670. The Court finds both cases distinguishable. Roman involved two
foreign defendants that had insufficient contacts with California to
establish general or specific jurisdiction. Roman also did not pertain
to a products liability case, but an alleged assault which occurred in
Virginia. Unlike Roman, this case involves California defendants, and
includes tortious conduct in California (to wit, the design and manufacture of
the product). Likewise, Morris involved numerous corporate defendants,
only two of which were California companies. Here, unlike Morris, 100%
of the defendants are headquartered in California.
 
Balancing both the private and
public factors, the Court concludes that California is not a seriously
inconvenient forum. Accordingly, the motion is DENIED.