  Case Number:  24VECV00789    Hearing Date:   October 7, 2024    Dept:  W JANELLE SEITZ vs GENERAL MOTORS LLC
 
plaintiff’s motion compel deposition of person(s)
most qualified at defendant general motors llc 
 
Date of Hearing:        October
7, 2024                                            Trial Date:       None set 
Department:              W                                                                    Case
No.:        24VECV00789
 
Moving Party:            Plaintiff Janelle Seitz
Responding Party:     Defendant General Motors LLC 
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is a lemon law action. On February
21, 2024, Plaintiff Janelle Seitz filed a complaint against General Motors LLC
for breach of implied warranty, breach of express warranty, and violation of
the Song Beverly Consumer Warranty Act. Plaintiff leased a new 2022 GMC Cierra
1500 on February 28, 2022. Plaintiff alleges since the time the vehicle was
delivered to her, the vehicle has not been a merchantable condition, is not
safe, and does not conform to the quality and safety guidelines reasonably
expected of a motor vehicle. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Deposition of Person(s) Most Qualified at
Defendant General Motors LLC is GRANTED. 
 
discussion
 
Plaintiff
Janelle Seitz moves this court for an order compelling Defendant General Motors
LLC to designate the Person Most Qualified (“PMQ”) to testify regarding the
categories that have been agreed by the parties from those listed on the
Deposition Notice and to produce documents and things pursuant to the Request
for Production of Documents attached to the Notice. Plaintiff also requests an
award of attorney fees and costs in the amount of $1,860.00 for being required
to file the instant motion. Plaintiff makes such requests on the grounds that
GM has completely refused to designate and produce its PMQ deposition without
substantial justification. 
 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
Section 2025.450, if after service of a deposition notice, a party to the
action, without having served a valid objection, fails to appear for
examination, or proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any document, the
party giving notice may move for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance
and testimony, and the production for inspection of any document. (CCP §
2025.450(a).) A motion to compel the deposition of a party to the action must
be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration, or, when the deponent failed
to attend the deposition, a declaration stating that the petitioner has
contacted the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance. (CCP §
2025.450(b)(2).)
 
Plaintiff argues despite GM’s duty to
designate and produce its PMQ, GM has remained steadfast in its refusal to do
so. GM had no intention of presenting any officers, directors, managing agents,
employees or agents who are most qualified to testify on its behalf whatsoever.
Defendant’s counsel ignored Plaintiff’s requests for deposition dates that are
convenient for GM and its counsel, and when the time is near for Defendant to
produce a deponent, Defendant’s counsel objects to the deposition due to
Plaintiff “unilaterally” noticing the deposition date despite having requested
GM’s availability on numerous occasions. Plaintiff asserts such issues are
relevant to the subject matter of this action. 
 
GM first opposes the motion on the
grounds Plaintiff failed to meet and confer. GM contends it consistently offers
its PMQ for deposition on multiple Categories to Plaintiff’s counsel in other
cases appropriate to the facts and issues of the particular case and has
previously produced hundreds of pages of documents. GM asserts demanding
different deposition dates is not meeting and conferring in good faith as the
mere date of the deposition is not the real dispute here. GM also opposes the
motion on the grounds no separate statement was provided. 
 
The court finds the meet and confer
efforts sufficient. “A meet and confer declaration in support of a motion shall
state facts showing a reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal
resolution of each issue presented by the motion.” (CCP §2016.040.) GM
generally objected to the Notice on the grounds it was unilaterally served. It
also objected on other grounds but subject to and without waiving, agreed to
produce a witness. Plaintiff’s counsel reached out to GM to determine a mutual
time and place but GM has refused to cooperate. Plaintiff contends it has agreed
to limit the scope of the deposition to those categories requested by
Defendant. 
 
Moreover, while a separate statement
may be required when objections are served, the court finds it was not fatal to
the motion as the issue here is producing the PMQ. Plaintiff, as noted below,
has conceded to GM’s terms on what the limits of the deposition and production
of documents should be. 
 
Next, GM opposes the motion on the
grounds the motion seeks to compel irrelevant testimony and information as well
as trade secret material.  GM contends Plaintiff
has failed to explain how or why the requested testimony is discoverable, let
alone so essential to his claims or GM’s defenses that GM should be compelled
to provide it. However, GM will produce a PMQ on Category Nos. 1-7, 10-11 and
13-24 at a mutually agreeable time and place, subject to GM’s objections and
limited to information relevant to this case. 
 
Plaintiff contends it is agreeing to
limit the categories to those categories Defendant claims are relevant. As
such, the parties are to meet and confer at the hearing to confirm what is
deemed relevant and then agree upon a time and date for the deposition of the
PMQ to take place. 
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel Deposition of Person(s) Most Qualified at Defendant General
Motors LLC is GRANTED. 
 
Sanctions
 
Plaintiff seeks $1,860.00 for spending
2.5 hours preparing the motion, another .5 hours reviewing the opposition and
replying, and 1 hour attending the hearing. (Sadgan Decl. ¶7.) Counsel’s hourly
rate is $450.00. (Sadgan Decl. ¶7.) Counsel also seeks the $60 filing fee.
(Sadgan Decl. ¶7.) 
 
In opposition, GM argues the request
for sanctions should be denied because Plaintiff could have avoided this motion
if it had engaged in a meaningful meet and confer effort with GM. The court
disagrees and finds sanctions warranted. 
 
The court GRANTS Plaintiff’s request
for monetary sanctions in the amount of $1,860.00. 