 Case Number:  21STCV18729    Hearing Date:   January 25, 2024    Dept:  27  
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT
OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  
FOR THE COUNTY
OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT 
 
 



Nadelyne
  Michelle Reyes, et al.,
 
Plaintiffs, 
vs. 
 
Nathan’s
  Towing, LLC, et al., 
 
Defendants. 


) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 


     
  CASE NO.: 21STCV18729 
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: 
 
Motion
  to Compel Initial Responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One and Special
  Interrogatories, Set One
 
Motion
  to Compel Initial Responses to Requests for Production
   
 
Dept.
  27 
1:30
  p.m. 
January 25, 2024



 
I.           
BACKGROUND 
 
On
May 18, 2021, Plaintiffs Nadelyne Michelle Reyes; Jacey Adelyne Reyes, a minor
by and through her Guardian Ad Litem Nadelyne Michelle Reyes; and Jayleen
Noelia Reyes, a minor by and through her Guardian Ad Litem Nadelyne Michelle
Reyes (“Plaintiffs”) filed a complaint against Defendants Nathan’s Towing LLC
and John Gerald Ilizaliturri (“Defendants”), alleging general negligence
arising out of a motor vehicle accident. 
On
May 17, 2023, Defendants answered.  
On
November 8, 2023, Plaintiffs filed motions to compel responses to Form
Interrogatories, Set One,  Special
Interrogatories, Set One., and Requests for Production.  No oppositions have been filed. 
II.         
LEGAL STANDARD 
The
same general legal standards apply to interrogatories and requests for
production, so the court will only address interrogatory standards here.
A
party to whom interrogatories are directed fails to serve a timely response,
the propounding party may move for an order compelling responses and for a
monetary sanction.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (b).)¿
The statute contains no time limit for a motion to compel where no responses
have been served.¿ All that needs to be
shown in the moving papers is that a set of interrogatories was properly served
on the opposing party, that the time to respond has expired, and that no
response of any kind has been served.¿
(Leach v. Super. Ct. (1980) 111
Cal.App.3d 902, 905-906.)¿Failure to timely
respond waives all objections, including privilege and work product.¿
(Code Civ. Proc., §
2030.290, subd. (a).)¿  
Under
California Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.030, subd. (a), “[t]he court
may impose a monetary sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse of the
discovery process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the
reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result
of that conduct. . .. If a monetary sanction is authorized by any provision of
this title, the court shall impose that sanction unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”¿
Failing to respond or to submit to an authorized method of discovery is a
misuse of the discovery process.¿
(Code Civ. Proc., §
2023.010.)¿ 
Sanctions
are mandatory in connection with motions to compel responses to interrogatories
against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a
motion to compel unless the court “finds that the one subject to the sanction
acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the
imposition of the sanction unjust.”¿
(Code Civ. Proc., §§
2030.290, subd. (c).)
III.       
DISCUSSION 
Responses
Plaintiffs
seek to compel Defendant John Ilizaliturri, to provide responses, without
objections, to Form Interrogatories, Set One and Special Interrogatories, Set
One. 
Preliminarily,
each motion must be set forth in a separate document. (See California Rules of
Court, rule 3.1112(c).) Here, Plaintiffs have combined two motions related to
interrogatories.  The Court will exercise
its discretion and consider the combined motions.
On
May 26, 2023, Plaintiffs propounded the first set of form and special
interrogatories on Defendant John Ilizaliturri. (Decl. Chavez, ¶ 3, Ex. 1 and 2.)
No responses have been provided. (Decl. Chavez, ¶ 13.) Plaintiffs are entitled
to responses. Defendant Ilizaliturri has failed to provide responses to the
Form Interrogatories, Set One and Special Interrogatories, Set One that were
served in May 2023.  Defendant is ordered
to respond to both the Form Interrogatories and Special Interrogatories without
objection within 20 days of this order.
Plaintiffs
do not advance adequate evidence that they propounded the first set of requests
for production of documents, set one. Their counsel states that on May 26,
2023, Plaintiffs propounded the first set of form and special interrogatories
on Defendant John Ilizaliturri. (Decl. Chavez, ¶ 3, Ex. 1 and 2.) There is no
evidence supporting that Plaintiffs propounded Requests for Production of
Documents, Set One.  Accordingly, the motion
to compel responses to the request for production of documents is denied
without prejudice.
Sanctions
On
the interrogatory motion, Plaintiffs seeks $1260 in sanctions.  Sanctions are appropriate, and the Court
orders sanctions in the amount of $1260 against Defendant Ilizaliturri
only.  (The Court finds that sanctions
against counsel of record would be unjust because that counsel was
replaced.  No substitution of counsel was
filed because Defendant was not responsive.)
The
Court denies sanctions on the document motion.
IV.        
CONCLUSION 
Motion
to Compel Initial Responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One and Special
Interrogatories, Set One is GRANTED. 
Responses, without objection, are to be served within 20 days. 
Motion
to Compel Initial Responses to Requests for Production of Documents, Set One is
DENIED. 
 
Moving
party to give notice. 
 
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at
SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at
www.lacourt.org.  Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative
and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless
appear at the hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive
emails from the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and
there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion,
adopt the tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar. 
 
    Dated this 25th
day of January 2024 
 



  


 




 


Hon.
  Lee S. Arian   
Judge
  of the Superior Court 
 



 
 