 Case Number:  22STCV04118    Hearing Date:   January 25, 2024    Dept:  27  
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL
DISTRICT
 



JOSE CISNEROS,
                   Plaintiff,
          v.
 
CITY
  OF INDUSTRY, CITY OF LOS ANGELES, XEBEC BUILDING COMPANY, INC., AMERICAN
  WRECKING, INC., and DOES 1 to 50,
 
                   Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 22STCV04118
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION BY PLAINTIFFS CITY OF INDUSTRY AND L&M CONSTRUCTION,
  INC. FOR MONETARY SANCTIONS AGAINST PLAINTIFF AND PLAINTIFF’S COUNSEL FOR
  ABUSE OF DISCOVERY PROCESS
 
Dept.
  27
1:30
  p.m.
January
  25, 2024



 
I.       INTRODUCTION
          On
February 2, 2022, Plaintiff Jose Cisneros brought this action against
Defendants City of Industry, City of Los Angeles, Xebec Building Company, Inc.,
American Wrecking, Inc., and Does 1 to 50, for general negligence and premises
liability. Plaintiff alleges that he has incurred injuries and damages arising
from a trip and fall incident that occurred on a section of the Defendants’
sidewalk. 
On April 18,
2022, Plaintiff named L&M Construction, Inc. (“L&M”) as Doe 1. 
On November
21, 2022, Plaintiff filed the First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) which serves as
the operative pleading. 
On November
29, 2023, Defendants City of Industry and L&M Construction, Inc.
(collectively, the “moving Defendants”) filed the instant Motion for Sanctions
against Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s Counsel for Abuse of Discovery Process. 
On January
11, 2024, Plaintiff opposed the instant motion. On January 18, 2024, the moving
Defendants replied.
II.     LEGAL
STANDARDS
Code of Civil
Procedure section 2023.010 provides, in part, that:
“Misuses of
the discovery process include, but are not limited to, the following: …
(d) Failing to respond or to submit to an authorized method of discovery.
(e) Making, without substantial justification, an unmeritorious objection
to discovery. (f) Making an evasive response to discovery….”
Code of Civil
Procedure section 2023.030 subdivision (a) provides that:
“To the extent authorized by the chapter governing
any particular discovery method or any other provision of this title, the
court, after notice to any affected party, person, or attorney, and after
opportunity for hearing, may impose the following sanctions against anyone
engaging in conduct that is a misuse of the discovery process: (a) The
court may impose a monetary sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse
of the discovery process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay
the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a
result of that conduct. The court may also impose this sanction on one
unsuccessfully asserting that another has engaged in the misuse of the
discovery process, or on any attorney who advised that assertion, or on both.
If a monetary sanction is authorized by any provision of this title, the court
shall impose that sanction unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction
acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the
imposition of the sanction unjust.” “[T]he phrase ‘substantial justification’
has been understood to mean that a justification is clearly reasonable because
it is well-grounded in both law and fact.” (Doe v. United States Swimming,
Inc. (2011) 200 Cal.App.4th 1424, 1434.)
A trial court under section 2023.030(a) may not
impose monetary sanctions against a party's attorney unless the court finds
that the attorney “advised” the party to engage in the conduct resulting in
sanctions. (§ 2023.030(a); Ghanooni v. Super Shuttle (1993) 20 Cal.App.4th
256, 261 (Ghanooni).) “Unlike monetary sanctions against a party,
which are based on the party's misuse of the discovery process, monetary
sanctions against the party's attorney require a finding the ‘attorney
advis[ed] that conduct.’” (Ghanooni, supra, 20 Cal.App.4th 256 at
p. 261.) “It is not enough that the attorney's actions were in some way
improper.” (Corns v. Miller (1986) 181 Cal.App.3d 195, 200, 226 (Corns).)
Because an attorney's advice to a client is “peculiarly within [his or her]
knowledge,” the attorney has the burden of showing that he or she did not
counsel discovery abuse. (Ibid.) Accordingly, when a party seeking
sanctions against an attorney offers sufficient evidence of a misuse of the
discovery process, the burden shifts to the attorney to demonstrate that he or
she did not recommend that conduct. (Corns, Supra, 181 Cal.App.3d
at pp. 200–201; Ghanooni, supra, 20 Cal.App.4th 256 at p. 262.)
III.    DISCUSSION
          The
moving Defendants request that the Court issue an order imposing monetary
sanctions against Plaintiff and his counsel, Accident Fighters, APC, jointly
and severally, in the amount of $6,600.00 in favor of Defendant City of
Industry and an additional $1,500 in favor of Defendant L&M. 
 In their Motion, the moving Defendants allege
that Plaintiff and his counsel have engaged in various forms of misuse of
discovery, including (1) repeated and lengthy frivolous objections; (2)
improperly coaching; (3) lengthy speeches and colloquy on the records; and (4)
refusing to allow City of Industry or L&M to depose Plaintiff.  
In his Opposition,
Plaintiff argues that the Court should deny the Motion on several grounds: (1)
the sanctions requested lack a statutory basis, as illustrated by the case of City
of Los Angeles v. PricewaterhouseCooper, LLC (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 466, 504
(City of LA v. PWC)); (2) the Motion is procedurally defective due to
the moving Defendants’ refusal to meet and confer; and (3) it is improper to seek
recovery for time wasted during the deposition. Additionally, Plaintiff asserts
that the moving Defendants themselves should face sanctions under Code of Civil
Procedure sections 128.5(g), 2023.240, and 2023.050.
          In
their Reply, the moving Defendants make several contentions: (1) they argue for
their valid standing to seek sanctions, citing Code of Civil Procedure sections
2023.030, subdivision (a), and 2025.610 subdivision (a); (2) they maintain that
their Motion is grounded on decades of precedents, asserting that City of LA
v. PWC is not a controlling precedent; (3) they note that Plaintiff does
not provide any substantive argument against the alleged misuse of the discovery
process, offering only conclusory statements; (4) they emphasize that
Plaintiff’s history of sanctions demonstrates a pattern and practice of discovery
misconduct; and (5) they argue that Plaintiff’s request for sanction is
improper.
Statutory Authority under Code of Civil
Procedure Section 2025.030
          The
instant Motion is expressly based on the authority under Code of Civil
Procedure 2020.030. In response, Plaintiff first primarily relies on City of
LA v. PWC, asserting that “[s]cetion 2023.030 does not independently
authorize the court to impose sanctions for discovery misconduct.” (Id.,
at p. 504.)  However, Plaintiff fails to
note that on January 25, 2023, the Supreme Court granted review of the City
of LA v. PWC case.[1] 
Conversely,
the moving Defendants have cited several settled precedents to support of their
position that sanctions may be awarded solely based on section 2025.030.
(Reply, at p. 3; also see Tucker v. Pacific Bell Mobile Service (201)
186 Cal.App.4th 1548, Kwan Software Engineering, Inc. v. Hennings
(2020) 58 Cal.App.5th 57 (Kwan Software Engineering), and Pratt v.
Union Pacific Railroad Co. (2008) 168 Cal.App.4th 165.) 
In applying
the rule that acknowledges the persuasive value of City of LA v. PWC,
the Court notes the existing split in authority regarding the interpretation of
the language in section 2023, specifically the phrase “to the extent authorized
by the chapter governing any particular discovery method or any other provision
of this title.” (Ibid.) Furthermore, the Court draws attention to the
published concurrence in part by Justice Grimes in City of LA v. PWC,
where she opined that “[a]s a final comment, I also take issue with the
majority’s apparent view that its unprecedented construction of the statute –
the first in the several decades since the Discovery Act was enacted – is the
one ‘that comports most closely with the Legislature’s apparent intent,
endeavoring to promote rather than defeat the statute’s general purpose.
[Citation.] …’ The majority’s conclusion that the only way a trial court can
deal with an egregious pattern of stonewalling and falsity in discovery
responses is by adhering to the procedural prerequisites of each separate
discovery statute for each particular discovery violation does not, in my view,
comport with Legislative intent, much less with decades of precedent.”
Accordingly, given that City of LA v. PWC represents a novel stance and
creates a split in authority, the Court places greater weight on the other
cases that align “with decades of precedent” as Justice Grimes pointed out. Consequently,
in light of the diminished persuasiveness of City of LA v. PWC,
Plaintiff’s assertion fails to convince this Court that “section 2030.030 does
not independently authorize a trial court to impose monetary sanction for
misuse of discovery.”
The Court
also notes that the moving Defendants presented in their Reply that the instant
motion should be viewed in conjunction with the sanctions authorized under Code
of Civil Procedure section 2025.450. This suggestion is based on their filing
of a separate Motion to Compel Plaintiff’s Deposition on the same date,
November 29, 2023. However, the Court rejects the notion that the instant
motion should be considered “a part and parcel with Defendant’s Motion to
Compel Plaintiff’s deposition.” (Reply, at p. 5.) Upon reviewing the records,
it is evident that the Motion to Compel Plaintiff’s Deposition is based upon
its own separate Notice, Memorandum, and Declarations and includes a distinct
request for monetary sanctions without incorporation by reference of the
instant motion. Therefore, the Court reviews the instant motion independently,
solely under the purview of Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.030, without
considering provisions related to sanctions for compelling a deposition.
Standing
          In
his Opposition, Plaintiff argues that the moving Defendants lack standing to
bring the instant motion because “it is not even discovery that is being
propounded by them [the moving Defendants].” (Opp’n, at p. 5.)
          The
law explicitly states that the Court may impose a monetary sanction “ordering
that one engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any attorney
advising that conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including
attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2030.030, subd. (a).) (Underline added.) The sole requisite for
filing a motion for sanction is that “[a] request for a sanction shall, in the
notice of motion, identify every person, party, and attorney against whom the
sanction is sought, and specify the type of sanction sought. The notice of
motion shall be supported by a memorandum of points and authorities, and
accompanied by a declaration setting forth facts supporting the amount of any
monetary sanction sought.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.040.)
          Plaintiff
fails to cite any legal authorities to support his contention that a motion for
sanction requires the moving party to be the one issuing the notice or
propounding the deposition questions. Consequently, the Court finds Plaintiff’s
argument unpersuasive.
Meet and Confer 
          Plaintiff
raises the issue of the necessity for the meet and confer process. Addressing
this, the Court bifurcates the analysis into two distinct inquiries: (1)
whether a meet and confer process is a procedural prerequisite for filing the
instant Motion, and (2) whether any party presents a valid claim for sanctions due
to a failure to meet and confer.
          “Misuses
of the discovery process include, … (i) failing to confer in person, by
telephone, or by letter with an opposing party or attorney in a reasonable and
good faith attempt to resolve informally any dispute concerning discovery, if
the section governing a particular discovery motion requires the filing of a
declaration stating facts showing that an attempt at informal resolution has
been made.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010, subd. (i).) (Underline added.)
          “Notwithstanding
the outcome of the particular discovery motion, the court shall impose a
monetary sanction ordering that any party or attorney who fails to confer as
required pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fee, incurred by
anyone as a result of that conduct.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.020.)
          “Notwithstanding
any other law, and in addition to any other sanctions imposed pursuant to this
chapter, a court shall impose a one-thousand-dollar ($1,000) sanction, payable
to the requesting party, upon a party, person, or attorney if, upon reviewing a
request for a sanction made pursuant to Section 2023.040, the court finds any
of the following: … (3) The party, person, or attorney failed to confer in
person, by telephone, letter, or other means of communication in writing, as
defined in Section 250 of the Evidence Code, with the party or attorney
requesting the documents in a reasonable and good faith attempt to resolve
informally any dispute concerning the request.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2023.050, subd. (a)(3).) (Underline added.)
          Despite
Plaintiff’s reference to Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.050, the Court
agrees with the moving Defendants that section 2023.050 is not the pertinent
section.  The alleged discovery
misconduct pertains to the Plaintiff’s deposition, specifically those behaviors
outlined in section 2023.010 (d), (e), and (f). (Mot. at. P. 9.)  Thus, the relevant code section for the
instant motion is section 2023.020, and, accordingly, the failure to meet and
confer does not impede the Court’s ability to review the Motion in question. 
          Furthermore,
according to the declaration of Defendant City of Industry’s counsel, “on
October 19, 2023, all Defendants sent a joint meet and confer letter to
Plaintiff’s counsel concerning the issues that arose at Plaintiff’s deposition
on September 13, 2023.” (01/18/24 Cheng Decl., ¶ 5, Ex. “B.”)  Between October 24 and November 27, 2023,
Plaintiff’s counsel and Defendant City of Industry’s counsel exchanged emails
further meeting and conferring on the issues raised in Defendant’s September
19, 2023 joint email. (01/18/24 Cheng Decl., Ex. “C.”) In one email dated
November 27, 2023, counsel for City of Industry conveyed that “[g]iven that we
are at an impasse, we will be moving forward with a motion to compel as
outlined in our October 19 letter.” (Ibid.)
          Based
on the above direct evidence presented in the counsel’s declaration, it is
evident that City of Industry has fulfilled its meet and confer obligation
before filing the instant Motion. Similarly, the Court finds that it cannot be determined
from the records that Plaintiff has failed to meet the same requirement.
Therefore, the Court will not impose sanctions against either party for failure
to meet and confer. 
Discovery Misconduct – Making
Unmeritorious Objections
          “Misuses
of the discovery process include, but are not limited to, the following: … (e)
Making, without substantial justification, an unmeritorious objection to
discovery.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010, subd. (e).) 
          The
moving Defendants assert that Plaintiff’s counsel engaged in making frivolous
objections during Plaintiff’s deposition. This includes objecting to a basic
question about the location of the accident as “vague,” specifically to the
question, “Where did the accident happen?” (Mot. at p. 10, 11/29/2023 Cheng
Decl., Ex. “A” at 14:15-17.)
          The
moving Defendants also cite additional instances where Plaintiff’s counsel asserted
objections under Rifkind v. Superior Court (1994) 22 Cal.App.4th 1255.  In Rifkind, the Court of Appeal held
that it was improper for a party to ask “legal contention questions” at a
deposition, which the court defined as “deposition questions that ask a party
deponent to state all facts, list all witnesses and identify all document that support
or pertain to a particular contention in that party’s pleadings. (Id.,
at p. 1262.)  However, a Rifkind
objection does not apply to questions seeking information about the deponent’s
personal knowledge of facts. Therefore, Plaintiff’s counsel’s invocation of Rifkind
objection is deemed improper as to the question, “You mentioned your hands,
what other parts of your body, if any, struck the ground, if at all?” (Mot. at
p. 10, 11/29/2023 Cheng Decl., Ex. “A” at 85:25-86:4.)
          Accordingly,
the Court finds that Plaintiff’s counsel made unmeritorious objections.  Of course, not every objection will have
merit, but the issue is one of degree and pattern.  Here, counsel engaged in a pattern of
unmeritorious objections, thereby constituting a misuse of the discovery
process under Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.010 subdivision (e).
Discovery Misconduct – Making Evasive
Responses
          “Misuses
of the discovery process include, but are not limited to, the following: … (f)
 Making an evasive response to discovery.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010,
subd. (f).)
          The
moving Defendants allege that Plaintiff repeatedly responded with “I don’t
understand [the question],” or provided no answer, claiming irrelevance. However,
after reviewing the deposition records, the Court finds insufficient evidence
to support the moving Defendant’s claim. In one instance cited by the moving
Defendants, Plaintiff’s response “I don’t understand that question well” was in
reaction to a long and compound question posed by Defendant’s counsel: “So on
the dates prior to the accident – we’re not talking about the date of the
accident but the dates prior to the accident – when you would walk towards
Nelson on Stichman, you would exit your house and walk towards the south
direction – toward Nelson? Is that fair?” (11/29/2023 Cheng Decl., Ex. “A” at
49: 6-13.)  
          The
Court opines that responses appearing incomplete or evasive, often accompanied
by statements like “I don’t understand,” do not necessarily signify misuse of
the discovery process. The appropriateness of such response must be evaluated
within the context of the specific question asked, as well as considering
whether it is being used repeatedly and inappropriately throughout the
deposition. Consequently, the moving Defendants have not presented sufficient
direct evidence to support their claim.
          Therefore,
the Court finds that the moving Defendant has failed to substantiate their
claim of Plaintiff’s misuse of the discovery process through evasive responses.

Discovery Misconduct - Improper
Coaching
          The
moving Defendants allege that Plaintiff’s counsel engaged in improper coaching
of Plaintiff during the deposition. Referencing Tucker v. Pacific Bell
Mobile Services, 186 Cal.App.4thh 1538 (Tucker), they argue that Plaintiff’s
counsel employed two methods of coaching. 
The first
method entails indirectly suggesting evasive responses to the deponent
Plaintiff through interruptions, speaking objections, and attempts to control
the course of the deposition. The second method accuses Plaintiff’s counsel of
directly providing answers on behalf of Plaintiff. (Mot., at pp. 13-14.) 
The Court
distinguishes the first method of coaching from Tucker. There, the
counsel “pushed the pad to the witness during deposition examination,” and
allowed the witness “to take hints and review counsel’s handwritten note while
the opposing counsel was framing questions.” (Id., at p. 1557.) The Tucker
court found that “putting a note in front of a witness during a deposition and
then telling the witness not to say what it is, it certainly has the objective
appearance of being improper coaching.” (Id., 1559-1560.)
Here, the alleged
first method involves the inference that Plaintiff’s counsel’s improper
interruptions and objections served as suggestive cues to Plaintiff, prompting
Plaintiff to provide incomplete and evasive responses. However, this inference falls
short of meeting the standard for an “objective appearance of being improper
coaching,” as demonstrated in Tucker, where the writing of the counsel’s
notepad is shown to the witness in Tucker. As the initial burden rests
with the moving party to provide substantial evidence, the Court determines
that Defendants have not substantiated their allegation by merely suggesting
the possibility of improper coaching through inference.
In contrast,
the moving Defendants presented direct evidence as to the second coaching method.
An illustrative instance occurred when “Defendant’s counsel asked Plaintiff
about a yellow-orange object in photographs Plaintiff took entered as Exhibit 8
and whether it was the same object as the one in Exhibit 3, which Plaintiff had
previously identified as a sign. [Reference.] Before Plaintiff could answer,
Plaintiff’s counsel objected and stated: “Counsel, it looks like what you’re
showing is a pizza box. There’s trash in the area. [Reference.] At that point,
Plaintiff had not identified any pizza box or trash in the photographs.” (Mot.,
at p.14., 11/29/23 Cheng Decl., Ex. “A” at 75:7-10, 75:19-21, 89:5-9.) 
The conduct of
Plaintiff’s counsel, which involved providing answers on behalf of the deponent,
unquestionably exceeds a mere “object appearance” of improper coaching. In Tucker,
the court identified improper coaching through actions such as writing on the
notepad and displaying it to the witness, without determining the contents of
the writing. Here, the counsel’s conduct constitutes a direct violation and is unquestionably
improper.
Consequently,
the Court determines that the burden shifts to Plaintiff’s counsel to
demonstrate that he did not engage in improper coaching (See Corns, Supra,
181 Cal.App.3d at pp. 200–201; Ghanooni, supra, 20 Cal.App.4th
256 at p. 262.) The records indicate that Plaintiff has not provided any
evidence in defense of his counsel’s conduct. In his Opposition, Plaintiff
asserted that only “two questions were instructed to not be answered during an
entire day of an interpreted deposition (one related to attorney-client
privilege and the other related to privacy).” (Opp’n, at p. 4.) Apparently, the
question about a “yellow-orange object in the photograph” does not pertain to
either attorney-client privilege or privacy, as Plaintiff’s counsel himself
gave the answer to it – “a pizza box … trash …” (11/29/23 Cheng Decl., Ex. “A”
at 89:8-9.) Therefore, the Court concludes that Plaintiff has failed to
effectively meet his burden of demonstrating that his counsel’s conduct was not
improper coaching. 
          Therefore,
the Court concludes that the direct evidence supports the finding that
Plaintiff’s counsel engaged in improper coaching during the deposition. 
Discovery Misconduct – Obstructing the Deposition
          The
moving Defendants allege that Plaintiff’s counsel obstructed the deposition
through several of his misconducts, including improper lengthy speeches and
colloquy on the record; refusal to allow the interpreter to interpret an
utterance Plaintiff made; and refusal to allow City of Industry or L&M
depose Plaintiff. (Mot. at pp. 15-17.)
After
reviewing the deposition records, the Court finds that Plaintiff’s counsel has
obstructed the deposition process through at least his refusal to allow
Defendants City of Industry and L&M to depose Plaintiff.
California
Rules of Court, Rule 3.1010(b) provides, “[a]ny party, other than the deponent,
or attorney of record may appear and participate in an oral deposition by
telephone, videoconference, or other remote electronic means, provided: (1)
 Written notice of such appearance is served by personal delivery, e-mail,
or fax at least five court days before the deposition; (2)  The party so
appearing makes all arrangements and pays all expenses incurred for the
appearance. Parties and their attorneys have the right to attend a
deposition. (See, e.g., Jameson v. Desta (2013) 215 Cal.App.4th
1144, 1175-1176 [pro per inmate should have been allowed to attend his expert’s
deposition]; Willoughby v. Superior Ct. (1985) 172 Cal.App.3d 899,
891-892 [court could not prohibit Defendants from attending Plaintiff’s
deposition, despite Plaintiff’s claim that she felt fearful and uneasy and
could not testify calmly in their presence]; Lowy Dev. Corp. v. Superior Ct.
(1987) 190 Cal.App.3d 317, 321-322 [organization’s representative are allowed
to attend depositions].)        
Here, the
deposition records show that Plaintiff posits that Defendants City of Industry
and L&M are not allowed to depose Plaintiff because they did not serve any
joinder to the notice of Plaintiff’s deposition. (11/29/23 Cheng Decl., Ex. “A”
at 140:4-7, 144:2-3, 147:9-12, 154: 24-155:5) The direct evidence is persuasive
to the Court that Plaintiff’s refusal to allow the moving Defendants to pose
questions during the deposition is not in accordance with the relevant code
sections and established case law. Plaintiff has failed to present any
effective counterarguments in his Opposition.
Therefore, the
Court concludes that Plaintiff misused the discovery process by denying
attending Defendants City of Industry and L&M the opportunity to depose
Plaintiff.
Monetary Sanctions
          The
moving Defendants have sought monetary sanctions under Code of Civil Procedure
section 2023.030, in the amount of $6,600.00 in favor of City of Industry and
$1,500.00 in favor of L&M.
The amount in
favor of the City of Industry is based on its counsel’s $440.00 hourly rate,
for 7 hours for meeting and conferring and drafting the instant motion, 4 hours
for reviewing the Opposition and preparing the Reply, and 1 hour for attending
the hearing. (11/29/23 Cheng Decl., ¶ 7.) Additionally, Defendant City of
Industry is seeking reasonable value for its counsel’s time and services for
the three hours wasted due to Plaintiff’s counsel’s misconduct during the
deposition. The total billable hours amount to 15 hours, totaling $6,600.00,
calculated at $440.00/hour x 15 hours. (Ibid.)
“Courts have continued to uphold the principle ...
that sanctions may not be imposed solely to punish the offending party....
Furthermore, the sanction chosen should not provide a windfall to the other
party, by putting the prevailing party in a better position than if he or she
had obtained the discovery sought and it had been favorable.” (Rutledge v.
Hewlett-Packard Co. (2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 1164, 1193, 190
Cal.Rptr.3d 411,  [T]e
consideration of punishment might well influence the amount of monetary
sanctions the trial court should award, it has no bearing on the threshold
question of whether … at least some monetary sanctions for the reasonable
attorney fees incurred as a result of … misuse of the discovery process. (Kwan
Software Engineering, supra, 58 Cal.App.5th 57 at 77.)
          Based
on the information presented, the Court finds that the moving Defendants have
sufficiently demonstrated that Plaintiff misused the discovery process on
multiple occasions and through various means during the deposition.
The Court, exercising
its discretion, determines that 10 hours, encompassing 6 hours for drafting the
instant motion, 3 hours for reviewing Opposition and drafting the Reply, and 1
hour for attending the hearing, represent a reasonable allocation of attorney
hours incurred due to the demonstrated misuse of discovery process by
Plaintiff, in accordance with Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.030. However,
the request for monetary sanctions for three additional hours incurred during
the deposition is not granted due to the uncertainty, and such an award could
be considered as punishment considering both parties incurred this additional
time during the deposition. 
As a result,
the Court GRANTS IN PART, the monetary sanctions, in the amount of $4,400.00 in
favor of City of Industry, as calculated at $440.00/hour x (6 hours for
drafting the instant Motion + 3 hours for reviewing Opposition and drafting the
Reply + 1 hour for attending the hearing.) 
          Additionally,
the Court GRANTS IN PART, the monetary sanction, in the amount of $ 800.00 in
favor of L&M, as calculated at $200.00/hour x (1.5 hour for preparing the
instant Motion + 1 hour for preparing the Reply + 1.5 hours for attending the
hearing) (Bubion Decl., ¶ 5.)    
IV.    CONCLUSION
Defendants City of Industry and
L&M’s Motion for Sanctions against Plaintiff and His Counsel is GRANTED IN
PART. 
The request for sanctions is GRANTED IN
PART, with a total amount of $4,400.00 in favor of City of Industry and $800.00
in favor of L&M. 
Plaintiff and his counsel are ordered to
pay within 10 days of receiving notice of this order. 
Moving party to give notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to
appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the
hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you
receive a submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume
that others might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive emails from the
parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 
Dated
this 25th Day of January
 




 


 




 


Hon. Lee S. Arian
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
 


