 Case Number:  21STCV14758    Hearing Date:   January 25, 2024    Dept:  27 SUPERIOR COURT
OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY
OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



ANGLOR
  LASHAWN HENDLEY, 
                   Plaintiff,
          vs.
 
SEAN FRANCIS
  O’CONNER, et al.,
 
                   Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 21STCV14758
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANT SEAN FRANCIS O’CONNER’S MOTION TO COMPEL PLAINTIFF TO
  UNDERGO AN INDEPENDENT MEDICAL EXAMINATION WITH ORTHOPEDIC SURGEON STEVEN
  NAGELBERG M.D. AND FOR SANCTIONS IN THE SUM OF $2,400.


 
Dept. 27
1:30 p.m.
January 25,
  2024



 
I.                  
INTRODUCTION
On April 19, 2021, Plaintiff Anglor Lashawn
Hendley (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants Enterprise
Rent-A-Car Company of Los Angeles, LLC (“Enterprise”) and Sean Francis O’Conner
(“O’Conner”) arising from an April 26, 2019, motor vehicle collision.
On October 19, 2021, Plaintiff voluntarily
dismissed Enterprise from this action without prejudice.
On January 5, 2022, O’Conner filed his answer
to the complaint. 
On September 25, 2023, Defendant filed the
instant motion to compel Plaintiff’s independent medical examination. Defendant
also seeks monetary sanctions against Plaintiff and her attorney of record in
the amount of $2,400 for failing to appear at her previously noticed medical
examinations.
On November 29, 2023, the Court granted Counsel
Jorge Ledezma Flores’ motion to be relieved as Plaintiff’s counsel. 
No opposition has been filed with regard to the
instant motion to compel.
II.               
LEGAL STANDARD
In any case in which a plaintiff is seeking
recovery for personal injuries, any defendant may demand one physical
examination of the plaintiff where: (1) the examination does not include any
diagnostic test or procedure that is painful, protracted, or intrusive; and (2)
the examination is conducted at a location within 75 miles of the residence of
the examinee.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2032.220, subd. (a).)  Where any party
seeks to obtain discovery by a physical examination other than that described
in Section 2032.220, or by a mental examination, the party shall obtain leave
of the court.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2032.310, subd. (a).) 
If a defendant who has demanded a physical
examination, on receipt of the plaintiff’s response to that demand, deems that
any modification of the demand, or any refusal to submit to the physical
examination is unwarranted, that defendant may move for an order compelling
compliance with the demand.  The motion
shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.250, subd. (a).)
III.            
DISCUSSION
A.   
Merits
Plaintiff has alleged to have suffered physical
injuries from the subject incident, and through written discovery, it was
determined that Plaintiff claims orthopedic injuries to her lower back, neck,
and right shoulder, which consists of at least $49,000 in damages. (Templeton
Decl. ¶ 2, Exh. A at Form Interrogatories 6.2, 6.3, and 6.4.) Based on this
claim of orthopedic injuries, O’Conner has demanded Plaintiff to submit to an
independent medical examination on three occasions; however, Plaintiff has yet
to attend an examination. (Templeton Decl. ¶¶ 3-9, Exhs. B-F.) Under the
circumstances, because Plaintiff has placed her orthopedic injuries at issue,
O’Conner is entitled to an independent medical examination. (See Code Civ.
Proc. §§ 2032.220, 2032.240.)
Accordingly, the instant motion is granted.
Plaintiff is ordered to appear for an independent medical examination before
Dr. Steven Nagelberg within twenty (20) days of receipt of notice of this
Order. 
B.    
Sanctions
The Court shall impose a monetary sanction
against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a
motion to compel compliance with a demand for a physical examination, unless it
finds the party subject to sanctions acted with substantial justification or
that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.250, subd. (b).) “If a party is required to submit to
a physical or mental examination . . . but fails to do so, the court, on motion
of the party entitled to the examination, may make those orders that are just,
including the imposition of an issue sanction, an evidence sanction, or a
terminating sanction . . . In lieu of or in addition to that sanction, the
court may, on motion of the party, impose a monetary sanction . . .”  (Code
Civ. Proc. § 2032.410.)
O’Conner seeks monetary sanctions against
Plaintiff and/or her former attorney of record in the amount of $2,400. This
request consists of following: (1) four hours preparing the instant motion at a
rate of $190/hour; (2) one anticipated hours in preparing the reply at a rate
of $190/hour; (3) one anticipated hour attending the hearing at an hourly rate
of $190/hour ; (4) a $60 filing fee; and (5) two $600 fees for Plaintiff’s
failure to attend two examinations. (Templeton Decl. ¶ 12.)
Plaintiff was required to submit to a physical
examination pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 2032.220 but failed to appear
twice. As a result, sanctions are warranted under Code of Civil Procedure §
2032.410. However, the amount requested is excessive because the instant motion
concerns a relatively simple discovery issue, no reply has been submitted, and
appearances will likely be remote.. Thus, the Court grants O’Conner’s request
for monetary sanctions against Plaintiff and her former attorney of record in
the reduced amount of $2,000, consisting of counsel time  preparing the motion and attending the hearing
and fees totaling $1260.
Accordingly, the Court grants O’Conner’s
request for monetary sanctions against Plaintiff and her former attorney of
record, jointly and severally, in the reduced amount of $2000.
IV.            
CONCLUSION
Based on the foregoing, the Court grants the
instant motion. Plaintiff is ordered to appear for an independent medical
examination before Dr. Steven Nagelberg within twenty (20) days of receipt of
notice of this Order. 
Also, O’Conner’s request for monetary sanctions
against Plaintiff and her former attorney of record, jointly and severally, is
granted in the amount of $2,000. Payment shall be tendered to O’Conner’s
counsel of record within thirty days of receipt of notice of this Order. 
 
Moving party to give notice.
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative
must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention
to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the
court website at www.lacourt.org.  Please
be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to appear at the
hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue
the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If
the Court does not receive emails from the parties indicating submission on
this tentative ruling and there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court
may, at its discretion, adopt the tentative as the final order or place the
motion off calendar.
Dated this 25th
day of January 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Lee S.
  Arian 
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 




 