 Case Number:  22STCV28122    Hearing Date:   January 25, 2024    Dept:  27  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL
DISTRICT
 



MICHAEL WILLIAM WILSON, 
                   Plaintiff,
          vs.
 
CLAYTON
  DAMIAN FISCHER, et al.,
 
                   Defendants.
 


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 22STCV28122
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEMURRER TO ANSWER OF DEFENDANT CLAYTON DAMIAN FISCHER TO FIRST
  AMENDED COMPLAINT
 
Dept.
  27
1:30
  p.m.
January
  25, 2024



 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff Michael Willaim Wilson (“Plaintiff”)
RESPONDING PARTY: Defendant Clayton Damian Fischer
(“Fischer”)
 
 
 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
This
is an action arising from a motor vehicle accident that occurred on July 21,
2022. On August 29, 2022, Plaintiff Michael William Wilson (“Plaintiff”) filed
a complaint against Defendants Clayton Damian Fischer (“Fischer”), Southwark
Metal Manufacturing (“Southwark”), and Does 1 through 100 alleging causes of
action for: (1) Motor Vehicle Negligence, (2)
Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress, (3) Negligent Entrustment, and
(4) Negligent Hiring. The complaint alleges that Defendant Fischer, who is
an employee of Defendant Southwark, was driving under the influence of alcohol
when he collided with Plaintiff’s vehicle. (Complaint, ¶¶ 8-10.) 
On
October 12, 2022, Defendant Southwark filed a cross-complaint against Roes 1
through 20 alleging causes of action for equitable indemnity, contribution,
express indemnity and declaratory relief. 
On
November 17, 2023, Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended Complaint
(“FAC”) against Defendants for: (1) Motor Vehicle Negligence, (2) Negligent
Entrustment, and (3) Negligent Hiring, Retention, and Supervision. 
On
December 20, 2023, Defendant Fischer filed an Answer to the FAC (the “Answer”).
Defendant Fischer makes a general denial and raises the following four
affirmative defenses in the Answer: (1) Fault of Others; (2) Severability; (3) Howell
Doctrine; and (4) Reservation of Rights.   
 
 
 
The Instant Demurrer 
          On December
26, 2023, Plaintiff filed and served a demurrer to the first, second, and third
affirmative defenses in the Answer filed by Defendant Fischer.[1]
On January 11, 2024, Defendant Fischer filed an opposition to the demurrer. As
of January 22, 2024, no reply brief has been filed. Any reply brief was
required to have been filed and served at least five court days prior to the
hearing. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1005, subd. (b).) 
 
II.      LEGAL STANDARD 
          “A party
against whom an answer has been filed may object, by demurrer . . . to the
answer” on the grounds that: “(a) [t]he answer does not state facts sufficient
to constitute a defense” or “(b) [t]he answer is uncertain.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 430.20, subd. (a)-(b).)
 “[T]he
determination whether an answer states a defense is governed by the same
principles which are applicable in determining if a complaint states a cause of
action.” (South Shore Land Co. v. Petersen (1964) 226 Cal.App.2d 725,
732.) “A demurrer reaches only the contents of the pleading and such matters as
may be considered under the doctrine of judicial notice.” (Ibid.
[citation omitted, internal quotations omitted].) “[A] demurrer does not . . .
admit contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law alleged in the
pleading.” (Ibid. [citations omitted].) In assessing a demurrer to the
answer, “each so-called defense must be considered separately without regard to
any other defense.” (Id. at p. 733.) An answer must not set forth mere legal
conclusions but must articulate “facts averred as carefully and with as much
detail as the facts which constitute the cause of action and are alleged in the
complaint.” (FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 367,
384, citation omitted.) 
“[T]he answer to a complaint must
include [a] statement of any new matter constituting a defense. The phrase new
matter refers to something relied on by a defendant which is not put in
issue by the plaintiff . . . [and] where matters are not responsive to
essential allegations of the complaint, they must be raised in the answer as
new matter.” (Walsh v. West Valley Mission Community College Dist. (1998)
66 Cal.App.4th 1532, 1546, emphasis in original.) 
          Although
courts construe pleadings liberally, sufficient facts must be alleged to
support the allegations pled to survive a demurrer. (Rakestraw v. California
Physicians' Serv. (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 39, 43.) Where a demurrer is
sustained, leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable
possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v.
Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349.) The burden is on the party who
filed the pleading subject to demurrer to show the court that a pleading can be
amended successfully. (Ibid.) 
III.    DISCUSSION 
The Meet and Confer Requirement
          Before filing a demurrer, the demurring party
is required to meet and confer “in person, by telephone, or by video conference
with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to the demurrer for the
purposes of determining whether an agreement can be reached through a filing of
an amended pleading that would resolve the objections to be raised in the
demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a).) 
          The
Court finds that the meet and confer requirement has been met. (Soofer Decl., ¶¶
18-22.) 
 
The First, Second, and Third Affirmative Defenses 
          The first
affirmative defense in the Answer, which is captioned for “Fault of Others” asserts
that “[o]ther persons or entities . . . were negligent and such negligence was
a proximate cause of Plaintiff’s injuries, if any, and should any judgment be
awarded to Plaintiff, it must be apportioned among all such negligent persons
or entities to offset any judgment against this Defendant.” (Answer, ¶ 2.) The
Answer then states that on the day of the incident Defendant Fischer was
employed by Defendant Southwark and, after driving for several hours, Defendant
stopped at a bar called The Greatest and was served cocktails with no food.
(Answer, ¶¶ 3-4.)  
          The second
affirmative defense in the Answer for “Severability” alleges that if Defendant
Fischer is deemed liable then such liability should be several. (Answer, ¶ 5.) Defendant
Fischer even contends that the negligent acts or omissions of other
tortfeasors—including Defendant Southwark and The Greatest—was the direct,
proximate, and legal cause of Plaintiff’s injuries. (Answer, ¶ 6.)  The Answer then states that on the day of the
incident Defendant Fischer was employed by Defendant Southwark and, after
driving for several hours, Defendant stopped at a bar called The Greatest and
was served cocktails with no food. (Answer, ¶¶ 7-8.)  
          The third
affirmative defense for “Howell Doctrine” alleges, in part, that “Plaintiff’s
recovery, if any, of medical expenses against . . . Defendant shall be limited
to the actual incurred/adjusted/paid expenses” and sets forth facts that
Plaintiff’s medical expenses were reviewed, adjusted, and paid by Medi-Cal or
private insurance. (Answer, ¶ 9.) 
          The Court finds that such affirmatives defenses are
sufficiently pleaded and, despite Plaintiff’s contentions to the contrary, are
not uncertain. Defendant Fischer has not just merely alleged legal conclusions.
Moreover, specificity is not required in pleadings “because modern discovery
procedures necessarily affect the amount of detail that should be required in a
pleading.” (Ludgate Ins. Co. v. Lockheed Martin Corp. (2000) 82
Cal.App.4th 592, 608.) 
As
to the third affirmative defense, Defendant Fischer is alleging that
Plaintiff’s medical expenses should be offset against what has been paid by
third parties. The Court has already deemed such an affirmative defense as proper
in ruling on Plaintiff’s demurrer to Defendant Southwark’s answer to the FAC.
Thus, Plaintiff’s argument has already been considered and rejected. The Court
on its own motion takes judicial notice of its January 8, 2024 minute order as
to Plaintiff’s demurrer to the answer of Defendant Southwark to the FAC.[2]
Both Defendant Fischer and Defendant
Southwark raised an identical affirmative defense pertaining to the Howell doctrine.

          The Court
therefore OVERRULES the demurrer of Plaintiff to the first, second, and third
affirmative defenses in Defendant Fischer’s answer to the FAC.  Due to the Court finding that the Answer is
sufficient, the Court rejects Plaintiff’s argument that the Answer was filed in
bad faith.
          
IV.     CONCLUSION
The Court
OVERRULES the demurrer of Plaintiff to the first, second, and third affirmative
defenses in the answer of Defendant Fischer to the FAC.  
 
Moving party is ordered to give notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to
appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the
hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you
receive a submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume
that others might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive emails from the
parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
     Dated this 25th day of January 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon.
  Lee S. Arian 
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 


