 Case Number:  22STCV06025    Hearing Date:   January 25, 2024    Dept:  27  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL
DISTRICT
 



MORGAN WIOR, 
                   Plaintiff,
          vs.
 
STARBUCKS
  CORPORATION, et al.,
 
                   Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 22STCV06025
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE AN AMENDED CROSS-COMPLAINT


 
Dept.
  27
1:30
  p.m.
January
  25, 2024



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
This is a premises liability case. On February
17, 2022, Plaintiff Morgan Wior (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants
Starbucks Corporation, Susan Mary Quagletti, Joseph James Quagletti
(collectively, “Defendants”) and Does 1 to 50, alleging causes of action for general
negligence and premises liability.
On June 13, 2022, Defendants Susan Mary
Quagletti and Joseph James Quagletti (collectively, the “Quagletti Defendants”)
filed a cross-complaint (the “Cross-Complaint”) against Cross-Defendant Tylar
Holden and Roes 1 through 20 for indemnity and contribution.
On October 2, 2023, the Quagletti
Defendants filed the instant motion for leave to file an amended
cross-complaint. The motion is unopposed.
II.         
LEGAL
STANDARD
Code of
Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (a)(1) provides, in relevant
part:  “The court may, in furtherance of
justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading
or proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any party, or by correcting
a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect; and may,
upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or demurrer.  The court may likewise, in its discretion,
after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an
amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like
terms allow an answer to be made after the time limited by this code.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (a)(1).)
“This
discretion should be exercised liberally in favor of amendments, for judicial
policy favors resolution of all disputed matters in the same lawsuit.” (Kittredge
Sports Co. v. Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1047.) Under Rule
3.1324, subdivision (a) of the California Rules of Court, a motion to amend a
pleading shall (1) include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended
pleading, which must be serially numbered to differentiate it from previous
pleadings or amendments; (2) state what allegations in the previous pleading
are proposed to be deleted, if any, and where, by page, paragraph and line
number, the deleted allegations are located; and (3) state what allegations are
proposed to be added to the previous pleading, if any, and where, by page,
paragraph, and line number, the additional allegations are located. (Cal. Rules
of Court, rule 3.1324, subd. (a).)
Under
Rule 3.1324, subdivision (b) of the California Rules of Court, a separate
declaration must accompany the motion and must specify (1) the effect of the
amendment; (2) why the amendment is necessary and proper; (3) when the facts
giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and (4) the reasons why
the request for amendment was not made earlier. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1324, subd. (b).)
III.       
DISCUSSION
The Quagletti Defendants seek to amend
their Cross-Complaint to add a cause of action for express indemnity.  They contend no prejudice will result to
Plaintiff if leave to amend is granted, while they on the other hand would be
prejudiced if denied an opportunity to assert all possible defenses.
The Court finds the Quagletti
Defendants’ motion fails to comply with the requirements set forth in Rule
3.1324 of the California Rules of Court. The Quagletti Defendants indicate that
they seek to add a third cause of action for express indemnity. However, the
proposed First Amended Cross-Complaint contains only a third cause of
action for express indemnity. (Migoya Decl., Ex. A.)  
The Court further notes that the
declaration submitted in support of the motion fails to specify the effect of
the amendments, why the amendment is necessary and proper, when the facts
giving rise to the allegations were discovered, and the reasons why the request
for amendment were not made earlier. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324, subd.
(b).)
Therefore,
the Court DENIES the motion to amend without prejudice.
 
Moving party to give notice.
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to
appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the
hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you
receive a submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume
that others might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive emails from the
parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
Dated
this 25th day of January 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon.
  Lee S. Arian 
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 