 Case Number:  20STCV3193    Hearing Date:   January 25, 2024    Dept:  27 SUPERIOR COURT
OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY
OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



RONALD CHANG,
  
                   Plaintiff,
          vs.
 
RAMGLASS
  ENTERPRISES, INC. dba J&J ROOFING, et al.,
 
                   Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 20STCV31937
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANT RAMGLASS ENTERPRISES INC’S MOTION TO COMPEL PLAINTIFF TO
  APPEAR AT DEPOSITION AND PRODUCE DOCUMENTS REQUESTED AT DEPOSITION AND
  REQUEST FOR MONETARY SANCTIONS IN THE AMOUNT OF $3,015.00


 
Dept. 27
1:30 p.m.
January 25,
  2024



 
I.                  
INTRODUCTION
This action arises from a negligently installed
roof which caught fire. Plaintiff Ronald Chang (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint
against Defendants Ramglass Enterprises, Inc. dba J&J Roofing (“Defendant”)
and Does 1 to 50, alleging causes of action for negligence and professional
negligence.
On May 10, 2023, Defendant filed and served an
unopposed motion for an order to compel Plaintiff to appear at his deposition
and to produce the requested documents. Defendant also requests monetary
sanctions against Plaintiff and/or Plaintiff’s counsel, The Barnes Firm, in the
amount of $3,015.00.
No opposition has been filed. 
II.               
LEGAL STANDARD
Any party may obtain discovery, subject to
restrictions, by taking the oral deposition of any person, including any party
to the action.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.010.)  A properly served
deposition notice is effective to require a party or party-affiliated deponent
to attend and to testify, as well as to produce documents for inspection and
copying.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.280, subd. (a).)
“If, after service of a deposition notice, a
party . . . fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to
produce for inspection any document . . . described in the deposition notice,
the party giving notice may move for an order compelling deponent’s attendance
and testimony, and the production . . . of any document . . . described in the
deposition notice.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a).)  The
motion must set forth both facts showing good cause justifying the demand for
any documents and a meet and confer declaration.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.450, subds. (b)(1), (b)(2).) 
III.            
DISCUSSION
A.   
Merits
Defendant served a notice of deposition on Plaintiff via email on April 11,
2023, and Plaintiff’s deposition was scheduled for April 25, 2023. (Carnegie
Decl. ¶¶6-7, Exh. 3.) Despite several attempts to confirm Plaintiff’s
attendance, Plaintiff’s counsel failed to respond to Defendant’s counsel’s
inquiries. (Id. at ¶¶ 8-13.) Due to this failure, Defendant had to
cancel the deposition in order to avoid incurring a fee. (Id. at ¶ 14.)
Because Plaintiff has not filed
an opposition to the instant motion, it is undisputed that he failed to appear
for his deposition.  A properly-served
deposition notice is sufficient to require a party to appear and testify at an
oral deposition.  (Code of Civ. Proc., §
2025.280, subd. (a).)  
Accordingly, the instant motion to compel
Plaintiff’s deposition is granted. Plaintiff is ordered to appear for his
deposition and produce the requested documents within thirty (30) days of
receipt of notice of this Order.
B.    
Sanctions
Where a motion to compel a party’s appearance
and testimony at deposition is granted, the court shall impose a monetary
sanction in favor of the party who noticed the deposition and against the
deponent, unless the court finds the one subject to sanctions acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of
the sanction unjust.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (g)(1).) 
On motion of a party who, in person or by attorney, attended at the time and
place specified in the deposition notice in the expectation that the deponent’s
testimony would be taken, the court shall impose a monetary sanction in favor
of that party and against the deponent.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450,
subd. (g)(2).) 
Here, Defendant seeks monetary sanctions in the
amount of $3,015. The request consists of the following: (1) 1 hour in attempt
to meet and confer at a rate of $450/hour; (2) 4.2 hours in preparing the
instant motion at a rate of $450/hour; and (3) 1.5 anticipated hours in
reviewing Plaintiff’s opposition and preparing a reply at a rate of $450/hour.
(Carnegie Decl. ¶ 16.)
Due to Plaintiff’s failure to attend his
deposition and to file an opposition, the Court finds that monetary sanctions
are warranted pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 2025.450, subdivision (g).
However, the instant motion is unopposed and concerns a simple discovery issue;
therefore, the Court reduces the sanctions amount to $1,350, which consists of
three hours at a rate of $450/hour. Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s counsel, The
Barnes Firm, are ordered to pay monetary sanctions in the amount of $1350.00,
jointly and severally, to Defendant’s counsel within thirty (30) days of
receipt of notice of this Order.
IV.            
CONCLUSION
Based on the foregoing, the Court Plaintiff is
ordered to appear for his deposition and produce the requested documents within
thirty (30) days of receipt of notice of this Order. GRANTS Defendant’s motion
to compel Plaintiff’s deposition. 
Also, the request for monetary sanctions is
GRANTED in the amount of $1,350. Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s counsel, The Barnes
Firm, are ordered to pay monetary sanctions in the amount of $1350.00, jointly
and severally, to Defendant’s counsel within thirty (30) days of receipt of
notice of this Order.
 
Moving party to give notice.
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative
must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention
to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the
court website at www.lacourt.org.  Please
be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to appear at the
hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue
the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If
the Court does not receive emails from the parties indicating submission on
this tentative ruling and there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court
may, at its discretion, adopt the tentative as the final order or place the
motion off calendar.
Dated this 25th
day of February 2023
 




 


 




 


Hon. Lee S.
  Arian 
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 




 