

TENTATIVE
            Defendants Yadira Blocker and
Abelina Blocker’s Motion to Continue Trial and All Related Dates is GRANTED.
 

Background
            This case stems from a motor vehicle collision that
occurred on June 13, 2018. (Complaint, ¶ MV-1.) Andreh Gibson (“Plaintiff”)
sued Yadira Diana Blocker and Abelina Blocker (collectively “Defendants”) by
filing an initial Complaint on June 12, 2020. The motion before the Court now
is Defendants
Yadira Blocker and Abelina Blocker’s Motion to Continue Trial and All Related
Dates (the “Motion”). No opposition has been filed.    
 
Discussion
 
Legal Standard
            California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332, subdivision (c) states that although disfavored,
the trial date may be continued for “good cause,” which includes (without
limitation): 
 
(1) The unavailability of an essential lay or expert
witness because of death, illness, or other excusable circumstances;
(2) The unavailability of a party because of death,
illness, or other excusable circumstances;
(3) The unavailability of trial counsel because of
death, illness, or other excusable circumstances;
(4) The substitution of trial counsel, but only where
there is an affirmative showing that the substitution is required in the
interests of justice;
(5) The addition of a new party if:
            (A) The new
party has not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for
trial; or
            (B) The
other parties have not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and
prepare for trial in regard to the new party's involvement in the case;
(6) A party's excused inability to obtain essential
testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite diligent efforts; or
(7) A significant, unanticipated change in the status
of the case as a result of which the case is not ready for trial.
(Id., Rule 3.1332(c).)¿¿¿ 
            
            The court may also consider the
following factors: “(1) The proximity of the trial date; (2) Whether there was
any previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to any
party; (3) The length of the continuance requested; (4) The availability of
alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the motion or
application for a continuance; (5) The prejudice that parties or witnesses will
suffer as a result of the continuance; (6) If the case is entitled to a
preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status and whether the need
for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay; (7) The court's calendar
and the impact of granting a continuance on other pending trials; (8) Whether
trial counsel is engaged in another trial; (9) Whether all parties have
stipulated to a continuance; (10) Whether the interests of justice are best
served by a continuance, by the trial of the matter, or by imposing conditions
on the continuance; and (11) Any other fact or circumstance relevant to the fair
determination of the motion or application.” (Cal. Rules of Court 3.1332(d).)¿¿
¿
 
Analysis
            Here,
Defendants move for a trial continuance and argue that despite the parties’
diligent efforts there is still necessary discovery to be completed. Defendants
state that Plaintiff’s written discovery responses, testimony at deposition,
and independent medical examination are vital for Defendants to adequately
evaluate Plaintiff’s claim and prepare their case. The delay arose out of
several extensions granted to Plaintiff to respond to discovery, and then a
series of informal discovery conferences to resolve outstanding discovery disputes.
Defendants now state that the parties are promptly proceeding with further
essential discovery; however, they will not be prepared by the current trial
date of February 20, 2024. Therefore, Defendants argue a continuance is
necessary. 
            
            Although
trial has been continued twice before, Defendants point to California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332, subdivision (c)(6) which permits a continuance when
there exists a party's excused inability to obtain essential testimony,
documents, or other material evidence despite diligent efforts.  Defendants argue that this very subdivision
applies here.  The Court agrees. Not only
will Defendants be prejudiced without a continuance, but there is also no
opposition. In fact, Defendants attach a stipulation signed by both parties
agreeing to a continuance. (Declaration of Mark Senior, Exh. A.) Additionally,
considering the proximity of the current trial date, the reasonableness of the
length of continuance requested, and that there are no alternative means to
resolve this issue, a continuance is in the best interests of justice. 
                   
Conclusion
            Accordingly,
Defendants Yadira Blocker and Abelina Blocker’s Motion to Continue
Trial and All Related Dates is GRANTED. 
 
 
 
Moving party is ordered to give notice.  
 
 
 