 Case Number:  20STCV42632    Hearing Date:   January 25, 2024    Dept:  27  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL
DISTRICT
 



JERMAINE ALVEREZ MARTIN, 
                   Plaintiff,
          vs.
 
LOS
  ANGELES COUNTY METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY, et al.,
 
                   Defendants.
 


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 20STCV42632
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION TO DEEM RFAs AS ADMITTED; REQUEST FOR MONETARY SANCTIONS


 
Dept.
  27
1:30
  p.m.
January
  25, 2024



 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant Los Angeles County Metropolitan
Transportation Authority (“LACMTA”)  
RESPONDING PARTY: Unopposed 
 
 
 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
This
is an action arising from a motor vehicle accident which occurred on November
10, 2019. On November 6, 2020, Plaintiff Jermaine Alverez Martin (“Plaintiff”)
filed a complaint against Defendants Los Angeles County Metropolitan
Transportation Authority (“LACMTA”), City of Los Angeles, County of Los
Angeles, and Does 1 to 50, alleging causes of action for: (1) motor vehicle and
(2) general negligence. 
On
June 3, 2022, Defendant LACMTA filed an answer to the complaint. 
On
May 19, 2023, Defendant LACMTA filed the instant unopposed motion for an order
deeming the truth of all matters specified in its first set of Requests for
Admissions served on Plaintiff as admitted and conclusively established (the
“Motion”). Pursuant to the Motion, Defendant LACMTA seeks monetary sanctions
against “Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s attorney of record, jointly and severally,
and in favor of Defendant LACMTA in the sum of $1,800.00.” (Motion, 2:10-12.) The
Motion was served on Plaintiff on May 16, 2023. 
Any
opposition to the Motion was required to have been filed and served at least
nine court days prior to the hearing. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1005, subd. (b).) As
of January 22, 2024, the Motion is unopposed. 
 
II.         
LEGAL
STANDARD
After service of requests for
admission, a party has 30 days to respond “in writing under oath and separately
to each RFA.” (St Mary v. Superior Court (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 762,
774.) When a party fails to serve a timely response to requests for admission
“[t]he party to whom the request was directed waives any objection to the
requests, including one based on privilege or on the protection for work
product.” (Code Civ. Proc, § 2033.280, subd. (a).) “The requesting party can
move for an order that the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any
matters specified in the request be deemed admitted, as well as for a monetary
sanction.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (b).) The court shall issue this
order unless the party to whom the request was made serves a response in
substantial compliance prior to the hearing on the motion. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2033.280, subd. (c).) “It is mandatory that the court impose a monetary
sanction . . . on the party or attorney, or both, whose failure to serve a
timely response to requests for admission necessitated [the] motion.”  (Ibid.)
Code Civ. Proc. § 2023.010(d) provides
that a misuse of the discovery process is failing to respond or to submit to an
authorized method of discovery.  Code
Civ. Proc. § 2023.010(h) states that a misuse of the discovery process includes
making or opposing, unsuccessfully and without substantial justification, a
motion to compel or limit discovery. A court may impose a monetary sanction
against a party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process or any attorney
advising such conduct under Code Civ. Proc. § 2023.030(a). A court has
discretion to fix the amount of reasonable monetary sanctions. (Cornerstone
Realty Advisors, LLC v. Summit Healthcare Reit, Inc. (2020) 56 Cal.App.5th
771.)
 
III.    DISCUSSION  
          Plaintiff was
served with Defendant LACMTA’s Requests for Admissions, Set One, on January 5,
2023. (Doroshow Decl., ¶ 2; Exhibit A.) As of the filing of the Motion,
Defendant LACMTA has not received responses to its Request for Admissions, Set One.
(Id., ¶ 10.) Counsel states that his hourly rate is $300 per hour and
3.5 hours was expended on the Motion. (Id., ¶ 11.) Counsel expects to
spend 1.5 hours responding to Plaintiff’s opposition and an additional one (1)
hour preparing for and attending the hearing on the Motion. (Id.)
Accordingly, counsel states that he anticipates spending a total of 6.0 hours
as to the Motion and requests monetary sanctions in the sum of $1,800.00
against Plaintiff and his counsel of record, jointly and severally. (Id.,
¶ 12.) Counsel requests that monetary sanctions be paid to Ivie McNeill Wyatt
Purcell & Diggs. (Id.) 
Analysis
The Court finds that Defendant LACMTA
propounded Set One of its Request for Admissions on Plaintiff and that
Plaintiff failed to respond to such discovery. The Court GRANTS the Motion as
it is unopposed. (Sexton v. Superior Court (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 1403,
1410.)
The Court, however, finds that
Defendant LACMTA’s request for monetary sanctions against Plaintiff’s counsel
of record is improper as Defendant LACMTA has failed to identify against which
attorney the sanction is sought. (Sole Energy Co. v. Hodges (2005)
128 Cal.App.4th 199, 207 [“A request for a sanction shall, in the notice of
motion, identify every person, party, and attorney against whom the sanction is
sought”].) Thus, the Court will impose sanctions solely against Plaintiff as Plaintiff
is the only properly identified party against whom sanctions are requested in
the notice of motion. Defendant LACMTA has not specifically identified against
which attorney and/or law firm sanctions are sought.  
Since Motion
is unopposed and given the relative brevity of the motion, the Court awards Defendant
monetary sanctions in the reasonable amount of $750 against Plaintiff.  

 
IV.     CONCLUSION
         Accordingly, the Court GRANTS the Motion. 
 
          Defendant
LACMTA’s request for monetary sanctions is GRANTED IN PART. The Court awards
Defendant LACMTA reasonable monetary sanctions in the amount of $750. The Court
ORDERS Plaintiff to pay monetary sanctions in the amount of $750 to Defendant
LACMTA within 30 days of the date of notice of this order. 
 

Moving party is ordered to give notice.

 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to
appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the
hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you
receive a submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume
that others might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive emails from the
parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
      Dated this 25th day of January 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon.
  Lee S. Arian 
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 