 Case Number:  21STCV12646    Hearing Date:   January 25, 2024    Dept:  27  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL
DISTRICT
 



ENGRACIA LOERA, 
                   Plaintiff,
          vs.
 
PALM
  GARDEN APARTMENTS, et al.,
 
                   Defendants.
 


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 21STCV12646
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION TO CONTINUE TRIAL 
 
Dept.
  27
1:30
  p.m.
January
  25, 2024



 
MOVING PARTY: Defendants PAMA Management, Inc., PAMA
Property Management, and Group X Rosemead Properties, LP (“Moving Defendants”) 
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff Engracia Loera (“Plaintiff”)
 
 
 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
This
action arises from Plaintiff Engracia Loera (“Plaintiff”) falling in her
apartment restroom due to an alleged defective installation of bathroom
flooring by Defendants. On April 2, 2021, Plaintiff filed a complaint against
Defendants Palm Garden Apartments, PAMA Management, Inc., PAMA Property
Management, Group X Rosemead Properties, LP (collectively, “Defendants”), and
Does 1 to 20, alleging causes of action for: (1) general negligence and (2)
premises liability. 
On
November 24, 2021, Defendants filed an answer to the complaint. 
On
August 15, 2022, the Court entered a stipulation and order which continued
trial to June 20, 2023. 
On
May 4, 2023, the Court entered a stipulation and order which continued trial to
January 18, 2024. 
On
November 21, 2023, pursuant to Plaintiff’s request for dismissal, the Court
dismissed Defendant Palm Garden Apartments from this action. 
On
December 14, 2023, the Court denied the ex parte applications of
Defendants PAMA Property Management, PAMA Management, Inc, and Group X Rosemead
Properties, LP (“Moving Defendants”) to compel an Independent Medical
Examination (“IME”) of Plaintiff and to compel site inspection. (12/14/23
Minute Order.) The Court indicated that such requested orders are available
only on noticed motions. (12/14/23 Minute Order.) 
 
On December 19, 2023, Moving Defendants
filed and served a motion to compel an IME of Plaintiff. Also, on December 19,
2023, Moving Defendants filed and served a motion to compel Plaintiff to comply
with Moving Defendants’ demand for inspection of premises. The hearing on the respective
motions is currently scheduled for March 20, 2024.  
On
December 27, 2023, the Honorable Lisa Jaskol, presiding over this department in
the absence of the Honorable Lee S. Arian, granted Moving Defendants’ ex
parte application to continue trial and the Court continued trial from
January 18, 2024 to March 4, 2024. (12/27/23 Minute Order.) The Court’s minute
order indicated that “[d]iscovery will remain cut-off.” (12/27/23 Minute
Order.)
 
The Instant Motion 
          On December
28, 2023, Moving Defendants filed and served the instant motion to continue
trial (the “Motion”). Moving Defendants seek to continue trial, and all related
dates of this action, from March 4, 2024 for a period of 70 days or otherwise
practicable. The Motion is made on the grounds that there is good cause for
brief continuance to allow the parties to complete necessary discovery, to
allow Moving Defendants’ motion to compel site inspection and motion to compel
Plaintiff’s IME to be heard, and to allow Moving Defendants’ motion to
bifurcate liability to be heard.[1]
          Plaintiff
filed and served an opposition to the Motion on January 10, 2024, and Plaintiff
argues that Moving Defendants have not shown good cause to continue trial.
Plaintiff contends that the Motion is just a guise to reopen discovery. Plaintiff
requests that, if the Motion is granted, all trial-related discovery and motion
dates remain closed except for the hearings on the two motions reserved for
March 20, 2024. 
Moving Defendants filed and served a
reply brief on January 17, 2024. 
 
II.    LEGAL STANDARD 
Code Civ. Proc. § 128(a)(8) provides
that the court has the power to “amend and control its process and orders so as
to make them conform to law and justice.” “[T]he power to determine when a
continuance should be granted is within the discretion of the trial court.” (Color-Vue,
Inc. v. Abrams (1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 1599, 1603.) A trial court has wide
latitude in the matter of calendar control including the granting or denying of
continuances. (Park Motors, Inc. v. Cozens (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 12,
18.)  
A party seeking a continuance of the
date set for trial, whether contested or uncontested or stipulated by the
parties, must make the request for a continuance by a noticed motion or ex
parte application, with supporting declarations. (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule
3.1332(b).) The party must make the motion or application as soon as reasonably
practical once the necessity for the continuance is discovered. (Ibid.) 
Each request for a continuance must be
considered on its own merits according to California Rules of Court,
Rule 3.1332(c). The court may grant a continuance only on an affirmative
showing of good cause requiring the continuance.  (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1332(c).) Good
cause may be present where a party has not been unable “to obtain essential
testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite diligent efforts” or
there has been a “significant, unanticipated change in the status of the case
as a result of which the case is not ready for trial.” (Cal. Rules of Court,
Rule 3.1332(c)(6)-(7).) 
California Rules of Court, Rule
3.1332 sets forth a list of non-exhaustive factors to be analyzed when
determining whether good cause for a trial continuance is present. A court
considers factors such as: (1) the proximity of the trial date; (2) whether
there was any previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to
any party; (3) the length of the continuance requested; (4) the availability of
alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the motion or
application for a continuance; (5) the prejudice that parties or witnesses will
suffer as a result of the continuance; (6) if the case is entitled to a
preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status and whether the need
for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay; (7) the court’s calendar
and the impact of granting a continuance on other pending trials; (8) whether
trial counsel is engaged in another trial; (9) whether all parties have
stipulated to a continuance; (10) whether the interests of justice are best served
by a continuance, by the trial of the matter, or by imposing conditions on the
continuance; and (11) any other fact or circumstance relevant to the fair
determination of the motion or application. (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule
3.1332(d).) 
 
III.    DISCUSSION 
Issue No.1: Good Cause 
          Evidence
in Support of the Motion
          In support of
the Motion, Moving Defendants provide a declaration from their counsel, Xena R.
Mashburn (“Mashburn”). Mashburn declares that good cause exists to continue
trial because the respective motions filed by Moving Defendants cannot be heard
until after the March 4, 2024 trial date. (Mashburn Decl., ¶ 3.) Counsel
attests that liability is disputed in this case and if Moving Defendants are
denied crucial discovery to assess liability then they will be irreparably
harmed and prejudiced. (Id.) Moving Defendants served their demand for
IME and notice of inspection of Plaintiff’s apartment on December 8, 2023;
however, Plaintiff objected to both demands and has refused to submit to such
discovery. (Id., ¶ 4.) Moving Defendants argue that they also seek to
bifurcate the liability and damages portions of the trial but the soonest
hearing date that Moving Defendants could reserve for such motion is April 10,
2024. (Id., ¶ 5.) Moving Defendants seek to continue trial at least 70
days along with all corresponding discovery and motion cut-off dates to
correspond with the continued trial date. (Id., ¶ 7.) 
          On reply,
Mashburn declares that Defendants have been diligent and made good faith
efforts to complete the necessary discovery. (Mashburn Reply Decl., ¶ 5.)
Counsel declares that Moving Defendants relied on Plaintiff’s representations
that her apartment would be produced for a site inspection and that she would
submit to an IME. (Id.) Counsel states that Plaintiff has subsequently
reneged on her agreement and refuses to submit to an IME and site inspection. (Id.)
Counsel states that the discovery cutoff date was December 19, 2023, and Plaintiff’s
counsel agreed to such discovery on December 5, 2023 but later refused to go
forward with such discovery. (Id., ¶¶ 6-8; Exhibits A -B.) 
          Evidence
in Opposition to the Motion
          In opposition
to the Motion, counsel for Plaintiff, Krystale L. Rosal, Esq. (“Rosal”),
declares that the Motion is being made as a guise to re-open discovery. (Rosal
Decl., ¶ 3.) Counsel indicates that Moving Defendants failed to serve a timely
demand for expert exchange, as well as properly noticed demands for IME and
inspections. (Id.) Counsel attests that Moving Defendants have had
plenty of time to defend this case and conduct discovery. (Id.) Counsel
argues that Plaintiff, who is financially distraught, will suffer severe
prejudice by continuing this trial for a fourth time. (Id.)
          Analysis
          The Court has
concerns about the diligence of Moving Defendants in seeking discovery and
filing their motion to bifurcate. Moving Defendants filed their answer to the
complaint on November 24, 2021, yet made no attempts prior to December 2023 to
obtain a site inspection of the premises and serve a demand for IME.  Nonetheless, Moving Defendants should have
the opportunity to have their discovery motion, which is currently set for after
the trial date, heard.  That is clearly
in the interest of justice.  On that
basis, the Court will continue
the trial date to April 1, 2024, and, depending on the outcome of the
discovery motion, will address a further continuance at the hearing on that
moiton.  (As to the Moving Defendants’
pending motion to bifurcate liability, motions to bifurcate are not heard in
the P.I. Hub.  That decision is best made
by the trial judge.  So, the motion need
not be heard on April 7 (which date is now vacated); it should be raised with
the trial judge.)  
          Accordingly, the
Court GRANTS the Motion and
continues the trial to April 1, 2024, and the Final Status Conference to XXXXX.
  The
discovery date remains closed; the Court will consider that at the time of the
discovery hearing.
 
Moving party is ordered to give notice.

 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to
appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the
hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you
receive a submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume
that others might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive emails from the
parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
      Dated this 25th day of January 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon.
  Lee S. Arian 
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 


