 Case Number:  23STCV04944    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2023    Dept:  26  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 26
 



 
ART G. GARCIA,
 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
DWWVF, INC dba DAVID WILSONS VILLA FORD; FORD MOTOR
  COMPANY; et al., 
 
                        Defendants,
 


 
  Case No.:  23STCV04944
 
  Hearing Date:  October 4, 2023
 
[TENTATIVE] order RE:
DEFENDANT DWWVF, INC.’S DEMURRER TO THE
  COMPLAINT 



 
Procedural Background
On March
6, 2023, Plaintiff Art G. Garcia (“Plaintiff”) filed the instant action against
Defendants DWWVF, Inc. dba David Wilsons Villa Ford (“DWWVF”), and Ford Motor
Company (“Ford”) (jointly “Defendants”). 
The complaint asserts two causes of action for (1) Violation of the
Song-Beverly Act – Breach of Express Warranty against Defendant Ford, and (2) Negligent
Repair against Defendant DWWVF.
            On April 13, 2023, Defendant DWWVF
filed the instant demurrer to the complaint. 
On September 18, 2023, Plaintiff filed an opposition.  On September 25, 2023, Defendant DWWVF filed
a reply.
 
Allegations
of the Operative Complaint
            The complaint alleges that:
            “On January 1, 2019, Plaintiff
entered into a warranty contract with FORD regarding a 2019 Ford Mustang
[‘Subject Vehicle’][.]”  (Complaint ¶
15.)  
            “Defects and nonconformities to
warranty manifested themselves within the applicable express warranty period,
including but not limited to engine and transmission problems.”  (Id. ¶ 16.)  Beginning October 9, 2021, Plaintiff brought
in the Subject Vehicle to repair the nonconformities, but Ford was unable to conform
the Subject Vehicle to the applicable express warranty after a reasonable
number of repair attempts.  (Id.
¶¶ 18-19.)
            After these failed repair attempts,
“Defendant FORD [] failed to either promptly replace the Subject Vehicle or to
promptly make restitution in accordance with the Song-Beverly Act.”  (Id. ¶ 21.)
            “Plaintiff delivered the Subject
Vehicle to Defendant DWWVF, INC. for repair of on numerous occasions.”  (Id. ¶ 28.)  “Defendant DWWVF, INC. owed a duty to
Plaintiff to use ordinary care and skill in storage, preparation and repair of
the Subject Vehicle in accordance with industry standards.”  (Id. ¶ 29.)  “Defendant DWWVF, INC. breached its duty to
Plaintiff to use ordinary care and skill by failing to properly store, prepare
and repair of the Subject Vehicle in accordance with industry standards.”  (Id. ¶ 30.)  “Defendant DWWVF, INC.’s negligent breach of
its duties owed to Plaintiff was a proximate cause of Plaintiff’s
damages.”  (Id. ¶ 31.)  
 
Legal Standard 
A
demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the
pleading under attack; or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially
noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985)
39 Cal 3d 311, 318.) No other extrinsic evidence can be considered (i.e., no
“speaking demurrers”). (Ion Equipment Corp. v. Nelson (1980) 110
Cal.App.3d 868, 881.)
A
demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action.
(Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App.
4th 740, 747.)  When considering
demurrers, courts “give the complaint a reasonable interpretation, and read it
in context.”  (Schifando v. City of
Los Angeles (2003) 31 Cal.4th 1074, 1081.)  In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be
apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice.  (Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal. App. 4th 968, 994.)  “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not
the evidence or other extrinsic matters. 
Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the
pleading or are judicially noticed.”  (SKF
Farms v. Superior Ct. (1984) 153 Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.)  “The only issue involved in a demurrer
hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous
matters, states a cause of action.”  (Hahn,
supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at 747.) 
 
Meet and Confer
Requirement 
Code
of Civil Procedure § 430.41, subdivision (a) requires that “[b]efore filing a
demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the demurring party shall meet and confer¿in
person or by telephone¿with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to
demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached
that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” The parties
are to meet and confer at least five days before the date the responsive
pleading is due and if they are unable to meet the demurring party shall be
granted an automatic 30-day extension.  (CCP § 430.41(a)(2).)  The
demurring party must also file and serve a declaration detailing the meet and
confer efforts.  (Id.¿at
(a)(3).)¿ If an amended pleading is filed, the parties must meet and confer
again before a demurrer may be filed to the amended pleading.  (Id.¿at (a).)  
Here, Defendant DWWVF has fulfilled the
meet and confer requirements.  (Ross Decl.
¶ 3.)
 
Discussion
Second Cause of
Action: Negligent Repair
            Defendant DWWVF contends that the
second cause of action for Negligent Repair is (1) barred by the Economic Loss Rule,
and (2) fails because Plaintiff fails to allege damages.
            
            The Economic Loss Rule is
Inapplicable
            The Economic Loss Rule “is
deceptively easy to state: In general, there is no recovery in tort for
negligently inflicted ‘purely economic losses,’ meaning financial harm
unaccompanied by physical or property damage.” 
(Sheen v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2022) 12 Cal.5th 905, 922.)  “The economic loss rule has been applied in
various contexts. First, it carries force when courts are concerned about
imposing ‘ “liability in an indeterminate amount for an indeterminate time to
an indeterminate class.” ’ [Citation.]” 
(Ibid.)  “In another
recurring set of circumstances, the rule functions to bar claims in negligence
for pure economic losses in deference to a contract between litigating
parties.”  (Ibid.)  “Because it involves parties who are in
contractual privity, this strand of the economic loss rule is sometimes
referred to as the ‘contractual economic loss rule,’ ‘contractual rule,’ or
‘consensual paradigm.’”  (Id. at
p.923.)
            However, “[n]ot all tort claims for
monetary losses between contractual parties are barred by the economic loss
rule. But such claims are barred when they arise from — or are not independent
of — the parties’ underlying contracts.” 
(Ibid.)  For example,
“‘outside the insurance context, “a tortious breach of contract . . . may be
found when (1) the breach is accompanied by a traditional common law tort, such
as fraud or conversion; (2) the means used to breach the contract are tortious,
involving deceit or undue coercion; or (3) one party intentionally breaches the
contract intending or knowing that such a breach will cause severe, unmitigable
harm in the form of mental anguish, personal hardship, or substantial
consequential damages.” ’[Citations.]”  (Robinson
Helicopter Co., Inc. v. Dana Corp. (2004) 34 Cal.4th 979, 990.)  Similarly, “[t]ort damages have been
permitted in contract cases where a breach of duty directly causes physical
injury [Citation]; for breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing in
insurance contracts [Citation}; for wrongful discharge in violation of
fundamental public policy [Citation]; or where the contract was fraudulently
induced. [Citation.] In each of these cases, the duty that gives rise to tort
liability is either completely independent of the contract or arises from
conduct which is both intentional and intended to harm.” (Erlich v. Menezes (1999)
21 Cal.4th 543, 551–552.)
            Here, the Economic Loss Rule is
plainly inapplicable to Plaintiff’s claims against Defendant DWWVF.  As to Defendant DWWVF, the complaint alleges
that “Plaintiff
delivered the Subject Vehicle to Defendant DWWVF, INC. for repair of on
numerous occasions.”  (Complaint ¶
28.)  “Defendant DWWVF, INC. owed a duty
to Plaintiff to use ordinary care and skill in storage, preparation and repair
of the Subject Vehicle in accordance with industry standards.”  (Id. ¶ 29.)  “Defendant DWWVF, INC. breached its duty to
Plaintiff to use ordinary care and skill by failing to properly store, prepare
and repair of the Subject Vehicle in accordance with industry standards.”  (Id. ¶ 30.)  “Defendant DWWVF, INC.’s negligent breach of
its duties owed to Plaintiff was a proximate cause of Plaintiff’s
damages.”  (Id. ¶ 31.)  Even presuming that the alleged damages are
only economic – which notably the complaint does not allege – the economic loss
rule is not applicable under these circumstances.
            First,
in the instant action there is no concern
about imposing “ ‘ “liability in an indeterminate amount for an indeterminate
time to an indeterminate class.” ’ [Citation.]” 
(Sheen, supra, 12 Cal.5th at p.922.)  Plaintiff directly brought the Subject
Vehicle to Defendant DWWVF to repair. 
This is not a scenario where Defendant DWWVF’s negligent repair of the
Subject Vehicle caused a breakdown on a freeway for which Plaintiff is suing Defendant
DWWVF for the economic damages caused by a subsequent traffic delay.  (See e.g., Southern California Gas Leak
Cases (2019) 7 Cal.5th 391, 402–403 [discussing a hypothetical scenario
where the economic loss rule would apply absent contractual privity, “where ‘a
defendant negligently causes an automobile accident that blocks a major traffic
artery such as a bridge or tunnel.’ [Citations.] That defendant would of course
be liable for ‘personal injuries and property damage suffered in such an
accident.’ [Citation.] But would ‘any court,’ we continued, ‘allow recovery by
the myriad [other] third parties who might claim [purely] economic losses
because the bridge or tunnel’ was blocked? [Citation.] Based on concerns about
limitless liability and unending litigation, as well as on long-standing legal consensus,
we considered that prospect ‘doubtful.’ [Citation.]”].)  
            Nor does Defendant DWWVF contend
that this type of economic loss rule is applicable.  Rather, Defendant DWWVF contends that – as
coined by the Supreme Court in Sheen – the contractual economic loss
rule applies.  Specifically, Defendant DWWVF
claims that “Plaintiff’s negligent repair claim squarely falls within the
purview of the economic loss rule. The crux of Plaintiff’s claim is that [DWWVF]
failed to repair Plaintiff’s vehicle to conform to warranty. The claim arises
from, and is not independent of, the warranty contract.”  (Demurrer at p.3:24-27.)  However, DWWVF is not a party to the warranty
contract.  As alleged in the complaint,
only Plaintiff and Defendant Ford are parties to the warranty contract.  (Complaint ¶ 15, Exh. 1.)  Thus, the claim against DWWVF cannot arise
from the warranty contract.  
            Rather, the claim against DWWVF
arises from Plaintiff bringing the Subject Vehicle to DWWVF and DWWVF failing
below the industry standard in storing, preparing, and repairing the Subject
Vehicle.  (Complaint ¶¶ 28-30.)  Thus, the claim against DWWVF is independent
of any contract.
            Accordingly, Defendant DWWVF’s
demurrer based on the economic loss rule is OVERRULED.
 
            Plaintiff Sufficiently Alleges
Damages
            “‘The elements of a negligence cause of
action are the existence of a legal duty of care, breach of that duty, and
proximate cause resulting in injury.’ [Citations.]”  (McIntyre v. The Colonies-Pacific, LLC
(2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 664, 671.)
            As
noted above, Plaintiff brought the
Subject Vehicle to DWWVF and DWWVF failed to comply with the industry standard
in storing, preparing, and repairing the Subject Vehicle.  (Complaint ¶¶ 28-30.)  “Defendant DWWVF, INC.’s negligent breach of
its duties owed to Plaintiff was a proximate cause of Plaintiff’s
damages.”  (Id. ¶ 31.)  Though Plaintiff does not specify the damages,
the complaint clearly specifies that Plaintiff did suffer damages as a result
of DWWVF’s claims.  California follows a
notice pleading standard, (See e.g., Morris v. JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.
(2022) 78 Cal.App.5th 279, 305, Fn. 14), and the pleadings are generally
liberally construed.  (CCP § 452, [“In
the construction of a pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its
allegations must be liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice
between the parties.”].)  Defendant DWWVF
does not cite any authority indicating that conclusory allegations of damages
are insufficient as a matter of law.
            Accordingly, Defendant DWWVF’s
demurrer to the second cause of action for failure to allege damages is
OVERRULED.
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
Based on the
foregoing, Defendant DWWVF, Inc. dba David Wilsons Villa Ford’s  demurrer to the complaint is OVERRULED.
Defendant DWWVF,
Inc. dba David Wilsons Villa Ford is to file an answer on or before November 6,
2023.
The case
management conference is continued to November 8, 2023 at 8:30 am.
Moving Party is ordered to give notice and
file proof of service of such.
 
DATED:  October ___, 2023                                                 ___________________________
                                                                                          Elaine
Lu
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court