  Case Number:  23STCV20446    Hearing Date:   May 30, 2024    Dept:  57 Defendants CNL Express, Inc., BNK Trading Corp, and Yong Guang Pei (collectively, "the Moving Defendants") have demurred to the first cause of action for fraud and eleventh cause of action for negligence in the Plaintiff's Second Amended Complaint ("the SAC").  The Court is sustaining the demurrer to the fraud claim with leave to amend, and sustaining the demurrer to the negligence claim without leave to amend.FRAUD CLAIM The essential elements of fraud are (1) a misrepresentation; (2) knowledge of falsity; (3) intent to induce reliance; (4) justifiable reliance; and (5) resulting damage. [Citation]. (City of Industry v. City of Fillmore (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 191, 211.) “In California, fraud must be pled specifically; general and conclusory allegations do not suffice. ‘Thus “ ‘the policy of liberal construction of the pleadings ... will not ordinarily be invoked to sustain a pleading defective in any material respect.” ’ [¶] This particularity requirement necessitates pleading facts which show how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations were tendered.’ ” (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645, citations omitted; see also Robinson Helicopter Co., Inc. v. Dana Corp. (34 Cal.4th 979, 993.)The SAC has no allegations showing when, where, to whom, and by what means representations were tendered by the Moving Defendants.  The SAC describes the relationship between the parties and the details of the Moving Defendants’ alleged scheme, but it offers little in the way of specific, identifiable events. There are no specific statements ascribed to any party, and no specific location or time given.To the extent  that Defendant Joshua Chung might have acted as an agent for any of the Moving Defendants the SAC is unclear about when, where, to whom, and by what means, Chung made false representations.  Plaintiff points to boilerplate allegations regarding agency and alter ego. But there are no facts in the SAC to permit liability on this basis. As noted, the Court may not liberally construe the pleadings for a fraud claim. More specifics are required for  Plaintiff to state a claim. If Plaintiff is able to clarify what relationship the parties had to one another, and what specific misrepresentations were made, by whom, and on whose behalf, it might be able to plead a claim for fraud. A final opportunity for that is warranted. The demurrer is sustained with leave to amend. NEGLIGENCE CLAIMTo state a cause of action for negligence, a plaintiff must allege (1) the defendant owed the plaintiff a duty of care, (2) the defendant breached that duty, and (3) the breach proximately caused the plaintiff's damages or injuries. (Lueras v. BAC Home Loans Serving, LP (2013) 221 Cal.App.4th 49, 62.)Plaintiff has not pled any duty in tort that the Moving Defendants owed it, and it has not pled any such duty was breached. The SAC does not show that there was any ordinary duty of care Pei, BNK, or CNL breached. The SAC pleads various breaches of contract, but “[c]ontract and tort are different branches of law. Contract law exists to enforce legally binding agreements between parties; tort law is designed to vindicate social policy. [Citation.] ... Conduct amounting to a breach of contract becomes tortious only when it also violates an independent duty arising from principles of tort law.” (Applied Equipment Corp. v. Litton Saudi Arabia Ltd. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 503, 514-515.)In its opposition,  Plaintiff identifies a number of intentional torts that it ascribes to the Moving Defendants.   Liability for intentional or reckless torts relies on a different theory from negligence, which refers to the failure to exercise ordinary care against foreseeable harm. (See 6 Witkin, Summary of Cal. Law (11th ed. 2024) Torts, § 956; e.g. B.B. v. County of Los Angeles (2020) 10 Cal.5th 1, 29 [liability of intentional tortfeasors not reducible based on nonintentional tortfeasors’ negligence].) In other words, Plaintiff cannot state a standalone cause of action for negligence based on a duty not to commit intentional torts. The SAC alleges a  longstanding scheme to commit intentional misconduct. It does not state a claim for negligence, however, and the gravamen of the SAC's  allegations demonstrates that none can be stated, at least not as to the Moving Defendants.  Accordingly, the demurrer is sustained without leave to amend.