 Case Number:  23STCV20562    Hearing Date:   March 7, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



SLY SPECTRUM LLC,
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
KATIE WILLIAMS,
 
                                  Defendant.
 


 Case No:  23STCV20562
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  March 7, 2024
 Calendar
  Number:  6



 
            Defendant
Katie Williams (“Williams”) has filed another motion to seal, in addition to
the two motions that the Court decided on February 27, 2024.  Specifically, Williams seeks to seal portions
of the Second Amended Complaint.  
 
The Court makes the following general rulings on the issues
raised by Williams’s motion.  The Court
also requires that the parties submit the issues on this motion to the same
process that the Court put it place on February 27, 2024, as follows:  
 
1.     
The Court grants the motion with
respect to references to specific medication taken by Williams, including allegations
that she provided the medication to others. 
As to this category of information, the Court makes the required
findings under Cal. Rule of Court, rule 2.550(d).
2.     
References to particular employee’s
termination may be sealed.  As to this
category of information, too, the Court makes the required findings under Cal.
Rule of Court, rule 2.550(d).
3.     
The Court denies the motion in all
other respects.  Williams has not made
the proper showing to justify sealing of this information which includes, for
example, financial compensation information. 

4.     
By no later than March 15, 2024,
Williams will provide Sly Spectrum with the redactions to documents that she
believes is subject to sealing under this order.  By no later than March 22, 2024, Sly Spectrum
will inform Williams if Sly Spectrum disagrees with any of the redactions.  
5.     
If there are no disagreements, Williams
and Sly Spectrum will file a joint statement by no later than April 2, 2024, designating
the documents subject to sealing pursuant to this order.  Williams shall also file a proposed order
sealing the original documents.  Importantly,
Williams must also file redacted versions of each document to be sealed.  The redacted versions must look exactly
like the original document as originally filed, except that the confidential
material only shall be redacted.  Each
redacted document must be separately filed as a stand-alone document. In filing
the proposed order, Williams should keep in mind from a logistic point of view that
the Court only seals entire documents in the file, not pages of existing documents.
6.     
If there are disagreements about
what may be redacted under this order, counsel for Williams and Sly Spectrum
must meet and confer by no later than April 2, 2024.  The meet and confer shall take place in
person or by video conference (with the ability to share documents) for no less
than two hours, or until all the disagreements are resolved, whichever comes
first.  If there remains a disagreement
after the meet and confer, the parties shall by no later than April 9, 2024 file
a joint document setting forth the disagreements in a single filing.  The joint document must attach each of the
underlying texts about which the parties disagree so the Court can review these
texts.  The parties shall file one redacted,
public version of this joint document and shall lodge one unredacted version
with the Court.  
7.     
The Court sets an OSC re compliance
with this order for April 17, 2024 at 8:30 a.m. 
If the parties file a joint statement and proposed order pursuant to
paragraph 4, the OSC will go off calendar.
 