 Case Number:  22STCV25414    Hearing Date:   March 7, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



ANA VALLE ESPARZA, et al., 
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
KK BONWOOD LLC,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No: 
  22STCV25414 
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  March 7, 2024
 Calendar Number:  4



 
 
 
Plaintiff Ana Valle Esparza petitions the Court for approval
of the compromises of the claims of Plaintiffs Anahi Arleen Flores (“Anahi”)
and Joselyn Yamile Flores (“Joselyn”) (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) (the Court
uses the parties first names to avoid confusion, and means no disrespect), both
of whom are minors.
 
The Court tentatively GRANTS the petition to approve the
compromises.  However, the Court will do
so subject to Plaintiff further explaining at argument the reasons behind the
division of the settlement between the minors on the one hand and the adult
plaintiff on the other.  
 
Background
 
This is a landlord-tenant case.
 
Plaintiffs were tenants at a property owned by Defendant
which was allegedly infested with insects. Anahi and Joselyn allegedly suffered
insect bites, the effects of infestations, and general damages. (Esparza Decl.
¶ 4.) Neither suffered any permanent injuries. The property also suffered from
faulty plumbing, poor maintenance, and deteriorated floors, walls, and windows.
(Esparza Decl. ¶ 3.)
 
The parties reached a settlement following a mediation
before the Honorable Lisa Cole (Castelblanco Decl., ¶ 6.)
 
Plaintiffs filed this action on August 5, 2022, alleging
violations of the implied warranty of habitability. Esparza is the Guardian ad
Litem for Anahi and Joselyn.
 
On February 13, 2024, Esparza filed petitions to approve the
compromise of the claims on behalf of Anahi and Jocelyn. No party filed an
opposition.
 
Legal Standard
 
Pursuant to California Code of Civil Procedure section 372,
any settlement of a claim made by a minor or adult with a disability must be
approved by the court. If the court is satisfied that the settlement is in
the best interest of the claimant, then the court shall approve the
settlement. (See Pearson v. Superior Court (2012) 202 Cal.App.4th
1333, 1338.)   
 
A petition for court approval of a compromise or covenant
not to sue under Code of Civil Procedure section 372 must comply with
California Rules of Court, Rules 7.950, 7.951, and 7.952. The petition must be
verified by the petitioner and contain a full disclosure of all information
that has “any bearing upon the reasonableness” of the compromise or the
covenant. (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 7.950.)  The person compromising
the claim on behalf of the minor or person who lacks capacity, and the
represented person, must attend the hearing on compromise of the claim unless
the court for good cause dispenses with their personal appearance. (Cal. Rules
of Court, Rule 7.952.)   
 
Discussion
 
Esparza has properly verified both of the petitions.
 
The parties engaged in extensive discovery throughout this
case, including subpoenas to third-party vendors, written discovery to
defendant and all plaintiffs, and depositions. Defendant has not conceded
liability.
 
The gross settlement value is $720,000.00. Anahi and Joselyn
will each receive gross values of $70,000.00. Esparza will receive a gross
value of $580,000.00.
 
Plaintiff’s counsel is charging Esparza a 45% contingency
fee and 25% to Anahi and Joselyn. The effective attorney fee rate for this case
is 41.11 percent, which the Court finds to be reasonable. Costs of litigation,
which amount to $15,155.73, will only be taken out of Esparza’s portion of the
settlement. Following these deductions, Esparza will receive $303,844.27 and
each of the minor Plaintiffs will receive $52,500.00.
 
The settlement proceeds for the minor Plaintiffs will be
placed directly into an interest-bearing account for each minor Plaintiff.
 
Plaintiff’s counsel explains that they believe it reasonable
to allocate less of the settlement to the minor Plaintiffs because “[a]
material component of the damages sustained by the adult was her frustration in
approaching management and trying to have the problems fixed, being forced to
engage in self-help, complaining to the City and County inspectors and perhaps
most significantly, the frustration of seeing the minors live in substandard
conditions. Moreover, Petitioner was working to pay the monthly rent, put food
on the table and undertake the responsibility of taking care of her family and
the minors.” (Castelblanco Decl. ¶ 7.)
 
While this basis could warrant increased damages for
Esparza, the Court wishes to make sure that the amount apportioned for the
minor Plaintiffs is not disproportionately small.  The Court therefore requests further argument
on why the current division is reasonable.
 