 Case Number:  23STCV18257    Hearing Date:   January 31, 2024    Dept:  55 NATURE OF PROCEEDINGS:  Defendants Miles Michael Cooley, Michael
Brian Garfinkel, Jason Taylor Lueddeke, Michael Patrick Brown, and DLA Piper
LLP (Us)'s Special Motion To Strike the Complaint Pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure Section 425.16.
 
The motion is granted.
The Court strikes the Complaint with prejudice, only
as to moving defendants MILES COOLEY, MICHAEL GARFINKEL, JASON LUEDDEKE,
MICHAEL BROWN, and DLA PIPER LLP (US).
BACKGROUND
In this case, PATRIZIO MOI (“Plaintiff”), a
self-represented litigant, seeks damages against Defendants DLA PIPER LLP (US);
DLA Piper attorneys MILES COOLEY; MICHAEL GARFINKEL; JASON LUEDDEKE; and MICHAEL
BROWN (collectively, “Moving Defendants”); JABARI’s INC.; JABARI MCDAVID (“McDavid,”
Jabari Inc.’s owner); and PHILIP LAWRENCE in connection with a lawsuit (“Lawsuit
1”) filed by Plaintiff and Jabari’s Inc. against Lawrence, and Moving
Defendants’ representation of Lawrence in that lawsuit. 
Plaintiff is a music producer, engineer, composer, and
arranger who allegedly entered a contract with Lawrence whereby Plaintiff would
receive shares in a business called Record Plant in exchange for Plaintiff
investing in the business. Plaintiff alleges he sued Lawrence after Lawrence
failed to issue the shares to Plaintiff. Plaintiff separately reached an agreement
with McDavid (who was also allegedly owed shares in Record Plant by Lawrence)
whereby Plaintiff loaned money to McDavid to fund Lawsuit 1 in exchange for McDavid
repaying the loan, plus interest, granting Plaintiff an irrevocable power of attorney
with the right to act in McDavid’s name in Lawsuit 1, and paying Plaintiff 20%
of whatever proceeds McDavid received in the case (the “Loan Agreement”). (Compl.,
¶¶ 1, 20-22, 24-29.)
Plaintiff alleges that Moving Defendants, who
represented Lawrence in Lawsuit 1, (1) caused McDavid to settle his claims
against Lawrence and breach the Loan Agreement, (2) created a conflict of
interest with Plaintiff’s attorney in Lawsuit 1, which caused that attorney to
withdraw from the case, (3) and deprived Plaintiff of the 20% of the proceeds
that McDavid received as part of a settlement he reached with Lawrence in the litigation
and which Plaintiff alleges he was owed under the Loan Agreement. (Compl., ¶¶
32-35.)   
The Complaint’s causes of action are (1) Tortious
Interference with Contractual Relations, (2) Tortious Interference with
Prospective Economic Advantage, (3) Breach of Contract, (4) Breach of Fiduciary
Duty, (5) Breach of The Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing, and (6)
Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress.
Moving defendants now move to strike the First, Second
and Sixth Causes of Action (the claims alleged against Moving Defendants) in
the Complaint pursuant to CCP § 425.16, which extends protections to strategic
lawsuits against public participation (“SLAPP” actions). Plaintiff opposes the
motion. 
Judicial Notice
Judicial notice may be taken of “[r]ecords of (1) any
court of this state or (2) any court of record of the United States or of any
state of the United States.” (Evid. Code § 452(d).) Courts cannot, however,
take judicial notice of hearsay statements asserted in court filings.  Johnson & Johnson v. Sup. Ct.
(2011) 192 Cal.App.4th 757, 768. Courts can take judicial notice of the fact
that complaints were filed, but not of the truth of the statements contained in
those.  Arce v. Kaiser Foundation
Health Plan, Inc.  (2010) 181
Cal.App.4th 471, 483.  Courts cannot take
judicial notice of a judge's findings unless the requirements of res judicata
or collateral estoppel must apply pursuant to a final judgment.  Plumley v. Mockett (2008) 164
Cal.App.4th 1031, 1051. 
Moving Defendants and Plaintiff both seek judicial
notice of numerous court records. The Court grants the requests and takes judicial
notice of the court documents, except as to the truth of their contents.
Evidentiary Rulings
As to anti-SLAPP motions, “declarations that lack
foundation or personal knowledge, or that are argumentative, speculative,
impermissible opinion, hearsay, or conclusory are to be disregarded.” Gilbert
v. Sykes (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 13, 26. “The prima facie showing of merit
must be made with evidence that is admissible at trial.”  Salma v. Capon (2008) 161 Cal.App.4th
1275, 1289.  Appellate review of rulings
on evidentiary objections in connection with a SLAPP motion to strike is for
abuse of discretion.  Hall v. Time
Warner, Inc. (2007) 153 Cal. App. 4th 1337, 1348.
The Court overrules Moving Defendants’ objection no. 2
to the Declaration of Patrizio Moi. The Court sustains Moving Defendants’
remaining objections to the Moi Declaration, as well as to the general and
specific objections to the Declarations of Alessandro Zaccagni and Cheryl
Rivas, and the objections to the Declarations of Brian K. Trinidad, Jeff A.
Mann, and Antonello Moi. 
The Court strikes the Supplemental Declarations of
Patrizio Moi, Antonello Moi, and Alessandro Zaccagni that Plaintiff filed two
days before the hearing, and after Moving Defendants filed their reply. The
Court does not consider them for purposes of this motion. Bozzi v.
Nordstrom, Inc. (2010) 186 Cal. App. 4th 755, 765 (affirming court’s discretion
to refuse to consider unauthorized “surrebuttal” brief filed day of hearing). 
 
 
LEGAL STANDARD
A defendant opposing a “strategic lawsuit against
public participation” (“SLAPP”) claim may bring an “anti-SLAPP” special motion to
strike any cause of action “arising from any act of that person in furtherance
of the person’s right of petition or free speech under the United States
Constitution or the California Constitution in connection with a public issue…”
CCP § 425.16(b)(1).
Courts use a two-step process for considering
anti-SLAPP motions. First, the moving defendant must show that the acts of which
the plaintiff complains were protected activity, namely, that they were taken “in
furtherance of the [defendant’s] right of petition or free speech under the
Unites States or California Constitution in connection with a public issue.” CCP
§ 425.16(b)(1).
“In determining whether the first step has been
established, i.e. the ‘arising from’ element of the anti-SLAPP statute, a court
must consider the pleadings and any supporting and opposing affidavits stating
the facts upon which alleged liability is based.”  Gerbosi v. Gaims, Weil, West &
Epstein, LLP (2011) 193 Cal.App.4th 435, 443-44.  Moving parties have the initial burden to
demonstrate that a cause of action is subject to a special motion to strike. Martinez v. Metabolife Inter. Ins.
(2003) 113 Cal.App.4th 181, 186. Specifically, courts decide whether
moving parties have made a prima facie showing that the attacked claims arise
from a protected activity, including defendants’ right of petition, or free
speech, under a constitution, in connection with issues of public
interest.  CCP §425.16(e); Healy v.
Tuscany Hills Landscape & Recreation Corp., (2006) 137 Cal. App. 4th 1,
5. 
If moving parties successfully have shifted the
burden, then opposing parties must demonstrate a probability of prevailing on
the merits of the complaint.  Equilon Ent., LLC v. Consumer Cause,
Inc. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 53, 67. 
ANALYSIS
SLAPP Statute - Step 1
Moving Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s claims against
them are based on protected conduct, which Plaintiff contends that the gravamen
of Plaintiff’s claims arises from Moving Defendants’ interference with the Loan
Agreement, which was not part of the scope of their representation in Lawsuit
1. For purposes of a SLAPP motion, the protected right to petition includes
filing litigation and communications in anticipation of such proceedings.  Miller v. Filter (2007) 150 Cal.App.4th
652, 665.  Communications about pending
lawsuits fall within the scope of the SLAPP statute.  Taheri Law Group v. Evans (2008)
160 Cal.App.4th 482, 489.  Communications
done in anticipation of litigation are subject to the SLAPP statute when they
relate to litigation contemplated in good faith, and under serious consideration.  Rohde v. Wolf  (2007) 154
Cal.App.4th 28, 36-37.  
A reading of the Complaint shows that Plaintiff’s complaints
against Moving Defendants stem from litigation-related communications. Plaintiff
alleges that Moving Defendants “convinced” (i.e, communicated) with McDavid and
his attorney to seek to have McDavid’s attorney substitute into Lawsuit 1,
which resulted in Plaintiff’s attorney withdrawing from the case. (Compl., ¶¶
34-35.) Plaintiff alleges that Moving Defendants caused McDavid to breach the
Loan Agreement and deprive Plaintiff of his 20% by “design[ing] and
implement[ing]” a plan (i.e., communicating) with McDavid regarding his claims
against Lawrence. (Id., ¶ 33.) The court documents submitted with the
motion, and the respective declarations with exhibits, make clear that the
Complaint necessarily is based upon protected activities. 
While the Complaint lists alleged interferences that theoretically
could have happened outside of the litigation context, there is no evidence supporting
such allegations. (See, e.g., Compl., ¶¶ 39, 40 (“McDavid breaches to
the Loan Agreement are not limited to the aforementioned list. Cooley,
Garfinkel, Lueddeke, Brown, Lawrence misconducts are not limited to the
aforementioned list.”). The only communications and conduct Plaintiff
competently put into evidence consist of an attorney’s and a client’s
communications expressly made in connection with a pending case, contesting the
legal effectiveness of the power of attorney and related documents. (Plaintiff’s
Decl., Exs. 9-10). As such, the Court finds that the first prong of the
anti-SLAPP analysis has been established here because Plaintiff’s claims against
Moving Defendants arise from Moving Defendants’ litigation-related communications,
which constitutes protected activity under the First Amendment. 
SLAPP Statute - Step 2
“A plaintiff cannot establish a probability of
prevailing if the litigation privilege precludes the defendant’s liability on
the claim.”  Digerati Holdings, LLC v.
Young Money Entertainment, LLC (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 873, 888. The litigation
privilege applies to the claims asserted by Plaintiff against Moving
Defendants: tortious interference with contract, tortious interference with
prospective economic advantage, and intentional infliction of emotional
distress. Pac. Gas & Elec. Co. v. Bear Stearns & Co. (1990) 50
Cal. 3d 1118, 1132. 
The Court agrees with Moving Defendants that Plaintiff’s
claims against Moving Defendants are based on Moving Defendants’ alleged
communications with McDavid/Jabari, Inc. and/or its counsel in connection with
Lawsuit 1. Because Moving Defendants’ alleged actions were taken during its representation
of its client in Lawsuit 1, the litigation privilege applies as a substantive
defense to all of Plaintiff’s claims. Plaintiff’s declaration does not counter
this conclusion.  The only communications
and conduct evidenced in Plaintiff’s declaration consist of attorney and client
communications expressly made in connection with a pending case, contesting the
legal effectiveness of the power of attorney and related documents. (Plaintiff’s Decl., Ex. 9 (Jabari McDavid Decl., dated
8/10/21, in underlying case
number 18STCV08191), Ex.
A thereto (“CONVERTIBLE LOAN TERM SHEET”), § 2.1 (loan “to use in connection
with the Litigation….”), and B (attorney letter to
terminate power of attorney, expressly “Re: Patrizio Moi et al v. Phillip Lawrence,
et al”)).  As worded, those documents,
themselves, are inextricably and expressly tied to litigation, such that they
infer anticipated litigation activities. 
As for substantive elements of the claims, Plaintiff’s
evidence fails to show any independently wrongful act, or any activity outside
the litigation privilege, because an opposing party’s disputing the
enforceability of litigation documents, in a pending court case, is not actionably
illegal.  Although Plaintiff asserted
that the loan was separately for the underlying case plaintiff to purchase
interests in an entity, the written contract expressly provides that it could
be used for the pending litigation. (Plaintiff’s Decl., Ex. 9, Ex. A, § 2.1
(loan “to use in connection with the Litigation….”)).  Plaintiff’s unilateral, subjective
contractual beliefs do not govern contract interpreting.  Instead, the parties’ objective intent as
shown by the contract wording, rather than the subjective or undisclosed intent
of a party, controls as to contract interpretation.  Founding Members of the Newport Beach
Country Club v. Newport Beach Country Club, Inc. (2003) 109 Cal. App. 4th
944, 956.
As for Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress,
while Plaintiff evidenced severe emotional distress, the Court finds that as a
matter of law the subject retention of counsel and litigation activities complained
of, were not outrageous conduct, as a matter of law, but instead common
litigation-related activities typically regarded as being unpleasant to
litigants on the opposite side.  (Plaintiff’s
Decl., ¶¶ 16-17). 
 
CONCLUSION
The anti-SLAPP motion to strike is granted, as to Moving
Defendants.
 