 Case Number:  21STCV01017    Hearing Date:   December 5, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




samuel betesh

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
cali one services, inc.

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


21STCV01017




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


December
   5, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[tentative]
  Order RE:
 
motion to be relieved as counsel for
  defendant
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                 Roland R. Tijerina      
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Unopposed
Motion to be Relieved as Counsel for Defendant 
The court
considered the moving papers filed in connection with this motion.  No opposition papers were filed. 
DISCUSSION
Roland R. Tijerina (“Defendant’s Counsel”) moves to be relieved as
counsel for defendant Cali One Services, Inc. (“Defendant”) in this action. 
“The question of granting or denying an application of an attorney to
withdraw as counsel (Code Civ. Proc., § 284, subd. 2) is one which lies within
the sound discretion of the trial court ‘having in mind whether such withdrawal
might work an injustice in the handling of the case.’”¿ (People v. Prince
(1968) 268 Cal.App.2d 398, 406 [internal quotations omitted].)¿ The court
should also consider whether the attorney’s “withdrawal can be accomplished
without undue prejudice to the client’s interests.”¿ (Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994)
21 Cal.App.4th 904, 915.)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
For a motion to be relieved as counsel under Code of Civil Procedure
section 284, subdivision (2), California Rules of Court, rule 3.1362 requires
(1) a notice of motion and motion directed to the client (made on the Notice of
Motion and Motion to be Relieved as Counsel -- Civil form (MC-051)); (2) a
declaration stating in general terms and without compromising the
confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship why a motion under Code of
Civil Procedure section 284, subdivision (2) is brought instead of filing a
consent under Code of Civil Procedure section 284, subdivision (1) (made on the
Declaration in Support of Attorney’s Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel -- Civil
form (MC-052)); (3) service of the notice of motion and motion, declaration,
and proposed order on the client and on all other parties who have appeared in
the case; and (4) the proposed order relieving counsel (prepared on the Order
Granting Attorney’s Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel -- Civil form
(MC-053)).¿¿¿¿ 
The court finds that Defendant’s Counsel has served (1) Defendant with
the moving papers filed in connection with this motion at Defendant’s last
known address, which Defendant’s Counsel has confirmed within the past 30 days
is current, and (2) counsel for plaintiff Samuel Betesh with the moving papers
filed in connection with this motion by mail. 
(MC-052, ¶ 3, subds. (a)(2), (b)(1)(b); MC-051, pp. 3-4 [proof of October
23, 2024 service on Defendant and counsel for the plaintiff].)  The court also finds that Defendant’s Counsel
has shown sufficient reasons why the motion should be granted, and why counsel
has brought the motion under Code of Civil Procedure section 284, subdivision
(2) instead of filing a consent under section 284, subdivision (1).¿ (MC-052,
¶¿2.)¿¿ 
The court therefore grants Defendant’s Counsel’s motion to be relieved
as counsel for Defendant. 
The court, however, notes that the proposed “Order Granting Attorney’s
Motion to be Relieved as Counsel – Civil” is incomplete since it does not state
Defendant’s current or last known telephone number in section 6.  The court will require Defendant’s Counsel to
provide Defendant’s current or last known telephone number at the hearing on
this motion. 
Roland R. Tijerina will be relieved as counsel of record for defendant
Cali One Services, Inc., effective upon the filing of the proof of service of
the signed “Order Granting Attorney’s Motion to be Relieved as Counsel – Civil”
on the client.¿¿ 
            The court orders Roland R. Tijerina
to give notice of this ruling and the signed “Order Granting Attorney’s Motion
to be Relieved as Counsel – Civil” to defendant Cali One Services, Inc., and to
all other parties who have appeared in this action.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  December 5, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court