  Case Number:  19STCV46989    Hearing Date:   December 5, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




adela sanchez

   , et al.;
 


   Plaintiffs,
 
 
vs.
 
 
kia motors america, inc.

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


19STCV46989




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


December
   5, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[Tentative]
  Order RE:
 
defendant’s motion for summary adjudication
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                Defendant Kia America, Inc. 
 
RESPONDING PARTIES:    Plaintiffs
Adela Sanchez and Livia Larios
Motion for Summary Adjudication
The court
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in connection with
this motion. 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS  
The court rules on plaintiffs Adela Sanchez and Livia Larios’s
evidentiary objections, filed on November 21, 2024, as follows:
The court sustains Objections No. 1.
The court overrules Objections No. 2.
The court does not rule on defendant Kia America, Inc.’s evidentiary
objections, filed on November 27, 2024 because they are directed to evidence
that is not material to the court’s disposition of this motion.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (q).) 
 
REQUEST
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
The court denies plaintiffs Adela Sanchez and Livia Larios’s request
for judicial notice because it is not relevant to the court’s disposition of
this motion.  (Malek Media Group LLC
v. AXWG Corp. (2020) 58 Cal.App.5th 817, 825 [“Any matter to be judicially
noticed must be relevant to a material issue”].)
LEGAL STANDARD
The purpose of a motion for summary judgment or summary
adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’
pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in
fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” 
(Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  “Code
of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to
grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences
reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences
or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and
that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”  (Adler
v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)
“On a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is always on
the moving party to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues
of material fact.”  (Scalf v. D.B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510,
1519.)  A defendant or cross-defendant
moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or her burden
of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party has shown that one
or more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be established, or that
there is a complete defense to the cause of action.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 437c, subd. (p)(2).)  “Once the
defendant or cross-defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the
plaintiff or cross-complainant to show that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)  “If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary
judgment should be granted.”  (Avivi v. Centro
Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)  “When deciding whether to grant summary
judgment, the court must consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers
(except evidence to which the court has sustained an objection), as well as all
reasonable inferences that may be drawn from that evidence, in the light most
favorable to the party opposing summary judgment.”  (Id. at
p. 467; Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).)
DISCUSSION
Defendant Kia America, Inc., f/k/a Kia
Motors America, Inc. (“Defendant”) moves the court for an order granting
summary adjudication in its favor and against plaintiffs Adela Sanchez (“Sanchez”)
and Livia Larios (“Larios”) (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) on (1) their second,
fourth, and fifth causes of action, and (2) their claim for punitive damages. 

1.     Second
Cause of Action for Breach of the Implied Warranty
“In California, an implied warranty of merchantability arises
under the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act: ‘Unless disclaimed in the manner
prescribed by this chapter, every sale of consumer goods that are sold at
retail in this state shall be accompanied by the manufacturer’s and the retail
seller’s implied warranty that the goods are merchantable.’”  (Isip v. Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC (2007)
155 Cal.App.4th 19, 24 [quoting Civ. Code, § 1792].)  “Any buyer of consumer goods who is damaged
by a failure to comply with any obligation under this chapter or under an
implied or express warranty or service contract may bring an action for the
recovery of damages and other legal and equitable relief.”  (Civ. Code, § 1794, subd. (a).)  
The court finds that Defendant has not met its burden of showing
that the second cause of action for breach of implied warranty has no merit
because Defendant has not shown that (1) the affirmative defense of the statute
of limitation bars this cause of action, and (2) the elements of the cause of
action for breach of the implied warranty of fitness cannot be
established.  
First, the court finds that Defendant has not met its burden to show
that the affirmative defense of the statute of limitations bars this cause of
action. 
“The Song-Beverly Act does not include its own statute of
limitations.  [Citation.]  California courts have held that the statute
of limitations for an action for breach of warranty under the Song-Beverly Act
is governed by the same statute that governs the statute of limitations for
warranties arising under the Uniform Commercial Code: section 2725 of the
Uniform Commercial Code.”  (Mexia v.
Rinker Boat Co., Inc. (2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 1297, 1305-1306 [internal
citation omitted].)  Pursuant to that
statute, the statute of limitations for breach of warranty actions is four
years after the cause of action has accrued. 
(Ibid.; Com. Code, § 2725, subd. (1); Montoya v. Ford Motor
Company (2020) 46 Cal.App.5th 493, 495 [“The statute of limitations for
breaches of the implied warranty of merchantability is four years”].)  “A breach of warranty occurs when tender of
delivery is made, except that where a warranty explicitly extends to future
performance of the goods and discovery of the breach must await the time of
such performance the cause of action accrues when the breach is or should have
been discovered.”  (Com. Code, § 2725,
subd. (2); Mexia, supra, 174 Cal.App.4th at p. 1306 [under
Commercial Code section 2725, “a cause of action for breach of warranty
accrues, at the earliest, upon tender of delivery”].) 
It is undisputed that Plaintiffs (1) purchased the subject vehicle on
September 19, 2013, and (2) filed this action on December 30, 2019.  (Undisputed Material Fact (“UMF”) Nos. 1-2;
Orquiola Decl., Ex. 2 to Ex. A [purchase contract dated September 19,
2013].)  However, Defendant did not
present evidence or argument establishing that the date of purchase of the
subject vehicle was the date that tender of delivery was made, such that
Defendant has not shown that the breach of the implied warranties occurred on
September 19, 2023.[1]  (Com. Code, § 2725, subd. (2) [stating that a
breach of warranty occurs, inter alia, when tender of delivery is
made].) 
Second, the court finds that Defendant has not met its burden to show
that it cannot be held liable for breach of the implied warranty of fitness.
“Every sale of consumer goods that are sold at retail in this state by
a retailer or distributor who has reason to know at the time of the retail sale
that the goods are required for a particular purpose, and that the buyer is
relying on the retailer’s or distributor’s skill or judgment to select or
furnish suitable goods shall be accompanied by such retailer’s or distributor’s
implied warranty that the goods are fit for that purpose.”  (Civ. Code, § 1792.2.)  Defendant does not dispute that, as a
distributor, it may be held liable for a breach of the implied warranty of
fitness.  (Ibid.; UMF No. 5
[Defendant is a distributor]; Lewis Decl., ¶ 4; Mot., pp. 7:27-6.)  
The court finds that Defendant has not presented competent evidence
showing that it did not know, at the time of the sale of the subject vehicle,
that the vehicle was required for a particular purpose.  The court has sustained Plaintiffs’
evidentiary objections to portions of the declaration of Mandyjay Lewis on the
ground that Lewis did not state facts or lay a foundation to establish that
that Lewis had personal knowledge of the matters regarding Defendant’s
knowledge of the purpose for which Plaintiffs purchased the vehicle at the time
of sale. 
Thus, the court finds that Defendant has not shown that the sale of
the subject vehicle was not accompanied by Defendant’s implied warranty that
the vehicle was fit for the purpose for which Plaintiffs purchased it, such
that Defendant has not shown that Plaintiffs’ claim for breach of the implied
warranty of fitness has no merit.  (Civ.
Code, § 1792.2, subd. (a).) 
The court notes that Defendant has argued that Plaintiffs’ claim for
breach of the implied warranty of merchantability has no merit because (1) the
Song-Beverly Act states that “every sale of consumer goods that are sold at
retail in this state shall be accompanied by the manufacturer’s and the retail
seller’s implied warranty that the goods are merchantable, and (2) it is
undisputed that Defendant is not a manufacturer, but rather, is a
distributor.  (Civ. Code, § 1729
[emphasis added]; UMF Nos. 5-6; Lewis Decl., ¶¶ 4-5 [Defendant “is a
distributor of new vehicles” and “does not manufacture, assemble, or produce
any vehicles or consumer products”].)  However,
Plaintiffs’ second cause of action for breach of implied warranty is based on
alleged breaches of the implied warranty of merchantability and the
breach of the implied warranty of fitness, such that the court cannot grant
summary adjudication solely on the ground that the claim for breach of the
implied warranty of merchantability has no merit.  (Compl., ¶¶ 114-118; Code Civ. Proc., § 437c,
subd. (f)(1) [“A motion for summary adjudication shall be granted only if it
completely disposes of a cause of action . . . .”].)
The court therefore denies Defendant’s motion for summary
adjudication as to the second cause of action for breach of implied warranty.
2.     Fourth
Cause of Action for Fraudulent Inducement – Concealment 
“[T]he elements of a cause of action for fraud based on concealment
are: (1) the defendant must have concealed or suppressed a material fact, (2)
the defendant must have been under a duty to disclose the fact to the
plaintiff, (3) the defendant must have intentionally concealed or suppressed
the fact with the intent to defraud the plaintiff, (4) the plaintiff must have
been unaware of the fact and would not have acted as he did if he had known of
the concealed or suppressed fact, and (5) as a result of the concealment or
suppression of the fact, the plaintiff must have sustained damage.”  (Bigler-Engler v. Breg, Inc. (2017) 7
Cal.App.5th 276, 311 [internal quotation marks and citation omitted].) 
The court finds that Defendant (1) has not met its burden of
showing that the fourth cause of action for fraudulent inducement – concealment
has no merit on the grounds that (i) it is barred by the affirmative defense of
the statute of limitations, (ii) Plaintiffs cannot establish the element of
concealment or suppression of a material fact, and (iii) it is barred by the
economic loss rule, and (2) has met its burden of showing that the fourth cause
of action for fraudulent inducement – concealment has no merit on the ground
that Defendant did not have a duty to disclose material facts to Plaintiffs. 
First, the court finds that Defendant has not shown that this cause of
action is barred by the statute of limitations. 
The statute of limitations for “[a]n action for relief on the ground
of fraud or mistake” is three years. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 338, subd. (d).) 
“The cause of action in that case is not deemed to have accrued until
the discovery, by the aggrieved party, of the facts constituting the fraud or
mistake.”  (Ibid.)  Defendant has asserted, without adequate
argument, authority, and evidence, that this cause of action began to accrue on
the date of purchase (i.e., September 19, 2013).  (Mot., p. 9:21-22 [“Any alleged fraud must
have predated that date”].)  However, Defendant
did not support this assertion, for example, by presenting argument and
evidence to show that Plaintiffs discovered or should have discovered the facts
constituting the fraud on the date of purchase. 
(Ibid.)  Thus, the court
finds that Defendant (1) has not shown that this cause of action accrued on
September 19, 2013, i.e., more than three years before the date that the
Complaint was filed, and therefore (2) has not met its burden to show that the
affirmative defense of the statute of limitations bars this cause of action.
Second, the court finds that Defendant has not shown that Plaintiffs
cannot establish that Defendant intentionally concealed or suppressed facts. 
The court acknowledges that Defendant has submitted evidence showing
that Plaintiffs did not rely on commercials and marketing brochures before
purchasing the subject vehicle.  (UMF
Nos. 21-24, 30-32.)  However, that
evidence does not show that Defendant did not breach its duty to disclose the engine
defect to Plaintiffs at the time of the sale. 
Thus, the court finds that Defendant has not shown that it did not
conceal or fail to disclose a material fact to Plaintiffs. 
Third, the court finds that Defendant has not shown that this cause of
action is barred by the economic loss rule because (1) that rule provides that
“there is no recovery in tort for negligently inflicted ‘purely economic
losses,’ meaning financial harm unaccompanied by physical or property
damage[,]” but only to the extent that the claims “arise from—or are not
independent of—the parties’ underlying contracts[,]” and (2) the conduct that
is the subject of this cause of action does not arise from the parties’
underlying contract (i.e., the warranties). 
(Sheen v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2022) 12 Cal.5th 905, 921, 923;
Dhital v. Nissan North America, Inc. (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 828, 841,
review granted Feb. 1, 2023, No. S277568 [“a defendant’s conduct in
fraudulently inducing someone to enter a contract is separate from the
defendant’s later breach of the contract or warranty provisions that were
agreed to”][2].)  Moreover, although Defendant has presented
evidence showing that Plaintiffs were not “physically harmed” when using the
vehicle, Defendant’s own evidence shows that plaintiff Larios suffered “the
trauma of when the car left [plaintiff Larios] stranded[,]” including the
stress of that occurrence, such that Defendant’s evidence shows that Plaintiffs
did not suffer purely economic losses.  (Orquiola
Decl., Ex. A, Pl. Larios Dep., p. 66:7-13.) 
Finally, the court finds that Defendant has met its burden to show
that it did not have a duty to disclose to Plaintiffs material facts regarding
the engine defect that is the subject of this action.
Nondisclosure or concealment may constitute fraud in four
circumstances: “(1) when the defendant is in a fiduciary relationship with the
plaintiff; (2) when the defendant had exclusive knowledge of material facts not
known to the plaintiff; (3) when the defendant actively conceals a material
fact from the plaintiff; and (4) when the defendant makes partial
representations but also suppresses some material facts.”  (Bigler-Engler, supra, 7
Cal.App.5th at p. 311 [internal quotation marks and citation omitted].)   The last three circumstances “presuppose[]
the existence of some other relationship between the plaintiff and defendant in
which a duty to disclose can arise. 
[Citation.]  A duty to disclose
facts arises only when the parties are in a relationship that gives rise to the
duty, such as seller and buyer, employer and prospective employee, doctor and
patient, or parties entering into any kind of contractual arrangement.”  (Ibid. [internal quotation marks and
citations omitted].) 
Defendant has presented evidence showing that (1) Plaintiffs purchased
the subject vehicle from Kia of Downtown; (2) while Kia of Downtown is one of
Defendant’s authorized third-party dealers, Defendant does not control its
day-to-day operations, it is an independently owned and operated dealership,
and its employees are not employees of Defendant and they are not under
Defendant’s control; and (3) Defendant was not a party to the contract between
Plaintiffs and Kia of Downtown.  (UMF
Nos. 10-14; Lewis Decl., ¶¶ 7-9, 11; Orquiola Decl., Ex. 2 to Ex. A [purchase
contract between plaintiff Sanchez and Kia of Downtown].)  Thus, the court finds that Defendant has
submitted evidence showing that there was no transaction between Plaintiffs and
Defendant (e.g., as buyer and seller) that gave rise to the duty to disclose
since Defendant has shown that it, or its agents, were not involved in the sale
of the subject vehicle.  (Bigler-Engler,
supra, 7 Cal.App.5th at p. 311.) 
The court finds that Plaintiffs have met their burden to show that
a triable issue of material fact exists as to the element of Defendant’s duty
to disclose since Plaintiffs have shown that a triable issue of material
fact exists as to the existence of a transactional relationship between
Plaintiffs and Defendant since Defendant issued an express warranty to
Plaintiffs for the subject vehicle, which created a contractual relationship
between them.  (Bigler-Engler, supra,
7 Cal.App.5th at p. 311 [a relationship giving rise to a duty to disclose
includes “parties entering into any kind of contractual arrangement”]; Dagher
v. Ford Motor Co. (2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 905, 928 [describing an express
warranty to be a contractual promise from the seller to the buyer]; Dhital,
supra, 84 Cal.App.5th at p. 845, rev. granted Feb. 1, 2023, No. S277568
[concluding that the plaintiffs sufficiently alleged a duty to disclose based
on a buyer-seller relationship since plaintiffs alleged that they bought the
car from the defendant’s authorized dealership, which was its authorized agent
for purposes of the sale of its vehicles to consumers, and that the defendant
backed the car with an express warranty]; Zepeda v. General Motors, LLC (S.D.
Cal. 2024) 2024 WL 3732479 at *5 [“the Court agrees that the allegation that
Defendant provided an express warranty is sufficient to establish a
transactional relationship at the pleading stage”].) 
The court notes that Plaintiffs have also argued that Defendant had a
duty to disclose material facts to Plaintiffs on the ground that vendors, such
as Defendant, owe such a duty to subsequent purchasers.  The court finds that Plaintiffs have not met
their burden to show that Defendant owed a duty to disclose material facts to
Plaintiffs on this ground.  
The court acknowledges that, “[u]nder California law, a vendor has a
duty to disclose material facts not only to immediate purchasers, but also to
subsequent purchasers when the vendor has reason to expect that the item will
be resold.”  (OCM Principal
Opportunities Fund, L.P. v. CIBC World Markets Corp. (2007) 157 Cal.App.4th
835, 839 [emphasis in original].)  However,
the vendor must have reason to expect that the facts will be repeated to the
subsequent purchasers, and that it will influence their conduct in that
transaction.  (Geernaert v. Mitchell (1995)
31 Cal.App.4th 601, 605-606, 607-608.)  Plaintiffs
did not present adequate authority, argument, and evidence showing that
Defendant had reason to expect that the material facts regarding the engine
would be repeated to subsequent purchasers such as Plaintiffs and would
influence their conduct in transactions. 
Thus, Plaintiffs did not meet their burden to show that a triable issue
of material fact exists as to the duty to disclose on this ground.
The court further notes that, in reply, Defendant asserts that “the
alleged material fact was not known or accessibly only to [Defendant] as it had
no knowledge of Theta II issues until after Plaintiffs purchased the
subject vehicle.”  (Reply, p. 6:10-11
[emphasis in original].)  However,
Defendant did not raise this argument in its moving papers.  (Notice of Mot., p. ii:10-19 [moving for
summary adjudication on fourth cause of action on grounds that it did not owe a
duty to disclose facts to Plaintiffs, it is barred by the economic loss rule,
and it is barred by the statute of limitations].) 
The court therefore denies Defendant’s motion for summary
adjudication as to the fourth cause of action for fraudulent inducement –
concealment. 
3.     Fifth
Cause of Action for Fraudulent Inducement – Intentional Misrepresentation
“The elements of intentional misrepresentation ‘are (1) a
misrepresentation, (2) knowledge of falsity, (3) intent to induce reliance, (4)
actual and justifiable reliance, and (5) resulting damage.’”  (Aton Center, Inc. v. United Healthcare
Ins. Co. (2023) 93 Cal.App.5th 1214, 1245 [internal citation omitted].) 
The court finds that Defendant has met its burden of showing that
the fifth cause of action for fraudulent inducement – intentional
misrepresentation has no merit because Defendant has shown that an element of
the cause of action (actual and justifiable reliance on misrepresentations)
cannot be established. 
Defendant has presented evidence showing that (1) plaintiff Larios did
not rely on marketing brochures or statements made during the sales process
when she purchased the subject vehicle; (2) plaintiff Larios did not rely on
anything that anyone might have told her regarding the engine when purchasing
the vehicle; and (3) Plaintiff Sanchez did not participate in the shopping
process, did not speak to any salesperson at Kia of Downtown, and did not
review any marketing brochures regarding the subject vehicle.  (UMF Nos. 70-71, 73, 74-76; Orquiola Decl.,
Ex. A, Pl. Larios Dep., pp. 25:13 [answering “No” to the questions “Did you
rely on anything that you saw from the commercials when purchasing the Kia
Sorrento?” and “Did you rely on any radio commercials, brochures, when
purchasing the Kia Sorrento?”], 26:12-15 [answering “No.  It’s just that I liked the truck” to the
question “Did you rely on any statement made during the sales process and in
the marketing brochures to buy your Kia Sorrento?”], 29:11-13 [answering
“Exactly” to the question “So – so you didn’t rely on anything anyone told you
regarding the engine to purchase the vehicle; correct?”]; Orquiola Decl., Ex.
B, Pl. Sanchez Dep., pp. 18:22-24 [Sanchez did not speak to salespersons at Kia
of Downtown], 19:8-10 [Sanchez did not review marketing brochures regarding the
Kia Sorrento], 20:22-25 [“I didn’t participate in the purchase of the car”]; Compl.,
¶¶ 156-157 [alleging that Defendant intended that Plaintiffs rely on, and that
Plaintiffs did so rely on, representations made in its marketing brochures
related to the engine to induce them to purchase the vehicle].)   
Thus, the court finds that Defendant has shown that Plaintiffs did not
rely on any representations made by Defendant in purchasing the subject vehicle
and therefore has shown that this cause of action does not have merit. 
The court finds that Plaintiffs have not met their burden to show
that a triable issue of material fact exists as to the element of their
reliance on false representations made by Defendant because Plaintiffs (1) did
not present evidence to show that they relied on the marketing brochures and
statements made by Defendant, (2) have not disputed that they did not rely on
the marketing brochures and the sales agents in the separate statement, and (3)
did not address this cause of action in their opposition papers, such that they
did not present adequate argument and authority to show that a triable issue of
material fact exists as to this element.    
The court therefore grants Defendant’s motion for summary
adjudication as to the fifth cause of action for fraudulent inducement –
intentional misrepresentation.
4.     Claim
for Punitive Damages
“An employer shall not be liable for [punitive damages], based upon
acts of an employee of the employer, unless the employer had advance knowledge
of the unfitness of the employee and employed him or her with a conscious
disregard of the rights or safety of others or authorized or ratified the
wrongful conduct for which the damages are awarded or was personally guilty of
oppression, fraud, or malice.  With respect to a corporate employer, the
advance knowledge and conscious disregard, authorization, ratification or act
of oppression, fraud, or malice must be on the part of an officer, director, or
managing agent of the corporation.”  (Civ. Code, §¿3294, subd.
(b).)  “[O]n a motion for summary adjudication with respect to a
punitive damages claim, the higher evidentiary standard applies.¿ If the
plaintiff is going to prevail on a punitive damages claim, he or she can only
do so by establishing malice, oppression or fraud by clear and convincing
evidence.”¿ (Basich v. Allstate Ins. Co. (2001) 87 Cal.App.4th 1112,
1121.)¿ “Under the clear and convincing evidence standard, the evidence must be
‘ “ ‘ “so clear as to leave no substantial doubt” ’ ” ’ and ‘ “ ‘ “sufficiently
strong to command the unhesitating assent of every reasonable mind. ” ’ ” ’¿
[Citation.]¿ Although the clear and convincing evidentiary standard is a
stringent one, ‘it does not impose on a plaintiff the obligation to “prove” a
case for punitive damages at summary judgment [or summary adjudication].’”¿ (Butte
Fire Cases (2018) 24 Cal.App.5th 1150, 1158 [internal citations omitted].)¿
However, the court must take this higher standard of proof into account in
ruling on a motion for summary judgment.¿ (Ibid.)¿¿ 
The court finds that Defendant has not met its burden of showing
that the claim for punitive damages has no merit because Defendant has not
shown that the element of advance knowledge and conscious disregard,
authorization, ratification, or act of oppression, fraud, or malice on the part
of an officer, director, or managing agent of Defendant cannot be established.      
Defendant argues that, “at best, Plaintiffs can only point to
purported communications they had with a dealer salesperson, though Plaintiffs
admit they do not remember anything the dealership salesperson said.”  (Mot., p. 19:8-10.)  However, Defendant (1) does not cite to any
evidence in support of that assertion, such as discovery responses from
Plaintiffs to show that they have based their claim for punitive damages on
statements made by salespersons at Kia of America, and (2) has not addressed
Plaintiffs’ allegations that Defendant—and not any salespersons at Kia of
America—concealed the engine defect from Plaintiffs.  (See, e.g., Compl., ¶¶ 141-142.)  Moreover, the testimony that plaintiff Larios
could not recall the name of the salesperson that facilitated the purchase and
that plaintiff Sanchez did not talk to a salesperson at Kia of Downtown does
not show that Plaintiffs cannot establish the element of advance knowledge and
conscious disregard, authorization, ratification, or act of oppression, fraud,
or malice on the part of an officer, director, or managing agent of
Defendant.  (Orquiola Decl., Ex. A, Pl.
Larios Dep., pp. 18:25-19:2 [Larios does not remember the name of the
salesperson that sold them the vehicle]; Orquiola Decl., Ex. B, Pl. Sanchez
Dep., p. 18:22-24 [Sanchez never spoke to any salesperson at Kia of Downtown].)

The court therefore denies Defendant’s motion for summary
adjudication as to Plaintiffs’ claim for punitive damages. 
ORDER
The court denies defendant Kia America, Inc., f/k/a Kia Motors
America, Inc.’s motion for summary adjudication as to plaintiffs Adela Sanchez
and Livia Larios’s second cause of action for breach of the implied warranty,
fourth cause of action for fraudulent inducement – concealment, and claim for
punitive damages. 
 The court grants defendant Kia
America, Inc., f/k/a Kia Motors America, Inc.’s motion for summary adjudication
as to plaintiffs Adela Sanchez and Livia Larios’s fifth cause of action for
fraudulent inducement – intentional misrepresentation.  
The court orders plaintiffs Adela Sanchez and Livia Larios to give
notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  December 5, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court


