  Case Number:  22AHCV00856    Hearing Date:   September 12, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



LUZ MERCADO, 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
AUTOMATIC
   DATA PROCESSING, INC., et al.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  22AHCV00856
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER DISCOVERY RESPONSES TO SPECIAL
   INTERROGATORIES, SET THREE 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
September
   12, 2024




 


)


 



 
          Plaintiff Luz
Mercado (“Plaintiff”) moves for an order compelling defendant ADP Technology
Servies, Inc. (“Defendant”, erroneously sued as “Automatic Data Processing,
Inc.”) to serve further responses to Special Interrogatories, Set Three. Plaintiff
also seeks sanctions in the amount of $9,426.02 against Defendant and its
counsel of record. 
Plaintiff propounded Special
Interrogatories (Set Three) on February 12, 2024, and in response, Defendant
filed a motion for a protective order. Special Interrogatories (Set Three)
consists of 49 special interrogatories seeking information about complaints
submitted by Defendant’s employees to Defendant’s Associate Relations
Department. On March 15, 2024, Defendant served responses consisting only of
objections. The Court denied Defendant’s motion for a protective order on May
3, 2024, and Plaintiff filed this motion on May 23, 2024, claiming that
Defendant has not indicated if it intends to provide substantive responses to her
49 special interrogatories. 
On September 3, 2024, Defendant filed a
declaration from counsel stating that supplemental responses were served on
June 14, 2024. (Perelshteyn Decl., ¶ 6.) These supplemental responses are
purportedly attached as Exhibit A, but the document attached as Exhibit A are
supplemental responses to Plaintiff’s Requests for Production (which are the
subject of another motion scheduled to be heard on October 1, 2024).  Further supplemental responses to SROG Nos. 78
to 83 were served on July 25, 2024. (Id., Ex. E.) 
Defendant first argues that Plaintiff’s
motion should be denied because she failed to meet and confer before filing
this motion, even though Defendant “informed her that it would supplement its
responses” at the IDC. The Court is unpersuaded that Defendant would have
supplemented its responses without Plaintiff’s motion practice because
Defendant’s protective order was denied on May 3, 2024, the parties
participated in an IDC on May 15, 2024, and yet Defendant did not serve
supplemental responses until June 14, 2024. (Perelshteyn Decl., ¶ 6.) 
Defendant also argues that its
responses are sufficient because they refer Plaintiff to specific Bates-labeled
documents which contain the necessary information, as permitted by Code of
Civil Procedure section 2030.230. The Court cannot analyze the adequacy of
Defendant’s supplemental responses to SROG Nos. 34-77 and determine whether the
motion should be denied without having those supplemental responses before it. The
Court is also unpersuaded by Defendant’s suggestion that the supplemental
responses moot the motion. Adopting Defendant’s position would permit a party
faced with a motion to compel further responses “to delay its adjudication
indefinitely by successive supplemental but inadequate responses, each
prompting a further motion to compel, each of which in turn would be defeated
by piecemeal supplementation.” (County of San Benito v. Superior Court
(2023) 96 Cal.App.5th 243.) 
Accordingly, the Court continues this
hearing to October 1, 2024. Defendant is ordered to file a copy of its
supplemental responses to Special Interrogatories (Set Three) no later than 10
court days before the hearing. 
 
 
Dated
this 12th
day of September, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 