 Case Number:  24AHCV00446    Hearing Date:   September 12, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



ALLY BANK, 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
MARINE
   NERSISYAN, et al.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  24AHCV00446
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: APPLICATION FOR DEFAULT JUDGMENT; APPLICATION FOR
  WRIT OF POSSESSION 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
September
  12, 2024




 


)


 



          
          Application
for Default Judgment
Plaintiff
Ally Bank (“Plaintiff”) seeks a default judgment against defendants Marine
Nersisyan (“Nersisyan”), Devine Motorworkz Corp. (“Body Shop”), and Grigor
Cholakyan, individually and dba Devine Motorworkz (“Cholakyan”). This case
arises from Nersisyan’s purchase of a 2013 Mercedes-Benz G Class (“Subject
Vehicle”) pursuant to a retail installment sales contract (“Contract”). Nersisyan
defaulted on the Contract and currently owes $73,766.17. To complicate matters,
Nersisyan also transferred the Subject Vehicle to Body Shop and Cholakyan, who
refuse to surrender the Subject Vehicle to Plaintiff. 
On August 12,
2024, Plaintiff filed two requests for court judgment on Form CIV-100. One of
the forms seeks a judgment of $73,766.17 against Nersisyan for the amounts owed
under a Retail Installment Sale Contract. The other Form CIV-100 seeks $47,972
against Body Shop and Cholakyan, which is the market value for the Subject
Vehicle. 
The
declaration provided by Plaintiff’s representative, James Singleton, does not
set forth the basis for Plaintiff’s recovery against Nersisyan for $73,766.17.
The payment history attached as Exhibit E reflects a balance of $70,496.59. 
          The
Court also notes that the proposed judgment is confusing because as currently
phrased, it appears to allow Plaintiff a double recovery for the Subject
Vehicle. The proposed judgment should specify that all three defendants are
jointly and severally liable for $47,972, less any amount obtained from the
sale of the Subject Vehicle, with Nersisyan separately liable for any amount
exceeding such value due to the terms of the Contract. 
          Accordingly,
the hearing is continued to ______ at 8:30
a.m. in Department 3 of the Alhambra Courthouse so that Plaintiff may file an
amended proposed judgment and additional evidence supporting its claim for
damages against Nersisyan. All revised and supplemental papers must be
submitted no later than 5 court days before the hearing. 
          Application
for Writ of Possession
          Plaintiff’s
application for a writ of possession is missing a proposed order. Therefore,
the Court continues the hearing on the application to _____, the same day as
the default prove-up hearing. The Court notes that a writ of possession will
become unnecessary once Plaintiff proves up its damages for a default judgment
because the proposed default judgment already includes a request for possession
of the Subject Vehicle. However, if Plaintiff still wishes to pursue a writ, Plaintiff
must submit a proposed order no later than 5 court days before the next
hearing. 
Dated
this 12th
day of September, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 