 Case Number:  22STCV1539    Hearing Date:   May 2, 2024    Dept:  27 HON. LEE
S. ARIAN
DEPARTMENT
27
TENTATIVE
RULING
 
Hearing Date:           5/2/2024 at 1:30 p.m.
Case No./Name:       22STCV15399 JULIAN HART vs VARTAN DARBINYAN
Motion:                    MOTION TO COMPEL INITIAL RESPONSES TO FORM
INTERROGATORIES, SET ONE, REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION, SET ONE, AND SPECIAL
INTERROGATOIRES, SET ONE. MOTION TO DEEM REQUEST FOR ADMISSIONS, SET ONE,
ADMITTED AND REQUESTS FOR SANCTIONS
Moving Party:           Defendant Tigran Kazarian
Responding Party:    Defendant Vartan Darbinyan 
Notice:                      Sufficient
 
Ruling:                              MOTION TO COMPEL INITIAL RESPONSES TO FORM
INTERROGATORIES, SET ONE, REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION, SET ONE, AND SPECIAL
INTERROGATORIES, SET ONE, AND MOTION TO DEEM REQUEST FOR ADMISSIONS, SET ONE, ARE
ADMITTED AND REQUESTS FOR SANCTIONS ARE GRANTED
 
Background
 
On May 9, 2022, Plaintiff
filed the present complaint for premises liability against Defendants Tigran
Kazarian and Vartan Darbinyan. On November 20, 2022, Defendant Tigran Kazarian
filed a cross-complaint against Defendant Vartan Darbinyan for indemnity. On
July 31, 2023, Kazarian propounded Form Interrogatories, Set One, Requests for
Admissions, Set One, Special Interrogatories, Set One, and Requests for
Production, Set One, to Darbinyan. The statutory due date for the discovery
requests were September 1, 2023. The parties have been in communication, and
Kazarian granted Darbinyan numerous extensions, with the final due date set for
December 22, 2023. As of March 25, 2024, Kazarian has yet to receive the
discovery responses at issue and now moves the court to compel. No opposition
has been filed.
 
Legal Standard
 
1.         
Requests for Production and Interrogatories
 
A plaintiff may make a demand for
production of documents and propound interrogatories without leave of court at
any time 10 days after the service of the summons on, or appearance by, the
party to whom the demand is directed, whichever occurs first. (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2031.020, subd. (b); Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.020, subd. (b).) The demand for
production of documents is not limited by number, but the request must comply
with the formatting requirements in Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.030. A party
may propound 35 specially prepared interrogatories that are relevant to the
subject matter of the pending action and any additional number of official form
interrogatories that are relevant to the subject matter of the pending action.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.030, subd. (a)(1) - (a)(2).)
 
The party
whom the request is propounded upon is required to respond within 30 days after
service of a demand, but the parties are allowed to informally agree to an
extension and confirm any such agreement in writing. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.260, subd. (a); Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.260, subd. (a); Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.270, subd. (a) - (b); Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.270, subd. (a) - (b).)
 
If a party fails to timely respond
to a request for production or interrogatories, the party to whom the request
is directed waives any right to exercise the option to produce writings under
Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.230, and waives any objection, including one based on
privilege or on the protection for work product. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300,
subd. (a); Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (a).)¿¿The party propounding the
discovery requests may move for an order compelling responses. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2031.300, subd. (b); Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (b).) Unlike a motion to compel further discovery responses, a
motion to compel initial discovery responses does not have any meet and confer
requirements.
 
Code of Civil Procedure section
2023.030, subdivision (a) provides, in pertinent part, that the court may
impose a monetary sanction on a party engaging in the misuse of the discovery
process to pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by
anyone as a result of that conduct. A misuse of the discovery process includes
failing to respond or submit to an authorized method of discovery. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2023.010, subd. (d).)¿¿¿A court has discretion to fix the amount of reasonable
monetary sanctions. (Cornerstone Realty Advisors, LLC v. Summit Healthcare
Reit, Inc. (2020) 56 Cal.App.5th 771, 791.)
 
2.         
Request for Admissions
 
“Any party may obtain discovery .
. . by a written request that any other party to the action admit the genuineness
of specified documents, or the truth of specified matters of fact, opinion
relating to fact, or application of law to fact. A request for admission may
relate to a matter that is in controversy between the parties.”¿ CCP § 2033.010.¿ “Within 30 days after service of
requests for admission, the party to whom the requests are directed shall serve
the original of the response to them on the requesting party, and a copy of the
response on all other parties who have appeared ....”¿ CCP § 2033.250(a).
 
If a party to whom request for
admissions are served fails to provide a timely response, the party to whom the
request was directed waives any objections, including based on privilege or the
work product doctrine. CCP § 2033.280(a). The requesting party can move for an
order that the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters
specified in the request be deemed admitted, as well as for monetary sanctions.
CCP § 2033.280(b). The court shall issue this order unless the party to whom
the request was made serves a response in substantial compliance prior to the
hearing on the motion. CCP § 2033.280(c). Unlike a motion to compel further
discovery responses, a motion to deem RFA admitted does not have any meet and
confer requirements.
 
 
Analysis
It is undisputed that
Vartan Darbinyan failed to serve the required discovery responses before the
statutory deadline. Despite multiple extensions granted by Tigran Kazarian and
ongoing communication between the parties, Darbinyan still failed to provide
the discovery responses. Moreover, Darbinyan did not file an opposition or any
other filing showing that the discovery responses were served before the
hearing date. Consequently, Kazarian's motions are GRANTED.
The Court hereby orders
Vartan Darbinyan to provide complete responses to Tigran Kazarian's Request for
Production, Set One, Form Interrogatories, Set One, and Special
Interrogatories, Set One, without raising objections, within 20 days of today.
Additionally, the contents of Tigran Kazarian’s Requests for Admission, Set
One, are deemed admitted.
Darbinyan’s failure to
respond forced Kazarian to incur attorney’s fees by filing the present motions.
Kazarian requests sanctions in the amount of $520 per motion and $2080 in total,
which the Court finds reasonable. Consequently,
the Court sanctions Defendant Darbinyan and his counsel in the amount of $2080. Defendant Darbinyan and his counsel are ORDERED, jointly and severally, to pay
sanctions of $2080 to Kazarian
within 20 days of today’s date.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party
intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to
the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.  The body of
the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact
information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless all parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.  You should
assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the
parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off
calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion
without leave.
 