 Case Number:  22STCV30547    Hearing Date:   May 2, 2024    Dept:  27 HON. LEE
S. ARIAN
DEPARTMENT
27
TENTATIVE
RULING
 
Hearing Date:           5/2/2024 at 1:30 p.m.
Case No./Name:       22STCV30547 ROBERT WILLIAMSON vs GLS US
FREIGHT
Motion:                    MOTION TO COMPEL MULTIPLE PHYISCAL AND MENTAL
EXAMINATIONS
Moving Party:           Defendant GLS US Freight, Inc
Responding Party:    Plaintiff
Notice:                      Sufficient
 
Ruling:                              MOTION TO COMPEL MULTIPLE PHYSICAL AND MENTAL
EXAMINATIONS IS DENIED
 
Legal Standard
Except for defense
physicals in personal injury cases and exams arranged by stipulation, a court
order is required for a physical or mental examination. Such order may be made
only after notice and hearing, and for “good cause shown.” (CCP § 2032.320(a).)
The examination will be
limited to whatever condition is “in controversy” in the action. (CCP §
2032.020 (a).) This means the specific injury or condition that is the subject
of the litigation. The examination must be directly related thereto. (Roberts
v. Superior Court (1973) 9 Cal.3d 330, 337.) Often, a party's pleadings put
his or her mental or physical condition in controversy ... as when a plaintiff
claims continuing mental or physical injury resulting from defendant's acts: “A
party who chooses to allege that he has mental and emotional difficulties can
hardly deny his mental state is in controversy.” (Vinson v. Superior Court
(1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 839—plaintiff claimed ongoing emotional distress from
sexual harassment by former employer.) Discovery responses can also frame the
issues regarding the injuries and damages alleged.  
Where plaintiff's
injuries are complex, several exams may be necessary by specialists in
different fields. There is no limit on the number of physical or mental exams
that may be ordered on a showing of good cause. The good cause requirement
checks any potential harassment of plaintiff. (Shapira v. Superior Court
(1990) 224 Cal.App.3d 1249, 1255—second mental examination may be ordered.)
A mental or physical
exam cannot be compelled where no continuing injury is claimed; e.g.,
where plaintiff alleges only physical injury or emotional distress in the past.
(Doyle v. Superior Court (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 1878, 1886–1887.)
Similarly, a plaintiff claiming only physical injury cannot be forced to submit
to a psychiatric examination, even on the theory that her psychiatric condition
decreased her tolerance to the physical pain of which she complains. (See Roberts,
supra, 9 Cal.3d at p. 337.) But a psychiatric exam may be ordered where
plaintiff also claims “great mental pain and suffering” resulting from physical
injury. (Reuter v. Superior Court (1979) 93 Cal.App.3d 332, 340.) In
other words, where plaintiff claims unusual psychiatric symptoms, a defense
mental exam is clearly proper. However, where the mental suffering claimed is
no different than that generally associated with physical injury, forcing
plaintiff to submit to a full-blown psychiatric exam may be pure harassment. A
personal injury plaintiff can avoid a mental exam by disclaiming any unusual
mental or emotional suffering and agreeing not to introduce expert testimony on
these issues at trial. (CCP § 2032.320(c).) The Discovery Act permits a
plaintiff to avoid the necessity of submitting to a mental examination by
stipulating that: (1) no claim is being made for mental and emotional distress
“over and above that usually associated with the physical injuries claimed”;
and (2) no psychiatric testimony will be offered at trial in support of any
claimed emotional distress. (See CCP § 2032.320(c).)
The burden is on the
moving party to show (by declarations or other evidence) that the examinee's
condition is “in controversy” in the action. The moving party must also
establish good cause for the examination(s) sought. A court order for physical
or mental examination must be based on a showing of “good cause” (CCP §
2032.320(a)): (1) relevancy to the subject matter; and (2) specific facts
justifying discovery: i.e., allegations showing the need for the information
sought and lack of means for obtaining it elsewhere.  (Vinson v. Superior Court (1987) 43
Cal.3d 833, 840.) The purpose is to protect an examinee's privacy by preventing
annoying “fishing expeditions” - i.e., one party may not compel another to
undergo psychiatric testing “solely on the basis of speculation that something
of interest may surface.” (Id.)
The notice of motion
must state the time, place, identity and speciality of the examiner, and the
“manner, conditions, scope and nature of the examination.” (CCP § 2032.310(b).)
The requirement for specification of the “manner, conditions, scope and nature
of the examination” apparently requires disclosure of whatever diagnostic tests
and procedures will be utilized (x-rays, blood and urine samples, etc.). (See
CCP § 2032.220(c).) The notice of motion must be accompanied by a separate
document setting forth the discovery request, the declarations must state facts
showing “a reasonable and good faith attempt” at an informal resolution of the
issues.  (CCP § 2032.310(b).)
Background and Analysis
On September 19, 2022,
Plaintiff filed the present case, alleging injury from a forklift truck
accident. On January 11, 2024, Plaintiff provided discovery responses
identifying a traumatic brain injury and the need for future medical care.
Defendant now moves the court to conduct multiple mental examinations on
Plaintiff.
Defendant alleges that
during Plaintiff’s deposition, Plaintiff’s counsel refused to enter a
stipulation on the record stating that Plaintiff was not alleging a traumatic
brain injury. (Declaration of Maryam Danishwar ¶ 11-12.) Because of this
refusal, Defendant filed the present motion to compel Plaintiff’s mental
examination. However, Defendant's declaration did not demonstrate that it
engaged in a reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal resolution of
each issue presented by the motion. Based on the evidence presented, Defendant
did not engage in any discussion with Plaintiff relating to the motion. The
only action Defendant took before filing the present motion was to ask
Plaintiff’s counsel to stipulate that Plaintiff is not alleging traumatic brain
injury. (Declaration of Maryam Danishwar ¶ 11-12.) Furthermore, Defendant, in
its reply, did not address Plaintiff’s argument that the parties did not meet
and confer before Defendant filed the present motion.
Thus, the present
motion is DENIED without prejudice. The Court orders the Parties to review the
law relating to mental examinations in the legal standard section and meet and
confer either in person or by telephone to attempt to reach an informal
resolution of the issues.  If they are
unsuccessful (and, as required, provide a declaration declaration stating facts
showing “a reasonable and good faith attempt” at an informal resolution of these
issues), the Court will then entertain a renewed motion.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party
intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to
the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.  The body of
the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact
information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless all parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.  You should
assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the
parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off
calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion
without leave.