 Case Number:  23STCV22374    Hearing Date:   March 29, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     March
29, 2024                                  TRIAL
DATE:  Not set
                                                           
CASE:                         Khatchatur Berberian v. Walt Disney Pictures, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV22374
 





















 
DEMURRER
WITH MOTION TO STRIKE



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendants
Walt Disney Pictures, et al.
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Plaintiff Khatchatur
Berberian
 
 
I.          BACKGROUND
 
            This is a Fair
Employment and Housing Act (FEHA) action. 
On September 15, 2023, Plaintiff, Khatchatur Berberian, filed a
Complaint against Defendants, Walt Disney Pictures, The Walt Disney Company,
Disney Worldwide Services, Inc., Chester Carr (“Carr”), Sara Fredericks,
(“Fredericks”), and Scott Mohler (“Mohler”). 
On November 7, 2023, Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended
Complaint (“FAC”), alleging causes of action for: 
 
1.     
Discrimination in Violation of the
FEHA
2.     
Hostile Work Environment Harassment
in Violation of the FEHA
3.     
Retaliation in Violation of the FEHA
4.     
Failure to Provide Reasonable
Accommodation in Violation of the FEHA
5.     
Failure to Engage in the Interactive
Process in Violation of FEHA
6.     
Failure to Prevent Discrimination,
Harassment, or Retaliation in Violation of FEHA
7.     
Breach of Express Oral Contract Not
to Terminate Employment Without Good Cause
8.     
Breach of Implied-in-Fact Contract
Not to Terminate Employment Without Good Cause
9.     
Negligent Hiring, Supervision, and
Retention
10. 
Whistleblower Retaliation (Labor
Code § 1102.5)
11. 
Wrongful Termination of Employment
in Violation of Public Policy
12. 
Intentional Infliction of Emotional
Distress.
 
            As alleged
in the FAC, Plaintiff is Armenian and has disabilities.  He was hired by Walt Disney Pictures, The
Walt Disney Company, and Disney Worldwide Services, Inc., (collectively, “Disney
Defendants”) as a Mail Center Messenger in 1998.  In February 2014, Plaintiff’s work
environment worsened when Plaintiff began working with Carr.  Carr was a Supervisor.  Specifically, Plaintiff and Carr had a
physical altercation.  During the
altercation, Plaintiff experienced pain in his abdomen and tingling in his
arms.  Soon after, Plaintiff visited the
doctor for those symptoms and was diagnosed with heart disease.  
 
Plaintiff reported the incident with Carr to
Fredericks.  Fredericks was Plaintiff and
Carr’s manager.  Fredericks refused to
address Plaintiff’s concerns.  Plaintiff
escalated the issue to Human Resources. 
Ultimately, nothing was done to address the altercation with Carr.  
 
            In April of
2014, Plaintiff underwent surgery for his heart condition and took a six month
leave to recover.  Plaintiff notified
Fredericks and Carr about taking medical leave. 
Upon his return, Mohler, a Department Lead, made fun of Plaintiff’s medical
leave.  Plaintiff also requested a
reasonable accommodation, including that he could not work in the same room as
Carr because of the severe stress and anxiety Plaintiff experienced because of
the hostile work environment created by Car. 
The request was supported by a doctor’s note.  However, Plaintiff was forced to continue
interacting with Carr and Carr continued to openly harass Plaintiff.  Plaintiff was later diagnosed with anxiety
and depression as a result of Carr’s mistreatment.  Further, Carr’s mistreatment of Plaintiff
continued throughout the remainder of Plaintiff’s employment, which included
discrimination against Plaintiff because of his racial and national origin.
 
            In March of
2020, Plaintiff was furloughed because of the COVID-19 pandemic.  Just before he was furloughed, Disney
Defendants hired two new employees.  They
were between the ages of 20 and 30 and not Armenian.  Plaintiff was over 40 years old.  The younger employees remained employed even
after Plaintiff was furloughed. 
Plaintiff’s employment was ultimately terminated on September 24, 2021. Plaintiff
was told his position had been eliminated yet younger, non-Armenian employees
who had the same title and position as Plaintiff did not lose their jobs.  After being discharged, Plaintiff complained
about his termination and reported feeling targeted throughout his
employment.  Plaintiff was further told
his lack of knowledge of the job and his inability to work with Carr were the
reasons for his termination.  However,
Plaintiff worked the position for decades and knew the job well.  Plaintiff’s request not to work with Carr was
a reasonable accommodation supported by his doctor’s recommendation, which
Defendants failed to honor.  
 
            On January 25,
2024, Disney Defendants filed this Demurrer and concurrently filed a Motion to
Strike allegations of misconduct that occurred before September 19, 2021.[1]
 
            Plaintiff
filed oppositions.  Disney Defendants filed
replies.
 
II.        LEGAL STANDARD FOR DEMURRER
            A demurrer
tests the legal sufficiency of the pleadings and will be sustained only where
the pleading is defective on its face.¿ (City of Atascadero v. Merrill
Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Inc. (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 445, 459.)¿
“We treat the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded but not
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.¿ We accept the factual
allegations of the complaint as true and also consider matters which may be
judicially noticed.¿ [Citation.]”¿ (Mitchell v. California Department of Public
Health (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th 1000, 1007; Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural
Materials Co. (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 593, 604 [“the facts alleged in the
pleading are deemed to be true, however improbable they may be”].) Allegations
are to be liberally construed.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 452.)¿ In construing the
allegations, the court is to give effect to specific factual allegations that
may modify or limit inconsistent general or conclusory allegations.¿ (Financial
Corporation of America v. Wilburn (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 764, 769.)¿¿If the cause of action is based in statute, the facts
supporting each statutory requirement must be specifically pled. (Fisher v.
San Pedro Peninsula Hospital (1989) 214 Cal.App.3d 590, 604 (Fisher).)
            A demurrer
may be brought if insufficient facts are stated to support the cause of action
asserted.¿(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).)  “A demurrer for uncertainty is strictly
construed, even where a complaint is in some respects uncertain, because
ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery procedures.”¿(Khoury v.
Maly’s of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)¿¿¿ 
            Where the
complaint contains substantial factual allegations sufficiently apprising
defendant of the issues it is being asked to meet, a demurrer for uncertainty
will be overruled or plaintiff will be given leave to amend.¿ (Williams v.
Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139, fn. 2.)¿ Leave to
amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful
amendment.¿ (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.)¿ The burden
is on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be amended
successfully. (Ibid.)¿
III.       JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
            Disney Defendants request judicial notice of the
following documents:
 
·        
Verified Charge
of Discrimination filed by Plaintiff with the Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission (“EEOC”) and the California Department of Fair Employment and
Housing (“DFEH”) on November 18, 2016, Charge No. 480-2016-03070. (Request for
Judicial Notice (“RJN”) 1.)
·        
DFEH
Notice to Complainant and Respondent and Notice to Complainant of Right to Sue
dated November 18, 2016, Charge No. 480-2016-03070.  (RJN 2.)
·        
EEOC’s
Dismissal and Notice of Rights, dated December 1, 2016, Charge No.
480-2016-03070. (RJN 3.)  
·        
Complaint
of Employment Discrimination filed on behalf of Plaintiff with the DFEH on
September 19, 2022, Case No. 202209-18285620. 
(RJN 4.)   
·        
DFEH
Notice of Case Closure and Right to Sue letter dated September 19, 2023, Case
No. 202209-18285620.  (RJN 5.)  
 
The unopposed requests are
GRANTED.  (Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (c).)
 
IV.       DISCUSSION
 
            Meet and Confer
 
            Defense counsel has complied with
the meet and confer requirement.  (See
Declaration of Marissa M. Franco, ¶ 10.)
 
            Analysis
 
Disney Defendants demur
to each cause of action, except the Eleventh Cause of Action.  The court addresses each cause of action in
turn. 
 
Before addressing
each cause of action, the court makes the following observations about the FAC.  Plaintiff employs a “chain letter” or
cumulative pleading, as well as a shotgun pleading practice.  These practices are disfavored.  In Kelly v. General Telephone Co.
(1982) 136 Cal.App.3d 278, the court defined a pleading practice that it termed
“chain letter” or cumulative pleading and explained that the practice should be
avoided because it causes ambiguity and creates redundancy.  “[The p]laintiff employs in part a ‘chain
letter’ or cumulative type of pleading. That is, [the] plaintiff's cause of
action for negligent infliction of emotional distress, the second cause of
action in the second amended complaint, incorporates by reference the entire
first cause of action. This type of pleading should be avoided as it tends to
cause ambiguity and creates redundancy.” (Id. at p. 285.)
 
In Sollberger
v. Wachovia Securities, LLC (C.D. Cal. June 30, 2010, No. SACV 09–0766 AG)
2010 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 66233 at *11–12, 2010 WL 2674456, the court defined a
related pleading practice that it termed “shotgun ” pleading and explained why
that practice should not be tolerated by trial courts. “Shotgun pleadings are
pleadings that overwhelm defendants with an unclear mass of allegations and
make it difficult or impossible for defendants to make informed responses to
the plaintiff's allegations. They are unacceptable.... The Court has recognized
that allowing shotgun pleadings would lead to many negative consequences. See
Mason v. County of Orange, 251 F.R.D. 562, 563–64 (C.D. Cal. 2008) (quoting
Anderson v. District Board of Trustees, 77 F.3d 364, 366–67 (11th
Cir.1996)) (‘[E]xperience teaches that, unless cases are pled clearly and
precisely, issues are not joined, discovery is not controlled, the trial
court's docket becomes unmanageable, the litigants suffer, and society loses
confidence in the court's ability to administer justice.’); see also Byrne
v. Nezhat, 261 F.3d 1075, 1130 (11th Cir. 2001) (‘Cases framed by shotgun
pleadings consume an inordinate amount of a court's time. As a result, justice
is delayed, if not denied, for litigants who are standing in the queue waiting
to be heard. Their impression of the court's ability to take care of its
business can hardly be favorable. As the public becomes aware of the harm
suffered by the victims of shotgun pleading, it, too, cannot help but lose
respect for the system.’)”  
 
This pleading
style is especially problematic here.  Defendants
assert that Plaintiff’s claims are time-barred. 
Plaintiff, in turn, relies upon the continuing violation doctrine to
capture certain acts that potentially fall outside the limitations period.  As alleged, the court cannot tell for many of
the causes of action whether they are time-barred.  For this reason, the court pointedly addresses
the statute of limitations argument as to the Third, Fourth, Fifth, and Sixth
causes of action.  Should Plaintiff seek
to rely upon the continuing violation doctrine, Plaintiff must plead sufficient
facts to support an assertion of the continuing violation doctrine; facts that
meet the requirements set forth in Richards v. CH2M Hill, Inc. (2001) 26
Cal.4th 798 and Acuna v. San Diego Gas & Electric (2012) 217
Cal.App.4th 1402.
 
A.    
1st Cause of Action: Discrimination in
Violation of the FEHA
 
The First Cause of
Action is based on the allegation that “Plaintiff’s age, disabilities, race,
national origin, ancestry, and/or other characteristics protected by FEHA . . .
were substantial motivating reasons in defendants’ decision to terminate
plaintiff’s employment”.   (FAC, ¶ 24.) 
A plaintiff establishes a prima
facie case for unlawful discrimination by providing evidence that “(1) he was a
member of a protected class, (2) he was qualified for the position he sought or
was performing competently in the position he held, (3) he suffered an adverse
employment action ..., and (4) some other circumstance suggests discriminatory
motive.”  (Guz v. Bechtel (2000) 24
Cal.4th 317, 355.)  
Disney Defendants
launch several interrelated attacks against the First Cause of Action.  First, they argue the FAC does not allege sufficient
facts to show that discrimination was a substantial motivating factor in any
adverse employment action taken against Plaintiff.  A plaintiff must plead facts to demonstrate
that his alleged protected characteristics was a substantial motivating factor
in the particular employment decision. 
(See Harris v. City of Santa Monica (2013) 56 Cal.4th 203, 232; see
also CACI Nos. 2500, 2540, 2570.)  “A
“substantial motivating reason” is a reason that actually contributed to the adverse
employment action. It must be more than a remote or trivial reason.  It does not have to be the only reason
motivating the adverse employment action.” 
(CACI No. 2507.)   
 
As mentioned
above, Plaintiff sets forth his factual allegations in a “common facts” section.
 The court discerns that the factual
basis for the First Cause of Action include Plaintiff’s alleged disabilities,
identified as anxiety and depression (FAC, ¶ 1(e); comments about Plaintiff’s
national origin and race (FAC, ¶ 15(g)-(h)); and allegations that two new
younger, non-Armenian employees remained employed even though Plaintiff, who
was over 40 years old at the time, remained furloughed and was ultimately
terminated (FAC, ¶ 15(i)).  As alleged,
Plaintiff does not sufficiently state a cause of action for discrimination based
on disability, age, race, or national origin. 
There are no allegations, either taken separately or together, that
establish these instances of alleged discrimination were substantial motivating
reasons for Plaintiff’s furlough and termination.
 
Disney Defendants’
demurrer to the First Cause of Action is SUSTAINED.
 
B.    
2nd Cause of Action: Hostile Work
Environment Harassment in Violation of the FEHA
 
            Government Code section 12940,
subdivisions (a) and (j)(1) provide the basis for FEHA claims for
discrimination and harassment: “race, religious creed, color, national origin,
ancestry, physical disability, mental disability, medical condition, genetic
information, marital status, sex, gender, gender identity, gender expression,
age, sexual orientation, or veteran or military status . . .”  A hostile work environment is a recognized
form of harassment. To establish a hostile work environment, harassment must be
so severe or pervasive as to alter the conditions of the victim’s employment
and create an abusive working environment based on the protected characteristic. (See Hughes v. Pair (2009) 46 Cal.4th 1035,
1043.)  Harassment must be of a repeated,
routine, or generalized nature when the harassing conduct is not severe.  (See Lyle v. Warner Bros. Television
Productions (2006) 38 Cal.4th 264, 283.)  Harassment that is occasional, isolated or
sporadic is insufficient.  (See id.)  “Whether
an environment is hostile or abusive can be determined only by looking at all
the circumstances. [Citation.] These may include the frequency of the
discriminatory conduct; its severity; whether it is physically threatening or
humiliating, or a mere offensive utterance; and whether it unreasonably
interferes with an employee’s work performance.  The effect on the employee’s psychological
well being is, of course, relevant to determining whether the plaintiff
actually found the environment abusive.  But
while psychological harm, like any other factor, may be taken into account, no
single factor is required.”  (Jones v.
Dep’t of Corr. & Rehab. (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 1367, 1378 [cleaned up].)
 
            The Second Cause of Action is based
on the alleged conduct of Individual Defendants Fredericks, Mohler, and
Carr.  The court sustained Individual
Defendants’ demurrer to the Second Cause of Action.  (See Minute Order, 2/1/24.)  The basis for the sustaining Individual
Defendants’ demurrer is as summarized: 
 
1.     
As
to Fredericks, there are no allegations establishing a nexus between Fredericks
2014 and 2018 conduct and a protected characteristic.  Nor do the allegations describe conduct by
Fredericks that is severe or pervasive, or repeated, routine, or generalized in
nature.  
 
2.     
As
to Carr, there is no factual allegations connecting Carr’s conduct and
Plaintiff’s protected characteristic.  
 
3.     
As
to Mohler, Plaintiff improperly relies on alleged misconduct that occurred
before September 19, 2019 (when the applicable limitations period begins), and
the lone allegation of any conduct by Mohler possibly occurring within the
applicable period was vague and lacked sufficient specificity.  


Given that the
court found the allegations in the FAC were deficient as to Individual
Defendants, the court further finds the FAC is deficiently pled as to Disney
Defendants.  For these reasons, Disney
Defendants’ demurrer to the Second Cause of Action is also SUSTAINED.
 
C.    
3rd Cause of Action: Retaliation for
Engaging in Protected Activity 
 
To establish
retaliation under FEHA, a plaintiff must show that “(1) he or she engaged in a
‘protected activity,’ (2) the employer subjected the employee to an adverse
employment action, and (3) a causal link existed between the protected activity
and the employer’s action.” (Yanowitz v. L’Oreal USA, Inc. (2005) 36
Cal.4th 1028, 1042.) 
 
The Third Cause of
Action for retaliation is based on Plaintiff’s complaints of harassment and
retaliation from Carr[2] and other misconduct by
Carr[3] and Plaintiff’s request for
reasonable accommodation that he not work with Carr.  
 
The FAC states a
claim for retaliation.  Plaintiff’s
request for accommodation to not work with Carr is protected activity. When
Plaintiff complained about being terminated, Yvonne Pack with Human Resources,
and Senior Manager, Daria Kimble, explained that one of the reasons for Plaintiff’s
termination was that Plaintiff would not work with Carr.  (FAC, ¶ 16.) 
The reasonable inference to be drawn is that Plaintiff was terminated because
he requested not to work with Carr.  In
drawing this inference, the court focuses on when the adverse employment action
occurred (in 2020), and less when Plaintiff engaged in the protected activity. 
 
In reply, Disney
Defendants emphasize that there are no allegations showing that Carr played any
role in Plaintiff’s termination.  Disney
Defendants’ focus on Carr’s alleged role in the adverse employment action is
misplaced.  The inquiry is whether Plaintiff
was engaged in a protected activity, whether the employer subjected Plaintiff
to an adverse employment action, and whether the two events are causally linked.  The FAC sufficiently alleges each element of
the claim.  Disney Defendants further contend
that Plaintiff does not assert any claims against Pack or Kimble.  That is beside the point.  Pack and Kimble’s decision to terminate
Plaintiff because of his inability to work with Carr may be attributed to Disney
Defendants whether or not Plaintiff asserts a claim against them individually.
 
Accordingly, Disney
Defendants’ demurrer to the Third Cause of Action is OVERRULED.
 
D.   
4th Cause of Action: Failure to Provide Reasonable Accommodation
 
The Fourth Cause
of Action is based on Disney Defendants’ failure to provide Plaintiff with his requested
accommodation not to work with Carr because working with Carr exacerbated
Plaintiff’s anxiety and depression.
 
“There are three
elements to a failure to accommodate action: ‘(1) the plaintiff has a
disability covered by the FEHA; (2) the plaintiff is a qualified individual
(i.e., he or she can perform the essential functions of the position); and (3)
the employer failed to reasonably accommodate the plaintiff’s
disability.”  (CACI No. 2541; Hernandez v. Rancho Santiago Cmty.
College Dist. (2018) 22 Cal.App.5th 1187, 1193-1194.)
 
Disney Defendants
argue Plaintiff’s failure to provide reasonable accommodation claim is
time-barred.  
 
Plaintiff argues
the continuing violation doctrine applies to this claim.
 
“[A]n employer's
persistent failure to reasonably accommodate a disability . . . is a continuing
violation if the employer's unlawful actions are (1) sufficiently similar in
kind—recognizing, … , that similar kinds of unlawful employer conduct, such as
acts of harassment or failures to reasonably accommodate disability, may take a
number of different forms (see Fielder v. UAL Corp., supra, 218
F.3d at pp. 987-988); (2) have occurred with reasonable frequency; (3) and have
not acquired a degree of permanence.  (Berry,
supra, 715 F.2d at p. 981.) But consistent with our case law and with
the statutory objectives of the FEHA, we further hold that “permanence” in the
context of an ongoing process of accommodation of disability, or ongoing
disability harassment, should properly be understood to mean the following:
that an employer's statements and actions make clear to a reasonable employee
that any further efforts at informal conciliation to obtain reasonable
accommodation or end harassment will be futile.”  (Richards, 26 Cal.4th at p. 823.)  
 
The Fourth Cause
of Action is time-barred.  Here, as
alleged, the failure to reasonably accommodate acquired a degree of
permanence.  Plaintiff first made a request
for accommodation in 2014.  Plaintiff filed a
charge with DFEH in 2016.  (RJN 1.)  Plaintiff does not allege a new violation
after 2016.  It is the same violation:
Disney Defendants’ failure to accommodate Plaintiff’s request not to work with
Carr.  Plaintiff should have reasonably
understood that litigation was his only alternative to vindicate his rights.  Indeed, filing a charge with DFEH in 2016 and
receiving a right to sue letter signals as much.  (RJN 2.)
 
Disney Defendants’
demurrer to the Fourth Cause of Action is SUSTAINED.
 
E.    
5th Cause of Action: Failure to Engage in
Good Faith Interactive Process
 
The Fifth Cause of
Action is based on Disney Defendants’ purported failure to engage in a good
faith interactive process with Plaintiff concerning his request not to work
with Carr.
 
FEHA requires
employers to engage in a good faith interactive process to determine effective
reasonable accommodations, if any, “in response to a request for reasonable
accommodation by an employee . . . with a known physical or mental disability .
. . .”  (Gov. Code, § 12940, subd. (n); Raine v. City of Burbank (2006)
135 Cal.App.4th 1215, 1222.)  To establish a claim for failure to engage
in the interactive process, a plaintiff must show: (1) defendant was an
employer; (2) plaintiff was defendant’s employee; (3) plaintiff was disabled;
(4) plaintiff requested reasonable accommodation; (5) plaintiff was willing to
participate in a timely good faith interactive process with plaintiff to
determine whether a reasonable accommodation could be made; (6) defendant
failed to participate in this process; (7) plaintiff was harmed; and (8)
defendant’s failure to engage in a good-faith interactive process was a
substantial factor in causing plaintiff’s harm.  (CACI No. 2546.)¿¿ 
 
Like the Fourth
Cause of Action, Disney Defendants argue that the Fifth Cause of Action is
time-barred because Plaintiff filed his first charge with the DFEH in 2016.  (See RJN 1.) Therefore, Plaintiff was on
notice at least as of 2016 that further efforts to end the unlawful conduct would
be in vain.   The court agrees.  Plaintiff’s cause of action accrued in 2016.  He was on notice he needed to litigate his
claim.  (Richards, 26 Cal.4th at
p. 823.)  As alleged, Disney Defendants’
failure to engage in a good faith interactive process regarding Plaintiff’s
request not to work with Carr is a repetition of the same claim.  Plaintiff does not allege any new violation occurring
in the applicable period that would support this cause of action.
 
Disney Defendants’
demurrer to the Fifth Cause of Action is SUSTAINED.
 
F.    
6th Cause of Action: Failure to Prevent
Discrimination, Harassment, or Retaliation
 
A cause of action
for failure to prevent discrimination or retaliation requires the following
elements: (1) plaintiff was an employee of defendant; (2) plaintiff was
subjected to discrimination/retaliation in the course of employment; (3)
defendant failed to take all reasonable steps to prevent the
discrimination/retaliation; (4) plaintiff was harmed; and (5) defendant’s
failure to take all reasonable steps to prevent discrimination/retaliation was
a substantial factor in causing plaintiff’s harm.  (CACI No. 2527; Jumaane
v. City of Los Angeles (2015) 241 Cal.App.4th 1390, 1410.)¿ “The employer’s
duty to prevent discrimination and retaliation is affirmative and
mandatory.”  (Northrop Grumman Corp. v. Workers’ Comp. Appeals Bd.
(2002) 103 Cal.App.4th 1021, 1035.) 
 
The Sixth Cause of
Action is based upon his Second Cause of Action.  (See Opp., p. 1:25-27.)  Because the court has found that the FAC does
not state a cause of action for hostile work environment harassment, the Sixth
Cause of Action similarly fails.
 
Accordingly, Disney
Defendants’ demurrer to the Sixth Cause of Action is SUSTAINED.
 
G.   
7th and 8th Causes of Action: Breach
of Contract Causes of Action
 
“‘[T]he vital
elements of a cause of action based on a contract are mutual assent (usually
accomplished through the medium of an offer and acceptance) and consideration.
As to the basic elements, there is no difference between an express and an
implied[-in-fact] contract.”  (Pacific Bay Recovery Inc. v. California
Physicians’ Services, Inc. (2017) 12 Cal.App.5th 200, 215.)  “To
prevail on a cause of action for breach of contract, the plaintiff must prove
(1) the contract, (2) the plaintiff's performance of the contract or excuse for
nonperformance, (3) the defendant's breach, and (4) the resulting damage to the
plaintiff.  (Richman v. Hartley (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 1182,
1186.)  “‘While an express contract is defined as one, the terms of which
are stated in words (Civil Code, § 1620), an implied [in fact] contract is an
agreement, the existence and terms of which are manifested by conduct (Civ.
Code, § 1621)…[B]oth types of contract are identical in that they require a
meeting of minds or an agreement [citation]. Thus, it is evident that both the
express contract and contract implied in fact are founded upon an ascertained
agreement or, in other words, are consensual in nature, the substantial
difference being in the mode of proof by which they are established [citation].’
[Citation.]”  (Pacific Bay Recovery, supra, 12 Cal.App.5th at pp. 215-16.) 
 
Disney Defendants
argue the 7th and 8th causes of action fail because the
terms, conditions, and circumstances of the alleged contract not to terminate
Plaintiff without good cause are not alleged. 
The court agrees.  There are no
factual allegations pled in support of these causes of action; the allegations
are conclusory. 
 
Accordingly, Disney
Defendants’ demurrer to the Seventh and Eighth Causes of Action is SUSTAINED.
 
H.   
9th Cause of Action: Negligent Hiring, Supervision, and Retention
 
The elements of a
claim for Negligent Hiring, Supervision, or Retention of an employee are: (1)
that the defendant hired the employee; (2) that the employee was/became unfit
to perform the work for which they were hired; (3) that the employer knew or
should have known that the employee was/became unfit and that they created a
particular risk to others; (4) that the employee’s unfitness harmed the
plaintiff; and (5) that the employer’s negligence in hiring or retaining the
employee was a substantial factor in causing plaintiff’s harm.¿ (CACI No. 426.)
“Negligence liability will be imposed on an employer if it ‘knew or should have
known that hiring the employee created a particular risk or hazard and that
particular harm materializes.’ ”¿ (Phillips v. TLC Plumbing, Inc. (2009)
172 Cal.App.4th 1133, 1139.) 
 
The Ninth Cause of
Action fails for two reasons.  First,
Plaintiff’s use of the “shotgun pleading” style renders this cause of action
uncertain.  Who does the Plaintiff allege
was negligently hired?  Who was unfit?  Is it Mohler? Fredericks? Carr? Pack?
Kimble?  The court cannot tell.  Second, even if the FAC sufficiently
identifies the actor, the FAC does not state a cause of action for negligent
hiring, supervision, and retention.  There
are no allegations establishing the second (unfitness of employee) or third (employer’s
knowledge) elements of this claim.  
 
Disney Defendants’
demurrer to the Ninth Cause of Action is SUSTAINED.
 
I.       
10th Cause of Action: Whistleblower
Retaliation
 
Labor Code section
1102.5, subdivision (b) provides, “[a]n employer, or any person acting on
behalf of the employer, shall not retaliate against an employee for disclosing
information, or because the employer believes that the employee disclosed or
may disclose information, to a government or law enforcement agency, to a
person with authority over the employee or another employee who has the
authority to investigate, discover, or correct the violation or noncompliance,
or for providing information to, or testifying before, any public body
conducting an investigation, hearing, or inquiry, if the employee has
reasonable cause to believe that the information discloses a violation of state
or federal statute, or a violation of or noncompliance with a local, state, or
federal rule or regulation, regardless of whether disclosing the information is
part of the employee's job duties.”  (Lab. Code, § 1102.5, subd. (b).) 
To establish a claim for whistleblower retaliation, the following elements must
be met: (1) plaintiff engaged in a protected activity; (2) plaintiff suffered
an adverse employment action; and (3) a causal link exists between the
protected activity and adverse actions.  (Mokler v. Cty. of Orange (2007) 157
Cal.App.4th 121, 138.)
 
The Tenth Cause of
Action is based on Plaintiff’s complaints about Carr’s conduct and Mohler’s
conduct.  (See FAC, ¶¶ 15(d),
(g)-(i).)  This claim fails for two
reasons.  First, it is time-barred.  An action based on statute must be brought
within three years.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§  338, subd. (a).)  Here, all the alleged conduct occurred on or
before March 2020.  Second, even if the
claim were timely, Plaintiff does not establish a causal link between any of
the alleged conduct and an adverse employment action.  Plaintiff does not address this argument in
opposition.
 
Disney Defendants’
demurrer to the Ninth Cause of Action is SUSTAINED.
 
J.      
12th Cause of Action for IIED
 
The elements of an
intentional infliction of emotional distress cause of action are: (1) extreme
and outrageous conduct by the defendant; (2) intention to cause or reckless
disregard of the probability of causing emotional distress; (3) severe
emotional suffering; and (4) actual and proximate causation of the emotional
distress. (See Moncada v. West Coast Quartz Corp. (2013) 221 Cal.App.4th
768, 780; Wilson v. Hynek (2012) 207 Cal.App.4th 999, 1009.) To satisfy
the element of extreme and outrageous conduct, defendant’s conduct “‘must be so
extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized
society.’” (Moncada, supra, 221 Cal.App.4th at p. 780 (quoting
Tererice v. Blue Cross of California (1989) 209 Cal.App.3d 878,
883).)  
 
A personnel
management decision does not constitute extreme and outrageous conduct even if
it was improperly motivated by discrimination and retaliation. (See Janken
v. GM Hughes Electronics (1996) 46 Cal.App.4th 55, 79-80; see also Light
v. California Department of Parks and Recreation (2017) 14 Cal.App.5th 75,
101-02.) 
 
            The court sustained Individual
Defendants’ demurrer to the IIED cause of action because it is based on conduct
that occurred in 2014, 2016, and 2020.  A
cause of action for IIED must be brought within 2 years.  (Code Civ Proc., § 335.1.)  Plaintiff did not file this action until
September 15, 2023.  The IIED claim is
time barred. 
 
            Accordingly, Disney Defendants’
demurrer to the Twelfth Cause of Action is likewise SUSTAINED.  
 
V.          CONCLUSION
            
The demurrer to the First, Second, Fourth, Fifth, Sixth,
Seventh, Eighth, Ninth, Tenth, and Twelfth Causes of Action is SUSTAINED.  Leave to amend is GRANTED.
 
The demurrer to the Third Cause of Action is OVERRULED.
 
Plaintiff is ordered to serve and file his Second Amended
Complaint by April 22, 2024.  (See Stipulation
to Extend Plaintiff’s Deadline to File a Second Amended Complaint, 3/20/24.)
 
All Defendants are to file and serve their responsive
pleading within 30 days of service of Plaintiff’s amended pleading. 
 
As the court has sustained the demurrer with leave to amend,
the motion to strike portions of the First Amended Complaint is MOOT. 
 
Disney Defendants to give notice.  
 
Dated:   March 29, 2024                                            




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




 
            


