 Case Number:  23SMCV03134    Hearing Date:   April 10, 2024    Dept:  I This is one of a number of cases between two brothers.  According to the defense, this is one of five
related cases—cases that have (except this one) been litigated and
arbitrated.  The court has inquired about
the notice of related cases and has been informed that it should consider the
matter given that the judges in the other cases are not available.  The court will DENY the notice of related
case.  All of the other cases have been
resolved—at least at the trial level—and the judges who presided over them do
not appear to be available to preside over this case.  Given that, the court sees no advantage to
relating the cases.  (The court notes
that the major purpose of relating cases is judicial efficiency—to allow
discovery to be cross-admissible and avoid conflicting procedural rulings.  There is also some advantage to having one
judge control the whole constellation of cases. 
Those advantages are absent here.)
 
Turning then, to the merits, defendant contends that the
matter is barred by res judicata and statute of limitations.  He claims that other suits involve the same
jewelry box (the Kashet) and has been litigated.  Defendant states that the matter has been
dismissed time and again.  Plaintiff
contends that the arbitration did not resolve everything because after the
arbitration was over, defendant continued to do bad things.
 
Plaintiff notes that the Kashet was sealed on February 20,
2017—after the arbitration had concluded. 
Accordingly, plaintiff states that the arbitration could not have
litigated anything in the Kashet. 
Plaintiff gives various reasons why the other cases are also
different.  The gist of the opposition is
that plaintiff is now contending that the parties agreed that the Kashet would
be opened in front of a neutral person at an appropriate time, but that defendant
refuses to do so.  It is not, according
to plaintiff, about who owns the contents of the box.  At most, plaintiff contends, there might be a
plea in abatement, but there is no res judicata.
 
The court believes that the matter will likely be barred by
the prior litigation, either now or when it becomes final (assuming no
reversal).  However, the court does not
know what is in the Kashet.  Defendant
contends that it is jewelry that has already been the subject of
litigation.  But the court does not know
that to be the case; for all the court knows plaintiff’s wedding band is in the
Kashet.  The court notes that
plaintiff—in an event to avoid res judicata perhaps—seems to argue that this
case is different because all he seeks is to have the Kashet opened in front of
him with a neutral person so he can see what is inside.  The court assumes that there is no inventory
that was taken at the time the Kashet was sealed.  Absent an inventory at sealing, the court
does not know if what is inside is the jewelry already at issue in the other
cases or plaintiff’s wedding ring.
 
The court will discuss with the parties whether there is a
mechanism to open the Kashet in front of a witness and catalogue what is
inside.  At that point, the court
believes the res judicata or abatement argument might well be ripe.  And if it is, this case will be dismissed or
stayed and the court would not expect plaintiff to bring another suit.  If the Kashet has been opened already, the
court will inquire whether defendant will present an inventory of its contents
to plaintiff.  If there was an inventory
when the Kashet was sealed, then it would seem that the res judicata or
abatement motions would be ripe immediately, and the court will discuss that
with the parties.