 Case Number:  23SMCV05544    Hearing Date:   April 10, 2024    Dept:  I This is an unusual case. 
The defense brings a motion to compel arbitration.  Plaintiff opposes. 
 
Plaintiff contracted with defendant to provide treatment for
her at a very difficult time in her life. 
At least a fair reading of the complaint and the evidence demonstrates
that she was in an emotionally vulnerable position at the time.  Plaintiff asserts that defendants promised
that they could and would provide the treatment and therapy she needed to
improve.  The fee was significant.
 
After arriving at defendants’ facility, the therapist in
charge of plaintiff’s case was Muniz. 
However, plaintiff alleges that he was hardly to be found and provided
little or no actual therapy.  When she
complained to management, she asserts that her complaints were ignored.  In addition, in part because she was
allegedly ignored by Muniz, she received significant treatment from
Rivera.  According to the complaint,
Rivera engaged in sexual misconduct during and outside of the therapy
sessions.  Plaintiff also alleges that
management did nothing about that problem either.  She has brought suit.  Defendants ask the court to order the matter
to arbitration pursuant to an arbitration clause in the contract plaintiff
signed when admitted to the facility.
 
Plaintiff argues that, at least with regard to the sexual
harassment and misconduct, the arbitration clause is unenforceable under 9
U.S.C. § 402.  That statute renders
pre-litigation arbitration agreements unenforceable for events of sexual
harassment occurring at the time the events here in question allegedly
occurred.  Defendants do not really
question this, although plaintiff anticipated that they might on the theory
that plaintiff was not defendants’ employee. 
The court considers the motion withdrawn as to those causes of action.
 
The court therefore DENIES the motion as it relates to
Rivera’s alleged misconduct and any torts against any defendant arising
therefrom.  The court agrees with
plaintiff that section 402 is broad enough to cover not only the suit against
the alleged sexual harasser, but also causes of action that are closely related
to those allegations, which would include things like negligent supervision of
Rivera.
 
The problem is the rest of the case.  Plaintiff does not allege any sexual
misconduct by Muniz, and Muniz’s supervision does not appear to be tied to
sexual misconduct allegations.  To hold
otherwise would allow an unscrupulous plaintiff to elude an arbitration
agreement by including a stray case within 402 even though the bulk of the case
has nothing to do with sexual misconduct. 
(Mera v. SA Hospitality Group, LLC (S.D.N.Y. 2023) 675 F.Supp.3d
442.)  Thus, it would seem that section
402 would not apply to those aspects of the case.  But it would not apply to the remainder,
specifically the first and third causes of action.  If the court were to agree with the defense,
it would mean that if the court grants the motion, this case would be severed;
part of it being tried in court and part being arbitrated.  And, because section 402 reflects a strong
public policy, the court would not be inclined to stay the court matter pending
arbitration of the Muniz-related and other non-arbitrated claims.  In the court’s view, that is a close
question.
 
But plaintiff alleges more. 
She alleges that the arbitration agreement is unconscionable.  And that is a tougher question.  Plaintiff notes that the arbitration
agreement was presented on a take-it-or-leave-it basis, making it a contract of
adhesion.  Defendants suggest such is not
the case.  Given the high price tag of
their treatment, defendants suggest that plaintiff could shop around and did
not need to accept their facility.  That
might be, but the contract was still adhesive. 
Further, defendants knew that plaintiff was in an extremely vulnerable
position when she contacted them.  She
was likely not able to consider the arbitration clause dispassionately and shop
around for other facilities that did not insist on such a clause.  On balance, given the specific facts of this
case, the court finds procedural unconscionability here.  But that is not enough; there must also be
substantive unconscionability.  For that,
plaintiff points to the limits on damages. 
The contract limits damages and excludes any award for “losses, damages,
costs or expenses for any special, indirect, incidental, consequential or
punitive damages except as such limitation is prohibited by law.” 
 
Damages limitations are not per se
unconscionable.  They exist in many
contracts.  But here, where therapy is
being provided for an extremely vulnerable person, the court is not so sure
than a contract of adhesion that limits damages so severely is proper.  There is some doubt as to what “special,
indirect, incidental, [and] consequential” means.  It could mean that defendants are trying to
protect themselves from a wage loss claim if the recovery takes too long.  But it could also be that they are trying to
protect themselves from the harm caused by their own alleged misconduct to a
vulnerable person.  And the court does
not even know what “special” damages means in this context.  Does that mean that if defendants, through
their misconduct, required plaintiff to seek treatment elsewhere, the cost of
that treatment cannot be recovered?  That
would seem unconscionable to the court given the nature of the services that
defendants provide, plaintiff’s known emotional state when she signed up for
treatment, and the allegations of deliberate misconduct.  If all of that is proven, the court believes
it would be unconscionable for defendants’ liability to essentially be limited
to a refund.  The same is true of
consequential damages.  If plaintiff
suffered emotionally due to Muniz’s alleged mistreatment and the company’s
failure to do anything about it, is that consequential?  Further, the limit on punitive damages might
or might not be permissible.  Of course,
such a limit in a breach of contract cause of action would be permitted, or a
negligence claim.  However, it is not
clear that such is the actual limit attempted by the contract.  It is unclear to the court whether that would
apply to Muniz’s alleged misconduct or the claim that defendants, when they
persuaded plaintiff to treat with them, well knew that they were ill-equipped
to provide therapy and that they would not be able to deliver on the promises
they made (which is what plaintiff alleges). 
Allegations like that sound in fraud and, if proven, could be sufficient
given plaintiff’s emotional state at the time and that defendants were aware of
that state to warrant punitive damages. 
The court is not comfortable saying, under the unique circumstances of
this case, that the broad damages limitation is proper.  And that is substantive unconscionability.
 
The court must also decide whether to exercise its
discretion and simply strike the offending clause.  The court declines to do so here, again
because of the odd facts of this case. 
Essentially the defense is asking that the case be bifurcated—part being
arbitrated and part being tried.  Doing
it that way defeats just about all of the benefits of arbitration—there will
not be a less expensive, speedy resolution of the case through private
resolution.  In fact, it will be
significantly more expensive—at least cost-wise—because the parties will
need to pay all of the court costs and the arbitration costs as well.  Further, many of the witnesses will be the
same, essentially requiring the same evidence to be heard in two fora.  But equally problematic, although the parts
of the case dealing with sexual harassment may not be inextricably intertwined
with the rest of the case, they are intertwined and (in the court’s view)
related.  Rivera’s role was enhanced
because Muniz allegedly did so poorly. 
Management’s actions form a pattern (if true), which could be relevant
to the arbitrated and non-arbitrated portions of the case.  The damages may be related: the fact that
Muniz allegedly so badly failed might make the damages from Rivera’s alleged
misconduct worse or vice versa.  And when
one is talking about emotional distress (and we are), it may be hard or
potentially arbitrary to disentangle what caused what distress.  So while the court might not find that the
two part of the case are quite one and the same, neither are they hermetically
sealed.  And the test is not inextricably
intertwined, it is merely whether the causes of action relate to one
another.  Given the lower standard, the
court cannot enforce the arbitration provision, but frankly, even if the
standard were “inextricably intertwined,” the court would deny the motion given
the contract’s unconscionability.
 
Under all of the unusual facts of this case, the court
believes that it is within its discretion to DENY the motion entirely.  The court is aware that this order is
appealable.  The court will, therefore,
STAY the matter until the time to appeal has expired or until any timely appeal
is resolved.  That said, plaintiff may,
of course, request the Court of Appeal to vacate the stay, which the court
would be pleased to do.