 Case Number:  23LBCV01215    Hearing Date:   December 19, 2023    Dept:  S27 
Background Facts

Plaintiff, Howard Schneider filed
this action against Defendant, Tina Marie Johnson for damages arising out of an
automobile vs. bicycle collision.      
 

Motion to Compel
     Further Responses

a.    
Discovery Dispute
Plaintiff propounded FROGs on
Defendant.  Defendant responded. The parties
met and conferred, which resulted in amended responses.  Despite additional attempts to meet and
confer, the parties were unable to resolve issues relating to FROGs 12.4, 15.1,
and 17.1.   Plaintiff therefore moves to
compel further responses to these FROGs.
 
b.     12.4
Defendant indicates, in opposition
to the motion, that she concedes her response is deficient and she will
supplement her response.  The motion to
compel is therefore moot as to FROG 12.4.
 
c.     15.1
FROG 15.1 asks Defendant to provide
information to support each special or affirmative defense asserted in the answer.  Defendant consistently states that she was
driving slowly and carefully at the time of the accident, that the parties to
the action and the individual listed in the collision report are the witnesses
to support her defense, and that the traffic collision report supports her
defense.  Additionally, with respect to
some of the defenses, she states that she has no information, witnesses, or documents
to support her defense, but that discovery is ongoing and she will supplement
the responses as such information becomes available.  
 
Plaintiff moves to compel further
responses, citing Liberty Mutual Fire Ins. Co. v. LcL Administrators, Inc.
(2008) 163 Cal.App.4th 1093 in support of his position.  In Liberty Mutual, the defendant, in its answer
and cross-complaint, accused the plaintiff insurance company of various
fraudulent and improper practices.  Despite
repeated court orders requiring the defendant to provide further responses to FROGs
15.1 and 17.1, the defendant never provided any substantive information to
support its contentions.  The trial court
ultimately struck its answer and cross-complaint, and the Court of Appeals affirmed.  
 
The Liberty Mutual situation was
distinct from the instant situation in two respects.  First, while the allegations at issue in
Liberty Mutual were objective in nature (the insurance company either did or did
not engage in practices that were illegal or fraudulent), automobile accidents
have a subjective component that cannot be reduced to specific identifiable
facts, witnesses, and evidence.  Second,
in Liberty Mutual, the trial court specifically found that the defendant had
conducted sufficient discovery and had sufficient documents and other evidence
in its possession to provide responses to the FROGs, but continued to refuse to
do so.  Conversely, in our case, Defendant
has not yet conducted Plaintiff’s deposition or IME, which are the most likely
ways Defendant will learn of information to support her affirmative defenses.  
 
The motion to compel a further response
is denied.  Defendant has provided all information
she currently has in her possession. 
Plaintiff is free to propound supplemental interrogatories, and/or to
take any legally available action in the future to preclude Defendant from introducing
facts, witnesses, or evidence not identified in discovery.  He has not, however, shown that the responses
are deficient at this time, and the Court will not order supplemental
responses.
 
d.         17.1
Similarly, FROG 17.1 seeks information
to support Defendant’s denials of various RFAs. 
The RFAs collectively seek an admission that Plaintiff did nothing to
contribute to the accident and Defendant was solely at fault for the accident.  Defendant has stated, in response to each
FROG, that she was driving slowly and carefully at the time of the accident,
and that she has no other facts, witnesses, or evidence available at this time
to support her denials.  
 
Again, Plaintiff is free to use
this discovery in any legally permissible manner in connection with the litigation,
but he has not shown the further responses are necessary under the
circumstances.  The motion is denied.
 

Sanctions 

Plaintiff seeks sanctions in
connection with the moving papers.  Because
the motion is denied, the request for sanctions is also denied.  Defendant does not seek sanctions in
connection with the opposition, and therefore none are imposed.  
 

Notice

Plaintiff is ordered to give
notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the tentative
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed off calendar.  If a party submits on the tentative, the
party’s email must include the case number and must identify the party
submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the tentative, the
party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing on this
matter.   