 Case Number:  23LBCV00483    Hearing Date:   December 19, 2023    Dept:  S27 
Background Facts

Plaintiff, Marco-Joseph Valdez
filed this action against Defendants, Dean C. Logan and Does 1-50 on 3/21/23.  The crux of the complaint is that Logan and
Doe Defendants refused to accept a mechanic’s lien for recording, which caused
him damages.  The complaint includes
causes of action for knowingly concealing verified evidence from being produced
upon an inquiry authorized by law based on Penal Code §135 (first and second
causes of action), and practicing fraud and deceit against my testimony as a
witness in the public court of record based on Penal Code §133 (third cause of
action); the complaint seeks declaratory and injunctive relief based on the above
alleged violations, and also seeks compensatory and punitive damages.    
 

Demurrer to Complaint

a.     Legal
Standard on Demurrer
A demurrer is a pleading used to test
the legal sufficiency of other pleadings. It raises issues of law, not fact,
regarding the form or content of the opposing party’s pleading.  It is not the function of the demurrer to
challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for purpose of the ruling on
the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are assumed to be true,
however improbable they may be.
 
A demurrer can be used only to
challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack; or from
matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. Blank v. Kirwan 39
Cal.3d 311 (1985). No other extrinsic evidence can be considered (i.e., no
“speaking demurrers”). A demurrer is brought under CCP § 430.10 [grounds], §
430.30 [as to any matter on its face or from which judicial notice may be
taken], and § 430.50(a) [can be taken to the entire complaint or any cause of
action within].  Specifically, a demurrer
may be brought per CCP § 430.10(e) if insufficient facts are stated to support
the cause of action asserted.  Per CCP
§430.10(a) a demurrer may be brought where the court has no jurisdiction of the
subject of the cause of action alleged in the pleading.  Furthermore, demurrer for uncertainty will be
sustained only where the complaint is so bad that the defendant cannot
reasonably respond.  CCP §
430.10(f).  
 
However, in construing the
allegations, the court is to give effect to specific factual allegations that
may modify or limit inconsistent general or conclusory allegations. Financial
Corporation of America v. Wilburn, 189 Cal.App.3rd 764, 769 (1987). And, if the
facts pled in the complaint are inconsistent with facts which are incorporated
by reference from exhibits attached to the complaint, the facts in the
incorporated exhibits control. Further, irrespective of the name or label given
to a cause of action by the plaintiff, a general demurrer must be overruled if
the facts as pled in the body of the complaint state some valid claim for
relief. Special demurrers are not allowed in limited jurisdiction courts. (CCP
§ 92(c).)
 
Leave to amend must be allowed
where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. Goodman v.
Kennedy, 18 Cal.3d 335, 348 (1976). The burden is on the complainant to show
the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.) 
 
Finally, CCP section 430.41
requires that “[b]efore filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the demurring
party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed
the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether
an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in
the demurrer.” (CCP § 430.41(a).) The parties are to meet and confer at least
five days before the date the responsive pleading is due. (CCP § 430.41(a)(2).)
Thereafter, the demurring party shall file and serve a declaration detailing
their meet and confer efforts. (CCP § 430.41(a)(3).)
 
b.     Meet
and Confer
Defense Counsel declares he called
Plaintiff and left a detailed message about the nature of his case, which was
to fulfill the meet and confer requirements, but Plaintiff did not return the call.  Defendant therefore satisfied the meet and
confer requirement, and the Court will rule on the demurrer on its merits.  
 
c.     Grounds
for Demurrer
Defendant argues the complaint is
subject to demurrer on numerous grounds, each of which will be discussed below.  
 
d.     Opposition
Opposition to the demurrer was due
on or before 12/06/23.  The Court has not
received timely opposition to the demurrer, and will not consider late-filed
opposition to the demurrer.  
 
e.     Government
Tort Claims Act
Generally, no suit for money or
damages may be brought against a government entity (or against a government
employee acting in the scope of employment) unless and until a timely claim has
been presented pursuant to the Government Claims Act (Gov.C. § 810 et seq.) and
either acted upon or deemed rejected by the passage of time. Gov.C. §§ 945.4,
950.2, 912.4; see DiCampli-Mintz v. County of Santa Clara (2012) 55 Cal.4th
983, 989-990; Le Mere v. Los Angeles Unified School Dist. (2019) 35 Cal.App.5th
237, 246.
 
Compliance with the claim filing
requirement is an essential element of a damages cause of action against a
government entity. Consequently, the complaint must contain at least a general
allegation that plaintiff timely complied. Otherwise, the complaint is subject
to general demurrer for failure to state a cause of action.  Rubenstein v. Doe No. 1 (2017) 3 Cal.5th 903,
906, 221 CR3d 761, 762; Willis v. City of Carlsbad (2020) 48 Cal.App.5th 1104,
1119.
 
Plaintiff alleges, at ¶1 of his
complaint, that Defendant was performing “official duties at the county clerk
of Los Angeles county (sic)” when the acts complained of occurred.  Plaintiff failed, however, to allege
compliance with the Government Tort Claims Act. 
The demurrer on this ground is therefore sustained.
 
f.      Statutory
Basis for Claims
Defendant correctly notes that
public entities can only be held liable for statutory violations.  Gov Code §815.  Defendant contends this also applies to public
employees, citing §815.2.  §815.2, however,
clarifies whether and when a public entity is vicariously liable for the tort
of its employee.  Defendant failed, therefore,
to show that a claim against a public employee must have a statutory basis.
 
g.     Exercise
of Discretion
Defendant next argues he cannot be
held liable for the acts complained of because they were acts of discretion,
for which he is not liable per §820.2. 
Defendant goes on to argue that §27201(a) permits him to refuse to
record a document if the document violates recording requirements, if fees are
not paid, or if critical information is not provided.  Defendant contends the determination of
whether these requirements are met is a discretionary one, and therefore he is
immune from liability.  Defendant fails to
cite any authority for the position that the determination under §27201(a) is a
discretionary one.  Absent such
authority, the demurrer on this ground is overruled.
 
h.     Inapplicable
Statutes
Defendant next argues the statutes
that form the basis of Plaintiff’s two causes of action, Penal Code §§133 and
135, do not apply to the facts of the case. 

 
Penal Code §133 provides, “Every
person who practices any fraud or deceit, or knowingly makes or exhibits any
false statement, representation, token, or writing, to any witness or person
about to be called as a witness upon any trial, proceeding, inquiry, or
investigation whatever, authorized by law, with intent to affect the testimony
of such witness, is guilty of a misdemeanor.”
 
§135 provides, “A person who,
knowing that any book, paper, record, instrument in writing, digital image,
video recording owned by another, or other matter or thing, is about to be
produced in evidence upon a trial, inquiry, or investigation, authorized by
law, willfully destroys, erases, or conceals the same, with the intent to prevent
it or its content from being produced, is guilty of a misdemeanor.”
 
Defendant correctly notes that Plaintiff
fails to allege his document was intended for use in a trial, proceeding,
inquiry, or investigation, or that it was about to be produced in evidence in a
trial, inquiry, or investigation.  The demurrer
on this ground is therefore also sustained.
 
i.      Injunctive
Relief
Defendant argues the necessary
showing to entitle a person to injunctive relief is not made.  Defendant is largely arguing the standard to
be applied at trial, not the standard on demurrer.  Regardless, however, the injunctive relief
claim is premised on the underlying Penal Code violation claims, both of which
fail, and therefore the injunctive relief claim fails along with the substantive
claims.
 
j.      Conclusion
Defendant’s demurrer is sustained
on the grounds set forth above.  
 
k.    
Leave to Amend
It is not up to the Court to figure
out how the complaint can be amended to state a cause of action.  Rather, the burden is on the plaintiff to show
in what manner he or she can amend the complaint, and how that amendment will
change the legal effect of the pleading. 
Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349; Hendy v. Losse (1991) 54
Cal.3d 723, 742.
 
A plaintiff may not amend as a
matter of right, and in order to be in a position to complain upon appeal of an
abuse of discretion in sustaining a demurrer without leave to amend, he must
ask permission to amend, unless it is made to appear that he had no opportunity
to ask such permission.  Williams v.
Hinckley (1930) 109 Cal.App. 574, 576.
 
In light of the lack of opposition,
leave to amend is denied.  

CMC and OSC

The parties are reminded that there
is a Case Management Conference and OSC re: failure to prosecute on calendar
concurrently with the hearing on the demurrer. 
The Court asks the parties to make arrangements to appear remotely at the
CMC, OSC, and hearing on the demurrer.  