Here is the summary of the Judge's tentative ruling in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 20STCV08729
Plaintiffs: Caroline Contreras, et al.
Defendant: Kia Motors America, Inc.
People-Names: Caroline Contreras, Robert C. Anaya, Orquiola, LaBeet
Company-Names: Kia Motors America, Inc.
Places: California
Dates: March 2, 2020, July 11, 2024, October 22, 2024, October 30, 2024, November 13, 2024
Events: Repurchase offer, repair attempts, buyback request
Money: Actual price paid or payable, restitution
Intentions: To satisfy statutory obligations, to make a prompt repurchase offer
Facts: Vehicle was repaired multiple times, manufacturer was unable to service or repair the vehicle, manufacturer made a purported repurchase offer
Disputes: Whether the email constituted an offer, whether the offer was made promptly, whether the manufacturer was excused from its obligations
Acts: Repurchase offer, repair attempts, buyback request
Agreements: Song-Beverly Act, implied warranty of merchantability
Laws: California Civil Code, Code of Civil Procedure
Case Citations: Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co., Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp., Juge v. County of Sacramento, Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc., Sangster v. Paetkau, Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc., Santana v. FCA US, LLC, Krotin v. Porsche Cars North America, Inc., Dominguez v. American Suzuki Motor Corp., Schreidel v. American Honda Motor Co., Mexia v. Rinker Boat Co., Inc., Yeager v. Ford Motor Co., Krieger v. Ford Motor Co.
Statutes: California Civil Code, Code of Civil Procedure, California Uniform Commercial Code
Roles: Manufacturer, distributor, retail seller, consumer
Significant Statements:
* There is a factual issue over whether the email constituted an offer to repurchase the vehicle.
* There is a factual issue over whether the offer was made promptly.
* Defendant is not excused from its obligations under the Act because Plaintiffs failed to cooperate in good faith.
* A reasonable trier of fact may find that Defendant failed to satisfy its obligations under the Act because it never made a repurchase offer despite a reasonable number of unsuccessful repair attempts.
* A breach of the implied warranty can accrue after delivery.
* A reasonable trier of fact may find that Plaintiffs did not discover their cause of action until December 2019.
* Distributors are not liable for the implied warranty of merchantability.
```

---

Here is a summary of the Judge's tentative ruling in English text:

The Judge has denied Defendant Kia Motors America, Inc.'s motion for summary judgment and granted it as to the fifth cause of action. The Judge has also denied Defendant's alternative motion for summary adjudication in all other respects.

The Court has found that there are triable issues of material fact regarding whether Defendant's email constituted an offer to repurchase the vehicle and whether the offer was made promptly. The Court has also found that Defendant is not excused from its obligations under the Song-Beverly Act because Plaintiffs failed to cooperate in good faith.

The Court has also found that a breach of the implied warranty can accrue after delivery and that a reasonable trier of fact may find that Plaintiffs did not discover their cause of action until December 2019. The Court has further found that distributors, such as Defendant, are not liable for the implied warranty of merchantability.

The Court has therefore denied Defendant's motion for summary judgment and granted it as to the fifth cause of action, finding that there are triable issues of material fact that prevent summary adjudication of the claims.