 Case Number:  21STCV19593    Hearing Date:   November 13, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
MICHAEL LAPORTA, et
  al.,
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
BEVERLY HILLS
  PROPERTIES, et al., 
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  21STCV19593
  Hearing Date:  November 13, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendant’s motion for sanctions 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            Plaintiffs Michale LaPorta and
Beverlee LaPorta initiated this landlord-tenant habitability action on May 24,
2021. Plaintiffs filed the operative First Amended Complaint on May 8, 2023
against Defendant Rochelle Sterling, as Trustee of the Sterling Family Trust
and dba Beverly Hills Properties. The FAC asserts claims for breach of the
warranty of habitability, negligence, nuisance, breach of contract, and breach
of the covenant of quiet enjoyment. 
            On October 17, 2024, Defendant filed
the instant motion for sanctions to exclude trial exhibits not properly
identified in Plaintiffs’ pretrial disclosure. Plaintiffs filed their
opposition on November 1, 2024. Defendant filed her reply on November 5, 2024. 
LEGAL STANDARD
            “At least five days prior to the
final status conference, counsel must serve and file lists of pre-marked
exhibits to be used at trial.” (Los Angeles Superior Court Local Rules, Rule
3.25(f)(1).) “Failure to exchange and file these items may result in not being
able to call witnesses, present exhibits at trial, or have a jury trial.” (Ibid.)

DISCUSSION
            Based on Rule 3.25, Defendant moves
to preclude Plaintiffs from presenting all except 10 exhibits listed on
Plaintiffs’ disclosure. Defendant argues that the remaining 21 items on
Plaintiffs’ disclosure are vague categories of information that fail to
identify the actual documents Plaintiffs intend to introduce at trial.
Defendant argues that the 21 items are not delineated by date, content, bates
number, or other identifying information.
            While evidentiary sanctions are
unwarranted at this stage, the parties shall exchange their trial exhibits at
least five days prior to the Final Status Conference. Prior productions during
discovery do not count. The parties must exchange the actual exhibits to be
introduced at trial. Any exhibits not exchanged will be excluded from
trial.  
CONCLUSION
            Defendant’s motion for sanctions is
DENIED. The parties shall exchange their trial exhibits at least five days
prior to the Final Status Conference. Any exhibits not exchanged will be
excluded from trial.   
 