  Case Number:  20STCV08729    Hearing Date:   November 13, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
CAROLINE CONTRERAS, et
  al.,
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
KIA MOTORS AMERICA,
  INC., 
                        Defendant.
  


 
  Case No.:  20STCV08729
  Hearing Date:  November 13, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendant’s motion for summary judgment
  or adjudication 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On March 2, 2020, Plaintiffs
Caroline Contreras and Robert C. Anaya filed this “lemon law” action against
Defendant Kia Motors America, Inc. The complaint asserts five causes of action
based on various provisions of the Song-Beverly Act. 
            On July 11, 2024, Defendant filed
the instant motion for summary judgment or adjudication in the alternative.
Plaintiffs filed their opposition on October 22, 2024. Defendant filed its
reply on October 30, 2024.  
LEGAL STANDARD
 The
function of a motion for summary judgment or adjudication is to allow a
determination as to whether an opposing party cannot show evidentiary support
for a pleading or claim and to enable an order of summary dismissal without the
need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th
826, 843.) Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c) “requires the
trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all
inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other
inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material
fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler
v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) “The function
of the pleadings in a motion for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of
the issues; the function of the affidavits or declarations is to disclose
whether there is any triable issue of fact within the issues delimited by the
pleadings.” (Juge v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67,
citing FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 367,
381-382.)
As to each claim as framed by the
complaint, the defendant moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial
burden of proof by presenting facts to negate an essential element, or to
establish a defense. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2); Scalf v. D. B.
Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.) Once the defendant has
met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a triable
issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action or a
defense thereto. To establish a triable issue of material fact, the party
opposing the motion must produce “substantial responsive evidence.” (Sangster
v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 163.) Courts “liberally construe the
evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts
concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide,
Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
            Defendant’s objections are
overruled. 
DISCUSSION
I.
Repurchase Offer
            a. Manufacturer’s Obligations
“If the manufacturer . . . is unable to
service or repair a new motor vehicle . . . to conform to the applicable
express warranties after a reasonable number of attempts, the manufacturer
shall either promptly replace the new motor vehicle in accordance with
subparagraph (A) or promptly make restitution to the buyer in accordance with subparagraph
(B).” (Civ. Code, § 1793.2(d)(2).) “In the case of restitution, the
manufacturer shall make restitution in an amount equal to the actual price paid
or payable by the buyer, including any charges for transportation and
manufacturer-installed options, but excluding nonmanufacturer items installed
by a dealer or the buyer, and including any collateral charges such as sales or
use tax, license fees, registration fees, and other official fees, plus any
incidental damages to which the buyer is entitled under Section 1794,
including, but not limited to, reasonable repair, towing, and rental car costs
actually incurred by the buyer.” (Id., § 1793.2(d)(2)(B).) 
            b. Defendant’s Purported Offer
Defendant argues that the claims fail
because Defendant promptly offered to repurchase the subject vehicle after
Plaintiff Contreras’ repurchase demand, thus satisfying its obligations under
the Act. According to Defendant, Ms. Contreras began corresponding with
Defendant about the defects in the subject vehicle in December 2019, and
Defendant offered to repurchase the vehicle on February 11, 2020. (Def.’s Stmt.
of Undisputed Facts (UF) 2-3.) Defendant contends that the 40-day period
between Ms. Contreras’ demand and Defendant’s offer should be considered
“prompt” under the Act. (See Civ. Code, § 1793.2(d)(2).) 
            The February 11, 2020 email from
Defendant stated the following:
 
“Your case was
escalated to my attention due to your request for a buyback. After review, KMA
would like to extend an offer for the repurchase/replacement of your 2014 Kia
Cadenza. Please allow me some time to draft and email an offer for your review.
If you have any questions in the mean time please let me know.” 
(Orquiola
Decl., Ex. A (Contreras Depo.), Ex. 35 therein.)  
            c. Whether the Email
Constituted an Offer
First, there is a factual issue over
whether this email constituted an offer to repurchase the vehicle. The email
states that Defendant “would like to” extend an offer but that Defendant needed
“some time to draft and email an offer.” A reasonable trier of fact may find
that the email itself was not an offer because Defendant’s representative
simply wrote to inform Ms. Contreras that Defendant intended to make an offer.
Defendant presents no evidence of any further communication beyond the February
11, 2020 email that could be considered an offer. Ms. Contreras also denies
receiving any offer to repurchase the vehicle. (Contreras Decl. ¶ 22.) 
Furthermore, restitution under the Act
must be in a specific amount, including and excluding certain items. (See Civ.
Code, § 1793.2(d)(2)(B).) Defendant’s February 11, 2020 email contained no
amounts or calculations. A reasonable trier of fact may infer from the absence
of an amount that the email was not an offer. 
Defendant argues that “[t]he statute
provides no further guidance on the form, method, or specific requirements of
how an offer is to be made, nor have the courts chosen to comment on how an
offer should be made to a buyer.” (Reply 5:18-21.) This is precisely why the
Court cannot determine as a matter of law that Defendant’s email constituted an
offer. Because there is no brightline rule on what constitutes an offer, the
issue must be decided by the trier of fact. 

            d. Whether the Offer was
Timely
Second, even if the February 11, 2020
email constituted an offer, there is a factual issue over whether Defendant
“promptly” made the offer. Under the Act, a manufacturer’s obligation to “promptly
make restitution to the buyer” arises as soon as “the manufacturer . . . is
unable to service or repair a new motor vehicle . . . to conform to the
applicable express warranties after a reasonable number of attempts.” (Civ.
Code, § 1793.2(d)(2).) “A manufacturer's duty to repurchase a vehicle does not
depend on a consumer's request, but instead arises as soon as the manufacturer
fails to comply with the warranty within a reasonable time.” (Santana v. FCA
US, LLC (2020) 56 Cal.App.5th 334, 347.) The Act does not require a
consumer to make a repurchase request at all. (Krotin v. Porsche Cars North
America, Inc. (1995) 38 Cal.App.4th 294, 303.) 
Here, Plaintiffs presented the vehicle for
repair at least nine times between March 2015 and December 2019. (Contreras
Decl. ¶¶ 7-15, Ex. 3.) “The reasonableness of the number of repair attempts is
a question of fact to be determined in light of the circumstances.” (Robertson
v. Fleetwood Travel Trailers of California, Inc. (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th
785, 799.) Thus, the trier of fact must determine at what point Defendant had
made a reasonable number of unsuccessful repair attempts so as to trigger its
obligation to replace or provide restitution. A reasonable trier of fact may
find that the trigger date was long before December 2019, thus making
Defendant’s February 2020 “offer” untimely. (See Santana, supra, 56
Cal.App.5th at p. 347 [“A manufacturer's duty to repurchase a vehicle does not
depend on a consumer's request, but instead arises as soon as the manufacturer
fails to comply with the warranty within a reasonable time”].)
Even if Defendant’s obligation was only
triggered upon Plaintiffs’ buyback request, Ms. Contreras made the request on
December 2, 2019 (Contreras Decl. ¶ 18), meaning 71 days elapsed before the
February 11, 2020 email, not 40 days as Defendant claims. A reasonable trier of
fact may conclude that a 71-day delay was not “prompt.” Defendant cites to Dominguez
v. American Suzuki Motor Corp. (2008) 160 Cal.App.4th 53, 60, which noted
that “nothing in section 1793.2, subdivision (d)(1) . . . requires a manufacturer
to offer to repurchase consumer goods within a specified time.” This is true,
as the statute does not provide a precise timeline (e.g., 30 days, 60
days). But the statute still requires the replacement or repurchase to occur
“promptly.” Dominguez does not suggest that the term “promptly” is
meaningless and that a car company is entitled to wait as long as it desires
before offering to replace or repurchase. The 71-day delay here is
significantly longer than the six-week delay in Dominguez. Thus, it
remains a triable issue whether Defendant made the offer “promptly.”  
In sum, Defendant’s email from February
11, 2020 does not defeat the claims as a matter of law. Triable issues exist as
to whether Defendant made an offer at all and whether the offer was made
“promptly.” 
II.
Excused Performance
            Defendant argues that it was
excused from its obligations under the Act because Plaintiffs failed to
cooperate in good faith. In particular, Defendant claims that it asked
Plaintiffs to provide the sales contract to complete the repurchase but that
Plaintiffs failed to do so. (See LaBeet Decl. ¶¶ 13-14.) However, Ms. Contreras
avers that a Kia representative told her the opposite, that Kia would contact
the dealerships itself to obtain the necessary documents. (Contreras Decl. ¶¶
19-21.) Ms. Contreras then emailed the representative a list of the dealerships
where she had brought the vehicle for repairs. (Ibid.) 
This conflicting evidence raises a factual
dispute as to what Plaintiffs were told in relation to their buyback request, and
whether Plaintiffs cooperated with Defendant to effectuate a buyback. A
reasonable trier of fact may find that Defendant informed Plaintiffs it would
obtain the documents itself, or at least gave Plaintiffs conflicting
information. The evidence supports a reasonable inference that Plaintiffs
cooperated with Defendant and that Defendant was not excused from its
obligations. 
III.
Civil Penalties
            “If the buyer establishes that the
failure to comply was willful, the judgment may include, in addition to the
amounts recovered under subdivision (a), a civil penalty which shall not exceed
two times the amount of actual damages.” (Civ. Code, § 1794(c).) A manufacturer
acts willfully if it “knew of its obligations but intentionally declined to
fulfill them.” (Schreidel v. American Honda Motor Co. (1995) 34
Cal.App.4th 1242, 1250.) “There is no requirement of blame, malice or moral
delinquency.” (Ibid.) However, “a violation is not willful if the
defendant's failure to replace or refund was the result of a good faith and
reasonable belief the facts imposing the statutory obligation were not present.”
(Ibid.) 
            Defendant argues that Plaintiffs’
claim for civil penalties fails because Defendant made a prompt repurchase
offer. However, as discussed above, there are triable issues regarding whether
an offer was made and whether it was made promptly. A reasonable trier of fact
may find that Defendant failed to satisfy its obligations under the Act because
it never made a repurchase offer despite a reasonable number of unsuccessful
repair attempts. It is then a factual issue whether Defendant did so willfully.
Defendant cites no evidence indicating that it had a good faith and reasonable
belief that the facts did not give rise to a statutory obligation. (See Schreidel,
supra, 34 Cal.App.4th at p. 1250.) To the contrary, Defendant expressed an
intent to make a repurchase offer, indicating acknowledgment of its statutory
obligation. The fact that Defendant did not make the offer or repurchase the
vehicle suggests that Defendant knowingly failed to fulfill its
obligations.    
            Thus, there are triable issues of
material fact preventing summary adjudication of the claim for civil penalties.

IV.
Implied Warranty
            a. Statute of Limitations
            “[T]he statute of limitations for an
action for breach of warranty under the Song-Beverly Act is four years pursuant
to section 2725 of the California Uniform Commercial Code.” (Mexia v. Rinker
Boat Co., Inc. (2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 1297, 1306.) “A cause of action
accrues when the breach occurs, regardless of the aggrieved party’s lack of
knowledge of the breach. A breach of warranty occurs when tender of delivery is
made, except that where a warranty explicitly extends to future
performance of the goods and discovery of the breach must await the time of
such performance the cause of action accrues when the breach is or should have
been discovered.” (Com. Code, § 2725(2).)  
The implied warranty of merchantability
under the Song-Beverly Act explicitly extends to future performance. (See Civ.
Code, § 1791.1(c) [“The duration of the implied warranty of merchantability . .
. shall be coextensive in duration with an express warranty . . . but in no
event shall such implied warranty have a duration of less than 60 days nor more
than one year following the sale of new consumer goods to a retail buyer”].)
“[B]y giving the implied warranty a limited prospective existence beyond the
time of delivery, the Legislature created the possibility that the implied
warranty could be breached after delivery.” (Mexia v. Rinker Boat Co., Inc. (2009)
174 Cal.App.4th 1297, 1309.) “[T]his is a change from the California Uniform
Commercial Code, under which the implied warranty could be breached only at the
time of delivery.” (Ibid.; see also Yeager v. Ford Motor Co. (N.D.Cal.
Jan. 8, 2020) 2020 U.S.Dist.LEXIS 3805, at *9 [“The Song-Beverly Act, in a
departure from the Commercial Code, writes in a prospective existence for
implied warranties governed by the Act, allowing for the claim to accrue later,
upon discovery”].) Therefore, the discovery exception applies to the implied
warranty claim.   
“A defendant who moves for summary
judgment bears the burden of negating the applicability of the discovery
exception for accrual of an action on a future warranty.” (Krieger, supra,
234 Cal.App.3d at p. 216.) Defendant makes no attempt to negate the discovery
exception. Defendant merely argues that Plaintiffs filed their complaint more
than four years after delivery of the vehicle. However, as established above, a
breach of the implied warranty can accrue after delivery. Defendant
provides no evidence that Plaintiffs discovered or should have discovered the
defects more than four years before the complaint was filed. Therefore,
Defendant has not met its initial burden of showing that the implied warranty
claim is time-barred as a matter of law.
Moreover, Plaintiffs’ evidence suggests
that they did not discover the vehicle’s defects until a date within four years
of the complaint because Defendant’s repair centers indicated after each visit
that the vehicle had been repaired and would function normally. (See Contreras
Decl. ¶¶ 7-15.) In Krieger, the court held that “a reasonable trier of
fact could conclude that the cause of action accrued in May 1984,” the date of
the last repair attempt on the plaintiff’s vehicle. (Krieger, supra, 234
Cal.App.3d at p. 218.) The same applies here: a reasonable trier of fact may
find that Plaintiffs did not discover their cause of action until December 2019.
(See Contreras Decl. ¶ 15.) 
Therefore, the statute of limitations does
not defeat the implied warranty claim as a matter of law. 
            b. Distributor Liability
“[E]very sale of consumer goods that are
sold at retail in this state shall be accompanied by the manufacturer’s and the
retail seller’s implied warranty that the goods are merchantable.” (Civ. Code,
§ 1792.) A distributor is not included in this obligation. The Act defines
“distributor,” “manufacturer,” and “retailer seller” separately. (Id., §
1791(e), (j), (l).) The Act expressly imposes an obligation on distributors for
the implied warranty of fitness for a particular purpose. (See Civ. Code, §
1792.2.) Thus, the exclusion of distributors from section 1792 indicates that
distributors are not liable for the implied warranty of merchantability. (See
Dyna-Med,
Inc. v. Fair Employment & Housing Com. (1987) 43 Cal.3d 1379, 1391, fn.
13 [“the expression of certain things in a statute necessarily involves
exclusion of other things not expressed”].) 
Here, it is undisputed that Defendant is
not a manufacturer or retail seller. (UF 8-10.) Plaintiffs do not attempt to
factually challenge Defendant’s evidence that Defendant is only a distributor
of new vehicles. Nor do Plaintiffs dispute that section 1792 only applies to
manufacturers and retail sellers. 
Plaintiffs instead rely on Civil Code
section 1795, which provides that “[i]f express warranties are made by persons
other than the manufacturer of the goods, the obligation of the person making
such warranties shall be the same as that imposed on the manufacturer under
this chapter.” Plaintiffs argue that because Defendant issued an express
warranty with the subject vehicle (Contreras Decl., Ex. 2), Defendant took on
the same obligations as manufacturers. However, section 1795 refers to
liability on an express warranty. Plaintiff cites no authority suggesting that
section 1795 applies to implied warranties. 

Plaintiff also cites to Kiluk v.
Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC (2019) 43 Cal.App.5th 334, 340, where the court held
that because “Mercedes Benz partnered with a dealership to sell used vehicles
directly to the public . . . Mercedes Benz stepped into the role of a retailer
and was subject to the obligations of a retailer under section 1795.5.”
However, that refers to a manufacturer’s liability for used goods under section
1795.5. Here, the issue is a distributor’s liability for new goods under
section 1792. Thus, Kiluk is not on point. 
The implied warranty claim fails as a
matter of law because Defendant is indisputably a distributor, and distributors
are not liable for the implied warranty of merchantability. 
CONCLUSION
            Defendant’s motion for summary
judgment is DENIED. Defendant’s alternative motion for summary adjudication is
GRANTED as to the fifth cause of action and DENIED in all other respects. 
 