  Case Number:  23SMCV01513    Hearing Date:   January 17, 2025    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling
Bigfoot Ventures v. Knighton, Case
no. 23SMCV01513
Hearing date January 17, 2025
Defendant’s
Motion for Order Designating Plaintiff Vexatious Litigant
Plaintiff
Bigfoot Ventures, Ltd. sues defendants Knighton, Hargaden, as individual and
trustee of the Shamrock Alpha Trust and Waytools, LLC for voidable transfer
arising from a defaulted $5.5 million loan from plaintiff to NextEngine, Inc.,
of which Knighton was shareholder and president. Defendants move for an order
designating plaintiff a vexatious litigant and for an order requiring security
pursuant to Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §391-391.7. Defendants request judicial
notice, offer the declarations of attorneys Coester and Spielberger. Plaintiff
requests judicial notice, offers the declaration of counsel Hoover and objects
to Spielberger’s supplemental declaration. 
Requests for Judicial Notice
Plaintiff
requests judicial notice of 11 orders and filings from cases involving
plaintiff, defendants and judgment debtors in this court and the court of the
Central District of California. Defendants request judicial notice of 24 orders
and filings from cases involving plaintiff, defendants and judgment debtors in
this and other courts as well as 3 United States patents and assignment of
rights. Cal. Evid. Code §452(d) provides that judicial notice may be taken of
“records of (1) any court of this state or (2) any court of record of the
United States or of any state of the United States.” Cal. Evid. Code §452(c)
provides that judicial notice may be taken of “official acts of the
legislative, executive, and judicial departments of the United States and of
any state of the United States.” GRANTED.
Plaintiff’s Objections to
Spielberger’s Supplemental Declaration
Plaintiff
objects to exhibits 48-50 attached to Spielberger’s supplemental declaration as
new facts not previously in evidence, so improperly included in reply. See
Golden Door Props., LLC v. Superior Court (2020) 53 Cal.App.5th 733, 774.
Plaintiff’s objections are meritorious; no new evidence should be submitted in
reply, as it prejudices opposing parties. SUSTAINED.
Defendants’ Motion for Order
Designating Plaintiff Vexatious Litigant
Under
Cal. Code of Civ. Proc. §391, a party is a vexatious litigant if “in the
immediately preceding seven-year the person has commenced, prosecuted, or
maintained in propia persona at least five litigations other than in small
claims court that have been (i) finally determined adversely to the person ….”
A defendant can move for an order requiring security or an order for dismissal
upon a showing plaintiff is vexatious litigant under the above definition and
there is no reasonable probability they will prevail in the instant litigation.
Cal. Code of Civ. Proc. §391.1.
Defendants
argue vexatious litigant status is not restricted merely to plaintiffs filing
in pro per. Defendants cite Say & Say, Inc. v. Ebershoff (1993) 20
Cal.App.4th 1759, 1769 in support, arguing a corporation can be a vexatious
litigant. Defendants’ reliance on Say & Say is misplaced; the court
only found the corporation to be a vexatious litigant due to it being found the
alter-ego of plaintiff, who was already found to be a serial vexatious
litigant. Id. Say & Say notes this was [the plaintiff’s] practice:
“[H]aving been found to be a vexatious litigant, he also consistently joined
Say & Say, Inc. as a plaintiff, along with himself.” Id. Say
& Say is not applicable. Id. Separately, the court notes
plaintiff has had only one adverse determination in the last 7 years. Plaint. RJN
exh. 2. Defendants fail to demonstrate plaintiff meets the first prong
necessary to establish vexatious litigant status.
Defendants
argue plaintiff cannot show a reasonable probability of succeeding at trial.
Defendants assert plaintiff is secured via patent IP collateral, so is
precluded from asserting fraudulent conveyance. See Decl. Coester,
generally. This is unavailing; the question is whether the alleged transfers
were fraudulent. Whether plaintiff is secured is irrelevant to its right to
protect its judgment from fraudulent transfers. 
Further,
plaintiff offers evidence in support of its argument that it will likely
succeed at trial, including Knighton’s judgment debtor examination testimony. See
RJN exhs. 1, 8, 16; decl. Hoover exhs. 13, 16. Both parties offer a plethora of
testimony and exhibits, demonstrating either party could reasonably prevail at
trial. Prong two is not met. 
Defendant
fails to meet either prong. DENIED.