 Case Number:  24SMCV00144    Hearing Date:   January 17, 2025    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling
Ferrazzi Greenlight v. Whitfield,
Case no. 24SMCV00144
Hearing date January 17, 2025
Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants’
Motion to Strike Portions of the SACC
Plaintiffs/cross-defendant
Ferrazzi Greenlight (“FG”) sues defendants/cross-complainants Whitfield and
Wakefield for wrongful use of confidential or proprietary information to
operate a competing business. Defendants/cross-complainants filed the second
amended cross-complaint for fraud, IIED and breach of contract against
cross-defendants FG and Keith Ferrazzi 11/27/24. Cross-defendants move to
strike portions of the SACC alleged to be irrelevant, immaterial or improper
per Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §§ 431.10, 435 and 436. Cross-complainants oppose.
A
motion to strike permits the court to “[s]trike out any irrelevant, false, or
improper matter inserted in any pleading.” Code Civ. Proc. §436(a); see also
Garcia v. Sterling (1985) 176 Cal.App.3d 17, 20. An “immaterial allegation”
is any of the following: (1) an allegation that is not essential to the
statement of a claim; (2) an allegation that is neither pertinent to nor
supported by an otherwise sufficient claim; (3) a demand for judgment
requesting relief not supported by the allegations of the complaint or
cross-complaint. Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §431.10(b). Motions to strike can reach
pleading defects that are not challengeable by demurrer, including conclusory
allegations and substantive defects affecting only a portion of a claim. See,
e.g., PH II, Inc. v. Sup. Ct. (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1680, 1682. “Motions to
strike can also be of utility” where, e.g., parties include extraneous matters
or exhibits “entirely unnecessary to a pleading.”
See Overstock.com, Inc. v. Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. (2014) 231
Cal.App.4th 471, 499. 
Both
parties point to the court’s overruling of FG’s previous demurrer to the FACC
as support for their respective arguments. Cross-defendants argue the court
already found the allegations in the FACC to be sufficient, demonstrating the
irrelevance of the additional allegations in the SACC targeted in the instant
motion. 
Cross-complainants
argue cross-defendants’ previously asserted allegations in the FACC were
insufficient, so they cannot reasonably move to strike the supplemental
allegations. Cross-complainants assert cross-defendants should be barred from
striking any allegations offered as to COAs that the court previously found
sufficient. The court will consider the instant motion without substituting its
previous reasoning for current analysis.
Cross-defendants
argue allegations pertaining to: (1) unidentified employees, comments and complaints
by such employees and past company events; (2) psilocybin, drug use or
drug-related conduct; (3) mandatory call-recording practices; (4) FG’s
management, HR and other company operations; and (5) Wakefield’s duties at FG
regarding Ferrazzi and Ferrazzi’s family are all irrelevant and should be
struck. Cross-defendants argue the COAs in the cross complaint are based on a
theory that Whitfield was fraudulently induced into an employment contract and
subsequently denied pay he to which he was entitled. Cross-defendants argue
allegations of anonymous employee complaints, drug use, call recording, lack of
sufficient HR and Ferrazzi abusing his position are not pertinent to the COAs
pled. 
Cross-defendants
argue allegations of employee complaints both online and in-person, a company
policy of illegally recording calls, and Ferrazzi pressuring employees to take
illegal drugs are extraneous. 
Cross-complainants
argue the breach of contract COA arises from harassment, so cross-complainants
must plead allegations of “severe and pervasive” harassment. Guthrey v.
State of California (1998) 63 Cal. App. 4th 1108, 1122-1123.
Cross-complainants argue allegations of other employees’ complaints demonstrate
a hostile work environment. Hostile conduct directed at other employees may be
relevant to whether a plaintiff experienced a hostile work environment if
plaintiff was exposed to the conduct and the conduct would have seriously
affected the psychological well-being of a reasonable employee. Beyda v.
City of Los Angeles (1998) 65 Cal.App.4th 511, 517. Cross-complainants
argue allegations of being forced to take illegal drugs in the work place and
illegally record calls also demonstrate a hostile work environment. Cross-complainants’
allegations of employee complaints, forced drug use and mandatory illegal
activity are relevant.
Cross-defendants
argue allegations of mismanagement and lack of an HR department are extraneous
to cross-complainant’s claims. Cross-complainants do not address this argument
nor explain the relevance of the targeted allegations. No COAs arising from alleged
mismanagement or negligent supervision are pled; the relevance of the targeted
allegations is unclear. Cross-complainants also do not address
cross-defendants’ arguments regarding allegations that Ferrazzi required
Wakefield to make personal appointments. Instead, cross-complainants argue the
instant motion is improper under Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §436, so should be denied
in its entirety. This is unavailing; cross-defendants are within their rights
to challenge allegations they argue to be irrelevant, false or improper. 
The
court cannot read relevance into an allegation. The relevance of said
allegations not being readily ascertainable, cross-defendants’ requests to
strike paragraphs 23, 25:11-16, 26, 27, and 38: 10-13 are proper. GRANTED as above.