  Case Number:  23CHCV00146    Hearing Date:   November 5, 2024    Dept:  F51 
NOVEMBER 5, 2024
 

DEMURRER WITH MOTION TO STRIKE

Los Angeles Superior Court Case
# 23CHCV00146

 
Demurrer
and Motion to Strike Filed: 8/29/24
 
MOVING
PARTY: Defendant
Apple Nine Hospitality Management, Inc. (“Moving Defendant”)
RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiff
Monica Fryer (“Plaintiff”)
NOTICE:
OK
 
RELIEF REQUESTED: Moving Defendant demurs to the first, third, fourth,
and sixth causes of action in Plaintiff’s complaint. Moving Defendant also
moves to strike references to punitive damages and attorney fees from Plaintiff’s
complaint.
 
TENTATIVE
RULING: The
unopposed demurrer is overruled as to Plaintiff’s first, fourth, and sixth
causes of action, and sustained as to Plaintiff’s third cause of action, with 20
days leave to amend. The motion to strike is denied as to Plaintiff’s
references to punitive damages and granted as to Plaintiff’s prayer for
attorney fees with 20 days leave to amend.
 
ANALYSIS
 
This is a habitability action in which Plaintiff alleges
that that on 1/18/21, she checked in to the Courtyard by Marriott Santa Clarita
Valencia, located at 28523 Westinghouse Place, Santa Clarita, California 91355.
(Compl. ¶¶ 5–6, 14.) “On or about January 27, 2021, Plaintiff Fryer woke up to
discover she had received numerous bug bites across her body,” from a bedbug
infestation at the subject hotel. (Id. at ¶¶ 15–19.) Plaintiff checked
out of the hotel on 1/17/21. (Id. at ¶ 20.) Plaintiff alleges that
Moving Defendant “is in some manner responsible for the acts and conduct of
other Defendants, and were and are, responsible for the injuries, damages and
harm incurred by Plaintiff.” (Id. at ¶ 7.)
 
On 1/18/23, Plaintiff filed her complaint against three
named defendants, alleging the following causes of action: (1) Battery; (2)
Negligence; (3) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress; (4) Fraudulent
Concealment; (5) Private Nuisance; and (6) Public Nuisance. On 7/25/24, Plaintiff
amended her complaint to name Moving Defendant as previously unnamed Doe
defendant 1.
 
On 8/29/24, Moving Defendant filed the instant demurrer and
motion to strike. No opposition has been filed to date. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
As a general matter, a party may respond to a pleading
against it by demurrer on the basis of any single or combination of eight
enumerated grounds, including that “the pleading does not state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action,” and is uncertain, meaning
“ambiguous and unintelligible.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subds. (e), (f).) In a demurrer
proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via
proper judicial notice.¿(Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116
Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)¿
 
“A demurrer tests
the pleading alone, and not the evidence or facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc.
v. Accountants, Inc. Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such,
the court assumes the truth of the complaint’s properly pleaded or implied
factual allegations. (Ibid.) The only issue a demurrer is concerned with
is whether the complaint, as it stands, states a cause of action. (Hahn v.
Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) 
 
Here, Moving
Defendant demurs to the
first, third, fourth, and sixth causes of action in Plaintiff’s complaint
on the bases that Plaintiff fails¿to allege facts sufficient to state those
causes of action, rendering them fatally uncertain.
 
A.   
Meet
and Confer
 
Before filing its
demurrer, “the demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone
with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the
purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve
the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41, subd.
(a).) The demurring
party must file and serve a meet and confer declaration stating either: “(A)
The means by which the demurring party met and conferred with the party who
filed the pleading subject to demurrer, and that the parties did not reach an
agreement resolving the objections raised in the demurrer;” or “(B) That the
party who filed the pleading subject to demurrer failed to respond to the meet
and confer request of the demurring party or otherwise failed to meet and
confer in good faith.” (Id. at subd. (a)(3).)
 
Here, Moving
Defendant’s counsel declares that on 8/29/24, she telephonically met and
conferred with Plaintiff’s counsel discussing the issues raised in the instant
demurrer and motion to strike, but the parties were unable to come to a
resolution. (Decl. of Anne S. Cruz ¶ 2.) Accordingly, the Court finds that
counsel has satisfied
the preliminary meet and confer requirements of Code of Civil Procedure section
430.41, subdivision (a).
 
B.    
Battery
 
Plaintiff’s first cause of
action alleges Battery against Defendants. “The essential elements of a cause
of action for battery are: (1) defendant touched plaintiff, or caused plaintiff
to be touched, with the intent to harm or offend plaintiff; (2) plaintiff did
not consent to the touching; (3) plaintiff was harmed or offended by
defendant’s conduct; and (4) a reasonable person in plaintiff’s position would
have been offended by the touching.” (So v. Shin (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th
652, 668-669.)
 
Here, Moving Defendant argues
that Plaintiff’s “factual allegations simply do not support the conclusion that
Apple Nine Hospitality Management, Inc. touched Plaintiff ‘with intent to harm
or offend.’ Rather, at most, Plaintiff's allegations assert that Apple Nine
Hospitality Management, Inc. negligently permitted bedbugs on its premises.”
(Dem. 3:3–6.) Moving Defendant further argues that “the Complaint is simply
barren of any facts establishing how or why Apple Nine Hospitality Management,
Inc. (or its employees or agents) supposedly intended to harm Plaintiff and/or
how Apple Nine Hospitality Management, Inc. (or its employees or agents)
intentionally touched or otherwise harmed Plaintiff.” (Id. at 3:11–14.)
 
The Court finds that here, at
the demurrer stage, plaintiff has sufficiently alleged that Defendants’ intent
to harm Plaintiff is “evident from Defendants recklessly failing to warn
Plaintiff of the dangerous bedbug infestation in their room, given Defendants’
prior knowledge of an infestation.” (Compl. ¶ 51.) The Court further notes that
Defendants’ intent is a question of fact improper for resolution at the
demurrer stage. (Beckwith v. Dahl (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 1039, 1061.)
 
Based on the foregoing, the
Court finds that Plaintiff has alleged facts sufficient to constitute a cause
of action for Battery against Moving Defendant. Accordingly, the demurrer is
overruled as to Plaintiff’s first cause of action.
 
C.   
Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress
 
Plaintiff’s third cause of
action alleges Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress against Defendants.
“The elements of a prima facie case for the tort of intentional infliction of
emotional distress are: (1) extreme and outrageous conduct by the defendant
with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the probability of
causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff’s suffering severe or extreme
emotional distress; and (3) actual and proximate causation of the emotional
distress by the defendant’s outrageous conduct. Conduct to be outrageous must
be so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized
community.” (Wilson v. Hynek (2012) 207 Cal.App.4th 999, 1009.) A mere
allegation that a plaintiff suffered severe emotional distress, without facts
indicating the nature or extent of any mental suffering incurred as a result of
the defendant’s alleged outrageous conduct, does not state a cause of action
for intentional infliction of emotional distress. (Pitman v. City of Oakland
(1988) 197 Cal.App.3d 1037, 1047–1048.)
 
Here, Moving Defendant argues
that this cause of action is deficient because “Plaintiff has failed to set
forth any facts which indicates the nature or extent of any mental suffering
incurred as a result of Apple Nine Hospitality Management, Inc.’s purported
conduct. Furthermore, Plaintiff has failed to provide any facts evidencing that
Apple Nine Hospitality Management, Inc.’s actions or omissions were directed
specifically at Plaintiff.” (Dem. 6:18–22.) The Court agrees and finds that
Plaintiff has failed to allege the nature or extent of the severe emotional
distress caused by Defendant’s conduct.
 
Based on the foregoing, the
Court finds that Plaintiff has failed to allege facts sufficient to constitute
a cause of action for Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress against
Moving Defendant. Accordingly, the demurrer is sustained as to Plaintiff’s
third cause of action.
 
D.   
Fraudulent
Concealment
 
Plaintiff’s fourth cause of
action alleges Fraudulent Concealment against Defendant. “The required elements
for fraudulent concealment are (1) concealment or suppression of a material
fact; (2) by a defendant with a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff; (3)
the defendant intended to defraud the plaintiff by intentionally concealing or
suppressing the fact; (4) the plaintiff was unaware of the fact and would not
have acted as he or she did if he or she had known of the concealed or
suppressed fact; and (5) plaintiff sustained damage as a result of the
concealment or suppression of the fact.” (Hambrick v. Healthcare Partners
Medical Group, Inc. (2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 124, 162.) Fairness requires
that allegations of fraud be pled “with particularity” so that the court can
weed out nonmeritorious actions before a defendant is required to answer. (Small
v. Fritz Companies, Inc. (2003) 30 Cal.4th 167, 184.) The particularity
requirement typically necessitates pleading facts that “show how, when, where,
to whom, and by what means the representations were tendered.” (Lazar v.
Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.)
 
Here, Moving Defendant argues
that “the fraud allegations made in the Complaint rely on non-specific, general
and conclusory allegations pertaining to awareness and knowledge of a purported
bedbug infestation at the subject hotel, including the room Plaintiff stayed
in. … Plaintiff lacks the requisite specificity to maintain this cause of
action as Plaintiff has not, and will not be able to, state the names of the
persons who purportedly made the allegedly fraudulent representations, what
their authority is to speak, to whom they spoke, what they said or wrote, and
when it was said or written. Moreover, the Complaint fails to allege any
relationship between Plaintiff and Apple Nine Hospitality Management, Inc. and
any transaction between said parties.” (Dem. 8:23–9:6.)
 
However, the Court notes that
Moving Defendant’s argument is inapposite here, where Plaintiff alleges
fraudulent ­­concealment rather than fraudulent misrepresentation.
Here, the Court finds that Plaintiff has sufficiently alleged that Defendants,
by and through their employees/agents, were aware of the bedbug infestation in
the hotel and in Plaintiff’s room, owed guests a duty to disclose that fact,
intentionally concealed it, thereby causing Plaintiff’s injuries. (Compl. ¶¶
92–110.)
 
Based on the foregoing, the
Court finds that Plaintiff has alleged facts sufficient to constitute a cause
of action for Fraudulent Concealment against Moving Defendant. Accordingly, the
demurrer is overruled as to Plaintiff’s fourth cause of action.
 
E.    
Public
Nuisance
 
Plaintiff’s sixth cause of
action alleges Public Nuisance against Defendants. Public nuisances are
“substantial and unreasonable” “offenses against, or interferences with, the
exercise of rights common to the public.” (County of Santa Clara v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2006) 137 Cal.App.4th 292, 305.) Private citizens may
maintain an action for a public nuisance only if it is “specially injurious” to
them—i.e., an injury different in kind, not merely degree, from that inflicted
on the general public. (Civ. Code § 3493.)
 
Here, Moving Defendant argues
that “Plaintiff has failed to allege that the bedbugs affected a substantial
number of people at the same time, and because there are no facts showing a
special injury to Plaintiff herself in person or property of a character that
is different in kind from that suffered by the general public.” (Dem.
10:14–17.)
 
In her
complaint, Plaintiff alleges that “this bedbug infestation affects the
community at large as this type of infestation is easily spread from (1) one
hotel room to another, (2) personal property of those occupying the hotel
rooms, including Plaintiff’s luggage, clothing, shoes, and other tangible
personal property that can be transported from the Subject Hotel room to
Plaintiff’s residence thereby creating a risk of bed bug infestation in
Plaintiff’s residence, (3) spread of bed bug infestation from the Subject Hotel
room to the public and into their residence which can affect the community at
large.” (Compl. ¶
125.) Plaintiff further alleges that the nuisance is specially injurious to her
because “Plaintiff’s use and enjoyment of his [sic] room was greatly affected,
which is separate from the harm suffered by the general public.” (Id. at
¶ 126.)
 
Based on the foregoing
allegations, the Court finds that Plaintiff has alleged facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action for Public Nuisance against Moving Defendant.
Accordingly, the demurrer is overruled as to Plaintiff’s sixth cause of action.
 
MOTION TO STRIKE 
 
The court may, upon a motion, or
at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any
irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 436, subd. (a).) The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading
not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or
an order of the court. (Id., § 436, subd. (b).) The grounds for moving
to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.
(Id., § 437.) 
 
A.   
Punitive
Damages
 
Punitive damages may be
recovered upon a proper showing of malice, fraud, or oppression by clear and
convincing evidence. (Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (a).) “Malice” is defined as
conduct intended to cause injury to a person or despicable conduct carried on with
a willful and conscious disregard for the rights or safety of others. (Id.
at subd. (c); Turman v. Turning Point of Cent. Cal., Inc. (2010) 191
Cal.App.4th 53, 63.) “Oppression” means despicable conduct subjecting a person
to cruel and unjust hardship, in conscious disregard of the person’s rights. (Ibid.)
“Fraud” is an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a
material fact known by defendant, with intent to deprive a person of property,
rights or otherwise cause injury. (Ibid.)
 
1.     
Malice,
Fraud, Oppression
 
Punitive damages must be
supported by factual allegations. Conclusory allegations, devoid of any factual
assertions, are insufficient to support a conclusion that parties acted with
oppression, fraud or malice. (Smith v. Superior Court (1992) 10
Cal.App.4th 1033, 1042; Anschutz Entertainment Group, Inc. v. Snepp
(2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 598, 643.)
 
In the complaint, Plaintiff
alleges, inter alia, that despite their knowledge of prior bedbug infestations
at the subject hotel, Defendants deliberately failed to eradicate the
infestations, inspect Plaintiff’s room for bedbugs, or notify Plaintiff of the
infestations. (Compl. ¶¶ 23–44.) Moving Defendant argues that “Plaintiff fails
to allege any facts indicating that Apple in fact intended to harm Plaintiff or
acted in conscious disregard of Plaintiff’s safety.” (MTS 6:24–26.)
 
Based on a review of Plaintiff’s
factual allegations, the Court finds that the complaint, as pled, sufficiently
pleads a basis for punitive damages against Defendants. As Plaintiff contends,
the complaint sufficiently alleges that Defendants, through their
agents/employees, had actual knowledge about the bedbug infestation at the
subject property, yet failed to remediate the issue and concealed the
infestation from Plaintiff and other guests. This alleged conduct sufficiently
supports a prayer for punitive damages as a “conscious disregard for the rights
or safety of others.” (Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (c).) 
 
Accordingly, the Court finds
that at this stage, Defendants’ alleged conduct as pled may be considered
malicious, oppressive, or fraudulent as defined by Civil Code section 3294. As
earlier noted, further investigation of the merits of Plaintiff’s allegations
may be resolved through the discovery process. 
 
2.     
Employer
Liability 
 
“An employer shall not be liable
for [punitive] damages … based upon acts of an employee of the employer, unless
the employer had advance knowledge of the unfitness of the employee and
employed him or her with a conscious disregard of the rights or safety of
others or authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct for which the damages are
awarded or was personally guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice. With respect
to a corporate employer, the advance knowledge and conscious disregard,
authorization, ratification or act of oppression, fraud, or malice must be on
the part of an officer, director, or managing agent of the corporation.” (Civ.
Code § 3294, subd. (b).) 
 
In the complaint, Plaintiff names
one individual defendant who owns, operates, and manages the subject hotel.
(Compl. ¶ 6.) Plaintiff further alleges that Defendants:
“authorized and/or ratified the
conduct of their Subject Hotel employees, corporate, and management by: (1)
failing to terminate such employees, management and maintenance personnel
responsible for Plaintiff’s injuries; (2) failing to properly train and educate
said employees on inspection, sanitation, cleanliness, and other uninhabitable
conditions in the Subject Hotel and rooms at the Subject Hotel; (3) failing to protect
guests and business invitees such as Plaintiff by their failures in the
maintenance of the Subject Hotel, and to continuously inspect and check for
insects (i.e. bedbugs), infestations and other uninhabitable conditions despite
having knowledge of said conditions; (4) permitting and tolerating a common
practice and culture of extreme indifference by the employees who failed to
promptly and properly address said conditions occurring at the Subject Hotel;
(5) permitting and allowing a common practice and culture of extreme
indifference by failing to properly inspect and ensure the rooms at the Subject
Hotel, including Plaintiff’s assigned room, to be free from bedbug infestations
and other said uninhabitable conditions; (6) failing to implement adequate policies
and procedures to prevent Cimex lectularius (bedbug) infestations and other
uninhabitable conditions to protect hotel guests and business invitees from
injuries such as those Plaintiff sustained; and (7) failing to implement and
update new policies, procedures, and training of the employees prior and
subsequent to Plaintiff sustaining injuries.” (Id. at ¶ 42.)
 
Moving Defendant argues that “Plaintiff
fails to identify any Apple employees, managing agents, officers and/or
directors. Moreover, Plaintiff does not identify who at Apple is alleged to
have authorized or ratified any specific bad conduct, what the offending
conduct was and why such authorization or ratification gives rise to punitive
and exemplary damages.” (MTS 3:28–4:3.) 
 
Upon review of the Plaintiff’s
factual allegations in the Complaint, the Court finds that Plaintiff has
sufficiently alleged that all Defendants, including Moving Defendant,
ratified/approved of the allegedly wrongful conduct of their agents and/or
employees. The Court again notes that further investigation of the merits of Plaintiff’s
allegations may be resolved through the discovery process. Accordingly, the
Court denies Moving Defendant’s motion to strike portions of Plaintiff’s
complaint referencing punitive damages.
 
B.    
Attorney
Fees
 
An award of attorney fees is
proper when authorized by contract, statute, or law. (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 1032,
subd. (b); 1033.5, subd. (a)(10).) Here, Plaintiff prays for the recovery of
attorney fees in connection with this action. (Compl. p. 26, l. 23, ¶ 3.)
However, as Moving Defendant argues, “Plaintiff has failed to provide in the
Complaint the basis for said fees.” (MTS 10:13–14.) Accordingly, the Court
grants Moving Defendant’s motion to strike Plaintiff’s prayer for attorney
fees.
 
LEAVE TO AMEND
 
Where a demurrer is sustained,
leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of
successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.)
The burden is on the plaintiff to show the court that a pleading can be amended
successfully. (Id.; Lewis v. YouTube, LLC (2015) 244 Cal.App.4th
118, 226.) However, “[i]f there is any reasonable possibility that the
plaintiff can state a good cause of action, it is error to sustain a demurrer
without leave to amend.” (Youngman v. Nevada Irrigation Dist. (1969) 70
Cal.2d 240, 245).
 
Here, while the demurrer and
motion to strike are unopposed, the Court notes that this is the first challenge
brought against Plaintiff’s original complaint. Therefore, under the Court’s
liberal policy of granting leave to amend, Plaintiff is granted 20 days leave
to amend the complaint to cure the defects set forth above. 
 
CONCLUSION
 
The unopposed demurrer is overruled as to Plaintiff’s first,
fourth, and sixth causes of action, and sustained as to Plaintiff’s third cause
of action, with 20 days leave to amend. The motion to strike is denied as to
Plaintiff’s references to punitive damages and granted as to Plaintiff’s prayer
for attorney fees with 20 days leave to amend.