 Case Number:  23CHCV01110    Hearing Date:   November 5, 2024    Dept:  F51 
NOVEMBER 5,
2024
 

MOTION FOR LEAVE
TO FILE FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT

Los Angeles Superior Court Case # 23CHCV01110

 
Motion filed: 6/18/24                                                                                     Jury
Trial: 8/25/25
 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff Terry Colson, fka Terry
Woodmansee (“Plaintiff”)
RESPONDING PARTY: Defendant
Mentor Paredes (“Defendant”)
NOTICE: OK
 
RELIEF REQUESTED: An order granting Plaintiff leave
to file a first amended complaint (“FAC”).
 
TENTATIVE RULING: The motion is granted. Plaintiff to
separately file her proposed FAC within 10 days of this hearing.
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is a contract
action in which Plaintiff alleges that Defendant “is the promisor of the
Promissory Note entered into with Plaintiff’s [late] mother.” (Compl. ¶ 3.)
Plaintiff alleges that “on February 23, 2011, Defendant signed a Promissory
Note related to property that Rita Woodmansee sold to Defendant. … Pursuant to
the Promissory Note, Defendant acknowledged a debt of $80,000 and agreed to
provide monthly payments of $500.00 per month.” (Id. at ¶¶ 7–8.) Upon
her mother’s death, the Promissory Note was allegedly passed to Plaintiff as the
promisee. (Id. at ¶ 9.) “Despite being aware that Plaintiff was Rita’s
daughter and had now become the Promisee of the Promissory Note, Defendant has
stopped and refused to make payments to Plaintiff.” (Id. at ¶ 10.)
 
On 4/17/23, Plaintiff
filed her complaint, alleging against Defendant the following causes of action:
(1) Breach of Contract; and (2) Unjust Enrichment. On 6/6/23, Defendant filed
his answer.
 
On 6/18/24, Plaintiff
filed the instant motion for leave to file a FAC. On 10/22/24, Defendant filed his
opposition. On 10/29/24, Plaintiff filed her reply.
//
//
//
ANALYSIS
 
“Any judge,
at any time before or after commencement of trial, in the furtherance of
justice, and upon such terms as may be proper, may allow the amendment of any pleading
or pretrial conference order.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 576.) “In a case where such
an amendment can be made in furtherance of justice without jeopardizing the
rights of an adverse party, it should be allowed. This, of course, assumes that
neither the cause of action nor the issues involved therein will be radically
changed by the proposed amendment.” (Thomasian v. Superior Court (1953)
122 Cal.App.2d 322, 335–336.)
 
Here,
Plaintiff seeks leave to file a FAC because “the facts in the original
complaint are inaccurate. The facts discuss the sale of a property, however the
matter has to do with the Defendant not paying rent as a tenant and
subsequently a contract was entered into for the payment of unpaid rent during
Defendant’s tenancy.” (Decl. of Patricia Rodriguez ¶ 9.)
 
In
opposition, Defendant argues that Plaintiff unreasonably delayed in seeking
leave to amend her complaint, and that granting the instant motion would cause
prejudice to Defendant. Defendant also asserts that the newly discovered facts
do not relate back to the original complaint, and that Plaintiff has failed to
satisfy the requirements for the instant motion as set forth under rule 3.1324
of the California Rules of Court.
 
Plaintiff
argues in reply that “the proposed amendment will not prevent Defendant from
responding effectively, nor does it substantially alter the case’s nature or
scope. Although the amendment includes a factual clarification—from unpaid rent
under a lease agreement to alleged obligations arising from a purchase—this
change does not introduce new theories of liability or impose additional
obligations upon Defendant. Instead, it serves only to clarify the true context
of the claim.” (Pl.’s Reply 4:22–26.) “The amendment simply reflects the
transition from a purchase agreement to a lease agreement without expanding or
introducing unforeseen legal obligations. Furthermore no additional causes of
actions have been added nor has any other additional fact been added.” (Id. at
5:6–8.) Plaintiff further clarifies that “the original complaint and the
proposed amendment share a common factual nucleus regarding the events
surrounding the agreement Defendant entered into with Plaintiff’s mother.
Plaintiff's intention is to clarify the nature of the claims rather than to fundamentally
alter them. The shift from a purchase agreement to a lease agreement does not
introduce new facts or claims that would be subject to a separate limitations
period; it merely recharacterizes the transaction without prejudicing the
Defendant.” (Id. at 5:19–24.)
 
Rule 3.1324
of the California Rules of Court requires a party moving for leave to amend to:
“(1) Include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended pleading, which
must be serially numbered to differentiate it from previous pleadings or
amendments; (2) State what allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to
be deleted, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the deleted
allegations are located; and (3) State what allegations are proposed to be
added to the previous pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line
number, the additional allegations are located.” (Cal. Rules of Ct., rule
3.1324(a).) “A separate declaration must accompany the motion and must specify:
(1) The effect of the amendment; (2) Why the amendment is necessary and proper;
(3) When the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and (4)
The reasons why the request for amendment was not made earlier.” (Cal. Rules of
Ct., rule 3.1324(b).)
 
In reply,
Plaintiff attaches her attorney’s supplemental declaration complying with the
requirements set forth under rule 3.1324 of the California Rules of Court,
describing the proposed amendments to her complaint and attesting that “these
changes were made to clarify the factual basis of Plaintiff’s claims,
accurately represent the contractual arrangement between the parties, and
ensure consistency in the language and remedies sought in this action.” (Supp.
Decl. of Patricia Rodriguez ¶¶
3–10.)
 
The Court
finds that Defendant will not be prejudiced by the proposed amendments, and
that the claims relate back to those made in the original complaint. Based on
the foregoing, and the court’s liberal policy on granting leave to amend, the
Court grants Plaintiff’s motion for leave to file a first amended complaint
with the proposed changes. 
 
CONCLUSION
 
The motion is granted. Plaintiff to separately file her proposed
FAC within 10 days of this hearing.