  Case Number:  21BBCV00856    Hearing Date:   September 27, 2023    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



NORGUARD INSURANCE COMPANY, 
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
M2
   WOODCRAFT, INC.,
 
                   Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
  )


      CASE NO.: 21BBCV00856
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: PLAINTIFF’S MOTIONS TO COMPEL DEFENDANT’S RESPONSES TO
   DISCOERY REQUESTS AND REQUESTS FOR SANCTIONS; PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO STRIKE
   ANSWER
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
September
   27, 2023



 
On September
 22, 2021, plaintiff Norguard Insurance Company (“Plaintiff”)
filed this action against defendant M2
 Woodcraft, Inc. (“Defendant”) arising from unpaid
 insurance premiums.  At this
time,   Plaintiff moves to strike
Defendant’s answer and requests the Court enter default against Defendant on
the grounds that it is not represented by counsel and does not have legal
capacity to represent itself as a corporation. 

Defendant’s counsel of record was
relieved as of August 3, 2023.  It is
undisputed that Defendant is a corporation and therefore prohibited from
appearing in propria persona.  Defendant
did not file an opposition brief showing that it has retained counsel or that
its officers intend to or are in the process of retaining counsel.  Defendant also did not make any appearances at
the last two status conferences held on August 17 and August 24, 2023.  Therefore, the Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion
to strike and enters default against Defendant. 

Having granted the motion to strike,
the Court notes that Plaintiff’s motions to compel Defendant’s discovery
responses have become moot since Defendant can no longer participate in the
litigation.  (Devlin
v. Kearny Mesa AMC/Jeep/Renault, Inc. (1984) 155 Cal.App.3d 381, 385-386
[default puts defendant “out-of-court" until default is vacated or
judgment entered.)  Had the Court ruled on the motions, they
would have been granted and Defendant would have been ordered to provide
verified objection-free responses and pay monetary sanctions.  However, because they are now moot, the Court
takes the two discovery motions off calendar. 
 
Moving party to give notice.
 
Dated
this 27th
day of September 2023
 




 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot 
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to appear
at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the hearing and
argue the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not
receive emails from the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion,
adopt the tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 