 Case Number:  BC670702    Hearing Date:   February 1, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




jacob blalock

   , et al.;
 


   Plaintiffs,
 
 
vs.
 
 
halt gold group, llc, d/b/a
   patriot gold group llc

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


BC670702




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


February
   1, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[Tentative]
  Order RE:
 
defendants’ motion to bifurcate trial
 



 
MOVING PARTIES:
            Defendants Halt Gold Group,
LLC, Mike Celano, Charley Chartoff, John “Jack” Hanney, and Alexander Orbison
 
RESPONDING PARTIES:    Plaintiffs Jacob Blalock and Benjamin Novak
Motion to Bifurcate Trial
The court
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in connection with
this motion. 
DISCUSSION
Defendants Halt Gold Group, LLC, d/b/a Patriot Gold Group LLC
(“Patriot”), Mike Celano, Charley Chartoff, John “Jack” Hanney, and Alexander
Orbison (collectively, “Defendants”) move the court for an order (1)
bifurcating trial to separate the issues of liability from the issues regarding
the requests for punitive damages, and (2) excluding all references to
Defendants’ wealth or financial condition during the liability phase of trial,
including references to their financial condition, wealth, net worth, income,
or profits.  (Notice of Mot. p. 6-9;
Mot., p. 3:13-15.)  Plaintiffs Jacob
Blalock and Benjamin Novak (“Plaintiffs”) have opposed Defendants’ motion, contending
that Defendants are improperly requesting the exclusion of financial
information necessary to establish the full extent of Plaintiffs’ damages.
Civil
Code section 3295, subdivision (d) provides that “[t]he court shall, on
application of any defendant, preclude the admission of evidence of that
defendant’s profits or financial condition until after the trier of fact
returns a verdict for plaintiff awarding actual damages and finds that a
defendant is guilty of malice, oppression, or fraud in accordance with Section
3294.¿ Evidence of profit and financial condition shall be admissible only as
to the defendant or defendants found to be liable to the plaintiff and to be
guilty of malice, oppression, or fraud.¿ Evidence of profit and financial
condition shall be presented to the same trier of fact that found for the
plaintiff and found one or more defendants guilty of malice, oppression, or
fraud.”¿  
“While
the statute refers only to evidence of the defendant’s financial condition, in
practice bifurcation under this section means that all evidence relating to the
amount of punitive damages is to be offered in the second phase, while
the determination whether plaintiff is entitled to punitive damages
(i.e., whether the defendant is guilty of malice, fraud or oppression) is
decided in the first phase along with compensatory damages.”¿ (Holdgrafer v.
Unocal Corp. (2008) 160 Cal.App.4th 907, 919.)¿¿¿  
The court finds that (1) Plaintiffs have not shown that Patriot’s
balance sheets and profit and loss statements are relevant to support their
requests for compensatory damages in connection with this action, and (2) Defendants
are entitled to an order bifurcating trial pursuant to Civil Code section
3295.  
Although Plaintiffs contend, in their opposition, that the income that
they “realized through their employment and ownership” was based on
commissions, profit sharing distributions, and the value of their shares,
Plaintiffs have not shown that they are seeking compensatory damages based on
the alleged lost profit sharing distributions and the value of their shares in
this action.  (Opp., p. 1:12-18.)  Instead, the recovery of those damages appears
to be at issue in Plaintiffs’ separate action (Case No. 19STCV35566).  (Papania Reply Decl., Ex. D, Complaint, ¶¶
14, 20-23, 24 [alleging that the repurchase of Plaintiffs’ units was an act
retaliation], 30 [seeking replevin of the units].)  Thus, the court finds that Plaintiffs have not
presented evidence showing that Patriot’s balance sheets and profit and loss
statements are relevant to the calculation of the compensatory damages that
Plaintiffs are claiming in this action. 
Thus, the court grants Defendants’ motion and makes the orders set
forth below.  (Civ. Code, § 3295, subd.
(d).) 
ORDER
The court grants defendants
Halt Gold Group, LLC, d/b/a Patriot Gold Group LLC, Mike Celano, Charley
Chartoff, John “Jack” Hanney, and Alexander Orbison’s motion to bifurcate trial
as set forth below. 
The court orders that trial of this action shall be bifurcated as
follows: (1) the jury will first decide the issues of whether to impose
liability for compensatory damages and, if so, the amount of compensatory
damages and whether defendants Halt Gold Group, LLC, d/b/a Patriot Gold Group,
LLC, Mike Celano, Charley Chartoff, John “Jack” Hanney, and Alexander Orbison
are guilty of malice, oppression, or fraud, and (2) only after making findings
in plaintiffs Jacob Blalock and Benjamin Novak’s favor on all of those issues,
the jury will then decide the issue of whether to impose punitive damages
against defendants Halt Gold Group, LLC, d/b/a Patriot Gold Group, LLC, Mike
Celano, Charley Chartoff, John “Jack” Hanney, and Alexander Orbison and, if so,
the amount of punitive damages.  
The court orders that the admission of evidence of defendants Halt
Gold Group, LLC, d/b/a Patriot Gold Group, LLC, Mike Celano, Charley Chartoff,
John “Jack” Hanney, and Alexander Orbison’s profits or financial condition
shall be precluded until after the trier of fact returns a verdict for
plaintiffs Jacob Blalock and Benjamin Novak awarding actual damages and finds
that defendants Halt Gold Group, LLC, d/b/a Patriot Gold Group, LLC, Mike
Celano, Charley Chartoff, John “Jack” Hanney, and/or Alexander Orbison are
guilty of malice, oppression, or fraud in accordance with Civil Code section
3294.  (Civ. Code, § 3295, subd.
(d).)  Evidence of profit and financial
condition shall be presented to the same trier of fact that found for
plaintiffs Jacob Blalock and Benjamin Novak and found that defendants Halt Gold
Group, LLC, d/b/a Patriot Gold Group, LLC, Mike Celano, Charley Chartoff, John
“Jack” Hanney, and/or Alexander Orbison are guilty of malice, oppression, or
fraud.  (Civ. Code, § 3295, subd.
(d).) 
The court orders defendants Halt Gold Group, LLC, d/b/a Patriot Gold
Group, LLC, Mike Celano, Charley Chartoff, John “Jack” Hanney, and Alexander
Orbison to give notice of this ruling. 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  February 1, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court