 Case Number:  20SMCV00406    Hearing Date:   March 13, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Rosamond Ranch
LP v. South La Cienega Holdings, LLC, et al.
CASE NO.:                20SMCV00406
MOTION:                  Motion
to be Relieved
HEARING DATE:   3/13/2024
 
Legal
Standard
 
The
court may order that an attorney be changed or substituted at any time before
or after judgment or final determination upon request by either client or
attorney and after notice from one to the other. (CCP §
284(2).) The attorney seeking to withdraw must take “reasonable steps to
avoid reasonably foreseeable prejudice to the rights of the client, including
giving due notice to the client, allowing time for employment of other
counsel.” (Cal. Rules of Prof. Conduct, 3-700(A)(2). See, e.g., Vann v.
Shilleh (1975) [holding withdrawal prejudicial where attorney
withdraw from the representation of defendant on the Friday before trial began
the following Monday].) “The determination whether to grant or deny a motion to
withdraw as counsel lies within the sound discretion of the trial court.” (Manfredi & Levine v. Superior Court
(1998) 66 Cal.App.4th 1128, 1133.)  
 
An
application to be relieved as counsel must be made on Judicial Counsel Form
MC-051 (Notice of Motion and Motion), MC-052 (Declaration), and MC-053
(Proposed Order). (CRC 3.1362(a), (c), (e).) The
requisite forms must be served “on the client and on all parties that have
appeared in the case.” (CRC, 3.1362(d).)
When a client is served by mail, the attorney’s declaration must indicate that
the client’s address was confirmed within the last 30 days and how it was
confirmed. (Id.) If the attorney is
unable to confirm the client’s current address, the declaration must state the
reasonable efforts made within the last 30 days to obtain the client’s current
address. (Id.) 
 
Additionally,
the declaration “must state in general terms and without compromising the
confidentiality of the attorney client relationship why” a motion is brought
instead of filing a substitution of attorney. (CRC, 3.1362(c).)
 
Analysis
 

Counsel Jason M. Stone and Laura H.
Park move to be relieved as counsel of record for Plaintiff/Cross-Defendants
Rosamond Ranch LP, Elias Shokrian, Derek Boisse, Calitex LLC, and Neri Sarra. Counsel
provide all the mandatory forms. Counsel state that an
irreparable breakdown of the attorney-client relationship has occurred, and
that counsel cannot continue to effectively represent the clients. Counsel
served their clients by mail at the client’s last known address, which was
confirmed within the past 30 days by conversation. The
declaration notes the hearings that are on calendar, including the Final Status
Conference and trial. 
 
The
Court finds that the clients will not be prejudiced by the withdrawal, as there
are no dispositive motions pending, and trial is not set until October 2024.  Accordingly, the motion is tentatively
GRANTED. The order is effective upon the filing of the proof of service of the
order on the client. Until then, counsel remains counsel of record.