 Case Number:  23LBCV00091    Hearing Date:   April 9, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiffs, Rogelio and Rosa
Martinez filed this action against Defendant, Ed Romero for damages arising out
of a trip and fall on Defendant’s property. 
The complaint is for negligence, premises liability, and loss of
consortium.  
 
2.     Discovery
Dispute
Defendant propounded special
interrogatories on Plaintiffs on 5/01/23. 
Defendant propounded 66 interrogatories on Rogelio and 43
interrogatories on Rosa, as well as an attorney declaration of necessity.
Plaintiffs believe the interrogatories are excessive.  The parties met and conferred, but were
unable to resolve their issues. 
Plaintiffs move for a protective order at this time.
 
3.     Law
Governing Interrogatories in Excess of 35
 CCP §2030.030 limits the number of
interrogatories that can be propounded to 35. 
§2030.040 permits a party to propound more than 35 special
interrogatories with a declaration of necessity.  §2030.090(b)(2) permits a party receiving
interrogatories in excess of 35 to move for a protective order limiting the
interrogatories to 35.  
 
A motion for protective order can
be used to challenge a “declaration of necessity,” which is required to justify
more than 35 interrogatories (under CCP § 2030.050.  See CCP § 2030.090(b)(2).  The motion for protective order must be
accompanied by a declaration showing the moving party made a “reasonable and
good faith attempt” to resolve the issues outside of court.  CCP § 2030.090(a).  Where more than 35 specially prepared
interrogatories have been served with a “declaration of necessity,” and the
responding party seeks a protective order, the burden is on the propounding
party to prove the number of questions is justified.  CCP § 2030.040(b).  
 
The motion for protective order
effectively controverts the propounding party's “declaration of necessity” and
places the burden on the propounding party to justify more than 35 questions:
“If the responding party seeks a protective order on the ground that the number
of specially prepared interrogatories is unwarranted, the propounding party
shall have the burden of justifying the number of these interrogatories.” CCP §
2030.040(b). 
 
4.     Analysis
Defendant argues, in the opposition
papers, that Plaintiffs failed to meet their moving burden to show undue
burden, unwarranted embarrassment, oppression, or unwarranted annoyance.  Defendant’s opposition applies the entirely
incorrect standard in connection with this motion.  Defendant cites to cases that involve motions
for a protective order outside of the context of excess interrogatories.  As discussed above, the burden on a motion
for a protective order, in this particular context, is on the opposing party,
who must show there is justification for propounding discovery in excess of
that permitted per Code.  
 
Defendant failed entirely to meet
this standard.  Notably, this is a very
simple trip and fall case.  If a party in
a simple trip and fall case can propound interrogatories in excess of the
statutory limit, then the statutory limit serves no purpose.  
 
The motion for a protective order
is granted.  
 
5.     Sanctions
CCP §2030.090(d) mandates
imposition of sanctions in favor of the party who prevails on this motion
unless the opposing party acted with substantial justification or other
circumstances render imposition of sanctions unjust.  As noted above, the opposition falls far
short of showing interrogatories in excess of 35 are necessary in this
motion.  The opposition fails to apply
the correct standard, and fails to provide any information that would assist
the Court in finding Defendant met his burden. 
The Court therefore finds sanctions are warranted.
 
Plaintiff seeks sanctions in the
amount of $4061.65/motion.  Plaintiff’s
attorney declares she spent five hours preparing each motion and will spend
three hours preparing a reply and appearing at the hearing, and she bills at
the rate of $500/hour.  The Court finds
the amounts appropriate, but only awards them once, as the motions are
essentially carbon copies of each other, and only one reply was filed.  The Court therefore awards $4000 in
attorneys’ fees.  The Court also awards
two filing fees of $61.65, or $123.30 in costs. 

 
Sanctions are sought and imposed
against Defendant and his attorney of record, jointly and severally.  They are ordered to pay sanctions to
Plaintiffs, by and through their attorney of record, in the total amount of $4123.30,
within twenty days.  
 
Plaintiffs are ordered to give
notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If
the department does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting
on the tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be
placed off calendar.  If a party
submits on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and
must identify the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not
submit on the tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely
at the hearing on this matter.   