 Case Number:  23LBCV01243    Hearing Date:   April 9, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiff, Osiris Mendez-Garcia
filed this action against Defendants, Donnie Carter and Enterprise Rent-a-Car
Company of Los Angeles, LLC for damages arising out of an automobile
accident.  
 
Plaintiff alleges he was injured in
an automobile accident caused by Donnie Carter, who was employed by and driving
an automobile owned by Enterprise, which negligently entrusted the motor
vehicle to him.  Plaintiff alleges each
defendant was the agent and employee of each other defendant.  
 
2.     Demurrer
Enterprise demurs to the complaint,
contending (a) the complaint contains nothing more than conclusory allegations,
(b) Defendant is not liable for the accident pursuant to the Graves Amendment,
and (c) the complaint is uncertain and contains conflicting allegations.  
 
a.     Request
for Judicial Notice
Defendant requests that the Court
take judicial notice of its Statement of Information filed with the Secretary
of State, of the fact that the Statement of Information establishes it is in
the business of renting vehicles, and of the fact that it is in the business of
renting vehicles.  
 
Defendant first seeks judicial
notice of the fact that Exhibit B to the Declaration of Adam I. Miller is a
true a correct copy of the Statement of Information for Defendant Enterprise Rent-a-Car
Los Angeles, LLC filed with the California Secretary of State.  The Court takes judicial notice of the filing
of this document as the filing is an official act of California.  (See Evid. Code § 452, subd. (c).)  
 
Its second and third request are
that the statement shows it is in the business of renting cars, and that it is
in the business of renting cars. 
Plaintiff opposes the RJN.  The
Court finds the fact that Enterprise Rent-a-Car Los Angeles, LLC is in the
business of renting cars is not reasonably subject to dispute, and therefore
grants the RJN.  
 
b.     Meet
and Confer
Before filing a demurrer, the
demurring party is required to meet and confer with the party who filed the
pleading demurred to in person or by telephone for the purposes of determining
whether an agreement can be reached through a filing of an amended pleading
that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.  (See Code of Civ. Proc. § 430.41.)
 
The Miller declaration, filed with
the demurrer, indicates Miller sent a detailed meet and confer letter with the
demurrer, but Plaintiff’s attorney never responded.  The Miller declaration indicates the letter
asked Plaintiff’s attorney to call to discuss the issues, but a review of the
letter shows that there was no such invitation; the letter indicated Plaintiff
should dismiss Defendant or Defendant would file a demurrer.  
 
This is insufficient to comply with
the meet and confer requirement.  The
Court is continuing the hearing to require Counsel to meet and confer, in
person or by telephone.  The Court will
provide meet and confer guidance below.  
 
c.     Initial
Note
Plaintiff filed opposition to the
demurrer on 3/27/24, which was one day late in light of the 4/01/24 Cesar
Chavez holiday.  Defendant has not filed
timely reply papers.  The Court asks
Counsel to ensure all papers are timely filed in the future in connection with
this and other actions.
 
d.     Boilerplate
and Uncertainty
Defendant argues the complaint
contains boilerplate language, is uncertain, and contains conflicting
statements.  Plaintiff argues negligence
can be pleaded in general terms, and therefore the complaint is sufficient.  While the Court agrees that negligence can be
pleaded in general terms, it is also true that some of the allegations in the
complaint are nonsensical, such as the allegation, at ¶MV-2, that Enterprise
“operated” the motor vehicle at issue. 
The Court asks the parties to meet and confer to clarify which claims
are being asserted against Carter and which are being asserted against
Enterprise.  
 
e.     Graves
Amendment
Defendant also contends it cannot
be held liable based on ownership liability under 49 U.S.C. section 30106,
subdivision (a), the Graves Amendment, because it is a rental car company.  The Grave Amendment states:
(a) In general.-- An owner of a
motor vehicle that rents or leases the vehicle to a person (or an affiliate of
the owner) shall not be liable under the law of any State or political
subdivision thereof, by reason of being the owner of the vehicle (or an
affiliate of the owner), for harm to persons or property that results or arises
out of the use, operation, or possession of the vehicle during the period of
the rental or lease, if—
(1) the owner (or an affiliate of
the owner) is engaged in the trade or business of renting or leasing motor
vehicles; and
(2) there is no negligence or
criminal wrongdoing on the part of the owner (or an affiliate of the owner).
(42 U.S.C. § 30106.)
 
The parties must meet and confer
concerning the import of the Graves Amendment, with the understanding that the
Court will take judicial notice of Enterprise’s status as a rental car
company.  If Plaintiff has facts to
establish Enterprise was NOT acting as a rental car company, Plaintiff must
amend the complaint to allege those facts. 

 
f.      Conclusion
The hearing on the demurrer is
continued for five weeks, to Tuesday, 5/14/24 at 8:30 a.m. in Department S27 of
the Long Beach Courthouse.  Additionally,
the Court notes that there are no future hearing dates on calendar in this
action, and sets a Trial Setting Conference for the same date and time as the
continued hearing on the demurrer.
 
The parties must meet and confer,
in person or by telephone, forthwith.  If
they are able to resolve their issues, Defendant must take the continued
demurrer hearing date off calendar (the TSC will remain on calendar).  If they are unable to resolve their issues,
each party must file a brief and declaration at least two weeks prior to the
continued hearing date establishing (a) what efforts were made to meet and
confer, (b) what issues remain outstanding after the good faith attempt to meet
and confer, and (c) why the demurrer should be sustained or overruled.  
 
Enterprise is ordered to give
notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative.  If
the parties do not submit on the tentative, they should arrange to appear
remotely.