  Case Number:  20LBCV00353    Hearing Date:   April 9, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiff, M.I. Air Corporation
filed this action against Defendant, Hanseo University for breach of contract
and common counts arising out of an alleged failure to pay in connection with
the parties’ flight training agreement.  Plaintiff
filed the action on 8/06/20, but due to service delays, Defendant did not
respond until 4/23/21.  
 
On 11/02/22, Defendant filed a
cross-complaint against Plaintiff and also against Han Gap-Su aka Sebastian Han,
who was named for the first time as a cross-defendant.  The essence of the cross-complaint is that Hanseo
leased aircraft to Mi Air, which was owned and operated wholly by Han, and MI
Air/Han failed to pay lease fees and failed to return the aircraft to Hanseo.  Additionally, Hanseo alleges MI Air and Han
are improperly using the aircrafts for their own benefit.  The cross-complaint includes claims for
breach of contract, claim and delivery, and conversion.  
 
2.     Motion
for Prejudgment Interest
a.    
Statement of Decision
This case proceeded to trial by
bench, and at the conclusion of the trial, the Court issued its Statement of
Decision.  The Statement of Decision was
entered on 11/28/23.  The Statement of
Decision indicates the Court finds in favor of Hanseo on its breach of contract
claim in the amount of $199,931.00 (which amount includes an off-set in the
amount of $175,900 that Hanseo owed M.I. Air). 
The Statement of Decision also indicates the Court finds in favor of
Hanseo on its conversion claim, and awards damages in the amount of $1
million.  
 
On 12/15/23, the Court entered
Judgment.  The judgment includes a
statement that Hanseo is entitled to prejudgment interest in the amount of TBD.
 
b.     Motion
for New Trial
Hanseo moves for a new trial,
contending the judgment should include an award of prejudgment interest on both
the breach of contract and conversion claims. 
Hanseo relies on Civil Code §3287(a) to support its position.  §3287(a) provides, in pertinent part:
A person who is entitled to recover
damages certain, or capable of being made certain by calculation, and
the right to recover which is vested in the person upon a particular day, is
entitled also to recover interest thereon from that day, except when the debtor
is prevented by law, or by the act of the creditor from paying the debt. …
 
MI Air opposes the motion, arguing
the damages at issue were neither certain nor capable of being made certain.
 
The Court finds the breach of
contract damages were capable of being made certain.  Indeed, a very simple calculation of who owed
whom what under the parties’ contracts was used to conclude the amount
remaining unpaid per the parties’ contracts. 

 
The Court finds the conversion
damages, however, were not capable of being made certain.  The Court notes that valuations are
inherently subjective, and that they become more subjective as the property to
be valued becomes more unique.  Notably,
the valuation of the airplanes and helicopter in this case was the subject of
expert testimony, and the Court ultimately concluded the valuation proposed by
Hanseo’s expert was excessive; the Court cut the value of the aircraft almost
in half when it rendered its judgment. 
If the value of the aircraft were capable of being made certain, then
there would have been no dispute as to the damages to be awarded.
 
The Court therefore awards the
requested prejudgment interest on the breach of contract claim, but declines to
award the required prejudgment interest on the conversion claim.  Hanseo, in its moving papers, calculates the
total amount of prejudgment interest on the breach of contract claim at
$117,393.54.  MI Air does not dispute
this amount in its opposition papers. 
The Court will therefore amend the judgment by interlineation to add
$117,393.54 in prejudgment interest in the place of TBD.
 
Hanseo is ordered to give notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative.  If
the parties do not submit on the tentative, they should arrange to appear
remotely.
 