 Case Number:  23LBCV01441    Hearing Date:   April 9, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiffs, Jonas Cabrera, Deborah
Viena, and Ali Vicuna filed this action against Defendants, Edison Long Beach,
LLC, Advanced Management Company and Quest National Holdings for damages
arising out of injuries sustained when they were attacked during a pool party
at their apartment complex.  
 
Plaintiff filed their complaint on
7/31/23.  All defendants have answered
the complaint, and there are various cross-complaints among the parties.  
 
2.     Motion
for Leave to Amend
a.    
Relief Requested
Plaintiffs seek a court order
permitting them to (a) remove Luna Quest Services as a defendant in the action,
(b) add Quest National Holdings as a defendant in the action, and (c) add a
cause of action for negligent hiring, supervision, or retention of
employee.  
 
b.    
Opposition
Any opposition to the motion was
due on or before 3/26/24.  Plaintiff
timely served all parties with the moving papers, and no party has filed timely
opposition to the motion.  
 
c.    
Law Governing Motions for Leave to Amend 
The court may, in furtherance of
justice, and on such terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any
pleading.  (CCP §§473 and 576.)  Judicial policy favors resolution of all disputed
matters between the parties and, therefore, leave to amend is generally
liberally granted.  Ordinarily, the court
will not consider the validity of the proposed amended pleading in ruling on a
motion for leave since grounds for a demurrer or motion to strike are
premature.  However, the court does have
discretion to deny leave to amend where a proposed amendment fails to state a
valid cause of action as a matter of law and the defect cannot be cured by
further amendment.  (California Casualty
General Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1985) 173 Cal.App.3d 274, 281.)  
 
The application for leave to amend
should be made as soon as the need to amend is discovered.  The closer the trial date, the stronger the
showing required for leave to amend.  If
the party seeking the amendment has been dilatory, and the delay has prejudiced
the opposing party, the Court has the discretion to deny leave to amend.  (Hirsa v. Superior Court (1981) 118
Cal.App.3d 486, 490.)  Prejudice exists
where the amendment would require delaying the trial, resulting in loss of
critical evidence, or added costs of preparation such as an increased burden of
discovery.  (Magpali v. Farmers Group,
Inc. (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 471, 486-488.)
d.    
Analysis
In light of the liberal standard in
favor of leave to amend, and in light of the lack of opposition to the motion,
the motion is granted.  
 
e.    
Conclusion
The motion for leave to amend is
granted.  Plaintiffs are ordered to file
a separate copy of their amended complaint within ten days.  If Defendants wish to file responsive
pleadings, they must do so within twenty days. 
If they do not file responsive pleadings, their answers to the original
complaint will be deemed their answers to the amended complaint.    
 
f.      Notice
Plaintiffs are ordered to give
notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative.  If
the parties do not submit on the tentative, they should arrange to appear
remotely.