 Case Number:  23LBCV01800    Hearing Date:   April 9, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.    
Complaint
Plaintiffs, Ramiro and
Carmen filed this action against Defendant, TABC, Inc. (erroneously sued as
Toyota Auto Body California, Inc.) for damages arising out of injuries
sustained while operating a power press machine at the direction and
instruction of his employer, TABC.    
 
2.    
Demurrer

Legal Standard on
     Demurrer

A demurrer is a pleading used to
test the legal sufficiency of other pleadings. It raises issues of law, not
fact, regarding the form or content of the opposing party’s pleading.  It is not the function of the demurrer to challenge
the truthfulness of the complaint; and for purpose of the ruling on the
demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are assumed to be true, however
improbable they may be.
 
A demurrer can be used only to
challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack; or from
matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. Blank v. Kirwan 39
Cal.3d 311 (1985). No other extrinsic evidence can be considered (i.e., no
“speaking demurrers”). A demurrer is brought under CCP § 430.10 [grounds], §
430.30 [as to any matter on its face or from which judicial notice may be
taken], and § 430.50(a) [can be taken to the entire complaint or any cause of
action within].  Specifically, a demurrer
may be brought per CCP § 430.10(e) if insufficient facts are stated to support
the cause of action asserted.  Per CCP
§430.10(a) a demurrer may be brought where the court has no jurisdiction of the
subject of the cause of action alleged in the pleading.  Furthermore, demurrer for uncertainty will be
sustained only where the complaint is so bad that the defendant cannot
reasonably respond.  CCP §
430.10(f).  
 
However, in construing the
allegations, the court is to give effect to specific factual allegations that
may modify or limit inconsistent general or conclusory allegations. Financial
Corporation of America v. Wilburn, 189 Cal.App.3rd 764, 769 (1987). And, if the
facts pled in the complaint are inconsistent with facts which are incorporated
by reference from exhibits attached to the complaint, the facts in the
incorporated exhibits control. Further, irrespective of the name or label given
to a cause of action by the plaintiff, a general demurrer must be overruled if
the facts as pled in the body of the complaint state some valid claim for
relief. Special demurrers are not allowed in limited jurisdiction courts. (CCP
§ 92(c).)
 
Leave to amend must be allowed
where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. Goodman v.
Kennedy, 18 Cal.3d 335, 348 (1976). The burden is on the complainant to show
the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.) 
Finally, CCP section 430.41
requires that “[b]efore filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining
whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be
raised in the demurrer.” (CCP §430.41(a).) The parties are to meet and confer
at least five days before the date the responsive pleading is due. (CCP
§430.41(a)(2).) Thereafter, the demurring party shall file and serve a
declaration detailing their meet and confer efforts. (CCP §430.41(a)(3).)
 

Meet and Confer

Defense Counsel, Nicholas W. Davila, declares he called and emailed Plaintiffs’
attorney multiple times in an attempt to meet and confer, but Plaintiffs’
attorney never returned the calls or emails. Plaintiffs do not address the
failure to meet and confer in opposition to the demurrer.  The Court asks Plaintiffs’ attorney to fully
participate in meet and confer conversations in the future in connection with
this and other actions.  
 

Request for Judicial Notice

Plaintiffs seek judicial notice of two electronic rejections of the
complaint.  Defendant objects to the RJN,
contending the documents are not the proper subject of judicial notice.  The Court finds the documents are the proper
subject of judicial notice because they are not reasonably subject to
dispute.  The Court has independently
verified, using its own online records, that the documents are true and correct
copies of the reject letters issued in this case.  
 

Statute of Limitations

i.             
Timeline
The reject letters submitted with the opposition show that Plaintiff
submitted the complaint for filing on 9/13/23, and the clerk rejected the
complaint at 9/19/23 at 11:25 a.m. 
Plaintiff resubmitted the complaint on 9/19/23 at 2:50 p.m., and the
clerk rejected the complaint on 9/25/23 at 8:39 a.m.  Plaintiff resubmitted the complaint on
9/25/23, at which time it was accepted for filing.  
 
ii.            
Rules
of Court
Neither party cites the applicable Rule of Court.  
 
CRC 1010.6(e)(4)(E) provides, “If the clerk of the court does
not file a complaint or cross complaint because the complaint or cross
complaint does not comply with applicable filing requirements or the required
filing fee has not been paid, any statute of limitations applicable to the
causes of action alleged in the complaint or cross complaint shall be tolled
for the period beginning on the date on which the court received the document
and as shown on the confirmation of receipt described in subparagraph (A),
through the later of either the date on which the clerk of the court sent the
notice of rejection described in subparagraph (C) or the date on which the
electronic filing service provider or electronic filing manager sent the notice
of rejection as described in subparagraph (D), plus one additional day if the
complaint or cross complaint is subsequently submitted in a form that corrects
the errors which caused the document to be rejected. The party filing the
complaint or cross complaint shall not make any change to the complaint or
cross complaint other than those required to correct the errors which caused
the document to be rejected.”
 
Plaintiffs complied with this
rule.  They resubmitted the complaint the
same day it was rejected.  It was
rejected again, but for a different reason, and they again resubmitted it the
same day it was rejected.  At that time,
it was accepted for filing.  The demurrer
is therefore overruled.  
 
iii.           
Conclusion
The demurrer is overruled. 
Defendant is ordered to file an answer to the complaint within ten days.
 
3.     Case
Management Conference
The parties are reminded that there
is a CMC on calendar concurrently with the hearing on the above demurrer.  The Court asks Counsel to make arrangements
to appear remotely at the CMC and hearing on the demurrer.