 Case Number:  23LBCV01102    Hearing Date:   April 9, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Allegations
of the Complaint
Plaintiff, Desragh Singh filed this
action against Defendants, Food 4 Less of Southern California, Inc. and The
Kroger Co. for damages arising out of a slip and fall on a slippery liquid
cleaning substance on the floor.  Defendant
answered as “Ralphs Grocery Company dba Food 4 Less (incorrectly named and
served as Food 4 Less of Southern California, Inc.)”  
 
2.     Motion
to Compel Further Responses to RPDs
a.    
Procedural History
The Court was originally scheduled
to hear this motion on 2/29/24.  The
issue presented was whether Defendant must produce certain “incident reports”
relating to the subject fall.  The Court
issued a tentative ruling granting the motion to compel further responses to
RPDs, and ultimately requiring Defendant to produce the reports.  The Court’s tentative ruling was based on the
fact that case law places the burden to show the reports are confidential on
the party seeking to prevent their disclosure, and Defendant’s sole evidence in
opposition to the motion was the Declaration of Counsel, who failed to provide
any evidence to support the assertion of confidentiality.  
 
Prior to the hearing, Defendant
provided a Declaration of John Ewing to Plaintiff purporting to establish the
reports’ confidential nature.  At the
hearing, Plaintiff conceded receipt of the declaration, and the Court continued
the hearing on the motion to permit Plaintiff to review the declaration and
respond.  The Court provided a briefing
schedule, with Defendant to first file a brief and evidence in support of its
position that the documents were confidential, then Plaintiff to file a brief
and evidence in opposition to the position, and with Defendant finally having
the opportunity to file a reply to Plaintiff’s opposition.  
 
b.     Law
Governing Production of Incident Reports
The Court previously discussed the
law governing production of incident reports in connection with its tentative
ruling prior to the 2/29/24 hearing.  The
Court will re-state the law at this time in the interest of creating a complete
record on the hearing of the matter.  The
law is as follows.
 
If the report is not a matter of
ordinary business routine, but appears to be specially prepared for the use of
the client's attorney in connection with anticipated litigation, it is
privileged. (See New York Cas. Co. v. Superior Court (1938) 30 Cal.App.2d 130,
132; Holm v. Superior Court (1954) 42 Cal.2d 500, 508.)  In many cases, however, an accident report is
required by a transportation company or similar party, as a matter of routine
business practice, but for a dual purpose: preparation for anticipated
litigation, and improvement of service by elimination of careless or
incompetent operators and defective equipment. In other words, the report would
be made even though no litigation were threatened or commenced; and, so far as
privilege is concerned, it might be held to fall within the general rule
requiring disclosure of preexisting documents. (See Holm v. Superior Court,
supra, 42 C.2d 511 [dissenting opinion].)
 
In Holm, the court held that, where
a report has a dual purpose, it is privileged if its dominant purpose is
transmittal to the attorney in the course of professional employment.  The question is one of fact for the trial
judge, but whose determination is subject to review for abuse of discretion.
(42 Cal.2d 507.)
 
The "discretion" test of
the Holm case makes the result difficult to predict. In Union Oil Co. v.
Superior Court (1957) 151 Cal.App.2d 286, plaintiffs, heirs of decedents, sued
petitioner for wrongful death from poisonous gas. They sought inspection of
written statements made by petitioner's employees and other witnesses
concerning the accident, averring that the statements were made pursuant to a
petroleum safety order required by statute. Petitioner's affidavits averred
that the statements were prepared and delivered to counsel in anticipation of
litigation. The trial judge ordered inspection. Held, affirmed; his
determination of the dominant purpose (required report) on conflicting
affidavits was binding. (151 Cal.App.2d 289.)(Cf. Jessup v. Superior Court,
supra, 151 Cal.App.2d 110, 111 [discretion held abused, order of inspection
improper].)
 
The Holm and Jessup cases were
followed in Heffron v. Los Angeles Transit Lines (1959) 170 Cal.App.2d 709, a
wrongful death action. Defendant's bus driver, pursuant to company rules, made
a report which went to its insurance company and was then transmitted to its
attorney. An affidavit stated that the primary purpose of such a report is the
preparation of a defense to anticipated litigation. Held, this supported the
trial judge's implied finding of dominant purpose, and made the report
privileged. (170 Cal.App.2d 717.)  (See
Greeneich v. Southern Pac. Co. (1961) 189 Cal.App.2d 100, 110; Safeway Stores
v. Superior Court (1961) 193 Cal.App.2d 270, 274 [reviewing cases and holding
dominant purpose not established]; Greyhound Corp. v. Superior Court (1961) 56
Cal.2d 355, 398 [statements taken from independent nonparty witnesses; held not
confidential and not privileged].)
 
Payless Drug Stores, Inc. v.
Superior Court (1976) 54 Cal.App.3d 988, 991 held, “Evidence to the effect that
the report in question was prepared by an employee of the corporate employer on
the date of the accident on a preprinted form furnished by the insurance
carrier headed ‘Public Liability Accident-Report Every Accident Immediately to
Harbor Insurance Company’ is sufficient to establish the dominant purpose. No
other purpose was shown. Although the report was not labeled ‘confidential,’ as
was the report in Sierra Vista Hospital v. Superior Court (1967), 248
Cal.App.2d 359, Chadbourne establishes that when a corporate employer directs
the employee, at the request of the insurance carrier, to make such a report,
the intent of the employer controls. (D. I. Chadbourne, Inc. v. Superior Court,
supra, 60 Cal.2d at pp. 737-738.) That intent was established by the
declaration of petitioner's custodian of records, who declared that ‘The
reports are intended by PAY LESS and its managerial employees to be confidential.’”  In Payless Drug, the trial court’s order
compelling production of the incident report was reversed.  
 
c.     Consideration
of Tardy Declaration
The threshold issue at this time is
whether the Court should consider the untimely Ewing Declaration.  Plaintiff urges the Court not to consider the
declaration.  The Court notes that, while
the declaration was apparently provided to Plaintiff prior to the hearing, it
does not appear in the Court file until it was provided as an exhibit to the
Arpineh Yeremian Declaration on 3/27/24. 
In any event, the Court, by continuing the hearing on the motion, made
clear that it would consider the declaration, and it is considering the
declaration at this time.  
 
 
 
d.     Consideration
of Deposition Testimony
Between the signing of the Ewing
Declaration and the due date for Plaintiff’s supplemental opposition, the
parties conducted Ewing’s deposition. 
Plaintiff argues the deposition contradicts the statements made in the
declaration, such that the Court should refuse to consider the
declaration.  Defendant argues the sole
issue on the motion is whether the declaration is sufficient, and the Court
cannot and should not consider the deposition testimony at all.
 
Defendant’s position is nonsensical
and unsupported by any authority.  If
Defendant stated, under oath at deposition, facts that contradict those in his
deposition, the Court will certainly consider that testimony in determining
whether or not the incident reports must be produced.
 
e.     Note
re: Attorney Declarations
Plaintiff supports the opposition
with Counsel’s declaration, wherein Counsel purports to paraphrase portions of
Ewing’s deposition.  The actual
deposition testimony is not provided. 
The Court cannot, from the paraphrased portions of the declaration,
determine exactly what Ewing did and did not say in deposition.  
 
Similarly, Defendant supports its
reply with the Declaration of Arpineh Yeremian, who purports to testify to
various facts relating to Defendant’s store policies and procedures.  Yeremian does not declare how these facts are
known, and does not lay a foundation for the discussion of the facts.  Yeremian appears to lack personal knowledge
of these purported facts, and the Court has not considered the purported facts
set forth in the declaration in ruling on this motion.
 
f.      Analysis
Ewing declares that he is the
assistant store manager for the subject store, and that the store has a
longstanding policy requiring preparation of confidential incident reports
whenever a customer claimed to have fallen or been injured.  He declares the reports include the general
liability and workers compensation customer/member incident investigation, the
evidence report, the incident report, and the sweep/floor inspection statement.  He declares the reports are required for
purposes of transmission to Defendant’s attorney, to protect itself against the
threat of litigation.  He declares that,
on 6/16/22, he drafted the four reports identified above, and those documents
have not been disclosed to any person other than the risk management
department, counsel, and the insurance company. 

 
Plaintiff argues Ewing’s deposition
testimony contradicts the above statements. 
Plaintiff’s attorney declares that Ewing testified Plaintiff and another
created “the reports on that day,” and Ewing only reviewed the reports and
contributed to the portions re: surveillance evidence created later.  In reply, Defendant contends Ewing personally
created the four reports at issue on the production request, and the only one
he did not personally create is the “customer report,” which was the subject of
the deposition and which has been produced. 

 
To the extent the parties intend to
appear and contest the tentative ruling, the Court asks Counsel to have a copy
of the deposition transcript, even if only a rough copy, at the hearing and to
be prepared to cite specific testimony supporting each of their positions.  If Ewing did not create the subject
documents, then he cannot testify concerning the documents.
 
Plaintiff also argues Ewing’s
deposition testimony contradicts his statements about the dominant purpose of
the reports.  Plaintiff’s attorney
declares Ewing testified, at deposition, that safety is the dominant purpose of
the statements.  Defendant appears to
concede, in reply, that Ewing so testified, but contends it does not matter
what purpose Ewing thought the documents held, as long as the employer intended
the purpose to be for litigation.  The problem
with Defendant’s argument is that Defendant has not provided EVIDENCE that
supports this conclusion.  Defendant
provides the Ewing Declaration that parrots the requirements of case law, but
concedes the deposition testimony conflicts with the declaration.  Because deposition testimony is not created
by an attorney and instead is a person’s spontaneous and truthful statement of
his recollections and beliefs, deposition testimony controls over a
declaration.  See, for example, D’Amico v.
Board of Medical Examiners (1974) 11 Cal.3d 1, 21-22.  
 
The Court finds Defendant failed to
provide sufficient evidence to support its position that the reports were
created for the dominant purpose of transmission to its attorney, and therefore
the motion to compel further responses is granted.  
 
Plaintiff is ordered to give
notice.    
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.   