 Case Number:  22LBCV00043    Hearing Date:   April 9, 2024    Dept:  S27 
Background Facts

Plaintiffs, Milan V. Balejka and Maria
Riza Balejka filed this action against Defendants, Theresa Hertzog, Kiat Chan,
and all persons claiming right, etc., to the subject property.  Plaintiffs filed the action on 1/26/22.  The complaint includes causes of action for
quiet title, fraud, negligent misrepresentation, and cancellation of
instruments.  
 
On 2/1023, Defendants filed a
cross-complaint.  The cross-complaint
includes causes of action for partition, fraud, breach of fiduciary duty, beach
of contract, unfair business practices, unjust enrichment, quiet title,
declaratory relief, and accounting.  
 
On 12/05/23, Leilani Lacusong and
Anthony Turner filed 23LBCV02308 against Balejka, Hertzog, Chan, and all
persons claiming interest in the subject property for fraud, breach of
fiduciary, and breach of contract.  
 
On 12/12/23, the Court deemed the
two cases related.  On 2/15/24, the Court
consolidated the cases for all purposes. 

 

Motion to Expunge
     Mechanics Lien

On 9/12/23, Lacusong recorded a
Mechanics Lien.  The lien states it is
for renovation costs, sub-contractors cost, utilities, insurance, rent,
security, lighting, mortgage & taxes. 

 
Moving parties argue that the lien
must be removed for three reasons. 
First, utilities, insurance, rent, security, lighting, mortgage and
taxes are not the proper subject of a mechanics lien, and renovation and subcontractor
costs would be the proper subject of a lien IF Lacusong were a contractor who
worked on the property, but she is not. 
Pursuant to Howard S. Wright Const. Co. v. Superior Court (2003) 106
Cal.App.4th 314, the burden to show the lien is proper is on the
party opposing the motion to expunge.  
 
Any opposition to the motion was
due on or before 3/26/24.  The Court has
not received timely opposition to the motion and will not consider untimely
opposition.  In light of the lack of
opposition, Lacusong necessarily failed to meet her burden to show the lien is
proper, and the motion to expunge is granted.
 
The Court declines to rule on the
two additional arguments in support of the motion, as doing so is not necessary
to a resolution of the outcome of the motion, but notes that the arguments also
appear to have merit.  

OSC re: Failure to
     Appear and Case Management Conference

The parties are reminded that there
is an OSC re: Lacuson and Turner’s failure to appear and a case management
conference on calendar today.  The Court
asks the parties to make arrangements to appear remotely at the OSC, CMC, and
hearing on the above motion.