  Case Number:  21STCV15295    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2024    Dept:  T MOTION FOR ORDER GRANTING RELIEF FROM POTENTIAL WAIVER OF TRIAL BY JURYMoving Party: Plaintiff Rafael MorenoResponding Party: N/ATentative Ruling: GRANTBACKGROUNDThis is a personal injury case arising from a car accident. Plaintiff alleges he was injured on April 30, 2019, when defendant driver, Ryan M. Thomas, failed to stop in time for traffic on the highway and caused a chain-reaction collision, impacting the rear-end of Plaintiff’s vehicle. Shortly prior to the filing of this Motion, Plaintiff’s counsel mistakenly believed both a demand for a jury trial and the payment of jury fees had been timely completed after the initial complaint was filed on April 22, 2021; Plaintiff’s counsel became aware in late July that Plaintiff inadvertently failed to timely demand a jury trial and to timely post jury fees in this case. The Complaint was filed by Plaintiff’s co-counsel, who preceded the Notice of Association of Counsel filed by Plaintiff’s counsel at Dordick Law on July 13, 2022. Plaintiff paid his jury fees and served his Notice of Posting Jury Fees for the above-entitled matter on October 16, 2023. Plaintiff and Defendants have made a jury demand, and both Plaintiff and Defendants fulfilled their jury fee obligations. Trial is scheduled for December 2, 2024.MOVING PARTY POSITIONPlaintiff argues the Court should grant his motion because he has always sought to have this matter heard before a jury and fulfilled the technical and core objective of the statute. Plaintiff also argues he would suffer prejudice if the motion is not granted, whereas Defendants would not suffer any prejudice if the motion is granted.OPPOSITIONNo opposition has been filed.ANALYSISCCP section 631 provides that “[a]t least one party demanding a jury on each side of a civil case shall pay a nonrefundable fee of one hundred fifty dollars ($150), unless the fee has been paid by another party on the same side of the case.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 631(b).) The fee must be paid before the date scheduled for the initial case management conference in the action. (Id., § 631(c).) If no case management conference is scheduled in a civil action, the fee shall be due no later than 365 calendar days after the filing of the initial complaint. (Id., § 631(c)(2).) A party waives jury trial by failing to timely pay the fee, unless another party on the same side of the case has paid that fee. (Id., § 631(f)(5).) “The court may, in its discretion upon just terms, allow a trial by jury although there may have been a waiver of a trial by jury.” (Id., § 631(g).) “A trial court abuses its discretion as a matter of law when [] relief has been denied where there has been no prejudice¿to the other party or to the court from an inadvertent waiver.”¿ (Tesoro del Valle Master Homeowners Assn. v. Griffin¿(2011) 200 Cal.App.4th 619, 638.) Policy favors the court using its discretion to proceed with a jury trial. (Bishop v. Anderson¿(1980) 101 Cal.App.3d 821, 823.)¿ “Where the right to jury is threatened, the crucial focus is whether any prejudice will be suffered by any party or the court if¿a motion for relief from waiver is granted. [Citations.] A trial court abuses its discretion as a matter of law when ‘…relief has been denied where there has been no prejudice to the other party or to the court from an inadvertent waiver. [Citations.]’” (Wharton v. Superior Court¿(1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 100, 104.) Here, while Plaintiff inadvertently failed to timely demand a jury trial and to timely post jury fees, Plaintiff – and indeed all other parties to this case – have consistently reflected a shared understanding that a jury trial is to be expected, supported in their payments of jury fees and jury demands. Given that Defendants have not filed an opposition, the Court has no reason to conclude that they would prejudiced by granting Plaintiff’s motion. RULINGBased on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion for order granting relief from potential jury waiver is GRANTED.