 Case Number:  22STCV05878    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2024    Dept:  T Motion for Judgement on the PleadingsMoving Party: Defendant Kone, Inc.Responding Party: Plaintiff Breeana DaoudTentative Ruling: DENYBACKGROUND This is a premises liability negligence case. Plaintiff alleges she was injured on February 23, 2021 at the Los Angeles International Airport (LAX) by a malfunctioning or ill-maintained elevator. Plaintiff filed her complaint on February 16, 2022 using a Judicially Approved Form complaint, which includes two causes of actions, the first for General Negligence second for Premises Liability. The City of Los Angeles and Does 1 to 50 were the original defendants, but on February 5, 2024, Defendant was substituted for Doe 2.MOVING PARTY POSITION Defendant argues Plaintiff’s complaint is devoid of factual allegations regarding how the elevator caused Plaintiff’s alleged injury and further fails to allege facts that would establish Defendant’s culpability. OPPOSITIONPlaintiff argues the complaint alleges sufficient facts to put Defendant on notice of the issues and does not negate Defendant’s control over the elevator; however, if the Court grants Defendant’s motion, Plaintiff argues it should do so with leave to amend.REPLYNo reply has been filed.ANALYSIS I. Judicial Notice The Court takes notice of Plaintiff’s complaint filed on February 16, 2022 in Breeanna Daoud v. Los Angeles World Airports (“LAWA”), et al., case number 22STCV05878. The Court additionally takes notice of Plaintiff’s amendment to the complaint filed on February 5, 2024.II. Motion for Judgement on the PleadingsIt is well established in California that either prior to trial, but after the time to answer or demur has passed, or at the trial, the plaintiff or the defendant may move for judgment on the pleadings and that the appropriate ground for such a motion is the same as that arguable by general demurrer, namely, the failure to state a cause of action or defense.  (Dobbins v. Hardister (1966) 242 Cal.App.2d 787, 791; See also Sofias v. Bank of America (1985) 172 Cal.App.3d 583, 586 [The non-statutory motion for judgment on the pleadings can be made at any time, even during trial, since the grounds for a general demurrer are never waived.], see also Code Civ. Proc. §438(f).)   A motion for judgment on the pleadings performs the same function as a general demurrer, and hence attacks only defects disclosed on the face of the pleadings or by matters that can be judicially noticed. (See, e.g., Weil & Brown, Cal. Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter Group 1998) §§ 7:275, 7:322; Lance Camper Manufacturing Corp. v. Republic Indemnity Co. (1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 194, 198.) Presentation of extrinsic evidence is therefore not proper on a motion for judgment on the pleadings. (Id.; Cloud v. Northrop Grumman Corp. (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 995, 999.)  Both a demurrer and a motion for judgment on the pleadings accept as true all material factual allegations of the challenged pleading, unless contrary to law or to facts of which a court may take judicial notice.  (Mechanical Contractors Assn. v. Greater Bay Area Assn. (1998) 66 Cal.App.4th 672, 677; Edwards v. Centex Real Estate Corp, (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 15, 27.) A defendant may bring a motion for judgment on the pleadings if the defendant has already filed his or her answer to the complaint and the time to demur to the complaint has expired.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 438(f).)  “Before filing a motion for judgment on the pleadings pursuant to this chapter, the moving party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to the motion for judgment on the pleadings for the purpose of determining if an agreement can be reached that resolves the claims to be raised in the motion for judgment on the pleadings.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 439(a).) A declaration regarding meet and confer efforts must be filed with the motion for judgment on the pleadings. (See id., § 439(a)(3).)  However, an insufficient meet and confer process is not grounds to grant or deny the motion for judgment on the pleadings. (See id., § 439(a)(4).)  The Court notes that Defendant has met the meet and confer requirement, and evaluates Defendant’s motion on the merits.Here, Plaintiff’s complaint alleges Defendant “owed a duty of care to Plaintiff” and “owned, leased, rented, occupied, possessed, designed, constructed, developed, landscaped, operated, inspected, repaired, maintained, modified, managed, controlled, and/or supervised, the subject premises, and permitted or created the dangerous condition.” (Declaration of Jade S. Koller in Support of Motion for Judgment on The Pleadings, p. 7.)  Plaintiff alleges Defendant “knew of the dangerous condition” and failed to address it, and moreover “breached the above mentioned duty of care,” through the negligent control over premises, causing Plaintiff’s injury. The Court therefore finds Plaintiff’s pleadings are sufficient to make out a cognizable negligence action. RULING Based on the foregoing, Defendant’s motion is DENIED. 