




            This
is an action arising from a breach of a residential lease agreement. Glendale
Properties, Inc. (Plaintiff) alleges that Defendant Joshua Anderson Richard (Defendant)
discussed renting the residential property located at 310 S. Kenmore Ave.,
Apt./Unit 104, Los Angeles, California, 90020 with Plaintiff for $1,940 a month
with a $1,940 security deposit. However, as a result of a drafting mistake, the
Lease listed both as $0. The Complaint contains a single cause of action for reformation
pursuant to Civil Code section 3399.
            
            On
June 6, 2023, this Court entered default against Defendant. Plaintiff moves for
default judgment against Defendant. Does 1-25 have not been dismissed. The
request for entry of default judgment is granted upon the dismissal of the Doe
defendants.  
 
Discussion
 
            Plaintiff
seeks default judgment for reformation of Trumark Real Estate Management
Residential Lease against Defendant Joshua Anderson Richard. 
 
            Reformation
is an equitable remedy that permits a court to reform a contract and is
governed by Civil Code section 3399, which states “[w]hen, through fraud or
mutual mistake of the parties, or a mistake of one party, which the other at
the time knew or suspected, a written contract does not truly express the
intention of the parties, it may be revised on the application of a party
aggrieved, so as to express that intention . . . .” (Shupe v. Nelson
(1967) 254 Cal.App.2d 693, 699.)
 
            Plaintiff
submits evidence that the parties agreed to a monthly rent and security deposit
of $1,940. (Trueblood Decl., ¶¶ 2-3, Ex. 3.) As of this date, Defendant has
failed to and refuses to pay rent or the security deposit to Plaintiff.
(Trueblood Decl. ¶ 7.) Based on the foregoing evidence, Plaintiff has
substantiated its claim for reformation. 
 
            Plaintiff
also seeks costs in the amount of $493.51. Plaintiff has substantiated these
costs. (CIV-100 ¶ 7.) 
 
            Lastly,
Plaintiff seeks attorney fees in the amount of $500. Section 27 of the Lease
provides, “[i]n the event action is brought by any party to enforce any terms
of this agreement or to recover possession of the premises, the prevailing
party shall recover from the other party reasonable attorney fees not to exceed
$500.” (Trueblood Decl., Ex. 2.) Plaintiff is entitled to attorney fees. 
 
Thus, the Court
will grant default judgment upon the filing of a dismissal of the remaining doe
defendants.
 