..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is a YAML summary of the tentative ruling:

```
Case Number: 20STCV12315
Plaintiff's Name: Gaudencio Romero and Alberto Reyes Mena
Defendant's Name: Cal-Coast Construction Specialties, Inc.
People-Names: Gaudencio Romero, Alberto Reyes Mena, Matthew Kessel
Company-Names: Sedgwick Claims Management Services, Inc., Indigo Construction Corp., Aragon Glendale Properties Corporation, Calico Construction, Inc., Cal-Coast Construction Specialties, Inc., Sellar, Hazard & Lucia
Places: California, Camarillo
Dates: April 1, 2021, August 5, 2022, January 18, 2023, July 13, 2023, September 20, 2023
Events: Service of summons and complaint, default, motion to quash service of summons, motion to set aside default
Money: None mentioned
Intentions: Cal-Coast seeks to set aside the default and have its answer filed
Facts: Cal-Coast was served with summons and complaint, but did not respond; default was entered against Cal-Coast; Cal-Coast claims it believed it was represented by the Sellar Firm and did not learn of the default until later
Disputes: Whether Cal-Coast was reasonably justified in believing it was represented by the Sellar Firm and whether it demonstrated excusable neglect in failing to respond to the summons and complaint
Acts: Service of summons and complaint, default, motion to quash service of summons, motion to set aside default
Agreements: Code of Civil Procedure section 418.10, Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (b)
Laws: Code of Civil Procedure section 418.10, Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (b), Evidence Code section 452, subdivision (h)
Case Citations: Weitz v. Yankosky (1966) 63 Cal.2d 849, 856, Rappleyea v. Campbell (1994) 8 Cal.4th 975, 980, People v. The North River Ins. Co. (2011) 200 Cal.App.4th 712, 721
Statutes: Code of Civil Procedure section 418.10, Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (b), Evidence Code section 452, subdivision (h)
Roles: Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 27, Cal-Coast Construction Specialties, Inc. (moving party), Gaudencio Romero and Alberto Reyes Mena (responding parties), Matthew Kessel (Assistant Controller for Cal-Coast)
Significant Statements: The court may relieve a party from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect; Cal-Coast's declaration does not set forth specific facts demonstrating a reasonable basis to believe the Sellar Firm was acting to protect Cal-Coast's interests; the court finds Cal-Coast is entitled to an order setting aside the default.
```

And here is a summary of the tentative ruling in English text:

This tentative ruling is in response to Cal-Coast Construction Specialties, Inc.'s motion to set aside the default that was entered against them on January 18, 2023. The court has considered the motion and has determined that Cal-Coast is entitled to an order setting aside the default.

Cal-Coast claims that they believed they were represented by the Sellar Firm and did not learn of the default until later. They submitted a declaration from their Assistant Controller, Matthew Kessel, which states that they relied on the Sellar Firm to defend their interests and did not learn of the default until later. The court finds that Cal-Coast was reasonably justified in believing they were represented by the Sellar Firm and that they demonstrated excusable neglect in failing to respond to the summons and complaint.

The court has granted Cal-Coast's motion and has directed them to file their answer within 10 days of the order. The court has also ordered that the motion to set aside the default be granted.
