  Case Number:  19STCV45414    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2023    Dept:  27 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 27
 
 
HEARING DATE:     September
20, 2023                           TRIAL
DATE:  November 2, 2023
                                                           
CASE:                                Gregory Langadinos v. Ronald MacDonald, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 19STCV45414





















 
MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE SECOND
AMENDED COMPLAINT



 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff Gregory Langadinos
 
RESPONDING
PARTY:     Defendant
Ronald MacDonald
 
 
I.          BACKGROUND
 
            On December
16, 2019, Plaintiff, Gregory Langadinos,[1]
filed a form complaint against Defendants, Ronald S. MacDonald (“MacDonald”)
and Monica K. Kramer (“Kramer”), asserting a cause of action for motor vehicle
negligence.  Kramer was dismissed from
this action on May 11, 2021.  
            
            On February
24, 2023, Plaintiff filed this motion for leave to file a First Amended Complaint
(“FAC”) because of a newly discovered medical condition.  Plaintiff seeks to add new defendants and
causes of action.  
 
            MacDonald
opposes and Plaintiff replies.
 
II.        LEGAL
STANDARD
 
            The court
may, in its discretion and after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any
terms as may be just, an amendment to any pleading, including adding or
striking out the name of any party, or correcting a mistake in the name of a
party, or a mistake in any other respect.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (a)(1).) 
“Public policy dictates that leave to amend be liberally granted.”  (Centex
Homes v. St. Paul Fire & Marine Ins. Co. (2015) 237 Cal.App.4th 23,
32.)  “Although courts are bound to apply
a policy of great liberality in permitting amendments to the complaint at any
stage of the proceedings, up to and including trial . . . this policy should be
applied only ‘where no prejudice is shown to the adverse party.’ 
[Citation].  A different result is indicated ‘where inexcusable delay and
probable prejudice to the opposing party’ is shown.  [Citation.]”  (Magpali
v. Farmers Group, Inc. (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 471, 487.) 
 
            A motion to
amend a pleading must include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended
pleading which must be serially numbered to differentiate it from previous
pleadings or amendments and must state what allegations in the previous
pleading are proposed to be deleted or added, if any, and where, by page,
paragraph, and line number, the allegations are located. (Cal. Rules of Court,
Rule 3.1324, subd. (a).)  The motion shall also be accompanied by a
declaration attesting to the effect of the amendment, why the amendment is
necessary and proper, when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations
were discovered, and why the request for amendment was not made earlier. 
(Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 1.324, subd. (b).) 
 
            In ruling
on a motion for leave to amend the complaint, the court does not consider the
merits of the proposed amendment, because “the preferable practice would be to
permit the amendment and allow the parties to test its legal sufficiency by
demurrer, motion for judgment on the pleadings or other appropriate
proceedings.”  (Kittredge Sports Co. v. Superior Court (1989) 213
Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048.)  While the court may deny leave to amend where the
proposed amendment is insufficient to state a valid cause of action or defense,
such denial is most appropriate where the insufficiency cannot be cured by
further amendment—i.e., where the statute of limitations has expired or the
insufficiency is established by controlling caselaw. (California casualty
Gen. Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1985) 173 Cal.App.3d 274, 280-281,
disapproved on other grounds in Kransco v. American Empire Surplus Lines
Ins. Co. (2000) 23 Cal.4th 390.) 
 
III.       DISCUSSION
 
            Procedural and substantive defects merit denial of
Plaintiff’s motion for leave to amend. 
 
            Procedural
Defects
 
            Plaintiff’s
motion is procedurally defective.  “A
motion to amend a pleading must include a copy of the proposed amendment or
amended pleading which must be serially numbered to differentiate it from
previous pleadings or amendments and must state what allegations in the
previous pleading are proposed to be deleted or added, if any, and where, by
page, paragraph, and line number, the allegations are located. (Cal. Rules of
Court, Rule 3.1324, subd. (a).)  Here, Plaintiff does not submit a
proposed or amended pleading which is serially numbered to differentiate it
from previous pleadings.  Nor does
Plaintiff indicate what allegations are proposed to be deleted or added.  
 
            Plaintiff
also has not included a declaration in compliance with California Rules of
Court rule 1.324.  The motion shall also
be accompanied by a declaration attesting to the effect of the amendment, why
the amendment is necessary and proper, when the facts giving rise to the
amended allegations were discovered, and why the request for amendment was not
made earlier.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 1.324, subd. (b).)  Plaintiff
has not satisfied this requirement.
 
            Substantive
Defects 
 
            Plaintiff’s
motion is also substantively defective. “Even if a good amendment is proposed
in proper form, unwarranted delay in presenting it may – of itself – be a valid
reason for denial.” (Melican v. Regents of University of California
(2007) 151 Cal.App.4th 168, 175.)  Here,
Plaintiff seeks to amend his complaint based on newly discovered medical
conditions allegedly resulting from injuries he sustained in the underlying
incident, including thyroid eye disease and prostate cancer.  (See Motion, p. 2.)  However, as Defendant points out, Plaintiff’s
medical records indicate Plaintiff has had some condition in both eyes that
began years ago (Motion, Ex. 7) and has had a history of low risk prostate
cancer and was diagnosed with prostate cancer on 12/16/22.  (See Motion, Ex. 2.)  Plaintiff fails to offer any explanation why
he did not seek leave to amend given he has known about his eye conditions for some
years. 
 
            Moreover,
Plaintiff fails to demonstrate that the proposed amendments would not result in
any prejudice to Defendant.  The liberal
policy of granting leave to amend at any stage of the proceedings applies only
where no prejudice is shown to the adverse party.  (Melican, supra, 151 Cal.App.4th at p.
175.)  Plaintiff offers a conclusory
statement that Defendant would not be prejudiced.  This is a motor vehicle negligence case.  Yet, Plaintiff seeks leave to add causes of
action for fraud, among others, and to add medical doctors, medical providers, an
insurance company, and an attorney as defendants.  In other words, Plaintiff seeks leave to
expand the scope and the nature of his claims. 
This case was filed in 2019.  Trial
is less than two months away.  Under
these facts, the prejudice to the defendants is extreme.  
 
IV.       CONCLUSION 
 
            Accordingly, the motion for leave to file a first amended complaint
is DENIED.
 
            Moving
party to give notice, unless waived.
 
 
Dated:   September 20,
2023                                   
___________________________________
                                                                                    Kerry
Bensinger
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 
            Parties who
intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at
SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at
www.lacourt.org.  Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative
and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless
appear at the hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive
emails from the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and
there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion,
adopt the tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar. 
 
 


