 Case Number:  20STCV12315    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2023    Dept:  27 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 27
 
 
HEARING DATE:     September
20, 2023                           TRIAL
DATE:  Vacated
                                                           
CASE:                                Sedgwick Claims Management Services, Inc. v. Indigo
Construction Corp., et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 20STCV12315
 





















 
MOTION
TO SET ASIDE DEFAULT



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant
Cal-Coast Construction Specialties, Inc. 
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Plaintiffs
Gaudencio Romero and Alberto Reyes Mena 
 
 
I.          BACKGROUND
 
             This is a
consolidated action arising from injuries suffered by Plaintiffs, Gaudencio
Romero and Alberto Mena, while working on a construction jobsite.  On April 1, 2021, Plaintiffs initiated this
related case (Case No. 21 STCV12448) against Defendants, Indigo Construction
Corp., Aragon Glendale Properties Corporation, Calico Construction, Inc., and
Does 1 to 60, for negligence and premises liability.  On August 5, 2022, Plaintiffs amended the
Complaint to name Cal-Coast Construction Specialties, Inc. (“Cal-Coast”) as Doe
3.  Default was entered against Cal-Coast
on January 18, 2023.
 
            On
July 13, 2023, Cal-Coast filed this motion to quash service of the summons and
complaint and to set aside the default.  Plaintiffs
have filed an Opposition.  Cal-Coast has
not filed a Reply.
            
            As
a threshold issue, Cal-Coast’s motion to quash is untimely.  Pursuant to
Code of Civil Procedure section 418.10, subd. (a)(1), a defendant, on or before
the last day of his or her time to plead or within any further time that the
court may for good cause allow, may serve and file a notice of motion to quash
service of summons on the ground of lack of jurisdiction of the court over him
or her.  
 
            Here,
Plaintiffs effected service of the summons and complaint by substituted service
on October 13, 2022.  Cal-Coast filed
this motion to quash ten months later, which is well past the time for
Cal-Coast to file a responsive pleading. 
Further, the Court does not find good cause to allow Cal-Coast to seek
an order quashing service of summons past the time in which to plead.  Accordingly, the Court considers only
Cal-Coast’s motion to set aside the default. 

 
II.        LEGAL STANDARD TO SET ASIDE DEFAULT
 
The court may, upon any terms as may
be just, relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a judgment,
dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against him or her through his or
her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.  Application for this relief shall be
accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed
therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b).)  In addition, a court must vacate a default or
dismissal when a motion for relief under Section 473, subdivision (b) is filed
timely and accompanied by an attorney’s sworn affidavit attesting to the
attorney’s mistake, inadvertence, surprise or neglect “unless the court finds
that the default or dismissal was not in fact caused by the attorney’s mistake,
inadvertence, surprise or neglect.” (Id.)
 
The party or the legal
representative must seek such relief “within a reasonable time, in no case
exceeding six months, after the judgment, dismissal, order, or proceeding was
taken.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b); see Rappleyea v. Campbell
(1994) 8 Cal.4th 975, 980 [“because more than six months had elapsed from the
entry of default, and hence relief under section 473 was unavailable”]; People
v. The North River Ins. Co. (2011) 200 Cal.App.4th 712, 721 [motion for
relief under section 473 must be brought “within a reasonable time, in no case
exceeding six months”].)   
 
III.      DISCUSSION
 
A.  Judicial Notice
 
Cal-Coast requests judicial notice of a screenshot of the
California Secretary of State website reflecting that the address registered
with the California Secretary of State for service on Cal-Coast’s agent for
service of process is 568 Constitution Ave., St. B, Camarillo, CA 93012. The
unopposed request is GRANTED.  (Evid.
Code., § 452, subd. (h).)
 
B. 
Set Aside Default
 
The court may, upon any terms as
may be just, relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a
judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against him or her
through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b).) 
 
 Cal-Coast
seeks to set aside the default based on mistake.  In support, Cal-Coast offers the declaration
of Cal-Coast’s Assistant Controller, Matthew Kessel, who states that it was his
understanding “that the law firm Sellar, Hazard & Lucia had been appointed
to represent Cal-Coast interests in the litigation by the insurance carrier for
the construction project which [is] subject of plaintiffs’ Complaint.”  (Kessel Decl., ¶ 4.) Later, the Sellar Firm
informed the declarant that “Cal-Coast had been dismissed from this case when,
in fact, Cal-Coast’s default had already been taken.”  (Kessel Decl., ¶ 6.)  Moreover, in late June 2023, declarant
“learned for the first time that the Sellar Firm had not appeared on
Cal-Coast’s behalf because the insurer for the construction project had not yet
authorized the firm to do so.”  (Kessel
Decl., ¶ 9.)  Based on their mistaken
belief that Cal-Coast had representation in this matter, and more, that they
had been dismissed from this action, Cal-Coast seeks an order setting aside the
default.[1]
 
Plaintiffs argue Kessel’s declaration does not set forth
specific facts demonstrating a reasonable basis to believe the Sellar Firm was
acting to protect Cal-Coast’s interests. 
“Where a default is entered because defendant has relied upon a
codefendant or other interested party to defend, the question is whether the
defendant was reasonably justified under the circumstances in his reliance or
whether his neglect to attend to the matter was inexcusable.” (Weitz v.
Yankosky (1966) 63 Cal.2d 849, 856.)
 
Here, Kessel also states that when he learned Cal-Coast’s
default had been taken, Kessel “immediately asked the Sellar Firm to take
appropriate action in response to the default and the Sellar Firm confirmed
they would do so.”  (Kessel Decl., ¶ 7.)  Further, Kessel “repeatedly asked the Sellar
Firm to provide status updates as to Cal-Coast’s appearance in this case.  Lawyers with the Sellar Firm repeatedly
advised me that they were working on Cal-Coast’s status in this litigation and
they were in ongoing communications with the insurance carrier for the construction
project as to Cal-Coast’s defense.”  (Kessel
Decl., ¶ 8.)  These statements, and those
quoted above, make sufficiently clear that Cal-Coast believed they were
represented by the Sellar Firm before and after default was entered against
Cal-Coast.  These statements are specific
enough to show Cal-Coast was reasonably justified in believing the Sellar Firm
were defending Cal-Coast’s interest.
 
Further, given that Cal-Coast timely sought to set aside the
default and Plaintiffs fail to demonstrate any prejudice other than having to
prosecute this action, the Court finds Cal-Coast is entitled to an order
setting aside the default.
 
IV.       CONCLUSION 
 
Accordingly, the motion to set aside the January 18, 2023
default against Defendant Cal-Coast Construction Specialties, Inc. is GRANTED. 
 
Cal-Coast is directed to file its Answer, attached as
Exhibit E to the motion, within 10 days of this order.
 
Moving party to give notice. 

 
 
Dated:   September 20,
2023                                   ___________________________________
                                                                                    Kerry
Bensinger
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 
            Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an
email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on
the tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to appear
at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the hearing and
argue the matter.  Unless you receive a submission from all other parties
in the matter, you should assume that others might appear at the hearing to
argue.  If the Court does not receive emails from the parties indicating
submission on this tentative ruling and there are no appearances at the
hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the tentative as the final
order or place the motion off calendar. 
 
 


