 Case Number:  22STCV01315    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2023    Dept:  27 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 27
 
 
HEARING DATE:     September
20, 2023                           TRIAL
DATE:  February 21, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                         Brodie Stephenson
v. Patricia A. Jacobs, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 22STCV01315
 





















 
MOTION
FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT 



 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff
Brodie Stephenson
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Nominal Defendant
Craig Randell
 
 
I.          BACKGROUND
 
            On January 11, 2022, Plaintiff, Brodie Stephenson, by, Amber
Stephenson, as guardian and mother, filed this wrongful death action against
Defendant, Patricia A. Jacobs and nominal defendant Craig Randell (“Mr.
Randell”) arising from a June 10, 2020 car accident that killed Plaintiff’s
father Matthew Ryan Randell (“Decedent”).¿ In the complaint, Plaintiff
identifies Mr. Randell as a nominal defendant because Mr. Randell has asserted
claims based on Decedent’s death. Mr. Randell filed a complaint against Jacobs
on June 7, 2022.¿ The cases were consolidated on September 19, 2022.¿ 
 
            On June 30,
2023, Plaintiff filed this motion for summary judgment.  Mr. Randell opposes and Plaintiff replies.
 
II.        LEGAL STANDARD FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
In reviewing a motion for summary
judgment, courts must apply a three-step analysis: “(1) identify the issues
framed by the pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving party has negated the
opponent’s claims; and (3) determine whether the opposition has demonstrated
the existence of a triable, material factual issue.”  (Hinesley v.
Oakshade Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.) 
“[T]he initial burden is always on
the moving party to make a prima facia showing that there are no triable issues
of material fact.”  (Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128
Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.)  A defendant moving for summary judgment or
summary adjudication “has met his or her burden of showing that a cause of
action has no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the
cause of action . . . cannot be established, or that there is a complete
defense to the cause of action.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd.
(p)(2).)  A moving defendant need not conclusively negate an element of
plaintiff’s cause of action.  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 854.) 
To meet this burden of showing a
cause of action cannot be established, a defendant must show not only “that the
plaintiff does not possess needed evidence” but also that “the plaintiff
cannot reasonably obtain needed evidence.”  (Aguilar, supra,
25 Cal.4th at p. 854.)  It is insufficient for the defendant to merely
point out the absence of evidence.  (Gaggero v. Yura (2003) 108
Cal.App.4th 884, 891.)  The defendant “must also produce evidence that the
plaintiff cannot reasonably obtain evidence to support his or her claim.” 
(Ibid.)¿ The supporting evidence can be in the form of affidavits,
declarations, admissions, depositions, answers to interrogatories, and matters
of which judicial notice may be taken.  (Aguilar, supra, 25
Cal.4th at p. 855.) 
“Once the defendant … has met that
burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff … to show
that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of
action or a defense thereto.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)  The
plaintiff may not merely rely on allegations or denials of its pleadings to
show that a triable issue of material fact exists, but instead, “shall set
forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue of material fact exists
as to the cause of action.”  (Ibid.)  “If the plaintiff cannot
do so, summary judgment should be granted.”  (Avivi v. Centro Medico
Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.) 
The court must “liberally construe
the evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve all
doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party,” including “all
inferences reasonably drawn therefrom.”  (Yanowitz v. L’Oreal USA, Inc.
(2005) 36 Cal.4th 1028, 1037; Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at pp.
844-45.)  “On a summary judgment motion, the court must therefore consider
what inferences favoring the opposing party a factfinder could reasonably draw
from the evidence.  While viewing the evidence in this manner, the court
must bear in mind that its primary function is to identify issues rather than
to determine issues.  [Citation.]  Only when the inferences are
indisputable may the court decide the issues as a matter of law.  If the
evidence is in conflict, the factual issues must be resolved by trial.” (Binder
v. Aetna Life Ins. Co. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839.)  “Put another
way, have defendants conclusively negated a necessary element of the
[plaintiff’s] case or demonstrated that under no hypothesis is there a material
issue of fact that requires the process of trial?”  (Jeld-Wen, Inc. v. Superior Court
(2005) 131 Cal.App.4th 853, 860.) (Internal citation omitted.)  Further, “the trial court may not weigh the
evidence in the manner of a factfinder to determine whose version is more
likely true.  [Citation.]  Nor may the trial court grant summary
judgment based on the court’s evaluation of credibility. 
[Citation.]”  (Id. at p. 840; see also Weiss v. People ex
rel. Department of Transportation (2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts
deciding motions for summary judgment or summary adjudication may not weigh the
evidence but must instead view it in the light most favorable to the opposing
party and draw all reasonable inferences in favor of that
party”].)   
III.      DISCUSSION
 
            Evidentiary
Objections           
            Mr.
Randell objects to each of the exhibits submitted by Plaintiff.
 
Exhibit 1: As will be discussed, if the Plaintiff requests judicial
notice, the Court anticipates overruling the objection.[1]
 
            Exhibit
2: Same as Ex. 1.
 
            Exhibit
3: Sustained.
 
            Exhibit
4: Same as Ex. 1. 
 
            Exhibit
5: Same as Ex. 1.
 
            Exhibit
6: Same as Ex. 1.  
 
            Mr.
Randell is correct that prior to granting a request for judicial notice
pursuant to Evidence Code section 452, a party must comply with Evidence Code
section 453 and request the Court take judicial notice.  (See Evid. Code, § 452, et. seq.)  For example, although the custody decree is a
record of a court of a state of the United States for which this Court may take
judicial notice (see Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (d)), Plaintiff must specifically
make that request.  “A party requesting judicial notice of material under
Evidence Code sections 452 or 453 must provide the court and each party with a
copy of the material (emphasis added).”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1306(c).)  A party requesting judicial notice of
materials must comply with California Rules of Court, rule 3.1306.  (Super. Ct. L.A. County, Local Rules, rule 3.8.)  
 
            Clarification
of Issues
 
            The
principal issue to be decided is whether the custody decree issued in the
Eighth Judicial District Court of the State of Nevada is entitled to full faith
and credit in the State of California. 
Crediting the custody decree, and the proposition that Plaintiff is
Decedent’s son, would establish that Plaintiff alone has standing to pursue
wrongful death claims against Defendant.  The Court previously held that the custody
decree should be given full faith and credit when the Court denied Mr.
Randell’s motion to compel DNA testing of Plaintiff.  
 
            Mr.
Randell opposes the motion because the relief being sought – a ruling that Plaintiff
is the sole successor in interest – is not stated in the Complaint.  “The pleadings delimit the scope of the issues on a summary judgment motion.
[Citation.] A party may not oppose a summary judgment motion based on a claim,
theory, or defense that is not alleged in the pleadings. [Citation.] Evidence
offered on an unpleaded claim, theory, or defense is irrelevant because it is
outside the scope of the pleadings.”  (California Bank & Trust
v. Lawlor (2013) 222 Cal.App.4th 625, 637, fn. 3.)
            The
Complaint alleges four causes of action: 
Wrongful death (Negligence); Survivor’s Action (Negligence); Survivor’s
Action (Gross Negligence); Negligence per se.  None of these causes of action seek to
foreclose Mr. Randell’s rights as successor or conversely to establish Plaintiff’s
as the sole successor in interest.  The
Complaint does not include a cause of action for declaratory relief.  
 
            Mr.
Randell raises the interesting point: how can Plaintiff obtain summary judgment
on the issue he wants – that he is the sole successor in interest -- based upon
the four causes of action pled in the Complaint?  Plaintiff fails to respond. The Court will
hear from counsel.  
 
            Leave to Amend
 
            In his
opposition, Mr. Randell seeks to continue the hearing on the motion because Mr.
Randell intends to file a motion for leave to amend his complaint.  Mr. Randell wants to add a survivorship cause
of action (but counsel does not identify the nature of the cause of action) and
a claim for reimbursement of burial expenses. 
Because the nature of the survivorship cause of action is unidentified,
the Court will also hear from counsel.  However, Mr. Randell’s request to continue the
hearing is procedurally deficient because counsel failed to include a
declaration in support of the request. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (h).)[2]
 
 
VI.       CONCLUSION
 
            Given the various
problems, the Court will hear from counsel. 
 
 
Dated:   September 20,
2023                                   ___________________________________
                                                                                    Kerry
Bensinger
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 
            Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an
email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on
the tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at
www.lacourt.org.  Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative
and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless
appear at the hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive
emails from the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and
there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion,
adopt the tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar. 


