 Case Number:  22STCV11740    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2023    Dept:  27 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 27
 
 
HEARING DATE:     September
20, 2023                           TRIAL
DATE:  October 4, 2023
                                                           
CASE:                         Fernando Pupo v. Jaqueline Osnaya
 
CASE NO.:                 22STCV11740
 





















 
DEMURRER
WITH MOTION TO STRIKE



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant
Jaqueline Osnaya
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     No opposition
 
 
I.          BACKGROUND
 
            On April 6, 2022, Plaintiff, Fernando Pupo, filed a
complaint against Defendant, Jaqueline Osnaya, for injuries arising from a
motor vehicle collision.  Plaintiff
alleges Defendant was operating an automobile while under the influence of a
substance.  The Complaint sets forth a
single cause of action for negligence.  Plaintiff
seeks punitive damages and attorney’s fees.
 
On August 31, 2023, Defendant filed this demurrer and a
motion to strike portions of Plaintiff’s Complaint. 
 
The demurrer and motion to strike are unopposed.
 
As the motion to strike attacks the request for punitive
damages and attorney’s fees, and the demurrer challenges only the sufficiency
of the allegations as to the punitive damages request, the Court considers the
motion to strike, and not the demurrer. 
 
II.        LEGAL STANDARD FOR MOTION TO STRIKE  
            Any
party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading, may serve and file a
motion to strike the whole pleading or any part thereof.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1); Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1322, subd. (b).)¿ On a
motion to strike, the court may: (1) strike out any irrelevant, false, or
improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike out all or any part of
any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of California, a
court rule, or an order of the court.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subds.
(a)-(b); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767, 782.)¿ 
            “The
grounds for a motion to strike are limited to matters appearing on the face of
the challenged pleading or matters which must or may be judicially noticed. (§
437, subd. (a); Evid. Code, §§ 451, 452.).” (Garcia v. Sterling (1985)
176 Cal.App.3d 17, 20.) 
A
failure to oppose a motion may be deemed a consent to the granting of the
motion.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 8.54,
subd. (c).)
 
III.      DISCUSSION
 
A.  Meet and Confer
 
Defense counsel has complied with the meet and confer
requirement.¿ (See Declaration of Heather Siegler.)
 
B.  Analysis
 
            1.
Punitive damages
 
“In an action for the breach of an obligation
not arising from contract, where it is proven by clear and convincing evidence
that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice, the
plaintiff, in addition to the actual damages, may recover damages for the sake
of example and by way of punishing the defendant.”  (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).)
 
Defendant argues the Court should strike the request
for punitive damages from the Complaint because there are no allegations to
show that Defendant acted with malice, oppression, or fraud within the meaning
of Civil Code section 3294.  The Court
agrees the  punitive damages request should
be stricken from the Complaint, but not for the reason Defendant identifies. “Ordinarily,
routine negligent or even reckless disobedience of traffic laws would not
justify an award of punitive damages.”  (Taylor v. Superior Court (1979)
24 Cal.3d 890, 899-900.)  In Taylor, the Supreme Court departed
from that general principle in a case involving a defendant who allegedly
became intoxicated and operated a motor vehicle thereafter.  (Id. at
p. 892.)  The trial court sustained defendant’s demurrer to the complaint
insofar as it sought recovery of punitive damages.  Citing Searle, supra,
Supreme Court reasoned that driving while intoxicated may constitute conscious
disregard of the safety of others.  (Id. at pp. 896-897.)  A
conscious disregard for the safety of others may in turn constitute malice
within the meaning of Civil Code section 3294.  (Id. at p.
891.)  For these reasons, the Court issued a writ of mandate directing the
trial court to reinstate the portion of the complaint which sought recovery of
punitive damages.  In sum, under Taylor, allegations of drunk
driving are sufficient to sustain the potential imposition of punitive
damages. 
 
Here, however, the Complaint simply alleges that
Defendant “negligently operated a certain automobile, UNDER THE INFLUENCE OF A
SUBSTANCE, (despicable conduct)”. 
(Complaint, ¶ 10.)  Missing from the
Complaint are any allegations showing the factual basis for the belief that
Defendant was “under the influence of a substance.”  The Complaint is deficient. 
 
Accordingly, the motion to strike punitive
damages is granted.
            2.
Attorney’s Fees
 
“Except as attorney’s fees are specifically
provided for by statute, the measure and mode of compensation of attorneys and
counselors at law is left to the agreement, express or implied, of the parties;
but parties to actions or proceedings are entitled to their costs, as hereinafter
provided.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1021.)
 
Defendant next seeks to strike attorney’s fees
from the Complaint because there are no allegations identifying any statute to
support an award of attorney’s fees.  The
Court agrees.  There are no allegations
showing the statutory basis for an award of attorney’s fees. 
 
Accordingly, the motion to strike attorney’s
fees is granted. 
 
            IV.        CONCLUSION

            
The unopposed motion to strike punitive damages and
attorney’s fees is granted.  Leave to
amend is GRANTED as to punitive damages only.
 
Given the Court’s ruling on the motion to strike, the demurrer
is MOOT.
 
Plaintiff is to file and serve a First Amended Complaint
within 20 days of this order.
 
Defendant is to file and serve a responsive pleading to the
First Amended Complaint within 30 days of service of the amended pleading.
 
Moving party to give notice, unless waived.  
 
Dated:   September 20,
2023                                   ___________________________________
                                                                                    Kerry
Bensinger
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 
            Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an
email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on
the tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at
www.lacourt.org.  Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative
and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless
appear at the hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive
emails from the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and
there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion,
adopt the tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar. 
 
 