 Case Number:  23GDCV01628    Hearing Date:   December 1, 2023    Dept:  E  
Hearing Date: 12/1/2023 – 8:30 am    
Case No: 23GDCV01628
Trial Date: N/A
Case Name: MARTYNAS JANCIUS, et al. v. MERCEDES-BENZ USA,
LLC, et al. 
 
MOTION
FOR CHANGE OF VENUE 
 
Moving Party:             Defendant
Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC   
Responding Party:       None as of November 28, 2023
 
Proof of service timely filed (CRC 317(b)):¿¿ Ok¿ 
Correct Address (CCP §§ 1013, 1013(a)):¿¿Ok¿ 
16/+5
day¿lapse (CCP §1005):¿¿N/A as no opposition or reply has been filed. 
 
BACKGROUND: 
 
On
August 2, 2023, Plaintiffs Martynas Jancius and Inga Irzekeviciute
(“Plaintiffs”) filed a complaint against Defendants Mercedes-Benz, USA, LLC,
Caliber Motors, Inc., dba Mercedes-Benz of Anaheim (“Defendants”) alleging
three causes of action for (1) Violation of Song-Beverly Act – Breach of
Express Warranty, (2) Violation of Song-Beverly Act – Breach of Implied
Warranty, and (3) Negligent Repair. The complaint alleges that Plaintiffs
purchased the Subject Vehicle in December 2020, which came with a written
warranty. However, the Subject Vehicle contained defects and nonconformities.
Plaintiffs presented the Subject Vehicle to Defendants on multiple occasions,
but Defendant was unable to repair the vehicle. 
 
On
September 5, 2023, Defendant Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC, filed the current Motion
for Change of Venue. As of November 28, 2023, no opposition has been filed. 
 
On
September 7, 2023, Defendant Caliber Motors filed an Answer. 
 
RELIEF REQUESTED: 
 
Defendant
Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC moves to have the Court transfer the current matter to
the proper venue, the Superior Court of California, County of Orange.
 
This
motion is made pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure §§ 396, 396b(a), 398,
395, 395.5, 397, and 399 on the grounds that this action was filed in the wrong
court. 
 
Notice is
additionally given that Defendant will request that the Court award attorneys’
fees and costs for bringing this motion totaling $1,000. 
 
 
TENTATIVE
RULING: 
 
Motion
for Change of Venue is GRANTED. 
 
REQUEST
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE: 
 
Defendant moves
to have the following facts be judicially noticed: 
 
1.      Mercedes-Benz
of Laguna Niguel is located at 1 Star Dr, Laguna Niguel, CA 92677.
Mercedes-Benz of Laguna Niguel is located in Orange County. 
2.      Caliber
Motors, Inc. d/b/a/ Mercedes-Benz of Anaheim is located at 5395 E La Palma Ave,
Anaheim, CA 92807. Caliber Motors, Inc. d/b/a/ Mercedes-Benz of Anaheim is
located in Orange County.
 
The Court may take judicial notice of the existence
of the records, but not the truth of matters asserted in such records. (Sosinsky v. Grant (1992) 6 Cal.App.4th
1548, 1565). As a result, although the court may take judicial notice that the
documents exists, the Court may not take judicial notice of the truth of the
facts in the documents. 
 
            Additionally,
Evidence Code only allows the Court to take judicial notice of certain types of
documents. The court may take judicial notice of “official acts of the
legislative, executive, and judicial departments of the United States and of
any state of the United States,” “[r]ecords of (1) any court of this state or
(2) any court of record of the United States or of any state of the United
States,” and “[f]acts and propositions that are not reasonably subject to
dispute and are capable of immediate and accurate determination by resort to
sources of reasonably indisputable accuracy.” (Evid. Code § 452, subds. (c),
(d), and (h).) The Evidence Code does not allow the Court to take judicial
notice of discovery responses or parts of cases, such as depositions.
 
            Request
for Judicial Notice is GRANTED. 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
Legal Standard 
 
 Code
of Civil Procedure section 395 provides, in pertinent part, “[e]xcept as
otherwise provided by law and subject to the power of the court to transfer
actions or proceedings as provided in this title,¿the superior court in the
county¿where¿the defendants or some of them reside at the commencement of the
action is the proper¿court¿for the trial of the action…Subject to subdivision
(b), if a defendant has contracted to perform an obligation in a particular
county, the superior court in the county where the obligation is to be
performed, where the contract in fact was entered into, or where the defendant
or any defendant resides at the commencement of the action is a proper court
for the trial of an action founded on that obligation, and the county where the
obligation is incurred is the county where it is to be performed, unless there
is a special contract in writing to the contrary.”  
 
In an action against a
corporation, the action may be commenced in “the county where the contract was
made or is to be performed, or where the obligation or liability arises, or the
breach occurs; or in the county where the principal place of business of such
corporation is situated subject to the power of the court to change the place
of trial as in other cases.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 395.5.)  
 
“[A] corporate
defendant…seeking…an order [changing venue] has the burden of negating the
propriety of venue as laid on all
possible grounds. [Citation].” (Anaheim
Extrusion Co. v. Superior Court (1985) 170 Cal.App.3d 1201, 1203.) (Italics
in original.)  
 
Additionally, under CCP § 397, after a motion has been
filed a court may change the place of trial:
 
(a) When the court designated in the complaint is not the
proper court.
(b) When there is reason to believe that an
impartial trial cannot be had therein.
(c) When the convenience of witnesses and the ends of
justice would be promoted by the change.
(d) When from any cause there is no judge
of the court qualified to act.
(e) When a proceeding for dissolution of marriage has been
filed in the county in which the petitioner has been a resident for three
months next preceding the commencement of the proceeding, and the respondent at
the time of the commencement of the proceeding is a resident of another county
in this state, to the county of the respondent's residence when the ends of
justice would be promoted by the change.
 
Discussion 
 
            Defendant moves to have the current
matter transferred from Los Angeles Superior Court to the Superior Court,
County of Orange. Defendant argues that this motion is timely pursuant to CCP §
396b(a), as neither defendant has answered, demurred, or moved to strike the
Complaint.[1] Defendant
then argues that the proper venue is in Orange County, as Defendant
Mercedes-Benz of Anaheim has its principal place of business in the City of
Anaheim. (Motion 5: 9-15.) Additionally, the sales and warranty contracts were
executed in Orange County. Plaintiff purchased the vehicle at the Mercedes-Benz
of Laguna Nigel; all relevant parties reside in Orange County, including
Plaintiffs; all relevant evidence is in Orange County; and the Subject Vehicle
is in Orange County. (Motion 5: 17-18; 6: 2-10.)
 
            Based on a review of the Complaint,
the Court finds that the Superior Court of the County of Los Angeles is not the
proper venue. Under CCP § 396a(b), 
 
If it appears from the complaint or
affidavit, or otherwise, that the superior court or court location where the
action or proceeding is commenced is not the proper court or court location for
the trial, the court where the action or proceeding is commenced, or a judge
thereof, shall, whenever that fact appears, transfer it to the proper court or
court location, on its own motion, or on motion of the defendant…
 
Moreover,
under CCP § 397, a court may change the venue if the court is not the proper
court or when the convenience of witnesses would be promoted by change. Here,
the Complaint indicates that Orange County is proper. The Plaintiffs reside in
the City of Irvine and Plaintiffs purchased the Subject Vehicle from the
Mercedes-Benz of Anaheim. Thus, under either CCP § 396a or 397, venue is
not proper, and the Court has the discretion to transfer venue. It is evident
that based on the Complaint as well as the requests for judicial notice that
venue is not proper in Los Angeles County, as the entirety of the action is
based in Orange County. 


