  Case Number:  23GDCV00056    Hearing Date:   December 1, 2023    Dept:  E  
Hearing Date: December 1, 2023 – 8:30 am   
Case No: 23GDCV00056
Trial Date: 9/30/2024
Case Name: JOSHN RAMSEYER, et al. v. FCA US LLC 
 
MOTION
TO COMPEL COMPLIANCE WITH DISCOVERY RESPOSNES 
 
 
Moving Party: Plaintiffs John and Ronda Ramseyer   
Responding Party: None as of November 28, 2023. 
 
Proof of service timely filed (CRC 317(b)):¿Ok¿ 
Correct Address (CCP §§ 1013, 1013(a)):¿Ok¿ 
16/+5
day¿lapse (CCP §1005):¿¿N/A as no opposition
or reply has been filed.
 
BACKGROUND:
 
On
January 11, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a complaint against Defendant. The complaint
alleged one cause of action for Violation of Song-Beverly Act – Breach of
Express Warranty. Plaintiffs entered a warranty contract with Defendant FCA US
LLC regarding a Jeep Cherokee. However, the Subject Vehicle contact defects and
nonconformities during the express warranty period. After delivering the
Subject Vehicle to an authorized repair facility, Defendant was unable to
confirm the Subject Vehicle to the applicable warranty after a reasonable
number of attempts. 
 
On
February 17, 2023, Defendant B&W Automotive, Inc., dba Bravo Chrysler Dodge
Jeep Ram of Alhambra and FCA US LLC each filed an Answer. 
 
The
current motion to compel was filed on August 9, 2023. As of November 28, 2023,
no opposition has been filed.  
 
RELIEF REQUESTED: 
Plaintiffs
John Ramseyer and Ronda Ramseyer (“Plaintiffs”) move the Court for an order
compelling Defendant FCA US LLC (“Defendant”) to produce documents consistent
with its responses to the request for production of documents. 
 
This
motion is made pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 2031.230 on the grounds
that Defendant has failed to comply with its agreement to comply with
Plaintiffs’ Request for Production of documents Nos. 1-5, 7-15, 33-36, and 44. 
 
Plaintiffs
also seek monetary sanctions against Defendant and their attorneys of record in
the amount of $2,160. 
 
 
RECOMMENDED
RULING: 
 
Motion
to Compel Compliance is GRANTED. 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
Legal Standard 
 
A party to whom
an inspection, copying, testing, or sampling demand has been directed may
respond with an indication that the party will comply with the particular
demand. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.210, subd. (a)(1).) Thereafter, if the
responding party fails to permit the inspection, copying, testing, or sampling
in accordance with that party’s statement of compliance, the demanding party
may move for an order compelling compliance. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.320,
subd. (a).)  
 
Additionally, a court shall issue
sanctions against a party who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to
compel compliance, unless the court finds that the party acted with
substantively justification. (CCP § 2031.320(b).) 
 
Discussion 
 
 Plaintiffs
move to have the Court compel Defendant to produce the documents it has already
agreed to produce.
 
On
February 21, 2023, Plaintiff set Defendant a set of requests for production of
documents. Defendant served responses on March 28, 2023, agreeing to produce
certain documents. By May 11, 2023, Defendant had not yet produced the
documents, and Plaintiff set a meet and confer letter noting the same. On July
27, 2023, Plaintiff’s counsel emailed FCA inquiring about the documents, but
received no response.  
 
Plaintiffs
argue that they are entitled to document production because Defendant indicated
in their responses to Plaintiffs’ discovery requests that they would produce
several documents. (Dec. Lopez, Ex. B.) However, Defendant has failed to
produce those documents.
 
The
Court has reviewed Defendant’s responses, attached to the Lopez Declaration. In
many of the responses, Defendant indicates that it will comply and produce all
responsive documents that are in its possession, custody, and control. For
example, as to Response No. 3, Defendant states that it will produce a “copy
of the warranty claim records,” a “copy of the Repair
Order Detail Report, and a “copy of the Vehicle Information Detail Report,” a
“copy of Retail Installment Sales Contract, and a “copy of any Customer
Assistance Inquiry Records (CAIRs) containing communications with Plaintiff.”
(Dec. Lopez, Ex. B, No. 3, 9-17.) The Court finds Plaintiffs’ argument
well-taken. Many of Defendant’s responses indicate that it will comply with the
request and produce specific documents. However, these documents have not been
produced. Under CCP § 2031.210, if a party fails to produce documents that it
indicated it would provide, the party propounding discovery may move for
compliance. Thus, the Court finds Plaintiffs are entitled to these documents. 
 
Motion to Compel Compliance is GRANTED. 
 
Sanctions: 
 
Plaintiffs also request $2,160 in
sanctions as Defendant has failed to provide documents it already agreed to
produce. The hourly rate for counsel is $375. The total is calculated as
follows: 1.2 hours drafting the motion, an anticipated 2 hours reviewing the
opposition and preparing a reply, and an anticipated 2 hours preparing for and
attending the hearing. Additionally, a $60.00 filing fee was incurred for the
current motion. 
 
“The court may
award sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor of a party who files a motion
to compel discovery, even though no opposition to the motion was filed, or
opposition to the motion was withdrawn, or the requested discovery was provided
to the moving party after the motion was filed.” (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule
3.1348(a).) 
 
The issue of
sanctions will be addressed at the hearing.
 