 Case Number:  23STCV15103    Hearing Date:   December 13, 2023    Dept:  50 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 50
 




GARRETT MATSUNAGA, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
general motors, llc, et al.,
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


23STCV15103




Hearing Date:


December 13, 2023




Hearing Time:


2:00 p.m.




TENTATIVE RULING
  RE:
 
GENERAL MOTORS
  LLC’S DEMURRER TO PLAINTIFF’S COMPLAINT;
 
GENERAL MOTORS
  LLC’S MOTION TO STRIKE PUNITIVE DAMAGES FROM PLAINTIFF’S COMPLAINT
 




            
            Background
Plaintiff Garrett Matsunaga (“Plaintiff”)
filed this action on June 28, 2023 against Defendant General Motors LLC (“GM”).
The Complaint alleges causes of action for (1) fraudulent concealment and
misrepresentation, (2) negligent misrepresentation, (3) commission of unlawful,
unfair, or fraudulent business acts and practices, Business and
Professions Code §17200, et seq. (4) violation
of the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act – breach of express warranty,
(5) violation of the Song-Beverly Consumer
Warranty Act – breach of implied warranty, and (6) violation
of the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act –
Civil Code §1793.2(b). 
In the Complaint, Plaintiff alleges that prior to February 24, 2021,
GM manufactured and/or distributed a 2020 Chevrolet Bolt EV, vehicle
identification number 1G1FX6S00L4148273 (the “Vehicle”) into the stream of
commerce for its eventual sale/lease in the State of California. (Compl., ¶ 7.)
Plaintiff alleges that “[t]he Vehicle was delivered to Plaintiff with serious
defects and nonconformities to warranty and developed other serious defects and
nonconformities to warranty including, but not limited to the EV battery
module, potential high voltage battery fire, front seatbelt pretensioner, and
other defects.” (Compl., ¶ 10.)
GM now demurs to the first, second, and third causes of action of the
Complaint. GM also moves to strike from the Complaint the demand “[f]or
punitive damages” in the Prayer for Relief. Plaintiff opposes both. 
Demurrer 
A.   
Legal Standard
A demurrer can be used
only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack
or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (Blank
v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,
318.) “To survive a demurrer, the
complaint need only allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action; each
evidentiary fact that might eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need
not be alleged.” (C.A. v. William S. Hart
Union High School Dist. (2012) 53
Cal.4th 861, 872.) For the purpose of testing the
sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967.) A demurrer “does not admit contentions, deductions or conclusions
of fact or law.” (Daar v. Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713.) 
B.     First Cause of Action for Fraudulent
Concealment and Misrepresentation
GM asserts that the first cause of action for “fraudulent concealment and misrepresentation” fails. “To establish
a claim for fraudulent misrepresentation, the plaintiff must prove: (1) the
defendant represented to the plaintiff that an important fact was true; (2)
that representation was false; (3) the defendant knew that the
representation was false when the defendant made it, or the defendant made the
representation recklessly and without regard for its truth; (4) the defendant
intended that the plaintiff rely on the representation; (5) the plaintiff
reasonably relied on the representation; (6) the plaintiff was harmed; and (7)
the plaintiff’s reliance on the defendant’s representation was a substantial
factor in causing that harm to the plaintiff.” (Graham v. Bank of America, N.A. (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 594, 605-606
[internal quotations omitted].) 
GM asserts that the
first cause of action fails because Plaintiff did not identify any
affirmative misrepresentation by or from GM. In the first cause of action,
Plaintiff alleges that “GM intentionally and knowingly concealed, suppressed
and/or omitted material facts including the presence of the defective high
voltage battery pack in the Vehicle.” (Compl., ¶ 29.) Plaintiff alleges that he
“would not have purchased the Vehicle but for GM’s omissions and concealment of
material facts regarding the nature and quality of the Vehicle and existence of
the battery defect.” (Compl., ¶ 33.) Thus, Plaintiff’s first cause of action
appears to be one for fraud based on concealment, not for fraud based on an
affirmative misrepresentation. 
GM also asserts that the
first cause of action fails “because Plaintiff did not identify a
material fact regarding the Subject Vehicle that GM concealed or suppressed.”
(Demurrer at p. 9:12-14.)  “[T]he elements of a cause of action for fraud based on
concealment are: (1) the defendant must have concealed or suppressed a material
fact, (2) the defendant must have been under a duty to disclose the fact to the
plaintiff, (3) the defendant must have intentionally concealed or suppressed
the fact with the intent to defraud the plaintiff, (4) the plaintiff must have
been unaware of the fact and would not have acted as he did if he had known of
the concealed or suppressed fact, and (5) as a result of the concealment or
suppression of the fact, the plaintiff must have sustained damage.” (Jones
v. ConocoPhillips Co. (2011) 198
Cal.App.4th 1187, 1198 [internal quotations omitted].) 
But as
discussed, Plaintiff alleges that “GM intentionally and knowingly
concealed, suppressed and/or omitted material facts including the presence of
the defective high voltage battery pack in the Vehicle.” (Compl., ¶ 29.)
Plaintiff further alleges that “GM knew (at the time of purchase and thereafter)
that the Vehicle contained the battery defect, concealed the defect, and never
intended to replace the battery defect during the relevant warranty periods.”
(Compl., ¶ 30.) 
GM also asserts that the first cause of action fails because Plaintiff
failed to allege “the identity of the individuals at GM who purportedly
concealed material facts or made untrue representations about his Bolt” or
“their authority to speak and act on behalf of GM.” (Demurrer at p. 10:1-3.) GM
cites to Tarmann v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th
153, 157, where the
Court of Appeal noted that “[t]he
requirement of specificity in a fraud action against a corporation requires the
plaintiff to allege the names of the persons who made the allegedly fraudulent
representations, their authority to speak, to whom they spoke, what they said
or wrote, and when it was said or written.” But as set forth above, Plaintiff
alleges that 
“GM intentionally and knowingly concealed, suppressed and/or omitted
material facts including the presence of the defective high voltage battery
pack in the Vehicle.” (Compl., ¶ 29, emphasis added.) As discussed, the first
cause of action does not appear to be one for fraud based on an affirmative
misrepresentation. In addition, Plaintiff notes that the Tarmann Court “acknowledge[d]
that the requirement of specificity is relaxed when the allegations indicate
that the defendant must necessarily possess full information concerning
the facts of the controversy…” (Tarmann v.
State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co., supra, 2 Cal.App.4th at p. 158 [internal
quotations omitted].) 
GM also asserts that the first cause of
action fails because Plaintiff does not allege “GM’s knowledge about
alleged defects in Plaintiff’s Bolt at the time of sale…” (Demurrer at p. 10:3-4)
But Plaintiff alleges that “GM knew (at the
time of purchase and thereafter) that the Vehicle contained the battery defect,
concealed the defect, and never intended to replace the battery defect during
the relevant warranty periods.” (Compl., ¶ 30.) 
In addition, GM asserts that the first cause of action fails because
Plaintiff does not allege “any interactions with GM before or during the
purchase of his Bolt…” (Demurrer at p. 10:4-5.) But GM does not cite any legal
authority demonstrating that this is an element of a cause of action for fraud based on concealment.
GM also asserts that “[t]he
allegations of the Complaint do not establish GM’s intent to defraud
Plaintiff…” (Demurrer at p. 10:7.) As set forth above, the elements of a cause of action for fraud based on concealment include
that “the defendant must have intentionally concealed or suppressed the fact
with the intent to defraud the plaintiff…” (Jones v.
ConocoPhillips Co., supra,
198 Cal.App.4th at p. 1198.) With regard to this
element, Plaintiff points to paragraph 25 of the Complaint, but such paragraph
alleges that “GM knew or should have known that the Vehicle was being
advertised and sold with false and misleading representations regarding the
range of the Vehicle and the risk of fire posed by the defective batteries.”
(Compl., ¶ 25.) Plaintiff does
not appear to point to any specific allegations that GM intentionally concealed or suppressed the subject facts with
the intent to defraud Plaintiff.
Based on the foregoing, the Court sustains
GM’s demurrer to the first cause of action, with leave to amend. 
C.    
Second Cause of Action for Negligent
Misrepresentation 
GM asserts that Plaintiff’s second cause of
action for negligent misrepresentation fails. GM cites to Hydro-Mill
Co., Inc. v. Hayward, Tilton & Rolapp Ins. Associates, Inc. (2004) 115 Cal.App.4th
1145, 1154, where the
Court of Appeal noted that “[t]he elements of negligent
misrepresentation are well established. A plaintiff must prove the
following in order to recover. [M]isrepresentation of a past or existing
material fact, without reasonable ground for believing it to be true, and with
intent to induce another’s reliance on the fact misrepresented; ignorance of
the truth and justifiable reliance on the misrepresentation by the party to
whom it was directed; and resulting damage…” (Internal quotations omitted.)  
GM
asserts that here, “Plaintiff has not identified a single
representation of any kind by or from GM regarding the Subject Vehicle.”
(Demurrer at p. 10:18-19, emphasis omitted.) 
Plaintiff counters that the Complaint alleges sufficient facts to
demonstrate negligent misrepresentation. In the second cause of action for
negligent misrepresentation, Plaintiff alleges that “[t]he representations
alleged above made by GM were not true. Regardless of their actual belief, GM
made the representations without any reasonable grounds for believing them to
be true.” (Compl., ¶ 38.) Plaintiff points to paragraph 8 of the Complaint,
which alleges, inter alia, that “[o]n or about February 24, 2021,
Plaintiff travelled to Martin Chevrolet in Torrance, California to acquire a
safe and reliable electric vehicle that would be able to go at least 250 miles
per charge and that did not have any defects with its battery.” (Compl., ¶ 8.)
Plaintiff alleges that “[w]hen Plaintiff arrived at the dealership, he met with
the salesperson and asked him to show him a 2020 Chevrolet Bolt EV because he
had researched the Vehicle and it seemed like a good fit for his specific needs
and that it was not subject to any battery recalls or known defects. The
salesperson spoke to Plaintiff about the Vehicle, how far it could drive on a
single charge, and all of its features. He also assured Plaintiff that there
were no problems with the battery in the 2020 Chevrolet Bolts.” (Compl., ¶ 8.)
Plaintiff alleges that “[o]nce Plaintiff was satisfied by the representations
made by the salesperson and by Defendant Manufacturer through its
advertisements and publications that the Vehicle’s range on a single charge was
259 miles and that there were no problems with the vehicle’s battery,
[Plaintiff] decided to purchase the Vehicle.” (Compl., ¶ 8.) 
GM also asserts that the second cause of action fails because
Plaintiff did not “identify who at GM made the alleged misrepresentations, or
identify when GM made the alleged misrepresentations, or identify where GM made
the alleged misrepresentations, or identify how GM made the alleged
misrepresentations.” (Demurrer at p. 8:4-6.) As set forth above, GM notes that
“[t]he requirement of specificity in a fraud action
against a corporation requires the plaintiff to allege the names of the persons
who made the allegedly fraudulent representations, their authority to speak, to
whom they spoke, what they said or wrote, and when it was said or written.”
(Tarmann v.
State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co., supra, 2 Cal.App.4th at p. 157.)[1] Here, Plaintiff’s Complaint
does not appear to allege the names of
the persons who made the allegedly fraudulent representations or their
authority to speak for GM. 
In light of the foregoing, the Court sustains GM’s demurrer to the
second cause of action, with leave to amend. 
 
D.    Third
Cause of Action for “Commission of Unlawful, Unfair, or Fraudulent Business
Acts and Practices, Business and Professions Code
§17200, et seq.” 
GM also asserts that the third cause of action fails to state a claim.
“California Business and Professions Code Sections
17000, et seq….states…that unfair competition shall mean and include
unlawful, unfair or fraudulent business practices…A plaintiff alleging unfair
business practices under these statutes must state with reasonable
particularity the facts supporting the statutory elements of the violation.” (Khoury
v. Maly's of California, Inc. (1993)
14 Cal.App.4th 612, 618-619.) The Court notes that “[b]ecause¿¿Business and
Professions Code section 17200¿¿is written
in¿the disjunctive, it establishes three varieties of unfair competition—acts
or practices which are unlawful, or unfair, or fraudulent. An act can be
alleged to violate any or all of the three prongs of the UCL—unlawful, unfair,
or fraudulent.” (¿Berryman v. Merit
Property Management, Inc. (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 1544, 1554
[internal quotations and citation omitted].)
In the
demurrer, GM argues that “Plaintiff fails to establish the
alleged unlawfulness of GM’s conduct with sufficient facts. Plaintiff fails to
properly allege any facts showing how, where, to whom, and by what means the
representations that allegedly violated the UCL were tendered by GM to
Plaintiff or how these alleged false and misleading statements were likely to
deceive a reasonable consumer.” (Demurrer at p. 11:10-13.) But Plaintiff alleges
in the third cause of action that “GM’s conduct is unlawful because, as set
forth herein, it violates the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act and the
Consumer Legal Remedies Act, among other laws.” (Compl., ¶ 45.) GM does not appear
address this allegation in the demurrer. 
In addition, GM asserts that “Plaintiff has also failed to establish
the requisite standing to recover under the UCL as the Complaint as a whole
fails to allege any facts in support of the contention that Plaintiff has
suffered an injury in fact and has lost money or property as a result of unfair
competition as required pursuant to Section 17204.”
(Demurrer at p. 11:22-26.) Business and Professions
Code section 17204 provides in pertinent part
that “[a]ctions for relief pursuant to
this chapter shall be prosecuted exclusively in a court of competent jurisdiction
by…a person who has suffered injury in fact and has lost money or property as a
result of the unfair competition.” But Plaintiff alleges in the Complaint that
“[a]s a result of GM’s unfair, deceptive and/or fraudulent business
practices, Plaintiff has suffered an ascertainable loss of money and/or
property and/or loss in value. The unfair and
deceptive trade practices GM has committed were conducted in a manner giving
rise to substantial aggravating circumstances.” (Compl.,
¶ 26.) 
GM also asserts that “Plaintiff has
made no showing that he can plead the facts necessary to constitute a cause of
action under the UCL for injunctive relief.” (Demurrer at p. 12:2-3.) GM cites
to Korea Supply Co. v. Lockheed Martin Corp. (2003) 29 Cal.4th
1134, 1144, where the California Supreme Court noted that “[w]hile the scope of conduct
covered by the UCL is broad, its remedies are limited. A UCL action is equitable in
nature; damages cannot be recovered…We have stated that under the
UCL, [p]revailing plaintiffs are generally limited to injunctive relief and
restitution.” (Internal quotations and citations omitted.) GM asserts that “nowhere
in the Complaint does Plaintiff identify any particular activity against which
an injunction could be enforced as a preventative measure,” and that “Plaintiff
has failed to state any facts in support of the contention that [Plaintiff]
has lost money or property as a result of unfair business practices.” (Demurrer
at p. 12:9-14 [emphasis in original].) Plaintiff does not appear to respond to
or dispute this point in the opposition. As set forth above, Plaintiff only
alleges that “[a]s a result of GM’s unfair, deceptive and/or fraudulent
business practices, Plaintiff has suffered an ascertainable loss of money
and/or property and/or loss in value.” (Compl., ¶ 26.) 
Based on the foregoing, the Court sustains GM’s demurrer to the third
cause of action of the Complaint, with leave to amend. 
Motion to Strike 
GM also moves to strike the demand “[f]or
punitive damages” contained in the Prayer for Relief. (Compl., Prayer for
Relief, ¶ 7.) 
Plaintiff alleges in the first cause of action for fraudulent
concealment and misrepresentation that “GM’s conduct constitutes conduct that
is oppressive, fraudulent, and/or malicious, entitling Plaintiff to punitive
damages under Civil Code Section 3294, and the acts
of GM’s employees as alleged were authorized or ratified by an officer,
director, and/or managing agent of GM.” (Compl., ¶ 36.) As set forth above, the
Court sustains GM’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s cause of action for fraudulent concealment and misrepresentation, as well as Plaintiff’s
causes of action for negligent misrepresentation and “commission of unlawful,
unfair, or fraudulent business acts and practices…” 
GM asserts that Plaintiff may not recover
punitive damages based on the claims asserted in the three remaining causes of
action for violation of the Song-Beverly
Consumer Warranty Act – breach of express warranty, violation
of the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act – breach of implied warranty,
and violation of the Song-Beverly Consumer
Warranty Act – Civil Code §1793.2(b). GM asserts that
“Plaintiff cannot demand both a civil penalty under Song-Beverly and punitive
damages.” (Mot. at p. 3:18-19). GM cites to Troensegaard v. Silvercrest Indus. (1985) 175 Cal.App.3d 218, 228, where the Court of Appeal
noted that “[w]e are of the opinion
that had the Legislature, by Civil Code sections 3294 (permitting punitive damages) and 1794 (permitting a civil penalty), intended a double recovery of
punitive and penal damages for the same willful, oppressive, malicious, and
oppressive acts, it would in some appropriate manner have said so. And we
believe that by seeking a ‘civil penalty’ and also attorney’s fees and all reasonable
expenses as allowed by Civil Code section 1794,
plaintiff had in effect elected to waive punitive damages under section 3294.” (Emphasis in original.) 
In the Complaint here, Plaintiff alleges
that he seeks “a civil penalty in the amount of two times Plaintiff’s
actual damages under the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act” as well as
“punitive damages.” (Compl., Prayer for Relief, ¶¶ 5, 7.) Plaintiff also seeks
“reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs of suit as permitted by law.” (Compl.,
Prayer for Relief, ¶ 9.) 
In the opposition, Plaintiff does not appear to dispute GM’s assertion
that Plaintiff may not recover punitive damages in connection with his fourth,
fifth, or sixth causes of action. Rather, Plaintiff asserts that he
“sufficiently allege [sic] that [GM] engaged in fraudulent conduct.” (Opp’n at
p. 3:13-14.) 
Accordingly, based on the foregoing, the
Court grants GM’s motion to strike Plaintiff’s demand for punitive damages,
with leave to amend.
Conclusion
For the foregoing reasons, the Court sustains GM’s demurrer to the
first, second, and third causes of action of the Complaint, with leave to
amend.  
The Court grants GM’s motion to strike
Plaintiff’s demand for punitive damages, with leave to amend.
The
Court orders Plaintiff to file and serve an amended complaint, if any, within
20 days of this Order. If no amended complaint is filed within 20 days of this
Order, GM is ordered to file and serve its answer within 30 days of this Order. 
GM is ordered to give notice of this Order.
 
 
DATED:  December 13, 2023                        ________________________________
Hon. Rolf M. Treu
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court


