 Case Number:  23STCV09441    Hearing Date:   December 13, 2023    Dept:  50 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department
50
 



TEA HERMANKOVA,
et al.,
 
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
RUNWAY SUB REIT, LLC,
  et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


  23STCV09441




Hearing Date:


December 13, 2023




Hearing
  Time:    2:00 p.m. 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
  RE:
 
DEFENDANT RUNWAY
  SUB REIT, LLC’S DEMURRER TO PLAINTIFFS’ COMPLAINT; 
 
MOTION OF
  DEFENDANT RUNWAY SUB REIT, LLC TO STRIKE PORTIONS OF PLAINTIFFS’ COMPLAINT
 



            
Background
Plaintiffs Tea
Hermankova (“Hermankova”) and Tomas Hermanek, a Minor, by and through
his Guardian Ad Litem, Tea
Hermankova (jointly, “Plaintiffs”) filed this action on April 27, 2023 against
Defendants Runway Sub Reit, LLC (“Runway”) and Bozzuto Management Company
(jointly, “Defendants”). The Complaint alleges causes of action for (1) breach
of lease, (2) breach of implied covenant of habitability, (3) trespass, (4)
negligence, (5) breach of covenant of quiet enjoyment, (6) maintenance of
nuisance, (7) constructive eviction, (8) intentional infliction of emotional
distress, and (9) negligent infliction of emotional distress. 
Runway now demurs to the
Complaint and moves to strike portions of the Complaint. Plaintiffs oppose
both. 
Demurrer
A.    Legal Standard 
A demurrer can be used
only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack
or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (Blank
v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,
318.) “To survive a demurrer, the
complaint need only allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action; each
evidentiary fact that might eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need
not be alleged.” (C.A. v. William S. Hart
Union High School Dist. (2012) 53
Cal.4th 861, 872.) For the purpose of testing the
sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967.) A demurrer “does not admit contentions, deductions or conclusions
of fact or law.” (Daar v. Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713.) 
B.     Allegations of the Complaint  
In the Complaint,
Plaintiffs allege that since on or about May 16, 2022, Hermankova leased
premises from Defendants, located at 12760 W. Millennium Dr., Unit A408, Playa
Vista, California (“Unit A408”). (Compl., ¶ 11.) Plaintiffs allege that “[d]ue
to the unlawful and outrageous conduct as hereinafter set forth in detail,
Plaintiff Hermankova and her minor son, Plaintiff Tomas Hermansek, could not
continue to reside at the [Unit A408], and instead moved into 12760 W.
Millennium Dr., Unit A424, Playa Vista, California, (‘Unit A424’), pursuant to
an agreement entered into with the lessee of Unit A424, whereby Plaintiff
Hermankova paid monthly rent to the lessee of Unit A424.” (Compl., ¶ 11.) 
Plaintiffs allege that “[f]rom the very beginning of Plaintiffs’
occupancy of Unit A408, pursuant to the Rental Agreement, Plaintiffs
experienced intolerable noise at night emanating from nine old and unmaintained
air conditioning units located directly above Plaintiffs’ unit on the roof, as
well as the refrigerator in Plaintiffs’ unit.” (Compl., ¶ 14.) Hermankova made
several complaints to Runway management regarding these conditions. (Compl., ¶
14.) “On or about August 3, 2022, Hermankova was confronted by Runway’s
apparent head of maintenance, ‘Dan,’ on the roof over Hermankova’s unit, who
physically pushed her…” (Compl., ¶ 15.) 
Plaintiffs allege that “[i]mmediately thereafter, instead of
rectifying the situation, Runway served Hermankova with a Three-Day Notice,”
and that “[t]he August 5, 2022 Three-Day Notice was not properly served and was
never followed up upon.” (Compl., ¶ 16.) Plaintiffs further allege that
“[a]fter Plaintiffs’ complaints continued to remain unaddressed, and even
hostilely rebuffed, Hermankova entered into an arrangement with the lessee of
Unit A424, Ivan Philip, to pay him rent to stay in his unit while he was away
in Europe, so that Hermankova could recuperate in peace after her major
cervical spine and neck surgery scheduled for January 17, 2023. Pursuant to her
agreement with Ivan Philip, Hermankova and her minor 14-year-old son, Tomas,
began occupying Unit A424 on or about December 14, 2022.” (Compl., ¶ 18.) 
Plaintiffs allege that “[o]n January 28, 2023, Runway management
called the police, and informed the police that Runway intended to change the
door lock of Unit A424. After meeting with the police at Unit A424, and
Plaintiff Hermankova providing appropriate paperwork concerning her arrangement
with Mr. Philip and their payment of rent to Mr. Philip, the police advised
Runway that changing the locks would be illegal and that the police did not
recommend doing so. The police then left.” (Compl., ¶ 19.) 
Plaintiffs allege that “on February 2, 2023, Runway conducted an
illegal lockout of Plaintiff Hermankova and her minor son, Plaintiff Tomas from
Unit A424, of which Hermankova and her minor son, were in possession. Runway
employees changed the lock on the door of Unit A424 while Hermankova was at a
medical facility receiving post-operative tests and treatment, and Tomas, her
14-year-old son, was walking their dog. Hermankova’s minor son returned to the
unit with his dog and discovered that Plaintiffs had been locked out of Unit
A424.” (Compl., ¶ 20.) “Police officers of the LAPD arrived at the scene, and
advised Runway management that their lockout was illegal and directed them to
return the keys for Unit A424 to Hermankova.” (Compl., ¶ 21.) 
Plaintiffs further allege that “[o]n two more occasions, February 6
and on February 7, 2023, Runway personnel unlocked the door to Unit A424 and
again attempted to illegally enter.” (Compl., ¶ 22.) Plaintiffs allege that
“[i]n addition to the August 5, 2022 Three Day Notice, Runway served two
subsequent Three Day Notices, one on January 25, 2023 and another on January
31, 2023.” (Compl., ¶ 23.) Plaintiffs allege that “Runway management forbade
Hermankova or her minor son from entering, or even calling the leasing office.
Moreover, Runway denied access by Hermankova to her account through the Runway
portal. In fact, Runway’s management continued a pattern of terrorizing
Hermankova, apparently with the intent to attempt to oust Plaintiff Hermankova
and her minor son from the Premises by creating an environment so hostile that
it amounted to a constructive eviction.” (Compl., ¶ 24.) 
C.     Second Cause of Action for Breach of Implied Covenant of Habitability 
In the demurrer, Runway argues
that the second cause of action is subject to demurrer. Runway first asserts
that “[t]he Complaint never pleads a claim for Section
1942.4 of the Civil Code. Plaintiff’s habitability claim under Section 1941.1 is not a standalone cause of action and
thus cannot support a habitability claim.” (Demurrer at p. 13:9-11.) In the
Complaint, Plaintiff alleges that “[p]ursuant to Civil Code Section 1941.1, a
dwelling is deemed untenantable for the purposes of Civil Code Section 1941 for
the reasons set forth herein.” (Compl., ¶ 36.) But Plaintiffs also allege that
“[a]s a result of the existence of the above-identified defects, and other
defects, and Defendants’ failure to repair and correct these defects,
Defendants are in violation of Civil Code section
1941.1 et seq.” (Compl., ¶ 44.) 
In addition, Plaintiffs’ second cause of action is for “breach of
implied covenant of habitability.” Plaintiffs cite to Stoiber v. Honeychuck (1980) 101 Cal.App.3d
903, 914-915, where the Court of Appeal noted that “[o]f great importance to the decision which we reach today
is the express holding in Green that the
statutory remedies provided a tenant under Civil Code
section 1941 et seq…were not intended by the Legislature as the tenant’s
exclusive remedy for the landlord’s failure to repair. Although past cases have held that the
Legislature intended the remedies afforded by section
1942 to be the sole procedure for enforcing the statutory duty on landlords
imposed by section 1941…no decision has suggested
that the Legislature designed these statutory provisions to displace the common
law in fixing the respective rights of landlord and tenant. On the contrary,
the statutory remedies of section 1942 have
traditionally been viewed as additional to, and complementary of, the tenant’s
common law rights.” (Internal quotations omitted.) 
Runway also asserts that
“[e]ven as to Plaintiffs’ sole complaint of a noisy air conditioner, it
was extremely minor.” (Demurrer at p. 13:13, emphasis omitted.) Runway cites to Green v. Superior Court of
San Francisco (1974) 10 Cal.3d 616, 637-638, where the California Supreme Court noted that “[u]nder the implied warranty which we recognize, a
residential landlord covenants that premises he leases for living quarters will
be maintained in a habitable state for the duration of the lease. This implied warranty of
habitability does not require that a landlord ensure that leased premises are
in perfect, aesthetically pleasing condition, but it does mean that bare living
requirements must be maintained…In most cases
substantial compliance with those applicable building and housing code
standards which materially affect health and safety will suffice to meet the
landlord’s obligations under the common law implied warranty of habitability we
now recognize…As the Hinson court observed: [minor] housing code violations standing
alone which do not affect habitability must be considered de minimus and will not entitle the tenant to reduction in rent…”
(Internal quotations omitted.) 
Runway argues
that “the alleged noisy A/C in the building epitomizes a de
minimus habitability issue.” (Demurrer at p. 13:18-19.) But as set forth above,
Plaintiffs allege that “[f]rom the very beginning of Plaintiffs’ occupancy of
Unit A408, pursuant to the Rental Agreement, Plaintiffs experienced intolerable
noise at night emanating from nine old and unmaintained air conditioning units
located directly above Plaintiffs’ unit on the roof, as well as the
refrigerator in Plaintiffs’ unit.” (Compl., ¶ 14.) The Court does not find that
Runway has demonstrated that Plaintiffs’ allegations pertaining to the alleged
intolerable noise “do not affect habitability.”
(Green v. Superior Court of San Francisco, supra, 10 Cal.3d at p. 638.)

            Runway also asserts that “Plaintiffs’
habitability claim duplicates their breach of contract cause of action because
both rely upon the exact same violation of the exact same statutory provision: California Civil Code section 1941.” (Demurrer at p.
13:28-14:2.)[1] But in
the first cause of action for breach of lease, Plaintiffs also allege, inter
alia, that “Civil Code section 789.3 protects
those occupying residential premises from specified actions by the landlord,
including changing the locks, which are done with the intent to oust the
resident,” and that “Defendants breached the Rental Agreement, as well as
California law by, inter alia, failing to remediate the untenantable
conditions as herein described in detail, within a reasonable time after notice
was given by Plaintiff Hermankova, by unlawfully entering Plaintiffs’ Premises
and unlawfully changing the locks.” (Compl., ¶¶ 30, 31.) In addition, in the
second cause of action, Plaintiffs allege, inter alia, that “[a]s a
further proximate result of Defendants’ breach of the implied warranty of
habitability, Plaintiffs suffered property damage and economic loss, including
but not limited to amounts paid for relocation costs,” and that “Defendants’
conduct caused Plaintiff Hermankova, and her minor son, Plaintiff Tomas, to
suffer severe emotional distress, mental anguish, pain and physical injury…”
(Compl., ¶¶ 49, 50.) Such allegations are not contained in the first cause of
action for breach of lease. The Court does not find that Runway has
demonstrated that the second cause of action for breach of implied covenant of
habitability is duplicative of the first cause of action for breach of lease.[2]
Based on the foregoing, the Court overrules Runway’s demurrer to the
second cause of action for breach of implied covenant of habitability. 
D.    First Cause of Action for Breach of Lease 
In the demurrer, Runway asserts that the first cause of action for
breach of lease fails for a number of reasons. 
Runway asserts, inter alia, that Plaintiffs fail to adequately
plead breach of contract for the alleged Unit A424 sublease. In the first cause
of action, Plaintiffs allege that “Defendants breached the Rental Agreement…”
(Compl., ¶ 31.) Plaintiffs allege that “[o]n or about May 16, 2022, Hermankova
entered into a residential lease for the Premises (the ‘Rental Agreement’)”
and that “on or about May 16, 2022, Plaintiff Hermankova leased premises from
Defendants, located at 12760 W. Millennium Dr., Unit A408, Playa Vista,
California (the ‘Premises’ and/or ‘Unit A408’).” (Compl., ¶¶ 11, 13,
emphasis added.) Thus, Plaintiffs’ breach of lease cause of action appears to
apply to Unit A408, not Unit A424. 
Runway also asserts that Plaintiffs failed to plead a breach of
contract for the Unit 408 lease. “To state a cause of
action for breach of contract, a party must plead the existence of a contract,
his or her performance of the contract or excuse for nonperformance, the
defendant’s breach and resulting damage.” (Harris v. Rudin,
Richman & Appel (1999) 74
Cal.App.4th 299, 307.) In the first cause of action, Plaintiffs
allege that “Defendants breached the Rental Agreement, as well as
California law by, inter alia, failing to remediate the untenantable
conditions as herein described in detail, within a reasonable time after notice
was given by Plaintiff Hermankova, by unlawfully entering Plaintiffs’ Premises
and unlawfully changing the locks.” (Compl., ¶ 31.) 
Runway argues
that “[w]hile the Complaint includes a copy of the 2022 lease
agreement, Plaintiff’s Complaint fails to set forth the material and applicable
terms of the written contract which are the basis of Plaintiff’s breach of
contract claims. The Complaint fails to provide even vague references to any
specific language from the written agreement between the parties which were
purportedly breached by Defendants.” (Demurrer at p. 15:16-19.) Plaintiffs do
not appear to dispute this point in their opposition.[3] 
In light of the foregoing, the Court sustains Runway’s demurrer to the
first cause of action for breach of lease, with leave to amend. 
E.     Third Cause of
Action for Trespass 
In the third cause of action for trespass, Plaintiffs allege that
“Defendants committed trespass by frequently entering Plaintiff’s residence,
without notice to Plaintiff Hermankova, or her minor son, Tomas, without
Plaintiff’s permission, and not due to any emergency.” (Compl., ¶ 55.) Runway
argues that Plaintiffs’ trespass claim fails because “Runway was authorized to
enter their premises for lawful purposes in performing their duties and
responsibilities as owners.” (Demurrer at p. 18:9-10.) 
Runway cites to Civil Code section 1954, subdivision (a)(2), which provides that “[a] landlord may enter the
dwelling unit only in the following cases:…(2) To make necessary or agreed repairs,
decorations, alterations or improvements, supply necessary or agreed services,
or exhibit the dwelling unit to prospective or actual purchasers, mortgagees,
tenants, workers, or contractors or to make an inspection pursuant to
subdivision (f) of Section 1950.5.” But
as noted by Plaintiffs, they allege that “on February 2, 2023, Runway conducted
an illegal lockout of Plaintiff Hermankova and her minor son, Plaintiff Tomas
from Unit A424, of which Hermankova and her minor son, were in possession.
Runway employees changed the lock on the door of Unit A424…” (Compl., ¶ 20.)
Plaintiffs further allege that “[o]n two more occasions, February 6 and on
February 7, 2023, Runway personnel unlocked the door to Unit A424 and again
attempted to illegally enter.” (Compl., ¶ 22.) Runway’s analysis of Civil Code
section 1954,
subdivision (a)(2) does not appear to take these allegations into account.
Runway also asserts without citing to any supporting legal authority
that “Plaintiffs seem to believe that they had the right to exclude Defendant
from its own home and property, which is not true.” (Demurrer at p. 18:15-16.)
In the opposition, Plaintiffs cite to Spinks v. Equity Residential
Briarwood Apartments (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1004, 1042-1043, where the Court of Appeal
noted that “[t]he
cause of action for trespass affords protection for a possessory, not
necessarily an ownership interest. For that reason, the plaintiff need not have
legal rights in the land. Even one in peaceable though wrongful possession of
real property may sue in tort for forcible interference with that possession
even in the absence of injury to his person or goods…Furthermore, the fact that a
defendant may have title or the right to possession of the land is no defense.”
(Internal quotations and citations omitted.) 
Runway also cites to Intel Corp. v. Hamidi (2003) 30 Cal.4th
1342, 1361, where the California Supreme Court noted that “the metaphorical application of real property rules would
not, by itself, transform a physically harmless electronic intrusion on a
computer server into a trespass…That is because, under California law,
intangible intrusions on land, including electromagnetic transmissions, are not
actionable as trespasses (though they may be as nuisances) unless they cause
physical damage to the real property.” The Court does not see how Intel Corp is applicable to the facts here, and finds that
Runway’s reliance on the case is misplaced.  
Based on the foregoing, the Court overrules Runway’s demurrer to the third
cause of action for trespass. 
F.      Fifth Cause of
Action for Breach of Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment 
In the demurrer, Runway cites to Clark v. Spiegel (1971) 22 Cal.App.3d
74, 79, where the
Court of Appeal noted that “there is a
clear obligation incumbent upon a lessee alleging an interference with the
implied convenant of quiet enjoyment to vacate the premises within a
reasonable time. Four or even three years cannot remotely be considered
‘reasonable.’” (Internal citations omitted.) Runway asserts that here, “this
claim is silent as to whether Plaintiffs left the subject property within a
reasonable period of time after the date(s) of interference; accordingly, there
is no allegation of actual or constructive eviction as required.” (Demurrer at
p. 19:3-5.) But as noted by Plaintiffs, the Complaint alleges that “Plaintiff
Hermankova, and her minor son, occupied Unit A408 as their residence until
December 13, 2022, when the conditions in Unit A408 became so intolerable that
they were forced to relocate to Unit A424, where they resided until April 26,
2023, at which time they vacated, and surrendered possession of the Premises.”
(Compl., ¶ 37.) Plaintiffs allege that “[s]ince on or about May 16, 2022,
Plaintiff Hermankova leased premises from Defendants…” (Compl., ¶ 11.) 
The Court does not find that Runway has demonstrated that Plaintiffs’
cause of action for breach of covenant of quiet enjoyment fails. Based on the
foregoing, the Court overrules Runway’s demurrer to the fifth cause of action
for breach of covenant of quiet enjoyment.
G.    Seventh Cause of
Action for Constructive Eviction 
Runway also asserts that Plaintiffs’ constructive eviction cause of
action fails. Runway cites to Stoiber v. Honeychuck, supra, 101
Cal.App.3d at pages 925-926, where the Court of Appeal noted that “[a] constructive eviction occurs when the acts or omissions…of
a landlord, or any disturbance or interference with the tenant’s possession by
the landlord, renders the premises, or a substantial portion thereof, unfit for
the purposes for which they were leased, or has the effect of depriving the
tenant for a substantial period of time of the beneficial enjoyment or use of
the premises. Abandonment of premises by the tenant within a reasonable time
after the wrongful act of the landlord is essential to enable the tenant to
claim a constructive eviction.” (Internal quotations and citations omitted.) 
Runway argues that here, “[t]he
Complaint fails to specify that Plaintiff vacated the Subject [sic] within a
reasonable time after the alleged wrongful acts of Defendant. Plaintiffs allege
they moved into the apartment on May 16, 2022, at which point they allegedly
endured uninhabitable conditions, resulting in their departure on April 26,
2023…While Plaintiffs claim this is a reasonable time, if the conditions of the
Subject Property were so terrible as Plaintiffs contend, remaining in their
apartment unit for nearly 1 full year appears unreasonable on its face.”
(Demurrer at p. 19:13-18.) But Plaintiffs allege that “Plaintiff Hermankova,
and her minor son, occupied Unit A408 as their residence until December 13,
2022, when the conditions in Unit A408 became so intolerable that they were
forced to relocate to Unit A424, where they resided until April 26, 2023…”
(Compl., ¶ 37, emphasis added.) Moreover, Runway does not cite any binding legal
authority to support their assertion that a period of one year cannot be
considered reasonable. In Stoiber, cited by
Runway, the Court of Appeal noted that “[w]hether
she abandoned within a reasonable time would constitute a jury question.”
(Stoiber v.
Honeychuck, supra,
101 Cal.App.3d at p. 926.) 
Based on the
foregoing, the Court overrules Runway’s demurrer to the seventh cause of action
for constructive eviction.
H.    Sixth Cause of
Action for Maintenance of Nuisance
In the demurrer, Runway asserts that Plaintiffs fail to adequately
allege a private nuisance claim. Civil Code section
3479 provides that “[a]nything which is injurious
to health…or is indecent or offensive to the senses, or an obstruction to the
free use of property, so as to interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life
or property, or unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary
manner, of any navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal, or basin, or any
public park, square, street, or highway, is a nuisance.” 
Runway cites to San Diego Gas & Electric Co. v. Superior Court (1996) 13 Cal.4th 893,
937, where the
Court of Appeal noted that “[i]n
further distinction to trespass, however, liability for private nuisance
requires proof of two additional elements.” “The first additional requirement
for recovery of damages on a nuisance theory is proof that the invasion of the
plaintiff’s interest in the use and enjoyment of the land was substantial, i.e., that it caused the plaintiff
to suffer substantial actual damage.” (Id. at p. 938 [internal quotations omitted,
emphasis in original].) “The
second additional requirement for nuisance is superficially similar but
analytically distinct: The interference with the protected interest must not
only be substantial, but it must also be unreasonable, i.e., it must be of such a nature,
duration or amount as to constitute unreasonable interference with the use and
enjoyment of the land. The primary test for determining whether the invasion is
unreasonable is whether the gravity of the harm outweighs the social utility of
the defendant’s conduct, taking a number of factors into account. Again the
standard is objective: the question is not whether the particular plaintiff
found the invasion unreasonable, but whether reasonable persons generally,
looking at the whole situation impartially and objectively, would consider it
unreasonable.” (Ibid. [internal quotations and citations omitted,
emphasis in original].) 
Runway asserts
that “[h]ere, the Complaint neither alleges [Runway’s] perceived
interference with Plaintiffs’ enjoyment of their property was ‘substantial’ or
even ‘unreasonable’…Further, Plaintiffs fail to allege the gravity of the harm
outweighs any social utility.” (Demurrer at p. 20:5-7.) Indeed, Plaintiffs do
not appear to allege that “plaintiff’s interest in
the use and enjoyment of the land was substantial,” or that “[t]he interference with the
protected interest…[was] unreasonable.” (San Diego Gas
& Electric Co. v. Superior Court,
supra, 13 Cal.4th at p. 938 [emphasis omitted].) 
Based on the
foregoing, the Court sustains Runway’s demurrer to the sixth cause of action
for maintenance of nuisance, with leave to amend.  
I.       
Eighth Cause of Action for Intentional Infliction of
Emotional Distress 
“A cause of action for intentional
infliction of emotional distress exists when there is (1) extreme and outrageous
conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard
of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff’s
suffering severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual and proximate
causation of the emotional distress by the defendant’s outrageous conduct. A
defendant’s conduct is outrageous when it is so extreme as to exceed all bounds
of that usually tolerated in a civilized community. And the defendant’s conduct
must be intended to inflict injury or engaged in with the realization that
injury will result.” (Hughes v. Pair (2009) 46 Cal.4th 1035, 1050-1051 [internal
quotations and citations omitted].) 
In the
demurrer, Runway argues that “[t]here are no allegations that
[Runway] actually intended to injure Plaintiffs beyond conclusory statements to
that effect.” (Demurrer at p. 21:15-16.) Plaintiffs do not address or dispute
this point in the opposition. Indeed, the Complaint does not appear to allege
that Runway’s conduct was “intended to inflict injury
or engaged in with the realization that injury will result.” (Hughes
v. Pair, supra, 46 Cal.4th
at p. 1051.) 
Based on the
foregoing, the Court sustains Runway’s demurrer to the eighth cause of action
for intentional infliction of emotional distress, with leave to amend. 
J.       Ninth Cause of
Action for Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress 
Runway asserts that Plaintiffs’ ninth cause of action for negligent
infliction of emotional distress fails, because no such claim exists. Runway
cites to Burgess v. Superior Court (1992) 2 Cal.4th 1064,
1072, where the
California Supreme Court noted that “[w]e
have repeatedly recognized that [t]he negligent causing of emotional distress is
not an independent tort, but the tort of negligence.” (Internal quotations omitted,
emphasis in original.) Runway also cites to Lawson v. Management Activities (1999) 69 Cal.App.4th
652, 656, where the
Court of Appeal noted that “as our Supreme Court has made abundantly clear, there is no such
thing as the independent tort of negligent infliction of emotional distress.”
(Internal emphasis omitted.) Plaintiffs do not address these authorities in the
opposition. 
Based on the foregoing, the Court sustains
Runway’s demurrer to the ninth cause of action for negligent infliction of
emotional distress, without leave to amend. 
K.    Uncertainty

Lastly, Runway argues that the Complaint is
uncertain. Runway asserts that “the Complaint lumps both ‘Defendant[s]’
together, rendering it impossible to determine which defendant committed each
alleged wrongdoing.” (Demurrer at p. 24:20-21.) But Plaintiffs define the term
“Defendants” as it is used in the Complaint. Specifically, Plaintiffs allege
that “(Runway and Bozzuto are collectively referred to as ‘Defendants’).”
(Compl., ¶ 4.) The
Complaint specifies that each of the causes of action are alleged “Against
All Defendants.”
Runway
also asserts that “the Complaint fails to identify the roles each of the two
defendants played in leasing the property to Plaintiffs.” (Demurrer at p.
24:27-28.) But Plaintiffs allege that “[s]ince on or about May 16, 2022,
Plaintiff Hermankova leased premises from Defendants…” (Compl., ¶ 11.) 
The Court does not find that Runway has shown that the Complaint is so
confusing
that Runway cannot tell what it is supposed to respond to.¿In Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d
135, 139, footnote 2, the Court of Appeal noted that “under our liberal pleading
rules, where the complaint contains substantive factual allegations
sufficiently apprising defendant of the issues it is being asked to meet, a
demurrer for uncertainty should be overruled or plaintiff given leave to amend...”
In addition, in Khoury v. Maly’s of
California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616, cited by Plaintiffs,
the Court of Appeal noted that “¿[a] demurrer for
uncertainty is strictly construed, even where a complaint is in some respects
uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery
procedures.¿” 
Based
on the foregoing, the Court overrules Runway’s demurrer on the grounds of
uncertainty. 
            Motion
to Strike
A court may
strike any “¿irrelevant, false, or improper
matter¿inserted in any pleading¿” or any part of
a pleading “¿not drawn or filed in conformity with the
laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.¿” (¿¿Code
Civ. Proc., § 436¿¿.) “¿The grounds for
a motion to strike shall appear on the face of the challenged pleading or from
any matter of which the court is required to take judicial notice.¿” (¿Code Civ. Proc., § 437¿.)¿¿ 
A.   
Attorney’s Fees 
In
the Complaint, Plaintiffs seek “attorney’s fees” in connection with all causes
of action. (Compl., p. 20, ¶ 2.) Runway moves to strike this allegation. Runway
also moves to strike Plaintiffs’ request for attorney’s fees in connection with
the second cause of action for breach of implied covenant of habitability.
(Compl., ¶ 49.) 
“Code of Civil Procedure section 1033.5, subdivision
(a)(10)…provides that allowable costs under Code of
Civil Procedure section 1032 include attorney fees whenever they are
authorized by contract or statute.”
(Khavarian
Enterprises, Inc. v. Commline, Inc. (2013)
216 Cal.App.4th 310, 327 [emphasis omitted].) Runway asserts that “no
statute whatsoever authorizes recovery of attorneys’ fees for causes of action
for torts of Negligence, common law Breach of Warranty of Habitability, Breach
of the Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment, Nuisance, Negligent Infliction of Emotional
Distress, and Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress.” (Mot. at p.
12:26-13:2.) 
As an initial matter, as
set forth above, the Court sustains Runway’s demurrer to Plaintiffs’ causes of
action for nuisance, intentional infliction of emotional distress, and
negligent infliction of emotional distress. Thus, the Court denies Runway’s
motion to strike Plaintiffs’ request for attorney’s fees in connection with
these causes of action as moot. 
In addition, as Runway
acknowledges, Plaintiffs allege that they seek “[a]ttorneys’ fees pursuant to
the Rental Agreement.” (Compl., p. 18:4.) As set forth above, Code of Civil Procedure section
1033.5, subdivision (a)(10)…provides that
allowable costs under Code of Civil Procedure section
1032 include attorney fees whenever they are authorized by contract or statute.” (Khavarian
Enterprises, Inc. v. Commline, Inc.,
supra, 216 Cal.App.4th at p. 327 [emphasis omitted, underline added].)
Runway argues that “language in the Lease agreement caps
any potential attorney’s fees at just $12,000. Therefore, at most, Plaintiffs
would only be able to recover $12,000 in attorney’s fees should they be found
to be the prevailing party, which is unlikely.” (Mot. at p. 13:26-14:2.) But
the Court does not see why the existence of such purported language is grounds
to strike Plaintiffs’ request for attorney’s fees. 
In
light of the foregoing, the Court denies Runway’s motion to strike Plaintiffs’
request for attorney’s fees.
B.     Punitive Damages 
Runway also moves to strike Plaintiffs’ request for
punitive damages. Plaintiffs seek punitive damages in connection with the
second cause of action for breach of implied covenant of habitability (Compl.,
¶ 51), the third cause of action for trespass (Compl., ¶ 58), the fifth cause
of action for breach of covenant of quiet enjoyment (Compl., ¶ 69), the sixth
cause of action for nuisance (Compl., ¶ 77), the seventh cause of action for
constructive eviction (Compl., ¶ 83), and the eighth cause of action for intentional
infliction of emotional distress (Compl., ¶ 90). 
As set forth above, the
Courts sustains Runway’s demurrer to, inter alia, the sixth and eighth
causes of action of the Complaint. Thus, the Court denies as moot the motion to
strike Plaintiffs’ request for punitive damages in connection with the sixth
and eighth causes of action. 
Runway raises a number of
arguments in its motion to strike regarding Plaintiffs’ request for punitive
damages. Runway argues, inter alia, that “Plaintiffs do not plead
specific facts alleging Runway ratified malicious, oppressive, or fraudulent
conduct...” (Mot. at p. 23:25-26.) 
Pursuant to Civil Code
section 3294,
subdivision (b), “[a]n employer shall not be liable for damages pursuant to
subdivision (a), based upon acts of an employee of the employer, unless the
employer had advance knowledge of the unfitness of the employee and employed
him or her with a conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others or
authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct for which the damages are awarded
or was personally guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice. With respect to a
corporate employer, the advance knowledge and conscious disregard,
authorization, ratification or act of oppression, fraud, or malice must be on
the part of an officer, director, or managing agent of the corporation.”
(Emphasis added.)
 Runway asserts that here, “[a]t no point in
the Complaint do Plaintiffs allege how or when Runway’s unnamed managing agent
came to know of the alleged wrongdoings of which Plaintiffs complains.” (Mot.
at p. 24:23-24.) Plaintiffs do not respond to this point or address Civil Code section 3294, subdivision (b) in their opposition. In
addition, as noted by Runway in the reply, Plaintiffs’ Complaint also does not
identify any officer or director of Runway “who engaged in the
wrongful conduct or who had ‘advance knowledge’ and/or authorized or ratified
the alleged wrongdoing.” (Reply at p. 6:26-7:1.) 
Based on the foregoing,
the Court grants Runway’s motion to strike Plaintiffs’ punitive damages
allegations (other than those pertaining to the sixth and eighth causes of
action), with leave to amend.  
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, Runway’s demurrer to the first, sixth, and eighth causes of
action is sustained, with leave to amend. Runway’s
demurrer to the ninth cause of action is sustained, without leave to amend.
Runway’s demurrer to the second,
third, fifth, and seventh causes of action is overruled. 
Runway’s motion to strike is granted
in part and denied in part, as set forth above. 
Plaintiffs are
ordered to file and serve an amended complaint, if any, within 20 days of the
date of this order. If no amended complaint is filed within 20 days, the Court
orders Runway to file and serve its answer to the Complaint within 30 days of
the date of this order.
Runway is ordered to give notice of this order. 
 
DATED:  December 13, 2023                        ________________________________
Hon. Rolf M. Treu
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court


