


[1]Runway cites to Award Metals,
Inc. v. Superior Court (1991) 228 Cal.App.3d 1128, 1134-1135, where the Court of Appeal
noted that “[d]espite
the label of negligence, however, real party alleges in the first cause of
action, in the language of section 4558, that
petitioner ‘negligently, knowingly removed and/or failed to install a point of
operation guard on said power press, and that this removal or failure to
install was specifically authorized by said Defendant under conditions known by
said Defendant to create a probability of serious death or injury.’ Except for
the conclusory allegation that petitioner acted negligently, these
allegations are virtually identical to the allegations contained in the fifth
cause of action for violation of section 4558.
Petitioner concedes that the demurrer was properly overruled as to the fifth
cause of action under the exception of section 4558,
and it would follow that the similar allegations in the first cause of action
should also survive the demurrer. But stating them in two causes of action, as real party has done,
is merely duplicative pleading which adds nothing to the complaint by way of
fact or theory. For that reason, the demurrer should have been sustained as to
this cause of action insofar as it affects petitioner.” 
 


[2]The Court also
notes that Runway raises a number of arguments for the first time in the reply.
The Court
notes that “[p]oints raised for the first
time in a reply brief will ordinarily not be considered, because such
consideration would deprive the respondent of an opportunity to counter the
argument.” (American Drug Stores, Inc. v. Stroh (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1446, 1453.)
Thus, the Court declines to consider arguments raised by Runway for the first
time in the reply.  


[3]In the reply,
Runway cites to DuPont Merck
Pharmaceutical Co. v. Superior Court (2000)
78 Cal.App.4th 562, 566, where the Court of Appeal noted that “[t]he
anti-SLAPP statute provides that the phrase ‘act in furtherance of a person’s
right of petition or free speech under the United States or California
Constitution in connection with a public issue’ includes: (1) any written or
oral statement or writing made before a legislative, executive, or judicial
proceeding, or any other official proceeding authorized by law.’ (§ 425.16,
subd. (e)(1).) Defendant’s lobbying and other activities seeking to influence
the decisions of regulatory and legislative bodies fall within this definition.
By failing to argue the contrary, plaintiffs concede this issue.” 

