  Case Number:  21STCV17437    Hearing Date:   July 8, 2024    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
WHEELS INTERNATIONAL INC. DBA LENSO WHEELS’S
MOTION TO QUASH SERVICE OF SUMMONS AND CROSSCOMPLAINT FOR LACK OF PERSONAL
JURISDICTION is CONTINUED pending jurisdictional discovery and supplemental
briefing re: ‘relatedness’ factor infra).  
 
Background
 
This is a
negligence case. Plaintiffs MELISSA MOORS (wife) and KAYLEAH MOORS (daughter)
(collectively, “Plaintiffs”) bring forth the instant action for the death of
Julian Moore (“decedent”) who was struck when the wheel of Defendant ALBERT
BENJAMIN ESQUEDA’s vehicle detached and struck decedent’s motorcycle. The
accident happened in Pomona, California.[1]
 
On May 10,
2021, Plaintiffs filed suit. 
 
On June 8,
2022, EMS filed their Answer to Plaintiffs' Complaint.
 
On September
28, 2022, Plaintiffs filed a first amended complaint (FAC) against Defendants
ALBERT BENJAMIN ESQUEDA (“Esqueda”); ANGELINA ULLOA (“Ulloa”); ADRIANA SIORDIA
JIMENEZ; MARIO SIORDIA JIMENEZ; IN AND OUT TIRE, LLC a limited liability; EMS
DISTRIBUTING LLC d/b/a ELEMENT WHEELS COM (sued herein as DOE 1); EMS
DISTRIBUTING, LLC, d/b/a ) ELEMENT WHEELS, (sued herein as DOE 2); (“EMS”);[2]
and AFFORDABLE WHEEL REPAIR (sued) herein as DOE 3) for: 1.     Negligence 2.     Negligence Per Se 3.     Strict Liability 4.     Product Liability 5.     Survivor Action.
 
On February 10, 2023, default was entered against
Axe Wheels 2/10/23 as to Plaintiff’s complaint. 
 
On February
24, 2023, Defendants/Cross-Defendants ADRIANA SIORDIA JIMENEZ and MARIO SIORDIA
JIMENEZ (collectively as the “Jimenez Defendants”) filed a motion for
determination of good faith settlement, which the court granted.[3]
 
On August 4,
2023, EMS filed a motion for leave to file a cross-complaint against Axe Wheels
and other defendants seeking equitable indemnity, negligence,
contribution, apportionment of fault and declaratory relief regarding the duty
to defend and duty to indemnify, which the court granted on 8/20/23.[4]
 
On August 30,
2023, EMS filed its cross-complaint (CC) against Axe Wheels, Esqueda, Ulloa, In
and Out Tires, Flores, and Alberto Sr. dba Affordable Wheel Repair for: 
 
1.     Total Indemnity 
2.     Equitable Indemnity
3.     Negligence
4.     Contribution 
5.     Apportionment
6.     Declaratory Relief
 
On September
19, 2023, Esqueda and Ulloa filed his answer to EMS’ cross-complaint.
 
On September
19, 2023, Flores, Alberto Sr. dba Affordable Wheel Repair filed their answer to
the CC of “Mission Oaks National Bank.”
 
On February
9, 2024, Axe Wheels filed a motion to set aside/vacate default. 
 
On February
16, 2024, Axe Wheels filed a Motion To Quash Service Of Summons And
Cross-complaint For Lack Of Personal Jurisdiction. 
 
On March 11,
2024, the court held oral argument on ‘Hearing on Motion to Set Aside/Vacate
Default and Default Judgment (CCP 473.5).’ The court granted Axe’s motion to
set aside the default because a non-statutorily approved person was served with
the summons and complaint. Quash Plaintiff's Summons and Complaint for Lack of
Personal Jurisdiction and dismissed Axe from the action because there was no
general jurisdiction (because Axe’s contacts with California were not “so
exceptional” to render it virtually “at home” in California, Daimler AG. v.
Bauman, 571 U.S. 117, 139, n.19 (2014)) nor specific jurisdiction (because
Plaintiffs’ claims do arise out of or relate to any purposeful contacts between
Axe Wheels and California (nor could they have given that Axe Wheels was not
incorporated until 9 months after Wheels International Inc. dba Lenso
Wheels sold the tire to EMS). 
 
On March 20,
2024, EMS filed an ‘AMENDMENT TO CROSS-COMPLAINT NAMING ROE 1’ naming Roe 1 as
Wheels International Inc. dba Lenso Wheels (“Lenso Wheels” or “Lenso”). 
 
On April 3,
2024, EMS dismissed Axe without prejudice. 
 
On April 19,
2024, Plaintiffs dismissed ADRIANA SIORDIA JIMENEZ and MARIO SIORDIA JIMENEZ
with prejudice and Axe. That same day, Plaintiffs filed an Amendment to the
Complaint naming Doe 7 as Lenso Wheels.  
 
On May 16,
2024, Lenso Wheels filed the instant motion to quash.
 
On June 24,
2024, EMS filed its opposition to Lenso’s motion.
 
On June 28,
2024, Lenso filed its reply. That same day, Lenso filed a Motion To Quash
Service Of Summons And Complaint For Lack Of Personal Jurisdiction. (The
hearing on this motion is set for 10/14/24.) 
 
Discussion
 
Lenso Wheels
moves argues that California lacks personal jurisdiction over it because
Plaintiffs’ claims in this lawsuit are unrelated to Lenso Wheels’ purported
California contacts. (Motion p. 15:9-11.) 
 
For reasons to be discussed below, standing alone,
EMS’ position that Lenso selling wheels into
California and an injury by a wheel sent[5]
to California is insufficient to meet its burden to prove the second
prong of the specific jurisdictional analysis below.[6]
That said, the court allows for jurisdictional discovery to provide evidence as
to the strength of the relationship among Lenso, California, and the
litigation, the “essential foundation” of specific jurisdiction. (Ford
Motor, infra, 141 S. Ct. at p. 1028.) 
 
Personal
jurisdiction, which may either be specific or general,[7]
refers to a court’s authority to adjudicate the rights and liabilities of a
defendant. The doctrine arises from the US Constitution’s Due Process Clause of
the Fourteenth Amendment which limits the power of a state court to assert
personal jurisdiction (i.e., power) over a nonresident defendant. (Asahi
Metal Indus. Co. v. Superior Court (1987) 480 U.S. 102, 113.) Under
California’s long-arm statute, California state courts may exercise personal
jurisdiction “on any basis not inconsistent with the Constitution of this state
or of the United States.” (Civ. Proc. Section 410.10.) Thus, California’s
exercise of personal jurisdiction must not
offend “traditional notions of fair play and substantial justice.” (International
Shoe Co. v. Washington, 326 U.S. 310, 3316.) As explained by the Court, where a company’s activities in the forum
state are more limited, general jurisdiction may be lacking but jurisdiction
may nonetheless be proper because the litigation is derived from obligations
that “arise out of or are connected with the [company‘s] activities within the
state.” (Id. at pp. 19-320.) 
 
At issue here is specific jurisdiction.[8]

 
1.     Case Law Concerning
Specific Jurisdiction 
 
The specific jurisdictional analysis
is “intensely fact-specific.” (Rivelli v. Hemm (2021) 67
Cal.App.5th 380, 393, emphasis added.) Both the
United States Supreme Court and our high court have cautioned that the “
‘minimum contacts’ test ... is not susceptible of mechanical application;
rather, the facts of each case must be weighed to determine whether the
requisite ‘affiliating circumstances’ are present.” (Kulko v.
California Superior Court (1978) 436 U.S. 84, 92, 98 S.Ct. 1690, 56
L.Ed.2d 132 (Kulko.)
“California courts routinely apply a three-part test to determine whether a
court may exercise specific jurisdiction over a nonresident defendant: (1) the
defendant has purposefully availed himself or herself of forum benefits,[9] (2) the controversy is
related to or arises out of the defendant’s purposeful contacts with the forum,
and (3) the assertion of personal jurisdiction would comport with fair play and
substantial justice. (Pavlovich v. Superior Court (2002) 29 Cal.4th 262;
see also Keeton v. Hustler Magazine, Inc. (1984) 465 U.S. 770,
774 (Keeton).) A plaintiff has the initial burden of demonstrating facts
to support the first two factors, which establish the requisite minimum
contacts with the forum state. The burden then shifts to the defendant to show
that the exercise of jurisdiction would be unreasonable under the third factor.
(Snowney v. Harrah’s Entertainment,
Inc. (2005) 35 Cal.4th 1054, 1062; see also see
also Burger King Corp. v. Rudzewicz (1985) 471 U.S. 462, 477 (Burger
King) [“where a defendant who purposefully has directed his activities at
forum residents seeks to defeat jurisdiction, he must present a compelling case
that the presence of some other considerations would render jurisdiction
unreasonable.”].) 
 
Accordingly, based on the foregoing authority, the
issue presented is whether EMS’ suit—the distributor of the wheel—arises out of
or relates to Lenso Wheels’ contacts with California—the seller of the subject
wheel. 
 
1.     Purposeful Availment 
 
“[P]urposeful availment exists whenever the defendant
purposefully and voluntarily directs its activities toward the forum state in
an effort to obtain a benefit from that state.” (Snowney, supra, 35
Cal.4th at p. 1067.) When a manufacturer makes a direct effort to serve the
market for its product in the forum state, the requisite level of
foreseeability is met. ((World–Wide Volkswagen Corp. v. Woodson, supra, 444 U.S.
286, 297 [100 S.Ct. 559, 567, 62 L.Ed.2d 490, 501].); see also (Asahi Metal Industry Co. v. Superior Court (1987) 480
U.S. 102, 112, 107 S.Ct. 1026, 1032, 94 L.Ed.2d 92 (plur. opn. by
O'Connor, J. [For the purpose of deciding whether a defendant has
minimum contacts or purposefully has availed itself of forum benefits, the
relevant contacts are said to be with the forum, because
it is the defendant's choice to take advantage of opportunities that exist in
the forum that subjects it to jurisdiction.].) The purposeful availment
requirement ensures that a defendant will not be haled into a jurisdiction
solely as a result of random, fortuitous, or attenuated contacts. (Burger
King, supra, 471 U.S. at p. 475.) In sum,  the
purposeful availment inquiry focuses on the defendant's intentionality. (Pavlovich,
supra, 29 Cal.4th
at p. 269, 127 Cal.Rptr.2d 329, 58 P.3d 2.) 
 
EMS argues
that Lenso Wheels directly, and indirectly distributes its products to numerous
states in the United States, including California via several websites
including eBay, Fitment Industries, Mr. Wheel Deal, and IPG parts. (Opp. p. 11.)[10]
In fact, Lenso Wheels states that it has “from time to time, conducted business
in California, including selling wheels to California residents over the
years.” (Opp. p. 11, quoting Motion p. 14:21-22.) Indeed, California courts have consistently concluded that a
foreign corporation purposefully avails itself of the benefits of the
California forum when it knowingly sells and ships its products to California
businesses for use in California. (See Jayone Foods, Inc. v. Aekyung Industrial Co. Ltd. (2019)
31 Cal.App.5th 543, 556–557, 242 Cal.Rptr.3d 705 (Jayone Foods) [South Korean company that “engaged in a number of direct sales
transactions with multiple California distributors of its consumer products”
purposefully availed itself of the benefits of doing business in
California]; Luberski, Inc. v. Oleficio F.LLI Amato S.R.L. (2009)
171 Cal.App.4th 409, 419, 89 Cal.Rptr.3d 774 [Italian company that sold olive oil to California businesses and
delivered it to California “had the expectation that the goods ... would be
utilized in California” and thus “purposefully availed itself of the
[California] forum”].
 
Lenso concedes this factor
by arguing that the “focus here is not on purposeful availment” and then
shifting to the second element. (Reply p. 3:25-26.) 
 
Therefore, in
the present matter, there is no question that Lenso has purposely availed
itself of the privilege of conducting activities in California (e.g., by
regularly advertising their wheels to California residents), invoking the
benefits and protection of its laws, and Lenso does not contend otherwise.  
 
2.     Relatedness 
 
The Supreme Court most recently addressed this factor of
specific jurisdiction in (Bristol-Myers
Squibb Co. v. Superior Court of California, San Francisco County (2017)
— U.S. —, 137 S.Ct. 1773, 1779, 198 L.Ed.2d 395 (Bristol-Myers)) and
Ford Motor Co. v. Montana
Eighth Jud. Dist. Ct. (2021) — U.S. —, 141 S.Ct. 1017, 1024, 209 L.Ed.2d 225 (Ford).)
 
In Bristol-Myers, over 600 plaintiffs brought a
consolidated action against the defendant pharmaceutical company (company that
was not a California corporation nor developed the drug in California) in
California alleging injuries caused by the defendant's drug. While some of
the plaintiffs were California residents, most (i) had no connection to
California (were not residents), (ii) they did not allege that they
obtained/were prescribed the drug in California, (iii) they were not injured
in California (i.e., did not ingest the drug in California), nor (iv)
were the plaintiffs treated in California. In reversing the California
Supreme Court’s decision, which found specific jurisdiction based upon a
"sliding scale approach,” the Court stating that a defendant's general
connections with the forum are not enough.” (Id. at p. 1781.) “What is
needed—and what is missing here—is a CONNECTION between the forum and the
specific claims at issue …The plaintiffs were not residents of California, did
not claim to have suffered harm in California …[and] all the conduct giving
rise to the nonresidents’ claims occurred elsewhere.” (Id. at p. 1779,
emphasis added and capitalization added.) Thus, the “bare fact that [the
company] contracted with a California distributor is not enough to establish
personal jurisdiction in the State.” (Id. at p. 1783.)
 
Then, in Ford, the Court again “alter[ed] or refine[d]”
specific jurisdiction jurisprudence. (Ford, 141 S.Ct. at p. 1032 (Alito
J., concurring).[11]
In a case that arose from car
accidents involving Ford vehicles in Montana and Minnesota, the Court rejected
Ford's position that “only a strict causal relationship” would be sufficient to
establish the requisite connection between the lawsuits and Ford's
forum-directed activities. (Id. at p. 1026.) The Court found the
“essential foundation” of specific jurisdiction to be present because “Ford had
advertised, sold, and serviced those two car models in both States for many
years.” (Id. at p. 1028.) After all, the very point of Ford’s activities in
the forum states was to put more Fords the forum states’ roads. As more directly put
by Justice Alito in his concurring opinion, “Their residents, while riding in
vehicles purchased within their borders,
were killed or injured in accidents on their roads.
Can anyone seriously argue that requiring Ford to litigate these cases in
Minnesota and Montana would be fundamentally unfair?” (Id. at p. 1032,
italics original.) In distinguishing from Bristol-Myers (which the
defendant Ford relied upon), the court observed the following: 
 
Yes, Ford sold the
specific products in other States, as Bristol-Myers Squibb had. But here, the
plaintiffs are residents of the forum States. They used the allegedly defective
products in the forum States. And they suffered injuries when those products malfunctioned
in the forum States. In sum, each of the plaintiffs brought suit in the most
natural State—based on an “AFFILIATION between the forum and the
underlying controversy, principally, [an] activity or an occurrence that
t[ook] place” there. (Id. at at p. 1031, emphasis added and capitalization added.)
 
California has adopted a “substantial connection” test and held that the
relatedness requirement is satisfied if “there is a substantial nexus or
connection between the defendant's forum activities and the
plaintiff's claim.” (Vons Companies, Inc. v. Seabest Foods, Inc., 14 Cal.4th 434, 456 (1996).) “[T]he more wide
ranging the defendant‘s forum contacts, the more readily is shown a connection
between the forum contacts and the claim. (Id. at p. 455.) Thus, “[a]
claim need not arise directly from the defendant‘s forum contacts in order to
be sufficiently related to the contact to warrant the exercise of specific
jurisdiction.” (Id. at p. 452.)
 
Here, the
parties do not appear to dispute the following facts, (which are gathered from both
the opposition and reply: 
 
-       
On
February 11, 2019, Esqueda ordered four Lenso Wheels a.k.a. "Axe
Wheels" brand named wheels from EMS via its website
-       
On
February 11, 2019, EMS put in an order to Lenso Wheels creating a purchase
order that indicated "drops shipping to customer," which is an
instruction for Lenso Wheels to ship the goods directly to the customer, Albert
Esqueda, in California
-       
EMS
also provided a shipping label to Lenso Wheels for it to send the wheels
directly to Albert Esqueda at his address in Compton, California.
-       
After
receiving the purchase order, invoice, and Fed Ex mailing labels from EMS,
Lenso Wheels placed shipping labels – that were provided by EMS – onto boxes to
then be picked up by a third party (FedEx) and transported to EMS’s customer. 
 
Lenso
argues that the foregoing is unilateral conduct which is insufficient for
specific jurisdiction. (Reply p. 4:22-23.) Not necessarily. 
 
First, whether EMS is unilaterally
drawing Lenso into a connection with California is a misplaced argument because
the argument is relevant to general jurisdiction, not ‘relatedness’ for
specific jurisdiction. (See e.g., Helicopteros Nacionales de Columbia, S.A.,
v. Hall, supra, at p. 408, emphasis
added [“[T]he one trip to Houston by petitioner's chief executive officer for
the purpose of negotiating the transportation services contract cannot be
regarded as a contact of a ‘continuous and systematic’ nature, and thus
cannot support an assertion of general jurisdiction.”]; see also International
Shoe, supra, at p. 2851, emphasis added [general
jurisdiction may only be asserted
“over foreign (sister-state or foreign country) corporations to hear any
and all claims against them when their affiliations with the State are so 
‘continuous and systematic’ as to render them essentially at home in the forum State.”];
see also Goodyear Dunlop Tires Operations, S.A. v. Brown (2011) 131
S.Ct. 2846, 2851, emphasis added [General
jurisdiction is appropriate over
foreign corporations “when their affiliations with the State are so ‘continuous and systematic’ as to render them essentially at home in the forum
State.”].) 
 
Even if the
“unilateral activity” of EMS is relevant in discussing this factor of the
specific jurisdiction analysis, Lenso, essentially, proposes that sellers be
insulated from a forum state’s jurisdiction. The court requires further briefing on this issue
and should answering it require jurisdictional discovery it is granted. 
 
For example,
Lenso cites to Carretti v. Italplast (2002) 101 Cal.App.4th 1236. In Carretti,
a plaintiff filed suit against the manufacturer and distributor of a pasta
making machine after he was injured. (Id. at pp. 1239-1240.) Italpast, an Italian corporation doing business in
Italy, filed a motion to quash service of summons for lack of personal
jurisdiction. (Id. at p. 1240.) Italpast has never SOLD goods directly
to California users. The distributor was the only buyer from California who
has purchased products from Italpast. In finding that there was no specific
jurisdiction upon the Italian company, the court reasoned that the manufacturer
“has not cultivated the California sales market by repeatedly sending
merchandise to various California distributors. There is no evidence that at
the time of sale Italpast knew its machines were being delivered to California,
except on one occasion, and even then, it did not know if California was the
ultimate destination, or just the port of entry.” (Id. at p. 1253.) Thus,
Carretti seemingly stands for the proposition that should a distributor
not SELL its products to CONSUMERS in the forum state, even if the
product happens to arrive in the forum state, then there is no specific
jurisdiction. 
 
Similarly, Ford
Motor, supra, the company was “urging,”
“fostering,” and/or “encouraging” sales in a CONSUMER market. (Ford Motor,
supra, 141 S. Ct. at pp. 1023, 1028, 1029, 1031.) 
 
The recent case of LG Chem,
Ltd. v. Superior Court of San Diego (2022) 80 Cal.App.5th 348 (LG)
is particularly instructive as it discusses the difference between a company
serving a market versus a company serving any market, the latter
which is insufficient to satisfy the second prong of the jurisdictional
analysis.
(Id. at p. 367.) In LG, the plaintiff was injured from LG’s
battery purchased at a vape shop, which in no sense arose from LG’s sale of the
batteries for electric vehicles. In describing this distinction, the court
focused on the fact that the company’s sales of its industrial component
batteries were made to companies in the electric vehicle
industry. (Ibid.) Unlike Ford, “the market served by LG
Chem's California sales was not a CONSUMER
market.” (Ibid, emphasis and capitalization added.) In fact, LG “took
steps to prevent” consumers from purchasing the batteries by placing warning
labels on its batteries and “requiring its business customers to sign
declarations of commitment promising not to resell its batteries to individual
consumers.” (Ibid.) Under those facts, the court rejected the
plaintiff’s contention jurisdiction is proper “in any jurisdiction that is part
of the product's distribution chain.” (Id. at p. 368.) “That goes too
far,” the court observed. (Ibid.) 
 
Here, piecing together the rules from the foregoing cases, the rule
appears as follows: the relatedness factor is satisfied when a company
SYSTEMATICALLY (Ford Motor, supra, 141 S. Ct. at p. 1028) serves a CONSUMER
market for a product in the forum State. Here, the court does not have enough facts about Lenso’s
marketing, advertising, and other business-related activities. 
 
Conclusion
 
Based on the foregoing, the hearing is CONTINUED pending jurisdictional
discovery and supplemental briefing.[12] 


