 Case Number:  23STCV15103    Hearing Date:   April 29, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 50
 




GARRETT MATSUNAGA, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
general motors, llc, et al.,
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


23STCV15103




Hearing Date:


April 29, 2024




Hearing Time:


2:00 p.m.




[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: 
 
GENERAL MOTORS
  LLC’S DEMURRER TO PLAINTIFF’S FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT; 
 
GENERAL MOTORS
  LLC’S MOTION TO STRIKE PUNITIVE DAMAGES FROM PLAINTIFF’S FIRST AMENDED
  COMPLAINT
 




            
Background
Plaintiff Garrett Matsunaga (“Plaintiff”)
filed this action on June 28, 2023 against Defendant General Motors LLC (“GM”).
The original Complaint alleged causes of action for 
(1) fraudulent concealment and misrepresentation, (2)
negligent misrepresentation, 
(3) commission of unlawful, unfair, or fraudulent business
acts and practices, Business and Professions
Code §17200, et seq. (4) violation of the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act
– breach of express warranty, (5) violation of the Song-Beverly
Consumer Warranty Act – breach of implied warranty, and (6) violation of the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act – Civil Code §1793.2(b). 
GM demurred to the first, second, and third causes of action of the
Complaint. GM also moved to strike the request for punitive damages in the
Complaint. On December 13, 2023, the Court issued a minute order sustaining
GM’s demurrer to the first, second, and third causes of action of the
Complaint, with leave to amend. The Court also granted GM’s motion to strike
Plaintiff’s demand for punitive damages, with leave to amend. (See
December 13, 2023 Minute Order.)
On December 26, 2023, Plaintiff filed the operative First Amened
Complaint (“FAC”). The FAC alleges causes of action for (1) fraudulent concealment, (2) commission of unlawful,
unfair, or fraudulent business acts and practices, Business and Professions Code §17200, et seq. (3) violation of the Song-Beverly
Consumer Warranty Act – breach of express warranty, 
(4) violation of the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act
– breach of implied warranty, and 
(5) violation of the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act – Civil Code §1793.2(b).
In the FAC, Plaintiff alleges that prior to February 24, 2021, GM
manufactured and/or distributed a 2020 Chevrolet Bolt EV, vehicle
identification number 1G1FX6S00L4148273 (the “Vehicle”) into the stream of
commerce for its eventual sale/lease in the State of California. (FAC, ¶ 7.)
Plaintiff alleges, inter alia, that “[t]he Vehicle was delivered to
Plaintiff with serious defects and nonconformities to warranty and developed
other serious defects and nonconformities to warranty including, but not
limited to the EV battery module, potential high voltage battery fire, battery,
limited range, front seatbelt pretensioner, and other defects.” (FAC, ¶ 10.) 
GM now demurs to the first and second causes of action of the FAC. GM
also moves to strike from the FAC the demand “[f]or punitive damages” in the
Prayer for Relief. Plaintiff opposes both. 
Demurrer 
A.   
Legal Standard
A demurrer can be used
only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack
or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (Blank
v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,
318.) “To survive a demurrer, the
complaint need only allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action; each
evidentiary fact that might eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need
not be alleged.” (C.A. v. William S. Hart
Union High School Dist. (2012) 53
Cal.4th 861, 872.) For the purpose of testing the
sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967.) A demurrer “does not admit contentions, deductions or conclusions
of fact or law.” (Daar v. Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713.) 
B.   
Statute of Limitations

In the demurrer, GM
refers to Plaintiff’s first and second causes of action jointly as the “Fraud
Claims.” (Demurrer at p. 6:5-6.) GM asserts that a three-year statute of
limitations bars Plaintiff’s first and second causes of action. 
GM cites to Code of Civil
Procedure section 338, subdivision (d), which provides, “[w]ithin three years:…(d) An action for relief on the ground of fraud or mistake. The cause
of action in that case is not deemed to have accrued until the discovery, by
the aggrieved party, of the facts constituting the fraud or mistake.” 
GM
argues that “Plaintiff leased the Subject Vehicle on July 6,
2018. (FAC, ¶ 8.) To assert a fraud claim, Plaintiff had to file his claim no
later than July 6, 2021. He did not. Plaintiff did not file his Complaint until
June 14, 2023— nearly two years too late.” (Demurrer at p. 7:20-23,
emphasis omitted.) As an initial matter, the FAC does not allege that Plaintiff
leased the subject Vehicle on July 6, 2018, as GM contends. GM cites to
paragraph 8 of the FAC, which alleges, inter
alia, that “Plaintiff decided to lease the Vehicle and executed the lease
on February 24, 2021.” (FAC, ¶ 8, emphasis added.) 
Based on the foregoing, the Court does not find that GM has shown that
the first and second causes of action are time-barred. 
C.   
First Cause of Action
for Fraudulent Concealment 
GM first asserts that
the first cause of action fails “because Plaintiff did not identify the
alleged misrepresentations with specificity, or identify who at GM made the
alleged misrepresentations, or identify when GM made the alleged
misrepresentations, or identify where GM made the alleged misrepresentations,
or identify how GM made the alleged misrepresentations.” (Demurrer at p.
9:8-11.) GM cites to Stansfield v. Starkey (1990) 220 Cal.App.3d
59, 73, where the
Court of Appeal noted that “[e]very element of the cause of action for fraud must be alleged
in the proper manner and the facts constituting the fraud must be alleged with
sufficient specificity to allow defendant to understand fully the nature of the
charge made…This particularity requirement necessitates pleading facts which show how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the
representations were tendered.” (Internal quotations and emphasis omitted.) 
As an initial matter, in the first cause of action for “fraudulent
concealment,” Plaintiff alleges that “GM intentionally and knowingly concealed,
suppressed and/or omitted material facts including the presence of the
defective high voltage battery pack in the Vehicle which was present at the
time of Plaintiff’s lease of the Vehicle.” (FAC, ¶ 30.) Plaintiff alleges that
he “was unaware of GM’s concealment of the battery defect and would not have
leased the Vehicle but for GM’s omissions and concealment of material facts
regarding the nature and quality of the Vehicle and existence of the battery
defect.” (FAC, ¶ 35.) Thus, Plaintiff’s first cause of action appears to be one
for fraud based on concealment, not for fraud based on any affirmative
misrepresentation. 
GM also asserts that the
first cause of action fails “because Plaintiff did not identify a
material fact regarding the Subject Vehicle that GM concealed or suppressed.”
(Demurrer at p. 9:12-13.)  “[T]he elements of a cause of action for fraud based on
concealment are: (1) the defendant must have concealed or suppressed a material
fact, (2) the defendant must have been under a duty to disclose the fact to the
plaintiff, (3) the defendant must have intentionally concealed or suppressed
the fact with the intent to defraud the plaintiff, (4) the plaintiff must have
been unaware of the fact and would not have acted as he did if he had known of
the concealed or suppressed fact, and (5) as a result of the concealment or
suppression of the fact, the plaintiff must have sustained damage.” (Jones
v. ConocoPhillips Co. (2011) 198
Cal.App.4th 1187, 1198 [internal quotations omitted].) 
But as discussed,
Plaintiff alleges that “GM intentionally and knowingly concealed,
suppressed and/or omitted material facts including the presence of the
defective high voltage battery pack in the Vehicle which was present at the
time of Plaintiff’s lease of the Vehicle.” (FAC, ¶ 30.) Plaintiff further
alleges that “GM knew (at the time of lease and thereafter) that the Vehicle
contained the battery defect, concealed the defect, and never intended to
replace the battery defect during the relevant warranty periods. To date, GM
has not provided Plaintiff with a repair or remedy that will eliminate the
battery defect.” (FAC, ¶ 32.)[1] 
GM also asserts that the first cause of action fails because Plaintiff
failed to allege “the identity of the individuals at GM who purportedly
concealed material facts or made untrue representations about his Bolt,” or
“their authority to speak and act on behalf of GM.” (Demurrer at p. 10:1-3.) GM
cites to Tarmann v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th
153, 157, where the
Court of Appeal noted that “[t]he
requirement of specificity in a fraud action against a corporation requires the
plaintiff to allege the names of the persons who made the allegedly fraudulent
representations, their authority to speak, to whom they spoke, what they said
or wrote, and when it was said or written.” But as set forth above, Plaintiff
alleges that 
“GM intentionally and knowingly concealed, suppressed and/or omitted
material facts including the presence of the defective high voltage battery
pack in the Vehicle which was present at the time of Plaintiff’s lease of the
Vehicle.” (FAC, ¶ 30, emphasis added.) As discussed, the first cause of action
does not appear to be one for fraud based on an affirmative misrepresentation.
In addition, Plaintiff notes that the Tarmann Court “acknowledge[d]
that the requirement of specificity is relaxed when the allegations indicate
that the defendant must necessarily possess full information concerning
the facts of the controversy…” (Tarmann v.
State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co., supra, 2 Cal.App.4th at p. 158 [internal
quotations omitted].) 
GM also asserts that the first cause of
action fails because Plaintiff does not allege “GM’s knowledge about
alleged defects in Plaintiff’s Bolt at the time of sale…” (Demurrer at p.
10:3-4) But Plaintiff alleges that “GM knew
(at the time of lease and thereafter) that the Vehicle contained the battery
defect, concealed the defect, and never intended to replace the battery defect
during the relevant warranty periods.” (FAC, ¶ 32.) 
In addition, GM asserts that the first cause of action fails because
Plaintiff does not allege “any interactions with GM before or during the
purchase of his Bolt…” (Demurrer at p. 10:4-5.) But GM does not cite any legal
authority demonstrating that this is an element of a cause of action for fraudulent concealment. 
GM also asserts that “[t]he
allegations of the FAC do not establish GM’s intent to defraud Plaintiff…”
(Demurrer at p. 10:7.) But the FAC alleges that “GM knew its concealment and
suppression of material facts were false and misleading and knew the effect of
concealing those material facts. GM knew its concealment and suppression of the
battery defect would sell more vehicles and encourage Plaintiff to purchase the
defective vehicle. Its intentional concealment of the battery defect intended
to defraud Plaintiff.” (FAC, ¶ 34.) 
In addition, GM asserts that the allegations of the FAC do not
demonstrate that “Plaintiff’s Bolt was unsuitable for its intended use at the
time of purchase.” (Demurrer at p. 10:8.) But GM does not cite any legal
authority demonstrating that this is an element of a cause of action for fraudulent concealment. Moreover, Plaintiff alleges, as
discussed, that “GM intentionally and knowingly concealed, suppressed
and/or omitted material facts including the presence of the defective high
voltage battery pack in the Vehicle which was present at the time of
Plaintiff’s lease of the Vehicle.” (FAC, ¶ 30.) 
Based on the foregoing, the Court does not find that GM has
demonstrated that the first cause of action of the FAC fails. Thus, the Court
overrules GM’s demurrer to the first cause of action.[2] 
D.    Second
Cause of Action for “Commission of Unlawful, Unfair, or Fraudulent Business
Acts and Practices, Business and Professions Code
§17200, et seq.” 
GM also asserts that the second cause of action fails to state a
claim. “California Business and Professions Code
Sections 17000, et seq….states…that unfair competition shall mean and
include unlawful, unfair or fraudulent business practices…A plaintiff alleging unfair
business practices under these statutes must state with reasonable
particularity the facts supporting the statutory elements of the violation.” (Khoury
v. Maly's of California, Inc. (1993)
14 Cal.App.4th 612, 618-619.) The Court notes that “[b]ecause¿¿Business and
Professions Code section 17200¿¿is written
in¿the disjunctive, it establishes three varieties of unfair competition—acts
or practices which are unlawful, or unfair, or fraudulent. An act can be
alleged to violate any or all of the three prongs of the UCL—unlawful, unfair,
or fraudulent.” (¿Berryman v. Merit
Property Management, Inc. (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 1544, 1554 [internal quotations and citation
omitted].)
GM raises a number of arguments concerning
Plaintiff’s second cause of action. GM asserts, inter alia, that “Plaintiff
has made no showing that he can plead the facts necessary to constitute a cause
of action under the UCL for injunctive relief.” (Demurrer at p. 11:19-20.) GM
cites to Korea Supply Co. v. Lockheed Martin Corp. (2003) 29 Cal.4th
1134, 1144, where the California Supreme Court noted that “[w]hile the scope of conduct
covered by the UCL is broad, its remedies are limited. A UCL action is equitable in
nature; damages cannot be recovered…We have stated that under the
UCL, [p]revailing plaintiffs are generally limited to injunctive relief and
restitution.” (Internal quotations and citations omitted.) 
GM
asserts that “nowhere in the FAC does Plaintiff identify any
particular activity against which an injunction could be enforced as a
preventative measure,” and that “Plaintiff has failed to state any facts
in support of the contention that [Plaintiff] has lost money or property as a
result of unfair business practices.” (Demurrer at pp. 11:27-12:5 [emphasis in
original].) Plaintiff still does not appear to respond to or dispute this point
in the opposition. Plaintiff only alleges that “[a]s a result of GM’s unfair,
deceptive and/or fraudulent business practices, Plaintiff has suffered an
ascertainable loss of money and/or property and/or loss in value.” (FAC, ¶ 27.)

Based on the foregoing, the Court sustains GM’s demurrer to the second
cause of action of the FAC, without leave to amend. As set forth above, the Court sustained GM’s
demurrer as to the UCL cause of action in the original Complaint, and addressed
the point discussed above. (See December 13, 2023 Minute
Order, pp. 6-7.) In addition, Plaintiff has not demonstrated any way that he could
amend the second cause of action to alleviate the problems discussed above. 
Motion to Strike 
GM
also moves to strike the demand “[f]or punitive damages” contained in
the Prayer for Relief. (FAC, Prayer for Relief, ¶ 7.) A court may
strike any “¿irrelevant, false, or improper
matter¿inserted in any pleading¿” or any part of
a pleading “¿not drawn or filed in conformity with the
laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.¿” (¿¿Code
Civ. Proc., § 436¿¿.) “¿The grounds for
a motion to strike shall appear on the face of the challenged pleading or from
any matter of which the court is required to take judicial notice.¿” (¿Code Civ. Proc., § 437.) 
Plaintiff seeks punitive damages in connection with the first cause of
action for fraudulent concealment. (FAC, ¶ 37.) In the motion, GM asserts that
“[w]ithout viable ‘fraud’ claims, Plaintiff has zero grounds to demand punitive
damages from GM.” (Mot. at p. 1:9-10.) As set forth above, the Court overrules
GM’s demurrer to the first cause of action of the FAC for fraudulent
concealment. 
GM also asserts that “[e]ven if Plaintiff had asserted viable ‘fraud’
claims, the allegations in his FAC do not satisfy the statutory standards
required to pursue punitive damages.” (Mot. at p. 1:10-12.) A motion to strike may lie where the facts alleged do not
rise to¿the level of “malice,¿oppression¿or fraud”
required to support a punitive damages award. (¿¿See Turman v. Turning Point of Central California, Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 63-64¿¿.)¿“¿‘Malice’ means
conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or
despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and
conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.¿” (¿¿Civ. Code, §
3294, subd. (c)(1)¿¿.) “¿‘Oppression’ means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust
hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s rights.¿” (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(2)¿.) “¿‘Fraud’ means an
intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known
to the defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby
depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.¿” (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(3)¿.)¿ 
The Court finds that Plaintiff has sufficiently
alleged “fraud” for purposes of his request for punitive damages. As discussed,
in the fraudulent concealment cause of action, Plaintiff alleges that “GM
intentionally and knowingly concealed, suppressed and/or omitted material facts
including the presence of the defective high voltage battery pack in the
Vehicle which was present at the time of Plaintiff’s lease of the Vehicle,” and
that “GM knew its concealment and suppression of the battery defect would sell
more vehicles and encourage Plaintiff to purchase the defective vehicle. Its
intentional concealment of the battery defect intended to defraud Plaintiff.” (FAC,
¶¶ 30, 34.) 
Based on the foregoing, the Court denies GM’s motion to strike. 
Conclusion
For the foregoing reasons, the Court sustains GM’s demurrer to the
second cause of action of the FAC, without leave to amend. The Court overrules
GM’s demurrer to the first cause of action of the FAC. 
The Court denies GM’s motion to strike
Plaintiff’s demand for punitive damages. 
GM
is ordered to file and serve its answer to the FAC within 10 days of the date
of this Order.¿¿¿¿
GM is ordered to give notice of this Order.
 
DATED:  April 29, 2024                                ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court


