  Case Number:  23STCV14035    Hearing Date:   April 29, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department
50
 



JUHEE BANG by and through her
  Successor-in-Interest, LORA TRAM,
et al.
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
1100 SOUTH ALVARADO STREET,
  LLC dba OLYMPIA CONVALESCENT HOSPITAL,
  et al.
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


23STCV14035




Hearing Date:


April 29, 2024




Hearing
  Time:    10:00 a.m. 
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER
  RE:  
 
DEFENDANT’S
  (1100 SOUTH ALVARADO STREET, LLC dba OLYMPIA CONVALESCENT HOSPITAL) PETITION
  TO COMPEL BINDING ARBITRATION AND TO STAY THE SUPERIOR COURT MATTER



            
Background
Plaintiffs Juhee Bang by
and through her Successor-in-Interest, Lora Tram, and Lora Tram (jointly,
“Plaintiffs”) filed this action on June 16, 2023 against Defendant 1100 South
Alvarado Street, LLC dba Olympia Convalescent Hospital (“Defendant”).  
Plaintiffs filed the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) on June 20, 2023, alleging causes of
action for (1) elder abuse and neglect, (2) negligence, (3) violation of
patient’s rights, and (4) wrongful death. 

Defendant seeks an order compelling Plaintiffs to arbitrate the
controversy alleged in the Complaint in binding arbitration and to stay the
action. Juhee Bang by and
through her Successor-in-Interest, Lora Tram (“Plaintiff”) opposes. 
 
 
Legal Standard
In a motion to compel
arbitration, the moving party must prove by a preponderance of evidence the
existence of the arbitration agreement and that the dispute is covered by the
agreement. The burden then shifts to the resisting party to prove by a preponderance
of evidence a ground for denial (e.g.,
fraud, unconscionability, etc.). ((Rosenthal
v. Great Western Fin. Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413-414.)  
Generally, on a petition
to compel arbitration, the court must grant the petition unless it finds either
(1) no written agreement to arbitrate exists; (2) the right to compel
arbitration has been waived; (3) grounds exist for revocation of the agreement;
or (4) litigation is pending that may render the arbitration unnecessary or
create conflicting rulings on common issues. ((Code
Civ. Proc., § 1281.2); (see Condee v. Longwood Management Corp. (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215, 218-219.) 
“California has a strong
public policy in favor of arbitration and any doubts regarding the
arbitrability of a dispute are resolved in favor of arbitration.” ((Coast Plaza Doctors Hospital v. Blue Cross of California
(2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 677, 686.) “This strong policy has resulted in the general rule that
arbitration should be upheld unless it can be said with assurance that an
arbitration clause is not susceptible to an interpretation covering the
asserted dispute.” ((Ibid. [internal
quotations omitted].) This is in accord with the
liberal federal policy favoring arbitration agreements under the Federal
Arbitration Act (“FAA”), which governs all agreements to arbitrate in contracts
“involving interstate commerce.” (9 U.S.C. section 2,
et seq.; (Higgins
v. Superior Court (2006) 140
Cal.App.4th 1238, 1247.) 
            Discussion
A.    Existence of Arbitration Agreement
In support of the petition,
Defendant submits the Declaration of Estel Mi, an employee of 1100 South
Alvarado LLC dba Olympia Convalescent Hospital (aka Olympia Convalescent
Hospital). (Mi Decl., ¶ 1.) In her declaration, Ms. Mi states that “[a]ttached
hereto as Exhibit A is a true and correct copy of the ‘Resident-Facility Arbitration
Agreement’ for Olympia Convalescent Hospital, which was signed by Lora Lee
Tram, the daughter and legal representative of former resident, JUHEE BANG on
her behalf on 3/18/22, which was at or around the time of Ms. Bang’s admission
to Olympia Convalescent Hospital.” (Mi Decl., ¶ 3.) Ms. Mi states that “Lora
Lee Tram signed the arbitration agreement on her mother’s behalf after Ms. Bang
asked me to have her daughter sign the admission documents and the arbitration
agreement for her.” (Mi Decl., ¶ 4.) Ms. Mi further states that “[a]t no time
did Lora Lee Tram or JUHEE BANG ever rescind the arbitration agreement.” (Mi
Decl., ¶ 7.) 
Defendant argues that the “History and Physical prepared by the
physician notes that Ms. Bang ‘has the capacity to understand and make
decisions.’…Thus, she had the capacity to appoint her daughter to act on her
behalf.” (Pet. at p. 6:10-13.) Defendant’s counsel’s declaration in support of
the petition states, inter alia, “[a]ttached hereto as Exhibits [sic]
‘B’, is a true and correct copy of the History and Physical pertaining to Juhee
Bang which my office obtained from my client who maintains said document in its
ordinary course and scope of business.” (Eng Decl., ¶ 2.) Exhibit “B” to Mr.
Eng’s declaration contains a checked box next to “has the capacity to
understand and make decisions.” (Eng Decl., ¶ 2, Ex. B.) 
Defendant notes that the
subject “Resident – Facility Arbitration Agreement” attached as Exhibit A to
Ms. Mi’s Declaration provides, inter alia, as follows: 
 
“Article 1. It
is understood that any dispute as to medical malpractice, that is as to whether
any medical services rendered under this contract were unnecessary or
unauthorized or were improperly, negligently or incompetently rendered, will be
determined by submission to arbitration as provided by California law, and not
by a lawsuit or resort to court process except as California law provides for
judicial review of arbitration proceedings. Both parties to this contract, by
entering into it, are giving up their constitutional right to have any such
dispute decided in a court of law before a jury, and instead are accepting the
use of arbitration. 
 
Article 2. It is
further understood that any dispute between ________________,[1]
its owners, investors, operators, officers, directors, administrators, staff,
employees, agents, and any management and administrative services company and
all related entities and individuals, their staff, personnel, employees,
owners, officers, directors, members, and agents that provide services to the
Facility that relates to the provision of care, treatment and services the
Facility provides to the Resident, (collectively referred to herein as ‘Facility’),
including any action for injury or death arising from negligence, intentional
tort and/or statutory causes of action (including all California Welfare and
Institutions Code sections and Health and Safety Code
section 1430), will be determined by submission to binding arbitration and
not by lawsuit or resort to court process except as California law provides for
judicial review of arbitration proceedings. The parties to this agreement are
giving up their Constitutional right to have all disputes decided in a court of
law before a jury, and instead are accepting the use of binding arbitration. By
signing this agreement, the parties waive their right to commence and/or be a
party to any class or collective action in any court against the other party
relating in any manner whatsoever to the Resident’s residency at the Facility.
Further, the parties waive their right to commence or be a party to any group,
class, or collective action claim in arbitration or any other forum.
 
Article 4. This
Agreement shall be binding for any dispute, except for disputes pertaining to
collections or evictions. This Agreement is binding on all parties, including
the Resident’s representatives, executors, family members, and heirs who bring
any claims individually or in a representative capacity. The Resident’s
representatives, agents, executors, family members, successors in interest and
heirs who execute this Agreement below on the signature line are doing so not
only in their representative capacity for the Resident, but also in their
individual capacity and thus agree that any claims brought individually by any
such representatives, agents, executors, family members, representatives,
successors in interest and heirs are subject to binding arbitration. This
Agreement may be rescinded by written notice within thirty (30) days of
signature…” (Mi Decl., ¶ 3, Ex.
A.) 
            Defendant
argues in the petition that “[c]learly, this dispute applies to the
arbitration agreement attached hereto. On its face, the parties have agreed to
resolve any dispute, including negligence and elder abuse/neglect, by way of
arbitration.” (Pet. at p. 8:12-14.) 
In the opposition,
Plaintiff asserts that Defendant failed to meet its burden of showing that a
valid arbitration agreement exists. 
Plaintiff argues that
“Defendant failed to show that Ms. Bang gave authority to Ms. Tram to sign the
alleged arbitration agreement.” (Opp’n at p. 3:26-27.) Plaintiff cites to Pagarigan v.
Libby Care Center, Inc. (2002) 99 Cal.App.4th 298, 299, where “Libby Care Center, Inc., and Longwood Management Corporation are
defendants in an action for personal injuries brought by plaintiffs Teri, Mary
and John Pagarigan as
successors in interest to their deceased mother, Johnnie Pagarigan, and for wrongful death brought in their
own right.” The defendants “appeal[ed] from a trial court order denying
their petition to compel arbitration of plaintiffs’ claims,” and the Court of
Appeal affirmed. (Ibid.) 
The Pagarigan Court found,
inter alia, “Defendants
bore the burden of establishing a valid agreement to arbitrate…Defendants admit
Johnnie Pagarigan did not sign either
arbitration agreement. They further admit Ms. Pagarigan was mentally incompetent at the time
she was admitted to Magnolia Gardens and at the time her daughters signed the
arbitration agreements approximately a week later. There was no evidence
Ms. Pagarigan had signed a
durable power of attorney. It necessarily follows Ms. Pagarigan lacked the capacity to authorize
either daughter to enter into the arbitration agreements on her behalf.
Consequently no valid arbitration contract exists.” ((Id. at p. 301.) The Court of Appeal
in Pagarigan further noted that “defendants argue the
signatures of Teri and Mary Pagarigan on
the arbitration agreements ‘prove they represented themselves as having the
power to bind Johnnie Pagarigan to
these arbitration documents.’ This may be true but it is totally
irrelevant. A person cannot become the agent of another merely by
representing herself as such. To be an agent she must actually be so employed
by the principal…or ‘the principal intentionally, or by want of ordinary
care, [has caused] a third person to believe another to be his agent who is not
really employed by him.’…Defendants produced no evidence Ms. Pagarigan had ever employed either of her
daughters as her agent in any capacity.” ((Id. at pp. 301-302 [internal emphasis omitted].) 
            Plaintiff
asserts that here, “Defendant failed to present any evidence that Ms.
Tram had the authority to sign the arbitration on behalf of Ms. Bang.” (Opp’n
at p. 4:16-17.) Plaintiff submits the Declaration of Lora Tram, who states that
she is the biological daughter of Juhee Bang. (Tram Decl., ¶ 2.) Ms. Tram
states that “[t]here was no power of attorney or any other written
authorization by Ms. Bang that authorized me to sign the Arbitration Agreement.
I did not have the authority to sign the Arbitration Agreement on behalf of Ms.
Bang.” (Tram Decl., ¶ 3.) Ms. Tram further states that “Ms. Bang did not
verbally authorize me to sign the Arbitration Agreement. Ms. Bang never even
mentioned the Arbitration Agreement. Ms. Bang and I never discussed anything
related to an arbitration agreement or giving up her right to trial. She never
asked me to sign the Arbitration Agreement or agree to any kind of
arbitration.” (Tram Decl., ¶ 4.) 
In addition, Ms. Tram states that “I never signed the Arbitration
Agreement in the presence of anyone at the Facility. I never signed the
Arbitration Agreement at all. I was not even present at the Facility on March
18, 2022 due to medical/personal reasons.” (Tram Decl., ¶ 6.) The subject
Resident – Facility Arbitration Agreement contains the dates “3/18/2022” next
to signatures on the agreement. (Mi
Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. A.)
            As set forth above, Ms. Mi states in
her declaration in support of the petition that “Lora Lee Tram signed the
arbitration agreement on her mother’s behalf after Ms. Bang asked me to have
her daughter sign the admission documents and the arbitration agreement for
her.” (Mi Decl., ¶ 4.) Ms. Mi asserts that “[t]he attached arbitration
agreement was signed by Lora Lee Tram, the daughter…of former resident, JUHEE
BANG, in my presence after she had an opportunity to completely review the
arbitration agreement and ask any questions that she may have had.” (Mi Decl.,
¶ 5.) Defendant argues in the petition that “decedent herself gave verbal
authority to permit Ms. Tram to execute the subject Arbitration Agreement on
her behalf. Said conduct by decedent not only created a direct agency, but is
also sufficient to create ostensible agency.” (Pet. at p. 6:14-16.) 
Defendant cites to Flores v. Evergreen at San Diego, LLC (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th
581, 587-588, where the Court of Appeal noted that “[e]ven when there is no written
agency authorization, an agency relationship may arise by oral consent or by
implication from the conduct of the parties. However, an agency cannot be
created by the conduct of the agent alone; rather, conduct by the principal is essential to create
the agency. Agency can be established either by agreement between the agent
and the principal, that is, a true agency…or it can be founded on ostensible
authority, that is, some intentional conduct or neglect on the part of the
alleged principal creating a belief in the minds of third persons that an
agency exists, and a reasonable reliance thereon by such third persons. The principal must in some manner indicate that the agent
is to act for him, and the agent must act or agree to act on his behalf and
subject to his control…Thus, the formation of an agency relationship is a bilateral
matter. Words or conduct by both principal and agent are necessary to create
the relationship…” (Internal quotations and citations omitted, emphasis in
original.)[2]
            In the
opposition, Plaintiff asserts that “Defendant’s argument regarding
ostensible authority is meritless.” (Opp’n at p. 5:3.) Plaintiff
asserts that “Defendant avers that Ms. Bang somehow asked Defendant to
have Ms. Tram sign the arbitration agreement on Ms. Bang’s behalf. However,
Defendant fails to even address how this could be so given Ms. Bang’s lack of
English comprehension.” (Opp’n at p. 5:19-21.) In her supporting declaration,
Ms. Tram states that “Ms. Bang spoke and read Korean. Accordingly, Ms. Bang
would rely on me given her lack of English comprehension. Moreover, due to her
lack of ability to read, speak, or understand English, Ms. Bang would not have
been able to understand what the Arbitration Agreement meant or what
arbitration even meant in English. Based on my observation, when spoken to in
English, it was obvious that Ms. Bang could not converse or comprehend what was
being said. Further, Ms. Bang would not be able to say in English to have me
sign an arbitration agreement on her behalf.” (Tram Decl., ¶ 5.) 
            Plaintiff
also asserts that “Defendant’s argument regarding ostensible authority
falls flat given that Ms. Tram never signed the Arbitration Agreement at all,
much less in front of anyone at the Facility.” (Opp’n at p. 6:2-3.) As set
forth above, Ms. Tram states that “I never signed the Arbitration Agreement in
the presence of anyone at the Facility. I never signed the Arbitration
Agreement at all. I was not even present at the Facility on March 18, 2022 due
to medical/personal reasons.” (Tram Decl., ¶ 6.) 
            In the reply, Defendant counters
that “Plaintiff contends that Ms. Bang could not have understood what she was
doing because she does not speak English. Said argument falsely presumes that
Ms. Mi, who discussed the agreement with Ms. Bang, does not speak Korean.”
(Reply at p. 3:10-12.) Defendant submits a Supplemental Declaration of Estel Mi
in connection with the reply. In her supplemental declaration, Ms. Mi states
that “I am Korean myself and speak fluently in Korean. I was able to speak with
JUHEE BANG in Korean and explain the admission process and the documents needed
for her admission. She spoke with me in Korean and I did not observe any issues
with her comprehending our conversation regarding the admission process…”
(Suppl. Mi Decl., ¶ 3.)
            Ms.
Mi further states in her supplemental declaration that “[o]n the date of
JUHEE BANG’s admission, she initially arrived with her son-in-law. When I
presented admission documents, including the arbitration agreement, to both Ms.
Bang and her son-in-law, he said to have his wife, Ms. Bang’s daughter sign the
documents. I called Ms. Tram and she asked to have her mother sign the
documents. I then went back to JUHEE BANG with the documents, however, she
expressly told me to have her daughter, Lora Lee Tram, sign all of her
admission documents including the arbitration agreement.” (Suppl. Mi Decl., ¶
2.) 
            Defendant contends that “the verbal
consent provided by the decedent (principal) after discussing same in Korean
with Ms. Mi meets the requirements set forth above to find the existence of an
agency relationship for the purposes of finding the subject Agreement to be
valid and enforceable.” (Reply at p. 5:5-8.) 
            The Court notes that as Ms. Mi’s
Supplemental Declaration was submitted for the first time in connection with
Defendant’s reply, Plaintiff has not had the opportunity to respond to it.
Thus, the Court is inclined to continue the hearing on the instant petition in order to
provide Plaintiff the opportunity to respond to Ms. Mi’s
Supplemental Declaration.  
 
Conclusion 
Based on the foregoing, the Court continues the hearing on
Defendant’s petition to compel arbitration to 
________________, 2024¿at 10:00 a.m. in
Dept. 50.¿   
 By ________________, 2024, Plaintiff
may file and serve a supplemental
opposition to address the Supplemental Declaration of Estel Mi, with a courtesy
copy delivered to Dept. 50. 
Defendant is ordered to provide
notice of this ruling.¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
 
DATED:  April 29, 2024                                
________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court


