  Case Number:  23STCV22254    Hearing Date:   October 16, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department
50
 



MARTIN DORSLA,

 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
SALLY FOSTER JONES,
  et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


  23STCV22254




Hearing Date:


October 16, 2024




Hearing
  Time:    10:00 a.m. 
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:
 
DEFENDANTS
  DONALD H. JONES; SALLY FORSTER JONES; DSJ THAYER EXCHANGES, LLC; SFJ THAYER
  LLC; DAJO THAYER EXCHANGES, LLC; AND CAPRI PROPERTIES’ MOTION TO STRIKE
  PLAINTIFF’S SECOND AMENDED COMPLAINT;
 
JOINDER TO
  DEFENDANTS DONALD H. JONES; SALLY FORSTER JONES; DSJ THAYER EXCHANGES, LLC;
  SFJ THAYER LLC; DAJO THAYER EXCHANGES, LLC; AND CAPRI PROPERTIES’ MOTION TO
  STRIKE PLAINTIFF’S SECOND AMENDED COMPLAINT
 



            Background
Plaintiff Martin Dorsla
(“Plaintiff”) filed this action on September 15, 2023 against Defendants Sally
Foster Jones, Donald H. Jones, DSJ Thayer Exchanges, LLC, SFJ Thayer LLC, DAJO
Thayer Exchanges, LLC, Capri Properties, LLP, Enrique Camacho, Housed, Inc.,
Joe J Huezo, and Huezo Construction.  
Plaintiff filed a First
Amended Complaint (“FAC”) on October 31, 2023, alleging causes of action for
(1) breach of warranty of habitability, (2) breach of the covenant of quiet
enjoyment, (3) premises liability, (4) private nuisance, (5) negligence and
negligence per se, (6) negligent infliction of emotional distress, (7)
intentional infliction of emotional distress, and (8) violation of Business and Professions Code section 17200. 
Defendants Joe Huezo and
Huezo Construction (jointly, the “Huezo Defendants”) demurred to each of the
causes of action of the FAC and moved to strike portions of the FAC. On April
26, 2024, the Court issued an Order sustaining the demurrer to the first, second, third, fifth, and eighth causes of action of
the FAC, with leave to amend. (April 26, 2024
Order at p. 15.) The Court sustained the demurrer
to the sixth cause of action of the FAC without leave to amend. (Ibid.)
The demurrer to the fourth and seventh causes of
action of the FAC was overruled, and the motion to strike was granted in part, with leave to amend, and denied in part as
moot. (Ibid.) The Court’s April 26, 2024
Order provides, inter alia, that “Plaintiff is ordered to file and serve an amended
complaint, if any, within 20 days of the date of this order. If no amended
complaint is filed within 20 days, the Court orders [Huezo Defendants] to file and
serve their answer to the FAC within 30 days of the date of this order.” (April
26, 2024 Order at p. 15:20-22.) 
On
May 29, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Second Amended Complaint (the “SAC”).  The SAC alleges ten causes of action. 
Donald H. Jones, Sally
Forster Jones (erroneously sued as Sally Foster Jones), DSJ Thayer Exchanges,
LLC, SFJ Thayer LLC, DAJO Thayer Exchanges, LLC, and Capri Properties
(erroneously sued as Capri Properties, LLP) (collectively, the “Moving
Defendants”) now move for an order striking the SAC. The Moving Defendants also
move for an order striking the first and ninth causes of action of the SAC. The
motion is unopposed. 
 The Huezo Defendants join in the Moving
Defendants’ motion. 
Discussion 
A court may
strike any “¿irrelevant, false, or improper
matter¿inserted in any pleading¿” or any part of
a pleading “¿not drawn or filed in conformity with the
laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.¿” (¿¿Code
Civ. Proc., § 436¿¿.) “¿The grounds for
a motion to strike shall appear on the face of the challenged pleading or from
any matter of which the court is required to take judicial notice.¿” (¿Code Civ. Proc., § 437¿.)¿¿ 
The Moving Defendants’ Motion 
The Moving Defendants move for an order striking the SAC.
As discussed above, the Court’s April
26, 2024 Order on the Huezo
Defendants’ demurrer to the FAC and motion to strike portions of the FAC provides, inter alia, that “Plaintiff is ordered to file
and serve an amended complaint, if any, within 20 days of the date of this
order. If no amended complaint is filed within 20 days, the Court orders [the Huezo Defendants] to file and
serve their answer to the FAC within 30 days of the date of this order.” (April
26, 2024 Order at p. 15:20-22.)
Twenty days
after April 26, 2024 is May 16, 2024. Plaintiff’s SAC was filed on May 29, 2024,
well after the May 16, 2024 deadline. Before the SAC was filed, the Huezo
Defendants filed an answer to the FAC on May 23, 2024. In addition, on May 24,
2024, the Moving Parties filed an answer to Plaintiff’s “operative
Complaint.”  
The Moving
Defendants assert that “[p]ursuant
to Court Order, Plaintiff had 20 days to amend his first amended complaint
following demurrer. Plaintiff failed to amend with the time provided by the
Court…” (Mot. at p. 2:12-13.) As noted by the Moving
Defendants, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 436, “[t]he court may, upon a motion made pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its discretion, and
upon terms it deems proper:…(b) Strike out all or any part of any
pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a
court rule, or an order of the court.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (b), emphasis added.) Plaintiff does not oppose
the motion and thus does not dispute that the SAC was not timely filed by the
deadline specified in the Court’s April 26, 2024 Order. 
Based on the foregoing, the Court grants the Moving
Defendants’ motion for an order striking the SAC. 
The Moving Defendants also move to strike the first and
ninth causes of action of the SAC. As the Court grants the Moving Defendants’
motion for an order striking the SAC, the Court finds that the Moving
Defendants’ motion to strike the first and ninth causes of action of the SAC is
moot. 
The Huezo Defendants’ Joinder
In their joinder in the instant motion, the Huezo
Defendants assert that “[t]he language
of the Court’s minute order is clear, Plaintiff was ordered to file the
proposed Second-Amended Complaint within 20 days, limited to amending only
those causes of action for which leave had been granted. However, Plaintiff
failed make the amendments within the 20-day timeframe specified by the Court,
prompting Defendants to undertake the time and expense of preparing and filing
responsive pleadings based on the allegations of the First Amended Complaint.”
(Joinder at p. 5:5-9.) The Huezo Defendants assert that “Plaintiff’s Second
Amended Complaint was in violation of the Court’s order issued on April 26,
2024. As such, the Court should strike the Second Amended Complaint, in its
entirety.” (Joinder at p. 5:12-14.) The Court grants the Huezo Defendants’
joinder in the Moving Defendants’ motion to strike the SAC. 
The
Huezo Defendants also argue that “absent striking the entire Complaint, the
Court should strike the third and eighth causes of action.” (Joinder at p.
6:6-7.) As set forth above, the Court grants the Huezo Defendants’ joinder in
the Moving Defendants’ motion to strike the SAC. Thus, the Huezo Defendants’
request to strike the third and eighth causes of action is moot.[1]
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, the Moving Defendants’ motion to
strike Plaintiff’s SAC is granted. The Moving Defendants’ motion to strike is
otherwise denied as moot. 
The
Huezo Defendants’ joinder in the Moving
Defendants’ motion to strike Plaintiff’s SAC is granted. The Huezo Defendants’ joinder is otherwise denied. 
The Moving Defendants are ordered to give notice of this Order.

 
DATED:  October 16, 2024                     ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court


