 Case Number:  BC572581    Hearing Date:   October 16, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 50
 



INTELLIGENT SCM, LLC, dba AMERICAN
WORLDWIDE AGENCIES,
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
RUSSELL W. ROTEN, et al.

                        Defendants.


Case No.:


BC572581




Hearing Date:


October 16, 2024




Hearing Time:


10:00 a.m.




[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:  
 
DEFENDANTS
  RUSSELL W. ROTEN AND DUANE MORRIS LLP’S MOTION TO COMPEL THE DEPOSITION OF
  ROBERT ARONSON AND A FURTHER DEPOSITION OF HOWARD ZELENER




AND RELATED CROSS-ACTIONS


 



            
            Background
Plaintiff Intelligent
SCM, LLC, dba American Worldwide Agencies filed this action on February 13,
2015 against Defendants Russell W. Roten (“Roten”) and Duane Morris.  
Intelligent SCM, LLC,
dba American Worldwide Agencies filed the operative Fourth Amended Complaint
(“FAC”) on July 9, 2019 against Roten, Duane Morris, and Andrew P. Scott. The
FAC alleges causes of action for (1) constructive fraud and breach of fiduciary
duty, (2) legal malpractice, (3) negligence (4) fraud, (5) tort of another, (6)
intentional interference with contractual relationship, (7) negligent
interference with contractual relationship,
(8) intentional interference with
prospective economic advantage, (9) negligent interference with prospective
economic advantage, (10) negligent supervision, (11) conversion, and (12)
aiding and abetting.   
On April 27, 2017,
Andrew Scott (“Scott”) filed a Cross-Complaint against a number of
Cross-Defendants, alleging five causes of action. On May 3, 2017, Peter Lamy
and Graham Burford filed a Cross-Complaint against Scott. The Cross-Complaint
alleges two causes of action. 
Roten and Duane Morris LLP
(“Duane Morris”) (jointly, the “Moving Parties”) indicate that Intelligent SCM,
LLC (“ISCM”) is represented in this action by attorneys Howard Zelener and
Robert Aronson. (Scott Decl., ¶ 10.) On March 29, 2024, the Moving Parties
served a Deposition Subpoena for Personal Appearance on Howard M. Zelener.
(Scott Decl., ¶ 12, Ex. 9.) On March 29, 2024, the Moving Parties also served a
Deposition Subpoena for Personal Appearance on Robert A. Aronson. (Scott Decl., ¶ 13, Ex. 10.) 
The Moving Parties’
counsel states that “Counsel for Messrs. Zelener and Aronson, Mr. Rosen,
responded to the Zelener Subpoena and the Aronson Subpoena (collectively the ‘Subpoenas’)
stating that the Subpoenas were premature.” (Scott Decl., ¶ 15.) The Moving
Parties’ counsel states that “[t]he parties conducted an informal discovery
conference on, among other discovery issues, the topic of Messrs. Zelener and
Aronson’s depositions, on April 24, 2024.” (Scott Decl., ¶ 16.) The Court’s
April 24, 2024 minute order provides, inter alia, that “[t]he Informal
Discovery Conference is held. The parties fulfilled the IDC requirement for the
issues raised in the IDC Statements for today’s IDC.”[1] 
The Moving Parties now
move “for an Order compelling the deposition of Robert Aronson and a further
deposition of Howard Zelener.” ISCM and third-parties Howard Zelener and Robert
Aronson (collectively, the “Opposing Parties”) appear to oppose the motion.[2]
            Discussion
 
            ¿¿¿Code
of Civil Procedure section 1987.1, subdivision (a)¿¿ provides as follows: 
 
“¿If a subpoena
requires the attendance of a witness or the production of books, documents,
electronically stored information, or other things before a court, or at the
trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon
motion reasonably made by any person described in subdivision (b), or upon the
court’s own motion after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard,
may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing
compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare,
including protective orders. In addition, the court may make any other order as
may be appropriate to protect the person from unreasonable or oppressive
demands, including unreasonable violations of the right of privacy of the
person.” 
“¿If a deponent fails to answer any question
or to produce any document, electronically stored information, or tangible
thing under the deponent’s control that is specified in the deposition notice
or a deposition subpoena, the party seeking discovery may move the court for an
order compelling that answer or production.¿” (¿Code
Civ. Proc., § 2025.480, subd. (a)¿.) Pursuant to ¿Code
of Civil Procedure section 2025.610, subdivision (b)¿, “¿for good cause
shown, the court may grant leave to take a subsequent deposition, and the
parties, with the consent of any deponent who is not a party, may stipulate
that a subsequent deposition be taken.¿”   
In the motion, the Moving Parties argue that
“California law supports Duane Morris taking the depositions of Aronson and
Zelener.” (Mot. at p. 7:10-11.) The Moving Parties cite to 
Carehouse Convalescent Hospital v. Superior Court (2006) 143 Cal.App.4th
1558, 1562, where the Court of
Appeal noted that “[d]epositions of opposing counsel are presumptively
improper, severely restricted, and require extremely good cause—a high
standard. There are strong policy considerations against deposing an opposing
counsel. The practice runs counter to the adversarial process and to the state’s
public policy to [p]revent attorneys from taking undue advantage of their
adversary’s industry and efforts. Discovery was hardly intended to enable a
learned profession to perform its functions…on wits borrowed from the
adversary.” (Internal quotations and citations omitted.) “Attorney depositions
chill the attorney-client relationship, impede civility and easily lend
themselves to gamesmanship and abuse.” ((Id. at p. 1563.) 
The Carehouse Court noted
that “California applies a three-prong
test in considering the propriety of attorney depositions. First, does the
proponent have other practicable means to obtain the information? Second,
is the information crucial to the preparation of the case? Third, is the
information subject to a privilege? Each of these prongs poses an independent
hurdle to deposing an adversary’s counsel; any one of them may be sufficient to
defeat the attempted attorney deposition.” ((Ibid. [internal citations omitted].)

The Carehouse Court further noted that “[w]ithout question, the proponent has the
burden of proof to establish the predicate circumstances for the first two
prongs. But California has not directly addressed the issue of which party has
the burden of proof to establish the third prong, that the deposition would (or
would not) impinge upon privileged information. One federal court, in
implementing the three-prong test, has placed the burden of establishing the
applicability of the attorney-client privilege and the work product doctrine on
the party opposing discovery. ‘[T]he one asserting the work-product and
attorney-client privileges has the burden of demonstrating the applicability of
those privileges to the specific items which he claims are not subject to
discovery.’ (First Sec. Sav. v. Kansas Bankers Sur.
Co. (D.Neb. 1987) 115 F.R.D. 181, 182.) We agree. Parties claiming
the benefit of the work product rule have the burden to show preliminary facts
to support its applicability.” ((Ibid.)  
First, the Moving Parties contend that the Carehouse test “has no
application to the testimony Duane Morris seeks here, which would relate to
Messrs. Zelener’s and Aronson’s work on other cases and on issues in this case
that are no longer in play in this litigation.” (Mot. at p. 7:13-16.) But as
noted by the Opposing Parties, Carehouse does not appear to draw any “distinction
as to whether the deposition concerns the present action or other related
actions.” (Opp’n at p. 10:19-20.) The Moving Parties also argue that
“because testimony regarding Messrs. Zelener’s and Aronson’s work on the
Underlying Cases would not be in their capacity as counsel here, but rather as
percipient witnesses who performed work for which ISCM is seeking compensation,
the principles animating the Carehouse test have no application
whatsoever to that portion of the requested testimony.” (Mot. at p. 8:8-11.)
But the Moving Parties cite to a nonbinding federal case to support this
proposition. (Mot. at p. 8:12-14.) Moreover, the Moving Parties seek to depose
Mr. Zelener and Mr. Aronson, counsel for ISCM in this case. As discussed,
Carehouse provides that “California
applies a three-prong test in considering the propriety of attorney
depositions.” ((Ibid.) The Court does not see how such test is
somehow inapplicable here, when the Moving Parties seek to depose ISCM’s
counsel in this action. (Scott Decl., ¶ 10.) 
            The Moving Parties also argue
that “even if the Carehouse test applies here, it is fully satisfied.”
(Mot. at p. 9:16.) As discussed, the first prong of the test is “does the
proponent have other practicable means to obtain the information?” ((Ibid.) The Moving Parties assert that here, “Mr.
Zelener and Mr. Aronson are the only people who can provide the requested
testimony…” (Mot. at p. 9:22-23.) 
The Moving Parties point to pages 51 and 52 of ISCM’s “Third
Amended, Further, and Supplemental Responses” to Duane Morris’s “Special
Interrogatories to Putative Plaintiff Intelligent SCM, LLC, Set No. Three.”
(Scott Decl., ¶ 7, Ex. 5.) ISCM’s “Second Amended Supplemental Response To
Interrogatory No. 9” lists a number of “fees” and “costs” next to the
categories “Speed Case,” “Embezzlement Case,” “Malpractice Case,” and “Crease
Case.” (Scott Decl., ¶ 7, Ex. 5, pp. 51-52.)[3] The
“Second Amended Supplemental Response To Interrogatory No. 9” also references, inter
alia, a “Zelener Total” of $1,633,165.40 in fees, and an “Aronson Total” of
$1,150,268.50 in fees. (Scott Decl., ¶ 7, Ex. 5, p. 52.) 
The Moving Parties
assert that “while ISCM has provided Mr. Zelener’s invoices, those invoices do
not contain detailed time entries after March of 2014.” (Mot. at p. 10:13-14.) The
Moving Parties point to a “copy of the invoices representing Mr. Zelener’s
invoices, previously produced in this action…on August 1, 2023…” (Scott Decl.,
¶ 11, Ex. 8.) The Moving Parties argue that “even a surface level analysis of
these invoices reveal that ISCM’s attempt to allocate $1.25 million in Mr.
Zelener’s fees to the Embezzlement Case strains credulity.” (Mot. at p.
11:1-2.) The Moving Parties assert that “[t]he numbers simply do not add up,
and Duane Morris needs Mr. Zelener’s testimony both to understand them and to
be able to meaningfully challenge them.” (Mot. at p. 11:12-13.) 
The Moving Parties also
argue that “as with Mr. Zelener, Duane Morris must be able to cross examine [Mr.
Aronson] about his background and qualifications as part of its challenge to
the reasonableness of his fees.” (Mot. at p. 12:25-26.) The Moving Parties’
counsel states that “[t]o date, ISCM has not produced Mr. Aronson’s invoices in
this matter…” (Scott Decl., ¶ 46.) 
The Moving Parties argue that “Duane
Morris must be permitted to test ISCM’s theory of damages and causation by
questioning ISCM’s counsel about the work they actually performed in this
litigation and the Underlying Cases and what connection, if any, that work has
to anything that Duane Morris did or did not do.” (Mot. at p. 12:15-18.)
In the opposition, the Opposing Parties argue
that “Duane Morris’ motion waxes on about all the information it would like to
learn about ISCM’s damages claims (much of it clearly not discoverable, as
discussed below). But Duane Morris wholly fails to prove that the information
it is entitled to is only available from Zelener and Aronson.” (Opp’n at p.
13:21-24, emphasis omitted.) In the motion, the Moving Parties assert that “Messrs.
Zelener and Aronson must sit for deposition so that Duane Morris can first
understand, and then challenge, ISCM’s claimed damages.” (Mot. at p. 1:8-9.) The
Opposing Parties counter that “there is nothing that precludes Duane Morris
from serving proper follow-up written discovery to the responses that ISCM has
already provided in this case including the time spent, the amounts billed, and
the facts that support ISCM’s position that these fees were incurred as a
result of the actions taken by Defendants.” (Opp’n at pp. 12:27-13:2, emphasis
omitted.) Indeed, interrogatories appear to be a practicable means of obtaining
the information sought.  
The Opposing Parties cite to Estate of Ruchti (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 1593,
1596, where “Respondents’ trial attorney, Peter M. Williams (Williams), was
handed a subpoena for his own deposition on December 13, 1989, by appellant,
Richard A. DeSantis (DeSantis), attorney for Robert R. Ruchti II (Ruchti).”
Williams filed an application for a protective order, and “DeSantis opposed the
protective order application and lost.” (Id. at p. 1597.) The Court of Appeal
found that “Appellant has made various assignments of error regarding the
upholding of the protective order and the awarding of sanctions. These
assignments of error go to,” inter alia, “the law regarding the taking of trial counsel’s deposition…There is
no merit in any of appellant’s contentions.” (Id. at pp. 1599-1600.) 
The Court of Appeal in Estate of Ruchti
noted that “[t]he circumstances under which opposing counsel may be deposed are
limited to those where (1) no other means exist to obtain the information than
to depose opposing counsel; (2) the information sought is relevant and not
privileged; (3) the information is crucial to the preparation of the case.” (Estate of Ruchti, supra, 12 Cal.App.4th at p. 1600,
internal quotations omitted, citing Spectra-Physics, Inc. v. Superior Court (1988)
198 Cal.App.3d 1487, 1496.) The Court of
Appeal found that “Williams acted
properly when he invited appellant to propound interrogatories. Properly
drafted interrogatories could elicit the facts upon which the co-executors
based their contentions and would require the identification of witnesses and
of documents. Other common discovery devices could also have been used. It is clear that the three-part Spectra-Physics test
was not met by appellant. Rather than utilize readily available discovery
techniques, DeSantis apparently decided to rely on other litigation tactics by
serving the deposing attorney with a deposition subpoena during the deposition
of the client of DeSantis.” (Id.
at p. 1601.) 
Here too, the Court does not see why other
readily available discovery techniques, such as interrogatories, would not be a
“practicable
means to obtain the information.” ((Ibid.) The
Court does not find that the Moving Parties have shown that they lack other
practicable means to obtain information regarding ISCM’s claimed attorney’s
fees in this action.
As set forth above, each of the prongs discussed in Carehouse “poses an
independent hurdle to deposing an adversary’s counsel; any one of them may be
sufficient to defeat the attempted attorney deposition.” (Carehouse
Convalescent Hospital v. Superior Court, supra, 143 Cal.App.4th at p. 1563.)

The second prong of the Carehouse test
provides, “is the information crucial to the preparation of the case?” (Carehouse
Convalescent Hospital v. Superior Court, supra, 143 Cal.App.4th at p.
1563.) The Moving Parties assert that the
requested testimony is “critical to Duane Morris’s defense.”[4] (Mot. at p. 9:23.) The
Moving Parties’ counsel asserts that “Duane Morris’s preparation for trial and
its trial presentation would be severely impaired if it is unable to depose the
attorneys whose fees are the centerpiece of ISCM’s damages claims.” (Scott
Decl., ¶ 51.) The Opposing Parties argue that “information about the attorney’s
fees ISCM seeks as damages in this case is easily available from other sources.
Therefore, it necessarily is not crucial that this information comes from
Zelener and Aronson.” (Opp’n at p. 14:1-3.) But as discussed, the second prong
concerns whether the information is crucial to the preparation of the case. The Court
agrees with the Moving Parties that information concerning “ISCM’s claimed
damages” (Mot. at p. 1:9) is crucial to Duane Morris’s preparation of the case.

The third prong of the Carehouse test
provides, “is the information subject to a privilege?” (Carehouse
Convalescent Hospital v. Superior Court, supra, 143 Cal.App.4th at p.
1563.) The Moving Parties assert that the
information sought is not subject to any privilege. 
The Moving Parties cite to Byers v.
Superior Court (2024) 101
Cal.App.5th 1003, 1006, where the Court of Appeal noted that
“[i]n this writ proceeding, George and Sheila Byers challenge the trial court
to vacate its order granting USAA General Indemnity Company’s (USAA) motion to
compel further responses to document requests seeking attorney fees documents.
The Byerses further request that we order the trial court to delay production
of their attorney fees documents until after the jury makes a determination of
liability. We conclude that the trial court did not err and deny the
petition.” The Court of Appeal found that “[w]e agree with the
trial court that USAA has a right to learn during discovery of the
attorney fees aspect of the Byerses’ alleged damages and that by seeking
such damages the Byerses have impliedly waived the attorney-client privilege.
The Byerses have put at issue the attorney fees they incurred in an effort to
seek coverage under their insurance policy, and disclosure of documents
supporting their claim for such fees is necessary to fairly adjudicate the
issue of damages.” ((Id. at p. 1012.) The Moving Parties argue that here too, “ISCM
has placed the legal work of its counsel squarely at issue and so has waived
any right to claim privilege.” (Mot. at p. 14:12-13.) 
In the opposition, the
Opposing Parties assert that their burden on the third prong of the Carehouse
test is “easily met because the vast majority of the testimony Duane Morris
seeks is work product.” (Opp’n at p. 14:20-21.) 
As noted by the Opposing
Parties, the motion provides that Duane Morris seek, inter alia, to “understand,
and to cross-examine, these attorneys regarding what they did, whether it was necessary
and reasonable, and whether it bears any causal link to any of ISCM’s claims of
malpractice.” (Mot. at pp. 1:28-2:2.) The Moving Parties also contend that Duane
Morris “must be permitted to test ISCM’s theory of damages and causation by
questioning ISCM’s counsel about the work they actually performed in this
litigation and the Underlying Cases…” (Mot. at p. 12:15-17.) The Opposing
Parties note that pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 2018.030, subdivision (a), “[a] writing that reflects an attorney’s
impressions, conclusions, opinions, or legal research or theories is not
discoverable under any circumstances.”[5] The
Court agrees with the Opposing Parties that the Moving Parties appear to seek
testimony regarding information protected under Code of
Civil Procedure section 2018.030, subdivision (a). 
The Opposing Parties
also assert that “there is absolutely nothing in Byers that stands for
the proposition that defendant is entitled to discovery into protected work
product.” (Opp’n at p. 15:18-20.) In Byers, the Court of Appeal noted as
follows:
 
“The Byerses claim that the trial court
abused its discretion by ordering an in camera review of attorney invoices.
Their argument overstates what the trial court actually ordered and is
premature given the current stage of the proceedings.
 
The relevant portion of the order
states: ‘Byers’ counsel may redact the documents to remove references that
counsel believes reflect attorney work product, i.e., information that may
give an indication of counsel’s impressions, conclusions, opinions, or legal
research or theories, or as to consultants or expert witnesses for which the
attorney work product doctrine has not been waived by Byers’ counsel. [¶]
… [¶] USAA GIC may challenge the redactions made by counsel for Byers, and
such redactions will be evaluated by the Court in an in camera hearing.’
 
The Byerses have not yet produced any
responsive documents, and it is unknown the extent to which they may redact any
responsive documents and whether USAA will seek to challenge the redactions.
Thus, the trial court’s order regarding in camera review is conditioned upon
redactions and subsequent challenges to the redactions. Given the undeveloped
record, the issue framed by the Byerses is speculative and premature. Further,
the issue of the propriety of conducting an in camera review of potentially
redacted documents and the proper scope of such a review was not presented to
the trial court. When the trial court made its ruling at the hearing on USAA’s
motion to compel, it mentioned the possibility of conducting an in camera
review at some point in the future and neither party raised any objections to
such a proceeding. If the Byerses produce redacted documents in response
to USAA’s document requests and if USAA challenges any redactions, the parties
may then present their positions to the trial court regarding whether, and to
what extent, it may review the redacted material in camera.” (Byers v. Superior Court, supra, 101 Cal.App.5th at p. 1014.) 
            The
Moving Parties appear to acknowledge that the work product doctrine may apply
to certain testimony sought here. In the reply, the Moving Parties state that
“[i]n fact, to the extent any question calls for mental impressions, the
attorneys could assert work product and Duane Morris would not be entitled to
the information.” (Reply at p. 3:10-12.) 
Based on the foregoing,
the Court finds that the Opposing Parties have met their burden on the third
prong by demonstrating that the depositions of Mr. Zelener and Mr. Aronson
appear to seek information covered by the work product doctrine. 
In light of the
foregoing, the Court denies the Moving Parties’ motion for an order compelling the
deposition of Robert Aronson and a further deposition of Howard Zelener.[6]
Lastly, the Opposing
Parties seek an award of monetary sanctions. In support of such request, the
Opposing Parties cite to Code of Civil Procedure
section 2031.300, subdivision (c), which provides that “[e]xcept as
provided in subdivision (d), the court shall impose a monetary sanction under
Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010)
against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a
motion to compel a response to a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or
sampling, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of
the sanction unjust.” But the instant motion is not a motion to compel a
response to a demand for inspection. Thus, the Court does not see how Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.300, subdivision (c)
is applicable here. The Court does not find that the Opposing Parties have demonstrated
that the Court should award them sanctions here. Thus, the Court denies such
request. 
Conclusion
            Based on the foregoing, the Moving Parties’ motion is denied. The Opposing Parties’ request
for sanctions is denied. 
The Opposing Parties are ordered to provide notice of this order.
 
DATED:  October 16, 2024                     ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court


