  Case Number:  23STCP02132    Hearing Date:   January 6, 2025    Dept:  82 Michael Sullivan                                                       Case No. 23STCP02132
 
v.
                                                                    Hearing:
January 6, 2025
                                                                        Location:
Stanley Mosk Courthouse
California
Department of                                        Department:
82                                    
         Industrial Relations                                                 Judge:
Stephen I. Goorvitch
 
                                    
Order Denying Petition for Writ of Mandate
            
INTRODUCTION

 
Petitioner
Michael Sullivan (“Petitioner”) seeks a writ of mandate under the California
Public Records Act (the “CPRA”) directing Respondent California Department of
Industrial Relations (“Respondent” or the “DIR”) to produce decisions of the
Workers’ Compensation Appeals Board (the “WCAB”).  Petitioner seeks these decisions in order to
publish “Sullivan on Comp,” a California workers’ compensation law research
platform and educational resource, which is a for-profit website with 9,000
subscribers.  
 
The
DIR has produced decisions after August 24, 2008, which were maintained in
electronic form.  Rather, this dispute
concerns Petitioner’s request for decisions between January 1, 2002, to August
24, 2008, which are only maintained in hard copy form within the respective
case files.  The case files were sent to
long-term storage at the State Records Center. 
Both sides agree that the DIR is entitled to reimbursement for copying
costs under Title 8, California Code of Regulations, section 9990(a), which is
approximately $6,590.  However, Respondent
is also requesting reimbursement for the costs to locate and ship 39,536 boxes under
Title 8, California Code of Regulations, section 9990(d), which is
approximately $750,000.  Petitioner seeks
a writ to compel production of the documents without paying this cost.  
 
In
fact, the DIR is entitled to reimbursement for these costs under section 9990(d).  In the alternative, the court finds that the
balancing of interests supports Respondent’s decision not to produce the
requested documents.  It would be
incredibly burdensome—and expensive—to gather and produce the requested documents.  At the same time, all of the decisions at
issue are available through other proprietary websites, like Westlaw and Lexis.  Essentially, Petitioner is asking the
taxpayers to fund his for-profit website. 
Petitioner created his own problem by making such a voluminous request.  Therefore, the petition for writ of mandate
is denied.     
             
BACKGROUND 
 
A.        Petitioner’s Background
 
Petitioner
is the General Managing Partner of the law firm Michael Sullivan &
Associates and has been practicing worker’s compensation law for 33 years.  (Sullivan Decl. 
¶¶ 2, 6.)  In addition to his law practice, Petitioner
is the author of a worker’s compensation law treatise called “Sullivan on Comp,”
a California workers’ compensation law research platform and educational
resource.  (Ibid.)
B.        The California Department of Industrial
Relations 
 
The
DIR is a state agency responsible for labor-related issues.  Within DIR are two separate divisions related
to workers’ compensation: the Division of Workers’ Compensation (the “DWC”) and
the WCAB.  (Spitzer Decl. ¶¶ 2-3.)  The DWC is the administrative body empowered
to hear and decide workers’ compensation disputes, essentially an
administrative trial court.  The WCAB,
which is separate from the DWC, is a seven-member administrative board that operates
as an administrative appellate court for workers’ compensation matters.  (Brand Decl. ¶ 2, Exh. A at 17, 23, 32;
Spitzer Decl. ¶ 2.)   
 
Generally,
worker’s compensation appeals are decided by panels of three WCAB members.  However, some matters are decided by all
seven members and are designated en banc.  (Sullivan Decl. ¶ 5.)   
 
While not binding,
panel decisions are citable, and the WCAB and DWC Judges may consider panel
decisions to the extent that it finds their reasoning persuasive, particularly
on issues of construction of statutory language or where the trier of fact is
presented with 
an unusual set of
facts. En banc WCAB decisions are binding on all WCAB panels and DWC
judges.  
 
(Schmitz Decl. ¶ 10; see also Sullivan
Decl. ¶¶ 4-6.)
 
As
part of its responsibilities, the DWC manages and stores each individual
worker’s compensation adjudication file (the “Adjudication File”) at its
offices throughout the state of California. 
The Adjudication File is a “complete record” of an individual worker’s
claim for workers’ compensation benefits and includes, among other records, any
decision issued by the WCAB with respect to the worker’s claim for
benefits.  (Spitzer Decl. ¶¶ 3-4.)   Records that are in the Adjudication File
contain private and confidential information of the claimants, including date
of birth, personal contact information, social security numbers, employment
history, and detailed medical histories and records.  (Id. ¶ 5.)  
 
Up until August 2008, the DWC and the WCAB
stored the Adjudication Files in paper form. 
When a matter was appealed to the WCAB, the entire paper Adjudication
File was shipped from the local DWC office to the WCAB office in San Francisco.
 After the WCAB issued its decision,
either as a three-member panel or en banc, the written decision was
filed in the Adjudication File, which was then returned to the DWC local office
managing that case for further proceedings and maintenance and storage.  (Brand Decl. ¶ 2, Exh. A at 27-32; Spitzer
Decl. ¶ 6; Schmitz Decl. ¶ 7.)  The WCAB
does not maintain copies of the Adjudication Files after they are transferred
back to the DWC.  (Schmitz Decl. ¶
8.)  
 
Adjudication Files for claims from 2002
through August 25, 2008, are still maintained in hard copy form.  These case files were initially stored at the
local DWC office. (Brand Decl. Exh. A at 46-48.)  Periodically, closed case files were gathered
from the local DWC offices and sent to the State Records Center (“SRC”) for
long-term storage.  (Id. Exh. A at
47-48.)  The SRC is operated by the
California Department of General Services (the “DGS”), which is a separate
agency than the DIR.  (Spitzer Decl. ¶
6.)  To send records to the SRC, the DWC
completed a document called a “Transfer List” which listed the documents by
case number that were being sent to the SRC.  (Brand Decl. Exh. A at 54-62; Ransom Decl. ¶
2, Exh. A; Spitzer Decl. ¶ 6.)  “Such
files are retrieved by reference to the adjudication number assigned to the
case and/or the name of the injured worker whose claim is being adjudicated.
This file storage and retrieval system . . . [is] effective if responding to
requests for records from injured workers [or] their representatives.”  (Spitzer Decl. ¶ 9; see also Brand
Decl. Exh. A at 26-27, 63, 73.)  If a
requestor “doesn't have a case number or the name and birth date of the injured
worker, they can't access the paper-only panel decision from SRC.”  (Brand Decl. Exh. A at 73.)  
 
On August 25, 2008, the DWC began storing
all new Adjudication Files in an electronic record keeping system, the
Electronic Adjudication Management System (the “EAMS”), instead of storing them
in paper hard copy files.  (Spitzer Decl.
¶ 7; Brand Decl. Exh. A at 27.)  The
public records held in the EAMS are no longer at issue in this writ petition
since they were already produced to Petitioner, as discussed below.
 
C.        The First CPRA Request
 
            On
or about August 31, 2022, Petitioner sent a CPRA request (the “First CPRA
Request”) to the WCAB for the following records:
 
All panel decisions of the Workers’ Compensation Appeal
Board, including either the panel’s actual order, decision and/or award and
opinion following a Petition for Reconsideration or Removal, and where
incorporated in the order, decision and/or award, the respective Workers’
Compensation Judge’s Report and Recommendation, from January 1, 2002, to
September 30, 2019. 
 
(Pet. ¶ 22, Exh. A.)     
 
On
September 12, 2022, Anne Schmitz, the Secretary and Deputy Commissioner for
WCAB, responded to the First CPRA Request in an email stating, in relevant part:
“The Appeals Board does not maintain a central compendium or library of its
decisions either virtually or in a paper form. Therefore, the Appeals Board is
unable to produce decisions for the entire period from January 1, 2002, through
September 30, 2019….”  (Id. ¶ 24,
Exh. B.)  The response recommended that
the requestor “explore
other options for obtaining the records you are seeking,” e.g.,
obtaining copies from the Division of Worker’s Compensation (the “DWC”).  (Ibid.; see also Ransom Decl. ¶
4, Exh. C.)
 
            On
October 19, 2022, Petitioner’s counsel and counsel for the DWC, Susan Marsh,
spoke by telephone and discussed the First CPRA Request.  In an email dated October 20, 2022,
memorializing that conversation, Marsh requested clarification from
Petitioner’s counsel “of exactly what panel decisions are being
requested.”  (Pet. ¶ 26, Exh. D.)  On October 26, 2022, Petitioner’s counsel
stated in an email that Petitioner is requesting “all” panel decisions as 


 
defined in a list provided by the
DWC and WCAB.  (Ransom Decl. ¶ 7, Exh.
E.)  Specifically, Petitioner clarified that he
seeks the following WCAB opinions and records: 
 
1. Opinion and
Decision After Reconsideration 2. Opinion and Order Denying Petition for
Disqualification 3. Opinion and Order Denying Petition for Reconsideration 4.
Opinion and Order Denying Petition for Removal 5. Opinion and Order Dismissing
Petition for Disqualification 6. Opinion and Order Dismissing Petition for
Reconsideration 7. Opinion and Order Dismissing Petition for Removal 8. Opinion
and Order Granting and Decision After Reconsideration 9. Opinion and Order
Granting and Decision After Removal 10. Opinion and Order Granting Petition for
Disqualification 11. Opinion and Order Granting Petition for Reconsideration
12. Opinion and Order Granting Petition for Removal … 13. WCJ’s Report and
Recommendation, where that is adopted by the WCAB as all or part of its
decision.  
 
(Ransom
Decl. Exh. E.)  On or about November 16, 2022, Marsh and Petitioner’s
counsel met-and-conferred by telephone, and Marsh identified “970-plus”
transfer lists evidencing WCAB case files that were moved from district offices
to the SRC.  (Pet. ¶ 33; Ans. ¶ 33;
Spitzer Decl. ¶ 11.) 
 
D.        The Second CPRA Request
 
On
or about November 18, 2022, Petitioner, through counsel, sent a CPRA request (the
“Second CPRA Request”) to the DWR for the following records: “[The]
approximately 970 ‘transfer lists,’ discussed during the November 16 meeting,
which are used by the agency to transfer paper records from local offices
across California to the main records center in Sacramento, California.”  (Pet. ¶ 34, Exh. H; Ransom Decl. ¶ 9.)  As summarized by Associate Chief DWC Judge
Jamie Spitzer:
 
DWC responded that it had narrowed the original estimate of
970 Transfer Lists to 398 Transfer Lists that contained boxes of records with
Adjudication Files from the relevant 2002-2008 time-period. Petitioner’ [sic]
counsel subsequently confirmed that it wanted the relevant 398 Transfer Lists,
which DWC subsequently delivered to Petitioner’s counsel on December 2, 2022,
and again on December 15, 2022.  
 
(Spitzer Decl. ¶ 12.)
 
E.         WCAB Panel Decision from 2008 through
2019
 
            From
January 2023 to March 2024, Respondent produced responsive, non-exempt records
maintained in the EAMS, which contains workers’ compensation cases opened from
approximately August 25, 2008, to the present. 
(Spitzer Decl. Decl. ¶ 13.)  Petitioner
remitted payment of $4,080 to Respondent for “data extraction” related to his CPRA
Requests.  (Pet. ¶ 36; Ans. ¶ 36.)  Petitioner’s
counsel acknowledges that Respondent has produced “19,822 WCAB panel decisions
from 2008 through September 30, 2019 over 14 months and after payment of
administrative costs in the amount of $4,080.” (Ahn Decl., dated July 3, 2024 at
¶ 5; see also Spitzer Decl. ¶¶ 13-14.) 
In his writ briefing, Petitioner has not argued or shown that Respondent
failed to produce responsive records for the period August 25, 2008, and after.
 
F.         WCAB Panel Decision from 2002 to 2008
 
To
date, Respondent has not produced the WCAB panel decisions for the period
January 1, 2002, to August 24, 2008, which are stored only in paper form at the
SRC (hereinafter “Legacy Files” or the “Panel Decisions”).  (See Opposition to Petition for Writ
of Mandate (“Oppo.”) 9-10; Spitzer Decl. ¶¶ 15-18.)  In an email dated November 27, 2023,
Respondent’s counsel, Keith Wurster, informed Petitioner that a production of
all remaining non-exempt, responsive records for the First CPRA Request—i.e.,
the WCAB decisions from January 1, 2002, through August 24, 2008—would take
approximately 12 years and cost Petitioner approximately $755,074.  (Wurster Decl. ¶ 8, Exh. 5.)  Specifically, Wurster stated as follows:
 
As you know
Respondent has completed the sampling of a review of hard copy records that are
stored at the State Records Center (“SRC”). These results are summarized in the
discovery responses but I include them in this email with some analysis so we
can confer on next steps with regard to the hard copy records. 
 
In the sampling,
Respondent pulled twelve boxes of files from the SRC that contained records
from the relevant time period. The shipping charges for these 12 boxes, which
is at a discounted rate, was $100.08, which averages $8.34/box. Once the boxes
were obtained from the SRC it took nearly 6 hours, ranging from 5 minutes to 30
minutes per box, to pull and review the 251 case adjudication files found in
those boxes. One responsive record was located that consisted of 2 pages and it
did not require redaction. Given that this sampling had such a low yield of
responsive documents, the time taken for this review is expected be on the low
end of the time needed to review the average box of potentially responsive
records. 
 
Knowing that
39,536 boxes stored at the SRC have been identified as potentially having
responsive records, and that Respondent has identified another 2,805 boxes
worth of case files located at District Offices that are may have responsive
records, the total number of boxes to be reviewed is at least 42,341. Based on
the sampling performed, the shipping charges for the boxes that need to be
reviewed are estimated to be $353,123.94. In addition, it will take at least .5
hours to review each box for responsive records, thus it will take at least
21,170.5 hours just to review all of those boxes just to locate responsive
records. It would take one trained staff member, working 1776 hours a year
(taking into account holidays, projected sick and vacation days), 11.92 years
to complete the review of the boxes. Thus, the estimated cost for just staff
time to review the boxes is 12 years of salary and benefits for one employee
qualified to do this review. The cost for this staff is estimated to be
$828,924.00 (12 years x annual salary and benefits of $69,077). 
 
In addition there
is a $10 charge per file to locate and prepare the files for transfer to
Respondent for review. I note that given that there is no way to locate the
responsive files that Petitioner is seeking without reviewing them, Respondent
will be charging $10 a box rather than per file, which is a substantial
reduction in potential charges.  Thus Petitioner will be charged $395,360.00 just to retrieve
the 39,536 boxes from SRC and there will be additional estimated shipping costs
of $353,123.94 – thus Mr. Sullivan will be charged, at a minimum, estimated
costs of $748,483.94, just to have the files that might contain responsive
material shipped to Respondent so they can be reviewed. All of these costs are
chargeable to Petitioner pursuant to 8 C.C.R. § 9990 (d). Such costs must be
paid prior to the request and delivery of the files pursuant to 8 C.C.R. §
9991.
 
In addition, there
will be copying costs associated with the copying of the hard copy records.
Pursuant to 8 C.C.R. § 9990 (a), Petitioner will be charged $1/page for each
page of paper records that needs to be copied…. So all told for the paper
records Mr. Sullivan will pay $755,074 to obtain 3,295 responsive records –
that is a cost of nearly $230 per responsive record.
 
This does not take
into account staff time needed for review, copying, redacting, and uploading
the responsive records into an electronic database for delivery to Petitioner.
Given that the volume of paper records that might be located that are
responsive to the PRA request is unknown at this time, it is premature to
provide an accurate estimate of time or costs associated with the tasks of
reviewing, copying, redacting, and uploading responsive records into an
electronic database for transfer to Petitioner. But at a minimum, the costs to
Respondent, even taking into account the costs that will be borne by Mr.
Sullivan as described above, Respondent will have to dedicate staff time and
facilities in excess of $828,924.00…. When you factor in the other costs for
facilities and storage of records during the review period, and the additional
time to review, redact, and prepare the copied records for production, which
could take thousands of additional hours of staff time – the public interest in
not requiring Respondent to have bear the burden and expense to locate and
produce copies of responsive paper records outweighs the limited value to the
public of obtaining copies of roughly 3,300 “panel decisions” that are 15 to 31
years old.
 
(Wurster Decl. Exh. 5.)  
 
            In its opposition papers, Respondent
maintains that the initial cost to Petitioner for production of the Legacy
Files is $395,360, plus “shipping costs,” based on a $10 statutory fee to
transfer each of the 39,536 boxes at the SRC to Respondent’s offices for review.  (Spitzer Decl. ¶ 16 and Oppo. 9-10; see Lab.
Code, § 127(a) and Cal. Code Regs., tit. 8, § 9990(a) and (d).)   However,
as analyzed below, Respondent now estimates that it will take about three years
and four people working fulltime to review the 39,536 boxes and locate all the
panel decisions for the period January 1, 2002, to
August 24, 2008.  (Spitzer Decl. ¶¶ 17-18.)
 
THE
CALIFORNIA PUBLIC RECORDS ACT
 
Pursuant to the CPRA (Gov. Code § 7921.000, et
seq.)[1],
individual citizens have a right to access government records.  In enacting the CPRA, the California
Legislature declared that “access to information concerning the conduct of the
people’s business is a fundamental and necessary right of every person in this
state.”  (Gov. Code, § 7921.000; see also
County of Los Angeles v. Superior Court (2012)
211 Cal.App.4th 57, 63.) 
Article
1, Section 3(b) of the Constitution affirms that “[t]he people have the right
of access to information concerning the conduct of the people’s business.” The
Constitution mandates that the CPRA be “broadly construed,” while any statute
“that limits the right of access” must be “narrowly construed.”  (See Nat’l Lawyers Guild v. City of
Hayward (2020) 9 Cal.5th 488, 507.)  The CPRA “does not allow limitations on access to a public record based
upon the purpose for which the record is being requested, if the record is
otherwise subject to disclosure.” (Gov. Code § 7921.300.)  “Any reasonably segregable portion of a
record shall be available for inspection by any person requesting the record
after deletion of the portions that are exempted by law.”  (Gov. Code § 7922.525(b).)  
 
To
establish an agency has a duty to disclose under the CPRA, the petitioner must show that: (1) the record qualifies as a public record; and (2) the
record is in the possession of the agency. 
(See Anderson-Barker v Sup.Ct. (2019) 31 Cal.App.5th 528,
538.)  Once that initial burden is met,
the agency has the burden to prove “that a particular record is exempt from
disclosure.”  (Sacramento County Employees’ Retirement System v. Superior Court
(2013) 195 Cal.App.4th 440, 453.)  
 
EVIDENTIARY ISSUES 
 
Petitioner’s evidentiary objections
to the declarations of Anne Schmitz, Keith Wurster, and Jamie Spitzer are overruled.  Respondent’s evidentiary objections to the
declarations of Michael Sullivan, Jennifer Ransom, and Alexander Brand are all
overruled.
 
DISCUSSION 
 
A.        The
Panel Decisions Are Public Records in the DIR’s Possession and Control
 
The CPRA defines public records as “any writing containing information
relating to the conduct of the public’s business prepared, owned, used, or
retained by any state or local agency regardless of physical form or
characteristics.”  (Gov. Code § 7920.530(a).)  In the context of the CPRA, the term
“possession” has been defined to mean both actual and constructive possession.
(City of San Jose v. Superior Court (2017) 2 Cal.5th 608, 623.) “[A]n
agency has constructive possession of records if it has the right to control
the records, either directly or through another person.”  (Ibid.) 
 
Here, the Panel Decisions for the period
January 1, 2002, to August 24, 2008, were prepared by the WCAB, a government
agency, and have persuasive, if not precedential, value for other WCAB panels
and DWC judges that rule on worker’s compensation cases.  (See Sullivan Decl. ¶¶ 5-6; Schmitz
Decl. ¶ 10.)  As such, the Panel
Decisions clearly relate “to
the conduct of the public’s business.” 
The Panel Decisions are also in the possession and control of the
DIR.  Specifically, even though the Panel Decisions are physically stored at the
SRC, the DIR has constructive possession of the records since it may cause the
SRC to return them to the DIR.  (Brand
Decl. Exh. A at 75.)  Accordingly, as
Respondent concedes, the Panel Decisions are public records under the CPRA.  (See Oppo. 13:26.)

B.        Under the
CPRA, Petitioner May Challenge the Lawfulness of a Statutory Fee, But Not the
Manner in Which the DIR Maintains its Records
 
Respondent asserts that a
determination of the lawfulness of statutory fees imposed by a government
agency to produce public records “is not authorized in PRA enforcement proceedings.”  (Oppo. 12:15.)  The court disagrees.  The CPRA permits agencies to charge “a
statutory fee if applicable.”  (Gov. Code
§ 7922.530(a).)  Under the CPRA, a
requestor “may institute a proceeding for injunctive or
declarative relief, or for a writ of mandate, in any court of competent
jurisdiction, to enforce that person’s right under this division to inspect or
receive a copy of any public record or class of public records.”  (Gov. Code § 7293.000.)  In
a CPRA action, the court must determine whether “certain public records are
being improperly withheld from a member of the public.”  (Gov. Code § 7923.100 [emphasis added].)  Pursuant to sections 7293.00 and 7923.100, the
court may determine the lawfulness of the statutory fees imposed by Respondent for
the public records requested by Petitioner in this petition for writ of mandate.  (See,
e.g., North County Parents Organization v. Department of Education (1994)
23 Cal.App.4th 144 [holding that without a statutory fee, the Department of
Education could only recover direct costs of copying]; Shippen v. Department
of Motor Vehicles (1984) 161 Cal.App.3d 1119 [holding that the Department
of Motor Vehicles may charge a statutory fee in excess of the actual costs of
making copies following a CPRA request seeking copies of records].)
 
Respondent also contends that “Petitioner’s
argument that DIR’s failure to maintain its records in a manner that would
provide quick, easy, and inexpensive access to all the records he is requesting
is outside the scope of a public agency’s obligations under the PRA.”  (Oppo. 15.) 
On this point, the court agrees with Respondent.  The CPRA is not a document retention
statute and “does not undertake to prescribe what type of information a public
agency may gather, nor to designate the type of records such an agency may keep.”  (Los Angeles Police Department v. Superior
Court (1977) 65 Cal.App.3d 661, 668.) 
Rather, the “sole function” of the CPRA “is to provide for disclosure”
of public records that are maintained by public agencies.  (Ibid.)  Accordingly, to the extent Petitioner contends
that Respondent could store its records more efficiently or in manner that
allows greater public access, or that Respondent gave “special treatment to the
legal publishers (e.g. Lexis and WestLaw),” the court need not address such
contentions in this ruling.  (See e.g.
Opening Brief (“OB”) 11-12.)  
 
C.        The DIR Has
Complied with the CPRA by Offering to Produce the Panel Decisions Subject to
Payment of the Applicable Statutory Fees 
 
Title 8 of the California Code of Regulations, section
9990, permits the DIR to “charge and collect fees for copies of records or
documents.”  (8 C.C.R. § 9990.)  
 
Fees will be charged and collected by the Division as follows
. . .  For inspection of a case file not
stored in the place where the inspection is requested, ten dollars ($10) plus
any postage or delivery costs, except when requested by an injured employee or
his or her attorney or his or her representative of record.
 
(8 C.C.R. § 9990(d).)  Accordingly, in
the email dated November 27, 2023, of attorney Keith Wurster, Respondent asserted
that Petitioner would be charged the following statutory fees:
 
Petitioner will be charged $395,360.00 just to retrieve the
39,536 boxes from SRC and there will be additional estimated shipping costs of
$353,123.94 – thus Mr. Sullivan will be charged, at a minimum, estimated costs
of $748,483.94, just to have the files that might contain responsive material
shipped to Respondent so they can be reviewed. All of these costs are
chargeable to Petitioner pursuant to 8 C.C.R. § 9990 (d). Such costs must be
paid prior to the request and delivery of the files pursuant to 8 C.C.R. §
9991.
 
In addition, there
will be copying costs associated with the copying of the hard copy records.
Pursuant to 8 C.C.R. § 9990 (a), Petitioner will be charged $1/page for each
page 
of paper records
that needs to be copied…. So all told for the paper records Mr. Sullivan will
pay $755,074 to obtain 3,295 responsive records….
 
(Wurtser
Decl. Exh. 5.)  All of these costs are authorized
under section 9990(d).  Although the DIR
is authorized to charge $10 per file, the DIR gave Petitioner the benefit of the
doubt and imposed the fee per box, which is $395,360 based upon 39,536
boxes.  The DIR is authorized to charge
for shipping costs—$353,123.94—which is not unreasonable on its face given that
Petitioner is asking the DIR to ship almost 40,000 boxes of documents from the SRC.  The DIR is authorized to charge a copying fee
of $1 per page for responsive records and estimates that the requested
documents will be 6,590 pages. 
Accordingly, the DIR has estimated that these fees will be $755,074.  All of these fees fall squarely within the
regulation.  
 
            D.        Section
9990(d) applies to Petitioner’s CPRA Request 
   
 
Petitioner argues that section
9990(d)—which governs costs “for inspection”—does not apply to this issue.  Petitioner argues that the DIR may only
charge him the costs of copying the records—an estimated $6,950—under section
9990(a).  Section
9990 is authorized by Labor Code section 127(a), which provides that the DWC’s
administrative director “may … charge and collect fees for copies of papers and
records, for certified copies of official documents and orders or of the
evidence taken or proceedings had, for transcripts of testimony, and for
inspection of case files not stored in the place where the inspection is
requested.”  Section 127(a) further
provides that “[t]he administrative director shall fix those fees in an amount
sufficient to recover the actual costs of furnishing the services.”  These are “statutory fees” under Government
Code section 7922.530(a).  (See Shippen,
supra, 161 Cal.App.3d at 1125.)  The
issue is whether Petitioner is required to pay the statutory fees both for
“copying” and “inspection” of the Panel Decisions.
            
1.         Respondent
Properly Required Petitioner to Pay the Inspection Costs
 
Whether Respondent may charge
inspection fees and shipping costs pursuant to section 9990(d) presents a
question of statutory construction.  
 
The rules
governing statutory construction are well settled. We begin with the
fundamental premise that the objective of statutory interpretation is to
ascertain and effectuate legislative intent.  To determine legislative intent, we turn first
to the words of the statute, giving them their usual and ordinary meaning.
[Citations.] When the language of a statute is clear, we need go no further.
However, when the language is susceptible of more than one reasonable
interpretation, we look to a variety of extrinsic aids, including the
ostensible objects to be achieved, the evils to be remedied, the legislative
history, public policy, contemporaneous administrative construction, and the
statutory scheme of which the statute is a part.
 
(Nolan v. City
of Anaheim (2004) 33 Cal.4th 335, 340, internal citations omitted.)  Significantly in this case, the court must
give the statute a “reasonable construction.”
 
Our decisions have long recognized
that a court’s “overriding purpose” in construing a statute is “to give the
statute a reasonable construction
conforming to [the Legislature’s] intent [citation] ... .” ’ [Citation.] ‘The
court will apply common sense to the language at hand and interpret the statute
to make it workable and reasonable.’ [Citation.] ‘When a statute is capable of
more than one construction, “ ‘[w]e must ... give the provision a reasonable
and commonsense interpretation consistent with the apparent purpose and
intention of the lawmakers, practical rather than technical in nature, which
upon application will result in wise policy rather than mischief or absurdity.
 
(People v. Burgess (2022) 86 Cal.App.5th
375, 382, alterations in original.)  
 
The court exercises its independent judgment in
interpreting a statute an administrative agency is responsible for enforcing, “taking
into account and respecting the agency’s interpretation of its meaning.”  (Housing
Partners I, Inc. v. Duncan (2012) 206 Cal.App.4th 1335, 1343, citations
omitted; see also Yamaha Corp. of America
v. State Bd. Of Equalization (1998) 19 Cal.4th 1, 11.)  How much weight to accord an agency’s construction is “situational,” and
depends on the circumstances.  (See American Coatings Assn. v. South Coast Air
Quality Management Dist. (2012) 54 Cal.4th 446, 461-462.)  However, the court does not defer to an
agency’s interpretation of law simply because a statute is ambiguous.  (See Loper Bright Enterprises v. Raimondo (2024)
603 U.S. 369.)  These same rules apply to
the interpretation of a regulation.  (See
Blumenfeld v. San Francisco Bay Conservation etc. Com. (1974) 43 Cal.App.3d
50, 59.)  
 
Petitioner argues that section 9990(d) does not
apply because he did not request to inspect the paper records stored at the SRC.  Petitioner’s argument is not persuasive.  The court must consider a regulatory
provision within the context of the entire regulation and must avoid interpretations
that lead to “absurd results.”  (See California
Highway Patrol v. Superior Court (2008) 158 Cal.App.4th 726, 736.)  The intention of section 9990 is to
compensate the DIR for the costs of locating and copying responsive records.  Specifically, section 9990(d) is intended to
reimburse those costs when “a case file [is] not stored in the place where the
inspection is requested,” i.e., the place where the document would be pulled
from the file and copied.  Limiting
section 9990(d) to requests to inspect DIR records at the SRC would lead to absurd
results.  The requestor cannot inspect
the records at the SRC, and the DIR cannot access and copy the records at the
SRC.  (Spitzer Decl. ¶ 8; see also Brand
Decl. Exh. A at 73-75.)  Thus, under
Petitioner’s interpretation, when records are held at the SRC, a record
requester may avoid the $10 cost for inspection simply by requesting copies of
the records.  Instead, section 9990(d) is
reasonably interpreted to apply when the requestor has made a request for
public records that requires a transfer of a case file from the SRC (or some
other storage facility that is not accessible by the requestor or the DIR staff)
to the DIR’s offices for an “inspection” either by the requestor or the DIR
staff.  
 
In reply, Petitioner cites Government Code
section 7922.530(b) and argues that if he “had made the request for inspection
of records and at the offices of Respondent used his cell phone to take
pictures of the records, Respondent would not have been able to charge him one
cent.”  (Reply 11.)  This argument was not raised in the opening
brief and Petitioner does not show good cause to raise it for the first time in
reply.  “The
salutary rule is that points raised in a reply brief for the first time will
not be considered unless good cause is shown for the failure to present them
before.”  (Balboa Ins. Co. v. Aguirre (1983)
149 Cal.App.3d 1002, 1010.)    
 
Regardless, this argument is not persuasive on the
merits.  Section 7922.530(b) provides as follows: 
 
A requester who inspects a disclosable record on the premises of the
agency has the right to use the requester's equipment on those premises,
without being charged any fees or costs, to photograph or otherwise copy or
reproduce the record in a manner that does not require the equipment to make
physical contact with the record….
 
Here, as noted, Petitioner has not requested to
inspect the public records at issue at the SRC. 
Nor has Petitioner shown that an inspection could occur at the SRC.  Rather, he has requested that the
Adjudication Files be transferred from the SRC to the DIR’s offices and then
reviewed and copied by the DIR’s staff.  In
such circumstances, section 7922.530(b) does not apply.  
 
Based on the foregoing, Respondent properly
required Petitioner to pay the $10 fee pursuant to section 9990(d) for
inspection of “a case file not stored in the place where the inspection is
requested.”  Petitioner has not disputed that
production of the Panel Decisions will require review of 39,536 boxes
stored at the SRC, as concluded by Respondent. 
(See OB 13-17.)[2]  Accordingly, the court finds that Respondent
has properly demanded that Petitioner pay a statutory fee of $395,360.00 to retrieve the Adjudication Files from the SRC.  Respondent properly withheld the requested
public records because Petitioner has not paid the applicable statutory fees.  (Gov.
Code § 7922.530(a).)
 
2.         Respondent
Properly Required Petitioner to Pay the Shipping Costs 
 
In the email dated November 27,
2023, Respondent’s counsel asserted that Petitioner would be charged estimated
shipping costs of $353,123.94 pursuant to section 9990(d).  (Wurtser Decl. Exh. 5.)  That estimate was based on $8.34 per box,
which was the average shipping cost for the 12 boxes shipped from the SRC in
the sampling agreed to by Petitioner and Respondent.  (Id. ¶ 8 and Exh. 5.)  Petitioner
does not argue that Respondent unreasonably estimated these  shipping costs.  Petitioner
also cites no authority that Respondent is required to determine the exact
amount of shipping costs prior to searching for public records responsive to a
voluminous CPRA request of this nature. 
(See also Wurster Decl ¶ 9 [stating that “the shipping
charges and the copying costs would be assessed after the exact amounts were
known”].)  Accordingly, the court finds
that Respondent has properly demanded that Petitioner pay a statutory fee of $353,123.94.  Respondent properly withheld the requested
public records because Petitioner has not paid the applicable statutory fees.  (Gov.
Code § 7922.530(a).)
 
E.         The
Balancing of Interests Supports Non-Disclosure of the Panel Decisions  
 
In the alternative, the court finds
that the balancing of interests supports Respondent’s decision not to produce
the requested documents.  The catchall
exemption in Government Code section 7922.000 “allows a government agency to withhold records if it can demonstrate that, on the facts of a
particular case, the public interest served by withholding the records clearly
outweighs the public interest served by disclosure.”  (City
of San Jose v. Superior Court (1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 1008, 1017.)  “The burden of proof is on the proponent of
nondisclosure, who must demonstrate a ‘clear overbalance’ on the side of
confidentiality.”  (Id. at
1018.)  Because the public has an
interest in the cost and efficiency of government, a public agency’s expense
and inconvenience associated with making a record available to the requestor may
be factored into this balancing.  (See
American Civil Liberties Union
Foundation v. Deukmejian (1982) 32 Cal.3d 440, 452.) “[A] request which
compels the production of a huge volume of material may be objectionable as
unduly burdensome.  Records requests, however, inevitably impose some
burden on government agencies. An agency is obliged to comply so long as the
record can be located with reasonable effort.” 
(California First Amendment
Coalition v. Sup.Ct. (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 159, 165-166.)  “In assigning weight to
the general public interest in disclosure, courts should look to the ‘nature of
the information’ and how disclosure of that information contributes to the
public’s understanding of government.”  (Humane Society of the United States v. Sup.
Ct. (2013) 214 Cal.App.4th 1233, 1268.) 

 
 Here, Petitioner seeks disclosure of Panel
Decisions from January 1, 2002, to August 24, 2008.  Even the most recent of these decisions will
be over 16 years old.  WCAB panel
decisions that are more than 16 years old “may not be as persuasive an
authority as a more recent decision involving current law.”  (Schmitz Decl. ¶ 10.)  Significantly, Petitioner acknowledges that
these Panel Decisions are already available on Lexis or Westlaw.  (Sullivan Decl. ¶ 6.)  Also, any persons with a case number or the
name of the injured worker can easily request a copy of these hard-copy records
pursuant to the CPRA.  (Spitzer Decl. ¶ 9;
Brand Decl. Exh. A at 73.)  Finally, Petitioner
seeks disclosure of the Panel Decisions to support his for-profit
business.  (Sullivan Decl. ¶ 6 [nothing
that Sullivan on Comp has 9,000 subscribers].)  While there is some public interest in
disclosure of the Panel Decisions, that public interest is not strong.
 
The public interest in the Panel Decisions
is clearly outweighed by the public interest in avoiding the excessive burden
of searching for and producing the records. 
 Based on sampling, which was
approved by Petitioner’s counsel (see Wurster Decl. ¶¶ 4-7 and
Exh. 4), Respondent estimates that it will take about three years and four
people working fulltime to review the 


 
39,536
boxes and locate all the panel decisions for
the period January 1, 2002, to August 24, 2008. 
Specifically, in his sworn declaration, DWC Associate Chief Judge Jamie
Spitzer states: 
 
Based on sampling
performed by DWC, which was proposed and approved by Petitioner’s counsel, it
is estimated that it will take at least .5 hours to review each box for
responsive records. This means it will take an estimated total of 21,170.5
hours to review all of the boxes to locate the responsive records. One trained
staff member working 1776 hour per year, would take 11.92 year to complete the
review of Legacy Files. The cost of one such staff member is estimated to be
$828,924 (12 years × an annual salary and benefits of $69,077.) Working with
these base estimates, if DWC were able to staff this project with 4 people
working fulltime, it would still take 2.98 years to locate the responsive
records in the Legacy Files (21,170.5 total hours ÷ (4 staff × 1776 annual
working hours.)) These estimates are likely on the low end of the actual time
this project is anticipated to take, because the sampling performed reviewed 12
boxes, which resulted in one responsive record that required minimal
redactions. DWC also estimates that since most workers’ compensation cases
settle, only 10% of the Adjudication Files are expected to have a panel decision.
Staffing this project with four staff members for three years is a significant
burden on DWC, but increasing the staffing beyond four would drastically
interfere with DWC’s routine operations by adversely impacting its ability to
timely respond to other PRA requests and to efficiently administer the workers’
compensation claims files it must manage on a daily basis…. Since DWC must pay
approximately $10 for the retrieval of each box from the SRC, it will cost DWC
approximately $395,360, the total cost to DWC to produce the remaining
requested records located in the Legacy Files would be at least $1,224,284
(which would be offset by $395,360 if Petitioner pays the statutory fees).
 
(Spitzer Decl. ¶ 17.)  Similar information about the estimated time
and cost of production was provided in Respondent’s response to Petitioner’s
special interrogatories, as well as Wurster’s email dated November 27, 2023.  (Brand Decl. Exh. D; Wurster Decl. Exh. 5.)  Having reviewed all the evidence, the court
credits Respondent’s estimates of the amount of employee time required to
produce the Panel Decisions.  The court
finds that requiring four DIR staff members workers to spend three years of
work—at taxpayer expense—to produce WCAB decisions that are already available
on Lexis and Westlaw, and that will be used to benefit a for-profit business, is
against the public interest.  The court
finds a “clear overbalance” on the side of non-disclosure.
 
Petitioner contends that his
personal motivations are not relevant because “once a public record is
disclosed to the requesting party, it must be made available for inspection by
the public in general.” (Reply 13, citing City of San Jose v. Superior Court
(1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 1008, 1018.)  Although
Petitioner’s purpose in seeking the records cannot be considered, see Gov.
Code § 7921.300, it appears relevant that production of the Panel Decisions to
Petitioner will not change the status quo in which worker’s compensation
practitioners pay to access the Panel Decisions.  In other words, Petitioner has not provided
any practical reason to believe that the Panel Decisions will be publicly
accessible for free if Respondent is ordered to produce them to Petitioner
under the CPRA.  In any event, the court
finds a clear overbalance on the side of non-disclosure even if the court
entirely disregards the evidence that Petitioner intends to use the Panel
Decisions to benefit a for-profit business. 

Petitioner relies heavily on Becerra v. Superior
Court (2020)
44 Cal.App.5th 897, 930-933 to argue that the public interests weigh for
disclosure of the Panel Decisions.  (OB
12-14.)  In Becerra, the real
parties in interest made CPRA requests for records from the State Attorney
General and Department of Justice under newly amended Penal Code section
832.7.  As summarized by the Court of
Appeal:
 
[T]he Legislature
amended Penal Code section 832.71 to recognize the right of the
public to know about incidents involving shootings by an officer or the use of
force by an officer that results in death or great bodily injury, as well as
sustained findings of sexual assault or dishonesty by an officer.  (Stats. 2018, ch. 988, §§ 1, 2 (Sen. Bill No.
1421), eff. Jan. 1, 2019.)  As
amended, section 832.7 specifies
that records pertaining to such incidents and findings are not confidential and
must be made available for public inspection pursuant to the CPRA.  
 
(Becerra,
supra, 44 Cal.App.5th at 910.)  
 
As
relevant to the instant case, the AG and DOJ opposed the CPRA requests based on
the catchall exemption.  The Court of
Appeal held that the AG and DOJ did not demonstrate a “clear overbalance on the
side of confidentiality.”  The court
reasoned: 
 
In making its
showing, the Department offered the two-page declaration of Michael Newman,
Senior Assistant Attorney General of the Department's Civil Rights Enforcement
Section. Newman represented there were six separate matters within that section
that were “likely” to include records potentially responsive to real parties’
requests, noting each matter includes “voluminous materials, including reports,
transcripts, audio and video files, and photographs.” As the first of two
examples, Newman cited the Department's independent investigation into a local
law enforcement agency that includes over 109,000 records, which he estimated
would take a minimum of 3,600 attorney hours to review, “assuming a very
optimistic rate of review of 30 records per hour.” According to Newman, the
second matter includes over 26,000 items that would take approximately 860
attorney hours to review.
 
…. Because Newman’s declaration was
lacking in meaningful detail, we conclude it fell short of demonstrating that
public fiscal and administrative concerns over the expense and inconvenience of
responding to real parties’ records request clearly outweigh the public interest
in disclosure. 
 
In particular,
Newman referred to the existence of six matters in the Civil Rights Enforcement
Section that “are likely to include records that are potentially
responsive.” But Newman offered no indication whether the two matters involving
109,000 and 26,000 items are representative examples or outliers. While it
seems reasonable to assume that these are the Department's two most voluminous
matters, Newman proffered no information regarding the records in the other
four matters or the potential burden in reviewing them. Newman additionally
alluded to other unidentified sections in the Department that he “understand[s]
... have also handled matters that would include potentially responsive
records,” but again, he provided no specifics or estimates as to the number of
sections implicated, the number of matters in each of those sections, or the
scope of records in each of those matters. There is also a disconnect between
the hundreds of thousands of records suggested by Newman and the “potentially
millions of records” that the Department's petition claims it will be burdened
with reviewing.
 
….
 
But because Newman
offered no information establishing or estimating the extent to which the local
agency maintains the same records, there appears no basis for determining
whether and to what extent the Department's assertions about duplicative
efforts are merited….
 
[T]he nature and scope of responsive
records in the Department's possession are relatively unknown to litigants and
the courts, and the burden of making such records available for inspection
must, at this juncture, be established through expert testimony, or at the very
least, with a more thorough showing that substantiates the Department's
burden….   
 
(Becerra,
supra, 44 Cal.App.5th at 930-932.)  
 
            Here, in contrast to Becerra,
Respondent provided concrete evidence of the time and expense required to
produce the Panel Decisions.  (Wurster
Decl. Exh. 5; Brand Decl. Exh. D; Spitzer Decl. ¶ 17.)  Respondent’s estimates were based on a
sampling of Adjudication Files, which was approved by Petitioner’s
counsel. (See Wurster Decl. ¶¶ 4-7 and Exh.
4.)  Notably, Petitioner conducted
discovery in this CPRA action and deposed Associate Chief Judge Spitzer and Deputy
Commissioner Schmitz.  (Brand Decl. Exh. A,
B.)  Petitioner has not persuasively
shown, from the depositions or other evidence, that Respondent’s estimates of
the time and expense to produce the Panel Decisions are unreasonable.  Further, even if locating and producing the
Panel Decisions would take somewhat less than three years or four staff members,
the court’s analysis would be the same.  Having
weighed the evidence, the court finds that Respondent has proven that searching
through 39,536 boxes for the Panel Decisions will impose an extreme and
unreasonable burden on the government and taxpayers.  That burden clearly outweighs the relatively
modest public interest in the Panel Decisions, which are already available on Lexis
and Westlaw.
 
            Based
on the foregoing, the court finds that there is a “clear overbalance” on the
side of non-disclosure.  Accordingly, in
the alternative, the court denies the petition based on the catchall
exemption.  
 
F.         Declaratory Relief 
 
            The
second cause of action seeks a judicial declaration that Respondent violated
Petitioner’s rights under the CPRA.  The
court declines to issue declaratory relief because Petitioner has an adequate
remedy in the writ cause of action.  (See
General of America Ins. Co. v. Lilly (1968) 258 Cal.App.2d 465, 470-471; Hood
v. Sup.Ct. (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 319, 324.) 
Alternatively, the court finds that Respondent complied with the CPRA
and denies declaratory relief on that basis.
 
G.        Attorneys’
Fees and Costs 
 
Petitioner is not entitled to attorney’s fees or
costs because he did not prevail in this action.  (Gov. Code § 7923.115(a);
Fontana Police Dept. v.
Villegas-Banuelos (1999)
74 Cal.App.4th 1249, 1252.)  Therefore, Petitioner’s
request is denied.   
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER 
 
            Based
upon the foregoing, the court orders as follows:
 
            1.         The petition for writ of mandate is
denied.
 
            2.         The court declines to issue a declaratory
judgment.  In the alternative, the court
denies the second cause of action on the merits for the reasons discussed.  
 
            3.         The court denies Petitioner’s request
for attorneys’ fees and costs.
 
            4.         The parties shall meet-and-confer and
lodge a proposed judgment.
 
            5.         The court’s clerk shall provide notice.  
 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED 
 
 
Dated:
January 6, 2025                                               ______________________

                                                                                    Stephen
I. Goorvitch
                                                                                    Superior
Court Judge 
    


