  Case Number:  23VECV00212    Hearing Date:   January 26, 2024    Dept:  W JENNIFER
OVALLE VASQUEZ v. BYRON QUIAMBAO, et al.
 
DEFENDANT LAKE BALBOA HEALTH CARE,
INC.’S MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION AND STAY CIVIL PROCEEDINGS
 
Date
of Hearing:        January 26, 2024                               Trial
Date:       None
Department:              W                                                        Case No.:        23VECV00212
 
Moving Party:            Defendant Lake Balboa Health Care, Inc. 
Responding Party:     Plaintiff Jennifer Ovalle Vasquez
 
BACKGROUND
 
On January 18, 2024, Plaintiff Jennifer
Ovalle Vasquez filed a complaint against Defendant Byron Quiambao and Lake
Balboa Health Care, Inc. dba Lake Balboa Care Center for 1. Hostile Work
Environment - Sexual Harassment; 2. Quid Pro Quo – Sexual Harassment; 3. Sexual
Discrimination; 4. Failure to Prevent Sexual Harassment & Retaliation; 5.
Constructive Wrongful Termination; 6. Retaliation; 7. Intentional Infliction of
Emotional Distress; 8. Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress; 9. Negligent
Hiring, Retention and Supervision; 10. Sexual Battery; 11. Sexual Assault; 12.
Battery; and 13. Assault. 
 
Plaintiff began working at Lake Balboa
Care Center on April 24, 2020 to work in the kitchen. Plaintiff alleges during her
employment with Lake Balboa Care Center, Quiambao forcefully sexually harassed,
battered, assaulted and abused her. Plaintiff further alleges she informed
multiple coworkers of the sexual abuse who confirmed that Quiambao subjected
them to the same or similar sexual abuse. Accordingly, Plaintiff alleges Lake
Balboa Care Center was clearly aware of such conduct but failed to take action
against Quiambao. Plaintiff further alleges as a result of Plaintiff’s
complaints to coworkers, supervisors and retaining an attorney regarding Quiambao’s
conduct, Plaintiff was subject to retaliatory conduct by her supervisor and
other coworkers. On August 10, 2022, due to the
retaliatory conduct of Defendants, Plaintiff tendered her letter of
resignation, as she could no longer endure such a hostile work environment.
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
The court denies the motion to compel
arbitration.   
 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
In support of
their motion to compel arbitration, Defendant Lake Balboa Healthcare, Inc. dba
Lake Balboa Care Cener requests this court take judicial notice of the
following: (1) American Arbitration Association Employment Arbitration Rules
and Mediation Procedures (“AAA Rules”) (Exh. A); and (2) American Arbitration
Association Initial Discovery Protocols for Employment Arbitration Cases (Exh.
B). 
 
The court
GRANTS Defendant’s request for judicial notice. 
 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
 
Defendant Lake
Balboa Care Center submits its Objections to Plaintiff Jennifer Ovalle
Vasquez’s Evidence submitted with Plaintiff’s Opposition to Defendant’s Motion
to Compel Arbitration and Stay Civil Proceedings. 
 
Objection
Nos. 1-3 are OVERRULED. 
 
Plaintiff
also submits the following evidentiary objections to the Reply Declaration of
Exzeur Ochoa
and Craig Barron. 
 
Ochoa Decl. –
Objection Nos. 1 and 2 are OVERRULED. 
Barron Decl.
– Objection Nos. 1 and 2 are SUSTAINED. 
 
ANALYSIS 
 
Defendant Lake Balboa Healthcare, Inc.
dba Lake Balboa Care Center moves pursuant to
the Federal Arbitration Act and California Code of Civil Procedure for an order
compelling Plaintiff Jennifer Ovalle Vasquez to submit her claims against Lake
Balboa to binding arbitration in accordance with an arbitration agreement
signed by Plaintiff and staying this action pending completion of arbitration
proceedings. Defendant makes the motion on the ground that the causes of action
asserted in Plaintiff’s lawsuit are claims that Plaintiff has agreed to resolve
through arbitration.[1]
 
“On petition of a party to an
arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to
arbitrate a controversy and that a party thereto refuses to arbitrate such
controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate
the controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy
exists, unless it determines that: (a) The right to compel arbitration has been
waived by the petitioner; or (b) Grounds exist for the revocation of the
agreement.”¿ (CCP §§ 1281.2(a)-(b).) “Because the existence of the agreement is
a statutory prerequisite to granting the petition, the petitioner bears the
burden of proving its existence by a preponderance of the evidence.” (Rosenthal
v. Great Western Fin. Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413.)¿ 
¿ 
“California law, ‘like [federal law],
reflects a strong policy favoring arbitration agreements and requires close
judicial scrutiny of waiver claims.’”¿ (Wagner Const. Co. v. Pacific
Mechanical Corp. (2007) 41 Cal.4th 19, 31.) If the court orders
arbitration, then the court shall stay the action until arbitration is
completed.¿ (See CCP § 1281.4.)¿ 
 
Defendant asserts that Plaintiff voluntarily
signed a binding and enforceable arbitration agreement during her onboarding
process on April 24, 2020. Defendant contends Plaintiff was provided with a
copy of Lake Balboa’s Mutual Arbitration Agreement, titled in bold, capital,
underlined letters: “MUTUAL AGREEMENT TO ARBITRATE.” The Agreement which
Plaintiff entered states: 
 
Mutual
Agreement to Arbitrate and Waive Jury Trial. Company and Employee agree to
resolve any and all disputes between them, past, present or future, whether or
not arising out of or in any way related to Employee’ application for
employment with Company or the employment relationship, including any disputes
upon termination, by binding arbitration as the sole and exclusive remedy of
the Parties to the fullest extent permitted by law.
 
(Ochoa Decl., Exh. A at p. 1.)
 
Here, Plaintiff’s claims are within the
scope of the arbitration agreement as the Arbitration Agreement expressly
covers “any and all disputes between [Plaintiff and Lake Balboa], past, present
or future, whether or not arising out of or in any way related to [her]
application for employment with the Company or the employment relationship,
including any disputes upon termination.” All of Plaintiff’s claims, which
include claims for discrimination, retaliation, harassment, and wrongful
termination, as well as several tort claims arise out of and pertain to her
employment with Lake Balboa. 
 
Defendant further asserts H.R. 4445,
the Ending Forced Arbitration of Sexual Assault and Sexual Harassment Act is
not applicable because the Act became effective in March 2022 and, by its plain
terms, is not retroactive. As alleged, the harassment here was alleged to have
occurred in 2021. Lastly, Defendant asserts the arbitration agreement also covers
disputes against Defendant Quiambao as the Agreement expressly includes claims
against “any employee, officer, executive, director, trustee, owner, operator,
agent … successor or assign of Company….” (Ochoa Dec., Ex. A, p. 1, emphasis
added.) Accordingly, Defendant contends this includes Plaintiff’s claims of
harassment and tort claims against her former co-worker at Lake Balboa, Quimbao.

 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues she was
incapable of entering into the subject arbitration agreement and therefore, is
entitled to a rebuttable presumption that she was of unsound mind when she
entered into the arbitration agreement. Specifically, Plaintiff’s psychologist
has opined on this issue. On March 18, 2023 and March 23, 2023, Plaintiff
underwent comprehensive psychological evaluations with Dr. Lucila Estrada from
Premier Forensic Psychology. Dr. Estrada stated that it is her professional
opinion that Plaintiff did not have the capacity to enter into the subject
arbitration agreement given her learning disability. (Sapir Decl., Exh. A.)
Plaintiff also contends at no time did Lake Balboa, their employees, or anybody
for that matter, explain what the documents were or that Plaintiff was
arbitrating her rights away, especially for claims of sexual harassment. Moreover,
even if a valid, enforceable arbitration agreement exists, the court should
deny the motion on the ground that it is illegal and/or unenforceable under the
Ending Forced Arbitration of Sexual Assault and Sexual Harassment Act of 2021. Plaintiff
does not claim the Arbitration Agreement is unconscionable. 
 
Defendant presents the testimony of Dr.
Franklin Carvajal, who has been a licensed clinical psychologist since 2006. Based
on speaking directly to Plaintiff, conducting appropriate testing, and
reviewing Plaintiff’s educational history, Dr. Carvajal determined that
Plaintiff had the mental capacity to understand the Agreement with assistance,
such as the ability to ask questions and an explanation of the Agreement.

 
i.          
Ending Forced Arbitration Act
 
H.R. 4445, the Ending Forced
Arbitration of Sexual Assault and Sexual Harassment Act prohibits forced
arbitration for sexual assault and sexual harassment claims. Enacted on March
3, 2022, the Act explicitly provides, “This Act, and the amendments made by
this Act, shall apply with respect to any dispute or claim that arises or
accrues on or after the date of enactment of this Act.” (Ending Forced
Arbitration of Sexual Assault and Sexual Harassment Act of 2021, Pub. L 117-90,
§ 3, Mar. 3, 2022, 136 Stat. 28.) 
 
Both parties cite Walters v. Starbucks
Corp. (S.D.N.Y. 2022) 623 F.Supp.3d 333 to support their contention that the
act does or does not apply. In Walters, the court held that the plaintiff’s
sexual harassment claim was subject to mandatory arbitration when the
plaintiff’s claims accrued prior to the enactment of the EFAA on March 3, 2022.
The court found each of Walters's claims accrued at the time she experienced
discrimination, harassment, or retaliation, and at the latest by December of
2021, when she left her job. Similarly, Newcombe-Dierl v. Amgen (C.D. Cal., May
26, 2022, No. CV222155DMGMRWX) 2022 WL 3012211, the district court found the
plaintiff’s claims accrued when the adverse employment action occurred and she
was injured, which was no later than November 12, 2021, the date of her
termination. (Newcombe-Dierl, supra, 2022 WL 3012211, at *5.) 
 
Here, Plaintiff has alleged that the
sexual assault and battery she experienced at the hands of Quiambao commenced
in 2020 but continued throughout her employment and resulted in her wrongful
constructive termination in August of 2022 – five months after the EFAA took
effect.  Arguably, her claims could be
carved into two; those that pre-dated the effective date of the Act, and those
that occurred afterward. Her constructive discharge claim only accrued in
August 2022, when she quit the job.  As
pleaded, it appears that the acts of retaliation (and possible harassment) also
continued into the time period covered by the Act.   Although the FAA favors arbitration,
standing in counterpoint is now the EFAA, which evinces a strong policy against
forcing individuals into arbitration cases involving claims of sexual
harassment.  It is certain that dividing
a case into two proceedings, one before an arbitrator and one in the civil
courts, serves neither policy, as it increases expenses for both parties,
burdens both systems and could result in inconsistent results.   Given that many of plaintiff’s claims are
barred from arbitration by the new Act, the court finds that the entirety of
the action should be exempt from arbitration. 

 
The court finds additional support for
this position in the continuing violation doctrine, which provides that the
accrual period for a cause of action for retaliation or harassment is tolled if
the employer engaged in a series of continuing and related FEHA violations and
at least one of those violations occurred within the one-year period prior to
filing. (Richards v. CH2M Hill, Inc. (2001) 26 Cal.4th 798, 811–824). Under
this doctrine, then, plaintiff’s claims for retaliation and sexual harassment
arguably did not accrue until the final act. 
Because the complaint appears to allege that such acts continued into
2022, the “continuing violation” doctrine would support a finding that the causes
of action did not “accrue” until sometime in 2022, after the EFAA’s
enactment.  
 
 
i.                   
Capacity 
 
In light of this court’s finding that
the EFAA prohibits arbitration in this case, the court need not address the
question of plaintiff’s capacity to enter into an arbitration agreement.  Nonetheless, given that the parties have
spent considerable time and money on this issue and as an alternate grounds for
denying the motion to compel arbitration, the court decides to reach this
separate issue.
 
Generally, the courts presume a party
is mentally competent to enter into an agreement and the burden of proof is on
the party raising the incompetency claim. (Wilson v. Sampson (1949) 91
Cal.App.2d 453, 459.) Provided that a decisionmaker has the ability to
communicate his or her decision verbally, or by any other means, and to
understand: (1) the rights, duties, and responsibilities created by, or
affected by the decision; (2) the probable consequences for the decisionmaker
and, where appropriate, the persons affected by the decision; and (3) the
significant risks, benefits, and reasonable alternatives involved in the
decision, the decisionmaker has capacity. (Prob. Code, § 812.) When looking
into whether an individual has the mental capacity to enter into an agreement, a
trial court acts within its authority to serve as a finder of fact. (Algo-Heyres
v. Oxnard Manor LP (2023) 88 Cal.App.5th 1064, 1072.)
 
As mentioned above, Plaintiff underwent
a psychological evaluation with Dr. Lucila Estrada from Premier Forensic
Psychology. Dr. Estrada opined Plaintiff lacked the cognitive capacity to enter
into an arbitration agreement, due to her communication results (receptive,
expressive, written) from the Vineland-3 (Adaptive Behavior Scales - Third
Edition) test, as well as careful review of her school records (IEPs),
indicating that Ms. Vasquez has difficulties with reading comprehension,
expressive language, and receptive language. 
 
Dr. Carvajal also conducted a
psychological evaluation of Plaintiff on behalf of Defendant. Dr. Carvajal
opines Plaintiff appears able to have the mental capacity to enter into a
contract or agreement. However, Dr. Carvajal noted Plaintiff might need support
systems when it comes to auditorily conveying information, such as using simple
language, speaking slowly, and using repetition. 
 
Both parties take issue with the
other’s expert’s evaluation. Defendant argues Dr. Avila’s report should not be
considered because it violates the requirements of the Code of Civil Procedure.
Specifically, Plaintiff’s evaluation was actually conducted by Dr. Lucy
Estrada, a Registered Psychological Assistant, not a Licensed Clinical
Psychologist. (See Friedland Decl., Exh. B.) However, per the Code: “A mental
examination conducted under this chapter shall be performed only by a licensed
physician, or by a licensed clinical psychologist who holds a doctoral degree
in psychology and has had at least five years of postgraduate experience in the
diagnosis of emotional and mental disorders.” (CCP §2032.020(c)(1).) 
 
As noted by Plaintiff, fatal to
Defendant’s argument is that Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.020(c)(1)
pertains to mental examinations conducted through the discovery process,
i.e., an independent medical/mental examination, with safeguards enacted to
protect the examined party from the examining party. Plaintiff contends Defendant
has cited no authority in support of its position that Plaintiff’s examination
of Plaintiff was required to be conducted pursuant to Section 2032.020(c)(1).
Moreover, Dr. Estrada performed the evaluation
under the supervision of Dr. Avila, a licensed psychologist, which is permitted
pursuant to California Business & Professions Code § 2913. 
 
Defendant further argues the report relies
on nonexistent information and flawed methodology as well as administering the
wrong test. Defendant contends the report lists several categories of records
that were purportedly reviewed in connection with Plaintiff’s evaluation, yet
Dr. Avila confirmed that his office did not have the referenced records.
Additionally, the test scores listed in the report are from tests Plaintiff
took when she was nine years old, had recently arrived to the United States
from Guatemala, and unable to speak English. (See Probate Code §812.) 
 
Defendant has not shown the report relies
on nonexistent information and flawed methodology. The court finds the fact
that Dr. Avila cannot recall whether certain medical records were in their
possession does not discredit Dr. Estrada’s evaluation. 
 
As for the Vineland-3 Test, Defendant
contends the Vineland-3 test is specifically designed to measure "adaptive
behavior," not cognitive capacity. Moreover, the scoring on the Vineland
test was based entirely on questions answered by Plaintiff’s mother. 
 
Plaintiff contends the Vineland-3 test
measures adaptive behavior and supports the diagnosis of intellectual and
developmental disabilities, autism, and developmental delays. (Avila Decl. ¶6.)
Moreover, both cognitive ability and adaptive behavior are significantly
impaired during childhood or adolescence of individuals with intellectual
disability. (Avila Decl. ¶6.) Dr. Avila also notes it is perfectly appropriate
for the parent or caregiver to fill out the questions on the Vineland-3 due to
potential reading deficits of the patient. (Avila Decl. ¶6.) Lastly, Dr. Avila
also reviewed Plaintiff’s IEPs and obtained collateral information from a
family member with direct knowledge of Plaintiff’s opinion in formulating his
opinion, something Dr. Carvajal did not. (Avila Decl. ¶4.) 
 
Plaintiff also points out Dr.
Carvajal’s own testimony opines Plaintiff would need some assistance to
comprehend the contract. (Suppl. Sapir Decl., Exh. C, p. 11.) However, there
was no assistance provided nor do Defendants present any evidence that
Plaintiff signed the subject arbitration with or without assistance. Defendant
argues it was Plaintiff who should have requested assistance before signing the
agreement and cites Bolanos v. Khalatian (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 1586 to
support this contention. Bolanos is of little assistance as there the plaintiff
could read “limited” Spanish, the arbitration agreement was in Spanish, and there
was no evidence of lack of capacity to understand the arbitration
agreement.  The court held “[w]hen a person
with the capacity of reading and understanding an instrument signs it, he
may not, in the absence of fraud, coercion or excusable neglect, avoid its
terms on the ground he failed to read it before signing it.” (Bolanos v.
Khalatian (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 1586, 1590.) Plaintiff here is arguing she
lacked the capacity to understand and enter the arbitration agreement. 
 
Plaintiff further takes issue with Dr.
Carvajal not presenting the arbitration agreement to Plaintiff during the
evaluation, conducting the evaluation only in Spanish when the arbitration
agreement was only in English, Dr. Carvajal’s claim the MMPI III testing
evidences Plaintiff’s exaggeration of her symptoms, conducting the examination
at a fifth and sixth grade level, and Dr. Carvajal’s WAIS IV test evidencing
Plaintiff’s IQ of 81 yet claiming Plaintiff could have understood a complex
legal document. 
 
Lastly, the parties dispute whether the
arbitration agreement was actually explained to Plaintiff. Defendant provides
the declaration of Exzeur Ochoa, a former Assistant Department Staff Developer
for Defendant, who testified he explained each document to Plaintiff, including
the arbitration agreement. (Ochoa Decl. ¶5.) Mr. Ochoa further testifies it
appeared to him that Plaintiff understood everything and he does not recall her
asking any questions about any of the documents. (Ochoa Decl. ¶4.) However, Mr.
Ochoa also testified he would give a brief explanation of what it means to
arbitrate if he were asked about the arbitration agreement. (Ochoa Decl. ¶3.)
This does not unequivocally establish he explained the arbitration to
Plaintiff. Plaintiff testifies “[a]t no time did Lake Balboa, their employees,
or anybody for that matter, explain what the documents were or that I was
arbitrating my rights away, especially for claims of sexual harassment.
(Vasquez Decl. ¶2.)  Given her test
scores, her history of intellectual development delays, and Dr. Caraval’s own
opinion that she would have needed assistance to understand the document and
such assistance would have had to be done in a particular manner to ensure that
it used simple language and repetition, the court cannot find that Mr. Ochoa
actually gave her the information in a manner she could process to understand
the consequences of signing the arbitration agreement. 
 
Accordingly, the court finds that Plaintiff
has sufficiently shown she lacked the mental capacity to enter into the
arbitration agreement. 
 


