 Case Number:  24STCV13115    Hearing Date:   November 12, 2024    Dept:  73 11/12/24
Dept. 73 
Hon. Rolf Treu, Judge presiding 
 
MIGLIORE v. FCA US LLC, et al. (24STCV13115)
 
Counsel for Plaintiff/moving
party: Sam Azimtash (Azimtash Law Firm PC)
Counsel for
Defendant/opposing party:  Erin Hanson
(Clark Hill LLP)
 
(1)   PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO COMPEL DEFENDANT
FCA US LLC’S OBJECTION-FREE RESPONSES TO REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS,
SET ONE (filed 09/04/24)
(2)   PLAINTIFF’S MOTION for order establishing
admissions to plaintiff’s requests for admission, set one (filed 09/04/2024)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
(1)   Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel Defendant FCA US LLC’s responses to Requests for Production of
Documents, Set One is GRANTED. Defendant FCA US LLC is ordered to provide verified, objection-free responses to Plaintiff’s
Requests for Production of Documents, Set One, within 20 days of this
order.  
 
(2)  
Plaintiff’s Motion for Order establishing Defendant
FCA US LLC’s admissions to Plaintiff’s Requests for Admission, Set One, is
GRANTED. The Court deems the requests to be admitted. 
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On May 24,
2024, Plaintiff Merik Migliore filed the instant action against Defendants FC
US LLC, Premier Automotive of Placentia, LLC dba Premier Chrysler Dodge Jeep
Ram of Buena Park and Does 1-100, alleging the following causes of action:
1.      Violation of Subdivision
(d) of Civil Code section 1793.2
2.      Violation of Subdivision
(b) of Civil Code section 1793.2
3.      Violation of Subdivision
(a)(3) of Civil Code section 1793.2
4.      Breach of
Express Warranty
5.      Breach of
Implied Warranty
6.      Negligent
Repair
Plaintiff alleges this action arises out of the warranty
obligations of Defendants in connection with a vehicle purchased by Plaintiff
and for which Defendants issued a written warranty. 
On September 4, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
Motion to Compel Defendant FCA US LLC’s objection free responses to Requests
for Production of Documents, Set One and a Motion for Order establishing
Defendant FCA US LLC’s admissions to Plaintiff’s Requests for Admission, Set
One. No opposition was filed.
 
II. ANALYSIS
 
A.      Legal
Standard 
 
Where there
has been no timely response to a request for admissions under Code of Civil
Procedure section 2033.010, the propounding party may move for an order that
the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters specified in the
requests be deemed admitted, as well as for a monetary sanction.  (CCP §
2033.280(b).)  The party who has failed to respond waives any objections
to the demand, unless the court grants that party relief from the waiver, upon
a showing (1) that the party has subsequently served a substantially compliant
response, and (2) that the party’s failure to respond was the result of
mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect.  (CCP §
2033.280(a)(1-2).)  The court “shall” grant a motion to deem admitted
requests for admissions, “unless it finds that the party to whom the requests
for admission have been directed has served, before the hearing on the motion,
a proposed response to the requests for admission that is in substantial
compliance with Section 2033.220.”  (CCP § 2033.280(c).) 
 
If a party to
whom requests for admission are directed fails to serve a timely response, the
requesting party may move for a monetary sanction. (Code of Civ. Proc.§
2033.280(b).) “It is mandatory that the court impose a monetary sanction…on the
party or attorney, or both, whose failure to serve a timely response to
requests for admission necessitated this motion.” (Code of Civ. Proc. §
2033.280(c).
 
Under CCP §
2017.010, “any party may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not privileged,
that is relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending action..., if
the matter either is itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.”  The Section
specifically provides that “[d]iscovery may relate to the claim or defense of
the party seeking discovery or of any other party to the action,” and that
discovery “may be obtained of the identity and location of persons having
knowledge of any discoverable matter, as well as of the existence, description,
nature, custody, condition and location of any document, electronically stored
information, tangible thing, or land or other property.”   
 
B.      Discussion
On July 5,
2024, Plaintiff served Requests for Production of Documents (Set One) and Requests
for Admission (Set One) on Defendant FCA
US LLC. (Azimtash Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. A.) The responses were due on or about
August 7, 2024. As of the date of this motion, no requests for an extension of
time or responses have been served. (Id. at ¶ 8.) No opposition to
Plaintiff’s motions have been filed. As such, the Court GRANTS both of Plaintiff’s motions.
III. DISPOSITION
 

Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel Defendant FCA US LLC’s responses
to Requests for Production of Documents, Set One is GRANTED. Defendant FCA US
LLC is
ordered to provide verified, objection-free responses to Plaintiff’s Requests
for Production of Documents, Set One, within 20 days of this order.  
 
Plaintiff’s
Motion for Order establishing Defendant FCA US LLC’s
admissions to Plaintiff’s Requests for Admission, Set One, is GRANTED. The
Court deems the requests to be admitted. 