 Case Number:  21STCV21402    Hearing Date:   June 25, 2024    Dept:  C Jane Doe vs ROE #1, et al.Case No.: 21STCV21402Hearing Date: June 25, 2024 @ 9:30 AM#1Tentative RulingDefendant ABC Unified School District’s Motion to Stay is DENIED.Plaintiff to give notice.BackgroundThis is a childhood sexual assault case. Plaintiff Jane Doe (“Plaintiff”) filed a suit against Defendants Roe #1 and Roe #2 (collectively “Defendants”) on June 9, 2021. The Complaint alleges personal injuries and damages arising from childhood sexual assault. On July 14, 2021, Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended Complaint (FAC), in which Defendant ABC Unified School District (Defendant) was substituted for Roe #1 and alleged: (1) Negligent Hiring, Supervision, and Retention of an Unfit Employee; (2) Breach of Mandatory Duty: Failure to Report Suspected Child Abuse; (3) Negligent Failure to Warn, Train or Educate; (4) Negligent Supervision of a Minor against Defendant.On April 25, 2024, Defendant moved to stay this action pending the outcome of two unrelated cases on appeal.Legal StandardA party can ask the court to stay an action or proceeding based on the court's inherent power to stay in the interest of justice and to promote judicial efficiency. See Cal. Const., art. VI, § 1 (vesting courts with judicial power); CCP § 128 (giving court power in proceedings before it); Adams v. Paul (1995) 11 Cal.4th 583, 593 (court has inherent power to stay related actions); Smith v. Jones (1900) 128 Cal. 14, 15 (court has right to postpone case); Koch-Ash v. Superior Ct. (2d Dist.1986) 180 Cal.App.3d 689, 696 (court has inherent authority to stay trial); see also Walker v. Superior Ct. (1991) 53 Cal.3d 257, 266–67 (California Supreme Court has repeatedly recognized inherent power of courts, derived from both statute and Constitution, to ensure orderly administration of justice).(§ 3. Stay, O'Connor's California Practice * Civil Pretrial Ch. 5-I § 3 (2024 ed.))Requests For Judicial NoticeThe Court GRANTS Defendant’s requests for judicial notice. (Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (d).) However, the Court takes judicial notice only as to the existence, content, and authenticity of such documents; it does not take judicial notice of the truth of the factual matters asserted therein. (Dominguez v. Bonta (2022) 87 Cal. App. 5th 389, 400.)The Court DENIES Plaintiff’s requests for judicial notice, as there is no indication Plaintiff relies on them in the opposition. (See Evid. Code § 452, subds. (a)-(d).)DiscussionDefendant moves to stay this action based on two unrelated cases that are currently pending before the First and Second Districts of the Court of Appeal, i.e., West Contra Costa USD v. Superior Court (First District Case No. A16934) and Roe #2 v. Superior Court (Second Appellate District, Div. 6, Case No. B334707), respectively. Both of these cases involve the question of whether AB 218 violates the Gift Clause of the California Constitution, an issue underlying this current litigation. Defendant contends that judicial economy and common sense mandate the Court exercise its inherent power to stay these proceedings pending the outcomes of these two other cases in the Court of Appeal. Defendant contends that this case would not be able to proceed if the Court of Appeal determines AB 218 is unconstitutional.Defendant contends the case will almost certainly be reversed on appeal, which would render all work performed before then wasteful. Defendant also contends it cannot settle this case while those two cases are before the Court of Appeal. Defendant cites the case of Farmland Irrigation Co. v. Dopplmaier (1957) 48 Cal.2d 208 (Farmland Irrigation), as the standard for determining whether to grant a stay. Defendant then contends that the only way to ensure the decision in this case will not conflict with the decisions in the two currently pending Court of Appeal cases is to stay this case until those other cases have been decided. Defendant further contends the rights of the parties can best be determined by the Court of Appeal because the nature of the subject matter and the stage to which proceedings in courts have already advanced. Defendant also contends that staying this action will not prejudice Plaintiff’s rights.In opposition, Plaintiff contends Defendant has not made any showing it is likely to succeed on the merits. Plaintiff contends other trial court decisions regarding the constitutionality of AB 218 are not binding on this court. Plaintiff contends that although there is no evidence how the Court of Appeal will rule on the Jane Doecase, the Second District of the Court of Appeal and the California Supreme Court summarily denied writ petitions on related issues regarding AB 218. Plaintiff contends that if the Court of Appeal provides conflicting rulings, then the trial courts will be in the same position they are already in and just rely on the precedent they choose to follow, and then the California Supreme Court would have to step in, which could take years.Defendant opines that the Courts of Appeal “appear poised to imminently decide” their matters. This Court determines that such a possibility is speculative. There is always the possibility that the Courts of Appeal could issue conflicting rulings, or the California Supreme Court may decide to grant review. The Court finds that judicial economy is best served by going forward with the litigation, and if Defendant is unable to engage in settlement discussions, the parties can proceed with discovery and motion work.Accordingly, Defendant’s Motion to Stay is DENIED.