 Case Number:  23NWCV01923    Hearing Date:   June 25, 2024    Dept:  C Tawana Jean Cooper vs Octapharma Plasma, Inc.,
et al.
Case No.: 23NWCV01923
Hearing Date: June 25, 2024 @ 9:30 AM
 
#4
Tentative Ruling 
I.            
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Initial
Discovery for Special Interrogatories, Set No. One, is DENIED. 
II.           
Plaintiff’s Request for Sanctions is
DENIED. 
III.         
Defendant’s Request for Sanctions is
GRANTED, in part. 
Defendant to give notice. 
 
Background 
Plaintiff Tawana Jean Cooper (“Plaintiff”) sues for
employment discrimination, among other causes of action, related to her job as
a part-time medical screener for Defendant Octapharma Plasma, Inc. (“Defendant
OPI”). Plaintiff has also included Defendant Caitlin Ryan, individually, in the
Compliant alleging that Defendant Ryan willfully breach an oral contract under
California Civil Code § 1622.   
The operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC") was
filed on July 3, 2023. On September 20, 2023, Plaintiff served her Special
Interrogatories on Defendant Ryan. Defendant Ryan served responses on October 27,
2023. In this motion to compel, Plaintiff argues the responses were unverified
and, therefore, untimely. 
Request for Judicial
Notice 
Defendant Ryan’s Request for Judicial Notice references
fourteen items within the Court’s own record. The Court may take judicial
notice of items within its own record. 
Accordingly, Defendant’s Request for Judicial notice is
GRANTED. 
Legal Standard 
A party may make a demand for
production of documents and propound interrogatories without leave of court at
any time 10 days after the service of the summons on, or appearance by, the
party to whom the demand is directed, whichever occurs first. (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2031.020, subd. (b); Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.020, subd. (b).) The demand for
production of documents is not limited by number, but the request must comply
with the formatting requirements in Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.030. 
The
party whom the request is propounded upon is required to respond within 30 days
after service of a demand, but the parties are allowed to informally agree to
an extension and confirm any such agreement in writing. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.060, subd. (a); Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.060, subd. (a); Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.070, subd. (a) – (b); Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.070, subd. (a) – (b).)
If a
party fails to timely respond to a request for production or interrogatories,
the party to whom the request is directed waives any right to exercise the
option to produce writings under Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.230, and waives any
objection, including one based on privilege or on the protection for work
product. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300, subd. (a); Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290,
subd. (a).)

Discussion 
As a preliminary matter, Plaintiff has filed a notice of
non-opposition. However, on June 11, 2024, Defendant Caitlin Ryan filed an
opposition with this Court. Pursuant to CCP § 2030.290, the opposition was
timely as it was filed nine court days prior to the hearing. Additionally, the
Court notes that this is the sixth motion Plaintiff has filed based on the same
theories whether Defendants have properly signed the response under oath and
that there are two further discovery motions based on the same legal theories
on the Court’s calendar. 
In her motion, pro per, Plaintiff argues that there are
several inadequacies in the responses to the special interrogatories namely:
(1) that the responses are unverified due to the oath requirement only being on
a verification page. 
Plaintiff argues that CCP § 2030.250(a) should be
interpreted to mean that if the oath is on the verification page, and not on
the response itself, the response should be deemed unverified. However, the
Code’s oath requirement is typically satisfied by a signature on the
verification page. The Code only requires responding party to “sign the
response under oath.” (Code Civ. Proc., §2030.250, subd. (a).) In practice, the
responding party may sign a verification form attached or inserted at the end
of the answers stating that that the party: “certify and declare under penalty
of perjury under the laws of the State of California that the foregoing answers
are true and correct.” (See CCP § 2015.5.) (Wiel & Brown, Cal. Practice
Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter Group 2020) ¶ 8:1103; see also
Cal. Judges Benchbook: Civil Proceedings – Discovery (CJER Sept. 2022)
Inspection Demands, § 19.15.)
Here, the verification form is signed by Defendant Caitlin
Ryan. (Horner Decl., ¶ 4, Ex. B.) Accordingly, the Court finds the response is
verified.
Sanctions
Legal
Standard
The
party who propounded the discovery request may bring a motion to compel and the
court shall impose a monetary sanction against any party, person, or attorney
who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to a demand
for production of documents or interrogatories, unless the court finds that the
one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.300, subd. (c); Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (c).)

Plaintiff’s request for Sanctions
Plaintiff requests sanctions in the amount of $5,000.00 in
connection with the cost of filing this motion and willful misuse of discovery.
The motion is denied and therefore the sanctions are Denied. 
However, the Court also notes that a party litigating in
propria person “may not be awarded monetary discovery sanctions based on
compensation for time and effort expended as a result of a misuse of the
discovery process.” (Argaman v. Ratan (1999) 73 Cal.App.4th 1173,
1180-1181.)
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s request for sanctions is DENIED.
Defendant’s Request for Sanctions
The Court may impose a monetary sanction against any party
who unsuccessfully makes such a motion to compel without substantial
justification. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.320, subd. (b).) The sanctions are
authorized to “pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred
by anyone as a result of that conduct.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030, subd.
(a).)
The Court concludes that the Plaintiff has not acted with
substantial justification. Although Plaintiff is representing herself pro per
and presumably has held a good-faith belief at the filing of the first motion
to compel responses, the Court has subsequently informed Plaintiff through both
written rulings and at hearings that this argument has no basis in the law.
However, Plaintiff has continued to file subsequent discovery motions alleging
the same legal arguments as to every discovery request it propounds against any
party in this matter. Therefore, the Court is doubtful that these motions are
being brought in good-faith and finds that Plaintiff has not brought this
motion with substantial justification. Accordingly, the Court GRANTS Defendant
Ryan’s Request for Sanctions. However, the Court, at this time, is only
inclined to impose sanctions in the amount of $100.00. 
The Plaintiff's Motion to Compel Response, Without
Objections, to Special Interrogatories Set No. (One), and Request for Order
Awarding Monetary Sanctions filed by Tawana Jean Cooper May 31, 2023 against
Defendant Caitlin Ryan is Denied.
 