 Case Number:  22STCV29276    Hearing Date:   June 25, 2024    Dept:  C Ani Khachikyan, et al. vs Platinum
Transportation Group, Inc., et al.
Case No.: 22STCV29276
Hearing Date: June 25, 2024 @ 10:30 AM 
 
#7 
Tentative Ruling 
Defendant Miguel Angel Pacheco’s Motion to
Strike is DENIED. 
Plaintiff to give notice. 
 
Background 
Plaintiffs Ani Khachikyan, Elah Kaseblyan, a minor by and
through her guardian ad litem, Ani Khachikyan; and Leah Kaseblyan, a minor by
and through her guardian ad litem, Ani Khachikyan, (collectively, Plaintiffs),
filed this action against defendants Platinum Transportation Group, Inc.
(Platinum) and Miguel Angel Pacheco (Defendant) for damages arising from a
motor vehicle accident. Defendant moved to strike portions of the complaint
related to allegations of punitive damages. The motion to strike was granted
and Plaintiffs amended their complaint.
Plaintiffs allege that defendants were hired to transport
Plaintiffs, and that defendants negligently caused an accident while Plaintiffs
were passengers in defendants’ vehicle. Plaintiffs further allege that Pacheco
was under the influence of marijuana at the time of the accident, and that
Platinum had knowledge of such of Pacheco’s history of marijuana use and still
allowed him to operate the common carrier vehicle. The complaint alleges claims
for (1) motor vehicle negligence, (2) general negligence, and (3) negligent
hiring/training/supervision/retention. The first amended complaint (FAC)
includes a prayer for punitive damages against defendants.
Defendant, Miguel Angel Pacheco (“Defendant”) moves for an
Order striking the portions of the First Amended Complaint of Plaintiffs, Ani
Khachikyan; Elah Kaseblyan, a minor by and through her guardian ad litem, Ani
Khachikyan; and Leah Kaseblyan, a minor by and through her guardian ad litem,
Ani Khachikyan (collectively “Plaintiffs”), on the grounds that said portions
of Plaintiffs’ First Amended Complaint seek damages which are not recoverable
against Defendant as a matter of law.
Legal Standard 
Upon motion, or at any time in its own discretion, a court
may grant a motion to strike any of the following material: (1) irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) all or any part of
any pleading not drawn in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule,
or an order of the court. (Code Civ. Proc. §436.) These provisions also
authorize “the striking of a pleading due to improprieties in its form or in
the procedures pursuant to which it was filed.” (Ferraro v. Camarlinghi,
(2008) 161 Cal.App.4th 509, 528, emphasis in original.)
 
Discussion 
Civil Code § 3294(a) states, “[i]n an action for the breach
of an obligation not arising from contract, where it is proven by clear and
convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or
malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual damages, may recover damages
for the sake of example and by way of punishing the defendant.” Allegations
that a defendant exhibited a conscious disregard for the safety of others are
sufficient to show malice. (Taylor v. Superior Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d
890, 895-96.) The Taylor court concluded that the act of operating a motor
vehicle while intoxicated may constitute an act of "malice" under
section 3294 if performed under circumstances which disclose a conscious
disregard of the probable dangerous consequences. "One who willfully
consumes alcoholic beverages to the point of intoxication, knowing that he
thereafter must operate a motor vehicle, thereby combining sharply impaired
physical and mental faculties with a vehicle capable of great force and speed,
reasonably may be held to exhibit a conscious disregard of the safety of
others." (Id., at p. 897.)
To properly allege punitive damages in a motor vehicle
accident action, a plaintiff needs to "establish that the defendant was
aware of the probable dangerous consequences of his conduct, and that he
willfully and deliberately failed to avoid those consequences." (Taylor,
supra, 24 Cal.3d 890, 896.) If the gravamen of the complaint is that
"Defendant became intoxicated and thereafter drove a car while in that
condition, despite his knowledge of the safety hazard he created thereby"
then this is sufficient to allege punitive damages. (Id.) While a
history of prior arrests, convictions and mishaps may heighten the probability
and foreseeability of an accident, we do not deem these aggravating factors
essential prerequisites to the assessment of punitive damages in drunk driving
cases. (Id.)
Taylor justified imposing punitive damages upon the
“deliberate” drunk driver for many reasons, including the high degree of
foreseeability of injury and damage flowing from driving while intoxicated. The
court stated that the essential allegation is that defendant became intoxicated
and thereafter drove a car while in that condition, despite his knowledge of
the safety hazard he created thereby. The decision also discusses the grave
havoc wrought by intoxicated drivers nationwide and equates the act of deliberately
driving while under the influence with a conscious and deliberate disregard of
the interests of others which may be described as willful or wanton. Such
conduct, the court said, has traditionally been a basis for awarding punitive
damages. (Herrick v. Superior Court (1987) 188 Cal.App.3d 787, 790.) 
Notably, a subsequent decision held that driving while
intoxicated does not always give rise to a claim for punitive damages. “[W]e do
not agree that the risk created generally by one who becomes intoxicated and
decides nevertheless to drive a vehicle on the public streets is the same as
the risk created by an intoxicated driver’s decision to zigzag in and out of
traffic at 65 miles per hour in a crowded beach recreation area at 1:30 in the
afternoon on a Sunday in June. The risk of injury to others from ordinary
driving while intoxicated is certainly foreseeable, but it is not necessarily
probable. The risk of injury to others from Mardian's conduct under the
circumstances alleged was probable.” (Dawes v. Superior Court (1980) 111
Cal.App.3d 82.) “In contrast, in the case at bench, as previously noted,
petitioners pleaded specific facts from which the conscious disregard of
probable injury to others may reasonably be inferred.” (Id.)
Again, as an initial matter, as to Defendant’s contentions
that Plaintiffs fail to submit any evidence to support the allegations made
against it, Plaintiffs are not required to submit evidence to support their
allegations in connection with these proceedings. In ruling on a motion to
strike, the Court is limited to the four corners of the complaint and to
judicially noticeable evidence.
Defendant moves to strike the following portions of the
Complaint: 
·       
On pages 3-4, ¶ 12, First Cause of Action,
which reads in part as follows: “At all relevant times, defendants and each of
them acted with malice and/or oppression, thereby subjecting them to liability
for punitive and/or exemplary damages pursuant to Civil Code section 3294. …
Such conduct on the part of defendant MIGUEL ANGEL PACHECO was in conscious and
deliberate disregard of the safety of others, including the passenger
plaintiffs.” 
·       
On pages 7-8, ¶ 21, Second Cause of Action,
which reads in part as follows: “At all relevant times, defendants and each of
them acted with malice and/or oppression, thereby subjecting them to liability
for punitive and/or exemplary damages pursuant to Civil Code section 3294. …
Such conduct on the part of defendant MIGUEL ANGEL PACHECO was in conscious and
deliberate disregard of the safety of others, including the passenger
plaintiffs.” 
·       
On pages 10-11, ¶ 29, Third Cause of Action,
which reads in part as follows: “At all relevant times, defendants and each of
them acted with malice and/or oppression, thereby subjecting them to liability
for punitive and/or exemplary damages pursuant to Civil Code section 3294. …
Such conduct on the part of defendant MIGUEL ANGEL PACHECO was in conscious and
deliberate disregard of the safety of others, including the passenger
plaintiffs.” 
·       
On page 12, ¶ 6, Prayer for Relief, which reads
as follows: “6. For punitive and/or exemplary damages;”
Regarding Defendant Pacheco, the FAC alleges in Paragraph
12: 
“[D]efendant MIGUEL ANGEL
PACHECO, who had a long history of marijuana use, knew before getting behind
the wheel of the subject vehicle and transporting plaintiffs that he was
intoxicated and significantly impaired given his use of marijuana prior to the
incident and that he was unfit to drive. Said defendant further knew prior to
using marijuana the day of the incident herein that he would later be
transporting plaintiffs and, despite such knowledge, willfully consumed
marijuana to the point where he was significantly impaired and unfit to
transport plaintiffs in a safe manner. Said defendant further knew that it was
illegal to drive while intoxicated, and that if he were to drive while under
the influence of marijuana and impaired, it was entirely probable that he would
lose control of the vehicle and cause a collision with another motorist,
thereby causing injury to his passengers, including the plaintiffs herein.
Despite this actual knowledge, defendant MIGUEL ANGEL PACHECO purposely
consumed such large amounts of marijuana with the intention of getting high and
becoming impaired. Further, a strong smell of marijuana was noticeable both
inside the vehicle and on the defendant’s person prior to the subject
collision. Despite knowing he was unfit to drive, and posed a risk to others,
including the three adult passengers and seven minor children he was
transporting, defendant MIGUEL ANGEL PACHECO chose to operate the vehicle (a
passenger van) and then proceeded to do so in an aggressive, reckless and unsafe
manner. In fact, prior to the collision causing injury to the plaintiffs in
this action, defendant MIGUEL ANGEL PACHECO drove so erratically with
plaintiffs in the vehicle that he nearly caused three other accidents before
causing the subject collision in this case. Defendant MIGUEL ANGEL PACHECO
nevertheless continued to operate the vehicle at unsafe speeds and in an
erratic manner resulting in the collision giving rise to this action. In
operating the vehicle in this manner, defendant PACHECO operated the subject
passenger van, making aggressive, sudden, sharp, and otherwise unsafe lane
changes at speeds far in excess of the applicable speed limit and the flow of
other traffic, thereby causing the van to almost flip over or feel like it was
going to flip over to the passengers, including the plaintiffs, who were in the
vehicle at the time. Such conduct on the part of defendant MIGUEL ANGEL PACHECO
was in conscious and deliberate disregard of the safety of others, including
the passenger plaintiffs.”
There are sufficient facts to support a claim for punitive
damages against Pacheco because the FAC alleges that Pacheco was deliberately
impaired by a “large” amount of marijuana and specific facts related to
Pacheco’s dangerous driving. Similar to Taylor, where a claim for punitive
damages was allowed because in addition to being intoxicated the driver was
“zigzag[ing] in and out of traffic at 65 miles per hour in a crowded beach
recreation area at 1:30 in the afternoon on a Sunday in June,” here, Plaintiffs
allege that Pacheco was impaired by marijuana and “making aggressive, sudden,
sharp, and otherwise unsafe lane changes at speeds far in excess of the
applicable speed limit and the flow of other traffic, thereby causing the van
to almost flip over . . . .” Further, Plaintiffs allege that Pacheco was
driving a passenger van with ten occupants including seven children. The
conscious disregard of probable injury to others may reasonably be inferred by
the facts alleged in the FAC. Thus, Plaintiffs have adequately pled facts to
support a claim for punitive damages.
Accordingly, Defendant Miguel Angel Pacheo’s Motion to
Strike is DENIED. 