 Case Number:  23NWCV01130    Hearing Date:   June 25, 2024    Dept:  C Veronica G. Robles vs FCA US LLC
Case No.: 23NWCV01130
Hearing Date: June 25, 2024 
 
#2 
Tentative Ruling 
Plaintiff Veronica G. Robles’ Motion to Deem
Request for Admissions Admitted, Set One, is GRANTED. 
Plaintiff Veronica G. Robles’ Motion to Produce
Request for Production, Set One, is GRANTED, verified responses are to be
produced within 30 days of this order, without objections.
Plaintiff to give notice. 
 
Background
This is a lemon law action. On April 13, 2023, Plaintiff Veronica
G. Robles (“Plaintiff”) filed a lawsuit, alleging various lemon law claims
against Defendant FCA US LLC (“Defendant”). Plaintiff alleges the subject vehicle,
a 2019 Jeep Wrangler, was delivered to Plaintiff with serious defects and
nonconformities to warranty and developed other serious defects and
nonconformities to warranty, including, but not limited to, the transmission,
electrical, structural, engine, and emission system defects. (Complaint ¶¶
8-10.)
On August 2, 2023, Plaintiff served written discovery on
Defendant, including Form Interrogatories (Set One), Special Interrogatories
(Set One), Requests for Production of Documents (Set One), and the initial RFAs
at issue. (“Discovery”). (Serrano Decl., ¶ 8, Ex. 1.) Plaintiff contends no
responses have been filed, despite providing six months to allow Defendant time
to respond. 
Plaintiff now moves for an order
Compelling the Request for Production of Document, Set One, be produced and to
Deem Request for Admissions Admitted.
Legal Standard 
Request for Production of Documents, Set One 
A
party may make a demand for production of documents
and propound interrogatories without leave of court at any time 10 days after
the service of the summons on, or appearance by, the party to whom the demand
is directed, whichever occurs first. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.020, subd. (b);
Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.020, subd. (b).) The demand for production of documents
is not limited by number, but the request must comply with the formatting
requirements in Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.030.
 
The party whom the request is propounded upon is required to
respond within 30 days after service of a demand, but the parties are allowed
to informally agree to an extension and confirm any such agreement in writing.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.060, subd. (a); 2031.070, subd. (a) - (b).)
 
If a party fails to timely respond to a request for production
waives any objection, including one based on privilege or on the protection for
work product. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300, subd. (a).)
 
Request for Admissions 
Where
there has been no timely response to requests for admissions, a “requesting
party may move for an order that the genuineness of any documents and the truth
of any matters specified in the requests be deemed admitted, as well as for a
monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with section 2023.010).” 
The court “shall” grant the motion to deem requests for admission admitted
“unless it finds that the party to whom the requests for admission have been
directed has served, before the hearing on the motion, a proposed response to
the requests for admission that is in substantial compliance with Section
2033.220.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280(c).) 
 
Discussion 
 
On August 2, 2023, Plaintiff served written discovery on
Defendant, including Form Interrogatories (Set One), Special Interrogatories
(Set One), Requests for Production of Documents (Set One), and the initial RFAs
at issue. (“Discovery”). (Serrano Decl., ¶ 8, Ex. 1.) Defendant failed to
respond by the date of the moving papers. 
In opposition, Defendant contends that Plaintiff failed to
properly meet and confer. Defendant also contends that it should be granted
relief from the waiver of objections if the party shows that (1) it has served
a response that is in substantial compliance with the discovery act, and (2)
its failure to timely respond was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or
excusable neglect. Defendant contends that there is currently an “exponential
increase in Song-Beverly matters” which caused an oversight in responding to
the RFPs. 
As a preliminary matter, the Court notes that in a motion
to compel initial discovery there is no requirement for a meet and confer
process. 
A party may be granted relief from the waiver of objections
if the party shows that (1) it has served a response that is in substantial
compliance with the discovery act, and (2) its failure to timely respond was
the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect. (CCP §
2031.300(a)(1)-(2).) 
Counsel for Defendant contends that it has subsequently
responded to the request for production, set one, and the Request for
Admissions, Set One. However, the Court notes that Defendant has not attached
any evidence of the purported responses to the Motion or the attached
Declaration of Gregory G. Brezovec. 
Moreover, in reply, Plaintiff contends there has been no
further discovery produced by Defendant. 
Here, the Court has no evidence before it to substantiate
Defendant’s claims that it has produced the initial discovery.
Because
Defendant has not sent verified responses to Plaintiff’s Request for
Admissions, Set One, Plaintiff’s motion is granted. The genuineness of any
documents and the truth of any matters specified in Plaintiff’s motion is
admitted.   
 
Additionally, as Defendant has not sent verified responses
to Plaintiff’s Request for Production, Set One, Plaintiff’s motion is GRANTED.
Verified responses are to be produced within 30 days of this order. 
 
 