  Case Number:  18STCV00734    Hearing Date:   April 17, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian 
Department 27 
Tentative Ruling 
 
Hearing Date:                4/17/2024 at 1:30 p.m. 
Case No./Name.:         18STCV00734 ADI AKE LOPEZ, et al.
vs THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA., et al. 
Motion:                              MOTION TO BE RELIEVED AS COUNSEL
Moving Party:                 Plaintiff’s Counsel Martinian
& Associates
Responding Party:      Unopposed
Notice:                                Sufficient
 
Ruling:                               MOTION TO BE RELIEVED IS GRANTED.
 
Background
 
Martinian & Associates, Inc
(Martinian) currently represents Plaintiff Lucila Ake Iuit. Martinian moves to
be relieved as counsel, citing a breakdown in the attorney-client
communication.
 
Legal Standard
 
The Court has discretion to allow
an attorney to withdraw, and such a motion should be granted provided that
there is no prejudice to the client and it does not disrupt the orderly process
of justice. (See Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994) 21 Cal.App.4th 904, 915; People
v. Prince (1968) 268 Cal.App.2d 398, 403-407.)
 
A motion to be relieved as counsel
must be made on Judicial Council Form MC-051 (Notice of Motion and Motion),
MC-052 (Declaration), and MC-053 (Proposed Order). (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1362, subds. (a), (c), (e).) The requisite forms must be served “on the
client and on all parties that have appeared in the case.” (Cal. Rules of
Court, Rule 3.1362, subd. (d).)
¿ 
Analysis and Conclusion
 
Martinian has
filed Judicial Council Form MC-051 (Notice of Motion and Motion), MC-052
(Declaration), and MC-053 (Proposed Order). Martinian seeks to be relieved as
counsel for Plaintiff on the grounds that there has been a breakdown in the
attorney-client communication. The Court finds this to be proper grounds for
withdrawal. (See Estate of Falco (1987) 188 Cal.App.3d 1004, 1014 (a
breakdown in the attorney-client relationship is grounds for allowing the
attorney to withdraw).) Although Martinian
has not confirmed that Plaintiff's mailing address is current, counsel has made
reasonable efforts to do so. Specifically, Plaintiff's counsel has
attempted to contact Plaintiff using the phone number and address Plaintiff provided.
For several months, Plaintiff's counsel has made numerous attempts to locate
Plaintiff, including online searches related to social media profiles and other
online identification resources. Additionally, counsel was unable to reach any
emergency contacts provided. Plaintiff's counsel even employed an investigator
to locate the client, but these efforts were unsuccessful.
 
The Court
notes that the next hearing is an FSC set for 5/21/24, which
should be sufficient time for Plaintiff to retain new counsel. Alternatively,
if Plaintiff or new counsel need additional time to prepare for trial,
sufficient time exists for Plaintiff to take action to seek a continuance of
the trial. Based on the
foregoing, the Court GRANTS the Motion to be Relieved, effective upon Notice on
Plaintiff of this order at his last known address.
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date
and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party
submitting.
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the
hearing to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion
without leave.