 Case Number:  20STCV24727    Hearing Date:   April 17, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian
Department 27
Tentative Ruling
 
Hearing Date:                4/17/2024 at 1:30 p.m.
Case
No./Name.:         20STCV24727
AURORA PRADO vs NATIONAL SEATING & MOBILITY
Motion:                              Motion for Trial Preference
Moving Party:                 Plaintiff
Responding Party:      Defendants National Seating &
Mobility and Kaiser Foundation Health Plan
Notice:                                Sufficient
 
Ruling:                               PLAINTIFF’S MOTION FOR TRIAL
PREFERENCE IS GRANTED
 
Legal Standard
 
A party who is over 70 years old may petition
the court for a preference, which the court shall grant if the court makes both
of the following findings: (1) the party has a substantial interest in the
action as a whole; and (2) the health of the party is such that a preference is
necessary to prevent prejudicing the party’s interest in the litigation.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 36, subd. (a).)¿ An affidavit submitted in support of a motion for preference under
subdivision (a) of Section 36 may be signed by the attorney for the party
seeking preference based upon information and belief as to the medical
diagnosis and prognosis of any party.¿ (Code
Civ. Proc., § 36.5.)
 
“Upon the granting of such a motion for
preference, the court shall set the matter for trial not more than 120 days
from that date and there shall be no continuance beyond 120 days from the
granting of the motion for preference except for physical disability of a party
or a party’s attorney, or upon a showing of good cause stated in the record.¿ Any continuance shall be for no more than 15 days and no more than
one continuance for physical disability may be granted to any party.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 36, subd. (f).)
 
“The issue under subdivision (a) is not
whether an elderly litigant might die before trial or become so disabled that
she might as well be absent when trial is called.¿ Provided there is evidence that the party involved is over 70, all
subdivision (a) requires is a showing that the party’s “health . . . is such
that a preference is necessary to prevent prejudicing [his/her] interest
in the litigation.¿ (Italics
added.)”¿ (Fox v. Superior Court (2018) 21
Cal.App.5th 529, 534.)¿ The
absence of specifics regarding plaintiff’s prognosis is insufficient reason to
deny a request for calendar preference.¿
“Subdivision (a) requires the granting of calendar preference to ‘prevent’
prejudice to a stricken litigant’s interests.¿ (Italics added.)¿ The idea
that [plaintiff] should be made to wait to file a preference motion until she
is clearly in her final days—when attendance at a trial is hardly what she
should be doing—makes no sense at all.”¿ (Id.
at p. 536.)
 
“Where a party meets the requisite standard
for calendar preference under subdivision (a), preference must be granted.¿ No weighing of interests is involved.”¿ (Fox, supra, 21 Cal.App.5th at p. 535; see also Koch-Ash
v. Superior Court (1986) 180 Cal.App.3d 689, 692 [“section 36, subdivision
(a) . . . is mandatory and absolute in its application and does not allow a
trial court to exercise the inherent or statutory general administrative
authority it would otherwise have”].)¿ Any
inconvenience to the court or to other litigants is irrelevant and “[f]ailure
to complete discovery or other pretrial matters does not affect the absolute
substantive right to trial preference for those litigants who qualify for
preference.”¿ (Swaithes v. Superior Court (1989) 212
Cal.App.3d 1082, 1085.)
 
Analysis and Conclusion
 
On July 1, 2020, Plaintiff filed
the current case, alleging that she fell from a portable ramp at the entrance
of her home. The trial is scheduled for August 20, 2024. Defendant has now
moved the court for trial preference, requesting a trial date within 120 days
from today. Plaintiff, aged 73, states in her declaration that she has been
suffering from 35 health conditions since 2012. She requires constant oxygen
support and finds it extremely difficult to speak for extended periods without
needing to rest, cough, or struggle for breath. Her health conditions has
continued to steadily decline. While currently capable of participating in her
lawsuit, she expresses concern that her deteriorating health may soon prevent
her from doing so.
Plaintiff meets all three criteria
for trial preference under Section 36(a): first, she is over the age of 70;
second, she holds a substantial interest in the action as the Plaintiff; third,
considering her advanced age and worsening health conditions that impact her
ability to breathe and speak, a trial preference is necessary to prevent
prejudice to her interests before her condition deteriorates further.
Defendant
National Seating & Mobility filed an opposition arguing that Plaintiff
should have filed the motion for trial preference when she turned 70 in June of
2020 and the present motion should be denied due to Plaintiff's delay in
filing. The Court is not persuaded as Plaintiff’s declaration points out, she
did not file the motion until now because she had been healthy enough to
participate in her lawsuit. Although she is currently able to participate, her
steadily declining health has raised concerns that she may soon be unable to do
so. Additionally, the Defendant argues that Plaintiff has had these health
conditions since 2012, which was 12 years ago and presents no evidence that she
is currently suffering from these conditions. However, the Court notes that a
majority of these conditions are chronic illnesses that are not curable but
rather worsen over time, such as diabetes and chronic asthma. Defendant also argues
that the current trial date set for August 20, 2024 is already near the
requested trial preference date and that granting the motion would only advance
the trial date by several days. Nevertheless, the court recognizes that trial
dates are often postponed by the court or the parties, and the motion for trial
preference is intended to ensure that the trial date is firmly set.
Defendant Kaiser filed a limited
opposition requesting that the trial date be set after its motion for summary
judgment, scheduled for July 18, 2024.
The Court
finds that Plaintiff has fulfilled all the requirements of CCP 36(a) and thus
GRANTS the present motion. The trial date is maintained for August 20, 2024,
with preference.
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date
and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party
submitting.
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the
hearing to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.