 Case Number:  22STCV40614    Hearing Date:   April 17, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian
Department 27
Tentative Ruling
 
Hearing Date:           4/17/2024 at 1:30 p.m.
Case No./Name.:      22STCV40614 CATHY FECK, et al. vs
GREGORY OWEN, et al.
Motion:                    PLAINTIFFS’ MOTION FOR LEAVE TO
AMEND TO FILE SECOND AMENDED COMPLAINT 
Moving Party:           Plaintiffs
Responding Party:    Unopposed
Notice:                     Sufficient
 
Ruling:                     PLAINTIFFS’ MOTION FOR LEAVE TO
AMEND TO FILE SECOND AMENDED COMPLAINT IS GRANTED
 
 
Legal Standard
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure
section 473, subdivision (a)(1), “[t]he court may, in furtherance of justice,
and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading.”¿ Amendment may be allowed at any
time before or after commencement of trial. (Code Civ. Proc., § 576.) “[T]he court’s discretion will usually be exercised
liberally to permit amendment of the pleadings. The policy favoring amendment
is so strong that it is a rare case in which denial of leave to amend can be
justified.” (Howard v. County of San Diego (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 1422,
1428 (internal citations omitted).) “If the motion to amend is timely made and
the granting of the motion will not prejudice the opposing party, it is error
to refuse permission to amend . . .”¿ (Morgan v. Sup. Ct. (1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527,
530.) The type of prejudice the court is to be concerned with should be
something beyond simply having to cope with a potentially successful new legal
theory of recovery that has been revealed during discovery. (Hirsa v.
Superior Court (1981) 118 Cal.App.3d 486.) Prejudice includes “delay in
trial, loss of critical evidence, or added costs of preparation.” (Solit v.
Tokai Bank, Ltd. New York Branch (1999) 68 Cal.App.4th 1435, 1448.)
 
DISCUSSION and CONCLUSION
 
On December 28, 2022, Plaintiffs
filed the present wrongful death action, alleging that Defendants Susan and
Gregory Owen failed to stop at a red light and crashed into Plaintiffs’
vehicle. Plaintiffs recently learned through Defendants’ criminal proceedings
that they were working during the road trip and under the scope of employment
for OWEN, PATTERSON & OWEN, LLP and GREGORY JAMES OWEN, PLC during the
incident. Based on this information, Plaintiffs now move the court to amend
their Complaint to include a claim for vicarious liability against the
employers.
 
This case is still in its early
stages, and Plaintiffs did not act with undue delay in seeking the amendment.
During the Defendants' criminal trial, Plaintiffs discovered that Defendants
were working during the road trip and potentially within the scope of
employment of OWEN, PATTERSON & OWEN, LLP and GREGORY JAMES OWEN, PLC at
the time of the incident. Plaintiffs then timely filed the present motion to
amend their complaint to include a claim for vicarious liability against the
employers. No opposition alleging prejudice has been filed by the Defendants.
In light of the state’s longstanding and extremely liberal standard for
permitting amendments to pleadings, the present motion is hereby granted.
 
The Court hereby orders that the
proposed second amended pleading be filed and served within five court days.
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date
and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party
submitting.
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the
hearing to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.