 Case Number:  20STCV11476    Hearing Date:   April 17, 2024    Dept:  27 HON. LEE
S. ARIAN
DEPARTMENT
27
TENTATIVE
RULING
 
Hearing Date:           4/17/2024 at 1:30 p.m.
Case No./Name:       20STCV11476 DAVID LACAYO, et al. vs CHIL YONG
LEE
Motion:                    MOTION FOR LEAVE TO OBTAIN ADDITIONAL PHYSICAL
EXAMINATION OF PLAINTIFF MIREYA LACAYOAND DAVID LACAYO
Moving Party:           Defendant Chill Yong Lee
Responding Party:    Plaintiffs
Notice:                      Sufficient
¿¿ 
Ruling:                    MOTION FOR LEAVE TO OBTAIN ADDITIONAL PHYSICAL
EXAMINATION OF PLAINTIFF MIREYA LACAYOAND DAVID LACAYO IS GRANTED.
 
Legal standard
In
any case in which a plaintiff is seeking recovery for personal injuries, any
defendant may demand one physical examination of the plaintiff where: (1) the
examination does not include any diagnostic test or procedure that is painful,
protracted, or intrusive; and (2) the examination is conducted at a location
within 75 miles of the residence of the examinee.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.220, subd. (a).)¿ A defendant may make a
demand for physical examination without leave of the court after that defendant
has been served or has appeared (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.220, subd. (b)), and
the physical examination demanded shall be scheduled for a date at least 30
days after service (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.220, subd. (d)).
 
¿If any party desires to
obtain discovery by a physical examination other than that described in Article
2 (commencing with¿Section 2032.210), or by a mental
examination, the party shall obtain leave of court.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2032.310, subd. (a).)¿ The court shall grant a motion for a
physical or mental examination under¿Section 2032.310¿only for good cause
shown.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.320, subd. (a).)
 
“(a) The court shall grant a motion for a
physical or mental examination under Section 2032.310 only for good cause
shown.... (d) An order granting a physical or mental examination shall specify
the person or persons who may perform the examination, as well as the time,
place, manner, diagnostic tests and procedures, conditions, scope, and nature
of the examination.” (Id., § 2032.430, subds. (a), (d).)  Generally, to find
“good cause,” the court requires a showing of both: (1) relevancy to the
subject matter of the litigation; and (2) specific facts justifying the
discovery, e.g., allegations showing the need for the information sought and
lack of means for obtaining the information elsewhere. (Vinson v. Superior
Court (1987) 43 Cal. 3d 833, 840.)
Analysis
On March 20, 2020, Plaintiffs David Lacayo and
Mireya Macayo filed the present complaint, alleging various injuries, including
spinal injuries, as a result of a motor vehicle accident. Plaintiffs contend
that they continue to experience ongoing pain in their neck, back, shoulder,
arm, and chest due to the accident. In June 2021, Defendant conducted the first
independent medical examination (IME) on Plaintiffs. Recently, Defendant
learned that Plaintiffs underwent spinal surgeries in February and March of
2024. In light of this new information, Defendant now moves the Court for leave
to conduct a second IME on Plaintiffs.
Plaintiffs have attributed various injuries to their
spines resulting from the incident [See Plaintiffs’ Responses to Form
Interrogatories (Set No. One), Nos. 6.1-6.2.] Plaintiffs do not dispute that Plaintiffs’
spinal injuries, or their spinal surgeries are at issue. Relevancy to the
subject matter of the litigation has been established.
Plaintiffs contend that having undergone one
prior independent medical examination (IME) in June 2021, Defendant is now
barred from conducting a second IME. However, under 2032.310(a), a second IME
may be held if good cause is shown.
Plaintiffs do not dispute that they each recently
underwent major cervical spine surgery for their claimed continuing injuries in
February and March 2024. Each Plaintiff received artificial disc replacements
at two levels of their cervical spine. Furthermore, Plaintiffs do not contest
the substantial costs associated with these surgeries. Mrs. Lacayo has
identified at least $281,596.63 in costs for her surgery, and Mr. Lacayo has
estimated his surgery costs at $275,000.00. The Court finds that an examination
to assess the success of the treatments is crucial to verify the current state
of Plaintiffs’ health and recovery progress, determine the direct impact of the
surgeries on the injuries claimed to be caused by the incident, and to assess
what. If any, future surgeries or treatments are required. These are all
information Defendant needs for his defense regarding Plaintiffs’ claims for damages.
In the Opposition, Plaintiffs
argue that Defendant is using the term "Independent Medical
Examination" while bringing forth a motion under CCP 2032; however, the
terminology used, whether it is "independent medical examination,"
"defense medical examination," or "physical examination,"
has no legal bearing on whether or not to grant the medical examination.
Plaintiff's sole argument against the existence of good cause is that
compelling Plaintiffs to submit to further examinations based solely on their
decision to undergo surgery would unfairly penalize them for prioritizing their
health and well-being. Plaintiffs’ argument does not challenge Defendant's
contention that the information sought is necessary, which is what the Court
considers when determining good cause. Furthermore, Plaintiffs fail to
articulate how requiring them to undergo a non-invasive examination unfairly
punishes them. Furthermore, Plaintiffs do not dispute the scope or any other
aspects of the IME request.
Accordingly, the
present motion is GRANTED.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date
and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party
submitting. 
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the
hearing to argue. 
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.