 Case Number:  22STCV27574    Hearing Date:   April 17, 2024    Dept:  27 HON. LEE
S. ARIAN
DEPARTMENT
27
TENTATIVE
RULING
 
Hearing Date:                4/17/2024 at 1:30 p.m.
Case No./Name:          22STCV27574 JANE KIM vs SUNG SIK LIM
Motion:                              MOTION TO QUASH SUBPOENA, MOTION FOR PROTECTIVE ORDER, AND REQUEST
FOR SANCTIONS
Moving Party:                 Non-Party Geraldine McIntee and Defendant
Federal Insurance Company
Responding Party:      Plaintiff
Notice:                                Sufficient
¿ 
Ruling:                               MOTION TO QUASH SUBPOENA, MOTION FOR PROTECTIVE ORDER, AND REQQUEST
FOR SANCTIONS ARE DENIED.
 
Legal
Standard
 
1.  Motion
to Quash
 
CCP
section 1987.1 states that “[i]f a subpoena requires the attendance of a
witness or the production of books, documents, electronically stored
information, or other things before a court, or at the trial of an issue
therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably
made by any person described in subdivision (b), or upon the court’s own motion
after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make an order
quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it
upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including protective
orders.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1(a).) “In addition, the court may make
any other order as may be appropriate to protect the person from unreasonable
or oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the right of
privacy of the person.” (Id.) Subdivision (b) provides that a
party may make a motion pursuant to subdivision (a). (Id., §
1987.1(b).)
 
As
a general rule, all unprivileged information that is relevant to the subject
matter of the action is discoverable if it would itself be admissible evidence
at trial or if it appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of
admissible evidence. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2017.010; Schnabel v. Superior
Court. (1993) 5 Cal.4th 704, 711.) When the information sought to be
discovered impacts a person’s constitutional right to privacy, limited
protections come into play for that person. (Shaffer v. Superior Court
(1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 993, 999.) The protections cover both a person’s personal
and financial matters. (Id.) The court must balance competing rights —
the right of a litigant to discover relevant facts and the right of an
individual to maintain reasonable privacy — in determining whether the
information is discoverable. (Id.)
 
For
discovery purposes, information is relevant if it might reasonably assist a
party in evaluating the case, preparing for trial, or facilitating settlement.
(Gonzalez v. Superior Court (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1539, 1546.)
 
When
a subpoena has been issued requiring the attendance of a witness or the
production of documents, electronically stored information, or other things
before a court or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion
“reasonably made” by the party, the witness, or any consumer whose personal
records are sought, or upon the court's own motion after giving counsel notice
and an opportunity to be heard, may make an order quashing the subpoena
entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon those terms and
conditions as the court may specify. (See Code Civ. Proc. § 1987.1; Southern
Pac. Co. v. Superior Court (1940) 15 Cal. 2d 206.)
 
2.  Protective
Order
“In accordance
with the liberal policies underlying the discovery procedures, California
courts have been broad-minded in determining whether discovery is reasonably
calculated to lead to admissible evidence. (Pacific Tel. & Tel. Co. v.
Superior Court (1970) 2 Cal.3d 161, 172; Pettie v. Superior Court
(1960) 178 Cal.App.2d 680, 687.) As a practical matter, it is difficult to
define at the discovery stage what evidence will be relevant at trial.
Therefore, the party seeking discovery is entitled to substantial leeway. (Pacific
Tel. & Tel. Co., supra, 2 Cal.3d at p. 172.) Furthermore,
California’s liberal approach to permissible discovery generally has led the
courts to resolve any doubt in favor of permitting discovery. (Id. at p.
173.) In doing so, the courts have taken the view that if an error is made in
ruling on a discovery motion, it is better that it be made in favor of granting
discovery of the nondiscoverable rather than denying discovery of information
vital to preparation or presentation of the party's case or to efficacious
settlement of the dispute.” (Norton v. Superior Court (1994) 24
Cal.App.4th 1750, 1761.)
 
Where good cause is shown, courts may
enter protective orders limiting depositions. “The court, for good cause shown,
may make any order that justice requires to protect any party, deponent, or
other natural person or organization from unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment,
or oppression, or undue burden and expense.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.420(b).)
Courts have considerable discretion in granting and crafting protective orders.
(Raymond Handling Concepts Corp. v. Superior Court (1995) 39 Cal.App.4th
584, 588.) A court may quash a subpoena entirely or partially, and issue an
order to protect parties, witnesses or consumers from unreasonable or
oppressive demands including violations of privacy. (Code Civ. Proc., §1987.1;
Weil & Brown, Civ. Pro. Before Trial (The Rutter Group 2008) ¶ 8:598. See
also generally Cal. Prac. Guide: Civ. Trials & Ev. (The Rutter Group
2008) ¶1:91.)
 
A court may make any order that
justice requires to protect a party from “unwanted annoyance, embarrassment or
oppression or undue burden and expense.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2030.090, subd. (b).) The burden of proof is on the party seeking the
protective order to show “good cause” for the order he or she seeks. (Fairmont
Insurance Co. v. Superior Court (2000) 22 Cal.4th 245, 255.)
 
3.  Procedural
Requirements for Consumer Records 
 
Subpoenas
which seek consumer records, including personal financial information, must
adhere to additional procedural requirements laid out in CCP § 1985.3. The
subpoena must first be served on the consumer at least five days before it is
served on the nonparty from whom records are sought (with a five-day extension
if served by mail, pursuant to CCP § 1013). (Code Civ. Proc., §
1985.3(b)(3).) A subpoena must be served on the custodian of records at
least fifteen days before the date upon which records are to be
produced. (Id., §§ 1985.3(d), 2020.410(c).) Therefore, as a
practical matter, the subpoena must be personally served on the consumer at
least twenty days before the date upon which records are to be
produced. This is extended by an additional five days if service on the
consumer is made by mail. (Id., § 1985.3(b)(3).) 
 
4.  Meet and Confer
 
Both motions for
a protective order and motions to quash must be accompanied by a meet and
confer declaration. California Code of
Civil Procedure section 2025.410(c) provides
that a motion to quash a deposition notice must be accompanied by a meet and
confer declaration. A motion for a protective order “shall be accompanied by a
meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2030.090.) “A meet and confer declaration in support of a motion shall
state facts showing a reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal
resolution of each issue presented by the motion.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2016.040.)
 
Background
On August 24, 2022, Plaintiff
Jane Kim filed the present personal injury case alleging that she was injured
at Defendant Papilion, Inc.’s restaurant, Caffe Concerto, where an outdoor
propane heater struck Plaintiff in the head. Prior to initiating this lawsuit,
Plaintiff's counsel spoke with non-party Geri McIntee ("McIntee"),
Defendant’s insurance adjuster, regarding this matter. (Plf’s Ex. 1.) McIntee
informed Plaintiff's counsel that the insured possesses the video of the
incident, but she had not received a copy. (Id.) She requested the
video, but it was not supplied to her. (Id.) Further, she stated that
she had no authority to provide a copy of the video as it is her insured’s
internal documentation. (Id.) Subsequently, Defendant, in its discovery
response, stated that no such video or footage of the incident exists. On March
2, 2024, Plaintiff served McIntee with a deposition subpoena for a deposition
scheduled for April 29, 2024, due to the contradictory responses received from McIntee
and Defendant’s discovery responses. Defendant now moves the court to quash
Plaintiff’s subpoena or seek a protective order.
Subpoena for Document Production
The subpoena served on
McIntee requests her to produce the following documents at the deposition:
Any and all documents, notes,
memorandum, correspondence (to the extent correspondence contains privileged
information, the correspondence may be redacted to conceal any privileged
information) regarding any and all photos or videos depicting any area of Caffe
Concerto, located at 610 South Serrano Avenue, Los Angeles, California 90005,
at any time on November 25, 2021. Any and all photos or videos depicting any
area of Caffe Concerto, located at 610 South Serrano A venue, Los Angeles,
California 90005, at any time on November 25, 2021.
Meet and Confer
Both the motion to
quash and the motion for a protective order require the Defendant to file a
declaration demonstrating that a meet and confer attempt was made. The court
reviewed the Party's declaration and found that Defendant has met this
requirement.
Analysis
The main thrust of
Defendant's argument is that employees who have gained knowledge during the
course of employment cannot testify about this knowledge. Defendant contends
that Plaintiff must either serve notice to the custodian of records for
documents or depose Defendant’s person most knowledgeable (PMK); however,
Defendant failed to provide any legal basis for this contention. Defendant
references C.C.P. §§ 2025.230 and 2020.310(e), but these sections pertain to
the deposition of an organization or corporation. Plaintiff did not serve a
deposition on a corporation but rather on McIntee in her individual capacity. The
burden is on the Defendant, as the moving party, to convince the court why it
should either quash the subpoena or issue a protective order. Defendant has not
provided any legitimate legal basis for why a party cannot issue a deposition
subpoena to an employee to testify based on her personal knowledge acquired
during the scope of her employment.
Defendant argues that
in verified discovery responses, it has already stated that no video of the
incident exists and therefore there is no need to depose McIntee. However, this
contradiction between Defendant’s verified responses and correspondence between
McIntee and Plaintiff's counsel is what prompted Plaintiff to seek a deposition
in the first place. Plaintiff is certainly entitled to question McIntee about
the video to obtain information reasonably calculated to lead to discovery of
the video of the incident or to obtain information regarding the issue of
spoliation of evidence. Plaintiff stated that the Parties considered resolving
the issue through a declaration from McIntee instead of conducting her
deposition. However, Defendant failed to produce such a declaration and opted
instead to file the current motion to quash.
1.  Service
Defendant then argues
that the deposition subpoena was not properly served; however, Plaintiff
attached a proof of service to her opposition showing that McIntee was served with
the subpoena on March 2, 2024 (Plf’s Ex. 5). Defendant's next argument that
Plaintiff failed to provide notice to Defendant Papilion, Inc. as required
under CCP 1985.3, when seeking a consumer’s personal records from an insurance
company, is also unconvincing. Defendant correctly notes that "Personal
records" include originals, copies of books, documents, other writings, or
electronically stored information pertaining to a consumer and maintained by
any "witness," including insurance companies as specified in CCP
1985.3(a)(1); However, the subsequent section clearly defines a
"consumer" as any individual, partnership of five or fewer persons,
association, or trust that has transacted business with or used the services of
the witness. (CCP 1985.3(a)(2).) This definition of a consumer does not include
corporations. Therefore, the insured, Defendant Papilion, Inc. does not
constitute a consumer, and documents pertaining to Papilion, including video of
the incident, do not require a consumer notice under CCP 1985.3.
2.  Subpoena
for Production of Documents
Furthermore, the court
finds that the requested documents are relevant and not overly broad, as they
are narrowly tailored to include only video or footage of the date of the
incident and any communications relating to that footage. California’s
liberal approach to permissible discovery generally has led the courts to
resolve any doubt in favor of permitting discovery. (Pacific Tel. & Tel.
Co. v. Superior Court (1970) 2 Cal.3d 161, 173.) Defendant
put forward several other objections that the court does not find persuasive.
The objection that the materials are Not Within Non-Party McIntee’s Possession,
Custody, or Control is not valid; the deponent can state so in her responses.
Defendant also objects that the Insurance Information and Privacy Protection Act
bars disclosure of the insured’s file; however, Insurance Code § 791.13
expressly allows for disclosure if “in response to a facially valid
administrative or judicial order, including a search warrant or subpoena.”
However, the court acknowledges some merit in Defendant’s argument that the
request for production calls for documents protected by privilege and privacy
rights. To the extent that certain documents are withheld on the basis of
privilege and privacy rights, Defendant is required to produce a privilege log.
Accordingly,
Defendant’s motion to quash and for a protective order is GRANTED in part and
DENIED in part. McIntee is required to sit for her oral deposition on the
noticed date. Additionally, McIntee must comply with Plaintiff’s subpoena for
the production of documents and produce all non-privileged and non-private
responsive documents at the time of the deposition. Should McIntee withhold any
documents on the date of her deposition based on claims of privilege or
privacy, she is required to produce a privilege log detailing the basis for
such withholding. Sanctions are DENIED as Plaintiff acted with substantial
justification.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party
intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to
the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.  The body of
the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact
information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless all parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.  You should
assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the
parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off
calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion
without leave.
 