 Case Number:  23STCV30871    Hearing Date:   January 22, 2025    Dept:  32 


june jones, an individual; atlas jones, an individual,  
 
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
VOLKSWAGEN
  GROUP OF AMERICA, inC.; et
  al.,
   
                        Defendants.


  Case No.:  23STCV30871
  Hearing Date:  January 22, 2025
 
[TENTATIVE] order RE:
motion to compel further responses to
  plaintiff’s request for production of documents, set one



            
            The Court finds Plaintiff’s discovery to be overly broad and unduly
burdensome. The Court issues the following discovery order:          
1.    
Defendant
VOLKSWAGEN GROUP OF AMERICA, inC.
(“Defendant”) shall produce the “Warranty Policy and Procedure Manual”
published by Defendant and provided to its authorized repair facilities, within
the State of California, from date of purchase to present.  
2.    
Defendant
shall produce any and all Recall Notices and Technical Service Bulletins
concerning the subject vehicle. 
Defendant is not required to do a search of emails. 
3.    
Defendant
shall produce all documents evidencing policies and procedures used to evaluate
customer requests for repurchase pursuant to the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty
Act, from date of purchase to present. 
4.    
Defendant
shall produce all repair orders and invoices concerning the subject vehicle.
5.    
Defendant
shall produce all communications with dealer, factory representative and/or
call center concerning the subject vehicle.
6.    
Defendant
shall produce all warranty claims submitted to and/or approved by Defendant
concerning the subject vehicle.
7.    
Defendant
shall produce all written warranties issued by Defendant concerning the subject
vehicle.
8.    
All
other requests for further production are DENIED.
9.    
Defendant
shall provide supplemental responses in compliance with this order within 45
days of this order.     
10.  Production shall
be subject to a protective order.
11.  The Court does not
award sanctions as it finds both sides acted with substantial justification.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.