 Case Number:  24STCV07071    Hearing Date:   January 22, 2025    Dept:  32 


 
RAQUEL YANNETH FIGUEROA,
  et al.,
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
VIEW POINTE LEEWARD,
  LLC, et al., 
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  24STCV07071
  Hearing Date:  January 22, 2025
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendants’ demurrer and motion to
  strike 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On March 21, 2024, various tenants
of five units in a residential building filed this habitability action against
Defendants View Pointe Leeward, LLC and JK Properties, Inc. Plaintiffs filed
the operative First Amended Complaint on November 5, 2024.
            On December 6, 2024, Defendants
filed the instant demurrer and motion to strike against the FAC. Plaintiffs
filed their opposition on January 8, 2025. Defendants filed their reply on
January 13, 2025. 
LEGAL STANDARD
A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether
the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When
considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in
context. (Taylor v. City of Los
Angeles Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.)
In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the
pleading or by proper judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd.
(a).) A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other
extrinsic matters. (SKF Farms v. Superior
Court (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) Therefore, it lies only where the
defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. (Ibid.) The only issue involved in a
demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with
extraneous matters, states a cause of action. (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at 747.)
Any party, within the time allowed to
respond to a pleading, may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the
whole or any part of that pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b).) The
court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it
deems proper, strike (1) any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in
any pleading and (2) all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.
(Id., § 436.) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face
of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Id., § 437.)
MEET AND CONFER
Before filing a demurrer or a motion to
strike, the demurring or moving party is required to meet and confer with the
party who filed the pleading demurred to or the pleading that is subject to the
motion to strike for the purposes of determining whether an agreement can be
reached through a filing of an amended pleading that would resolve the
objections to be raised in the demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.41, 435.5.)
The Court finds that Defendants have satisfied the meet and confer requirement.
(See Raichelson Decl.)
DISCUSSION
I.
Demurrer
            a. Misjoinder of Parties
            A demurrer lies if “[t]here is a
defect or misjoinder of parties.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10(d).) “All persons
may join in one action as plaintiffs if . . . [t]hey assert any right to relief
jointly, severally, or in the alternative, in respect of or arising out of the
same transaction, occurrence, or series of transactions or occurrences and if
any question of law or fact common to all these persons will arise in the
action.” (Id., § 378(a)(1).) “It is not necessary that each plaintiff be
interested as to every cause of action or as to all relief prayed for. Judgment
may be given for one or more of the plaintiffs according to their respective
right to relief.” (Id., § 378(b).) “The statute should be liberally
construed so as to permit joinder whenever possible in furtherance of this
purpose.” (Moe v. Anderson (2012) 207 Cal.App.4th 826, 833.) 
            Defendants argue that there is a
misjoinder of plaintiffs here because Plaintiffs are former and current tenants
of different units, each with unique alleged problems and different damages.
However, this is not sufficient to find misjoinder. As the Code states, each
plaintiff need not be interested as to every cause of action or as to each
prayer for relief. (Code Civ. Proc., § 378(b).) The claims arise “out of the
same transaction, occurrence, or series of transactions or occurrences” because
Plaintiffs leased units from the same owners/operators, resided in the same
building, and suffered uninhabitable conditions due to the same misconduct.
(See id., § 378(a)(1).) Thus, the action involves “question[s] of law or
fact common to all these persons.” (Ibid.) 
            b. Nuisance (Fifth COA) 
            “Anything which is
injurious to health . . . or is indecent or offensive to the senses, or an
obstruction to the free use of property, so as to interfere with the
comfortable enjoyment of life or property . . . is a nuisance.” (Civ. Code, §
3479.) “It is settled that where conduct which violates a duty owed to another
also interferes with that party's free use and enjoyment of his property,
nuisance liability arises.” (Cutujian v. Benedict Hills Estates Assn.
(1996) 41 Cal.App.4th 1379, 1390.) 
            Defendants argue that passive
neglect, such as failure to remediate defective conditions, cannot support a
nuisance claim. However, “[a] nuisance
may be either a negligent or an intentional tort.” (Stoiber, supra, 101
Cal.App.3d at p. 920.) “The fact that the defendants' alleged misconduct
consists of omission rather than affirmative actions does not preclude nuisance
liability.” (Ibid.) The allegations demonstrate that Defendants knew of
the defects and their injurious effects and intentionally failed to remediate.
For pleading purposes, this sufficiently constitutes an interference with
Plaintiffs’ use and enjoyment of the property so as to constitute a nuisance.
(See Civ. Code, § 3479; Cutujian, supra, 41 Cal.App.4th at p.
1390.) 
Relying on El Escorial Owners' Assn. v.
DLC Plastering, Inc. (2007) 154 Cal.App.4th 1337, Defendants also argue
that the nuisance claim is duplicative of the negligence claim and should
therefore be stricken. “Where negligence and nuisance causes of action rely on
the same facts about lack of due care, the nuisance claim is a negligence claim.”
(Id. at p. 1349.) The court in El Escorial based its holding on a
concern that the definition of nuisance “is so broad that it could be applied
indiscriminately to everything.” (Id. at p. 1348.) The court therefore
held that the toxic mold contamination claim in that case “involves a
traditional tort that should not be litigated under the guise of a nuisance
action.” (Ibid.) At the same time, the court acknowledged that “courts
have allowed plaintiffs to litigate nuisance causes of action in cases
involving housing conditions.” (Ibid.)
As discussed above, nuisance may be
negligent or intentional. (Stoiber,
supra, 101 Cal.App.3d at p.
920.) The plaintiff in Stoiber sufficiently established intentional
conduct by alleging that the landlord had actual knowledge of uninhabitable
conditions and “acted with full knowledge of the consequences thereof and the
damage being caused to plaintiff, and their conduct was willful, oppressive and
malicious.” (Ibid.) Plaintiffs make similar allegations here and
therefore have sufficiently pled intentional nuisance apart from negligence. 
The demurrer is
OVERRULED as to the fifth cause of action. 
c.
Unfair Business Practices (Sixth COA)
Business and
Professions Code section 17200 prohibits unlawful, unfair, or fraudulent
business acts or practices. Each of the three prongs is an independent basis
for relief. (Smith v. State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Co. (2001)
93 Cal.App.4th 700, 718.) Unlawful conduct is defined as any practice forbidden
by law. (Farmers Ins. Exchange v. Superior Court (1992) 2 Cal.4th 377,
383.) UCL actions alleging unlawful conduct “borrow” from other statutes or
common law causes of action outside Section 17200. (Klein v. Chevron
U.S.A., Inc. (2012) 202 Cal.App.4th 1342, 1383.) 
As discussed
above, the nuisance claim has been adequately pled. Additionally, Defendants do
not demur to the other causes of action, which include breach of the warranty
of habitability, breach of quiet enjoyment, and violations of the Civil Code.
These all represent “unlawful” conduct which may serve as the predicate for a
UCL claim. 
The demurrer is
OVERRULED as to the sixth cause of action. 

d. Intentional Infliction of Emotional
Distress (Seventh COA)
            To state a cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional
distress, a plaintiff must establish: (1) outrageous conduct by the defendant;
(2) the defendant’s intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the
probability of causing, emotional distress; (3) the plaintiff’s suffering
severe or extreme emotional distress; and (4) actual and proximate causation of
the emotional distress by the defendant’s outrageous conduct. (Vasquez v.
Franklin Management Real Estate Fund, Inc. (2013) 222 Cal.App.4th 819,
832.) “For conduct to be outrageous, it must be so extreme as to exceed all
bounds of that usually tolerated by a civilized community.” (Faunce
v. Cate (2013) 222 Cal.App.4th 166, 172.) “Severe emotional distress [is] emotional distress of such substantial
quantity or enduring quality that no reasonable man in a civilized society
should be expected to endure it.” (Fletcher v. Western Life Insurance Co.
(1970) 10 Cal.App.3d 376, 397.) 
            Plaintiffs
allegedly suffered “severe emotional distress, including extreme suffering,
anguish, depression, fearfulness, anxiety, nightmares, difficulty sleeping,
embarrassment, and shame.” (FAC ¶ 101.) This is generic and insufficient to
state severe emotional distress. (See Hughes v. Pair (2009) 46 Cal.4th
1035, 1051 [“discomfort, worry, anxiety, upset stomach, concern, and agitation”
do not satisfy the severity standard].) 
            The
demurrer is SUSTAINED as to the seventh cause of action.
II. Motion to
Strike
“In an action
for the breach of an obligation not arising from contract, where it is proven
by clear and convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of
oppression, fraud, or malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual damages,
may recover damages for the sake of example and by way of punishing the
defendant.” (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).) “‘Malice’ means conduct which
is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable
conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious
disregard of the rights or safety of others.” (Id., subd. (c)(1).)
“‘Oppression’ means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and
unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s rights.” (Id.,
subd. (c)(2).) Fraud is “intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment
of a material fact known to the defendant with the intention on the part of the
defendant of thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or
otherwise causing injury.” (Id., subd. (c)(3).)
The FAC alleges
the particular defects with each unit, including cockroach infestations, pest
infestations, widespread dampness, sewage water backup, water damage and mold
contamination, as well as other plumbing issues, and structural defects. (FAC
¶¶ 20, 38-46.) These conditions allegedly exposed Plaintiffs, including minors,
to health and safety hazards. (Id., ¶ 23.) The FAC alleges that
Plaintiffs notified Defendants of the defective conditions and their effects,
and Defendants received government notices of violations, but Defendants failed
to remediate the conditions. (Id., ¶¶ 27-32.) Defendants allegedly
sought to maximize profits by minimizing services and exploited Plaintiffs’
status as low-income tenants with limited resources and access to alternative
housing. (Id., ¶¶ 94, 99.) For pleading purposes, this demonstrates a
conscious disregard for the rights and safety of Plaintiffs and subjecting
Plaintiffs to unjust hardship.
The motion to
strike is DENIED as to punitive damages. 
CONCLUSION
            Defendants’
demurrer is SUSTAINED as to the seventh cause of action without leave to amend
and OVERRULED in all other respects. The motion to strike is DENIED.  Answer to be filed within 10 days of this order.