 Case Number:  24STCV11392    Hearing Date:   January 22, 2025    Dept:  32 


 
DUSTIN RIACH, et al.,
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
HERITAGE AUCTIONEERS & GALLERIES,
  INC., et al.,
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  24STCV11392
  Hearing Date:  January 22, 2025
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendant heritage auctioneers &
  galleries, inc.’s motion to uphold confidential designation (CRS# 1597) 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On May 7, 2024, Plaintiffs Dustin
Riach and Jason Rivas filed this action against Defendants Heritage Auctioneers
& Galleries, Inc. and Brian Chanes. Plaintiffs filed the operative First
Amended Complaint on December 4, 2024. The complaint asserts causes of action
for declaratory relief, negligence, fraud, and deceptive trade practices. 
Plaintiffs discovered an original Star
Trek starship model and retained Defendant Heritage to sell it. Plaintiffs
allege that Heritage breached its duties to them by selling the starship to Rod
Roddenberry (son of Star Trek creator Gene Roddenberry) at a discount to garner
favor and future business for itself. Plaintiffs allege that Roddenberry
Entertainment, Inc. (REI) asserted a false title claim to the starship. 
            On January 8, 2024, the Court
granted Defendant Heritage’s motion to uphold a confidential designation over
10 exhibits produced in discovery. 
            On December 10, 2024, Heritage filed
the instant motion to uphold a confidential designation over an excerpt in its
PMK’s deposition discussing these exhibits. 
   
DISCUSSION
            As established in the Court’s
earlier order, “the documents consist of confidential settlement communications
between Heritage and a third party. This sufficiently justifies the
Confidential designation.” (Jan. 8, 2024 Order re Mtn. to Uphold at 2:8-12.)
Naturally, the deposition testimony which cites or discusses these exhibits is
equally confidential. Thus, Heritage may uphold the confidential designation
over the select portion of Brian Chanes’ deposition testimony. 
CONCLUSION
Defendant Heritage’s motion to uphold
confidential designation is GRANTED. 
 