  Case Number:  20STCV24733    Hearing Date:   October 30, 2023    Dept:  31 TENTATIVE
 
Plaintiff’s motion
for attorney fees is CONTINUED to December 1, 2023 at 8:30 a.m. to allow Richland to
file a declaration attesting to the hours she spent on the appeal in this
matter, and her hourly rate. She should also attest to the reasonableness of
the time spent and her hourly rate in the declaration.  Further, Richland’s declaration should also
attest to the reasonableness of the Haney & Shah fees, or in the
alternative, Plaintiff should obtain a declaration from the Haney & Shah
firm attesting to the reasonableness of the fees.  Defendant may then file a supplemental brief
to address the reasonableness of the hours Richland expended and Richland’s
hourly rate. Plaintiff may then file a supplemental reply. All
supplemental briefing, including Richland’s declaration should be pursuant to CCP
section 1005(b).
 
Legal
Standard
 
“Where
a contract or a statute creates a right for the prevailing part to recover
attorney fees, the prevailing party is also entitled to costs on appeal.” 
(Butler-Rupp v. Lourdeaux (2007) 154 Cal.App.4th 918, 923; MBNA
America Bank, N.A. v. Gorman (2006) 147 Cal.App.4th Supp. 1, 13.)  It
is “well established that a fee award properly includes the reasonable fees
incurred in seeking the fees.”  (See Rosen v. LegacyQuest (2014)
225 Cal.App.4th 375, 384.)   
 
CCP §1021
states: “Except as attorney’s fees are specifically provided for by
statute, the measure and mode of compensation of attorneys and counselors at
law is left to the agreement, express or implied, of the parties; . . .”  
 
CCP §1032(b)
states: “Except as otherwise expressly provided by statute, a prevailing party
is entitled as a matter of right to recover costs in any action or
proceeding.”  
 
CCP
§1033.5(a)(10)(A) states that attorney fees when authorized by contract are allowable
as costs and may be awarded upon a noticed motion pursuant to CCP
§1033.5(c)(5).   
 
CRC Rule 8.278 provides that a party prevailing in the Court of Appeal
in a civil case is entitled to costs on appeal.  (Cal. Rules of Court,
rule 8.278(a)(1).)  “The prevailing party is the respondent if the Court
of Appeal affirms the judgment without modification or dismisses the
appeal.”  (Id., rule 8.278(a)(2).)  “Unless the court orders
otherwise, an award of costs neither includes attorney’s fees on appeal nor
precludes a party from seeking them under rule 3.1702.”  (Id., rule
8.278(d)(2).)  CRC Rule 3.1702 authorizes a party to file a motion to
claim attorney’s fees on appeal under a statute or contract when the court
determines entitlement to fees, the amount of fees, or both.  (Id.,
rule 3.1702(a), (c).)  
 
“The
trial court has ‘broad authority’ to determine the amount of a reasonable
attorneys’ fees.  (PLCM Group v. Drexler (2000) 22 Cal.4th 1084,
1095.) “The experienced trial judge is the best judge of the value of
professional services rendered in [her] court.” (Ibid.) The
party that is seeking attorney's fees as a prevailing party must present
evidence of the time spent and the hourly rate of each attorney. (Copenbarger
v. Morris Cerullo World Evangelism, Inc. (2018) 29 Cal.App.5th 1, 14.) The fee setting inquiry in California
ordinarily begins with the “lodestar” method, i.e., the number of hours
reasonably expended multiplied by the reasonable hourly rate. A computation of
time spent on a case and the reasonable value of that time is fundamental to a
determination of an appropriate attorneys’ fee award. The lodestar figure may
then be adjusted, based on consideration of factors specific to the case, in
order to fix the fee at the fair market value for the legal services
provided.  (Serrano v. Priest (1977) 20 Cal.3d 25, 49.)  
Discussion
Plaintiff moves for an order
awarding attorneys' fees in the amount of $22,260, on the grounds that this
court previously awarded fees under the terms of a commercial rental
contract, having found that said contract provided for fees, and that
Defendant unsuccessfully appealed the grant of summary judgment. Plaintiff
argues the fees incurred on appeal are reasonable and necessary. 
Entitlement

Plaintiff prevailed by the
granting of its motion for summary judgment. The Court of Appeal affirmed.
(7/25/23 Remittitur.) The lease agreement states in paragraph 40, " [i]n
any action arising out of this agreement, the prevailing party between the
Landlord and Tenant shall be entitled to reasonable attorneys fees and costs
from the non-prevailing Landlord and Tenant except as provided in paragraph 34A
[a paragraph with no relevance in this case]..." (2/8/22 Minute Order.) 
Thus, the Court finds Plaintiff is
entitled to attorney fees in connection with the appeal in this matter based
upon the parties’ agreement providing for attorney fees.
              Reasonableness
of fees
Plaintiffs seek an award of fees for legal
fees expended by Haney & Shah, who commenced writing the research and
drafting of Respondents’ Brief and Felipa R. Richland, the attorney who
finished writing Respondents’ Brief. A change of attorney was necessitated by
the unexpected unavailability of Haney & Shah. 
The fees incurred
by Plaintiffs for the legal services of Haney & Shah total $7,260.00, for
29 hours expended, ranging from $150-$300 per hour. (Richland Decl., Exh. B.)
The fees incurred by Plaintiffs for the legal services of Felipa R. Richland
total $15,000.00. This was an agreed upon fixed fee well below the market price
for civil appellate work in Los Angeles County but was discounted in
consideration of the fees already incurred by Plaintiffs for the work performed
by Haney & Shah. (Richland Decl., ¶ 15.)
 
Defendants object
on the basis that there is no foundation for prior counsel’s invoices.
Plaintiff argues that Richland, as attorney-in-fact for the Trust, and
secondary counsel on appeal, is able to supply the foundation for the time
spent by Haney & Shah. (Richland Decl., ¶ 2.) While this may be true, the fact
remains that she has not supplied the foundation.
Defendants also object that Richland
charged a flat fee, rather than listing her hourly rate and the hours she spent
working on the appeal. Defendant argues that the former law firm of Haney &
Shah had already accumulated 26.6 hours preparing the Respondent’s Brief.
(Richland Decl., Exh. B.) It should be noted that Richland prepared the
Respondent’s Brief without input from the Haney & Shah law firm as the
attorneys there were engaged in trial and/or seriously ill. (Id., paragraphs 5
and 8). Without input from the prior firm, she was required to draft “at least
five (5) separate updated, amended, and/or corrected briefs before finalizing
for filing” (Id., paragraph 9). 
As of November 15, 2022, the Haney &
Shah firm had possession of, and was working on the appellate matter. (Richland
Decl., Exh. B.) Attorney Richland filed the Respondent’s Brief 13 days later on
November 28, 2022. 
Defendants argue they should not be financially
responsible for the medical emergency at the Haney & Shah firm, nor for the
necessity of retaining attorney Richland as substitute counsel to draft the
Respondent’s Brief. Nor should Defendants be financially responsible for work
performed by Richland, which was duplicative of the work performed by the
original attorneys, Haney & Shah.
The Court agrees. It appears that former
counsel already spent 20 hours researching, drafting, editing, reviewing and
revising the brief. As such, the flat fee of $15,000 is problematic in this
matter as it does not allow the Court to review the time Richland spent
drafting the brief, in order to determine whether the work was duplicative, and
in order to determine whether the number of hours were reasonably expended. A court determining the number of hours reasonably expended
on a case “must carefully review attorney documentation of hours expended.” (Ketchum,
supra, 24 Cal.4th at 1132.) In doing so, the court must exclude hours that
“were not reasonably expended in pursuit of successful claims,” (Harman v.
City & County of San Francisco (2007) 158 Cal.App.4th 407, 417),
“attorney time spent on services which produce no tangible benefit for the
client,” (Meister v. Regents of Univ. of Cal. (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 637,
652), or hours that were otherwise “duplicative or excessive.” (Graciano v.
Robinson Ford Sales, Inc. (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 140, 161.)
As a result, the matter is
continued to allow Richland to file a declaration attesting to the hours she
spent on the appeal in this matter, and her hourly rate. She should also
attest to the reasonableness of the time spent and her hourly rate in the
declaration.  Further, Richland’s
declaration should also attest to the reasonableness of the Haney &
Shah fees, or in the alternative, Plaintiff should obtain a declaration from
the Haney & Shah firm attesting to the reasonableness of the fees.  Defendant may then
file a supplemental brief to address the reasonableness of the hours expended
and her hourly rate. Plaintiff may then file a supplemental reply.
If Richland is not inclined to
file a declaration attesting to the hours she spent on the appeal in this
matter, and her hourly rate, then the Court is inclined to reduce the amount
requested in attorney fees in order to avoid awarding fees for duplicative work.
However, a declaration attesting to the reasonableness of the Haney and Shah
fees is required in order to award any attorney fees for their work.
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion
for attorney fees is CONTINUED to allow Richland to
file a declaration attesting to the hours she spent on the appeal in this
matter, and her hourly rate. She should also attest to the reasonableness of
the time spent and her hourly rate in the declaration.  Further, Richland’s declaration should also
attest to the reasonableness of the Haney & Shah fees, or in the
alternative, Plaintiff should obtain a declaration from the Haney & Shah
firm attesting to the reasonableness of the fees.  Defendant may then file a supplemental brief
to address the reasonableness of the hours Richland expended and Richland’s
hourly rate. Plaintiff may then file a supplemental reply. All
supplemental briefing, including Richland’s declaration should be pursuant to
CCP section 1005(b).
Moving party is
ordered to give notice.