 Case Number:  23STCV04013    Hearing Date:   October 30, 2023    Dept:  31 TENTATIVE
 
Plaintiff’s motion
to compel further responses to requests for production is DENIED in part and
GRANTED in part. It is granted as to Request Nos. 5, 7, 9-10, and otherwise
denied. 
 
Legal Standard 
 
“Unless otherwise limited by order of the court in
accordance with this title, any party may obtain discovery regarding any
matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter involved in the
pending action or to the determination of any motion made in that action, if
the matter either is itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.” (Code of Civ.
Proc. § 2017.010.)¿For 
 
On receipt of a
response to an inspection demand, the demanding party may move for an order
compelling further responses to the demand if the demanding party deems that
any of the following apply: (1) a statement of compliance with the demand is
incomplete; (2) a representation of inability to comply is inadequate,
incomplete, or evasive; or (3) an objection in the response is without merit or
too general.  (CCP § 2031.310(a).) 
 
A motion to compel
further response to requests for production “shall set forth specific facts
showing good cause justifying the discovery sought by the inspection
demand.”  CCP § 2031.310(b)(1).  “To establish ‘good cause,’ the burden is on
the moving party to show both:  [1] Relevance to the subject matter (e.g.,
how the information in the documents would tend to prove or disprove some issue
in the case); and [2] Specific facts justifying discovery
(e.g., why such information is necessary for trial preparation or to prevent
surprise at trial).  The fact that there
is no alternative source for the
information sought is an important factor in establishing ‘good cause’ for
inspection.  But it is not essential in every case.”  (Weil & Brown, Civil Procedure Before Trial, 8:1495.6 (citations omitted).)  “Declarations are generally used to show the
requisite ‘good cause’ for an order to compel inspection.  The declarations must contain ‘specific facts’
rather than mere conclusions.”  (Id. at 8:1495.7 (citation omitted).)
“The declarations may be on information and belief, if necessary.  However, in such cases, the ‘specific facts’
supporting such information and belief (the sources of the information) must
also be alleged.”  (Id. at 8:1495.8 (citation omitted).)  
 
“If ‘good cause’
is shown by the moving party, the burden is then on the responding party to
justify any objections made to document disclosure (the same as on motions to
compel answers to interrogatories or deposition questions. . . ).”  (Id.
at 8:1496 (citation omitted).)
 
Trial courts are vested with “wide discretion” to allow or prohibit
discovery. (Williams v. Superior Court¿(2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 540.) 
 
Meet and
Confer
 
The motion to
compel further responses must be accompanied by a declaration showing “a
reasonable and good faith attempt” to resolve the issues outside of court.  (CCP §§2016.040, 2031.310(b)(2).)
 
The Court finds
the meet and confer requirement has been met. 
 
Discussion
              
Plaintiff requests
that the court order Defendant to provide further responses and documents to
Plaintiff’s Request for Production of Documents, Set One, Nos. 1-37.
Plaintiff propounded the Requests for
Production of Documents, Set One, on Defendant seeking documents relating to:
(1) Plaintiff’s own vehicle (Request Nos. 1-15); (2) Defendant’s warranty and
repurchase policies, procedures, and practices (Request Nos. 16-31); and (3)
Defendant’s knowledge of the same or similar defects in other vehicles of the
same year, make, and model. (Request Nos. 32-37). (Kohanoff Decl., ¶ 19, Ex.
4.)
First, Defendant stated it would comply
with Requests for Production Nos. 1-3 and 6. Thus, the motion is moot as to
Nos. 1-3 and 6.
Specifically,
Plaintiff requested the following categories of documents:
No. 4: All DOCUMENTS relating
or referring to Plaintiff and/or the SUBJECT VEHICLE whether those DOCUMENTS
are in YOUR possession, YOUR customer relations' possession or YOUR customer
service's possession, or in YOUR authorized dealership's possession.
JLRNA objects to this request to
the extent it calls for documents that are in the possession, custody or
control of third parties, and not JLRNA. 
Code of Civil
Procedure, section 2031.220 states, “A statement that the party to whom a
demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling has been directed will
comply with the particular demand shall state that the production, inspection,
copying, testing, or sampling, and related activity demanded, will be allowed
either in whole or in part, and that all documents or things in the demanded
category that are in the possession, custody, or control of that party and to
which no objection is being made will be included in the production.” 
 
Plaintiff cannot
attempt to force Defendant to obtain and produce documents that are not in its
possession. Defendant properly objects that this request seeks document from
Defendant’s authorized dealership who is not a party to this litigation. The
Court will not compel a further response to Plaintiff’s Requests for
Production, No. 4. 
No. 5: All DOCUMENTS which evidence,
describe, refer or relate to any inspection of the SUBJECT VEHICLE. 
No. 7: All DOCUMENTS which evidence,
describe, refer or relate to sale contracts, lease agreements, service
contracts, service agreements, and/or warranties on the SUBJECT VEHICLE. 
The Court finds
there is good cause to compel further responses to Nos. 5 and 7, and Defendant
has not justified its objections. To the extent Defendant has asserted an
objection based upon attorney-client privilege and work product, Defendant as
the party asserting the protections of the attorney-client privilege and the
work product doctrine, has the burden of presenting evidence to establish that
the privilege and/or doctrine exists on these facts and covers the requested
information. (Zimmerman v. Sup. Ct. (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 389, 402; Santa
Rosa Memorial Hospital v. Sup. Ct. (1985) 174 Cal.App.3d 711,
727-728.) Defendant has not done so. As to confidential, proprietary, and trade
secret information, this is not a proper objection. A party who believes that a
discovery request seeks confidential information must seek a protective order
from the court. (Columbia Broadcasting System, Inc. v. Sup. Ct., 263
Cal. App. 2d 12, 23 (1968).)
No. 8: Any and all DOCUMENTS
which evidence, describe, refer or relate to repairs or service performed on
the SUBJECT VEHICLE at any time and by any PERSON, including, but not limited
to, service request DOCUMENTS, repair orders, invoices, labor receipts, parts
order forms, computer printouts, parts receipts, canceled checks, and billing
statements, and printout of the warranty repair history for the SUBJECT
VEHICLE.
JLRNA objects to this request to the extent
it is compound, overbroad, vague and ambiguous and calls for documents that are
not relevant to the subject matter. JLRNA objects to this request to the extent
it calls for documents that are either equally available to the Plaintiff
and/or are in the possession, custody or control of third parties, and not
JLRNA.
This request, as
phrased, is far too overbroad by asking Defendant to seek out and produce
documents from other repair facilities who serviced the Vehicle. The Court will
not compel further responses to Plaintiffs’ Requests for Production, No.
8. 
 
No. 9: All
DOCUMENTS which evidence, refer, or relate to Plaintiff’s request for refund of
the price Plaintiff paid for the SUBJECT VEHICLE. 
JLRNA objects to this request to the extent
the documents sought are subject to the attorney- client privilege, protected
from disclosures by the attorney work product doctrine, and/or constitute
JLRNA’s trade secrets and/or proprietary, confidential business information.
JLRNA objects to this request to the extent it is overbroad, vague and
ambiguous and calls for documents that are not relevant to the subject matter.
JLRNA objects to this request to the extent it calls for documents that are
either equally available to the Plaintiff and/or are in the possession, custody
or control of third parties, and not JLRNA. JLRNA objects to this request on
the basis that it is premature, as JLRNA continues to collect documents from
third parties that may pertain to this litigation. JLRNA objects to this
request to the extent it calls for premature expert opinion. Subject to and
without waiving the foregoing objections, JLRNA responds: JLRNA will produce
CRC Case 8001076956. Discovery is continuing, and JLRNA reserves the right to
supplement its response based upon further investigation. 
This request for
documents regarding Plaintiff’s request for a refund of the price Plaintiff
paid is relevant to a Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act claim, and is narrowly
tailored. Defendant has not justified its objections. 
 
The Court will
compel a further response to Plaintiff’s Requests for Production, No.
9.  
No. 10: All DOCUMENTS that
reflect the warranty repair history of the SUBJECT VEHICLE. 
The Court finds
good cause to compel a further response to No. 10, and that Defendant has not
justified its same objections. The Court will compel a further response to
Plaintiff’s Requests for Production, No. 10.
No. 11: All DOCUMENTS which evidence,
describe, refer, or relate to any CONTACT between YOU and Plaintiff. 
No. 12: All DOCUMENTS which
evidence, describe, refer, or relate to any CONTACT with any PERSON, other than
YOUR attorney, and relating or referring to Plaintiff to the SUBJECT VEHICLE.
No. 13: All DOCUMENTS which evidence or
describe any CONTACT between YOU and any other PERSON, other than YOUR
attorney, regarding the SUBJECT VEHICLE.
Plaintiff seeks
all documents that relate to contact between Defendant and Plaintiff, not
limited to this action, this Vehicle, or any time period, and any contact with any
person that refers to the Vehicle. The Court finds that the requests, as
phrased, are significantly overbroad and the Court will not compel further
responses to Plaintiff’s Requests for Production, Nos. 11, 12, and
13.  
No. 14: All DOCUMENTS which evidence,
describe, refer, or relate to written or recorded statements from any PERSON
concerning the SUBJECT VEHICLE or Plaintiff’s complaints concerning the SUBJECT
VEHICLE.
Again, this request is overbroad as it
seeks statements from any person without a timeframe. The Court will not compel
a further response as to No. 14.
No. 15: Each written warranty provided by
YOU for the SUBJECT VEHICLE. 
No. 16: Any DOCUMENT related in any way to
determining whether repairs should be covered by YOUR warranty. 
These
requests are overbroad as they are not limited to the warranty at issue. The
Court will not compel further responses to Nos. 15-16.
 
No. 17: All of YOUR warranty claims policy
and procedure manual(s) from 2016 to the present. 
The Court finds this request is overbroad
as it does not relate to the vehicle or the warranty at issue in this matter.
The Court will not compel a further response to No. 17.
No. 18: All DOCUMENTS which evidence describe, refer,
or relate to YOUR rules, policies, or procedures since 2016 concerning the
issuance of refunds to buyers or providing replacement vehicles to buyers in
the State of California under the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act. 
The Court finds No. 18 is overbroad, and not
reasonably tailored by types of documents within a particular timeframe, or
limited to the subject vehicle, or any particular vehicle. The Court will not
compel a further response to No. 18.
No. 19: All DOCUMENTS which evidence,
describe, refer, or relate to procedures used by YOU for the handling of
complaints by consumers regarding vehicles YOU manufactured or distributed.
JLRNA responds: JLRNA will produce the
California Lemon Law Summary and the Standards of The California Lemon Law:
Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act and Tanner Consumer Protection Act and
responsive non-privileged documents subject to a protective order. 
As such, this request is moot.
No. 20: All DOCUMENTS issued by
YOU or on YOUR behalf which evidence or describe the policies, procedures,
and/or instructions which YOUR employees and authorized agents should follow
after a decision has been made by YOU to authorize either a refund of the
purchase price, or a replacement vehicle, to YOUR customer. 
JLRNA states it will produce the California
Lemon Law Summary and the Standards of The California Lemon Law: Song Beverly
Consumer Warranty Act and Tanner Consumer Protection Act and responsive
nonprivileged documents subject to a protective order. 
As such, this request is moot.
No. 21: All DOCUMENTS issued by YOU or on YOUR
behalf which evidence or describe policies, procedures, and/or instructions
since 2016 that YOUR employees and agents should follow when evaluating a
customer request for their money back or a replacement of a motor vehicle
manufactured or distributed by YOU.
JLRNA responds: JLRNA will produce the
California Lemon Law Summary and the Standards of The California Lemon Law:
Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act and Tanner Consumer Protection Act and
responsive non-privileged documents subject to a protective order. 
As such, this request is moot.
No. 22: All DOCUMENTS evidencing and/or
describing YOUR training materials related to YOUR policy regarding how to
calculate a repurchase.
This
request is overbroad as it is without limitation as to whether the training
materials at issue would apply to Plaintiff’s vehicle, during the time
Plaintiff owned the vehicle, or to California consumers. The Court will
not compel a further response to No. 22.
No. 23: All DOCUMENTS referencing,
evidencing, and/or relating to YOUR policies, procedures, or guidelines for
determining whether a vehicle is eligible for a vehicle repurchase.
This
request is overbroad as it is without limitation as to whether the documents at
issue would apply to Plaintiff’s vehicle, during the time Plaintiff owned the
vehicle, or to California consumers. The Court will not compel a further
response to No. 23.
No. 24: All DOCUMENTS referencing,
evidencing, and/or relating to YOUR training material related to YOUR policy to
encourage customers to give YOU another opportunity to repair their vehicles.
The request is overbroad as it seeks
documents without limitation as to whether the training materials at issue would
apply to Plaintiff’s vehicle, during the time Plaintiff owned the vehicle, or
to California consumers. The Court will not compel a further
response to No. 24.
No.
25: All
DOCUMENTS referencing, evidencing, and/or relating to YOUR policy defining what
constitutes a repair to determine eligibility for repurchase or replacement in
California. 
This
request is overbroad as it is without limitation as to whether the training
materials at issue would apply to Plaintiff’s vehicle, and during the time
Plaintiff owned the vehicle. The Court will not compel a further response to
No. 25.
No.
26: All
DOCUMENTS issued by YOU or on YOUR behalf which evidence or describe policies,
procedures and/or instructions since 2016 which YOUR authorized repair
facilities should follow regarding customer requests for a refund of the price
paid for a vehicle or a replacement vehicle. 
The request is overbroad as it seeks
documents without limitation as to whether they would apply to Plaintiff’s
vehicle, during the time Plaintiff owned the vehicle, or to California
consumers.
The Court will not compel a further response to No. 26.
 
No. 27: All DOCUMENTS which evidence or describe YOUR Lemon
Law Escalation Process. 
 
This request is overbroad, as it seeks documents without
limitation to the subject vehicle, the timeframe Plaintiff owned the vehicle,
or application to vehicles in California. The Court will not compel a further
response to No. 27. 
 
No. 28: All
DOCUMENTS which evidence or describe YOUR call center escalation process. 
This request is overbroad, as it seeks documents without
limitation to the subject vehicle, the timeframe Plaintiff owned the vehicle,
or application to vehicles in California. The Court will not compel a further
response to No. 28. 
 
 
No. 29: All DOCUMENTS which evidence any
predictive model used to determine if one of Defendant’s vehicles is a
candidate for escalation.
 
This request is overbroad, as it seeks documents without
limitation to the subject vehicle, the timeframe Plaintiff owned the vehicle,
or application to vehicles in California. The Court will not compel a further
response to No. 29. 
 
 
No. 30: All DOCUMENTS any CONSULTANT
provided YOU from 2010 to present that are related in any way to the
Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act.
This request is overbroad, as it seeks documents without
limitation to the subject vehicle, or the timeframe Plaintiff owned the
vehicle. The Court will not compel a further response to No. 29. 
 
No. 31: All DOCUMENTS evidencing any
policies, procedures, or guidelines provided by YOU to any agency regarding
what constitutes a substantial nonconformity under the Song-Beverly Act from
2016 to present.
 
This request is overbroad, as it seeks documents without
limitation to the subject vehicle, or the timeframe Plaintiff owned the
vehicle. The Court will not compel a further response to No. 30. 
No. 32: All DOCUMENTS evidencing or describing
statistics for the number of repurchases and replacements Defendant has made in
California in response to consumers’ personal requests (i.e. a consumer without
an attorney) from 2016 to present. 
No. 33: All DOCUMENTS which evidence or describe the
numbers of owners 2017 Jaguar XF vehicles who have complained of any of the
conditions, defects, or nonconformities for which Plaintiff presented the
SUBJECT VEHICLE to YOU or YOUR authorized repair facility for repair. 
No. 34: All DOCUMENTS which evidence,
refer, or relate to all Technical Service Bulletins (“TSBs”) which have been
issued for 2017 Jaguar XF vehicles, including, but not limited to, complete
copies of all such Technical Service Bulletins that involve any part,
component, sub- component, system, assembly, or sub-assembly for which the
SUBJECT VEHICLE was subject to one or more repair attempts as reflected in YOUR
Warranty Claim Records, or in the repair orders produced during discovery in
this case.
No. 35: All DOCUMENTS which evidence,
refer, or relate to all Recalls which have been issued for 2017 Jaguar XF
vehicles that involve any part, component, sub-component, system, assembly, reflected
in YOUR Warranty Claim Records or in the repair orders produced during
discovery in this case.
No. 36: All DOCUMENTS which describe or discuss
above-average repair rates to 2017 Jaguar XF vehicles. 
Plaintiff’s motion
does not explain how documents regarding investigation into alleged defects or
knowledge about alleged defects on other vehicles will lead to the
discovery of admissible evidence regarding Plaintiff’s vehicle. Request
Nos. 32-36 are entirely overbroad as this is not a class action matter.
Moreover, No. 32 is not even limited to the model of the subject vehicle. Nos. 32 and 34-36 also seek complaints about defects that
are not present in the subject vehicle. The Court will not compel further
responses to Nos. 32-36.
No. 37: All DOCUMENTS which evidence or
describe sales brochures, literature or any other promotional materials
provided or distributed by YOU regarding vehicles of the same year, make, and
model as the SUBJECT VEHICLE.
Plaintiff has not explained how this is relevant.
Plaintiff is not alleging fraud, false advertising, or any allegations
whatsoever referring to advertising. The Court will not compel further response
to No. 37.
Conclusion
 
Plaintiff’s motion
to compel further responses to requests for production is DENIED in part and
GRANTED in part. It is granted as to Request Nos. 5, 7, 9-10, and otherwise
denied. 
 
Moving party is
ordered to give notice.