  Case Number:  23STCV03601    Hearing Date:   September 18, 2023    Dept:  49 CIC Inc. v. Prestige Default Services, LLCDEMURRER TO COMPLAINT MOVING PARTY: Defendant Prestige Default Services, LLCRESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff CIC Inc.STATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:  Plaintiff CIC Inc., as Trustee of the Serra Trust, alleges it placed a bid with Defendant Prestige Default Services, LLC, to obtain the residential home at a trustee’s sale. Plaintiff alleges it was the only party to bid on the property and submitted a cashier’s check sufficient to cover the bid. Defendant, however, allegedly rejected Plaintiff’s bid and offered to return the funds. Plaintiff alleges Defendant wrongfully rejected the bid in violation of California Civil Code § 2924m and now asserts one cause of action for specific performance. Defendant Prestige Default Services, LLC, now demurrers to the sole cause of action in the Complaint. Plaintiff opposed.The matter came for hearing on August 21, 2023. Following oral argument, the court continued the hearing to this date and ordered Plaintiff to file a supplemental brief addressing two arguments raised by Defendant for the first time in reply. The court has read and considered Plaintiff’s supplemental brief of September 11, 2023, and now rules as follows.TENTATIVE RULING:Defendant’s Demurrer to the Complaint is OVERRULED.Plaintiff is ordered to file an Answer within 21 days of this ruling.Moving party to give notice, unless waived.  DISCUSSION:DemurrerI. Meet and ConferThe Declaration of Crystal R. Davieau, Counsel for Defendant, reflects that the parties met and conferred.II. Legal StandardA demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action.  (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App. 4th 740, 747.)  When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context.  (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th 1216, 1228.)  In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or by proper judicial notice.  (CCP § 430.30(a).)  A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters.  (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153 Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.)  Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed.  (Id.)  The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.  (Hahn, 147 Cal.App.4th at 747.)  III. AnalysisDefendant Prestige Default Services, Inc., demurs to the Plaintiff’s sole cause of action for specific performance, arguing it fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action, and is uncertain.First, Defendant contends Plaintiff has failed to plead its statutory cause of action with particularity. As a general rule, “statutory causes of action must be pleaded with particularity.” (Covenant Care, Inc. v. Superior Ct. (2004) 32 Cal. 4th 771, 790.) Plaintiff brings this action for specific performance based on Defendant’s alleged violation of Civil Code section 2924m. Section 2924m, added to the Code in 2020, establishes a process by which eligible bidders may purchase property containing one to four residential units after the trustee's sale. Section 2924m details various conditions both trustees and eligible bidders must follow. Here, Plaintiff CIC Inc., as Trustee of the Serra Trust, alleges that Defendant Prestige Default Services, Inc., conducted a trustee’s sale of the subject property on or about December 28, 2022. (Compl. ¶¶ 2, 8.) Plaintiff alleges it submitted the only intent to bid for the property on or about January 3, 2023. (Id. ¶ 10.) On or about February 13, 2023, Plaintiff tendered to Defendant a written bid of $471,101.00 along with a cashier’s check sufficient to cover the bid. (Id. ¶ 13.) Prestige received the bid and funds within 45 days of the trustee’s sale. (Id.) Plaintiff alleges Defendant rejected Plaintiff’s bid in violation of California Civil Code § 2924m. (Id. ¶ 15.) Plaintiff now seeks delivery of title on the property through specific performance.  Considering these allegations and accepting them as true, Plaintiff has sufficiently alleged its performance and compliance with the statutory requirements of section 2924m for purposes of a demurrer. (See Fox v. JAMDAT Mobile, Inc., 185 Cal. App. 4th 1068, 1078 [ “A demurrer accepts as true all well pleaded facts” in the Complaint].)Next, Defendant contends Plaintiff has not alleged the elements of a cause of action for specific performance. Specific performance is an equitable remedy brought in lieu of a breach of contract claim. (Darbun Enterprises, Inc. v. San Fernando Cmty. Hosp. (2015) 239 Cal. App. 4th 399, 409.) “To obtain specific performance after a breach of contract, a plaintiff must generally show: ‘(1) the inadequacy of his legal remedy; (2) an underlying contract that is both reasonable and supported by adequate consideration; (3) the existence of a mutuality of remedies; (4) contractual terms which are sufficiently definite to enable the court to know what it is to enforce; and (5) a substantial similarity of the requested performance to that promised in the contract.’” (Real Est. Analytics, LLC v. Vallas (2008) 160 Cal. App. 4th 463, 472.) Noting the requirement of a contract, Defendant suggests this cause of action must fail because there was no contract here. “[T]his case is not based upon any contract or agreement. Instead, it is based upon the post-sale bidding process outlined by Civil Code Section 2924m.” (Dem. 8: 17-18.) This issue is related to a separate point that Defendant raises for the first time in its reply brief. Section 2924m(j) provides that “(j) The Attorney General, a county counsel, a city attorney, or a district attorney may bring an action for specific performance or any other remedy at equity or at law to enforce this section.” Relying on this subdivision, Defendant contends that Plaintiff lacks standing to bring this action—at least as one for specific performance. (Reply 4: 21-27.)Defendant raises another argument, again for the first time in reply. Defendant contends there is a defect or misjoinder of parties because “Plaintiff has failed to name the current owner of the Property as a party to this action.” (Reply 5: 18-19.) As alleged in the Complaint, Defendant is the party who conducted the trustee’s sale for the property. (Compl. ¶ 8.) It is unclear from the pleading whether Defendant presently holds title to the property, or rather, if it is held by someone else. Following the hearing on this matter, this court invited Plaintiff to file a supplemental brief addressing these two issues.   The court now turns to those issues.   [FN 1]Regarding standing to bring a cause of action for specific performance, Plaintiff contends that section 2924m(j) merely expands the ability of certain law enforcement agents to bring an action for specific performance, but does not limit the ability of a party to the agreement to bring such an action. The court agrees with that position. If the “Attorney General, a county counsel, a city attorney, or a district attorney” can bring an action for specific performance to enforce section 2924m, this court sees no reason why Plaintiff cannot.  Plaintiff alleges it “complied with all the obligations imposed upon it as an over bidder by timely providing Prestige with an intent to bid, a bid and bid funds.” (Compl. ¶ 18.) Therefore, Plaintiff can bring an action for specific performance in the same manner that the designated public officials can. Finding otherwise would force a Plaintiff to rely on a designated public official to enforce Defendant’s obligations under the statute. This court doubts the legislature intended that result. (People v. McHenry (2000) 77 Cal. App. 4th 730, 732 [“When interpreting a statute [the court’s] primary task is to determine the Legislature’s intent”].)Moreover, the court agrees with Plaintiff that the alleged facts here do not include a “contract” as is usually necessary to invoke specific performance. Section 2924m, however, provides detailed procedures for the bidding process. The Legislature apparently considered the bidding process outlined by this section as one that creates a “contract” or other obligation for purposes of specific performance, as the statute expressly permits that remedy. The court therefore finds that Plaintiff has standing to bring this claim and has alleged a contractual obligation that permits Plaintiff to seek the remedy of specific performance. Regarding a defect or misjoinder of parties, Plaintiff contends there is no misjoinder on the face of the complaint that prejudices Defendant. This court agrees.“Although the code seems to authorize the sustaining of a demurrer solely on such a technical objection [of misjoinder], the authorities indicate that the defendant is entitled to a favorable ruling only when he can show some prejudice suffered or some interests affected by the misjoinder. In practical effect, this means that such a demurrer can be successfully used only by the persons improperly joined. A proper defendant is seldom injured by the joinder of unnecessary or improper parties plaintiff or defendant, and his demurrer ought to be overruled.” (Royal Surplus Lines Ins. Co. v. Ranger Ins. Co. (2002) 100 Cal. App. 4th 193, 198 [citing 5 Witkin, Cal. Procedure (4th ed. 1997) Pleading, § 926, pp. 385–386].) Here, Defendant does not contend it is improperly joined—only that an unnamed Defendant should be joined as well. Defendant has identified no prejudice by the purported defect or misjoinder. Second, as Plaintiff correctly notes, any alleged defect or misjoinder must appear on the face of the complaint. (See Nava v. McMillan (1981) 123 Cal. App. 3d 262, 264 [“demurrer reaches only those defects which appear on the face of the complaint or which are judicially noticeable”].) There is no indication from the complaint, or any matter judicially noticed suggesting that someone other than Defendant holds title to the property. Where, as here, “any ground for objection to a complaint or cross-complaint does not appear on the face of the pleading, the objection may be taken” not by a demurrer, but in the Defendant’s answer. (CCP § 430.30(b).) Therefore, Defendant’s demurrer based on a defect or misjoinder of parties fails.Accordingly, Defendant’s Demurrer to the Complaint is OVERRULED.Plaintiff is ordered to file an Answer to the Complaint within 21 days of this ruling.Moving party to give notice.IT IS SO ORDERED.Dated:   September 18, 2023 ___________________________________ Randolph M. Hammock Judge of the Superior CourtFN 1 - Trial courts have discretion to decline to “consider arguments first raised in a reply brief because of the potential unfairness to the opposing party, who is deprived of the opportunity to respond to the new argument.” (Contractors’ State License Bd. v. Superior Court (2018) 23 Cal.App.5th 125, 131; see also St. Mary v. Superior Court (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 762, 783 [trial court will not consider “ ‘points raised in a reply brief for the first time ... unless good cause is shown for the failure to present them before ’ ”].) However, finding the arguments had at least surface-appeal, this court considered it appropriate to consider these new arguments while allowing Plaintiff the opportunity to respond by supplemental brief. As discussed herein, this court finds Plaintiff has adequately rebutted these arguments for purposes of this demurrer.  Any party may submit on the tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept49@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day before the hearing.  All interested parties must be copied on the email.  It should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.