  Case Number:  24NNCV00253    Hearing Date:   January 7, 2025    Dept:  P [TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING MOTION TO BE RELIEVED AS COUNSEL FOR DEFENDANT,
REBECCA SCHASA.I.               
Background
This is a
collection action for recovery of unpaid nursing home bills. Plaintiff, AG
Arcadia, LLC, a California Limited Liability Company doing business as
Huntington Drive Health and Rehabilitation Center (“Plaintiff”), filed this
action against Defendant Rebecca Schasa, also known as Rebecca Rodriguez,
individually and as trustee of the Abraham Rodriguez and Stella Rodriguez
Trusts (“Defendant”), seeking damages for the unpaid balance of nursing home
services provided to Defendant’s mother, Stella Rodriguez. 
On March
13, 2024, Plaintiff filed the original complaint, and on November 22, 2024,
Plaintiff filed the First Amended Complaint (FAC).
On
December 13, 2024, Defendant's counsel, Robert Lee Driskell of Driskell, Gordon
& Fetchik, LLP, (“Mr. Driskell”) filed the instant motion to be relieved as
counsel. This motion is unopposed.
II.            
Legal
Standard
The Court may issue an order allowing an
attorney to withdraw from representation after notice to the client. (CCP §
284.) The attorney may withdraw from representation if the withdrawal would not
result in undue prejudice to the client's interest—i.e., counsel cannot
withdraw at a critical point in the litigation. (Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994)
21 Cal. App. 4th 904, 915; see California Rule of Professional Conduct 3-700.)
The Court has discretion to grant or deny a
motion to be relieved as counsel, particularly when granting such a motion
would cause undue prejudice to the client's interests or result in “an
unreasonable disruption of the orderly processes of justice.” (People v.
Ortiz (1990) 51 Cal. 3d 975, 979.) Furthermore, the Court may deny an
attorney’s request to withdraw “where such withdrawal would work an injustice
or cause undue delay in the proceeding.” (Mandell v. Superior Court
(1977) 67 Cal. App. 3d 1, 4.) However, this discretion must be exercised
reasonably, balancing the client’s right to choose representation with the
court’s duty to maintain the orderly administration of justice. (Ibid.)
In making a motion to be relieved as counsel,
the attorney must comply with procedures set forth in Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1362. The motion must be made using mandatory forms:
1. Notice of Motion and Motion to be Relieved as Counsel directed to the
client – (MC-051).
2. Declaration “stating in general terms and without compromising the
confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship” the reasons that the
motion was brought (MC-052).
3. Proposed Order (MC-053).
The forms must be timely filed and served on all parties who have
appeared in the case. If these documents are served on the client by mail,
there must be a declaration stating either that the address where client was
served is “the current residence or business address of the client” or “the
last known residence or business address of the client and the attorney has
been unable to locate a more current address after making reasonable efforts to
do so within 30 days before the filing of the motion to be relieved.” (Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1362(d)(1).)
 
III.          
Discussion
Mr. Driskell has complied with the procedural requirements under
California Rules of Court, rule 3.1362. He filed the required MC-051, MC-052,
and MC-053. These documents were properly served on Defendant at her last known
address.
Mr. Driskell’s declaration describes repeated efforts to contact
Defendant via phone, email, text, and certified mail since August 2024
(Driskell Decl., ¶ 3). Specifically, Mr. Driskell declares that he has called
Defendant no fewer than 15 times, leaving voicemails each time, and sent at
least 10 emails. Defendant briefly responded in October, referencing a family
emergency, but has since failed to respond to subsequent communications despite
repeated reminders about the importance of communication for case management¿.The Court finds that granting this motion will not prejudice Defendant or
delay the proceedings. The next hearing is scheduled for January 23, 2025, for
a motion to compel further discovery responses, providing sufficient time for Defendant to retain substitute counsel¿, should she wish to do so.
Accordingly, the Court GRANTS Mr. Driskell’s motion to be relieved as
counsel, effective upon filing proof of service of the signed order on
Plaintiff.
Dated: January 7, 2025
 JARED D.
MOSESJUDGE OF THE SUPERIOR COURT 
