 Case Number:  20STCV13391    Hearing Date:   April 25, 2024    Dept:  C TEMORES v. FORD
MOTOR COMPANY 
CASE NO.:  20STCV13391
HEARING:  04/25/24
 
#3
 
Defendants FORD MOTOR COMPANY and CERRITOS FORD, INC.’s
Application for an Order to Compel Plaintiff to Produce the Subject Jack for
Inspection is GRANTED. 
 
The Motion is GRANTED. Plaintiff is ORDERED to
produce the subject jack for inspection by no later than 10 calendar days from
the date of the Court’s issuance of this Order. The Court is cognizant of the
fact that trial is currently scheduled for May 31, 2024, and that the discovery
cut-off deadline is May 1, 2024. Therefore, the discovery cut-off is extended
for the limited purpose of permitting the second inspection of the subject
jack. The discovery cut-off is not extended for any further purposes. 
 
Moving Party to give Notice. 
 
This product liability action was filed by Plaintiff WALTER
TEMORES, JR. (“Plaintiff”) on April 6, 2020. On April 20, 2022, the operative
First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) was filed. Plaintiff alleges that “[t]his
action against [Defendants] stems from [Plaintiff’s] use of a defective,
dangerous, unfit, and unsafe car jack, provided by Defendants and generally
used for the lifting or ‘jacking’ up of ones vehicle to change a tire, which
malfunctioned during use and disengaged without warning, resulting in Plaintiff
sustaining severe and traumatic person injuries when the lifted vehicle,
weighing well over three tons, fell and crushed Plaintiff’s arm on the
ground.” (FAC ¶1.) 
 
Defendants FORD MOTOR COMPANY and CERRITOS FORD, INC.
(collectively “Defendants”) move for an order to compel Plaintiff to produce
the subject jack for inspection. Defendants acknowledge that Ford’s
former-engineer, Eric Kalis inspected the subject jack on September 22, 2021,
but argue that a further investigation is necessary because Mr. Kalis is no
longer employed by Ford and there are no current Ford employees that inspected
the subject jack who would be able to testify at trial concerning the jack and
Plaintiff’s allegations thereto. (Mooradian Decl., ¶¶4-5.)
 
In Opposition, Plaintiff argues that they complied with
Defendant’s August 23, 2021 Demand for Inspection, and produced the subject
jack for inspection by Defendants on September 22, 2021. Plaintiff argues that
this application should be denied because no further Demands for Inspection
regarding the subject jack have been served. Plaintiff further argues that
Defendant’s request is untimely under CCP §2031.310(c). 
 
In Reply, Defendants indicate that a Second Demand for
Inspection of the Subject Jack was served on March 15, 2024 (one day after the
Subject Motion was filed). (Reply Mooradian Decl., ¶3, Ex. A.) On April 12,
2024, Plaintiff objected to the Second Demand for Inspection of the Subject
Jack. (Id., ¶4, Ex. B.) 
 
“A party may demand that any other party produce and permit
the party making the demand, or someone acting on the demanding party’s behalf,
to inspect and to photograph, test, or sample any tangible things that are the
possession, custody, or control of the party on whom the demand is made.” (CCP
§2031.010(c).) 
 
Plaintiff is in possession of the subject jack. The subject
jack is undoubtedly a crucial piece of evidence in this case. It is undisputed
that Ford’s former expert is no longer employed by Ford, and that no other Ford
employees ever inspected the subject jack. Defendants would be unduly
prejudiced if none of its current experts are able to examine the subject jack
in order to provide first-hand knowledge/testimony at trial.  Plaintiff, on the other hand, has not
demonstrated that they would be prejudiced by having to produce the subject
jack for inspection a second time. 
 
The Motion is GRANTED. Plaintiff is ORDERED to
produce the subject jack for inspection by no later than 10 calendar days from
the date of the Court’s issuance of this Order. The Court is cognizant of the
fact that trial is currently scheduled for May 31, 2024, and that the discovery
cut-off deadline is May 1, 2024. Therefore, the discovery cut-off is extended
for the limited purpose of permitting the second inspection of the subject
jack. The discovery cut-off is not extended for any further purposes. 