 Case Number:  21STCV41940    Hearing Date:   April 25, 2024    Dept:  C KIM v. PARK
CASE NO.:  21STCV41940
HEARING:   04/25/24
 
#4
 
     I.       
Plaintiff’s
ex parte application to advance her Motion to Compel Further Responses to
Demand for Production of Documents is GRANTED. 
The motion is ADVANCED to today and CONTINUED to Thursday, June 13,
2024 at 10:30 a.m. in Dept. SE-C. 
 
    II.       
Defendant
HANNAH SEUING EUN AHN’s Motion to Compel Plaintiff ERICA KIM’s Further
Responses to Deposition Questions is CONTINUED to Thursday, June 13, 2024 at
10:30 a.m. in Dept. SE-C. 
 
Moving Party to give notice.
 
This
action for sexual assault/battery of a minor was filed on November 15, 2021. On
July 5, 2022 the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) was filed. 
 
Plaintiff
asserts the following causes of action: 
 
(1)
Sexual
Assault and Battery; 
(2)
IIED;

(3)
Negligence
Per Se; 
(4)
Gross
Negligence; 
(5)
Parental
Negligence; 
(6)
Negligent
Supervision; 
(7)
Premises
Liability – Unsafe Condition; 
(8)
Breach
of Contract; 
(9)
Breach
of Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing
 
Defendant HANNAH SEUING EUN AHN moves to compel further
responses from Plaintiff Erica Kim pursuant to CCP § 2025.480. There are 10
deposition questions at issue. Plaintiff Kim seemingly refused to answer many
of the subject questions citing privacy objections/concerns. 
 
This
matter was initially set for hearing on April 11, 2024, but continued to this
date due to enable Defendant the opportunity to respond to, and this Court to
adequately review, Plaintiff’s untimely filed Opposition papers. 
 
Upon
complete review of the briefs, it does not appear to this Court that the
parties adequately demonstrated a sufficient attempt to meet and confer with
respect to each of the issues presented in the Subject Motion. 
 
Attorney
Lee declares that a meet and confer letter was sent to counsel for Plaintiff on
November 6, 2023. However, [d]espite attempts to set up a time to speak… due to
last minute conflict on the part of Ms. Jin’s office, [counsel] were unable to
further meet and confer on the matter.” (Lee Decl., ¶5.) 
 
In
Opposition, Counsel for Plaintiff argues that no reasonable meet and confer
occurred because Defendant’s counsel made insufficient efforts to contact
Plaintiff’s counsel’s office before resorting to the filing of this Motion.  Moreover, Defendant filed this Motion a
“mere” eleven days from the date the meet and confer letter was served, and
that Plaintiff did not have adequate time to respond to the meet and confer
correspondence. (see Opp. 6:5-10.) 
 
“(a) If a deponent fails to answer
any question or to produce any document, electronically stored information, or
tangible thing under the deponent’s control that is specified in the deposition
notice or a deposition subpoena, the party seeking discovery may move the court
for an order compelling that answer or production.”  (CCP § 2025.480.)
 
The
Court is not persuaded that counsel have exhausted their meet and confer
obligations pursuant to the Code. Counsel are advised that their meet and
confer efforts should go beyond merely sending letters stating their respective
positions. (See Townsend v. Superior Court (1998) 61 Cal.App.4th 1431,
1439.) “A determination of whether an attempt at informal resolution is
adequate…involves the exercise of discretion. The level of effort at an
informal resolution which satisfies the ‘reasonable and good faith attempt’
standard depends upon the circumstances. In a larger, more complex discovery
request, a greater effort at informal resolution may be warranted. In a
simpler, or more narrowly focused case, a more modest effort may suffice. The
history of the litigation, the nature of the interaction between counsel, the
nature of the issues, the type and scope of the discovery requested, the
prospects for success and other similar factors can be relevant. Judges have
broad powers and responsibilities to determine what measures and procedures are
appropriate in varying circumstances.” (Obregon v. Sup. Ct. (1998) 67
Cal.App.4th 424, 431.) 
 
Counsel
are instructed to further meet and confer on the issues outlined in the subject
Motions. 
 
Counsel
are ORDERED to make further efforts
to resolve the issues presented. If, after exhausting those efforts, court
intervention is needed, counsel may appear and argue the merits on the
continued hearing date. If counsel are unable to informally resolve their
discovery disputes, then counsel are instructed to submit a JOINT STATEMENT
outlining the remaining disputed issues for which a ruling is required. The
joint statement must be FILED on or before Monday, June 3, 2024. 