 Case Number:  23NWCV00619    Hearing Date:   April 25, 2024    Dept:  C CHU v. YUE
CASE
NO.:  23NWCV00619
HEARING:
04/25/24
 
#5
 
Defendants
SHOU ZHENG YUE; VIGOROUS MORENO LLC; VIGOROUS W INVESTMENT CO. LTD.; VIGOROUS W
INVESTMENT LLC; and VIGOROUS W RANCHO LLC’s Motion for Entry of Protective
Order Governing Confidential Information is GRANTED. 
 
The
Court will issue entry of the Court’s Form Protective Order governing
Confidential Information in this action, without modification. Moving Party is ORDERED
to file and serve a Proposed Order in this regard within 5 court days of the
Court’s issuance of this Order. 
 
Moving
Party to give notice. 
 
This
action for fraud was filed by Plaintiffs ANTHONY K. CHU dba Law Offices of
Anthony K. Chy, an Individual; and JIANG QI, an individual (collectively
“Plaintiffs”) on February 27, 2023. On May 22, 2023, the operative First
Amended Complaint (“FAC”) was filed. 
 
The
FAC alleges that “Plaintiffs bring this action to obtain an order of this Court
to avoid the transfers made by Defendants NEW DIAMOND, YUE, QING, MA, JIUCHENG,
QINGYU, SHUQIN, MORENO, CO LTD, LLC, and RANCHO (collectively as ‘Defendants’)
under the Uniform Fraudulent Transfer Act….” (FAC ¶19.) 
 
The
FAC asserts the following causes of action: 
 
(1)
Avoidance
of Fraudulent Transfer (Actual Fraud); 
(2)
Avoidance
of Fraudulent Transfer (Constructive Fraud); and 
(3)
Civil
Conspiracy
 
Defendants
move for entry of a protective order to protect confidential information that
may be disclosed during discovery. It is undisputed that financial transactions
and information is at issue in this case. Defendants indicate that they are
willing to produce certain documents requested by Plaintiffs upon entry of a
protective order governing confidential information. Defendants propose that
the parties stipulate entry of the Court’s form protective order, without
modification. Defendants contend that Plaintiffs would not agree to the entry
of the Court’s form protective order unless Defendants agreed to modify it to
add a paragraph that would allow Plaintiffs to use discovery produced in this
action in an unrelated bankruptcy proceeding, In re Yindan Zhang, Debtor
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Central District of California Case No. 6:21-bk-16325-NH,
and further adversary proceedings not involving any of these defendants. 
 
In
Opposition, Plaintiffs fail to substantively address the issues argued in the
instant Motion. Rather, Plaintiffs argue that the requested discovery is
relevant to this action and that Defendants are required to produce/respond to
said discovery. 
 
The
Court may issue any Order to protect any parties, persons, or organizations
from unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, oppression, undue burden, or expense
associated with responding to discovery. (CCP §§2030.090(b), 2031.060(b),
2033.080(b).) The Court may also make any order as may be appropriate to protect
parties from unreasonable or oppressive demands. (CC P§1987.1.) 
 
The
relevance of the discovery and Defendants’ responses or lack thereof are not at
issue at this time. Indeed, it appears that Defendants are willing to respond
to relevant discovery and produce responsive documents—subject to entry of a
protective order to protect confidential information. Upon entry of the Court’s
form protective order, Plaintiffs would not be foreclosed from seeking
permission from Defendants, or filing a Motion with the Court, to use
confidential materials in unrelated actions. 
 
The
Motion is GRANTED. The Court will issue entry of the Court’s Form Protective
Order governing Confidential Information in this action, without modification.
Moving Party is ORDERED to file and serve a Proposed Order in this regard
within 5 court days of the Court’s issuance of this Order. 