 Case Number:  24STLC00801    Hearing Date:   September 11, 2024    Dept:  25 HEARING DATE:   9/11/2024                                                        JUDGE
/DEPT:        Mkrtchyan/25
CASE NAME: Kriss Halpern
v. Ikonic Auto Garage, et al.             COMP.
FILED:        02/01/2024
CASE NUMBER: 24STLC00801                                                    DISC.
C/O:                 07/16/2024
NOTICE:                                                                                           MOTION
C/O:          7/21/2024
TRIAL DATE:          07/31/2025
____________________________________________________________________________________
PROCEEDINGS:     Hearing on Demurrer - with Motion to Strike (CCP 430.10) to
Plaintiff's First Amended Complaint, Filed by the Defendants 
MOVING PARTY:    Ikonic Auto Garage (Defendant); Omar Bin
Mahfouz (Defendant)
RESP. PARTY: Kriss Halpern (Plaintiff)      

 

 
DEMURRER WITH MOTION TO STRIKE
(CCP § 430.10)
 
TENTATIVE RULING:

 
The demurrer is
SUSTAINED in part and overruled in part. The motion to strike is DENIED in part
and GRANTED in part. 
 
The demurrer as
to first cause of action for negligence and second cause of action for
conversion are OVERRULED. 
 
The demurrer as
to third cause of action for fraud, fourth cause of action for intentional
infliction of emotional distress, fifth cause of action for negligent
infliction of emotional distress, and sixth cause of action for breach of
fiduciary duty are SUSTAINED with leave to amend.  Plaintiff is ordered to file the Second
Amended Complaint within 30 days. 
 
The motion to
strike is GRANTED in part and DENIED in part. The motion to strike the fraud
claim and the allegations in paragraphs 66, 67, 81, 82, 89, 90, 91, 92, and 108
is DENIED as moot based on the court’s ruling on demurrer. The motion to strike
the prayer for punitive damages, ¶109(e), is GRANTED.  

 

 
 
SERVICE:  
 
[Ok]
Proof of Service Timely Filed (CRC, rule 3.1300)                   [OK/NOT OK]
[Ok]
Correct Address (CCP §§ 1013, 1013a)                                    [OK/NOT OK]
            [Ok] 16/21
Court Days Lapsed (CCP §§ 12c, 1005(b))                     [OK/NOT
OK]
 
OPPOSITION:          Filed
on 8/28/2024                              [   ] Late                      [ ] None
 
REPLY:                     Filed
on 9/4/2024                                [   ]
Late                      [ ] None
 
 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
I.                   
Background
 
On June 7, 2024, Plaintiff Kriss Halpern (Plaintiff) filed
the operative first amended complaint (FAC) against Defendants Ikonic Auto
Garage (Ikonic) and Omar Bin Mahfouz (Mahfouz; collectively Defendants).
Plaintiff alleges five causes of action for res ipsa loquitor, conversion,
fraud, intentional infliction of emotional distress, and breach of fiduciary
duty. 
 
Plaintiff alleges Ikonic is an
auto repair show owned and managed by Mahfouz. In January 2022, plaintiff’s BMW
(subject vehicle) broke down and he had it towed to Ikonic due to a preexisting
relationship. At the time, the subject vehicle had a sunroof made of
transparent material. The sunroof was stuck and would not close entirely, e.g. when
closed, it was slightly raised. At the time plaintiff presented the subject
vehicle to defendants the sunroof was not the issue; the issue was repair what
had caused the breakdown. (FAC¶¶7-14)
 
Plaintiff further alleges when
the vehicle arrived, Mahfouz advised him that they would take possession and
advise plaintiff of what work the subject vehicle needed with respect to the
breakdown, and then contact him before doing any work. Prior to leaving, Plaintiff
mentioned the issue with the sunroof. Defendants responded they would look at
the vehicle and let him know the cost to repair it. At some point Plaintiff
contacted Defendants to inquire about the repairs. They told him they found
something broken in the roof and a glass piece was missing. Plaintiff advised Defendants
he would look at it when the repairs were concluded.  (FAC¶¶7-22)
 
Plaintiff alleges, Defendants did
not contact plaintiff until after they had completed their repairs. When
plaintiff arrived at Ikonic, Mahfouz advised him the subject vehicle was
running well and explained the repairs. Plaintiff paid and waited outside for
delivery of the subject vehicle. When the subject vehicle arrived, the sunroof
was missing. When plaintiff confronted Mahfouz about the missing sunroof
Mahfouz stated that was how the subject vehicle arrived. Plaintiff alleges
Mahfouz refused to explain what happened to the sunroof of the subject vehicle.
(FAC¶¶22-36) 
 
Defendants now demur to all causes of action. Defendants
also move to strike the fraud claim entirely, the punitive damages allegations
(FAC, ¶¶66, 67, 81, 82, 89, 90, 91, 92, 108), and the prayer for punitive
damages. 
 
II.                
Request for Judicial Notice
 
Defendants request for judicial notice of the original
complaint is GRANTED.  Evid. Code §453.  
 
III.             
Demurrer Legal Standard 
 
A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint
states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747
(Hahn).) When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and
in context. (See Schultz v. Harney (1994) 27 Cal.App.4th 1611, 1622, as
modified on denial of reh’g (Sept. 29, 1994).) The court “take[s] as true all
properly pleaded material facts, but not conclusions of fact or law asserted in
the complaint.” (Sheen v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2022) 12 Cal.5th 905,
916.)
 
At the pleading stage, a plaintiff need only allege ultimate
facts sufficient to apprise the defendant of the factual basis for the claim
against them. (Semole v. Sansoucie (1972) 28 Cal.App.3d 714, 721.) “The
allegations of the pleading demurred to must be regarded as true.” (South
Shore Land Co. v. Peterson (1964) 266 Cal.App.2d 725, 732.) A “demurrer
does not, however, admit contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law
alleged in the pleading, or the construction of instruments pleaded, or facts
impossible in law.” (Ibid. [internal citations omitted].)
 
IV.             
Demurrer Discussion 
 
A.   
Res Ipsa Loquitor 
 
“The elements for negligence cause
of action are duty, breach, causation and damages.” (County of Santa Clara
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2006) 137 Cal.App.4th 292, 318.)¿ The presumption of res ipsa loquitor arises when the evidence
satisfies three conditions: “(1) the accident must be of a kind which
ordinarily does not occur in the absence of someone's negligence; (2) it must
be caused by an agency or instrumentality within the exclusive control of the
defendant; (3) it must not have been due to any voluntary action or
contribution on the part of the plaintiff.” (Vebr v. Culp (2015) 241
Cal.App.4th 1044, 1058 [internal citations omitted].)
 
Here, plaintiff has alleged a
viable negligence claim and has included facts regarding a presumption of res
ipsa loquitor. Plaintiff alleges he brought the subject vehicle to Ikonic to
fix the breakdown it experienced on the road. At that time, it had a sunroof,
albeit one which did not operate fully. Defendants owed a duty to exercise due
care for the vehicle while it was in their care. By virtue of the disappearance
of the sunroof, plaintiff alleges defendants breached their duty of care. Finally,
due to the destruction of the sunroof and the cost to repair it, plaintiff has
been damaged. (FAC¶¶45-58)
 
Defendants’ argument that
plaintiffs have not sufficiently alleged the duty of care is unpersuasive.
Plaintiff has alleged a general duty of care a bailee has to exercise over
property in their possession. While the allegations do not explicitly use the
word “bailee”, there are sufficient foundational facts supporting the theory. Defendant
has not identified an authority requiring a heightened pleading standard for a
negligence claim. Defendant also argues there are no allegations of causation.
Plaintiff has alleged grounds for the presumption of res ipsa loquitor and,
therefore, causation. He alleges that the disappearance of the sunroof does not
normally occur absent misconduct (FAC, ¶51), that defendants had the subject
vehicle when the disappearance occurred, and plaintiff did not have possession
when the disappearance occurred. This is sufficient.
 
The demurrer as to the first cause of action is OVERRULED.   
 
B.    
Conversion 
 
Conversion is “the wrongful exercise of dominion over the
property of another.” (Lee v. Hanley (2015) 61 Cal.4th 1225 [internal quotations
omitted].) To establish a claim for conversion, a plaintiff must plead: “(1)
the plaintiff’s ownership or right to possession of the property; (2) the
defendant’s conversion by a wrongful act or disposition of property rights; and
(3) damages.” (Ibid. [internal quotations omitted].) “[C]onversion is a
strict liability tort. It does not require bad faith, knowledge, or even
negligence; it requires only that the defendant have intentionally done the act
depriving the plaintiff of his or her rightful possession.” (Voris v.
Lampert (2019) 7 Cal. 5th 1141, 1158.)
 
“Conversion is a strict liability tort. It does not require
bad faith, knowledge, or even negligence; it requires only that the defendant
have intentionally done the act depriving the plaintiff of his or her rightful
possession.” (Vorik v. Lampert (2019) 7 Cal. 5th 1141, 1158)
“[Conversion] must be knowingly or intentionally done, but a wrongful intent is
not necessary.” (Taylor v. Forte Hotels Int’l (1991) 235 Cal.App. 3d
1119, 1124.) 
 
Here, plaintiff alleges that he had an ownership right to
his sunroof—a part of his vehicle—defendant took the sunroof without permission
or authority, and in fixing the removal he has incurred damages. Plaintiff
further alleges Malfouz then lied to Plaintiff about the roof to invent an
explanation for why the sunroof was missing from the vehicle when it was
returned by them to Plaintiff. 
(FAC¶¶62-67). Plaintiff alleges he went into the office and found
Mahfouz and asked what happened to the roof of his car.  Mahfouz responded that the vehicle was fixed
and ready to go. Halpern told Mahfouz there was no roof on the vehicle and
demanded to know what happened to the roof, and how he was supposed to drive
the car without a roof. (FAC¶32-33) This is sufficient. 
 
The demurrer as to the second cause of action is OVERRULED. 
 
C.    
Fraud
 
“The elements of fraud, which give rise to
the tort action for deceit, are (a) misrepresentation (false representation,
concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) knowledge of falsity (or ‘scienter’); (c)
intent to defraud, i.e., to induce reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e)
resulting damage.” (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal. 4th 631,
638.) “[F]raud must be pled specifically; general and conclusory
allegations do not suffice. . . .This particularity requirement
necessitates pleading facts which show how, when, where, to whom, and by what
means the representations were tendered.” (Lazar, supra, 12 Cal. 4th at
645 [internal quotation marks and ellipses omitted].) The
law holds plaintiffs to a higher stand where there is a corporate defendant. In
that case plaintiff must “allege the names of the persons who made the
allegedly fraudulent representations, their authority to speak, to whom they
spoke, what they said or wrote, and when it was said or written.” (Id.
at p. 645.)
 
Here, contrary to defendants’ assertion,
plaintiff has alleged misrepresentations with sufficient detail. He alleges that
Mahfouz lied to him when they told him during the repairs that with respect to
the sunroof they found broken glass in the subject vehicle and when they told
him that the subject vehicle arrived without a sunroof. He alleges Mahfouz was
Ikonic’s owner and employee, thus, implicitly that he had the authority to
speak for Ikonic. He also alleges approximately when the misrepresentations
took place, sometime between January 26, 2022, and February 1, 2022. (FAC¶¶70-82)
 
However, plaintiff has not sufficiently alleged
any intent to induce reliance or justifiable reliance. Plaintiff alleges that after
the call with defendants wherein they told him about the sunroof he took no
further action. He did not ask defendants to attend to the issue or discuss it.
He did not ask them to inspect the issue further or repair the issue. Then when
he arrived to pick up his vehicle the car lacked a sunroof, and defendants told
him that it had arrived without a sunroof. Again, plaintiff does not allege he
relied on this statement to his detriment in any way. At present, plaintiff has
alleged that his property was damaged, and defendants were untruthful about the
cause. However, there is no misrepresentation claim without some kind of
justifiable reliance and damages due to that reliance. The demurrer is
sustained with leave to amend. (FAC¶¶70-82)
 
In the opposition, plaintiff argues that the
complaint alleges Mahfouz lied to induce him to pay for repairs. However, according
to the allegations the lie regarding the sunroof took place after plaintiff had
already paid for the repairs. Thus, plaintiff’s allegations do not support
reliance on a misrepresentation. Plaintiff argues in the opposition that
defendant concealed the injury to the subject vehicle to induce him to pay for
the repairs prior to seeing the issue, e.g., fraudulent concealment, but plaintiff
has not alleged that fact in the complaint. (See Nissan Motor Acceptance
Cases (2021) 63 Cal.App.5th 793, 826 [stating the elements of a claim for
fraudulent concealment].) In either case, plaintiff must allege sufficient facts
to show the basis of either the fraud based on a misrepresentation or a
concealment theory. 
 
The demurrer as to the third cause of action
is SUSTAINED. 

 
D.   
Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress (IIED)
 
To state a claim for IIED, a
plaintiff must allege “(1) extreme and outrageous conduct by the defendant with
the intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the probability of causing,
emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff suffered severe emotional distress; and
(3) the defendant’s extreme and outrageous conduct was the actual and proximate
cause of the severe emotional distress.” (Crouch v. Trinity Christian Center
of Santa Ana, Inc. (2019) 39 Cal.App.5th 994, 1007). Conduct is outrageous
if it is of “such substantial quantity or enduring quality” that an individual
in civilized society should not be expected to endure it. (Angie M. v.
Superior Court (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1217, 1227; see also Cochran v. Cochran (1998) 65 Cal App.4th 488, 494 [stating
that the conduct must be “so outrageous in character,
and so extreme in degree, as to go beyond all bounds of decency, and to be
regarded as atrocious. . .”].)
 
Here plaintiff has not alleged
any conduct giving rise to a claim for IIED for several reasons. First, plaintiff
alleges he experienced emotional distress as a result of defendants’ conduct. However,
this is a legal conclusion without any foundational facts explaining the scope
of his emotional distress. The pleading must include “specific facts that
establish severe emotional distress resulting from [a] defendant’s
conduct.” (Michaelian v. State Comp. Ins. Fund (1996) 50
Cal.App.4th 1093, 1114; see also Hailey v. California Physicians’ Service
(2007) 158 Cal.App.4th 452, 474-77 [finding facts supporting IIED claim where
plaintiff plead resulting “depression, anxiety, and physical illness,” which
manifested as “vomiting, stomach cramps, and diarrhea”].) Second plaintiff has
not alleged extreme and outrageous conduct. Presently, plaintiff has alleged
several tort claims, but nothing rising above those allegations. 

The demurrer as to the fourth cause of action for Intentional Infliction of
Emotional Distress is SUSTAINED.  
 
E.    
Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress (NIED)
 
“Negligent causing of emotional distress is not an
independent tort but the tort of negligence. The traditional elements of duty,
breach, causation, and damages apply.” (Eriksson v. Nunnink (2015) 233
Cal.App.4th 708, 729 [Internal citations, quotations, and ellipses omitted].)
However, “there is no duty to avoid negligently causing emotional distress to
another” (Friedman v. Merck & Co. (2003) 107 Cal.App.4th 454, 464.)
Instead, damages are “recoverable only if the defendant has breached some other
duty to the plaintiff.” (Ibid.) “The independent duty may be imposed by
law, assumed by the defendant, or exist by virtue of a special relationship
between the parties.” (Ibid.) Negligence Infliction of Emotional
Distress “has been permitted in two types of situations, referred to as
“bystander” and “direct victim” cases.” Burgess v. Superior Court (1992)
2 Cal. 4th 1064, 1072.  
 
Here, plaintiff has not demonstrated duty beyond general
negligence and the duty defendants had when they took possession of the subject
vehicle. (FAC, ¶95.) Plaintiff has not alleged any special relationship which
would give rise to an NIED claim. At present the claim is simply the negligence
claim restated. 
 
The demurrer as to fifth cause of action is SUSTAINED. 
 
F.     
Breach of fiduciary duty
 
To establish a cause of action
for breach of fiduciary duty, plaintiff must plead “(1) existence of a
fiduciary duty; (2) breach of the fiduciary duty; and (3) damage proximately
caused by the breach.” (Gutierrez v. Girardi (2011) 194 Cal. App. 4th
925, 932.) A fiduciary relationship requires that a relation existing between
parties to a transaction wherein one of the parties is duty bound to act with
the utmost good faith for the benefit of the other party.  (Wolf v. Superior Court (2003) 107
Cal.App.4th 25, 29 [internal citations omitted].) A relationship ordinarily
exists when “a con¿dence is reposed by one person in the integrity of another,
and . . . the party in whom the con¿dence is reposed, if he voluntarily accepts
or assumes to accept the con¿dence, can take no advantage from his acts
relating to the interest of the other party without the latter’s knowledge or
consent.’” (Ibid.)
 
Here, plaintiff has not alleged any facts demonstrating the
existence of a fiduciary relationship. Plaintiff alleges that in taking
possession of the vehicle, defendants assumed a fiduciary duty “not to steal
from and/or break the vehicle, then conceal and lie about it.” (FAC, ¶104.) This
is insufficient. Plaintiff has not alleged fact indicating the existence of a
fiduciary relationship such as the duty to act with the utmost good faith for
the benefit of the party and one wherein confidence is reposed. Nor has
plaintiff alleged facts supporting that the relationship of an auto mechanic to
their customer is analogous to the traditional examples of a fiduciary, such as
“trustee/beneficiary, corporate directors and majority shareholders, business
partners, joint adventurers, and agent/principal.” (Gilman v. Dalby
(2009) 176 Cal.App.4th 606, 614)
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues this claim turns on issues
of fact regarding the scope of the existing fiduciary duty. However, plaintiff
has alleged a legal conclusion, that a fiduciary relationship exists by virtue
of leaving the subject vehicle  in the
possession of an auto mechanic. There are no facts suggesting that this service
relationship rises to the level of a fiduciary relation. 
 
The demurrer  as to the
sixth cause of action is SUSTAINED. 
 
V.               
Legal Standard Motion to Strike
 
To succeed on a motion to strike punitive damages
allegations, it must be said as a matter of law that the alleged behavior was
not so vile, base, or contemptible that it would not be looked down upon and
despised by ordinary decent people. (Angie M. v. Superior Court (1995)
37 Cal.App.4th 1217, 1228-1229.) Punitive damages are available in non-contract
actions where a defendant is guilty of malice, fraud, or oppression. (Civ.
Code, § 3294, subd. (c) [defining each term].) 
 
Regarding a corporation, “[a] corporation is not deemed to
ratify misconduct, and thus become liable for punitive damages, unless its
officer, director, or managing agent actually knew about the misconduct and its
malicious character. A ‘managing agent’ is an employee with authority to
establish corporate policy, that is, the broad principles and rules of general
application which govern corporate conduct.” (Cruz v. HomeBase (2000) 83
Cal.App.4th 160, 163.)
 
Defendants also move to strike the fraud claim entirely, the
punitive damages allegations (FAC, ¶¶66, 67, 81, 82, 89, 90, 91, 92, 108), and
the prayer for punitive damages. The motion to strike the fraud claim and the
allegations in paragraph 66, 67, 81, 82, 89, 90, 91, 92, and 108 is denied as
moot based on the court’s ruling on demurrer. As there is no basis for punitive
damages without those causes of action the motion to strike the prayer for
punitive damages is GRANTED. 
 
VI.             
Conclusion & Order
 
The demurrer is SUSTAINED in
part and overruled in part. The motion to strike is DENIED in part and GRANTED
in part. 
 
The demurrer as to first cause
of action for negligence and second cause of action for conversion are
OVERRULED. 
 
The demurrer as to third cause
of action for fraud, fourth cause of action for intentional infliction of
emotional distress, fifth cause of action for negligent infliction of emotional
distress, and sixth cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty are SUSTAINED
with leave to amend.  Plaintiff is
ordered to file the Second Amended Complaint within 30 days. 
 
The motion to strike is GRANTED
in part and DENIED in part. The motion to strike the fraud claim and the
allegations in paragraphs 66, 67, 81, 82, 89, 90, 91, 92, and 108 is DENIED as
moot based on the court’s ruling on demurrer. The motion to strike the prayer
for punitive damages, ¶109(e), is GRANTED. 

 