 Case Number:  24CHCV01277    Hearing Date:   December 3, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept.
F43
Date:
12-03-24
Case
# 24CHCV01277, Barrera v. Kings Family Dental Group, et al.
Trial
Date: None set.
 
DEMURRER AND MOTION TO STRIKE
 
MOVING
PARTY: Defendants Simon Masood Imanuel, D.M.D., Inc. and Simon Imanuel, D.M.D.
RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiff Luis Barrera
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Sustain
demurrer to the Second Cause of Action without leave to amend and strike
punitive damages and attorney’s fees from the Second Amended Complaint.
 
RULING: Demurrer is
sustained and the motion to strike is granted, both with leave to amend.
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
Plaintiff
Luis Barrera alleges that he went to defendant Kings Family Dental Group for
pain in his mouth and that defendant Simon Imanuel, D.M.D., told him that
needed dental implants, a three-step process that involved:  (1) 
removing the teeth;  (2) making
dentures for Barrera to use temporarily; 
and  (3)  implanting the posts and replacement teeth.
Defendants told Barrera that the work would  cost $25,585.00, which  Barrera claims he paid  in full over the course of 2020.  Barrera alleges that instead of what they had
promised, the defendants gave him a temporary denture device and never performed
the dental implants.  Barrera alleges
that he suffers severe mouth pain as a result.  He also alleges that his insurance was charged
$25,585.00, even though Barrera told defendants not to bill his dental insurer.
 Barrera’s Second Amended Complaint (SAC)
alleges three causes of action for (1) breach of contract; (2) fraud –
intentional misrepresentation; and (3) negligence.
 
Defendants
filed their demurrer with motion to strike on October 25, 2024.  Although defendants state that they are
demurring to the entire SAC, their points and authorities are limited to the
second cause of action for fraud.
 
Meet and Confer
Before filing a demurrer or motion to strike, the parties
must meet and confer “in person, by telephone, or by video conference.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.41, subd. (a), 435.5,
subd. (a).)  The moving party must file
and serve a meet and confer declaration stating either: “(A) The means by which
the demurring party met and conferred with the party who filed the pleading
subject to demurrer, and that the parties did not reach an agreement resolving
the objections raised in the demurrer;” or “(B) That the party who filed the
pleading subject to demurrer failed to respond to the meet and confer request
of the demurring party or otherwise failed to meet and confer in good faith.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd.
(a)(3).) 
 
Defendants’
counsel of record, Shirley Carpenter Bridwell, Esq., states she met and
conferred with opposing counsel about the demurrer and motion to strike.  (Declaration of Shirley Carpenter Bridwell, ¶
2.)  On September 30, 2024, she emailed a
detailed letter to opposing counsel outlining the deficiencies in the SAC and
asked opposing counsel to call her office. 
(Bridwell Dec., ¶ 3.)  Bridwell
also called opposing counsel on October 23, 2024 to discuss the issues, but the
parties did not come to an agreement. 
(Bridwell Dec., ¶ 4.)  
 
The
Court finds the meet and confer requirement is met.
 
 
ANALYSIS
 
Demurrer
As
a general matter, a¿party may respond to a pleading against it by demurrer on
the basis of any single or combination of eight enumerated grounds,
including¿that¿“the pleading does not state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action” and is uncertain, meaning “ambiguous and unintelligible.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subds. (e) and (f)).  The grounds for
demurring must be apparent from either the face of the complaint or a matter of
which the court may take judicial notice.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a); see
also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)  
 
The
purpose of a demurrer is to challenge the sufficiency of a pleading “by raising
questions of law.”  (Postley v. Harvey
(1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.)  “In the
construction of a pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its
allegations must be liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice
between the parties.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
452.)  The court “treat[s] the demurrer
as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions,
deductions or conclusions of fact or law[.]”  (Berkley v. Dowds (2007) 152
Cal.App.4th 518, 525.)  In applying these
standards, the court liberally construes the complaint to determine whether a
cause of action has been stated.  (Picton
v. Anderson Union High School Dist. (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 726, 733.)
 
            Second Cause of Action: Fraud
- Intentional Misrepresentation
Defendants
demur to the Second Cause of Action on the basis that it fails to state a cause
of action for fraud intentional misrepresentation and is uncertain. 
 
The
elements of a fraud cause of action for intentional misrepresentation are (1)
misrepresentation, (2) knowledge of falsity, (3) intent to induce reliance on
the misrepresentation, (4) justifiable reliance on the misrepresentation, and
(5) resulting damages.  (Lazar v.
Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 638.)  Fraud claims must be pled with specificity;
general and conclusory allegations do not suffice.  (Id. at p. 645.)  The complaint must plead facts showing  “how, when, where, to whom, and by what means
the representations were tendered.”  (Ibid.)
 The facts must be clear enough to inform
the opposing party what he must answer. 
(See Scafidi v. Western Loan & Building Co. (1946) 72
Cal.App.2d 550, 558.)
 
Defendants
argue that the SAC fails to plead misrepresentation with the specificity
required by law because the SAC does not state who made each alleged
misrepresentation or when and how the representations occurred.  The factual allegation that Defendant Imanuel
“promised Plaintiff that if he paid the money immediately, all the work would
be performed quickly” does not meet the Lazar standard on its own.  The rest of the allegations are uncertain
because the SAC refers to “Defendants” without stating “who” in particular made
the misrepresentation.  The SAC also fails
to sufficiently plead that any misrepresentation was intentional.
 
In
opposition, Barrera argues the SAC sufficiently alleges that he agreed to pay Defendants
$25,585.00 up front in exchange for teeth removal, affixing of permanent
dentures, and Defendants not billing his insurance for the procedure.  (SAC, ¶¶ 19, 20.)  The SAC then states that Defendants subsequently
billed Barrera’s insurance separately for the same work.  (Ibid.)  The SAC also alleges Defendants implanted
temporary dentures which do not fit properly, that cause Barrera pain, and that
Defendants have refused his requests to perform the dental implant procedure.  (SAC, ¶¶ 24, 26.)  
 
Barrera
also asserts the SAC sufficiently alleges intent to induce reliance.  The SAC states Defendants, and specifically
Defendant Imanuel, made several representations promising to perform the
three-step dental implant process if Barrera paid $25,585.00.  (SAC, ¶¶ 23, 25.)  Barrera relied on these representations,
Barrera paid the $25,585.00, and Defendants refused to follow through on their
promises.  
 
In
reply, Defendants argue the only specific allegation in the SAC is paragraph 26
where Barrera directly quotes Defendant Imanuel.  (SAC, ¶ 26.) 
Defendants reassert that the SAC is still uncertain because it is
unclear to whom defendant is referring.
 
The
SAC alleges that Barrera agreed to pay defendants $25,585.00 for teeth removal,
placing temporary dentures, and then replacing the temporary dentures with
permanent dentures.  (SAC, ¶ 9.)  Defendants told Barrera his medical insurance
would not be billed because he paid for all the work himself.  (SAC, ¶¶ 12, 19, 20.)  Defendant Imanuel told Barrera the $25,585.00
would cover “a temporary denture device, and permanent posts and teeth
implanted in his mouth.”  (SAC, ¶
9.)  Barrera paid the $25,585.00 in 2020,
and the work would be done in 2020 and 2021. 
(SAC, ¶ 15.)  Barrera was then
told the work would be completed in 2022 and 2023.  (Ibid.)  Subsequently, Defendants billed Barrera’s
medi-cal insurance.  (SAC, ¶ 9.)  Barrera was given temporary dentures which
cause him to suffer constant mouth and jaw pain.  (SAC, ¶¶ 10, 11.)  Barrerra returned to Defendants several times
to receive his permanent dentures, and Defendants refuse to perform the
work.  (SAC, ¶ 13.)
 
Barrera’s
SAC alleges sufficient facts to support intent to induce reliance.  Defendants told Barrera if he paid them
$25,585.00, he would receive permanent implanted posts and teeth in his mouth,
and Defendants would not bill his insurance. 
(SAC, ¶ 19.)  However, Defendants
knew their representations were false and never intended to perform the
promised procedure once Barrera paid. 
(SAC, ¶¶ 20-21.)   Defendants also knew that they intended to
double bill Barrera by charging him $25,585.00 for completion of all the work
and then charging his insurance again without his knowledge.  (SAC, ¶ 21.) 
After Barrera paid for the procedure, Defendants sought the same payment
from Barrera’s Medi-care/Medi-cal insurance without Barrera’s knowledge and
permission.  (SAC, ¶ 20.)  Barrera’s insurance also paid Defendants.  (Ibid.)  Once Defendants received their payments, they
left Barrera’s temporary denture in his mouth and never performed the promised
procedure.  (SAC, ¶ 21.)  Defendants intended that Barrera rely on the
promise that if Barrera paid the $25,585.00, Defendants would perform the
promised dental work, and that his insurance would not be charged.  (SAC, ¶ 22.) 
But for Defendants’ promises to perform the three-step dental implant
process in exchange for $25,585.00, Barrera would not have been induced to pay
the $25,585.00.  (SAC, ¶ 25.)
 
However,
the SAC does not contain the requisite specificity.  Barrera does not allege when, where, and how
the misrepresentation occurred.  Although
Barrera provides a direct quote from Defendant Imanuel, the SAC does not allege
particular details such as when, where, and how this quote occurred.  The SAC also fails to identify to whom
“Defendants” refers.  (See Scafidi,
supra, 72 Cal.App.2d 550, 558 [“[A]llegations of fraud must be clear and
unequivocal.”].)  Without more
specificity, the SAC does not sufficiently allege misrepresentation.
 
The
Court sustains Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s fraud cause of action with
leave to amend. 
 
Motion
to Strike
A
court may strike from the complaint any irrelevant, false, or improper matter.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a).)   The court may also “[s]trike out all or any
part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this
state, a court rule, or an order of the court.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (b).) 
“Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading may serve
and file a notice of motion to strike the whole or any part thereof.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.)  
 
            Punitive Damages
Defendants
move to strike allegations related to punitive damages from the SAC.
 
“In
an action for the breach of an obligation not arising from contract, where it
is proven by clear and convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty
of oppression, fraud, or malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual
damages, may recover damages for the sake of example and by way of punishing
the defendant.” (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).)
 
To
state a prima facie claim for punitive damages, a complaint must set forth the
elements as stated in Civ. Code § 3294.  (Coll. Hosp., Inc. v. Superior Court
(1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 721.)  “Malice is
defined in the statute as conduct intended by the defendant to cause injury to
the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a
willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.”  (Id. at p. 725.)  Oppression is “despicable conduct that
subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that
person’s rights.”  (Civ. Code, § 3294,
subd. (c)(2).)  Fraud is defined as “an
intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known
to the defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby
depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.”  (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(3).)  
 
“[A]ny
claim for punitive damages in an action against a health care provider be
subject to [Civil Code section 425.13] if the injury that is the basis for the
claim was caused by conduct that was directly related to the rendition of
professional services.”  (Central
Pathology Service Medical Clinic, Inc. v. Superior Court (1992) 3 Cal.4th
181, 192-193 [“Plaintiffs’ cause of action for fraud in this case is directly
related to the manner in which defendants provided professional services.  The claim emanates from the manner in
which defendants performed and communicated the results of medical tests, a
matter that is an ordinary and usual part of medical professional services.”].)
 
“In
any action for damages arising out of the professional negligence of a health
care provider, no claim for punitive damages shall be included in a
complaint or other pleading unless the court enters an order allowing an
amended pleading that includes a claim for punitive damages to be filed.  The court may allow the filing of an amended
pleading claiming punitive damages on a motion by the party seeking the amended
pleading and on the basis of the supporting and opposing affidavits presented
that the plaintiff has established that there is a substantial probability that
the plaintiff will prevail on the claim pursuant to Section 3294 of the
Civil Code.  The court shall not grant a
motion allowing the filing of an amended pleading that includes a claim for
punitive damages if the motion for such an order is not filed within two years
after the complaint or initial pleading is filed or not less than nine months
before the date the matter is first set for trial, whichever is earlier.”  (Civ. Code, § 425.13, subd. (a).)
 
Here,
the SAC includes the definitions of malice and oppression.  (SAC, ¶¶ 26-27.)  However, because the SAC does not
sufficiently state a fraud claim, the SAC has not sufficiently alleged the
Defendants acted with malice or oppression under section 3294.  Additionally, because Defendant Simon
Imanuel, D.M.D. is a healthcare provider, Barrera must seek leave of the Court
to amend the SAC to allege punitive damages. 
 
The
Court grants Defendants’ motion to strike Plaintiff’s request for punitive
damages.
 
            Attorney’s Fees
Defendants
also move to strike Barrera’s request for attorney fees from the SAC.
 
“Except
as attorney’s fees are specifically provided for by statute, the measure and
mode of compensation of attorneys and counselors at law is left to the
agreement, express or implied, of the parties; but parties to actions or
proceedings are entitled to their costs, as hereinafter provided.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1021.)
 
The
SAC does not point to a statute or agreement that would entitle Barrera to
attorney fees.  
 
The
Court grants Defendants’ motion to strike Barrera’s request for attorney fees.
 
CONCLUSION
Defendants’ demurrer the Second Cause of Action is
sustained with leave to amend. 
Defendants’ motion to strike attorney’s fees and
punitive damages is granted with leave to amend. 
 
ORDER
Plaintiff is given 30 days leave to amend. 
 
Moving party to give notice