 Case Number:  23VECV04368    Hearing Date:   February 1, 2024    Dept:  W RAYMOND
TORRES, et al. v. SUSAN C. BEAULIEN, AN INDIVIDUAL, AND AS TRUSTEE OF THE
EDWARD C. LUSNICH & SUSAN C. BEAULIEN TRUST, DATED AUGUST 19, 2006, et al.
 
DEFENDANT’s demurrer with motion to
strike 
 
Date of Hearing:        February
1, 2024                               Trial
Date:       None Set
Department:              W                                                        Case No.:        23VECV04368
 
Moving Party:            Defendant
Susan C. Beaulien, an individual, and as Trustee of The Edward C. Lusnich &
Susan C. Beaulien Trust dated August 19, 2006, and Roberta C. Turitz, as an
individual and as Trustee of The Turitz Family Trust dated 9/18/2009
Responding Party:     Plaintiff Raymond Torres 
Meet and Confer:      Yes. (Portillo Decl. ¶¶5-8.)
 
BACKGROUND
 
On October 2, 2023, Plaintiffs Raymond
Torres, Elva Amador, and Ramon Torres filed a complaint against Defendants Susan
C. Beaulien, an individual, and as Trustee of The Edward C. Lusnich & Susan
C. Beaulien Trust dated August 19, 2006, and Roberta C. Turitz, as an
individual and as Trustee of The Turitz Family Trust dated 9/18/2009, Buildium,
LLC dba 24/7 Real Estate Leasing & Management and Omega Management for 1.
Breach of Contract; 2. Statutory Breach of Warranty of Habitability (Civil Code
§§ 1941, 1941.1, and 1942.4); 3. Tortious Breach of Warranty of Habitability; 4.
Breach of Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment; 5. Private Nuisance; 6. Negligence; 7. Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress; 8. Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress;
9. Violation of Business & Professions Code §17200, et seq.; 10. Violation of
LAMC 45.33; 11. Breach of Covenant of Good Faith & Fair Dealing; 12.
Violation of Civil Code §1942.4; and 13. Violation of Civil Code 1942.5.
 
Plaintiffs and Defendants entered into
a written lease agreement for certain real property located in Winnetka,
California. Plaintiff alleges throughout the duration of their tenancy, the
Plaintiffs encountered a multitude of habitability issues within the Subject
Property however Defendants have refused to resolve the issues through
mediation or address any of the myriad of habitability issues. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Defendants’
Demurrer to the Complaint is SUSTAINED, in part. Defendants’ Motion to Strike
is GRANTED. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
Defendant Susan C. Beaulien, an
individual, and as Trustee of The Edward C. Lusnich & Susan C. Beaulien
Trust dated August 19, 2006, and Roberta C. Turitz, as an individual and as
Trustee of The Turitz Family Trust dated 9/18/2009 demur to the first, fifth,
seventh, eighth, eleventh, and twelfth causes of action on the grounds the
causes of action fail to state facts sufficient to support a claim against
Defendants and are duplicative. 
 
Breach of Contract
 
Defendants demur to the first cause of
action for breach of contract on the grounds Plaintiffs fail to allege the
existence of any contract between them and Buildium or Omega. 
 
To state a claim for breach of
contract, a Plaintiff must allege sufficient facts to establish 1) a contract
between the parties 2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance 3)
defendant’s breach 4) damages to plaintiff from the breach. (See e.g. Wall
Street Network, Ltd. v. New York Times Co. (2008) 164 Cal. App. 4th 1171,
1178; CACI No. 303.)  A contract must be pled verbatim in the body of the
complaint, be attached to the complaint and incorporated by reference, or be
pled according to its legal effect.  (Bowden v. Robinson (1977) 67
Cal.App.3d 705, 718.)
 
Defendants argue they are the
indemnitors of Buildium or Omega as Defendants signed contracts with Buildium
and Omega for property management services, and Defendants agreed to indemnify
those entities as part of the contracts. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiffs argue they
have adequately alleged the existence of a pertinent and enforceable contract
between themselves and the Defendants, including Buildium and Omega. Plaintiffs
point to the residential lease agreement attached to the complaint, which involves
Buildium DBA 24/7 Real Estate Leasing & Management as signatories.
Plaintiffs further argue the existence of such indemnity agreements does not
negate the direct contractual relationship established between the Plaintiffs
and all named Defendants. 
 
The court agrees Plaintiff does not
sufficiently allege breach of contract against Buildium or Omega. 24/7 Real
Estate Leasing & Management signed the lease agreement; however, as
brokers. The lease agreement explicitly provides ‘Real estate brokers who are
not also Landlord under this Agreement are not parties to the Agreement between
Landlord and Tenant.’  As such, the
complaint fails to allege facts against Buildium or Omega. 
 
Accordingly, the demurrer to the first
cause of action is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
Nuisance
 
Defendants demur to the fifth cause of
action for private nuisance on the grounds the cause of action is devoid of
intentional acts taken by them. 
 
“The essence of a private nuisance is
an interference with the use and enjoyment of land.” (Friends of H Street v.
City of Sacramento (1993) 20 Cal.App.4th 152, 160.) Thus to allege a cause
of action for private nuisance, the plaintiff must allege injury specific to
the use and enjoyment of his land. (See Adams v. MHC Colony Park Limited
Partnership (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 601, 610.) 
 
Defendants argue the only reference to
Turitz in the entire Complaint is as a co-owner of the Property. Moreover, Plaintiffs'
cause of action for private nuisance is based on the same facts and legal
theory that forms the basis for the negligence cause of action.
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues the
cause of action for private nuisance is distinct from negligence. Plaintiff
contends the Defendants’ actions demonstrate not just negligence but also an
intentional disregard for Plaintiffs’ health and safety, constituting a private
nuisance. 
 
The court agrees the complaint does not
allege facts sufficient to state a claim of private nuisance against Turitz. The
complaint does not allege how Turitz, as co-owner, interfered with Plaintiff’s
use and enjoyment of the property. 
 
Accordingly, the demurrer to the fifth
cause of action is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
Intentional Infliction of Emotional
Distress
 
Defendants demur to the seventh cause
of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress on the grounds Plaintiffs
did not plead sufficient facts evidencing that they suffered severe emotional
distress. 
 
The elements for a cause of action for
intentional infliction of emotional distress are (1) extreme and outrageous
conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard
of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff’s
suffering severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) an actual and proximate
causal link between the tortious conduct and the emotional distress.  (Hughes
v. Pair (2009) 46 Cal.4th 1035, 1050.)   
 
Defendants argue there are no
allegations as to the duration or extent of the alleged symptoms. It appears
all of the Plaintiffs have combined their alleged symptoms without specifying
the length or intensity that each of them experienced such symptoms.
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues the
allegations have sufficiently demonstrated such actions indeed exceed all
bounds of that is usually tolerated in a civilized community, and on its face,
the complaint has sufficiently plead intentional and outrageous conduct
throughout Plaintiffs tenancy by Defendants. 
 
The court finds the complaint
sufficiently alleges the nature of the emotional distress. “[T]he mere
allegation that the plaintiffs suffered severe emotional distress, without
facts indicating the nature or extent of any mental suffering incurred as a
result of the defendant's alleged outrageous conduct, fail[s] to state a cause
of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress.” (Pitman v. City
of Oakland (1988) 197 Cal.App.3d 1037, 1047.) The complaint alleges “Plaintiffs
have suffered and/or continue to suffer illness, physical injury, property
damages, emotional harm, anguish, depression, fearfulness, anxiety, nightmares,
difficulty sleeping, embarrassment, shame, and other economic damages in an
amount to be determined according to proof at trial.” (Compl. ¶173.) This is
sufficient. 
 
Accordingly, Defendants’ demurrer to
the seventh cause of action is OVERRULED. 
 
Negligent Infliction of Emotional
Distress
 
Defendants demur to the eighth cause of
action for negligent infliction of emotional distress on the grounds this cause
of action is duplicative of the sixth cause of action for negligence.
 
A demurrer may be sustained when a
cause of action is duplicative of another cause of action and thus adds nothing
to the complaint by way of fact or theory of recovery. (Palm Springs Villas
II Homeowners Association, Inc. v. Parth (2016) 248 Cal.App.4th 268, 290.)
Notably, the doctrine of “negligent infliction of emotional
distress” is not a separate cause of action. It simply allows certain persons
to recover damages for emotional distress only on a negligence cause of action
even though they were not otherwise injured or harmed. (See Molien v. Kaiser
Foundation Hospitals (1980) 27 Cal.3d 916, 928.)
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues the
Plaintiffs NIED claim is substantively distinct from their general negligence
claim. While the negligence claim addresses the Defendants’ failure to maintain
the property, leading to physical hazards and property damage, the NIED claim
specifically addresses the Defendants’ egregious conduct that has caused severe
emotional and psychological harm to the Plaintiffs.
 
The court agrees the negligence cause
of action and NIED cause of action are based on the same facts. The causes of
action share the same elements of duty, breach, causation and damages. Both of
the causes of action allege Defendants owed Plaintiffs a duty of care when
addressing the reported defects in the Subject Property and breached that duty by
never resolving the issues. 
 
 As
such, the NIED claim is duplicative of the first cause of action for
negligence.
 
Accordingly, Defendants’ demurrer to
the eighth cause of action is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
Breach of the Covenant of Good Faith
and Fair Dealing
 
Defendants demur to the eleventh cause
of action for breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing on the
grounds the cause of action fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action.  
 
The covenant of good faith and fair
dealing is implied by law in every contract, and it acts “as a supplement to
the express contractual covenants, to prevent a contracting party from engaging
in conduct which (while not technically transgressing the express covenants)
frustrates the other party’s rights to the benefits of the contract.” (Racine
& Laramie, Ltd. v. Department of Parks & Recreation (1992) 11
Cal.App.4th 1026, 1031-1032.) “If allegations do not go beyond the
statement of a mere contract breach and, relying on the same alleged acts,
simply seek the same damages or other relief already claimed in a companion
contract cause of action, they may be disregarded ….” (Green Valley
Landowners Assn. v. City of Vallejo (2015) 241 Cal.App.4th 425, 433.)
 
Defendants argue the complaint fails to
allege Beaulien and Turitz acted unfairly or in bad faith and moreover, the
cause of action for breach of good faith alleges the same breach and damages as
those sought by the breach of contract cause of action. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues the
Defendants’ actions have gone beyond “unfair” or “in bad faith” as their
conduct demonstrates a systematic effort to undermine the Plaintiffs ability to
enjoy the benefits of the leased premises. 
 
The court finds the allegations do not
go beyond a breach of contract. As noted above, if allegations do not go beyond
the statement of a mere contract breach, the cause of action is duplicative.
The eleventh cause of action simply alleges Plaintiff fully performed their
contractual obligations under the lease and Defendants prevented Plaintiffs
rights to receive the benefits of the contract in that by and through the
breaches of habitability and quiet enjoyment. 
 
Accordingly, Defendants’ demurrer to
the eleventh cause of action is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
Violation of Civil Code §1942.4
 
Defendants demur to the twelfth cause
of action for Violation of Civil Code §1942.4 on the grounds the complaint
fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. 
 
Civil Code section 1942.4 establishes a
statutory right of action for damages against landlords who demand or collect
rent when: “(1) the dwelling is untenantable…; (2) a public officer inspects
the premises and gives the landlord written notice that it must abate the
nuisance or repair the property; (3) the conditions have not been remedied
within 35 days of the notice; and (4) the substandard conditions were not
caused by the tenant’s acts or omissions.” (See Erlach v. Sierra Asset
Servicing, LLC (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 1281, 1298; Civ. Code, §
1942.4(a).) 
 
Defendants argue the complaint fails to
allege that any inspection of the premises took place. In opposition, Plaintiff
argues the complaint states multiple inspections were conducted and thereafter
a notice was issued to Defendants and no remedial action was taken. 
 
The court agrees the complaint does not
sufficiently allege a public officer inspected the premises. Rather, one has to
infer that the notice issued to Defendants on August 21, 2023 was based upon an
inspection and that Defendants did not remediate the condition within 35 days
of the notice. 
 
Accordingly, Defendants’ demurrer to
the twelfth cause of action is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
 
Motion to Strike[1]

 
Defendants move to strike paragraph 180
of the negligent infliction of emotional distress cause of action on the
grounds the NIED claim is essentially a negligence claim and California law
specifically disallows recovery of punitive damages based upon mere negligence.

 
In opposition, Plaintiff states Defendants
Motion to Strike must be denied as moot because following the parties meet and
confer efforts, Plaintiffs’ have agreed to remove Paragraph 180 of Plaintiffs
Complaint.
 
In reply, Defendants disagree with this
contention. Regardless, the court finds the complaint does not state facts
sufficient to support a claim for punitive damages and GRANTS the motion to
strike paragraph 180.  Further, it
appears plaintiffs have agreed to remove this paragraph.  


