 Case Number:  24STCV00423    Hearing Date:   December 12, 2024    Dept:  85 
Artful Dodger v. Kristina Ho, et al., 
24STCV00423  

Tentative decision on application for
writ of possession: denied or continued   




 



Plaintiff Artful Dodger, Inc. (“Artful Dodger”) seeks a writ
of possession against Defendant Star Source International (USA), Inc. (“Star
Source”) for two pallets of hardwood flooring purchased by Artful Dodger from
KRB Beverly Hills LLC (“KRB”).    
The court has read and considered the moving papers (no
opposition was filed) and renders the following tentative decision. 
 
A. Statement of
the Case
1. Complaint
On January 8, 2024, Plaintiff Artful Dodger filed the
Complaint against Defendants KRB and Kristina Ho (“Ho”) alleging claims for
breach of written contract, claim and delivery, conversion, common count,
negligence, and quasi-contract restitution. 
The Complaint alleges in pertinent part as follows.  
In or about November of 2018, Wayne Marmorstein
(“Marmorstein”) on behalf of Artful Dodger contacted KRB and spoke with Ho as
to the purchase of hardwood flooring  for
a construction project (the “Flooring”). 
Plaintiff is informed and believes, and upon that basis alleges, that Ho
subsequently handled the transaction on behalf of KRB.  
On or about December 3, 2018, Artful Dodger entered into a
written contract with KRB with KRB in the form of invoices for the purchase of
hardwood flooring from KRB (the “Contract”). 
The Contract was modified on or about December 7, 2018, and subsequently
again on or about April 25, 2019.  The
Contract contains an attorney’s fees provision. 
The final purchase price of the Flooring, including $750 shipping and
delivery and 9.50% California sales tax, was $79,880.97.  Artful Dodger paid an initial deposit of
$51,922.63, and it paid the balance in January of 2020.   
Plaintiff is informed and believes, and upon that basis
alleges, that in or about February of 2020 the Flooring was delivered by KRB to
a warehouse of Star Source which KRB used in order to store flooring of its
customers.  In February of 2020, Artful
Dodger had one-half of the shipment picked up from the warehouse and delivered to
the job site where the Flooring was to be installed.  
In or about July of 2023, Artful Dodger attempted to obtain
the balance of the Flooring from the warehouse but was unable to do so despite multiple
demands.  Artful Dodger ultimately was
informed that the missing Flooring was not at the warehouse.  Plaintiff is informed and believes, and upon
that basis alleges, that Ho caused and/or allowed the missing Flooring to be
removed from the warehouse.  
Artful Dodger has performed all terms and conditions
required of it under the Contract except for any additional terms and
conditions which were excused by reason of KRB’s material breach of contract
and/or other lawful excuse.  KRB has
materially breached the Contract by failing to provide the missing Flooring
upon request.  
Plaintiff is informed and believes, and upon that basis
alleges, that the cost of replacing the missing Flooring is now greater than
the original price, and is at least $54,852.  As a direct and proximate result of the
foregoing breach of contract, Artful Dodger has been damaged in an amount
according to proof, but which Artful Dodger estimates to be in the principal
amount of at least $118,249.00, along with interest thereon.  
 
2. Cross-Complaint 
On June 26, 2024, Defendant Star Source filed a
Cross-Complaint against KRB, Ho, and Artful Dodger alleging claims for breach
of written contract, unjust enrichment, common count, quantum meruit, alter
ego, and declaratory relief.  The
Cross-Complaint alleges in pertinent part as follows.
On or around February 19, 2020, Star Source and KRB entered
into a written storage contract agreement for KRB to store certain property
with Star Source in exchange for KRB to pay certain monthly fees to Star
Source.  Ho signed the agreement on
behalf of KRB.  
Pursuant to the agreement, KRB began storing hardwood
flooring with Star Source starting in February 2020.  By October 2020, KRB had stopped paying the
full amount of monthly fees to Star Source. 
On or around September 30, 2021, KRB stopped paying monthly fees to Star
Source altogether.  As of June 2024, KRB
owes Star Source a monetary sum in accrued monthly fees in excess of $38,000.  
From February 19, 2020 to the present, KRB has always had
certain pallets of wooden flooring in storage with Star Source.  Based on the instructions of KRB, Star Source
would occasionally release certain pallets of hardwood flooring to parties
designated by KRB to receive such pallets. 
Star Source still maintains storage of certain pallets of wooden
flooring for KRB, despite the lack of payment for such storage services.  
 
3. Course of Proceedings 
On January 8, 2024, Plaintiff Artful Dodger filed the
Complaint. 
On February 20, 2024, Defendants were personally served.
On June 26, 2024, Defendant Star Source filed its Answer as
well as the Cross-Complaint.
On July 23, 2024, Artful Dodger filed its Answer to Star
Source’s Cross-Complaint. 
On July 24, 2024, Defendant Ho filed her Answers to
Plaintiff’s Complaint and Star Source’s Cross-Complaint. 
 
B. Applicable Law
A writ of possession is issued as a provisional remedy in a
cause of action for claim and delivery, also known as replevin.  See
Pillsbury, Madison & Sutro v. Schectman, (1997) 55 Cal.App.4th 1279,
1288.  As a provisional remedy, the right
to possession is only temporary, and title and the right to possess are
determined in the final judgment.  
            A
writ of possession is available in any pending action.  It also is available where an action has been
stayed pending arbitration, so long as the arbitration award may be ineffectual
without provisional relief.  See CCP §1281.7. 
 
            1. Procedure
            Upon
the filing of the complaint or at any time thereafter, a plaintiff may apply
for an order for a writ of possession. 
Unlike attachment, where Judicial Council forms are optional, the
parties must use the mandatory approved Judicial Council forms in a claim and
delivery proceeding.  (Judicial Council
Forms CD-100 et seq.).
            A
plaintiff must make a written application for a writ of possession.  CCP §512.010(a), (b); (Mandatory Form
CD-100); CCP §512.010(a).  A verified
complaint alone is insufficient.  6
Witkin, California Procedure, (5th ed. 2008) §255, p.203.  The application may be supported by
declarations and/or a verified complaint. 
CCP §516.030.  The declarations or
complaint must set forth admissible evidence except where expressly permitted
to be shown on information and belief.  Id.
            The
application must be executed under oath and include: (1) A showing of the basis
of the plaintiff's claim and that the plaintiff is entitled to possession of
the property claimed.  If the plaintiff's
claim is based on a written instrument, a copy of it must be attached; (2) A
showing that the property is wrongfully detained by the defendant, how the
defendant came into possession of it, and, the reasons for the detention based
on the plaintiff’s best knowledge, information, and belief; (3) A specific
description of the property and statement of its value; (4) The location of the
property according to the plaintiff’s best knowledge, information, and
belief.  If the property, or some part of
it, is within a private place which may have to be entered to take possession,
a showing of probable cause to believe that the property is located there; and
(5) A statement that the property has not been taken for (a) a tax, assessment,
or fine, pursuant to a statute, or (b) an execution against the plaintiff’s
property.  Alternatively, a statement
that if the property was seized for one of these purposes, it is by statute
exempt from such seizure.  CCP
§512.010(b).
 
            2. The Hearing
            Before
noticing a hearing, the plaintiff must serve the defendant with all of the
following: (1) A copy of the summons and complaint; (2) A Notice of Application
and Hearing; and (3) A copy of the application and any supporting declaration.  CCP §512.030(a).  If the defendant has not appeared in the
action, service must be made in the same manner as service of summons and
complaint.  CCP §512.030(b).
            Each
party shall file with the court and serve upon the other party any declarations
and points and authorities intended to be relied upon at the hearing.  CCP §512.050. 
At the hearing, the court decides the merits of the application based on
the pleadings and declarations.   Id.  Upon a showing of good cause, the court may
receive and consider additional evidence and authority presented at the
hearing, or may continue the hearing for the production of such additional
evidence, oral or documentary, or the filing of other affidavits or points and
authorities.  Id.  
            The
court may order issuance of a writ of possession if both of the following are
found: (1) The plaintiff has established the probable validity of the
plaintiff’s claim to possession of the property; and (2) The undertaking
requirements of CCP section 515.010 are satisfied.  CCP §512.060(a).  “A claim has ‘probable validity’ where it is
more likely than not that the plaintiff will obtain a judgment against the
defendant on that claim.”  CCP
§511.090.  This requires that the
plaintiff establish a prima facie case; the writ shall not issue if the
defendant shows a reasonable probability of a successful defense to the claim
and delivery cause of action.  Witkin,
California Procedure, (5th ed. 2008) §261, p.208.  A defendant’s claim of defect in the property
is not a defense to the plaintiff’s right to possess it.  RCA Service Co. v. Superior Court,
(1982) 137 Cal.App.3d 1, 3.
            No
writ directing the levying officer to enter a private place to take possession
of any property may be issued unless the plaintiff has established that there
is probable cause to believe that the property is located there.  CCP §512.060(b).  
            The
successful plaintiff may obtain a preliminary injunction containing the same
provisions as a TRO that remains in effect until the property is seized by the
levying officer.[1]  CCP §513.010(c).  
            The
court may also issue a “turnover order” directing the defendant to transfer
possession of the property to the plaintiff (See Mandatory Form CD-120). 
The order must notify the defendant that failure to comply may subject
him or her to contempt of court.  CCP
§512.070.  The turnover remedy is not
issued in lieu of a writ, but in conjunction with it to provide the plaintiff
with a less expensive means of obtaining possession.  See
Edwards v Superior Court, (“Edwards”) (1991) 230 Cal.App.3d 173,
178.
 
            3. The Plaintiff’s Undertaking
            Generally,
the court cannot issue an order for a writ of possession until the plaintiff
has filed an undertaking with the court (Mandatory Form CD-140 for personal
sureties).  CCP §515.010(a).  The undertaking shall provide that the
sureties are bound to the defendant for the return of the property to the
defendant, if return of the property is ordered, and for the payment to the
defendant of any sum recovered against the plaintiff.  Id. 
The undertaking shall be in an amount not less than twice the value of
the defendant's interest in the property or in a greater amount.  Id. 
The value of the defendant's interest in the property is determined by
the market value of the property less the amount due and owing on any
conditional sales contract or security agreement and all liens and encumbrances
on the property, and any other factors necessary to determine the defendant’s
interest in the property.  Id.
            However,
where the defendant has no interest in the property, the court must waive the requirement
of the plaintiff’s undertaking and include in the order for issuance of the
writ the amount of the defendant’s undertaking sufficient to satisfy the
requirements of CCP section 515.020(b).  CCP
§515.010(b). 
 
C. Statement of Facts
            In
December 2018, Artful Dodger purchased the Flooring -- Legno Bastone’s St.
Moritz - Italian Collection hardwood flooring -- from KRB for the total sum of
$79,880.97, which was paid in full. 
Marmorstein Decl., ¶3, Ex. A.  
At the time, KRB operated a retail store in the Pacific
Design Center in West Hollywood, California. 
Marmorstein Decl., ¶3.  Wayne
Marmorstein, Artful Dodger’s Chief Executive Officer, had all dealings with KRB
on behalf of Artful Dodger.  Marmorstein
Decl., ¶3.  Mamorstein primarily
interacted with Ho and Wendy Kneedler (“Kneedler”) at KRB in connection with
the purchase of the Flooring. 
Marmorstein Decl., ¶4.  Ho was a
part owner of KRB and Kneedler was the former manager of the KRB store.  Marmorstein Decl., ¶4.  
            In
or about early January of 2020, Marmorstein was informed  that the Flooring had been received from the
manufacturer.  Marmorstein Decl.,
¶5.  He understood that KRB would store
the Flooring until Marmorstein requested that it be delivered.  He did not know where it was being stored,
and e did not definitively determine that it was being stored at Star Source
until the 2024 deposition of Mandy Wang (“Wang”).  Marmorstein Decl., ¶5.  
In February 2020, Marmorstein contacted Kneedler and
requested that some of the Flooring be delivered to 1861 North Crescent Heights
Blvd.  Marmorstein Decl., ¶5.  
            In
or around July of 2023, Marmorstein sought to have the remaining Flooring
delivered.  Marmorstein Decl., ¶6.  KRB was no longer in business.  Marmorstein Decl., ¶6.  Marmorstein called and spoke with Kneedler,
and she informed him that KRB had flooring stored at Star Source.  Marmorstein Decl., ¶6.   
            On
July 13, 2023, Marmorstein called Star Source to find out if the Flooring was
stored there and spoke to Wang. 
Marmorstein Decl., ¶7.  He told
Wang that he would send her the paid invoice for the Flooring and a photo of
the Flooring as it appeared just before it left the manufacturers warehouse.  Marmorstein Decl., ¶7.  Wang provided Marmorstein with an email address,
and he sent her an email with a copy of a receipt for the purchase.  Marmorstein Decl., ¶7.  Later that same day, Marmorstein received an
email from “Alice” at Star Source which stated: “Sorry, we can’t be of any
help. Please contact KRB Beverly Hills LLC dba PERFEC Floors”.  Marmorstein Decl., ¶7, Ex. C.  
            Marmorstein
also contacted Kneedler again and, thereafter, Ho, for their assistance in
obtaining release of the Flooring. 
Marmorstein Decl., ¶8.  Based upon
his subsequent emails with Kneedler and Ho, he understood that Kneedler called
Star Source and requested that the Flooring be released.  Marmorstein Decl., ¶8.  The Flooring was not released.  Marmorstein Decl., ¶8.  
            At
her deposition, Wang testified that Star Source has the Flooring as well as
pallets of other flooring being stored by KRB. 
Marmorstein Decl., ¶9.  The
monthly storage charge for the Flooring is $36 per pallet.  Marmorstein Decl., ¶9.  
            On
October 3, 2024, Marmorstein sent a priority mail letter on behalf of Artful
Dodger to Yu Lin Wang (“Yu Lin”) of Star Source enclosing a check payable to
Star Source in the amount of $5,000. 
Marmorstein Decl., ¶10, Ex. D.   
            Artful
Dodger had no contractual relationship with Star Source.  Marmorstein Decl., ¶11.  The price for the non-engineered flooring per
square foot which Artful Dodger purchased from KRB was $13.99 per square foot,
plus 9.50% tax and shipping.  Marmorstein
Decl., ¶12.  The engineered flooring
which it purchased from KRB is much more expensive.  Marmorstein Decl., ¶12.  The wood flooring Marmorstein saw at the Star
Source warehouse in 2024 was shrink wrapped so he could not inspect individual
pieces to determine how much of each is still there.  Marmorstein Decl., ¶12.  The current price for the same type of
non-engineered flooring that Marmorstein purchased from KRB is approximately
$22.99 per square foot, which is $9.00 per square foot more than he paid KRB.  Marmorstein Decl., ¶12.  Marmorstein thus estimates that it would now
cost Artful Dodger $35,767.72 to purchase two pallets of non-engineered
flooring of the same type being held by Star Source.  Marmorstein Decl., ¶12.  
 

D. Analysis
Plaintiff Artful
Dodger seeks a writ of possession for the Flooring against Defendant Star
Source.  No opposition is on file.
 A proof of service on file shows that
Plaintiff served the moving papers on Star Source’s attorney by email, and on
Defendant Ho by mail, on November 7, 2024.
An application for a writ of possession is a law and motion
matter.  CRC 3.1103(a)(2).  All law and motion matters require a
memorandum of points and authorities detailing the basis for the motion.  CRC 3.1113(a).  The absence of a memorandum may be construed
as an admission that the motion is not meritorious.  CRC 3.1113(a).
Plaintiff failed to file a supporting memorandum of points
and authorities with his application. 
The application will be continued or denied.  If continued, Artful Dodger’s memorandum must
address whether Star Source has any legal interest in the Flooring for storage.


