  Case Number:  23STCV06483    Hearing Date:   February 26, 2024    Dept:  61 Defendant
AHMC San Gabriel Valley Medical Center LP’s Demurrer and Motion to Strike
Portions of the First Amended Complaint are OVERRULED and DENIED.
 
Plaintiff to give notice.
 
I.                  
DEMURRER
A demurrer should be sustained only where the defects appear
on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. (Code Civ. Pro., §§
430.30, et seq.) In particular, as is
relevant here, a court should sustain a demurrer if a complaint does not allege
facts that are legally sufficient to constitute a cause of action. (See
id. § 430.10, subd. (e).) As the Supreme Court held in Blank v. Kirwan (1985) Cal.3d 311: “We
treat the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but not
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law. . . . Further, we give
the complaint a reasonable interpretation, reading it as a whole and its parts
in their context.” (Id. at p.
318; see also Hahn. v. Mirda (2007)
147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747 [“A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the
evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects
appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. [Citation.]”) 
 
“In determining whether the complaint is sufficient as
against the demurrer … if on consideration of all the facts stated it appears
the plaintiff is entitled to any relief at the hands of the court against the
defendants the complaint will be held good although the facts may not be
clearly stated.”  (Gressley v. Williams (1961) 193 Cal.App.2d 636, 639.)
 
“A demurrer
for uncertainty is strictly construed, even where a complaint is in some
respects uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery
procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly’s of Cal., Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612,
616.) Such demurrers “are disfavored,
and are granted only if the pleading is so incomprehensible that a defendant
cannot reasonably respond.” (Mahan v.
Charles W. Chan Insurance Agency, Inc. (2017) 14 Cal.App.5th 841, 848.)
 
A demurrer should not be sustained without leave to amend if
the complaint, liberally construed, can state a cause of action under any
theory or if there is a reasonable possibility the defect can be cured by
amendment. (Schifando v. City of Los Angeles, supra, 31 Cal.4th at p.
1081.) The demurrer also may be sustained without leave to amend where the
nature of the defects and previous unsuccessful attempts to plead render it
probable plaintiff cannot state a cause of action. (Krawitz v. Rusch
(1989) 209 Cal.App.3d 957, 967.)
 
Defendant AHMC San Gabriel Valley Medical Center LP
(Defendant) demurrers to the first and second causes of action for elder abuse
and negligence contained in the complaint of Plaintiff Terrice
McClinton-Montgomery (Plaintiff). Defendant argues that the elder abuse claim
fails to allege specific facts constituting neglect or corporate ratification
under the applicable statute, and that the negligence claim is vague. (Demurrer
at pp. 6–13.)
 
To state a claim for elder
abuse, “[t]he plaintiff must allege (and ultimately prove by clear and
convincing evidence) facts establishing that the defendant: (1) had
responsibility for meeting the basic needs of the elder or dependent adult,
such as nutrition, hydration, hygiene or medical care; (2) knew of conditions
that made the elder or dependent adult unable to provide for his or her own
basic needs; and (3) denied or withheld goods or services necessary to meet the
elder or dependent adult's basic needs, either with knowledge that injury was
substantially certain to befall the elder or dependent adult (if the plaintiff
alleges oppression, fraud or malice) or with conscious disregard of the high
probability of such injury (if the plaintiff alleges recklessness). (Carter v. Prime Healthcare Paradise Valley
LLC (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 396, 406–07, citations omitted.)
“[T]he facts constituting the
neglect and establishing the causal link between the neglect and the injury must
be pleaded with particularity, in accordance with the pleading rules governing
statutory claims.” (Id. at p. 407,
internal quotation marks omitted.)
The First Amended Complaint
(FAC) here adequately alleges reckless neglect within the meaning of the elder
abuse statute. It alleges that Plaintiff was an elder in the custodial care of
Defendant. (FAC ¶ 14.) Despite having knowledge of probable injury from
pressure sores, and having a skin integrity care plan, Defendant failed to inspect
Plaintiff’s skin and reposition her every two hours, resulting in the creation
of a pressure sore while Plaintiff was at the facility.. (FAC ¶¶ 18–28.) It is
alleged that the cause of this neglect was intentional understaffing of the
facility by Defendant’s corporate leadership, in violation of applicable
minimum staffing requirements. (Complaint ¶¶ 28, 40.) These allegations suffice
to state neglect: failure to prevent pressure ulcers is among the forms of
neglect that elder abuse may take ((See Delaney v. Baker (1999) 20 Cal.4th
23, 27 [holding elder abuse claim for neglect proved when understaffed facility
resulted in leaving decedent in urine and feces for long periods of time, and
the creation of severe bedsores]), and deliberate understaffing has been held
sufficient against demurrer to allege conduct constituting recklessness. (See Fenimore v. Regents of University of
California (2016) 245 Cal.App.4th 1339, 1348–49 [“The trier of fact should
decide whether a knowing pattern and practice of understaffing in violation of
applicable regulations amounts to recklessness.”].)
Defendant
argues that Plaintiff fails to allege that an officer of Defendant directed or
ratified the conduct, as required under Welfare & Institutions Code §
15657, subd. (c), and Civil Code § 3294, subd. (b). (Demurrer at pp. 11–13.)
The Complaint, however, alleges such corporate ratification, both in those
terms and by reference to understaffing decisions. (FAC ¶ 41.) Although
Defendant argues that elder abuse claims must be pleaded with specificity, the
facts concerning corporate ratification lie more in the knowledge of Defendant
itself, and less specificity of
pleading is required as to elements of a defendant’s mental state, as these
facts are not readily in a plaintiff’s possession and “lie more in the
knowledge of the opposite party.” (Tenet Healthsystem Desert, Inc. v. Blue
Cross of California (2016) 245 Cal.App.4th 821, 838.)
Defendant’s argument as to the
uncertainty of the negligence claim also fails. The FAC is reasonably clear as
to the conduct constituting negligence, i.e. Defendant’s understaffing and
failure to reposition Plaintiff causing their pressure sores. (FAC ¶¶ 82–83.)
The pleading’s use of incorporated allegations from prior paragraphs does not
render the FAC uncertain.
The demurrer is therefore
OVERRULED.
II.               
MOTION TO
STRIKE
Any
party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading, may serve and file a
notice of motion to strike the whole or any part thereof. (Code Civ. Proc., §
435(b)(1)). The notice of motion to strike a portion of a pleading shall quote
in full the portions sought to be stricken except where the motion is to strike
an entire paragraph, cause of action, count or defense. (California Rules of
Court Rule 3.1322.)
The grounds for a motion to
strike shall appear on the face of the challenged pleading or form any matter
of which the court is required to take judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., §
437(a)). The court then may strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper
matter inserted in any pleading and strike out all or any part of any pleading
not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or
an order of the court. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436.) When the defect which
justifies striking a complaint is capable of cure, the court should allow leave
to amend. (Perlman v. Municipal Court
(1979) 99 Cal.App.3d 568, 575.)
Defendant AHMC moves to strike
the prayer for punitive damages and for “enhanced remedies” under the Elder
Abuse Act. (Motion at pp. 4–8.) 
These arguments may be considered together, as they are
essentially one argument: that Plaintiff has failed to allege facts
constituting recklessness, malice, oppression, or fraud under Civil Code §
3294, which is the standard applicable to enhanced remedies under Welfare &
Institutions Code § 15657, subd. (a). Punitive damages are allowed in
non-contract cases when a defendant is guilty of “oppression, fraud, or malice
. . . .” (Civ. Code § 3294.) The terms are defined as:
“Malice”
means conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the
plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a
willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.
“Oppression”
means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in
conscious disregard of that person's rights.
“Fraud”
means an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material
fact known to the defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of
thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing
injury.
Something more than the mere commission of a
tort is always required for punitive damages. (Taylor v. Superior Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, 894.) Proof of
negligence, gross negligence, or recklessness is insufficient to warrant an
award of punitive damages. (Dawes v.
Sup.Ct. (Mardian) (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 82, 88–89.) Punitive damages may be
recovered in an action for negligence or other nonintentional torts if the
plaintiff pleads and proves that the defendant acted with the state of mind
described as “conscious disregard” of the potential dangers to others. (Pfeifer v. John Crane, Inc. (2013) 220
Cal.App.4th 1270, 1299.) When malice is based on a defendant’s conscious
disregard of Plaintiff’s rights, the conduct must be both despicable and
willful. (College Hospital v. Superior
Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 794, 713 (“College
Hospital”).)
The resolution of Defendant’s arguments on
demurrer also resolves their arguments on the motion to strike. The FAC alleges
that Defendant undertook custodial responsibility for Plaintiff’s care. It
alleges that in the course of that care, these requirements went unmet,
resulting in severe injury to Plaintiff. It further alleges that the reason
these requirements went unmet was because Defendant’s officers understaffed
their facility in the desire to cut costs, with the knowledge that such efforts
would put people like Plaintiff at risk. These allegations suffice to allege
malice, oppression, and recklessness.
The motion is therefore DENIED.
