 Case Number:  22AHCV00886    Hearing Date:   January 22, 2025    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



U&G CONSTRUCTION GROUP INC., 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
REAL
   PROSPERITY INVESTMENT LLC,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


CASE NO.:  22AHCV00886
   (Consolidated with Case No. 23STCV01341)
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION FOR RECONSIDERATION 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
January
   22, 2025




 


)


 



 
On December 27, 2024, U&G
Construction Group (“U&G”) and Zhuoheng Gu (“Gu”) filed this motion
requesting the Court reconsider its order issued on February 15, 2024
(“February 15 Order”) ruling that this action (“Civil Action”) is not related
to an unlawful detainer action captioned CDMY Investment, LLC v. Real
Prosperity Investment, LLC (Case No. 23PDUD00523) (“UD Action”). 
In reaching its decision in the
February 15 Order, the Court previously concluded that the UD Action and Civil
Action were not related because the question of possession was separate and
subject to summary proceedings. U&G and Gu argue that the Court should
reconsider its February 15 Order because the UD Action has since been transferred
from limited jurisdiction to unlimited jurisdiction and that CDMY has not, at
any time, suggested that the UD Action would be limited to the issue of
possession. 
In opposition, CDMY argues that the
motion is moot because the trial in the UD Action will have been completed by
the date of this hearing. This argument is now meritless because trial in the
UD Action was continued to February 18, 2025. Therefore, the motion for
reconsideration is not moot. 
CDMY also argues that the motion is
time barred pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 1008(a) and not based
on new or different facts, circumstances, or law. Nevertheless, the Court may
reconsider an interim order on its own motion. (Le Francois v. Goel (2005)
35 Cal.4th 1094, 1104.) The Court also notes that various circumstances have
changed since its February 15 Order was issued. Most obviously, the Court overruled
the demurrer filed by CDMY and Charles Wong in the Civil Action and allowed the
fraud-based claims by U&G to proceed, including the cancellation of CDMY’s
lien and deed of trust. Therefore, the resolution of the Civil Action is
intertwined with the UD Action. Additionally, CDMY’s claim for holdover damages
in the UD Action are predicated on title and potentially subject to offset
based on the Civil Action. 
In Martin-Bragg v. Moore (2013)
219 Cal.App.4th 367, 385, the court of appeal stated that the trial court has
the power to consolidate an unlawful detainer proceeding with a simultaneously
pending action in which title to the property is in issue. “That is because a
successful claim of title by the tenant would defeat the landlord’s right to possession.”
(Ibid.) Further, “[w]hen an unlawful detainer proceeding and an
unlimited action concerning title to the property are simultaneously pending,
the trial court in which the unlimited action is pending may stay the unlawful
detainer action until the issue of title is resolved in the unlimited action,
or it may consolidate the actions.” (Ibid.) 
Since the lease underlying the UD
Action and the real estate purchase agreement underlying the Civil Action
involve the same property, parties, and overlapping questions of title,
possession, and damages, the Court GRANTS the motion for reconsideration and
relates the UD and Civil Actions. Furthermore, the Court ORDERS the UD Action
stayed pending the resolution of the Civil Action.
Dated
this 22nd
day of January 2025
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 