  Case Number:  22STCP00012    Hearing Date:   October 9, 2024    Dept:  82 Robert A. Geffner, Ph.D.,                                        Case No. 22STCP00012
 
v.
                                                                    
Hearing: October
9, 2024
Board
of Psychology,                                                Location:
Stanley Mosk Courthouse 
Department
of Consumer Affairs                           Department
82 
of
the State of California                                         Judge:
Stephen I. Goorvitch 
 
                        
[Tentative] Order Denying Motion for
Attorney’s Fees
 
 
INTRODUCTION 
 
            The Board of
Psychology, Department of Consumer Affairs of the State of California (the
“Board” or “Respondent”) revoked the license of Dr. Robert A. Geffner
(“Petitioner”)—but stayed the revocation and placed Petitioner on five years’ probation—after
it found that he violated the American Psychological Association’s Ethical
Principles of Psychologists and Code of Conduct (the “Ethical Standards”).  Specifically, the Board found that Petitioner
erred by evaluating two children for suicidality without their father’s consent
and without consulting their existing therapist; making custodial recommendations
that went beyond the scope of an emergency risk assessment; and delegating the
duty to warn the father that one child had thoughts about killing him.  Petitioner sought a writ of mandamus to
vacate the Board’s decision. The court (Beckloff, J.) denied the petition and
declined to issue the writ.  
 
The
District Court of Appeal reversed the judgment with directions to the trial
court to grant the petition for a writ of mandate and to reverse the Board’s
findings.  The Court of Appeal held that:
(1) “Neither the Ethical Standards nor the evidence supports” the trial court’s
finding that Petitioner “violated Ethical Standards 3.10 and 9.03 by failing to
obtain father’s consent before evaluating the children;” (2) There was insufficient
evidence to support the Board and the trial court’s finding that Petitioner
violated Ethical Standard 3.09 by failing to contact the children’s therapist;
(3) There was insufficient evidence to support the trial court’s finding that
Petitioner made custody recommendations; and (4) While Petitioner generally had
a duty to warn others of foreseeable and unavoidable harm, he did not violate
any duty owed to warn father.  The Court
of Appeal also discussed the legal definition of “emergency,” especially as
applied to the Ethical Standards, and concluded that “the trial court’s finding
that no ‘true emergency’ existed under these circumstances finds little support
in the law or evidence.”  (See Shaughnessy Decl. Exh. A at 21-38.)   
 
Petitioner
now moves for attorneys’ fees pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
1021.5 on the grounds that the Court of Appeal’s published decision “provided
valuable precedent that benefits California health care professionals who may
be called to provide emergency assessments under circumstances like those faced
by Doctor Geffner” and “also benefits California minors who need the help of a
health care professional in an emergency.” 
(Memorandum of Points and Authorities in Support of Motion for
Attorney’s Fees (“Mot.”) 5:18-22.)  The
court denies the motion.
BACKGROUND 
 
A detailed statement of the
underlying facts, the Board’s decision, and the trial court’s decision is set
forth in the Court of Appeal’s published decision and is incorporated by
reference.  (See Shaughnessy Decl.
Exh A at 3-17; Geffner v. Board of Psychology (2024) 100 Cal.App.5th 19.)  In addition, the following procedural history
is particularly relevant to this motion for attorney’s fees:
 
The Board revoked Petitioner’s
license effective December 24, 2021.  The
Board stayed the revocation for five years with multiple terms and conditions,
including: (1) a psychological evaluation; (2) oversight of Petitioner’s
practice by a monitor; (3) passage of the California Psychology Law and Ethics
Examination; (4) completion of 24 additional hours of Respondent-approved
coursework on ethics and boundaries of competence; (5) completion of
Board-approved course in law and ethics; (6) payment of $42,418.75 for
Respondent's costs for the investigation and prosecution of Petitioner; and (7)
payment of costs for annual probation monitoring.  (Mejia Decl. Exh. D at 7.) 
 
On January 3, 2022, Petitioner filed
his petition for writ of mandate challenging the Board’s decision.  On January 25, 2022, Petitioner filed an ex
parte application for a temporary stay of the Board’s decision, which the
trial court (Beckloff, J.) denied.  On
June 13, 2022, after briefing and a hearing, the trial court (Beckloff, J.)
denied the petition for writ of mandate. 
On August 11, 2022, Petitioner filed his notice of appeal. 
 
On or about September 15, 2023,
after Petitioner appealed the trial court’s judgment, attorney Seth L.
Goldstein, who specializes in child protection matters in family courts, filed
an application with the Court of Appeal to file a late brief of amici curia in
support of Petitioner’s appeal.  (Reply
Shaughnessy Decl. Exh. H.)[1]  The signatories to the amicus application
included “professionals in the fields of psychology, academia, medicine, and
law, all of whom have dedicated their practices and lives as a mission to
ensure the safety and well-being of children caught up in family violence, in
divorce, victimized by their parent(s) and facing traumatic changes as a result
of the Court orders made on their behalf.” 
(Id. at 2.)  The
application included a list of 21 organizations and multiple individuals,
located throughout California and in some other states, that joined the
application.  (Id. at 2-8.)  
 
In the application, the amici summarized
the purpose of their proposed brief, as follows: 
 
In this brief, Amici intends to expose, explore, and propose
a solution to the Sophie’s Choice perplexing mental health professionals
throughout California when faced with children refusing to cooperate with court
orders that cause them to commit or attempt to commit suicide and/or violent
acts against others, including their parents, as a result. This is a recurrent
problem that needs this Court's direction. As can be noted by looking at the
list of individuals and organizations signing onto this brief, the implications
of this Court’s decision will have a far-reaching effect going beyond the
borders of our state and nation. 
 
(Id. at 8.)  The Court of Appeal granted the application.  In the amicus brief that was filed and
considered by the Court, the amici summarized the public interest at
stake in the appeal, as follows: 
 
[T]his brief brings to the Court's attention an important
issue raised below but not resolved, an issue that— depending on how this Court
addresses it—could chill the willingness of mental health professionals to
evaluate children who are in need of emergency assistance from mental health
professionals when in potentially life-endangering situations. The issue of
state-wide importance in this case may be stated as follows: When parents have
joint legal custody, does the law require in all cases that a mental health
professional obtain consent in advance from both parents for an evaluation of the
child? .... If there are emergency or other situations (such as with child
maltreatment) when the advance consent of both parents is not required or
appropriate, and if this is one of those cases, then Dr. Geffner may have acted
properly, and should not be disciplined for his decision to forego obtaining
Father's advance consent.   
 
(Shaughnessy Decl. Exh. B at 17-18.)
 
DISCUSSION 
 
An award of attorney fees is appropriate “to a successful party … in any
action which has resulted in the enforcement of an important right affecting
the public interest.”  (Code Civ. Proc. §
1021.5.)  The three factors necessary to
support an award of attorney fees to a successful party pursuant to section
1021.5 are: “(1) [the] action has resulted in the enforcement of an important
right affecting the public interest, (2) a significant benefit, whether
pecuniary or nonpecuniary has been conferred on the general public or a large
class of persons and (3) the necessity and financial burden of private
enforcement are such as to make the award appropriate.”  (In re Conservatorship of Whitley (2010)
50 Cal.4th 1206, 1214, internal quotations and citation omitted.)     
 
            Petitioner
does not demonstrate that the necessity and financial burden of private
enforcement support an award of attorneys’ fees in this case.
 
In evaluating the element of financial burden, the inquiry
before the trial court is whether there were insufficient financial incentives
to justify the litigation in economic terms. 
If the plaintiff had a personal financial stake in the litigation
sufficient to warrant the decision to incur significant attorney fees and costs
in the vigorous prosecution of the lawsuit, and award under section 1021.5 is
inappropriate.  Section 1021.5 was not
designed as a method for rewarding litigants motivated by their own pecuniary
interests who only coincidentally protect the public interest.  
 
(Millview County Water Dist. v.
State Water Resources Control Bd. (2016) 4 Cal.App.5th 759, 768-769,
internal quotations, alterations, and citations omitted.)  The purpose of attorneys’ fees is to compensate
“litigants and attorneys who step forward to engage in public interest
litigation when there are insufficient financial incentives to justify the
litigation in economic terms.”  (Broad
Beach Geologic Hazard Abatement Dist. v. 31506 Victoria Point LLC (2022) 81
Cal.App.5th 1068, 1096.)    
 
Petitioner attempts to portray
himself as pursing this litigation “to hold the Board to account, to clarify
the law, and to compel the Board to follow the law as clarified by the County
of Appeal.”  That is not accurate.  Petitioner’s motivations and incentives were
purely personal.  In seeking a temporary
restraining order, Petitioner submitted a declaration focusing on the costs of
probation, the financial impact on his practice, the potential loss of other
licenses, and the loss of income from other activities, like training graduate
students and performing expert work.  (See
Mejia Decl. Exh. C (Declaration of Robert A. Geffner, Ph.D.)  He states: 
 
The Decision markedly impairs my ability to continue in even
a semblance of what my practice of over 45 years has become. . . .  I believe there will be nothing left by
irreparably damaged pieces if the Board’s Decision and disciplinary order
remain in place for the many months it will take before the court will be able
to consider and rule on the merits of the writ petition.
 
(Id. at 16.)  This is very different from his current
argument—in the memorandum of points and authorities, not a sworn declaration—stating
that he was “disciplined near the end of his professional career” and therefore
had no financial incentive to pursue this case because “there was no large
award of damages available to him at the end of the day even if he
prevailed.”  (Petitioner’s Memorandum of
Points & Authorities at 14:3-9.)  While
Petitioner also had non-pecuniary interests, they were personal in nature, viz.,
repairing the damage to his reputation. 
(See ibid.)  Any
clarification of the law was secondary to these personal considerations.  Simply, Petitioner had ample personal reasons
to pursue this action, and there was not need to incentive him through the
award of attorneys’ fees. 
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
            Based
upon the foregoing, the court orders as follows:
 
            1.         Petitioner’s motion for attorneys’ fees
is denied.
 
            2.         Petitioner’s counsel shall provide
notice. 
 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED
 
 
Dated:  October 9, 2024                                             __________________________
                                                                                    Stephen
I. Goorvitch
                                                                                    Superior
Court Judge 
 
 


