 Case Number:  23STCP03720    Hearing Date:   October 9, 2024    Dept:  82  
California School Finance                                       Case No. 23STCP03720               Authority, et al.
                                                                        
v.                                                                     Hearing:
October 9, 2024
                                                                                    Location:
Stanley Mosk                                     Los Angeles Unified                                                        Department: 82
School
District, et al.                                                 Judge:
Stephen I. Goorvitch                                                
            
[Tentative] Order Granting Petition for
Writ of Mandate
  
            
INTRODUCTION 
 
            The California School Finance
Authority (the “CSFA”) and the State Allocation Board (the “SAB”)
(collectively, “Petitioners”) filed this petition for writ of mandate and
complaint for injunctive and declaratory relief against the Los Angeles Unified
School District (“LAUSD” or the “District”), as well as the Board of Education
and Superintendent (collectively, “Respondents”).  Petitioners seek a writ of mandate directing Respondents
to continue with the regulatory process to solicit and select a successor
charter school to use a school facility that was constructed with Charter
School Facilities Program (“CSFP”) funds. 
Petitioners contend that, under the CSFP regulations, this process must
continue until CSFA has determined that the District “has demonstrated
sufficient due diligence.”  Petitioners
also seek a permanent injunction prohibiting Respondents from placing a
district-affiliated charter school in the facility in a manner inconsistent
with the CSFP statutes and regulations.   
 
BACKGROUND 
 
            In
2002, the California Legislature established the CSFP to provide funding to
qualifying entities to establish school facilities for charter school
pupils.  (Ed. Code § 17078.52.)  Under the program, an eligible project may
receive funding for new construction or rehabilitation of a school facility for
charter school pupils, including, but not limited to, the cost of retrofitting
an existing building for charter school purposes, purchasing a building, or
retrofitting a building that has been purchased by the charter school, subject
to certain restrictions.  (Ed. Code 
§ 17078.54(a).)  
 
            On
April 13, 2011, Petitioners, the District, and Camino Nuevo High School Charter
(“Camino Nuevo”) entered into a Memorandum of Understanding (“MOU”) under the
CSFP to finance construction of a school facility located at 1215 Miramar
Street in Los Angeles, California (the “Facility”) to be used for charter
school purposes.  (Johantgen Decl. ¶ 4,
Exh. A.)  Petitioners extended funds to
Camino Nuevo to construct the Facility pursuant to a Funding Agreement dated
April 25, 2011, for an amount of up to $10,000,000 (the “Loan”).  (Id. ¶ 5, Exh. B.)  The District acquired the real property and
constructed the Facility for a total approximate cost of $34,103,428, of which
$21,875,667 came from CSFP funds contributed by Camino Nuevo, including the
$10,000,000 Loan from Petitioners.  The
District paid the balance of the project costs. 
(Lopez Decl. ¶ 3, Exh. 8 at 4.)  
 
            In
or around December 2020, Petitioners learned that Camino Nuevo intended to
close its charter school at the Facility. 
(Johantgen Decl. ¶ 6.)  By the end
of June 2021, Camino Nuevo no longer occupied the Facility and the obligations
of Camino Nuevo with respect to the MOU and Funding Agreement ceased.  (Id. ¶ 7.)  After it vacated the Facility, Camino Nuevo
relinquished to the District all right, title, and interest in the occupancy and
use of the Facility.  (Ibid.)  In the event a charter school ceases to use a
facility, the District is required to do the following: (1) publicly notify all
eligible charter schools authorized to operate within the District’s
boundaries; (2) use a “fair and competitive process,” such as a request for
proposal, to identify and rank eligible charter schools; and (3) identify, in
ranking order, with approval from the Office of Public School Construction (“OPSC”)
and the CSFA, a successor charter school. 
(Cal. Code Regs., tit. 2 § 1859.171(a)(1)-(3).)
 
            On
March 18, 2021, the District issued a notice of invitation and publicly
notified all eligible charter schools to submit proposals, or a “Request for
Qualifications” (“RFQ”), to operate at the Facility and to assume the Loan.  (Johantgen Decl. ¶ 8, Exh. C.)  Alliance College-Ready Public Schools
(“Alliance”) submitted a timely response and proposal to the RFQ.  (Id. 
¶
9.)  CSFA determined that Alliance was
financially sound and qualified as a successor charter school, and the SAB,
OPSC, and the District concurred that Alliance was qualified as a
successor.  (Ibid.)  Another charter school, Endovate, Inc.
(“Endovate”), also responded to the first RFQ. 
In May 2021, the District informed Petitioners that it considered
Endovate’s proposal to be ineligible because it had “ongoing legal disputes
with the District related to Prop. 39.” 
(Ibid.)  Petitioners and
the District selected Alliance as the successor charter school.  (Verified Petition for Writ of Mandate
(“Pet.”) ¶ 21.)  However, in July 2021,
Alliance informed the District that “the
summer is a particularly difficult time to generate school stakeholder input,
made all the more challenging by the impact of the pandemic” and that it
needed until September 2021 to make a recommendation to its government board
regarding the matter.  (Johantgen Decl. ¶
10, Exh. D.)  On September 16, 2021, Alliance
gave Petitioners and the District formal notice that it was withdrawing its
response to the RFQ.  (Id. ¶ 11,
Exh. Q.)
 
            Between
September and November 2021, Petitioners and the District had discussions
regarding the issuance of a second RFQ to solicit and identify a successor
charter school to use the Facility and to assume the loan.  (Id. ¶¶ 12-13, Exh. N, M.)  On or about December 17, 2021, the District
issued a second RFQ to all eligible charter schools inviting them to submit
proposals to operate a high school at the Facility.  (Id. ¶ 15, Exh. E.)  The RFQ set a deadline of February 2, 2022,
for charter schools to submit proposals. 
(Ibid.)  Two charter
schools submitted timely proposals, including Ednovate.  (Id. ¶ 16.)  On or about March 30, 2022, Petitioners
approved Ednovate as the qualified successor charter school under the CSFP,
finding Ednovate financially sound for purposes of the CSFP.  (Id. ¶ 17.)  On or about April 6, 2022, the District recommended
Ednovate and posted the selection of Ednovate as the successor charter school,
pending approval by the District’s Board of Education.  (Id. ¶ 18.)  The next day, the District notified
Petitioners of its recommendation and stated that the report would be presented
to the Board of Education on May 10, 2022. 
(Id. ¶ 19.)  In correspondence
shared with Petitioners, the District stated: “The Selection Panel Members
unanimously concurred that Ednovate, Inc. provided the best value to the
District and recommended that the District approve the firm to operate the
Miramar facility.”  (Id. ¶ 19,
Exh. G at 3.)
 
            Despite this finding, the District
did not present the recommendation to the Board of Education.  On April 22, 2022, the District notified
Petitioners that it had decided to delay presentation to the Board of Education
until June 14, 2022, to give the new superintendent time to gain “a better
understanding of the transaction’s history.” 
(Id. ¶ 20, Exh. H.)  Then,
before the meeting, the agenda item was pulled and cancelled.  The District sent an email that stated, among
other things, that the District “would like to evaluate available options for
the Facility and will be exercising its rights under the RFQ to cancel the entire
RFQ.”  (Id. ¶ 22, Exh. J ant Pet.
¶¶ 28-29.)
 
            On or about March 29, 2023,
Petitioners sent a written demand letter to the District, copying the Board of
Education and the Superintendent, asking the District to comply with Education
Code section 17078.62 and its implementing regulations.  Specifically, Petitioners allege that
Respondents’ actions violate the CSFP—Education Code section 17078.62,
California Code of Regulations, title 2, section 1859.171, and California Code
of Regulations, title 4, section 10157(a)—because the intended use of a portion
of the general obligation bond funds is to provide charter school facilities to
house California’s charter school students. 
(Johantgen Decl. ¶¶ 23-24, Exh. K.) 
Respondents responded to the demand letter, alleging that the District
complied with its obligations concerning the first RFQ, which was cancelled
because Alliance withdrew, and it had no obligations with respect to the second
RFQ.  (Id. ¶ 25, Exh. L)  
 
PROCEDURAL
HISTORY
 
            On October 9, 2023, Petitioners
filed their petition for writ of mandate seeking to compel Respondents to
continue with the solicitation and selection process to identify a successor
charter school to use the Facility.  On
April 15, 2024, after a hearing, the court granted Petitioners’ motion for a
preliminary injunction and entered an order enjoining Respondents from using
the Facility in a manner inconsistent with Education Code section
17078.62(b)(2) and California Code of Regulations, title 2, section 1859.171(a),
and title 4, section 10157(a), pending the hearing on the petition for writ of
mandate.  In ruling on that motion, the
court ruled that section 10157(a) is not invalid and that Petitioners are not
seeking to apply section 10157(a) retroactively.              
 
STANDARD OF REVIEW
 
The petition for
writ of mandate is brought pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
1085.  There
are two essential requirements to the issuance of an ordinary writ of mandate
under Code of Civil Procedure section 1085: (1) a clear, present, and
ministerial duty on the part of the respondent, and (2) a clear, present, and
beneficial right on the part of the petitioner to the performance of that duty.
(California Ass’n for Health Services at
Home v. Department of Health Services (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 696,
704.)  “Generally, mandamus is available to compel a public agency’s
performance or to correct an agency’s abuse of discretion when the action being
compelled or corrected is ministerial.”  (AIDS
Healthcare Foundation v. Los Angeles County Dept. of Public Health (2011)
197 Cal.App.4th 693, 700.)  The court
exercises its independent judgment on questions of law arising in mandate
proceedings, such as interpretation of a statute or regulation.  (See Christensen v. Lightbourne (2017) 15 Cal.App.5th 1239, 1251.) 
 
EVIDENTIARY
ISSUES 
            The court
grants the parties’ requests for judicial notice.  The court rules as follows on Respondents’
evidentiary objections to the Declaration of Katrina M. Johantgen:
            
            Objections
1 through 3:  Overruled
 
            Objections
4 and 5:  Sustained 
 
            Objections
6 through 10:  Overruled 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
A.        Respondents Have a
Ministerial Duty to Continue with the Selection Process 
 
Petitioners
contend that Respondents have a ministerial duty to continue with the successor
selection process until “either a successor is approved and installed in the
Facility or, failing that, the Finance Authority makes a determination that
Respondents engaged in sufficient due diligence to install a successor.”  (Opening Brief (“OB”) 9:26-28.)  The court agrees.    
 
The
CSFP gives priority to a successor charter school to occupy the facility, over
a school district, when a previous charter school ceases using it.  (Ed. Code § 17078.62(b)(2); 2 Cal. Code Regs.
§ 1859.171.)  In furtherance of this
legislative purpose, CSFP regulations mandate that school districts complete a
process to solicit and select a successor charter school before the school
district can occupy the facility.  (2 Cal.
Code Regs. § 1859.171(a).)  Specifically,
the school district in which the facility is located “shall publicly notify all
eligible Charter Schools authorized to operate in the School District's
boundaries.”  (2 Cal. Code Regs. §
1859.171(a)(1).)  “If more than one
eligible Charter School responds to the School District's notification, the
School District must use a fair and competitive process, such as a request for
proposal, to identify and rank eligible Charter Schools.”  (2 Cal. Code Regs.  § 1859.171(a)(2).)  “When ranking eligible Charter Schools,
preference shall be provided to Charter Schools that serve Low-Income students,
as well as Charter Schools that meet the definition of a Non-Profit Entity.”[1]  (Ibid.)  Finally, “[t]he School District, with
approval from the OPSC and CSFA, must identify, in ranking order if applicable,
a successor Charter School.”  (2 Cal.
Code Regs. 
§ 1859.171(a)(3).)
 
Should
the process fail to identify a successor charter school candidate, the District
still must obtain approval from the CSFA before the District may lawfully
consider other uses for the facility. 
(Ed. Code § 17078.62(b)(2) and (b)(3); 4 Cal. Code Regs. §
10157(a).)  To obtain such approval, the
District must demonstrate sufficient due diligence in its process to solicit
and identify a successor charter school. 
Specifically, California
Code of Regulations, title 4, section
10157(a) provides as follows: 
 
Pursuant
to Education
Code, Section 17078.62(b)(3),
the school district in which the Charter School is physically located may take
possession and title of the facility only after having demonstrated due
diligence in soliciting alternative Charter Schools within the local area to
take possession and title of the facility, as permitted by Education
Code Section 17078.62(b)(2). Such
demonstration of due diligence shall be at the Authority’s discretion, but
shall include, but not be limited to, documentary evidence of solicitation of
Charter Schools within the district boundaries, where applicable.
 
(4 Cal. Code Regs. § 10157(a).)  
 
Here,
Respondents have not completed the selection process under section
1859.171(a), by selecting a successor after a fair and competitive process.  Nor have Respondents obtained CSFA’s approval
to take possession and title of the Facility under section 10157(a).  After Alliance withdrew its response to the
first RFQ, the first RFQ process did not result in the selection of a successor
charter school.  (Johantgen Decl. ¶
11, Exh. Q.)  That the first RFQ was
curtailed by Alliance’s withdrawal does not prove that the District completed
the selection process.  CSFA concluded
that the pandemic “significantly contributed” to Alliance’s inability to get
sufficient community feedback to proceed with the move to the Facility.  (Johantgen Decl. ¶¶10-13, 27 and Exh. D,
Q.)  CSFA determined that the first RFQ
did not satisfy the District’s obligation to demonstrate “due diligence.” (See
Id. ¶ 34.) Respondents do not rebut that evidence or show that CSFA’s
assessment of the first RFQ process was unreasonable.  
 
After Alliance withdrew from the first
RFQ, the District issued a second RFQ to all eligible
charter schools inviting them to submit proposals to operate a high school at
the Facility.  Two charter schools
submitted timely proposals, including Ednovate. 
(Id. ¶¶ 15-16.) 
Petitioners approved Ednovate as the qualified successor charter school
under the CSFP, and the
District posted the selection of Ednovate as the successor charter school,
pending approval by the District’s Board of Education.  (Id. ¶¶ 16-18.)  However, before the matter was presented to
the Board of Education, the District unilaterally cancelled the second RFQ so
that it could “evaluate available options for the Facility.”  (Id. ¶ 22, Exh. J ant Pet. ¶¶ 28-29.)  The District refused Petitioners’ March 2023
demand to continue the solicitation and selection process and, instead, informed
Petitioners that it was evaluating whether to place a district-affiliated
charter school in the Facility. (Id. ¶¶ 23-25, Exh. K, L.)  In these circumstances, CSFA has determined
that “[t]he
District has not demonstrated due diligence to solicit and select a replacement
charter school for the Facility.”  (Id.
¶ 34.)
 
The foregoing evidence has not been
challenged or rebutted in Respondents’ opposition.  Respondents have not disputed that the first
RFQ failed to obtain a successor charter school; that they did not complete the
second RFQ; and that CSFA has not found that the District demonstrated due
diligence to find a replacement charter school pursuant to California Code of
Regulations, title 5, section 10157(a).  Although
Respondents previously challenged the validity of section 10157(a),
they have not raised such arguments in their current opposition, and the court
has resolved those legal issues anyway. 
(See Court’s Order Granting Motion for Preliminary Injunction, dated April
15, 2024, at 6-8.)  
 
Instead, Respondents argue that the
District was entitled to disqualify Ednovate’s school, Brio College Prep
(“Brio”), from the first RFQ because: (1) at the time of the first RFQ, the
District was engaged in several legal disputes with other charter schools
operated by Ednovate; and (2) Brio did not meet a student enrollment
requirement of 425 students for the past two years.  (Oppo. 16-18.)  This argument is limited to the first RFQ,
which is not truly at issue in this proceeding. 
Indeed, Petitioners found that Ednovate was a
qualified successor charter school under the CSFP in the second RFQ process,
and Respondents do not argue that Ednovate should have been disqualified from
the second RFQ.  (See Johantgen Decl. ¶¶ 16-18.)
 
Although the argument is unclear, Respondents
suggest that CSFA should have found that the District demonstrated due
diligence to find a replacement charter school in the first RFQ because
Alliance withdrew and Brio was allegedly disqualified.  Any such argument is not persuasive for
several reasons.  In the opening brief,
Petitioners have asserted legitimate reasons to question whether the District
properly disqualified Brio in the first RFQ process.  (OB 12-13; see Johantgen Decl. ¶¶
28-31 and Custodian Decl. generally.)  Specifically,
there is evidence that Brio itself did not have a legal dispute with the
District and that any such legal disputes were with other charter schools
operated by Ednovate.  Also, there is
evidence that Brio had, or was projected to have, enrollment greater than 425
students for two consecutive school years. 
(See Custodian Decl. Exh. R at 4-5; Exh. S at 2, 5; and Exh.
V.)  For purposes of this writ petition,
it is unnecessary for the court to decide whether the District had sufficient
grounds to disqualify Brio from the first RFQ. 
Given the broad discretion vested in CSFA under section 10157(a), the
withdrawal of the selected successor (Alliance) from the first RFQ, Ednovate’s
qualification for the second RFQ, and the legitimate dispute concerning Brio’s
qualification for the first RFQ, Respondents have not shown any abuse of
discretion in the CSFA’s determination that the District has not demonstrated
sufficient due
diligence to solicit and select a replacement charter school for the Facility.  (See Johantgen Decl. ¶ 34.)  
 
B.        There was no Violation of
the Contract Clause of the California Constitution 
 
In opposition,
Respondents argue that sections 10157 and 1859.171 have “the force and effect
of a statute,” and that the amendments to these CSFP regulations violated the contract
clause of the California Constitution.  (Oppo.
8-13.)  Specifically, Respondents contend
that amendments in these regulations conflict with terms in the MOU and “fundamentally
changed and substantially impaired the District’s contractual relationship with
CSFA.”  (Oppo. 11:18-19.)  
 
Respondents did not plead a defense based
on the contract clause in their answer. 
Accordingly, Petitioners contend that Respondents forfeited the
defense.  (Reply 9.)  The court need not resolve this issue because
the argument is meritless.  As Petitioners
also argue, a school district is a political subdivision of the state and
therefore lacks standing to assert a violation of the contract clause against
state regulatory agencies.  (Id. 7-9.)
 
Both the United States and California
Constitutions contain provisions that prohibit the enactment of laws effecting
a “substantial impairment” of contracts…. The Contracts Clause restricts the
power of States to disrupt contractual arrangements. ... The origins of the
Clause lie in legislation enacted after the Revolutionary War to relieve
debtors of their obligations to creditors.  But the Clause applies to any kind of
contract. 
 
(Cal
Fire Local 2881 v. California Public Employees’ Retirement System (2019) 6
Cal.5th 965, 977, citation omitted.)  However,
there is a “well-established rule that subordinate political entities, as ‘creatures’
of the state, may not challenge state action as violating the entities’ rights
under the due process or equal protection clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment
or under the contract clause of the federal Constitution.”  (Star-Kist Foods, Inc. v. County of Los
Angeles (1986) 42 Cal.3d 1, 6.)  The
rational for this rule is that “a municipal corporation, created by a state for
the better ordering of government, has no privileges or immunities under the
federal constitution which it may invoke in opposition to the will of its
creator.”  (Ibid., citation
omitted.)  The same reasoning applies to
protections afforded under the California Constitution, including the state
contract clause.  (West Contra Costa
Unified School District v. Superior Court (2024) 103 Cal.App.5th 1243, 1274.)  “These provisions do not prevent the
legislature from changing the contractual rights of its political subdivisions
acting in a governmental capacity… [because] there can be no impairment of
contracts upon a voluntary relinquishment by the state of any contractual
rights it may have acquired.”  (Alameda
County v. Janssen (1940) 16 Cal.2d 276, 284; see also People v. Carter
(2023) 97 Cal.App.5th 960, 976.)  
 
Here, “[a] public school district is a
political subdivision of the State of California.” (West Contra Costa
Unified, supra, 103 Cal.App.5th at 1274.) 
 Further, as Respondents
acknowledge, the state actions at issue are the amendments to sections 10157
and 1859.171, which have the same force and effect as statutes.  (See Oppo. 9; see also Agricultural
Labor Relations Bd. v. Sup. Ct. (1976) 16 Cal.3d 392, 401.)  Accordingly, Respondents lack standing to
assert the impairment of the District’s contract rights under the MOU based on
the contract clause of the California Constitution.  
 
C.        There was no Substantial
Impairment or Material Alteration of a Contract
 
In the alternative, even if Respondents have standing and properly
raised their contract-based defenses, Respondents do not prove either a
substantial impairment or a material alteration of their rights in the
MOU.  (See Oppo. 10-14.)  Respondents contend that amendments to sections 10157 and
1859.171 changed the contemplated procedures in the event that a charter school
vacates the Facility or a selected charter school withdraws its proposal.  However, at the hearing on April 15, 2024, Respondents’
counsel admitted that the District’s belief was based upon the then state of
the law, and not based upon any contractual term.  (Court’s Order dated April 15, 2024 at
9.)  In their current opposition,
Respondents similarly highlight provisions of state law from 2011, when the MOU
was executed, to argue that an impairment or material alteration of contract
occurred.  (Oppo. 11-14.)  In fact, the MOU itself provided notice that
any changes in the law would impact the MOU: “To the extent this MOU is
inconsistent or in conflict with the provisions of the CSFP and the
implementing regulations, the CSFP and implementing regulations shall prevail.”  (Johantgen Decl. Exh. A.)  In their opposition papers, Respondents do not
address this term of the MOU or the court’s prior ruling on this issue.  Accordingly, Respondents’ contract arguments
are not persuasive.  (See generally
Hermosa Beach Stop Oil Coalition v. City of Hermosa Beach (2001) 86 Cal.App.4th
534, 556-558 [no impairment of contract because, among other reasons, oil and gas lease
agreement anticipated regulatory change impacting the project].) 

 
D.        The Implied Covenant of
Good Faith and Fair Dealing 
 
Respondents’ affirmative defense based on the implied
covenant of good faith and fair dealing is not pleaded in the answer.  (See Oppo. 15-16.)  Regardless, the defense is based on the same
arguments already considered and fails for the same reasons.  
 
E.         Injunctive and Declaratory
Relief 
 
Petitioners request that, until Respondents demonstrate full
compliance with the writ, the court issue an injunction enjoining the
Respondents “from placing a district-affiliated charter school in the Facility
in a manner inconsistent with Education Code section 17078.62, subdivision
(b)(2) and California Code of Regulations, title 2, section 1859.171,
subdivision (a).”  (OB 15.)  In effect, Petitioners request that the
preliminary injunction issued by the court be made permanent.  The court grants this request.  Permanent injunctive relief “is available in a mandamus proceeding and is appropriate to restrain
action which, if carried out, would be unlawful.”  (County of DelNorte v. City of Crescent
City (1999) 71 Cal.App.4th 965, 973.)
 
Petitioners also seek declaratory relief.  (See Pet. ¶¶ 51-54.)  The court declines to issue declaratory relief
because Petitioners have adequate remedies in the writ cause of action and
prayer for injunctive relief.  (See
General of America Ins. Co. v. Lilly (1968) 258 Cal.App.2d 465, 470-471; Hood
v. Sup.Ct. (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 319, 324.) 

 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER 
 
            Based
upon the foregoing, the court orders as follows:
 
            1.         The petition for writ of mandate is
granted.  
 
2.         The court will issue a writ directing Respondents to comply with
Education Code section 17078.62, subdivision (b)(2) and California Code of
Regulations, title 2, section 1859.171, subdivision (a), and compelling
Respondents to refrain from violating state law by taking possession and using
the Facility in a manner inconsistent with Education Code section 17078.62,
subdivision (b)(2) and California Code of Regulations, title 2, section
1859.171, subdivision (a) and title 4, section 10157, subdivision (a).  (See Pet. Prayer ¶ 1.)  
 
3.         The
prayer for injunctive relief is granted.
 
4.         The
court will issue a permanent injunction enjoining the Respondents from placing
a district-affiliated charter school in the Facility in a manner inconsistent
with Education Code section 17078.62, subdivision (b)(2) and California Code of
Regulations, title 2, section 1859.171, subdivision (a) until such time that
the writ of mandate is discharged.  (Id.
Prayer ¶ 2.)
 


 
5.         Petitioners’
cause of action for declaratory relief is denied.  
 
6.         The court
orders the parties to meet-and-confer and lodge a proposed judgment forthwith.
 
7.         The court’s
clerk shall provide notice.  
 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED 
 
 
Dated: October 9,
2024                                              ______________________

                                                                                    Stephen
I. Goorvitch
                                                                                    Superior
Court Judge 
    


