  Case Number:  20SMCV00872    Hearing Date:   February 6, 2024    Dept:  I This case is here yet again for the court to resolve another
in the seemingly endless disputes between the parties.  At the last hearing, the court was informed
that an investment group had agreed to buy the art in question for a sum
sufficient to pay plaintiff in full (and the expenses King’s has
incurred).  As a part of that deal,
plaintiff was to enter into a contract with that entity.  The court directed that if that failed, the
auction would go forward.  The parties
disputed whether King’s needed to take physical possession of the artwork.  The court delayed that possession for two
reasons.  First, King’s has not provided
estimates.  If the estimates are high
enough such that (even at the low end of the range) there is excess money, the
court believes that defendants can hold back the surplus art.  Second, with the private sale about to go
forward, it could add an unnecessary complication.  
The date of the private sale has been postponed, apparently,
with a new date of no later than February 29, 2024.  As the court could have predicted, each side
blames the other for the problem. 
Plaintiff contends that the whole purchase is not likely to be
consummated ever.  They note that the
name keeps changing, its representative has been replaced, there is no proof of
funds, the closing date has been moved, and defendants got an advance of
$500,000.  Accordingly, plaintiff wants
the auction to go forward and King’s to get the artwork and to have the
$500,000 turned over.  Defendants contend
that plaintiff is the problem.  According
to the defense, the only thing holding up the sale is that there is no contract
between the buyer and plaintiff.  The
reason for that, defendant contends, is that plaintiff insists not only on
getting paid in full, but also on owning 10% of the buyer. 
In the court’s mind, if what defendants say is true about
the negotiations, plaintiff is not acting properly and the court would be
inclined to allow the parties to keep negotiating.  A new hearing will be set for October, at
which time we will see the status of the case. 
The auction would be cancelled with plaintiff to bear any expenses
King’s requires.  On the other hand, if
plaintiff is not insisting on such a term but rather is looking only to a
vanilla contract in which they are assured that they will be paid in full (and
King’s will be paid, too), then the court has the same reservations as does
plaintiff and the court would be inclined to view this as yet another in a line
of failed promises of private sales made by defendants over time.
The court will inquire, but the parties would be well
advised to come to terms by themselves. 
The status conference statements were filed yesterday, as is typical in
this case.  Last minute filings to report
problems even after there have been agreements.  