 Case Number:  24NNCV00062    Hearing Date:   November 15, 2024    Dept:  E Hearing Date: 11/15/2024 – 8:30am
Case No: 24NNCV00062
Trial Date: UNSET
Case Name: ANDREW TREVINO v. UBER TECHNOLOGIES, et al.
TENTATIVE
RULING MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION
RELIEF REQUESTED
Defendant
XIAOZHU SUN will and hereby does move this Court to Compel Arbitration.
 
This Motion is based on
this Notice of Motion, the attached Memorandum of Points and Authorities, the
Declaration of Patrick J. Glinka, Esq., all of the pleadings, files, and
records in this proceeding, all other matters of which the Court may take judicial
notice, and any argument or evidence that may be presented to or considered by
the Court prior to its ruling.
 
PROCEDURAL
Moving Party: Defendant, Xiaozhu Sun
Responding Party: No Opposition by Plaintiff
Moving Papers: Notice/Motion
Opposing Papers: No Opposition
Reply Papers: No Reply
Proof of Service Timely Filed (CRC Rule 3.1300(c)): Ok
16/21 Court Days Lapsed (CCP § 1005(b), CRC 3.1300(a)): Ok
Correct Address: (CCP § 1013, § 1013a, § 1013b): Ok
BACKGROUND
Plaintiff, Andrew Trevino, filed the
instant action on 3/5/2024 against Uber Technologies, a corporation; Xiaozhu
(last name unknown) an individual; and Does 1-50.
On
7/25/2024, Plaintiff amended Doe 1 to be Xiaozhu Sun.
Plaintiff
filed a form Complaint wherein the first cause of action is titled “Motor
Vehicle,” and the second cause of action is titled “General Negligence.”
Plaintiff
alleges that he was a rear passenger in Defendant Uber Technologies’ vehicle
driven by Defendant Xiaozhu, and Plaintiff alleges Defendants made an unsafe
U-turn that caused the vehicle that Plaintiff was in to get into a collision.
On
8/30/2024, Defendant Xiaozhu Sun filed a Cross-Complaint for: (1) Comparative
Indemnity and Apportionment of Fault; (2) Total Equitable Indemnity; (3)
Contribution; and (4) Declaratory Relief.
On 9/6/2024,
this Court heard Defendant, Uber Technologies, Inc.’s, erroneously sued as Uber
Technologies, motion to compel arbitration. The Court granted Uber
Technologies, Inc.’s motion to compel arbitration. The case was stayed pending
arbitration as to Uber Technologies, Inc., erroneously sued as Uber
Technologies.
The 9/6/2024
Minute Order also stated, “Driver defendant, Xiaozhu Sun, may bring motion to
join arbitration stay proceedings.” (9/6/2024 Min. Order, p. 5.)
Further, in
the 9/6/2024 Minute Order, the Court ordered Xiaozhu unknown in Complaint filed
by Andrew Trevino on 3/5/2024 dismissed with prejudice. 
In the
instant motion, Defendant Xiaozhu Sun moves to compel arbitration.
ANALYSIS 
Existence
of Arbitration Agreement
The party seeking arbitration bears
the initial burden of demonstrating the existence of an arbitration agreement.
(Pinnacle Museum Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle Market Development (US), LLC (2012)
55 Cal.4th 223, 236.) In ruling on a motion to compel arbitration, the Court
must first determine whether the parties actually agreed to arbitrate the
dispute, and general principles of California contract law help guide the court
in making this determination. (Mendez v. Mid-Wilshire Health Care Center
(2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 534, 541; Victoria v. Superior Court (1985) 40
Cal. 3d 734, 835.) Even when the FAA applies, “interpretation of the
arbitration agreement is governed by state law principles.” (Hotels Nevada,
LLC v. Bridge Banc, LLC (2005) 130 Cal.App.4th 1431, 1435.) 
Moving
Defendant, Xiaozhu Sun, does not attach an arbitration agreement to the instant
motion. Defendant Sun bases this motion on the fact that this Court granted
Defendant Uber’s motion to compel arbitration.
While Sun
concedes that he was not a party to the arbitration agreement between Uber and
Plaintiff, Sun argues that he can compel arbitration of Plaintiff’s claims
against him based on the agency exception and equitable estoppel
Agency
The general rule is one must be a
party to an arbitration agreement to be bound by it or invoke it. (Garcia v.
Pexco, LLC (2017) 11 Cal.App.5th 782, 785.) However, there are exceptions
to the general rule that a nonsignatory cannot invoke an agreement to
arbitrate, without being a party to the arbitration agreement. (Thomas v.
Westlake (2012) 204 Cal.App.4th 605, 614.) One such exception provides that
when a plaintiff alleges a defendant acted as an agent of a party to an
arbitration agreement, the defendant may enforce the agreement even though the
defendant is not a party thereto. (Id.)
Here,
Plaintiff alleges in Paragraph MV-2 listed under the first cause of action of
the Complaint, “The defendants who employed the persons who operated a motor
vehicle in the course of their employment are Uber Technologies; Xiaozhu (last
name unknown)…The defendants who were the agents and employees of the other
defendants and acted within the scope of the agency were Uber Technologies;
Xiaozhu (last name unknown)…” (Compl. MV-2.)
Therefore,
here, it appears that moving Defendant can compel arbitration under the agency
exception.
Equitable
Estoppel
Another exception to the general
rule that one must be a party to the arbitration agreement to be bound by it or
invoke it is equitable estoppel. (Garcia v. Pexco, LLC (2017) 11
Cal.App.5th 782, 786.) Under this exception, a nonsignatory defendant may
invoke an arbitration clause to compel a signatory plaintiff to arbitrate its
claim when the causes of action against the nonsignatory are intimately founded
in and intertwined with the underlying contract obligations. (Id.) The
doctrine applies where the claims are based on the same facts and are
inherently inseparable from the arbitrable claims against signatory defendants.
(Id.) “Certainly, the fact that [the plaintiff's] complaint consists of
alleged tort causes of action, rather than contractual claims that are directly
based on the provisions of the [arbitration agreement], does not assist [the
plaintiff's] argument. It has long been the rule in California that a broadly
worded arbitration clause, such as we have here, may extend to tort claims that
may arise under or from the contractual relationship.” (Garcia v.
Pexco, LLC (2017) 11 Cal.App.5th 782, 795-96 quoting Coast Plaza Doctors
Hospital v. Blue Cross of California (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 677, 685-686.)
Here, it
appears as if Defendant can also rely on the equitable estoppel exception to
bind Plaintiff to Uber’s arbitration agreement because Plaintiff’s case is
premised on the theory that Sun was negligent in the use of his vehicle at the
time of the incident, which is the basis of this personal injury case, and that
Uber is allegedly vicariously liable for Sun’s alleged negligence as
employer/employee and agent. Therefore, the claims as to both Defendants appear
to be based on the same facts and are inherently inseparable from the
arbitrable claims against signatory Uber.
TENTATIVE RULING
Defendant, Xiaozhu Sun’s, motion to
compel arbitration is GRANTED. 
The Court will have questions about the agreement, which
does not appear to be attached.
Movant did not attach the agreement between Uber and
Plaintiff. 
The Court looked at the agreement from a prior motion to
compel arbitration. The Court’s concern is that the agreement says between “you”
and “Uber Technologies, Inc. and its subsidiaries, representatives, affiliates,
officers and directors.” The reason the Court point this out is because
sometimes these arbitration agreements explicitly state “agents” and this one
didn’t. that it doesn’t have to pay for the other defendants’ costs of
arbitration because only the Defendant with the agreement and the Plaintiff
signed. 
 