  Case Number:  19STCV30385    Hearing Date:   October 3, 2023    Dept:  52 

SUPERIOR COURT OF THE
STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS
ANGELES
 



 Dora Hernandez,
                                  
  Plaintiff,
  v.
 Massive Prints, Inc., 
                                 
  Defendant.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)_


Case No. 
  19STCV30385
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE MOTIONS FOR NEW TRIAL AND MOTION FOR JNOV
 
 



            
            Plaintiff
Dora Hernandez and defendant Massive Prints, Inc. (Massive) both move for a new
trial.  Massive also moves for a judgment
notwithstanding verdict (JNOV). 
            I.          Statutory
and constitutional grounds for new trial 
            Code of Civil Procedure section 657[1]
sets forth seven grounds for a motion for new trial.  In their respective notices of intention to
move for new trial, both parties stated they were moving for a new trial on all
seven grounds.  But in her brief
supporting her motion, plaintiff only asserted two grounds, namely an
irregularity in the proceedings (§ 657, subd. (1)) and an error in law (§ 657,
subd. (7).)  In its brief, Massive only
asserted one statutory ground—excessive damages (§ 657, subd. (5)). 
            Under article VI, section 13 of the
California Constitution, the court generally cannot grant a new trial unless,
“after an examination of the entire cause,” the court finds there was a
“miscarriage of justice.”[2]  This means that even if the court determines
the moving party has shown one or more of the seven statutory grounds for new
trial, the court cannot grant a new trial without a finding of prejudice.  (Sherman
v. Kinetic Concepts, Inc. (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1152, 1160-1161.)
            II.         Plaintiff’s
motion for new trial 
            A.        The court did not commit an error in
law  
            1.         Exclusion of Maria Rosales-Ramirez’s
“me too” testimony
            Plaintiff
contends that the court erroneously excluded Maria Rosales-Ramirez from
testifying.  Rosales-Ramirez was a
so-called “me too” witness.  The court
granted Massive’s motion in limine excluding this witness on Evidence Code
section 352 grounds.  
            In
ruling on evidentiary objections, the court has broad discretion.  Only when the court abuses its discretion
does it commit an error of law.  The
court abuses its discretion when its decision is “palpably arbitrary,
capricious, or patently absurd.” (People v. Lamb (2006) 136 Cal.App.4th
575, 582.)  This is shown only when the
decision is so erroneous that no “reasonable judge” would arrive at the same
conclusion.  (Harman v. City and
County of San Francisco (2007) 158 Cal.App.4th 407, 428.)
            The
court reviewed its orders dated April 14 and June 26, 2023, on this issue.  While perhaps a different judge would have
decided the issue in favor of plaintiff, the court’s ruling was not palpably
arbitrary, capricious, or patently absurd. 
There was no abuse of discretion.
            2.         Special jury instructions     
            Plaintiff
contends the court erroneously failed to give seven proposed special jury
instructions: 
No. 3: “If you find that Massive Prints, Inc. either
failed to follow its own policies and procedures or applied them inconsistently
to Dora Hernandez, you may then infer that the true reason for Dora Hernandez’s
termination was discrimination and/or retaliation.” 
No. 6: “The Fair Employment Housing Act reference to a
‘known’ disability is read to mean a disability of which the employer has
become aware, whether because it is obvious, the employee has brought it to the
employer’s attention, it is based on the employer’s own perception–mistaken or
not—of the evidence of a disabling condition or the employer had come upon
information indicating the presence of a disability.”
No. 9: “A supervisor is the employer’s agent for the
purpose of the employer’s duties under the California Fair Employment and
Housing Act and if a supervisor acquires knowledge that he or she had a duty to
report to the employer, there is a conclusive presumption that the supervisor
has done so.”
No. 10: “An employer’s freedom to consolidate or reduce
its work force, and to eliminate positions in the process, does not mean it may
use the occasion as a convenient opportunity to get rid of its disabled
workers.”
No. 11: “Invocation of a right to downsize does not
resolve whether the employer had a discriminatory motive for cutting back its
work force or engaged in intentional discrimination when deciding which
individual workers to retain and release.”
No. 13: “An apparently justifiable ground for discharge
may in fact be a pretext for unlawful discrimination.”
No. 14: “Proving that the same decision would have been
justified is not the same as proving that the same decision would have been
made. An employer cannot make a same-decision showing by offering a legitimate
and sufficient reason for its decision if that reason did not motivate it at
the time of the decision.”
The court denied plaintiff’s proposed special instructions
because the law concerning her claims under the Fair Employment and Housing Act
(FEHA) is comprehensively covered by the Judicial Council’s California Civil
Jury Instructions (CACI).  The court’s “
‘duty to instruct the jury is discharged if its instructions embrace all points
of law necessary to a decision.’ ”  (Cristler
v. Express Messenger Systems, Inc. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 72, 82.)  The CACI instructions given to the jury in
this case did just that.
Rule 2.1055(f) of the California Rules of Court provides
that use of these instructions is “strongly encouraged” and that any applicable
CACI should be used “unless the judge finds that a different instruction would
more accurately state the law and be understood by jurors.”  Plaintiff has not and cannot show that her
alternate instructions meet that test.
The cases cited by plaintiff in support of her proposed
special instructions do not address the issue of whether a particular jury
instruction should have been given by the court.  Indeed, none of them discuss the propriety of
particular jury instructions.  The cases instead
discuss issues of law and underlying policy in a different context.  Plaintiff has not and cannot cite a single
published opinion that approves the jury instructions she proposed in this
case.
Taking a cherry-picked, out-of-context snippet in a
published case and placing it in a special jury instruction, as plaintiff
proposed to do here, is fraught with danger. 
The language in published opinions is often formal and technical or
concerns broad principles of law and policy because published cases are used by
judges and lawyers to interpret the law. 
To fully understand the language, the reader often needs to review the
entire opinion and have legal training.  By
contrast, the Judicial Council crafts CACI to “accurately state the law in a
way that is understandable to the average juror.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.1050(a).)  Using quotes or paraphrased language from a published
opinion as a jury instruction may therefore be misleading, redundant to CACI,
or confusing.  (See Caldera v.
Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation (2018) 25 Cal.App.5th 31, 46
[affirming trial court’s denial of a special instruction in a FEHA case because
the instruction was “duplicative”]; Regalado v. Callahan (2016) 3
Cal.App.5th 582, 595 [“Supplementing CACI No. 1009B with Special Instruction
No. 7 would have raised a danger of misleading the jury because the special
instruction was duplicative and did not include the critical requirement of
negligent exercise of retained control”]; McCoy v. Progressive West Ins. Co.
(2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 785, 794 [“[T]he trial court properly instructed the
jury on the issue … pursuant to CACI” instructions, so “[n]o further
instruction in this regard was necessary”].)  

The court’s rejection of plaintiff’s proposed special
jury instructions Nos. 3, 6, 9, 10, 11, 13, and 14 was not error.  
            3.         Testimony regarding the number of workers’
compensation claims 
            At
trial, plaintiff’s counsel sought to read deposition testimony about the number
of employees in the sewing department who brought workers’ compensation claims.
(6/12/23 trial transcript, p. 205, Anglin Decl., Exh. 13.)  The court sustained defendant’s objection to
that testimony.
Plaintiff contends the ruling was an abuse of
discretion.  She claims the court
“misunderstood that the blocking of this testimony meant that the jury would
not hear that the Defendant had knowledge that terminating an employee before
they could make a claim of workers’ compensation would also prevent the
employee from being accommodated or engaging in the interactive process as well
as allowing retaliation against the employee for their disability and
discriminating against them.”  (Mot., p.
10.)  The court had no such
misunderstanding.  Rather, it simply
found the number of employees who brought workers’ compensation claims was
irrelevant to the issues of this case.
            The
court made no error in sustaining defendant’s objection.  And even assuming the court abused its
discretion, plaintiff has made no showing of prejudice justifying a new trial.
 
            B.        There was no irregularity of the proceedings
            “Irregularity
in the proceedings” is a catchall phrase referring to conduct that violates the
right of a party to a fair trial.  (Montoya v. Barragan (2013) 220
Cal.App.4th 1215, 1230.)  Plaintiff
argues that by sustaining many objections based on Evidence Code section, the
court denied her of a fair trial.
            Whether
the court should sustain an Evidence Code section 352 is a fact-specific
analysis.  The court must weigh the
probative value of the evidence against other factors, including an undue
consumption of time and undue prejudice. 
Plaintiff does not provide any specific examples of objections the court
sustained.  Instead, she makes vague
assertions about the court’s rulings on “Plaintiff’s evidence of Defendant’s
knowledge [of] terminating Plaintiff prior to her making a claim for workers’
compensation.”  (Mot. p. 12.)  Plaintiff also appears to argue that by
sustaining so many Evidence Code section 352 objections, the court placed an
undue emphasis on the “interests of efficiency.”  (Mot. p. 11.) 
Plaintiff’s arguments are difficult to assess because the court does not
know specifically which objections she is believes were improperly sustained.  
            Some
context is important here.  In numerous
pre-trial conferences and filings, plaintiff’s counsel attempted to turn this
garden variety FEHA case into a long cause action, requiring a multi-month
trial.  In the joint witness list,
plaintiff estimated she needed to question witnesses for 93.25 hours.[3]  Some of plaintiff’s estimates were the most
exaggerated and unreasonable estimates the court has seen.  For example, plaintiff sought to question
Massive’s HR director and HR assistant for 19 hours and 2.5 hours,
respectively.  The court asked
plaintiff’s counsel to provide more realistic estimates, but counsel declined
to do so.  (See plaintiff’s 2/24/23 trial
brief re transferring the action to Dept. 1, pp. 6-15.)   The court thus was compelled to place time
limits on each party: 28 hours for plaintiff and 20 hours for defendant.  Although plaintiff exceeded her time limit,
the court exercised its discretion in allowing her additional time.
            Trial
time management is an ongoing responsibility of the court.  (People v. ConAgra Grovery Products Co. (2017)
17 Cal.App.5th 51, 149 (ConAgra).) 
Evidence Code section 765, subdivision (a) provides that the court
“shall” exercise control of witness questioning “so as to make the
interrogation as rapid, as distinct, and as effective for the ascertaining of
the truth.”  Contrary to the belief of
some lawyers (including, apparently plaintiff’s counsel), they do not have
“camping rights” during trial.  (ConAgra,
at p. 149.)
            The
court sustained many of defendant’s Evidence Code section 352 objections
because plaintiff repeatedly asked questions about irrelevant or marginally
relevant matters that unduly consumed time or were unduly prejudicial.  Plaintiff’s counsel often pursued redundant
questions about points that were far afield from the main issues in the case.
            Plaintiff
has not shown she was deprived of a fair trial. 
The motion is denied.
            III.       Defendant’s motion for new trial 
            The
court denies defendant’s motion for new trial on two independent grounds.
            A.        Defendant failed to timely file its
supporting papers
Defendant did not timely serve and file the papers in
support of its motion for new trial. 
First, “[t]he party intending to move for a new trial shall” file and
serve “a notice of his or her intention to move for a new trial.”  (§ 659, subd. (a).)  Then, “[w]ithin 10 days of filing the notice,
the moving party shall serve upon all other parties and file any brief and
accompanying documents, including affidavits in support of the motion.”  (§ 659a.) 
Courts may disregard untimely papers filed in support of a motion for
new trial.  (Maple v. Cincinnati, Inc.
(1985) 163 Cal.App.3d 387, 391.) 
Defendant filed and served its notice of intention to
move for new trial on August 15, 2023. 
The 10-day deadline to file and serve supporting papers was Friday,
August 25.  Defendant filed and served
its memorandum of points and authorities and supporting evidence on Tuesday,
August 29.  Plaintiff’s opposition
objected on this basis.  (Opp., pp. 9-10;
see Kabran v. Sharp Memorial Hospital (2017) 2 Cal.5th 330, 342-347 (Kabran)
[opposing party must object because deadline is mandatory but not
jurisdictional].)  The court therefore
exercises its discretion not to consider defendant’s untimely papers.  
            B.        The court does not conclude the jury
clearly should have reached a                           different verdict
            If the
court considered defendant’s untimely papers, the court would deny this motion
on the merits.  The jury found in favor
of plaintiff on her causes of action for failure to accommodate her disability
and failure to engage in a timely good faith interactive process.  On these causes of action, the jury awarded
plaintiff $300,000 in noneconomic damages. 
            Defendant
seeks a new trial or a remittitur in the amount of $26,000 to $50,000, on the
ground the jury awarded plaintiff excessive damages.  (§ 657, subd. 5.)  In deciding this issue, the court “has the
power to disbelieve witnesses, reweigh the evidence, and draw reasonable
inferences therefrom contrary of those of the trier of fact.”  (David
v. Hernandez (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 578, 588 [internal quotes omitted].)   But the court cannot grant a motion for new
trial based on excessive damages “unless after weighing the evidence the court
is convinced from the entire record, including reasonable inferences therefrom,
that [the jury] clearly should have
reached a different verdict.”  (§ 657
[italics added].)  If reasonable minds
can differ, the court is not required to grant a motion for new trial merely
because it would have reached a different decision than the jury.  (Kelly-Zurian
v. Wohl Shoe Co. (1994) 22 Cal.App.4th 397, 414.)  
            This
court has more leeway than the Court of Appeal in reviewing a jury’s damages
award, but its discretion has its limits. 
“The court may grant a new trial even though there be sufficient
evidence to sustain the jury’s verdict on appeal, so long as the court
determines the weight of the evidence
is against the verdict.”  (Candido v. Huitt (1984) 151 Cal.App.3d
918, 923 [italics added].)
            If the
court determines that a new trial is warranted due to excessive damages, it
can, in its discretion, “issue a conditional order granting the new trial
unless the party in whose favor the verdict has been rendered consents to the
reduction of so much thereof as the court in its independent judgment
determines from the evidence to be fair and reasonable.”  (§ 662.5, subd. (a)(2).)  This conditional order is called a “remittitur.”
One of the most difficult tasks for a trier of fact is
determining the amount of noneconomic damages. 
This is because there is no method available “which it can objectively
evaluate such damages, and no witness may express his subjective opinion on the
matter.”   (Beagle v. Vasold
(1966) 65 Cal.2d 166, 172.)  “In a very
real sense,” the trier of fact “is asked to evaluate in terms of money a
detriment for which monetary compensation cannot be ascertained with any
demonstrable accuracy.”  (Ibid.)  While the trier of fact must, of course, base
its decision on the evidence, it ultimately must use its common sense to arrive
at a just decision.  (Ibid.)
            It is
very difficult for any trier of fact to determine the amount of damages that
will fairly compensate plaintiff for her losses.  Indeed, the courts have long recognized that “there
legitimately may be a wide difference of opinion” to assessing the amount of
noneconomic damages.  (Roedder v. Rowley (1946) 28 Cal.2d 820,
823.)
            There is
no basis to conclude the jury decided on the amount of plaintiff’s damages in
this case based on inappropriate considerations.  “The fact that the verdict is very large does
not alone compel the conclusion the award was attributable to passion or
prejudice.”  (Fernandez, supra, 40
Cal.App.5th at p. 490; cf. Bender v.
County of Los Angeles (2013) 217 Cal.App.4th 968, 985 [only if the recovery
is grossly disproportionate to the loss is there a presumption that it is the
result of passion or prejudice].) 
            Testimony
by plaintiff and her supervisor, Judith Ruiz, supports a finding that plaintiff
suffered from pain in her arm and hand during her last week of work.  Plaintiff testified that about a week before
her termination on August 29, 2017, she told her supervisor Judith Ruiz that
her “arm and hand are hurting.”  (Opp.
Ex. 13, p. 34.)  Plaintiff told Ruiz, “Please
send me to a doctor.  Because I’m
concerned about this thing that I have in my hand.  It hurts and it throbs.  Do you think that you could please send me to
the company’s doctor?”  (Ibid.)  Plaintiff testified that Ruiz responded by
saying, “Oh, go and sit down.”  (Ibid.)  Plaintiff “went and sat down at [her] machine
and [she] started working again.”  (Id.
at pp. 35-36.)  Judith Ruiz’s testimony
corroborated plaintiff’s account of their communications.  (Opp. Ex. 14, pp. 248-249.)  
Ruiz testified she did not follow up with plaintiff to
find out whether she needed any accommodations. 
(Opp. Ex. 16, p. 9.)  She further
testified that after plaintiff’s termination, Francine Herard, director of
human resources and risk management, asked Ruiz if plaintiff reported any injuries.  (Opp., Ex. 15, pp. 13-14.)  Ruiz informed Herard that plaintiff complained
about her hand injury, but that Ruiz “didn’t report it to human resources
because [plaintiff] assured me that that didn’t happen at work.”  (Id., p. 14.) 
A doctor who later examined plaintiff testified there
were potential accommodations to help plaintiff continue working, treat her
injury, and relieve her pain.  Dr. Marc
Arnush examined plaintiff on August 30, 2017, the day after her
termination.  (Bloch Decl., Ex. D, pp.
35-36.)  Dr. Arnush “prescribed an
anti-inflammatory medication” and “acetaminophen, which is just ordinary
Tylenol,” which can be combined “for additional pain relief.” (Opp. Ex. 31, pp.
34-35.)  He also recommended “hot and
cold therapy wraps,” and a ‘smart glove,” which is “a brace for the hand … that
protects the palm from impact.”  (Id.
at p. 35.)  Dr. Arnush recommended that
plaintiff wear the smart glove while working. 
(Id. at pp. 35-36.)  He
also imposed a work restriction: “a five-minute stretch break every hour from
repetitive motion or repetitive use of the hand so she could stretch it and
rest it.”  (Opp. Ex. 32, p. 37.)  
The evidence thus shows plaintiff informed Ruiz she was
in pain and wanted to see a doctor.  Ruiz
did not arrange for plaintiff to see a doctor and did not raise plaintiff’s
concerns to human resources.  Instead,
she encouraged plaintiff to get back to work. 
Plaintiff received none of the doctor’s recommended accommodations that
could have helped her.  This evidence
leads to the inference that plaintiff continued to work and suffer pain until
her termination.  Though she was
terminated only one week after reporting her injury, the jury’s verdict was not
clearly erroneous.  As discussed above,
the jury had no clear or measurable criteria to determine how much money would
compensate plaintiff for her noneconomic damages.  The damages the jury awarded are high but not
grossly disproportionate.  They fall within
the legitimately wide range of opinions reasonable people have.
            After
independently reweighing the evidence, the court rejects defendant’s claim that
the jury clearly should have reached a different verdict with respect to the
amount of damages.  Taking into
consideration all the facts and circumstances in this case, the court does not
find the jury’s award excessive.
            IV.       Defendant’s motion for JNOV 
            Defendant
moves for partial JNOV on the ground there is no substantial evidence to
support the verdict in favor of plaintiff on her causes of action for failure
to accommodate her disability and failure to engage in a timely good faith
interactive process.  
            A.        Defendant failed to timely file its motion
            Defendant
served and filed its motion for JNOV after the mandatory deadline.  “A motion for judgment notwithstanding the
verdict shall be made within the period specified by Section 659 for the filing
and service of a notice of intention to move for a new trial.  The moving,
opposing, and reply briefs and any accompanying documents shall be filed and
served within the periods specified by Section 659a.”  (§ 629, subd. (b).)  The motion therefore must be filed and served
“[w]ithin 15 days of the date of mailing notice of entry of judgment by the
clerk of the court.”  (§ 659, subd.
(a)(2).)
The clerk of court
served notice of entry of judgment on August 11, 2023.  Defendants’ last day to move for judgment
notwithstanding the verdict was Monday, August 28.  Defendant served and filed its notice of
intention to move for new trial on August 15, but gave no notice of its motion
for partial JNOV until it served and filed its notice of motion and motion for
partial judgment notwithstanding the verdict (including memorandum of points
and authorities and supporting declaration) on September 1.  Plaintiff’s opposition objected to this
motion as untimely.  (Opp., pp. 3-5.)    
Unlike the motion for
new trial, on this motion defendant failed to meet the deadline of giving
notice of the intention to move for JNOV. 
That initial deadline is jurisdictional (Kabran, supra, 2 Cal.5th
at p. 337), in contrast with the deadline for serving and filing supporting
papers.  If defendant’s notice of
intention to move for new trial also constituted a motion for judgment
notwithstanding the verdict under section 629, subdivision (b), defendant’s
supporting papers were untimely for the same reasons as its papers in support
of its motion for new trial.  Assuming
the court has jurisdiction to hear this motion, it exercises its discretion not
to consider defendant’s untimely motion for JNOV.
            B.        There is substantial evidence to
support the verdict
If the court had jurisdiction to consider this untimely
motion and exercised its discretion to do so, the court would deny it on the
merits.  Judgment notwithstanding the
verdict may be granted “ ‘ “only if it appears from the evidence, viewed in the
light most favorable to the party securing the verdict, that there is no
substantial evidence in support.” ’ ”  (Burch
v. Certain Teed Corp. (2019) 35 Cal.App.5th 341, 348.)  “Substantial evidence is that of a
‘ponderable legal significance, reasonable, credible, and of solid value.’
”  (Ibid.)  In determining whether there is substantial
evidence, the court must “resolve all evidentiary conflicts and indulge all
reasonable inferences in support of the judgment.”  (Ibid.)
Defendant argues there is no evidence Hernandez asked for
any form of reasonable accommodation until after her termination.  (Motion, pp. 9-10.)  But employees are “not required to
specifically invoke the protections of FEHA or speak any ‘magic words’ in order
to effectively request an accommodation under the statute.”  (Soria v. Univision Radio Los Angeles,
Inc. (2016) 5 Cal.App.5th 570, 598.) 
“Once an employer is aware of a disability, it has an ‘affirmative duty’
to make reasonable accommodations for the employee.”  (Ibid.)  The duty to engage in the interactive process
“arises even if the employee has not requested any accommodation.”  (Zamora v. Security Industry Specialists,
Inc. (2021) 71 Cal.App.5th 1, 41.) 

Substantial evidence supports a finding that defendant
had a duty to engage in the interactive process and provide reasonable
accommodations.  Plaintiff’s job in the
sewing and finishing department required repetitive use of her hands.  Plaintiff told her supervisor that her arm
and hand hurt.  She asked to be sent to
the company doctor.  That evidence
supports the conclusion that plaintiff’s conduct made defendant aware she had a
disability and needed accommodation.  Defendant
relies on plaintiff’s testimony that she did not miss any work due to her
injury.  (Motion, p. 14; Bloch Decl., Ex.
G, pp. 183-184.)  When asked if she had
to miss any time from work, she testified, “No. 
I had to work.”  (Id. at p.
184.)  Plaintiff’s stoicism does not
negate her prior report of an injury sufficient to trigger defendant’s duty to engage
in the interactive process.
Defendant also argues there is no evidence of the
emotional distress plaintiff suffered. 
(Motion, pp. 14-15.)  “The trier
of fact could speculate that Ms. Hernandez could have been more comfortable in
her left hand if given the [smart] glove to work with prior to” her
termination.  (Id., p. 15.)  Plaintiff testified she was in pain at work.  A doctor recommended treatment.  That is substantial evidence plaintiff
suffered emotional distress that could have been reduced if she had the
recommended treatment. 
Defendant’s motion for JNOV is denied.
IT IS SO ORDERED
Date:   October 3, 2023


