 Case Number:  22STCV13174    Hearing Date:   October 3, 2023    Dept:  52 Defendant David Lee Scott’s Motion
for Protective Order
Defendant David Lee Scott moves for a
protective order prohibiting public disclosure of personnel records from his
former employers, co-defendants Los Angeles Unified School District and CATCH Prep
High School, Inc.  “The court, for good
cause shown, may make any order that justice requires to protect any party or
other person from unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, or oppression, or undue
burden and expense.”  (CCP §
2031.060(b).)  
Scott objects to public disclosure—not
discovery by plaintiff—of his personnel records based on his right to
privacy.  “The party asserting a privacy right must establish a legally protected
privacy interest, an objectively reasonable expectation of privacy in the given
circumstances, and a threatened intrusion that is serious.”  (Williams v. Superior Court (2017)
3 Cal.5th 531, 552 (Williams).)  If the objecting party shows
all three elements, then the court must balance the need for disclosure against
the right to privacy.  (Ibid.)  “[T]he party seeking protection may identify
feasible alternatives that serve the same interests or protective measures that
would diminish the loss of privacy.”  (Ibid.)
Scott
establishes a legally protected privacy interest.  “The state Constitution expressly grants
Californians a right of privacy. 
[Citation.]  Protection of
informational privacy is the provision’s central concern.”  (Williams,
supra, 3 Cal.5th at p. 552.)  People have a right to privacy in their
personnel files and other employment records. 
(Board of Trustees v. Superior Court (1981) 119 Cal.App.3d
516, 528-530.)  Scott also shows an
objectively reasonable expectation of privacy in the circumstances.  Employees generally expect that their
personnel files are confidential and open only to themselves and their
employers.  
Publicly
disclosing these records would constitute a serious threatened intrusion.  Plaintiff opposes this motion, which seeks
the limited relief of prohibiting public disclosure rather than prohibiting
discovery, and therefore threatens to disclose Scott’s confidential personnel
records to the world.  
The protective
order Scott seeks is a feasible alternative to full and unlimited disclosure of
the records.  Plaintiff will suffer no
prejudice.  She will get all the
information she needs to pursue this action. 
Limiting her from publicly disclosing the records is a reasonable and
moderate step to mitigate the intrusion into defendant Scott’s privacy.  
Plaintiff
also argues Code of Civil Procedure section 1002 prohibits protective orders in
cases like this one.  It does not.  The statute only applies to limit
confidentiality provisions in some settlement agreements.  Section 1002, subdivision (a) provides, “[A]
provision within a settlement agreement that prevents the disclosure of factual
information related to the action is prohibited in any civil action the factual
foundation for which establishes a cause of action for civil damages for”
childhood sexual assault and other related claims.  A protective order is not a settlement
agreement.  Section 1002 does not apply.          
Sanctions
            Defendant
moves for monetary sanctions against plaintiff and her counsel.  A court must impose monetary sanctions
against one “who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion for a protective
order, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.”  (CCP § 2019.030(c).) 
            Plaintiff
acted with substantial justification.  Though
plaintiff’s opposition was unsuccessful, she made reasonable arguments based on
the public policy in favor of the public’s right to access information.  (See Westinghouse Electric Corp. v. Newman
& Holtzinger (1995) 39 Cal.App.4th 1194, 1208.)
Disposition
Defendant
David Lee Scott’s motion for protective order is granted.  The court hereby orders the parties to
execute the stipulated protective order attached as exhibit A to the
declaration of Jeanne L. Zimmer in support of this motion within 15 days.Plaintiff Jane C.R. Doe’s Motion to
Compel Defendant CATCH Prep Charter High School’s Further Responses to Request
for Production of DocumentsPlaintiff Jane C.R. Doe moves to compel
defendant CATCH Prep Charter High School, Inc. (CATCH) to serve further
responses to request for production of documents Nos. 1, 2, 8, and 11-18.  A
party propounding requests for production may move to compel further responses
if “[a] statement of compliance with the demand is incomplete,” “[a]
representation of inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive,”
or “[a]n objection in the response is without merit or too general.”  (CCP § 2031.310(a).)CATCH objected
to the subject requests for production on several grounds, including
co-defendant David Lee Scott’s privacy rights. 
CATCH’s responses state, “Mr. Scott objected to the release of his
private information absent a protective order in this matter and has filed or
plans to file a Motion for a protective order.  Defendant will respond following resolution of
Mr. Scott’s objection.”  In its
opposition, defendant asserts, “If the Court rules that a Protective Order is appropriate,
then CATCH will produce the relevant documents subject to that Protective
Order.”  (Opp., p. 6.)Defendant Scott
moved for a protective order to limit public disclosure of these records.  The court will grant Scott’s motion and
require plaintiff to enter a protective order to maintain the confidentiality
of the records CATCH produces.  Given the
deadline imposed on the requesting party under Code of Civil Procedure section
2031.310(c), the court finds it appropriate to order CATCH to provide further
verified responses and to produce responsive documents subject to the
protective order.  Disposition
Plaintiff
Jane C.R. Doe’s motion to compel defendant CATCH Prep Charter High School, Inc.
to serve further responses to request for production of documents Nos. 1, 2, 8,
and 11-18 is granted in part. 
Defendant CATCH Prep Charter High School, Inc. is ordered to
serve further verified responses to requests for production Nos. 1, 2, 8, and
11-18 within 30 days.  Subject to the
protective order, defendant CATCH Prep Charter High School, Inc. shall produce
any responsive documents concurrently with its further written responses.Plaintiff Jane C.R. Doe’s Notice of
Related Case Plaintiff Jane C.R. Doe filed a notice of
related case seeking to relate this action to Jane M.R. Doe v. CATCH Prep
Charter High School, Inc., et al., No. 23STCV14304.  The cases are related under California
Rules of Court, rule 3.300(a).  Both cases
include two common defendants: CATCH Prep Charter High School, Inc. and David
Lee Scott.  Both cases arise from
allegations that Scott sexually assaulted students while he was an employee at
CATCH between 2004 and 2006.  In both
cases, plaintiff alleges CATCH negligently hired, retained, and supervised
Scott.  Both cases will therefore require
determining substantially identical questions of law and fact on whether CATCH
knew about the danger Scott allegedly posed to children and, if so, whether
CATCH took adequate measures to protect students from that danger.
The court finds the cases are related.  Jane M.R. Doe v. CATCH Prep Charter High
School, Inc., et al., No. 23STCV14304, is hereby reassigned to Judge
Armen Tamzarian in Department 52 at Stanley Mosk Courthouse for all purposes.