 Case Number:  23STCV04548    Hearing Date:   September 6, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




tina vo

   , et al.;
 


   Plaintiffs,
 
 
vs.
 
 
cristina marie dam

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


23STCV04548




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


September
   6, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[tentative]
  Order RE:
 
(1)  
  defendants’
  demurrer to second amended complaint
(2)  
  defendants’
  motion to strike requests for punitive damages in second amended complaint
 



 
MOVING PARTIES:              Defendants Cristina Dam, Liberate
Hollywood Inc., and Liberation Inc. 
 
RESPONDING PARTIES:    Plaintiffs Cathy Kay and Tina Vo
(1)  
Demurrer
to Second Amended Complaint
(2)  
Motion
to Strike Requests for Punitive Damages in Second Amended Complaint
The court
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in connection with the
demurrer and motion to strike. 
BACKGROUND
Plaintiffs Tina Vo (“Vo”) and
Cathy Kay (“Kay”) (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed the operative Second
Amended Complaint in this action on February 5, 2024, against defendants Cristina
Marie Dam (“Dam”), Liberate Hollywood, Inc., and Liberation Inc. (collectively,
“Defendants”).  Plaintiffs allege 10
causes of action for (1) breach of contract; (2) breach of implied in fact
contract; (3) breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing; (4)
conversion; (5) promissory estoppel; (6) intentional misrepresentation; (7) negligent
misrepresentation; (8) unfair business practices; (9) intentional infliction of
emotional distress; and (10) intentional misrepresentation.
Defendants now move the court
for an order (1) sustaining their demurrer to the second, seventh, ninth, and
10th cause of action, and (2) striking from the Second Amended Complaint the requests
and prayers for punitive damages.
DEMURRER
The court overrules
Defendants’ demurrer to plaintiff Vo’s second cause of action for breach of
implied in fact contract because it states facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.10, subd. (e); Aton Center, Inc. v. United Healthcare Ins. Co. (2023)
93 Cal.App.5th 1214, 1230 [“‘A cause of action for breach of implied contract
has the same elements as does a cause of action for breach of contract, except
that the promise is not expressed in words but is implied from the promisor’s
conduct’”].) 
First, Vo is permitted to
plead inconsistent theories, such that, even though Vo may not recover damages on
both (1) a cause of action for breach of an express contract and (2) a cause of
action for breach of an implied in fact contract, Vo may plead alternative,
inconsistent theories of recovery.  (Dubin
v. Robert Newhall Cheesebrough Trust (2002) 96 Cal.App.4th 465, 477 [“A
plaintiff is permitted to plead alternative inconsistent theories”].)
Second, the contract, as
alleged, is not illusory because the term that Liberate Hollywood, Inc. was to
pay plaintiff Vo back “when the corporation is able to without strain to the
business” (SAC ¶ 23) did not give Defendants the “unfettered or arbitrary right
to modify or terminate the agreement” and therefore, as alleged, is not
illusory.  (Harris v. TAP Worldwide,
LLC (2016) 248 Cal.App.4th 373. 385 [“A contract is unenforceable as
illusory when one of the parties has the unfettered or arbitrary right to
modify or terminate the agreement or assumes no obligations thereunder”].) 
Third, this cause of action is
not necessarily barred by the two-year statute of limitations since Vo has
alleged that, although the loan had an original final payment due date of April
30, 2020, the parties extended that date to January 31, 2023 (SAC ¶¶ 23, 50)
and there remains an outstanding amount of $290,113.49 due and owing on the
loan (SAC ¶ 36), such that the facts may allege that Defendants breached the
implied in fact contract by failing to make the final payment by January 31,
2023, i.e., within two years of the date that Vo filed this action on March 2,
2023.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 339, subd. (1)
[two-year statute of limitations for an action on a contract “not founded upon
an instrument of writing”]; Raja Development Co., Inc. v. Napa Sanitary
District (2022) 85 Cal.App.5th 85, 92 [“A demurrer based on a statute of
limitations will not lie where the action may be, but is not necessarily,
barred”] [internal quotation marks omitted].)
The court overrules
Defendants’ demurrer to plaintiff Vo’s seventh cause of action for negligent
misrepresentation because it states facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action since plaintiff Vo has alleged facts establishing that Defendants made a
misrepresentation of fact “without reasonable ground for believing it to be
true” (SAC ¶ 91).  (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.10, subd. (e); Aton Center, Inc., supra, 93 Cal.App.5th at
pp. 1245-1246 [elements of negligent misrepresentation].) 
The court sustains Defendants’
demurrer to plaintiff Vo’s ninth cause of action for intentional infliction of
emotional distress because it does not state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action since Vo has not alleged facts establishing that Defendants
“engaged in extreme and outrageous conduct[,]” i.e., “conduct so extreme as to
exceed all bounds of decency in a civilized community[,]” with the intent to
cause her emotional distress.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e); Berry v. Frazier (2023) 90 Cal.App.5th 1258,
1273.) 
The court overrules Defendants’
demurrer to plaintiff Kay’s 10th cause of action for intentional
misrepresentation because it states facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action since (1) Defendants did not meet their burden to show that this cause
of action is necessarily barred by the statute of limitations, and (2) Kay has
alleged facts establishing the elements of intentional misrepresentation by
alleging that (i) defendant Dam, during Kay and Dam’s relationship (which is
alleged to have ended in September 2017 (SAC ¶ 20)), made a promise to Kay
that, if she left her fulltime job to help Dam grow Liberate Hollywood, Inc.’s
store, Kay would become co-owner of the corporation (SAC ¶¶ 19, 118), (ii) that
representation was false (SAC ¶¶ 19, 118), (iii) Defendants (including
defendants Liberate Hollywood, Inc. and Liberation Inc., who are alleged to be
the alter egos of Dam (SAC ¶¶ 6, 117)) made the misrepresentation to Kay
regarding her status as owner with the intent to induce reliance thereon, such
that Kay would perform services for the benefit of Liberate Hollywood, Inc. and
without receiving compensation (SAC ¶¶ 117-118), (iv) Kay actually and
justifiably relied on the misrepresentations (SAC ¶ 119), and (v) Kay was
damaged by this conduct since she did not receive “the reasonable value of
services rendered as co-owner of Liberate Hollywood” (SAC ¶ 122).  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e); Raja
Development Co., Inc., supra, 85 Cal.App.5th at p. 92; Aton
Center, Inc., supra, 93 Cal.App.5th at p. 1245 [elements of
intentional misrepresentation].) 
The burden is on the plaintiff
“to articulate how it could amend its pleading to render it sufficient.”¿ (Palm
Springs Villas II Homeowners Assn., Inc. v. Parth (2016) 248 Cal.App.4th
268, 290.)¿ To satisfy that burden, a plaintiff “must show in what manner he
can amend his complaint and how that amendment will change the legal effect of
his pleading.”¿ (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349.) 
The court finds that plaintiff Vo has not met her burden to articulate how she
can amend her ninth cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional
distress to render it sufficient.  The
court therefore sustains Defendants’ demurrer to the ninth cause of action
without leave to amend.
MOTION TO STRIKE
Defendants move the court for an order striking the requests and
prayers for punitive damages alleged in the Second Amended Complaint. 
First, the court denies as moot Defendants’ motion to strike the
prayer for punitive damages in connection with the ninth cause of action for
intentional infliction of emotional distress because the court has sustained
Defendants’ demurrer to that cause of action without leave to amend, such that
the cause of action, and the remedies requested in support of that cause of
action, are removed from the Second Amended Complaint.
Second, the court grants Defendants’ motion to strike the prayer for
punitive damages requested in support of the third cause of action for breach
of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing because punitive damages may not
be recovered in connection with that cause of action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436,
subd. (a); Spinks v. Equity Residential Briarwood Apartments (2009) 171
Cal.App.4th 1004,1054 [“Since a party ‘may not recover in tort for . . . breach
of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing,’ an ‘award of punitive
damages’ is not permitted on such a claim”].) 
Third, the court denies Defendants’ motion to strike paragraph 86 and
the prayers for punitive damages in support of the fourth, sixth, and 10th
causes of action because Plaintiffs have alleged facts establishing that
Defendants were guilty of fraud.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a); Civ. Code, § 3294, subds. (a), (c)(3).) 
The burden is on the plaintiff
“to articulate how it could amend its pleading to render it sufficient.”¿ (Palm
Springs Villas II Homeowners Assn., Inc., supra, 248 Cal.App.4th at
p. 290.)¿ To satisfy that burden, a plaintiff “must show in what manner he can
amend his complaint and how that amendment will change the legal effect of his
pleading.”¿ (Goodman, supra, 18 Cal.3d at p. 349.) The court
finds that plaintiff Vo has not met her burden to articulate how she can amend her
request for punitive damages in connection with the third cause of action for
breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing to render it
sufficient.  The court therefore grants
the motion to strike that request without leave to amend.
ORDER
            The court sustains in part and
overrules in part defendants Cristina
Marie Dam, Liberate Hollywood, Inc., and Liberation Inc.’s demurrer as follows.

            The court overrules defendants Cristina Marie Dam, Liberate
Hollywood, Inc., and Liberation Inc.’s demurrer to the second, seventh, and
10th causes of action alleged in the Second Amended Complaint.
            The
court sustains defendants Cristina Marie Dam, Liberate Hollywood, Inc., and
Liberation Inc.’s demurrer to plaintiff Tina Vo’s ninth cause of action for
intentional infliction of emotional distress without leave to amend.
            The
court grants defendants Cristina Marie Dam, Liberate Hollywood, Inc., and
Liberation Inc.’s motion to strike the prayer for punitive damages requested in
connection with the third cause of action for breach of the implied covenant of
good faith and fair dealing, set forth on page 24, lines 23-24 of the Second
Amended Complaint, without leave to amend.
The court denies all other
relief requested in defendants Cristina Marie Dam, Liberate Hollywood, Inc.,
and Liberation Inc.’s motion to strike.
            The
court orders defendants Cristina Marie Dam, Liberate Hollywood, Inc., and
Liberation Inc. to file an answer to plaintiff Tina Vo and Cathy Kay’s Second
Amended Complaint within 10 days of the date of this order.
            The court orders defendants Cristina Marie Dam, Liberate
Hollywood, Inc., and Liberation Inc. to give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  September 6, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court