 Case Number:  22STCV21727    Hearing Date:   April 18, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian
Department 27
Tentative
Ruling
 
Hearing Date:           4/18/2024 at 1:30 p.m.
Case No./Name.:      22STCV21727 ANGEL RIOS, et al. vs EDWARD
CATALANREAL
Motion Name:           MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE CROSS COMPLAINT
Moving Party:           Defendants Federal Express Corporation and Edward Catalan
Responding Party:    Plaintiff
Notice:                     Sufficient
 
Ruling:                     MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE CROSS COMPLAINT IS
GRANTED.
 
Legal Standard
 
A cross-complaint against any of the parties who
filed the initial complaint or cross-complaint against the cross-complainant
must be filed before or at the same time as the answer to the initial complaint
or cross-complaint, which answer must be filed within 30 days of service of the
complaint or cross-complaint.  (CCP §§ 412.20(a)(3), 428.50(a),
432.10.)  Any other cross-complaint may be filed at any time before the
court has set a trial date.  (CCP §428.50(b).)
 
If a party fails to file a cross-complaint within
the time limits described above, he or she must obtain permission from the
court to file the cross-complaint.  (CCP §§ 426.50, 428.50(c).) 
Leave to file a mandatory cross-complaint must be granted absent bad faith.
(Silver Organizations, Ltd. v. Frank (1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 94, 99.)  Leave
to file a permissive cross-complaint need only be granted in the interest of
justice. (CCP §428.50(c).) Where the proposed cross-complaint arises out of the
same transaction as plaintiff’s claim, the court must grant leave to file the
cross-complaint so long as defendant is acting in good faith.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 426.50.)
 
Analysis
On July 6, 2022,
Plaintiffs Angel Rio and Vianca Ortega filed the present auto collision case.
Plaintiff Rio was the driver of the vehicle, and Plaintiff Ortega was a
passenger. The vehicles involved were both changing lanes to the middle lane
when Defendant Federal Express's vehicle driven by Defendant Edward Catalan rear-ended
Plaintiffs. Defendants filed their answer on February 8, 2023. Recent discovery
purportedly revealed that Plaintiff Rio did not need to change lanes into the
middle lane where the incident occurred. Defendants contend that had Plaintiff
not changed lanes, the accident could have been avoided. Defendants now move
the Court for leave to file a cross-complaint against Plaintiff Rio for
contribution to Plaintiff Ortega’s injuries.
In the motion,
Defendants inadvertently attached Plaintiff Rio's Responses to Form
Interrogatories (Set One), which did not support Defendants’ claim that
Plaintiff Rio did not need to change lanes and that the accident could have
been avoided. In the reply, Defendants attached the correct discovery response
where Rio admitted that he could have remained in the lane closest to the
center of the southbound lanes of N. Sepulveda Blvd. instead of moving to the
middle of the three southbound lanes as he approached the collision area on N.
Sepulveda Blvd. (Plaintiff’s response to RFA No. 4.)
Based on the evidence
presented, the Court finds that there is a basis for Defendants to file a
cross-complaint against Plaintiff Rio. Furthermore, Plaintiff did not present
any evidence that Defendant was acting in bad faith. Although the Court
acknowledges that several months have passed since Plaintiff’s responses to the
requests for admissions to Defendants’ filing of the present motion, any
prejudice to the other party would be minimal because Defendants’ cross
complaint for Plaintiff Rio’s contribution rests on the same facts already
litigated to date. Thus, the present motion is GRANTED.  Defendants cross-complaint is to be filed and
served within 5 court days of this ruling.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date
and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party
submitting.
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the
hearing to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.