 Case Number:  22STCV28139    Hearing Date:   April 18, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian
Department 27
Tentative
Ruling
 
Hearing Date:           4/18/2024 at 1:30 p.m.
Case No./Name.:      22STCV28139 HECTOR HIPOLITO vs M2 CONCRETE
PUMPING, LLC
Motion Name:           MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO REQUESTS
FOR PRODUCTION, SET TWO, SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES, SET THREE, AND FOR SANCTIONS
Moving Party:           Plaintiff
Responding Party:    Defendant Catalina Pacific Concrete
Notice:                     Sufficient
 
Ruling:                                  MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION, SET
TWO, IS DENIED.

MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPOSNES TO SPECIAL
INTERROGATORIES, SET THREE, IS DENIED IN PART AND GRANTED IN PART.

REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS IS DENIED.
 
Background
On August 29, 2022,
Plaintiff filed the current lawsuit, alleging injuries from an incident
involving a hose connected to a concrete mixing truck. On October 9, 2023,
Plaintiff propounded his second set of Requests for Production and his third
set of Special Interrogatories on Defendant Catalina. On December 6, 2023,
Defendant provided its initial discovery responses. Following a meet and confer
Defendant Catalina served supplemental responses on December 15, 2023. The
parties met and conferred again, leading Defendant Catalina to provide second
supplemental responses on January 16, 2024. Plaintiff again took issue with
Defendant’s discovery responses and the Parties attended an IDC on January 16,
2024, but the discovery issues went unresolved. Plaintiff now moves the Court
to compel further responses to both the Request for Production, Set Two, and
the Special Interrogatories, Set Three.
Legal
Standard
 
“Any
party may obtain discovery . . . by propounding to any other party to the
action written interrogatories to be answered under oath.”¿CCP §
2030.010(a).¿“Within
30 days after service of interrogatories, the party to whom the interrogatories
are propounded shall serve the original of the response to them on the
propounding party, unless on motion of the propounding party the court has
shortened the time for response, or unless on motion of the responding party
the court has extended the time for response.”¿ CCP §
2030.260(a).
¿
“The
party to whom interrogatories have been propounded shall respond in writing
under oath separately to each interrogatory by any of the following: (1) An
answer containing the information sought to be discovered. (2) An exercise of
the party's option to produce writings. (3) An objection to the particular
interrogatory.”¿
CCP §
2030.210(a). “If
the responding party does not have personal knowledge sufficient to respond
fully to an interrogatory, that party shall so state, but shall make a
reasonable and good faith effort to obtain the information by inquiry to other
natural persons or organizations, except where the information is equally
available to the propounding party.”¿CCP §
2030.220(c).
 
“On
receipt of a response to interrogatories, the propounding party may move for an
order compelling a further response if the propounding party deems that any of
the following apply: (1) An answer to a particular interrogatory is evasive or
incomplete. (2) An exercise of the option to produce documents under Section
2030.230 is unwarranted or the required specification of those documents is
inadequate. (3) An objection to an interrogatory is without merit or too
general.”¿CCP
§
2030.300(a).¿
“A
motion under subdivision (a) [of CCP § 2030.300] shall be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.”¿CCP §
2030.300(b).¿In
addition, a separate statement is required.¿ California Rules of
Court (“CRC”)
Rule 3.1345(a)(2).
 
“Unless
notice of this motion is given within 45 days of the service of the verified
response, or any supplemental verified response, or on or before any specific
later date to which the propounding party and the responding party have agreed
in writing, the propounding party waives any right to compel a further response
to the interrogatories.”¿CCP §
2030.300(c).¿“[T]he
time limitations set forth in section 2030 and section 2034, subdivision (a)
[are] mandatory and [when] not met, the trial court's order is in excess of its
jurisdiction.” (Vidal Sassoon, Inc. v. Superior Court¿(1983)
147 Cal.App.3d 681, 685.)
 
Meet and Confer
The parties have
sufficiently met and conferred and attended an IDC on February 29, 2024, where
the discovery issues were not resolved. The Court issued a minute order
authorizing Plaintiff to file motions to compel further responses.
Analysis
1.  Requests
for Production
The Court reviewed
Defendant's separate statement to its motion to compel further responses to
Requests for Production, Set Two, noting that Plaintiff seeks to compel
Defendant’s first supplemental responses. However, Defendant served its second
supplemental responses on January 16, 2024, rendering the present motion moot.
The Court is uncertain why Plaintiff filed a motion to compel further on March
22, 2024, regarding the first supplemental responses when the second
supplemental responses had already been served. The second supplemental
responses addressed most of the issues raised in the separate statement to the
present motion. For instance, the separate statement raises the issue that the
first supplemental responses do not specify which category of document
production corresponds to each request number. This issue was addressed in the
second supplemental responses, where each response states the category of
documents that contains the responsive document production. If Plaintiff takes
issue with the second supplemental responses, he must meet and confer, attend
an IDC, and then file a motion to compel further Defendant’s second
supplemental responses with a separate statement containing Defendant’s second
supplemental responses. Thus, Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses to
Requests for Production, Set Two, is DENIED.
2.  Special
Interrogatories
The Court makes the
following rulings on Plaintiff’s motion regarding defendant’s second
supplemental responses to Plaintiff’s Special Interrogatories, Set Three: 
Special Interrogatory
No. 123: 
Provide the names, addresses and phone numbers of
each and every supplier YOU purchased “batch materials” and/or “material
components” from that YOU used to create concrete mixes from March 31, 2018, to
March 31, 2023. 
Defendant’s response only pertains to the supplier
for the aggregate used in concrete mixtures delivered to the premises on the
date of the incident and Plaintiff argues that Defendant’s response is overly
restrictive.
Ruling:
Grant. The Court agrees with Plaintiff that
Defendant’s response is overly restrictive because Plaintiff alleges that
aggregates from prior mixtures were not properly washed, chipped, and/or
cleaned out by Catalina prior to the incident, causing the hose to whip
violently and injure Plaintiff. Plaintiff is entitled to know not only what
kind of material had been added to the drum on the date of the incident but
also what material might have been left behind in the drum that could
potentially cause the hose to whip. Defendant argues the request is overbroad,
contending it is highly unlikely that a piece of concrete would remain in
Defendant’s vehicle beyond the most recent date of chipping.  Plaintiff has voluntarily, following meet and
confers between the parties restricted the scope of this request to the period
of one year before the incident and to quarries and/or sources in Southern
California.  The Court believes that a
slightly greater restriction is appropriate given that the request is directed
at determining the make-up of residue from prior mixtures.  Accordingly, the Court reduces the scope to 6
months before the incident and to Southern California sources.  In consideration of the above, Defendant is
hereby ordered to provide names, addresses and phone numbers of each and every
supplier in Southern California from which Defendant purchased “batch
materials” and/or “material components” that Defendant used to create concrete
mixes for the subject drum or truck for a period of six months before the
incident.
Special Interrogatories Nos. 125 and 126:
Identify by name and address the QUARRY where YOU
purchased and/or used “batch materials” and/or “material components” from to
create concrete mixes for 2020 and 2021.
Defendant’s response pertains to the supplier for
the aggregate used in concrete mixtures delivered on the date of the incident
and Plaintiff argues that Defendant’s response is overly restrictive.
Ruling:
Grant. For the same reasons as stated in the Court’s
ruling to Special Interrogatory No. 123, Defendant is ORDERED to identify by
name and address the QUARRY in Southern California from which Defendant
purchased and/or used “batch materials” and/or “material components” to create
concrete mixes in the subject drum or truck for a period of three months before
the incident.  (In his Motion, Plaintiff
indicated that the request was limited to 3 months.)
Special interrogatories Nos. 127 and 128:
Identify YOUR person most knowledgeable related to
the creation or purchasing of the concrete mixtures YOU delivered to the
PREMISES on the date of the INCIDENT.
Defendant responded as follows: “Responding Party
has not yet designated a person most knowledgeable regarding this category.”
Ruling:
Denied. The Court does not find Plaintiff's
reasoning for needing the identity of Defendant’s person most knowledgeable
(PMK) on the topic of the creation or purchasing of the concrete mixture
persuasive. Plaintiff does not need the person’s identity to obtain his or her
deposition. To depose the PMK on these topics, Plaintiff needs only to serve a
notice of PMK deposition relating to these topics on Defendant.
3.   Sanctions
The Court finds that the Parties acted with
substantial justification and sanctions are denied.
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date
and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party
submitting. 
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the
hearing to argue. 
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion. 
 