  Case Number:  22BBCV00498    Hearing Date:   September 6, 2024    Dept:  NCB Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District 
Department B
 



 
Nelson
  Hernandez, et al.,

                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
To your home
  delivery, inc., et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.:  22BBCV00498
 
  Hearing Date:  September 6, 2024
 
 [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
Motion to amend the dismissal or, in the
  alternative, set aside dismissal and reinstate case and motion for order for
  entry of judgment pursuant to signed stipulation of parties
 



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations
Plaintiffs Nelson Hernandez (“Hernandez”)
and Gonzalo Perez (“Perez”) allege that Defendant To Your Home Delivery, Inc.
(“Home Delivery”) is a delivery and logistics company that is owned and/or
managed by Defendant Ena Erazo Tubbs (“Tubbs”). 
Plaintiffs allege that they were hired by Defendants as drivers and that
Defendants were subjected to policies and practices that violated their wage
and hour rights under the Labor Code and the Industrial Welfare Commission Wage
Orders.   
            The complaint, filed July 8, 2022,
alleges causes of action for: (1) failure to pay overtime wages; (2) failure to
pay minimum wages; (3) failure to provide meal periods; (4) failure to provide
rest breaks; (5) failure to provide accurate itemized wage statements; (6)
failure to pay all wages at termination; (7) failure to reimburse business
expenses; (8) unfair business practices (Bus. & Profs. Code, § 17200, et
seq.); (9) retaliation in violation of Labor Code, § 1102.5; and (10) wrongful
termination.   
B.    
Relevant Background and Motion on Calendar 
On October 9,
2023, the Court entered the Stipulation and Order re Retention of Jurisdiction
pursuant to CCP § 664.6.  The parties
jointly stipulated that Plaintiffs and Defendants reached a settlement and that
they requested that the Court retain jurisdiction over the parties to enforce
the settlement until performance in full of the terms of the settlement
pursuant to CCP § 664.6, even after dismissal of the matter.  The parties signed the agreement on September
26 and 27, 2023.  The Court entered the
order on October 9, 2023.  
            On October 10, 2023, the entire
action of all parties and all causes of action was dismissed with
prejudice.  
On July 25, 2024,
Plaintiffs filed a motion to amend the dismissal or, in the alternative to
vacate the dismissal, reinstate the case, and for entry of judgment pursuant to
the signed stipulation of the parties.  The
Court is not in receipt of an opposition brief. 

DISCUSSION
            Plaintiffs move to set aside the dismissal entered on
October 10, 2023, have the case reinstated, and for entry of judgment against
Defendants pursuant to the signed Stipulation for Entry of Judgment.  
            Plaintiffs provide the parties’
Settlement Agreement and Mutual Release, which was fully executed on September
27, 2023.  (Mot., Ex. A [Settlement
Agreement].)  The Settlement Agreement
states that Defendants, jointly and severally, shall pay Plaintiffs the sum of
$40,000.12 payable in certain installments. 
(Settlement Agreement, § 2.1.)  The
parties also agreed that concurrently with executing the Settlement Agreement,
they will also execute a Stipulation for Entry of Judgment in favor of
Plaintiffs and against Defendants in the amount of $60,000, plus interest at
the legal rate, less any amounts paid pursuant to paragraph 2.  (Id., §3.)  Upon default by Defendants, Plaintiffs shall
give notice of the default and to cure the default within 30 days, but if the
default is not cured, then Plaintiffs may request judgment to be entered
pursuant to the Stipulation without further notice or delay.  (Id., §4.)  The Stipulation for Entry of Judgment
(“Stipulation”) is attached as Exhibit B to the motion and is executed by the
parties.  (Mot., Ex. B [Stipulation].)
            Plaintiffs argue that Defendants
failed to make payments as agreed under the Settlement Agreement.  Thus, Plaintiffs seek entry of the stipulated
judgment.  Plaintiffs acknowledge that
they made a clerical error in their request for dismissal by failing to check
the “Other” box to indicate that the Court had retained jurisdiction, such that
the clerk rejected Plaintiffs’ attempt to file the stipulated judgment on March
20, 2024.  However, Plaintiffs requested
that the Court retain jurisdiction of this matter pursuant to CCP § 664.6,
which the Court entered on October 9, 2023, before the dismissal was entered on
October 10, 2024.  Thus, the Court agreed
to retain jurisdiction of this matter following dismissal and will enter the
relief requested by Plaintiffs. 
            The Court is inclined to grant the
motion, but the motion is not accompanied by the declaration of John F. Litwin
as represented in the caption, notice of motion, and the memorandum of points
and authorities.  Plaintiffs are ordered
to provide a copy of the declaration of Mr. Litwin and to state the amount that
Defendants have paid towards the Settlement Agreement, and what amount is
remaining and owing (or an account balance). 
As such, the Court will continue the hearing on the motion.  
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER

Plaintiffs Nelson
Hernandez and Gonzalo Perez’s motion to set aside the dismissal and enter
judgment is continued to September 13, 2024 at 8:30 a.m.  Plaintiffs are ordered to file the
declaration of John F. Litwin, including information about the balance due and
owing on the Settlement Agreement, by the end of the business day on September
9, 2024.  No further briefing may be
permitted.   
Plaintiffs shall
provide notice of this order. 
 
 
DATED: September 6, 2024                                                  ___________________________
                                                                                          John
J. Kralik
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court  