 Case Number:  22BBCV00791    Hearing Date:   September 6, 2024    Dept:  NCB Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District 
Department B
 



 
edlin
  davila, 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
gary herman, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.:  22BBCV00791
 
  Hearing Date:  September 6, 2024
 
 [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
Motion to dismiss
 



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations
Plaintiff Edlin Davila (“Plaintiff”)
alleges that on November 10, 2020, he was on the premises at 12849 Magnolia Boulevard,
Valley Village, CA 91607, which are owned, operated, managed, maintained,
inspected, repair, built, were in possession by, planned, entrusted, and
supervised by Defendants Gary Herman, Jonathan Pivo, and PivoSmiles
(“Defendants”).  Plaintiff alleges that
due to Defendants’ negligence, Plaintiff tripped and fell, sustaining personal
injuries.  
            The complaint, filed October 19,
2022, alleges causes of action for: (1) premises liability; and (2) general
negligence.   
            On November 30, 2022, Plaintiff
dismissed Jonathan Pivo and PvioSmiles only from the complaint without
prejudice.  
B.    
Relevant Background 
On April 17, 2024,
Gary Neil Herman DDS and Plaintiff filed a stipulation to allow Dr. Herman to
file a cross-complaint against Cross-Defendants PivoSmiles, Jonathan D. Pivo,
Jonathan D. Pivo, DDS, Inc., and Roes 1-50. 

On April 22, 2024,
the Court signed an Order for Leave to File the Cross-Complaint by Defendant
Gary Neil Herman DDS.  The Order stated
that Dr. Herman “shall be allowed to file a Cross-Complaint in this action, and
further that the Cross Complaint will be deemed files[sic] as of the date of
this Order approving said Stipulation within ten (10) days of this Order.”  
C.    
Motion on Calendar 
On July 8, 2024,
specially appearing Cross-Defendant Jonathan D. Pivo, DDS, Inc. (“Cross-Defendant”)
filed a motion to dismiss the cross-complaint based on the prior dismissal and
lack of prosecution.  
On August 23,
2024, Defendant Gary Neil Herman DDS (“Dr. Herman”) filed an opposition brief. 
On August 29,
2024, Cross-Defendant filed a reply brief.  
LEGAL STANDARD
            CCP § 581 provides various instances where the action
may or shall be dismissed.  Subsection
(m) states that “[t]he provisions of this section shall not be deemed to be an
exclusive enumeration of the court's power to dismiss an action or dismiss a
complaint as to a defendant.”  
            CCP § 583.420 states in relevant
part: 
(a) The court may not dismiss an
action pursuant to this article for delay in prosecution except after one of
the following conditions has occurred:
(1) Service is not made within two
years after the action is commenced against the defendant.
(CCP §
583.420(a)(1).) 
DISCUSSION
Cross-Defendant moves to dismiss with prejudice all
causes of action alleged against it in the cross-complaint filed by Dr.
Herman.  Cross-Defendant argues that Dr.
Herman failed to timely name and serve Cross-Defendant with the cross-complaint
though the trial was set for August 26, 2024 at the time the motion was filed.  (On July 25, 2024, the Court granted
Plaintiff’s ex parte application and continued the trial to February 3, 2025.)  Cross-Defendant also argues that Jonathan Pivo
(“Dr. Pivo”) was previously dismissed from the action such that there are no
grounds for the cross-complaint for indemnity. 

            First, Cross-Defendant argues that
the cross-complaint should be dismissed because Dr. Pivo had already been
dismissed from the complaint by Plaintiff.  The Court notes that Plaintiff requested the
dismissal of PivoSmiles and Jonathan Pivo, which was entered on November 30,
2022.  Jonathan D. Pivo, DDS, Inc.
(Cross-Defendant and moving party) was not a party-defendant to the complaint,
such that Plaintiff’s dismissal did not apply to Jonathan D. Pivo, DDS, Inc.  
            Second, Cross-Defendant argues that
dismissal is proper because naming it a couple months before the August 26,
2024 trial date prevents it from filing a motion for summary judgment.  It also argues that it will be prejudiced
because it is unable to prepare a defense in this case prior to the August 2024
trial date in a case that is almost 5 years old.  (Mot. at p.10.)  At the time Cross-Defendant filed this
motion, the trial date was scheduled for August 26, 2024; however, since the
filing of the motion, the trial date has been continued to February 3,
2025.  As such, there is still time for
Cross-Defendant to conduct discovery, prepare a defense, and file a motion for
summary judgment.  In addition, the
action is not 5 years old, as the action was filed on October 19, 2022, which
is less than 3 years ago.  (The Court
notes that the subject incident occurred on November 10, 2020, but so long as
the complaint was timely filed within the statute of limitations period, there
is no issue with the 5-year rule based on when the action was filed.)  As such, Cross-Defendant’s concerns regarding
prejudice are low and accommodations can be made so that Cross-Defendant’s
motion for summary judgment (if it intends to file one) may be scheduled and
heard.  
            Third, Cross-Defendant argues that
the Court has the discretion to dismiss the cross-complaint based on Dr.
Herman’s unreasonable delay in filing the cross-complaint, naming
Cross-Defendant, and serving Cross-Defendant pursuant to CCP §
583.420(a)(1).  Cross-Defendant argues
that it was available and known since the inception of the case in November
2020 and by the time Dr. Pivo was dismissed in November 2022.  (Mot. at 10:24-26.)  However, as noted above, Plaintiff filed this
action on October 19, 2022 against Defendants Dr. Herman, Dr. Pivo, and
PivoSmiles.  Jonathan D. Pivo, DDS, Inc.
was not a named defendant in the complaint. 
Cross-Defendant Jonathan D. Pivo, DDS, Inc. was only named in this
action on April 22, 2024 when Dr. Herman filed the cross-complaint against
PivoSmiles, Dr. Pivo, and Jonathan D. Pivo, DDS, Inc.  As such, 2 years have not elapsed since
Cross-Defendant was named in the cross-complaint.  
Fourth, Cross-Defendant
argues that Dr. Herman lacked diligence in timely discovering from other
parties the identity and location of Cross-Defendant, as Dr. Herman has known
of Cross-Defendant since Dr. Herman was brought into the case.  Cross-Defendant provides the declaration of
counsel Charlie Schmitt.  Mr. Schmitt
states that by the time of Dr. Pivo was dismissed from the complaint, everyone
(including Dr. Herman) had access to the lease provisions and photos of the
leased premises, which was the dental suite of Dr. Pivo.  (Schmitt Decl., ¶3.)  Mr. Schmitt states that Dr. Herman waited 18
months to file the cross-complaint against Cross-Defendant despite knowing its
identity.  (Id., ¶4.)  Cross-Defendant argues that based on the
lease provisions between landlords Gary Herman and Esta Herman and tenant
Jonathan D. Pivo, DDS, Inc., Dr. Herman was aware of the identity of Jonathan
D. Pivo, DDS, Inc.; that the landlords were responsible for the common areas,
while the tenant was responsible for the leased premises only; and there is no
indemnity provision in the lease.  (Mot.
at Ex. E [Herman Cross-Complaint at Ex. A (Commercial Lease Agreement, §
5)].)  
In opposition, Dr.
Herman argues that the lease includes an insurance provision at section 8,
which states that the tenant and landlords shall each maintain comprehensive
general liability insurance with respect to their respective activities in the
building.  Dr. Herman also relies on the
Guaranty of the Lease, wherein Dr. Pivo agreed to guaranty the terms of the
lease.  (Commercial Lease Agreement, Ex.
A.)  Dr. Herman argues that the
agreements provide a basis for indemnity against Jonathan D. Pivo, DDS, Inc.  With respect to whether there is merit to Dr.
Herman’s cross-claims for indemnity against Jonathan D. Pivo, DDS, Inc., these
arguments are better left for the summary judgment or trial stage where the
merits of such arguments can be addressed more fully.  However, the parties’ interpretations of the
lease agreement and guaranty at least provide a basis and showing for Dr.
Herman’s reasoning for bringing Jonathan D. Pivo, DDS, Inc. into the
cross-complaint as a Cross-Defendant. 
With respect to
identifying and naming Jonathan D. Pivo, DDS, Inc., the Court notes that
Cross-Defendant relies on CCP § 474, Barrows v. American Motor Corps.
(1983) 144 Cal.App.3d 1, and A.N. v. County of Los Angeles (2009) 171
Cal.App.4th 1058.  CCP § 474 is regarding
defendants designated by a fictitious name (i.e., Doe defendants),[1] which does not apply to Dr. Herman’s
cross-complaint.  Dr. Herman filed the
cross-complaint naming the Cross-Defendants; he did not substitute Jonathan D.
Pivo, DDS, Inc. in place of a Roe cross-defendant.  
In the Barrows
case, the plaintiffs appealed from a judgment (order of dismissal) in favor of
defendants following the sustaining of a demurrer without leave to amend to the
plaintiffs’ first amended complaint.  The
plaintiffs had sued unknown defendants by fictitious names pursuant to CCP §
474 (complaint filed January 16, 1979) and filed the FAC naming the defendants (FAC
filed October 27, 1980), but Honda filed an objection showing that the
plaintiffs had actual knowledge of Honda’s identity by at least November 10,
1979 such that the plaintiffs should be barred from invoking CCP § 474.  The trial court denied the plaintiffs’ motion
for leave to amend and sustained the demurrer without leave to amend.  The Court of Appeal reversed, finding that
the trial court erred in sustaining the demurrer without leave to amend and
denying the leave to amend to name the defendants sued by fictitious
names.  The Court of Appeal found that
defendants had not shown that the plaintiffs should be barred from amending
under section 474 on grounds of unreasonable delay in filing the amendment
because defendants failed to show that (among other reasons) the plaintiff was
dilatory and that defendant suffered prejudice from any such delay.  (Barrows, supra, 144 Cal.3d at
9.)  
The A.N. case
also involved the naming and service of 4 Doe defendants less than 1 month
before trial.  The defendants filed a
motion to quash the Doe amendments based on A.N.’s unreasonable delay in filing
and serving the amendments, which the trial court granted, and the Court of
Appeal affirmed.  The Court of Appeal
relied on Barrows regarding “Doe” jurisprudence, including: (1) CCP §
474 requires that the plaintiff may not “unreasonably delay” the filing of a
Doe amendment after learning a defendant’s identity; (2) the defendant may
challenge the amendment by way of an evidence-based motion; and (3) the
unreasonable delay includes a prejudice element, where the defendant must show
that he would suffer prejudice from the plaintiff’s delay in filing the Doe
amendment.  (A.N., supra, 171
Cal.App.4th at 1066-67.) 
Both Barrows and
A.N. are not applicable for the same reasons discussed above – Dr.
Herman’s cross-complaint did not involve the naming of Roe Defendants.  Even if the Court were to apply these two
cases to this instant action, this case is not so egregious as A.N.
where the Doe amendments were made less then 2-3 weeks before trial, and
service of process was made less than 2 weeks before trial.  Here, at the time Dr. Herman was allowed to
file his cross-complaint in April 2024, the trial was set for August 2024 (and
now trial has been continued to February 2025). 
Thus, any issues regarding prejudice have been addressed now that the
trial has been continued. 
In addition,
Cross-Defendant has not made any showing that Dr. Herman’s filing and service
of the cross-complaint was willfully dilatory. 
With respect to the delay by Dr. Herman in filing the cross-complaint,
Dr. Herman argues that on January 31, 2023, he sent a tender letter to
Cross-Defendant requesting that he place his insurance carrier on notice of the
claim brought by Plaintiff.  (Opp. at Ex.
C.)  On February 9, 2023, Dr. Pivo
responded on behalf of Jonathan D. Pivo, DDS, Inc. and stated that he had previously
informed the insurance carrier and that Cross-Defendant had been dismissed from
the lawsuit already.  (Opp. at Ex.
D.)  On March 14, 2023,
Cross-Complainant’s insurance carrier’s claims representative from Liberty
Mutual followed up on the tender request. 
(Id.)  A year later, on May
1, 2024, Cross-Complainant served Cross-Defendant with the
cross-complaint.  (Opp., Ex. E.)  Dr. Herman has not explained the year-long
delay following communications with the insurance carriers.  However, this alone, will not be a basis to
grant the motion to dismiss the action, which is a drastic measure.  As stated in CCP § 583.130: “It is the policy
of the state that a plaintiff shall proceed with reasonable diligence in the
prosecution of an action but that all parties shall cooperate in bringing the
action to trial or other disposition. Except as otherwise provided by
statute or by rule of court adopted pursuant to statute, the policy favoring
the right of parties to make stipulations in their own interests and the policy
favoring trial or other disposition of an action on the merits are generally to
be preferred over the policy that requires dismissal for failure to proceed
with reasonable diligence in the prosecution of an action in construing the
provisions of this chapter.”  (CCP §
583.130.)  The policy favors a resolution
of the case on its merits.  
            For these reasons, the motion
to dismiss the cross-complaint is denied. 

CONCLUSION AND
ORDER

Cross-Defendant
Jonathan D. Pivo, DDS, Inc.’s motion to dismiss is denied.  
Cross-Defendant shall
provide notice of this order. 
 
 
DATED: September 6, 2024                                                  ___________________________
                                                                                          John
J. Kralik
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court  


