 Case Number:  24BBCV00134    Hearing Date:   September 6, 2024    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
maria feldman, 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
joanna
  johnson, 
                        Defendant.


 
  Case No.: 
  24BBCV00134
 
  Hearing Date:  September 6, 2024
 
[TENTATIVE] order RE:
demurrer; motion to strike
 



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations

Plaintiff Maria Feldman (“Plaintiff”)
alleges that on August 19, 2022, she was lawfully walking her leashed chihuahua
along the sidewalk when Defendant Joanna Johnson (“Defendant”) and her two dogs
were barreling down the sidewalk approaching Plaintiff.  Plaintiff alleges that Defendant’s
Bernedoodle broke free from Defendant’s grasp and lunged at Plaintiff’s person,
knocking her to the ground.  Plaintiff
alleges that as she fell to the ground, she attempted to break her fall by
putting out her dominant hand to avoid more severe injury to her face or head
and neck.  Plaintiff alleges that she
suffered a broken bone in her dominant, right hand.  
The second amended complaint (“SAC”),
filed June 24, 2024, alleges causes of action for: (1) negligence; (2) NIED; and
(3) IIED. 
B.    
Motions
on Calendar
On July 30, 2024, Defendant filed a
demurrer to the SAC and a motion to strike portions of the SAC.   
On August 22, 2024, Plaintiffs filed
opposition briefs. 
On August 29, 2024, Defendant filed reply
briefs. 
DISCUSSION
RE DEMURRER
            Defendant
demurs to the 2nd cause of action alleged in the SAC. 
An NIED claim is not an independent tort,
but the tort of negligence.  (McMahon v. Craig (2009) 176 Cal.App.4th
1502, 1509.)  A cause of action for NIED
may be brought under two general instances: (1) where Plaintiff is a bystander
and seeks to recover damages as percipient witness to the injury of another; or
(2) where Plaintiff is a direct victim in that the emotional distress damages
result from a duty owed the plaintiff that is assumed by defendant or imposed
on the defendant as a matter of law, or that arises out of the relationship
between the two.  (Id. at 1509-10.)  “A
defendant may be liable in tort for negligently inflicting emotional distress
on persons to whom the defendant owes a duty of care.  That duty can have three alternative origins:
(1) a duty imposed on the defendant by law, (2) a duty assumed by the
defendant, or (3) a duty arising out of a preexisting relationship between
plaintiff and defendant.”  (Benson v. Superior Court (2010) 185
Cal.App.4th 1179, 1187.)  
In the 2nd cause of action,
Plaintiff alleges that based on the Leash Law, Civil Code, § 1708, Burgess
v. Superior Court (1992) 2 Cal.4th 1064, 1078, Benson v. Superior Court
(2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 1179, 1187, or McMahon v. Craig (2009) 176
Cal.App.4th 1502, 1509, Defendant owed Plaintiff (a direct victim) a duty to
abstain from injuring another and to keep in control of the leash when she took
her Bernedoodle and another dog out for a walk. 
(SAC, ¶¶26-28.)  Plaintiff alleges
that upon information and belief, Defendant had the aforementioned duties and
it was foreseeable that she would breach her duties that would result in
emotional distress and harm to Plaintiff. 
(Id., ¶29.)  Plaintiff
alleges that Defendant failed to meet her duties on August 19, 2022, such that
Plaintiff suffered injury and harm.  (Id.,
¶30.)  Plaintiff alleges that Defendant
attempted to walk the Bernedoodle and another dog without using the restraint
upon the Bernedoodle as recommended by Defendant’s dog trainer.  (Id., ¶31.)  Plaintiff alleges that as a result of
Defendant’s failure to use a “substantial leash” as required by the Lease Law
or control the Bernedoodle, she lost or failed to control the Bernedoodle.  (Id., ¶32.)  She alleges that Defendant’s loss of control
of the Bernedoodle was foreseeable because Defendant’s failures, acts, and
omissions of adding another dog and failing to use a recommended
restraint.  (Id.)  Thus, Plaintiff seeks damages for NIED for
emotional distress in connection with the incident and for the disfigurement of
her dominant hand.  (Id.,
¶¶32-33.)  She alleges that she was once
an independent matriarch in her 90s, but her independent lifestyle has been
altered as a result of the incident due to her inability to use her right hand,
anxiety for which she is now on psychiatric medication, her inability to
balance in the presence of a dog, and her current dependence on a
round-the-clock caretaker. (Id., ¶34.) 
Defendant demurs to the 2nd
cause of action, arguing that Plaintiff’s reliance on Burgess is
misplaced and that the Leash Law and Civil Code, § 1708 are inapplicable to the
case.  
In the Burgess case, the California
Supreme Court discussed the issue whether a mother can recover damages for NIED
against a physician who entered into a physician-patient relationship with her
for care during labor and delivery if her child is negligently injured during
the course of the delivery.  The Court
held that because the doctor breached his professional duty owed to the mother
and the child, the mother could be compensated for emotional distress.  Taking in the realities of pregnancy and
childbirth, the Court held that the scope of duty of care owed to the mother
was not limited to only avoiding physical injury to her during prenatal care
and labor (as argued by the doctor), but also extended to medical care directed
to the mother and to her fetus.  (Burgess,
supra, 2 Cal.4th at 1075-76.)  The Court
also cited to other instances of allowing emotional distress injury: (1)
allowing emotional distress damages arising out of an improperly performed
funeral service, as the court recognized the emotional state of the bereaved
plaintiffs dictated that the duty of care assumed by those providing funeral
services included not merely performing cremations, but performing them in a
dignified and respectful manner (Christensen v. Superior Court (1991) 54
Cal.3d 868); (2) allowing emotional distress damages “arising out of the sexual
molestation of her son by a therapist, who was treating both mother and son for
intrafamily problems, this court recognized that the therapist's action
breached a duty of care to the mother since it would directly injure her and
cause her severe emotional distress and would harm the intrafamily relationship
under his care” (Marlene F. v. Affiliated Psychiatric Medical Clinic, Inc. (1989)
48 Cal.3d 583).  (Id. at
1077.)  The Court found that the mother
was not a “bystander” for the purposes of bringing an NIED claim, but instead
was permitted to recover NIED damages as a result of the breach of duty of care
arising from the physician-patient relationship between the mother and her
doctor.  (Id. at 1078.)  
Defendant argues that Burgess is
not applicable to the facts of this case because Plaintiff’s claim does not
arise from the negligent mishandling of a corpse, the negligent misdiagnosis of
a disease, or a preexisting relationship (like a physician-patient
relationship).  Defendant argues that she
and Plaintiff were strangers and had no preexisting relationship.  In Burgess, the Supreme Court stated:
“the label ‘direct victim’ arose to distinguish cases in which damages for
serious emotional distress are sought as a result of a breach of duty owed the
plaintiff that is ‘assumed by the defendant or imposed on the defendant
as a matter of law, or that arises out of a relationship between the
two.’”  (Burgess, supra, 2 Cal.4th
at 1073 [underline added].)  To be
considered a direct victim, the relationship between the parties is stated in
the disjunctive (“or”).  Thus, while a
preexisting relationship can be one ground to establish a duty between the
parties, this is not the only method for Plaintiff to be deemed a direct victim
for the purposes of NIED. The fact that a preexisting relationship did not exist
between Plaintiff and Defendant prior to the subject incident will not be a
ground upon which the demurrer will be sustained.  
Next, Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s
reliance on the Leash Law and Civil Code, § 1708 are misplaced.  
The Leash Law states: “A dog must be
restrained on a substantial leash not exceeding six feet in length by a person
capable of controlling the dog, while on public property or common areas of
private property. An owner or custodian of a dog may allow the dog to be
unrestrained on private property with the owner's or lessor's consent.”  (Los Angeles County Code, § 10.32.010.)  Defendant argues that the SAC lacks facts
that the Bernedoodle (Cosmo) was not restrained by a “substantial leash”—i.e.,
a leash not exceeding six feet in length by a person capable of controlling the
dog.  However, the SAC alleges that
Defendant failed to use a substantial leash as required by the Leash Law or
failed to control the Bernedoodle as required under the law.  (SAC, ¶32.) 
Taking the allegations as true, these facts are sufficient for the
purposes of the pleading stage. 
Civil Code, § 1708 states: “Every person
is bound, without contract, to abstain from injuring the person or property of
another, or infringing upon any of his or her rights.”  This is a general duty owed by all persons
but is not a specific type of duty that has been assumed by Defendant or
imposed upon Defendant as a matter of law regarding the leashing or control of
a dog.  Section 1708 also does not
establish or create a preexisting relationship between Plaintiff and
Defendant.  Ultimately, this section has
no bearing on the pleadings or the demurrer. 

Finally, Defendant argues that Plaintiff
has not alleged that she suffered serious emotional distress for an NIED
claim.  However, as summarized above,
Plaintiff has alleged facts regarding her emotional distress claim in paragraphs
32-34.  Plaintiff alleges that as a
result of the incident, she suffered injury and disfigurement to her dominant,
right hand, such that she is no longer able to maintain an independent
lifestyle, has “persistent anxiety such that she is now on psychiatric
medication; fear of public or social gatherings due to her inability to use her
dominant hand to balance, particularly where there is the potential presence of
a dog. Once independent, Plaintiff MRS. FELDMAN is now dependent upon a
round-the-clock caretaker to assist her, including assistance with using the
bathroom or shower; and MRS. FELDMAN continues to experience persistent pain
and reduced use of her hand. MRS. FELDMAN’S injuries are permanent, and her
advanced age makes the impact of this injury a permanent reduction in the
quality of MRS. FELDMAN’S life.”  (SAC,
¶34.)  At the pleading stage, this is
sufficient to allege emotional distress damages.  
For the reasons stated above, the demurrer
to the NIED cause of action is overruled. 

DISCUSSION
RE MOTION TO STRIKE
            Defendant
moves to strike portions of the SAC.  Defendant
moves to strike references to the Leash Law (SAC, 12, 13, 32, 37, 38), Civil
Code, § 1708 (SAC, ¶¶18, 19, 28), or both (SAC, ¶¶20, 23, 26, 30, 31, 33).  Defendant also moves to strike references to
the Burgess case (SAC ¶¶26, 27, 31, 33).  
            Based on the discussion in the
demurrer, the motion to strike references to the Leash Law is denied.  The motion to strike the allegations
regarding Civil Code, § 1708 is granted without leave to amend.
            The allegations referring to the
Burgess case is denied.  While the
facts are distinguishable in Burgess and this present action, the law
regarding NIED and “direct victims” is still instructive to this case.  
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
            Defendant Joanna Johnson’s demurrer
to the 2nd cause of action in the second amended complaint is overruled.  
The motion to strike the allegations
referencing the Lease Law and Burgess v. Superior Court (1992) 2 Cal.4th
1064 is denied.  The motion to strike
references to Civil Code, § 1708 is granted without leave to amend.  
            Defendant shall
provide notice of this order. 
 
 
DATED:  September 6, 2024                                                 ___________________________
                                                                                          John
J. Kralik
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court