 Case Number:  22BBCV00836    Hearing Date:   September 6, 2024    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
Mayra
  Aguayo,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
burbank
  periodontics, dental implants & laser surgery, et
  al.,
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.: 
  22BBCV00836
 
  Hearing Date:  September 6, 2024
 
[TENTATIVE] order RE:
motion to quash defendant’s deposition
  subpoena for production of business records 
 



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations

Plaintiff Mayra Aguayo (“Plaintiff”) alleges
that she worked at Burbank Periodontics, Dental Implants & Laser Surgery
(“Burbank Periodontics”) as a hygiene coordinator from November 10, 2021 to
August 15, 2022.  She alleges that her
supervisors were Defendant Marc Y. Waki, Dr. Vahe Nakashyan, Dr. Taylor, and
Dr. Martina Elenkova.  Plaintiff alleges
that she enjoyed her work, but over time, Dr. Waki began straining the professional
relationship between himself and Plaintiff and began directing a flirtatious
tone toward her in January 2022. 
Plaintiff alleges that Dr. Waki would get physically close to her and
placed his hand on her back when no one was looking.  Plaintiff alleges that toward the end of
January 2022, Dr. Waki approached her, told her she was pretty, and touched her
hair and face with his hand.  Plaintiff
alleges that she would try to interact with Dr. Waki only when others were
around, but when others were not around, he would touch her lower on her back
until he began touching her buttocks. 
Plaintiff alleges that in June 2022, Dr. Waki grabbed her hand and in
July 2022, he physically got close to her and told her that he wanted
Plaintiff.  In late July 2022, Plaintiff
alleges that she asked Dr. Waki about changing her last name after recently
having gotten married, but that Dr. Waki got visibly upset and began denying
her permission to leave work early on Fridays to pick up her daughter though
other employees were able to come and go as they pleased.  She alleges that Dr. Waki made the decision
to terminate her on August 15, 2022 without any reason. 
The first amended complaint (“FAC”), filed
June 23, 2023, alleges causes of action for: (1) harassment based on sex (Gov’t
Code, § 12940(j)) against all Defendants; (2) discrimination based on sex
(Gov’t Code, § 12940(a)) against Dr. Waki and Dr. Nakashyan; (3) discrimination
based on marital status (Gov’t Code, § 12940(a)) against Dr. Waki and Dr.
Nakashyan; (4) retaliation in violation of FEHA (Gov’t Code, § 12940(h)) against
Dr. Waki and Dr. Nakashyan; (5) battery against Dr. Waki; (6) sexual battery
(Civ. Code, § 1708.5) against Dr. Waki; and (7) wrongful termination in
violation of public policy against Dr. Waki and Dr. Nakashyan.   
On June 26, 2023, Plaintiff dismissed
without prejudice Defendants Burbank Periodontics, Dental Implants & Laser
Surgery and Marc Y. Waki DDS from the complaint. 
On July 25, 2024,
the Court conducted a mandatory settlement conference.  At the MSC, the case settled as to Defendants
Vahe Nakashyan and Vahe Nakashyan DDS, MDS Dental Corporation, such that “Defendants
Vahe Nakashyan and Vahe Nakashyan DDS, MDS Dental Corporation, jointly and
severally, shall pay plaintiff, through plaintiff's attorney, the sum of
$22,500.00 within 45 days.”  (July 25,
2024 Minute Order at p.1.)  
B.    
Motion
on Calendar
On August 8, 2024,
Aguayo filed a motion to quash Defendant’s deposition subpoena for production
of business records directed to Marshall S. Cherkas, M.D.  Plaintiff seeks attorney’s fees in the amount
of $3,000.
On August 23, 2024, Defendant Marc Y. Waki
filed an opposition brief.  Dr. Waki
seeks $1,000 in connection with his opposition brief. 
On August 28, 2024, Aguayo filed a reply
brief. 
DISCUSSION 
            Plaintiff
moves to quash Dr. Waki’s deposition subpoena issued on Dr. Cherkas, arguing
that the deposition subpoena is overbroad, vague, and irrelevant as it seeks
all medical records without timeframe, and thereby violates her right of
privacy.  
            The
deposition subpoena at issue is attached as Exhibit 2 to the motion.  It requests Dr. Cherkas to produce the
following records: “THE RECORDS REQUESTED ARE regardless of date FOR THE
FOLLOWING TYPES OF RECORDS: RECORDS PERTAINING TO PSYCHIATRIC TREATMENT,
PSYCHIATRIC REHABILITATION, PSYCHOLOGICAL TREATMENT, PSYCHOLOGICAL
REHABILITATION, TREATMENT FOR ALCOHOLISM, DRUG ADDICTION, DEPRESSION, MENTAL
INSTABILITY, MENTAL DISEASE OR EMOTIONAL INSTABILITY, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED
TO ANY RECORDS/DOCUMENTS THAT MAY BE STORED DIGITALLY AND/OR ELECTRONICALLY
RELATING TO MAYRA AGUAYO, DOB: 2/22/1985, SS#: XXX-XX-9543.”  (Mot. at Ex. 2.)  The deposition subpoena papers are dated July
22, 2024.  
            Plaintiff
argues that the deposition subpoena violates the Court’s June 26, 2024
order.  On June 26, 2024, the Court held
a Status Conference Regarding Discovery and Trial.  Among other things, the Court issued an order
stating: “Subpoenas of Plaintiff’s medical records will be limited to documents
showing issues of emotional distress or physical symptoms resulting from
emotional distress.”  (June 26, 2024
Minute Order at p.1.)  
            In
opposition, Dr. Waki argues that Plaintiff has testified that she continuously
sees Dr. Cherkas for her emotional damages as a part of her second employment
lawsuit against Dr. Balber, such that the documents are necessary and relevant
to her emotional health and damages.  Dr.
Waki argues that the Court imposed a limitation as to scope regarding
Plaintiff’s “medical” records, but made no reference as to psychological
records because the parties had come to an agreement about the discoverability
of her psychological records.  
            Dr.
Waki provides counsels’ email exchanges. 
(See Opp. at Ex. B.)  On June 3,
2024, defense counsel Gayane Muradyan sent an email asking if the proposed
limitation regarding Plaintiff’s psychological treatment was agreeable as: “records
pertaining to psychiatric treatment, psychiatric rehabilitation, psychological
treatment, psychological rehabilitation, treatment for alcoholism, drug
addiction, depression, mental instability, mental disease or emotional
instability."  That same day, Plaintiff’s
counsel Regina Jurczak asked about the timeframe, and Ms. Muradyan responded 7
years back from Plaintiff’s employment start date at Burbank Periodontics.  On June 4, 2024, Ms. Jurczak sent an email to
streamline the subpoena issues, stating in relevant part: “Lifestances: Psych
treatment. Agree to the terms and timeframe below.”  In counsels’ subsequent email exchanges in
August 2024, each counsel disputes whether the Court’s discovery order found
the psychological records to be harassing and could or could not proceed.  (Opp. at Ex. C.)  
            The
parties each have their own interpretation regarding the scope of the June 26,
2024 order.  When making its order
regarding subpoenas, the Court limited Plaintiff’s medical records to
documents showing issues of emotional distress or physical symptoms resulting
from emotional distress.  This limitation
was for medical records only and did not include psychological records.  The discovery of psychological records is not
prohibited and should be treated distinctly from medical records. 
While a plaintiff is not obligated to
sacrifice all privacy to seek redress for a specific physical, mental, or
emotional injury, “they may not withhold information which relates to any
physical or mental condition which they have put in issue by bringing this
lawsuit.”  (Britt v. Superior Court (1978) 20 Cal.3d 844, 864; City & County of San Francisco v.
Superior Court (1951) 37 Cal.2d 227, 232.) 
A plaintiff suing for personal injuries waives the physician-patient
privilege to some extent, but this does not make discoverable all of a
plaintiff’s lifetime medical history.  (Britt, supra, 20 Cal.3d at 863-64.)  By bringing this action, Plaintiff has placed
her psychological state at issue.  As
stated in her papers, the “only damages alleged in this case are emotional
distress damages.”  (See Mot., Separate Statement
at 3:1-2.)  Thus, the Court will permit
the deposition subpoena for Plaintiff’s psychological records.  
However, the
deposition subpoena is not limited in time as it states “regardless of
date”—making the scope of the documents sought limitless in time.  In the reply brief, Plaintiff argues that
therapy records from 17 years ago is not reasonably calculated to lead to
admissible evidence in this action. 
(Reply at p.3.)  To limit the
scope to a reasonably relevant period, the deposition subpoena shall be limited
to 5 years from Plaintiff’s employment start date at Burbank Periodontics to
the present.  
            Thus,
the Court grants in part and denies in part the motion to quash the deposition
subpoena such that Dr. Waki may proceed with the deposition subpoena on Dr. Cherkas
but must limit the scope of the deposition subpoena and re-serve it on Dr. Cherkas.  
            Plaintiff
requests $3,000 for bringing this motion and Dr. Waki seeks $1,000 for opposing
the motion.  The Court declines to award
sanctions on this motion.  In light of
the parties’ need for clarification regarding the June 26, 2024, the Court
declines to award sanctions on this motion. 

CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
            Plaintiff Mayra
Aguayo’s motion to quash Defendant Marc Y. Waki’s deposition subpoena for
production of business records directed to Marshall S. Cherkas, M.D. is granted
in part and denied in part such that Defendant may proceed with the deposition subpoena on Dr. Cherkas but must limit
the scope of the deposition subpoena as indicated in the written order and
re-serve it on Dr. Cherkas.  
            No
sanctions shall be awarded on this motion. 
            Plaintiff
shall provide notice of this order. 
 
 
DATED:  September 6, 2024                                                 ___________________________
                                                                                          John
J. Kralik
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court  