 Case Number:  23BBCV01762    Hearing Date:   September 6, 2024    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
Patterson
  dental supply, inc., 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
KRIKOR BARDAKJIAN DDS,
  LLC, et al., 
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.:  23BBCV01762
 
  Hearing Date:  September 6, 2024
 
[TENTATIVE] order RE:
motion to set aside the dismissal and
  restore case to the docket 



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations and Relevant Background
            On August 2, 2023, Plaintiff
Patterson Dental Supply, Inc. (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against
Defendants Krikor Bardakjian DDS, LLC, a limited liability company dba Krikor
Bardakjian, DDS, a California professional corporation and Krikor Bardakjian,
an individual dba Muse Dental Group, alleging causes of action for: (1) breach
of contract; (2) open book account; (3) account stated; and (4) unjust
enrichment.  Plaintiff alleges that it
entered into a written agreement for the purchase of dental equipment with
Defendants.  Plaintiff alleges that the
equipment has remained in Defendants’ possession, but Defendants have failed to
make monthly payments when due and owing. 
Plaintiff alleges that Defendants owe $124,684.46, plus interest at 18%
per annum from July 8, 2022 to July 1, 2023 in the amount of $22,012.89, plus
interest at 18% per annum from July 1, 2023 to the present.    
B.    
Relevant Background 
On February 9, 2024, the default of
Defendants was entered. 
On February 28, 2024, Does 1-100 were
dismissed from the action without prejudice. 
            On March 4, 2024, default judgment
was entered against Defendants in the amount of $124,584.46 in damages,
$3,136.84 in attorney’s fees, and $653 in costs, for a total amount of
$128,474.30 (the request for prejudgment interest at 18% was stricken).  
            A notice of entry of judgment was
filed on March 11, 2024.  That same day,
a writ of execution (money judgment) was entered against Defendants in the
amount of $128.514.30.  
            On March 22, 2024, an abstract of
judgment was entered.
            On June 28, 2024, the Court granted Plaintiff’s
motion for turnover order in aid of execution. 

C.    
Motion on Calendar  
On August 7, 2024, Defendants filed a
motion to set aside the dismissal and to restore the case to the civil docket. 
On August 20, 2024, Plaintiff filed an
opposition brief. 
On August 23, 2024, Defendants filed a
reply brief to the opposition to their motion to set aside the default
judgment. 
DISCUSSION
            Defendants move to set aside the
dismissal and have the case reinstated pursuant to CCP § 473(b).  (It appears that Defendants intended to move
to set aside the default judgment and not a dismissal of the case.)  Defendants argue that this motion is timely
and that granting this motion would not prejudice Plaintiff as Plaintiff has
engaged in little-to-no litigation, no discovery has been conducted, and no
substantive hearings have gone forward.  
            In
support of the motion, Defendants provide the declaration of Krikor
Bardakjian.  Dr. Bardakjian states that
his work obligations at his dental practice keep him extremely busy and that he
prioritizes his clients’ needs over his own. 
(Bardakjian Decl., ¶¶4-6.)  He
states that he was not aware of the lawsuit against him, had no knowledge of
any attempts to make him aware of the lawsuit, and no attempts were successful
at notifying him about the lawsuit.  (Id.,
¶7.)  He states that he became aware of
the lawsuit when he was served with the warrant.  (Id., ¶8.)  He states that once he received the warrant,
he immediately contacted counsel and came to the Sheriff and the Court to
address the issue.  (Id.,
¶8.)  He states that he did not
intentionally mean to avoid his obligations to the Court, but that his patients
took priority over other areas of his life. 
(Id., ¶¶9-11.)  Thus, he
requests that the Court grant his motion to set aside the default so that the
merits of the case may be heard.  (Id.,
¶12.)  
            Defendants also argue that
Plaintiff’s attempts at service of the summons and complaint did not result in
notice to Defendants.  

The September 19, 2023 proof of
     service of the summons regarding Kirkor Bardakjian DDS, LLC, a limited
     liability company dba Krikor Bardakjian, DDS, a California professional
     corporation states that this defendant was served by personal service on September
     17, 2023 at 11:48 a.m. by serving the documents on the authorized agent
     for service of process (unnamed) at 485 Cliff Dr., Pasadena, CA
     91107.  Service was effectuated by
     Michael Frias, a registered California process server.  
On February 5, 2024, Plaintiff filed
     an amended proof of service regarding Kirkor Bardakjian DDS, LLC, a
     limited liability company dba Krikor Bardakjian, DDS, a California
     professional corporation.  The proof
     of service stated the same information as above.
On February 6, 2024, Plaintiff filed
     a proof of service as to Krikor Bardakjian, an individual dba Muse Dental
     Group, stating that Dr. Bardakjian was served by substituted service on
     September 17, 2023 at 11:48 a.m. at his home (485 Cliff Dr.) by giving the
     documents to “an individual who identified themselves as the person
     authorized to accept with identity confirmed by subject saying yes when
     named. The individual accepted service with direct delivery. The
     individual appeared to be a black-haired Middle Eastern male contact 35-45
     years of age, 5'4"-5'6" tall and weighing 140-160 lbs.”  The documents were thereafter mailed to
     the same address on September 18, 2023. 
     Service was effectuated by Michael Frias, a registered California
     process server.  
On February 9, 2024, Plaintiff filed
     an amended proof of service as to Kirkor Bardakjian DDS, LLC, a limited
     liability company dba Krikor Bardakjian, DDS, a California professional
     corporation.  This proof of service
     identified Krikor Bardakjian as the agent for service of process. 
On February 9, 2024, Plaintiff filed
     another proof of service as to Krikor Bardakjian, an individual dba Muse
     Dental Group, with the same information as the February 6, 2024 proof of
     service.  
On February 9, 2024, the default of
     Defendants was entered.
On March 4, 2024, the default
     judgment of Defendants was entered. 
     

As a preliminary
matter, the motion pursuant to CCP § 473(b) was timely filed within 6 months of
the default and default judgment.  
Defendants argue
that they were not aware of the litigation and that Plaintiff’s counsel had to
file multiple copies of the proof of service to identify who was served with
the documents.  However, Plaintiff’s
multiple filings of the proof of service and amendments of the proofs of
service are not a ground to grant this motion. 
Even if multiple amendments were made to the proof of service paperwork,
the service effectuated on September 17, 2023 at 11:48 a.m. still remained the
same.  
At most,
Defendants’ reliance on mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect
is based on Dr. Bardakjian’s preoccupation with his dental practice and his
desire to put his clients’ needs over his own personal needs.  However, this is not a sufficient “excuse.” (Andrews
v. Jacoby (1919) 39 Cal.App. 382, 383–384 [“Furthermore, the mere fact that
the client is busy and occupied with other affairs is never held to constitute
an excuse for his neglect to answer a summons within time, although the courts will
in a proper case relieve a client from the result of the neglect of his too
busy attorney. If the rule were otherwise, few judgments by default would
stand, for most men could plead their business as an excuse for not answering
the summons of the court.”].)  Dr. Bardakjian
has not shown how the default or default judgment were entered against him
based on his mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.  (The Court notes that the motion is brought
under the discretionary prong of CCP § 473(b) and not the mandatory prong
regarding attorney fault.[1])
With the
opposition papers, Plaintiff provides the declaration of process server Michael
Frias.  Mr. Frias states that on
September 17, 2023, the contacted Dr. Bardakjian at his residence, who
confirmed his identity and accepted the documents willingly; Mr. Frias
describes Dr. Bardakjian’s physical appearance, which matches the person served
in the proof of service.  (Opp., Ex.1 [Frias
Decl. at p.1].)  Exhibits 2 and 3 include
the request for entry of default and request for entry of default judgment,
which shows that the documents were served by mail on Defendants at the 485
Cliff Drive address.  Exhibit 4 includes
the Notice of Entry of Judgment, showing that the notice was served by mail to
the same address.  Exhibit 5 includes the
proof of service of the notice and motion for turnover order in aid of execution
(filed April 12, 2024), showing that the motion was served by mail on
Defendants by mail at 485 Cliff Drive and 6058 Lankershim Boulevard, North
Hollywood, CA 91606.  Exhibit 6 includes
the declaration of Matthew A. Garrison re Diligence and Service of
Process.  
In his
declaration, Mr. Garrison states that he was retained by Plaintiff’s counsel to
serve the Application and Order for Appearance and Examination for Personal
Appearance on Krikor Bardakjian. 
(Garrison Decl., ¶5.)  Mr.
Garrison states that he did a “People Search” and “Trace Detail Report” on Dr. Bardakjian,
as well as a search on the Dental Board of California, License Details search,
and an internet search of Dr. Bardakjian and his practices to confirm Dr. Bardakjian’s
physical appearance, his addresses, and the addresses of his places of
business.  (Id., ¶¶7-11.)  He states that on April 23, 2024, he went to
3808 Riverside Drive, Suite 307, Burbank, CA 91505, which bore the sign
“Muse.”  (Id., ¶12.)  He states that he asked the receptionist for Dr.
Bardakjian, Dr. Bardakjian came forward and confirmed his identity (which Mr.
Garrison also confirmed through photos he had seen online), Dr. Bardakjian
asked if he was being served (which Mr. Garrison confirmed), and Dr. Bardakjian
thanked him and walked away with the documents. 
(Id., ¶¶12-13.)  Plaintiff
provides this declaration to show that Dr. Bardakjian was aware of the lawsuit
before he received the warrant. 
Here, Plaintiff
has shown that Mr. Frias properly served Dr. Bardakjian with the summons and
complaint on September 17, 2023 on behalf of himself as an individual and on
behalf of his entities.  In his motion
and reply papers, Dr. Bardakjian does not specifically deny that he personally
received the summons and complaint at his home and was thereafter mailed the
documents.  Defendants argue that
Plaintiff’s service of the documents was “flawed,” but Defendants have not
shown how the service was improper. 
(See Reply at p.3.)  Dr. Bardakjian
does not provide any showing that he was not at home at 485 Cliff Drive on
September 17, 2023 at 11:48 a.m. at the time of service, that he did not reside
at the address, that he did not receive mail, etc.  He does not deny ever meeting Mr. Frias when
served with the summons and complaint (or Mr. Garrison at the time of the ORAP
service.)  Other than his declaration
stating that he was busy with his patients, Dr. Bardakjian has not provided any
showing that he did not properly receive the documents and his failure to
review the documents after receipt is not a sufficient excuse to delay his
duties in this litigation.  
Based on the
papers provided by Defendants, the Court denies the motion to set aside the
default and default judgment.   
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
Defendants’ motion
to set aside the default and default judgment is denied.  
Defendants shall
provide notice of this order. 
 
 
DATED:  September 6, 2024                                     ___________________________
                                                                              John
Kralik
                                                                              Judge
of the Superior Court 


