 Case Number:  23AHCV00941    Hearing Date:   January 16, 2024    Dept:  X    Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Joel L. Lofton,
Department X
 
 
HEARING DATE:      January 16, 2024                                 TRIAL DATE: April 30, 2024 
                                                           
CASE:                         XIAOYAN ZOU, an
individual, and SHENG LIU, an individual, v. YAHHUA CHE, an individual, and
DOES 1 to 10.
 
CASE NO.:                 23AHCV00941
 
            
 
MOTION
FOR LEAVE TO FILE CROSS-COMPLAINT

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant Yahue Che (“Defendant”)
 
RESPONDING PARTY:      Plaintiffs
Xiaoyan Zou and Sheng Liu
 
SERVICE:                              Filed December 4, 2023
 
OPPOSITION:                       Filed January 3, 2024
 
REPLY:                                   No reply filed.  
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED 
 
             Defendant seeks leave to file a
cross-complaint. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            This case arises out of Plaintiffs
Xiaoyan Zou and Sheng Liu (“Plaintiffs”) claim that Defendant Yahhua Che
(“Defendant”) engaged in illegal conduct in an attempt to evict Plaintiffs from
property they were renting at 1918 Denton Avenue #E, in San Gabriel, California
91776 (“Subject Property”). Plaintiffs filed this complaint April 27, 2023,
alleging four causes of action (1) breach of contract, (2) intentional
infliction of emotional distress, (3) defamation, and (4) malicious
prosecution. 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Defendant’s
motion for leave to file a cross-complaint is GRANTED.
 
            Defendant
is ordered to file its cross-complaint within 10 days of the notice of this
order. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Defendant seeks leave to file a cross-complaint against Plaintiffs. In
Defendant’s proposed cross-complaint, Defendant seeks to allege various
contractual and tort claims against Plaintiffs related to the Subject Property.
 
Code of
Civil Procedure section 426.50 provides: “A
party who fails to plead a cause of action subject to the requirements of this
article, whether through oversight, inadvertence, mistake, neglect, or other
cause, may apply to the court for leave to amend his pleading, or to file a
cross-complaint, to assert such cause at any time during the course of the
action. The court, after notice to the adverse party, shall grant, upon such
terms as may be just to the parties, leave to amend the pleading, or to file
the cross-complaint, to assert such cause if the party who failed to plead the
cause acted in good faith. This subdivision shall be liberally construed to
avoid forfeiture of causes of action.”
 
            “A party shall obtain
leave of court to file any cross-complaint except one filed within the time
specified in subdivision (a) or (b). Leave may be granted in the interest of
justice at any time during the course of the action.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
428.50, subd. (c).)
 
            In opposition, Plaintiffs argue
Defendant’s motion should be denied because they agreed to Defendant’s motion
and because a cross-complaint would delay trial. However, to deny Defendant’s
motion would effectively bar any claim Defendant may have against Plaintiffs.
“Except as otherwise provided by statute, if a party against whom a complaint
has been filed and served fails to allege in a cross-complaint any related
cause of aciton which (at the time of the serving his answer to the complaint)
he has against the plaintiff, such party may not thereafter in any action
assert against the plaintiff the related cause of action not pleaded.” (Code
Civ. Proc. § 426.30, subd. (a).) The interests of justice and the judicial
precept of avoiding forfeiture support allowing Defendant to file a
cross-complaint.
 
            Additionally, Plaintiffs argue that
Defendant’s proposed causes of action fail to state a claim or are uncertain.
Plaintiffs’ arguments are unavailing for two reasons. First, the court declines
to review the merits of the cross-complaint before it is even filed. Second,
Plaintiffs’ argument that each of Defendant’s cause of action is invalid is not
supported by a single citation to legal authority. Plaintiffs have failed to
establish any grounds to deny Defendant’s motion. 
 
CONCLUSION
 
            Defendant’s
motion for leave to file a cross-complaint is GRANTED.
 
            Defendant
is ordered to file its cross-complaint within 10 days of the notice of this
order. 
 
 
            
Dated:   January 16,
2024                                           ___________________________________
                                                                                    Joel
L. Lofton
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an
email to the court indicating their 
intention to submit.  alhdeptx@lacourt.org
