  Case Number:  20STCV39524    Hearing Date:   January 16, 2024    Dept:  X    Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Joel L. Lofton,
Department X
 
 
HEARING DATE:      January 16, 2024                                             TRIAL
DATE: May 7, 2024 
                                                           
CASE:                         RATAVOUS
SHAHVERDI, an individual; NORA SHAHVERDI, an individual, v. NARBEH TOVMASSIAN,
M.D., an individual; ELEVATE HEALTH GROUP, a medical corporation; MONTROSE
HEALTHCARE CENTER, business form unknown; and DOES 1 through 50, inclusive.  
 
CASE NO.:                 20STCV39524
 
            
 
MOTION
TO DEEM ADMITTED

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant Elevate Health 
 
RESPONDING PARTY:      Plaintiffs
Estate of Ratavous Shahverdi and Nora Shahverdi 
 
SERVICE:                              Filed December 18, 2023
 
OPPOSITION:                       Filed January 2, 2024
 
REPLY:                                   Filed January 5, 2024
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED 
 
             Defendant Elevate Health moves for
an order deeming the truth of the matters asserted in the requests for
admissions deemed admitted against Plaintiff Nora Shahverdi. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
             This case arises out of Plaintiffs Estate
Ratavous Shaverdi (“Ratavous”) and Nora Shahverdi (“Nora”) (collectively
“Plaintiffs”) claim that Defendants Narbeh Tovmassian, M.D. (“Dr. Tovmassian”),
Elevate Health Group (“Elevate”), and Montrose Healthcare Center (“MHC”)
(collectively “Defendants”) negligent provide medical services. Specifically,
Plaintiffs allege that Defendants prescribed and force-fed Ratavous a regimen
of unneeded medication. Plaintiffs allege the medication caused adverse
chemical reactions, such as producing a high level of insulin in Ratavous,
causing him to be bedridden. Plaintiffs allege that the adverse reactions
caused Ratavous to be unable to communicate and lose his independence. 
 
            Plaintiffs filed a first amended
complaint on August 14, 2023, alleging eigth causes of action for (1) medical malpractice,
(2) lack of informed consent, (3) failure to screen, (4) loss of consortium,
(5) general negligence, (6) general negligence (negligent infliction of
emotional distress), (7) wrongful death, and (8) fraud. 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
            
            Elevate’s
motion to deem the truth of the matters asserted in its requests for admission
as admitted is DENIED. 
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2033.280, subdivision (b), provides that
if a party fails to respond to a request for admission, “[t]he requesting party
may move for an order that the genuineness of any documents and the truth of
any matters specified in the requests be deemed admitted”.
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Elevate
moves for an order deeming the truth of the matters asserted in its requests
for admissions admitted. Elevate provides that it served its requests for
admission on Nora on September 20, 2023. (McAmis Decl. ¶ 2.) Elevate provides that Plaintiff has failed to respond
to its requests for admissions. (Id. ¶¶ 3-4.) In opposition, Plaintiff
provides that she has already responded to Elevate’s discovery requests back on
July 24, 2023. (Keshishian Decl. ¶ 5, Exhibit A.) 
 
            However, the discovery requests at issue in the present
motion were served on September 20, 2023. The confusion appears to be on the
basis that Elevate’s initial discovery requests were purportedly served on
Ratavous, who was deceased. “The party to whom requests for admission have been
directed shall respond in writing under oath separately to each request.” (Code
Civ. Proc. § 2033.210, subd (a).) The initial RFAs were directed
towards Ratavous, but Plaintiffs’ counsel signed the discovery responses for a
deceased party. Elevate’s subsequent discovery requests, consisting of similar
inquires, were directed towards Nora. Regardless, Plaintiff provides she served
the same responses again on January 2, 2024. (Keshishian Decl. ¶ 8.) Thus,
Elevate’s motion is denied as moot.
 
CONCLUSION
 
            Elevate’s
motion to deem the truth of the matters asserted in its requests for admission
as admitted is DENIED. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
            
Dated:   January 16,
2024                                           ___________________________________
                                                                                    Joel
L. Lofton
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court


Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the court
indicating their 
intention to submit.  alhdeptx@lacourt.org
