 Case Number:  22AHCV01237    Hearing Date:   January 16, 2024    Dept:  X    Tentative Ruling   Judge Joel L. Lofton,  Department X     HEARING DATE:      January 16, 2024                                             TRIAL  DATE: No date set.                                                              CASE:                         BELLA DEVELOPMENT  LLC, RAIN GARDEN LLC, and KIM REAL ESTATE, v. BYONG YOP JIN, HOA JIN, BY JIN,  LLC.; and DOES 1-20,inclusive.     CASE NO.:                 22AHCV01237                  HEARING  ON MOTIONS TO COMPEL FURTHER    BACKGROUND              This case arises out of Plaintiffs Bella  Development LLC, Rain Garden LLC, and Kim Real Estate’s (“Plaintiffs”) claim  that Defendants Byong Yop Jin, Hoa Jin, and By Jin, LLC (“Defendants”) failed  to perform under a contract for an investment plan to purchase, renovate, and  sell houses. Plaintiffs filed a first amended complaint (“FAC”) on March 1,  2023, alleging three causes of action for (1) breach of oral contract, (2)  quiet title, and (3) declaratory relief.               TENTATIVE RULING                           Plaintiff’s  motions to compel further responses are GRANTED.               Plaintiff’s  request for sanctions is granted for a total of $2,475.   DISCUSSION               On  November 16, 2023, this court heard Plaintiff’s motions to compel further  responses. The court’s tentative ruling granted Plaintiff’s motions and awarded  sanctions to Plaintiff. The matter was taken under submission with the parties  ordered to provide supplemental declarations addressing the parties’ meet and  confer efforts.                Defendants’  counsel provides that Plaintiff’s counsel failed to meet and confer because she  only referenced a few of the discovery requests at issue and prematurely  terminated the conversation. (Muriella Decl. ¶¶ 6-8.) Plaintiff’s counsel, on the other hand, provides that  Defendants’ counsel argued that they must address each discovery request at  issue. (Jin Decl. ¶ 11.) Plaintiff’s counsel also provides that Defendants’  counsel raised his voice, was overly argumentative, and began to berate and  insult Plaintiff’s counsel. (Id. ¶ 12.) Plaintiff’s counsel provides  that the conversation lasted for over thirty minutes. (Id. ¶ 15.)                Defendant primarily argues that Plaintiff’s motions  should be denied because Plaintiff’s counsel failed to address each discovery  request at issue and therefore failed to meet and confer.                Code of Civil Procedure section 2016.040 provides: “A  meet and confer declaration in support of a motion shall state facts showing a  reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue  presented by the motion.” The applicable statute and best practice demonstrate  that the parties should attempt to discuss as many of the issues at dispute as  possible. However, underpinning this consideration is the emphasis that the  parties act reasonably and with good faith.                Defendants have not demonstrated that they made  reasonable and good faith efforts to informally resolve the disputes. For many  of the discovery requests, Defendants provided only boilerplate objections. For  example, Plaintiff’s request for production number 11 seeks “Any  and all EVIDENCE to support YOUR contention that YOU did not authorize the  remodel according to the plans submitted to YOU for approval.” Defendant  responds by stating: “Objection. Not described with reasonable particularity.  Lack of foundation.” Plaintiff’s request for admissions number 1 provides:  “ADMIT YOU entered into an agreement to purchase the SUBJECT PROPERTY.”  Defendant responds by stating: “Objection. Vague and ambiguous.”                Defendants’  boilerplate objections do not evince any intent to engage in the discovery  process in good faith. Further, Defendants’ counsel insistence that Plaintiff’s  discovery motions fail based on counsel’s failure to discuss each and every  discovery request is unavailing. Although the court was not privy to the  parties’ phone conversation, if Defendants’ counsel was berating and insulting  Plaintiff’s counsel during the meet and confer, it would be untenable for the  parties to fully discuss the discovery issues. Further, if Defendants wanted to  discuss the merits of each request, they could have done so in the form of a  opposition separate statement. However, the court does not see any opposition  separate statements in its record.   Lastly, the court emphasizes that “[civil discovery is  intended to operate with a minimum of judicial intervention. ‘[I]t is a  “central precept” of the Civil Discovery Act ... that discovery ‘be essentially  self-executing[.]’ ” (Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific  Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 402.The Court adopts its previous ruling with the following tentative with the following modification for sanctions. Plaintiff’s request for sanctions is  granted for a total of $2,475, for $495 for 5 hours worked.    CONCLUSION               Plaintiff’s  motions to compel further responses are GRANTED.               Plaintiff’s  request for sanctions is granted for a total of $2,475.                      Dated:   January 4,  2024                                             ___________________________________                                                                                     Joel  L. Lofton                                                                                     Judge  of the Superior Court    