  Case Number:  21SMCV00608    Hearing Date:   October 18, 2024    Dept:  N TENTATIVE RULINGDefendant/Cross-Complainant Said Hakim’s Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED.Defendant/Cross-Complainant Said Hakim shall prepare, serve, and submit a proposed judgment as per statute.Defendant/Cross-Complainant Said Hakim to give notice. REASONINGCurrently pending before the Court is Defendant/Cross-Complainant Said Hakim (“Said”)’s Motion for Summary Judgment. In short, Said moves the Court for an order granting summary judgment in his favor on the ground that Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Papillones, LLC (“Papillones”)’s claim to quiet title to the real property located at 27841 Pacific Coast Highway (“the Malibu property”) is barred by the statute of limitations. Said’s motion is based on three email exchanges, and Papillones objected to the use of the evidence on the ground that the evidence lacked foundation, among other reasons. The Court continued the hearing on the motion and allowed Said to submit a supplemental declaration authenticating the documents provided in his compendium of exhibits. On October 11, 2024, Said filed such a declaration, and the evidence has now been properly authenticated. Thus, insofar as Papillones objects to the authenticity of those documents, the objections are OVERRULED.Request for Judicial NoticePapillones requests judicial notice of six court records in the present action, an order confirming sale of real property in Los Angeles Superior Court Case No. BD123748 (In Re Keiper Family Trust), and a quitclaim deed recorded on June 6, 2022. Papillones’ request is GRANTED pursuant to Evidence Code section 452, subdivisions (c) and (d).Reply Separate StatementThe Court has not considered Said’s “Reply Separate Statement of Undisputed Material Facts” in support of his motion, as this document is a reply separate statement not authorized by statute, and Said failed to seek leave of court to file such a document. (See Nazir v. United Airlines, Inc. (2009) 178 Cal.App.4th 243, 252 [“There is no provision in the statute for” including a reply separate statement].)Legal StandardThe purpose of a motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar v. Atl. Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) “On a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is always on the moving party to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of material fact.” (Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.) A defendant moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or her burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense to the cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) “Once the defendant . . . has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Ibid.) “If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment should be granted.” (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Med. Ctr. (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467 (Avivi).)“Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) “[T]he court must consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers (except evidence to which the court has sustained an objection) . . . in the light most favorable to the party opposing summary judgment.” (Avivi, supra, 159 Cal.App.4th at p. 467; see also Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).)AnalysisSaid moves for summary judgment in his favor on the grounds that there are no disputed material facts regarding Papillones’ knowledge that Michael Hakim (“Michael”) was aware immediately prior to the close of escrow, on November 21, 2013, that Said and Julia Hakim (“Julia”) were taking joint ownership of the Malibu property, and Michael was also aware in 2015 and 2016 that Said and Julia held title to the Malibu property together, such that the three-year statute of limitations as to the claims alleged in the complaint expired before this action was filed on April 1, 2021.In the First Amended Complaint, Papillones alleges that it did not discover it was not the record owner of the property until November 2018, when the property was burned down by the Malibu fire, and its insurance carrier informed it that money would not be paid because it was not the record owner. (First Am. Compl. ¶¶ 11, 15.) Papillones brings a sole cause of action for quiet title, which has a three-year statute of limitations under Code of Civil Procedure section 338, subdivision (d), when the claim is rooted in fraud or mistake.Said provides three pieces of evidence showing that Papillones had knowledge of its quiet title claim in 2013, 2015, and 2016. First, in a November 15, 2013 email exchange between Michael and Susana Lopez, the escrow agent for the Malibu property sale, Michael asked if the sale was “under Papillones,” and Lopez responded that title was “going under Said Hakim and Julia Hakim as Joint Tenants.” (Said’s UMF No. 5.) Second, on March 31, 2015, Michael asked Hami Gabayan, an escrow agent, to prepare a quitclaim deed for the purpose of “assigning the property to another person or entit[t]y” and “[t]aking my sister and da[d] into an LLC.” (Said’s UMF Nos. 6, 7.) Third, on August 15, 2016, Michael told Benjamin Brin that the title report for the Malibu property showed Said and Julia as joint owners, and Michael asked Brin to prepare a quitclaim deed transferring ownership from Said and Julia to Papillones. (Said’s UMF Nos. 8, 9.) Michael is the “only owner” and “sole managing member” of Papillones. (Said’s UMF No. 11.) This evidence allows Said to show there is no triable issue of material fact as to whether Papillones was aware of the facts underlying its quiet title claim before April 1, 2018, three years before it filed its complaint in this action.Papillones argues that the motion cannot be granted for three reasons. First, Papillones contends that Said’s motion must be denied because Julia brought a similar motion on statute of limitations ground. However, Papillones cites no legal authority that another party’s statute of limitations motion bars a second motion brought by another defendant on the same grounds. While the claim is the same against both defendants, they are not the same defendants, and the Court lacks a basis to conclude that a decision on one party’s motion bars a second motion brought by another party. Put simply, each defendant is entitled to bring his or her own motion, and the Court also lacks a basis to conclude this is a motion for reconsideration. The prior motion sought to adjudicate whether a quiet title claim against Julia was barred. This motion seeks to adjudicate whether a quiet title claim against Said is barred. They are not the same motion.Second, Papillones argues that the applicable statute of limitations is five years under Code of Civil Procedure section 318. Notably, it was Papillones itself who applied the statute of limitations set forth in Code of Civil Procedure section 338. (See First Am. Compl. ¶ 18.) Moreover, it is clear that the gravamen of the claim is the purported fraudulent concealment conduct of Julia and Said (see First Am. Compl. ¶¶ 12, 14), which places the claim within the purview of Code of Civil Procedure section 338. (See Ankoanda v. Walker-Smith (1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 610, 615 [“The law is clear that the theory of relief underlying an action for quiet title, in this case fraud or mistake, determines which statute of limitations applies”].)Finally, Papillones contends that the continuous accrual doctrine precludes judgment in Said’s favor, i.e., each individual assurance by Said that Papillones owned the property triggered a new statute of limitations. Under the continuous accrual doctrine, “a series of wrongs or injuries may be viewed as each triggering its own limitations period, such that a suit for relief may be partially time-barred as to older events but timely as to those within the applicable limitations period.” (Aryeh v. Canon Business Solutions, Inc. (2013) 55 Cal.4th 1185, 1192.) There is no basis to conclude that Papillones suffered a new injury each time a purportedly fraudulent statement was made to it given that it had knowledge of the purported fraud in 2013, then in 2015, and again in 2016.For these reasons, Defendant/Cross-Complainant Said Hakim’s Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED. Defendant/Cross-Complainant Said Hakim shall prepare, serve, and submit a proposed judgment as per statute.Evidentiary ObjectionsPapillones objects to statements within the declaration of Alan Hearty and exhibits thereto. Because the evidence has since been properly authenticated as stated above, Papillones’ objections are OVERRULED.Said objects to certain exhibits supporting Papillones’ opposition. Because those exhibits were not material to the Court’s ruling herein, the Court declines to rule on these objections while noting that it took judicial notice of the existence of these documents.Said also objects to certain statements within the declaration of Michael Hakim. Because the statements were not material to the Court’s ruling herein, the Court declines to rule on these objections.