  Case Number:  20STCV09612    Hearing Date:   October 10, 2024    Dept:  74 Glenn
Feldman v. Fraser Ross et al.
Defendant Fraser Ross and Kitross
Apparel Los Angeles, LLC’s Motion for Summary Judgement
 
BACKGROUND 
            The
motion arises out of a Breach of Contract claim. 
On
November 11, 2020, plaintiff Glenn Feldman (Feldman) filed the Operative
Complaint against Defendants Fraser Ross (Ross), Ali Mir Khan, Kitross Apparel
Los Angeles, LLC (Kitross) and Christopher Lee. 
Plaintiff alleged nine causes of action, including: (1) Intentional
Misrepresentation; (2) Negligent Misrepresentation; (3) Breach of Fiduciary
Duty; (4) Breach of Contract; (5) Breach of Implied Covenant of Good Faith and
Fair Dealing; (6) Breach of Fiduciary Duty; (7) Constructive Trust; (8)
Accounting; (9) Fraudulent Conversion. 
Defendants
Ross and Kitross (collectively Defendants) filed a motion for summary
judgement.
All
evidentiary objections are preserved.
The
request for judicial notice is denied.
DISCUSSION  
The Operating Agreement and 2016
Memorandum
Defendants’
Motion for Summary Judgement places great weight on Defendants’ contention that
the Operating Agreement and 2016 Memorandum are voidable. Defendants assert the
agreements are voidable because Plaintiff failed to comply with California
Rules of Professional Conduct (CRPC) while entering into the agreements.  Defendants claim (1) the CRPC applies to
Plaintiff because he acted as corporate counsel to Kitross; (2) Plaintiff was
never licensed to practice in California; (3) Plaintiff and Ross were in a
legal relationship before 2016; (4) Plaintiff did not advise Ross to seek
independent legal advice in writing before signing either agreement; and (5)
the 2016 Memorandum included a fee-splitting provision, a violation of the CRPC.
a)     
Purported
Illegality of Contracts
Defendants
contend the Operating Agreement and 2016 Memorandum are unenforceable because they
requires Plaintiff to engage in the illegal unauthorized practice of law.
California Business and Professions Code section 6125 provides that no person
shall practice law in California unless the person is an active licensee of the
State Bar.  The California Rules of
Professional Conduct define “practicing law” to include “holding out to the
public or otherwise represent that the lawyer is admitted to practice in
California.” The term “practice law” is generally understood to include
providing legal advice and counsel.  (People
v. Ring (1937) 21 Cal.App.2d Supp. 768, 771.) An attorney who is admitted
to practice in a foreign jurisdiction is not prohibited from providing legal
services to the lawyer’s employer “in a jurisdiction where the lawyer is not
admitted to practice, so long as: (1) those services do not require pro hac
vice admission, and (2) when the services require advice on state or federal
law, the advice must be based on the advice of a U.S. lawyer licensed and
authorized by the jurisdiction to provide it.” (Model Rules of Professional
Conduct, rule 5.5.) 
The Operating Agreement
The
Operating Agreement, in pertinent part, includes: 
“Counsel. Glenn Feldman, through Feldman Advocates, Inc.
shall be acting as corporate counsel and CFO of the Company. Said counsel shall
then dispatch the various legal mandates to local attorneys in California, as
the need may arise, in his discretion.”
 
“Non-Monetary Contribution. Glenn Feldman’s contribution to
the Company shall be made in the form of time, counseling, management, and
other related services… Notwithstanding, any law services provided by Feldman
Advocates, Inc. shall be billable apart from Glenn Feldman’s responsibilities” 
 
“Where
a contract has several distinct objections, of which at least one is lawful,
and one at least is unlawful, in whole or in part, the contract is void as to
the latter and valid as to the rest.” 
(Cal. Civ. § 1599.) On the face of the operating agreement, Plaintiff is
not required to perform any legal advice or counsel, and therefore, Plaintiff
was not required to perform illegal acts under the contract.  The Operating Agreement is not, on its face,
illegal. But even if part of the Operating Agreement were unenforceable, the Operating
Agreement itself would be severable as to the legal services and the other
services such as “arranging for the Roberson Boulevard locations.”  (Complaint, ¶ 68; Cal. Civ. § 1599; Birdbrower,
Montalbano, Condon & Frank v. Superior Court (1998) 17 Cal.4th 119,
137-38.) The Court must liberally construe the facts in favor of the party
opposing the motion for summary judgement and the court finds that Defendants
have not met their burden in establishing the entirety of the Operating
Agreement is illegal.  
            The
2016 Memorandum
The
2016 Memorandum provides Plaintiff with 50% of any net proceeds received by Ross
from two lawsuits regarding Ross’s previous store, Kitson.   The
Memorandum provides that it is in compensation for the “on-going general
counsel and advice of [Plaintiff] personally.” 
(Defendants’ COE, Exhibit 9.) Defendants contend that this is a
fee-sharing agreement that is illegal under the California Rules of
Professional Conduct. But the Memorandum is unclear in that it does not specify
that the general counsel and advice is specific to the on-going California
litigation.  (Defendants’ COE, Exhibit
9.) Defendants have not met their burden in establishing that the 2016
Memorandum was unenforceable due to illegality.
b)     
Application
of the California Rules of Professional Conduct
Defendants
contend “Plaintiff has been licensed to practice law by one jurisdiction
(Quebec, Canada) throughout the relevant time period.”  (UMF - Compendium of Exhibits, Exhibit 3, p
4:7-24.)  Plaintiff asserts the
California Rules of Professional Conduct apply only to licensees of the State
Bar.  (Cal. Bus. & Prof. §
6076.)  Licensee includes “all persons
admitted and licensed to practice law in [the] state.”  (Cal. Bus. & Prof. § 6002.)  Whether or not Plaintiff may have engaged in
the unauthorized practice of law in California, Plaintiff was not licensed to
practice in California and therefore the CRPR does not entitle Defendants to
summary judgment or adjudication.
 
The
court denies summary adjudication of the contract- and equity-based causes of
action stated as the Third, Fourth, Fifth, Sixth, Seventh, and Eighth Causes of
Action and the cross-complaint’s fifth cause of action for declaratory relief.
 
First and Second Causes of Action –
Fraud and Negligent Misrepresentation
Defendants
contend that a fraud claim in a contract action may only be alleged to rescind
or reform a fraudulently induced contract, but not to require “specific
performance.” Defendants misdescribe the relief requested. The Complaint states
“Plaintiff is therefore entitled to punitive damages in a sufficient amount to
make an example of, punish defendants, and deter future fraudulent, oppressive
and malicious misconduct in the amount according to proof at trial.”  (Complaint, p. 9:22-24.) “Contract remedies
alone do not address the full range of policy objectives underlying the action
for fraudulent inducement of contract. In pursuing a valid fraud action, a
plaintiff advances the public interest in punishing intentional
misrepresentation.”  (Lazar v.
Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 646.) Although the prayer for relief
requests specific performance, that is only a remedy for the Breach of Contract
Cause of Action. The Negligent Misrepresentation Cause of Action allows for
damages, which are also requested in the prayer for relief.  The First and Second Causes of Action do not
fail for lack of actionable relief. 
 Ninth Cause of Action - Conversion
Conversion
applies to personal property. A debt or promise to pay is intangible property.
Conversion does not apply to intangible property. Accordingly, the court grants
summary adjudication of the conversion cause of action.
Judicial Estoppel
Defendants
also contend that Plaintiff is barred from recovery because Plaintiff failed to
disclose his interests in disclosures that he filed in a civil divorce
proceeding in Canada. Judicial estoppel requires the courts’ exercise of the
court's discretion. As such, summary adjudication is not available.
 
Cross-Complaint
      The pleadings frame the issues for a
motion for summary adjudication or judgment. A cross-complaint is a pleading
separate from a complaint. Accordingly, defendants were obligated to bring a
separate motion for summary adjudication of the cross-complaint. Because Defendants
did not file a proper motion for summary adjudication of the cross-complaint, the
court does not address the cross-complaint. Alternatively, the court denies
summary adjudication of the cross-complaint’s fifth cause of action for declaratory
relief for the reasons stated in the court’s denial of summary adjudication of
the complaint’s Third, Fourth, Fifth, and Sixth Causes of Action.
 
CONCLUSION 
The
court denies Defendants’ motion for summary judgement. The court grants
Defendants’ motion for summary adjudication of the Ninth Cause of Action for
conversion. The court denies summary adjudication of all other causes of
action.
Defendants
shall give notice.