 Case Number:  22STCV11270    Hearing Date:   January 31, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion to Set Aside Default and Default Judgment filed by
Defendant County of Los Angeles (erroneously sued as “County of Los Angeles –
Fire Department”).
 
 
Tentative
The motion is GRANTED.
Background
Plaintiff Stephanie Allen (“Plaintiff”) was
allegedly injured in a vehicle accident on January 16, 2021, at or near the
intersection of Broadway and 135th Street in unincorporated Los Angeles
County.  
On April 1, 2022, Plaintiff, by and through
her guardian ad litem, filed the Complaint in this action against Defendants County
of Los Angeles – Fire Department; State of California – Highway Patrol;
McCormick Ambulance; and Does 1 through 20. 
In the Complaint, Plaintiff asserts one cause of action for gross
professional negligence arising out of (among other things) Defendants’ alleged
failure to treat Plaintiff properly at the scene of the accident.
On August 23, 2023, Defendant Westmed
Ambulance, Inc., dba McCormick Ambulance filed its Answer to the Complaint.
On August 24, 2023, the clerk entered the
default of Defendant County of Los Angeles – Fire Department.
On September 15, 2023, the clerk entered the
default of Defendant State of California – Highway Patrol.
On October 13,
2023, Defendant California Highway Patrol filed a motion to set aside the default.  The Court granted the motion, over Plaintiff’s
opposition, on January 17, 2024.
On October 23,
2023, Defendant County of Los Angeles (“Defendant”) filed this motion to set
aside the default entered against it.  Plaintiff
did not file an opposition to the motion.
 
 
 
Judicial Notice
“The court will
take judicial notice of records such as admissions, answers to interrogatories,
affidavits, and the like, when considering a demurrer, only where they contain
statements of the plaintiff or his agent which are inconsistent with the
allegations of the pleading before the court.” (Del E. Webb Corp. v.
Structural Materials Co. (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 593, 604-605.) “In addition
to the facts alleged in the complaint, the court may consider matters which may
be judicially noticed, including court records.” (Barker v. Hull (1987)
191 Cal. App. 3d 221, 224.)
Defendant
requests that the Court take judicial notice of the home page for County of Los
Angeles Fire Department and County of Los Angeles Board of Supervisors services
page for Complaints.
The Court GRANTS Defendant’s Request for
Judicial Notice under Evidence Code section 453(b).
Legal Standard
Code of Civil Procedure section 473,
subdivision (b) provides, in relevant part: 
The court may, upon any terms as may
be just, relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a judgment,
dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against him or her through his or
her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. Application for this
relief shall be accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed
to be filed therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted, and shall
be made within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the
judgment, dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken. 
The statute further provides that “the court shall,
whenever an application for relief is made no more than six months after entry
of judgment, is in proper form, and is accompanied by an attorney’s sworn
affidavit attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect,
vacate any … resulting default judgment or dismissal entered against his or her
client, unless the court finds that the default or dismissal was not in fact
caused by the attorney’s mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect.”  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b).) 
“The court may, upon motion of the injured
party, or its own motion, correct clerical mistakes in its judgment or orders
as entered, so as to conform to the judgment or order directed, and may, on
motion of either party after notice to the other party, set aside any void
judgment or order.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 473,
subd. (d).) 
“[U]nder subdivision (d) of Code of Civil
Procedure section 473, the court may set aside orders and judgments that are
‘void,’ including orders and judgments void for want of fundamental
jurisdiction or personal jurisdiction. [Citation]” (Bae v. T.D. Service Co.
of Arizona (2016) 245 Cal.App.4th 89, 97.) “Apart from any statute, courts
have the inherent authority to vacate a default and default judgment on
equitable grounds such as extrinsic fraud or extrinsic mistake.” (Id.) “Under
the doctrine of extrinsic mistake, relief from a default and default judgment
is potentially available when the clerk or trial court erred in entering them.”
(Id. at 98.) “To set aside a [default] judgment based upon extrinsic
mistake one must satisfy three elements. First, the defaulted party must
demonstrate that it has a meritorious case. Second[ ], the party seeking to set
aside the default must articulate a satisfactory excuse for not presenting a
defense to the original action. Last[ ], the moving party must demonstrate
diligence in seeking to set aside the default once ... discovered.” (Id.
at 100.)
Discussion
Defendant contends that it was never properly served with
the summons and complaint. (Motion, 4:9-10.) Defendant argues that on the
service, the incorrect address was listed, and the individual served was not a
member of the Board of Supervisors or an agent who could receive service. (Id.,
5:23-27.) Defendant states that service should have been made to the County Board
of Supervisors at the address 500 W. Temple Street, Room 383, Los Angeles CA
90012. (Id., 5-6:27-28, 1.) 
 
Plaintiff has not opposed the motion or presented any
evidence showing that service was proper.
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision
(d), the Court may set aside any void judgment or order.  Where, as here, service was not properly
effected, the entry of default is void.  
 
Therefore, the Court GRANTS Defendant’s motion to set aside
the default.
 
Conclusion
 
The Court GRANTS Defendant’s motion to set
aside the entry of default.
 
The Court SETS ASIDE the clerk’s entry of the
default of Defendant County of Los Angeles – Fire Department dated August 24,
2023.
 
Moving party is ordered to give notice.
 