  Case Number:  21STCV32814    Hearing Date:   January 25, 2024    Dept:  M LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                                    Thursday,
January 25, 2024 
Department M                                                                                                                             Calendar No. 7
 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Lisa Popovich, et al. v. City of Los
Angeles, et al.     
21STCV32814
1.      Lora L. LoCoco’s Application to Appear as Counsel Pro
Hac Vice for Defendants Herc Rentals Inc. and Herminio Rodriguez 
2.      Anthony Steinike’s Application to Appears as Counsel
Pro Hac Vice for Defendants Herc Rentals Inc. and Herminio Rodriguez      

TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Lora
L. LoCoco and Anthony Steinike’s Applications to Appear as Counsel Pro Hac Vice
for Defendants Herc Rentals Inc. and Herminio Rodriguez are granted.  
 
             Background
 
            Plaintiffs filed the Complaint on October
6, 2022. Plaintiffs allege the following facts. This action arises out of a collision which occurred on June 27, 2022
between a commercial truck and trailer parked on Imperial Highway and a
commuter bus. Lisa Popovich was a passenger on the bus. 
 
            Application
to Appear Pro Hac Vice
 
            Cal.
Rules of Court, Rule 9.40 states, in relevant part:
            “(d)
The application must state:
            (1)
The applicant's residence and office address;
            (2)
The courts to which the applicant has been admitted to practice and the dates
of admission;
            (3)
That the applicant is a licensee in good standing in those courts;
            (4)
That the applicant is not currently suspended or disbarred in any court;
            (5)
The title of each court and cause in which the applicant has filed an
application to appear as counsel pro hac vice in this state in the preceding
two years, the date of each application, and whether or not it was granted; and
            (6)
The name, address, and telephone number of the active licensee of the State Bar
of California who is attorney of record.
            (e)
An applicant for permission to appear as counsel pro hac vice under this rule
must pay a reasonable fee not exceeding $50 to the State Bar of California with
the copy of the application and the notice of hearing that is served on the
State Bar.”
 
            The
applicants have met all the requirements mandated in Rule 9.40. The applications
to be admitted as counsel pro hac vice are therefore granted. 
 
            Lora
L. LoCoco and Anthony Steinike are admitted as counsel pro hac vice in the
pending matter.
 
            Defendants
are ordered to give notice of this ruling. 