 Case Number:  22TRCV01316    Hearing Date:   January 25, 2024    Dept:  M 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT – SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 




 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                                     Thursday, January 25, 2024
Department M                                                                                                                             Calendar No. 8
 



 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Sylvia
Riza De Lozano v. American Honda Motor Co., Inc., et al.
22TRCV01316
1.     
American Honda
Motor Co., Inc.’s Motion to Compel Plaintiff to Appear, Testify, and to Produce
Documents at Deposition and Request for Monetary Sanctions  
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
American Honda Motor Co., Inc.’s Motion to Compel
Plaintiff to Appear, Testify, and to Produce Documents at Deposition and
Request for Monetary Sanctions is granted. 
 
Background
 
Plaintiff filed the Complaint on November 22, 2022. This
is a “Lemon Law” case brought by Plaintiff concerning a 2019 Honda Passport. Plaintiff
alleges that the vehicle suffers from widespread defects, including electrical
and engine defects. Defendant has been unable to repair their vehicle within a
reasonable number of attempts. Plaintiff alleges the following cause of action:
1. Violation of Song-Beverly Act – Breach of Express Warranty. 
 
Motion to Compel Deposition 
 
The
party noticing the deposition may move for an order compelling appearance at
the deposition and production of documents, pursuant to the deposition notice,
from the party deponent who fails to appear or produce materials requested in
the deposition notice, and who has not served a valid objection under §
2025.410(a).  CCP § 2025.450(a).  
 
“The
motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to attend the deposition and produce the
documents, electronically stored information, or things described in the
deposition notice, by a declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted
the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance.”  CCP § 2025.450(b)(2). Defendant set forth a
meet and confer declaration stating that Defendant contacted the deponent to
inquire about the nonappearance. (Decl., Monica Y. Hernandez, ¶¶ 5-19.)
 
Defendant
moves for an order compelling Plaintiff appear, testify, and produce documents
at her deposition. The motion is made on the grounds that despite numerous
continuances and schedule accommodations, deponent has failed to appear for her
deposition. Defendant states that it has attempted to proceed with the
deposition on numerous dates after the initial noticed date but has been
thwarted each time with Plaintiff contending that she is not available. (Id.)
Defendant also seeks sanctions against Plaintiff and her counsel of record.
 
Plaintiff
filed a limited opposition stating that she will, yet again, appear for
deposition on February 21 or February 22, 2024. It does appear that the parties
should have been able to obtain a date amenable to both parties for the
deposition. However, since the deposition has not yet taken place and there is
no dispute that Plaintiff has not appeared for her properly noticed deposition,
Defendant’s motion to compel deposition is granted. In addition, sanctions are
warranted because it was only after the motion was filed that Plaintiff
provided the dates above. Defendant incurred attorneys’ fees in the preparation
and appearance of this motion.
 
Defendant’s
motion to compel deposition is granted. Plaintiff is ordered to appear for her
deposition at a date and time that can be agreed upon by the parties. If no
agreement can be reached, Plaintiff is ordered to appear at a reasonable date
and time to be determined by the moving party. 
 
Sanctions
 
Defendant’s
request for monetary sanctions is granted. Sanctions are awarded in favor of Defendant
and against Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s counsel in the total amount of $1,575.00.
The hourly rate and time expended as set forth in the declaration of Monica Y.
Hernandez is reasonable. Sanctions are payable within 30 days of this date.
 
Defendant
is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 