 Case Number:  23TRCV01039    Hearing Date:   January 25, 2024    Dept:  M LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                                  Wednesday,
January 24, 2024
Department M                                                                                                                              Calendar No. 7
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
            Stephanie Jungers, et al. v. Roberto Aguilero Toledo,
et al. 
            23TRCV01039
1.      Stephanie
Jungers, et al.’s Motion to Vacate the Dismissal      
 
 
COURT RULING
 
            Stephanie
Jungers, et al.’s Motion to Vacate the Dismissal is granted.  
       
            Background
 
            Plaintiffs
filed the Complaint on April 5, 2023. Plaintiffs allege the following facts. On
April 8, 2021, Plaintiffs were involved in a motor vehicle accident with
Defendant. 
 
            Motion
to Set Aside Dismissal
 
            CCP §
473(b) states, in relevant part: “The court may, upon any terms as may be just,
relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a judgment, dismissal,
order, or other proceeding taken against him or her through his or her mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. Application for this relief shall
be accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed
therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted, and shall be made
within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment,
dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken. 
. . .  Notwithstanding any other
requirements of this section, the court shall, whenever an application for
relief is made no more than six months after entry of judgment, is in proper
form, and is accompanied by an attorney's sworn affidavit attesting to his or
her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect, vacate any (1) resulting
default entered by the clerk against his or her client, and which will result
in entry of a default judgment, or (2) resulting default judgment or dismissal
entered against his or her client, unless the court finds that the default or
dismissal was not in fact caused by the attorney's mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or neglect. The court shall, whenever relief is granted based on an
attorney's affidavit of fault, direct the attorney to pay reasonable
compensatory legal fees and costs to opposing counsel or parties. . ..”
 
            Plaintiffs
have adequately established that the dismissal was entered due to the mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or neglect of Plaintiffs’ counsel. Plaintiffs’ counsel
states that he failed to calendar the October 25, 2023 Order to Show Cause
hearing. Therefore, Plaintiffs’ counsel did not attend resulting in the
dismissal of the action. (Decl., Ron A. Rosen Janfaza, ¶¶ 7-8.) Thus, the
motion to set aside dismissal is granted and the case is restored to the active
calendar.
 
            Plaintiffs
are ordered to give notice of this ruling.