 Case Number:  24STLC05162    Hearing Date:   December 5, 2024    Dept:  25 HEARING DATE:    Thurs., December 5, 2024                              JUDGE /DEPT:        Mkrtchyan/25
CASE NAME:           Forbes
v. Pedone                                            COMP.
FILED:        07-18-24
CASE NUMBER:     24STLC05162                                    
           DISC. C/O:                12-02-25

NOTICE:                   OK                                                                  DISC. MOT. C/O:     12-23-25
                                                                                                            TRIAL
DATE:          01-15-26

 
PROCEEDINGS:     DEMURRER
AND MOTION TO STRIKE 
 
MOVING PARTY:   Defendant
Gregory Allen Pedone
RESP. PARTY:         Plaintiff Kenneth Forbes
 
DEMURRER WITH MOTION TO STRIKE 
(CCP §§ 430.10, et seq.; 435;
436)
 
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Defendant Gregory Allen Pedone’s Demurrer
is OVERRULED as to the fourth cause of action and OVERRULED IN PART and
SUSTAINED IN PART WITH LEAVE TO AMEND as to the third cause of action. 
 
Defendant’s
Motion to Strike is
GRANTED in part and DENIED in part. Plaintiff is ordered to strike the punitive
damages cause of action and mention of the specific sum in relation to his
request for punitive damages.
 
Plaintiff’s
First Amended Complaint to be served and electronically filed within 30-days of
this Court’s order.

 
_______________________________________________________________________
 
SERVICE:  
 
[X] Proof of
Service Timely Filed (CRC, rule 3.1300)                      OK
[X] Correct Address
(CCP §§ 1013, 1013a)                                      OK 
[X] 16/21 Court
Days Lapsed (CCP §§ 12c, 1005(b))                       OK 
 
OPPOSITION:          Filed
on November 20, 2024                                      [  ] Late           [   ] None
REPLY:                     None
filed as of November 27, 2024                          [  ]
Late           [X] None
 
ANALYSIS:
 
I.                   
Background

 
On July 18, 2024, Plaintiff Kenneth
Forbes (“Plaintiff”) initiated this action against Defendant Gregory Allen
Pedone (“Defendant”) alleging Common Counts, Breach of Contract, Conversion,
Fraud, and Punitive Damages causes of action. (Compl., p. 1.) The dispute
arises out of an oral contract (the “Agreement”) for the packing of collectible
ornaments into a cargo container. (Compl., p. 1.)
 
On October 28, 2024, Defendant filed a
Demurrer to the Complaint (the “Demurrer”) and Motion to Strike (the “Motion”)
as to portions of the Complaint. While the Demurrer and Motion were filed in
the same document, the Court will reference the Demurrer and Motion separately.
 
On November 20, 2024, Plaintiff filed
an Opposition as to both the Demurrer and Motion. 
 
No Reply has been filed.
 
II.                
Procedural
Issues
 
As an initial matter, the Court notes
the Demurrer and Motion are untimely as they were filed more than 30 days after
service of the Complaint. (Code of Civ. Proc., §§ 430.40; 435.) However, given
the parties’ stipulation to extend the time to respond to the Complaint in
attempts to resolve their differences without court involvement (Grismer Decl.,
¶ 3), the Court exercises its discretion to hear the Demurrer and Motion on the
merits. 
 
III.             
Legal
Standard
 
“As a general matter, in a
demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading
or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co.
(2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A demurrer tests the pleading alone,
and not the evidence or facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants,
Inc. Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the court assumes
the truth of the complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Ibid.)
The only issue a demurrer is concerned with is whether the complaint, as it
stands, states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147
Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)
A general demurrer may be
brought under Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivision (e) if
insufficient facts are stated to support the cause of action asserted or under
section 430.10, subdivision (a), where the court has no jurisdiction of the subject
of the cause of action alleged in the pleading. All other grounds listed in
Section 430.10, including uncertainty under subdivision (f), are special
demurrers. Special demurrers are not allowed in limited jurisdiction courts.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 92, subd. (c).) 
Where a demurrer is
sustained, leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable
possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18
Cal.3d 335, 348.) The burden is on the plaintiff to show the court that a
pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.; Lewis v. YouTube, LLC (2015)
244 Cal.App.4th 118, 226.) However, “[i]f there is any reasonable possibility
that the plaintiff can state a good cause of action, it is error to sustain a
demurrer without leave to amend.” (Youngman v. Nevada Irrigation Dist.
(1969) 70 Cal.2d 240, 245).
IV.             
Discussion

 
A.    Meet and Confer
 
Code of Civil Procedure
section 430.41 requires that “[b]efore filing a demurrer pursuant to this
chapter, the demurring party shall meet and confer in person, by telephone, or
by video conference with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer
for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would
resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41, subd. (a).) The parties are to meet and confer at least five days
before the date the responsive pleading is due. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41,
subd. (a)(2).) Thereafter, the demurring party shall file and serve a
declaration detailing their meet and confer efforts. (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41, subd. (a)(3).) 
The Demurrer is accompanied by a meet
and confer declaration as required by Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41,
subdivision (a). (Demurrer, Grismer Decl.) According to the declaration, Defendant’s
counsel sent met and confer correspondence to Plaintiff’s counsel on September
13, 2024 that addressed the merits of the Demurrer and Motion. (Grismer Decl.,
¶ 2, Exh. 1.)  The parties then “met and
conferred and agreed to an extension in which to respond to the complaint up to
and including October 28, 2024, in order to allow the parties to further
discussed resolution.” (Grismer Decl., ¶ 3.) However, Defendant’s counsel then
states that “at this juncture, the Defendant wishes to defend this matter.” (Grismer
Decl., ¶ 4.) 
 
Thus, the Court finds the meet and
confer requirement satisfied.
 
B.     Demurrer 
 
Moving Party Position
 
Defendant demurs to the third and
fourth causes of action regarding Conversion and Fraud. (Demurrer, p. 2.) As to
the third cause of action regarding Conversion, Defendant contends the
Complaint fails to state sufficient facts to support a Conversion claim because
“the Complaint fails to identify the personal property Defendant took
possession of, whether that be possession of money or any other tangible object
or prevented plaintiff from having access to the item of personal property or
destroying the personal property or refusing to return the item of personal
property after plaintiff demanded its return. Further, the complaint fails to
state how Defendant’s conduct was a substantial factor causing plaintiff’s harm.”
(Demurrer, p. 5.)
 
As to the fourth cause of action
regarding Fraud, Defendant contends Plaintiff’s Complaint is uncertain and
fails to satisfy the heightened pleading standard required for allegations of
fraud. (Demurrer, p. 5.) Specifically, Defendant contends the Complaint is
vague and uncertain as to whether the allegations of fraud are based on
negligent misrepresentation, intentional misrepresentation, or intentional
concealment. (Demurrer, pp. 6-7.) Defendant alleges that “[b]ecause Plaintiff
fails to clearly indicate the legal theory under which she is operating and
because her allegations in this cause of action might arguably fall under three
distinct theories of fraud it is difficult if not impossible for Defendant to
respond.” (Demurrer, p. 7.)
 
            Opposition

 
            In
Opposition, Plaintiff addresses the third and fourth causes of action in turn.
First, Plaintiff contends each element for a Conversion cause of action is pled
because the Complaint alleges that (1) Plaintiff possessed money in the sum of
$1,800 that he had obtained from the sale of the container (Complaint, p. 21,
Exh. C); (2) Defendant interfered with the $1,800 paid by Plaintiff and refused
to return the $1,800 to Plaintiff (Complaint, ¶¶ 2-5, 17, Exhs. B-D); (3) Plaintiff
did not consent to Defendant’s failure to return the $1,800 (Complaint, ¶¶ 3-5,
7, 17, Exhs. B-D); and (4) Plaintiff was harmed in the amount of $1,900 as a
“direct actual and proximate result of Defendant’s dilatory conduct.” (Opp.,
pp. 2-3.) 
 
            As to the
Fraud cause of action, Plaintiff alleges Defendant’s Demurrer is unclear as it
references inapt code sections and contains conflicting language. (Opp., p. 4.)
Plaintiff then contends that the Complaint is clear as to the fraud allegations
since it is explicitly alleged that “Defendant engaged in a proximate and
actual deceit by representing to Plaintiff that he fulfilled his contractual
obligation to pay for the container.” (Opp., p. 4.) Plaintiff contends the Complaint
states facts that “support a fraud to obtain property of another by false
pretenses,” and “[t]here may be other possible theories which may well be
pursued during the course of discovery in this case.” (Opp., p. 4.)
 
            Allegations
in the Complaint 
            
            The
Complaint alleges the parties entered into the Agreement on or about December
21, 2023 for the packing of collectible ornaments into a cargo container.
(Compl., ¶ 1.) Pursuant to the terms of the Agreement, Plaintiff agreed “to
pack and store … collectible ornaments into the container on a pro bona basis
for [his] services. Defendants, and each of them, agreed to pay for the cost of
the Container,” which cost $1,900. (Compl., ¶ 1, Exh. A.) A month or so later,
the Container was sold for $1,800 and this “sum of money was returned to Defendants,”
who each assured Plaintiff that they had paid for the Container as initially
agreed. (Compl., ¶ 2.) An invoice from Defendant also confirmed payment for the
costs of the Container. (Compl., ¶ 3, Exh. B.) After Defendants received the
$1,800 payment for the Container, Plaintiff received information from the container
company that Defendant’s credit card was not going through, and the container
company had not received any payment of the $1,900 owed. (Compl., ¶ 4, Exh. B.)

 
            On or
about March 9, 2024, Plaintiff demanded that Defendants “return the $1,800 that
[Plaintiff] had returned to him from the sale of the Container… and/or pay for
the Container.” (Compl., ¶ 4.) On or about March 12, 2024, Plaintiff called each
Defendant to determine if they would agree to return the $1,800 earned for the
sale of the Container; however, Defendants refused and stated they would not
pay for the Container. (Compl., ¶ 5.) A couple days later, Plaintiff paid
$1,900 to the container company, Container Alliance, as “full and final payment
of the charges due for sale of the Container … so as to avoid a lawsuit against
[Plaintiff] by the Container Company.” (Compl., ¶ 6, Exh. E.)
 
            Defendants
“continue to refuse to return of the $1,800 and refuse to reimburse [Plaintiff]
for the cost of the Container therein.” (Compl., ¶ 7.) 
 
            Analysis

 
3rd Cause of Action – Conversion
 
“ ‘ “ ‘Conversion
is the wrongful exercise of dominion over the property of another. The elements
of a conversion claim are: (1) the plaintiff’s ownership or right to possession
of the property; (2) the defendant’s conversion by a wrongful act or
disposition of property rights; and (3) damages.’ ” ’ ” (Lee v. Hanley
(2015) 61 Cal.4th 1225, 1240.) 
 
Here, the Court finds Plaintiff has
pled the elements of conversion. Plaintiff pleads he is entitled to the $1,900
Defendant failed to pay the container company as part of the Agreement;
Defendant wrongfully defrauded Plaintiff of the $1,900; and Plaintiff suffered damages
in the amount of $1,900 as a result of Defendant’s conversion by having to pay
the container company instead of Defendant. (Compl., ¶¶ 1-7.) 
 
To the extent Plaintiff contends he is
owed the $1,800 from the sale of the Container, separate and apart from the
$1,900 owed to reimburse the Container, the Court agrees Plaintiff has failed
to plead the elements of conversion as to this sum of money. Where a demurrer
is sustained, leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable
possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman, supra, 18 Cal.3d at
p. 348.)
 
Thus, the Demurrer is OVERRULED as to
the claim of $1,900 and SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND as to the claim of $1,800.

 
                        4th
Cause of Action – Fraud 
 
The elements of fraud are: “ ‘(a)
misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b)
knowledge of falsity (or ‘scienter’); (c) intent to defraud, i.e., to induce
reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting damage.’ ” (Charnay v.
Cobert (2006) 145 Cal.App.4th 170, 184, citing Lazar v. Superior Court (1996)
12 Cal.4th 631, 638.)  A cause of action for fraud must be “ ‘pled
specifically; general and conclusory allegations do not suffice. … “ ‘This
particularity requirement necessitates pleading facts which “ ‘show how,
when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations were tendered.’ ” ’
” (Small v. Fritz Companies, Inc. (2003) 30 Cal.4th 167, 184,
citing Lazar, supra, 12 Cal.4th at p. 645.)
 
Here, Defendant’s
contentions rest entirely on the ground of uncertainty. However, a demurrer
brought on the ground of uncertainty is a special demurrer, and special
demurrers are not allowed in limited jurisdiction courts. (Code Civ. Proc., §
92, subd. (c). 
Thus, the Demurrer is OVERRULED
as to the fourth cause of action.
Accordingly, Defendant’s Demurrer is OVERRULED
in part and SUSTAINED in part as to the third cause of action and OVERRULED as
to the fourth cause of action.
 
C.     Motion to Strike 
 
Moving Party Position
 
Defendant moves to strike Plaintiff’s
request for punitive damages in its entirety or, in the alternative, the dollar
amount listed in the Complaint. (Motion, p. 2.) Specifically, Defendant alleges
Plaintiff improperly identifies a cause of action for punitive damages and contends
the Complaint merely asserts conclusory allegations as to the conduct serving
as the grounds for punitive damages. (Motion, pp. 8-9.) Finally, Defendant
alleges the Complaint “impermissibly and arbitrarily requests punitive damages
in the sum of $25,000” in contravention of Civil Code section 2395(e), which
states “no request for exemplary damages may state an amount or amounts.”
(Motion, p. 9.)
 
                        Opposition
 
            In
Opposition, Plaintiff contends the Motion should be denied because punitive
damages are properly pled. Indeed, Plaintiff states the Complaint alleges that “Defendant
engaged in a scheme to defraud and to enrich himself by falsely tendering a
credit card which he knew would not go though and/or which Defendant stopped
payment on the tender of the credit card to deceive the Plaintiff herein.”
(Opp., p. 5.)
 
                        Analysis
 
California law authorizes a party’s
motion to strike matter from an opposing party’s pleading if it is irrelevant,
false, or improper. (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 435, 436.) Motions may also target
pleadings or parts of pleadings that are not filed or drawn in conformity with
applicable laws, rules, or orders. (Code Civ. Proc. § 436, subd. (b).) 
 
However, motions to strike in limited
jurisdiction courts may only challenge pleadings on the basis that “the damages
or relief sought are not supported by the allegations of the complaint.” (Code
Civ. Proc. § 92, subd. (d).) The Code
of Civil Procedure also authorizes the Court to act on its own initiative to
strike matters, empowering the Court to enter orders striking matter “at any
time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
436.) 
 
Finally, Code of Civil Procedure
section 435.5 requires that “[b]efore filing a motion to strike pursuant to
this chapter, the moving party shall meet and confer in person or by
telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to the motion
to strike for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached
that resolves the objections to be raised in the motion to strike.” (Code Civ.
Proc. § 435.5, subd. (a).) (Emphasis added.) 
 
Punitive damages are authorized by
Civil Code section 3294 in non-contract cases “where the defendant has been
guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice, express or implied . . . .” 
(Civil Code, § 3294, subd. (a).) Malice means conduct which is intended by the
defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is
carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the
rights or safety of others. (Civil Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1).) Oppression
means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in
conscious disregard of that person’s rights. (Civil Code, § 3294, subd.
(c)(2).) Fraud means an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment
of a material fact known to the defendant with the intention on the party of
the defendant of thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or
otherwise causing injury. (Civil Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(3).)
 
As an initial matter, the Court finds Defendant
has satisfied the meet and confer requirement of Code of Civil Procedure
section 435.5. Indeed and as previously mentioned, the Motion is accompanied by
a meet and confer declaration as required by Code of Civil Procedure section
430.41, subdivision (a). (Grismer Decl.) According to the declaration,
Defendant’s counsel sent met and confer correspondence to Plaintiff’s counsel
on September 13, 2024 that addressed the merits of the Demurrer and Motion.
(Grismer Decl., ¶ 2, Exh. 1.)  The
parties then “met and conferred and agreed to an extension in which to respond
to the complaint up to and including October 28, 2024, in order to allow the
parties to further discussed resolution.” (Grismer Decl., ¶ 3.) Defendant’s
counsel then states that “at this juncture, the Defendant wishes to defend this
matter.” (Grismer Decl., ¶ 4.) 
 
Here, the allegations of breach of
contract, common counts, and conversion of Plaintiff’s monetary property,
without more, do not support a claim for punitive damages as they do not
demonstrate that Defendant intended to injure Plaintiff or engaged in
despicable conduct or oppression. (Civ. Code, § 3294, subds. (a), (c).) 
 
However, the fraud cause of action supports
the request for punitive damages. Indeed, Civil Code section 3294 defines fraud
as an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact
known to the defendant with the intention on the party of the defendant of
thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing
injury. (Civil Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(3).) Here, the Complaint alleges
Defendant misrepresented or concealed from Plaintiff the material fact that the
tendered credit card for payment under the Agreement would not work for payment
to deprive Plaintiff of his monetary property. (Compl., p. 6.) Since fraud is
an acceptable ground for recovering punitive damages, Plaintiff may plead a
punitive damages request.
 
Accordingly, the Motion is DENIED as
to the request to strike punitive damages in its entirety. 
 
However, the Court agrees Plaintiff
improperly included an amount with the punitive damages request (Civ. Code, § 3295),
and punitive damages are a form of relief, not a cause of action. Thus, the
Motion is GRANTED as to Plaintiff’s request to strike the sum of $25,000 from
the punitive damage request as well as the punitive damages cause of action.
 
D.    Conclusion & Order
 
Defendant Gregory Allen Pedone’s Demurrer
is OVERRULED as to the fourth cause of action and OVERRULED IN PART and
SUSTAINED IN PART WITH LEAVE TO AMEND as to the third cause of action. 
 
Defendant’s
Motion to Strike is
GRANTED in part and DENIED in part. Plaintiff is ordered to strike the punitive
damages cause of action and mention of the specific sum in relation to his
request for punitive damages.
 
Plaintiff’s First Amended
Complaint to be served and electronically filed within 30-days of this Court’s
order.
 
Moving party is ordered to
give notice. 
 
 