  Case Number:  20STCV20490    Hearing Date:   January 17, 2025    Dept:  30 Calendar # 8
Date: 1/17/2025
Case Name: TAMARA L. JOHNSON vs KIA MOTORS AMERICA
Case # 20STCV20490
 
MOTION FOR ATTORNEY FEES 
 
Tamara L. Johnson (Plaintiff) moves for an award of attorney’s fees in
the amount of $160,203 against Kia America, Inc. (Defendant). Plaintiff’s
separate request for costs will be heard on February 7 at the hearing for
Defendant’s motion to tax costs. Plaintiff’s motion for attorney’s fees is
granted in part.
 
A.   
Legal Standard
 
“[A]s a general rule, attorney fees are not recoverable as
costs unless they are authorized by statute or agreement.” (People ex rel.
Dept. of Corporations v. Speedee Oil Change Systems, Inc. (2007) 147
Cal.App.4th 424, 429.) If the buyer prevails on an action under the
Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act, “the buyer shall be allowed by the court to
recover as part of the judgment a sum equal to the aggregate amount of costs
and expenses, including attorney’s fees based on actual time expended,
determined by the court to have been reasonably incurred by the buyer in
connection with the commencement and prosecution of such action.” (Civ. Code, §
1794, subd. (d).) 
“In any action on a contract, where the contract
specifically provides that attorney’s fees and costs, which are incurred to
enforce that contract, shall be awarded either to one of the parties or to the
prevailing party, then the party who is determined to be the party prevailing
on the contract, whether he or she is the party specified in the contract or
not, shall be entitled to reasonable attorney’s fees in addition to other
costs.” (Civ. Code, § 1717, subd. (a).) The court may determine fees pursuant to
the section upon notice and motion by a party. The party prevailing on the
contract is that “who recovered a greater relief in the action on the
contract.” (Id., § 1717, subd. (b)(1).) The court may also determine
that there is no prevailing party.
The attorney bears the burden of proof as to
“reasonableness” of any fee claim. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1033.5, subd. (c)(5).)
This burden requires competent evidence as to the nature and value of the
services rendered. (Martino v. Denevi (1986) 182 Cal.App.3d 553, 559.) A
plaintiff’s verified billing invoices are prima facie evidence that the costs,
expenses, and services listed were necessarily incurred. (Hadley v. Krepel
(1985) 167 Cal.App.3d 677, 682.) “In challenging attorney fees as excessive
because too many hours of work are claimed, it is the burden of the challenging
party to point to the specific items challenged, with a sufficient argument and
citations to the evidence. General arguments that fees claimed are excessive,
duplicative, or unrelated do not suffice.” (Lunada Biomedical v. Nunez
(2014) 230 Cal.App.4th 459, 488.)
In determining whether the requested attorney’s fees are
“reasonable,” the Court’s “first step involves the lodestar figure—a
calculation based on the number of hours reasonably expended multiplied by the
lawyer’s hourly rate. The lodestar figure may then be adjusted, based on
consideration of facts specific to the case, in order to fix the fee at the
fair market value for the legal services provided.” (Gorman v. Tassajara
Development Corp. (2008) 178 Cal.App.4th 44, 92.) In determining whether to
adjust the lodestar figure, the Court may consider the nature and difficulty of
the litigation, the amount of money involved, the skill required and employed
to handle the case, the attention given, the success or failure, and other
circumstances in the case. (EnPalm LLC v. Teitler (2008) 162 Cal.App.4th
770, 774 (EnPalm).)
 
Under Civil Code section 1794, courts must first make an
initial determination of the actual time expended before ascertaining whether
that amount of time and the amount thus charged are reasonable. (Morris v. Hyundai
Motor America (2019) 41 Cal.App.5th 24, 34.) In making such a
determination, courts are to consider the complexity of the case, procedural
demands, skill exhibited by counsel, and results achieved. (Ibid.) If
the time expended or resulting charge are not reasonable under these
circumstances, the trial court must award a lesser amount. (Ibid.) It is
the prevailing buyer’s burden to show that the fees incurred were allowable,
reasonably necessary to the litigation, and reasonable in amount. (Ibid.)
 
B.     Discussion
 
Plaintiff moves for an award of attorney’s fees in the amount of $106,802
with a lodestar multiplier of 0.5 for $160,203 in total fees against Defendant.
Plaintiff is the prevailing party for the purposes of this fee motion under a
settlement agreement entered into by Defendant. (Kirnos Decl. ¶ 13, Ex. C.)
Defendant does not contest that Plaintiff is entitled to fees; rather,
Defendant argues that the rates and hours claimed by Plaintiff are unreasonable,
and that Plaintiff should not be entitled to a lodestar multiplier. The Court
finds that Plaintiff’s claimed rates are reasonable along with most of
Plaintiff’s claimed hourly totals. However, the Court does not find a lodestar
multiplier appropriate in this case.
 
Plaintiff’s Evidentiary Objections
 
Plaintiff objects to the declaration of Jacqueline Chinery on various
grounds. Plaintiff’s second objection is sustained on the basis that paragraph 8
is overly argumentative. Plaintiff’s other objections are overruled, as Chinery
provides a factual foundation for any opinions.
 
Reasonableness of Hours 
 
            Plaintiff
alleges 252.9 billable hours total over the 4.5 years of litigation in this case.
(Kirnos Decl., Ex. A.) These hours are split among 24 different attorneys
billing at various rates. (Id. ¶ 28.) Some of Plaintiff’s hourly entries
are unbilled to reduce duplicative entries and eliminate intra-office
communications or double billing for meetings. (Id. ¶ 22, Ex. A.)
Plaintiff’s counsel’s work included written discovery, motion practice, depositions
of Plaintiff and Defendant’s person most qualified and custodian of records, a vehicle
inspection, attempts at mediation, and trial preparation. (Id. ¶ 12.)
 
Defendants challenge several of
Plaintiff’s billing entries, including the following: (1) 11.6 hours for
meetings among Plaintiff’s attorneys; (2) 7.7 hours for the creation of
standard trial documents; (3) 15.7 hours for unspecified trial preparation; (4)
13.3 hours to oppose standard motions in limine; (5) 7.7 hours to review
Plaintiff’s deposition; (6) 4.9 hours to review the deposition of Plaintiff’s
expert; (7) 4.9 hours to review the deposition of Defendant’s person most
knowledgeable; (8) 34.2 hours for different attorneys to prepare for and attend
trial calls; (9) .8 hours to respond to an OSC issued because Plaintiff’s
attorney’s failed to appear at a CMC; (10) 6.1 hours for a new attorney to
review the case file in 2024; (11) 10.6 hours to generate a fee motion; and
(12) 11.6 hours for the unsuccessful prosecution for fraud and punitive damages
claims which are not entitled to fees. 
 
Defendant
argues that Plaintiff is not entitled to recover fees in connection with claims
for fraud not brought under the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act. “When a
cause of action for which attorney fees are provided by statute is joined with
other causes of action for which attorney fees are not permitted, the
prevailing party may recover only on the statutory cause of action.” (Atkins
v. Enterprise Rent-A-Car Co. of San Francisco (2000) 79 Cal.App.4th 1127,
1133.) However, if certain issues are common to causes of action for which fees
are permitted and for which they are not, fees need not be apportioned. (Ibid.)
“All expenses incurred on the common issues qualify for an award.” (Ibid.)
Here, the issues concerning Plaintiff’s fraud claims are roughly equivalent to
the Song-Beverly claims, as both involve defects with the vehicle. (See Santana
v. FCA US, LLC (2020) 56 Cal.App.5th 334, 349 [finding that claims for
fraud and claims under Song-Beverly involve similar evidence].) Thus, these
hours are reasonable.
 
Defendant
challenges the hours spent by Plaintiff’s counsel meeting to discuss the case.
However, such coordination is a necessary part of litigation, and the time
billed for discussing the case, 11.6 hours, is proportional to the time alleged
working on the case in total, 252.9 hours. Thus, these hours are reasonable.
Similarly, the Court also finds the time spent by Plaintiff’s counsel reviewing
depositions for the purpose of preparing the case to be reasonable.
 
Defendant
also challenges hours spent creating trial documents, preparing for trial,
attending trial calls, opposing motions in limine, and reviewing documents in
preparation for these tasks. While Defendant offered to settle the case before
trial, Plaintiff achieved a better settlement after trial preparation had
finished. This implies that the work created better circumstances for Plaintiff,
not to mention that hours were spent opposing motions made by Defendant. Thus,
these hours are reasonable.
 
Defendant
objects to the 10.6 hours spent on the present fee motion and reply. However,
this time is necessary given the objections presented by Defendant. Much of
Plaintiff’s motion and reply are not boilerplate. Thus, these hours are
reasonable as well.
 
Defendant
objects to the 0.8 hours billed by Plaintiff’s counsel to attend an OSC
regarding their own failure to appear at an earlier CMC. This was not a necessary
litigation expense. (Kirnos Decl., Ex. A at p. 3.) Thus, these hours are
unreasonable. Accordingly, the Court finds 252.1 total hours alleged by
Plaintiff’s counsel to be reasonable.        
 
Reasonableness of Rates 
 
Requested rates are reasonable if they are “within the
range of reasonable rates charged by and judicially awarded comparable
attorneys for comparable work.” (Children’s Hospital & Medical Center v.
Bonta (2002) 97 Cal.App.4th 740, 783 (Bonta).) The Court may
consider the sworn declarations of attorneys regarding their customary fees,
hourly rate determinations in other cases, and the prevailing fees in the
community as evidence of the reasonable market rate. (Heritage Pacific
Financial, LLC v. Monroy (2013) 215 Cal.App.4th 972, 1009.) 
 
Here, Plaintiff alleges various hourly rates for the 24
attorneys doing work on the present case. (Kirnos Decl. ¶ 28.) The rates have
increased marginally for each of the attorneys over the course of the
litigation, reflecting their increasing levels of experience. (Ibid.)
Thus, the Court finds Plaintiff’s alleged rates reasonable. 
 
Lodestar Multiplier
 
Plaintiff argues that counsel is
entitled to a 0.5 lodestar multiplier due to the contingent nature of this
case. The Court may consider the nature and difficulty of the litigation, the
amount of money involved, the skill required and employed to handle the case,
the attention given, the success or failure, and other circumstances when
deciding on a lodestar multiplier. (EnPalm, supra, 162
Cal.App.4th at p. 774.) While this case was taken on contingency, the formulaic
nature of Song-Beverly actions provides fodder for a negative multiplier. Thus,
these factors cancel, and the Court does not award a lodestar multiplier in
this case.
 
Accordingly, the Court awards $106,572
in attorney’s fees to Plaintiff from Defendant ([$106,802 alleged] – [$230
unreasonable] = [$106,572]).
 