 Case Number:  24STCV26485    Hearing Date:   January 17, 2025    Dept:  30 Calendar # 9
Date: 1/17/2025
Case Name: PAUL
SUKHOON OH vs VOLKSWAGEN GROUP OF AMERICA, INC., et al.
Case # 24STCV26485
            
MOTIONS
TO COMPEL DISCOVERY 
 
 
Summary
of Action: 
Plaintiff
commenced the present action on October 11, 2024. Plaintiff filed numerous
discovery motions on Defendants on December 20, 2024. The following table
reflects the various motions at issue.



Motion


Defendant


Opposition?




Motion to Deem Admitted


Volkswagen


No




MTC Special
  Interrogatories


Volkswagen


No




MTC Form Interrogatories


Volkswagen


No




MTC Requests for
  Production


Volkswagen


No




Motion to Deem Admitted


LAD-AU


Yes




MTC Special
  Interrogatories


LAD-AU


Yes




MTC Form Interrogatories


LAD-AU


Yes




MTC Requests for
  Production


LAD-AU


Yes



 
            Plaintiff requests that the Court compel Defendants to
provide responses to form interrogatories, special interrogatories, and
requests for production, and deem any requests for admissions admitted. If a
party to whom requests for admission are directed fails to serve a timely
response, that party waives any objection and “[t]he requesting party may move
for an order that the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters
specified in the requests be deemed admitted, as well as for a monetary sanction
under Chapter 7.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (b).) The Court shall
make such an order unless the responding party provides responses in
substantial compliance before the hearing. (Id., § 2033.280, subd. (c).)
If a party to whom an inspection demand is directed fails to serve a timely
response, that party waives any objection, the party making the demand may move
for an order compelling response, and the Court shall impose a monetary
sanction against any party who unsuccessfully opposes such a motion unless they
acted with substantial justification. (Id., § 2031.300.) If a party to
whom interrogatories are directed fails to serve a timely response, that party
waives any objection, the party making the demand may move for an order
compelling response, and the Court shall impose a monetary sanction against any
party who unsuccessfully opposes such a motion unless they acted with
substantial justification. (Id., § 2030.290.)
 
            Here, Plaintiff served requests for admission, requests
for production, form interrogatories, and special interrogatories on Volkswagen
Group of America, Inc. (Volkswagen) and LAD-AU, LLC (LAD) on October 24, 2024.
(Cha Decl. ¶ 2.) Written responses were due on December 2. (Ibid.)
Plaintiff sent a meet and confer letter to each Defendant on December 9,
requesting responses within one week. (Id. ¶ 3, Ex. B.) The Court deems
these efforts sufficient. While LAD has represented that it would provide
responses before the present hearing, making the present motions moot, to this
date neither Defendant has provided evidence of responses. 
 
             Accordingly, the
Court grants Plaintiff’s motions to compel responses to form interrogatories,
special interrogatories, and inspection demands with respect to each Defendant.
Additionally, the Court orders that the genuineness of each request for
admission be admitted with respect to each Defendant.
 
            The Court must order sanctions regarding each motion to
deem requests for admissions admitted. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd.
(c).) However, the Court need only grant sanctions with respect to the motions
to compel if a party unsuccessfully opposes such a motion. Here, Volkswagen did
not oppose the present motions to compel, while LAD did. The Court notes that
Plaintiff’s motions to compel and motions to deem admitted are nearly identical
and thus does not credit Plaintiff’s time estimations with respect to each
motion. Thus, the Court awards half of the amount requested as to each
Defendant regarding Plaintiff’s motions to deem matters admitted, at $642.50
per Defendant. Additionally, the Court awards $2,455 in sanctions against LAD
for unsuccessfully opposing the motions to compel, reflecting the cost of
drafting a single motion to compel. (Cha Decl. ¶ 5.) Accordingly, the Court
awards $642.50 in sanctions against Volkswagen, and $3,097.50 in sanctions
against LAD.
Conclusion:
 
            The Court grants
Plaintiff’s motions to compel and motions to deem matters admitted. The Court
awards $642.50 in sanctions against Volkswagen and $3,097.50 in sanctions
against LAD, payable within 30 days.
 