 Case Number:  21STCV36109    Hearing Date:   January 17, 2025    Dept:  30  
Calendar # 10
Date:
1/17/2025
Case
Name: JONATHAN EAGEN vs DOCTOR LASER MEDICAL INC., et al.
Case
# 21STCV36109
 
MOTION TO ENFORCE SETTLEMENT
 
 
Doctor Laser Medical, Inc., Dr. Laser
Medspa, PC, Dr. Laser, LLC, and Joseph Campana (Defendants) move for an order
enforcing the settlement agreement between him and Jonathan Eagen (Plaintiff).
The motion is denied.
 
A.   
Legal
Standard
 
“If parties to pending
litigation stipulate, in a writing signed by the parties outside of the presence of the court or orally before
the court, for settlement of the case, or part thereof, the court, upon motion,
may enter judgment pursuant to the terms of the settlement. If requested by the
parties, the court may retain jurisdiction over the parties to enforce the
settlement until performance in full of the terms of the settlement.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 664.6; see Mesa RHF Partners, L.P. v. City of Los Angeles
(2019) 33 Cal.App.5th 913, 917.)
 
B.    
Discussion 
  
 On
March 18, 2024, the parties entered into an oral settlement agreement
(Agreement) which was read into the record. The Agreement provided that: (1)
Plaintiff would dismiss all Defendants with prejudice; (2) Plaintiff would
provide a general release of all Defendants with a Civil Code section 1542
waiver; (3) Plaintiff and his counsel would be obligated to pay $2,500 in fees
and costs; (4) Defendants would waive all fees and costs in excess of $2,500;
(5) the payment would be made within 30 days; and (6) Defendants would release
their malicious prosecution and abuse of process claims against Plaintiff and
his attorneys. (Cohon Decl. ¶ 3, Ex. A.) 
 
If the terms of a
settlement are agreed to in open court, the determination of whether the
parties entered into a binding settlement requires a court to consider the
following: (1) whether the material terms of the settlement were explicitly
defined; (2) whether the supervising judicial officer questioned the parties
regarding their understanding; and (3) whether the parties expressly
acknowledged their understanding of the agreement. (In re Marriage of Assemi
(1994) 7 Cal.4th 896, 911 (Assemi).)
 
Here, the parties explicitly defined
the terms. (Cohon Decl. ¶ 3.) The Court questioned the parties, asking if
counsel “heard the [recitation] of the terms.” (Id., Ex. A.) And the
parties acknowledged their understanding. (Ibid.) Thus, the Agreement
constitutes a binding settlement under section 664.6, subdivision (a), and Assemi.
 
Plaintiff argues that the present
motion is moot because he has already agreed to the settlement. The parties to
pending litigation must stipulate to a settlement either in a signed writing or
orally before the Court for judgment to be entered pursuant to those terms.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 664.6, subd. (a).) Here, the parties agreed to terms orally
before the Court. (Cohon Decl. ¶ 3.) The terms agreed to in that stipulation
constitute the terms of the Agreement. The Court need not mandate Plaintiff’s
signature on a separate written agreement. Accordingly, Defendants’ motion is
denied.
 
The Court does not award sanctions.
 
Defendants seek sanctions in the amount
of $7,980. “A trial court may order a party, the party’s attorney, or both, to
pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by another
party as a result of actions or tactics, made in bad faith, that are frivolous
or solely intended to cause unnecessary delay.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 128.5,
subd. (a).) Here, it does not appear that Plaintiff’s actions are intended to
cause delay. Rather, Plaintiff has attempted to comply with the Agreement,
already stipulated to in open court as allowed for by section 664.6. Thus, sanctions
are not warranted.
 
 
The Court denies the motion.