 Case Number:  24SMCV03987    Hearing Date:   December 30, 2024    Dept:  I Plaintiff sues defendant for defamation.  Defendant demurs and plaintiff opposes.  The demurrer is OVERRULED (except as to the
fourth cause of action, which is deemed MOOT). 
The motion to strike is DENIED. 
Defendant has 30 days to answer. 
 
Plaintiff runs a coffee shop called Good People Coffee.  Plaintiff alleges that he enjoys a good
reputation in the community.  Plaintiff
asserts that on or about July 13, 2024, at about 10:00 pm, defendant published
untruthful and defamatory statements regarding plaintiff’s sexual actions and
history by placing stickers in the area. 
The stickers, of which there are photos, say things like “Good
Pedofile,” and “buy from a registered sex offender.”  (Emphasis omitted.)  Plaintiff claims to have surveillance camera
footage of the posters being placed. 
When confronted, defendant allegedly promised to stop, but plaintiff
says that defendant returned on or about August 3, and did it again.  That led to the suit.
 
Before addressing the merits, defendant asserts that the
opposition ought not be considered because it was filed a day late.  That is because the opposition must be filed
nine court days before the hearing. 
December 25, 2024, was (of course) a court holiday, and that meant that
plaintiff mis-calculated the due date. 
Defendant states that defendant was prejudiced by the untimely filing
because defendant had less time to reply, although defendant did reply.  The court must confess that it did read the
opposition (and the reply), but given the defendant’s statement, the court will
DISREGARD the opposition (and therefore the reply as well) and rule based
solely on the moving papers and the complaint itself.  But speaking of technical rules, defendant’s
demurrer violates one.  A demurrer can be
to the entire complaint or to particular causes of action.  If the former, the demurrer fails if any part
of the complaint would survive.  If the
latter, the demurrer must set forth in separate paragraphs each ground for demurrer
and the specific cause of action to which that allegation pertains.  Defendant failed to separate out the causes
of action or grounds, and thus the court could consider this just a general
demurrer.  That said, turnabout is fair
play and if the court will consider the motion even though the opposition was
late (even though the court will not consider the opposition itself), the court
will consider the demurrer even though it is not in the format defendant should
have used.  Both parties need to pay more
attention to the rules in the future.  
 
Defendant’s main contention as to defamation is that there
is not enough to show that the statement was of and concerning the
plaintiff.  Defendant is right that the
statement must be such that at least one third person would have understood the
statement as pertaining to the plaintiff. 
(Dickinson v. Cosby (2019) 37 Cal.App.5th 1138.)  Thus, if a person said “I know a crook,” it
would be hard for a plaintiff to sue for defamation without some explanation as
to how people would know that the defendant was referring to the
plaintiff.  Here, defendant is correct
that the plaintiff’s actual name is not used. 
But the posters were affixed outside of plaintiff’s coffee shop and they
expressly referred to buying coffee or the coffee shop’s name.  That is enough such that a reasonable person
would understand that defendant was referring to the owner or proprietor of
this particular coffee shop.  Defendant
also argues that the allegations are not sufficient as to the other
elements.  The court disagrees.  No great detail is needed to explain how the
statement is defamatory; it is defamatory per se.  The court can fairly infer that plaintiff
alleges that the statement is false.  And
the complaint also fairly alleges that the defendant knew that the statement
was false when made.  And, because
plaintiff is not a public figure, regular intent or even malice is not
required; a lesser standard is required, although even if actual malice were
required the court believes it was sufficiently alleged.  Nor does the complaint fail by an asserted
failure to allege that some third party saw the publicly placed posters.  The demurrer is, frankly, not even close and
it is OVERRULED.
 
Defendant claims that the second cause of action is
duplicative.  That might or might not be,
but it does no mischief at this point. 
The court will not allow a double recovery such that plaintiff recovers
twice for the same injury.  The demurrer
on that ground is OVERRULED.  (Blickman
Turkus, LP v. MF Downtown Sunnyvale, LLC (2008) 162 Cal.App.4th 858.)  The third cause of action is for intentional
infliction of emotional distress.  At
least as a pleading matter, the court has no trouble concluding that being
publicly and falsely accused of being a pedophile—that is, sexually abusing
children—is enough to cause severe emotional distress and the accusation is, at
least for purposes of the pleadings, sufficiently outrageous conduct to
qualify.  The fourth cause of action is
for an injunction.  The court agrees that
the use of a prior restraint is disfavored even to the point of being
presumptively invalid.  Generally, one
must sue after the fact.  (Gilbert v.
National Enquirer, Inc. (1996) 43 Cal.App.4th 1135.)  But there are exceptions and there are times
when an injunction will lie.  The real
problem is that injunction is not a cause of action, it is a remedy.  The court, however, construes the fourth
cause of action not as a standalone cause of action or tort, but rather as an
improperly labeled part of the prayer. 
The demurrer is MOOT on that ground. 
The court will not issue an injunction if no underlying cause of action
is made out.
 
Defendant also moves to strike the requests for punitive
damages and attorneys’ fees.  As to the
former, the allegations, if proven, could warrant punitive damages.  The motion in that regard is DENIED.  The court agrees that attorneys fees ought
not be awarded absent a legal basis to do so, and the court assures the defense
that unless plaintiff prevails and is able to explain to the court the legal
basis why fees are appropriate here, fees ought not and will not be
awarded.  But it is premature to make that
determination as a pleading matter.  The
motion in that regard is DENIED as well.
 
Although the court assumes it would go without saying, the
court will say it anyway.  Overruling the
demurrer and denying the motion to strike is in no way an indication of the
court’s view on the merits.  It might
well be that in light of the evidence there is no tort here.  But this is not the way to get at that issue;
for these purposes, the court presumes the complaint’s allegations to be true.