  Case Number:  23CHCV00053    Hearing Date:   December 13, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept. F43
Date: 12-13-24
Case # 23CHCV00053, Delgado v. General
Motors, LLC
Trial Date: 09-02-25
 
MOTION TO COMPEL
FURTHER RESPONSES TO SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES, SET ONE
 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff Roberto Delgado
RESPONDING PARTY: Defendant General Motors,
LLC
 
RELIEF REQUESTED
Order compelling code-compliant responses to
Special Interrogatories, Set One, numbers 2, 7, 8, 12-17, 19-23, and 29.
 
RULING: Motion
is granted pursuant to the Court’s Lemon Law Discovery Order.  
 
SUMMARY OF ACTION
This action arises from Plaintiff Roberto
Delgado’s (Plaintiff) purchase of an allegedly defective 2021 Chevrolet
Silverado 1500.  On January 9, 2023,
Plaintiff filed a complaint against Defendant General Motors, LLC (Defendant)
for violations of the Song-Beverly Act.  
 
On October 17, 2023, Plaintiff propounded
Special Interrogatories, Set One, on Defendant. 
Defendant served its unverified responses on November 20, 2023.  Verification was received on January 9,
2024.  Plaintiffs argue that Defendant’s
initial responses were filled with improper boilerplate objections and were
deficient.  
 
On June 17, 2024, after this motion had been
filed on January 31, 2024, the parties met and conferred via
videoconference.  After meeting and
conferring, the parties filed a joint stipulation on July 18, 2024, which
indicated the parties were still at an impasse for Special Interrogatories
numbers 2, 7, 8, 12-17, 19-23, and 29.  
 
On October 11, 2024, the Court continued the
hearing for this motion, ordered the parties to review the Court’s Lemon Law
discovery order, and ordered Defense counsel to file a declaration explaining
their reason for failing to appear at the hearing.  The Court also ordered the parties to file a
joint statement of remaining issues.  
 
The parties filed their joint statement on
November 25, 2024.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANALYSIS
A demanding party may move to compel further
responses to special interrogatories where the demanding party fails to respond
or responds with objections or incomplete answers.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290, 2030.300.)  The demanding party must serve the motion to
compel further within 45 days after service of verified responses, unless the
parties agree, in writing, to extend the time to file.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (c).)  If the responding party serves unverified
responses, the 45-day time limit does not run until verified responses are
served.  (See Golf & Tennis Pro Shop,
Inc. v. Superior Court (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 127, 135-136.)
 
 
            SROG
No. 2
“Please IDENTIFY any and all REPAIR DOCUMENTS
issued by YOU or on YOUR behalf for vehicles of the same make, year, and model
as the SUBJECT VEHICLE that pertain to the SUSPENSION DEFECT.”
 
Plaintiff argues that the requested documents
will allow Plaintiff to meet his burden of proving Defendant failed to repair
his Chevrolet Silverado after making reasonable efforts to do so.  Defendant’s attempts to repair the alleged defect
in vehicles of the same make, model, and year as Plaintiff’s vehicle are
relevant to show whether Defendant repaired or conformed Plaintiff’s vehicle to
the warranty within a reasonable time or following a reasonable number of
attempts.  The requested information is
also relevant because Defendant has an affirmative duty to provide its
authorized repair facilities with sufficient service literature and replacement
parts to effect repairs within the express warranty period.   
 
In opposition, Defendant argues the
interrogatory is overbroad, vague, ambiguous, and not narrowly tailored to the
claims and defenses in this case.  This
lawsuit focuses solely on Plaintiff’s 2021 Chevrolet Silverado, not every
Silverado released with the same year, make, and model.  Further, the requested documents are not kept
in Defendant’s custody and control, but in the custody and control of the
dealerships.  However, Defendant is
willing to provide any incidentally obtained repair orders in its possession
regarding Plaintiff’s vehicle to the extent that they have not already been
provided.  
 
“A plaintiff pursuing an action under the Act
has the burden to prove that (1) the vehicle had a nonconformity covered by the
express warranty that substantially impaired the use, value or safety of the
vehicle (the nonconformity element); (2) the vehicle was presented to an
authorized representative of the manufacturer of the vehicle for repair (the
presentation element); and (3) the manufacturer or his representative did not
repair the nonconformity after a reasonable number of repair attempts (the failure
to repair element).”  (Oregel v.
American Isuzu Motors, Inc. (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 1094 [citing Civ. Code, §
1793.2; Ibrahim v. Ford Motor Co. (1989) 214 Cal.App.3d 878,
886-887].)  
 
Documents such as recall notices and
technical bulletins noting actual and potential defects and instructing
technicians how to repair the defects are relevant and could support a finding
that a manufacturer did not repair a specific vehicle’s defects to conform to
an express warranty.  (See Donlen v.
Ford Motor Co. (2013) 217 Cal.App.4th 138, 152-154.)  These documents are relevant even if they are
issued before or after a vehicle purchased. 
(Id. at pp. 153-154.)  
 
Plaintiff seeks documents issued by Defendant
or by third parties on Defendant’s behalf regarding the Suspension Defect in 2021
Chevrolet Silverados.  This documentation
is relevant to show that Defendant knew of the defect and issued instructions
to repair the defect.  Because car
manufacturers are required to provide “authorized service and repair facilities”
with sufficient services literature and replacement parts to make repairs
during the express warranty period, Defendant, the manufacturer of Plaintiff’s
2021 Chevrolet Silverado, is the entity most likely able to identify the
requested documents.  (Civ. Code, §
1793.2, subd. (a)(3).)  
 
Accordingly, the Court strikes Defendant’s
objections and orders Defendant to serve a further response to request number 2.
 
            SROG
Nos. 7, 8, 12, 13
 
“Please IDENTIFY all DOCUMENTS on which YOU
rely in determining whether a consumer complaint constitutes a substantial
impairment to the use, value, or safety of the consumer’s vehicle.”
 
“Please IDENTIFY all PERSONS on whom YOU rely
in determining whether a consumer complaint constitutes a substantial
impairment to the use, value, or safety of the consumer’s vehicle.”
 
“Please IDENTIFY all DOCUMENTS on which YOU
rely in determining whether a number of repair presentations is reasonable.”
 
“Please IDENTIFY all PERSONS on whom YOU rely
in determining whether a number of repair presentations is reasonable.”
 
 
Plaintiff argues that the requested information
is relevant and necessary to support civil penalties for Defendant’s willful
failure to repurchase or replace his 2021 Chevrolet Silverado.  A manufacturer’s duty to repurchase arises as
soon as the manufacturer fails to comply with the warranty within a reasonable
time.  The trier of fact often considers
a manufacturer’s written policies on the “repair or replace” requirement and
evaluating repurchase requests to determine whether compliance happened within
a reasonable time.  If no such policy
exists, this suggests that the manufacturer is not complying with the
Song-Beverly Act.  
 
In opposition, Defendant argues these
interrogatories are overbroad, vague, ambiguous, and not narrowly tailored to lead
to the discovery of admissible evidence. 
Whether the number of repair opportunities is reasonable varies case by
case and should be decided by a jury.  Defendant
also asserts that the interrogatories seek work product and disclosure of its
counsel’s impressions, conclusions, opinions, legal research, and
theories.  
  
To recover civil penalties in a Song-Beverly
case, the plaintiff must prove that the defendant manufacturer’s failure to
repurchase or replace a vehicle after a reasonable number of repair
opportunities was willful.  (Civ. Code, §
1794, subd. (c).)  A manufacturer’s
conduct may be willful if it makes no effort “to gather the available
information on repair history[.]”  (See Kwan
v. Mercedes-Benz of North America, Inc. (1994) 23 Cal.App.4th 174,
185.)  “A decision made without the use
of reasonably available information germane to that decision is not a
reasonable, good faith decision.”  (Id.
at p. 186.)  “Among the factors to be
considered by the jury are whether: (1) the manufacturer knew the vehicle had
not been repaired within a reasonable period or after a reasonable number of
attempts, and (2) whether the manufacturer had a written policy on the
requirement to repair or replace.”  (Jensen
v. BMW of North America, Inc. (1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 112, 136, disapproved
on other grounds by Rodriguez v. FCA US, LLC (2024) 17 Cal.5th 189 [citing
Kwan, supra, 23 Cal.App.4th at pp. 185-186].)  The absence of a written policy for dealing
with demands for the refund or replacement of vehicles could demonstrate a car
manufacturer’s lack of good faith in making a decision.  (Kwan, supra, 23 Cal.App.4th at
pp. 179, 186 [allowing employee involved in the “refund or replace” process to
testify generally about the process for dealing with “refund and replace”
demands].)   
 
Plaintiff asks Defendant to identify the titles
of documents and names of persons Defendant relies on in determining whether the
number of repairs made on a vehicle is reasonable and whether a consumer
complaint constitutes a substantial impairment to the use, value, and safety of
the consumer’s vehicle.  The information
is relevant to show the process Defendant uses to decide whether or not to
cease attempting repairs on a vehicle or to replace the vehicle.  Further, the requested information is
relevant to show whether Defendant’s final decisions were reasonable and made
in good faith.  While a jury ultimately decides
whether the number of repair attempts was reasonable, the jury may consider
written policies Defendant relied on, the absence of a policy, or testimony
from employees involved in the practice of dealing with “refund or replacement
demands.”  (See Kwan, supra,
23 Cal.App.4th at pp. 179, 186.)  
 
Accordingly, the Court strikes Defendant’s
objections and orders Defendant to serve a further responses to request numbers
7, 8, 12, and 13.  For “documents,” Defendant’s
responses are limited to the information set out in Section 2, categories (f)
and (g) of the Court’s Lemon Law Discovery Order.  For “persons,” Defendant’s responses are
limited to identifying persons involved in the “repair and replacement” process
on Defendant’s behalf per Kwan v. Mercedes-Benz.  
 
            SROG
Nos. 14, 15, 16
 
“If YOU contend YOU are under no obligation
to repurchase or replace the SUBJECT VEHICLE in accordance with the
Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act, please state all facts upon which YOU rely
for this contention.”
 
“If YOU contend YOU are under no obligation
to repurchase or replace the SUBJECT VEHICLE in accordance with the
Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act, IDENTIFY all documents upon which YOU rely
for this contention.”
 
“If YOU contend YOU are under no obligation
to repurchase or replace the SUBJECT VEHICLE in accordance with the
Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act, IDENTIFY all PERSONS upon whom YOU rely for
this contention.”
 
Plaintiff argues that the requested
information is relevant to proving nonconformity of the vehicle, presentation
of the vehicle for repair, and manufacturer’s failure to repair the defect in a
reasonable time or following a reasonable number of repair attempts.  Because one of the principal purposes of
interrogatories is to ascertain the contentions of an adverse party, Plaintiff
is entitled to further responses.  
 
In opposition, Defendant argues these
interrogatories are overbroad, vague, ambiguous, and not narrowly tailored to
lead to admissible evidence.  Whether the
number of repair opportunities is reasonable varies case by case and should be
decided by a jury.  Defendant also
asserts that the interrogatories seek work product and disclosure of its
counsel’s impressions, conclusions, opinions, legal research, and
theories.  
 
Interrogatories are “used to clarify the
contentions of the parties” and should be used liberally to clarify and narrow
the issues in the pleadings.  (Burke
v. Superior Court (1972) 71 Cal.2d 276, 281.)  However, the answers to interrogatories cannot
be used to limit the answerer “to facts then known and to prevent him from producing
subsequently discovered facts.”  (Singer
v. Superior Court (1960) 54 Cal.2d 318, 325.)  
 
Plaintiff seeks the facts, documents, and
identities of persons upon which Defendant relies to support a defense that
Defendant had not obligation to repurchase or replace Plaintiff’s vehicle.  Plaintiff does not seek specific legal
theories, strategies, or the mental impressions of Defendant’s counsel.  This information is relevant to determine the
basis of Defendant’s defenses so that Plaintiff can prepare for trial.  The requests are clear and are likely to lead
to evidence supporting Defendant’s defenses. 

 
Accordingly, the Court strikes Defendant’s
objections and orders Defendant to serve a further responses to request numbers
14,15, and 16.
 
            SROG
No. 17
 
“Please state the date on which YOU first
became aware of the SUSPENSION DEFECT in vehicles of the same year, make, and model
as the SUBJECT VEHICLE.”
 
Plaintiff argues that the requested
information is relevant to determining whether Defendant knew or was aware that
Plaintiff’s 2021 Chevrolet Silverado had not been repaired within a reasonable
period or after a reasonable number of attempts.  A trier in fact could consider such
information in deciding whether Defendant’s actions were willful.
 
In opposition, Defendant argues the same
objections as above.
 
The date a defendant manufacturer becomes
aware of a defect in specific vehicles is relevant to show whether, through the
manufacturer’s subsequent actions, the manufacturer, complied with warranties
within a reasonable time.  (Santana v.
FCA US, LLC (2020) 56 Cal.App.5th 334, 347 [“A manufacturer’s duty to
repurchase a vehicle does not depend on a consumer’s request, but instead
arises as soon as the manufacturer fails to comply with the warranty within a
reasonable time.”] [citing Krotin v. Porsche Cars North America, Inc.
(1995) 38 Cal.App.4th 294, 301-302].)  
 
Plaintiff’s request is clear, relevant, does
not request privileged material or attorney work product, and is reasonably
calculated to lead to admissible evidence. 
The date on which Defendant became aware of the defect is paramount to
determining whether Defendant complied with section 1792.3.  
 
Accordingly, the Court strikes Defendant’s
objections and orders Defendant to serve a further response to request number
17.
 
            SROG
Nos. 19, 20, 21, 22, 23
 
“Please IDENTIFY all DOCUMENTS underlying the
publication of Technical Service Bulletin (“TSB”) 19-NA-129 to YOUR network of
authorized dealerships. [This request shall be interpreted to mean (but not be
limited to) cost-benefit analyses, root cause analyses, failure rate data,
parts replacement(s) data, and/or any other DOCUMENTS used by YOU or on YOUR
behalf in creating TSB 19-NA-129.]”
 
“Please IDENTIFY all DOCUMENTS underlying the
publication of any and all TSBs superseding TSB 19-NA-129 to YOUR network of
authorized dealerships. [This request shall be interpreted to mean (but not be
limited to) cost-benefit analyses, root cause analyses, failure rate data,
parts replacement(s) data, and/or any other DOCUMENTS used by YOU or on YOUR
behalf in creating all superseding versions of TSB 19-NA-129.]”
 
“Please IDENTIFY all DOCUMENTS underlying the
publication of TSB 21-NA-222 to YOUR network of authorized dealerships. [This
request shall be interpreted to mean (but not be limited to) cost-benefit
analyses, root cause analyses, failure rate data, parts replacement(s) data,
and/or any other DOCUMENTS used by YOU or on YOUR behalf in creating TSB
21-NA-222.]”
 
Plaintiff argues that Technical Service
Bulletins (TSBs) and the documents used to support the TSBs are relevant to
show Defendant’s awareness of the alleged Suspension Defect, that Defendant
possesses the responsive information that is probative of Defendant’s ability
to repair the defect or conform the vehicle to the warranty, and Defendant’s
willful refusal to repurchase or replace a vehicle having an unrepairable
defect.  Defendant has published several
TSBs intended to address the alleged Suspension Defect.  The TSBs resulted from various monitoring
efforts, internal investigations, analyses, and assessments to track customer
complaints, monitor various repairs, investigate returned parts, and develop
new repair procedures based on Defendant’s then-prevailing theories about the
root cause of the problems articulated by consumers.  If the problems persists after the TSB is
implemented, Defendant receives feedback on the failed repairs and revises the
TSB.  
 
In opposition, Defendant states it is willing
to produce the TSBs sought if they were performed on Plaintiff’s 2021 Chevrolet
Silverado.  Defendant also objects to the
interrogatories as overbroad, vague, and not reasonably calculated to lead to
the discovery of admissible evidence.  Further,
Defendant notes that Plaintiff only needs to prove that his vehicle suffered
from a defect, Defendant failed to repair within a reasonable number of repair
attempts, not that the vehicle suffered from a defect.  Just because a TSB was issued or performed on
a vehicle does not mean the vehicle was defective.  
 
TSBs are relevant to disclose warranty data
for specific vehicle models to show what tools and information a manufacturer issued
to its authorized repair facilities to fix a defect or nonconformities.  (See Bowser v. Ford Motor Co.78
Cal.App.5th 587, 606-607.)  And while customers
can usually access TSBs directly from the manufacturer, J.D. Power, or Consumer
Reports, manufacturers rarely disclose the information it gathers and uses
during development and from tracking warranty repairs.  (Ibid.)  In Bower v. Ford Motor Company, the
Court of Appeal affirmed the admission of internal emails and documents showing
a manufacturer was aware of engine issues in consumers’ vehicles and that the manufacturer
struggled to find the root cause of the issue. 
(Id. at p. 614-616 [admitting these documents into evidence
because the authors of these documents and emails were employees tasked with
warranty issues].)  And although the
Court of Appeal did not admit some of the internal emails and documents that
supported the requested TSBs due to lack of foundation, the Court did not do so
on grounds of irrelevance.  (Id.
at pp. 616-617; see also Code Civ. Proc., § 2017.010 [noting the scope of
discovery is admissible evidence or items which will lead to admissible
evidence].)  
 
Plaintiff seeks the names of documents
Defendant relied on in forming and issuing the above-mentioned TSBs.  This information is relevant to showing the
reasonableness of Defendant’s good faith efforts in deciding whether to or not
to repurchase or replace Plaintiff’s vehicle. 
This information is also relevant to determining when Defendant knew
about the alleged defect and how much Defendant knew about the defect.
 
Accordingly, the Court strikes Defendant’s
objections and orders Defendant to serve a further response to request numbers
19, 20, 21, 22, 23.
 
            SROG
No. 29
 
“Please IDENTIFY all databases maintained by
YOU or on YOUR behalf containing electronically stored information relating to
YOUR efforts (or efforts on YOUR behalf) to investigate, diagnose, assess,
determine, modify, repair, and/or evaluate the SUSPENSION DEFECT in vehicles of
the same make, model, and year as the SUBJECT VEHICLE. [For purposes of this
interrogatory, the term “IDENTIFY” shall be interpreted to mean identification
of the name of the database, the location of the database, the custodians of such
database, and the manner in which the database may be searched.]”
 
Plaintiff argues that he is entitled to
knowing the location of ESI under sections 2031.030, subdivision (a), and
2017.010.  Defendant is obligated to
describe its electronic search protocol in order to produce all relevant
responsive information, not just those Defendant deems relevant.  
 
Defendant responds that Plaintiff’s request
seeks information on how Defendant maintains its records rather than where Defendant
maintains the records.  Plaintiff’s
request has more to do with Defendant’s confidential internal business aspects
rather than Plaintiff’s claims or defenses. 

 
“Discovery may be obtained of the identity
and location of persons having knowledge of any discoverable matter, as well as
of the existence, description, nature, custody, condition, and location of any
document, electronically stored information[.]”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2017.010.)  
 
Plaintiff seeks the names of the databases
where Defendant, and third parties on Defendant’s behalf, stores specific
documents and information relating to the alleged defect.  Plaintiff also seeks the location of these
databases, the names of the custodians of these databases, and how to search
the databases.  Courts have allowed such
discovery.  (See, e.g.,
Robertson v. Fleetwood Travel Trailers of Cal., Inc. (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th
785, 801 [discussing appropriate and relevant search terms for Defendant’s
database]; Scherer v. FCA US LLC (S.D. Cal. 2021) 538 F.Supp.3d 1002,
1005-1007 [ordering the parties to meet and confer to determine the appropriate
search terms, custodians, and databases to ensure production of all relevant
and responsive information relating to the alleged defect].)  
 
Accordingly, the Court strikes Defendant’s
objections and orders Defendant to comply with Plaintiff interrogatory number
29 and to meet and confer with Plaintiff to discuss the proper search terms to
produce the relevant documents in the databases identified in Defendant’s
response.  
 
CONCLUSION
The motion is granted, pursuant to compliance with the
Court’s Lemon Law Discovery Order.
 
ORDER
The
Court orders Defendant General Motors, LLC to provide objection-free,
code-compliant further responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One, numbers 2, 7, 8, 12-17, 19-23, and 29.
 
1.  Defendant is ordered to serve responses
within forty-five (45) days of the date of this order.  
 
2.  Defendant’s responses to request numbers 7,
8, 12, and 13 identifying “documents” are limited to the information set out in Section 2, categories (f) and
(g) of the Court’s Lemon Law Discovery Order. 
 
2. Defendant’s responses to request numbers
7, 8, 12, and 13 identifying “persons” are limited to identifying persons
involved in the “repair and replacement” process on Defendant’s behalf per Kwan
v. Mercedes-Benz.  
 
3.  The parties are also ordered to meet and
confer to determine the proper search terms to produce the relevant information
sought from the databases identified in Defendant’s response to request number
29.  The parties are to complete these
within forty-five (45) days of the date of this order.  
 
Plaintiff to give notice.