 Case Number:  22STCV19011    Hearing Date:   November 8, 2023    Dept:  28 


        Having considered the moving and
  opposing papers, the Court rules as follows.
BACKGROUND 
 On June 10, 2022, Plaintiff
  Todd Rigg (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants Sam Morris
  (“Morris”), Xiaohu Gan (“Gan”), Ling Zhang (“Zhang”), and Does 1-100 for
  assault, battery, intentional infliction of emotional distress, negligence,
  and negligent hiring, supervision and retention. 
 On February 21, 2023, Gan
  and Zhang filed an answer and a cross-complaint against Cross-Defendants
  Morris and Does 1-100 for full or partial equitable indemnification and
  declaratory relief. 
 On June 8, 2023, Gan and
  Zhang (“Moving Defendants”) filed motions (1) to compel Plaintiff’s responses to request for production of documents, set one, (2) to compel Plaintiff’s
  responses to special interrogatories, set one, and (3) to compel Plaintiff’s
  responses to form interrogatories.  The motions were set for hearing on November 8, 2023.  On
  October 26, 2023, Plaintiff filed oppositions. 
 Trial is currently
  scheduled for April 19, 2024. PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
 Moving Defendants request
  that the Court compel Plaintiff to serve full and complete verified responses
  without objections to the request for production of documents, set one,
  special interrogatories, set one, and form interrogatories. 
 Plaintiff requests that the
  Court deny the motions. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
 A.   Inspection
  demand 
        “If a party to whom a demand for
  inspection, copying, testing, or sampling is directed fails to serve a timely
  response to it, the following rules shall apply: 
 “(a) The
  party to whom the demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling is
  directed waives any objection to the demand, including one based on privilege
  or on the protection for work product under Chapter 4 (commencing with
  Section 2018.010). The court, on motion, may relieve that party from this
  waiver on its determination that both of the following conditions are
  satisfied: 
 “(1) The
  party has subsequently served a response that is in substantial compliance
  with Sections 2031.210, 2031.220, 2031.230, 2031.240, and 2031.280. 
 “(2) The
  party’s failure to serve a timely response was the result of mistake, inadvertence,
  or excusable neglect. 
 “(b) The
  party making the demand may move for an order compelling response to the
  demand. 
 “(c) Except
  as provided in subdivision (d), the court shall impose a monetary sanction under
  Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or
  attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to
  a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling, unless it finds that
  the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that
  other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. If a party
  then fails to obey the order compelling a response, the court may make those
  orders that are just, including the imposition of an issue sanction, an evidence
  sanction, or a terminating sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section
  2023.010). In lieu of or in addition to this sanction, the court may impose a
  monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010). 
 “(d) (1) Notwithstanding
  subdivision (c), absent exceptional circumstances, the court shall not impose
  sanctions on a party or any attorney of a party for failure to provide
  electronically stored information that has been lost, damaged, altered, or overwritten
  as a result of the routine, good faith operation of an electronic information
  system. 
 “(2) This
  subdivision shall not be construed to alter any obligation to preserve
  discoverable information.” 
(Code Civ.
  Proc., § 2031.300.) 
 B.   Interrogatories 
 “If
  a party to whom interrogatories are directed fails to serve a timely
  response, the following rules apply: 
 “(a) The
  party to whom the interrogatories are directed waives any right to exercise the
  option to produce writings under Section 2030.230, as well as any objection
  to the interrogatories, including one based on privilege or on the protection
  for work product under Chapter 4 (commencing with Section 2018.010). The
  court, on motion, may relieve that party from this waiver on its determination
  that both of the following conditions are satisfied: 
 “(1) The
  party has subsequently served a response that is in substantial compliance
  with Sections 2030.210, 2030.220, 2030.230, and 2030.240. 
 “(2) The
  party’s failure to serve a timely response was the result of mistake,
  inadvertence, or excusable neglect. 
 “(b) The
  party propounding the interrogatories may move for an order compelling
  response to the interrogatories. 
 “(c) The court shall impose a monetary sanction
  under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person,
  or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response
  to interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction
  acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the
  imposition of the sanction unjust. If a party then fails to obey an order
  compelling answers, the court may make those orders that are just, including
  the imposition of an issue sanction, an evidence sanction, or a terminating
  sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010). In lieu of or in
  addition to that sanction, the court may impose a monetary sanction under
  Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010).” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290.) 
 C.   Discovery
  sanctions 
 “The court may impose a
  monetary sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse of the discovery
  process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses,
  including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct.
  The court may also impose this sanction on one unsuccessfully asserting that another
  has engaged in the misuse of the discovery process, or on any attorney who
  advised that assertion, or on both. If a monetary sanction is authorized by
  any provision of this title, the court shall impose that sanction unless it
  finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification
  or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
  unjust.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030, subd. (a).) 
“Misuses
  of the discovery process include, but are not limited to, the following: 
 *
  * *
 “(d) Failing
  to respond or to submit to an authorized method of discovery.”
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010,
  subd. (d).) 
DISCUSSION 
 On February 21, 2023,
  Moving Defendants served a request for production of documents, set one, special
  interrogatories, set one, and form interrogatories on Plaintiff.  Plaintiff’s responses were due on May 16,
  2023 based on Moving Defendants’ agreement to extend the time to respond. According to Moving Defendants, Plaintiff
  had not served responses by the time Moving Defendants filed these motions on
  June 8, 2023. 
 Plaintiff asserts that he
  served discovery responses on June 8, 2023, the same day Moving Defendants
  filed the motions. Plaintiff’s oppositions include declarations from
  Plaintiff’s counsel stating that true and correct copies of Plaintiff’s
  discovery responses are attached to the declarations as “Exhibit 4.”  However, no exhibits are attached to the
  declarations. 
 The Court continues the
  hearing and orders Plaintiff and Moving Defendants (or their counsel) to file
  supplemental declarations stating whether and when Plaintiff served discovery
  responses.  Plaintiff is ordered to attach
  copies of the discovery responses, including proofs of service, to his
  supplemental declaration. 
CONCLUSION 
 The Court CONTINUES the
  hearing to a date to be provided.  No
  later than five days prior to the continued hearing, Plaintiff Todd Rigg and
  Defendants Xiaohu Gan and Ling Zhang (or their counsel) are ordered to file
  supplemental declarations stating
  whether and when Plaintiff Todd Rigg served responses to the discovery served
  by Defendants Xiaohu Gan and Ling Zhang. 
  Plaintiff Todd Rigg (or his counsel) is to attach copies of the
  discovery responses, including proofs of service, to his supplemental
  declaration. 
 Moving parties are ordered
  to give notice of this ruling. 
 Moving parties are ordered
  to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court within five days. 
Top
  of Form
Bottom
  of Form


