 Case Number:  22STCV12026    Hearing Date:   November 8, 2023    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposing and reply papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
April 8, 2022, Plaintiff Manuel De Jesus Mena (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendants Khaira Transport, Inc. (“Khaira”), Juan Carlos Guzman Rodriguez
(“Guzman”), Yuhwa Lung, and Does 1-100 for motor vehicle tort and general
negligence. 
On
June 2, 2022, Defendant Yu Lung (erroneously served as Yuhwa Lung) (“Lung”)
filed an answer and a request for a statement of damages. On June 29, 2022, Khaira filed an answer. On August 8, 2022, Guzman filed an answer. 
On
July 31, 2023, Lung filed an ex parte application to continue the trial and
discovery and motion cut-off dates.  
On
August 2, 2023, the Court granted the ex
parte application in part by continuing the trial to April 8, 2024.  The Court denied the request to continue or
reopen discovery deadlines without prejudice to filing a noticed motion. 
On
October 10, 2023, Khaira and Guzman (“Moving Defendants”) filed a motion to reopen discovery
to be heard on November 8, 2023.[1]
 On October 26, 2023, Plaintiff
filed an opposition. On November 1, 2023, Moving Defendants filed a reply. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for April 8, 2024. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Moving
Defendants request that the Court reopen discovery and base the new discovery
deadlines on the current trial date. 
Plaintiff
requests that the Court deny the motion. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2024.050 provides: 
“(a) On
motion of any party, the court may grant leave to complete discovery
proceedings, or to have a motion concerning discovery heard, closer to the
initial trial date, or to reopen discovery after a new trial date has been set.
This motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040. 
“(b) In
exercising its discretion to grant or deny this motion, the court shall take
into consideration any matter relevant to the leave requested, including, but
not limited to, the following: 
“(1) The
necessity and the reasons for the discovery. 
“(2) The
diligence or lack of diligence of the party seeking the discovery or the
hearing of a discovery motion, and the reasons that the discovery was not
completed or that the discovery motion was not heard earlier. 
“(3) Any
likelihood that permitting the discovery or hearing the discovery motion will
prevent the case from going to trial on the date set, or otherwise interfere
with the trial calendar, or result in prejudice to any other party. 
“(4) The
length of time that has elapsed between any date previously set, and the date
presently set, for the trial of the action. 
“(c) The
court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section
2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes a motion to extend or to reopen discovery, unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.050.) 

DISCUSSION 
Moving
Defendants assert that they must conduct substantial additional discovery, specifically: 
“1. Obtaining updated medical and billing records from
any recent treatment Plaintiff has received; 
“2. Taking the deposition of plaintiff’s sister,
brother-in-law and their two children; 
“3. Taking the deposition of Plaintiff’s four
children; 
“4. Taking the deposition of Plaintiff’s employer; 
“5. Taking the deposition of Ling Wei Wu, a passenger;

“6. Taking the deposition of Officer K. Simas and A.
Rios; 
“7. Having Plaintiff and Defendant Yuhwa Lung’s
vehicles inspected; 
“8. Having Plaintiff seen for a neurological DME; 
“9. Having Plaintiff seen for a neuropsychological
DME; 
“10. Obtaining records to support Plaintiff’s lost
earnings and future lost earnings claims; 
“11. Obtaining Plaintiff’s full employment records
that predate and postdate the incident; 
“12. Obtaining records from the DOT for the past 10
years including all DOT required medical examinations; and 
“13. Defendants would be prejudiced if they are not
able to make an expert demand in this
matter, and the deadline for expert demands has already passed.” 
(Motion pp. 2-3.) 
Moving
Defendants first appeared in this action over a year ago.  They have recently obtained new counsel, but
they do not explain why their previous counsel did not complete this discovery
before the applicable deadlines. 
According
to Plaintiff’s opposition, Moving Defendants never attempted to obtain this
discovery prior to the deadlines. Plaintiff provided timely responses
to written discovery that would have allowed Moving Defendants to serve
deposition notices, subpoenas for records and additional written discovery. 
Although
Moving Defendants fail to explain their lack of diligence, they have shown “[t]he
necessity and the reasons for” at least some of the requested discovery and
they met and conferred with Plaintiff’s counsel before filing their motion.  Therefore, the Court will grant the motion in
part and reopen discovery only for the purpose of allowing Moving Defendants to
conduct the requested defense medical examinations, two additional fact
depositions, and the requested vehicle inspections.  The new discovery deadline will trail the
April 8, 2024 trial date. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS IN PART the motion of Defendants Khaira Transport, Inc. and Juan
Carlos Guzman Rodriguez to reopen discovery. 
Discovery is reopened only for the purpose of allowing Defendants Khaira
Transport, Inc. and Juan Carlos Guzman Rodriguez to conduct a neurological
defense examination, a neuropsychological defense examination, two additional fact
depositions, and inspections of the vehicles of Plaintiff Manuel De Jesus Mena
and Yu Lung (erroneously served as Yuhwa Lung). 
The new discovery deadline will trail the April 8, 2024 trial date.  In all other respects, the Court DENIES the
motion. 
Moving
parties are ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
parties are ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.

