 Case Number:  23AHCV00369    Hearing Date:   January 26, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



JESUS MANUEL PEREZ CAUDILLO, 
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
GENERAL
   MOTORS LLC, et al.,
 
                   Defendant(s),


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 23AHCV00369
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEMURRER WITH MOTION TO STRIKE 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
January
   26, 2024



 
I.       INTRODUCTION
          On
February 21, 2023, plaintiff Jesus Manuel Perez Caudillo (“Plaintiff”) filed
this action against defendant General Motors LLC (“Defendant”) asserting claims
based on fraudulent concealment and violations of the Song-Beverly Act. Plaintiff
alleges that he purchased a 2019 GMC Sierra (“Subject Vehicle”) on June 8,
2019, which included an eight-speed automatic transmission. 
Plaintiff
alleges that Defendant’s new eight-speed automatic transmissions had a “design
defect based on a typical architecture that causes ‘harsh shifts’ in lower
gears, which can feel like jerking, lurching, and/or hesitations” (the
“Transmission Defect”) and that the Subject Vehicle was delivered with this
Transmission Defect. 
 
Plaintiff
delivered the Subject Vehicle for repairs in February 2020 for an electrical
and structural issue. In September 2021, on November 7 and November 25, 2022, and
in December 2022, Plaintiff presented the vehicle for issues relating to the Transmission
Defect. (Compl., ¶¶ 63-66.) The Transmission Defect made Plaintiff’s Vehicle
“hesitate[] when attempting to pick up speed after slowing down, and when
taking off from a stop. This hesitation is sometimes accompanied by excessive
revving in which the rpm meter moves, but the vehicle does not accelerate
commensurately, followed by a jerk or judder when the vehicle does engage.”
Furthermore, Plaintiff alleges, “[the] transmission slip[ped] when driven at
highway speeds.” (Compl., ¶ 13.) 
          On
August 10, 2023, Defendant filed a demurrer to Plaintiff’s cause of action for
“Fraud-Fraudulent Inducement-Concealment” and a motion to strike Plaintiff’s
prayer for punitive damages. 
II.      LEGAL
STANDARDS
A demurrer tests the legal sufficiency
of the pleadings and will be sustained only where the pleading is defective on
its face. (City of Atascadero v. Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith,
Inc. (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 445, 459.) “We treat the demurrer as admitting
all material facts properly pleaded but not contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law. We accept the factual allegations of the complaint
as true and also consider matters which may be judicially noticed. [Citation.]”
(Mitchell v. California Department of Public Health (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th
1000, 1007; Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co. (1981) 123
Cal.App.3d 593, 604 [“the facts alleged in the pleading are deemed to be true,
however improbable they may be”].) Allegations are to be liberally construed. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 452.) A demurrer may be brought if insufficient facts are stated
to support the cause of action asserted. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd.
(e).) 
Any party, within the time allowed to
respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole
or any part thereof. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1).) The court may,
upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems
proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any
pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a); Stafford v. Shultz (1954)
42 Cal.2d 767, 782 [“Matter in a pleading which is not essential to the claim
is surplusage; probative facts are surplusage and may be stricken out or
disregarded”].) The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not
drawn or filed in conformity with California law, a court rule, or an order of
the court. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (b).) An immaterial or irrelevant
allegation is one that is not essential to the statement of a claim or defense;
is neither pertinent to nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or
defense; or a demand for judgment requesting relief not supported by the allegations
of the complaint. (Code Civ. Proc., § 431.10, subd. (b).) The grounds for
moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial
notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)
Leave to amend must be allowed where
there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v.
Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) The burden is on the complainant to
show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Ibid.)
III.     DISCUSSION
A.  
Demurrer
Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s fraud
claim is 8 months and 13 days too late because he should have filed this action
by June 8, 2022, three years after he purchased the Subject Vehicle. Defendant
places great emphasis on Plaintiff’s allegation that the “Subject Vehicle was
delivered to Plaintiff with serious defects and nonconformities.” (Demurrer, p.
8 [citing to Compl., ¶ 19].) Defendant contends that the delayed discovery rule
does not apply because Plaintiff “conceded” that the Subject Vehicle was delivered
to him with defects. 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues that alleging
the Subject Vehicle is defective is not the same as admitting knowledge of
those defects. Second, Plaintiff argues that the statute of limitations was
tolled because Defendant concealed the Transmission Defect from Plaintiff since
2014, by concealing its internal data, consumer complaints, pre-release testing
data, aggregate data from dealers, repair orders, and service bulletins. Third,
Plaintiff argues that the statute of limitations was tolled because Defendant’s
authorized repair facility asserted that the Transmission Defect could be
fixed, which concealed the true nature of the Defect. 
On reply, Defendant relies on federal
cases to argue that reassurances from the repair centers alone were
insufficient to toll the fraud claim if there are signs of continued problems. The
Court agrees. Here, Plaintiff alleges that they began to experience the
Transmission Defects “[s]hortly after [they] purchased their vehicle” and the
problems “gradually worsened over time.” (Comp., ¶ 13.) Yet, Plaintiff did not
bring the Subject Vehicle in for repair for issues relating to the Transmission
Defects until September 2021, when they were told that the Subject Vehicle was
operating as intended. (Compl., ¶ 63.) This means that Plaintiff was allegedly
driving an automobile that was displaying the above-described hesitation,
excessive revving, failure to accelerate, jerks, judders, and transmission
slips for over two years before deciding to take the Vehicle in for repairs. It
is implausible that Plaintiff could not have uncovered the Transmission Defects
within those two years or that waiting that amount of time constitutes
“reasonable diligence.” Nor can Plaintiff have reasonably relied on
representations in September 2021 or November 2022 that the Subject Vehicle was
operating “as intended” after experiencing those symptoms for several years. 
Furthermore, Plaintiff tellingly does
not clearly allege when their fraudulent concealment claim accrued. Instead, Plaintiff
states that they did not learn of Defendant’s deception “until [they] filed
this Complaint and once the Transmission Defect manifested and could not be
repaired by Defendant and its representative.” However, this statement is
ambiguous because it refers to at least three different periods of time: (1) when
the complaint was filed on February 21, 2023, (2) when the problems manifested,
which is allegedly “shortly after purchase” on June 8, 2019, and (3) after the Transmission
Defect “could not be repaired,” which either refers to when Defendant’s
authorized dealership informed Plaintiff that the vehicle was “fully repaired”
in December 2022 or September 2021 and November 2022, when Plaintiff was told
that there were no issues with the vehicle. 
In light of these allegations,
Plaintiff does not plead any theory of tolling which would save his fraud claim
from the statute of limitations. Accordingly, the demurrer to the claim for
fraudulent concealment is SUSTAINED without leave to amend. 
B.  
Motion
to Strike  
          Because the
Court sustains the demurrer, Defendant’s motion to strike is MOOT and taken off
calendar. 
IV.     CONCLUSION
Defendant’s demurrer to the Fourth
Cause of Action is SUSTAINED without leave to amend. 
Moving party to give notice.
 
 
Dated
this 26th
day of January 2024
 




 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 