  Case Number:  19STCV39598    Hearing Date:   January 26, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



MARTINA A. SILAS, 
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
ACE
   HARDWARE CORPORATION, et al.,
 
                   Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  19STCV39598
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION FOR ORDER SETTING EXPERT FEES 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
January
   26, 2024




 


 


 



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
Plaintiff
Martina A. Silas seeks an order reducing the fee charged by defense expert Hamid
R. Djalilian, M.D. (“Dr. Djalilian”) from $2,000 per hour to no more than $750
per hour, or whatever reasonable hourly rate the Court deems just and proper.
Plaintiff also seeks an order preventing Dr. Djalilian from setting a “minimum”
number of hours for which Plaintiff has to pay in order to depose him. 
II.         
LEGAL
STANDARD
If
a party desiring to take the deposition of an expert witness deems that the
hourly or daily fee of that expert is unreasonable, that party may move for an
order setting the compensation of that expert. Notice of this motion shall also
be given to the expert. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2034.470, subd. (a).) A motion to
set expert compensation shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration
and either the party or the expert shall provide the other with all of the
following: (1) proof of the ordinary and customary fee actually charged and
received by that expert for similar services outside the subject litigation;
(2) the total number of times the presently demanded fee has ever been charged
and received by that expert; and (3) the frequency and regularity with which
the presently demanded fee has been charged and received by that expert within
the two-year period preceding the hearing on the motion. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2034.470, subd. (b).) In addition to any other facts or evidence, the expert or
the party designating the expert shall provide, and the court’s determination
as to the reasonableness of the fee shall be based on, proof of the ordinary
and customary fee actually charged and received by that expert for similar
services provided outside the subject litigation. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2034.470,
subd. (c).) Upon a determination that the fee demanded by that expert is
unreasonable, and based upon the evidence and factors considered, the court
shall set the fee of the expert providing testimony. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2034.470, subd. (f).) 
The
court shall impose a monetary sanction against any party, person, or attorney
who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to set the expert witness fee,
unless the one subject to sanction acted with substantial justification or
there are other circumstances that make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2034.470,
subd. (g).)
III.       
DISCUSSION
Dr. Djalilian states that his rate for
deposition testimony in 2023 and 2024 is $2,000 per hour for a non-videotaped
deposition and $2,400 for a videotaped deposition. (Djalilian Decl., ¶ 4.) He
attaches three checks paid in 2023 by plaintiff’s counsel in another case for
his deposition time. (Id., Ex. A.) In 2022, his rate for a
non-videotaped deposition was $1,650 and his rate for a videotaped deposition
was $1,950. In 2022, two checks were paid by plaintiffs’ counsel at these
rates. (Id., ¶ 7.) Based on this information, Dr. Djalilian has provided
evidence of his customary rate. 
Furthermore, Dr. Djalilian’s rate
appears to be reasonable, given Dr. Djalilian’s specialty in tinnitus and
Meniere’s disease. Dr. Djalilian also provides testimony, under oath, about the
amount he charges for clinic consultations and the number of patients he sees
in an hour. Furthermore, based on Plaintiff’s own “Survey of Expert Witness
Fees” from 2021, an hourly rate of $2,000 in 2024 is not unreasonable. First,
the survey relies on a small sample size of ten otolaryngologists, and it is
unclear where this sample is geographically located. Second, the survey is 3
years old at this point. Third, the survey shows that even in 2021, an
otolaryngologist on the more expensive end was charging $1,500 an hour for
deposition testimony. As stated above, in 2022, Dr. Djalilian was charging
$1,650 for a non-videotaped deposition and the rate increased to $2,000 in 2023.
After accounting for inflation, the Court considers Dr. Djalilian’s rate
reasonable. 
Plaintiff argues that she should not
have to pay $2,000 to depose Dr. Djalilian because he only performed a small
part of the defense medical examination. She states that she intends to move to
exclude his opinion based on his brief examination as well as the
interpretation of test results obtained by an audiologist, Dr. Traktman, who
was not identified in the notice for the exam and therefore, Plaintiff
contends, unauthorized to perform the exam. This fact is irrelevant in
determining Dr. Djalilian’s reasonable rate. Plaintiff is paying for Dr.
Djalilian’s time – therefore, if she believes that she does not have much to
ask him, then the deposition will be brief. If she believes that his testimony
has no weight whatsoever, she may decide to forego deposing him altogether. 
Plaintiff additionally argues that the
checks Dr. Djalilian authenticates are not sufficient to establish that his
rate is “reasonable” because those plaintiffs’ firms were “forced” to pay that
amount. This is unpersuasive because the Code of Civil Procedure allows a party
to challenge an expert’s fee as unreasonable; by paying the requested fee,
those prior plaintiffs have implicitly conceded that those fees were reasonable.

Last, Plaintiff points out that Dr.
Djalilian charges $895 an hour to review records and demands that his hourly
rate for deposition time be reduced to $895. Plaintiff relies on Government
Code section 68092.5, which prohibits an expert from charging an examining
party more than a retaining party for trial testimony. But Plaintiff cannot
compare the rates for two different services. It makes sense for an expert to
charge a higher hourly rate for a deposition, compared to reviewing records or
meeting with retaining counsel. (Rancho Bernardo Development Co. v. Superior
Court (1992) 2 Cal.App.4th 358, 362 [“The process of giving formal
testimony under oath, whether it be in court or by deposition, is an obviously
more stressful and tense activity than consulting with your client in his
office.”]) 
Accordingly, Dr. Djalilian has shown
that his hourly rate is reasonable. However, his 2-hour minimum fee is not.
Defendants argue that Dr. Djalilian “will take time away from his practice for
the deposition, including a short period of time before and after the
deposition to step away from his patients and then return to his patients.” (Opp.,
p. 4.) The deposing party is only responsible for “any time spent at the
deposition from the time noticed in the deposition subpoena, or from the time
of the arrival of the expert witness should that time be later than the time
noticed in the deposition subpoena, until the time the expert witness is
dismissed from the deposition.” (Code Civ. Proc., 2034.430, subd. (b).) Therefore,
this “time before and after the deposition to step away from his patients” is
not to be paid by Plaintiff. 
IV.        
CONCLUSION
Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s
motion is GRANTED in part. Dr. Djalilian’s hourly rate of $2,000 is deemed
reasonable. Dr. Djalilian is also prohibited from imposing a 2-hour minimum for
his deposition testimony. 
 
Dated
this 26th
day of January, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 