 Case Number:  22GDCV00983    Hearing Date:   March 1, 2024    Dept:  D TENTATIVE RULINGCalendar:    4 Date:         3/1/2024 Case No:    22 GDCV00983 Trial Date:    11/04/2024 Case Name: DeCastro, et al. v. Gasparyan, et al.MOTIONS TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSESTO DISCOVERY (3)Moving Party:  Plaintiffs Mildred DeCastro, Estrella Choy, Avigdor Kessler,  Izuchukwa Okpara, Else Grospe and Christian Escobar   Responding Party: Defendant Armine Petrosian  RELIEF REQUESTED:Further Responses to First Set of Form InterrogatoriesFurther Responses to First Set of Special Interrogatories Further Responses to First Set of Requests for Admissions CHRONOLOGYDate Discovery served: August 15, 2023 Date Responses served:                      October 23, 2023Date Motion served:   December 7, 2023 timely (ext. to 1/2/24)    Meet and Confer? Ok, Ex. 4 FACTUAL BACKGROUND: Plaintiffs Mildred DeCastro, Estrella Choy, Avigdor Kessler, Izuchukwa Okpara, Else Grospe and Christian Escobar allege that in May of 2022, they were interested in purchasing a hospice care business in California which was authorized to participate in the Medicare and Medicaid Services, possessed a valid Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) Certification Number, and was enrolled in the Medicare program. Plaintiffs allege that they entered into a contract with defendant Armine Petrosian to purchase all stock in ANG Hospice, Inc. (ANG) for $650,000, based on representations and warranties by defendant Petrosian that ANG was fully licensed and certified by Medicare and Medicaid.  After the close of escrow, in May of 2022, plaintiffs learned that ANG did not have the requisite licenses and certification, as defendant Petrosian falsely represented to plaintiffs.  Plaintiffs allege that to induce plaintiffs to forebear from suing defendant Petrosian for rescission and damages, defendants Petrosian and Norayr Gasparian stated that they would sell or give plaintiffs another hospice care company which had the proper licenses to conduct business, R and A Hospice, Inc. (R and A), which was owned by Gasparyan.  The parties agreed that if plaintiffs agreed to buy R and A, and not sue defendant Petrosian, defendant Gasparyan would sell R and A to plaintiffs, and plaintiffs would reconvey ANG to Petrosian.  The FAC alleges that to induce plaintiffs to enter into the transaction, defendants sent plaintiff a letter dated January 13, 2022 from the CMS which purported to provide R and A provisional certification and enrollment in Medicare, in reliance upon which in June of 2022, plaintiffs entered into a Stock Purchase Agreement with defendant Gasparyan, pursuant to which Gasparyan sold 100% of the stock of R and A to plaintiffs for $650,000.  In the Agreement, Gasparyan represented and warranted, as had been represented in connection with the ANG Stock Purchase Agreement, that R and A had all authority to carry out its business, and had not received any notice of non-compliance or potential non-compliance with any applicable laws, statutes, regulations or ordinances, and that none of the information relating to the corporation or its operations contained any untrue statement of material fact, or omitted to state any material fact necessary to make the statements misleading. The FAC alleges that after the sale of R and A to plaintiffs, in July of 2022, plaintiffs received a letter from CMS indicating that CMS denied the Company’s enrollment in the Medicare program, and that the denial had been communicated to defendant Gasparyan in a letter dated February 22, 2022, months before defendant Gasparyan provided the January 13, 2022 letter to plaintiffs.   Plaintiffs allege that at no time did Gasparyan disclose to plaintiffs prior to close of escrow that CMS had denied the company’s enrollment or license, and also allege that Gasparyan knew of the February 22, 2022 letter and its contents and implications because defendant Gasparyan sent a letter to CMS requesting reconsideration, to which CMS responded by confirming its denial of enrollment in the Medicare program.  Plaintiffs allege that this information was wrongfully concealed from plaintiffs, and that defendants were aware plaintiffs would not have proceeded with the purchase of ANG or R and A had plaintiffs known of the facts which defendants failed to disclose and would have sued Petrosian. The FAC alleges causes of action for breach of contract, securities fraud, fraud, fraudulent concealment, negligent misrepresentation, unjust enrichment, and civil conspiracy.ANALYSIS: Plaintiffs by these motions seek to compel defendant Petrosian to serve further responses to written discovery.   Defendant Petrosian has filed untimely oppositions to the motions, filed and served two court days late.  The court, in its discretion, will nevertheless consider the untimely opposition papers, which indicate that the motions are moot, as on February 21, 2024, before the hearings on the motions, defendant has served plaintiffs with verified further responses to each of the sets of discovery at issue.  [Sogoyan Decl., para. 7, Ex. D]. Copies of the further responses are attached as Exhibit D, are verified, and were served on plaintiffs on February 21, 2024.  [Ex. D].  The motions accordingly are deemed moot.   This posture leaves the issue of monetary sanctions, which are sought by plaintiffs.  CCP § 2030.300(d) provides that the court “shall impose a monetary sanction...against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a further response to interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  A similar provision applies to requests for admissions.  CCP § 2033.290(d).  Under CCP § 2023.010, misuse of the discovery process includes “(e) Making, without substantial justification, an unmeritorious objection to discovery”; and “(f) Making an evasive response to discovery.”  Where there has been a misuse of the discovery process, under CCP § 2023.030(a), the court “may impose a monetary sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct.”  “If a monetary sanction is authorized” by the statute, “the court shall impose that sanction unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that the other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” CCP §2023.030(a).  The burden is on the party subject to sanctions to show substantial justification or injustice.  Mattco Forge, Inc. v. Arthur Young & Co. (1990, 2nd Dist.) 223 Cal.App.3d 1429, 1436.  Under CRC Rule 3.1030(a): “The court may award sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel, even though...the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion was filed.”Here, a review of the separate statements shows that the discovery includes a standard set of Form Interrogatories, to which further responses are requested to two of those interrogatories, including Form Interrogatory No. 17.1, which involves identification of facts, witnesses, and documents on which the responding party bases any response to a request for admission which is not an unqualified admission.  The Special Interrogatories at issue seek information concerning defendant’s contentions concerning ANG’s licensure or certification by Medicare or Medicaid and include standard contention interrogatories concerning defendant’s contention that defendant is not responsible for plaintiffs’ alleged damages.   The responses consist of a series of general objections, which are not appropriate, incomplete responses to the form interrogatories, and include boilerplate objections, as well as language that, “Responses have already been provided,” See “responses to remaining discovery requests, and “Discovery and investigation are ongoing.”  These are inappropriate responses to the subject interrogatories, and such responses clearly necessitated bringing a motion to compel further responses.The Request for Admissions seek admissions concerning defendant’s knowledge concerning the importance of the CMS certification of ANG and R and A, what plaintiffs told defendant concerning the facts material to the transactions, and what defendant knew about the certification, revocation, and other facts during certain time frames.  Similarly, the responses to requests for admissions include improper general objections, assert boilerplate objections, include language that discovery and investigation are continuing, and curiously respond that defendant has insufficient information to respond to admissions concerning defendant’s own knowledge, and what defendant had been directly told.  The responses also would have warranted the granting of the motion to compel further responses and necessitated the motion to compel.  This request suggests that sanctions are appropriately imposed here to shift the expense of having made the motions to the party who necessitated that they be brought. This shifts the burden to defendant to show that defendant’s conduct was substantially justified or that other circumstances would make the imposition of sanction unjust.  Defendant in opposition argues that discovery sanctions may not be imposed as a punishment, and that defendant has diligently responded to plaintiff’s discovery requests and subsequent requests for further responses.  Defendant seems to argue that plaintiffs unreasonably denied defendant’s request for a second extension of time to further respond to discovery, when defendant needed extra time to diligently investigate and discover the substantive responses being sought.  Defendant concedes that the discovery was initially served on August 15, 2023, that meet and confer on the responses began in early November, and an extension of time was provided by plaintiffs’ counsel to November 27, 2023.  The meet and confer correspondence attached shows that an extension to respond was requested for an additional two weeks, that counsel for plaintiffs responded by asking what was the reason for the extension, to which defendant’s counsel responded that the client had been unavailable and incapable of locating requested documents, and is diligently searching.   [Ex. C]. Counsel for plaintiffs responded that there had been a pattern in the case of defendant’s counsel asking for extensions without explanation and argues that the statement that the client is both unavailable and incapable of locating documents, and yet is busy searching for documents is inconsistent.  Counsel for plaintiffs also points out that despite numerous previous extensions to respond to the subject discovery, the responses which were provided included only 15 pages of documents and were not made in good faith despite extra time being permitted.  The letter makes clear that if supplemental responses are not served by December 1, 2023 (beyond the extended deadline of November 27), motions would be filed.   [Ex. C].  Motions were filed on December 7, a week later than the stated deadline, and practically speaking, defendant was afforded nearly the entire two-week extension requested.  The further responses were still not served until after oppositions to these motions were due, an additional two-and-a-half-month period of delay.  It appears that the motions were reasonably filed to motivate defendant to finally prepare further responses, and the motions had their intended effect.   The opposition does not explain what had been happening with the client or mention any additional facts supporting an argument that the failure to permit an additional extension was unreasonable under the circumstances, or that defendant’s delay has been substantially justified.  [See Sogoyan Decl., para. 5].  Defendant accordingly has failed to meet the burden to justify not awarding sanctions here, and sanctions are awarded.  The sanctions sought are $3,260 for the motion concerning Form Interrogatories, and $2,060 each in connection with the motions concerning Special Interrogatories and Requests for Admissions.  The time to attend the hearing is sought only in connection with the Form Interrogatories motion.  Each motion seeks 3 hours at $400 per hour to prepare a reply to any opposition.  Since the oppositions do not address the merits of the motions, the replies should not require substantial time, as they will likely only defend the sanctions requests.  The amount of sanctions awarded is adjusted accordingly as follows: 5 hours total for the motion to compel form interrogatories, and 2 hours for each of the other two motions which reduction in hours as justified due to the lack of any opposition.  The court will add one hour to the attorney time for the motion to compel responses to the form interrogatories for plaintiffs’ attorney attendance at the hearing for all three motions.RULING:Motion to Compel Further Responses to First Set of Form Interrogatories Propounded to Defendant Armine Petrosian:The Court in its discretion has considered the untimely opposition to the motion filed and served by defendant Armine Petrosian two court days late.  See CRC Rule 3.1300(d).  Defendant is cautioned that in the future the court may refuse to consider papers not filed in compliance with the applicable rules, statutes, and deadlines. Motion is MOOT in light of the service on February 21, 2024 of Defendant Armine Petrosian’s Further Responses to Plaintiff Mildred DeCastro’s Form Interrogatories, Set One. Monetary sanctions requested by moving parties:  Utilizing a lodestar approach, and in view of the totality of the circumstances, the Court finds that the total and reasonable amount of attorney’s fees and costs incurred for the work performed in connection with the pending motion is $2,000.00 (5.0 hours @ $400/hour [8 hours requested]), with one hour added for attendance at the hearing, plus $60  filing fee [Amount Requested $3,260], which sum is to be awarded in favor of plaintiffs Mildred DeCastro, Estrella Choy, Avigdor Kessler, Izuchukwa Okpara, Else Grospe and Christian Escobar and against defendant Armine Petrosian, payable within 30 days.  CCP §§ 2030.300(d), 2023.010(e) and (f), and 2023.030(a), and CRC Rule 3.1030(a). Motion to Compel Further Responses to First Set of Special Interrogatories Propounded to Defendant Armine Petrosian:The Court in its discretion has considered the untimely opposition to the motion filed and served by defendant Armine Petrosian two court days late.  See CRC Rule 3.1300(d).  Defendant is cautioned that in the future the court may refuse to consider papers not filed in compliance with the applicable rules, statutes, and deadlines. Motion is MOOT in light of the service on February 21, 2024 of Defendant Armine Petrosian’s Further Responses to Plaintiff Mildred DeCastro’s Special Interrogatories, Set One. Monetary sanctions requested by moving parties:  Utilizing a lodestar approach, and in view of the totality of the circumstances, the Court finds that the total and reasonable amount of attorney’s fees and costs incurred for the work performed in connection with the pending motion is $800.00 (2.0 hours @ $400/hour [5 hours requested]) plus $60  filing fee [Amount Requested $2,060], which sum is to be awarded in favor of plaintiffs Mildred DeCastro, Estrella Choy, Avigdor Kessler, Izuchukwa Okpara, Else Grospe and Christian Escobar and against defendant Armine Petrosian, payable within 30 days.  CCP §§ 2030.300(d), 2023.010(e) and (f), and 2023.030(a), and CRC Rule 3.1030(a). Motion to Compel Further Responses to First Set of Requests for Admissions Propounded to Defendant Armine Petrosian:The Court in its discretion has considered the untimely opposition to the motion filed and served by defendant Armine Petrosian two court days late.  See CRC Rule 3.1300(d).  Defendant is cautioned that in the future the court may refuse to consider papers not filed in compliance with the applicable rules, statutes, and deadlines. Motion is MOOT in light of the service on February 21, 2024 of Defendant Armine Petrosian’s Further Responses to Plaintiff Mildred DeCastro’s Request for Admissions, Set One. Monetary sanctions requested by moving parties:  Utilizing a lodestar approach, and in view of the totality of the circumstances, the Court finds that the total and reasonable amount of attorney’s fees and costs incurred for the work performed in connection with the pending motion is $800.00 (2.0 hours @ $400/hour [5 hours requested]) plus $60  filing fee [Amount Requested $2,060], which sum is to be awarded in favor of plaintiffs Mildred DeCastro, Estrella Choy, Avigdor Kessler, Izuchukwa Okpara, Else Grospe and Christian Escobar and against defendant Armine Petrosian, payable within 30 days.  CCP §§ 2033.290 (d), 2023.010(e) and (f), and 2023.030(a), and CRC Rule 3.1030(a). DEPARTMENT D IS CONTINUING TO CONDUCT AND ENCOURAGE AUDIO OR VIDEO APPEARANCESPlease make arrangement in advance if you wish to appear via LACourtConnect by visiting www.lacourt.org to schedule a remote appearance.  Please note that LACourtConnect offers free audio and video appearances.  However, ADVANCE REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED. If no appearance is set up through LACourtConnect, or no appearance is otherwise made, then the Court will assume the parties are submitting on the tentative. 