 Case Number:  21STCV06169    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2024    Dept:  N TENTATIVE RULINGDefendants/Cross-Complainants Hilton Worldwide Holdings Inc.; Woodbine Legacy/Playa Owner LLC; Davidson Hotel Company LLC; and Steve Wisner’s Motion for Summary Judgment or, in the Alternative Summary Adjudication is GRANTED.Defendants/Cross-Complainants Hilton Worldwide Holdings Inc.; Woodbine Legacy/Playa Owner LLC; Davidson Hotel Company LLC; and Steve Wisner shall prepare, serve, and submit a proposed judgment as per statute.Defendants/Cross-Complainants Hilton Worldwide Holdings Inc.; Woodbine Legacy/Playa Owner LLC; Davidson Hotel Company LLC; and Steve Wisner to give notice.REASONINGDefendants/Cross-Complainants Hilton Worldwide Holdings Inc.; Woodbine Legacy/Playa Owner LLC; Davidson Hotel Company LLC; and Steve Wisner (“Defendants”) move for summary judgment or adjudication as to Plaintiff John Doe (“Plaintiff”)’s first cause of action for general negligence and second cause of action for premises liability against Defendant on the grounds that (1) Defendants had no duty to enact burdensome preventative security measures, such as posting a security guard, and acted sufficiently to prevent and discover criminal activity on the premises; (2) hotel staff had no duty to physically intervene to prevent or end the violence; (3) no reasonable jury could find that failing to call 911 earlier was a substantial factor in causing Plaintiff’s injuries; and (4) Defendant/Cross-Complainant Hilton Worldwide Holdings Inc. (“Hilton Worldwide”) is separately entitled to summary judgment because it owed no duty to Plaintiff.The purpose of a motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar v. Atl. Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) “On a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is always on the moving party to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of material fact.” (Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.) A defendant moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or her burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense to the cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) “Once the defendant . . . has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Ibid.) “If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment should be granted.” (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Med. Ctr. (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)“Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) “[T]he court must consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers (except evidence to which the court has sustained an objection) . . . in the light most favorable to the party opposing summary judgment.” (Avivi, supra, 159 Cal.App.4th at p. 467; see also Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).)To establish a claim for negligence, Plaintiff must establish (1) “the existence of a legal duty of care,” (2) “breach of that duty,” and (3) “proximate cause resulting in an injury.” (McIntyre v. Colonies-Pacific, LLC (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 664, 671.) “The elements of a cause of action for premises liability are the same as those for negligence: duty, breach, causation, and damages.” (Castellon v. U.S. Bancorp (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 994, 998.) “Premises liability is grounded in the possession of the premises and the attendant right to control and manage the premises.” (Kesner v. Superior Court (2016) 1 Cal.5th 1132, 1158, quotation marks omitted.)Defendants provide evidence that they had no actual knowledge of similar violent criminal activity occurring at the hotel prior to the subject incident; the hotel had several security measures, including a system of security cameras, a silent alarm, employee safety training, and an overnight security guard; the hotel’s front desk supervisor and engineering supervisor did not put themselves at risk of physical harm by attempting to physically intercede in the confrontation or remove the perpetrator from the hotel; had the hotel staff called 911 immediately, law enforcement would not have arrived at the hotel in time to prevent the attack on Plaintiff or intercede in the confrontation; Hilton Worldwide did not own or possess the hotel at the time of the incident; and Hilton Worldwide did not control the hotel’s security operations or employ the hotel’s staff at the time of the incident. (Defs.’ UMF Nos. 1-7.)First, as to whether Defendants can be liable based on the employees’ apparent duty to physically intervene to prevent or end the attack, Plaintiff states that he “does not disagree,” and he provides no argument or evidence as to this issue. (See Hassaine v. Club Demonstration Services, Inc. (2022) 77 Cal.App.5th 843, 851 [“where a person discovers another in peril and is in a position to help, that person is generally not liable in tort for failing to protect the potential victim if he or she did not contribute to creating the risk”].) The Court considers the issue undisputed, such that there is no triable issue of material fact as to this issue. Accordingly, Defendants’ motion for summary adjudication is GRANTED as Defendants’ Issue No. 2, i.e., hotel staff had no duty to physically intervene to prevent or end the violence.Second, as to whether Hilton Worldwide owed a duty to Plaintiff, Defendants argue that Hilton Worldwide did not own or possess the hotel at the time of the incident, and it did not control the hotel’s security operations or employ the hotel’s staff at the time of the incident. Plaintiff counters that Hilton Worldwide is liable because it is a party to the franchise agreement that governs the hotel, and Hilton Worldwide had power and control over the hotel. (Pl.’s UMF Nos. 148-152.) The Court does not find the inclusion of language that Hilton Franchise is an Affiliate of Hilton Worldwide to serve as a basis for liability because there is no information in the agreement showing that Hilton Worldwide has power and control over the hotel. Rather, the document does not identify Hilton Worldwide as a party to the agreement, and while the document identifies an individual from Hilton Worldwide, Debbie Motta, it merely states that Motta was sent, viewed, and signed the agreement, not that she or Hilton Worldwide were a party to the agreement. (Mot., Gomez Decl. ¶ 24, Ex. 23.) Put simply, Plaintiff has not provided any evidence to create a triable issue of material fact that Hilton Worldwide owned the hotel at the time of the incident, controlled the hotel’s security operations, or employed the hotel’s staff at the time of the incident. Thus, Defendants’ motion for summary adjudication is GRANTED as Defendants’ Issue No. 4, i.e., Hilton Worldwide is separately entitled to summary judgment because it owed no duty to Plaintiff.The Court next considers the issue of whether Defendants had a duty to enact certain preventative security measures, such as posting a security guard, and whethey they acted sufficiently to prevent and discover criminal activity on the premises. “[A]s a general matter, there is no duty to act to protect others from the conduct of third parties.” (Delgado v. Trax Bar & Grill (2005) 36 Cal.4th 224, 235.) For a defendant to be held liable for injuries arising out of the conduct of a third party, the plaintiff must identify an exception to the “general no-duty-to-protect rule.” (Ibid.) One such exception includes the “special relationship” doctrine, which provides “a defendant may owe a duty to protect the plaintiff from third party conduct if the defendant has a special relationship with either the plaintiff or the third party.” (Barenborg v. Sigma Alpha Epsilon Fraternity (2019) 33 Cal.App.5th 70, 76.)After establishing an exception applies, the plaintiff must also demonstrate that imposition of a duty is proper pursuant to the factors identified in Rowland v. Christian (1968) 69 Cal.2d 108, 117, superseded by statute on other grounds by Civil Code section 847. In considering these factors to determine whether a duty of care is properly imposed, the Court considers “the foreseeability of harm to the plaintiff, the degree of certainty that the plaintiff suffered injury, the closeness of the connection between the defendant’s conduct and the injury suffered, the moral blame attached to the defendant’s conduct, the policy of preventing future harm, the extent of the burden to the defendant and the consequences to the community of imposing a duty to exercise care with resulting liability for breach, and the availability, cost and prevalence of insurance for the risk involved.” (Brown v. USA Taekwondo (2019) 40 Cal.App.5th 1077, 1096, quotation marks omitted.)The analysis required in this situation was described by the Second District Court of Appeal as follows:First, the court must determine the specific measures the plaintiff asserts the defendant should have taken to prevent the harm. This frames the issue for the court’s determination by defining the scope of the duty under consideration. Second, the court must analyze how financially and socially burdensome these proposed measures would be to a landlord, which measures could range from minimally burdensome to significantly burdensome under the facts of the case. Third, the court must identify the nature of the third-party conduct that the plaintiff claims could have been prevented had the landlord taken the proposed measures, and assess how foreseeable (on a continuum from a mere possibility to a reasonable probability) it was that this conduct would occur. Once the burden and foreseeability have been independently assessed, they can be compared in determining the scope of the duty the court imposes on a given defendant. The more certain the likelihood of harm, the higher the burden a court will impose on a landlord to prevent it; the less foreseeable the harm, the lower the burden a court will place on a landlord. Other Rowland factors may come into play in a given case, but the balance of burdens and foreseeability is generally primary to the analysis.(Hanouchian v. Steele (2020) 51 Cal.App.5th 99, 108, quotation marks, brackets, and citation omitted.) As to security guards, “[t]he monetary costs of security guards is not insignificant,” “the obligation to provide patrols adequate to deter criminal conduct is not well defined,” and “the social costs of imposing a duty on landowners to hire private police forces are also not insignificant,” such that “a high degree of foreseeability is required in order to find that the scope of a landlord’s duty of care includes the hiring of security guards.” (Id. at p. 109.) In addition, foreseeability of the conduct alleged, specifically assault, requires showing actual knowledge of facts that would indicate criminal activity will occur; “constructive, inferential, or knowledge by association” is not enough “to impose a burdensome legal duty” on a party. (Id. at p. 111.)Again, Defendants provide evidence that they had no actual knowledge of similar violent criminal activity occurring at the hotel prior to the subject incident, and the hotel had several security measures, including a system of security cameras, a silent alarm, employee safety training, and an overnight security guard. Plaintiff provides evidence of emergency calls, family calls, and silent alarm calls from the hotel between 2018 and 2020, but Plaintiff does nothing to authenticate the evidence provided, i.e., this is merely the statement of a private investigator with a list of calls without identified personal knowledge of the calls made. (See Opp’n, Jakucs Decl. ¶ 5, Ex. 2.) It is not clear to the Court where this list came from, who made the list, and whether the list is reliable and credible. Plaintiff relies solely on the declaration of Robert Jakucs to show that Defendants had knowledge of similar violent criminal activity based on prior calls, and the Court does not find opinions that the hotel is located in a high-crime area to constitute evidence that Defendants had knowledge of similar violent criminal activity or a likelihood of crime occurring simply because the surrounding area is a high-crime area. While the Court finds that the issue of whether law enforcement would have arrived in time to stop the incident to be a triable issue of fact, i.e., Defendants provide evidence that they would not have arrived in time, but Plaintiff provides evidence that police respond quickly to calls (Pl.’s UMF No. 9), this does not change the fact that Plaintiff has provided no admissible evidence that Defendants had knowledge of similar criminal activity occurring at the hotel prior to this incident. It follows that the Court does not find a basis for Defendants to have a duty to have security guards when there is no evidence they had knowledge of prior similar incidents, and Defendants had employed several security measures like cameras, an alarm, training, and an overnight security guard. For this reason, Defendants’ motion for summary adjudication is DENIED as Defendants’ Issue No. 3, i.e., a reasonable jury could find that failing to call 911 earlier was a substantial factor in causing Plaintiff’s injuries, but GRANTED as to Defendants’ Issue No. 1, i.e., as a matter of law, Defendants had no duty to enact burdensome preventative security measures, and they acted sufficiently to prevent and discover criminal activity on the premises. Given that Defendants have showed there is no triable issue as to whether they owed a duty to Plaintiff, Defendants’ motion for summary judgment is GRANTED, as Plaintiff cannot succeed on his claims for negligence and premises liability.Evidentiary ObjectionsPlaintiff objects to the declaration of James O. Smith in its entirety and certain statements therein, to statements within the declaration of Morgan K. Lopez and exhibits attached thereto, and to statements within the declaration of Steve Wisner and exhibits attached thereto. Plaintiff’s objections are OVERRULED.Defendants object to certain statements within the declarations of Robert Jakucs, Jay Hirokawa, Thomas Maier, and Matthew Gabler. The objections as to the declarations of Robert Jakucs and Jay Hirokawa are SUSTAINED. The declarations of Thomas Maier and Matthew Gabler were not material to the Court’s ruling herein; thus, the Court does not rule on those objections.