  Case Number:  24TRCV02071    Hearing Date:   November 4, 2024    Dept:  P Demurrer  to Plaintiff’s Complaint  Moving  Parties: Defendant  Del Amo Hospital, Inc.               Responding Party: Plaintiff Sofia Marcos  RULING  The Court  considered the moving papers, opposition, and reply. Defendant’s demurrer is SUSTAINED  with leave to amend to state a cause of action supported by the facts.  PROCEDURAL BACKGROUND  On June 20, 2024, Plaintiff Sofia Marcos (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint  against Del Amo Behavioral Health System; Universal Health Services, Inc.; UHS  of Delaware, Inc.; and DOES 1-50, inclusive, alleging causes of action for (1)  General Negligence and (2) Premises Liability.  On September 3, 2024, Plaintiff filed an amendment to the complaint to  name DOE 1 as Defendant Del Amo Hospital, Inc. (“Defendant”).  On October 1, 2024, Defendant filed the instant demurrer. On October 22,  2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition. On October 28, 2024, Defendant filed a  reply.  On October 24, 2024, Plaintiff dismissed Del Amo Behavioral Health  System, Universal Health Services, Inc., and DHS of Delaware, Inc. from the  action. Dismissal was entered on the same day.  FACTUAL BACKGROUND  On June  22, 2023, Plaintiff slipped on soap or a similar substance in a shower located  on Defendant’s premises. (Complaint, p. 6.) Plaintiff alleges that Defendant  was negligent in maintaining the premises and failed to warn her of the  dangerous condition in the shower. (Complaint, p. 6.) LEGAL STANDARD           A party may demur to a complaint on the grounds that it “does not state  facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10,  subd. (e).) A party may also demur to a complaint on the grounds that the  complaint is uncertain. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (f).) A demurrer  tests whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007)  147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) A special demurrer for uncertainty under Code of  Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivision (f), is disfavored and will only be  sustained where the pleading is so bad that defendant or plaintiff cannot  reasonably respond—i.e., cannot reasonably determine what issues must be  admitted or denied, or what counts or claims are directed against him or her. (Khoury  v. Maly’s of Calif., Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)  When considering demurrers, courts accept all well pleaded facts as true.  (Fox v. JAMDAT Mobile, Inc. (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 1068, 1078.) “A  demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic  matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the  pleading or are judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984)  153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) “The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is  whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters,  states a cause of action.” (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at p.  747.) On demurrer, a court does “not accept contentions, deductions or  conclusions of fact or law.” (Simonyan v. Nationwide Insurance Company of  America (2022) 78 Cal.App.5th 889, 895.)   Although courts construe pleadings liberally, sufficient facts must be  alleged to support the allegations pled to survive a demurrer. (Rakestraw v.  California Physicians' Serv. (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 39, 43.) Where a  demurrer is sustained, leave to amend must be allowed where there is a  reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy  (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349.) The burden is on the party who filed the pleading  subject to demurrer to show the court that a pleading can be amended successfully.  (Ibid.)  DISCUSSION            Moving Party’s Argument  Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s claims are barred by professional  negligence statutes, as they arise from her medical care. To the extent that  Plaintiff has asserted allegations that do not fall under said statutes, the  demurrer should still be sustained because Plaintiff has failed to plead  sufficient. Further, Plaintiff’s causes of action are duplicative.  Opposing Party’s Argument  Plaintiff argues that she may properly plead alternative theories of  liability and that she has pleaded sufficient facts to survive a demurrer.  Further, her negligence claim is not barred by MICRA because her claim does not  arise out of her medical care.  Reply Argument  Defendant reiterates that Plaintiff’s claims are barred by MICRA. Moreover,  any case Plaintiff cites in opposition is distinguishable from the instant  case.  Merits of the Motion  A.  Meet and Confer  Before filing a demurrer, the demurring party is required to meet and  confer “in person, by telephone, or by video conference with the party who  filed the pleading that is subject to the demurrer for the purposes of  determining whether an agreement can be reached through a filing of an amended  pleading that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code  Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a).)  Defense counsel declares that the parties met telephonically on August  23, 2024, but were unable to reach an agreement. Thus, the court finds that the  parties have satisfied the meet and confer requirements.  B.  Plaintiffs’ Claims are Subsumed  by the Medical Injury Compensation Reform Act (“MICRA”) and Code Civ. Proc. section  340.5  Defendant demurs to Plaintiff’s complaint on the basis that Plaintiff’s  allegations sound of professional negligence, not general negligence.  Plaintiff’s first and second causes of action are supported by the same  allegations. Thus, both causes of action are barred by MICRA. Plaintiff argues  in opposition that showers were not part of her prescribed medical treatment.  In support of her opposition, Plaintiff cites to Flores v. Presbyterian  Intercommunity Hospital (2016) 63 Cal.4th 75.  The Flores court held that Code Civ. Proc. section 340.5 “does not  extend to negligence in the maintenance of equipment and premises that are  merely convenient for, or incidental to, the provision of medical care to a  patient.” (Flores, supra, 63 Cal.4th at p. 88.) Thus, the  negligent maintenance of furniture and equipment which are “provided primarily  for the comfort and convenience of patients and visitors, but generally play no  part in the patient's medical diagnosis or treatment” do not give rise to a  claim of professional negligence. (Id. at p. 89.) For example, the Flores  court points to waiting room chairs. (Ibid.) Such furniture is not  provided as part of a patient’s treatment plan, but rather to allow visitors a  place to rest. As such, if a poorly maintained chair injures someone, it gives  rise to a claim of ordinary negligence, not professional negligence. Similarly,  the court in Johnson v. Open Door Community Health Centers (2017) 15  Cal.App.5th 153 found that a patient could bring a general negligence claim  against the health center because a scale posed a general safety hazard to  patients, guests, and staff. In Johnson, the plaintiff was weighed on  the subject scale as part of her medical care. (Id. at p. 160.) However,  she alleged that the injury occurred after her treatment because the scale was  placed in such a way that it was a tripping hazard to everyone in the health  center. (Ibid.) Accordingly, she could assert a cause of action for  general negligence. (Ibid.)  On demurrer, the court accepts all well-pleaded facts as true and  liberally construes the complaint to consider all reasonable inferences. (Wilner  v. Sunset Life Ins. Co. (2000) 78 Cal.App.4th 952, 958.) Plaintiff’s  complaint states that she slipped in the “shower within her hospital  room.” From this fact, the only reasonable inference is that Plaintiff was  receiving in-patient care from Defendant. In addition, the court takes judicial  notice of the Application for Appointment of Guardian Ad Litem filed in this  case and finds that Plaintiff was eight years old at the time of her injury. (See  Evid. Code § 452(d).) As such, the court agrees with Defendant’s assertion that  the minimal facts pled by Plaintiff support the determination that a shower is  not incidental to Plaintiff’s treatment. In the context of in-patient  treatment, showers are clearly necessary to provide patients with proper care  and prevent hygiene-related injuries, such as the transmission of communicable  diseases, and to provide mental health support to a patient.  Further, a shower located within a patient’s room is not comparable to a  waiting room chair or the scale in Johnson, both of which are generally  placed in areas accessible to all patients, visitors, staff, and other  invitees. Conversely, an in-room shower is only available to the patient. Thus, Defendant’s duty to maintain the shower arises from the  patient-medical provider relationship between Defendant and Plaintiff, not its  general duty to keep the premises safe for all invitees.  Accordingly, the court finds that Plaintiff’s allegations sound of  professional negligence, and her causes of action are barred by MICRA. Defendant’s  demurrer is SUSTAINED in its entirety.  C.  Leave to Amend  Leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of  successful amendment. (See Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349  [court shall not “sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if there is any  reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by amendment”] The burden  is on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully.  (Ibid.)   Plaintiff has argued that she can successfully amend her complaint to state  causes of action for premises liability or general negligence. Thus, Plaintiff  may amend her complaint to state causes of action supported by the facts of the  case.  CONCLUSION            Based on the foregoing, Defendant’s demurrer is SUSTAINED. Plaintiff may  amend the complaint to bring causes of action supported by the facts.  Defendant to give notice of ruling.  