  Case Number:  22TRCV02343    Hearing Date:   January 30, 2024    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling
Judge David K. Reinert

Department P

Hearing Date:                         Tuesday, January 30,
2024
Case Name:                             Christine
McCaslin v. Philip Godlewski and DOES 1-500
Case No.:                                22TRCV02343           
Motion:                                   Motion to Be
Allowed to Conduct Limited Discovery  
Moving Party:                         Plaintiff Christine
McCaslin (Plaintiff)
Responding Party:                   Defendant Philip Godlewski (Defendant)
Notice:                                    OK

 

 
Ruling:                                    The Motion
to Be Allowed to Conduct Limited Discovery is 
GRANTED IN PART.
 
Defendant to give
notice.
 

 

 
BACKGROUND
            This is an intentional infliction of
emotional distress action filed by plaintiff Christine McCaslin against defendant
Philip Godlewski.  
On July 19, 2023, the plaintiff filed the complaint.
On September 6, 2023, the defendant filed
an anti-SLAPP motion.  
On September 29, 2023, the plaintiff filed
this motion to be allowed to conduct limited discovery. 
On December 22, 2023, the defendant filed
an opposition.
On December 29, 2023, the plaintiff filed
a reply. 
DISCUSSION
            The plaintiff
moves to conduct discovery in advance of the briefing of an anti-SLAPP motion
filed by the defendant.  The Court grants
the motion in part. 
If a plaintiff believes
that discovery is necessary to oppose an anti-SLAPP motion, Code of Civil
Procedure section 425.16, subdivision (g) expressly requires the filing of a
noticed motion to lift the automatic stay. (Robertson v. Rodriguez
(1995) 36 Cal.App.4th 347.) 
A plaintiff must show
“good cause” before taking any discovery after the filing of an anti-SLAPP motion.
(Code Civ. Pro., § 425.16, subd. (g).) “Good cause” means only discovery
relevant to the plaintiff’s burden of establishing a “reasonable probability of
prevailing on the claim.” (Code Civ. Pro., § 425.16, subd. (b)(3).) Plaintiff
must demonstrate the facts they expect to uncover in their discovery. (Blanchard
v. DIRECTV, Inc. (2004) 123 Cal.App.4th 903, 922.) To satisfy the “good cause” standard, a
plaintiff must demonstrate that a defendant or third party possesses specific,
relevant evidence necessary to oppose a special motion to strike.  See, e.g., Schroeder v.
Irvine City Council (2002) 97 Cal. App. 4th 174, 191 (“good cause” requires
that plaintiff demonstrate evidence needed to support his claims which is
neither “readily available from other sources” nor “irrelevant as a matter of
substantive law.”).  See also Paul v.
Friedman (2002) 95 Cal. App. 4th 853, 860 n.8 (plaintiff failed to show
good cause because plaintiff did not identify specific discovery needed to
support plaintiff’s claims).
A trial court’s decision
to disallow discovery will not be disturbed unless it is “arbitrary,
capricious, or a patently absurd determination.” (Tutor-Saliba Corp. v.
Herrera (2006) 136 Cal. App.4th 604, 617.) 
In her motion, Plaintiff asserts that it is necessary to
conduct a two-hour deposition regarding screenshots, which defendant allegedly posted,
and other evidence provided by the defendant which suggests that the plaintiff
defamed or harassed defendant or his followers. (Mot, pg. 17.) She intends to
ask the defendant where he obtained the screenshots. (Mot., pg. 18.)  She also intends to learn if a proper
foundation can be laid. (Ibid.) Plaintiff also seeks to ask about the
defendant’s intentions in taking his hostile actions toward the plaintiff, i.e.,
whether the defendant intends to harm her. (Ibid.) In addition, the
plaintiff moves to propound ten interrogatories and request documents as to
social media posts defendant purportedly attributed to the plaintiff. (Ibid.)
She argues that it was the defendant’s anti-SLAPP motion that put these social
media posts attributed to her and the defendant’s intention at issue. (Reply
Mot., pg. 8.) 
Despite the relatively limited scope of
discovery being sought, plaintiff fails to explain how discovery obtained from
defendant will provide 1) specific items of evidence, which are 2) relevant to
plaintiff’s prima facie case, and 3) not readily available from other sources.  Rather, plaintiff asserts that the defendant
has made assertions regarding alleged bad acts of plaintiff. However, she does
not identify how additional evidence of those assertions from defendant will
provide relevant evidence to support plaintiff’s claim for the intentional
infliction of emotional distress.  
Notwithstanding the above, the court finds
that plaintiff has shown that a subpoena to Telegram for relevant messages from
the plaintiff and defendant would be relevant to the issues raised by the
parties, and the court GRANTS plaintiff a limited relief from the discovery
stay to obtain such records directly from that third party.
CONCLUSION
For the reasons
stated above, The Motion to Be Allowed to Conduct Limited Discovery is GRANTED
IN PART.
 
Plaintiff to give
notice.