


[1]Defendant also attached a copy of the 2011 employment
application and 2011 arbitration agreement that has Plaintiff’s handwritten
signature. Plaintiff’s employment application notified Plaintiff that Defendant
utilized an alternative dispute resolution process that included giving up the
right to a jury trial. The latter notification was in bold and capitalized. Although
Defendant is not seeking to enforce the agreement contained in the application
and prior arbitration agreement, this evidence is strong circumstantial
evidence that Plaintiff was aware of the DRA policy when Defendant updated its
arbitration agreement through a new, electronic process in 2019.
 


[2]
Plaintiff’s argument that she lacked legal
knowledge to understand the nature of the DRA is not well taken because “There
shall be no right to a jury trial” clearly indicates an impact to substantive
rights, even if Plaintiff skimmed it.


[3] As a threshold matter, the court agrees with
Defendant that the Employee Handbook provision does not render the DRA illusory.
First, when Defendant did modify its arbitration agreement, it provided it to
its employees, including Plaintiff, for acceptance. (Feldmeth Dec. ¶¶ 5, 6, 7.)
Second, the DRA applies to disputes that Plaintiff, or other employees, wish to
bring against Defendant as well as any disputes Defendant wishes to bring
against Plaintiff, or other employees. (Feldmeth Dec., Exhibit F.) Finally,
Plaintiff’s argument that “the Company” is unclear as referring to Defendant is
not well taken. Plaintiff alleges she worked for Defendant for 10 years.
(Compl., ¶ 2.) The DRA is from August 2019. (Feldmeth Dec., Exhibit F.) The DRA
has a big “W” logo at the top of the page. (Ibid.)
Plaintiff seeks to create ambiguity where none exists. 


[4] The DRA again states that Defendant will pay the
Arbitrator’s fees under Section 3. Arbitration Procedure, and clarifies that
the parties bear their own costs for “deposition, witness, expert and
attorney’s fees . . . to the same extent as if the matter were heard in a court
of law.” (Feldmeth Decl., Exhibit F.) Because Plaintiff would have to incur
these costs if she were not in arbitration, the court does not see how this
would be unfair under Armendariz. 


[5]They are relevant to assess Plaintiff’s contention
that she was surprised and unaware of the alternative resolution process.


[6]Moreover,
Plaintiff ignores Pinela v. Neiman Marcus
Group, Inc. (2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 227 [“To be enforceable, a delegation
clause must satisfy two prerequisites: (1) the language must be clear and
unmistakable, and (2) the delegation must not be revocable under state contract
defenses such as fraud, duress, or unconscionability.] There, the Court
rejected the application of Delegation Clause because the clause clearly contemplated
Court intervention for severability issues which was inconsistent with with the
agreement’s delegation provision. (Id.
at p. 240.) Similarly here, this qualifying language granting the court
authority to enforce the arbitration clause is inconsistent the delegation
clause. Stated otherwise, the court intervention language in the DRA indicates the
parties did not “clearly and unmistakably” intend to delegate arbitrability
issues to the arbitrator.  As such, the
purported delegation provision  fails the
threshold requirement of enforceability. 
 
 

