  Case Number:  23STCV11001    Hearing Date:   October 26, 2023    Dept:  51 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Upinder S.
Kalra, Department 51
 
HEARING DATE:   October
26, 2023                                            
 
CASE NAME:           Natalie Martinez v. Westlake Services,
LLC
 
CASE NO.:                23STCV11001

 
MOTION
TO COMPEL ARBITRATION

 
MOVING PARTY:  Defendant
Westlake Services, LLC
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff Natalie Martinez
 
REQUESTED RELIEF: 
 
1.      An
Order Compelling Arbitration;
2.      An
Order Dismissing or Staying the Action Pending Arbitration.
TENTATIVE RULING: 
 
1.      Motion
to Compel Arbitration is GRANTED;
2.      The
action is STAYED pending arbitration.
 
STATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: 
 
On May 16, 2023, Plaintiff Natalie Martinez filed a
Complaint against Defendant Westlake Services, LLC (Defendant) alleging eight
causes of action for:
1.      Discrimination
on the Basis of Pregnancy and Disability;
2.      Failure
to Reasonably Accommodate Disability;
3.      Failure
to Engage in a Timely, Good Faith, Interactive Process;
4.      Retaliation;
5.      Violation
of and Interference with CFRA;
6.      Failure
to Prevent Harassment, Discrimination, and Retaliation;
7.      Wrongful
Termination in Violation of Public Policy; and
8.      Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress.
According to the Complaint, Plaintiff worked for Defendant
for over ten years. She alleges that before and after taking pregnancy leave in
October 2021, Defendant’s supervisory level employees harassed her about her
pregnancy, nursing, and her leave. She alleges that she began experiencing
disabilities related to her pregnancy in April 2022 which worsened by July 2022
and she took a leave of absence in August 2022 as a result. She alleges that
Defendant fired her on a purported “fraudulent act” excuse. 
 
Defendant timely filed the instant motion on August 18,
2023. Plaintiff timely filed an opposition on October 13, 2023. Defendant
timely filed a reply on October 19, 2023.
 
LEGAL STANDARD: 
 
Evidentiary
Objections:
 
Although the court is unaware of any
legal authority which requires a court to rule on evidentiary objections on a
motion, except as to a motion for summary motion/adjudication, the Court
nonetheless, overrules the objections. [Cal. Code Civ. Proc. (CCP)
§ 437c(q)] or a special motion to strike [CCP § 425.16 (b)(2); see also, Sweetwater Union High School Dist. v.
Gilbane Building Co. (2019) 6 Cal.5th 931, 947-949.]   
 
Compel Arbitration:
 
Under California law, the trial court has authority to compel
arbitration pursuant to CCP §1281.2 where a written agreement for such
arbitration exists and one of the parties refuses to arbitrate. 
Specifically, the statute provides that, “[o]n petition of a party to an
arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to
arbitrate a controversy and that a party thereto refuses to arbitrate such
controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to
arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement arbitrate the
controversy exists.”  The statute further sets forth four grounds upon
which the trial court may refuse to compel arbitration: (a) the right to compel
arbitration was waived, (b) recission of the agreement, (c) there is a pending
action or special proceeding with a third party, arising out of the same
transaction; and (d) petitioner is a state or federally chartered depository
institution. 
 
“[T]he
petitioner bears the burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration
agreement by the preponderance of the evidence . . . .”¿¿(Giuliano v. Inland
Empire Personnel, Inc.¿(2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 1276, 1284¿(Guiliano).)¿“In determining whether an
arbitration agreement applies to a specific dispute, the court may examine only
the agreement itself and the complaint filed by the party refusing arbitration
[citation]. The court should attempt to give effect to the parties' intentions,
in light of the usual and ordinary meaning of the
contractual language and the¿circumstances under which the agreement was
made.”¿¿(Weeks v. Crow¿(1980) 113 Cal.App.3d
350, 353.)¿ “To determine whether a contractual arbitration clause requires
arbitration of a particular controversy, the controversy is first identified and the issue is whether that controversy
is within the scope of the contractual arbitration clause.”¿¿(Titolo¿v. Cano¿(2007) 157 Cal.App.4th
310, 316.)¿ “Doubts as to whether an arbitration clause applies to a particular
dispute are to be resolved in favor of sending the parties to arbitration. The
court should order them to arbitrate unless it is
clear that the arbitration clause cannot be interpreted to cover the
dispute.”¿¿(California Correctional Peace
Officers¿Ass'n¿v. State¿(2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 198, 205.)¿¿¿ 
 
“[A] party
opposing the petition bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of the
evidence any fact necessary to its defense. [Citation.] In these summary
proceedings, the trial court sits as a trier of fact, weighing all the
affidavits, declarations, and other documentary evidence, as well as oral
testimony received at the court's discretion, to reach a final
determination.”¿¿(Giuliano, supra, at
p. 1284.)¿ 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
Existence of
Arbitration Agreement
 
In determining the enforceability of an arbitration
agreement, the court considers “two ‘gateway issues’ of arbitrability: (1)
whether there was an agreement to arbitrate between the parties, and (2)
whether the agreement covered the dispute at issue.”¿ (Omar v. Ralphs Grocery Co. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 955, 961 (Omar).)¿¿¿  
 
1.     
Agreement Between Parties:
The moving party can meet its initial burden of proving the
existence of an arbitration agreement by attaching a copy of the Agreement to
this motion bearing the signature of the opposing party. (See Bannister v. Marinidence Opco, LLC (2021) 64 Cal.App.5th 541, 541-543 [“The
party seeking arbitration can meet its initial burden by attaching to the
petition a copy of the arbitration agreement purporting to bear
the¿respondent's signature.”].) Alternatively, the moving party can meet its
initial burden by setting forth the agreement’s provisions in the motion. (See
Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1330; see also Condee
v. Longwood Management Corp. (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215, 219.) 
 
Here, Moving Defendant met its initial burden because it
attached a copy of the Dispute Resolution Agreement (DRA) with Plaintiff’s
electronic signature.. (Declaration of Megan Feldmeth ¶ 7.) Both California and
Federal law provides that electronic signatures on arbitration agreements are
valid.The California Uniform Electronic Transactions Act (“UETA”) indicates
that an electronic signature has the same legal effect as handwritten
signature. Thus, Defendant satisfied their initial burden to compel arbitration.

 
“If the moving party meets its initial prima facie burden
and the opposing party disputes the agreement, then in the second step, the
opposing party bears the burden of producing evidence to challenge the
authenticity of the agreement.” (Gamboa
v. Northeast Community Clinic (2021) 72 Cal. App. 5th 158,165 (Gamboa).) Plaintiff argues that
Defendant has failed to establish a valid agreement and contests the validity
of the electronic signature.. Specifically, Plaintiff contends that she does
not recall receiving or signing the agreement. 
 
Once Plaintiff challenges the validity of the signature,
“defendants were then required to establish by a preponderance of the evidence
that the signature was authentic.” (Espejo
v. Southern California Permanente Medical Group (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th
1047, 1060). Espejo dealt with an
electronic signature. In Espejo, the
supplemental declaration of the systems consultant provided the necessary
information to establish the authenticity of the document, specifically how the
unique username and password were only accessible to that specific individual.
(Id. at 1062). In Gamboa, in contrast, the Court
determined that the declaration provided by the director of human resources was
insufficient, because the declarant failed to provide facts demonstrating how
she had personal knowledge of what she stated. (Gamboa, supra, 72 Cal.App.5th at 169). 
 
Here, unlike Gamboa,
Defendant provided declarations from Feldmath, the Director of Human Resources,
who is personally familiar and has oversight over the preparation and retention
of business records pertaining to agreements between Defendant and its
employees, including agreements to arbitrate, along with overseeing the
preparation and/or or retention of personnel files. Just like in Espejo, where the Defendant provided a
declaration that discussed the “steps an applicant would have to take to place
his or her name on the signature line of the employment agreement,” (Espejo, supra, 246 Cal.App.4th at 1062),
Feldmeth attested to the authenticity of the password protected electronic
signature. In sum, Defendant provided credible evidence that Plaintiff was the
only person able to access her login credentials to review and acknowledge
receipt of the DRA.  (Supplemental
Feldmeth Decl. ¶¶ 5-6.) Further, Defendant produced business records that
attest that Plaintiff’s employment file shows that on May 1, 2019, Plaintiff
accepted the Dispute Resolution Policy which clearly notified Plaintiff that
Plaintiff had until May 15, 2019, to opt out of the agreement. (Feldmeth Dec. ¶
6, Exh. E.) Thereafter, the DRA was updated again on or about August 1, 2019.
The employment records indicate that as of August 15, 2019, Plaintiff had not
opted out. Thus, the evidence indicates that Plaintiff effectively accepted the
DRA on August 15,2019. (Feldmeth Dec. ¶7, Ex. E.)  Lastly, the court is not persuaded by
Plaintiff’s lack of authentication argument. While Plaintiff herself does not
recall electronically signing any arbitration agreement, she does not deny
signing the agreement or deny knowledge of the DRA.[1]
 
Thus, notwithstanding Plaintiff’s claim denying remembering
signing the Arbitration Agreement, the Court finds that Defendant has met its
burden by a preponderance of the evidence establishing the existence of a valid
agreement between the parties. 
 
Therefore, the Defendant has
established that the Arbitration Agreement exists.  
 
 
2.      The
Agreement Covers the Dispute at Issue:
Applicability of
DRA to Subject Dispute
 
Defendant contends the DRA covers the subject dispute
because Plaintiff filed an employment action that is not otherwise excluded by
the DRA. Plaintiff did not directly oppose this argument.
 
Here, the DRA applies to the instant dispute. First, the DRA
states it covers “any and all disputes . . . related to employee’s employment
or relationship with” Defendant. [Feldmeth Decl., Exhibit F.] Plaintiff’s claim
against Defendant concerns her employment with them and is not otherwise carved
out. 
 
Therefore, the agreement applies to the subject dispute.
 
Defenses to
Arbitration
 
Once it is determined that a valid arbitration agreement
exists, the burden shifts to the opposing party to “prove by a preponderance of
the evidence any defense to the petition.” (Lacayo
v. Catalina Restaurant Group Inc. (2019) 38 Cal.App.5th 244, 257, review
denied (Nov. 13, 2019)). 
 
Unconscionability
 
In Armendariz, the California Supreme Court stated
that when determining whether an arbitration agreement was unconscionable,
there is both a procedural and a substantive element. (Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare Service, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 82, 114 (Armendariz)).  
 
a.     
Procedural
Unconscionability
Plaintiff argues significant oppression and surprise because
there were several arbitration agreements, it is a contract of adhesion, the
onboarding documents were confusing, she had no legal training to understand
what she was giving up, and she did not have attorney-aided review.
Defendant contends two of the agreements Plaintiff cites are
not operative, she had time to ask questions about the DRA, her legal knowledge
is irrelevant, and it was not buried in paperwork that she could not find.
 
Courts determine whether an agreement is procedurally
unconscionable by looking at surprise and oppression. Oppression is an
“inequality of bargaining power, when one party has no real power to negotiate
or a meaningful choice. Surprise occurs when the allegedly unconscionable
provision is hidden.” (Carmona v. Lincoln
Millennium Car Wash, Inc.¿(2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 74, 84 (Carmona).) Examples of contracts that
are procedurally unconscionable are contracts of adhesion, which is a
“standardized contract, which, imposed and drafted by the party of superior
bargaining strength, relegates to the subscribing party only the opportunity to
adhere to the contract or reject it.” (Armendariz, supra, at p. 113).
 
Here, while this may have been a contract of adhesion, as
most employment contracts are, this alone does not mean the whole agreement is
procedurally unconscionable. “When arbitration is a condition of employment, there is
inherently economic pressure on the employee to accept arbitration. This alone
is a fairly low level of procedural unconscionability.” (Cisneros Alvarez v. Altamed Health Services Corporation (2021) 60 Cal.App.5th 572, 591). Here,
the DRA was not a surprise; it was not the first arbitration agreement
Defendant presented to Plaintiff over the course of her employment, it was a
stand-alone document that stated in bold-caps “EMPLOYER-EMPLOYEE DISPUTE
RESOLUTION AGREEMENT” followed by bold caps “ARBITRATION AND CLASS
ACTION WAIVER” and bolded “There shall be no right to a jury trial.”[2] (Feldmeth Dec.,
Exhibit F.) Plaintiff has not otherwise provided evidence of surprise or
oppression.
 
Thus, the agreement is minimally procedurally unconscionable. 
 
b.     
Substantive
Unconscionability
Plaintiff argues the DRA is substantively unconscionable
because of its unfair terms and its lack of mutuality due to a provision in the
Employee Handbook. Defendant argues that the DRA meets the Armendariz factors, the Employee Handbook provision does not apply
to the DRA, and that the DRA is otherwise mutual.[3]
 
“Substantive unconscionability pertains to the fairness of
an agreement's actual terms and to assessments of whether they are overly harsh
or one-sided.” (Carmona, supra, at p. 85). There are five minimum
substantive requirements to an enforceable arbitration agreement: (1) neutral
arbitrators, (2) more than minimal discovery, (3) written award sufficient for
judicial review, (4) all types of relief otherwise available in court, and (5)
no unreasonable costs or fees as a condition of access. (Armendariz, supra, at p.102.) When there is little procedural
unconscionability, a party opposing arbitration must show substantial
substantive unconscionability. (Id. at
114.)
 
Here, the court agrees with Defendant that the DRA is not
substantively unconscionable. First, it meets the Armendariz factors by providing: (1) neutral arbitrator; (2) that
“[d]iscovery will be more than minimal and will be adequate to permit you to
prepare your case for hearing as determined by the arbitrator;” (3) the
“arbitrator will be required to render his and/or her decision in writing;” (4)
the “arbitrator will be employered to grant any type of relief which would be
available to Employee or Company in a Superior Court action;” and (5) Defendant
“will pay the Arbitrator’s fees and costs associated with the arbitration
hearing as described below.”[4]
(Feldmeth Decl., Exhibit F.) 
The
Court rejects Plaintiff’s attempt to show that the DRA is unconscionable
because the arbitration statement and prior agreements have unconscionable
factors. Those other documents are not probative in assessing whether the August
2019 DRA is unconscionable.[5]
The Court also is not persuaded by Plaintiff’s suggestion that the August 2019
DRA is unconscionable because a Delegation Clause purportedly delegates
authority to determine unconscionability solely to the arbitratrator. Plaintiff
cites to language in the DRA that states “Any issue or dispute concerning the
formation, applicability, interpretation or enforceability of this Arbitration
provision, including any claim or contention that all or any part of this
provision is void or voidable, shall be subject to arbitration as provided
herein. The arbitrator, and not any federal, state or local court or agency,
shall have authority to decide any such issue or dispute.” (Feldmeth Dec.,
Exhibit F.) Plaintiff ignores the fact that later in the same paragraph, the
DRA states: “Either party may
bring an action in any court of competent jurisdiction to compel arbitration
under this provision and to enforce and/or confirm an arbitration award.” Clearly,
the agreement contemplates that the Court will determine unconscionability
in the first instance in assessing whether to enforce an arbitration agreement.[6]Moreover,

 
Accordingly, the DRA is not substantively unconscionable.
 
CONCLUSION:
 
            For
the foregoing reasons, the Court decides the pending motion as follows: 
 
1.      Motion
to Compel Arbitration is GRANTED;
2.      The
action is STAYED pending arbitration.
 
Moving party is to give notice. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
Dated:             October
26, 2023                    __________________________________                                                                                                                Upinder
S. Kalra
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 


