  Case Number:  22STCV12579    Hearing Date:   October 9, 2024    Dept:  107 


 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT
  OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS
  ANGELES
NORTHWEST
  DISTRICT
 




Oksana
  Shelest,
Plaintiff.
 
   v.
 
 
Mariya Piltser, DDS,
  et al.
Defendants.
 


 
 
   Case Number             Department
   22STCV12579                 107




COURT’S[TENTATIVE]
  DECISION RE:       Motion for Leave
  to Amend  



 
Plaintiff Oksana Shelest moves for
leave to amend the complaint.  This court
grants the motion.
 
I.               
BACKGROUND 
 
Plaintiff Oksana Shelest
(“Plaintiff”) was a patient at Defendant Woodland Hills Dental Group.
(Complaint ¶ 3.) Defendant Mariya Piltser, DDS (“Dr.
Piltser”) was Plaintiff’s dentist. (Complaint ¶ 8.) In or about May 2017, Dr.
Pilster installed a bridge to replace Plaintiff’s missing frontal tooth.
(Complaint ¶ 9.) In August 2019, the bridge broke. (Complaint ¶ 9.) Dr. Pilster
suggested Plaintiff “replace the bridge with a tooth implant.” (Complaint ¶
10.) The procedure was completed by Dr. Pilster and Defendant Pedram Fakheri,
DDS (“Dr. Fakheri”). (Complaint ¶¶ 3, 10-11.) Later, Plaintiff had problems
with her bite, and experienced “pain and swelling in and around the location of
the implant.” (Complaint ¶ 14.)
 
On April 14, 2024,
Plaintiff filed a complaint alleging two causes of action for dental
malpractice and fraud against Defendants Dr. Piltser, Dr. Fakheri, Woodland
Hills Dental Group, and Does 1 to 25. On June 21, 2022, Dr. Piltser demurred to
Plaintiff’s complaint. On July 8, 2022, Dr. Fakheri filed an answer to
Plaintiff’s complaint. 
 
On July 7, 2022,
Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint which added a third cause of action
for fraud.  On July 13, 2022, Dr. Fakheri
filed an answer to Plaintiff’s first amended complaint.
 
On June 1, 2023,
Plaintiff filed a motion for leave to amend the complaint. On January 8, 2024,
Plaintiff filed an amended motion for leave to amend the complaint. Dr. Piltser
filed an opposition on January 22, 2024. Plaintiff replied on January 26, 2024.
 
II.            
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
“The court may…, in its discretion, after notice
to the adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any
pleading or proceeding….” (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §¿473(a)(1).) “A trial court
has wide discretion to allow the amendment of¿pleadings, and generally courts
will liberally allow amendments at any stage of the proceeding.” (Falcon v.
Long Beach Genetics, Inc. (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 1263, 1280.) “The policy
favoring amendment is so strong that it is a rare case in which denial of leave
to amend can be justified.” (Howard v. County of San Diego (2010) 184
Cal.App.4th 1422, 1428.) 
 
“Time and knowledge are important factors to be
considered when granting or denying a¿motion¿to¿amend.” (Stockton v. Ortiz
(1975) 47 Cal.App.3d 183, 194.) “If the¿motion¿to¿amend¿is timely made and the
granting of the¿motion¿will not prejudice the opposing party, it is error to
refuse permission to¿amend¿and where the refusal also results in a party being
deprived of the right to assert a meritorious cause of action or a meritorious
defense, it is not only error but an abuse of discretion.” (Morgan v.
Superior Court of Cal. In and For Los Angeles County (1959) 172 Cal.App.2d
527, 530.) 
 
III.          
DISCUSSION 
 
Plaintiff
seeks to add three new causes of action against Defendants Dr. Piltser,
Woodland Hills Dental Group, and Does 1 to 25 for breach of contract,
fraudulent billing, and unfair business practices. (Ex. 1 pp. 10-13.) Plaintiff
also seeks to add detailed factual allegations supporting her causes of action,
a punitive damage award to the unfair business practices cause of action, an
injunction preventing Defendants Dr. Piltser, Woodland Hills Dental Group, and
Does from “directly or indirectly provid[ing] dental services to patients who
are insured with Delta Dental” and restitution for  Plaintiff and “other similarly situate[ed]
patients of Defendants with Delta Dental insurance coverage . . . for the
amounts they paid Defendants in excess of the Delta Dental contracted rates.” (Ex.
1 pp. 7, 10-14.)
 
Dr.
Piltser opposes the motion, arguing Plaintiff’s request for punitive damages is
time-barred by California Code of Civil Procedure section 425.13. (Opposition
p. 3.) Dr. Piltser further argues that Plaintiff cannot demonstrate she can
prevail on her claim for punitive damages and that Plaintiff has not shown an
excusable reason for the delay because she knew about the new causes of action
since the inception of the action. (Opposition p. 7.) 
 
Plaintiff
replies that section 425.13 does not apply because she is only seeking punitive
damages for the unfair business practices claim and is not seeking to add
punitive damages for the medical fraud cause of action. (Reply p. 3.) Plaintiff
further argues that because section 425.13 does not apply, there is no
requirement that Plaintiff present evidence to justify the punitive damage
claim. (Reply p. 5.) Finally, Plaintiff argues there has been no unreasonable
delay because Defendants concealed accounting records from 2020 to August 2023.
(Reply p. 6.)
 

California Code of Civil
     Procedure Section 425.13

 
“In
any action for damages arising out of the professional negligence of a health
care provider . . . [t]he court shall not grant a motion allowing the filing of
an amended pleading that includes a claim for punitive damages if the motion
for such an order is not filed within two years after the complaint or initial
pleading is filed or not less than nine months before the date the matter is
first set for trial, whichever is earlier.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 425.13(a).)
 
Here, trial was initially set for October 12,
2023. (First Amended Standing Order.) Plaintiff filed her Motion for Leave to
Amend on January 8, 2024. Accordingly, if Plaintiff’s cause of action arises
out of the professional negligence of a health care provider, it is barred by
section 425.13.
 
“The phrase ‘arising out of’ is equated with
origination, growth or flow from the event.” (Central Pathology Service
Medical Clinic, Inc. v. Superior Court (1992) 3 Cal.4th 181, 187.) A claim
arises out of professional negligence ‘if the injury that is the basis for the
claim was caused by conduct that was directly related to the rendition of
professional services.’” (Divino Plastic Surgery, Inc. v. Superior Court (2022)
78 Cal.App.5th 972, 984.) “The allegations that identify the nature and cause
of a plaintiff’s injury must be examined to determine whether each is directly
related to the manner in which professional services were provided.” (Id.)  Section 425.13 applies when health care
provider was engaged in the practice of medicine when he or she was consulted
by the patient and when the injured party “seeks punitive damages for an injury
that is directly related to the professional services provided by a health care
provider acting in its capacity as such.” (Id. at p. 986.) This can
include intentional torts. (Cooper v. Superior Court (1997) 56
Cal.App.4th 674, 677.)
 
Section 425.13 applies when health care providers
make misrepresentations about their qualifications. (Divino Plastic Surgery,
Inc. supra, 78 Cal.App.5th at p. 979.) In Divino Plastic Surgery,
Inc. the plaintiffs alleged a defendant misrepresented that he was a
board-certified plastic surgeon, and a different defendant employed an
unlicensed medical assistant who administered local anesthesia to a patient. (Id.)
The Court of Appeal held that plaintiffs’ counts for intentional
misrepresentation, promissory fraud, and battery arose out of conduct directly
related to defendant’s provision of medical services. (Id.)
 
Section 425.13 also applies to fraud and
intentional infliction of emotional distress causes of action when they are
related to how a health care provider performed and communicated medical test
results. (Central Pathology Service Medical Clinic, Inc., supra, 3
Cal.4th at p. 185.) In Central Pathology, the plaintiffs moved for leave
to file an amended complaint to add causes of action for fraud and intentional
infliction of emotional distress. (Id.) The plaintiff alleged defendants
performed a medical test on a plaintiff, did not notify her she was developing
cancer, did not notify her to be retested, and the doctor denied using a
testing center to conceal the medical negligence. (Id.) The California
Supreme Court held that plaintiff’s fraud claim was “directly related to the
manner in which defendants provided services” because “[t]he claim emanates
from the manner in which defendants performed and communicated the results of
medical tests, a matter that is an ordinary and usual part of medical
professional services.” (Id. at p. 193.) 
 
But in Covenant Care, Inc. v. Superior Court,
(2004) 32 Cal.4th 771, 790, the California Supreme Court clarified its holding
in Central Pathology, stating that “[w]hile Central Pathology . .
. speaks to situations in which claims for punitive damages are, as a factual
matter, ‘predicated on mere negligence or a conscious disregard of the rights
or safety of others’ in which intentional torts are nevertheless alleged . . .
its rationale does not extend to situations . . . in which a claim for punitive
damages accompanies allegations of a statutory violation, proof of which will
require clear and convincing evidence defendant has been guilty of
recklessness, oppression, fraud, or malice[.]” The Court in Covenant Care,
Inc. held that section 425.13 does not apply to actions under the Elder
Abuse Act. (Id.)
 
Here, Plaintiff seeks to add a cause of action
for unfair business practices, alleging Defendants: (1) told patients they had
no insurance coverage for procedures that were actually covered; (2) failed “to
submit claims for covered procedures for which Defendants intended to charge
amounts exceeding the contracted rates, and” (3) “charg[ed] patients amounts
exceeding the contracted rates.” (Motion pp. 28-29.) 
 
Plaintiff’s claim, although related to
Defendants’ status as health care providers, is not predicated on Defendants’
negligence or conscious disregard of others. Instead, Plaintiff’s claim, like
the claims in Covenant Care, Inc. are statutory claims which will
require Plaintiff to prove Defendants engaged in an unlawful, unfair, or
fraudulent business act. (See Code Civ. Proc.§ 17200.)
 
Thus, this court concludes that section 425.13
does not apply and Plaintiff’s claim for punitive damages is not barred.
 

Plaintiff’s Evidence Supporting her Claim for Punitive
     Damages

 
When
section 425.13 applies, the plaintiff must show through affidavits that “there
is a substantial probability that the plaintiff will prevail on the claim
pursuant to Section 3294 of the Civil Code.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 425.13(a).) 
 
Here, section 425.13 does not apply. Accordingly,
this court does not consider whether Plaintiff has established there is a
substantial probability Plaintiff will prevail on the claim.
 

Plaintiff’s Delay

 
Dr.
Piltser argues Plaintiff has not shown an excusable reason for the delay
because Plaintiff suspected she was “being overcharged” and requested her
billing records in 2019. (Opposition pp. 7-8; Ex. A.) 
 
Plaintiff
submits a declaration by Plaintiff stating she began requesting copies of her
billing records in 2020 and was, after several months, given a partial ledger.
(Shelest Declaration ¶ 2.) Plaintiff states that the complete
ledger was produced during discovery. (Shelest Declaration ¶ 4.) When Plaintiff
compared the ledger the insurance records, “[t]here [were] several billing
irregularities.” (Shelest Declaration ¶ 4.) And, around August 2023, Plaintiff
went to a different doctor for treatment, discovered the insurance had lifetime
limits on Orthodontics, and discovered Defendants Dr. Piltser and Woodland
Hills Dental Group had “exhausted those benefits by submitting charges for both
the initial appliances and the following year for related dental services”
despite Plaintiff receiving “no follow-up services.” (Shelest Declaration ¶
7.)  
 
Plaintiff’s counsel also submits a declaration stating that the
full billing records were not available when Plaintiff filed the original
complaint and first amended complaint. (Kurtz Declaration ¶ 3.) Counsel states
that “Defendant produced a ledger to a document” in late July or early August
2023. (Kurtz Declaration ¶ 3.) Counsel also states he did not have all the
facts necessary to file the proposed second amended complaint until December
18, 2023, after a scheduled deposition. (Kurtz Declaration ¶ 8.)
 
This court finds that Plaintiff has shown an
excusable reason for the delay.
 
A trial date has not yet been set and this court
does not believe that granting the motion will prejudice the Defendants because
of any delay.¿ 
 
This
court has broad discretion to liberally grant leave to amend so long as such
amendment does not prejudice the other party. This court finds that no
prejudice to Defendants will result from the proposed amendments in this case.¿
 
IV.          
CONCLUSION
¿ 
Accordingly,
this court grants the motion.
 
 
Dated:  October 9, 2024                                                                     _______­­­­­­­­­­___________________________                                                                                                                  Hon. Eric Harmon
                                                                                                            Judge of the Superior Court