  Case Number:  23VECV03511    Hearing Date:   September 4, 2024    Dept:  T 23VECV03511 DUK HEE LEE vs
VOLKSWAGEN
Tentative rulings: Motions in
Limine
Defendant VW's motions in limine:
1.           To exclude evidence of argument re plaintiff's one time
and unreported complaints: Deny.
2.           To exclude evidence of alleged "similar
incidents": Grant.
3.           To preclude reference to Golden Rule or
"reptile" arguments: Grant as to Golden Rule. Grant as to attempts to
appeal to juror's own personal interests or the interests of the community as a
whole.
4.           To preclude evidence of defendant's size, financial
condition, or foreign ownership: Grant.
5.           To preclude reference to unrelated emissions litigation or
other evidence or argument regarding the alleged "bad reputation" of
defendant: Grant.
6.           To exclude evidence or argument regarding other
manufacturers: Grant.
7.           To exclude non-warranty concerns/repairs: Grant.
8.           To exclude evidence or argument regarding presentation of
the subject vehicle to non-authorized service centers or dealerships: Deny as
to issues that are the subject of this case.
9.           To exclude evidence of technical service bulletins and
recall campaigns that are unrelated to plaintiff's complaints in this lawsuit:
Grant.
10.        To exclude evidence not disclosed in discovery: It depends on
what the evidence is, when the discovery was served, what the response was, and
whether there has been improper conduct resulting in prejudice.
11.        To exclude evidence of costs of vehicle use: Deny.
 
Plaintiff's Motions in Limine:
1.           To exclude legal opinions as to the applicability of
warranty coverage: Deny.
2.           To prohibit reference to any post-litigation settlement
offers: Grant unless there is a 402 hearing to identify what statements may be
admissible. 
3.           To prohibit testimony or arguments misstating defendant's
affirmative duty or plaintiff's lack thereof: 
The court instructs the jury on the law including the issue of
duty.  Any discussion of the law in
opening statement is not allowed unless it is in respect to a specific jury
instruction which the parties have agreed to or the court has already
granted.  There will be no misstatement
of the relative duties of the parties without permission of the court.
4.           To prohibit argument or reference to the dealership's
customer service: Deny in a vacuum.
5.           To prohibit argument that the authorized dealership is not
an agent of defendant during warranty repairs: Deny as this is an element of
plaintiff's case.
6.           To prohibit argument or reference to the Tanner Consumer
Protection Act presumption: Deny.
7.           To prohibit argument that defendant was not given a
reasonable number of repair opportunities to repair the vehicle: Deny.  
8.           To exclude evidence or testimony of the vehicle's mileage:
Deny.
9.           To exclude testimony, argument or implication that
plaintiff misused, abused, or failed to maintain the subject vehicle: Grant
unless in 402 hearing, defendant has relevant evidence which can affect the
outcome of the case.
10.        To exclude reference to attorney's fees: Grant.
11.        To exclude evidence or voir dire regarding attorney
advertisements: Grant.