  Case Number:  23VECV04904    Hearing Date:   June 18, 2024    Dept:  T NOBLETT V CITIGUARD
23VECV04904
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Defendant Citiguard, Inc.'s Motion to Compel
Arbitration and Stay the Action is GRANTED. 
Defendants Sami Nomair and Gharzai Nomair's Motion to Compel Arbitration
is DENIED.  The case is stayed pending
the Citiguard arbitration.
Plaintiff Taylor Noblett’s
Evidentiary Objections are irrelevant to the court's findings and are
overruled.
INTRODUCTION 
Defendants Citiguard, Inc.
(Citiguard), Gharzai Nomair (Gharzai ), and Sami Nomair (Sami) moved to compel
arbitration and stay Plaintiff Taylor Noblett’s (Plaintiff) action.  
DISCUSSION 
In the summary proceeding to
enforce an arbitration agreement, a three-step burden-shifting process is
used.  (Iyere v. Wise Auto Group (2023)
87 Cal.App.5th 747, 755 (Iyere) citing to Espejo v. Southern California Permanente
Medical Group (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 1047, 1056 and Condee v. Longwood
Management Corp. (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215, 219.)  Moving party’s initial burden is to recite
verbatim, or provide/attach a copy of the alleged agreement.  At this step, the movant need not follow the
normal procedures of document authentication and need only allege the existence
of an agreement.  (Iyere, supra, 87
Cal.App.5th 755.)  
There are three moving parties
and a single arbitration agreement. 
Citiguard met its initial burden by attaching a copy of the arbitration
agreement to the motion.  The agreement
is between plaintiff and Citiguard.
However, Sami and Gharzai failed
to attach a copy of an agreement between them and plaintiff which contains an
arbitration agreement.  Defendants Sami
and Gharzai have failed to meet their initial burden.  Their motion is denied. 
As to Citiguard's arbitration
agreement, the burden then shifted to Plaintiff to raise a factual dispute as
to the agreement’s existence by submitting admissible evidence to create a
factual dispute.  Plaintiff need not
prove the factual dispute but must submit sufficient evidence to create a
factual dispute.  Plaintiff asserted a
dispute as to authenticity.  However,
Plaintiff’s opposition failed to submit any admissible evidence to dispute the
authenticity of the arbitration agreement. 
Plaintiff failed to meet its burden to create a triable issue of
fact.  Plaintiff also disputed Sami’s
declaration by asserting lack of personal knowledge.  However, Plaintiff again failed to submit any
admissible evidence to identify a factual issue related to personal
knowledge.  Because Plaintiff failed to
submit admissible evidence to support their contentions/objections, Plaintiff
failed to meet his burden of proof. 
Because Plaintiff failed to meet his burden of proof, the burden did not
shift back to Defendant Citiguard for the Court to review the third step in the
burden-shifting analysis.
Plaintiff’s assertions as to lack
of personal knowledge and lack of authentication are unpersuasive.
Plaintiff then argued that
Defendant waived its right to arbitration. 
Plaintiff first argued waiver by delay in demanding arbitration.  Where no deadline for demanding arbitration
is specified in the agreement, a demand not made within a reasonable time is
deemed waived.  (Spear v. California
State Auto. Assn. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 1035, 1043.) 
Reasonableness is a question of fact. 
Among the facts a court may consider is any prejudice the opposing party
suffered because of the delay. 
(Id.)  The arbitration agreement
set no deadline to demand arbitration. 
Defendant was served with the action December 13, 2023.  Defendant had until January 17, 2024 to
respond to the Complaint and filed an Answer on February 20, 2024.  The instant motion was filed on May 1, 2024,
which is a delay of three and a half months, calculated from the expiration of
the time to respond to the Complaint. 
Based solely on the time that passed, the alleged delay of 3.5 months is
not seen to be unreasonable.  There is no
showing how Plaintiff was prejudiced by Defendant's failure to assert the
arbitration agreement in the Answer or the Case Management Statement
(CMS).  In fact, Plaintiff submitted that
they served discovery and Defendants responded to the discovery.  Plaintiff’s receipt of Defendants’ discovery
responses shows that they benefited from the delay rather than being
prejudiced.  The parties also
participated in a free mandatory settlement conference (MSC) but again it is
unclear how participating in the MSC prejudiced Plaintiff.  The Court order to participate in the MSC is
seen to promulgate settlement and thus not seen as prejudicial or inconsistent
with arbitration.  Even with a 3.5 month
delay in filing the motion, there is insufficient showing of prejudice due to
the delay.  The 3.5 month delay is not
seen to be unreasonable.  There is no
waiver based upon delay in seeking arbitration.
Plaintiff further argued waiver
by litigation.  Participating in
litigation by itself does not waive a party’s right to arbitration.  (St. Agnes Medical Center v. PacifiCare of California,
supra, 31 Cal.4th 1187, 1203.)  There is
no fixed stage in a lawsuit which is determinative of waiver.  Factors in determining waiver are:  “whether the party's actions are inconsistent
with the right to arbitrate; whether the litigation machinery has been
substantially invoked and the parties were well into preparation of a lawsuit
before the party notified the opposing party of an intent to arbitrate; whether
a party delayed for a long period before seeking a stay; whether important
intervening steps (e.g., taking advantage of judicial discovery procedures not
available in arbitration) had taken 
place; and whether the delay
affected, misled, or prejudiced the opposing party.”  (Id.) 
As reviewed above, the Court does not find prejudice to Plaintiff as a
result of Defendant’s use of the litigation machinery.  The action is still in its early stage of
litigation and Defendant’s filing of its Answer and CMS without asserting
arbitration is not seen to prejudice Plaintiff. 
Defendant's responses to discovery benefited Plaintiff.  And participation in the MSC is not seen as
an inconsistency to arbitration.  There
being no showing of prejudice to Plaintiff, the Court finds that there is
insufficient showing of waiver based upon Defendant’s litigation/defense of the
action in Court.
Plaintiff then disputed the
enforceability of the arbitration agreement based upon unconscionability –
procedural and substantive.  (Kinney v.
Untied HealthCare Services, Inc. (1999) 70 Cal.App.4th 1322, 1329.)  Both elements must be present and the two
elements are reviewed in tandem such that “the greater the degree of
substantive unconscionability, the less the degree of procedural
unconscionability that is required to annul the contract or clause” and vice
versa.  (Id.)  Plaintiff’s argument is defective at the
outset because Plaintiff failed to submit any evidence to show procedural
unconscionability (i.e., “the manner in which the contract was negotiated and
the circumstances of the parties at that time and factors of oppression or
surprise due to unequal bargaining power.” (Id.))  Plaintiff argued that the arbitration
agreement was not negotiated but failed to submit any evidence to support the
contention.  The opposition failed to
submit any declaration from Plaintiff attesting to the circumstances surrounding
the signing of the arbitration agreement. 
Plaintiff’s inference drawn from what was not stated in Sami’s
declaration is insufficient to meet Plaintiff’s burden on the issue.  Silence in a declaration is only
silence.  The lack of any evidence to
show any procedural unconscionability is the death knell for the
unconscionability argument.
Even if a de minimis amount of
procedural unconscionability is presented, a significant amount of substantive
unconscionability must be presented based upon the sliding scale of the
analysis.  Plaintiff argued that the
arbitration agreement is substantively unconscionable because Plaintiff is
prevented from issuing deposition subpoenas to third parties.  However, the contention is not supported
because the arbitration agreement expressly authorizes pre-hearing discovery,
inclusive of subpoenas.  Further, Plaintiff’s
reliance upon Aixtron, Inc. v. Veeco Instruments, Inc. (2020) 52 Cal.App.5th
360 (Aixtron) is also unfounded because the facts in Aixtron are
distinguishable from the facts in this action. 
The arbitration clause in Aixtron lacked any mention of the California
Discovery Act, Code of Civil Procedure, section 1283.05, or even the word
“discovery” relative to the analysis under the California Arbitration Act.  (Aixtron, supra, 52 Cal.App.5th at p.
397.)  The arbitration agreement in this
case expressly authorized pre-hearing discovery, inclusive of subpoenas.  Further, the Court is not convinced that the
instant arbitration agreement required the use of Federal procedural
rules.  Plaintiff’s reliance upon the
provision referencing the “U.S. Arbitration Act” is unpersuasive because it is
unclear if the reference is to the Federal Arbitration Act (FAA).  There is no showing that “U.S. Arbitration
Act” is the equivalent of FAA.  Even if
the provision refers to the FAA, the provision in the agreement only refers to
the FAA relative to vacating or modifying the award.  The provision is not a choice of law
provision requiring application of the FAA for procedure.  Plaintiff’s arguments as to substantive
unconscionability are unpersuasive, even if procedural unconscionability was
sufficiently presented.  Plaintiff’s
arguments opposing arbitration are unpersuasive.
The motion to compel arbitration by
defendant Citiguard is GRANTED.  The
motion to compel arbitration by defendants Sami Nomair and Gharzai Nomair is
DENIED.
Defendant’s request to stay the
action is also persuasive pursuant Code of Civil Procedure, section 1281.4.
The motion to stay the action
pending arbitration is GRANTED. 
____________________
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  MOTIONS TO COMPEL DISCOVERY: 
1.         Plaintiff's Motion to Compel versus Citiguard: MOOT.  Taken off calendar without prejudice in light
of arbitration order.
2.         Plaintiff's Motions to compel further responses to RFP Set.
1 as to Sami Nomair and Gharzai Nomair:  GRANT.  Verified Code compliant responses and
production pursuant to CCP section 2031.210 and 2031.310 due within 10
days.  Monetary sanctions against
defendants Sami Nomair and Gharzai Nomair, jointly and severally, in the sum of
$1,000 as sanctions pursuant to CCP section 2023.010 for discovery abuse
without substantial justification payable to the Client Trust Account of
Stephan Filip P.C., 100 W. Broadway, Suite 1040, Glendale, CA 91210 by
7/18/2024.  The responses are not Code
compliant by failing to use the statutory language.   CLERK TO GIVE NOTICE.