 Case Number:  21STCV40267    Hearing Date:   March 12, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


March
  12, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV40267




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Summary Judgment, or in the Alternative Summary Adjudication




MOVING PARTY:


Defendants Sufi Ismail and Ifus Global USA,
  Inc. dba Cars4Less




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed
  



 
MOVING PAPERS 
1.     
Notice of Motion and
Motion for Summary Adjudication or Judgment; Memorandum of Points and Authorities
2.     
Separate Statement of
Undisputed Material Facts
3.     
Request to Take
Judicial Notice
4.     
Declaration of Mohamed
Shumsdean Ismail 
5.      Declaration of Counsel Richard Nagby
 
OPPOSITION PAPERS 
1.      None filed. 
REPLY PAPERS  
1.      None filed.
 
BACKGROUND
 
On November 2, 2021, Plaintiff
Amanda Williams (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendants Sufi Ismail,
Cars4Less, Salvador Cisneros, and Does 1 to 100 for negligence surrounding a
motor vehicle accident. The complaint alleges that the motor vehicle accident
occurred on September 24, 2020, on the 110 freeway. The defendants who operated
the vehicle were alleged to be unknown. (Complaint, 4.) Cars4Less was alleged
to employ the person driving the vehicle, to be the owner of the vehicle, and the
party who entrusted the vehicle. 
 
Defendants Sufi Ismail and Ifus Global
USA, Inc. dba Cars4Less (erroneously sued as Cars4Less, Inc.) (“Defendants”) now
move for summary judgment, or in the alternative, summary adjudication.  Defendants argue that they are a used car
dealership who sold the subject car prior to the accident, and thus had no
ownership interest in the car or agency relationship with the driver. 
 
Any opposition was due on or before
February 27, 2024. To date, no opposition has been filed.   
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Summary judgment is proper “if all the papers submitted show that there
is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is
entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” 
(Code Civ. Proc. §437c(c).)  “[T]he
party moving for summary judgment bears the burden of persuasion that there is
no triable issue of material fact and that he is entitled to judgment as a
matter of law[.] There is a triable issue of material fact if, and only if, the
evidence would allow a reasonable trier of fact to find the underlying fact in
favor of the party opposing the motion in accordance with the applicable
standard of proof.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25
Cal.4th 826, 850.)  “[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears an
initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence
of any triable issue of material fact; if he carries his burden of production,
he causes a shift, and the opposing party is then subjected to a burden of production of his own to make a prima facie showing
of the existence of a triable issue of material fact.” (Ibid.; Smith
v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 1463, 1474 [summary
judgment standards held by Aguilar apply to summary adjudication
motions].)  Further, in line with Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co., “[o]n a motion for summary adjudication, the
trial court has no discretion to exercise. 
If a triable issue of material fact exists as to the challenged causes
of action, the motion must be denied. If there is no triable issue of fact, the
motion must be granted.” (Fisherman's Wharf Bay Cruise Corp. v. Superior
Court (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 309, 320.)
 
“On a summary judgment motion, the court must therefore consider what
inferences favoring the opposing party a factfinder could reasonably draw from
the evidence. While viewing the evidence in this manner, the court must bear in
mind that its primary function is to identify issues rather than to determine
issues.  Only when the inferences are
indisputable may the court decide the issues as a matter of law. If the
evidence is in conflict, the factual issues must be resolved by trial.” (Binder
v. Aetna Life Ins. Co. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839 [cleaned up].)  Further, “the trial court may not weigh the
evidence in the manner of a factfinder to determine whose version is more
likely true.  Nor may the trial court
grant summary judgment based on the court's evaluation of credibility.” (Id.
at p. 840 [cleaned up]; see also Weiss v. People ex rel. Department of
Transportation (2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for
summary judgment or summary adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must
instead view it in the light most favorable to the opposing party and draw all
reasonable inferences in favor of that party”].)  
 
DISCUSSION
 
 Negligence/
Negligent Entrustment
 
The elements of a negligence cause
of action are the existence of a legal duty of care, breach of that duty, and
proximate cause resulting in injury.  (McIntyre
v. Colonies-Pacific, LLC (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 664, 671.) Additionally, “it is generally
recognized that one who places or entrusts his [or her] motor vehicle in the
hands of one whom he [or she] knows, or from the circumstances is charged with
knowing, is incompetent or unfit to drive, may be held liable for an injury
inflicted by the use made thereof by that driver, provided the plaintiff can
establish that the injury complained of was proximately caused by the driver's
disqualification, incompetency, inexperience or recklessness.” (Flores v.
Enterprise Rent-A-Car Co. (2010) 188 Cal.App.4th 1055, 1063) (quoting Osborn
v. Hertz Corp. (1988) 205 Cal.App.3d 703, 708.)   
 
Vehicle Code section 5602 provides
the following:
 
“An owner who has made a bona fide sale
or transfer of a vehicle and has delivered possession of the vehicle to a
purchaser is not, by reason of any of the provisions of this code, the owner of
the vehicle so as to be subject to civil liability or criminal liability for
the parking, abandoning, or operation of the vehicle thereafter by another when
the selling or transferring owner, in addition to that delivery and that bona
fide sale or transfer, has fulfilled either of the following requirements:
(a) He or she has made proper
endorsement and delivery of the certificate of ownership as provided in this
code.
 
(b) He or she has delivered to the
department or has placed in the United States mail, addressed to the
department, either of the following documents:
 
(1) The notice as provided in
subdivision (b) of Section 4456 or Section 5900 or 5901.
(2) The appropriate documents and fees
for registration of the vehicle to the new owner pursuant to the sale or
transfer.”
 
Here, Defendants set forth the
following facts:
 
-         
The plaintiff identifies the opposing vehicle allegedly
owned by the moving parties as a 2008 Ford Mustang being driven by Salvador
Cisneros, hereinafter the “subject vehicle”. (UMF 7.) 
-         
The subject vehicle was subject to a bona fide sale to
Salvador Cisneros on September 16, 2020 before the date of the accident with
the plaintiff. (UMF 8.) 
-         
All of the documents legally required by law and the
DMV needed to transfer the vehicle from the moving parties to the buyer
Salvador Cisneros were prepared and handled properly so that the transfer was
effective on September 16, 2020, before the subject accident. This includes the
giving of the written title (pink slip) and possession of the vehicle to buyer
Cisneros. (UMF 9.) 
-         
The only legal relationship between the moving parties
and the buyer of the vehicle Salvador Cisneros was a commercial transaction in
which Cisneros made a bona fide purchase of the subject vehicle. (UMF 10.) 
-         
Salvador Cisneros was not employee of the moving
parties. (UMF 11.) 
-         
Salvador Cisneros was not hired as an agent of the
moving parties of the moving parties. (UMF 12.) 
-         
The sale of the subject vehicle to Mr. Cisneros was a
full and complete sale paid for by credit card. The moving parties did not
retain a security interest or any other interest in the vehicle after the sale
date of September 16, 2020. (UMF 15.) 
-         
There were no mechanical problems or issues with the
subject vehicle that would have caused or contributed to the accident while in
the possession of the moving parties. The vehicle was subject to the necessary
repairs and was test driven for about 60 miles before the sale to Cisneros.
(UMF 18.) 
-         
The plaintiff has no information that a malfunction or
defect in the subject 2008 Ford Mustang caused the incident mentioned in
plaintiff’s complaint. (UMF 29.) 
-         
The plaintiff has no factual information that the
subject Ford Mustang vehicle was not properly maintained and was not roadworthy
which allegedly caused the subject accident with the plaintiff. (UMF 32.) 
 
Defendants have met their initial
burden of showing there is no triable dispute of material fact regarding
ownership of the vehicle and whether the driver was an agent of Defendants’. Plaintiff
has not filed an opposition and therefore has not established that there is a
triable issue of material fact. Accordingly, Defendants’ motion for summary
judgment is granted.
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Defendants Sufi Ismail and Ifus Global
USA, Inc. dba Cars4Less’s Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED. Defendants
shall file and serve a proposed judgment within 10 days.
 
Defendants are ordered to give
notice and shall file a proof of service of such.
 
 