 Case Number:  22STCV14549    Hearing Date:   March 12, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


March
  12, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV14549




MOTIONS:  


Application
  to be Admitted Pro Hac Vice 




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff Jose Angel Manaiza Jr.




OPPOSING PARTY:


None
  



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On July 6, 2023, Plaintiff Jose Angel Manaiza Jr. (“Plaintiff” in pro
per) filed the instant application to admit Laurack D. Bray (“Bray”) as Counsel
Pro Hac Vice.  
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
California Rules of Court, Rule
9.40 provides that an attorney in good standing in another jurisdiction may
apply to appear as counsel pro hac vice in the State of California by filing a
verified application together with proof of service by mail of a copy of the
application and notice of hearing on all parties who have appeared in the case
and on the State Bar of California at its San Francisco office, with payment of
a $50.00 fee, so long as that attorney is not a resident of the State of
California, and is not employed or regularly engaged in substantial business,
professional, or other activities, in the State of California. An active licensee of the State Bar
of California must also be associated as attorney of record. 
 
“A person desiring to appear as counsel pro
hac vice in a superior court must file with the court a verified application
together with proof of service by mail in accordance with Code of Civil
Procedure section 1013a of a copy of the application and of the notice of
hearing of the application on all parties who have appeared in the cause and on
the State Bar of California at its San Francisco office. The notice of hearing
must be given at the time prescribed in Code of Civil Procedure section 1005
unless the court has prescribed a shorter period.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
9.40(c).) 
 
The application must state: (1) the applicant’s residence
and office addresses; (2) the courts to which the applicant has been admitted
to practice and the dates of admission; (3) that the applicant is a member in
good standing in those courts; (4) that the applicant is not currently
suspended or disbarred in any court; (5) the title of each court and cause in
which the applicant has filed an application to appear as counsel pro hac vice
in this state in the preceding two years, the date of each application, and
whether or not it was granted; and (6) the name, address, and telephone number
of the active member of the State Bar of California who is attorney of record
in the local action.  
 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 9.40(d).) 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Applications to appear as counsel pro hac vice must contain the facts
specified in California Rules of Court, rule 9.40(d). The application must be
verified by the attorney seeking to be admitted. Here, the application only
contains a declaration by Plaintiff purporting to verify the items required in
rule 9.40(d). 
 
Also, there is no
proof of the $50 application fee, or proof of service by mail of the
application on the State Bar of California at its San Francisco office. Moreover,
to grant an application, an
active licensee of the State Bar of California must be associated as attorney
of record. Here, there appears to be no California licensed attorney associated
with this case since Plaintiff is self-represented. 
 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Therefore, Plaintiffs’ application for Laurack D. Bray to appear as
counsel pro hac vice is denied without prejudice. 
 
Plaintiffs shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling to all parties and
file a proof of service of such. 
 
 
 