  Case Number:  19STCV36242    Hearing Date:   October 11, 2023    Dept:  29 The
Court CONTINUES the hearing on the motion for summary judgment of Defendant
City of Los Angeles (“Defendant”) for approximately 21 days, to a date
convenient for the Court and counsel.
 The
Court ORDERS that by no later than October 18, 2023, Plaintiff must file and
serve a corrected Separate Statement in Opposition to Motion that complies, in
full, with Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (b)(3), and
California Rules of Court, rules 3.1350(f)(2), (f)(3), &
(h).  Plaintiff’s separate statement must (among other things)
“unequivocally state whether [each] fact is ‘disputed’ or
‘undisputed.”  [Cal. R. Ct., r. 3.1350(f)(2).]  “Citation
to the evidence in support of the position that a fact is controverted must
include reference to the exhibit, title, page, and line numbers.”  [Ibid.]  Among
other defects that must be cured are the following: (a) Plaintiff does not
state whether Facts Nos. 1, 7, 8, 9, 13, and 16 are disputed or undisputed,
leaving the Court to guess at Plaintiff’s position; (b) Plaintiff does not
provide an adequate reference to evidence in connection with his contention
that Facts Nos. 1, 7, and 16 are or may be disputed, leaving the Court with no
ability to assess whether there is any merit in Plaintiff’s contention that
these facts are in dispute.
Plaintiff
is ADMONISHED that “failure to comply with this requirement of a separate
statement [in opposition to a motion for summary judgment] may constitute a
sufficient ground, in the court’s discretion, for granting the
motion.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c(b)(3).)  Alternatively, if Plaintiff fails to state
clearly and unequivocally that a fact is disputed, and cite to supporting
evidence, the Court may, in its discretion, deem the particular fact as
undisputed for purposes of ruling on the pending motion for summary judgment.
The
Court further ORDERS that by no later than 7 calendar days before the hearing, Defendant
may, at its option, file and serve a further reply to any revisions or
corrections made by Plaintiff to her Separate Statement.  This is an
optional filing for Defendant and is not required.
Defendant
to give notice.
 
