 Case Number:  23STCV22371    Hearing Date:   April 24, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     April
24, 2024                                                TRIAL DATE:  Not
set
                                                           
CASE:                         Christine Paulsen
v. Pixel Labs, LLC, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV22371
 





















 
MOTION
TO COMPEL ARBITRATION AND TO STAY PROCEEDINGS



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendants
Pixel Labs, LLC and Assembly Parent Corp.
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Plaintiff Christine
Paulsen 
 
 
I.          BACKGROUND
On September 15, 2023, Plaintiff Christine Paulsen
(“Paulsen” or “Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendants, Pixel Labs,
LLC (“Pixel”) and Assembly Parent Corp. (“APC”).  On February 16, 2024, Paulsen filed the
operative First Amended Complaint (FAC), alleging causes of action for: 
1.     
Sexual Harassment under FEHA
2.     
Sex Discrimination under FEHA
3.     
Retaliation under FEHA
4.     
Retaliation under Labor Code section 1102.5
5.     
Failure to Prevent Harassment, Discrimination, or
Retaliation under FEHA 
6.     
Age Discrimination under FEHA 
7.     
Unpaid Wages
8.     
Waiting Time Penalties under Labor Code section 203
9.     
Intersectional Discrimination under FEHA.
Paulsen
makes the following allegations:  In
2020, Paulsen was hired by Defendants as the Vice President of Marketing.  Adam Shahbaz (“Shahbaz”) was hired around
the same time as Paulsen as the Vice President of Strategy.  Shabaz and the events teams were responsible
for planning a company event called the Sell + Scale Summit (the “S3” event).  As stated in her
opposition to the motion to compel, Plaintiff alleges that “[m]ost of
the harassing conduct alleged in the FAC took place during [the S3] multi-day
work event in Las Vegas, Nevada. Plaintiff was required to attend this event by
virtue of her position. Plaintiff alleges that misogyny and sex/gender
discrimination were rampant at this event, which created a hostile work
environment for herself and other women in attendance.”  (Opp. at p. 2.)   The
event was permeated with a hypermasculine atmosphere.  Male leadership drank alcohol excessively
throughout the event.  Paulsen was the
only woman present who was in a leadership position.  Shortly after the event concluded, Paulsen
met with Chief
Operating Officer Rahul Choraria (“Choraria”), Paulsen’s boss, to complain about the hostile work environment that she
experienced and witnessed against other women at S3.  Paulsen requested a sabbatical.  Choraria apologized and approved Paulsen’s
request.  Paulsen took her sabbatical.  Shortly after returning from her sabbatical, Choraria
told Paulsen that her employment was being terminated as part of a group
layoff.  Choraria confirmed that
Paulsen’s termination was not due to her personal job performance.  Paulsen and one other female executive were
selected for termination.  Both were over
the age of 40.
            On February 22, 2024, Defendants
filed this Motion to Compel Arbitration and Stay Proceedings.
            Paulsen
filed an Opposition.  Defendants replied.
II.        LEGAL
STANDARD
 
            California law incorporates many of
the basic policy objectives contained in the Federal Arbitration Act, including
a presumption in favor of arbitrability. (Engalla
v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th
951, 971-72.) Under
both the FAA and California law, arbitration agreements are valid, irrevocable,
and enforceable, except on such grounds that exist at law or equity for voiding
a contract. (Winter v. Window Fashions Professions, Inc. (2008) 166
Cal.App.4th 943, 947.) The petitioner bears the
burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration agreement by a
preponderance of the evidence, the party opposing the petition then bears the
burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence any fact necessary to
demonstrate that there should be no enforcement of the agreement, and the trial
court sits as a trier of fact to reach a final determination on the issue. (Rosenthal
v. Great Western Financial Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413.)  Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
1281.2, the Court can compel parties to an arbitration agreement to arbitrate
their dispute. 
 
The
party petitioning to compel arbitration under written arbitration agreement
bears the burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration agreement by a
preponderance of the evidence, and party opposing petition must meet the same
evidentiary burden to prove any facts necessary to its defense.  The trial court acts as the trier of fact,
weighing all the affidavits, declarations, and other documentary evidence.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2; Provencio v.
WMA Securities, Inc. (2005) 125 Cal.App.4th 1028, 1031.)
 
III.       DISCUSSION
            
            There is no dispute Plaintiff signed a
valid arbitration agreement with Pixel and that the Federal Arbitration Act
(FAA) applies.  It is further undisputed
that APC may enforce the agreement as a third-party beneficiary.  The issues to be
decided are two-fold: whether the Ending Forced Arbitration of Sexual Assault
and Sexual harassment Act (the “Act”) prohibits arbitration of Plaintiff’s
claims and whether Defendants waived their right to compel arbitration.   The
court addresses each below. 
1.      The Act
“In March
2022, President Joseph R. Biden signed the Ending Forced Arbitration of Sexual
Assault and Sexual Harassment Act of 2021 (the Act) (9 U.S.C. §§ 401, 402),
representing the first major amendment of the Federal Arbitration Act (FAA) (9
U.S.C. § 1 et seq.) since its inception nearly 100 years ago.”  (Murrey v. Superior Court (2023) 87
Cal.App.5th 1223, 1230.)  “Section 402,
subdivision (a), of the [EFAA] describes its applicability, stating that
effective immediately, predispute arbitration agreements and joint-action
waivers in the context of sexual assault or harassment were no longer valid or
enforceable.”  (Id. at p. 1234.)  “[A]t the election of the person alleging
conduct constituting a sexual harassment dispute or sexual assault dispute, or
the named representative of a class or in a collective action alleging such
conduct, no predispute arbitration agreement or predispute joint-action waiver
shall be valid or enforceable with respect to a case which is filed under
Federal, Tribal, or State law and relates to the sexual assault dispute or the
sexual harassment dispute.  (9 U.S.C. §
402, subd. (a).)”  (Id. at pp.
1234-35.)
2.     
Sexual
Harassment Allegations 
Leadership Retreat
Plaintiff claims that at a leadership retreat, a peer made a comment
to Plaintiff that she was “‘hot’ for her age.” 
(FAC, ¶ 14.)
S3 Event – Four-day
conference in Las Vegas
Paulsen was the only woman in leadership at the S3 event.  She alleges the S3 event “was permeated with
a hypermasculine atmosphere” and that “[m]ale leadership drank alcohol
excessively”.  (FAC, ¶ 21.) 
Paulsen claims that “men” at the S3
event “wrapped their arms around Plaintiff and hung on Plaintiff’s body while
drunk in a manner that made Plaintiff uncomfortable and was unwelcome.”  (FAC, ¶ 22.) 
Other men were not touched in the same way.  (Id.)
At a dinner, Shahbaz asked Paulsen, the only woman present, to
evaluate a co-worker’s biceps; no other men were asked to do the same.  (FAC, ¶ 23.) 

During the event Choraria repeatedly asked Paulsen where her male
counterparts were and showed no interest in having conversations with Paulsen
about anything else. (FAC, ¶ 24.) 
Choraria asked Paulsen multiple times on the Monday of the S3 event
to contact a male colleagues to come drink around 4-5 pm.  (FAC, ¶ 25.)  
Paulsen went out drinking with her
supervisor at the second night of S3, and Plaintiff claims Choraria laughed at her
for ordering a “girly” alcoholic beverage in front of her male
counterparts.  (FAC, ¶ 26.)
Shahbaz got very drunk and engaged in inappropriate and sexually
suggestive conduct with Anne Ferris, an S3event speaker, in front of Paulsen
and junior employees, many of whom were women.  (FAC, ¶ 27.) 
Shahbaz later commented on how “hot” and “sexy” the event speaker was.  (Id.)
Shahbaz did not attend a session at the event because he was
hungover, with Choraria quipping to Paulsen that he did not know if Shabaz
would ever wake up because Shahbaz had been so drunk the prior night.  (FAC, ¶ 28.)  
Several men inquired whether Shahbaz went “home with the Walmart
girl” referring to a Walmart employee present at the event, and an unnamed host
at one of the events said she was told by an unidentified person that Shahbaz
was “grinding on the Walmart girl.”  (FAC, ¶ 29.)
A male executive bragged that Shahbaz was “hitting on” his
girlfriend, and the Shahbaz congratulated that executive for having a young
girlfriend because Shahbaz’s fiancée was “old AF.”  (FAC, ¶ 30.)
The overall atmosphere of the SS3 event was of a misogynistic boys’
club where women were treated as second-class citizens.  (FAC, ¶ 31.)
Chief Executive Officer Even Sandeep Kella required Paulsen to
perform secretarial work for him during the event which should have been
entirely under Shahbaz’s purview.  (FAC,
¶ 31.)  
After the S3 event, Paulsen complained of the hostile work environment
to Choraria and requested sabbatical leave. 
(FAC, ¶¶ 33, 34.)
3.      Application
to Paulsen’s Claims
Paulsen’s sexual harassment dispute
arose after the passage of the Act.  The central
issues to be decided are (1) whether Paulsen alleges “severe or pervasive” sexual
harassment within the meaning of FEHA and (2) if the Act applies, whether all of
Plaintiff’s causes of action are subject to the Act. 
A. 
Severe or Pervasive Conduct 
Defendants argue the Act does not
apply because Paulsen fails to establish severe or pervasive conduct sufficient
to constitute a viable sexual harassment cause of action. 
Paulsen argues otherwise.  Citing Government Code section 12923, Paulsen
argues that a single incident of harassing conduct is sufficient to create a
triable issue regarding the existence of a hostile work environment if the
harassing conduct has unreasonably interfered with her work performance or
created an intimidating, hostile or offensive work environment. 
            To state
a hostile work environment sexual harassment claim, a plaintiff “must
demonstrate that the conduct complained of was severe enough or sufficiently
pervasive to alter the conditions of employment and create a work environment
that qualifies as hostile or abusive to employees because of their sex.”  (McCoy v. Pac. Mar. Assn. (2013) 216
Cal.App.4th 283, 293.)  “The words
‘severe’ and ‘pervasive’ have no peculiar meanings under the law.  The adjective “severe” is defined as “strongly
critical and condemnatory” or “inflicting pain or distress.”  The verb ‘pervade” is defined as “to become
diffused throughout every part of.’” (Caldera v. Department of Corrections
and Rehabilitation¿(2018) 25 Cal.App.5th 31, 38 [internal citations
omitted].)  The totality of the
circumstances are considered when determining whether conduct is severe or
pervasive such as “[¶] (a) The nature of the conduct; [¶] (b) How often, and
over what period of time, the conduct occurred; [¶] (c) The circumstances under
which the conduct occurred; [¶] (d) Whether the conduct was physically
threatening or humiliating; [¶] (e) The extent to which the conduct
unreasonably interfered with an employee’s work performance.’ (CACI No. 2524.)”
 (Caldera, 25 Cal.App.5th at pp. 38-39.) 
“A single incident of harassing conduct is sufficient to create a triable issue
regarding the existence of a hostile work environment if the harassing conduct
has unreasonably interfered with the plaintiff's work performance or created an
intimidating, hostile, or offensive work environment.”  (Beltran v. Hard Rock Hotel
Licensing, Inc. (2023) 97 Cal.App.5th 865, 878, citing Gov. Code, § 12923,
subd. (b); CACI No. 2524.)
            “The FEHA
imposes two standards of employer liability for sexual harassment, depending on
whether the person engaging in the harassment is the victim’s supervisor or a
nonsupervisory coemployee. The employer is liable for harassment by a
nonsupervisory employee only if the employer (a) knew or should have known of
the harassing conduct and (b) failed to take immediate and appropriate
corrective action. This is a negligence standard. Because the FEHA imposes this
negligence standard only for harassment ‘by an employee other than an agent or
supervisor’ by implication the FEHA makes the employer strictly liable for
harassment by a supervisor.”  (State
Dept. of Health Services v. Superior Court (2003) 31 Cal.4th 1026,
1040-1041.)  
            Here,
Paulsen sufficiently pleads severe or pervasive conduct. Considering the
totality of the circumstances, including the conduct of the supervisory and
non-supervisory employees, Paulsen alleges work environment harassment that was
directed at her, in part, because of her sex. 
Paulsen was required to attend the leadership retreat and S3 events.  These are workplace environments.  Choraria (Chief Operating Officer) or Kella
(Chief Executive Officer) contributed to the hostile work environment by, in
part, tasking Paulsen to contact her male peers to set up times to drink, laughing
at Paulsen’s “girly” alcoholic beverages, and directing Paulsen to carry out
secretarial work which was Shahbaz’s responsibility.  Plaintiff alleges she was tasked with these assignments
because of her gender.  In addition, Defendants
knew or should have known about the harassing conduct of the other
employees.   For example, men at
the S3 event “wrapped their arms around Plaintiff and hung on Plaintiff’s body
while drunk in a manner that made Plaintiff uncomfortable and was unwelcome.” (FAC,
¶ 22.) [1]
 Paulsen alleged a plethora of sexually
harassing conduct by Shahbaz occurring over the course of a multi-day event.  Even as Plaintiff’s peer, Defendants may be
held liable for Shahbaz’s alleged conduct, or the conduct of any of its
non-supervisory employees, if they knew or should have known of the conduct.  And, as alleged, they did or should have
known. 
As a result of the alleged conduct at
the S3 event, Paulsen suffered a psoriasis flare up and a panic attack shortly
thereafter.  Paulsen requested sabbatical
leave because of anxiety and emotional distress stemming from the hostile work
environment.  The alleged conduct altered
the conditions of Paulsen’s employment. 
Paulsen ended up having to take a sabbatical because of the hostile work
environment.  
Under Beltran, supra, Paulsen
alleged conduct sufficient to state a claim for work environment sexual
harassment.[2]
 Having found the Act applies to bar
arbitration of Paulsen’s sexual harassment claims, the court does not address
Paulsen’s argument regarding waiver. 
            B.  Whether Paulsen’s Non-Sexual Harassment
Claims Must Be Compelled to Arbitration
            The last
issue the court must decide is whether Paulsen’s non-sexual harassment claims
may be compelled to arbitration notwithstanding the applicability of the
Act.  The parties fail to cite to any
California authority on point.  In the
absence of California authority, the parties advance two competing ideas based
on nonbinding, federal authorities. 
            Defendants
cite Mera v. SA Hospitality Group, LLC (S.D.N.Y. 2023) 675 F.Supp.3d 442
and Dixon v. Dollar Tree Stores, Inc. (W.D.N.Y. Mar. 7, 2023) No.
22-CV-131S, 2023 WL 2388504 in support of their argument that claims which do
not relate in any way to the sexual harassment dispute must be arbitrated.  
            Plaintiff,
on the other hand, cites Turner v. Tesla, Inc. (N.D. Cal. Aug. 11, 2023)
No. 23-CV-024510 WHO, 2023 WL 6150805 and Johnson v. Everyrealm, Inc. (S.D.N.Y.
2023) 657 F.Supp.3d 535 for the proposition that when a plaintiff alleges
sexual harassment alongside other claims, the entire case is exempt from
arbitration.  
            Plaintiff
has the better argument.  Turner
is particularly instructive.  Turner
brought sexual harassment and non-sexual harassment claims.  Tesla argued Turner’s non-sexual harassment
claims should be severed and compelled to arbitration.  The court rejected Tesla’s argument,
concluding that the “EFAA permits [the court] to find that the arbitration is
unenforceable with respect to Turner’s entire case because the core of her case
alleges “conduct constituting a sexual harassment dispute” as defined by the
EFAA.”  (Turner, 2023 WL 6150805,
at *5.)  
The Turner Court also rejected
Tesla’s reliance on Mera.  In Mera,
the district court for the Southern District of New York compelled Mera’s wage
and hour claims to arbitration because they were brought on behalf of all
non-exempt employees.  Unlike Mera,
Turner brought individual wage and hour claims only.  Thus, the Turner court found that
Turner’s workplace injury and wage claims “relate[d] only to her own experience
and employment at Tesla—and are intertwined with her sexual harassment claims.”
(Turner, at *5.)
Like Turner, Paulsen brought a
sexual harassment claim and other, non-harassment employment claims on her
behalf alone.  Indeed, at least four of
Paulsen’s causes of action (1st, 2nd, 5th, and
9th) are predicated on sexual harassment.  Further, all of Paulsen’s claims are related
to her own experience and employment with Defendants, and are likewise
intertwined with her sexual harassment claims. 

Defendants’ reliance on Dixon, supra,
is misplaced.  In Dixon, the court
found that the Act did not apply to alleged conduct which occurred between 2017
to 2020.  (Dixon, 2023 WL 2388504,
at *7.)  The court so concluded because
the Act, which was passed in 2022, applied (and applies) prospectively; not retroactively.  Dixon is readily distinguishable.
Having concluded that the Act applies
and that Paulsen’s sexual harassment claims are intertwined with her non-sexual
harassment claims, the court further finds that Paulsen’s non-sexual harassment
claims cannot be compelled to arbitration.
V.        CONCLUSION
 
            Accordingly,
the motion to compel arbitration is DENIED. 
 
Plaintiff is to give notice.
 
 
Dated:   April 24, 2024                                   




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




 
 
 


