 Case Number:  24NNCV00535    Hearing Date:   May 31, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
MAY 31, 2024

MOTION FOR
TRIAL PREFERENCE

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 24NNCV00535

 



MP:  


Gloria Del Toro (Plaintiff) 




RP:  


Sunshine Inn, LTD (Defendant)



 
NOTICE:
 
The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Gloria Del Toro
(Plaintiff) brings this action against Sunshine Inn, LTD (Defendant)in
connection with a fall Plaintiff alleges she suffered on Defendant’s property.
Plaintiff alleges that Defendant was negligent in their installation of a dance
floor utilized at her son’s wedding. Plaintiff alleges that the negligent
installation caused her to fall and sustain serious injury. 
 
Before the Court is a
motion for trial preference brought by Plaintiff. Defendant opposes the motion
and Plaintiff replies.  
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
C.C.P. §
36(a) provides in part: “A party to a civil action who is over 70 years of age
may petition the court for a preference, which the court shall grant if the
court makes both of the following findings: (1) The party has a substantial
interest in the action as a whole. (2) The health of the party is such that a
preference is necessary to prevent prejudicing the party’s interest in the
litigation.”. 
 
Per
C.C.P. § 36.5, “An affidavit submitted in support of a motion for preference
under subdivision (a) of Section 36 may be signed by the attorney for the party
seeking preference based upon information and belief as to the medical
diagnosis and prognosis of any party.” (See also Fox v. Superior Court
(2018) 21 Cal.App.5th 529, 534 [“a motion under subdivision (a) may be
supported by nothing more than an attorney’s declaration “based upon
information and belief as to the medical diagnosis and prognosis of any party”].)
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
As a preliminary matter,
the Court finds the argument that a grant of trial prejudice would be unduly
prejudicial to Defendant to be unpersuasive. Defendant argues that setting the
matter for trial within 120 days would result in prejudice because Plaintiff
has yet to respond to any written discovery. The Court also notes that
Plaintiff disputes this categorization in her Reply. Plaintiff argues that she
produced over 386 pages of medical records in advance of mediation. The Court
need not resolve this dispute to adjudicate this motion. (See Swaithes v.
Superior Court (1989) 212 Cal.App.3d 1082, 1086 [“Failure to complete
discovery or other pre-trial matters does not affect the absolute substantive
right to trial preference for those litigants who qualify for preference under subdivision
(a) of section 36.”].) 
 
The Court finds the
argument that Plaintiff’s motion is based on self-serving and conclusory declarations
to be similarly unpersuasive. Plaintiff submits the declaration of her counsel,
James Orland (Orland), and her son, Anthony Del Toro (Anthony). C.C.P. § 36.5
states that an affidavit by a party’s attorney stated upon information and
belief alone can suffice to satisfy that party’s motion for trial preference.
This type of affidavit is not commonly accepted in any other motion and is
designed to set the bar low when it comes to showings of poor health. Further,
a motion under C.C.P. § 36(a) can be supported by a declaration which consists
entirely of hearsay and conclusions. (See Fox supra, 21 Cal.App.5th at
534.) 
 
As concerns Plaintiff’s actual
showing of potential prejudice under C.C.P. § 36(a), the Court finds she has not
sufficiently demonstrated that her health is such that preference is necessary.
Plaintiff submits proof that she is over 70 years of age (Orland Decl. ¶ 1.)
This much is uncontested by Defendant. Regardless, the Court finds Plaintiff’s
declarations do not show the extent of her health issues such that she would be
prejudiced by denial of trial preference. 
 
In reviewing the Orland
declaration, the Court agrees that it does not establish the necessity of
granting preference. The Orland declaration contains a single sentence
referencing Plaintiff which states, “her health is diminished, and the injuries
from the trip and fall accident on December 30, 2022, are causing her
additional physical and emotional injuries.” (Orland Decl. ¶ 2.) This statement
contains no explanation as to what Plaintiff’s health concerns are or why they
pose a threat to her ability to meaningfully participate in these proceedings. 
 
As concerns the Anthony
declaration, the Court finds it too is insufficient to establish the necessity
of preference. Anthony states that he recently moved in with Plaintiff, his
mother, in order to assist with her daily care and needs. (Anthony Decl.
¶ 4.) Anthony also states that Plaintiff ambulates in a wheelchair and is
unable to provide for her daily needs. (Anthony Decl. ¶ 4.) The Court finds
Anthony’s declaration is entitled to weight in adjudicating this motion as Evidence
Code § 702 permits the testimony of matters within a declarant’s personal
knowledge. Anthony states he lives with Plaintiff which establishes that he has
personal knowledge of her health concerns and their potential effect on her
ability to participate in trial. 
 
At the same time, the
details of the Anthony declaration are too scant to be persuasive. Much like
the Orland declaration, the Anthony declaration contains only vague aversions
to the health concerns of Plaintiff. While the Court does not doubt the
seriousness of Plaintiff’s requiring a wheelchair to ambulate, it does not view
this fact as indicative of a health concern requiring the expedition of trial. Similarly,
the statement that Plaintiff is unable to take care of her daily needs is
insufficiently detailed for the Court to determine that Plaintiff suffers from
a condition which would impair her ability to participate in trial. 
 
In her reply papers Plaintiff’s
attaches her medical documentation from Kaiser Permanente. Plaintiff’s record
shows she suffers from diabetes and congestive heart failure, among other
issues. (Reply, Exh. A.) Although these are serious health concerns, the Court does
not view these records as evidencing that preference is necessary to prevent
prejudice to Plaintiff. Most of these records appear to concern a more recent
fall from Plaintiff and her subsequent challenges with mobility. From the
Court’s review, the medical records do not discuss any conditions which would
impair Plaintiff’s ability to testify or otherwise participate in trial. 
 
While C.C.P. § 36.5 permits
the declaration of an attorney in lieu of a declaration by a medical
professional, such a declaration would have likely bolstered Plaintiff’s
showing. The Court cannot look at the medical records in the abstract and read
from them a serious health concern necessitating trial preference. As
previously stated, the Orland declaration is simply too vague to provide any
guidance to the Court regarding the nature of Plaintiff’s condition. 
 
In short, Plaintiff’s
declarations and evidentiary submissions are insufficient to show the necessity
of trial preference under C.C.P. § 36(a). Accordingly, the motion for trial
preference is DENIED.  
 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Gloria Del Toro’s
Motion for Trial Preference came on regularly for
hearing on May 31, 2024, with appearances/submissions as noted in the minute
order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the premises, did
then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE MOTION FOR TRIAL PREFERENCE IS DENIED.  
 
UNLESS ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, PLAINTIFF TO
GIVE NOTICE.
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
May 31, 2024                          _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 