  Case Number:  21STCV27254    Hearing Date:   May 31, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENATIVE
RULING
MAY 31, 2024

MOTION
FOR TERMINATING SANCTIONS & MOTION TO SET ASIDE

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 21STCV27254

 



MP:  


Yuqin Liu (Plaintiff) 




RP:  


Beverly Hills New Life Medical Group,
  LLC (Defendant) 



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Yuqin Liu
(Plaintiff) brings this action against Beverly
Hills New Life Medical Group, LLC (Defendant). Plaintiff alleges that Defendant
negligently administered derma filler injections which resulted in personal
injury. 
 
Before
the Court is Defendant’s motion for terminating sanctions on the basis of
Plaintiff’s repeated discovery abuse. Plaintiff opposes this motion and
Defendant replies. 
 
Also
before the Court is a motion by Plaintiff to vacate the order requiring her to
file an undertaking in this matter. Defendant opposes the motion. 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
Motion for
Terminating Sanctions 
 
Where a party fails
to obey an order compelling answers to discovery, “the court may make those
orders that are just, including the imposition of an issue sanction, an
evidence sanction, or a terminating sanction.” (C.C.P. §§ 2030.290(c),
2023.010(c); R.S. Creative, Inc. v. Creative Cotton, Ltd. (1999) 75 Cal.
App. 4th 486, 495.) Terminating sanctions are appropriate when a party persists
in disobeying the court’s orders. (Deyo v. Kilbourne (1978) 84
Cal.App.3d 771, 795-796.) 
 
A terminating
sanction is a “drastic measure which should be employed with caution.” (Deyo
supra, 84 Cal. App. 3d at 793.) “A decision to order terminating sanctions
should not be made lightly. But where a violation is willful, preceded by a
history of abuse, and the evidence shows that less severe sanctions would not
produce compliance with the discovery rules, the trial court is justified in
imposing the ultimate sanction.” (Mileikowsky v. Tenet Healthsystem
(2005) 128 Cal. App. 4th 262, 279-280.) 
 
While the court has
discretion to impose terminating sanctions, these sanctions “should be
appropriate to the dereliction and should not exceed that which is required to
protect the interests of the party entitled to but denied discovery.” (Deyo
supra, at 793.) “[A] court is empowered to apply the ultimate sanction
against a litigant who persists in the outright refusal to comply with his
discovery obligations.” (Id.) Discovery sanctions are not to be imposed
for punishment, but instead are used to encourage fair disclosure of discovery
to prevent unfairness resulting for the lack of information. (See Midwife v.
Bernal (1988) 203 Cal. App. 3d 57, 64.)
 
Plaintiff’s sole
argument in opposition to this motion is that Defendant has misrepresented her
compliance/noncompliance with discovery demands in this case. In order to
evaluate this argument, the Court finds it helpful to analyze its orders as to
various discovery motions in this matter. 
 
On January 5, 2024,
the Court granted the following discovery motions: 
 
·        
Motion to Compel
Initial Discovery Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set Two filed November
27, 2023. 
·        
Motion to Compel
Further Discovery Responses to Request for Production of Documents (RFPD), Set
One filed November 22, 2023. 
·        
Motion to Compel
Initial Discovery Response to RFPD, Set Two filed November 27, 2023. 
 
(See January 4, 2024
Minute Order) 
 
On January 26, 2024,
the Court granted the following discovery motions: 
 
·        
Motion to Compel
Further Discovery Responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One filed November 22,
2023. 
·        
Motion to Compel
Further Discovery Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One filed November
22, 2023. 
 
(See January 26, 2024
Minute Order) 
 
Defendant states that
Plaintiff has yet to respond to the following: 
 
·        
Plaintiff has still
not responded to Special Interrogatories Set Two (Palin Decl. ¶ 4.) 
·        
Plaintiff has still
not responded to RFPD Set Two. (Palin Decl. ¶ 6.) 
·        
Plaintiff has still
not further responded to Form Interrogatories Set One. (Palin Decl ¶ 11.)
·        
Plaintiff has still
not further responded to Special Interrogatories Set One. (Palin Decl ¶ 12.) 
·        
Plaintiff has still
not further responded to RFPD Set One. (Palin Decl ¶ 13.) 
 
Defendant also states
that Plaintiff has yet to pay any of the sanctions issued with the Court’s
orders (Palin Decl. ¶ 15.) The Court notes that failure to pay sanctions
is not justification for a motion for terminating sanctions in and of itself.
(See Newland v. Superior Court (1995) 40 Cal.App.4th 608, 610, 615.) 
 
The Court finds
Plaintiff’s argument that she has complied with discovery in this case to be
unpersuasive. 
 
First, Plaintiff’s
argument that there were only three discovery requests directed to Plaintiff is
patently untrue. As outlined above, Defendant has served numerous discovery
demands upon Plaintiff. Five of these demands are the subject of a Court order
demanding Plaintiff provide either initial or further response. Defendant has
represented, under the penalty of perjury, that Plaintiff has not complied with
any of these five orders. Plaintiff has submitted no evidence which indicates
otherwise. 
 
The Court finds
Plaintiff’s statement that she complied with “all discovery requests made by
Defendant” borders on a complete misrepresentation. (See Oppo. p. 2.) Plaintiff
has provided no evidence of her attempted compliance in the several months that
have proceeded the Court’s orders. Plaintiff’s initial compliance was already
determined by this Court to be insufficient in the orders compelling further
responses. The Court does not view an initial response followed by months of
continued silence as evidence of good faith engagement with the discovery
process. 
 
The Court further
finds that Plaintiff’s refusal to comply over several months is indicative of
willful behavior. “Lack of diligence may be deemed willful in the sense that
the party understood his obligation, had the ability to comply, and failed to
comply.” (Deyo supra, at 787.)  
 
A period of almost
six months has passed from the initial Court order to the hearing of this
motion. In that time, Plaintiff did not comply with any of the Court’s orders.
Instead, Plaintiff filed a motion to vacate the orders nearly four months after
they were entered. The Court ruled that Plaintiff had provided insufficient
explanation as to any “mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect”
which resulted in the entry of the orders. The Court also found that Plaintiff
did not explain her failure to oppose any of the discovery motions or
thereafter timely move for reconsideration. 
As such, Plaintiff’s motion to vacate the orders was denied. 
 
In short, the Court
views Plaintiff’s continued failure to comply with the orders as evidence of
willful behavior. It appears from the record that Plaintiff was fully aware of
these motions, chose not to oppose them, and then sought to vacate them afterward
without any explanation as to why she did not oppose them. This behavior can
only be construed as willful in this context. 
 
The question before
the Court thus becomes whether less severe sanctions than terminating sanctions
would produce compliance with the discovery rules. (Mileikowsky supra,
128 Cal.App.4th at pp. 279– 280.) Defendant argues that a lesser sanction,
either issue or evidentiary, would be ineffective in curbing Plaintiff’s
discovery abuse. To explain this argument, a short summary of Defendant’s
discovery is needed. 
 
Defendant represents
that a significant portion of their discovery requests concern whether they
were the provider of Plaintiff’s derma filler injections. Defendant maintains
that they have no record of Plaintiff in their system. (Smith Decl. ¶ 3.) It
appears Plaintiff testified in her deposition that an entirely different
company rendered these services. (Palin Decl., Exh. 9 at p. 95.) Further,
Defendant states that Plaintiff testified she had never heard the name “Beverly
Hills New Life Medical Group” prior to initiating this lawsuit. (Id. at
p. 96.) In light of this testimony, Defendant is attempting to discover what
proof Plaintiff has that she patronized Defendant’s business. 
 
Given the above,
Defendant argues that granting issue or evidentiary sanctions regarding the
discovery would produce the same result as terminating sanctions. If Plaintiff
is barred from contesting the issue of whether Defendant rendered the services
which injured her, the result would be judgment for the Defendant. The same can
be said if Plaintiff is barred from introducing any evidence that Defendant
rendered these services.  The Court
disagrees and believes that escalated sanctions short of terminating sanctions
can be appropriate.   If the defense
believes that such sanctions are tantamount to terminating sanctions, then lesser
sanctions should be appropriate to address their concerns.  
 
The Court disagrees
with Defendant that lesser sanctions would be ineffective in curbing
Plaintiff’s discovery abuses. Monetary sanctions have already proven
unsuccessful in encouraging Plaintiff’s production. Months have passed without
production from Plaintiff, and she has not indicated that any is forthcoming. Nonetheless
the Court believes that evidentiary or issue sanctions would result in
Plaintiff complying with the Court’s orders. 
 
“The trial court may
order a terminating sanction for discovery abuse ‘after considering the
totality of the circumstances: [the] conduct of the party to determine if the
actions were willful; the detriment to the propounding party; and the number of
formal and informal attempts to obtain the discovery.’” (Los Defensores,
Inc. v. Gomez (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 377, 390 (quoting Lang v. Hachman
(2000) 77 Cal.App.4th 1225, 1246).) “Generally, '[a] decision to order
terminating sanctions should not be made lightly. But where a violation is
willful, preceded by a history of abuse, and the evidence shows that less
severe sanctions would not produce compliance with the discovery rules, the
trial court is justified in imposing the ultimate sanction.’” (Los
Defensores supra, 223 Cal.App.4th at p. 390 [citation omitted].)  Here, in considering the totality of the
circumstances the Court finds terminating sanctions are not warranted.
Plaintiff’s conduct in this case has demonstrated a repeated defiance of Court
orders and disregard for the discovery process, as such, Plaintiff is
prohibited from presenting any evidence which would have been responsive to Plaintiff’s
discovery request, specifically:
 
·        
Special
Interrogatories Sets One and Two;
·        
RFPD Sets One and Two;

·        
Form Interrogatories
Set One.
 
Furthermore, regardless
of the evidentiary sanction noted above, Plaintiff is not excused from
providing the requested information and is ordered to provide responses to all
requested discovery without objection by June 14, 2024 by 4:00 PM.  
 
Accordingly, the motion
for terminating sanctions is DENIED; however, the court grants evidentiary
sanctions.  The Plaintiff shall have the
burden to show any evidence they seek to provide was not otherwise excluded by
these evidentiary sanctions.
 
Motion to Vacate
Undertaking 
 
On March 8, 2024, the
Court heard Defendant’s motion to require Plaintiff to file an undertaking. The
Court found that Defendant had sufficiently demonstrated Plaintiff to be an out
of state litigant and that Defendant had a reasonable probability of success.
Plaintiff rendered no opposition to this motion. 
 
Plaintiff then
noticed a motion to be heard May 3, 2024 which clearly requested the order for
undertaking be vacated pursuant to C.C.P. § 473(b). On May 3, 2024, the Court
heard this motion and found Plaintiff’s showing of “mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or excusable neglect” to be insufficient to grant relief. 
 
In between the March
8, 2024 order granting the undertaking and the hearing of the May 3, 2024
motion to vacate, Plaintiff filed another motion to vacate the undertaking.
Plaintiff did not withdraw her previous motion. Plaintiff’s counsel appeared at
the May 3, 2024 hearing but made no argument as to the Court’s tentative ruling
on the motion to vacate the undertaking. 
 
Upon review, these
two motions are identical. In essence, it appears that Plaintiff filed this
motion twice and it has already been ruled upon. The motion cannot be construed
as one for reconsideration, given it was filed before the previous motion was heard.
As such, the Court finds the current motion has already been adjudicated.
Accordingly, the motion to vacate the undertaking is DENIED. 
 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Beverly Hills New
Life Medical Group, LLC’s Motion for Terminating Sanctions and Yuqin Liu’s Motion to Set Aside came on regularly for hearing on May 31, 2024, with
appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the
court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there rule as
follows: 
 
THE
MOTION FOR TERMINATING SANCTIONS IS DENIED; HOWEVER EVIDENTIARY SANCTIONS ARE
ISSUED.  PLAINTIFF IS PROHIBITED FROM
INTRODUCING ANY EVIDENCE WHICH WOULD HAVE BEEN RESPONSIVE TO THE DISCOVERY
REQUESTS:  Special Interrogatories Sets One and Two, REQUEST FOR
PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS Sets One and Two, AND Form Interrogatories Set One.
 
PLAINTIFF IS ORDERED TO PROVIDE OBJECTION FREE
RESPONSES TO Special
Interrogatories Sets One and Two, REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS Sets One
and Two, AND Form Interrogatories Set One NO LATER THAN JUNE 14, 2024 AT 4:00
PM.
 
THE
MOTION TO SET ASIDE THE COURT’S ORDER REQUIRING PLAINTIFF’S UNDERTAKING IS
DENIED. 
 
OSC RE
DISCOVERY COMPLIANCE JUNE 17, 2024 AT  9:00 AM.
 
UNLESS ALL PARTIES
WAIVE NOTICE, DEFENDANT TO GIVE NOTICE. 
 
DATE: May
31, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles