 Case Number:  23BBCV01146    Hearing Date:   May 31, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
MAY 31, 2024

MOTION
TO COMPEL DISCOVERY RESPONSES

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV01146

 



MP:  


NHP/PMB Burbank Medical Plaza II, LLC
  (Plaintiff)




RP:  


Salem Neurological Associates
  (Defendant)



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
NHP/PMB Burbank
Medical Plaza II, LLC (Plaintiff) brings this action against Salem Neurological
Associates (Defendant). Plaintiff alleges that Defendant failed to pay rent
pursuant to a commercial lease agreement between the parties. Plaintiff seeks
damages in the amount of $168,913.64. 
 
Before the Court
is a motion brought by Plaintiff to compel Defendant’s response to their Form
and Special Interrogatories (Set One). On May 23, 2024, the Defendant filed an
untimely Opposition to this motion. The Court, in its discretion, will consider
the merits of the untimely Opposition. 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
If a party
to whom interrogatories are directed fails to serve a timely response, the
propounding party may move for an order compelling response and for a monetary
sanction.  (C.C.P. § 2030.290(b).)  The statute contains no time
limit for a motion to compel where no responses have been served.  All
that need be shown in the moving papers is that a set of interrogatories was
properly served on the opposing party, that the time to respond has expired,
and that no response of any kind has been served.  (See Leach v.
Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal. App. 3d 902, 905-906.) 
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
On September
27, 2023, Plaintiff served their Form Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories,
and Request for Admissions (RFA) via email on Defendant’s counsel. (Hinds Decl.
¶ 3, Exh. A.) On February 21, 2024, Defendant’s counsel served responses
to Plaintiff’s RFA but not the Form/Special Interrogatories. (Hinds Decl. ¶¶ 8-9,
Exh. D.) Plaintiff then withdrew their motion to deem RFA matters admitted and
inquired as to when interrogatory responses would be forthcoming. (Hinds Decl.
¶ 10.) Plaintiff states they have received no responses despite
Defendant’s counsel indicating they would be sent within a week in a February
23, 2024 email. (Hinds Decl. ¶ 11.) 
 
Defendant states
in its Opposition that is rendered objection free responses on May 16, 2024. (Verdi
Decl. ¶ 4.) Defendant appears to argue that it was Plaintiff’s overly
burdensome Special Interrogatories which created this delay in response. (Verdi
Decl. ¶ 3.) Defendant further argues that no sanctions should be issued
because Plaintiff failed to meet and confer after Defendant responded to the
RFA. Defendant states the primary focus of the Special Interrogatories were the
lease documents, which Defendant already admitted the authenticity of in its
RFA responses. Defendant argues that although the statute does not require meet
and confer efforts, Plaintiff should have still pursued them as a result of the
Special Interrogatories being related to the RFA. 
 
As concerns the
motion to compel, the Court finds the subsequent production by Defendant has
rendered the motion MOOT. There is no point in compelling production where
responses have already been produced. As such, all that remains to be
determined is the matter of sanctions. 
 
Sanctions

 
As concerns motions to compel, the law only requires
sanctions if a party unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a
response. (C.C.P. § 2030.300(d)) As such, any other monetary sanctions granted
are within the discretionary power of the Court as per C.C.P. § 2030.290. As
per C.C.P. § 2023.010(d), failure to respond constitutes a misuse of the
discovery process. 
 
The Court
finds Defendant’s argument that Plaintiff made no meet and confer effort unpersuasive,
especially in light of the Plaintiff sending a meet and confer letter dated
March 4, 2024, which did not result in timely compliance or a request for an
extension.  Defendant offers no
explanation as to why there was no request for further extension after the
parties exchanged emails on February 21, 2024. Plaintiff did not file the
motions until April 11, 2024, nearly six weeks after Defendant advised the
responses would be forthcoming within a week. 
To the extent that Defendant alleges the delay resulted from Plaintiff’s
burdensome Special Interrogatories, it does not appear that Defendant ever
communicated this concern to Plaintiff. 
 
Accordingly,
the Court awards sanctions in the amount of $1,560. This amount reflects the
attorney’s fees incurred by Plaintiff as a result of bringing this motion, as
attested by Plaintiff’s counsel. (See Hinds Decl. ¶ 13.) Given the Court’s
experience with motions of this type, this amount of sanctions appears
appropriate to compensate Plaintiff in bringing this motion. Sanctions are against
Defendant and Defendant’s counsel jointly and severally. 
 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the following
form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and entered
into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
NHP/PMB Burbank
Medical Plaza II, LLC’s Motion to Compel
Discovery Responses came on regularly for hearing on May
31, 2024, with appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said
hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there
rule as follows: 
 
THE MOTION TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO PLAINTIFF’S
FORM AND SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES IS MOOT. 
 
SANCTIONS ARE AWARDED IN THE AMOUNT OF $1,560.
SANCTIONS ARE AWARDED JOINTLY AND SEVERALLY AGAINST DEFENDANT AND DEFENDANT’S
COUNSEL. 
 
SANCTIONS TO BE PAID WITHIN 30 DAYS. 
 
UNLESS ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, PLAINTIFF IS
TO GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
  
DATE: 
May 31, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M. Tavelman, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 