 Case Number:  23GDCV02147    Hearing Date:   May 31, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
MAY 31, 2024

MOTIONS
TO COMPEL DISCOVERY RESPONSES & DEEM RFA MATTERS ADMITTED

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23GDCV02147

 



MP:  


Juan Diego Galvan (Plaintiff)




RP:  


FCA (Defendant)



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Juan Diego Galvan
(Plaintiff)
brings this action against FCA, US LLC (Defendant) for claims arising out of the purchase of a 2020 Jeep Grand
Cherokee (the Subject Vehicle). The Complaint alleges several causes of action
for violation of the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act. 
 
Plaintiff now moves to compel Defendant’s initial response
to his Form Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories, and Request for the
Production of Documents (RFPD). Plaintiff also moves to deem matters in his Request
for Admissions (RFA) matters admitted. On May 24, 2024, Defendant filed
untimely oppositions to each of the three motions. The Court, in its
discretion, elects to consider Defendant’s oppositions. 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
If a party
to whom interrogatories are directed fails to serve a timely response, the
propounding party may move for an order compelling response and for a monetary
sanction.  (C.C.P. § 2030.290(b).)  The statute contains no time
limit for a motion to compel where no responses have been served.  All
that need be shown in the moving papers is that a set of interrogatories was
properly served on the opposing party, that the time to respond has expired,
and that no response of any kind has been served.  (See Leach v.
Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal. App. 3d 902, 905-906.) 
 
Where
there has been no timely response to a demand to produce documents, the
demanding party may seek an order compelling a response.  (C.C.P. §
2031.300(b).)  Failure to timely respond waives all objections, including
privilege and work product.  (C.C.P. § 2031.300 (a).)  Thus, unless
the party to whom the demand was directed obtains relief from waiver, he or she
cannot raise objections to the documents demanded. There is no deadline for a
motion to compel responses.  Likewise, for failure to respond, the moving
party need not attempt to resolve the matter outside court before filing the
motion. 
 
If a party fails to respond
to requests for admission in a timely manner, the requesting party may move for
an order that the matters be deemed admitted. (C.C.P. § 2033.280(b).) The requesting party’s motion must be
granted by the court unless the party to whom the requests for admission have
been directed has served a proposed response to the requests for admission that
is in substantial compliance with C.C.P. § 2033.220 prior to the hearing. 
(C.C.P. § 2033.280(c).)  By failing
to timely respond, the party to whom the requests are directed waives any
objection to the requests, including one based on privilege or work
product.  (C.C.P. §
2033.280(a).) 
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Request to Compel Responses

 
On November
29, 2023, Plaintiff propounded his interrogatories, RFPD, and RFA on Defendant via
email upon their counsel. (Sogogyan Decl. ¶ 8, Exh. 1.) Discovery responses
were due December 29, 2023 but Plaintiff received no responses. (Sogogyan Decl.
¶¶ 9, 10.) Plaintiff’s counsel states that, despite having no obligation to do
so, Plaintiff refrained from bringing the instant motions for a period of four
months to allow Defendant time to respond. 
(Sogogyan Decl. ¶ 11.) As of the filing of this motion, Plaintiff
has received no responses. (Sogogyan Decl. ¶ 13.) 
 
Defendants
Opposition 
 
Defendant
states that they served written responses to each discovery request on May 22,
2024. (Dao Decl. ¶ 4, Exh. A.) Defendant acknowledges their responses are
late and states that the failure to respond to this discovery was the result of
a mistake in calendaring. (Dao Decl. ¶ 5.) 
 
Given the
representations of Defendant, the Court finds that the motions to compel
initial responses are MOOT. Plaintiff’s motion to deem RFA matters admitted is
DENIED by virtue of Defendant’s subsequent responses in substantial compliance
with C.C.P. § 2033.220. 
 
Sanctions

 
The Court may
impose a monetary sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse of the
discovery process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the
reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result
of that conduct. (C.C.P. § 2023.030(a).) 
 
The Court shall
impose monetary sanctions for failure to timely respond to requests for
admission unless the party acted with substantial justification, or the
circumstances render imposition of sanctions unjust. (C.C.P. § 2033.280(c).) The Court must impose a monetary sanction
on the party or attorney whose failure to serve timely Requests for Admission
responses necessitated the motion. (Id.)
 
Further,
it is customary to grant sanctions where a party has filed a motion to compel,
and the other party fails to file an opposition. (C.R.C., Rule 3.1348(a).)  
 
Here,
Plaintiff requests no sanctions in connection with the three motions to compel.
Accordingly, the Court declines to grant sanctions at this time.
 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Juan Diego
Galvan’s Motions to Compel Responses to
Discovery and Deem Request for Admissions Matters Admitted came on regularly for hearing on May 31, 2024, with
appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the
court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there rule as
follows: 
 
THE MOTIONS TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO PLAINTIFF’S
FORM INTERROGATORIES, SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES, AND REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION ARE MOOT.

 
THE MOTION TO DEEM RFA MATTERS ADMITTED IS DENIED.
 
 
UNLESS ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, PLAINTIFF IS
TO GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
  
DATE: 
May 31, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M. Tavelman, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 