  Case Number:  24STCV05644    Hearing Date:   September 23, 2024    Dept:  73 9/23/2024
Dept. 73
Hon.
Rolf Treu, Judge presiding 
 
ABDOLMOHAMMADIYON v. REAL PROPERTY
TRUSTEE, INC., et al. (24STCV05644)
 
Counsel
for Plaintiff/opposing party:  Amy
Mousavi (Mousavi Law, PC)
Counsel
for Defendants Fidelity Recovery LLC and Jack Shut/moving party:  Gregory Bodell (Kozberg & Bodell LLP)
 
(1)   DEFENDANTS’ DEMURRERS TO FIRST AMENDED
COMPLAINT (filed 06/11/24)
(2)   DEFENDANT FIDELITY RECOVERY LLC’S MOTION
TO COMPEL PLAINTIFF TO APPEAR FOR DEPOSITION AND REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS (filed 07/18/24)
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 
Defendants’
Demurrer to the First Amended Complaint’s first and second causes of action is
SUSTAINED with 20 days leave to amend. 
 
Defendants’
Demurrer to the First Amended Complaint’s third, fourth and fifth causes of
action is OVERRULED.
 
Defendant’s
motion to compel Plaintiff’s deposition is DENIED.
 
BACKGROUND
 
On March 6, 2024, Plaintiff Matthew Abdolmohammadiyon filed this
action against Defendants Real Property Trustee, Inc.; Fidelity Recovery, LLC;
Olesya Shut and Jack Shut. 
 
On May 10, 2024, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”)
alleging the following causes of action:
1.      Wrongful
Foreclosure – Invalid Deed of Trust
2.      Wrongful
Foreclosure – Misrepresentation of Loan
3.      Fraud
4.      Accounting
5.      Conversion
The FAC
alleges the following. Plaintiff owns the real property located at 1456 S.
Bonnie Beach Place, Commerce, California 90023, legal description: LOT 13 IN
BLOCK 4 OF TRACT NO. 4301, IN THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES, STATE OF CALIFORNIA,
AS PER MAP RECORDED IN BOOK 50 PAGES(S) 98 AND 99 OF MAPS, IN THE OFFICE OF THE
COUNTY RECORDED OF SAID COUNTY, Assessor Parcel Number: 5241-022-002 (“Bonnie
Property”). In December 2018, Plaintiff and Defendant Jack Shut (“Jack”) agreed
that Jack would lend Plaintiff $100,000 as a hard money loan with ten percent
(10%) interest and no maturity date. Jack requested Plaintiff sign a promissory
note. However, the promissory note contained different terms not agreed upon,
including that that the principal loaned was $120,000, not $100,000. On December
17, 2018, Plaintiff executed a Short Form Deed of Trust and Assignment of Rents
(“Deed of Trust”) at the direction of Jack. However, there was no Notary Public
present when Plaintiff signed the Deed of Trust. Plaintiff alleges the notary
public’s signature was the product of fraud and that the Deed of Trust is
invalid. Plaintiff alleges a dispute arose between Plaintiff and Jack. Then in
or around January 2024, Jack closed his account so that Plaintiff could not
deposit funds, and together with his wife and their companies, Fidelity and Property
Trustee, Jack recorded a Notice of Default on the Bonnie Property. Plaintiff
alleges he had been paying $1,000/month towards the loaned funds; however, the
Defendants have not provided Plaintiff with any credit for the nearly $60,000
that Plaintiff has paid.
On
June 11, 2024, Defendants Fidelity Recovery LLC and Jack Shut both filed
Demurrers to the FAC. Both Demurrers argue the following:
·      
The First Cause of Action for
Wrongful Foreclosure (Invalid Deed of Trust) fails to state a cause of action
because it does not allege a sale of the property in issue and a deed of trust
need not be acknowledged to be enforceable
·      
The Second Cause of Action for
Wrongful Foreclosure (Misrepresentation of Loan) fails to state a cause of
action because it also does not allege a sale of the property in issue and
fails to include required allegations of the misrepresentations
·      
The Third Cause of Action for Fraud
fails to state a cause of action because it does not include the required
specifics of any misrepresentation
·      
The Fourth Cause of Action for
Accounting fails to state a cause of action because it is not a cause of action
but a remedy
·      
The Fifth Cause of Action for
Conversion fails to state a claim against Fidelity as it does not contain any
charging allegations against Fidelity
 
Plaintiff filed an
opposition to both Defendants’ Demurrers, arguing:
·       Plaintiff’s causes of action
are sufficiently pled
·       Plaintiff Has Plead Alter Ego Theory
Against, Inter Alia, Fidelity and Jack Shut
 
Defendants filed a joint reply maintaining that
Plaintiff fails to state a cause of action. 
 
On July 18, 2024, Defendant Fidelity Recovery LLC
filed a Motion to Compel Plaintiff to appear for deposition, arguing:
·       Plaintiff served a notice for Jack’s deposition after Defendant Fidelity
Recovery LLC (“Fidelity”) already had served a deposition notice of Plaintiff
and set Jack’s deposition before the date that Fidelity had set Plaintiff’s
deposition. The motion became necessary because Plaintiff refused to withdraw
his underset deposition of Jack. Fidelity and Jack served an objection to the
notice and filed a motion for protective order against his the taking of his
deposition as noticed by Plaintiff, which motion is set to be heard on November
1, 2024 (the earliest date available on the Court’s regular calendar).
·       Appendix Rule 3A of the Los Angeles County Bar Association’s Rules of
Civility and the decision of the California Supreme Court in Rosemont v.
Superior Court (1964) 60 Cal.2d 709 (“Rosemont”) provide that Plaintiff is not
allowed to underset Fidelity’s deposition of Plaintiff. 
·       The Court thus is requested to (a) set Plaintiff’s deposition on a date
certain and (b) rule that Jack’s deposition may not be taken before Plaintiff’s
deposition. The Court should also impose monetary sanctions against Plaintiff
and his attorneys.
 
Plaintiff filed an opposition. Defendant filed a
reply.
 
ANALYSIS
 
A.      Defendants’
Demurrer 
 
a.       Legal
Standard for Demurrer
 
A demurrer tests the sufficiency of whether the complaint states a
cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When
considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context—any
defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial
notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968,
994.) “A demurrer tests the pleading alone, and not the evidence or facts
alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants, Inc. Servs. (2007) 153
Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the court assumes the truth of the
complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Id.) The
only issue a demurrer is concerned with is whether the complaint, as it stands,
states a cause of action. (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at p. 747.)
 
b.      Request for
Judicial Notice
 
Plaintiff requests the Court take judicial notice of: The
Transcript of Plaintiff’s Ex Parte Application For A Temporary Restraining
Order And Order To Show Cause Hearing of March 12, 2024.
 
The court may
take judicial notice of “official acts of the legislative, executive, and
judicial departments of the United States and of any state of the United
States,” “[r]ecords of (1) any court of this state or (2) any court of record
of the United States or of any state of the United States,” and “[f]acts and
propositions that are not reasonably subject to dispute and are capable of
immediate and accurate determination by resort to sources of reasonably
indisputable accuracy.” (Evid. Code § 452, subds. (c), (d), and (h).) 
 
The Court takes
judicial notice of Plaintiff’s request. 
 
c.       Meet and
Confer Requirement 
 
“Before
filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the demurring party shall meet and
confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is
subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be
reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a).)  
 
Counsel for Defendants submitted a declaration stating
that the parties exchanged several emails regarding the alleged defects in the
FAC. (Bodell Decl, ¶ 2.) While
the Court finds the moving party did not satisfy its obligation to meet and
confer in person or by telephone, the
failure to meet and confer is not grounds to overrule or sustain a demurrer.
(Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.41, subd. (a)(4); 435.5 subd. (a)(4).) Thus, the Court proceeds on the merits.
 
d.      First and
Second Causes of Action: Wrongful Foreclosure – Invalid Deed of Trust and Wrongful
Foreclosure – Misrepresentation of Loan
 
Defendants
demur to the first and second causes of action for Wrongful
Foreclosure – Invalid Deed of Trust and Wrongful Foreclosure –
Misrepresentation of Loan.
 
“The elements of a wrongful foreclosure cause
of action are: (1) The trustee or mortgagee caused an illegal, fraudulent, or
willfully oppressive sale of real property pursuant to a power of sale in a
mortgage or deed of trust; (2) the party attacking the sale (usually but not
always the trustor or mortgagor) was prejudiced or harmed; and (3) in cases
where the trustor or mortgagor challenges the sale, the trustor or mortgagor
tendered the amount of the secured indebtedness or was excused from tendering.”  (Citrus El Dorado, LLC v. Chicago Title
Co. (2019) 32 Cal.App.5th 943, 948, cleaned up.)
 
Defendants
argue that the first and second causes of action fail because Plaintiff does
not allege that the property in issue was sold, which is a required element of
a wrongful foreclosure claim. 
 
In
Plaintiff’s opposition he does not dispute that the property has not been sold.
Plaintiff contends that the foreclosure sale has been halted. However,
Plaintiff states he should not have to wait until the foreclosure of his
property to bring an action to stop the foreclosure. Plaintiff cites to Stockton
v. Newman (1957) 148 Cal.App.2d 558, 564 in support. However, in Stockton,
the court discussed granting a preliminary injunction to preclude defendants
from selling property pursuant to purported notice of default under trust deed.
The Stockton court does not support an assertion that a plaintiff can
allege a wrongful foreclosure cause of action before the property has been sold.
Therefore, since Plaintiff has not alleged a required element of a wrongful
foreclosure cause of action, the Court finds that Plaintiff’s first and second
causes of action fail on this ground. 
 
Accordingly, the Court SUSTAINS Defendants’ demurrer to the FAC’s
first and second causes of action with leave to amend.  
 
e.      Third Cause
of Action: Fraud
 
Defendants
demur to the third cause of action for fraud.
 
“The
elements of fraud are (a) a misrepresentation (false representation,
concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) scienter or knowledge of its falsity; (c)
intent to induce reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting damage.”
(Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Ctr. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.) The
facts constituting the alleged fraud must be alleged factually and specifically
as to every element of fraud, as the policy of “liberal construction” of the
pleadings will not ordinarily be invoked. (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996)
12 Cal.4th 631, 645.) To
properly allege fraud against a corporation, the plaintiffs must plead the
names of the persons allegedly making the false representations, their
authority to speak, to whom they spoke, what they said or wrote, and when it
was said or written. (Tarmann v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. (1991) 2
Cal.App.4th 153, 157.)
 
The FAC alleges the following. On or about
December 2018, Plaintiff needed money and asked Jack to lend him the money. Jack
agreed to lend Plaintiff $100,000 at 10%. However, Jack required that Plaintiff
sign a Promissory Note in favor of Fidelity that reflected a $120,000 principal
and 12% interest. Plaintiff informed Jack that the Promissory Note did not
reflect their agreement. However, Jack informed Plaintiff that these were
typographical errors that would not be controlling terms. Jack assured
Plaintiff that he would only be required to pay the $100,000 principal at 10%
interest but that he needed to sign the Promissory Note. A few days after
signing the Promissory Note, Jack, through another company transferred $100,000
to Plaintiff. Plaintiff reasonably relied on these
representations because Plaintiff and Jack have had a working relationship in
the past. Further, Plaintiff relied on these representations because Jack only
remitted the $100,000 principal once the Promissory Note was signed. The actual
transfer supports Jack’s representations that their agreement was controlling. Plaintiff
has been relying on those representations because he has been paying Jack,
directly, the monthly payment of $1,000. Jack and Fidelity then used the
Promissory Note and Deed of Trust (and the misrepresentations contained
therein) to initiate foreclosure proceedings against the Bonnie Property. Jack
and Fidelity knew, or should have known, that the representations they made to Property
Trustee and other third parties about the validity of the Promissory Note and
Deed of Trust were false, misleading, or suppressed the truth. (FAC, ¶¶ 85-98.)
 
The Court finds these allegations sufficiently
state a cause of action for fraud against Jack. Defendants do not appear to
dispute that Plaintiff has stated a cause of action for fraud against Defendant
Jack. Instead in their motion, Defendants argue that Plaintiff has not
adequately pled fraud against Fidelity. Defendants argue that Plaintiff does
not allege how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations
were tendered by Fidelity.
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues that he has
alleged that an alter ego relationship between Jack and Fidelity. The FAC
alleges that Defendants Jack and Olesya “wholly control, and manipulate
FIDELITY, its business affairs, its money, and that at all times herein
mentioned, FIDELITY was and is a mere shell, instrumentally, and conduit
through which OLESYA and JACK carried on business, exercising control and dominance
of such businesses to such an extent that any separateness between OLESYA and
JACK on the one hand, and FIDELITY on the other hand does not, and at all
relevant times did not exist.” (FAC, ¶ 7.) 
 
The Court finds these allegations sufficient to establish an alter
ego relationship between Jack and Fidelity. In Rutherford Holdings, LLC v.
Plaza Del Rey (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 221, 235-36, the court stated, there is not a heightened pleading
standard for alter ego theory; it is adequate for a plaintiff to allege
“ultimate rather than evidentiary facts” and that “less particularity [of
pleading] is required where the defendant may be assumed to possess knowledge
of the facts at least equal, if not superior, to that possessed by the
plaintiff, which certainly is the case” when analyzing alter ego theory at the
pleading stage. Therefore, the Court finds that Plaintiff has sufficiently
alleged fraud against Jack and Fidelity. 
 
Accordingly,
the Court OVERRULES Defendants’ demurrer to the FAC’s third cause of action.
 
f.       
Fourth Cause of Action: Accounting
 
Defendants
demur to the fourth cause of action for accounting.
 
“A cause of action for an accounting requires a
showing that a relationship exists between the plaintiff and defendant that
requires an accounting, and that some balance is due the plaintiff that can
only be ascertained by an accounting.  An
action for accounting is not available where the plaintiff alleges the right to
recover a sum certain or a sum that can be made certain by calculation.”  (Teselle v. McLoughlin (2009) 173
Cal.App.4th 156, 179, cleaned up.)
 
Defendants argue that Plaintiff is not entitled
to an accounting because Plaintiff has identified all of the payments that he
made, thus, the money is easily identified.
 
However, Plaintiff argues that it is unclear as
to how much money, if any, of the money that Plaintiff paid was directed to
Fidelity. Plaintiff alleges he paid Jack $1,000 a month pursuant to the
agreement between them two. (FAC, ¶ 44.) Yet, none of the Defendants have
provided the requested accounting. (FAC, ¶¶ 38, 39, 45.) Plaintiff alleges Fidelity
has refused to provide an accurate accounting of the payment Plaintiff has
remitted to Jack. (FAC, ¶¶ 38, 39, 45.) Plaintiff asserts that Fidelity,
through Property Trustee, recorded a Notice of Default implying that Fidelity
received some money from Jack on behalf of Plaintiff. However, absent an
accounting, it remains unclear as to how much money, if any, of the $60,000
Plaintiff paid was directed to Fidelity.
 
The Court finds that Plaintiff has sufficiently pled a cause of
action for accounting. The FAC alleges a
relationship exists between the plaintiff and defendant that requires an
accounting, and that some balance is due that can only be ascertained by an
accounting.  
 
Accordingly,
the Court OVERRULES Defendants’ demurrer to the FAC’s fourth cause of action.
 
g.       Fifth Cause
of Action Conversion
 
Defendants
demur to the fifth cause of action for conversion against Fidelity.
 
“Conversion
is the wrongful exercise of dominion over the property of another. The elements
of a conversion claim are: (1) the plaintiff’s ownership or right to possession
of the property; (2) the defendant’s conversion by a wrongful act or
disposition of property rights; and (3) damages.”  (Lee v. Hanley (2015) 61 Cal.4th 1225,
1240.)
 
Defendants argue that Plaintiff has failed to allege conversion by
Fidelity. Defendants argue that only Defendant Jack is alleged to have done
anything regarding exercising wrongful dominion and control over Plaintiff’s
property.
 
However, as discussed above, the Court finds that Plaintiff has
alleged an alter ego relationship between Jack and Fidelity. Thus, the Court
does not sustain Defendants’ demurrer on this ground. 
 
Accordingly,
the Court OVERRULES Defendants’ demurrer to the FAC’s fifth cause of action.
 
B.     
Motion to Compel Deposition
 
Defendant Fidelity moves to compel the deposition of Plaintiff. 
 
a.       Legal
Standard for Motion to Compel Deposition
 
 
Any party may obtain discovery, subject to restrictions, by taking
the oral deposition of any person, including any party to the action. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2025.010.) A party desiring to take an oral deposition shall give
a notice in writing which states the specification of reasonably particularly
of any materials to be produced by the deponent. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.220,
subd. (a)(4).) A properly served deposition notice is effective to require a
party to attend and to testify, as well as to produce documents for inspection
and copying. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.280, subd. (a).) The party served with a
deposition notice waives any error or irregularity unless that party promptly
serves a written objection at least three calendar days prior to the date for
which the deposition is scheduled. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.410, subd.
(a).)  
 
“If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the action …
without having served a valid objection … fails to appear for examination, … or
to produce for inspection any document, … described in the deposition notice,
the party giving the notice may move for an order compelling the deponent's
attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of any document …
described in the deposition notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd.
(a).)   
 
b.      Discussion
 
Here, on May 31, 2024, Fidelity noticed Plaintiff’s deposition to
occur on June 25, 2024. (Def’s Exh. 5.) However, on June 19, 2024, Fidelity continued the date for
Plaintiff’s deposition to July 17, 2024. (Def’s Exh. 6.) Fidelity did this
because its counsel was engaged in a jury trial in Santa Monica and had not
expected the trial to run so long. (Bodell Decl., ¶ 3.) On June 19, 2024,
Plaintiff noticed the deposition of Defendant Jack Shut for July 15, 2024.
(Def’s Exh. 7.) On July 10, 2024, Plaintiff served objections to Defendant’s deposition
notice of Plaintiff. (Def’s Exh. 11.) Plaintiff did not appear for his duly
noticed deposition on July 17, 2024. (Bodell Decl., ¶ 7.) 
 
Defendant argues that Plaintiff did not serve valid objections. Therefore,
Defendant moves for an order compelling Plaintiff to attend deposition and rule
that Jack’s deposition shall not proceed until after Plaintiff’s deposition.
 
However, the Court finds that Plaintiff served valid a objection
to his deposition notice, thus warranting denial of Defendant’s motion to
compel. Plaintiff objected to Defendant’s deposition notice on the following
grounds:
1.     
The date was unilaterally set without regard to the availability
of the witness, parties or counsel;
2.     
Notice of Deposition is in violation of CCP §2025.250(a);
3.     
Propounding party is in violation of the Court’s Order; and 
4.     
The Notice of Deposition is not complete pursuant to CCP
§2025.220.
 
A valid objection under Section 2025.410 involves an objection
regarding procedural irregularities associated with a deposition notice. 
(Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2025.410 [“Any party served with a deposition notice that
does not comply with Article 2 (commencing with Section 2025.210) waives any
error or irregularity unless that party promptly serves a written objection
specifying that error or irregularity”], 2025.210, et seq. [proscribing
various procedural requirements with respect to deposition notices, including,
but not limited to, when a deposition notice may be served, the font size and
contents of a deposition notice, and the permissible locations where the
deposition may be conducted.)
 
First, the Court notes that Plaintiff’s first objection that the
date was unilaterally set is not a valid objection because it was not made on
grounds of procedural irregularities. On the other hand, Plaintiff’s second
objection is made on the grounds that the location of Plaintiff’s deposition was
further than the allotted distance under CCP §2025.250(a). Section 2025.250,
subd. (a) provides that the deposition must occur within 75 miles of the
deponent’s residence, or within the county where the action is pending and
withing 150 miles of the deponent’s residence. (C.C.P. § 2025.250, subd. (a).)
Here, Plaintiff’s deposition was noticed to occur in Los Angeles, California. (Def’s
Exh. 5.) However, the parties dispute as to whether Plaintiff resides in
Commerce, California or Florida. In a declaration submitted by Plaintiff in
relation to another motion, Plaintiff had stated he alternatives living in
California and Florida. (Motion, Decl. of Abdolmohammadiyon.) Nevertheless, the
Court finds that Plaintiff had set forth a valid objection. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.450, subd. (a) [“If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the
action . . ., without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410,
fails to appear for examination . . . , the party giving the notice may move for
an order compelling the deponent’s attendance”].) Since Plaintiff had served a
valid objection, the Court finds that denial of Defendant’s motion to compel is
warranted. 
 
Based on this ground, Defendant’s motion to compel Plaintiff’s
deposition is DENIED.
 
DISPOSITION
 
Defendants’
Demurrer to the First Amended Complaint’s first and second causes of action is
SUSTAINED with 20 days leave to amend. 
 
Defendants’
Demurrer to the First Amended Complaint’s third, fourth and fifth causes of
action is OVERRULED.
 
Defendant’s
motion to compel Plaintiff’s deposition is DENIED.