 Case Number:  24STCV08748    Hearing Date:   September 23, 2024    Dept:  73 9/23/2024
Dept. 73
Hon.
Rolf Treu, Judge presiding 
 
ILTF, INC. v. LAN VENTURE GROUP LLC (24STCV08748)
 
Counsel
for Plaintiff/opposing party:  Raymond
Brenneman (Law Office of Raymond Brenneman)
Counsel
for Defendant/moving party:  Kevin
Spainhour (Retitlelaw, APC)
 
DEMURRER TO COMPLAINT (filed 07/08/24)
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 
Defendant’s
Demurrer to the Complaint’s first, second and third causes of action is
OVERRULED.
 
Defendant’s
Demurrer to the Complaint’s fourth and fifth causes of action is SUSTAINED with
20 days leave to amend. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On April 8, 2024, Plaintiff ILTF, Inc. filed this action against
Defendant Lan Venture Group LLC.
 
Plaintiff alleges causes of action for:
1.      Breach of
Contract
2.      Service Mark
Infringement
3.      False or
Misleading Advertising
4.      Intentional
Misrepresentation
5.      Negligent
Misrepresentation
The Complaint
alleges the following. Plaintiff was organized in 2007 and distributes and sells
frozen yogurt under the brand name, “Tutti Frutti”, via a network of exclusive,
authorized independent retailers. Plaintiff contracts with independent retailers who agree to
exclusively sell Tutti Frutti frozen yogurt products. Defendant entered into a
Tutti Frutti Product Distribution Agreement dated July 24th, 2008 (the
“Contract”), thus becoming an authorized Tutti Frutti frozen yogurt retailer.
The wrongful
sale by Defendant of non-Tutti Frutti frozen yogurt products while
simultaneously holding themselves out to the public as a Tutti Frutti retailer
and utilizing Plaintiff’s intellectual property and the Tutti Frutti brand’s
goodwill and name recognition to its benefit has financially harmed Plaintiff
and diluted the value of the Tutti Frutti brand.
On
July 8, 2024, Defendant filed a Demurrer to the Complaint, arguing:
·      
Each of Plaintiff’s causes of action
fail to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action
·      
First cause of action for breach of
contract fails because: 
o  
The Contract is illegal and Void because Plaintiff was not a
Licensed Franchisor. The Court will not enforce an Illegal Contract. 
·      
Second and third causes of action fail because the Complaint
contradicts the express language of the Contract and it is evident that Lan has
been authorized to use the service marks since 2009. It has therefore not
falsely advertised Tutti-Frutti frozen yogurt.
·      
Plaintiff’s fraud claims all fail
because Plaintiff does not allege fraud with the required specificity. 
Plaintiff filed an
opposition, arguing:
·       Judicial Notice is
improper
·       Nevertheless, the
Contract is not illegal and void. The Consent Order did not invalidate or revoke existing
agreements between ILTF and Tutti Frutti store operators. Thus, Plaintiff has
pled breach of contract
·       Defendant has no right to use
Plaintiff’s service marks. The contract only allows service marks to promote
authorized Tutti Frutti frozen yogurt. Defendant violated this by using
unauthorized frozen yogurt
·       Plaintiff’s fraud claims
are sufficiently pled. Plaintiff need only allege ultimate facts
·       Leave to amend should be
granted
 
Defendants filed a reply maintaining that Plaintiff
fails to state a cause of action. 
·       The putative contract is for the sale of a franchise and Plaintiff was
not licensed to sell franchises in California when the contract was executed or
at any time ever.
·       As to Plaintiff’s fraud claims, Plaintiff does not plead facts which show
how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations were tendered
 
ANALYSIS
 
A.      Legal
Standard for Demurrer
 
A demurrer tests the sufficiency of whether the complaint states a
cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When
considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context—any
defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial
notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968,
994.) “A demurrer tests the pleading alone, and not the evidence or facts
alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants, Inc. Servs. (2007) 153
Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the court assumes the truth of the
complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Id.) The
only issue a demurrer is concerned with is whether the complaint, as it stands,
states a cause of action. (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at p. 747.)
 
B.     
Request for Judicial Notice
 
Defendants request the Court take judicial notice of the
following:
1.     
Consent Order dated February 27, 2019 executed by Mary Ann Smith,
Deputy Commissioner to Jan Lynn Owen, Commissioner of Business Oversight
2.     
Tutti Frutti Franchising, Inc., Franchise Disclosure Document
3.     
Statement in support of Stop Order denying Effectiveness of
Franchise Registration dated August 30, 2021
4.     
Letter from Holmes Lofstrom dated August 23, 2019 to Department of
Business Oversight
5.     
History of ILTF, Inc., that Defendant downloaded from the
Secretary of State’s website.
 
The court may
take judicial notice of “official acts of the legislative, executive, and
judicial departments of the United States and of any state of the United
States,” “[r]ecords of (1) any court of this state or (2) any court of record
of the United States or of any state of the United States,” and “[f]acts and
propositions that are not reasonably subject to dispute and are capable of
immediate and accurate determination by resort to sources of reasonably
indisputable accuracy.” (Evid. Code § 452, subds. (c), (d), and (h).) 
 
Therefore,
the Court takes judicial notice of Defendant’s requests 1-5. However, although the Court may take judicial notice
of the documents, the documents are only judicially noticeable to show their
existence and what orders were made. The facts and findings within the
documents are not judicially noticeable. (See Lockley v. Law Office of Cantrell, Green, Pekich, Cruz & McCort
(2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 875, 885.)
 
C.     
Meet and Confer Requirement 
 
“Before
filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the demurring party shall meet and
confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is
subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be
reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a).)  
 
On June 7, 2024, counsel for Defendants submitted
a declaration in support of automatic extension to file its demurrer, stating
that the parties had begun the meet and confer process but had not concluded it
yet. (Spainhour Decl.) However, the Court notes that it appears Defendant did
not attach a meet and confer declaration to its Demurrer. Thus, while the Court finds the moving party did not satisfy its
obligation, the failure to meet and
confer is not grounds to overrule or sustain a demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., §§
430.41, subd. (a)(4); 435.5 subd. (a)(4).) Thus,
the Court proceeds on the merits.
 
D.    
First Cause of Action: Breach of Contract
 
Defendant
demurs to the first cause of action for breach of contract. 
 
To state
a cause of action for breach of contract, Plaintiff must be able to establish
“(1) the existence of the contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for
nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach, and (4) the resulting damages to the
plaintiff.” (Oasis West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011) 51 Cal.4th 811,
821.) “The terms of a contract are reasonably certain if they provide a basis
for determining the existence of a breach and for giving an appropriate
remedy.” (Moncada v. West Coast Quartz Corp. (2013) 221 Cal.App.4th 768,
777.) “Where a contract is so uncertain and indefinite that the intention of
the parties in material particulars cannot be ascertained, the contract is void
and unenforceable.” (Ibid., internal quotations omitted.) 
 
The
Complaint alleges that on or about July 24, 2008, the parties entered into a
written Tutti Frutti Product Distribution Agreement (the “Contract”). Plaintiff
attached a copy of the Contract to the Complaint. Plaintiff further alleges
that Defendant failed and refused, and continue to refuse, to tender their
performance as required by the Contract in that they sold frozen yogurt made
from frozen yogurt mix acquired from Plaintiff’s direct competitors.
 
Defendant
argues that Plaintiff’s claim fails because the Contract is illegal and void
because Plaintiff was not a licensed franchisor. In support, Defendant cites to
the Consent
Order dated February 27, 2019, ordering Plaintiff to “desist and refrain from
the further offer or sale of franchises in violation of Corporations Code
section 31110.” (RJN Exhibit #1, Page 3.) Defendant contends that the Consent
Order states that Plaintiff unlawfully sold Tutti Frutti franchise investments
in California beginning in 2007 to 2016. (RJN Exhibit #1, Pages 2-3.) However,
as discussed above, while the Court may take judicial notice of the Consent
Order, it is only judicially noticeable to show their existence and what orders
were made. The facts and findings within the documents are not judicially
noticeable. (See Lockley v. Law Office of
Cantrell, Green, Pekich, Cruz & McCort (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 875, 885.)
Thus, the Court takes judicial notice only of the order that was made and not as
to any of the facts and findings, such as whether Plaintiff unlawfully sold
franchise investments in 2007 to 2016. 
 
According
to the Consent Order, Plaintiff was ordered to “desist and refrain from the further offer
or sale of franchises in violation of Corporations Code section 31110” and “to
make an offer of rescission of all franchise agreements entered into with the
franchisees identified in Schedule B.” (RJN Exhibit #1, Pages 3-6 [emphasis
added].) Therefore, the Consent Order did not invalidate or revoke existing
franchise agreements between Plaintiff and the Tutti Frutti store operators. Thus,
the Court does not find that the parties’ Contract is illegal and void. 
 
Accordingly, the Court OVERRULES Defendant’s demurrer to the first
cause of action. 
 
E.     
Second and Third Causes of Action: Service Mark Infringement and
False or Misleading Advertising
 
Defendant
demurs to the second and third causes of action for Service Mark
Infringement and False or Misleading Advertising.
 
The
Complaint alleges that Defendant has, without Plaintiff’s consent, used Plaintiff’s
Service Marks in advertising, marketing, inside and outside store signage, and
product branding of frozen yogurt that Defendant has sold, and continues to
sell, in California and has provided California consumers
with yogurt cups, receipts and other materials that incorporate these Service
Marks. (Complaint, ¶ 24.) The Complaint further alleges that for several years,
and continuing to the date of this complaint, Defendants have advertised their
store location as a retailer of Tutti Frutti-brand frozen yogurt. This
advertising consists of storefront signage, social media postings, and internet
advertising. These advertisements were and are disseminated to the public in
California. (Complaint, ¶ 31.) Plaintiff alleges Defendant’s advertising was
untrue or misleading, and likely to deceive the public, in that: the frozen
yogurt sold by Defendant is not Tutti Frutti-brand frozen yogurt but is, instead, a counterfeit of unknown origin,
quality, or safety. (Complaint, ¶ 33.)
 
Defendant
argues these causes of action fail because the Contract expressly allows
Defendant to use Plaintiff’s service marks. Defendant relies on Paragraph 6 of
the Contract titled Use of Trademarks and Tradenames, Intellectual Property
Rights, which provides in relevant part: “During the term of this Agreement,
Distributor is authorized by Supplier to use the Trademarks solely in
connection with distributor’s promotion of Products...” (Complaint, Ex. B, p.
2.)
 
However,
as Plaintiff points out, the Contract specifies that Defendant is authorized by
Plaintiff to use the Trademarks solely in connection with Defendant’s promotion
of frozen yogurt products approved by Plaintiff. Here, Plaintiff alleges that
Defendant used Plaintiff’s trademark and service marks to promote products not
authorized by Plaintiff, in violation of the parties’ Contract. Therefore, the
Court does not find Defendant’s argument persuasive.  
 
Accordingly, the Court OVERRULES Defendant’s demurrer to the
second and third causes of action. 
 
F.      
Fourth and Fifth Causes of Action: Intentional and Negligent
Misrepresentation
 
Defendant
demurs to the fourth and fifth causes of action for Intentional
and Negligent Misrepresentation.
 
The
elements of a cause of action for negligent misrepresentation include
“[m]isrepresentation of a past or existing material fact, without reasonable
ground for believing it to be true, and with intent to induce another’s
reliance on the fact misrepresented; ignorance of the truth and justifiable
reliance on the misrepresentation by the party to whom it was directed; and
resulting damage.”  (Hydro-Mill Co.,
Inc. v. Hayward, Tilton & Rolapp Ins. Associates, Inc. (2004) 115
Cal.App.4th 1145, 1154, cleaned up.)  The
facts constituting the alleged fraud must be alleged factually and specifically
as to every element of fraud, as the policy of “liberal construction” of the
pleadings will not ordinarily be invoked. 
(Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.)  
 
“California courts have recognized a cause of
action for negligent misrepresentation, i.e., a duty to communicate accurate
information, in two circumstances.  The
first situation arises where providing false information poses a risk of and
results in physical harm to person or property. 
The second situation arises where information is conveyed in a
commercial setting for a business purpose.” 
(Friedman v. Merck & Co. (2003) 107 Cal.App.4th 454, 477.)
 
“The elements of a cause of action for
intentional misrepresentation are (1) a misrepresentation, (2) with knowledge
of its falsity, (3) with the intent to induce another’s reliance on the
misrepresentation, (4) actual and justifiable reliance, and (5) resulting
damage.”  (Daniels v. Select Portfolio
Servicing, Inc. (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 1150, 1166.)  The facts constituting the alleged fraud must
be alleged factually and specifically as to every element of fraud, as the
policy of “liberal construction” of the pleadings will not ordinarily be
invoked.  (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996)
12 Cal.4th 631, 645.)
 
To properly allege fraud against a corporation,
the plaintiffs must plead the names of the persons allegedly making the false
representations, their authority to speak, to whom they spoke, what they said
or wrote, and when it was said or written. 
(Tarmann v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th
153, 157.)
 
The Complaint alleges the following. Defendant
represented to Plaintiff that they would use their best efforts to sell only
Tutti Frutti-brand frozen yogurt and that they would not sell any competing
frozen yogurt products in their store. (Complaint, ¶ 38.) Defendant made the
representations with the intention of inducing Plaintiff to enter into, and
later maintain, the Contract, thereby permitting them the use and benefit of Plaintiff’s
goodwill and intellectual property, including, but not limited to, the Service
Marks. (Complaint, ¶ 39.) When Defendant made the
alleged representations, they had no reasonable grounds for believing the
representations to be true. (Complaint, ¶ 49.)
 
The Court does not find that Plaintiff alleged
sufficient facts to state either cause of action. Plaintiff vaguely alleges
representations were made, but does not specify what was said/represented, by
whom, or when. In California, fraud must be pled specifically; general and
conclusory allegations do not suffice. (Stansfield v. Starkey (1990) 220
Cal.App.3d 59, 74.) The Court does not find Plaintiff has pled its fourth or
fifth causes of action with the required specificity. 
 
Accordingly,
the Court SUSTAINS the fourth and fifth causes of action with leave to amend.
 
DISPOSITION
 
Defendant’s
Demurrer to the Complaint’s first, second and third causes of action is
OVERRULED.
 
Defendant’s
Demurrer to the Complaint’s fourth and fifth causes of action is SUSTAINED with
20 days leave to amend. 