 Case Number:  24NNCV01989    Hearing Date:   January 2, 2025    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



JANE DOE (B.U.), et al., 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
MONTEBELLO
   UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  24NNCV01989
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION FOR PROTECTIVE ORDER 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
January
   2, 2025




 


)


 



 
On November 26, 2024, defendant
Montebello Unified School District (“Defendant”) filed this motion for a
protective order. The subject of the motion is the personnel file of Edward
Portillo (“Portillo”). Plaintiffs Jane Doe (B.U.) and Jane Doe (S.V.)
(collectively, “Plaintiffs”) propounded Request for Production No. 4 demanding
“[a]ny and all DOCUMENTS contained in PORTILLO’s employee file or record from
the time he was employed by [Defendant].” Defendant contends a protective order
is necessary because personnel records are private and it cannot waive
Portillo’s privacy rights. 
When document requests have been
propounded, the responding party may promptly move for a protective order.
(Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.060, subd. (a).) “The court, for good cause shown, may
make any order that justice requires to protect any party, deponent, or other
natural person or organization from unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, or
oppression, or undue burden and expense.” (Id., subd. (b).) The decision
upon whether to enter a protective order lies within the sound discretion of
the court. (Raymond Handling¿Concepts Corp. v. Superior Court¿(1995) 39 Cal.App.4th 584, 588, 591;¿Meritplan¿Insurance Co. v. Superior Court¿(1981) 124 Cal.App.3d 237, 242.)
Defendant requests the Court enter a
protective order that was previously proposed by Plaintiffs in order to limit
the dissemination of Portillo’s personnel file. Defendant argues – and
Plaintiffs do not dispute – that Portillo possesses a privacy interest in his
personnel file. (Board of Trustees v. Superior Court of Santa Clara
County (1981) 119 Cal.App.3d 516, 528-530; Harding Lawson Associates v. Superior
Court (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 7, 10; Motion, p. 6; Opp., p. 4.) Additionally,
Civil Code section 1798.1 limits disclosure of public employees’ personal
information and explicitly extends the constitutional right to privacy to such
information. A copy of the proposed order was filed on November 27, 2024. The
terms of the proposed order seem to generally track the model stipulated
protective order provided by the Court and the Court cannot identify any
objectionable terms. In fact, Plaintiffs do not object to any specific portion
of the proposed order in their opposition brief but spend the entirety of their
brief arguing that Portillo’s privacy interest in his personnel file is
outweighed by their right to discover relevant facts. Plaintiffs argue that
Defendant does not show good cause for a protective order despite acknowledging
Portillo’s privacy interest in his personnel file, which would include
information including his name, Social Security number, physical description,
home address and telephone number, education, financial matters, and medical or
employment history. Plaintiffs contend that none of this information should be
private simply because Portillo has a criminal conviction for sexual misconduct
involving minors and he appears on the State of California’s sex offender
registry. (Opp., pp. 4-5.) Plaintiffs submit no evidence in support of this
assertion and notably only include a link to the Megan’s Law registry’s website
as a footnote. (Opp., p. 5.) Nevertheless, the fact that some of the
information that would be contained in the personnel file is publicly available
does not eliminate Portillo’s privacy interest in the information that has not
been disclosed to the public. 
After reviewing the correspondence
between counsel, it appears to the Court that Plaintiffs’ about-face refusal to
stipulate to a protective order they supplied is punitive due to Defendant’s purportedly
deficient discovery responses. (Motion, Ex. B.) The correspondence shows that
Plaintiffs’ counsel’s only issue is with language found in section 12.2 because
it “allows [Defendant] to still object to disclosing or producing the
information that Plaintiffs requested.” (Ibid.) Plaintiffs’ counsel
expressed concern that even if the stipulated protective order were executed
and issued, Defendant “could still withhold [Portillo]’s employee file as well
as other information.” (Ibid.) Section 12.2 states, in its entirety: 
12.2 Right to Assert Other Objections.
No Party waives any right it otherwise would have to object to disclosing or
producing any information or item on any ground not addressed in this
Protective Order. Similarly, no Party waives any right to object on any ground
to use in evidence of any of the material covered by this Protective Order. 

This is standard boilerplate language
preserving the right to assert objections. It is undisputed that Portillo has a
privacy interest in his personnel file. Furthermore, this motion does not seek
to prevent production of the file because Defendants have already agreed to
produce the personnel file as long as its dissemination and use is limited;
therefore, Plaintiffs’ counsel’s concern seems disingenuous, at best. In any
event, if Plaintiffs determined that any of Defendant’s objections to their
discovery requests were meritless, their avenue of recourse lies in filing a
motion to compel a further response. 
In light of the foregoing, Defendant’s
motion is GRANTED. The Court will enter the proposed Protective Order filed on
November 27, 2024. 
 
Dated
this 2nd
day of January, 2025
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 