 Case Number:  23STCV25159    Hearing Date:   November 7, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department
50
 



SAN SABA, LLC, 
 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
JULIAN TINOCO LOPEZ, et
  al.
 
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


  23STCV25159




Hearing Date:


November 7, 2024




Hearing Time:


10:00 a.m.




[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:
 
PLAINTIFF SAN
  SABA, LLC’S MOTION TO COMPEL DEFENDANT JULIAN TINOCO LOPEZ’S RESPONSES TO
  REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS, SET ONE; REQUEST FOR MONETARY SANCTIONS
  OF $2,895.00 AGAINST DEFENDANT JULIAN TINOCO LOPEZ; 
 
PLAINTIFF SAN
  SABA, LLC’S MOTION TO COMPEL DEFENDANT JULIAN TINOCO LOPEZ’S RESPONSES TO
  INTERROGATORIES, SET ONE; REQUEST FOR MONETARY SANCTIONS OF $2,895.00 AGAINST
  DEFENDANT JULIAN TINOCO LOPEZ; 
 
PLAINTIFF SAN
  SABA, LLC’S MOTION TO HAVE MATTERS IN PLAINTIFF SAN SABA, LLC’S REQUESTS FOR
  ADMISSION, SET ONE, SERVED ON DEFENDANT JULIAN TINOCO LOPEZ DEEMED ADMITTED;
  REQUEST FOR MONETARY SANCTIONS OF $2,895.00 AGAINST DEFENDANT JULIAN TINOCO
  LOPEZ
 



 
Background
Plaintiff San Saba, LLC
(“Plaintiff”) filed this action on October 16, 2023 against a number of
Defendants, including Julian Tinoco Lopez (“Lopez”). On October 31, 2023, Plaintiff
filed the operative First Amended Complaint, alleging causes of action for (1)
breach of contract, (2) injury to real property, and (3) property damage. 
Plaintiff now moves for (1)
an order compelling Lopez to provide responses, without objection, and produce
documents in response to Plaintiff’s Requests for Production of Documents, Set
One, propounded by Plaintiff on Lopez, and for the imposition of monetary
sanctions in the amount of $2,895.00; (2) an order compelling Lopez to provide
responses, without objection, in response to Plaintiff’s Form
Interrogatories-General, Set One, and Special Interrogatories, Set One,
propounded by Plaintiff on Lopez, and for the imposition of monetary sanctions
in the amount of $2,895.00; and (3) an order deeming all requests for admission
served on Lopez admitted, and for the imposition of monetary sanctions in the
amount of $2,895.00. The motions are unopposed. 
Discussion 
A.   
Legal Standard 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.300, subdivision
(a), “[i]f a party to whom a
demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling is directed fails to serve
a timely response to it, the following rules shall apply: (a) The party to whom the demand for inspection, copying, testing, or
sampling is directed waives any objection to the demand, including one based on
privilege or on the protection for work product under Chapter 4 (commencing
with Section 2018.010)…” Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.300,
subdivision (b), “[t]he party making the demand may move for an order
compelling response to the demand.” 
Pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure section 2030.290, subdivision (a), “[i]f a party to whom interrogatories are directed fails to
serve a timely response, the following rules apply: (a) The party to whom the interrogatories are
directed waives any right to exercise the option to produce writings under Section 2030.230, as well as any objection to the
interrogatories, including one based on privilege or on the protection for work
product under Chapter 4 (commencing with Section
2018.010).” Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.290, subdivision (b), “[t]he party propounding
the interrogatories may move for an order compelling response to the
interrogatories.” 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2033.280, subdivision (a), “[i]f a party to whom requests for admission are directed
fails to serve a timely response, the following rules apply: (a) The party to whom the requests for admission are directed waives
any objection to the requests, including one based on privilege or on the
protection for work product under Chapter 4 (commencing with Section 2018.010).” Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2033.280, subdivision (b), “[t]he requesting party may move for an order that the
genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters specified in the
requests be deemed admitted, as well as for a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010).” Pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 2033.280,
subdivision (c), “[t]he court shall
make this order, unless it finds that the party to whom the requests for
admission have been directed has served, before the hearing on the motion, a
proposed response to the requests for admission that is in substantial
compliance with Section 2033.220.” 
 
B.   
Motions to Compel and Motion to Have Matters in Requests for
Admission Set One, Deemed Admitted 
In his declarations in support of the instant motions,
Plaintiff’s counsel indicates that on 
February
8, 2024, Plaintiff served Requests for Production of Documents, Set One, Form
Interrogatories-General, Set One, and Requests for Admission, Set One on Lopez.
(Zaki Decls., ¶ 2, Exs. A.) 
            Plaintiff’s counsel states that “[o]n
April 25, 2024, I called Defendant in an attempt to meet and confer regarding
Plaintiff’s discovery requests. During the call, after I asked Defendant for
the status of responses to Plaintiff’s discovery requests, Defendant claimed he
did not receive any discovery requests and told me to contact his lawyer. When
I asked for his lawyer’s name and contact information, Defendant refused to
provide me with any information and hung up the phone.” (Zaki Decls., ¶ 3.) 
            On June 11, 2024, the Court issued
an Order regarding Plaintiff’s previous motions to compel responses by Lopez to
Plaintiff’s requests for production of documents, form interrogatories, and to
have matters in Plaintiff’s requests for admissions deemed admitted. As
discussed in the June 11, 2024 Order, the Court ordered the parties to
participate in a meet and confer with the Court in the form of an Informal
Discovery Conference (“IDC”). Plaintiff’s counsel states that on June 11, 2024,
he “contacted Defendant’s authorized electronic communications agent Marco
Corona,” and that “[a]fter some back-and-forth discussion, Mr. Corona advised
that Defendant was agreeable to setting the IDC for September 12, 2024, at
11:30 a.m. and my office scheduled the conference accordingly.” (Zaki Decls.,
¶¶ 6, 9.)
In addition, Plaintiff’s counsel indicates that on July 22, 2024,
Plaintiff served Special Interrogatories, Set One on Lopez. (Ruttenberg Decl.,
¶ 2, Ex. B.)
            On September 12, 2024, an IDC was
held in this action. The Court’s September 12, 2024 minute order provides that
“Defendant Lopez did not appear at the Informal Discovery Conference Plaintiff
has fulfilled its (IDC) requirement and may file a motion to compel.”[1] Plaintiff’s
counsel states that “[a]s of October 7, 2024, Plaintiff has received neither
responses, nor any form of objection or request for extension from Defendant.”
(Zaki Decls., ¶ 11.) 
Lopez does not oppose the instant motions and thus
does not provide any evidence that Lopez served
responses to the subject discovery requests. The Court finds that the evidence demonstrates that Lopez did
not timely serve responses to the discovery requests
at issue. Therefore, the Court finds that Plaintiff is entitled to an order
compelling a response to Plaintiff’s
Requests
for Production of Documents, Set One, Form Interrogatories-General, Set One,
and Special Interrogatories, Set One. In addition, the Court finds that Plaintiff is entitled to an order deeming the matters in
Plaintiff’s Requests
for Admission, Set One to Lopez admitted.
  
C.    Request for Sanctions 
Plaintiff also
seeks monetary sanctions in connection with each of the instant motions. 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.300, subdivision (c), cited by Plaintiff, “[e]xcept as provided in subdivision (d), the court shall
impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or
attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to a
demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling, unless it finds that the
one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” In addition, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.290, subdivision (c), cited by Plaintiff, “[t]he court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter
7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any
party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to
compel a response to interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to
the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances
make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” 
            Lopez does not oppose the instant motions. Thus, the
Court does not find that sanctions are warranted under Code
of Civil Procedure section 2031.300, subdivision (c) or Code
of Civil Procedure section 2030.290, subdivision (c) here. Accordingly, the Court denies Plaintiff’s request
for sanctions in connection with Plaintiff’s motion to compel Lopez’s responses
to Plaintiff’s Requests for Production of Documents, Set One. The Court also
denies Plaintiff’s request for sanctions in connection with Plaintiff’s motion
to compel Lopez’s response to Plaintiff’s Form Interrogatories-General, Set One
and Special Interrogatories, Set One.
Lastly, pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure section 2033.280, subdivision (c), “[i]t is mandatory that the court impose a monetary
sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section
2023.010) on the party or attorney, or both, whose failure to serve a
timely response to requests for admission necessitated this motion.” (Emphasis
added.) Thus, the Court grants Plaintiff’s request for monetary
sanctions in connection with Plaintiff’s motion to have matters in Plaintiff’s
Requests for Admission, Set One, deemed admitted. 
Plaintiff’s counsel Chris Zaki states that “[m]y billing rate is
$375.00 per hour. I spent 1 hour researching, reviewing the file, and preparing
the initial motion to deem requests for admission admitted. I spent an
additional 1 hour reviewing, preparing for, and attending the June 11, 2024,
hearing on this matter. The filing fee for this Motion is $60.00. I am
requesting monetary sanctions against Defendant in the amount of $810.00 in
attorney’s fees and costs for the previous motion to deem requests for admissions
admitted, filed on May 16, 2024.[2]” (Zaki
Decl., ¶ 13.) Mr. Zaki also states that “I spent 0.5 hours drafting and filing
the Notice of Ruling Re: Motions to Compel and the IDC, communicating with
Defendant regarding the purpose and scheduling of the IDC, and communicating
with counsel regarding the same, for a total $187.50.” (Zaki Decl., ¶ 14.) Mr.
Zaki further states that “I spent 1 hour researching, reviewing the file, and
preparing the present motion to deem requests for admission admitted. I
anticipate spending an additional 1 hour reviewing, preparing for, and
attending the hearing on this matter. The filing fee for this Motion is $60.00.”
(Zaki Decl., ¶ 16.) The Court notes that at Mr. Zaki’s billing rate, this
totals $810.00 in attorney’s fees and costs. 
In addition, Plaintiff’s counsel David Ruttenberg states that “[m]y
billing rate is $375.00 per hour…On September 12, 2024, I spent 2.1 hours
traveling to and from, and appearing at, the informal discovery conference...”
(Ruttenberg Decl., ¶¶ 2-3.) The Court notes that at Mr. Ruttenberg’s billing
rate, this totals $787.50 in attorney’s fees. 

Based
on the foregoing, the Court finds that attorney’s fees and costs in the amount of $2,595.00 is
reasonable. 
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s motions are granted. Plaintiff’s request for sanctions is granted
as to Plaintiff’s motion for an order deeming all requests for admission
served on Lopez admitted. Plaintiff’s requests for sanctions in connection with
the other two motions is denied. 
The Court orders that
the matters in Plaintiff’s
Requests for Admission, Set One to Lopez
are deemed admitted.
The
Court orders Lopez to serve complete verified responses, without objections, to
Plaintiff’s Requests for Production of Documents, Set One, Form
Interrogatories-General, Set One, and Special Interrogatories, Set One. The
Court orders Lopez to produce responsive documents to Plaintiff’s Requests for
Production of Documents, Set One, within 30 days of notice of this Order.  
The Court further orders
Lopez
to pay $2,595.00 to Plaintiff within 30 days of notice of this Order.
Plaintiff is
ordered to give notice of this Order.
 
DATED:  November 7, 2024                         ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court


