On April 28, 2022, Plaintiffs Jermall Lane and Trenacia Hogan, as special administrators of the Estate of Ervin Hogan, filed the operative Complaint against Defendants Bennie L. Jones and Brenda Kemp for (1) quiet title, (2) declaratory relief, (3) cancellation of deed, (4) conversion, and (5) common count.  Plaintiffs now seek summary judgment or, alternatively, summary adjudication with respect to the Complaint.  The Motion primarily seeks to quiet title as to 3039 S. Norton Ave., Los 23 Angeles, California, 90018.  Plaintiffs contend that this property entirely belongs to them and that the power of attorney (“POA”) relied upon by Defendants to support a transfer of the property is invalid. The law of summary judgment provides courts “a mechanism to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.”  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  In reviewing a motion for summary judgment or adjudication, courts employ a three-step analysis: “(1) identify the issues framed by the pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving party has negated the opponent’s claims; and (3) determine whether the opposition has demonstrated the existence of a triable, material factual issue.”  (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.)  The moving party bears the initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue, in which case the burden shifts to the opposing party to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a triable issue.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c(p)(2).)  To show a triable issue of material fact exists, the opposing party may not rely on the mere allegations or denials of the pleadings, but instead must set forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto.  (Aguilar, at p. 849.)  Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.”  (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.) Defendant Kemp claims that she was given a POA by Ervin and that this allowed her to transfer the subject property to her son, Defendant Jones, as a gift. Plaintiffs argue that (a) the POA did not allow for real property transfers and (b) the POA is not valid because Ervin had Alzheimer's when he executed it. The POA has box “N” checked off, which states that all of the powers listed on the sheet will be given to the agent, including as to real property transactions, and that individual boxes need not be initialed by the principal.   The remaining argument is that the POA is invalid because Ervin had Alzheimer’s when he signed it in 2018.  That is, Ervin did not have the capacity to sign the POA.Plaintiffs have carried their burden on this point by pointing to a statement in Kemp’s petition for conservatorship that Ervin was mentally senile to the point that he could not be left alone: “[Ervin] is physically debilitated and mentally challenged with senile dementia to the point that he cannot be left alone.”  In Kemp’s deposition, the following transpired: “Q. When did Mr. Hogan first become so physically debilitated and mentally challenged with dementia that he could not be left alone?  A. 2017.”  Meanwhile, the POA was signed in December 2018.  In the petition for conservatorship, Kemp also stated, “while [Ervin] is still able to handle financial transactions he needs assistance and is susceptible to fraud.”  If Ervin was so mentally challenged that he could not be left alone, it is not apparent how he could understand a POA that gave Kemp substantial power over his life. The Court is inclined to find that the POA was invalid and that, therefore, the Motion for Summary Adjudication should be granted as to the first through third causes of action, which would primarily quiet title to the subject property.  Plaintiffs have not shown evidence of money damages for the fourth and fifth causes of action for conversion and common count.  Actually, these claims were not discussed at all.  In any case, Plaintiffs state that they will dismiss these claims if they prevail on their equitable causes of action. In sum, the Motion for Summary Adjudication is granted as to the first through third causes of action.  The objections are overruled.Moving parties to give notice.