  Case Number:  21SMCV01421    Hearing Date:   July 30, 2024    Dept:  I This issue was previously heard on May 21, 2024.  At that hearing, the court issued a detailed
tentative ruling, but the tentative was not adopted as the ruling of the
court.  The court allowed further
briefing on the issues there discussed. 
Having considered the additional papers, the court remains convinced
that its prior tentative was correct. 
That tentative ruling is therefore adopted today with the following additional
explanation. 
 
The court’s view is that unless the judgment is void, the
motion will be denied.  The fact is that
for two years, defendant was aware of the problem and the default, but did
nothing.  In fact, counsel discussed the
matter and defense counsel stated that a motion to vacate would be forthcoming,
but it was still two years before it was brought.  That is untimely and the court can only
consider that the delay was intentional by the defendant, and not just
counsel.  It was a tactical move by the
client; not one based on excusable neglect.
 
That said, a void judgment is just that: void.  It can be attacked at any time and it can be
attacked collaterally.  That is powerful
stuff, depriving a plaintiff of all practical rights many years later.  While the case can be reinstated, years have
passed and it may be much harder to garner evidence.  That is very prejudicial, but it remains the
law.  However, while the remedy is
powerful, the doctrine is narrow.  A
judgment is not void unless the infirmity is apparent from the face of the
judgment roll alone.  No extrinsic
evidence will be admitted in that regard. 
(There are other exceptions that might apply where there was extrinsic
fraud and the defendant was truly unaware of the case, but that is not the
situation here.)  The judgment roll
consists of: the complaint, the summons, the proof of service, the request for
entry of default, and the default judgment itself.  Those documents alone must tell the
tale.  (Of course, there are many other
remedies for a voidable judgment, but all of them are time sensitive and
require a showing of excusable neglect or the like.)
 
Here, defendants contend that the summons was not properly
served.  That may or may not be true, but
it is not clear from the judgment roll. 
The proof of service on its face appears valid.  To know whether service was in fact proper,
one would have to look at extrinsic evidence, such as the declarations.  But that is beyond the scope of the court’s
inquiry as to void judgments.  In other
words, even if service was made at a place that the plaintiff knew was one
where defendant did not reside, such cannot be determined by the judgment roll
itself.  Defendant also notes that the
lease—which is attached to the complaint—has a particular address to which
notices should be given, and that is not the address on the proof of
service.  That much is true and at least
arguably within the judgment roll.  But
the notice address for the lease is not dispositive here.  Service of process is not governed by the
lease; only service of notices required under the lease are so governed.  Service of process is governed by the Code of
Civil Procedure.  Here, those
requirements were met—at least on the face of the judgment roll.
 
That would not be fatal if defendant could make the case
that defendant was unaware of the lawsuit or the default until shortly before
the motion was filed through no fault of its own.  The court has tools at its disposal to deal
with situations such as that.  But the
court cannot get around the fact that defendant was actually aware of the
problem two years (or more) before filing this motion.
 
All of that said, however, if the amount of the judgment is
greater than the amount set forth in the complaint, the court will consider
that issue.  But only that issue.  In all other respects, the motion is DENIED.
 