 Case Number:  23SMCV00120    Hearing Date:   July 30, 2024    Dept:  I This is a motion by cross defendant Fenske to dismiss the
cross complaint against him filed by the Ashkars and McCoy.  Fenske is a licensed architect.  The cross-complaint asserts that he is liable
to cross-complainants due to his professional negligence.  Fenske claims that cross-complainants fail to
comply with Code of Civil Procedure section 411.35.  That statute states that a plaintiff (or
cross-complainant) suing a licensed architect for professional negligence must
file a certificate verifying that a licensed professional was consulted before
suit was filed and that the professional believed that negligence had occurred
or that for certain specified reasons such consultation was not possible.  Fenske asserts, and cross-complainants do not
dispute, that no such certification was filed here in the time set forth in the
statute.  Due to the lack of such
certification, Fenske has moved to dismiss. 
Cross-complainants oppose, stating that the issue can be raised only by
demurrer or motion to strike made in a timely fashion, or in the alternative at
the conclusion of the case if the defendant prevails.  That argument is based on subdivisions (g)
and (h) of the statute, which say that “(g) 
The failure to file a certificate in accordance with this section shall
be grounds for a demurrer pursuant to Section 420.10 or a motion to strike
pursuant to Section 435.  [¶]  (h) 
Upon favorable conclusion of the litigation with respect to any party
for whom a certificate of merit was filed or for whom a certificate of merit
should have been filed pursuant to this section, the trial court may, upon the
motion of a party or upon the court’s own motion, verify compliance with this
section[.]”  The motions identified in
subdivision (g) are pleading motions, and can be brought of right in the time
allowed by law.  Fenske did not file such
a demurrer in the time permitted or move to strike, and this motion is actually
a motion to dismiss and is neither a demurrer nor a motion to strike.  
 
The court has looked at the case law decided under this
statute and there has been precious little of it.  The cases the court has found all did involve
a demurrer or a motion to strike or a motion to verify at the conclusion of the
suit.  (A motion to verify is a motion to
be sure that the certificate is truthful. 
The certificate must state that a professional was consulted, but need
not name the consultant’s identity. 
Moreover, the identity is protected from discovery.  The motion to verify is a way to be sure that
someone was in fact consulted.  Pursuant
to such a motion, the court can compel the plaintiff to identify the
consultants in camera so that the court can confirm that a consultation
did in fact take place.  If such
verification is not successful, the plaintiff can be forced to pay the
defendant’s expenses, including attorneys’ fees, resulting from that failure.) 
 
The closest case the court could find is Curtis
Engineering Corp. v. Superior Court (2017) 16 Cal.App.5th 542.  That case was in the context of a demurrer,
but it came up oddly.  There, the initial
complaint was filed without the requisite certificate.  More than 60 days later, plaintiff filed an
amended complaint with the certificate. 
That is important because the statute requires that the certificate of
merit be filed “within 60 days after filing the complaint.”  The defendant demurred to the amended complaint,
arguing that the certificate was filed too late.  The trial court overruled the demurrer, but
the Court of Appeal issued a writ.  The
appellate court concluded that the amended complaint’s certificate did not
relate back to the original complaint, and further stated that dismissal was
the proper remedy.  In reaching that
conclusion, the Court of Appeal looked to the legislative history.  That history revealed that the language was
to allow a party to file a lawsuit quickly where the statute of limitations was
about to run, but to require that the consultation take place shortly
thereafter to be sure that the statute’s goal of ensuring a good faith basis
for the suit be achieved.  The court
notes this because, although the operative motion was a demurrer, it was filed
more than 60 days after the original complaint and because the Court of Appeal
discussed the legislative purpose behind the statute.  Curtis is hardly on all fours here,
but it is instructive.
 
The court believes that the statute’s purpose was to require
a plaintiff (or cross-complainant) to consult with a professional before suing
a professional and to obtain an opinion that the suit had some merit.  The court believes based on that goal that
the language permitting a demurrer or motion to strike was not meant to be the
exclusive way to challenge a complaint; in other words, it was permissive, not
exclusive.  That language was required
because, but for such a statute, a defendant might well argue that a demurrer
would not lie.  After all, the
certification of merit is not an element of the tort.  In fact, the argument could be that this
issue is more of an affirmative defense than anything else—akin to a statute of
limitations argument.  If it is not an
element of the cause of action, it could be that a defendant could not demur;
and even if the statute required the certificate, it is not clear that the
complaint could be stricken for failure to file it.  Subdivision (g) makes clear that such motions
are permitted.  However, that does not
necessarily lead to the conclusion that those motions are the only way
to challenge a complaint lacking a certificate and it makes no sense to
interpret the statute in such a blinkered way. 
While the court can imagine cases where a delay would be prejudicial and
thus a motion would be denied, that sort of more nuanced analysis hardly
suggests that if the 30 day demurrer window closes there is no remedy until the
case is over.  That seems more likely to
defeat the legislative purpose than further it.
 
But even if the issue can only be raised by demurrer or
motion to strike, the court has discretion to hear untimely demurrers and
motions to strike.  The court exercises
that discretion here.  The court
construes the motion to dismiss (to the extent necessary) as a motion to strike
and, in its discretion, will consider it even to the extent it is
untimely.  The court is doing so for two
reasons.  The first is that the court
sees no prejudice in such a motion.  It
is not like the parties have been litigating for years and engaging in motion
practice and extensive discovery such that the point of allowing an early
motion is defeated and, worse, evidence of actual negligence has been adduced
and it is only when the tort became apparent that the motion was brought as a
windfall.  Second, this came up because
Fenske was trying to get discovery as to whether there was a certificate.  In other words, it looks to this court like
Fenske—who is not represented—was seeking to find out whether cross-defendants
had done what they were supposed to do even though no certificate had been
filed.  It was when cross-complainants
resisted the discovery that this issue came to a boil.  Accordingly, the motion to dismiss is
GRANTED.
 
All of that said, the court will inquire of
cross-complainants whether they would be able to file a compliant certificate
if given the chance.  To be clear, a
compliant certificate would be one where counsel stated that before filing
suit the required consultation was made (or counsel could come within an
exception).  It would not be sufficient
to state that after the time allowed by law such a consultation
occurred.  That is barred by Curtis.  If cross-defendants state that they could
cure the problem by amendment, then leave to amend will be granted.  If not, then not.
 
Fenske also discusses sanctions.  The court notes that Fenske, who is not
represented, is not entitled to attorneys’ fees nor is he entitled to recover
the value of his time under the statute. 
He might well be entitled to his costs—after all, if the motion is
granted he will have prevailed even putting the statute aside.  The court will inquire as to whether Fenske is
seeking any recovery beyond that which is generally available to a prevailing
party as a cost. 