 Case Number:  22STCV35306    Hearing Date:   July 1, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     July 1, 2024                TRIAL DATE: March
11, 2025
                                                           
CASE:                         Terri Johnson v. Paramount Global, Inc.
et al. 
 
CASE NO.:                 22STCV35306            
 
MOTION
TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES

 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff Terri Johnson
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Defendant CBS Broadcasting,
Inc. 
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
 
            This is an employment discrimination
action that was filed on November 4, 2023. Plaintiff alleges that she was
wrongfully terminated on the basis of her medical condition which precluded her
from receiving the COVID-19 vaccine. 
 
Plaintiff moves to compel further
responses to special interrogatories propounded to Defendant CBS Broadcasting,
Inc. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
            Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Special Interrogatories is GRANTED to the
extent described herein and otherwise DENIED. 
 
            Defendant
is to provide verified, code-complaint responses without objections within 30
days of this order. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Plaintiff moves to compel further
responses to requests for production propounded to Defendant CBS Broadcasting,
Inc. 
 
 
//
 
Plaintiff’s Request for Judicial Notice
 
            Plaintiff
requests that the Court take judicial notice of several documents. As these
documents are not relevant to the Court’s ruling, Plaintiff’s request is
DENIED. (Gbur v. Cohen (1979) 93 Cal.App.3d 296, 301 (“[J]udicial
notice . . . is always confined to those matters which are relevant to the
issue at hand.”].)  
 
Legal Standard
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.300, subdivision (a), a court
may order a party to serve a further response to an interrogatory when the
court finds that: “(1) An answer to a particular interrogatory is evasive or
incomplete[;] (2) An exercise of the option to produce documents under Section
2030.230 is unwarranted or the required specification of those documents is
inadequate[; or] (3) An objection to an interrogatory is without merit or too
general.”
 
The burden is on the responding party to justify any objection or failure
to fully answer the interrogatories. (Fairmont Ins. Co. v. Superior Court
(2000) 22 Cal.4th 245, 255.)
 
Timing
 
            A motion to
compel further responses to interrogatories must be served “within 45 days of
the service of the verified response, or any supplemental verified response, or
on or before any specific later date to which the propounding party and the
responding party have agreed in writing.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
2030.300(c).) The 45-day requirement is mandatory and jurisdictional. (Sexton
v. Superior Court¿(1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1410.)
 
            Here, Defendant served its responses
to Plaintiff’s Special Interrogatories on March 15, 2024, without verification.
(Declaration of Michael G. Jacob ISO Mot. ¶ 4.) The verification was served on
March 20, 2024. (Id.; Exh. B.) Plaintiff’s counsel contends that the
parties stipulated to extend the deadline to bring this motion to May 10, 2024,
the date this motion was filed. (Jacob Decl. ¶ `7.) Defendant does not dispute
this contention. The Court therefore finds that the motion is timely. 
 
Meet and Confer
 
A party making a motion to compel further
responses must also include a declaration stating facts showing a “reasonable
and good faith attempt” to resolve informally the issues presented by the
motion before filing the motion. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2016.040, 2030.300
(b)(1).)
 
            Plaintiff’s counsel states that the
parties met and conferred telephonically on April 18, 2024 and on May 6, 2024.
(Jacob Decl. ¶ 17.) Plaintiff has therefore satisfied the statutory meet and
confer requirements.
Procedural
Posture
 
            Although Plaintiff originally moved
to compel further responses to Special Interrogatories Nos. 1, 2, 3, 7, and 8,
the parties held an informal discovery conference before the Court on June 10,
2024, after which the parties reached an agreement concerning Interrogatories 1
and 2. (See Declaration of Christopher A. Elliott ISO Opp. ¶¶ 2-3.) Therefore,
only Interrogatories 3, 7, and 8 remain at issue on this motion. The Court will
confine its analysis to those discovery requests. 
 
Sufficiency of
Responses
 
            Plaintiff moves to compel further
responses to Special Interrogatories Nos. 3, 7, and 8. 
 
1.     
Special
Interrogatory No. 3
 
            Special Interrogatory No. 3 asks
Defendant to “Identify all individuals who requested any vaccine exemption,
exception, or accommodation that was presented to or fielded by Derrick Kennedy
of Unum, respectively, between November 1, 2021 and January 1, 2022.” (Jacob
Decl. Exh. A. No. 3.) Defendant responded only with objections that the
interrogatory is vague, ambiguous, unintelligible, overbroad, irrelevant and
not reasonably calculated to lead to admissible evidence, seeks confidential
information or trade secrets, invades third party privacy, is burdensome and
oppressive, seeks privileged information, seeks electronically stored
information from unduly burdensome sources, calls for a legal conclusion, and
seeks information not within Defendant’s possession, custody, or control.
(Jacob Decl. Exh. B. No. 3.) 
 
            “Me-too” evidence of other
individuals who have been subjected to sufficiently similar discrimination or
harassment is discoverable as evidence of the intent of the decision-maker.
(See Pantoja v. Anton (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 87, 89; see also McCoy
v. Pacific Maritime Assn. (2013) 216 Cal.App.4th 283, 296-98.) Plaintiff contends that Mr. Kennedy’s conduct
and handling of other vaccine requests is relevant because he stood as
Defendant’s agent for the purpose of gathering information. (See Jacob Decl. ¶
8; Exhs. F-G; CBS_00043-44; 00481 [Authorization forms describing purpose of
forms and extent of authorization to Unum].) Plaintiff also contends that Kennedy’s
conduct is relevant to her claims for failure to provide accommodations or
engage in the interactive process, because his handling of other vaccine
exemption requests is relevant to establish Defendant’s procedures and whether
those procedures were followed in dealing with Plaintiff’s request for an
exemption. Defendant justifies its response arguing that the information sought
is not relevant to Plaintiff’s claims because Derrick Kennedy, Defendant
claims, was not involved in the decision to terminate Plaintiff’s employment,
and, therefore, is not an appropriate subject for “me-too” evidence. Instead,
Defendant argues that Mr. Kennedy’s role was merely to “assist in gathering
information from Plaintiff and her medical providers so that CBS could evaluate
Plaintiff’s exemption request.” Defendant offers no evidence for this assertion
beyond the Declaration of Erika Grant offered in opposition to Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests for Production, which stated
that Ms. Grant made the decision to terminate Plaintiff, with assistance from
Lynette Sereno and Andrew Herreria. (Elliott Decl. Exh. 1. ¶ 3.) Defendant also
contends, based solely on a declaration from counsel, that the information is
not within Defendant’s possession, custody, or control because Defendant is not
responsible for determining what matters Mr. Kennedy worked on. (Elliott Decl.
¶ 5.) The arguments of counsel, whether in the opposition papers or a
declaration, are not evidence. Plaintiff has demonstrated a colorable theory
under which Derrick Kennedy’s involvement is relevant, and Defendant has not
offered evidence demonstrating a contrary position. Defendant has failed to
justify its failure to respond in this respect. Moreover, as Defendant’s
opposition entirely neglects the balance of its objections to this request, the
Court finds that Defendant has not justified these objections, and Plaintiff is
entitled to an order compelling further responses. 
 
2.     
Special Interrogatory No. 7
 
Special Interrogatory No. 7 asks
Defendant to identify all employees who requested any vaccine exemption,
exception, or accommodation whom Defendant terminated for dishonesty at any
time between December 11, 2020 to the present. (Jacob Decl. Exh. A. No. 7.) Defendant responded with a series of
objections that the interrogatory is vague, ambiguous, unintelligible,
overbroad, irrelevant and not reasonably calculated to lead to admissible
evidence, seeks confidential information or trade secrets, invades third party
privacy, is burdensome and oppressive, seeks privileged information, seeks
electronically stored information from unduly burdensome sources, and calls for
a legal conclusion. (Id. Exh. B. No. 7.) Subject to those objections,
Defendant narrowed the scope of the inquiry to target employees terminated for
dishonesty relating to their request for a medical exemption from Defendant’s
mandatory COVID-19 vaccine policy and named Plaintiff only. (Id.) 
 
Defendant contends that its
narrowed response is sufficient because “me-too” evidence is only relevant
where it concerns the same decision-maker and employees who are similarly
situated. (See Pantoja v. Anton (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 87, 89; see also McCoy
v. Pacific Maritime Assn. (2013) 216 Cal.App.4th 283, 296-98.) According to
Defendant, employees who were terminated for other forms of dishonesty by other
individuals are not relevant, though Defendant is willing to extend the scope
of the request to cover employees terminated for other types of dishonesty by
the same individuals. (See Elliott Decl. ¶ 6.) In reply, Plaintiff cites to Sprint/United
Management Co. v. Mendelsohn (2008) 552 U.S. 379, in which the U.S. Supreme
Court held that evidence of other acts of discrimination by different decision
makers at other facilities was admissible for claims under the Federal Age
Discrimination in Employment Act. (Sprint v. United Management Co. v.
Mendelsohn (2008) 552 U.S. 379, 380-82.) That decision, which concerned
application of the Federal Rules of Evidence to a federal statute
under federal precedent, has little bearing on an action governed by California
statutes and California precedent. 
 
In the Court’s view, the proposed
modification suggested by Defendant, limiting the scope of the request to
termination for dishonesty of any kind by the same decision makers, is an
appropriate compromise that addresses the concerns reflected in Plaintiff’s
moving papers and reply brief regarding Defendants’ treatment of employees who
requested vaccine exemptions or accommodations. (See, e.g., Reply p. 8:9-16.)
The Court therefore finds that Plaintiff is entitled to an order compelling a
further response to this limited extent. 
 
3.     
Special Interrogatory No. 8
 
Special Interrogatory No. 8 asked
Defendant to identify all employees who requested any vaccine exemption,
exception, or accommodation whom Defendant terminated for “dishonesty,
including but not limited to lying; the misuse of money or property; theft, or
the taking of steps designed to lead to theft; the planning and carrying out of
unauthorized possession or removal of Company property; attempts to circumvent
internal accounting controls, policies and/or procedures; and forgery or the
falsification of records” at any time between December 11, 2020 to the present.
(Jacob Decl. Exh. A. No. 8.) Defendant offered a response that is identical to
the response given to Interrogatory No. 7. (Id. Exh. B. No. 8.) As the
parties’ arguments concerning this interrogatory are identical to those in
connection with Interrogatory No. 7, the Court finds that Plaintiff is entitled
to an order compelling a further response to the same limited extent. 
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Special Interrogatories is
GRANTED to the extent described herein and otherwise DENIED. 
 
            Defendant
is to provide verified, code-complaint responses without objections within 30
days of this order. 
 
            Moving
Party to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated: July 1, 2024                             ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 