  Case Number:  21STCV40257    Hearing Date:   July 1, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     July 1, 2024                TRIAL DATE: July
16, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                         Erwin Mandani v. LAC+USC Medical Center,
et al. 
 
CASE NO.:                 21STCV40257            
 
MOTION
TO COMPEL DEPOSITION; REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS (x2)

 
MOVING PARTY:               (1) Defendant County of Los Angeles; (2) Plaintiff
Erwin Mandani
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): (2) Plaintiff
Erwin Mandani; (2) Defendant County of Los Angeles
 
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
11/02/21: Complaint filed. 
·        
01/28/22: First Amended Complaint filed. 
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an action for disability discrimination. Plaintiff alleges that
Defendants refused to provide him with reasonable accommodations and constructively
terminated him by placing him on disability leave without pay. 
 
Defendant County of Los Angeles
filed a motion to compel a further deposition of Plaintiff. Plaintiff, in turn,
filed a motion to compel the depositions of Stephanie Summerville and
Defendant’s person most knowledgeable. Both parties also seek sanctions. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
            Defendant’s
Motion to Compel the Deposition of Plaintiff is DENIED.
 
            Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel Deposition of Stephanie Summerville is GRANTED. Defendants are
directed to produce Stephanie Summerville and their Person Most Knowledgeable
for deposition at a time and place of Plaintiff’s choosing within 5 court days
of this order. This ruling is conditioned on Plaintiff paying $60 in filing
fees within 5 calendar days of this order. 
 
            Plaintiff’s
Requests for Sanctions are DENIED. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Motion to Compel Further Deposition of Plaintiff
 
            Defendant
County of Los Angeles moves to compel a further deposition of Plaintiff Erwin
Mandani. Although this motion is styled as merely a “motion to compel
deposition,” Defendant candidly admits that this is a motion to take a second
deposition of Plaintiff. (Motion p.1:11-14.) The instant motion is therefore
properly brought under Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.610, which is not
set forth in the Notice of Motion. 
 
Legal Standard for Compelling Further Deposition
 
Code of Civil Procedure Section
2025.610 provides in relevant part:
 
(a)¿Once any party has taken the
deposition of any natural person, including that of a party to the action,
neither the party who gave, nor any other party who has been served with a
deposition notice pursuant to Section 2025.240 may take a subsequent deposition
of that deponent. 
 
(b)¿Notwithstanding subdivision
(a), for good cause shown, the court may grant leave to take a subsequent
deposition, and the parties, with the consent of any deponent who is not a
party, may stipulate that a subsequent deposition be taken. 
 
(Code Civ. Proc. §2025.610(a)-(b).) Depositions may be
compelled under Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.450, which provides:
 
If, after service of a deposition notice,
a party to the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a
party, or a person designated by an organization that is a party under Section
2025.230, without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails
to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection
any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in
the deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order
compelling the deponent's attendance and testimony, and the production for
inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible
thing described in the deposition notice.
 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.450(a).)
 
//
Meet
and Confer
 
A motion to compel a deposition must
include a meet and confer declaration stating facts showing a reasonable and
good faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue presented by the
motion. (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2025.450(b); 2016.040.)  
 
            Here, the
Declaration of Defendant’s counsel states that her office contacted Plaintiff’s
counsel on May 22, 2024 requesting deposition dates for the continued
deposition of Plaintiff. (Declaration of Sarah E. Hernandez ISO Mot. ¶ 5 Exh.
A.) Plaintiff’s counsel stated that they would respond the next day, but failed
to do so. (Id Exh. B.) Defendant’s counsel followed up on May 28, and
Plaintiff’s counsel responded that the deposition was closed, which Defendant
disputed. (Id. ¶ 6 Exh. C.) Defendant’s counsel reached out a third time
on May 30, and was informed that Plaintiff was out for a medical procedure. (Id.
¶ 7; Exh D.) No dates were ever provided. (Id. ¶ 7.) The Court therefore
finds that Defendant has satisfied its meet and confer obligations. 
 
Analysis
 
            Defendant
moves to compel the further deposition of Plaintiff Erwin Mandani. Defendant
conducted an initial deposition of Plaintiff on June 13, 2023. (Hernandez Decl.
¶ 4, Exh. A.) According to the deposition transcript, counsel agreed “to
suspend the deposition [and] meet and confer as to a next available time to
conclude Mr. Mandani’s deposition.” (Id. Exh. A. 6-8.) However, the
record shows that Defendant did not follow up on this obligation until May 22,
2024, eleven months after the original deposition ended. (Hernandez Decl. ¶¶
5-7.) At that time, the parties were not able to reach an agreement as to a
date for a follow-up deposition. (Id.) 
 
            Based on
this record, it appears that the parties never formally stipulated to a
subsequent deposition pursuant to section 2025.610(b), only to meet and confer
as to scheduling. Thus, Defendant would only be entitled to an order compelling
a further deposition upon a showing of good cause. Defendant has made no such
showing, as the County offers no explanation for the failure to follow up on
Plaintiff’s deposition for nearly a full year. Moreover, even assuming that the
parties had stipulated to a further deposition under subdivision (b) of section
2025.610, Defendant’s eleven-month delay in trying to set up a second
deposition date, coupled with Plaintiff’s warning that excessive delay would
provoke objection to any further deposition (Declaration of Jonathan LaCour, ¶
7), suggests that the defense effort to seek a further pre-trial deposition was
employed to cause unwarranted annoyance, oppression, or undue burden or expense
on the eve of trial, which is a misuse of the discovery process for which
Defendant may be subject to sanctions. (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2023.010(c); 2023.030(a).)
In either circumstance, the record at hand warrants denial of Defendant’s
motion. 
 
Sanctions
 
            Plaintiff,
in opposition, requests sanctions against Defendant and its counsel in the
amount of $1,500. 
 
Code of Civil
Procedure section 2025.450(g)(1) requires the Court to impose sanctions against
any party who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel deposition,
unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.
 
            Here,
Plaintiff’s counsel states that he “spent multiple hours reviewing Defendant’s
Motion and preparing Plaintiff’s Opposition,” but limits his request for
attorney’s fees to $1,500, reflecting 1.76 hours of attorney time at his hourly
rate of $850 per hour. (Declaration of Jonathan LaCour ISO Opp. ¶ 15.) However,
Plaintiff’s Notice of Opposition does not specify that he seeks sanctions, and
the motion does not state whether the sanctions are sought against Defendant
and its counsel jointly, severally, or jointly and severally. Because of this
ambiguity, the Court finds that Plaintiff has not properly noticed his request
for sanctions, and therefore that any award of sanctions would be a violation
of Defendant’s and its counsel’s rights to due process. (Code Civ. Proc. §
2023.040.) The Court therefore declines to award sanctions. 
 
Conclusion
 
            Accordingly,
Defendant’s Motion to Compel the Deposition of Plaintiff is DENIED.
 
            Plaintiff’s
request for sanctions is DENIED.
 
Motion to Compel Depositions of Stephanie Summerville
and Person Most Knowledgeable
 
            Plaintiff
moves to compel the depositions of Stephanie Summerville and of Defendant’s
Person Most Knowledgeable. 
 
Two Motions in One
 
            Multiple
motions should not be combined into a single filing.¿(See¿Govt. Code,¿§
70617(a)(4) [setting forth the required filing fee for each motion,
application, or any other paper or request requiring a hearing];¿see¿also¿Weil
& Brown, Civil Procedure Before Trial, [8:1140.1] at 8F-60 (The Rutter
Group 2011)¿[“Motions to compel compliance with separate discovery requests
ordinarily should be filed separately.”].) 
 
Here, Plaintiff improperly combined
two Motions to Compel Deposition into a single filing. Combining multiple
motions under the guise of one motion with one hearing reservation manipulates
the Court Reservation System and unfairly jumps ahead of other litigants.
Moreover, combining motions to avoid payment of separate filing fees deprives
the Court of filing fees it is otherwise entitled to collect. The Court
therefore conditions its ruling on this motion on the payment of an additional
$60 in filing fees within 5 calendar days of this order.
 
Legal Standard
 
California Code of Civil Procedure section
2025.450, subdivision (a) provides: 
 
If, after service of a deposition notice,
a party to the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a
party, or a person designated by an organization that is a party under Section
2025.230, without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails
to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection
any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in
the deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order
compelling the deponent's attendance and testimony, and the production for
inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible
thing described in the deposition notice.
 
(Code
Civ. Proc. § 2025.450(a).) Further, where production of documents is sought in
connection with the deposition, the motion must set forth specific facts
showing good cause justifying the production. (Code Civ. Proc. §
2025.450(b)(1).) 
 
Meet
and Confer
 
A motion to compel a deposition must
include a meet and confer declaration stating facts showing a reasonable and
good faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue presented by the
motion, or, when the deponent fails to attend the deposition and produce the
documents, a declaration stating the petitioner has contacted the deponent to
inquire about the nonappearance. (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2025.450(b); 2016.040.) 
 
Plaintiff’s counsel states that he attempted
to meet and confer with Defendant’s counsel regarding these depositions via
email on June 14, 2024, the date this motion was filed, but was not successful
in resolving this dispute. (Declaration of Jonathan LaCour ISO Mot. Exh. D.) This
declaration is sufficient for the relaxed meet-and-confer requirements for
nonappearance by a deponent.  
 
Deposition
of Stephanie Summerville
 
            Plaintiff moves to compel the
deposition of Stephanie Summerville. Plaintiff originally noticed the
deposition on April 6, 2023 to be taken on June 12, 2023. (LaCour Decl. ¶ 3,
Exh. A.) When Ms. Summerville did not appear, Plaintiff re-noticed the
deposition four more times, with the final notice given on March 4, 2024 for a March
12 deposition. (La Cour Decl. ¶¶ 4-5.) Plaintiff’s counsel states that
Defendants objected to each notice, but does not specify the objections or provide
copies of those objections. (Id. ¶ 5.) 
 
            All versions of the Notice also
sought production of documents and/or communications sent by or to the deponent
pertaining to Plaintiff from May 2019 to the present. (Id.) Plaintiff
states that, according to organizational charts produced by Defendants, Ms.
Summerville oversaw the department in which Plaintiff was employed. (Id.
¶ 9, Exh. C.) Plaintiff has therefore shown good cause for the document
requests in the notice. 
 
            Defendant does not address the putative
objections to the deposition notice, and solely opposes the motion on the
grounds that it is purportedly untimely brought. Code of Civil Procedure
section 2024.020(a) states that any party is entitled, as a matter of right, to
complete discovery no later than 30 days before trial, and to have discovery
motions heard no later than 15 days before trial. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2024.020(a).)
As Defendant admits, the date of hearing for this motion, July 1, 2024, is the
last day to hear discovery motions for the July 16, 2024 trial date. Defendant
claims, however, that the motion is untimely because it was not served 16 court
days in advance, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 1005(b). 
 
            Defendant’s argument is specious.
First, section 1005(b) governs notice of a motion, not the timeliness of when a
motion is made or whether the Court has jurisdiction to hear it. Second, and
more importantly, the briefing schedule on this motion was specially set on
June 18, 2024 following Plaintiff’s ex parte application to advance the
hearing date to July 1, 2024. (June 18, 2024 Minute Order.)  The Court is therefore not persuaded that the
abbreviated notice of this motion should constitute a basis for denial. 
 
Deposition
of Defendant’s Person Most Knowledgeable
 
            Plaintiff also moves to compel the
deposition of Plaintiff’s person most knowledgeable. 
 
            Plaintiff originally noticed the
deposition on November 2, 2023, to take place on November 21, 2023. (LaCour
Decl. ¶ 6, Exh. B.) When Defendant’s Person Most Knowledgeable did not appear,
Plaintiff re-noticed the deposition two more times, with the final notice given
on February 27, 2024 for an April 18 deposition. (La Cour Decl. ¶ 6.)
Plaintiff’s counsel states that Defendants objected to each notice, but again
fails to identify the specific objections or provide copies of those
objections. (Id.) All versions of the Notice also sought production of
documents pertaining to LAC+USC Medical Center’s available job positions in
2020 and 2021, or relating to its hiring practices. (Id. Exh. B.) These
materials are facially relevant to the allegations in the operative First
Amended Complaint, which concern Defendants’ constructive termination of
Plaintiff and failure to accommodate or rehire him during that period, while
hiring other workers to perform the same tasks. (See generally FAC ¶¶ 29-50.)
The document requests thus demonstrate good cause on their face. 
 
            Defendant offers the same argument
in opposition to the deposition of its person most knowledgeable as it does for
the deposition of Ms. Summerville. For the reasons stated above, this argument
is not persuasive. 
 
//
Sanctions
 
            Plaintiff also requests sanctions in
connection with this motion. 
 
 Code of Civil Procedure
section 2025.450(g)(1) requires the Court to impose sanctions against any party
who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel deposition, unless it
finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification
or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.
 
            Here,
however, the Court is not inclined to award sanctions where Plaintiff has (1)
improperly combined multiple motions and (2) failed to specify whether the
sanctions are sought against Defendants and their counsel jointly, severally,
or jointly and severally, in violation of Code of Civil Procedure section
2023.040. (See Notice of Motion.) 
 
Conclusion
 
            Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Deposition of Stephanie Summerville is GRANTED. Defendants
are directed to produce Stephanie Summerville and their Person Most
Knowledgeable for deposition at a time and place of Plaintiff’s choosing within
5 court days of this order. 
 
            Plaintiff’s
request for sanctions is DENIED.
 
CONCLUSION:
 
            Accordingly, Defendant’s
Motion to Compel the Deposition of Plaintiff is DENIED.
 
            Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel Deposition of Stephanie Summerville is GRANTED. Defendants are
directed to produce Stephanie Summerville and their Person Most Knowledgeable
for deposition at a time and place of Plaintiff’s choosing within 5 court days
of this order. This ruling is conditioned on Plaintiff paying $60 in filing
fees within 5 calendar days of this order. 
 
            Plaintiff’s
Requests for Sanctions are DENIED. 
 
            Moving
Parties to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  July 1, 2024                            ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 