  Case Number:  19STCV38374    Hearing Date:   November 19, 2024    Dept:  73 11/19/2023
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf
Treu, Judge presiding 
 
SHAHNAZ AMIRTALESH v. ROCHELLE
STERLING, et al. (19STCV38374)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiff/moving party:  Shahnaz
Amirtalesh (Pro Per)
Counsel for Defendants/opposing
party:  Krista Dawkins (Pyka Lenhardt
Schnaider Dawkins)
 
DEFENDANTS’ MOTION FOR A PROTECTIVE ORDER
(filed 10/02/24)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
Defendants’ Motion for a Protective Order is GRANTED.
BACKGROUND
 
On October 23, 2019, Plaintiff Shahnaz
Amirtalesh (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants Rochelle H.
Sterling (“Sterling”), Beverly Hills Properties (“BHP”), The Sterling Family
Trust, Susan Robman and Does 1-50 (collectively, “Defendants”).
 
This
action arises out of Plaintiff’s tenancy at 240 N. Crescent Drive, Apt. 107,
Beverly Hills, CA 90210 (the “Apartment”).  In her complaint, Plaintiff
alleges that the Apartment landlord, BHP, failed to maintain sewage pipes in
the building which caused a leak in her shower drain in October 24, 2018; that
BHP delayed in granting her request to replace flood-damaged carpeting in her
Apartment with laminate floors as a reasonable accommodation for her disability
stemming from lung cancer; that BHP did not properly enforce COVID-19
restrictions regarding the use of the Apartment swimming pool; and further,
that Apartment manager, Susan Robman, harassed and discriminated against
Plaintiff because of Plaintiff’s religious beliefs.   
 
In
the summer of 2019, Plaintiff filed complaints with the County of Los Angeles
Department of Public Health (“DPH”) and the City of Beverly Hills regarding her
apartment.  On September 5, 2019, the City of Beverly Hills issued a
notice of violations to BHP.  On September 10, 2019, DPH issued an
Official Inspection Report for violations regarding wall/ceiling floor and
faucet fixtures. 
  
On
October 23, 2019, Plaintiff filed her complaint against Defendants. Sterling is
the owner of BHP and the Apartment and the trustee of the Sterling Family
Trust.  On August 7, 2020, Plaintiff filed a Second Amended Complaint
(“SAC”) alleging eight causes of action.  On or about October 20, 2021,
the court sustained Defendants’ demurrer to the fifth cause of action in the
SAC without leave to amend.  The remaining causes of action are as
follows: 
C/A 1: Breach of Warranty of Habitability 
C/A 2: Negligence  
C/A 3: Nuisance  
C/A 4: Violation of Civil Code § 1942.4 
C/A 6: Violation of the California Fair Employment
and Housing Act  
C/A 7: Violation of the California Unruh Civil Rights
Act 
C/A 8: Breach of Implied Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment 
 
On March 17, 2023,
Plaintiff dismissed Defendant Susan Robman from the case.
 
On January 24, 2023,
the Court granted Defendants’ motion for summary adjudication as to the fourth,
sixth and eighth causes of action. The motion was denied as to the first,
second and third causes of action.
 
On October 2,
2024, Defendants filed the instant Motion for a Protective Order, arguing:
·      
An attorney-client email was inadvertently sent by Defendants’
in-house counsel to Plaintiff on August 22, 2024. Plaintiff has refused all requests
that she return and delete and destroy all copies of this privileged
communication.
·       Defendants move this court for a protective order requiring Plaintiff
to return and destroy all copies, electronic or paper, of the email sent to her
on August 22, 2024 from BHP’s in-house counsel, Douglas Walton which was
inadvertently disclosed, and which is protected by attorney-client privilege. Defendants further move the court to
issue an order that plaintiff may not use this document or its contents in this
litigation or elsewhere.
 
Plaintiff
filed an opposition, arguing:
·      
The email is not protected by attorney client privilege because it
was sent directly to Plaintiff's email address.
·      
Plaintiff argues the motion is frivolous and fraudulent
·      
Plaintiff argues that the Court should impose sanctions on
Defendants
 
Defendants
filed a reply, arguing:
·      
Plaintiff’s
opposition raises
unrelated issues that are not before the Court at this time.
·      
Plaintiff argues, without any support, that Mr. Walton
intentionally copied Plaintiff on his email for the purpose of upsetting her.
 
ANALYSIS
 
A.      Legal
Standard 
 
“The court, for good cause shown, may make any order that justice
requires to protect any party or other person from unwarranted annoyance,
embarrassment, or oppression, or undue burden and expense.¿ This protective
order may include.¿.¿. the following directions.¿.¿. That a trade secret or
other confidential research, development, or commercial information not be
disclosed, or be disclosed only to specified persons or only in a specified way.”¿
(CCP § 2031.060(b)(5).)¿¿¿ 
 
B.      Discussion
 
Defendants move
for an order requiring
Plaintiff to return and destroy all copies, electronic or paper, of the email
sent to her on August 22, 2024 from BHP in-house counsel, Douglas Walton, and
order that Plaintiff may not use this document or its contents in this
litigation or elsewhere. Defendants assert
that the document is protected by the attorney-client privilege.
 
The attorney-client privilege protects, “information transmitted
between a client and his or her lawyer in the course of that relationship and
in confidence by a means which, so far as the client is aware, discloses the
information to no third persons other than those who are present to further the
interest of the client in the consultation or those to whom disclosure is
reasonably necessary for the transmission of the information or the
accomplishment of the purpose for which the lawyer is consulted, and includes a
legal opinion formed and the advice given by the lawyer in the course of that
relationship.” (Evid. Code, § 952.) “There are two parts to work product
protection. First, a ‘writing that reflects an attorney's impressions,
conclusions, opinions, or legal research or theories is not discoverable under
any circumstances.’ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2018.030, subd. (a).)…Second, there is
a conditional protection for all other types of attorney work product. This
work product is not discoverable ‘unless the court determines that denial of
discovery will unfairly prejudice the party seeking discovery in preparing that
party's claim or defense or will result in an injustice.’¿(Code Civ. Proc., §
2018.030, subd. (b).)” 
 
Notably, because the attorney-client privilege belongs to the
client, absent evidence of an intentional waiver by the client, the privilege
is not waived by the attorney's inadvertent disclosure of confidential
communications during discovery. (State Compensation Ins. Fund v. WPS, Inc.,
70 Cal. App. 4th 644, 652–654, [privileged documents accidentally included in
response to inspection demand]; see Ardon v. City of Los Angeles, 62
Cal. 4th 1176, 1186–1189.) 
 
If a party or party's attorney accidentally sends the opposing
attorney documents that are or appear to be attorney-client privileged or
attorney work product, the receiving attorney has an ethical obligation to
refrain from examining the documents any more than necessary to determine they
are privileged, and immediately notify the other party's attorney that counsel
possesses the documents. The attorney should then either make arrangements for
their return, seek to reach agreement with opposing attorney regarding their
disposition, or seek guidance from the court. Failure to comply with these
requirements may lead to an order disqualifying counsel from further
participation in the case. (CRPC 4.4; see DP Pham, LLC v. Cheadle, 246
Cal. App. 4th 653, 675–676.) Similarly, a client's inadvertent disclosure of
confidential communications to someone who is or is likely to become an
opposing party does not waive the privilege. (McDermott Will & Emery LLP
v. Superior Court, 10 Cal. App. 5th 1083, 1092.)
 
On August 22, 2024, Plaintiff and defense counsel were engaged in
meet and confer email exchanges regarding discovery responses. (Dawkins Decl.,
Ex. A.) Mr. Walton, in-house counsel for Defendant BHP, sent an email to
Plaintiff that Defendants contend was intended to only be sent to defense
counsel. Defendants assert that upon discovering the inadvertent disclosure,
Mr. Walton attempted to recall the email message and on August 23, 2024,
Defendants’ counsel sent Plaintiff an email requesting that Plaintiff destroy
or return any copies of the email as it is protected by attorney-client
privilege. (Dawkins Decl., Ex. B.)
 
The Court
finds that the email is privileged. It appears the email at issue is a communication
between Defendants’ counsel and its client, and is thus, protected by the
attorney-client privilege. While Plaintiff argues the email was sent to her
intentionally, the evidence supports Defendants’ argument that the email was
sent to Plaintiff inadvertently. Shortly after the email was sent, Mr. Walton
attempted to recall the email and Defendants’ counsel sent Plaintiff an email notifying
her that it was subject to attorney-client privilege. (Dawkins Decl.,
Ex. B.) There is no evidence of any intentional waiver
of the attorney-client privilege. Although Plaintiff is an in propria
persona party, she is treated like any other party and thus must adhere to the
rules of procedure. (See, e.g., Nwosu v. Uba (2004) 122 Cal.App.4th
1229, 1246-47.) 
 
Therefore,
since the email is subject to the attorney-client privilege, Plaintiff is not
entitled to retain or use the email sent to her by Mr. Walton on August 22, 2024. The motion for
protective order requiring Plaintiff to return or destroy the document and
prohibiting the use of the documents is GRANTED.
 
CONCLUSION 

Defendants’
Motion for a Protective Order is GRANTED.