 Case Number:  21STCV17952    Hearing Date:   November 19, 2024    Dept:  73 11/19/24
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf
Treu, Judge presiding 
 
ENCINAS, et al. v. HIKARI JAPANESE
RESTAURANT, et al. (21STCV17952)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiffs/moving party:  Marc Grismer (Law
Office of Marc P. Grismer)
Counsel for
Defendant Montebello Town Center Investors, LLC/opposing party: Fang Li (Horton,
Oberrecht & Kirkpatrick)
Counsel for
Defendant Jhoon, Inc./opposing party: James Hart (Law Offices of Schneider
& Hosmer) 
 
MOTION FOR CASE MANAGEMENT CONFERENCE
AND/OR TRIAL SETTING (filed on 10/25/2024)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Plaintiffs’ Motion for Case Management Conference is GRANTED.
A Case Management Conference is set for December 3, 2024.
I. BACKGROUND
 
On May 13, 2021, Plaintiffs Laurie Encinas and
Jesus Encinas filed this action against Defendants Hikari Japanese Restaurant, a.k.a. Sake
House by Hikari, a.k.a. Hikari Sushi Bar, an unknown entity; UBS Realty
Investors, LLC, a Massachusetts Limited Liability Company and Does 1 to 25. 
 
On June 15, 2021, Montebello
Town Center Investors, LLC was named as Doe 1. 
 
On September 7,
2023, Plaintiffs filed a Notice of Death of Plaintiff Laurie Encinas. 
 
On November 30, 2023, a First Amended Complaint
was filed by Plaintiffs Jesus Encinas, Priscilla Pamela Chey, Jesus Encinas,
Jr., Crystal Laurie Encinas, Jennifer Rose Encinas, and Jennifer Rose Encinas
on behalf of the estate of Laurie Encinas. 
 
On October 24, 2024, the Court denied Defendant Montebello Town Center Investors, LLC’s Motion for Summery
Judgment. 
 
This is an action for premises liability arising from a trip
and fall incident. Plaintiffs allege that on March 7, 2021, Laurie Encinas
attempted to enter the outdoor dining area of the “Sake House by Hikari Sushi Bar” (hereinafter “Hikari
Restaurant”) when she tripped and
fell due to a dangerous condition, an abrupt and exposed height differential of
approximately 1-inch-high where the concrete walkway and Hikari Restaurant’s
outdoor patio entryway threshold met (“subject entryway”). Plaintiffs further
allege that Laurie Encinas fell forward and struck her head on an umbrella
stand which caused serious head injuries requiring immediate medical
intervention. Plaintiffs assert causes of action for
(1) Negligence and (2) Premises Liability.
 
On October 25, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a
Motion for Case Management Conference and/or Trial Setting, arguing:
·      
A Case Management Conference Is
Necessary At This Time
o   At the request of any party or on its own motion, the court may also
order a case management conference to be held at any time. California Rule of
Court Rule 3.723. In determining whether to hold an additional conference, the
court must consider each case individually on its own merits.
o   In light of the fact that there is no trial date set and given the
unanticipated event of Plaintiff Laurie Encinas’s demise- resulting ancillary
probate matter and motion work - a Case Management Conference is necessary at
this time.
·      
Plaintiffs’ counsel is completely fine
with the Court setting trial as required by the local rules and standing
orders. However, given the nature of the case, anticipated motions, discovery,
numerous parties, and likely calendaring conflicts, it felt that a Case
Management Conference would be better suited to handle the setting of a trial date.
·      
The Court Must Consider Code Of Civil
Procedure § 583.310, Time To Bring Matter To Trial
o   Generally, the plaintiff has five years after commencing an action
against a defendant in which to bring it to trial. Code of Civil Procedure §
583.310.
o   Given the matter was filed on May 13, 2021, the time to bring the matter
to trial is May 13, 2026.
·      
Thus, Plaintiffs request that the Court
set a Case Management Conference or, in the alternative, set trial by order.
 
Defendant Jhoon, Inc. filed an opposition,
arguing:
·      
The motion is improper because there was
no meet and confer, no declarations in support, no request for judicial notice
·      
The assigned judge will return in January,
2025 and this motion is an effort to have a different judge hear the matter
·      
This personal injury matter is exempted
from case management conferences
·      
California Rule of Court 3.723 requires
the court “to consider each case individually on its own merits” to make the
determination if an additional case management conference is warranted but
there are no competent facts before the court for such a determination to be
made
·      
No authority is cited in the motion which
empowers the court to set a Trial on motion of a party.
 
Defendant Montebello Town Center Investors, LLC (“MTCI”) filed an opposition, arguing:
·      
MTCI does not necessarily oppose the
request for a case management conference or a trial setting conference.
However, MTCI contends that the pleadings are not at issue because MTCI has not
even been named as a defendant in the operative first amended complaint.
·      
In the caption and body of the first
amended complaint (“FAC”), Plaintiffs named Hikari Japanese Restaurant aka Sake
House by Hikari aka Hikari Shushi Bar, UBS Realty Investors, LLC and Does 1-50
as defendants. (See Li Decl. ¶ 2). However, MTCI is not identified anywhere in
the FAC.
·      
MTCI respectfully requests that before the
Court schedules a case management conference or a trial setting conference, the
Court orders that Plaintiffs file an amendment to the FAC to name MTCI as a
defendant. MTCI will then file its answer to the FAC.
 
Plaintiffs filed replies to both
oppositions, arguing that:
·      
The Motion is proper, there is no
requirement to meet and confer, to attach declarations or requests for judicial
notice
·      
The Court does not have to wait for the
assigned Judge.
·      
Personal injury matters are exempted from
Case Management Conferences.
o  
As stated in the Motion, the Los Angeles
County Superior Court has exempted limited civil cases and “Personal Injury”
cases from the CRC case management rules. The only conference with the court
that is required in Personal Injury cases is a final status conference
conducted shortly before trial. However, with the exemption comes the requirement under L.A. Sup.Ct.
Rule 3.23 that “[t]he court will set trial dates and make other case management
orders [. . .] by issuing orders in individual cases subject to this
exemption.”
·      
A Case Management Conference is necessary
given there is no trial date.
·      
MTCI was not omitted from the FAC
o  
An Amended Complaint Does Not Dismiss
Named Doe Defendants.
o  
After the filing of the initial complaint,
MTCI was named as DOE 1. 
o  
In the FAC, there are numerous allegations
against DOE 1.
o  
Thus, MTCI was not dismissed and is named
in the operative complaint – FAC – as DOE 1.
 
II. DISCUSSION
 
Plaintiff moves
the Court to order a Case Management Conference, or in the alternative, to set
a trial date in this matter.
 
Under the
case management system established by the Trial Court Delay Reduction Act
[Government Code § 68600 et seq.], it is the court's responsibility to
“actively manage” each case and “to compel attorneys and litigants to prepare
and resolve all litigation without delay, from the filing of the first document
invoking court jurisdiction to final disposition of the action.” (Government
Code § 68607.) In most cases, the court must perform an initial case management
review (with or without the presence of counsel) within 180 days of filing the
complaint. (California Rule of Court Rule 3.721.)
 
However, the
Los Angeles County Superior Court has exempted limited civil cases and
“Personal Injury” cases from the CRC case management rules. The only conference
with the court that is required in Personal Injury cases is a final status
conference conducted shortly before trial. (L.A. Sup.Ct. Rule 3.23.) 
 
California
Rule of Court 3.723 states that a court may order or a party may request an
additional case management conference at any time. The court will consider
each case individually to determine if an additional conference is
necessary. 
 
Here, the
Court finds that a Case Management Conference is necessary given that there is
no trial date set in this matter. Due to nature of the case, the death of
Plaintiff Laurie Encinas, anticipated motions, discovery, numerous parties, and likely
calendaring conflicts, a Case Management Conference is warranted to handle the
setting of a trial date.
 
The Court
notes that although MTCI asserts that Plaintiffs must file an amendment to the First Amended
Complaint to name MTCI as a defendant, MTCI had been named as Doe 1. Since MTCI
has been named as Doe 1 and the First Amended Complaint contains allegations
against Doe 1, the Court finds that MTCI was not dismissed by the filing of the
First Amended Complaint. 
 
Accordingly, Plaintiffs’ Motion for Case Management Conference is
GRANTED.
III. DISPOSITION
 

Plaintiffs’ Motion for Case Management
Conference is GRANTED.
A Case Management Conference is set for
December 3, 2024.