  Case Number:  23CHCV03428    Hearing Date:   July 16, 2024    Dept:  F47 Dept. F47
Date: 7/16/24
Case 23CHCV03428
 
MOTION TO
COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES
(Request for
Production of Documents, Set 1)
 
Motion filed on 4/3/24.
 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff Kenneth Armstrong
RESPONDING PARTY: Defendant Gonzalez
Food Enterprises, Inc., erroneously sued and served as Vallarta Food
Enterprises, Inc. (Doe1) 
NOTICE: ok
 
RELIEF REQUESTED: An order
compelling Defendant Gonzalez Food Enterprises, Inc., erroneously sued and
served as Vallarta Food Enterprises, Inc. (Doe1) (Vallarta) to provide further
responses to Request for Production of Documents, Set 1, numbers 4, 14 and 43.  Plaintiff also seeks an order overruling and
striking Vallarta’s objections to the requests. 
Additionally, Plaintiff requests sanctions against Vallarta and its
attorneys of record, Homan, Stone &
Rossi, in the amount of $3,210.00.

 
RULING: The motion is denied.  
 
SUMMARY OF FACTS & PROCEDURAL HISTORY
 
This action arises out of an incident that occurred on
8/23/23 when Plaintiff Kenneth Armstrong (Plaintiff) slipped and fell on water
at a Vallarta store.  Plaintiff alleges
that he suffered a concussion and other injuries as a result of the
incident.  
 
On 11/7/23, Plaintiff filed this action against 13820
Foothill, LLC and Does 1-50 for: (1) Negligence and (2) Premises
Liability.  On 12/12/23, Plaintiff named
Vallarta Food Enterprises, Inc. in place of Doe 1.  On 1/10/24, Gonzalez Food Enterprises, Inc.,
erroneously sued and served as Vallarta Food Enterprises, Inc. as Doe 1
(Vallarta) filed an answer to the complaint. 
 
On 1/17/24, Plaintiff served Vallarta with Request for
Production of Documents, Set 1.  (Kilday
Decl., Ex.1).  On 2/16/24, Vallarta
electronically served Plaintiff with responses to the document requests.  (Id., Ex.2).  On 3/29/24, Plaintiff sent a meet and confer
correspondence and contacted Vallarta’s attorneys regarding the deficient
discovery responses.  (Id., Ex.5).  However, Vallarta’s counsel failed to
respond.  (Id. ¶¶6-7).  Thereafter, Plaintiff’s counsel requested
that Vallarta extend the time for Plaintiff to file a motion to compel further
responses to 4/30/24.  (Id. ¶8,
Ex.4).  Vallarta’s counsel did not
respond to the request for an extension. 
(Id. ¶¶9-13).  
 
Therefore, on 4/3/24, Plaintiff filed and served the
instant motion seeking an order compelling Vallarta to provide further
responses to Request for Production of Documents, Set 1, numbers 4, 14 and
43.  Plaintiff also seeks an order
overruling and striking Vallarta’s objections to the requests.  Additionally, Plaintiff requests sanctions
against Vallarta and its attorneys of record, Homan, Stone & Rossi, in the
amount of $3,210.00.  Vallarta has not
opposed or otherwise responded to the motion. 

 
ANALYSIS
 
Generally, a party may obtain discovery regarding any
unprivileged matter that is relevant to the subject matter of the action, if
the matter is admissible or appears reasonably calculated to lead to the
discovery of admissible evidence.  See
CCP 2017.010.
 
A party may move to compel further responses to document
requests, if it deems a statement of compliance to be incomplete; a
representation of inability to comply is inadequate, or evasive and/or an
objection is without merit or too general. 
CCP 2031.310(a)(1)-(3).  The
instant motion is timely as it was filed and served within 45 days plus 2 court
days for the electronic service of the responses.  See CCP 2031.310(c); CCP 1010.6(a)(3)(B).  Additionally, Plaintiff sufficiently met and
conferred before filing the instant motion 
CCP 2031.310(b)(2).  
 
Here, the subject document requests seek incident reports
regarding Plaintiff’s fall and other falls or injuries on Vallarta’s property for
the 5 years preceding the incident which is the subject of this action.  Vallarta has responded to the requests with various
objections.  
 
Request 4 seeks all reports prepared by Vallarta relating
to the incident.  Vallarta has responded
that the request seeks documents protected by the attorney work product
doctrine as the responsive Customer Incident Report prepared on 8/23/23 by
Vallarta Store Director, Silvia Perez, was prepared in anticipation of
litigation.  The Court finds that the
response complies with the requirements set forth in CCP 2031.240(c)(1) as to
why the responsive document will not be produced based on the privilege asserted.  
 
Request 14 seeks all documents that refer, relate or
pertain to claims for physical injuries made by any person as a result of
injuries sustained on the premises from 2018 to the present.  Vallarta has objected to the request on the grounds that it is overbroad, burdensome,
oppressive, irrelevant, vague, ambiguous and unintelligible.  
 
Vallarta’s objections have merit as the request is not
limited to similar incidents and/or injuries. 
Additionally, it is not clear what is meant by the phrase “claims for
physical injuries” (i.e., does that mean only claims where a court
complaint/claim was filed? Or, claims that were made and were paid without
litigation? Or, does it include claims made without litigation that were
rejected/not paid?  Because of the
overbreadth and ambiguity of the request, it cannot be determined whether it
also included privileged documents. 
Further, it would be overly burdensome to require a privilege log under
the circumstances.  
 
Request 43 seeks all reports generated by Vallarta
regarding falls on the premises for the 5-year period before the incident.  Vallarta has objected to the request on the
grounds that it is overbroad, burdensome, oppressive and irrelevant.  Additionally, Vallarta has objected to the
request on the ground that it seeks documents protected by the attorney work
product doctrine as responsive documents were prepared in anticipation of
litigation.  Further, Vallarta objects to
the request on the ground that it seeks premature disclosure of experts and
experts’ reports. 
 
For the most part, Vallarta’s objections to the request
have merit as the request is not limited to similar falls on the premises.  As such, it would have been overly burdensome
and oppressive to require Vallarta to prepare a privilege log regarding all
documents responsive to the request.  It
is not clear how the request prematurely seeks expert information/documents.
 
Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff is not entitled to
sanctions against Vallarta and/or its counsel.   
  
CONCLUSION
 
The motion is denied. 
