 Case Number:  23STCV12998    Hearing Date:   December 15, 2023    Dept:  76 Pursuant to California Rule of Court
3.1308(a)(1), the Court does not desire oral argument on the motion addressed
herein.  Counsel must contact the staff
in Department 76 to inform the Court whether they wish to submit on the
tentative, or to argue the matter.  As
required by Rule 3.1308(a), any party seeking oral argument must notify ALL
OTHER PARTIES and the staff of Department 76 of their intent to appear and
argue. 
Notice to Department 76 may be sent by email to
smcdept76@lacourt.org or telephonically at 213-830-0776. 
Per Rule of Court 3.1308, if notice of intention
to appear is not given, the Court may adopt the tentative ruling as the final
ruling.            Plaintiff
tenants alleges that Defendant landlords have failed to remedy uninhabitable
conditions at the rental premises.
            Defendant
600 Tower demurs to the First Amended Complaint and moves to strike portions
thereof.
TENTATIVE RULING
            Defendant
600 Tower’s demurrer to the First Amended Complaint is OVERRULED as to the first,
fourth, seventh, ninth, tenth causes of action.
            The
demurrer to the eighth cause of action is MOOT.
The parties are ordered to meet
and confer regarding the motion to strike in light of the ruling on the
demurrer above. The hearing on the motion strike is CONTINUED to January 12,
2023 at 8:30 a.m. Defendant is to file a meet and confer declaration by January
5, 2023.
ANALYSIS
Demurrer
Meet and Confer
            The
Declaration of Mark Derflinger reflects that Plaintiffs’ counsel did not
respond to meet and confer efforts. This satisfies Civ. Proc. Code, § 430.41(a)(3)(B).
Discussion
Defendant
600 Tower. demurs to the First Amended Complaint as follows:
1.         First
Cause of Action (Violation of Civil Code, § 1942.4).
            Defendant
argues that Plaintiffs have not pled the elements of a statutory violation and
have only pled general habitability claims.
            Civil
Code, § 1942.4 provides in pertinent part:
(a) A landlord of a dwelling may
not demand rent, collect rent, issue a notice of a rent increase, or issue a
three-day notice to pay rent or quit pursuant to subdivision (2)
of Section 1161 of the Code of Civil Procedure, if all of the following
conditions exist prior to the landlord’s demand or notice:
 
(1) The dwelling substantially
lacks any of the affirmative standard characteristics listed in Section
1941.1 or violates Section 17920.10 of the Health and Safety Code, or
is deemed and declared substandard as set forth in Section 17920.3 of the
Health and Safety Code because conditions listed in that section exist to
an extent that endangers the life, limb, health, property, safety, or welfare
of the public or the occupants of the dwelling.
 
(2) A public officer or employee
who is responsible for the enforcement of any housing law, after inspecting the
premises, has notified the landlord or the landlord’s agent in writing of his
or her obligations to abate the nuisance or repair the substandard conditions.
 
(3) The conditions have existed and
have not been abated 35 days beyond the date of service of the notice specified
in paragraph (2) and the delay is without good cause. For purposes of this
subdivision, service shall be complete at the time of deposit in the United
States mail.
 
(4) The conditions were not caused
by an act or omission of the tenant or lessee in violation of Section
1929 or 1941.2.
 
(b)
 
(1) A landlord who violates this
section is liable to the tenant or lessee for the actual damages sustained by
the tenant or lessee and special damages of not less than one hundred dollars
($100) and not more than five thousand dollars ($5,000).
 
(2) The prevailing party shall be
entitled to recovery of reasonable attorney’s fees and costs of the suit in an
amount fixed by the court.
 
(c) Any court that awards damages
under this section may also order the landlord to abate any nuisance at the
rental dwelling and to repair any substandard conditions of the rental
dwelling, as defined in Section 1941.1, which significantly or materially
affect the health or safety of the occupants of the rental dwelling and are
uncorrected. If the court orders repairs or corrections, or both, the court’s
jurisdiction continues over the matter for the purpose of ensuring compliance.
 
(d) The tenant or lessee shall be
under no obligation to undertake any other remedy prior to exercising his or
her rights under this section.
 
(e) Any action under this section
may be maintained in small claims court if the claim does not exceed the jurisdictional
limit of that court.
 
(f) The remedy provided by this
section may be utilized in addition to any other remedy provided by this
chapter, the rental agreement, lease, or other applicable statutory or common
law. Nothing in this section shall require any landlord to comply with this
section if he or she pursues his or her rights pursuant to Chapter 12.75
(commencing with Section 7060) of Division 7 of Title 1 of the Government
Code.
     (Civ Code § 1942.4.)
            The
First Amended Complaint alleges at ¶¶ 74 – 80 as follows:
74. The
Subject Property substantially lacks the affirmative standard characteristics identified
in Section 1941.1 of the Civil Code and Section 17920.3 of the Health and Safety
Code, as alleged above herein. The Plaintiffs contend that the Property
contained and/or contains leaking pipes, leaking air conditioner, water shut
offs, lack of hot water supply for an extended period of time, infestation of
cockroaches, mold
growth, no
ventilation, missing smoke alarms, inoperable elevators, excessive noise, inadequate
security. Plaintiff alleges there is residue on one of the pipes located over the
hallway and bedroom, and this pipe has been leaking for the past few months in
2022 and 2023. The pipe leaks most often when it rains. The Subject Property
frequently has no hot water. Plaintiffs have spent several days with no hot
water, in addition to the cold weather and cold air drafts from the walls,
which have made the 
Subject
Property uninhabitable. The Subject Property does not have hot water for around
three (3) days at a time, and only cold or lukewarm water.
 
75. As
alleged herein, after inspecting the premises, public officer housing from the
City and County of Los Angeles provided written notice to the Defendants of
their obligation to repair prohibited conditions as alleged herein. The
defective conditions were not caused by any act or omission of Plaintiffs. 
 
76. On
information and belief, the Plaintiffs herein named notified Defendants on multiple
occasions of their duty to correct the defective conditions at the property,
and such complaints were sidelined or totally ignored by Defendants and its
agents.
 
77. On
information and belief, without good cause, Defendants failed to abate or
repair the conditions identified in one or more of the Notice and Orders to
Comply within 35 days of receiving the notice, during which time the
substandard conditions continued to exist without abatement. 
 
78. On
information and belief, Defendants continued to demand and collect rent from
the Plaintiffs while the prohibited conditions identified by public housing
authorities were unabated. 
 
79.
Plaintiffs seek an order requiring Defendants to abate the nuisances and repair
the substandard conditions of the Property in question. 
 
80. By reason
of the foregoing, the Defendants violated California Civil Code Section 1942.4,
and as a direct and proximate result of the foregoing, Plaintiffs are entitled
to statutory damages pursuant to Section (b )( 1) and reasonable attorney's
fees and costs pursuant to Section (b)(2). 
The
foregoing allegations are sufficient to satisfy the elements of Civ Code § 1942.4. “A]n allegation of material facts upon information or belief is a sufficient
allegation.” (Buxton v.
International Indem. Co.
(1920) 47 Cal.App. 583, 591.) “The
sole issue raised by a general demurrer is whether the facts pleaded state a
valid cause of action, not whether they are true. No matter how unlikely or
improbable, plaintiff's allegations must be accepted as true for the purpose of
ruling on the demurrer. (Citation omitted.) Furthermore, plaintiff's possible
inability or difficulty in proving the allegations of the complaint is of no
concern. (Citation omitted.)” (Kerivan v.
Title Ins. & Trust Co. (1983) 147 Cal.App.3d 225, 229.) 
The demurrer
to the first cause of action is OVERRULED.
2.         Fourth
Cause of Action (Unfair Business Practices—Bus.. & Prof. Code, § 17200).
            Defendant
argues that Plaintiffs have not pled any facts to support this cause of action.
            However,
the fourth cause of action incorporates the allegations of the preceding
paragraphs of the Complaint. (1AC, ¶ 103.) Moreover, ¶ 109 alleges as follows:
109.
Defendants' failure to maintain the Subject Property and failure to abate known
habitability violations, while demanding rent, constitutes an unlawful business
practice, as the Defendants engaged in unlawful business practices (i.e.
refusing and failing to make repairs, and/or refusing and failing to expend
necessary monies to fully and properly make repairs) with the result of
Defendants' increasing profits due to such
unlawful business practices. Moreover, as alleged herein in the First Cause of Action,
the unlawful business practices of the Defendant violated California Civil
Code Sections 1941.1 and 1942.4.
     (Complaint, ¶ 109 [bold emphasis added].)
“ ‘ “The
‘unlawful’ practices prohibited by … section 17200 are any practices forbidden
by law, be it civil or criminal, federal, state, or municipal, statutory,
regulatory, or court-made. [Citation.] … As our Supreme Court put it, section
17200 ‘borrows’ violations of other laws and treats them as unlawful practices
independently actionable under section 17200 et seq.” ’ [Citations.]” (South Bay Chevrolet v. General Motors Acceptance Corp. (1999) 72 Cal.App.4th 861, 880–881 [85 Cal.
Rptr. 2d 301] (South Bay).)


(People ex rel. Trutanich v. Joseph (2012) 204 Cal.App.4th 1512,
1525.)
            As
discussed above, the cause of action for violation of Civil Code, § 1942.4 is sufficiently
pled. As such, the cause of action for an unlawful business practice is
sufficient pled, as it is understood to allege that all Defendants are liable
by virtue of their responsibility to repair the uninhabitable conditions of the
property.
            The
demurrer to the fourth cause of action is OVERRULED.
3          Seventh
Cause of Action (Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress).
Defendant
argues that Plaintiffs have not adequately pled the elements of this cause of
action. 
“The elements of the tort of intentional
infliction of emotional distress are: ‘ “(1) extreme and outrageous conduct by
the defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the
probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff's suffering
severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual and proximate causation of
the emotional distress by the defendant's outrageous conduct. …” Conduct to be
outrageous must be so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated
in a civilized community.’ [Citation.]” (Citation omitted.) “It is not enough
that the conduct be intentional and outrageous. It must be conduct directed at the plaintiff, or occur in the
presence of a plaintiff of whom the defendant is aware.” (Ibid.)
(Catsouras v. Department of
California Highway Patrol (2010) 181 Cal.App.4th 856, 874-75.)           
Chimney Sweep contends that the complaint's
allegations do not meet the standard of extreme and outrageous conduct required
to state a claim.  The contention is without merit. In Stoiber v. Honeychuck (1980)
101 Cal. App. 3d 903, 921 [162 Cal. Rptr. 194], the appellate court concluded
that the plaintiff tenant had stated a cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress by
alleging that she had suffered “ ‘extreme emotional distress’ as a result of
the [landlord's and
property manager's] ‘knowing, intentional, and willful’ failure to correct
defective conditions of the premises.” The Stoiber court observed that whether the
failure to act was extreme and outrageous “under the present allegations,
presents a factual question—it cannot be said as a matter of law that
[plaintiff] has not stated a cause of action.” (Id., at p. 922.)
 
(Burnett v. Chimney Sweep (2004) 123 Cal.App.4th 1057, 1069.)
Here, the
allegations set forth in ¶¶ 132 – 140 are sufficient to plead extreme and
outrageous conduct of a knowing, intentional and willful failure to correct
defective conditions of premises, which caused 
 
prolonged,
overpowering fearfulness, sadness, anxiety, depression, hopelessness, despair,
and other related emotions. The Plaintiff lived in constant fear that their
health would take a turn for the worse because the Subject Property was not
suited their health and safety. The Plaintiff lived in constant fear that their
conditions and physical health would worsen and become a permanent condition
jeopardizing their long-term health. The Plaintiffs emotional distress was
severe in that it was long­lasting, burdened their day-to-day life, and was
based in serious concern for their 
health and
safety.   
     (First Amended Complaint, ¶ 137.)
            The
seventh cause of action is sufficiently pled.
            The
demurrer to the seventh cause of action is OVERRULED.
4.         Eighth
Cause of Action (Violation of Consumer Legal Remedies Act, Civil Code, § 1750).
            This
cause of action has been crossed out, acknowledging that the Court sustained
the demurrer without leave to amend as to this cause of action, so it is no
longer being asserted as a cause of action.
            The
demurrer to the eighth cause of action is MOOT.
5.         Ninth
Cause of Action (Violation of Los Angeles Tenant Anti-Harassment Ordinance).
Defendant
argues that this cause of action is not pled with the requisite  particularity.
            ¶
157 cites the provisions of Los Angeles Municipal Code § 45.33.
The 1AC
alleges at ¶¶ 158 – 161:
158.
Defendants engaged in a knowing and willful course of conduct directed at
Plaintiffs that seriously alarmed and/or annoyed Plaintiffs, and that
explicitly violated the Section 45.33 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code.
Defendants' outrageous and illegal conduct includes, but is not limited to: 
 
a. Reducing
or eliminating housing services required by a lease, contract or law including
the water supply; 
 
b. Failing to
perform and timely complete necessary repairs and maintenance required by
State, County, or local housing, health, or safety laws; 
 
c. Engaging
in acts and omissions which interfered with the Plaintiff's right to use and
enjoy the rental unit, and rendering the premises unfit for human habitation
and occupancy. 
 
159. As a
direct result of the conduct of Defendant, Plaintiffs have suffered general and
special damages to be determined at the time of trial. 
 
160. It
is alleged that all Defendants, by and through their respective managing agents
acted intentionally and maliciously for the purpose of obtaining the vacancy of
the Plaintiffs from the Subject Property and in retaliation for having made
complaints to government agencies and/or legal counsel. Said conduct was in
direct violation of Section 45.33 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code. Plaintiffs
pray for compensatory damages, rent refunds for reduction in housing services,
reasonable attorney's fees and costs, and the imposition of civil penalties up
to $10,000, per violation as provided in Section 45.35 of the Los Angeles
Municipal Code, as well as other remedies for damages.
161. The
Plaintiffs attest that they provided written notice in compliance and for violations
of Los Angeles Municipal Code§ 45.33, to the landlord of the various habitability
conditions of the property, for example, written complaints were made about the
cockroach infestations, the toxic mold, the plumbing issues, the electrical
issues, and the leaks at the property. The landlord was placed on notice of the
explicit violations and the landlord failed to remedy or correct the issues
addressed within a reasonable period of time, as required by Los Angeles
Municipal Code§ 45.53(F).
     (1AC, ¶¶ 158 – 161.)
            The
details of the alleged notice and failure to comply specified conditions are
properly the subject of discovery. This cause of action is adequately pled.          
The
demurrer to the ninth cause of action is OVERRULED.
6.         Tenth
Cause of Action (Violation of Bus. & Prof. Code, § 17500 et seq.).
            Defendant
argues that Plaintiffs have not pled this cause of action with the requisite
specificity.
Section 17500 provides in relevant part: “It is unlawful for any
person, firm, corporation or association, or any employee thereof with intent
directly or indirectly to dispose of real or personal property … to make or
disseminate or cause to be made or disseminated before the public in this state
… in any newspaper or other publication, or any advertising device, or by
public outcry or proclamation, or in any other manner or means whatever,
including over the Internet, any statement, concerning that real or personal
property … or concerning any circumstance or matter of fact connected with the
proposed performance or disposition thereof, which is untrue or misleading, and
which is known, or which by the exercise of reasonable care should be known, to
be untrue or misleading … .” n12
 
FOOTNOTES
 
n12 In addition, the unfair competition law defines unfair competition
as including “any … unfair, deceptive, untrue or misleading advertising.” (§
17200.)
 
 
 Section 17500 has been broadly construed to proscribe “ ‘not
only advertising which is false, but also advertising which[,] although true,
is either actually misleading or which has a capacity, likelihood or tendency
to deceive or confuse the public.’ ” (Kasky v. Nike, Inc. (2002) 27 Cal.4th
939, 951 [119 Cal. Rptr. 2d 296, 45 P.3d 243].) In determining whether a
statement is misleading under the statute, “ ‘the primary evidence in a false
advertising case is the advertising itself.’ ” (Brockey v. Moore (2003) 107
Cal.App.4th 86, 100 [131 Cal. Rptr. 2d 746] (Brockey).) The “misleading
character” of a given representation “appears on applying its words to the
facts.” (People v. Wahl (1940) 39 Cal. App. 2d Supp. 771, 774 [100 P.2d 550].)
 
(Colgan v.
Leatherman Tool Group, Inc. (2006) 135 Cal.App.4th 663, 679.)
      The 1AC alleges at ¶¶ 166 – 169:
166.
Throughout the Defendants' ownership of the property, the Defendants have advertised
the Property for rent, including prior to the Plaintiffs' tenancy, when the
Plaintiffs identified an advertisement for the Subject Property, which on
information and belief implied that the Property was in a condition fit for
human occupancy. Plaintiff alleges the Defendants additionally advertised
the Subject Property as having security
and locked doors.
 
167. From
when the Plaintiffs initially moved into the Property, the Property was not fit
for human occupation, nor did it have the locked doors and security promised
and advertised. Rather, the Property suffered various habitability
violations, including leaking pipes, leaking air conditioner, water shut offs,
lack of hot water supply for an extended period of time, infestation of
cockroaches, mold growth, no ventilation, missing smoke
alarms, inoperable elevators, excessive noise, inadequate security. The doors
to the Property were never locked or secured, and as a result, the Property
suffered from severe safety and security issues, as homeless people entered the
Property.
 
168. Since
before the Plaintiff moved into the property, the Defendants have engaged in
advertising to the public, including Plaintiffs, and offering the Property for
lease and rent. Plaintiffs are informed and believe and thereon allege that the
advertising consisted of pictures of clean, safe apartments and language
promising security and locked doors. These advertisements were disseminated
to and received by the public in
California. By advertising the Property for rent to the public at large, the
Defendants were stating, and representing, that the Property was in a condition
suitable for tenancy and that the Property had a certain level of
security. 
 
169.
Defendants have engaged in the advertising herein alleged with the intent to directly
or indirectly rent the substandard and untenantable property described herein,
of which they failed to make repairs. The Defendants have induced the
Plaintiffs, through their false advertising, to enter into an obligation
relating to the renting of the Property, for which the Defendants, on
infom1ation and belief, received a security deposit from the Plaintiffs and
received monthly rent payments.
     (Complaint, ¶ 166 – 169 [bold emphasis
added].)
            This
is sufficient to allege a violation of the Bus. & Prof. Code, § 17500.
            The
demurrer to the tenth cause of action is OVERRULED.
Motion To Strike
Meet and Confer
There was no meet and confer
declaration submitted with the motion to strike. The Declaration of Mark
Derflinger attached to the demurrer does not reflect that a meet and confer
effort occurred with respect to the motion to strike. 
            As such,
the parties are ordered to meet and confer regarding the motion to strike in
light of the ruling on the demurrer above. The hearing on the motion strike is
CONTINUED to January 12, 2023 at 8:30 a.m. Defendant is to file a meet and
confer declaration by January 5, 2023.
 