 Case Number:  22GDCV00336    Hearing Date:   April 19, 2024    Dept:  D TENTATIVE RULINGCalendar:  4 Date:        4/19/2024 Case No:    22 GDCV00336 Trial Date: 01/13/2025Case Name: Korea Trade Insurance Corporation v. Mix & Match Apparel, Inc.  MOTION FOR TERMINATING SANCTIONSMoving Party:  Defendant and Cross-Complainant Mix & Match Apparel, Inc.     Responding Party: Cross-Defendant Mido Trade Co., Ltd. (No Opposition)      RELIEF REQUESTED:Order striking answer of Mido Trade Co., Ltd. to cross-complaint and to enter default In the alternative, order imposing issue sanctions and/or evidence sanctions FACTUAL AND PROCEDURAL BACKGROUND:Plaintiff Korea Trade Insurance Corporation alleges that it is the assignee to Mido Trade Co., Ltd, and brings this action for common counts, alleging that defendant Mix & Match Apparel, Inc. has become indebted to plaintiff in the sum of $152,244.49.  The complaint alleges causes of action for open book account, account stated, and reasonable value.  Defendant Mix & Match Apparel, Inc. (Mix & Match) has filed a cross-complaint against Mido Trade Co., Ltd. (Mido Trade), alleging that in July and August of 2020, cross-complainant and cross-defendant entered into a written agreement by way of a series of purchase orders and invoices whereby cross-defendant agreed to sell, and cross-complainant agreed to purchase certain women’s leggings.  The cross-complaint alleges that cross-defendant breached the contract by failing to deliver conforming goods, failing to have the goods manufactured at the main factory of cross-defendant, placing false UPC codes on the goods, failing to inspect the goods in a proper manner, and delivering goods that were “bleeding” and had sewing defects so that the goods failed to pass inspection with an acceptable defect rate.  The cross-complaint alleges that as a direct result of cross-defendant’s breach, cross-complainant has been damaged.  It is also alleged that during the negotiations for the sale of the goods, cross-defendant falsely represented the goods would be manufactured at the main factory of cross-defendant, that correct UPC codes would be placed on the goods, and that the goods would be inspected in a proper manner and pass inspection at an acceptable defect rate and that the goods would otherwise conform to the specifications required by cross-complainant.  The cross-complaint alleges causes of action for breach of contract, breach of implied warranty of merchantability, breach of implied warranty of fitness for a particular purpose, fraud, negligent misrepresentation, and fraudulent billing. On October 27, 2023, the court heard an unopposed motion to compel further responses to Form Interrogatories brought by Mix & Match as to cross-defendant Mido Trade.  The motion was granted, and the court ordered cross-defendant Mido Trade to serve further complete verified responses to Form Interrogatories Nos. 15.1 and 17.1, without objection, within ten days.  The court awarded monetary sanctions in favor of the moving party and against cross-defendant Mido Trade and its attorney or record in the sum of $1,400 in fees, plus $61.65 in filing fees and $7.26 in efiling fees, payable within thirty days. Counsel for defendant and cross-complainant was ordered to give notice. On October 27, 2023, Notice of Ruling on the motion was filed, showing notice of ruling was served by email on October 27, 2023.      On December 15, 2023, the court heard a motion by Mix & Match to compel responses to requests for production of documents from Mido Trade, as well as a motion to compel further responses from Mido Trade to requests for admissions.   The motions were granted, and cross-defendant Mido Trade was ordered to serve responses to requests for documents, without objection, and to permit inspection and copying, within ten days.  Mido Trade was also ordered to serve further complete verified responses to certain requests for admissions, without objections, within ten days.  The court awarded monetary sanctions in favor of Mix & Match and against Mido Trade and its counsel of record, in the sum of    $1,868.91 in fees, plus $61.65 in filing fees and $7.26 in efiling fees for the motion to compel responses to requests for production of document, and in the sum of $2,268.91 in fees plus $61.65 in filing fees and $7.26 in efiling fees for the motion to compel further responses to requests for admissions.  The sanctions awards were both payable within thirty days.   Park (attorney for defendant/cross-complainant) was ordered to give notice. Notice of Ruling on the December 15, 2023 motions was filed on December 15, 2023, showing the Notice was served by email on the same date.  ANALYSIS:Cross-complainant Mix & Match has filed this motion for terminating, issue, or evidence sanctions against cross-defendant Mido Trade, indicating that Mido Trade failed to timely comply with the court’s previous three discovery orders. Since the motion was filed, on March 20, 2024, Mix & Match has filed a Notice of Partial Withdrawal of Motion, along with other supplemental papers.  The notice of withdrawal withdraws the request for an order striking the answer of Mido Trade and entering its default but indicates that Mix & Match still pursues monetary sanctions for the expense of having to have filed this motion.  Mix & Match indicates that the partial withdrawal is based on representations by Mido Trade that it served supplemental discovery responses on February 10, 2024, in compliance with the court orders of October 27, 2023 and December 15, 2023, but that Mix & Match never received the responses on that date, but did not actually receive responses until February 27, 2024, after Mix & Match had filed this motion.  This motion was filed on February 16, 2024.  Mix & Match argues that in any case the responses were much belated, over ninety and forty days late.  The Notice of Withdrawal submits a declaration of counsel indicating that the supplemental responses were not received before this motion was filed, and includes screen shots of email lists from February 10, 2024, and neighboring dates showing that no emails in “all mail” or “spam” were received during that time period from counsel for Mido Trade, Jamie Kim.  [Supplemental Park Decl., paras. 3, 4. Ex. 6]. The supplemental responses were requested to be re-served and were first received on February 27, 2024.  [Supp. Park Decl., para. 3, Ex. 4]. As noted, the motion to the extent it seeks sanctions other than monetary sanctions has been withdrawn, and it appears would be moot.  If Mix & Match continues to have concerns that the supplemental responses eventually served are not sufficient, it must engage in good faith meet and confer efforts concerning the new responses, and, if necessary, file appropriate motions for further responses accompanied by appropriate separate statements.  This leaves the issue of monetary sanctions, which continue to be pursued by moving party Mix & Match. Under CCP § 2031.300 (c), if a party “fails to obey” a court order compelling a response to a demand for documents, “the court may make those orders that are just, including the imposition of an issue sanction, an evidence sanction, or a terminating sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010).”   Similar provisions apply to a failure to obey a court order compelling a further response to interrogatories and requests for admissions.   CCP §§ 2030.300(e), 2033.300 (e).      CCP § 2031.300(c) provides that for failure to obey a court order compelling response to a document demand, “In lieu of or in addition to” an issue, evidence or terminating sanction, “the court may impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010).”  Similar provisions apply to a failure to obey a court order compelling a further response to interrogatories or requests for admissions.  CCP §§ 2030.300(e), 2033.290 (e).      CCP § 2023.010 defines misuse of the discovery process to include “(g) Disobeying a court order to provide discovery.”    Where there has been a misuse of the discovery process, under CCP section 2023.030 (a) the court “may impose a monetary sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct.... If a monetary sanction is authorized by any provision of this title, the court shall impose that sanction unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  Under CRC Rule 3.1348(a): “The court may award sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn, or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion was filed.”In this case, a review of the motion and the supplemental papers suggest that Mido Trade had failed to timely obey this court’s previous court orders, was permitted an extension of time to comply, but did not serve supplemental responses within that extension or respond to further reminder emails.  [Park Decl., paras. 4-9, Exs. 1, 2].   This conduct on the part of Mido Trade necessitated the preparation and filing of this motion, which evidently had the effect of finally procuring Mido Trade’s compliance with the court’s orders.   Monetary sanctions for the reasonable expense of preparing this motion will be awarded.  The sanctions sought are $3,788.91.  These appear reasonable.  There has been no opposition filed to this motion, or in response to the notice of partial withdrawal, so Mido Trade has failed to challenge the reasonableness of any particular time charged or the $400 per hour billing rate sought.  The monetary sanctions are awarded in full as requested. RULING:Motion for Terminating Sanctions and Monetary Sanctions:The Court notes the filing on March 20, 2024 of a Notice of Partial Withdrawal of Motion, along with a Supplemental Memorandum and Supplemental Declaration. Motion is GRANTED IN PART.   Motion for terminating, issue and/or evidence sanctions is noted as WITHDRAWN.  UNOPPOSED Motion for further monetary sanctions is GRANTED pursuant to   CCP §§ 2030.300(e), 2031.300(c), 2033.290 (e), 2023.010 (g) and 2023.030 (a) and CRC Rule 3.1348(a).       Monetary sanctions requested by moving party:  Utilizing a lodestar approach, and in view of the totality of the circumstances, the Court finds that the total and reasonable amount of attorney’s fees and costs incurred for the work performed in connection with the pending motion is $3,720.00 (9.3 hours @ $400 per hour) [9.3 hours requested] plus $61.65 filing fee and $7.26 efiling cost [Amount Requested $3,788.91], which sum is to be awarded in favor of cross-complainant Mix & Match Apparel, Inc. and against cross-defendant Mido Trade Co., Ltd., payable within 30 days.  CCP §§ 2030.300(e), 2031.300(c), 2033.290 (e), 2023.010 (g) and 2023.030 (a) and CRC Rule 3.1348(a).       DEPARTMENT D IS CONTINUING TO CONDUCT AND ENCOURAGE AUDIO OR VIDEO APPEARANCESPlease make arrangement in advance if you wish to appear via LACourtConnect by visiting www.lacourt.org to schedule a remote appearance.  Please note that LACourtConnect offers free audio and video appearances.  However, ADVANCE REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED. If no appearance is set up through LACourtConnect, or no appearance is otherwise made, then the Court will assume the parties are submitting on the tentative. 