 Case Number:  22GDCV01056    Hearing Date:   April 19, 2024    Dept:  D TENTATIVE RULINGCalendar:  6 Date: 4/19/2024 Case No:  22 GDCV01056  Trial Date: February 24, 2025 Case Name: Estrada v. KIA America, Inc. MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSITION AND INSPECTION OF VEHICLEMoving Party:  Defendant Kia America, Inc.     Responding Party: Plaintiff Xcaret Estrada-Soho     RELIEF REQUESTED:Order compelling Plaintiff to sit for deposition, provide dates for deposition, make vehicle available for inspection, and set dates for the vehicle inspection DECLARATION SUPPORTING MOTION:Reasonable and good faith attempt to resolve informally:  Yes, Exs. 2-4, 8, 11 FACTUAL BACKGROUND:Plaintiff Xcaret Estrada alleges that in March of 2022 plaintiff entered into a warranty contract with Kia America, Inc. regarding a 2018 Kia Nero.  Plaintiff alleges that under the Song-Beverly Act, defendant had an affirmative duty to promptly offer to repurchase or replace the vehicle at the time defendant failed to conform the vehicle to the terms of the express warranty after a reasonable number of attempts. Plaintiff alleges that defects and nonconformities to warranty manifested themselves within the applicable express warranty period, including transmission and engine issues, which substantially impair the use, value, and/or safety of the vehicle.  Plaintiff delivered the vehicle to the manufacturer’s authorized repair facility for repair of the nonconformities, and defendant has been unable to conform plaintiff’s vehicle to the applicable express warranties after a reasonable number of repair attempts.  The complaint alleges that notwithstanding plaintiff’s entitlement, defendant has failed to either promptly replace the vehicle or to promptly make restitution in accordance with the Song-Beverly Act.  The complaint alleges two causes of action for Violation of Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act, including for breach of express warranty and section 1793.2.  ANALYSIS:Defendant Kia Motors America, Inc. seeks by this motion to compel plaintiff to appear for a deposition on a date certain, and to permit inspection of the subject vehicle on a date certain. Plaintiff in opposition argues that the motion is moot, as plaintiff does not oppose defendant’s right to depose plaintiff or inspect plaintiff’s vehicle and has provided defendant with dates of availability for the deposition and vehicle inspection and the parties have agreed on dates for both to take place. Specifically, plaintiff submits evidence that since the filing of this motion on January 25, 2024, on March 4, 2024, plaintiff informed defendant that plaintiff could be available for deposition on May 6, 2024.  [Thomas Decl. ¶ 3, Ex. A].  On March 5, 2024, Defendant responded agreeing to that date. [Thomas Decl. ¶ 3, Ex. A]. On March 5, 2024, defendant served a Second Amended Notice of Deposition of Plaintiff, with the deposition noticed to take place on May 6, 2024. [Thomas Decl. ¶ 4, Ex. B]. With respect to the vehicle inspection, on March 14, 2024, the parties agreed that defendant would conduct an inspection of plaintiff’s vehicle on May 28, 2024. [Thomas Decl. ¶ 5, Ex. A]. On March 15, 2024, defendant served an Amended Demand for Production of Vehicle for Inspection and Testing, with the inspection to take place May 28, 2024. [Thomas Decl. 6, Ex. C]. Plaintiff indicates that it has not yet served objections to either of the notices, and that on March 14, 2024, after agreeing to the dates for the deposition and inspection, plaintiff requested that defendant withdraw this motion, but defendant refused.  [Thomas Decl. ¶¶ 7, 8, Ex. A].The motion accordingly appears to be moot in principle, although since the deposition and inspection have not yet been conducted, in an abundance of caution, the court will order the deposition and vehicle inspection to go forward on the dates selected by the parties, at the concession of plaintiff in the opposition. The court also notes that this matter remains subject to the Addendum to Case Management Conference Order (Song-Beverly Litigation) (Order) applicable to Song-Beverly Litigation, now posted and available on the Los Angeles Superior Court website in connection with this Department, Glendale Courthouse, Department D.   The parties are reminded that the Order expressly provides with respect to Depositions:“Deposition:  Within the time limits allowed by law, Defendant may depose plaintiff….”[Order, section 4].  With respect to vehicle inspections, the Order provides:“Vehicle Inspection:  Within the time limits allowed by law, the subject vehicle may be inspected by the parties at a mutual agreeable time and place.  Unless otherwise agreed by the parties, the vehicle inspection (VI) process shall be as follows:a. Defendant shall show plaintiff’s representative proof of insurance for the person/company who will be road testing the subject vehicle;b. The defense VI shall commence at 8:00 a.m. at an authorized service and repair facility closest to plaintiff’s residence, and may continue until no later than 5:00 p.m. that same day;c. Plaintiff shall deliver the vehicle to the noticed place of inspection.  If the subject vehicle has a dead battery, plaintiff’s counsel shall notify defendant’s counsel at least one court day before the VI, and the VI shall proceed with defendant paying for the tow or jump start to the place of inspection and taking reasonable steps to retrieve stored diagnostic codes and other onboard data before the battery is recharged or replaced.d. Defendant shall provide plaintiff’s representative with duplicate copies of all paper and electronic documents created during and because of the VI, such as test results, the stored codes in the vehicle’s internal network or in its control units, alignment sheets, etc.;e. If the subject vehicle is in then-current use by plaintiff, and if requested within a reasonable time, in writing, prior to the VI, plaintiff shall be provided a loaner or rental vehicle paid for by defendant for the duration of the VI, conditioned on plaintiff providing standard rental car disclosures such as proof of a current driver’s license and insurance coverage, and with plaintiff responsible for the loaner vehicle’s fuel.  The loaner vehicle need not be the same model or type as the subject vehicle unless plaintiff agrees to pay for an upgrade;f. Defendant shall be permitted to run tests of relevant electronic control units (ECUs) and components, conditioned on defendant maintaining, downloading, or printing out stored date on the existing condition or historical information stored in an ECU; andg. Plaintiff’s representative is permitted to conduct video and audio recording of the VI.”[Order section (5)(a)-(g)]. The parties are ordered to conduct the subject discovery on the agreed upon dates, and in full compliance with the Discovery Act and the applicable provisions of the Order.  SanctionsThis posture leaves the issue of monetary sanctions, which are sought by defendant for the expense of having to have brought this motion.    Sanctions are requested pursuant to CCP section 2031.300 (c), which provides that the court shall impose a monetary sanction “against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to a demand for inspection… unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”Sanctions are also sought under CCP § 2023.010, which provides that misuse of the discovery process includes “(d) Failing to respond or to submit to an authorized method of discovery.”; “(e) Making, without substantial justification, an unmeritorious objection to discovery;” “(f)  Failing to confer in person, by telephone, or by letter with an opposing party or attorney in a reasonable and good faith attempt to resolve informally any dispute concerning discovery:” and “(h) Making or opposing, unsuccessfully and without substantial justification, a motion to compel or to limit discovery” ….”  Where there has been such conduct, under CCP § 2023.030(a), “the court may impose a monetary sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct....If a monetary sanction is authorized” by the statute, “ the court shall impose that sanction unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that the other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” CCP §2023.030(a).  The burden is on the party subject to sanctions to show substantial justification or injustice.  Mattco Forge, Inc. v. Arthur Young & Co. (1990, 2nd Dist.) 223 Cal.App.3d 1429, 1436. Under CRC Rule 3.1348(a): “The court may award sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn, or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion was filed.” Here, the motion will be granted at the concession of plaintiff in the opposition, and sanctions are recoverable despite any offer to provide the subject discovery after a deposition non-appearance was required to be taken and court reporter expenses were incurred, and after this motion was filed and the expenses to prepare it were incurred. Plaintiff in the opposition argues that it would be unjust to impose sanctions on plaintiff because there has been no showing of bad faith, but plaintiff remains willing to informally resolve this dispute without the court’s intervention.  The discovery sanctions sections do not require a finding of bad faith, and plaintiff has failed to meet any burden of demonstrating substantial justification in failing to appear for deposition, and failing to previously provide dates for either a deposition or a vehicle inspection. It is not established that the imposition of sanctions would be unjust under the circumstances, where it was plaintiff’s conduct that clearly made this motion necessary.  It appears appropriate to shift to plaintiff the reasonable expense of having brought this motion to procure plaintiff’s compliance with plaintiff’s discovery obligations in this matter.  Monetary sanctions will accordingly be awarded. The sanctions sought are $2,811.05, which includes a charge incurred of $1,001.05 to have a court reporter take plaintiff’s non-appearance at deposition.  The sanctions sought appear reasonable, plaintiff in opposition does not challenge the reasonableness of any of the expenses sought, and the sanctions will be awarded in full as requested.  RULING:Defendant Kia America, Inc.’s Motion to (1) Compel Plaintiff’s Deposition; (2) Compel Inspection of Plaintiff’s Vehicle is GRANTED, at the concession of plaintiff in the opposition. Plaintiff Xcaret Estrada-Soto is ordered to appear for deposition and give testimony in this matter on May 6, 2024 at 9:00 a.m. at the offices of plaintiff’s counsel.Plaintiff Xcaret Estrada-Soto is ordered to permit inspection of the subject vehicle on May 28, 2024. Monetary sanctions sought by moving party are GRANTED: Utilizing a lodestar approach, and in view of the totality of the circumstances, the Court finds that the total and reasonable amount of attorney’s fees and costs incurred for the work performed in connection with taking plaintiff’s deposition non-appearance and preparing the pending motion is $1,750.00 (7.0 hours @ $250/hour) [7 hours requested] plus $60 in filing fees and $1,001.05 in court reporter fees  [Amount Requested $2,811.05], which sum is to be awarded in favor of defendant Kia America, Inc. and against plaintiff Xcaret Estrada-Soto, and plaintiff’s attorney of record, jointly and severally, payable within 30 days. CCP §§ 2031.300(c), 2023.010 (d), (e), (f), and (h), 2023.030(a) and CRC Rule 3.1348(a). DEPARTMENT D IS CONTINUING TO CONDUCT AND ENCOURAGE AUDIO OR VIDEO APPEARANCESPlease make arrangement in advance if you wish to appear via LACourtConnect by visiting www.lacourt.org to schedule a remote appearance.  Please note that LACourtConnect offers free audio and video appearances.  However, ADVANCE REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED. If no appearance is set up through LACourtConnect, or no appearance is otherwise made, then the Court will assume the parties are submitting on the tentative. 