  Case Number:  22STCV10525    Hearing Date:   November 13, 2024    Dept:  57 Pending before the Court is Defendant Guillermo Madrigal's nonstatutory motion for judgment on the pleadings, which was filed as a motion in limine, as to all three of the claims in the complaint of Plaintiff Ignacio Carmona.  The motion is timely and can be filed in limine.  The Court's rulings on it are as follows.The motion is denied as to the claim for breach of contract.  Madrigal contends that the alleged contract could not have been performed within a year and thus, per the Statute of Frauds, must have been in writing.   (No writing contract is alleged)   The Court disagrees.  It cannot be said from the face of the complaint that the alleged contract was incapable of being performed within a year.  Equally unavailing is Madrigal's back up argument that the breach of contract claim fails on the ground of impossibility because Carmona and Madrigal could not agree to "form" companies (as alleged) that already exist.    The complaint alleges that the two parties owned two different companies and that they would "form both . . . as joint owners."  On the face of the complaint, this is not impossible.  Madrigal makes too much of the word "form."   The complaint can be read as alleging that the parties agreed to merge their companies into one.The motion is granted with leave to amend as to the claim for negligent misrepresentation.  Carmona concedes in his opposition that the complaint, as currently written, does not plead the elements of that claim.  It is reasonably possible that Carmona could amend the complaint to cure that efect.The motion is granted without leave to amend as to the claim for quantum meruit.  The touchstone of quantum meruit is the recovery by plaintiff of the reasonable value of services rendered to the defendant.  (Maglica v. Maglica (1998) 66 Cal.App.4th 442, 449.)  To recover that, the plaintiff has to show that services were provided to the defendant pursuant to an express or implied request by the defendant for the services and that the defendant benefited from the services and retained that benefit.  (Day v. Alta Bates Medical Center (2002)98 Cal.App.4th 243, 248.)  As alleged in the complaint, Carmona spent hundreds of thousands of dollars on equipment to be used in the parties' venture based on Madrigal's agreement to the venture but that Madrigal breached the agreement without using the equipment and that now the equipment is of no use to Carmona.  The problem is that Carmona fails to allege that Madrigal retained the benefit of the services Carmona rendered -- the furnishing of equipment.   Carmona has the equipment, not Madrigal.   This defeats Carmona's quantum meruit claim.  It does not appear reasonably possible under the circumstances that Carmona could amend the complaint to cure this problem.