  Case Number:  21STCV38985    Hearing Date:   March 8, 2024    Dept:  15 [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE  MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT (ROCKWELL) On October 22, 2021,  Plaintiffs Donna Frizzell and Carroll Frizzell filed this action alleging Donna  Frizzell developed mesothelioma as a result of secondary exposure from her  husband’s work with asbestos-containing products.  Defendant Rockwell filed a motion for summary  judgment and alternatively summary adjudication of the fraud and conspiracy  causes of action and request for punitive damages.   A.        Objections             1.         Plaintiffs’  Objections Nos. 1-25:  The court did not rely on this material.             2.         Defendant’s  Objections to Bendon These objections are  improper because Defendant did not identify the particular evidence to which it  objects and it asserts the same boilerplate objections.  For example, it objects to all of Exhibit C  comprised of excerpts from Carroll Frizzell’s deposition testimony without  quoting or specifying the particular questions and answers that are  objectionable.  In any event, the court  did not rely on most of the materials.  To  the extent the court relied on the material, the objections are overruled.             3.         Defendant’s  Objections to Spear The court did not rely on  this material. 4.         Defendant’s Objections to Jones The court did not rely on  this material. B.        Summary Judgment A defendant seeking  summary judgment must “conclusively negate[] a necessary element of the plaintiff’s  case, or . . . demonstrate[] that under no hypothesis is there a material issue  of fact that requires the process of trial.”   (Guz v. Bechtel Nat. Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 317, 334.)  To show that a plaintiff cannot establish an  element of a cause of action, a defendant must make the initial showing “that  the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed  evidence.”  (Aguilar v. Atlantic  Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 854.)   “The defendant may, but need not, present evidence that conclusively  negates an element of the plaintiff’s cause of action.  The defendant may also present evidence that  the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence –  as through admissions by the plaintiff following extensive discovery to the  effect that he has discovered nothing.”   (Id. at p. 855.)  A  plaintiff’s deposition testimony that the plaintiff has no knowledge of any  exposure to the defendant’s products may be sufficient to shift the burden to  the plaintiff to demonstrate the existence of triable issues of fact. (McGonnell  v. Kaiser Gypsum Co., Inc. (2002) 98 Cal.App.4th 1098, 1103-1104.)  The plaintiff’s deposition testimony that he  did not recall ever working with a product manufactured by the defendant may  not be sufficient to shift the burden if the plaintiff is able to prove his  case by another means.  (Weber v. John  Crane, Inc. (2006) 143 Cal.App.4th 1433, 1439.)  “ ‘If plaintiffs respond to comprehensive  interrogatories seeking all known facts with boilerplate answers that restate  their allegations, or simply provide laundry lists of people and/or documents,  the burden of production will almost certainly be shifted to them once  defendants move for summary judgment and properly present plaintiff’s factually  devoid discovery responses.’”  (Id.  at p. 1440.) Defendant argues  Plaintiffs do not have and cannot reasonably obtain evidence that Donna  Frizzell was exposed to asbestos from Defendant’s Allen-Bradley products.  (Motion at p. 7.)  Assuming Defendant shifted the burden,  Plaintiffs showed disputed issues of material fact.  Carroll Frizzell worked with Allen-Bradely  products including contactors, some of the contractors were grayish and made of  something other than metal, and they contained insulation material.  (Plaintiffs’ Disputed Facts (“PDF”) 3, 8, 9,  10, 11.)  There is evidence that Allen-Bradley  contactors contained asbestos.  (PDF 21,  22, 23.)  Plaintiffs submitted deposition  testimony that in 1976 and before, Allen-Bradley contactors contained  asbestos.  (Plaintiffs’ Ex. G at pp.  64-65, 67-68, 73-74, 74-77.)  Donna  Frizzell washed Carroll Frizzell’s work clothes.  (PDF 15.)   This evidence is sufficient to raise disputed issues for the jury. The motion for summary  judgment is denied. C.        Summary Adjudication of Third Cause of Action Defendant moves for  summary adjudication of the third cause of action for fraud.  Defendant contends Plaintiffs’ discovery  responses do not contain evidence supporting this cause of action, citing to  UMF 3-11, 12-21, 27.  (Motion at p.  22.)  These UMFs cite the complaint,  Plaintiffs’ responses to Special Interrogatories, Plaintiffs Responses to  Requests for Admission, and Plaintiffs’ deposition. The special  interrogatories do not contain any interrogatory asking Plaintiffs to state all  facts supporting the third cause of action or their claims of fraud.  Because Defendant did not attach  “comprehensive interrogatories seeking all known facts” (Weber, supra,  143 Cal.App.4th at p. 1440), Defendant cannot show that Plaintiffs’ discovery  responses are factually-devoid. The motion for summary  adjudication is denied. E.        Summary Adjudication of Fourth Cause of Action Defendant argues that the  fourth cause of action for conspiracy fails because conspiracy is not a cause  of action.  (Motion at p. 21.)  Defendant is correct that a conspiracy claim  cannot stand alone and needs an underlying tort.  Here that underlying tort is the fraud cause  of action.  Because Defendant was not  successful on its motion for summary adjudication of the fraud cause of action,  that cause of action remains in the case.   Therefore, the claim of conspiracy to commit fraud remains viable.  The motion for summary adjudication is denied.   F.         Summary Adjudication of Punitive Damages             Defendant  contends Plaintiffs cannot prove Defendant acted with oppression, malice or  fraud.  (Motion at p. 23.)  When the motion targets a request for  punitive damages, a higher standard of proof is at play.  “Although the clear and convincing  evidentiary standard is a stringent one, ‘it does not impose on a plaintiff the  obligation to “prove” a case for punitive damages at summary judgment [or  summary adjudication.’  [Citations.]  Even so, ‘where the plaintiff’s ultimate  burden of proof will be by clear and convincing evidence, the higher standard  of proof must be taken into account in ruling on a motion for summary judgment  or summary adjudication, since if a plaintiff is to prevail on a claim for  punitive damages, it will be necessary that the evidence presented meet the  higher evidentiary standard.’  [Citation.]”  (Butte Fire Cases (2018) 24  Cal.App.5th 1150, 1158-1159.)  “Summary  judgment or summary adjudication ‘ “ ‘on the issue of punitive damages is  proper’ only ‘when no reasonable jury could find the plaintiff’s evidence to be  clear and convincing proof of malice, fraud or oppression.’ ” ’.  [Citation.]”   (Id. at p. 1159.) For a corporate  defendant, the oppression, fraud or malice “must be on the part of an officer,  director, or managing agent of the corporation.”  (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (b).)  That requirement can be satisfied “ ‘if the  evidence permits a clear and convincing inference that within the corporate  hierarchy authorized persons acted despicably in “willful and conscious  disregard of the rights or safety of others.” ’   [Citation.]”  (Morgan v. J-M  Manufacturing Company, Inc. (2021) 60 Cal.App.5th 1078, 1090.)  A plaintiff also “can satisfy the ‘managing  agent’ requirement ‘through evidence showing the information in the possession  of the corporation and the structure of management decisionmaking that permits  an inference that the information in fact moved upward to a point where  corporate policy was formulated.’   [Citation.]”  (Id. at p.  1091.) “ ‘[I]ntentionally marketing a defective product  knowing that it might cause injury and death is ‘highly reprehensible.’  [Citation.]”   (Bankhead v. ArvinMeritor, Inc. (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 68,  85.)  Punitive damages may be available  when a defendant knows the dangers of asbestos, took action to protect its own  employees, knew that its products were likely to pose a danger to users, and  did not warn them.  (Pfeifer v. John  Crane, Inc. (2013) 220 Cal.Ap.4th 1270, 1300.)  Such evidence “was sufficient to show malice,  that is, despicable conduct coupled with conscious disregard for the safety of  others.”  (Id. at pp.  1300-1301.)               In  response to interrogatories asking for all facts, documents, and persons  supporting the claim for punitive damages (Defendant’s Ex. B at p. 4), Plaintiffs  responded that Defendant knew the asbestos-containing parts were dangerous but  it continued to sell the parts and did not give warnings.  (Id. Ex. D at pp. 42-43.)  It did not identify specific documents or  people with knowledge supporting the claim for punitive damages.  (Id. at p. 44.)  Instead the interrogatory response of forty-five,  single-spaced pages contained mostly laundry lists of documents and boilerplate  irrelevant to Plaintiffs and Defendant.  The  responses were factually-devoid as to the elements of punitive damages.  Defendant showed the burden shifted.             In  their opposition, Plaintiffs argue that by the 1960s, Defendant knew asbestos  was dangerous, in 1976 Rostone started phasing out asbestos parts, and in 1979 Rostone  was instructed to provide respiratory protection to its employees and to  monitor the air.  (Opposition at pp.  18-19.)  By 1978, Rostone was a division  of Defendant.  (Reply at p. 4 n.5.)  This evidence raises disputed issues about  Defendant’s division protecting its employees from asbestos but not warning  customers.  The motion is denied. The motion for summary  judgment is DENIED.  The motion for  summary adjudication is DENIED. The moving party is to  give notice. [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE  MOTION FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION (GOULD) Plaintiffs Donna Frizzell  and Carroll Frizzell filed this action alleging Donna Frizzell developed  mesothelioma as a result of secondary exposure from her husband’s work with  asbestos-containing products from Defendant Gould Electronic, Inc.  Defendant filed a motion for summary  adjudication of Plaintiffs’ request for punitive damages.  When the motion targets a  request for punitive damages, a higher standard of proof is at play. “Although  the clear and convincing evidentiary standard is a stringent one, ‘it does not  impose on a plaintiff the obligation to “prove” a case for punitive damages at  summary judgment [or summary adjudication.’   [Citations.]  Even so, ‘where the  plaintiff’s ultimate burden of proof will be by clear and convincing evidence,  the higher standard of proof must be taken into account in ruling on a motion  for summary judgment or summary adjudication, since if a plaintiff is to  prevail on a claim for punitive damages, it will be necessary that the evidence  presented meet the higher evidentiary standard.’  [Citation.]”   (Butte Fire Cases (2018) 24 Cal.App.5th 1150, 1158-1159.)  “Summary judgment or summary adjudication ‘ “  ‘on the issue of punitive damages is proper’ only ‘when no reasonable jury  could find the plaintiff’s evidence to be clear and convincing proof of malice,  fraud or oppression.’ ” ’.   [Citation.]”  (Id. at p.  1159.)  For a corporate  defendant, the oppression, fraud or malice “must be on the part of an officer,  director, or managing agent of the corporation.” (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd.  (b).) That requirement can be satisfied “ ‘if the evidence permits a clear and  convincing inference that within the corporate hierarchy authorized persons  acted despicably in “willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of  others.” ’ [Citation.]” (Morgan v. J-M Manufacturing Company, Inc.  (2021) 60 Cal.App.5th 1078, 1090.) A plaintiff also “can satisfy the ‘managing  agent’ requirement ‘through evidence showing the information in the possession  of the corporation and the structure of management decision making that permits  an inference that the information in fact moved upward to a point where  corporate policy was formulated.’ [Citation.]” (Id. at p. 1091.)  “ ‘[I]ntentionally  marketing a defective product knowing that it might cause injury and death is  ‘highly reprehensible.’   [Citation.]”  (Bankhead v.  ArvinMeritor, Inc. (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 68, 85.)  Punitive damages may be available when a  defendant knows the dangers of asbestos, took action to protect its own  employees from the hazard, knew that its products were likely to pose a danger  to users, and did not warn them.  (Pfeifer  v. John Crane, Inc. (2013) 220 Cal.Ap.4th 1270, 1300.)  Such evidence “was sufficient to show malice,  that is, despicable conduct coupled with conscious disregard for the safety of  others.”  (Id. at pp. 1300-1301.)  In response to Special Interrogatory  No. 8 asking for all facts supporting the claim for punitive damages,  Plaintiffs stated that Defendant knew about the hazards of working with  asbestos-containing materials by referring to OSHA regulations beginning in  1972.  (Defendant’s Index, Ex. D at p.  28.)  Plaintiffs then refer to an October  23, 1979 inter-office memorandum titled “Asbestos Usage in Circuit Breaker  Products” that discussed parts that had been converted to non-asbestos material  and parts that still contained asbestos-bearing material.  (Ibid.)  Plaintiffs contend, by referring to a  September 7, 1983 document titled “Our Recent Conversation on the Use of  Asbestos-Containing Materials in Our Products,” that Defendant continued to  sell asbestos-containing products until 1983.  (Defendant’s Index, Ex. D at pp. 28-29.)  This response does not contain specific  evidence that Defendant knew the asbestos in its products was hazardous to end-users,  it continued to sell the products without warnings, and it intentionally  disregarded the danger to end-users.   Thus, the response if factually-devoid on this issue. In their opposition, Plaintiffs  argue Defendant knew about the hazards of asbestos in 1978, did not include  warnings of hazards to its end-users, and continued to sell asbestos-containing  products until 1983.  (Opposition at pp.  1-3.)  Plaintiffs cite an interoffice  memo about its knowledge in 1979 that “154 fabricated component parts and 43  molded parts still contain asbestos-containing materials.”  (Bendon Decl., Ex. C at p. 2.)  Plaintiffs cite an interoffice memo about  Defendant’s efforts to convince its raw asbestos supplier to clean “all  asbestos parts” due to “great concern” for employees, union, and safety people.   (Bendon Decl., Ex. D.)  Plaintiffs cite a 1983 interoffice memo about  a brake shoe lining containing asbestos fibers still in use, yet the operation  was “stopped in 1979.”  (Bendon Decl.,  Ex. B.)  These interoffice memos show  Defendant’s efforts to substitute or eliminate asbestos in its products upon  discovering the hazards of asbestos in 1979.  Plaintiffs state they  need a continuance because they have not taken Defendant’s deposition about its  historical knowledge of the hazards of asbestos and what it did to prevent  asbestos-related injuries.  (Opposition  at p. 12.)  The hearing is continued to  March 18, 2024 at 9 a.m.  Plaintiffs are  to file any supplemental opposition by March 12, 2024.  Defendant is to file any supplemental reply  by March 14, 2024.  The moving party is to  give notice.  [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE
MOTION FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION (Industrial)Plaintiffs Donna Frizzell
and Carroll Frizzell allege Donna Frizzell developed mesothelioma as a result
of secondary exposure from her husband’s work with asbestos-containing products
from Defendant Industrial Holdings Corporation f/k/a The Carborundum Company.  Defendant filed a motion for summary
adjudication of the fraud and conspiracy causes of action and request for
punitive damages.  A.               
Objections and Judicial
NoticePlaintiffs’ Objection No.
1:  Overruled.  Plaintiffs rely on the testimony of this
witness.Plaintiffs’ Objection
Nos. 2-5:  The court did not rely on
these materials. Defendant requests
judicial notice of: (1) Plaintiff’s Complaint, attached as Exhibit 1; (2) 1970
American National Standards Institute, Inc. Safety Requirements for the Use,
Care, and Protection of Abrasive Wheels, attached as Exhibit E; 1978 American
National Standards Institute, Inc. Safety Requirements for the Use, Care, and
Protection of Abrasive Wheels, attached as Exhibit F; ANSI Z43.1-1966 American National
Standards Institute, Inc. for Ventilation Control of Grinding, Polishing, and
Buffing Operations, attached as Exhibit G; and 29 CFR 1926.303, attached as
Exhibit H. Exhibit E-H are filed concurrently with the Declaration of Richard
Chon.  Apart from the complaint, the
court did not rely on these materials.B.                
Summary Adjudication –
False MisrepresentationDefendant seeks summary
adjudication of the third cause of action for fraud.  The third cause of action alleges vaguely and
with no specificity as to Defendant that all of the defendants fraudulently “represented
to Donna Frizzel that . . . the air was safe to breath because it did not
contain asbestos, and asbestos was not hazardous.”  (Complaint, Ex. A at p. 12.)  This allegation is wholly deficient.  It does not state that Defendant specifically
made any particular representation to Plaintiffs, who at Defendant made the
representation to Plaintiffs, and when Defendant made the representation. Defendant served
interrogatories asking for all facts, including identification of specific
documents and witnesses, supporting the fraud cause of action.  (Chon Decl., Ex. A at p. 3.) Plaintiffs
responded that Defendant was aware of the hazards of asbestos in the early
1970s in part due to workers compensation claims filed in 1979, protected its
own employees from asbestos in its facilities, advertised that its non-asbestos
“Red-I-Cut” blades were suitable for cutting asbestos cement pipe without
testing the blades, and did not warn consumers despite knowing that cutting
asbestos pipe would create dust.  (Chon
Decl., Ex. B at pp. 66-67.)  The response
does not identify any false statement Defendant made to Donna Frizzell, as
alleged in the complaint.  Carroll
Frizzell stipulated he would have no knowledge as to misrepresentation, fraud,
intentional tort and so forth.  (Chon
Decl., Ex. C at pp. 255-256.)  Defendant
showed that Plaintiffs do not have evidence, and cannot reasonably obtain
evidence, that Defendant made a false statement to Donna Frizzel.  Therefore, Defendant shifted the burden. In opposition, Plaintiffs
argue they are making a claim for false representation under section 402B.  (Opposition at p. 14.)  The complaint does not mention Restatement of
Torts Section 402-B.  However, the court
will assume that the complaint adequately alleged a claim under section 402-B.Section 402-B establishes
“liability for injuries caused by justifiable reliance on false advertising.”  (Westlye v. Look Sports, Inc. (1993) 17
Cal.App.4th 1715, 1750.)  Under this
section “‘[o]ne engaged in the business of selling chattels who, by
advertising, labels, or otherwise, makes to the public a misrepresentation of a
material fact concerning the character or quality of a chattel sold by him is
subject to liability for physical harm to a consumer of the chattel caused by
justifiable reliance upon the misrepresentation, even though [¶] (a) it is not
made fraudulently or negligently, and [¶] (b) the consumer has not bought the
chattel from or entered into any contractual relation with the seller.’  [Citation.]”  (Id. at pp. 1750-1751.)  “The rule ‘is one of strict liability for
physical harm to the consumer, resulting from a misrepresentation of the
character or quality of the chattel sold, even though the misrepresentation is
an innocent one, and not made fraudulently or negligently.’  [Citation.]”  (Hauter v. Zogarts (1975) 14 Cal.3d
104, 114.) Section 402-B requires
that the defendant “makes to the public a misrepresentation of a material
fact.”  (Westlye, supra, 17
Cal.App.4th at p. 1750.)  Nothing in
complaint, Plaintiffs’ discovery responses, or Plaintiffs’ opposition provides
evidence of a misrepresentation of a material fact by Defendant to the public.  Nor did Plaintiffs provide evidence that a
consumer who purchased Defendant’s product justifiably relied on a
misrepresentation.  (Ibid.)  Thus, Plaintiffs failed to show any disputed
issue concerning the fraudulent misrepresentation claim, whether or not it is construed
as a section 402-B claim.  The motion is
granted as to this claim.C.               
Summary Adjudication –
Fraudulent ConcealmentThe third cause of action
also alleges, with no specificity as to Defendant, that all of the defendants
“failed to disclose certain facts, known only to them and that Donna Frizzell
could not have discovered, regarding the existence of hazardous asbestos that
became airborne.”  (Complaint at p. 12.)  These allegations are vague and deficient.“ ‘[T]he elements of a
cause of action for fraud based on concealment are “ ‘(1) the defendant must
have concealed or suppressed a material fact, (2) the defendant must have been
under a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff, (3) the defendant must have
intentionally concealed or suppressed the fact with the intent to defraud the
plaintiff, (4) the plaintiff must have been unaware of the fact and would not
have acted as he did if he had known of the concealed or suppressed fact, and
(5) as a result of the concealment or suppression of the fact, the plaintiff
must have sustained damage.’ ” 
[Citation.]’ ”  (Bigler-Engler
v. Breg, Inc. (2017) 7 Cal.App.5th 276, 310-311.)  When a fiduciary duty does not exist, a duty
to disclose arises only “when the defendant had exclusive knowledge of material
facts not known to the plaintiff,” or “when the defendant actively conceals a
material fact from the plaintiff,” or “when the defendant makes partial
representations but also suppresses some material facts.”  (Id. at p. 311.)  This type of relationship “ ‘can only come
into being as a result of some sort of transaction between the parties’ ” and “must
necessarily arise from direct dealings between the plaintiff and the defendant;
it cannot arise between the defendant and the public at large.”  (Ibid.)  Evidence that the defendant was involved in
retail sales of the disputed product to consumers and profited from them can
satisfy the Bigler-Engler requirement. 
(Bader v. Johnson & Johnson (2022) 86 Cal.App.5th 1094,
1132.)  Defendant served
interrogatories asking for all facts, including identification of specific
documents and witnesses, supporting Plaintiffs’ fraud cause of action.  (Chon Decl., Ex. A at p. 3.)  Plaintiffs’ response did not provide evidence
that Plaintiffs and Defendants were in a fiduciary relationship or that there were
direct dealings or some sort of transaction between them.  (Chon Decl., Ex. B pp. 65-69.)  The deficient discovery responses shifted the
burden.  In their opposition,
Plaintiffs did not submit of the required relationship between the parties.  Therefore, Plaintiffs did not show a disputed
issue on this cause of action.  Accordingly, the motion
is granted as to this claim. D.               
Summary Adjudication –
Conspiracy            The
fourth cause of action alleges that all thirty-three defendants and 200 Doe
defendants engaged in a conspiracy to conceal information from Donna Frizzell
and to make false statements to her.  (Chon Decl., Ex A at p. 13.)  The complaint gives no information about how
this conspiracy occurred. “Conspiracy is not a cause of
action, but a legal doctrine that imposes liability on persons who, although
not actually committing a tort themselves, share with the immediate tortfeasors
a common plan or design in its perpetration.” 
(Applied Equipment Corp. v. Litton Saudi Arabia Ltd. (1994) 7
Cal.4th 503, 510-511.)  “Standing alone,
a conspiracy does no harm and engenders no tort liability.  It must be activated by the commission of an
actual tort.”  (Id. at p.
511.)  Plaintiffs do not oppose
summary adjudication as to this cause of action.  (Opposition at p.1, fn. 1.)  Because the fraud causes of action fails, the
motion for summary adjudication is granted as to the conspiracy to commit fraud
cause of action. E.                
Summary Adjudication –
Punitive DamagesDefendant argues that
Plaintiffs do not have any clear or convincing evidence of malice, oppression,
or fraud by an officer, director, or managing agent of Defendant.  (Motion at p. 5.)When the motion targets a
request for punitive damages, a higher standard of proof is at play. “Although
the clear and convincing evidentiary standard is a stringent one, ‘it does not
impose on a plaintiff the obligation to “prove” a case for punitive damages at
summary judgment [or summary adjudication.’ 
[Citations.]  Even so, ‘where the
plaintiff’s ultimate burden of proof will be by clear and convincing evidence,
the higher standard of proof must be taken into account in ruling on a motion
for summary judgment or summary adjudication, since if a plaintiff is to
prevail on a claim for punitive damages, it will be necessary that the evidence
presented meet the higher evidentiary standard.’  [Citation.]” 
(Butte Fire Cases (2018) 24 Cal.App.5th 1150, 1158-1159.)  “Summary judgment or summary adjudication ‘ “
‘on the issue of punitive damages is proper’ only ‘when no reasonable jury
could find the plaintiff’s evidence to be clear and convincing proof of malice,
fraud or oppression.’ ” ’. 
[Citation.]”  (Id. at p.
1159.) For a corporate
defendant, the oppression, fraud or malice “must be on the part of an officer,
director, or managing agent of the corporation.”  (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (b).)  That requirement can be satisfied “ ‘if the
evidence permits a clear and convincing inference that within the corporate
hierarchy authorized persons acted despicably in “willful and conscious
disregard of the rights or safety of others.” ’ 
[Citation.]”  (Morgan v. J-M
Manufacturing Company, Inc. (2021) 60 Cal.App.5th 1078, 1090.)  A plaintiff also “can satisfy the ‘managing
agent’ requirement ‘through evidence showing the information in the possession
of the corporation and the structure of management decision making that permits
an inference that the information in fact moved upward to a point where
corporate policy was formulated.’ 
[Citation.]”  (Id. at p.
1091.) “ ‘[I]ntentionally
marketing a defective product knowing that it might cause injury and death is
‘highly reprehensible.’ 
[Citation.]”  (Bankhead v.
ArvinMeritor, Inc. (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 68, 85.)  Punitive damages may be available when a
defendant knows the dangers of asbestos, took action to protect its own
employees from the hazard, knew that its products were likely to pose a danger
to users, and did not warn them.  (Pfeifer
v. John Crane, Inc. (2013) 220 Cal.Ap.4th 1270, 1300.)  Such evidence “was sufficient to show malice,
that is, despicable conduct coupled with conscious disregard for the safety of
others.”  (Id. at pp. 1300-1301.) Defendant served a
special interrogatory asking for all facts, including the identification of
specific documents and witnesses, supporting the claim for punitive damages.  (Chon Decl., Ex A at p. 4.)  Plaintiffs responded that Defendant sold
blades designed to cut asbestos cement pipes, Defendant did not place a warning
on the blades for asbestos hazards, and Defendant knew asbestos was dangerous
because it had workers compensation claims for asbestos exposure filed against
it.  (Chon Decl., Ex. B pp. 74-78.)Defendant argues that its
blades contained a label referring the user to ANSI Safety Standard B7.1, and
if the user looked up that standard, the user would see a warning about using
the product so that airborne contaminants did not exceed established threshold
limit values.  (Motion at pp. 6-7.)  ANSI Safety Standard B7.1 also referred to
ANSI Z43.1, which Defendant contends gave warnings about using an exhaust
system.  (Id. at pp. 6-7.)  Defendant argues that the reference on the
blades to ANSI B7.1 was sufficient to warn users about the dangers of asbestos
dust resulting from cutting asbestos cement pipe.  (Motion at p. 11.)  In opposition, Plaintiffs
cite the deposition of Timonthy Wagner who testified Defendant knew customers
would be using its products to cut asbestos cement, knew that dust would
result, had its own exhaust system in the testing lab to take the air away as
dust was created; and made decisions at the executive level about the warnings
to include and not include on its products.  (Bendon Decl., Ex. E at pp. 130-131; Ex. F at
pp. 148-149, 202.)  Defendant did not
include warnings about asbestos dust resulting from cutting asbestos cement
pipes.  (Bendon Decl., Ex. E at p. 139.)Plaintiffs’ evidence is
sufficient to show disputed facts about Defendant’s knowledge that customers
would be using its products in a way that would create hazardous
asbestos-containing dust and did not warn the customers.  That Defendant used an exhaust system in its
lab when it tested blades on asbestos cement pipes raises issues about whether Defendant
acted in conscious disregard for the safety of end-users by not placing a label
on the blades expressly directing the use of exhaust systems and warning about
asbestos dust, even though it took such precautions in the lab for its own
workers.  The evidence also shows
disputed issues about whether the reference to ANSI B7.1 on the product was
enough to give users warning about asbestos dust.  Accordingly, motion for summary adjudication
for punitive damages is denied. The motion is GRANTED as
to the third and fourth causes of action and DENIED as to the request for
punitive damages.The moving party is to
give notice. 































































