 Case Number:  23PSCV03884    Hearing Date:   December 9, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE  NAME:  Michael  Martin, et al. v. Morris Chestnut, et al. 1.      Plaintiffs  Michael Martin and Martin Automotive Group, Inc.’s Motion to Compel Defendant Morris  Chestnut’s Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One; 2.      Plaintiffs  Michael Martin and Martin Automotive Group, Inc.’s Motion to Compel Defendant Morris  Chestnut’s Responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One; 3.      Plaintiffs  Michael Martin and Martin Automotive Group, Inc.’s Motion to Compel Defendant Morris  Chestnut’s Responses to Requests for Production, Set One; and 4.      Plaintiffs  Michael Martin and Martin Automotive Group, Inc.’s Motion to Compel Defendant Morris  Chestnut’s Responses to Requests for Admission, Set One  TENTATIVE  RULING  The Court GRANTS Plaintiffs Michael Martin and Martin Automotive  Group, Inc.’s discovery motions. Defendant Morris Chestnut must serve verified  responses, including responsive documents where applicable, without objections,  to Plaintiffs’ Special Interrogatories, Set One, Form Interrogatories, Set One,  and Requests for Production, Set One, within 30 days of the Court’s order. The  truth of the matters specified in Plaintiffs’ Requests for Admission, Set One,  are hereby deemed admitted and conclusively established as to Defendant Morris  Chestnut.  The Court GRANTS Plaintiffs’ requests for monetary sanctions in  the reduced amount of $860.00 per motion, for a grand total of $3,440.00.  Defendant Morris Chestnut must pay said monetary sanctions to counsel for  Plaintiffs within 30 days of the Court’s order.              Plaintiff is ordered to give notice  of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.  BACKGROUND  This is a breach of contract action. On December 14, 2023, plaintiffs  Michael Martin and Martin Automotive Group, Inc. (collectively, Plaintiffs)  filed this action against defendants Morris Chestnut (Chestnut), MC Auto Group.  Inc. (MC Auto), Chestnut Automotive of Glendora, LLC[1] (collectively, Defendants) and Does 1 through 100, alleging one cause of action  for breach of contract.  On October 23, 2024, Plaintiffs moved to compel responses from  Defendant Chestnut to written discovery requests and to deem requests for  admissions admitted. On November 21, 2024, Defendant Chestnut opposed the  motions. On November 22, 2024, Plaintiffs replied.LEGAL  STANDARD  When a party fails to serve a timely response  to interrogatories, the party propounding the interrogatories may move for an  order compelling a response. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (b).) A party  who fails to provide a timely response waives any objection, including one  based on privilege or work product. (Id., § 2030.290, subd. (a).) “The  court shall impose a monetary sanction… against any party, person, or attorney  who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to  interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted  with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition  of the sanction unjust.” (Id., § 2030.290, subd. (c).)  When a party fails to serve a timely response  to an inspection demand, the party making the demand may move for an order  compelling a response to the inspection demand. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300,  subd. (b).) A party who fails to provide a timely response waives any  objection, including one based on privilege or work product. (Code Civ. Proc.,  § 2031.300, subd. (a).) “[T]he court shall impose a monetary sanction… against  any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to  compel a response to a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling,  unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial  justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction  unjust.” (Id., § 2031.300, subd. (c).)  When a party fails to serve a timely response  to a request for admission, the party propounding the request for admission may  move for an order to deem the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any  matters specified in the requests admitted. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280,  subd. (b).) A party who fails to provide a timely response waives any  objection, including one based on privilege or work product. (Id., §  2033.280, subd. (a).) “The court shall make this order, unless it finds that  the party to whom the requests for admission have been directed has served,  before the hearing on the motion, a proposed response to the requests for  admission that is in substantial compliance with Section 2033.220. It is  mandatory that the court impose a monetary sanction… on the party or attorney,  or both, whose failure to serve a timely response to requests for admission  necessitated this motion.” (Id., § 2033.280, subd. (c).)  PRELIMINARY  ISSUES              Defendant  Chestnut’s opposition was filed on November 21, 2024, the day before the reply  deadline, and is therefore very late. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1005, subd. (b).) The Court will still consider the opposition, but  admonishes Chestnut to comply with the requirements of the Code of Civil  Procedure going forward. (See Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1300, subd. (d); Juarez  v. Wash Depot Holdings, Inc. (2018) 24 Cal.App.5th 1197, 1202.)  DISCUSSION  Meet and Confer  Although  meeting and conferring is not required before bringing motions to compel, the  Court appreciates Plaintiffs’ efforts to meet and confer before bringing these  motions. (Zorayan Decls., ¶¶ 5-6; Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v.  Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 404.) However,  the Court does request that parties meet and confer in person, by telephone, or  by video conference before bringing a motion. (Dept. 6 Courtroom Information  [“Parties are required to meet and confer in person, by telephone, or by video  conference before filing any motion”].)              Analysis  Plaintiffs  seek to compel responses from Defendant Chestnut to their written discovery  requests and to deem admitted requests for admission served on April 29, 2024. (Zorayan  Decls., ¶ 2.) Despite having granted a couple extensions, Defendant Chestnut failed  to respond to Plaintiffs’ discovery requests. (Zorayan Decls., ¶¶ 3-6.) Although  Defendant Chestnut argues that the parties were engaged in settlement  discussions and he may have been out of the country, there is no evidence of  any agreement to stay discovery or grant further extensions. The Court finds  Plaintiffs’ motions well taken and GRANTS them. Defendant Chestnut must serve  verified responses, including responsive documents where applicable, without  objections, to Plaintiffs’ Special Interrogatories, Set One, Form  Interrogatories, Set One, and Requests for Production, Set One, within 30 days  of the Court’s order. The truth of the matters specified in Plaintiffs’  Requests for Admission, Set One, are hereby deemed admitted and conclusively  established as to Defendant Morris Chestnut.  The Court also GRANTS Plaintiffs’ requests for monetary sanctions in  the reduced amount of $860.00 per motion, comprised of 2.0 hours preparing each  motion and attending the corresponding hearing, multiplied by the hourly rate  of $400.00, plus $60.00 for the filing fee, for a grand total of $3,440.00.  Defendant Chestnut must pay said monetary sanctions to counsel for Plaintiffs  within 30 days of the Court’s order.  CONCLUSION  The Court GRANTS Plaintiffs Michael Martin and Martin Automotive  Group, Inc.’s discovery motions. Defendant Morris Chestnut must serve verified  responses, including responsive documents where applicable, without objections,  to Plaintiffs’ Special Interrogatories, Set One, Form Interrogatories, Set One,  and Requests for Production, Set One, within 30 days of the Court’s order. The  truth of the matters specified in Plaintiffs’ Requests for Admission, Set One,  are hereby deemed admitted and conclusively established as to Defendant Morris  Chestnut.  The Court GRANTS Plaintiffs’ requests for monetary sanctions in  the reduced amount of $860.00 per motion, for a grand total of $3,440.00.  Defendant Morris Chestnut must pay said monetary sanctions to counsel for  Plaintiffs within 30 days of the Court’s order.              Plaintiff is ordered to give notice  of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.1.      Plaintiffs  Michael Martin and Martin Automotive Group, Inc.’s Motion to Compel Defendant  MC Auto Group, Inc.’s Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One;2.      Plaintiffs  Michael Martin and Martin Automotive Group, Inc.’s Motion to Compel Defendant  MC Auto Group, Inc.’s Responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One;3.      Plaintiffs  Michael Martin and Martin Automotive Group, Inc.’s Motion to Compel Defendant  MC Auto Group, Inc.’s Responses to Requests for Production, Set One; and4.      Plaintiffs  Michael Martin and Martin Automotive Group, Inc.’s Motion to Compel Defendant  MC Auto Group, Inc.’s Responses to Requests for Admission, Set One TENTATIVE  RULING The Court GRANTS Plaintiffs Michael Martin and Martin Automotive  Group, Inc.’s discovery motions. Defendant MC Auto Group, Inc. must serve  verified responses, including responsive documents where applicable, without  objections, to Plaintiffs’ Special Interrogatories, Set One, Form  Interrogatories, Set One, and Requests for Production, Set One, within 30 days  of the Court’s order. The truth of the matters specified in Plaintiffs’  Requests for Admission, Set One, are hereby deemed admitted and conclusively  established as to Defendant MC Auto Group, Inc. The Court GRANTS Plaintiffs’ requests for monetary sanctions in  the reduced amount of $860.00 per motion, for a grand total of $3,440.00.  Defendant MC Auto Group, Inc. must pay said monetary sanctions to counsel for  Plaintiffs within 30 days of the Court’s order.               Plaintiff is ordered to give notice  of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order. BACKGROUND This is a breach of contract action. On December 14, 2023, plaintiffs  Michael Martin and Martin Automotive Group, Inc. (collectively, Plaintiffs)  filed this action against defendants Morris Chestnut (Chestnut), MC Auto Group.  Inc. (MC Auto), Chestnut Automotive of Glendora, LLC[1] (collectively, Defendants) and Does 1 through 100, alleging one cause of action  for breach of contract. On October 23, 2024, Plaintiffs moved to compel responses from  Defendant MC Auto to written discovery requests and to deem requests for  admissions admitted.[2] On November 21, 2024, Defendant MC Auto opposed the motions. On November 22,  2024, Plaintiffs replied. LEGAL  STANDARD When a party fails to serve a timely response  to interrogatories, the party propounding the interrogatories may move for an  order compelling a response. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (b).) A party  who fails to provide a timely response waives any objection, including one  based on privilege or work product. (Id., § 2030.290, subd. (a).) “The  court shall impose a monetary sanction… against any party, person, or attorney  who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to  interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted  with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition  of the sanction unjust.” (Id., § 2030.290, subd. (c).) When a party fails to serve a timely response  to an inspection demand, the party making the demand may move for an order  compelling a response to the inspection demand. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300,  subd. (b).) A party who fails to provide a timely response waives any  objection, including one based on privilege or work product. (Code Civ. Proc.,  § 2031.300, subd. (a).) “[T]he court shall impose a monetary sanction… against  any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to  compel a response to a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling,  unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial  justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction  unjust.” (Id., § 2031.300, subd. (c).) When a party fails to serve a timely response  to a request for admission, the party propounding the request for admission may  move for an order to deem the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any  matters specified in the requests admitted. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280,  subd. (b).) A party who fails to provide a timely response waives any  objection, including one based on privilege or work product. (Id., §  2033.280, subd. (a).) “The court shall make this order, unless it finds that  the party to whom the requests for admission have been directed has served,  before the hearing on the motion, a proposed response to the requests for  admission that is in substantial compliance with Section 2033.220. It is  mandatory that the court impose a monetary sanction… on the party or attorney,  or both, whose failure to serve a timely response to requests for admission  necessitated this motion.” (Id., § 2033.280, subd. (c).) PRELIMINARY  ISSUES             Defendant  MC Auto’s opposition was filed on November 21, 2024, the day before the reply  deadline, and is therefore very late. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1005, subd. (b).) The Court will still consider the opposition, but  admonishes MC Auto to comply with the requirements of the Code of Civil  Procedure going forward. (See Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1300, subd. (d); Juarez  v. Wash Depot Holdings, Inc. (2018) 24 Cal.App.5th 1197, 1202.) DISCUSSION Meet and Confer Although  meeting and conferring is not required before bringing motions to compel, the  Court appreciates Plaintiffs’ efforts to meet and confer before bringing these  motions. (Zorayan Decls., ¶¶ 5-6; Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v.  Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 404.) However,  the Court does request that parties meet and confer in person, by telephone, or  by video conference before bringing a motion. (Dept. 6 Courtroom Information [“Parties  are required to meet and confer in person, by telephone, or by video conference  before filing any motion”].)             Analysis Plaintiffs  seek to compel responses from Defendant MC Auto to their written discovery  requests and to deem admitted requests for admission served on April 29, 2024. (Zorayan  Decls., ¶ 2.) Despite having granted a couple extensions, Defendant failed to  respond to Plaintiffs’ discovery requests. (Zorayan Decls., ¶¶ 3-6.) Although  Defendant MC Auto argues that the parties were engaged in settlement  discussions and Defendant’s principal may have been out of the country, there  is no evidence of any agreement to stay discovery or grant further extensions. The  Court finds Plaintiffs’ motions well taken and GRANTS them. Defendant must serve  verified responses, including responsive documents where applicable, without  objections, to Plaintiffs’ Special Interrogatories, Set One, Form  Interrogatories, Set One, and Requests for Production, Set One, within 30 days  of the Court’s order. The truth of the matters specified in Plaintiffs’  Requests for Admission, Set One, are hereby deemed admitted and conclusively  established as to Defendant MC Auto Group, Inc. The Court also GRANTS Plaintiffs’ requests for monetary sanctions in  the reduced amount of $860.00 per motion, comprised of 2.0 hours preparing each  motion and attending the corresponding hearing, multiplied by the hourly rate  of $400.00, plus $60.00 for the filing fee, for a grand total of $3,440.00.  Defendant must pay said monetary sanctions to counsel for Plaintiffs within 30  days of the Court’s order. CONCLUSION The Court GRANTS Plaintiffs Michael Martin and Martin Automotive  Group, Inc.’s discovery motions. Defendant MC Auto Group, Inc. must serve  verified responses, including responsive documents where applicable, without  objections, to Plaintiffs’ Special Interrogatories, Set One, Form  Interrogatories, Set One, and Requests for Production, Set One, within 30 days  of the Court’s order. The truth of the matters specified in Plaintiffs’  Requests for Admission, Set One, are hereby deemed admitted and conclusively established  as to Defendant MC Auto Group, Inc. The Court GRANTS Plaintiffs’ requests for monetary sanctions in  the reduced amount of $860.00 per motion, for a grand total of $3,440.00.  Defendant MC Auto Group, Inc. must pay said monetary sanctions to counsel for  Plaintiffs within 30 days of the Court’s order.             Plaintiff is ordered to give notice  of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.     