 On June 27, 2022, Plaintiffs Xuecheng Qian, Zhou Li, and Suhua Deng filed the operative Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) for (1) breach of oral partnership agreement, (2) breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, (3) breach of fiduciary duty, (4) conversion, (5) fraud, (6) accounting, (7) declaratory relief, (8)-(12) violations of the Labor Code, and (13) violations of the UCL.  The primary allegations of the SAC are as follows.  Plaintiffs entered into an oral partnership agreement with the Defendants to create a grocery delivery company.  Plaintiffs agreed to contribute labor and money to obtain shares of the partnership.  Despite providing labor and money, Plaintiffs never received anything.  Form Interrogatories (Resy -0026) Defendant Antonio Wu Zheng now seeks to compel further responses to her form interrogatories (“FI”) nos. 8.2(b)-(c), 8.3, 14.1, 17.1 (as to RFA nos. 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, and 9), 50.1, and 50.2 from Plaintiff Xuecheng Qian.The Motion is granted as to FI no. 8.2 because Plaintiff did not provide his employee title and did not provide the specific day his employment began.  If Plaintiff does not have more precise information as to dates (see also infra) that should be specified.  The Motion is granted as to FI no. 8.3 because Plaintiff should indicate the last day he worked, not merely the last month.The Motion is granted as to FI no. 14.1 because it cannot be that Plaintiff has no information as to whether “YOU OR ANYONE ACTING ON YOUR BEHALF contend that any PERSON involved in the INCIDENT violated any statute, ordinance, or regulation and that the violation was a legal (proximate) cause of the INCIDENT? If so, identify the name, ADDRESS, and telephone number of each PERSON and the statute, ordinance, or regulation that was violated.”With respect to FI no. 17.1:the response for RFA no. 2 does not make any sense because it states that there was an oral partnership agreement, which would seem to support that there should be an admission (not denial) that there was never a written partnership agreement; The answer for RFA no. 3 is nonresponsive; the response for RFA nos. 4-5 is sufficient; The response for RFA no. 6 is deficient in that there are no facts provided as to Plaintiff’s money investment other than that it was supposed to be $20,000; andthe answer for RFA no. 9 is nonresponsive. The Motion is granted as to FI no. 50.1 to the extent the answer for subpart (b) did not state “each part of the agreement not in writing.” The Motion is granted as to FI no. 50.2 because sufficient information is not provided as to the dates of breach.  That is, again, Plaintiff should indicate the specific days of employment (and not merely the month unless it is specified that no such information is available).   In sum, the Motion is granted in part as set forth above.  Further responses are to be provided within 30 days.  The Court declines to award sanctions.Form Interrogatories (Resy -7909) Defendant Antonio Wu Zheng seeks to compel further responses to her form interrogatories (“FI”) nos. 8.2(b)-(c), 8.3, 14.1, 17.1 (as to RFA nos. 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, and 9), 50.1, and 50.2 from Plaintiff Zhou Li. The ruling above as to Xuecheng Qian is equally applicable to Li.  The Motion is granted in part as set forth above.  Further responses are to be provided within 30 days.  The Court declines to award sanctions.Form Interrogatories (Resy -3730)  Plaintiffs Xuecheng Qian, Zhou Li, and Suhua Deng seek to compel further responses from Antonio Wu Zheng, Michelle Keung Aka Wing Ying Keung, Yi Min, Haocheng Xue, Chi An Chan, and Bao Xing Long, Inc. as to their form interrogatory no. 12.1. FI no. 12.1 provides: “State the name, ADDRESS, and telephone number of each individual: (a) who witnessed the INCIDENT or the events occurring had immediately before the INCIDENT. (b) who made any statement at the scene of the INCIDENT; (c) who heard any statements made about the INCIDENT by any individual at the scene; and (d) who YOU OR ANYONE ACTING ON YOUR BEHALF claim has knowledge of the INCIDENT (except for expert witnesses covered by Code of Civil Procedure section 2034).” Defendants responded as follows: “this is a commercial dispute and the referenced ‘INCIDENT’ is uncertain, confusing and lacks meaningful definition in the context of this pending action. However, without waiving said objections, Responding Party responds as follows: (a) Not applicable. (b) Not applicable. (c) Not applicable. (d) Antonio Wu Zheng, Yi Min, Michelle Keung aka Wing Yin Keung, Chi On Chan and Haocheng Xu, whom may be contacted through their counsel of record. Xuecheng Qian, Zhou Li and Suhua Deng, whom may be contacted through their counsel of record.” The Court finds the response sufficient because the term “incident” has little meaning in the context of this dispute.  If Plaintiffs want further information as to witnesses, they can propound other appropriate discovery.   The Motion is denied.  The Court declines to award sanctions.Requests for Admission (Resy -8832) Plaintiffs seek to compel further responses to their requests for admission nos. 26-30 from Defendants.  Request no. 26 states, “Admit PLAINTIFF was responsible for social media operations for the company from April 2020 to July 2020.”  The Motion is granted as to this request because “social media operations” is not so vague as to preclude a response.  The Court notes that Defendants can admit to a certain extent and otherwise deny. Request no. 27 states, “Admit YOU knew PLAINTIFF is not fluent in the English language.”  The response that Defendants lack knowledge makes no sense; either Defendants had such knowledge or they did not.    Request no. 28 states, “Admit YOU did not provide PLAINTIFF with any copies of the Agreement documents.”  A further response will be required because it is clear from the context of this dispute and Defendants’ own discovery  that “agreement documents” refers to any written document referencing the parties’ working relationship.   A further response will be required to request no. 29 for the same reasons.   A further response will not be required for request no. 30 because this request is compound in nature.   A further response will not be required for request nos. 31 because the identity of the “rest of partners” is unclear.   The Motion is granted in part as set forth herein.  Further responses are to be provided within 30 days.  The Court declines to award sanctions.Requests for Admission (Resy -4281)Defendant Zheng seeks to compel further responses from Plaintiff Qian to her requests for admission, nos. 1, 2, and 7.Request no. 1 states, “Admit that YOU [ ] never entered into any oral partnership agreement with Defendant ANTONIO WU ZHENG.”A further response is not required because Plaintiff ultimately denied the request. Request no. 2 states, “Admit that YOU never entered into any written partnership agreement with Defendant ANTONIO WU ZHENG.”A further response is not required because Plaintiff ultimately denied the request. Request no. 7 states, “Admit that YOU never invested labor into THE COMPANY.”A further response is not required because Plaintiff ultimately denied the request. The Motion is denied.  The Court declines to award sanctions.Requests for Admission (Resy -4164)Defendant Zheng seeks to compel further responses from Plaintiff Li to her requests for admission, nos. 1, 2, and 7.The Motion is denied because Li properly denied all of the requests at issue.  The Court declines to award sanctions. Requests for Production (Resy -8580)Plaintiffs seek to compel further responses from Defendants as to their requests for production, set one, nos. 18-19, 27-34, 35-42, 43-50, 51-58, 59-66, 67-74.  Plaintiffs also claim that Defendants did not produce documents as promised for request nos. 1, 5, 13, 22, 23, and 26. The Motion is denied as to request no. 18, which is overbroad in seeking “any and all” documents showing ownership.  The Motion is denied as to request no. 19, which is overboard in that it has no temporal scope.  Also “any and all” documents are again somewhat overbroad; Plaintiffs should seek specific categories of documents that would show profits.  It is also overbroad to refer to so many different entities without justification (see infra.)  The Motion is denied as to the remaining requests as overbroad.  Plaintiffs have not justified seeking such vast financial discovery from eight corporations.  Plaintiffs should propound narrower discovery and expand after obtaining initial responses.   Further the production issue as to request nos. 1, 5, 13, 22, 23, and 26 should have been raised in a motion to compel compliance.In sum, the Motion is denied.  The Court declines to award sanctions.Requests for Production (Resy -4586) Defendant Zheng seeks to compel further responses from Plaintiff Li as to requests for production, set one, nos. 21-22. No opposition was filed; however, amended responses without verifications have apparently been served. Because there is no opposition and an unverified response is tantamount to no response at all, the Motion to Compel is granted.  Further responses are to be provided within 10 days.  The Court awards reduced sanctions in the amount of $1,000.Defendants to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 