..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is the summary in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 20STCV47887
Plaintiff's Name: Maria G. Mejia, individually and as successor-in-interest to Decedent Felipe Mejia Iniguez; Rodrigo Mejia; Rodolfo Mejia; and Rosalva Mejia
Defendant's Name: Van Aken International, Inc., A.G. Layne, Inc.
People-Names: Felipe Mejia Iniguez, Maria G. Mejia, Jong Hyun Lee, Young Ko, Randolph M. Hammock
Company-Names: Van Aken International, Inc., A.G. Layne, Inc.
Places: Los Angeles, South Carolina, Georgia
Dates: November 15, 2023, July 1, 2019, May 6, 2019
Events: Demurrer to First Amended Complaint, Meeting and Confer, Lawsuit, Incorporation
Money: None mentioned
Intentions: To determine the viability of the demurrer to the First Amended Complaint
Facts: Felipe Mejia Iniguez was exposed to harmful chemical products while working in mannequin manufacturing, which allegedly caused renal cell carcinoma; he passed away, and his wife and children continue the lawsuit; Van Aken International, Inc. demurrers to the First Amended Complaint
Disputes: Whether the First Amended Complaint states a cause of action; whether Van Aken International, Inc. is liable for acts occurring before its date of incorporation
Acts: Demurrer, Meeting and Confer, Incorporation
Agreements: None mentioned
Laws: California Code of Civil Procedure, Hahn v. Mirda, Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and Power, SKF Farms v. Superior Court, Hernandez v. Enter. Rent-A-Car Co. of San Francisco
Case Citations: None mentioned
Statutes: CCP § 430.30(a)
Roles:
  - Judge: Randolph M. Hammock
  - Plaintiffs: Maria G. Mejia, Rodrigo Mejia, Rodolfo Mejia, Rosalva Mejia
  - Defendant: Van Aken International, Inc.
Significant Statements:
  - "Defendant’s Demurrer to the First Amended Complaint is OVERRULED."
  - "Defendant is ordered to file an Answer to the FAC within 21 days of this ruling."
```

And here is a summary of the judge's tentative ruling in English text:

The judge has tentatively ruled that the demurrer filed by Van Aken International, Inc. to the First Amended Complaint is overruled. The demurrer was filed in response to each cause of action in the complaint, with the defendant arguing that it is not liable for acts occurring before its date of incorporation. However, the judge found that the defendant failed to provide any authority to support its argument and that the issue of liability is a question of fact that cannot be resolved on a demurrer. As a result, the defendant is ordered to file an answer to the complaint within 21 days.
