 Case Number:  20STCV47887    Hearing Date:   November 15, 2023    Dept:  49 Felipe Mejia Iniguez, et al. v. A.G. Layne, Inc., et al.DEMURRER TO FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT MOVING PARTY:   Defendant Van Aken International, Inc.RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiffs Maria G. Mejia, individually and as successor-in-interest to Decedent Felipe Mejia Iniguez; Rodrigo Mejia; Rodolfo Mejia; and Rosalva MejiaSTATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:Plaintiffs Felipe Mejia Iniguez and Maria G. Mejia filed the instant action against various manufacturers of alleged toxic chemical products.  Felipe worked in mannequin manufacturing where he alleged he was exposed to harmful chemical products that caused renal cell carcinoma.  Felipe passed away from the cancer after filing this suit; his wife, as his surviving spouse and successor-in-interest, continues the suit on his behalf.  The First Amended Complaint also adds Felipe’s adult children as Plaintiffs, and asserts causes of action against the chemical manufacturers for (1) negligence, (2) strict liability – warning defect, (3) strict liability – design defect, (4) fraudulent concealment, (5) breach of implied warranties, and (6) loss of consortium.Defendant Van Aken International, Inc., now demurrers to the First Amended Complaint. Plaintiffs opposed. Defendant did not file a reply.TENTATIVE RULING:Defendant’s Demurrer to the First Amended Complaint is OVERRULED.Defendant is ordered to file an Answer to the FAC within 21 days of this ruling.Moving party to give notice.DISCUSSION:Demurrer to First Amended ComplaintA.  Meet and Confer The Declaration of attorney Jong Hyun Lee reflects that the parties met and conferred.B. Legal StandardA demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action.  (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App. 4th 740, 747.)  When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context.  (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th 1216, 1228.)  In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or by proper judicial notice.  (CCP § 430.30(a).)  A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters.  (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153 Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.)  Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed.  (Id.)  The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.  (Hahn, 147 Cal.App.4th at 747.)  C. AnalysisDefendant Van Aken International Inc., demurrers to each cause of action in the First Amended Complaint. Defendant contends each cause of action fails to state facts sufficient because Defendant was not incorporated until July 1, 2019—which is after the claimed injury occurred. Young Ko, the CEO of Defendant Van Aken, represents that he purchased the assets of Van Aken international on May 6, 2019.  (Ko Decl. ¶ 2.) At that time, Van Aken was a South Carolina Corporation. (Id.) On or about July 1, 2019, Ko incorporated Van Aken in Georgia. (Id., Exh. B.)First, Defendant’s motion provides no authority holding a company cannot be liable for acts occurring before its date of incorporation—it cites no authority at all. Second, as argued by Plaintiffs, it appears that Van Aken had been incorporated in South Carolina before Ko purchased its assets, and that the Van Aken subsequently incorporated in Georgia is merely its successor entity. (Metzger Decl., Exh. A.) Plaintiffs allege a successor-predecessor theory of liability. (FAC 27.) While there are circumstances where a successor corporation will not assume the liabilities of its predecessor, this represents a question of fact that cannot be resolved on a demurrer. (Hernandez v. Enter. Rent-A-Car Co. of San Francisco (2019) 37 Cal. App. 5th 187, 192.)  Accordingly, Defendant’s Demurrer to the First Amended Complaint is OVERRULED.Dated:   November 15, 2023 ___________________________________ Randolph M. Hammock Judge of the Superior Court Any party may submit on the tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept49@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day before the hearing.  All interested parties must be copied on the email.  It should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.