  Case Number:  23TRCV01126    Hearing Date:   March 11, 2024    Dept:  M 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT – SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 




 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                                         Monday, March 11, 2024
Department M                                                                                                                            Calendar No. 8   



 
 
 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Mary
Hisako Morishita v. Gardena Transit, et al.   
23TRCV01126

1.     
Mary Hisako
Morishita’s Motion to Specially Set Action for an Early Trial Date 
 
 
TENTATIVE RULING

Mary Hisako Morishita’s Motion to Specially Set Action
for an Early Trial Date is denied without prejudice.
 
Background 
 
Plaintiff filed the Complaint on April 11, 2023, and
the First Amended Complaint was filed on May 15, 2023. Plaintiff alleges the
following facts. On April 14, 2021, Plaintiff tripped and fell trying to board
a Gardena Transit bus. On April 18, 2021, Plaintiff slipped and fell trying to
exit a Gardena Transit bus. Plaintiff alleges the following causes of action:
1. Liability Pursuant to Cal. Gov. Code §§ 905 and 945; and Various California
Statutes; 2. Liability Pursuant to Cal. Gov. Code §§ 815.2, 820 and 945.
 
Objections
 
Defendant’s objections 1 to 9 are overruled.
 
Motion for Preferential Trial Date
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 36 states, in relevant
part:
 
“(a) A party to a civil action who is over 70 years of
age may petition the court for a preference, which the court shall grant if the
court makes both of the following findings:
(1) The party has a substantial interest in the action
as a whole.
(2) The health of the party is such that a preference
is necessary to prevent prejudicing the party's interest in the litigation.
(f) Upon the granting of such a motion for preference,
the court shall set the matter for trial not more than 120 days from that date
and there shall be no continuance beyond 120 days from the granting of the
motion for preference except for physical disability of a party or a party's
attorney, or upon a showing of good cause stated in the record. Any continuance
shall be for no more than 15 days and no more than one continuance for physical
disability may be granted to any party.”
 
CCP § 36.5 states: “An affidavit submitted in support
of a motion for Preference under subdivision (a) of Section 36 may be signed by
the attorney for the party seeking preference based upon information and belief
as to the medical diagnosis and prognosis of any party. The affidavit is not
admissible for any purpose other than a motion for preference under subdivision
(a) of Section 36.”
 
“[T]he decision to grant or deny a preferential trial
setting rests at all times in the sound discretion of the trial court in light
of the totality of the circumstances.” Salas
v. Sears, Roebuck & Co. (1986) 42 Cal.3d 342, 344. “Where a party meets
the requisite standard for calendar preference under subdivision (a),
preference must be granted. No weighing of interests is involved.” Fox v.
Superior Court (2018) 21 Cal.App.5th 529, 535 (granting the mandatory
motion for trial preference and disregarding Defendant’s arguments that the
Court must balance the interests of the parties, and, further commenting that
arguments regarding due process concerns were baseless). “We conclude that
section 36, subdivision (a), as construed by this court in Rice v. Superior
Court (1982) 136 Cal.App.3d 81 [185 Cal.Rptr. 853], is mandatory and
absolute in its application and does not allow a trial court to exercise the
inherent or statutory general administrative authority it would otherwise
have.” Koch-Ash v. Superior Court (1986) 180 Cal.App.3d 689, 692
(reversing the trial Court’s order to stay an action which was entitled to a
mandatory trial preference and commenting that when an individual qualifies for
a preference under Section 36(a) no discretion is afforded to the Court to deny
a preference). 
 
Plaintiff moves for a trial preference pursuant to CCP
§ 36(a), based on Plaintiff’s age and health condition. Plaintiff submitted
competent evidence that she is over the age of 70 and that he has a substantial
interest in this action. (Decl., Mary Morishita, ¶¶ 1-3.)  Plaintiff submitted adequate evidence that her
health is such that a trial preference is necessary to prevent prejudicing
Plaintiff.  (Id. at ¶¶ 4-8; Decl., Paul
J. Murata, M.D., ¶¶ 2-4.)  “The standard
under [Code of Civil Procedure Section 36] subdivision (a), unlike under
subdivision (d), which is more specific and more rigorous, includes no
requirement of a doctor’s declaration.” Fox v. Superior Court (2018) 21
Cal.App.5th 529, 534.  Unlike other areas
of the law, a declaration setting forth the health of the party in support of a
motion for preference under CCP § 36(a) may be made by a conclusory and hearsay
declaration from counsel.  Here, however,
Plaintiff actually included a declaration from a doctor and did not rely on the
lesser, although acceptable, declaration from counsel.  In addition, the physician adequately set
forth the health conditions suffered by the Plaintiff which supports granting
her a preferential trial date.
 
As noted above, an order granting Plaintiff’s motion
for trial preference is mandatory upon a showing by Plaintiff that she has met
the requirements of Section 36(a). There is no weighing of interests involved. 
 
Defendant’s opposition attempts to attack the
declaration of Paul J. Murata, M.D. The objections to the declaration have been
ruled upon above. The Court finds that the declaration is competent and
sufficient to testify as to Plaintiff’s health.  However, the bulk of Defendant’s opposition consists
of Defendant’s arguments concerning Plaintiff’s alleged attempts to defy her
discovery obligations.  While these
arguments are not legitimate grounds to deny the motion, the Court instructs
all the parties that timely and expeditious responses to discovery are essential,
especially when an expedited trial date is sought.  Failure to comply with discovery obligations that
relate to specific injury claims that are placed in issue will  inevitably lead to contested law and motion
hearings, which, in turn, will unnecessarily cause a delay in proceedings.  The Court will not allow its calendar to be disrupted
and serve at the parties’ beck and call, via anticipated ex parte applications,
to hear “urgent” discovery disputes that counsel can and should resolve on
their own.    
As to Plaintiff’s motion for trial
preference pursuant to CCP S36(a), the motion is denied without prejudice.  The Court notes that Plaintiff failed to
comply with CCP § 36(c)(1) which states that the motion must be supported by a
declaration that all essential parties have been served with process or have
appeared.  As to Plaintiff’s additional
basis for preference pursuant to CCP § 36(e), the motion is also denied without
prejudice.  CCP § 36(e) states: “Notwithstanding
any other provision of law, the court may in its discretion grant a motion for preference
that is supported by a showing that satisfies the court that the interests of
justice will be served by granting this preference.”  Here, for the reasons indicated above, the
Court is unwilling to exercise its discretion under §36(e) at this time.    
 
Therefore, Plaintiff’s Motion for Preferential Trial
Setting is denied without prejudice. 
 
Defendant is ordered to give notice of this ruling.
 
 