  Case Number:  21VECV01054    Hearing Date:   April 2, 2024    Dept:  W LAURA RUANO v.
JULIE GOLDBERG, et al.
 
demurrer to the fifth amended
complaint 
 
Date of Hearing:        April
2, 2024                                      Trial
Date:       None
Set
Department:              W                                                        Case
No.:        21VECV01054
 
Moving Party:            Defendants Luis R. Ruano and Luis Roberto Ruano II
Responding Party:     Plaintiffs Laura Ruano and Thomas
Monteleone
Meet and Confer:      Yes. (Goldberg Decl. ¶¶7-8.) 
 
BACKGROUND
 
This case was originally an action by
Plaintiff Laura Ruano (“Laura”) against Defendants Luis Roberto Ruano II
("Luis”) and Julie Goldberg ("Goldberg”).  On August 10, 2021,
Laura filed her original complaint, alleging: (1) breach of fiduciary duties as
to Goldberg; (2) intentional interference with marital relations as to both
Defendants; and (3) intentional infliction of emotional distress (“IIED”) as to
both Defendants. 
 
On April 19, 2022, Goldberg filed her
cross-complaint against Laura, alleging the following causes of action against
various cross-defendants: (1) assault; (2) battery; (3) trespass to chattels;
(4) false light; (5) intentional interference with contractual relations; (6)
IIED; (7) negligence; (8) negligent retention and supervision of employee; (9)
defamation; (10) abuse of process; (11) professional negligence; and (12)
negligent infliction of emotional distress. On August 2, 2022, the court
granted Ms. Ruano’s Special Motion to Strike and struck Cross-Complainants’
claim for false light, intentional interference with contractual relations,
IIED, defamation, abuse of process, and NIED.      
 
On March 5, 2022, Laura filed her first
amended complaint (the “FAC”) against Goldberg and Luis, alleging: (1)
ejectment; (2) conversion; (3) defamation per se; and (4) NIED.  On July
8, 2022, the Court struck Laura’s FAC without prejudice on the ground that
Plaintiff’s counsel had failed to meet and confer with defense counsel prior to
its filing. 
 
On August 27, 2022, Laura filed her
second amended complaint (the “SAC”) against Goldberg and Luis, alleging: (1)
breach of fiduciary duty; (2) IIED; (3) ejectment; (4) conversion; (5)
defamation per se; and (6) NIED. On December 13, 2022, the Court struck
the SAC on the ground that Plaintiff’s counsel had failed to meet and confer
with defense counsel prior to its filing. 
 
On March 2, 2023, Laura filed her
motion for leave to file a third amended complaint (the “TAC”).  On March
28, 2023, the court granted Laura’s motion. Laura filed her TAC on April 6,
2023 for ejectment, conversion, defamation per se, and negligent infliction of
emotional distress. Defendants demurred to the TAC and on October 30, 2023,
Laura filed a 4AC for ejectment, conversion, and defamation per se. On January
3, 2024, Plaintiff filed a 5AC asserting four additional causes of action for
unfair business practices, elder abuse, and civil harassment. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Defendants’ Demurrer to the Fifth
Amended Complaint is OVERRULED. 
 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
Defendants request this court take
judicial notice of several court documents (RJN Exhs. A-Q.) The court grants
Defendants’ request for judicial notice. (Evid. Code §452(d).) 
 
Plaintiff also requests judicial notice
of certain documents filed with the court (RJN Exhs. A-E.) The court grants
Plaintiff’s request for judicial notice. (Evid. Code §452(d).)
 
ANALYSIS
 
Defendants Luis
Roberto Ruano II (“Robert”) and Luis R. Ruano (“Luis”) demur to the first cause
of action for ejectment, second cause of action for conversion, third cause of
action for defamation per se, fourth cause of action for intentional infliction
of emotional distress, fifth cause of action for unfair business practices,
sixth cause of action for elder abuse, and seventh cause of action for civil
harassment. 
 
Ejectment
 
Defendants demur
to the first cause of action for ejectment on the grounds Laura does not hold
title to the subject property and there are no other facts sufficiently pleaded
to disclose a right to possession of the subject property. 
 
Plaintiffs
note this cause of action has already been substantively ruled on. On September
28, 2023, the court found Plaintiff’s allegations against Robert of right to
possession are good against demurrer. The court did overrule the demurrer as to
Luis Roberto Ruano II and sustained without leave to amend the demurrer as to
Luis R. Ruano. The 5AC has removed Luis from the cause of action. 
 
Accordingly,
the court overrules the demurrer to the first cause of action. 
 
Conversion
 
Defendants
demur to the second cause of action for conversion on the grounds Plaintiffs cannot
maintain a cause of action for conversion against Robert, based on the rule of
exclusive, concurrent jurisdiction as Laura’s conversion claim pertains to
community property. Defendants further demur on the grounds Plaintiffs have
failed to state with specificity which property was converted nor did she
consent either expressly or impliedly for the community property to be in the
home.
 
As noted by
Plaintiff, these allegations have already been substantively ruled on.
Accordingly, the court overrules the demurrer to the second cause of action. 
 
Defamation 
 
Defendants
demur to the third cause of action for defamation on the grounds Laura’s cause
of action fails to set forth a single place, statement, or person who heard the
alleged defamatory statements that were allegedly made or took place.

Defendants
previously demurred to the defamation cause of action for statute of
limitations purposes. Now, Defendants contend Plaintiffs’ claim for defamation
is void of critical facts such as to whom the alleged communications were made,
how the alleged communications were made and more importantly when those
communications were made. Plaintiffs only generally allege within “one year of
the filing of the complaint” the alleged statements were made. 
 
In
opposition, Plaintiffs argue Defendants, as the individuals who made the
defamatory statements, have complete and superior knowledge of the relevant
facts making less particularity needed under California’s liberal pleading
rules. (Okun v. Superior Court (1981) 29 Cal.3d 442, 458; see Youngman
v. Nevada Irrigation Dist. (1969) 70 Cal.2d 240, 245; Pointe San Diego
Residential Cmty., L.P. v. Procopio, Cory, Hargreaves & Savitch, LLP
(2011) 195 Cal. App. 4th 265, 276-78.)
 
The court
finds the allegations sufficient for a demurrer. As noted by Plaintiffs, “slander
can be charged by alleging the substance of the defamatory statement.” (Okun
v. Superior Court (1981) 29 Cal.3d 442, 458.) Here, Plaintiff has
sufficiently alleged the substance of the defamatory statement and when it
occurred – within one year of filing the complaint, Defendants told people that
Plaintiff was embezzling money from her place of employment and had an extramarital
affair while married to Luis. (5AC ¶10.) 
 
Accordingly,
the court overrules the demurrer to the third cause of action. 
 
Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress 
 
Defendants
demur to the fourth cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional
distress on the grounds Plaintiffs do not allege any special relationship
between the parties. 
 
The elements
for a cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress are (1)
extreme and outrageous conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing,
or reckless disregard of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2)
the plaintiff’s suffering severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) an
actual and proximate causal link between the tortious conduct and the emotional
distress.  (Hughes v. Pair (2009) 46 Cal.4th 1035,
1050.)   
 
Defendants
argue the court previously sustained Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiffs’ negligent
infliction of emotional distress claim but because Plaintiffs could not allege
any special relationship, she has changed her claim to her previously abandoned
intentional infliction of emotional distress. However, the IIED claim still
fails because there are no allegations of a special relationship or Defendants
engaging in outrageous conduct. 
 
In
opposition, Plaintiffs argue no special relationship is required of IIED. The
court agrees. “A requirement of a special relationship does not appear in the
California Supreme Court's formulation of the elements of IIED.” (Crouch v.
Trinity Christian Center of Santa Ana, Inc. (2019) 39 Cal.App.5th 995, 1009.)
As such, no special relationship is required. 
 
Plaintiffs
further argue the complaint sufficiently alleges outrageous conduct. The
complaint alleges “Defendants’ defamatory statements about an alleged
extra-marital affair were made for the sole purpose of outcasting Plaintiff
from society and intentionally causing her psychological injury. Similarly,
Defendants’ statements regarding Plaintiff’s purported embezzlement from her employer
were intentionally made with the sole purpose of depriving Plaintiff the ability
to earn income and causing her to become destitute and without financial means
to pay for food, clothes and other necessities of daily life.” (5AC ¶30.) Moreover,
“Defendants have repeatedly harassed and threatened Monteleone in an attempt to
extort him and Plaintiff into ‘walking away’ from the dissolution proceeding
pending between Plaintiff and Luis Ruano. (5AC ¶31.) 
 
The court
finds these allegations are sufficient to support a claim for IIED for the
purposes of a demurrer. “While the outrageousness of a defendant's conduct
normally presents an issue of fact to be determined by the trier of fact
[Citation], the court may determine in the first instance, whether the
defendant's conduct may reasonably be regarded as so extreme and outrageous as
to permit recovery. [Citation.]” (Trerice v. Blue Cross of California
(1989) 209 Cal.App.3d 878, 883.) However, Plaintiff has alleged Defendants
essentially spread rumors about her personal life including an affair and
embezzlement from her place of employment. A jury may decide the alleged
intentional act of spreading gossip or rumors is extreme and outrageous which
would cause someone severe and emotional distress. 
 
Accordingly,
the demurrer to the fourth cause of action is OVERRULED. 
 
Unfair Business
Practices
 
Defendants
demur to the fifth cause of action for unfair business practices on the grounds
this cause of action is predicated upon a completely made-up attorney-client
relationship which this court and the Divorce Court has already found to have
never existed. 
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff argues Defendants mischaracterize the FAC’s allegations
and improperly conflates two separate individuals – Robert and Julie Goldberg –
to suggest this cause of action pertains to a purported attorney-client
relationship. Plaintiff states the allegations are Robert’s conduct towards
Laura in providing legal services without a license to practice law.
 
The court
finds the current allegations sufficient to state a claim for unfair business
practices against Robert.  
 
Elder Abuse
 
Defendants
demur to the sixth cause of action for elder abuse on the grounds judicial notice
of property record shows Laura and Thomas sold the property and the rule of exclusive,
concurrent jurisdiction of community property applies.
 
In
opposition, Plaintiffs argue Defendants are attempting to intertwine family
court matters with the civil torts in this matter to confuse the issues and
distract the court. Plaintiffs contend whether Luis has a community property
interest in the Odyssey Property or not does not mean it is impossible for
Robert and Luis to engage in elder abuse against Monteleone with respect to it
or that they have not already engaged in such misconduct, as well as other
financial and emotional abuse to gain an edge in the highly contentious divorce
proceeding between Laura and Luis. 
 
The court
agrees the allegations are sufficient. As also noted by Plaintiffs, the
allegations are not limited to the Odyssey Property but also extends to
harassment and threats that cause Monteleone extreme emotional pain and
suffering.
 
Accordingly,
the demurrer to the sixth cause of action is OVERRULED. 
 
Civil
Harassment 
 
Defendants
demur to the seventh cause of action for civil harassment on the grounds this
cause of action appears, to be nothing more than a repeat of the allegation (regarding
the service of process on Laura) against the former Defendant, Ms. Julie Goldberg,
of which this court already granted an anti-SLAPP under the litigation privilege.

 
“The elements
of unlawful harassment, as defined by the language in section 527.6, are as
follows: (1) ‘a knowing and willful course of conduct’ entailing a ‘pattern’ of
‘a series of acts over a period of time, however short, evidencing a continuity
of purpose’; (2) ‘directed at a specific person’; (3) ‘which seriously alarms,
annoys, or harasses the person’; (4) ‘which serves no legitimate purpose’; (5)
which ‘would cause a reasonable person to suffer substantial emotional
distress’ and ‘actually cause[s] substantial emotional distress to the
plaintiff’; and (6) which is not a ‘[c]onstitutionally protected
activity.’  (Schild v. Rubin (1991) 232 Cal.App.3d 755, 762.) 
 
The court
finds the allegations sufficient for the purposes of a demurrer. The complaint
alleges Defendants have repeatedly harassed and threatened Plaintiffs in an
attempt to extort them into Plaintiff “walking away” from the dissolution
proceeding pending between Plaintiff and Luis Ruano as well as assaulting and
battering Plaintiff, and sending thugs to Plaintiffs’ place of employment to
loiter, disturb the peace, and engage in conduct which terrified Plaintiffs. This
is sufficient to show a pattern of conduct/series of acts. 
 
Accordingly,
the demurrer to the seventh cause of action is OVERRULED.  30 days to answer.