  Case Number:  21AVCV00302    Hearing Date:   May 21, 2024    Dept:  A14 Background
 
This is a personal injury action.
Plaintiff Larry Lee Limones, by and through his Guardian ad Litem, Monique
Limones (“Plaintiff”), alleges that on October 22, 2020, Plaintiff, who was
68-years old at the time, was a passenger on a bus operated by Defendants
Antelope Valley Transit Authority (“AVTA”) and Transdev Services (“Transdev”)
and driven by bus driver Defendant Luna (“Luna”). Plaintiff further alleges
that he was sitting near the front of the bus entrance along with a young
female passenger, Doe 2, when an elderly female passenger boarded the bus.
Plaintiff states that he asked Doe 2 to accommodate the new elderly female
passenger, Doe 2 verbally and aggressively refused then proceeded to call an
unknown individual to complain about the event. Plaintiff alleges that, shortly
thereafter, an unknown individual intentionally parked a car in front of the
bus to prevent it from leaving the bus stop, individuals identified by
Plaintiff as Doe 3 and Doe 4 boarded the bus and physically attacked Plaintiff,
punching him multiple times in the head and face, before leaving with Doe 2.
Plaintiff contends that Luna did not instruct Doe 3 and Doe 4 to leave the bus,
did nothing to intervene or protect Plaintiff from the imminent danger of Doe 3
and Doe 4, did not notify law enforcement before the attack, and, after the
attack, neither provided any assistance or First Aid to Plaintiff nor notified
law enforcement or his supervisors of the attack on Plaintiff. Plaintiff
suffered damages, including a traumatic brain injury.
 
On April 28, 2021, Plaintiff
filed his Complaint, alleging three causes of action for: (1) General
Negligence against AVTA and Transdev; (2) Assault and Battery against Does 2
through 10, inclusive; and (3) Elder Abuse against AVTA and Transdev.
 
On July 13, 2021, Plaintiff filed
his First Amended Complaint (“FAC”), alleging six (6) causes of action for: (1)
Assault against Does 2 through 10; (2) Battery against Does 2 through 10, (3)
Elder Abuse against Does 2 through 10; (4) Negligence against AVTA, Transdev,
Luna, and Does 11 through 20; (5) Elder Abuse against AVTA, Transdev, Luna, and
Does 11 through 20; and (6) Negligent Hiring, Retention, and Supervision
against AVTA, Transdev, and Does 11 through 20. 
 
On July 20, 2021, Plaintiff
Amended the fictitious/incorrect names to the true names of several Doe
defendants: Doe 2 was amended to Raven Britt; Doe 3 was amended to Raymond
Britt, Jr.; and Doe 4 was amended to Breanna Britt. 
 
On August 16, 2021, AVTA and
Transdev brought a Demurrer to the Complaint, demurring to Plaintiff’s fifth
cause of action in the FAC, Elder Abuse against AVTA, Transdev, Luna, and Does
11 through 20, subsequently sustained with 14 days’ leave to amend.
 
On February 02, 2022, Plaintiff
filed his Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”), alleging six causes of action for:
(1) Assault against Rayvyn Britt (“Rayvyn”)[1],
Raymond Britt Jr. (“Raymond Jr.”)[2],
Breanna Britt (“Breanna”), and Raymond Britt Sr. (“Raymond Sr.”); (2) Battery
against Rayvyn, Raymond Jr., Breanna, and Raymond Sr.; (3) Elder Abuse against
Rayvyn, Raymond Jr., Breanna, and Raymond Sr.; (4) Negligence against AVTA,
Transdev, and Luna; (5) Elder Abuse against AVTA, Transdev, and Luna; and (6)
Negligent Hiring, Retention, and Supervision against AVTA and Transdev.
 
On March 07, 2022, Transdev,
AVTA, and Luna brought a Demurrer to the SAC, subsequently sustained without
leave to amend on April 07, 2022. The Demurrer concerned the Fifth Cause of
Action (Elder Abuse) against AVTA, Transdev, and Luna.
 
On April 26, 2022, Transdev,
AVTA, and Luna filed their Answer. 
 
On July 20, 2022, Plaintiff filed
a Motion to Consolidate Related Cases No. 21AVCV00302 and 22AVCV00183,
subsequently taken off calendar. 
 
On March 08, 2024, Plaintiff
filed a document titled “Response to Motion for Summary Judgment,” stating that
a stipulation had been submitted to the Court and requesting a continuance.
 
On January 10, 2024, Transdev,
AVTA, and Luna filed this Motion for Summary Judgment.
 
On March 15, 2024, a Stipulation
was filed which requested continuance of the Motion for Summary Judgment.  
 
On May 07, 2024, Plaintiff filed
his Opposition. 
 
On May 13, Plaintiff filed a
Supplemental Opposition. The Court does not consider the Supplemental
Opposition as (1) it is not considered in the statutes surrounding notice; (2)
Plaintiff did not request leave of court to file a supplemental opposition; and
(3) the Supplemental Opposition appears to be an effort by Plaintiff to
circumvent the page length requirements set out in California Rules of Court,
Rule 3.1113(d). 
 
On May 16, 2024, Transdev, AVTA,
and Luna filed their Reply, including objections and supplemental exhibits. The
Court directs the parties to Section IV Reply in this Statement of Decision for
a discussion of those documents. 
 
On May 20, 2024, Plaintiff filed
several documents: (1) Opposition to Defendants’ Transdev Services, Inc.
Antelope Valley Transit Authority and MarioLuna’s Evidentiary Objections to the
Declaration of Peter R. diDonato in Opposition to Motion for Summary
Judgment/Adjudication of Issues; (2) Plaintiff’s Opposition to Defendants’
Transdev Services, Inc. Antelope Valley Transit Authority and Mario Luna’s
Evidentiary Objections to the Declaration of J. Robert Berkstresser in
Opposition to Motion for Summary Judgment/Adjudication of Issues; (3) Request
for Judicial Notice of Department of Homeland Security, Transportation Safety
Administration’s Security Training for Surface Transportation Employees,
Federal Register Volume 85, Number 56, March 23, 2020; and (4) Supplemental
Declaration of Peter R. diDonato in Opposition to Motion for Summary
Judgment/Summary Adjudication of Issues to Add Exhibit 28, Exhibit 29, and
Exhibit 30. Such filings are not considered as supplemental objections and
declarations to a Reply are not considered in statutes surrounding notice and
Plaintiff did not request leave of court to file these documents. Consideration
of such documents would also prevent Transdev, AVTA, and Luna from a chance to
reply. Further, as to the issues of evidentiary objections on Reply, the Court
directs  the parties to Section IV Reply
in this Statement of Decision for a discussion of those objections.
 
-----
 
Analysis
 
Standard for Summary Judgment – The function of a motion for summary
judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an opposing
party cannot show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and to enable an
order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co.¿(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) Cal. Code Civ. Proc.¿§437c(c)
“requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence
submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and
uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable
issue as to¿any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment
as a matter of law.”¿ (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7
Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)¿“The function of the pleadings in a motion for summary
judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues; the function of the affidavits
or declarations is to disclose whether there is any triable issue of fact
within the issues delimited by the pleadings.”¿ (Juge¿v. County of
Sacramento¿(1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67 (“Juge”), citing¿FPI
Development, Inc. v. Nakashima¿(1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 367,
381-382.)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
As to each claim as framed by the complaint,
the party moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial burden of proof
by presenting facts to negate an essential element, or to establish a defense.
(Cal.¿Code Civ.¿Proc.¿§437c(p)(2);¿Scalf¿v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc.¿(2005)
128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.) Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support
of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the
evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc.¿(2006)
39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
Once the defendant has met that burden, the
burden shifts to the opposing party to show that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto. To
establish a triable issue of material fact, the party opposing the motion must
produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster v.¿Paetkau¿(1998) 68
Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)¿¿
 
-----
 
Discussion
 
Application – As an
initial matter, AVTA and Transdev have labelled video evidence as “Exhibit A.”
Exhibit A is composed of eight videos, each numbered. Each video is synched up
with the others. That is, the same event is occurring in all videos at the same
time from different vantage points. Because the videos are all synched up, the Court
can rely on any of these prospectives from the time stamps provided by AVTA and
Transdev for Exhibit A, so long as it material. Further, Plaintiff has provided
an Opposition on the merits. The Court labels and addresses each video as
follows:
 
·        
Exhibit A, Video 1 (Front View) – Exhibit A.1;
·        
Exhibit A, Video 3 (Bus Door View, Facing Bus
Interior) – Exhibit A.2;
·        
Exhibit A, Video 5 (Bus Door View, Facing Bus
Exterior/Bus Door) – Exhibit A.3;
·        
Exhibit A, Video 7 (Stairwell View) – Exhibit
A.4;
·        
Exhibit A, Video 9 (Bus Rear Exit View, Facing
Exterior/Bus Door) – Exhibit A.5;
·        
Exhibit A, Video 11 (Bus Rear Exit View, Facing
Rear of Bus) – Exhibit A.6;
·        
Exhibit A, Video 13 (External Left Side View) –
Exhibit A.7; and
·        
Exhibit A, Video 15 (External Right Side View) –
Exhibit A.8.
 
Plaintiff’s evidentiary objection
to Exhibit A is overruled for the aforementioned reasons. 
 
Counsel for AVTA and Transdev, Natalie
Garcia Lashinsky (“Lashinsky”) is cautioned about labelling eight videos as one
exhibit. Each video should have been labeled as an individual exhibit for
clarity of the Parties and the Court. The failure to do so has not only
negatively impacted the judicial economy, but also led to issues that the Court
believes it has rectified within this Statement of Decision. 
 
The remaining causes of action
against Transdev, AVTA, and Luna are the Fourth Cause of Action (Negligence)
and Sixth Cause of Action (Negligent Hiring, Retention, Supervision). The
notice states clearly that if summary judgment cannot be granted, summary
adjudication is sought as to the Sixth Cause of Action (Negligent Hiring,
Retention, Supervision) only. 
 
       
i.           
Fourth Cause of Action (Negligence) 
 
Transdev, AVTA, and Luna are that
there is no duty placed on common carriers to prevent attacks on passengers for
which there was no notice. Transdev, AVTA, and Luna concede that there is a
duty on common carriers to prevent reasonably foreseeable assaults by others. Transdev,
AVTA, and Luna highlight City and County of San Francisco v. Superior Court
(1994) 31 Cal.App.4th 45 (“City and County of S. F”) described by
Transdev, AVTA, and Luna as: (1) a man boarded a bus wearing soiled clothing
and the bus driver did not otherwise notice anything unusual about the man; (2)
seconds later, the new passenger stabbed the plaintiff; and (3) the appellate
court determined that there was an absence of evidence that the driver had
warning of the attack and summary judgment could not be entered. Transdev,
AVTA, and Luna draw a parallel between City and County of S. F and the
action at hand, citing to the events that unfolded in their separate statement.
Transdev, AVTA, and Luna believe that Luna would have had to have known the
following in order for the assault to be foreseeable: (1) when Rayvyn talked to
an unknown person on her phone and told that person that Plaintiff had touched
her, that statement would be interpreted by the unknown individual as a request
for that unknown individual to assault the Plaintiff; (2) the unknown
individual would agree to assault the Plaintiff or to recruit another
individual to assault the Plaintiff; (3) the unknown individual that agreed to
assault the Plaintiff would appear at a bus stop prior to Plaintiff exiting the
bus; (4) that Raymond Jr. was the unknown individual who would appear to
assault Plaintiff before Rayvyn left the bus; (5) that it was Raymond Jr. who
appeared at the bus stop (i.e., Luna would have needed to know who Raymond Jr.
was and that Rayvyn was speaking with Raymond Jr.) where the assault occurred;
and (6) that Raymond Jr. had either agreed or decided himself to assault the
Plaintiff.
 
The City and County of S. F
court emphasizes that the factual allegations underlying the event were not in
dispute and “[t]here was nothing about [the assailant] or his appearance to
raise any suspicion.” (City and County of S. F, supra, 32C
Cal.App.4th at 47.) The City and County of S. F provided the following
legal standard: 
 
Common carriers are
not, however, insurers of their passengers' safety. Rather, the degree of care
and diligence which they must exercise is only such as can reasonably be
exercised consistent with the character and mode of conveyance adopted and the
practical operation of the business of the carrier. [Citations.]” (Lopez,
supra, 40 Cal. 3d at pp. 785-786.) Perhaps for this reason, the
duty  to protect passengers from assault
lies only when the common carrier knows or should know that an assault is about
to occur. The Lopez court cited with approval Terrell v. Key System
(1945) 69 Cal. App. 2d 682, 686-688 [159 P.2d 704], in which a train operator
was held liable for one passenger's assault upon another only because the train
conductor had “ ‘notice of . . . boisterous and vituperative conduct of . . .
drunken crap shooters’ ” and failed to take steps to prevent the situation from
escalating to physical assault. (Lopez, supra, 40 Cal. 3d at p.
786, quoting Terrell, supra, 69 Cal. App. 2d at p. 688.)
 
No California case
has held a common carrier liable for a sudden assault which occurs with no
warning. Such liability would literally require an armed presence on every
common carrier, which is precisely what Lopez decried: “Finding such a
duty [to protect passengers from assault] to exist is not the functional
equivalent of finding a duty to provide an armed security guard on every bus.
There are a number of actions a carrier might take short of placing an armed guard
on each bus which, in a given case, might be sufficient to meet the duty
imposed by Civil Code section 2100. For instance, where the disorderly conduct
of certain passengers threatens the safety of others, the bus driver . . .
might warn the unruly passengers to quiet down or get off the bus [citations];
alert the police and summon their assistance [citations]; or, if necessary,
eject the unruly passengers [citation].” (40 Cal. 3d at p. 787.) At least one
California court has noted, albeit in dictum, that there is no duty to prevent
criminal assailants from boarding buses in the first place. ( Taeleifi v.
Southern Cal. Rapid Transit Dist. (1982) 130 Cal. App. 3d 366, 369 [181
Cal. Rptr. 697], overruled on other grounds in Lopez, supra, 40
Cal. 3d at p. 787, fn. 4.)
 
(Id. at 48-49.)
 
Here, despite Plaintiff’s
contention to the contrary, certain facts are not in dispute. (See Plaintiff’s
Separate Statement of Undisputed Fact Nos. 4, 5, 6, 8, 12, 14, 15 [summarizing
the same events differently].) It is undisputed that (1) on October 22, 2023,
Plaintiff got on the bus and sat next to wheel well where Rayvyn was sitting,
blocking one of the exits of the bus; (2) Rayvyn blocked an elderly passenger
with a walker who was trying to get on the bus; (3) Plaintiff engaged in a
conversation with Rayvyn, including tapping her, to request Rayvyn move her
legs so the elderly passenger could exit which led to a verbal interaction; (4)
Rayvyn made a phone call; (5) Rayvyn has another verbal altercation with
Plaintiff [not discussed]; (6) several minutes after, the bus stopped at the
corner of 10th Street West and A venue "I" in Lancaster; (7)
a car was parked near the bus stop; (8) Raymond Jr. boarded the bus; (9) the
assault on Plaintiff occurred; and (10) Raymond Jr. exited the bus after the
assault (UMF No. 20 [undisputed by both parties].) 
 
While Transdev, AVTA, and Luna
attempt to state “Plaintiff did not know if Luna heard any of the verbal
interactions that Plaintiff had with Luna or the statements that Rayvyn said
into her cell phone[,]” Plaintiff’s knowledge of what Luna knew does not impact
the analysis. 
 
Transdev, AVTA, and Luna leave
out all verbal statements that are recorded in the videos they have provided. 
 
Exhibit A.4 includes the
following:
 
·        
“Ay bro don’t touch me.” (0:25);
·        
“I don’t care. I don’t care.” (0:29);
·        
“Bitch [inaudible] Go bitch. Got your ass
walking.” (2:06-2:07);
·        
Inaudible interaction between Rayvyn and another
passenger (2:31-2:41);
·        
“I was gonna beat an old lady up, mom. Because
she touching me and this old ass man touching me too” (2:49-2:54);
·        
Another verbal altercation ensued between
Plaintiff and Rayvyn in which (2:56-3:02) in which Rayvyn stands up and raises
her voice;
·        
From 3:02-3:15 Rayvyn continues raising her
voice to her mom in which she states something along the lines of there was no
where to sit;
·        
“Don’t look at me. I might knock your ass up
bro. [directed to another passenger]” (3:18-3:23);
·        
From 3:47 to 4:02 other passengers are
complaining about Rayvyn while Rayvyn continues to talk on the phone. 
·        
“Shut your fucking head [inaudiable].” (4:03)
·        
Another passenger tells Rayvyn the right thing
to do is to say sorry. (4:11-4:17);
·        
From 4:17-4:40, passengers are visibly upset and
standing up and the audio is jumbled between what the passengers are saying and
what Rayvyn is saying on the phone;
·        
At 4:35, Rayvyn informs whomever she is speaking
to of the location of the bus (“We pulling up to a um a KFC right now”);
·        
At around 5:52 another passenger makes remarks
about the people of Palmdale loudly;
·        
At around 6:20 Rayvyn stands up;
·        
At 6:34 another passenger tells Rayvyn: “You’re
super brave now;”
·        
At 6:49, Rayvyn leaves the bus;
·        
At 6:55 Raymond Jr. enters the bus looking for
who touched his sister;
·        
At 6:58 another passenger points out Plaintiff;
·        
At 7:05, Raymond Jr. assaults Plaintiff until
7:12 (not continuously);
·        
Simultaneously at 7:08, Rayvyn re-enters the bus
stating: “You lying. Go RJ. Yes. Go;” and
·        
Breanna gets on the bus and calls Raymond Jr. to
go around 7:11.
 
Exhibit A.3 shows:
 
·        
Raymond Jr. outside the bus and following the
bus at 6:46 to 6:50;
·        
At 6:51, Rayvyn tells Luna: “Your bus gonna get
lit up;” and
·        
Rayvyn points out the person she wants Raymond
Jr. to assault at 6:58.
 
The focus of Transdev, AVTA, and
Luna’s argument is (1) duty of a common carrier based on (2) foreseeability.
 
As a general rule one has no duty
to control the conduct of another, and no duty to warn those who may be
endangered by such conduct. (Rest.2d Torts, § 315; Davidson v. City of
Westminster (1982) 32 Cal.3d 197, 203; Thompson v. County of Alameda,
supra, 27 Cal.3d 741, 751; Tarasoff v. Regents of University of
California (1976) 17 Cal.3d 425, 435.) A duty may arise, however, where
"(a) a special relation exists between the actor and the third person
which imposes a duty upon the actor to control the third person's conduct, or
(b) a special relation exists between the actor and the other which gives the
other a right to protection." (Rest.2d Torts, § 315; Davidson v. City
of Westminster, supra, at p. 203; Thompson v. County of Alameda,
supra, at pp. 751-752; Tarasoff v. Regents of University of
California, supra, at p. 435.) Among the commonly recognized special
relationships are that between a common carrier and its passengers, that
between an innkeeper and his or her guests, and that between a possessor of land
and members of the public who enter in response to the landowner's invitation.
(Rest.2d Torts, § 314A.) The duty of common carriers was discussed, ante.
 
These events presented by the
evidence is vastly different from the events in City and County of S. F.
where there was nothing about the assailant that rose suspicion. Here, Rayvyn
is connected to Raymond Jr., who assaulted Plaintiff and the evidence shows
that there is conduct on behalf of Rayvyn that a reasonable person might find
to be notice. Thus, an issue of material fact exists as to whether Luna should
have had warning of the attack. 
 
Transdev, AVTA, and Luna did not
meet the initial burden of proof by
presenting facts to negate an essential element, or to establish a defense for
this cause of action.
 
The Court need not address the Opposition as the burden has not shifted.
 
     
ii.           
Sixth Cause of Action (Negligent Hiring,
Retention, and Supervision)
 
Transdev, AVTA, and Luna argue
that as Luna was operating the bus in the course and scope of his employment
and that factual allegation has been admitted, they are entitled to summary
adjudication of this claim under Diaz v. Carcamo (2011) 51 Cal.4th 1148
(“Diaz”). Transdev, AVTA, and Luna further argue that there is no
evidence for key elements of this claim as a plaintiff must show “ ‘[t]he
principal . . . has reason to know that the servant or other agent, because of
his qualities, is likely to harm others in view of the work or
instrumentalities entrusted to him . . . Liability results under the rule
stated in this Section, not because of the relation of the parties, but because
the employer antecedently had reason to believe that an undue risk of harm
would exist because of the employment[]’ ” and so Plaintiff must show that
Transdev was negligent in its hiring or training processes. (Motion for Summary
Judgment 10:2-6 [citing Evan F. v. Hughson United Methodist Church
(1992) 8 Cal.App.4th, 842-43.)
 
Diaz concerns negligent entrustment.
Specifically, the Diaz court states:
 
1.      “If,
as here, a plaintiff asserts both theories, and the employer admits vicarious
liability for any negligent driving by its employee, can the plaintiff still
pursue the negligent entrustment claim? The answer is “no,” as we held in Armenta
v. Churchill (1954) 42 Cal.2d 448 [267 P.2d 303] (Armenta).” (Diaz,
supra, 51 Cal.5th 1148, 1152.)
2.      “In
2005, the Court of Appeal in Jeld-Wen, supra, 131 Cal.App.4th
853, rejected a similar argument. Negligent entrustment, that court reasoned,
may establish an employer's own fault but “ ‘should not impose additional
liability’ ”; instead, “ ‘the employer's liability cannot exceed [that] of the
employee.’ ” (Id. at p. 871, italics added by Jeld-Wen.) We
agree. As Jeld-Wen noted, if an employer admits vicarious liability for its
employee's negligent driving in the scope of employment, “the damages
attributable to both employer and employee will be coextensive … .” (Ibid.)
Thus, when a plaintiff alleges a negligent entrustment or hiring cause of
action against the employer and the employer admits vicarious liability for its
employee's negligent driving, the universe of defendants who can be held
responsible for the plaintiff's damages is reduced by one—the employer—for
purposes of apportioning fault under Proposition 51. Consequently, the employer
would not be mentioned on the special verdict form. The jury must divide fault
for the accident among the listed tortfeasors, and the employer is liable only
for whatever share of fault the jury assigns to the employee.” (Id. at
1159.)
 
Here, there is no claim for
negligent entrustment. Rather, there is a claim for Negligence based on a
common carrier’s duty and Negligent Hiring, Retention, and Supervision. There
is no holding in Diaz that shows that if an employer admits that the
employee was acting in the course and scope of his employment at the time of
the assault, a plaintiff cannot pursue a cause of action for negligent hiring,
retention, and supervision, nor can the plaintiff introduce evidence related to
negligent hiring, entrustment, or retention.
 
“California case law recognizes
the theory that an employer can be liable to a third person for negligently
hiring, supervising, or retaining an unfit employee.” (Doe v. Capital Cities
(1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 1038, 1054.) “Negligence liability will be imposed on an
employer if it ‘knew or should have known that hiring the employee created a
particular risk or hazard and that particular harm materializes.’ ” (Phillips
v. TLC Plumbing, Inc. (2009) 172Cal.App.4th 1133, 1139.) 
 
Transdev, AVTA, and Luna point
only to UMF No. 26 in support of their argument. It is unclear how Transdev,
AVTA, Luna’s UMFs No. 1-25 impact the argument for Negligent Hiring, Retention,
and Supervision as no argument is provided. The Court notes that Transdev
admits that Luna is its employee in Transdev, AVTA, and Luna’s UMF No. 27. The
Court further notes that UMF No. 28 directs the parties and the Court to UMF
Nos. 1-27. 
 
Transdev, AVTA, and Luna state:
“For all the reasons already laid out, Plaintiff, based on indisputable facts,
cannot carry the required burden of showing that Luna behaved negligently in
not preventing Raymond Jr.’s assault on Plaintiff. California law does not
require bus drivers to guess about what they must do to protect passengers.”
(Motion for Summary Judgment 10:14-17.) Transdev concedes that “warn[ing] the
unruly passengers to quiet down or get off the bus; alert the police and summon
their assistance; or, if necessary, eject the unruly passengers” are examples
that the California Supreme Court has provided in Lopez v. So. Cal. Rapid
Transit Dist. (1985) 40 Cal.3d 780 (“Lopez”). Here, Luna did not
take any action as outlined in Lopez. Transdev, AVTA, and Luna state: “As has
been previously discussed, none of these actions would have prevented Raymond
Jr. from assaulting Plaintiff.” (Motion for Summary Judgment, 10:20-21.) However,
(1) the Court has discussed the issues of the evidence presented, ante;
and (2) it is unsupported that none of these actions would have prevented
Raymond Jr. from assaulting Plaintiff.
 
Transdev, AVTA, and Luna did not
meet the initial burden of proof by presenting facts to negate an essential
element, or to establish a defense for this cause of action.
 
The Court need not address the Opposition as the burden has not shifted.
 
Accordingly, summary judgment and
summary adjudication are DENIED.
 
-----
 
Reply
 
All evidentiary objections brought on Reply are not ruled
upon as they are not material to the disposition of this motion. (See Cal. Code
Civ. Proc. § 437c(q).
 
The salutary rule is that points raised in
a reply brief for the first time will not be considered unless good cause is
shown for the failure to present them before.” (Balboa Ins. Co. v. Aguirre
(1983) 149 Cal.App.3d 1002, 1010.) This applies to new evidence as well –
“[t]he general rule of motion practice … is that new evidence is not
permitted with reply papers.” (Jay v. Mahaffey (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th
1522, 1537.) “This rule is based on the same solid logic applied in the
appellate courts, specifically, that ‘[p]oints raised for the first time in a
reply brief will ordinarily not be considered, because such consideration would
deprive the respondent of an opportunity to counter the argument.’ ” (Id.
at 1538 [citing American Drug Stores, Inc. v. Stroh (1992) 10
Cal.App.4th 1446, 1453; Browne v. County of Tehama (2013) 213
Cal.App.4th 704, 720, fn. 10].) No good cause has been shown for the failure to
present these exhibits with the moving papers. Specifically, counsel for
Transdev, AVTA, and Luna states only that “[t]his Declaration is made in
support of Defendants’ Motion for Summary Judgment, or in the Alternative,
Summary Adjudication of Issues” in her declaration on Reply. Accordingly, the
Court does not consider Transdev, AVTA, and Luna’s new evidence submitted
concurrently with the Reply brief or any arguments related to such evidence. 
 
The Reply, without such evidence
and related arguments, (1) reiterates the duty that a common carrier has,
emphasizing that Raymond Jr. is the person who assaulted Plaintiff and that
only seconds occurred between when Raymond Jr. boarded the bus and the assault;
(2) rebuts Plaintiff’s Opposition arguments for the Negligence claim; and (2) reiterates
that Diaz is binding and applicable. 
 
The Court has addressed
foreseeability and Diaz, ante. The arguments rebutting
Plaintiff’s Opposition arguments are inapposite as the Court found that the
burden did not shift. 
 
Accordingly, the Court’s opinion
remains unchanged.
 
-----
 
Conclusion
 
Defendants Antelope Valley
Transit Authority, Transdev Services, and Mario Luna’s Motion for Summary
Judgment is DENIED.
 
Defendants Antelope Valley Transit Authority, Transdev
Services, and Mario Luna’s Motion for Summary Adjudication on the Sixth Cause
of Action (Negligent Hiring, Retention, and Supervision) is DENIED.


