 Case Number:  23AVCV01297    Hearing Date:   May 21, 2024    Dept:  A14 Background
 
This is a wrongful death action. Plaintiff
Lotus Marie Lim-Bardin, by and through her guardian ad litem, Angelina
Herrington, as successor in interest Tyler Bardin (“Plaintiff”), alleges that
on or about June 11, 2022, Tyler Barden (“Decedent”) was suffering from a
psychotic episode and showed up to his friends’ house unannounced, knocked at
their door, wandered around the property talking to himself, and told his
friend that his chest was bothering him. As a result of this, Decedent’s friend
allegedly called for an ambulance and Defendant Hall Ambulance Services, Inc.
(“Hall Ambulance”) responded. Plaintiff further alleges that Hall Ambulance’s
employees (1) notated that Decedent was walking around the property talking to himself,
had dilated pupils, appeared to be deranged, had a bounding radial pulse, was
in tachycardia, and had pale, warm, and dry skin; (2) was informed that
Decedent had recently taken fentanyl and it “messed with his head;” (3) placed
Decedent onto a gurney and secured him with straps, provided supportive care,
and set out for transport to Defendant Antelope Valley Healthcare District,
erroneously sued as Antelope Valley Medical Center (“AVHD”)’s hospital; and (4)
during transport Hall Ambulance’s employees asked Decedent if he had any
weapons and failed to vet Decedent’s response and/or search Decedent or his
effects for weapons. Plaintiff contends that AVHD failed to secure decedent,
conduct an assessment of Decedent’s mental state, and placed Decedent’s bag,
containing a gun, or allowed the bag to be placed on Decedent’s chest.
Plaintiff presents that Decedent took the fun from his bag and shot himself in
the chest, ultimately, dying from the incident.  
 
On February 16, 2023, Plaintiff filed her
Complaint alleging five causes of action for: (1) Medical Negligence, (2)
Negligence, (3) Dependent Adult Neglect/Abuse, (4) Survival Action, and (5)
Wrongful Death. 
 
On May 02, 2023, Plaintiff filed her First
Amended Complaint (“FAC”) alleging five causes of action for: (1) Medical
Negligence; (2) Negligent Hiring, Retention, and Supervision; (3) Dependent
Adult Neglect/Abuse; (4) Survival Action; and (5) Wrongful Death.  
 
On August 04, 2023, the parties entered into
a stipulation for the Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”). Judge T. Mark Smith
signed the stipulation and ordered that the SAC was deemed filed as of the date
of this Order. The SAC alleges the same causes of action as the FAC. 
 
On September 01, 2023, AVHD filed its
Demurrer to the SAC, sustained in party on February 23, 2024.  
 
On September 05, 2023, Hall Ambulance filed
its Demurrer with Motion to Strike. The Demurrer was sustained in part and the
Motion to Strike denied on February 23, 2024. 
 
On October 09, 2023, the action was
transferred to the Los Angeles Superior Court at the Michael Antonovich
Courthouse. 
 
On March 21, 2024, Plaintiff filed her Third
Amended Complaint (“TAC”) alleging five causes of action for: (1) Medical
Negligence against Hall Ambulance; (2) Negligent Hiring, Retention, and
Supervision against Hall Ambulance; (3) Dependent Adult Negligent/Abuse (Cal.
Welf. & Inst. Code § 15657); (4) Survivor Action against all defendants;
and (5) Wrongful Death against all defendants.
 
On April 22, 2024, Hall Ambulance filed its
Answer.
 
On April 23, 2024, AVHD filed this Demurrer.
 
On May 08, 2024, Plaintiff filed her
Opposition. 
 
On May 14, 2024, AVHD filed its Reply. 
 
-----
 
Legal Standard
 
Judicial Notice –
AVHD’s request for judicial notice requests notice as to court records within
this action and, as such, is GRANTED. 
 
Evidentiary Objections
– On Reply, Plaintiff has filed objections to The Declaration of Plaintiff’s
counsel, D.L. Rancher (“Rancher”). Rancher’s declaration is discussed, infra.
 
Standard for Demurrer – A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of
action.¿ (Hahn v.¿Mirda¿(2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) ¿When
considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context.¿ (Taylor
v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and Power¿(2006) 144 Cal.App.4th
1216, 1228.)¿ In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the
face of the pleading or by proper judicial notice.¿ (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §
430.30(a).)¿A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic
matters.¿ (SKF Farms v. Superior Court¿(1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902,
905.)¿Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the
pleading or are judicially noticed.¿¿(Ibid.)¿¿The only issue involved in
a demurrer hearing is¿whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with
extraneous matters, states a cause of action.¿ (Hahn,¿supra,¿147
Cal.App.4th at 747.)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
A general demurrer admits the truth of all
factual, material allegations properly pled in the challenged pleading,
regardless of possible difficulties of proof.¿¿(Blank v. Kirwan (1985)
39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)¿ Thus, no matter how unlikely or improbable, plaintiff’s
allegations must be accepted as true for the purpose of ruling on the
demurrer.¿¿(Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co.¿(1981) 123
Cal.App.3d 593, 604.)¿ Nevertheless, this rule does not apply to allegations
expressing mere conclusions of law, or allegations contradicted by the exhibits
to the complaint or by matters of which judicial notice may be taken.¿¿(Vance
v. Villa Park¿Mobilehome¿Estates¿(1995) 36 Cal.App.4th 698, 709.)¿A general
demurrer does not admit contentions, deductions, or conclusions of fact or law
alleged in the complaint; facts impossible in law; or allegations contrary to
facts of which a court may take judicial notice.¿¿(Blank,¿supra,
39 Cal.3d at p. 318.)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
Pursuant to¿Code Civ. Proc.¿§430.10(e), the
party against whom a complaint has been filed may object by demurrer to the
pleading on the grounds that the pleading does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action.¿ It is an abuse of discretion to sustain a
demurrer without leave to amend if there is a reasonable probability that the
defect can be cured by amendment.¿¿(Schifando¿v. City of Los Angeles¿(2003)
31 Cal.4th 1074, 1082,¿as modified Dec. 23, 2003.)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿
 
-----¿¿¿¿ 
 
Meet and Confer Requirement – Before filing a demurrer or a motion to strike, the demurring or moving
party is required to meet and confer with the party who filed the pleading
demurred to or the pleading that is subject to the motion to strike for the
purposes of determining whether an agreement can be reached through a filing of
an amended pleading that would resolve the objections to be raised in the
demurrer. (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §§ 430.41 and 435.5.) The Court notes that this
requirement has been met. (See Demurrer by AVHD, Decl. Ryan S. Riddles ¶¶ 3-5.)
 
-----
 
Discussion
 
Application – AVHD
demurs to the Third, Fourth, and Fifth Causes of Action.
 
       
i.           
Third Cause of Action (Dependent Adult Negligent/Abuse (Cal. Welf.
& Inst. Code § 15657)
 
AVHD argues that the TAC does not
adequately allege that Decedent was a dependent adult. Specifically, AVHD
highlights that the alleged symptoms continue to be connected to fentanyl use
and the TAC is devoid of particularized allegations regarding Decedent’s
physical or mental limitations, or that Decedent was an inpatient. AVHD
presents the current allegations in paragraph 64: “Upon information and belief,
a question of fact exists as to whether [Decedent] was administratively
admitted as an inpatient, but there is no evidence to suggest that [Decedent]
would not have been admitted as an inpatient at [Defendant Hospital] in light
of his medical condition including chest pains, bounding radial pulse, sinus
tachycardia and derangement.” AVHD argues that this is not particularized as
needed for a claim under the Elder Abuse Act. AVHD further argues that the TAC
fails to adequately allege caretaking or custodial relationship, including a
duty to prevent Decedent’s suicide; invokes the sham pleading doctrine; and
does not adequately allege neglect or abuse. AVHD contends that it is subject
to the immunities provided in Cal. Gov. Code §§ 855.6 and 855.8.
 
Plaintiff argues that she has
sufficiently pled her Third Cause of Action because Decedent was an inpatient
admitted at a general acute care hospital, directing the Court and the parties
to paragraphs 30 to 41 and 61 to 70 in the TAC. Plaintiff presents that AVHD
had notice of Decedent’s psychotic episode prior to transport and whether a
caretaking or custodial relationship exists is a question of fact and is
reserved for the jury. Plaintiff further argues (1) the sham pleading doctrine
does not apply if Plaintiff is able to offer a plausible explanation for the
amendment and show that a mistake was made in drafting the original pleading,
Plaintiff erred in stating that only intake was occurring at the time of the
underlying incident, and that reports indicate that Decedent was checked in at
the time of the underlying incident; and (2) statutory immunity does not apply
as Hall Ambulance already diagnosed Decedent’s mental condition prior to
Decedent’s arrival at the hospital and AVHD’s failure to place Decedent on a
5150 hold falls under Cal. Gov. Code § 855.6(d).
 
On Reply, AVHD reiterates
arguments within its moving papers: (1) Plaintiff’s allegations fail to satisfy
the heightened pleading standard for an elder abuse claim, (2) the TAC does not
adequately allege that Decedent was a dependent adult; (3) the TAC does not
adequately allege that AVHD had a custodial relationship with Decedent; (4)
there has been no factual allegations regarding recklessness, oppression,
fraud, or malice; (5) the TAC implicates; and (6) AVHD did not have a duty
prevent Decedent’s suicide. 
 
The Court first addresses the
sham pleading doctrine. Plaintiff concedes in her current Opposition, Plaintiff
stated that only intake was occurring in her Opposition to the demurrer to the
SAC. (See Opp. 6:7-9.) The TAC states, in relevant part:
 
Upon information and
belief, after MR. BARDIN was triaged and admitted to DEFENDANT HOSPITAL,
DEFENDANT ANTELOPE VALLEY when they failed to conduct an assessment of MR.
BARDIN’s mental state, and either put the bag containing the gun BARDIN used to
commit suicide on his chest or allowed the bag to be placed there.
 
[. . .]
 
Upon information and
belief, MR. BARDIN required urgent care due to his chest pains, bounding radial
pulse, sinus tachycardia, and derangement, such that MR. BARDIN was transported
to ANTELOPE VALLEY to be admitted as an inpatient.
 
Upon information and
belief, a question of fact exists as to whether MR. BARDIN was administratively
admitted as an inpatient, but there is no evidence to suggest that MR. BARDIN
would not have been admitted as an inpatient at DEFENDANT HOSPITAL in light of
his medical condition including chest pains bounding radial pulse, sinus
tachycardia and derangement.
 
At all times
relevant, DEFENDANTS knew of MR. BARDIN’s chest pains, bounding radial pulse,
sinus tachycardia, derangement, and fentanyl use that “messed with his head.”
MR. BARDIN’s condition, need for treatment, and inability to care for himself
was comparable to the condition of persons who are compelled to live in health
care facilities
 
At all times
relevant, MR. BARDIN was a dependent adult pursuant to Welfare &
Institutions Code § 15610.23(a) as he was between the age of 18 and 64 and had
physical or mental limitations that restricted his or her ability to carry out
normal activities or to protect his own rights.
 
At all times
relevant, ANTELOPE VALLEY, HALL AMBULANCE and DOES 1 through 50 were care
custodians as defined in Welfare & Institutions Code § 15610.17. DEFENDANTS
and each of them, had a custodial relationship with MR. BARDIN while under
their care, custody, and control of MR. BARDIN.
 
At all times
relevant, the actions of DEFENDANTS and each of them rose to the level of abuse
when they deprived him of care and services necessary to avoid physical harm or
mental suffering while he was in imminent danger of harming himself (as defined
by Welfare & Institutions Code § 15610.39).
 
At all times
relevant, the actions of DEFENDANTS and each of them rose to the level of
reckless neglect when they failed to protect him from health and safety
hazards, including the danger of harming himself.
 
DEFENDANTS’ failures
and neglect of MR. BARDIN led to the foreseeable result of MR. BARDIN hurting
himself and sustaining severe and ongoing injuries
 
(TAC ¶¶ 63-70.) 
 
Rancher’s declaration directs to
the Court to Exhibit A for evidence of mistake. Such evidence is not considered
on a Demurrer. (See ante.) 
 
The Court takes judicial notice of
the SAC for the purpose of the sham pleading doctrine.  
 
The SAC states, in relevant part:
 
At all times
relevant herein MR. BARDIN was in the medical and/or custodial care of
DEFENDANTS.        
 
[. . .]
 
DEFENDANTS, and
each of them, undertook custodial care of Mr. Bardin breached their legal,
professional, and custodial duties by allowing the abuse and neglect of MR.
BARDIN and proximately causing injuries, as set forth more fully hereafter. . .

 
[. . .]
 
Upon arrival and
intake to ANTELOPE VALLEY, DEFENDANTS failed to secure MR. BARDIN and/or search
his person for illicit drugs, weapons, and/or other items which could cause
harm to himself and others. 
 
[. . .]
 
DEFENDANTS failed
to ensure that MR. BARDIN, while in their custodial care, possessed no objects
that could harm himself of others which led to his death. 
 
(SAC ¶¶ 4, 17, 34, 47.) 
 
There are no allegations within
the SAC that intake did not occur. AVHD’s support for imputing the argument is:
“Under the sham pleading doctrine, a pleader cannot circumvent prior admissions
by the easy device of amending a pleading without explanation. Womack v.
Lovell, 237 Cal. App. 4th 772, 787 (2015).” Plaintiff’s previous arguments
are not within any filed complaint. The sham pleading doctrine is not at issue.

 
The issue of intake versus
admission, which establishes a hospital-patient relationship is a question of
fact and, as such, would be in the purview of the jury. However, this a
demurrer and the determination of triable issues of material fact are not at issue.
The Court directs the parties to its legal standard, ante, and highlights that
a demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of
action. In the TAC, admission is addressed by Plaintiff. 
 
Statutory interpretation is a matter of
law for the Court to decide. (See Christensen v. Lightbourne (2017) 15
Cal.App.5th 1239, 1251 [“'On questions of law arising in mandate proceedings,
[the court] exercise[s] independent judgment.' …. Interpretation of a statute
or regulation is a question of law.”]; In re J. W. (2002) 29 Cal.4th
200, 209 [“If there is no ambiguity in the language of the statute, ‘then the
Legislature is presumed to have meant what it said, and the plain meaning of
the language governs.’ [Citation.] ‘Where the statute is clear, courts will not
“interpret away clear language in favor of an ambiguity that does not exist.”
[Citation.]’ [Citation.]”]; Hernandez v. Modesto Portuguese Pentecost Assn.
(1995) 40 Cal.App.4th 1274, 1280 [“Because liability in this case turns upon a
question of statutory interpretation, it is a question of law for the court to
decide in a summary judgment motion.”].) 
 
Cal. Welf. & Inst. Code § 15610.23
provides: 
 
(a) “Dependent adult” means a person,
regardless of whether the person lives independently, between the ages of 18
and 64 years who resides in this state and who has physical or mental
limitations that restrict his or her ability to carry out normal activities or
to protect his or her rights, including, but not limited to, persons who have
physical or developmental disabilities, or whose physical or mental abilities have
diminished because of age. 
 
(b) “Dependent adult” includes any person
between the ages of 18 and 64 years who is admitted as an inpatient to a
24-hour health facility, as defined in Sections 1250, 1250.2, and 1250.3 of the
Health and Safety Code. 
 
The Complaint alleges that
Decedent’s symptoms were connected to fentanyl use, not a physical or mental
limitation that restricted his ability to carry out normal activities or to
protect his rights. (See TAC ¶¶ 31.) As such, Decedent does not fall under Cal.
Welf. & Inst. Code § 15610.23(a). The following definitions are applicable
to Cal. Welf. & Inst. Code § 15610.23(b) and this action:
 
·        
“
‘General acute care hospital’ means a health facility having a duly constituted
governing body with overall administrative and professional responsibility and
an organized medical staff that provides 24-hour inpatient care, including the
following basic services: medical, nursing, surgical, anesthesia, laboratory,
radiology, pharmacy, and dietary services. A general acute care hospital may
include more than one physical plant maintained and operated on separate
premises as provided in Section 1250.8. A general acute care hospital that
exclusively provides acute medical rehabilitation center services, including at
least physical therapy, occupational therapy, and speech therapy, may provide
for the required surgical and anesthesia services through a contract with
another acute care hospital. In addition, a general acute care hospital that,
on July 1, 1983, provided required surgical and anesthesia services through a
contract or agreement with another acute care hospital may continue to provide
these surgical and anesthesia services through a contract or agreement with an
acute care hospital. The general acute care hospital operated by the State
Department of Developmental Services at Agnews Developmental Center may, until
June 30, 2007, provide surgery and anesthesia services through a contract or
agreement with another acute care hospital. Notwithstanding the requirements of
this subdivision, a general acute care hospital operated by the Department of
Corrections and Rehabilitation or the Department of Veterans Affairs may
provide surgery and anesthesia services during normal weekday working hours,
and not provide these services during other hours of the weekday or on weekends
or holidays, if the general acute care hospital otherwise meets the
requirements of this section. . .” (Cal. Health & Saf. Code §
1250(a).)  
·        
"Inpatient"
means a person who has been admitted to a hospital, skilled nursing facility,
or intermediate care facility for bed occupancy for purposes of receiving
inpatient services. A person is considered an inpatient when he is formally
admitted as an inpatient with the expectation that he will remain at least
overnight and occupy a bed, even though it later develops that he can be
discharged or that he is transferred to another facility and does not actually
use a bed overnight. (Cal. Code Regs., tit. 22, § 51108 (Lexis Advance through
Register 2024, No. 3, January 19, 2024).) 
 
Plaintiff has attempted to
rectify the previous deficiency regarding Cal. Welf. & Inst. Code §
15610.23(b) by adding:
 
Upon information and
belief, MR. BARDIN required urgent care due to his chest pains, bounding radial
pulse, sinus tachycardia, and derangement, such that MR. BARDIN was transported
to ANTELOPE VALLEY to be admitted as an inpatient.
 
Upon information and
belief, a question of fact exists as to whether MR. BARDIN was administratively
admitted as an inpatient, but there is no evidence to suggest that MR. BARDIN
would not have been admitted as an inpatient at DEFENDANT HOSPITAL in light of
his medical condition including chest pains bounding radial pulse, sinus
tachycardia and derangement.
 
(TAC ¶¶ 63-64.)
 
The SAC was previously silent as
to inpatient status or how the symptoms would affect potential inpatient care.
Rather, the SAC focused on a comparison to others who are “compelled to live in
health care facilities.” As alleged currently, a reasonable inference can be
drawn that Decedent would need inpatient care due to the symptoms alleged. 
 
“It is true that statutory elder
abuse includes ‘neglect as defined in Section15610.57,’ which in turn includes
negligent failure of an elder custodian ‘to provide medical care for [the
elder’s] physical and mental health needs.’ . . .‘[N]eglect’ within the meaning
of Welfare and Institutions Code section15610.57 covers an area of misconduct
distinct from ‘professional negligence. As used in the Act, neglect refers not
to the substandard performance of medical services but, rather, to the ‘failure
of those responsible for attending to the basic needs and comforts of elderly
or dependent adults, regardless of their professional standing, to carry out
their custodial obligations.’ Thus, the statutory definition of ‘neglect’
speaks not of the undertaking of medical services, but of the failure to
provide medical care.” (Covenant Care, Inc. v. Superior Court (2004) 32
Cal.4th 771, 783.) “[T]he Act does not apply unless the defendant health care
provider had a substantial caretaking or custodial relationship, involving
ongoing responsibility for one or more basic needs, with the elder patient. It
is the nature of the elder or dependent adult’s relationship with the defendant
- not the defendant’s professional standing - that makes the defendant
potentially liable for neglect.” (Winn v. Pioneer Medical Group, Inc. (2016)
63 Cal.4th 148, 152.) 
 
Here, the alleged duty that was
violated is: “At all times relevant, the actions of DEFENDANTS and each of them
rose to the level of abuse when they deprived him of care and services
necessary to avoid physical harm or mental suffering while he was in imminent
danger of harming himself (as defined by Welfare & Institutions Code §
15610.39). At all times relevant, the actions of DEFENDANTS and each of them
rose to the level of reckless neglect when they failed to protect him from
health and safety hazards, including the danger of harming himself.” (TAC ¶ 68-69.)
Plaintiff’s allegations of a custodial relationship in paragraph 67 are
conclusory as it is without a factual allegation on which an inference that a
caretaking or custodial relationship can be made. As alleged, the duty breached
is not one that shows failure to attend to Decedent’s basic needs and comforts
and is more akin to professional negligence. 
 
Further, Cal. Gov. Code § 855.6
reads:
 
Except for an
examination or diagnosis for the purpose of treatment, neither a public entity
nor a public employee acting within the scope of his employment is liable for
injury caused by the failure to make a physical or mental examination, or to
make an adequate physical or mental examination, of any person for the purpose
of determining whether such person has a disease or physical or mental
condition that would constitute a hazard to the health or safety of himself or
others.
 
It appears that Cal. Gov. Code §
855.6 acts as a bar to Plaintiff’s cause of action. While Plaintiff argues that
it does not apply as “Defendant Hospital’s immunity argument fails because
Decedent’s mental condition was already diagnosed by Defendant Hall Ambulance
prior to his arrival at the hospital” and “Defendant Hospital’s failure to
place Mr. Bardin on a 5150-hold after being notified that Decedent would need
psychiatric medical treatment upon his arrival falls under the exception
provided in Cal. Gov. Code §855.6(d), which states, ‘Nothing in this section
exonerates a public employee from liability for injury proximately caused by
his negligent or wrongful act or omission in administering any treatment
prescribed for mental illness or addiction.’ ” (Opp. 7:6-7, 7:10-14). Plaintiff
does not provide any statute or case precedent allowing the imputation of Hall
Ambulance’s diagnosis on AVHD to replace AVHD’s own diagnosis. In fact, there
are no allegations to an administration or treatment by AVHD to Decedent. 
 
Accordingly, the Demurrer to the
Third Cause of Action is SUSTAINED.
 
     
ii.           
Fourth Cause of Action (Survivor Action)
 
AVHD argues that the Fourth Cause
of action is not a cause of action and is derivative of the Third and Fifth
Causes of Action. The Court directs the parties infra to section iii for
discussion of the Fifth Cause of Action.
 
Plaintiff argues that she has
standing to bring a survival cause of action, all requirements have been met,
and no other person has the right to commence the instant action as successor
in interest to Decedent. Plaintiff believes that her survival action is
sufficiently pled. 
 
AVHD, in Reply, presents that survivorship
is not a cause of action, and, even if the Court finds that survivorship is a
cause of action, the claim is derivative and must fail. 
 
In a survival action, the damages
recoverable by a decedent's representative or successor in interest on the
decedent's Cause of Action are limited to the loss or damage that the decedent
sustained or incurred before death. Code of Civil Procedure Section 377.34.
“The survival statutes do not create a cause of action. Rather, ‘[t]hey merely
prevent the abatement of the cause of action of the injured person, and provide
for its enforcement by or against the personal representative of the deceased.’
(Quiroz v. Seventh Ave. Center (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 1256, 1264.) 
 
A survival action is not a cause of
action.
 
Accordingly, the Demurrer to the Fourth
Cause of Action is SUSTAINED.
 
 
   
iii.           
Fifth Cause of Action (Wrongful Death)
 
AVHD presents that the claim for
wrongful death is uncertain as to what purported wrongful acts are attributable
to AVHD. AVHD argues that it did not have a duty to prevent Decedent’s suicide
as one is ordinarily not liable for the actions of another and under no duty to
protect another from harm, in the absence of a special relationship of custody
or control. AVHD further argues that Decedent’s actions were not foreseeable
based on the allegations of the TAC.
 
Plaintiff argues that she has
standing to bring a survival cause of action, all requirements have been met,
and no other person has the right to commence the instant action as successor
in interest to Decedent. Plaintiff believes that her wrongful death claim is
sufficiently pled. 
 
In Reply, AVHD reiterates the
case law cited in its moving papers, emphasizing foreseeability. 
 
The elements of the cause of action for
wrongful death are the tort (negligence or other wrongful act), the resulting
death, and the damages, consisting of the pecuniary loss suffered by the
heirs.” (Lattimore v. Dickey, supra, 239 Cal.App.4th 959, 968.)
“In any action for wrongful death resulting from negligence, the complaint must
contain allegations as to all the elements of actionable negligence.” (Novak
v. Continental Tire North America (2018) 22 Cal.App.5th 189, 195.)  
 
Plaintiff’s TAC alleges the following
negligence for the Fifth Cause of Action:
 
On or about June 11,
2022, Decedent consulted DEFENDANTS, and each of them, for the purpose of
obtaining diagnosis, care, and treatment in connection with chest pains
reactions or other problems leading to breathing impairment and other medical
conditions and employed said DEFENDANTS, and each of them, to examine,
diagnose, treat, and care for Decedent for compensation, which PLAINTIFF agreed
to pay.
 
DEFENDANTS, and each
of them, undertook, individually and by and through their agents, servants, and
employees, to examine, diagnose, treat, prescribe for, and care for Decedent,
including but not limited to examining, diagnosing, providing to and prescribing
for and administering various devices, drugs, and medications, and securing
decedent’s person for dangerous items. Said DEFENDANTS, and each of them did
examine, treat, prescribe care for or treat, did fail to prescribe and care for
Decedent by means of various procedures, including but not limited to physical
examinations, searching for dangerous objects, failure to secure and observe
Decedent properly, and failure to administer certain drugs and medications.
 
(TAC ¶¶ 82-83.)
 
The TAC is not uncertain as it
imputes all alleged actions of negligence on both defendants.
 
AVHD’s argument centers on
foreseeability. 
 
In an action for wrongful death
of an individual who has committed suicide, the intentional act of suicide “is
a superseding cause of harm and relieves the original actor of liability unless
such act was reasonably foreseeable or the failure to foresee such act was a
factor in the original negligence. [Citation.]” (Lucas v. City of Long Beach
(1976) 60 Cal.App.3d 341, 351.) “In general, if the risk of injury is
reasonably foreseeable, the defendant is liable. An independent intervening act
is a superseding cause relieving the actor of liability for his negligence only
if the intervening act is highly unusual or extraordinary and hence not
reasonably foreseeable. [Citations.] Reasonable foreseeability in this context
is a question for the trier of fact.” (Cline v. Watkins (1977) 66
Cal.App.3d 174, 178.)
 
As foreseeability is within the
province of a jury. AVHD’s cited cases, Meier v. Ross General Hospital
(1968) 69 Cal.2d 420 and Vistica v. Presbyterian Hospital (1967) 67
Cal.2d 465, concern judgment entered after a jury trial and are not applicable
to this stage of the pleadings. AVHD does not argue the alleged factual
allegations concerning their negligence for this cause of action with this
Demurrer. 
 
As pled, the Fifth Cause of
Action contains the elements required of a wrongful death claim. (See TAC P
83-84 [allegations of causation] and Prayer for Relief for damages.)
 
Accordingly, the Demurrer to the
Fifth Cause of Action is OVERRULED.
 
-----
 
Leave to Amend
 
Leave to amend must be allowed where there
is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy¿(1976),
18 Cal.3d 335, 348.)¿While under California law¿leave¿to amend¿is liberally granted,
“leave¿to amend¿should not be granted¿where, in all probability, amendment
would be futile.”¿(Vaillette¿v. Fireman's Fund Ins. Co.¿(1993),¿18 Cal.
App. 4th 680, 685).¿“A trial court does not abuse its discretion when it
sustains a demurrer without¿leave to amend¿if either (a) the facts and the
nature of the claims are clear and no liability exists, or (b) it is probable
from the nature of the defects and previous unsuccessful attempts to plead that
the plaintiff cannot state a claim.” (Cantu v. Resolution Trust Corp.¿(1992)¿4
Cal.App.4th 857, 889.)¿
 
As to the Third Cause of Action, it does
not appear from the facts alleged that an amendment can rectify the
deficiencies. That is, Plaintiff has tried three times to amend its allegations
related to this cause of action, the Court has ruled on it twice and, based on
the allegations, Decedent was at the initial intake or recently admitted and had
not even entered the hospital, so a custodial or caretaking relationship could
not ensure. (See SAC ¶ 38 [“Not only did DEFENDANTS fail to carry out their
duties to prevent the gun BARDIN used to kill himself from entering the
hospital, they put the bag on his chest.”].) Plaintiff appears to seek to
change this allegation, now stating that Decedent was not checked “while he lay
on a gurney in the hospital” and “[a]s a result of said breach,
HALL AMBULANCE actually and proximately caused MR. BARDIN to possess a pistol,
which he ultimately used to shoot himself in the chest while in the custody of
the DEFENDANTS” (TAC ¶ 22, 52.) Plaintiff cannot disregard her original
factual allegations without triggering the sham pleading doctrine. While
Plaintiff has included an argument for the sham pleading doctrine and an
explanation or intake versus admission, no explanation is given as to how
Decedent suddenly went from committing suicide prior to entering the hospital
to lying in the hospital. Should Plaintiff seek to amend the pleadings
regarding Decedent’s whereabouts which may rectify the deficiencies, Plaintiff
is requested to file a formal leave to amend motion in which the issue of the
sham pleading doctrine can be addressed. 
 
As to the Fourth Cause of Action,
a survival action is not a cause of action and Plaintiff cannot rectify this
deficiency with an amendment. 
 
Accordingly, the Court does not
allow leave to amend.  
 
-----
 
Conclusion
 
Defendant Antelope Valley’s Demurrer is SUSTAINED in
part as to the Third Cause of Action (Dependent Adult Negligent/Abuse (Cal.
Welf. & Inst. Code § 15657) and Fourth Cause of Action (Survivor Action)
and OVERRULED as to the Fifth Cause of Action (Wrongful Death).