 Case Number:  23LBCV00357    Hearing Date:   April 2, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.    
Background
Facts
Plaintiff, Young Pil filed this action against Defendant, General Motors,
LLC for violations of the Song-Beverly Act. 
The parties entered into a settlement, pursuant to which Defendant would
pay Plaintiff $30,000, a stipulation that Plaintiff can keep the vehicle
through the end of the lease period, and an agreement that Plaintiff is
entitled to attorneys’ fees and costs.  
 
2.    
Motion
for Attorneys’ Fees and Costs  
a.    
Request
for Judicial Notice
Plaintiff, with his moving papers, seeks judicial notice of various other
trial court lemon law decisions on motions for attorneys’ fees.  The purpose of the RJN is to show that other
trial courts have awarded similar billing rates to attorneys with similar
experience.  The RJN is granted.
 
b.    
“Canned”
Work 
The majority of Defendant’s argument in opposition to the motion is that
Plaintiff is billing an excessive number of hours for what is essentially
“canned” work – work that is repeated in connection with every lemon law case
litigated.  The Court tends to agree.  Defendant has shown, at pages 7-10 of the
opposition brief, that the work done in this case is substantially the same as
the work Plaintiff’s attorney does in every lemon law case.  The Court will not repeat the argument or
showing in this ruling, but agrees that the billing is excessive.  The Court is inclined to reduce the billing
by 1/3 in light of its finding that the billing is padded and redundant with
other cases.  
 
c.    
Pre-Engagement
Work
Defendant argues time prior to attorney engagement is not compensable,
citing Dominguez v. American Suzuki Motor Corp. (2008) 160 Cal.App.4th
53, 58 in support of its position.  Plaintiff
correctly notes in reply that Defendant is misconstruing the holding of
Dominguez.  The crux of the holding in
Dominguez was that a potential plaintiff in a lemon law suit is not entitled to
fees if the defendant settles the case prior to filing.  This is in keeping with the purpose of the
lemon law statutes, which is to encourage a car manufacturer, when faced with a
meritorious claim, to buy back the vehicle without the need for
litigation.  The Court therefore finds
the pre-engagement time was also a component of the fees expended, and will not
reduce that time to zero, as suggested by Defendant.  
 
d.    
Motion
to Compel
Defendant also argues Plaintiff’s time spent drafting a motion to compel
should be reduced to zero because the case settled prior to the hearing on the motion.  Plaintiff, in reply, shows that the case
settled AFTER the motion was filed; indeed, Defendant made its settlement offer
after the motion was filed.  The Court
will therefore also not reduce this time to zero.
e.    
Costs
Plaintiff seeks to recover $900.59 in costs, and Defendant challenges $173.11
of those costs.  Costs are recoverable by way of a memorandum
of costs, and any challenge must be made by way of a motion to strike or tax
costs.  CRC 3.1700.  Plaintiff has set forth no authority
permitting it to recover costs via noticed motion, and the Court knows of
none.  The request for costs is therefore
denied.  The ruling is without prejudice
to Plaintiff’s right to seek recovery of costs in a manner permitted by the
Rules of Court.  
 
f.     
Conclusion
Plaintiff’s motion is granted, but the requested $41,350.59 in fees is
reduced by 1/3, and Plaintiff is awarded $28,026.51 in fees.  Plaintiff
is ordered to give notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.   