 Case Number:  23CMCV00946    Hearing Date:   April 2, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Complaint
Plaintiff, San Tropez Homeowners
Association filed this action against Defendants, PAMC Services, Inc., LBCM,
Inc., and Christina McCandless for conversion, breach of confidential relationship,
negligence, and unfair competition. 
Plaintiff alleges it entered into a management agreement with a
non-party, who assigned its rights and obligations under the agreement to
LBCM.  LBCM later assigned its rights and
obligations to PAMC.  Plaintiff alleges
LBCM, PAMC, and its principal, McCandless, breached various duties arising
under the management agreement.  
 
2.     Cross-Complaint
On 11/06/23, LBCM filed a cross-complaint
against McCandless, PAMC, and Principle Association Management, Inc.  Plaintiff’s cross-complaint includes claims
for express indemnification (against PAMC), equitable indemnification (against
all cross-defendants), equitable indemnification (against all
cross-defendants), and declaratory relief (against all cross-defendants).  As it relates to Moving Cross-Defendant,
Principle, the cross-complaint alleges Principle failed to use reasonable care
in managing the Material Contract with Plaintiff.  At ¶10, LBCM allege the “material contract”
was between LBCM and Plaintiff (San Tropez). 

 
3.     Demurrer
a.    
Legal
Standard
A demurrer for sufficiency tests
whether the complaint states a cause of action. 
(Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147
Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)  When considering
demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context.  (Taylor
v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th
1216, 1228.)  In a demurrer proceeding,
the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial
notice.  (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)  “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not
the evidence or other extrinsic matters. 
Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the
pleading or are judicially noticed.”  (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153
Cal.App.3d 902, 905.)  “The only issue
involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected
with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”  (Hahn,
supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at 747.)
 
b.    
Meet
and Confer
Cross-Defendant filed a meet and confer declaration with the
demurrer.  The meet and confer
declaration is sufficient, and the Court will rule on the demurrer on its
merits.
 
c.    
Request
for Judicial Notice
Principle seeks judicial notice of the complaints in this action and the
related actions.  The RJN is granted.
 
d.    
Analysis
Principle
correctly notes, in its demurrer, that the crux of the cross-complaint is that
Principle should indemnify LBCM in connection with the breach of the “material
agreement,” which ran between LBCM and San Tropez.  Principle correctly notes that it was not a party
to the material agreement, and therefore had no duties under the agreement.  
 
LBCM,
in opposition to the demurrer, argues it is being sued by San Tropez in tort,
and is seeking indemnification based on those tort claims.  Principle, in reply, correctly notes that
none of the allegations in the cross-complaint relate to tort claims.  At ¶¶15 and 16, LBCM alleges Principle is
liable for failure to use reasonable care in managing the material contract;
again, Principle is not a party to the material contract.  ¶¶21 and 22 contain the same allegations, and
¶¶25 and 26 allege declaratory relief is necessary for the reasons set forth
above.  Those are the only paragraphs in the
cross-complaint that reference Principle.
 
Because
the cross-complaint alleges solely that Principle must indemnify LBCM for its
role in “managing the material contract,” and because Principle was not a party
to the material contract, the demurrer is sustained.  Leave to amend is granted if and only if LBCM
can allege some non-contractual basis for its claims against Principle.  
 
If
LBCM wishes to amend its cross-complaint, it must do so within twenty
days.  Principle must file a responsive
pleading within the statutory time thereafter. 

 
Moving Cross-Defendant is ordered
to give notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative.