 Case Number:  23LBCV01779    Hearing Date:   April 2, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Complaint
Plaintiff, Clara Castillo filed
this action against Defendants, LunaSol Holdings, LLC and Weststar Property
Management, Inc. for negligence and premises liability arising out of injuries
she sustained when a sliding glass door shattered.
 
2.     Demurrer
a.    
Legal
Standard
A demurrer for sufficiency tests
whether the complaint states a cause of action. 
(Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147
Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)  When considering
demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context.  (Taylor
v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th
1216, 1228.)  In a demurrer proceeding,
the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial
notice.  (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)  “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not
the evidence or other extrinsic matters. 
Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the
pleading or are judicially noticed.”  (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153
Cal.App.3d 902, 905.)  “The only issue
involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands,
unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”  (Hahn,
supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at 747.)
 
b.    
Meet
and Confer
Defense Counsel filed a meet and confer declaration with the
demurrer.  In the declaration, he
declares the attorneys met and conferred by email.  §430.41(a) requires meet and confer to be by
phone or in person.  The Court finds
further meet and confer would not likely resolve the parties’ issues, but asks
Counsel to comply with the “by phone or in person” language in the statute in
the future in connection with this and other actions.  
 
c.    
Timeliness
of Demurrer
Plaintiff filed proof of personal service on Defendant on
10/11/23.  The POS indicates Defendant
was personally served on 10/10/23. 
Defendant filed its demurrer on 12/08/2, almost two months later, and
after the time to do so had expired per CCP §430.40(a).
 
Pursuant to Jackson v. Doe (2011) 192 Cal.App.4th 742, 750, the
Court has discretion to consider a late-filed demurrer.  The Court will do so at this time for two
reasons.  First, Defendant, in reply,
shows that Plaintiff did not timely respond to attempts to meet and confer,
which protracted the time to file the demurrer. 
Second, and more importantly, if the Court were to overrule the demurrer
on the sole ground that it was not timely filed, this would likely result in
Defendant filing a motion for judgment on the pleadings and raising the same
arguments articulated in the demurrer, which would merely protract the
litigation timeline.  It is not in the interest
of judicial economy to leave the issues posed by the demurrer unsettled pending
the filing and hearing of a motion for judgment on the pleadings.  
 
d.    
Request
for Judicial Notice
Defendant
seeks judicial notice of various official records showing it purchased the
subject property on 9/29/21, three days after the incident occurred.  Plaintiff argues the Court can take judicial notice
of the fact that the records are what they purport to be, but not of the truth
of the facts found in the documents.  
 
Two
cases discussing whether and when the contents of a website can be the proper
subject of judicial notice are Jolley v. Chase Home Finance, LLC (2013) 213
Cal.App.4th 872, 887-890 and Scott v. JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.
(2013) 214 Cal.App.4th 743, 752-753, 760.  In Jolley, a purchase agreement between the
FDIC and a bank was posted on the FDIC website, but the Court of Appeals held
that the facts in the agreement were not the proper subject of judicial notice;
the Court specifically noted that the party opposing judicial notice had
testified that the proffered agreement was not the full agreement the parties
had entered into, and a longer version with different terms also existed.  
 
In
Scott, the Court of Appeals held that various documents on the FDIC website
WERE the proper subject of judicial notice, noting that there was no dispute that
the copy of the agreement on the website was the actual agreement, and that there
was no dispute concerning the legal effect of the document.  
 
The
Court is inclined to grant the request for judicial notice.  The request includes four different
documents, specifically the subject grant deed, the assessor’s office website
showing the date of sale, the property report showing the date of sale, and the
final closing statement showing the date of sale.  All four of the documents show the same date
of sale.  It does not appear that the
date of sale is reasonably in dispute.  Notably,
Plaintiff does not allege that the documents are incorrect.  If Plaintiff wishes to allege specific facts
showing the date is incorrect, the Court will grant her leave to do so (as discussed
fully below).  
 
e.     Merits
Plaintiff
argues that, even if the RJN is granted and the Court accepts that Defendant
purchased the property three days after the subject incident, the Court should
overrule the demurrer for two reasons.  
 
First,
she argues the complaint alleges the defendants owned, operated, maintained,
and/or managed the property, and Defendant has not negated the possibility
that, even though it did not own the property, it may have operated, maintained,
and/or managed the property.  Plaintiff’s
argument is nonsensical.  All documents
attached to the RJN show that Defendant purchased the property three days after
the subject incident.  The complaint is
devoid of a specific factual allegation showing that Defendant had some sort of
management or other role in operating the property prior to purchasing the
property.  Pursuant to Doe v. City of Los
Angeles (2007) 42 Cal.4th 531, 549-550, a mere boilerplate pleading
is not sufficient when the allegation at issue is implausible, and essential facts
supporting otherwise implausible allegations must be pled.  
 
Thus,
if Plaintiff wishes to base her claims against Defendant on the allegation that
it maintained, managed, or operated the premises PRIOR TO purchasing the
premises, Plaintiff must plead specific facts supporting this conclusion.
 
Plaintiff’s
second argument is that Defendant may have assumed the seller’s liabilities
during the purchase of the property.  As Defendant
correctly notes in reply, a claim for premises liability can only be asserted
against someone who owns, maintains, manages, or operates the property; control
of the property at the time of the incident is the key determining factor.  Any agreement to assume liabilities would run
between Defendant and the seller, but would have nothing to do with Plaintiff’s
ability to assert a claim.  
 
f.      Conclusion

The demurrer is sustained.  Defendant showed that it purchased the subject
property three days after the incident, such that it is not liable for negligence
or premises liability.  Plaintiff failed
to articulate any reason why the complaint should be permitted to stand.
 
Leave to amend is granted if and only if
Plaintiff can plead specific facts showing that either (a) something about the
otherwise judicially noticeable documents is incorrect, and/or (b) Defendant
managed, maintained, or operated the property prior to purchase.  If Plaintiff cannot plead specific facts
showing either of the above, then she must not amend her complaint as against
this demurring defendant.
 
3.     CMC
and OSC
The parties are reminded that there
is a CMC and OSC on calendar today concurrently with the hearing on the above
demurrer.  The Court asks the parties to
make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing.  