 Case Number:  23LBCV00223    Hearing Date:   April 2, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiff, Robert Joshua Rodrigo
filed 23LBCV00223 against Defendants, Miguel Angel Gonzales, Mission Fleet
Services, LLC, and Mike Gonzalez for damages arising out of an automobile
accident.  The accident occurred on
4/02/21, and Plaintiff filed the complaint on 2/06/23.    
 
Plaintiff, American Family Connect Property
and Casualty Ins Co filed 23LBCV01170 against Defendants, Michael Gonzalez,
Rosario Gonzalez, Miguel Angel Gonzalez, Mission Fleet Services, LLC, and
Robert Joshua Rodrigo for declaratory relief. 
American Family alleges the Gonzalez family removed the subject vehicle
from their insurance policy prior to the collision, then attempted to add the vehicle
back to the policy retroactively a few days after the collision, fraudulently
declaring that the vehicle had sustained no damage during the period of time
when it was not insured.  American Family
seeks a declaration that it does not owe coverage for the subject accident and
that it is entitled to an award of its fees and costs expended in connection
with the litigation concerning the accident. 

 
Both cases have been assigned,
since their inception, to Department S27. 

 
2.     Motion
to Consolidate
a.     Parties’
Positions
Plaintiff seeks an order
consolidating the two actions for all purposes, contending the two actions
arise out of the same automobile accident. 

 
Defendants filed timely opposition
to the motion.  They contend the two
actions do not require resolution of overlapping issues of fact or law, such
that consolidation is not appropriate.  They
argue they will be prejudiced by consolidation, because suggesting Defendants
were not insured could prejudice the jury against them in the collision
case.  
 
Any reply to the opposition was due
on or before 3/26/24.  The Court has not received
timely opposition papers and will not consider late-filed reply papers.  
 
b.    
Law Governing Consolidation
CCP §1048 grants discretion to the trial courts to consolidate actions
involving common questions of law or fact. 
The trial court's decision will not be disturbed on appeal absent a
clear showing of abuse of discretion. 
(Feliner v. Steinbaum (1955) 132 Cal.App.2d 509, 511.)  A consolidation of actions does not affect
the rights of the parties.  The purpose
of consolidation is to avoid unnecessary costs or delay, avoid duplication of
procedure, particularly in the proof of issues common to both action, and avoid
inconsistent results by hearing and deciding common issues together.  (See Estate of Baker (1982) 131 Cal.App.3d
471, 485.)  Each case presents its own
facts and circumstances, but the court generally considers the following: (1)
timeliness of the motion: i.e., whether granting consolidation would delay the
trial of any of the cases involved; (2) complexity: i.e., whether joining the
actions involved would make the trial too confusing or complex for a jury; and
(3) prejudice: i.e, whether consolidation would adversely affect the rights of
any party. (See State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1956) 47
Cal.2d 428, 430–431.)  In deciding
whether to grant a motion to consolidate, the court should weigh whether the
common issues predominate over the individual issues and whether any risks of
jury confusion or prejudice to the parties outweighs the reduction in time and
expense that would result from consolidation. (Todd-Stenberg v. Shield (1996)
48 Cal.App.4th 976, 978.)  
 
Consolidation is a procedure for uniting separate lawsuits for trial,
where they involve common questions of law or fact and are pending in the same
court.  (See CCP § 1048.)  The purpose is to enhance trial court
efficiency (i.e., to avoid unnecessary duplication of evidence and procedures);
and to avoid the substantial danger of inconsistent adjudications (i.e.,
different results because tried before different juries, or a judge and jury,
etc.).  (See Todd-Stenberg v. Dalkon
Shield Claimants Trust (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 976, 978–979.)  
 
A consolidation of actions does not affect the rights of the
parties.  The purpose of consolidation is
merely to promote trial convenience and economy by avoiding duplication of
procedure, particularly in the proof of issues common to both actions.  (See Estate of Baker (1982) 131 Cal.App.3d
471, 485.)  In deciding whether to grant
a motion to consolidate, the court should weigh whether the common issues
predominate over the individual issues and whether any risks of jury confusion
or prejudice to the parties outweighs the reduction in time and expense that
would result from consolidation. (Todd-Stenberg v. Shield (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th
976, 978.)  
 
c.    
Analysis
The Court finds there are
insufficient overlapping issues of fact or law to support consolidating the two
actions.  The issue in 23LBCV00223 is who
caused the automobile accident.  The issue
in 23LBCV01170 is whether the Gonzalezes were insured at the time of the
accident.  Neither the issue nor the
evidence will overlap, and therefore the motion to consolidate is denied.  
 
Plaintiff is ordered to give
notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative.