 Case Number:  24STCV10341    Hearing Date:   November 25, 2024    Dept:  17  
Superior Court of California
County of Los
Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



JOSHUA GREER, et al. 
  
        
  vs.
 
KINGA LOVASZ, et al. 
  


 Case
  No.:  24STCV10341    
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  November 25, 2024




 
 
Defendants’
demurrer is SUSTAINED IN PART, OVERRULED IN PART. Defendants’ demurrer is
SUSTAINED, WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND, as to the third cause of action for NIED.
Defendants’ demurrer is OVERRULED as to the second, fourth, and seventh causes
of action. 
 
Defendants’
motion to strike is GRANTED, WITH 20 DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
On 4/25/2024,
Plaintiffs Joshua and Lemor Greer (Plaintiff) filed suit against Kinga Lovasz,
Management and Leasing Services, Inc., Ruth Friedman, and Lorraine Bases-Fermo
(collectively, Defendants). On 9/4/2024, Plaintiffs filed a first amended
complaint (FAC)  alleging: (1)
negligence; (2) premises liability; (3) negligent infliction of emotional
distress; (4) private nuisance; (5) violation of Los Angeles Tenant
Anti-Harassment Ordinance; (6) breach of contract; (7) breach of implied
warranty of habitability; (8) breach of implied warranty of quiet enjoyment;
(9) constructive eviction; (10) wrongful retention of security deposit; and
(11) violation of Rosenthal Act. 
 
            On
6/28/2024, Cross-Complainants Ruth Friedman and Lorraine Bases-Fermo
(collectively, Cross-Complainants) filed a Cross-Complaint against Joshua and
Lemor Greer (collectively, Cross-Defendants), alleging: (1) breach of lease;
(2) fraud; (3) unjust enrichment; (4) elder abuse; and (5) declaratory relief.
 
            On
10/8/2024, Defendants demurred to the second, third, fourth, and seventh causes
of action of Plaintiffs’ FAC.  Defendants
also move to strike portions of Plaintiffs’ FAC. 
 
Discussion 
 
            Defendants
argue that Plaintiffs’ second, third, fourth, and seventh causes of action are
uncertain and fail to state sufficient facts to state a claim.
 
            As
for the second cause of action, Defendants argue that Plaintiffs’ premises
liability claim is misplaced as it is meant for situations where an in
individual is injured by a hazard on property owned or maintained by someone
else, and this situation does not apply here. 
 
In order to
maintain a cause of action for premises liability, Plaintiffs must show that
(1) Defendants owned or controlled the property, (2) that Defendants were
negligent in the maintenance of the property, (3) that Plaintiffs were harmed,
and (4) that Defendants’ negligence was a substantial factor in causing
Plaintiffs’ harm. (CACI No. 1000.) 
 
            Here,
Plaintiffs allege that plastic pipes were left in the backyard by Defendants,
that these constituted a hazard, and that Plaintiff and one of his children
tripped and suffered physical injuries. (FAC ¶ 28.)  This is sufficient to state a claim at this
time. While Defendants argue that Plaintiffs’ children could have walked around
the pipes or that there is no indication that the injury was so serious as to
require medical treatment, this involves factual questions which are not
properly made at the pleadings stage. 
 
            As
for the third cause of action, Defendants argue that negligent infliction of
emotional distress (NIED) is not a stand-alone tort. Negligent infliction of
emotional distress is not an independent tort; it is the tort of negligence to
which the traditional elements of duty, breach of duty, causation, and damages
apply. . . .” (Ess v. Eskaton Properties (2002) 97 Cal.App.4th 120, 126;
Mercado v. Leong (1996) 43 Cal.App.4th 317 and Klein v. Children's
Hospital Medical Center (1996) 46 Cal.App.4th 889.) Given that Plaintiffs’
FAC already includes several causes of action for alleged negligence, the Court
agrees this cause of action is duplicative. Notably, Plaintiffs’ opposition did
not address this cause of action. 
 
            As
for the fourth cause of action for private nuisance, Defendants argue this
claim is duplicative of the negligence claims. In opposition, Plaintiffs note a
body of case law concluding that the torts of negligence and nuisance are
coexisting and often overlapping. (Lussier v. San Lorenzo Valley Water Dist.
(1988) 206 Cal.App.3d 92, 101.) Moreover, Plaintiffs note that while there is
overlap between their nuisance and negligence claims, they are not coextensive:

 
In
particular, Plaintiffs have alleged that intentional conduct on the part of
Defendants contributed to the conditions on the Premises which interfered with
Plaintiffs’ property rights and caused Plaintiffs’ suffering, while in
Plaintiffs’ cause of action for Negligence the focus of the claim is the breach
of the duties Defendants owed to Plaintiffs. (Complaint at ¶¶ 16, 38, 39,
64-73; 97-104.) Further, following the reasoning in Lussier, proof of
Defendants’ negligence could be used to prove an element required for nuisance
even absent intentional conduct on the part of Defendants, provided that the
negligent conduct led to a substantial and unreasonable interference with
Plaintiffs’ property rights, as it did here. 
 
            (Opp.,
6:26-7:8.)
 
            This
is sufficient at the pleading stage to show a nuisance claim, separate and
apart from their negligence claims. 
 
            As
for the seventh cause of action, Defendants argue that Plaintiffs fail to state
a claim for breach of the warranty of habitability because they make conclusory
allegations that “the conditions were brought to Defendants’ attention, without
specifying which conditions were brought to which Defendant’s attention, and
when that notification was made.” (Demurrer, 12: 26-28.) However, Plaintiff
does allege specific conditions, and alleges that Defendants were made aware of
these conditions and given “ample opportunity” to cure the conditions. (FAC ¶
136.) Accepted as true at the pleading stage, this is sufficient to show
"the existence of a material defective condition affecting the premises'
habitability, notice to the landlord of the condition within a reasonable time
after the tenant's discovery of the condition, the landlord was given a
reasonable time to correct the deficiency, and resulting damages." (Erlach
v. Sierra Asset Servicing, LLC (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 1281, 1297.) 
 
            Based
on the foregoing, Defendants’ demurrer is sustained in part, overruled in part.
Defendants’ demurrer is sustained, without leave to amend, as to the third
cause of action for NIED. Defendants’ demurrer is overruled as to the second,
fourth, and seventh causes of action. 
 
Motion to Strike 
 
            Defendants
argue that Plaintiffs has failed to allege sufficient facts to support a claim
for punitive damages. 
 
            As
set forth above, the Court overruled Defendants’ demurrer as to the breach of
warranty of habitability claim. As such, Plaintiffs have necessarily alleged
facts which could show Defendants engaged in despicable
conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious
disregard of the rights or safety of others. (Civ. Code, §
3294, subd. (c)(1).) 
 
            Defendants
also argue that Plaintiffs have failed to state any facts that a managing
officer, director, or managing agent engaged in, or ratified, the acts or
omissions alleged in the FAC. The Court agrees, as Plaintiffs’ FAC does not
contain an allegation that any such qualifying individual under Civil Code
section 3294 ratified the wrongful alleged conduct. As such, Plaintiffs’
punitive damages prayer is insufficiently pled. 
 
            Based
on the foregoing, Defendants’ motion to strike is granted, with 20 days leave
to amend.
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  November   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 