 Case Number:  BC669038    Hearing Date:   November 25, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



CYNTHIA
  LOPEZ
                           
         vs.
 
KENNETH
  LOPEZ
 
                                          


 Case No.: 
  BC669038
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date:  November 25, 2024



 
 
Defendant’s
claim of exemption is GRANTED.
 
On 11/4/2015, Plaintiff Cynthia Lopez filed suit against
Kenneth Lopez. Plaintiff’s first amended complaint (FAC) alleges causes of
action for: (1) defamation-libel; (2) defamation-slander; (3) intentional
infliction of emotional distress; (4) negligent infliction of emotional
distress; (5) malicious prosecution; (6) abuse of process; and (7) injunctive
relief.
 
            On
8/5/2024, Defendant noticed a hearing for a claim of exemption. 
 
Discussion  
 
            Defendant
filed a claim of exemption, claiming a Wells Fargo account and two investment
accounts are exempt from levy. 
 
            As
for the Wells Fargo Account, Defendant submitted documentation to show that the
Wells Fargo Bank Account at issue had, and has, less than $2,170 in it. (Lopez
Decl., ¶ 2, Exh. D). As such, it is exempt from levy under CCP Section
704.220(a), and the California Department of Social Services’ determination
that, between July 1, 2024, and June 30, 2024, the exempt amount in Region 1
for a family of 4 is $2,170. (Walton Decl. ¶ 2, Exh. A).
 
            As
for the Retirement Accounts, CCP section 704 provides in relevant part: 
 
(a)  
As used in this section, “private
retirement plan” means: 
 
*** 
 
(3) Self-employed retirement plans and individual retirement
annuities or accounts provided for in the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
amended, including individual retirement accounts qualified under Section 408
or 408A of that code, to the extent the amounts held in the plans, annuities,
or accounts do not exceed the maximum amounts exempt from federal income
taxation under that code. 
 
*** 
 
(e) Notwithstanding subdivisions (b) and (d), except as
provided in subdivision (f), the amounts described in paragraph (3) of
subdivision (a) are exempt only to the extent necessary to provide for the
support of the judgment debtor when the judgment debtor retires and for the
support of the spouse and dependents of the judgment debtor, taking into
account all resources that are likely to be available for the support of the
judgment debtor when the judgment debtor retires. In determining the amount to
be exempt under this subdivision, the court shall allow the judgment debtor
such additional amount as is necessary to pay any federal and state income
taxes payable as a result of the applying of an amount described in paragraph
(3) of subdivision (a) to the satisfaction of the money judgment.
 
(f)
Where the amounts described in paragraph (3) of subdivision (a) are payable
periodically, the amount of the periodic payment that may be applied to the
satisfaction of a money judgment is the amount that may be withheld from a like
amount of earnings under Chapter 5 (commencing with Section 706.010) (Wage
Garnishment Law). To the extent a lump-sum distribution from an individual
retirement account is treated differently from a periodic distribution under
this subdivision, any lump-sum distribution from an account qualified under
Section 408A of the Internal Revenue Code shall be treated the same as a
lump-sum distribution from an account qualified under Section 408 of the
Internal Revenue Code for purposes of determining whether any of that payment
may be applied to the satisfaction of a money judgment.
 
            Here,
Defendant submitted evidence that the two accounts are retirement accounts: one
is a traditional IRA, the other is a SEP-IRA. As such, this Court cannot order
the levy upon any assets of that account unless they exceed:
 
(1) the
amount “necessary to provide for the support of the judgment debtor when the
judgment debtor retires and for the support of the spouse and dependents of the
judgment debtor, taking into account all resources that are likely to be available
for the support of the judgment debtor when the judgment debtor retires.” (CCP.
§ 704.115(e)); less 
 
(2) State and
Federal income taxes due on the retirement amounts. (Code Civ. Proc. §
704.115(e)).
 
            Here,
as of 11/12/2024, the balance in Mr. Lopez’ SEP IRA and Traditional IRA
Fidelity accounts is $420,523.45. (Lopez Decl. ¶ 3, Exh. E)
 
Mr. Lopez is
currently 55 years old. (Lopez Decl. ¶ 4). He lives with his parents and can
live there without paying rent—although he tries to help out with household
expenses when able, something he states he has not been able to do recently
because of the downturn in property valuation work. (Lopez Decl. ¶ 4). Mr.
Lopez’ projected life span, by the Social Security Administration, at age 65,
is 16.95 more years after he attains age 65. (Walton Decl. ¶ 3, Exh. B). Thus,
if Mr. Lopez retires at age 65, he will need to provide for himself and his
wife for another 17 years. His average monthly expenses for the last three
months have been $2,587—without having paid any rent, because he is living with
his parents. (Lopez Decl. ¶ 5-8, Exh. F-I; Walton Decl. ¶ 4, Exh. C).
Multiplying Mr. Lopez’ projected life expectancy of 17 years by 12 months
yields 204 months he is projected to survive past age 65. (Walton Decl. ¶ 5).
Multiplying 204 months by California’s absolute minimum standard for having a
month’s worth of expenses in the bank account of $2,170 equates to $442,680.
(Walton Decl. 5)
 
            After
review, the Court finds insufficient evidence to conclude that the amount in
Mr. Lopez’ Retirement Accounts were overcontributed to or that they exceed the
amount necessary to provide for the support of the judgment debtor when the
judgment debtor retires and for the support of the spouse and dependents of the
judgment debtor. (CCP § 704.115(e)).) 
 
Based on the
foregoing, Defendant’s claim of exemption is granted. 
 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  December   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 
 