 On January 16, 2019, a Fourth Amended Complaint was filed in this matter for (1) breach of contract and (2) breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing. A motion for summary judgment is set for April 4, 2024. The trial date is set for July 29, 2024. The allegations of this matter were summarized by the Court of Appeal as follows: “In 2003, TCA’s directors approached the Taglyans seeking financial assistance to help expand the school and construct a new school building. Between 2003 and 2008, the Taglyans and TCA orally agreed that the Taglyans would make significant financial contributions to the school pursuant to the following terms: (1) the new school building would be named after the Taglyans; (2) TCA’s directors would act in good faith to insure the continued operation and success of the school; (3) if the school experienced financial difficulty, TCA would notify the school’s donors, including the Taglyans, to permit them to make additional contributions to keep the school operational; (4) TCA’s directors would not take any action to jeopardize the school’s continued operation and would not close it before giving the plaintiffs the opportunity to purchase the school and/or obtain additional financing on the school’s behalf; and (5) if TCA’s directors did not follow this protocol or unilaterally closed the school, they would repay the Taglyans’s contributions with interest. In exchange for these promises, the Taglyans made conditional donations to Dickranian in excess of $1 million. In 2004 and 2006, the Martirosians orally agreed with TCA and its directors to donate $25,000 ($10,000 in 2004 and $15,000 in 2006) to support the new campus. Those contributions were made pursuant to oral agreements whose terms were identical to TCA’s agreements with the Taglyans, except the Martirosians would not receive naming rights.In 1991, the Semirdzhyans orally agreed with TCA and its directors to donate $20,000 to support the school. The Semirdzhyans and TCA entered into an oral contract whose terms were identical to TCA’s agreements with the Taglyans’s except the Semirdzhyans were to receive naming rights to the school’s 11th grade classroom. Plaintiffs duly performed all of their obligations under the oral agreements. TCA breached the oral agreements by failing to advise plaintiffs that the school was in financial difficulty, failing to approach plaintiffs about buying the school or obtaining additional financing, closing the school, selling the land on which the school was situated, and failing to repay plaintiffs any portion of their conditional gifts. Plaintiffs asserted these breaches by TCA caused them damages in excess of $1 million and gave rise to causes of action for breach of contract and breach of the implied covenant of good faith.”Plaintiffs Petros Taglyan and Karine Taglyan now seek leave to file a fifth amended complaint (“5AC”) that adds two new causes of action for promissory fraud and constructive trust “based on new evidence [Defendant] TCA possessed for years but withheld from production.”  Plaintiffs contend this evidence was obtained as a result of the Court’s October 2023 order to compel additional board meeting minutes from Defendant and a subpoena for sale documents that were produced in November 2023 by a title company.  TCA argues the Motion should be denied because (1) Plaintiffs have repeatedly sought to add fraud claims and the prior judicial officer in this matter, Judge Lyons, consistently rejected such efforts; (2) a motion for reconsideration should, therefore, have been filed; (3) Plaintiffs have not been diligent as they waited seven years to propound their additional discovery used to support the instant Motion; (4) there is no support for Plaintiffs’ fraud theory; (5) the pleadings would likewise be based on speculation; and (6) there would be significant prejudice from the 5AC, which would (a) moot TCA’s motion for summary judgment, (b) trigger possible demurrers, and (c) inevitably delay the trial in this matter.The Court may, in the furtherance of justice, and upon any terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading.  (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 473, 576.)  In general, California courts liberally exercise discretion to permit amendment of pleadings in light of a strong policy favoring resolution of all disputes between parties in the same action.  (Nestle v. Santa Monica (1972) 6 Cal.3d 920, 939; Morgan v. Superior Court (1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530.)  “[T]here is a strong policy in favor of liberal allowance of amendments.”  (Mesler v. Bragg Management Co. (1985) 39 Cal.3d 290, 296.)  Pursuant to this policy, requests for leave to amend generally will be granted unless the party seeking to amend has been dilatory in bringing the proposed amendment before the Court, and the delay in seeking leave to amend will cause prejudice to the opposing party if leave to amend is granted.  (Hirsa v. Superior Court (1981) 118 Cal.App.3d 486, 490; Higgins v. Del Faro (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 558, 564-565.)  The decision on a motion for leave is directed to the sound discretion of the trial court.  (See generally Weil & Brown, Cal. Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter Group 2014) ¶¶ 6:637 et seq.)Here, there would seem to be little prejudice because the new fraud theory relates to mostly the same facts and the trial date is not until July 29, 2024, such that discovery could be completed.  With respect to the summary judgment motion, it would make more sense to neutralize any prejudice by allowing a brief trial continuance, rather than denying the instant Motion in its entirety. Further, the proper vehicle by which to challenge an amended pleading’s sufficiency is a demurrer and, in any case, any objection based on the economic loss rule seems to lack merit.  (See Robinson Helicopter Co. v. Dana Corp. (2004) 34 Cal.4th 979, 990.)Next, the procedural objection about a motion for reconsideration lacks merit because, among other reasons, the label of a motion is not determinative, the Motion is premised on evidence that was recently acquired in discovery, and the Court can inherently reconsider its own rulings (see, e.g., Farmers Ins. Exch. v. Superior Ct. (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 96, 207.)The only remaining issue is whether there is any factual support for a fraud theory.  The referenced 2005 TSA board meeting document is not by itself particularly persuasive.  This document shows that the board acknowledged that the school had increased in value and that they considered firing the principal.  Plaintiffs assert that this shows that the TSA knew that firing the principal would reduce enrollment such that TSA could justify selling the school at a profit.  The minutes, however, actually indicate a concern with low enrollment and the hope that a new principal could be more charismatic and apply for new grants so as to improve enrollment and make up for budget shortfalls.  This alone does not show any fraudulent intent not to perform.  On the other hand, there are the subpoenaed documents that show that entities and individuals associated with a board member, Panos Keshishian, obtained hundreds of thousands in profits from the sale of the school and that the TSA made millions in profits from investing the proceeds from the sale.  The Court is not certain these documents actually show fraudulent intent from the outset, but they were never addressed in the Opposition, which creates an inference that the amendment is proper.Thus, the Motion is granted.  The 5AC must be filed separately and within 5 days.  The Court will discuss a potential trial continuance for the purposes of a summary judgment motion.  Moving party to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 