  Case Number:  22PSCV01755    Hearing Date:   April 17, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE NAME:  Joy Yin, et
al. v. Nicholas Simmons, et al. 
Defendants Nicholas and Cathy
Simmons’ Motion to Strike Portions of Plaintiff’s Third Amended Complaint 
TENTATIVE RULING 
The Court GRANTS
Moving Parties’ motion to strike without leave to amend. 
             Moving
Parties are ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar
days of this order. 
BACKGROUND 
This
is a real property dispute. On November 9, 2022, plaintiffs Joy Yin and Ho
Seong Lee (collectively, Plaintiffs) filed this action against defendants
Nicholas Simmons (Nicholas), Cathy Simmons (Cathy) (collectively, Moving
Parties), Prager Metis, CPAs (Prager), Genitrix Georges (Georges), and Does 1
to 10. On September 29, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a Second Amended Complaint
(SAC), alleging causes of action for injury to real property, breach of
contract (Nicholas and Cathy Simmons), intentional misrepresentation/fraud,
breach of contract (Georges/Prager Metis), and trespass. After the Court
sustained a demurrer and granted a motion to strike to the SAC, Plaintiffs
filed the operative Third Amended Complaint (TAC) alleging the same causes of
action. 
On
March 5, 2024, Moving Parties moved to strike certain portions of the TAC. On
April 2, 2024, Plaintiffs opposed the motion. On April 10, 2024, Moving Parties
replied. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
“Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading may
serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole or any part thereof, but this
time limitation shall not apply to motions specified in subdivision (e).”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(2).) “The court may, upon a motion made
pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it
deems proper: (a) Strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted
in any
pleading. (b) Strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed
in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the
court.” (Id., § 436.) 
DISCUSSION 
Meet and Confer 
Per Code of Civil Procedure section
435.5, subdivision (a), Moving Parties were required to meet and confer
telephonically or in person before bringing this motion to strike. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 435.5, subd. (a).) The Court finds Moving Parties’ efforts to meet and
confer sufficient. (Mellring Decl., ¶ 2.) 
Analysis – Irrelevant
Allegations 
(b) An immaterial allegation in a pleading is any of
the following: 
(1) An allegation that is not essential to the statement of a claim or defense. 
(2) An allegation that is neither
pertinent to nor supported by an otherwise sufficient
claim or defense. 
(3) A demand for judgment requesting relief not
supported by the allegations of the complaint or cross-complaint. 
(c) An “immaterial allegation” means “irrelevant
matter” as that term is used in Section 436. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 431.10.) 
Moving Parties seek to strike the
following allegations from the TAC on the grounds that they are irrelevant and
that the TAC does not allege facts evidencing a claim for punitive damages
against them. Moving Parties contend the descriptions of Nicholas[1] as a “dangerous gangster” are
irrelevant, and that Plaintiffs are attempting to portray him in a negative
light via his occupation as a rapper. Moving Parties contend none of the causes
of action at issue here involve any threats of harm to Plaintiffs’ persons, but
the TAC contains many allusions to such. Moving Parties contend the trespass
allegations similarly suffer from including unnecessary allegations about
Nicholas’ reputation as an artist, since the alleged misconduct at issue
involved him purportedly damaging a security camera and throwing rocks into a
pool. 
In opposition, Plaintiffs contend the
allegations are relevant to their claims. Plaintiffs also note that this is
Moving Parties’ first motion to strike, despite having filed two answers to
prior complaints. 
The Court finds Moving Parties’ arguments
to be well taken. To state a cause of action for injury to real property, the
plaintiff must allege facts demonstrating that the defendant’s actions caused immediate and
permanent injury to the real property. (See Krusi v. S.J. Amoroso
Construction Co. (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 995, 1005.) Nicholas’ artistic
profession has no bearing on whether he damaged the subject property as
alleged. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 431.10). 
To state a cause of action for breach of contract,
the plaintiff must allege facts demonstrating the existence of a contract, the
plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance, the defendant’s breach,
and damages. (Richman v. Hartley (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 1182, 1186.)
Nothing in the TAC alleges that the terms of the contract were predicated on
Nicholas’ artistic profession. (See TAC, Exs. B, C, D.) Thus, Nicholas’
artistic profession again has no bearing on this cause of action. (See Code
Civ. Proc., § 431.10). 
To state a cause of action for trespass, the
plaintiff must allege facts demonstrating the plaintiff’s ownership of the
property, the defendant’s intentional, reckless, or negligent entry onto the
property, defendant’s lack of permission to enter the property, damages, and
that the defendant’s conduct was a substantial factor in causing the harm. (Ralphs
Grocery Co. v. Victory Consultants, Inc. (2017) 17 Cal.App.5th 245, 262.) Again,
Nicholas’ artistic profession has no bearing on this cause of action. (See Code
Civ. Proc., § 431.10). 
The Court also finds Plaintiffs’ allegations
regarding Nicholas’ alleged dangerous behavior to be irrelevant to these causes
of action. Plaintiffs’ emotional state is also irrelevant, as Plaintiffs have
not alleged any claims where their emotional state is at issue, such as
intentional or negligent infliction of emotional distress. 
The Court further finds unavailing Plaintiffs’
argument regarding Moving Parties’ lack of prior motions to strike. Code of
Civil Procedure section 435.5, subdivision (b), applies when a party moves to
strike on grounds not asserted in a prior motion to strike that the Court
granted. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5, subd. (b).) By virtue of not having
previously moved to strike, this provision does not apply to Moving Parties’
motion. Additionally, as Moving Parties correctly note in their reply papers, the
prior versions of Plaintiffs’ complaints did not contain the language that the
TAC does regarding Nicholas’ artistic profession or any allegations of Nicholas
promoting a “gangster” image. (See generally Compl., FAC, and SAC.)
Analysis – Punitive Damages 
A claim for punitive damages is subject
to a motion to strike when the allegations fail to rise to the level of malice,
oppression or fraud necessary under Civil Code section 3294. (Turman v.
Turning Point of Central California, Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 64.) 
Moving Parties contend Plaintiffs’ Second
Cause of Action for breach of contract improperly alleges entitlement to
punitive damages. Moving Parties contend punitive damages may not be awarded in
a breach of contract claim. They also contend that the allegations at issue,
specifically paragraph 18, show Plaintiffs really intended for the punitive
damages claim to apply to Prager and Georges. 
In opposition, Plaintiffs cite the
Court’s prior ruling on January 4, 2024,[2] where the Court only struck the language
from the SAC as it pertained to Defendants Prager and Georges, and reiterate
their argument about Moving Parties having not previously moved to strike the
prior complaints. Plaintiffs further contend the TAC includes causes of action
for injury to real property and trespass, which support punitive damages
claims. 
The Court again agrees with Moving
Parties. Civil Code section 3294, subdivision (a), expressly excludes claims
for breach of contract from the scope of punitive damages claims. (Civ. Code, §
3294, subd. (a) [“In an action
for the breach of an obligation not arising from contract…”]; see also Ginsberg
v. Gamson (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 873, 897 [commercial landlord’s breach of
implied covenant of quiet enjoyment was not a tort that allowed tenant to
recover punitive damages, unless there was a wrongful eviction claim].)
Paragraph 42 of the TAC falls under Plaintiffs’ Second Cause of Action for
breach of contract, and therefore does not entitle Plaintiffs to recover
punitive damages. (See TAC, ¶ 42.) Also, as already discussed above, Moving
Parties’ lack of prior motions to strike Plaintiffs’ complaints is unavailing. 
The Court does note, however, that
while Moving Parties moved to strike certain portions of paragraph 42 of the
TAC as it pertains to punitive damages, Moving Parties did not move to strike
the request for punitive damages from the prayer for relief. (See TAC, Prayer
for Relief, ¶ 4.; see generally Moving Parties’ Notice of Motion to Strike.) Plaintiffs’
claims for injury to real property and trespass are causes of action in which
punitive damages may be sought. (Brenner v. Haley (1960) 185 Cal.App.2d
183, 188 [willful trespass or intentional injury to real property may be
grounds for punitive damages]; Spinks v. Equity Residential Briarwood
Apartments (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th
1004, 1055 [forcible detainer and trespass may merit punitive damages].)
Accordingly, Plaintiffs’ punitive damages claim will otherwise remain. 
The Court also notes that Plaintiffs
did not make an offer of proof as to how the defects discussed herein can be
corrected. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5, subd. (e)(1)). Based on the
foregoing, the Court GRANTS Moving Parties’ motion to strike without leave to
amend. 
CONCLUSION 
The Court GRANTS
Moving Parties’ motion to strike without leave to amend. 
             Moving
Parties are ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar
days of this order.


