 Case Number:  23PSCV00282    Hearing Date:   April 17, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE  NAME:  Holly  Robin Garcia v. Unlimited Rubber Supplies, LLC, et al. 1.      Plaintiff  Holly Robin Garcia’s Motion to Compel Defendant Michael Antonio Diaz to Respond  to Special Interrogatories; 2.      Plaintiff  Holly Robin Garcia’s Motion to Compel Defendant Michael Antonio Diaz to Respond  to Form Interrogatories; 3.      Plaintiff  Holly Robin Garcia’s Motion to Compel Defendant Michael Antonio Diaz to Respond  to Requests for Production of Documents; and 4.      Plaintiff  Holly Robin Garcia’s Motion to Compel Defendant Michael Antonio Diaz to Respond  to Requests for Admissions.  TENTATIVE  RULING  The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motions to compel Defendant Michael  Antonio Diaz to respond to special interrogatories, form interrogatories,  requests for production of documents, and requests for admissions. The truth of  the matters specified in Requests for Admissions, Set One, is deemed and  conclusively established as to Defendant Michael Antonio Diaz. The Court orders  Defendant Michael Antonio Diaz to provide complete and verified responses,  without objections, to Plaintiff’s Special Interrogatories, Set One, Form  Interrogatories, Set One, and Requests for Production of Documents, Set One, and  produce all responsive documents, within 20 days of the Court’s order.  The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s requests for monetary sanctions in  the reduced amount of $592.90 per motion. Defendant Michael Antonio Diaz, and  his counsel of record, must pay said monetary sanctions to counsel for  Plaintiff within 20 days of the Court’s order.              Plaintiff is ordered to give notice  of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.  BACKGROUND  This is a motor vehicle accident case. On January 30, 2023, plaintiff  Holly Robin Garcia (Plaintiff) filed this action against defendants Unlimited  Rubber Supplies, LLC, Michael Antonio Diaz (Diaz), Malcolm Defrantz, and Does 1  to 50, alleging causes of action for general negligence and motor vehicle.  On March 21, 2024, Plaintiff moved to compel Defendant Diaz to  respond to Plaintiff’s first sets of written discovery requests. The motions  are unopposed.  LEGAL  STANDARD  When a party fails to serve a timely  response to interrogatories, the party propounding the interrogatories may move  for an order compelling a response. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (b).) A  party who fails to provide a timely response waives any objection, including  one based on privilege or work product. (Id., § 2030.290, subd. (a).)  “The court shall impose a monetary sanction… against any party, person, or  attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to  interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted  with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition  of the sanction unjust.” (Id., § 2030.290, subd. (c).)  When a party fails to serve a timely response  to an inspection demand, the party making the demand may move for an order  compelling a response to the inspection demand. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300,  subd. (b).) A party who fails to provide a timely response waives any  objection, including one based on privilege or work product. (Code Civ. Proc.,  § 2031.300, subd. (a).) “[T]he court shall impose a monetary sanction… against  any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to  compel a response to a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling,  unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial  justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction  unjust.” (Id., § 2031.300, subd. (c).)  When a party fails to serve a timely response  to a request for admission, the party propounding the request for admission may  move for an order to deem the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any  matters specified in the requests admitted. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280,  subd. (b).) A party who fails to provide a timely response waives any  objection, including one based on privilege or work product. (Id., §  2033.280, subd. (a).) “The court shall make this order, unless it finds that  the party to whom the requests for admission have been directed has served,  before the hearing on the motion, a proposed response to the requests for  admission that is in substantial compliance with Section  2033.220. It is mandatory that the court  impose a monetary sanction… on the party or attorney, or both, whose failure to  serve a timely response to requests for admission necessitated this motion.” (Id.,  § 2033.280, subd. (c).)  PRELIMINARY  ISSUES              The Court notes that the proofs of  service for the underlying discovery requests indicate that they were served  electronically on Defendant Diaz and his counsel. (Goncuian Decl., Ex. 1.) But,  the proofs of service do not provide the electronic service address for  Defendant. (Id.) Mr. Goncuian indicates in his declaration that the  discovery requests were served to Diaz by mail. (Id., ¶¶ 6-7.) The Court  finds this sufficient to demonstrate service and notice to Defendant Diaz, but  the Court admonishes Plaintiff to be clearer about such details going forward.  DISCUSSION  Meet and Confer  Although meeting and conferring is not required in advance of a  motion to compel initial responses, (Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v.  Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 404,) the Court  appreciates Plaintiff having attempted to follow up with counsel for Diaz  before bringing this motion, (Goncuian Decl., ¶ 10, Ex. 3.)  Analysis  Plaintiff contends it served written discovery requests comprised  of the first set of Special Interrogatories, Form Interrogatories, Requests for  Production of Documents, and Requests for Admission on Defendant Diaz on July  6, 2023. (Goncuian Decl., ¶¶ 6-7, Ex. 1.)  Plaintiff has not received responses for the past eight months. (Goncuian  Decl., ¶ 18.) The Court finds Plaintiff’s motions to be well taken, and will  grant them. The Court deems the truth of the matters specified in Requests for  Admission, Set One, admitted and conclusively established as to Defendant Diaz.  The Court further orders Diaz to provide complete and verified responses,  without objections, to Plaintiff’s Special Interrogatories, Set One, Form  Interrogatories, Set One, and Requests for Production of Documents, Set One, and  produce all responsive documents, within 20 days of the Court’s order.  With respect to monetary sanctions, the Court grants Plaintiff’s  request in the reduced amount of $592.90 per motion, comprised of 1.5 hours of  work preparing each motion and appearing at the hearing on the motions,  multiplied by the hourly rate of $350.00, plus $67.90 for each motion filing  fee. Defendant Michael Antonio Diaz, and his counsel of record, must pay said  monetary sanctions to counsel for Plaintiff within 20 days of the Court’s  order.  CONCLUSION  The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motions to compel Defendant Michael  Antonio Diaz to respond to special interrogatories, form interrogatories,  requests for production of documents, and requests for admissions. The truth of  the matters specified in Requests for Admissions, Set One, is deemed and  conclusively established as to Defendant Michael Antonio Diaz. The Court orders  Defendant Michael Antonio Diaz to provide complete and verified responses,  without objections, to Plaintiff’s Special Interrogatories, Set One, Form  Interrogatories, Set One, and Requests for Production of Documents, Set One, and  produce all responsive documents, within 20 days of the Court’s order.  The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s requests for monetary sanctions in  the reduced amount of $592.90 per motion. Defendant Michael Antonio Diaz, and  his counsel of record, must pay said monetary sanctions to counsel for  Plaintiff within 20 days of the Court’s order.              Plaintiff is ordered to give notice  of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.