 Case Number:  22STCV38178    Hearing Date:   April 23, 2024    Dept:  68 Dept.
68
Date:
4-23-24 c/f 3-6-24                            
                         
Case:
23STCV38178 (related to 23STCV13772)
Trial Date: 6-17-24
 
DEPOSITION
 
MOVING
PARTY: Plaintiff, Richard Tipping, et al. 
RESPONDING
PARTY: Defendant, City of Los Angeles, et al.
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Motion
to Compel the Deposition of City of Los Angeles Police Department Chief of
Police
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
Houston
Tipping, son of Shirley Huffman and Richard Tipping, was a Los Angeles Police
Department officer, suffered fatal head injury when a fellow officer conducted
an exercise causing blunt force trauma to the head and neck of Officer Tipping
during a “training exercise” purportedly to simulate a fall from a certain
height. The training program was part of the Arrest and Control Bicycle
Training Program. Officer Tipping was not provided any protective gear normally
associated with such a training program, and other padding was not properly
placed. 
 
Plaintiffs
allege that at the time of the fatal injury, Officer Tipping was investigating
a fellow officer allegedly responsible for sexually assaulting a person,
thereby providing motivation to an officer to cause harm to Officer Tipping.
 
On
December 7, 2022, Shirley Huffman, Houston Tipping, and the Estate of Houston
Tipping, filed a complaint for Battery, Whistleblower Retaliation, Bane Act,
and Wrongful Death against City of Los Angeles and Richard Tipping (nominal
defendant). On June 14, 2023, Richard Tipping and the Estate of Houston Tipping
filed a complaint for Assault, Battery, Violation of Civil Code section 52.1,
Violation of Civil Rights 42 USC 1983, Bane Act, and Wrongful Death against
City of Los Angeles, and David Cuellar.
 
On
March 6, 2024, the court entered the stipulation of the parties to consolidate
the actions.
 
RULING: Denied.
Plaintiffs
Richard Tipping and the Estate of Houston Tipping moves to the compel the
deposition Michel Moore, Chief of Police for the City of Los Angeles Police
Department. Plaintiffs represent two prior efforts to take the deposition, and
now seeks a court order.
 
Plaintiffs
served a Notice of Deposition for November 7, 2023. City of Los Angeles refused
to produce Chief Moore. Plaintiffs maintain now that Chief Moore intends to
retire, apex doctrine no longer applies. Plaintiffs seek the deposition on
grounds that Chief Moore was directly aware of Control Bicycle Training Program
as well as direct department policies. Plaintiffs also contend Chief Moore
expressed very specific knowledge of the circumstances and cause of death. The
court electronic filing system shows no opposition at the time of the tentative
ruling publication cutoff. In correspondence prior to the motion, City of Los
Angeles objected on grounds of “apex” witness rules. Plaintiffs submitted an
extensive reply maintaining the Apex doctrine no longer applies given the
retirement of Chief Moore, and contending Plaintiff sufficiently met and
conferred in seeking to schedule the deposition prior to filing the motion.
Plaintiff then contends City of Los Angeles “deliberately delayed” any
deposition, now requiring a court order. Notwithstanding the admitted
retirement of Chief Moore, Plaintiff offers extensive argument on the need to
compel the “Apex” employee. 
 
“It is the general rule in both California and federal
courts that the heads of agencies and other top governmental executives are
normally not subject to depositions. (Citations.)” [¶] “‘An
exception to this general rule exists concerning top officials who have direct
personal factual information pertaining to material issues in an action.
[Citations.] [¶] A top governmental official may, however, only be deposed upon
a showing that the information to be gained from such a deposition is not
available through any other source. [Citations.]’ (Citation.)” (Nagle v. Superior Court (1994)
28 Cal.App.4th 1465, 1467–1468; see Liberty
Mutual Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1282, 1289.) It is
undisputed that Chief Moore was an apex level government entity director. As
admitted by Plaintiff, the apex doctrine no longer applies however, in that Moore
retired from the Police Chief position. 
 
The deposition notice was only
served on the City of Los Angeles, the employer of Moore at the time.
[Declaration of Bradley Gate, Ex. A.] Again, Moore is no longer employed by the
City of Los Angeles due to retirement. While the motion remains unopposed, the
court lacks authority to order a former employer to produce a former
employee for deposition. (Maldonado v.
Superior Court (2002) 94 Cal.App.4th 1390, 1398.) Plaintiffs present
no other alternative basis to compel the deposition of Moore. The unopposed
motion is therefore DENIED.
 
Trial currently set for June 17, 2024.
 
Plaintiffs to provide notice.
 