 Case Number:  23STCP00261    Hearing Date:   April 23, 2024    Dept:  68 Dept. 68
Date: 4-23-24
Case # 23STCP00261
Trial Date: Not Set
 
MOTION TO VACATE DEFAULT
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant, Miguel Lopez, pro
per
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff, Luiz Meono,
et al.
 
RELIEF REQUESTED
Motion to Vacate the Default
 
SUMMARY OF ACTION
Plaintiffs/Petitioners
Luz and Ricardo Meono purchased a certain home from Defendants Rosalio Granados
and Miguel Lopez. The Meonos allege Defendants/Respondents failed to disclose
third party Araceli Granados occupied the property. Granados refuses to leave
the premises. 
 
On
January 31, 2023, Petitioners filed a petition to compel arbitration. The
petition identifies causes of action for Fraud and Deceit, Negligent
Misrepresentation, Breach of Contract, Breach of the Covenant of Good Faith and
Fair Dealing, and Petition for Contractual Arbitration. On March 23, 2023, the
clerk entered a default against both Rosalio Granados and Miguel Lopez. 
 
RULING: Denied.
Request for
Judicial Notice: Granted.
The court takes
judicial notice of the previously filed motions, but cannot take notice of the
content of any prior pleadings.
 
Defendant/Respondent
Miguel Lopez, in pro per, moves for relief from the default on grounds that
Lopez placed an answer in the “courts drop box,” which was apparently “never
affixed to the file nor registered in the case docket as having been received.”
Plaintiffs/Petitioners in opposition challenge the motion as untimely. The
court electronic filing system shows no reply at the time of the tentative
ruling publication cutoff.
 
The
subject motion constitutes the third such attempt after two prior denials by
the prior court. 
 
Lopez
reserved the motion as seeking relief under Code of Civil Procedure section
473.5, but in fact seeks relief under the mistake, inadvertence, excusable
neglect standard pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision
(b). 
 
The court instead considers
relief under mistake, inadvertence and/or excusable neglect. Code of
Civil Procedure section 473 subdivision (b) provides in part: 
 
“The court may, upon any terms as may be just, relieve a
party or his or her legal representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or
other proceeding taken against him or her through his or her mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. Application for this relief shall
be accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed
therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted, and shall be made
within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment,
dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken.”
 
“The six-month time limit for granting statutory relief is
jurisdictional and the court may not consider a motion for relief made after
that period has elapsed. (Citation.) The six-month period runs from entry of
default, not entry of judgment.” (Manson,
Iver & York v. Black (2009) 176 Cal.App.4th 36, 42.) The clerk
entered default on February 2, and the subject motion was filed on March 27,
2024, which is more than 180 days of the default entry date. The court therefore
lacks jurisdiction to consider the motion on the subject basis. (Ibid.) The motion is therefore untimely
and DENIED on this basis.
 
Defendant
Lopez to give notice. 
 