  Case Number:  BC611486    Hearing Date:   September 23, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



GABRILE RUEDA, also known as GABRIEL SALVADOR (an individual),
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
EMMANUEL D. PACQUIAO (an individual); FREDERICK ROACH, (an
  individual); KEITH M. DAVIDSON (an individual); CBS CORPORATION (a Delaware
  corporation); SHOWTIME NETWORKS, Inc. (a Delaware corporation); and DOES 1-25,
                        Defendants.
 


 Case No.:          BC611486
 Hearing Date:   September
  23, 2024
 Trial Date:         November 18, 2024 
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Defendant Keith Davidson’s
  Motion for Summary Judgment [RES ID # 8139]




 


 



 
I. Background
A. Pleadings
Plaintiff Gabriel Rueda (Rueda)
sues Defendants Emmanuel Pacquiao, Frederick (Freddie) Roach, Keith M.
Davidson, Paramount Global (f/k/a ViacomCBS, f/k/a CBS Corporation), Showtime
Networks, Inc. (Showtime), and Does 1-25 pursuant to a February 2, 2024, Third
Amended Complaint (TAC). The TAC alleges claims of: (1) Breach of Oral Contract
against the Showtime Defendants and Freddie Roach; (2) Omitted [Breach of
Implied Contract; Dismissed by the Court]; (3) Common Counts for Labor, Work,
and Services against the Showtime Defendants and Freddie Roach; (4) Quantum
Meruit against the Showtime Defendants and Freddie Roach; (5) Fraud in the
Inducement against Freddie Roach; (6) Fraudulent Misrepresentation against
Freddie Roach; (7) Omitted [Unjust Enrichment; Dismissed by the Court]; (8)
Omitted [Attempted Extortion; Dismissed by the Court]; and (9) Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress against the Showtime Defendants, Freddie
Roach, Defendant Pacquiao, and Defendant Davidson. 
The claims arise from allegations
that Rueda, pursuant to an unpaid finder’s fee, introduced Leslie Moonves, the
then-president of CBS Corporation and Showtime Networks, to Defendant Roach,
who was the trainer and confidant of boxer Pacquiao. Moonves allegedly used the
introduction to broker a bout between Pacquiao and boxer Floyd Mayweather
Jr.—dubbed the “Fight of the Century”—that earned Pacquiao, Mayweather, and
Showtime Networks more than $430 million. According to Rueda, he is entitled to
2% of the gross proceeds from the fight received by Roach, Pacquiao, and
Paramount and Showtime
B. Motion Before the Court
On July 9, Defendant Keith Davidson
filed the instant motion for summary judgment. 
On September 9, 2024, Rueda filed
an opposition to the motion. 
On September 18, 2024, Davidson
filed a reply. 
 
II. Motion
A. Requests for Judicial Notice
Pursuant to Evidence Code section
452, subdivision (d), the Court may take judicial notice of “[r]ecords of (1)
any court of this state or (2) any court of record of the United States or of
any state of the United States”. The court however may not take judicial notice
of the truth of the contents of the documents. (Herrera v. Deutsche Bank
National Trust Co. (2011) 196 Cal.App.4th 1366, 1375.) Documents are only
judicially noticeable to show their existence and what orders were made such
that the truth of the facts and findings within the documents are not
judicially noticeable. (Lockley v. Law Office of Cantrell, Green, Pekich,
Cruz & McCort (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 875, 885.)  
Per Davidson’s request, the Court
takes judicial notice of the following: 
(1)  
Court of Appeal’s October 11, 2018 ruling in the Second
Appellate District on Defendant Keith M. Davidson’s (“Davidson”) appeal,
entitled Gabriel Rueda v. Emmanuel D. Pacquiao, et al, Oct. 11, 2018,
no. B277840 (“Rueda I”)
(2)  
Court of Appeal’s July 26, 2023 ruling in the Second
Appellate District on Davidson’s Co-Defendants ViacomCBS Inc., f/k/a/ CBS
Corporation and Showtime Network’s appeal, entitled Gabriel Rueda v.
ViacomCBS Inc., f/k/a CBS Corporation, et al., July 26, 2023, no. B310123
(“Rueda II”)
(Mot., RJN, Exs. A-B.)
Per Rueda’s request, the Court
takes judicial notice of Exhibits A-H, which are various documents filed and orders
published from this Court and other courts of record (Opp., RJN, Exs. A-H.) 
The Court declines to take judicial
notice of Exhibit I because it is not relevant to the Courts decision on this
motion. 
B. Evidentiary Objections
In granting or denying a motion
for summary judgment or summary adjudication, the court need rule only on those
objections to evidence that it deems material to its disposition of the motion.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (q).) 
Reply Evidentiary Objections to
Opposition:  
Objection Nos. 38,
41-44: OVERRULED 
Objection No. 20 [relevance,
improper character evidence]: SUSTAINED 
Remaining Objections:
Not ruled on as not material to the disposition of this motion. 
C. Legal Standard
A motion for summary judgment shall
be granted if all the papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as
to any material fact for trial or that the moving party is entitled to a
judgment as a matter of law. (Code of Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).) 
The moving party bears the initial
burden of production to make a prima facie showing that no triable issue of
material fact exists. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25
Cal.4th 826, 850.) To meet this burden, a defendant must show not only “that
the plaintiff does not possess needed evidence” but also that “the
plaintiff cannot reasonably obtain needed evidence.”¿(Aguilar, supra,
25 Cal.4th at p. 854.)¿It is insufficient for the defendant to merely point out
the absence of evidence.¿(Gaggero v. Yura (2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 884,
891.)¿The defendant “must also produce evidence that the plaintiff cannot
reasonably obtain evidence to support his or her claim.”¿(Ibid.)¿The
supporting evidence can be in the form of affidavits, declarations, admissions,
depositions, answers to interrogatories, and matters of which judicial notice
may be taken.¿(Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 855.) 
“Once the defendant … has met that
burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff … to show that a triable issue of
one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense
thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) The plaintiff may not merely
rely on allegations or denials of its pleadings to show that a triable issue of
material fact exists, but instead, “shall set forth the specific facts showing
that a triable issue of material fact exists as to the cause of action.”¿(Ibid.)¿“If
the plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment should be granted.”¿(Avivi v.
Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463,
467.)  
“On a summary judgment motion, the
court must therefore consider what inferences favoring the opposing party a
factfinder could reasonably draw from the evidence.¿While viewing the evidence
in this manner, the court must bear in mind that its primary function is to
identify issues rather than to determine issues.¿[Citation.]¿Only when the
inferences are indisputable may the court decide the issues as a matter of
law.¿ If the evidence is in conflict, the factual issues must be resolved by
trial.”¿(Binder v. Aetna Life Ins. Co. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832,
839.)¿Further, “the trial court may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a
factfinder to determine whose version is more likely true.¿[Citation.]¿Nor may
the trial court grant summary judgment based on the court’s evaluation of
credibility. [Citation.]” (Id. at p. 840; see also Weiss v. People ex
rel. Department of Transportation (2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts
deciding motions for summary judgment or summary adjudication may not weigh the
evidence but must instead view it in the light most favorable to the opposing
party and draw all reasonable inferences in favor of that party”].) 
D. Analysis
“A cause of action for intentional
infliction of emotional distress [IIED] exists when there is ‘(1) extreme and
outrageous conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless
disregard of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the
plaintiff’s suffering severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual and
proximate causation of the emotional distress by the defendant’s outrageous
conduct.’ A defendant’s conduct is ‘outrageous’ when it is so ‘extreme as to
exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized community.’ And the
defendant’s conduct must be ‘intended to inflict injury or engaged in with the
realization that injury will result.’” (Hughes v. Pair (2009) 46 Cal.4th
1035, 1050-1051.) 
Davidson argues that the IIED claim fails
because (1) Davidson’s own conduct was not actionable and did not constitute
IIED and (2) Davidson did not conspire with others to harm Rueda. 
1.     Whether Davidson’s
Conduct is Actionable
In summary judgment, Davidson argues that the
July 2023 Court of Appeal ruling on Defendants CBS
Corporation and Showtime Anti-SLAPP motion against Rueda held that Davidson’s
statements to Craig Susser are protected statements under the litigation
privilege and thus not actionable. (Mot. p. 14; Mot. RJN, Ex. B “Rueda II”.)
 In opposition,
Rueda argues that in this Court’s December 21, 2023, Minute Order ruling on
Davidson’s Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings, the Court found that the July
2023 Court of Appeal ruling only applied to CBS Corporation and Showtime. (Opp.
p. 14:26-28; AMF 68; Opp. RJN, Ex G p. 10.) Instead, Rueda argues that per the
October 2018 Court of Appeal ruling on Davidson’s Anti-SLAPP motion, Davidson “waived”
the issue of whether Davidson’s statements to Susser were protected activity
because Davidson did not make that argument in the Anti-SLAPP motion before the
Court of Appeal. (Opp. p. 13:9-12; AMF 60; Mot. RJN, Ex. A “Rueda I” p. 12, fn.
7.)
In reply, Davidson argues that in the
October 2018 Court of Appeal ruling, the Court did not rule on the litigation
privilege, there was no reference to Davidson’s statements to Susser, and regardless,
that ruling pertained to a different motion at a much earlier stage in the
litigation. (Reply p. 6:19-22.) 
First, upon review of the rulings of this
Court and the Court of Appeals rulings, the threshold issue of whether Davidson’s
communications with Susser constitute privileged pre-litigation communication
has not already been decided. “The law of the case doctrine holds that when an appellate
opinion states a principle or rule of law necessary to the decision, that
principle or rule becomes the law of the case and must be adhered to through
its subsequent progress in the lower court and upon subsequent appeal.
[Citations.]” (People v. Cooper (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 500, 524.) For
the doctrine to apply, several conditions must be met: the point of law must
have been necessary to the prior decision, it must have been actually presented
and determined by the court, and applying the doctrine must not result in an
unjust decision. (Ibid.) 
Here, in both cases the issue was neither
necessary to the Court of Appeals decision, nor actually presented and
determined by the Court. The July 2023 Court of Appeals ruling states that
“Because the CBS Defendants argued that Davidson’s call to Susser was protected
activity below and Rueda provides no reasoned analysis in support of his contention
that the call is in fact unprotected, the argument is waived.” (Mot. RJN, Ex. B
“Rueda II” p. 21.) The Court of Appeals did not make a determination on the
substantive issue of the Susser call, but rather deemed the argument waived because
it was not fully presented. Additionally, in the October 2018 ruling, the Court
of Appeals states, “Rueda’s claims are also based on Davidson’s call to his
employer…Defendants do not contend that conduct is protected activity…We focus
solely, therefore, on the allegations of protected activity identified by
Defendants.” (Mot. RJN, Ex. A “Rueda I” p. 12, fn. 7.) Again, the issue was not
actually presented or determined by the Court. 
In the motion, Davidson argues that the
communication between himself and Susser is protected by the litigation privilege
because Susser is a witness to case. (Mot. p. 15.) Davidson argues that because
Susser is the owner of the restaurant where Rueda claimed to have met with
Moonves and to have first spoken about setting up the fight, he could have
information about Rueda’s claims to a finder’s fee. (Mot. p. 15.) Rueda argues that
the call to Susser is not protected because it was not in the context of contemplated
litigation. Specifically, Rueda argues, Susser’s only involvement related to
his status as Rueda’s employer, since the meeting where the finder’s fee was
discussed took place at a different restaurant, Scarpetta’s. (Opp. pp. 22-23.)
Attachment of privilege to pre-litigation communications is
an intensively factual question. “The bare possibility that the proceeding
might be instituted is not to be used as a cloak to provide immunity … when the
possibility is not seriously considered. [Citations.]” (Eisenberg v. Alameda
Newspapers, Inc. (1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 1359, 1378.) “[The] privilege cannot
logically be extended to communications made prior to or in anticipation of
litigation until the prospect of litigation has gone from being a mere
possibility to becoming a contemplated reality[.]’ ” (Ibid.) The fact
that a settlement is proposed or reached does not alter the analysis. “[T]he
litigation privilege only attaches when imminent access to the courts is
seriously proposed and actually contemplated, seriously and in good faith, as a
means of resolving a dispute and not simply a tactical ploy to induce a
settlement.” (Id. at p. 1379.) 
Davidson states that on June 19, 2015, Nick Khan asked him to
“meet with Rueda to determine what Rueda was looking for, and whether Rueda’s
claims could be resolved.” (Mot. p. 3:8-9.) Davidson met with Rueda on June 24
and June 29. (Mot. p. 4.) On or before June 29, Davidson called Susser. (Ly Decl. ¶ 12, Ex. K, Susser Decl. ¶ 3.) At that time,
Davidson had been aware of the controversy for only 10 days. The facts do not
indicate that litigation was already considered a probable outcome rather than
just a possibility. 
Accordingly, Davidson has not shown as a matter of law that
his communication with Susser is protected by the litigation privilege.
2.     Whether Davidson’s
Conduct Constitutes IIED
Conduct is extreme and outrageous when it exceeds all bounds
of decency usually tolerated by a decent society, and is of a nature which is
especially calculated to cause, and does cause, mental distress. Liability does
not extend to mere insults, indignities, threats, annoyances, petty
oppressions, or other trivialities. (Fisher v. San Pedro Peninsula Hospital
(1989) 214 Cal.App.3d 590.)
Davidson bears the initial burden of showing that there is no
triable issue of material fact that his conduct, either on its own or as part
of a conspiracy, constitutes IIED. 
In late June 2015, Davidson called Craig Susser who is the
owner of Craig’s, a restaurant in West Hollywood where Rueda worked. (AMF 35;
Davidson Decl. ¶ 19; Ly Decl. ¶ 12, Ex. K, Susser Decl., ¶ 3.) Susser “had been
an acquaintance of Mr. Davidson for a number of years, and [Susser] knew that
he was a lawyer.” (Ly Decl. ¶ 12, Ex. K, Susser Decl., ¶ 3.) Susser states that,
“Davidson asked me about a demand regarding the Floyd Mayweather-Manny Pacquiao
fight that was being asserted by one of the waiters at Craig. He asked what I
knew about a claim where one of my employees was threatening to sue people
involved with the fight, including Mr. Moonves and perhaps others.” (Ly Decl. ¶
12, Ex. K, Susser Decl., ¶ 4.) Davidson declares that he did not tell or imply
to Susser that Rueda should be fired from his job at Craig’s. (Reply p.
8:16-17; AMF 40; Davidson Decl. ¶ 20.) 
Davidson argues that he is unaware of any conspiracy or plan
to harm Rueda and did not instruct any person to do so. (Mot. p. 8.) Davidson
further states that he does not know and has not communicated with the parties
that Rueda claims harassed and intimidated him. (Mot. p. 9.) 
In the TAC, and in opposition to the motion, Rueda alleges
various incidents that he argues constitute outrageous conduct. Rueda states
that in response to Davidson’s phone call, Susser called Rueda and discouraged him
from pursuing the finder’s fee and urged Rueda that he needed to make the
settlement, or he would lose his job. (Opp. pp. 10-11; AMF 38; Opp. App. of
Evidence, Ex. 18, Rueda Deposition, pp. 326-327.) Rueda states that shortly
after his last communication with Davidson, among other things, his tires were
slashed, he was physically assaulted, verbally harassed, and that he lost his
acting role on Marvel’s Agents of Shield. (Mot. p. 11.) He states that he was “stalked,
terrorized, and followed by threatening individuals, some of whom Rueda
recognized as members of the Wildcat Gym, owned by Roach.” (Opp. p. 11.) Davidson
states that he has known Roach for over a decade and has represented him in
multiple litigation matters. (Mot. p. 3.; UMF 15.) Khan reached out to Davidson
in June 2015 to ask him to meet with Rueda to determine what Rueda was looking
for and whether Rueda’s claims could be resolved. (Mot. p. 3:8-9.) Davidson
asked Khan to let Roach know that he was representing Roach. (Mot. p. 3:11-13,
UMF 18.) Davidson further states that he “had a longstanding attorney/client
relationship with Roach, and Khan had dispatched Davidson to handle various
legal matters for Roach in the past,” (Mot. p. 3:14-15; UMF 19), and that he
had been co-manager with Khan of Manny Pacquiao in 2005-2007. (Mot. p. 3, UMF
14.)  
The Court will assume for purposes of this ruling that the
June 29, 2015 meeting between Davidson and Rueda is protected by the litigation
privilege (a finding by the court of appeal in Rueda I as it relates to
CBS only, and despite a contrary finding made by the court of appeal in Rueda
I relating to Davidson prior to the transcript being provided.) However, even given that, and
given the finding that the phone call with Susser was not protected, this Court
finds that there is a genuine issue of material fact as to whether in that phone
call Davidson threatened Rueda’s livelihood, and whether he separately conspired
with the other named individuals to harass and intimidate Rueda from following
up on his request for a finder’s fee. Considering Davidson's relationships with
Khan, Pacquiao and Roach, and the close temporal proximity between Davidson’s
contacts with Rueda and Susser and the onset of the described conduct, a
reasonable jury could determine that a triable issue of material fact exists
regarding whether Davidson and other parties conspired to harm Rueda. (Novartis
Vaccines & Diagnostics, Inc. v. Stop Huntingdon Animal Cruelty USA, Inc. (2006)
143 Cal.App.4th 1284, 1300 [“[A] finder of fact may infer the requisite concurrence
and knowledge from the nature of the acts done, the parties’ relations to each
other, and the common interest of the alleged conspirators. ‘It is not necessary
that the plaintiffs provide evidence showing that the defendants met and
actually agreed to undertake the performance of the unlawful act.’”].)
Additionally, a reasonable trier of fact could conclude that such conduct is
outrageous and exceeds the bounds of behavior acceptable in a decent society.
Thus, there is a genuine issue of material fact regarding
whether Davidson’s conduct constitutes IIED. Accordingly, Davidson’s motion for
summary judgment is DENIED.
III. Conclusion
Defendant Keith Davidson’s Motion for Summary Judgment is DENIED.