  Case Number:  23VECV05173    Hearing Date:   January 24, 2024    Dept:  107 


 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
  CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
NORTHWEST DISTRICT
 




 
Parviz Mokhtari,
 
Plaintiff.
 
       
   v.
 
Shahrokh
  Mokhtarzadeh,, et al.,
 
Defendants.


 
   Case Number             Department
    23VECV05173             107




 
 
COURT’S [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: MOTION TO
  COMPEL ARBITRATION AND TO DISMISS OR STAY ACTION
 



 
[THE FOLLOWING IS A TENTATIVE RULING IN THE ABOVE CASE]:
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Defendant’s Motion to Compel Arbitration and Stay Action is GRANTED. 
 
On November 20, 2023 Plaintiff Parviz
(“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against Defendants Shahrokh Mokhtarzadeh, an
individual and Law Offices of Shahrokh Mokhtarzadeh, a Professional Law
Corporation and Does 1 through 25 alleging the following causes of action:
 
1.     Legal Malpractice;
2.     Breach of Contract;
3.     Breach of Fiduciary Duty;
4.     Financial Elder Abuse;
5.     Fraud; 
6.     Constructive Fraud; and 
7.     Restitution
Plaintiff’s action arises from the Retainer Agreement
that he entered into with Defendant on December 12, 2022 (the “Agreement”). The
Retainer Agreement contains an arbitration clause (the “Arbitration Clause”),
which provides in relevant parts:
“Notice: by signing this retainer
agreement, you are agreeing to have any issue of legal malpractice or any other
claim which you may have against SMPLC decided by a neutral arbitrator and you
are giving up your right to a jury or court trial. Further, you are giving up
any right of appeal which you might have from determination by the arbitrator.
By executing this agreement, you are setting forth your agreement to
submit to binding arbitration should any disputes arise out of our
representation of you and you are giving up any rights you may have to have any
dispute litigated in court or jury trial. You are further agreeing that
the arbitration will be conducted pursuant to the provisions of Code of Civil
Procedure section 1282 et seq., and that you are giving up your right of
appeal. If you refuse to submit to arbitration after agreeing to this provision,
you will be compelled to arbitrate under the authority of the California Code
of Civil Procedure. Your agreement to this arbitration provision is
voluntary. You have read and understood the foregoing and agree to submit to
neutral arbitration any disputes arising out of this Firm's representation of
you. Further you agree that SMPLC may serve a Petition to Compel Arbitration
and a Petition to Confirm Arbitration Award, and have the Judgment entered in
conformity therewith via regular U.S. Mail and based on the address you have
provided to SMPLC and which is reflected below.” 
 
(Ex. 1 pdf p. 9-10.)
 
On December 22, 2023, Defendants filed
a petition to compel arbitration and stay the action. 
 
On January 10, 2024, Plaintiff
filed a non-opposition. Plaintiff’s counsel states that “Plaintiff is amenable
to arbitration pursuant to the Agreement, requested that a Stipulation and
Order to this effect be prepared, and the matter be taken off-calendar.
Defendants' counsel in response to Plaintiff's counsel's email improperly
demanded that the complaint be dismissed in exchange for waiver of costs. It
should be noted that the Motion to Compel Arbitration specifically requested
that the case be stayed. Defendants' counsel now changed posture and demands
dismissal, which is not supported by law, nor prayed for in the current motion.”
 
On January 17, 2024, Defendants
filed a reply in support of the non-opposition. Defendants “respectfully
requests that the Court dismiss this improperly filed lawsuit and award costs
to Mokhtarzadeh. In the alternative, Mokhtarzadeh requests that the Court order
this matter to binding arbitration and stay all further proceedings in this
case.” (Reply p.1.)
 
Legal Standard
 
The Court is empowered by Code of Civil Procedure
Section 1281.2 to compel parties to arbitrate disputes pursuant to an agreement
to do so.¿¿Code of Civil Procedure § 1281.2 states that:¿ 
¿ 
“The court shall order the petitioner and the
respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to
arbitrate the controversy exists, unless it determines that:¿ 
¿¿ 
(a)     The
right to compel arbitration has been waived by the petitioner; 
(b)     Grounds
exist for the revocation of the agreement; or
(c)     A
party to the arbitration agreement is also a party to a pending court action or
special proceeding with a third party, arising out of the same transaction or
series of related transactions and there is a possibility of conflicting
rulings on a common issue of law or fact.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.)¿ 
 
The petitioner in a motion to compel arbitration bears
the burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration agreement by a
preponderance of the evidence. The party opposing the petition then bears the
burden of proving, also by a preponderance of the evidence, any fact necessary
to demonstrate that there should be no enforcement of the agreement. The trial
court sits as a trier of fact to reach a final determination on the issue. (Rosenthal
v. Great Western Financial Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413.) 
 
If a
court of competent jurisdiction has ordered arbitration of a controversy, the
court “shall, upon motion of a party to such action or proceeding, stay the
action or proceeding until an arbitration is had in accordance with the order
to arbitrate or until such earlier time as the court specifies.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 1281.4.)
Discussion
 
Prima Facia
Evidence of a Written Agreement to Arbitrate
 
Defendants
bear the initial burden of submitting prima facie evidence of a written
agreement to arbitrate. “The party seeking arbitration can meet its initial
burden by attaching to the petition a copy of the arbitration agreement
purporting to bear the¿respondent's signature.”  Bannister v. Marinidence Opco, LLC
(2021) 64 Cal.App.5th 541, 543. “If the moving party meets its initial prima
facie burden and the opposing party disputes the agreement, then in the second
step, the opposing party bears the burden of producing evidence to challenge
the authenticity of the agreement.” Gamboa v. Northeast Community Clinic¿(2021)
72 Cal.App.5th 158, 165.
 
Here, Defendants’
initial burden is satisfied by their submission of Exhibit 1 to Shahrokh’s Declaration
which is a copy of the Retainer Agreement. Thus, the burden shifts to Plaintiff
to show why the agreement to arbitrate should not be enforced. Plaintiff argues
that service was improper because it was made electronically, and it went into
his spam folder. (Plaintiff’s
Non-Opposition p.1; Ex C, pdf p.14.) However,
the Summons and Complaint was also served via mail and electronically which
shows there was express consent and complies with California Rules of Court
Rule 2.251. Moreover, Plaintiff later served his non-opposition via electronic
service. 
 
Significantly, Plaintiff
instead “voluntarily
agrees to referral of this case to arbitration, and to stay this action in the
interim.” (Plaintiff’s Non-Opposition p.1; Ex C, pdf p.14.)
            
            Accordingly,
the Court grants the motion to compel arbitration and stays the action. 
 
Conclusion
 
The
court GRANTS Defendants’ motion
to compel arbitration. Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 1281.4, the Court orders the entire action stayed pending arbitration of
Plaintiff's claims.
 
It
is so ordered. 
 
 
 
 
__________________________________
                                                Judge
Eric Harmon, Department 107, Van Nuys
January 24, 2024                                             Los Angeles County
Superior Court
 
 
 
 