  Case Number:  22STCV11349    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2024    Dept:  49 People of the State of California, ex rel., Allstate Insurance Company v. Jaklin Benji, et al.DEFENDANTS JAKLIN BENJI, MATHEW RASHIDI, MICHAEL RASHIDI, PRECISE MRI CORP. AND YOKHEVET, LLC’S MOTION TO QUASH ALLSTATE’S THIRD-PARTY SUBPOENA ISSUED TO JPMORGAN CHASE ON AUGUST 7, 2024 MOVING PARTY: Defendants Jaklin Benji, Mathew Rashidi, Michael Rashidi, Precise MRI Corp., and Yokhevet, LLCRESPONDING PARTY(S): People of the State of California, ex rel., Allstate Insurance CompanySTATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: Plaintiff Allstate Insurance Company brings this action on behalf of itself and the State of California under the California Insurance Frauds Prevention Act and the Unfair Competition Law. Plaintiff alleges that Defendants Jaklin Benji, Mathew Rashidi, Michael Rashidi, Precise MRI Corp., and Yokhevet, LLC—who are not licensed medical professionals—acted as “MRI brokers” to connect injured persons with legitimate MRI facilities. Defendants would pay the MRI facilities a fee for the MRI services, and then turn around and bill insurers like Allstate at a substantial markup, falsely representing that they had conducted the MRI services themselves. Plaintiff alleges that Defendant radiologists Ranon Udkoff, M.D. and Stuart E. Strausberg, D.O. aided this scheme by conducting or reviewing MRIs, but permitting the other unlicensed Defendants to pass-off the services as their own at a substantial upcharge. Plaintiff brings causes of action against all Defendants for (1) violation of California Insurance Code section 1871.7 and (2) violation of the UCL.Defendants Jaklin Benji, Mathew Rashidi, Michael Rashidi, Precise MRI Corp., and Yokhevet, LLC, now move to quash the subpoena issued to JPMorgan Chase. Plaintiff opposed. TENTATIVE RULING:Defendants’ Motion to Quash is DENIED. The third party is ordered to turn over all documents consistent with the Subpoena.  Plaintiff is ordered to give notice to all interested parties, including JP Morgan Chase..DISCUSSION:Motion to QuashA. Legal StandardA court may quash a subpoena entirely or partially, and issue an order to protect parties, witnesses or consumers from unreasonable or oppressive demands including violations of privacy. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1.) A motion to quash the production of documents or tangible things requires a separate statement. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.13459(a)(5).)  “[U]pon motion reasonably made by the party, judges may rule upon motions for quashing, modifying or compelling compliance with, subpoenas.”  (Lee v. Swansboro Country Property Owners Ass'n (2007) 151 Cal.App.4th 575, 582-583.)B. AnalysisDefendants move to quash the deposition subpoena issued to JPMorgan Chase. The Subpoena at issue seeks:All DOCUMENTS RELATING TO any and all accounts belonging to PRECISE MRI CORP, including but not limited to account Number 269593197, at any time from January 1, 2016 to present, including but not limited to the following:a. Account application documents;b. Signature cards;c. Bank statements;d. Copies of checks issued from the account;e. Copies of checks issued to the account;f. Deposit tickets;g. Items deposited;h. Wire transfer or other electronic transfer records;i. Currency Transaction reports or Monetary Instrument reports;j. Credit and debit memoranda;k. Corporate board authorization minutes or partnership resolutions;l. Correspondence;m. Any DOCUMENTS RELATING TO any safety deposit box; andn. Transaction data filesDefendants contend the Subpoena is overbroad, violates their privacy rights, violates the attorney-client privilege, and is unduly burdensome. They emphasize that the broad nature of the subpoena would reveal sensitive financial information and privileged legal information, including payments made to their lawyers. They also suggest Plaintiff is using the subpoena for an improper purpose, namely, “to find other targets for its shotgun approach to litigation.” (Reply 5: 21-22.)Plaintiff opposes the motion to quash. It argues that the records sought are “key evidence” of alter ego, that they will support the elements of their claims, aid Allstate in identifying witnesses, and assist the court’s ability to enforce the remedial provisions of the IFPA.  This Court agrees.In this case, Plaintiff alleges a scheme by Defendant Benji, the Rashidis, and the entities they controlled to defraud insurance companies by billing for MRI services that Defendants themselves did not (and legally could not) provide. (FAC ¶¶ 54-57.) Plaintiff also alleges Defendants are “the alter ego of Precise and of Yokhevet.” (Id. ¶¶ 28-31.) Evidence is relevant if it “ha[s] any tendency in reason to prove or disprove any disputed fact that is of consequence to the determination of the action.” (Evid. Code § 210.)  “[A]ny party may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending action or to the determination of any motion made in that action, if the matter either is itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.”  (CCP § 2017.010; Davies v. Superior Court (1984) 36 Cal.3d 291, 301 [“discovery is not limited to admissible evidence”].) As to the privacy objections, “[t]he party asserting a privacy right must establish a legally protected privacy interest, an objectively reasonable expectation of privacy in the given circumstances, and a threatened intrusion that is serious. [Citation.] The party seeking information may raise in response whatever legitimate and important countervailing interests disclosure serves, while the party seeking protection may identify feasible alternatives that serve the same interests or protective measures that would diminish the loss of privacy. A court must then balance these competing considerations.” (Williams v. Superior Ct. (2017) 3 Cal. 5th 531, 552.)Here, Plaintiff has demonstrated that the discovery sought from the JPMorgan account—while undoubtedly broad—is directly relevant to the issues in this action. There is also no evidence that the account contains records that might implicate the attorney-client privilege. When balancing the parties’ privacy interests against Plaintiff’s interest in discovering documents that are particularly relevant to its claims, this court find’s the balance shifts in favor of disclosure. While the parties have a recognized privacy interest in their financial records, the categories sought here are relevant and not overbroad in light of the circumstances and allegations in the FAC. This conclusion is consistent with the legislature’s “very liberal and flexible standard of relevancy,” such that any “doubts as to relevance should generally be resolved in favor of permitting discovery.” (Williams, supra, 3 Cal. 5th at 542.)Accordingly, Defendants’ Motion to Quash is DENIED. The third party is ordered to turn over all documents consistent with the Subpoena.  C. SanctionsIn making an order pursuant to California Code of Civil Procedure section 1987.1, “the court may in its discretion award the amount of the reasonable expenses incurred in making or opposing the motion, including reasonable attorney's fees, if the court finds the motion was made or opposed in bad faith or without substantial justification or that one or more of the requirements of the subpoena was oppressive.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.2, subd. (a).)The Court declines to award expenses as the Motion was not made or opposed in bad faith or without substantial justification.Plaintiff is ordered to give notice.IT IS SO ORDERED.Dated:   October 31, 2024 ___________________________________ Randolph M. Hammock Judge of the Superior Court Any party may submit on the tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept49@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day before the hearing.  All interested parties must be copied on the email.  It should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.