 Case Number:  22STCV34604    Hearing Date:   September 27, 2023    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     September 27, 2023               TRIAL DATE: NOT
SET
                                                           
CASE:                         Shenghua Entertainment, et al. v.
CineLou Films, LLC, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 22STCV34604            
 
MOTION
FOR ORDER REQUIRING PLAINTIFFS TO FURNISH SECURITY

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendants After Dark Films, LLC, CSS Entertainment,
LLC, California Maple Holdings, LLC, and Courtney Solomon.
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiffs
Shenghua Entertainment and Shenghua Entertainment Communication Co., Ltd.
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
10/28/22: Complaint filed.
·        
07/20/23: First Amended Complaint filed.
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an action for breach of contract and unjust enrichment.
Plaintiffs allege that Defendants breached their obligations arising from a 2016
loan agreement to finance production of several film projects and a 2018
settlement agreement intended to resolve some of the disputes arising from
those projects.
 
            Defendants
After Dark Films, LLC, CSS Entertainment, LLC, California Maple Holdings, LLC,
and Courtney Solomon move for an order requiring Plaintiffs to furnish security
for attorney’s fees and costs expected in this action. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
            Defendants After Dark Films, LLC,
CSS Entertainment, LLC, California Maple Holdings, LLC, and Courtney Solomon’s
Motion for Order Requiring Plaintiffs to Furnish Undertaking is GRANTED.
 
            Plaintiffs are ordered to file an
undertaking with this Court in the amount of $360,000 within 30 days of this
order. 
DISCUSSION:
 
            Defendants
After Dark Films, LLC, CSS Entertainment, LLC, California Maple Holdings, LLC,
and Courtney Solomon move for an order requiring Plaintiffs to furnish security
for attorney’s fees and costs expected in this action.
 
Legal Standard for Requiring Security
 
Under Code
of Civil Procedure section 1030(a), a defendant sued by an out-of-state plaintiff
“may at any time apply to the court by noticed motion for an order requiring
the plaintiff to file an undertaking to secure an award of costs and attorney’s
fees which may be awarded in the action or special proceeding.” (Code Civ.
Proc. §1030(a).) To prevail on a motion for undertaking, the defendant must
show that: (1) the plaintiff resides out of state or is a foreign corporation;
and (2) there is a “reasonable possibility” that the defendant will obtain a
judgment in the matter. (Code Civ. Proc. §1030(b).) A defendant need not show
that there is no possibility of the plaintiff prevailing—only that it is
reasonably possible that defendant will prevail. (Baltayan v. Estate of Getemyan (2001) 90
Cal.App.4th 1427, 1432.)  Additionally, the motion must be accompanied by
a supporting affidavit or declaration that sets forth the nature and amount of
the costs the defendant has incurred and expects to incur. (Code Civ. Proc.
§1030(b).) Finally, “the determinations of the court under this section have no
effect on the determination of any issues on the merits of the action . . . and
may not be given in evidence nor referred to in the trial of the action or
proceeding.”  (Code Civ. Proc. §1030(f).) 
 
Defendants’
Evidentiary Objections to Declaration of Yu Wie-Chung
 
            Defendants object to the Declaration
of Yu Wie-Chung offered in support of the opposition to this Motion. The Court
declines to rule on these objections because, as stated below, the Yu
Declaration is made in English, without a statement of translation, despite Plaintiffs’
averment that Mr. Yu does not speak English. (FAC ¶ 19, Declaration of
Daryl Lee ISO Opp. ¶ 4.) The Court therefore finds the Yu Declaration not
credible, and refuses to consider it further without considering Defendants’
objections to specific statements in the declaration.  
 
Defendants’ Evidentiary
Objections to Declaration of Daryl Lee
 
            Defendants also object to the Declaration of Daryl Lee in
support of the opposition. The Court rules on these objections as follows:
 
            Objection Nos. 2-3: OVERRULED. Does not lack
foundation or personal knowledge. Remaining objections go to weight, not
admissibility.
 
            As the remaining evidence to which Defendants object is
not material to this ruling, the Court declines to rule on the remaining
objection.  
 
Foreign
Corporate Plaintiffs
 
            The First Amended Complaint
expressly states that both Plaintiffs are corporations organized under the laws
of Taiwan and with a principal place of business in Taiwan. (FAC ¶¶ 1-2.) It is
therefore undisputed that both Plaintiffs in this action are foreign
corporations.
 
Reasonable
Possibility of Prevailing
 
The moving
Defendants contend that they have a reasonable possibility of prevailing on
each of the three causes of action asserted against them. Plaintiffs pled three
causes of action in the First Amended Complaint: a claim for breach of contract
arising from a 2018 Settlement Agreement (FAC ¶¶ 38-43), a second claim for
breach of contract arising from a 2016 Loan Agreement, (FAC ¶¶ 44-49), and a
claim for unjust enrichment that is derivative of the first two causes of
action. (FAC ¶¶ 50-53.) Plaintiffs concede that the potential liability of
these Defendants arises solely from the theory that the moving Defendants are
alter egos of Cinelou Films (with respect to the first cause of action) and
Comedian Productions (with respect to the second cause of action.) (Opposition
pp.4:20-5:2.)
 
The moving
Defendants request that Plaintiffs be ordered to furnish security because,
assuming arguendo that the allegations of breach against Cinelou and
Comedian are true, Defendants nevertheless have a reasonable possibility of
defeating Plaintiffs’ alter ego claim, which would consequentially defeat all
of Plaintiffs’ claims against them.
            To hold an
owner of a corporation personally liable for the acts of the corporation as an
alter ego of the owner, “[f]irst, there must be such a unity of interest and
ownership between the corporation and its equitable owner that the separate
personalities of the corporation and the shareholder do not in reality exist.
Second, there must be an inequitable result if the acts in question are treated
as those of the corporation alone.” (Sonora Diamond Corp. v. Superior Court
(2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 523, 539.) “Among the factors to be considered in
applying the doctrine are commingling of funds and other assets of the two
entities, the holding out by one entity that it is liable for the debts of the
other, identical equitable ownership in the two entities, use of the same
offices and employees, and use of one as a mere shell or conduit for the
affairs of the other. [citations] Other relevant factors . . . include
inadequate capitalization, disregard of corporate formalities, lack of
segregation of corporate records, and identical directors and officers.” (Id.
at 538-39.)
 
            Defendants’
principal evidence in support of their position is a declaration from Defendant
Solomon, in which he admits that he is the founder of Defendants After Dark
Films, LLC, CSS Entertainment LLC, Cinelou Films, LLC, Comedian Production,
LLC, and California Maple Holdings, LLC. (Declaration of Courney Solomon ISO
Mot. ¶¶ 2-6.) Defendant Solomon states that he is not an owner, member, or
stakeholder of Atmosphere Entertainment MM, Inc. and has no involvement with
its corporate filings or bank accounts. (Solomon Decl. ¶ 7.) Defendant Solomon
has also provided copies of the Articles of Organization for After Dark, CSS,
Cinelou, Comedian, and California Maple Holdings. (Solomon Decl. Exhs. A-D, F.)
Greg S. Bernstein is listed as the organizer and agent for After Dark (Id. Exh.
A). Defendant Solomon is listed as the organizer for CSS and Cinelou, but the
Articles for CSS name Ryan D. Nowicki as agent for service of process, while
Cinelou names Ian Brereton as its agent for service. (Id. Exhs. B, C.) Ian
Brereton is also listed as the agent for Comedian Productions, but the
organizer is listed as Scott Karol, who is also the organizer and agent for
California Maple Holdings. (Id. Exhs. D, F.) Comedian and California
Maple Holdings also list the same address for their offices, but no others. (Id.)
These records demonstrate that there was limited overlap of offices and
employees, and Defendant Solomon’s declaration also provides some evidence of
identical directors, officers, and ownership. Defendant Solomon also states,
however, that the various corporate entities maintain separate bank accounts
and do not commingle their funds with Defendant Solomon’s personal funds.
(Solomon Decl. ¶ 9.) Defendant Solomon also flatly denies diverting company
funds for personal benefit or holding himself out as personally liable for the
debts of any of the corporate Defendants. (Id.) 
 
            In
opposition, Plaintiffs argue that Defendants’ evidence is not sufficient
because the relevant portions of Defendant Solomon’s declaration consist of
little more than bare denials that any of the relevant factors for an alter ego
determination exist. The Court is not persuaded. Defendants have offered a
categorical refutation of Plaintiffs’ factual contentions under penalty of
perjury.  Plaintiffs provide no authority
in support of their position that such a declaration is insufficient, nor do
they offer any suggestion of what other evidence Defendants would need to
refute a claim that Defendants did not respect the corporate form. 
 
            Plaintiffs
also offer declarations of their own which they claim shows that the entity
Defendants were undercapitalized, that they commingled debts and obligations,
and operated from the same offices. However, much of Plaintiffs’ arguments rest
on the Declaration of Yu Wie-Chung, who is alleged in the First Amended
Complaint to be fluent only in Mandarin, not in English, and for whom Daryl Lee
declares he served as a translator. (FAC ¶ 19, Declaration of Daryl Lee ISO
Opp. ¶ 4.) Mr. Yu’s Declaration is written entirely in English with no
statement of translation, despite these verified allegations and statements
under penalty of perjury, and Plaintiffs offer no explanation of this
discrepancy. The Court therefore disregards the Yu Declaration as evidence that
is  not credible. The Lee Declaration,
which faces no such barrier, states that Defendant Solomon “conveyed to Yu that
Cinelou Films, LLC . . . and After Dark were facing financial turmoil,
teetering on the brink of bankruptcy,” and that Solomon “emphasized their
personal commitment” to Plaintiffs. (Lee Decl. ¶ 5.) In reply, Defendants argue
that, notwithstanding their other objections to this evidence, the Lee
Declaration is insufficient because it only provides a generalized description
of purported representations by Defendants, without the specific language used
nor any indication of the date, time, or place where the statements were made. 
 
            The Court
concurs with Defendants’ assessment of the evidence. Defendant Solomon offered
an unequivocal and specific denial that he or the entity Defendants engaged in
conduct that would support Plaintiffs’ alter ego claim. Although the evidence
presented by Defendants indicates some overlap in offices and employees, that
overlap is not so substantial that the Articles of Organization on their face
warrant a conclusion that Defendants could not prevail on the alter ego claim. By
contrast, the only admissible evidence offered by Plaintiffs consists of vague
descriptions by Mr. Lee which would not suffice to prove a unity of interest
between the entities. The Court therefore finds that the moving Defendants have
demonstrated a reasonable possibility of prevailing on the alter ego claim,
and, therefore, a reasonable possibility of prevailing in the action. 
 
Amount of Security
 
            Defendants
request that Plaintiffs be required to furnish security in the amount of
$960,085, which they contend accounts for the total costs and fees they expect
to incur. Plaintiffs object to this request as excessive. Attorney Jeremiah
Reynolds states that Defendants have incurred through July of 2023 a total of
$53,083 in fees and $3,506 in costs. (Declaration of Jeremiah Reynolds ISO Mot.
¶ 9.) Attorney Reynolds states that he expects Defendants will need to take
three depositions outside of the United States, which will, at a conservative
estimate, incur costs of at least $18,855, plus $2,730 in travel costs. (Id.
¶¶ 5-6 Exhs. 2-3.) Defendants also anticipate at least eight depositions inside
the United States, including depositions of named individuals Defendant
Solomon, Mark Canton, Freddy Bush, and Scott Carol, as well as employees of
Cinelou and agents of Sony Pictures, which they estimate will cost $5,000 per
deposition, for a total of at least $40,000. (Reynolds Decl. ¶ 7.) Further,
Defendants anticipate the need for at least one expert to testify to the
commercial performance of the motion pictures at issue in this case and their
connection to Defendants’ alleged gross mismanagement. (Id. ¶ 8.) Finally,
Attorney Reynolds provides a breakdown of the expected attorneys fees to be
incurred throughout the remainder of the litigation, with both high and low
estimates of the fees incurred. (Id. ¶ 9.) That said, no breakdown of
the anticipated hours is provided, despite Attorney Reynolds stating that he
bills at a rate of $895 per hour, while his associate bills only $460 per hour.
(Id.) 
 
            Plaintiffs
argue that Defendants have not adequately justified their claims for the amount
of fees and costs expected, and that, in any event, they could not recover all
fees and costs incurred because the 2016 loan agreement does not contain an
attorney’s fees provision, even though the 2018 Settlement Agreement does. With
respect to the latter contention, the Court is not persuaded because, as this
motion demonstrates and as Plaintiffs contend, the single issue to be litigated
is whether these Defendants are the alter egos of the other named Defendants. Thus,
fees and costs incurred to disprove that contention would be reasonably
incurred in litigation of the 2018 Settlement Agreement as well, and therefore
expressly permitted under Civil Code section 1717. 
 
            As to
Plaintiffs’ challenge to the adequacy of Defendants’ fee request, the Court agrees
with Plaintiffs. In particular, Attorney Reynolds provides no breakdown of the
hours expected to be incurred, especially with respect to trial preparation,
which lists nonspecific anticipated motions and post-trial motions and
submissions. (Reynolds Decl. ¶ 9.) The Court also observes that the Declaration
does not explain how the estimate of $960,085 was reached beyond it being a
“conservative estimate of the fees and costs.” The Court is not convinced of
the accuracy of this estimate, and concludes that a more appropriate amount would
be a total of $360,000.
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly,
Defendants After Dark Films, LLC, CSS Entertainment, LLC,
California Maple Holdings, LLC, and Courtney Solomon’s Motion for Order
Requiring Plaintiffs to Furnish Undertaking is GRANTED.
 
            Plaintiffs are ordered to file an
undertaking with this Court in the amount of $360,000 within 30 days of this
order. 
 
            Moving
Parties to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  September 27,
2023                           ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 