  Case Number:  22STCV18013    Hearing Date:   September 27, 2023    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     September 27, 2023               TRIAL DATE: NOT
SET
                                                           
CASE:                         Michelle Bernardino et al. v. American
Honda Motor Co.
 
CASE NO.:                 22STCV18013            
 
DEMMURRER
TO FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT; MOTION TO STRIKE PORTIONS OF FIRST AMENDED
COMPLAINT

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant American Honda Motor Co.
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiffs
Michelle and Anthony Bernardino.
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
06/01/22: Complaint filed.
·        
01/24/23: First Amended Complaint filed. 
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is a lemon law action filed on June 1, 2022. Plaintiffs purchased a
2019 Honda Pilot which they allege developed defects in the infotainment,
electrical, transmission, and engine systems. 
 
Defendant demurs to the fifth cause
of action for fraudulent concealment and moves to strike portions of the First
Amended Complaint. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
            Defendant’s
Demurrer to the First Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED with leave to amend.
 
            Plaintiffs
shall have 30 days leave to amend the Complaint. 
 
            Defendant’s
Motion to Strike Portions of the First Amended Complaint is MOOT. 
 
//
 
//
DISCUSSION:
 
Demurrer to First Amended Complaint
 
            Defendant
demurs to the fifth cause of action for fraudulent concealment in the First
Amended Complaint. 
 
Legal Standard
 
A demurrer tests whether the
complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147
Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations
liberally and in context. (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and
Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.) In a demurrer proceeding, the
defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial
notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968,
994.) “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other
extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face
of the pleading or are judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court
(1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) “The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing
is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters,
states a cause of action.” (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at p. 747.) The
ultimate facts alleged in the complaint must be deemed true, as well as all
facts that may be implied or inferred from those expressly alleged. (Marshall
v. Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1397, 1403; see also Shields
v. County of San Diego (1984) 155 Cal.App.3d 103, 133 [stating, “[o]n
demurrer, pleadings are read liberally and allegations contained therein are
assumed to be true”].) “This rule of liberal construction means that the
reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not the
defendant.” (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th
1228, 1238.) 
 
Meet and Confer
 
Before filing a demurrer, the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who has filed the pleading subject to the demurrer and file a declaration
detailing their meet and confer efforts.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41(a).)
However, an insufficient meet and confer process is not grounds
to overrule or sustain a demurrer.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41(a)(4).)
 
The Declaration of David Chaffin
attached to the demurrer states that the parties met and conferred on March 6,
2023 regarding this demurrer and the simultaneous motion to strike, but were
not able to reach an agreement. (Declaration of David L. Chaffin ISO Demurrer ¶
3.) The Court therefore finds that Defendant has satisfied the statutory meet
and confer process. 
 
Plaintiffs’ Requests for Judicial Notice
 
            Plaintiffs
request that the Court take judicial notice of several appellate and federal
district court opinions. As these materials are not relevant to the Court’s
ruling, Plaintiffs’ requests are DENIED. (Gbur v. Cohen (1979) 93 Cal.App.3d 296, 301 (“[J]udicial notice .
. . is always confined to those matters which are relevant to the issue at
hand.”].)  
 
Analysis
 
            Defendant
demurs to the fifth cause of action for fraudulent concealment for failure to
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.
 
The elements of fraud are (a) a misrepresentation (false
representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) knowledge of its falsity;
(c) intent to induce reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting
damage. (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 638.)  
 
The elements of fraudulent concealment are (1) concealment
or suppression of a material fact; (2) by a defendant with a duty to disclose
the fact to the plaintiff; (3) intent to defraud the plaintiff by intentionally
concealing or suppressing the fact; (4) the plaintiff was unaware of the fact
and would not have acted as he or she did if he or she had known of the
concealed or suppressed fact; and (5) the plaintiff sustained damage as a
result of the concealment or suppression of fact. (Hambridge v. Healthcare
Partners Medical Group, Inc. (2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 124, 162.)  
 
1.     
Damages
 
            Defendant
first argues that Plaintiffs may not assert this cause of action because,
although Plaintiffs allege that the infotainment systems 2018 and 2019 Honda
vehicles, including 2019 Honda Pilots are prone to failure, they do not allege
at any point that any defects in the infotainment system have actually arisen,
and thus, Plaintiffs have not adequately alleged any damages as the result of
conduct by Defendant. A review of the lengthy allegations of the fifth cause of
action reveals that this contention is correct. (See generally FAC ¶¶ 48-90.)
Indeed, Plaintiffs base their fraudulent concealment claim on an argument that
they have been injured because the infotainment system “may” fail. (FAC ¶ 80.) Under
the law, Plaintiffs need not allege that the product is defective to
establish a claim for fraudulent concealment, because a claim for fraudulent
concealment impugns Defendant’s conduct. (Khan v. Shiley Inc.
(1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 848, 857.) Plaintiffs have also alleged damages in that
they have alleged that they would not have purchased the vehicle had they known
of the propensity of the infotainment system to fail. (FAC ¶ 89.) The Court
therefore finds this contention to be without merit. 
 
2.     
Representations
 
            Defendant
next argues that Plaintiffs’ fifth cause of action fails because they do not
allege any misrepresentations by Defendant or its agents. This contention
neglects that Plaintiffs allege a cause of action for fraudulent concealment,
not ordinary fraudulent misrepresentation. Defendants have therefore failed to
demonstrate that the fifth cause of action is defective on this basis.
3.     
Duty to Disclose
 
Defendant next argues that it had no duty to disclose any defect
because it had no special or transactional relationship with Plaintiff. 
 
There are four circumstances in which nondisclosure or
concealment may constitute actionable fraud: (1) when the defendant is in a
fiduciary relationship with the plaintiff; (2) when the defendant had exclusive
knowledge of material facts not known to the plaintiff; (3) when the defendant
actively conceals a material fact from the plaintiff; or (4) when the defendant
makes partial representations but also suppresses some material fact.” (LiMandri
v. Judkins (1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 326, 336.) A duty to disclose may also
arise when a defendant possesses or exerts control over material facts not
readily available to the plaintiff. (Jones v. ConocoPhillips Co. (2011)
198 Cal.App.4th 1198, 1199.)  
 
“Even under the strict rules of common law pleading, one of
the canons was that less particularity is required when the facts lie more in
the knowledge of the opposite party.” (Alfaro v. Community Housing
Improvement System & Planning Assn., Inc. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1256,
1384.)  
 
            Defendant first argues that this
cause of action fails because, although the First Amended Complaint contends
that Defendant had exclusive knowledge of and actively concealed material facts
from Plaintiff, the First Amended Complaint does not allege a transactional
relationship between the parties. Ordinarily, a duty to disclose absent a
fiduciary relationship “presupposes the existence of [a] relationship between
the plaintiff and defendant in which a duty to disclose can arise.” (Bigler-Engler
v. Breg, Inc. (2017) 7 Cal.App.5th 276, 311.) Defendant contends that
because Defendant is the manufacturer of Plaintiff’s vehicle, there was not a
“direct dealing” between the parties that gives rise to a duty to disclose.
(See Bigler-Engler, supra, at 311.) Defendant is mistaken.
 
            Although a manufacturer does not
have a transactional relationship with the “public at large,” (Bigler-Engler,
supra, at 311.) a vendor does have a duty to disclose material facts
“not only to immediate purchasers, but also to subsequent purchasers
when the vendor has reason to expect that the item will be resold.” (OCM
Principle Opportunities Fund v. CIBC World Markets Corp. (2007) 157
Cal.App.4th 835, 859-60.) Here, the essential allegation is that
Plaintiffs are not a member of the public at large, but a subsequent purchaser
of a product manufactured by Defendant. Existing precedent does not require
Plaintiffs to allege any further relationship with the manufacturer of the
vehicle exhibiting the defects giving rise to this action. 
 
            Defendant
next argues that the First Amended Complaint does not adequately allege that
Defendant had exclusive knowledge of material facts or actively concealed them
from Plaintiffs. At the outset, Defendant argues that allegations as to other
Honda vehicles are irrelevant because they do not pertain to Plaintiffs’
vehicle. Not so, as the theory advanced in the First Amended Complaint is that
the defects identified are common to all Honda vehicles from 2018 and
2019, including the Subject Vehicle. (See generally FAC ¶¶ 45-90.) That said, as
Defendant correctly observes, Plaintiffs allege that publicly available customer
complaints should have put Defendant on notice of defects in its 2018 and 2019
series of vehicles, relying on complaints dating back to 2017. (See FAC ¶ 60.) Since
these complaints are alleged to be publicly available, as Defendant argues, they
could not have contained or evidenced Defendant’s exclusive knowledge of any
material facts. Plaintiffs also allege, however, that Defendant put out
advertising materials as of November 2018 on which Plaintiffs relied that discussed
the infotainment system and made no mention of the alleged defects. (FAC ¶¶
11-12.) Representations in marketing materials may be actionable if Defendant
did not in fact entertain such opinion of the system’s quality given its
knowledge of the system defects. (See Pacesetter Homes Inc. v. Brodkin
(1970) 5 Cal.App.3d 206, 211.) While the theory of misleading advertising
materials is alleged, the Court agrees that these allegations do not describe
the representations which Defendant purportedly made with any specifics, which is
required on a claim for fraud. Even a claim for fraudulent concealment still
requires that a “representation was made to which the alleged concealment was
contrary.” (Daugherty v. American Honda Motor Co. (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th
824, 834.) 
 
            As the
First Amended Complaint does not plead any representations with sufficient
specifics to determine what was concealed, the Court is forced to conclude that
Plaintiffs have not stated facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action for
fraudulent concealment. 
 
Leave to Amend
 
When a demurrer is sustained, the
Court determines whether there is a reasonable possibility that the defect can
be cured by amendment. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,
318).  When a plaintiff “has pleaded the general set of facts upon
which his cause of action is based,” the court should give the plaintiff an
opportunity to amend his complaint, since plaintiff should not “be deprived of his
right to maintain his action on the ground that his pleadings were defective
for lack of particulars.” (Reed v. Norman (1957) 152 Cal.App.2d 892,
900.) Accordingly, California law imposes the burden on the plaintiffs to
demonstrate the manner in which they can amend their pleadings to state their
claims against a defendant.  (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18
Cal.3d 335, 349.) “Denial of leave to amend constitutes an abuse of discretion
unless the complaint shows on its face it is incapable of amendment. 
[Citation.]  Liberality in permitting amendment is the rule, if a fair
opportunity to correct any defect has not been given." (Angie M. v.
Superior Court (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1217, 1227.)
 
            Plaintiffs
have not stated the means by which the complaint might be amended to cure the
defects in this cause of action. However, as the defects arise from a lack of
specificity, the Court will exercise its discretion to grant Plaintiffs leave
to amend. 
 
Conclusion
 
            Accordingly,
Defendant’s Demurrer to the First Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED with leave to
amend.
Motion to Strike Portions of First Amended Complaint
 
            As the
Court has sustained the demurrer with leave to amend, Defendant’s Motion to
Strike Portions of the First Amended Complaint is MOOT. 
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly, Defendant’s
Demurrer to the First Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED with leave to amend.
 
            Plaintiffs
shall have 30 days leave to amend the Complaint. 
 
            Defendant’s
Motion to Strike Portions of the First Amended Complaint is MOOT. 
 
            Moving
Party to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  September 27,
2023                           ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 