  Case Number:  19STCV10435    Hearing Date:   June 28, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     June
28, 2024                                     TRIAL DATE:  Not set
                                                           
CASE:                         John Musero v. Creative Artists Agency, LLC
 
CASE NO.:                 19STCV10435
 





















 
BRIEFING
RE: AUTHORITY TO ALLOW THE DEFENDANT 
TO
FILE A NEW MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendants
Creative Artists Agency, LLC, and Andrew Miller
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Plaintiff John
Musero
 
 
I.          BACKGROUND
 
            On September 15, 2023, Defendants, Creative Artists Agency,
LLC, Andrew Miller, and Leah Yerushalaim, filed their Motion for Summary
Judgment with redactions.
 
            The motion
was heard and argued on March 11, 2024.  Pursuant
to oral stipulation, the court continued the hearing to May 21, 2024 and
ordered supplemental briefing.  
 
            On March
27, 2024, Defendants filed an Ex Parte Application Granting Joint Stipulation
Re Vacating Supplemental Briefing Schedule and Granting Leave to File Second
Amended Complaint.  The court granted the
Ex Parte Application on March 28, 2024.
 
            On March
29, 2024, Plaintiff filed the Second Amended Complaint.  Pursuant to the parties Joint Ex Parte
Application For An Order Withdrawing and Refiling Plaintiff’s Second Amended
Complaint Under Seal, Plaintiff publicly filed a redacted Second Amended
Complaint (SAC) and lodged with the court an unredacted SAC.
 
            On May 21,
2024, the parties appeared for a Status Conference.  Court and counsel conferred re: authority as
to whether the filing of a second amended complaint allows the court to provide
the defendant with the opportunity to file a new motion for summary judgment. The
court ordered briefing on the following issues: 
 
1.     
What changed between the first
amended complaint and the second amended complaint that alters misuse
arguments? 
2.     
Discussion re: State Compensation
Ins. Fund v. Superior Court (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 1124, 1131 (State
Compensation).
 
The issues have been briefed.  The court now rules as follows.
  
II.        DISCUSSION & LEGAL STANDARD 
 
The underlying issue is whether Defendants may file another
motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication given Plaintiff’s filing of
the Second Amended Complaint.  The State
Compensation opinion guides, if not controls, the analysis.   
 
“Because there is but one complaint in a civil action
[citation], the filing of an amended complaint moots a motion directed to a
prior complaint.”  (State Compensation,
184 Cal.App.4th at pp. 1127, 1131.)  “[A]
court granting plaintiff leave to amend a cause of action should not at the
same time attempt to summarily adjudicate material issues which underlie that
same cause of action. After a cause of action is amended, the court may rule in
favor of the defendant if, upon subsequent motion, or perhaps renewal of the
earlier motion if appropriately framed, it is shown ... there are no
triable material issues of fact which would permit recovery on that theory.”  (Id. at p. 1131.)  Once an amended pleading has been filed, it is
proper to rule on a pending motion for summary judgment only if the allegations
in the amended complaint do not “change[ ] the scope of the issues for purposes
of summary judgment.”  (Id. at pp.
1133–1134.)
 
Here, Plaintiff, as agreed upon by the parties, was granted
leave to file an amended complaint to add allegations that Defendants placed
his name on an “Underperforming Writers List” and “Cutting List” (collectively,
the “Lists”).  (See SAC, ¶¶ 8, 33-41, 58,
59, 79.)  These new allegations are set
forth under the First Cause of Action for Breach of Fiduciary Duty and
Confidentiality and the Third Cause of Action for Breach of Implied Covenant of
Good Faith and Fair Dealing.  In total,
Defendants allegedly breached their fiduciary duty to Plaintiff and the implied
covenant in two ways: by misusing Plaintiff’s work, Main Justice, and by
placing Plaintiff on the Lists.  Defendants
aimed their original motion for summary judgment principally at Plaintiff’s misuse
allegations.  By filing the SAC which
adds the “Lists” allegations, Plaintiff has expanded his theory of the case,
and as relevant here, mooted Defendants’ original motion for summary judgment.  (State Compensation, at p. 1131.)  “Because there is but one complaint in a civil
action,” it is appropriate to allow Defendants to file a new motion for summary
judgment, or summary adjudication, as to the operative pleading, which is the
SAC.  
 
III.        CONCLUSION
 
Based on the foregoing, Defendants are permitted to file another
motion for summary judgment, or summary adjudication, as to the Second Amended
Complaint.  Counsel should discuss an
appropriate briefing schedule and hearing date and submit stipulation to the
court within 10 court days.[1]  Counsel should discuss and agree upon the submission
of the compendium of relevant exhibits, redacted and unredacted.  
 
            Defendants
to give notice.  
                                                                                                            
DATED: June 27, 2024
 




 


  


 




 


  Kerry Bensinger 
  Judge of the Superior Court


 




 


