 Case Number:  22STCV01863    Hearing Date:   October 18, 2024    Dept:  73 10/18/2024
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf
Treu, Judge presiding 
 
OPPORTUNITY FINANCIAL, LLC v. CLOTHILDE
HEWLETT (22STCV08163)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiffs/opposing party:  Fredrick
Levin (Orrick, Herrington & Sutcliffe LLP)
Counsel for
Defendant/moving party: Allard C. Chu (Department of Financial Protection and
Innovation)
 
MOTION TO COMPEL DFPI’S AND CLOTHILDE
HEWLETT’S FURTHER RESPONSES TO REQUESTS FOR ADMISSION NOS. 17-28 (SET TWO),
FORM INTERROGATORY 17.1 (SET TWO), AND SPECIAL INTERROGATORY NO. 23 (SET ONE) (filed 05/24/24)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
The Motion to Compel DPFI’s and
Clothilde Hewlett’s Further Responses to Requests for Admission Nos. 17-28 (Set
Two), Form Interrogatory 17.1 (Set Two) and Special Interrogatory No. 23 (Set
One) is GRANTED. DPFI and Clothilde Hewlett shall
serve supplemental responses within 30 days of the Court’s order. Sanctions are denied. 
 
I. BACKGROUND
On March 7, 2022, Plaintiff Opportunity Financial, LLC
(“OppFi”) filed this action against Clothilde V. Hewlett in her official
capacity as Commissioner of California’s Department of Financial Protection and
Innovation (the “Commissioner”).  
On April 8, 2022, the Commissioner filed a Cross-Complaint
against OppFi.  
On September 30, 2022, the Court overruled OppFi’s demurrer
to the Commissioner’s Cross-Complaint.  
On October 17, 2022, OppFi filed a Cross-Complaint against
the Commissioner and California’s Department of Financial Protection and
Innovation (“DFPI”).
A.     
Allegations
in OppFi’s Complaint 
 
OppFi is
a leading financial technology platform and service provider focused on helping
middle-income, credit-challenged consumers build a better financial path.
(Compl., ¶ 14.) 
 
Specifically, OppFi’s platform allows
banks to provide access to simple short-term lending products for consumers
whom traditional lenders may otherwise turn away in light of their credit
profile. (Compl., ¶ 15.) In
this regard, OppFi plays OppFi plays a critical, federally recognized, and
approved market: enabling consumers to be shut out of traditional credit
markets to obtain access to credit. (Compl.,
¶ 15.) Moreover, access to credit is a critical asset to individuals
seeking to build a better economic future. (Compl., ¶ 15.)  
 
Lenders such as FinWise Bank (the
“Bank”), a federally-insured state-chartered bank located in Utah, have
developed loan products that provide credit to this population in light of
their high credit risk. (Compl., ¶
17.) The loan products offered by the Bank provide transparent pricing, have no
origination or late fees, are fully amortizing with no balloon payments, and
allow borrowers to prepay at any time with no penalty. (Compl., ¶ 17.) 
 
However, in light of the high credit
risk posed by this population, the interest rates charged on these loans are
often higher than traditional loans because the borrowers have no collateral to
use as security and default at a high rate. (Compl., ¶ 17.) Borrowers understand that high
interest rates are necessary in light of their credit status. (Compl., ¶ 17.)  
 
Because charging higher interest rates
is necessary to make small-dollar lending to higher-risk borrowers economically
viable, many national and state-chartered banks that engage in such lending
lawfully incorporate and locate themselves in states that do not set low
interest rate caps relative to credit risk. (Compl., ¶ 18.) These states understand that if the
legal small-dollar lending market is terminated, it will not end low-income
borrowers’ need for credit, but instead will lead to something more pernicious:
increased reliance on “payday lending” and, even worse, black-market lending by
persons and entities who operate wholly outside of the law. (Compl., ¶ 18.) 
 
The Bank uses OppFi’s platform to
provide loan products to consumers throughout the United States. (Compl., ¶ 19.)  
 
This action arises from the
Commissioner of California’s Department of Financial Protection and
Innovation’s (the “Commissioner”) threatened enforcement of the Fair Access to
Credit Act (“AB 539”) against OppFi. (Compl.,
¶ 1.) 
 
AB 539, which became effective on
January 1, 2020, amended the California Financing Law (“CFL”) to cap interest
rates to 36% for covered loans between $2,500 and $10,000 made by “financial
lenders.” (Compl., ¶
1.)  
 
The Commissioner accuses OppFi of
originating consumer loans with interest rates above those allowed by AB 539. (Compl., ¶ 1.) 
 
However, the loans in question
originated from the Bank, not OppFi. (Compl.,
¶ 1.) OppFi only provides the Bank with technology and other services
under a contractual arrangement (the “Program”). (Compl., ¶ 1.) 
 
Moreover, the interest rate caps in
the CFL should not apply to loans originated under the Program (“Program
Loans”) for the following reasons.  
 
·       
First, Program Loans are
constitutionally and statutorily exempt from California’s maximum interest rate
caps because the loans are made by the Bank, a state-chartered bank located in
Utah.  
·       
Second, OppFi does not make loans
under the Program in California. As such, it is not a “finance lender” under
the CFL with respect to its Program-related activities and, therefore, is not
subject to the interest rate caps established by AB 539 for those
activities.  
·       
Third, even if AB 539 could arguably
apply to OppFi, Section 27 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (“FDIA”), 12
U.S.C. § 1831d (hereinafter “Section 27”) preempts the application of AB 539 to
Program Loans. 
 
(Compl., ¶ 2.)  
 
The inapplicability of the CFL’s
interest rate caps to the Program is not controversial or new, but rooted in
long-existing constitutional and statutory exemptions under California law for
loans made by state-chartered banks and decades of well-settled federal law. (Compl., ¶ 3.) Federal law permits
state-chartered banks to export the interest rates allowed in their chartering
state to any other state in the country. (Compl., ¶ 3.) Federal law also preempts any efforts by state
legislatures to apply their state’s interest rate caps to loans made by
state-chartered banks in other states. Indeed, in passing AB 539, the
Legislature expressly acknowledged what is obvious: AB 539 does not apply to
“nondepositories that partner with banks,” like OppFi. (Compl., ¶ 3.) The Commissioner is well aware of these
settled principles. (Compl., ¶
4.) Indeed, before AB 539, the Bank originated Program Loans that would have
been subject to the interest caps under AB 539, but the Commissioner and her
predecessors never objected to those loans. (Compl., ¶ 4.) 
 
The Complaint asserts the following
causes of actions.  
 
1.     
Declaratory Judgment 
2.     
Injunctive Relief 
 
B.     
Allegations
in the Commissioner’s Cross-Complaint 
 
The
Commissioner’s Cross-Complaint against OppFi asserts two causes of action: 
 
1.  
Violation
of the California Financing Law 
2.  
Violation
of the California Consumer Financial Protection Law 
 
The
Commissioner alleges the following.  
 
OppFi is
not a bank, but a publicly traded company that originates consumer installment
loans called “OppLoans” through its website. (Commissioner’s XC, ¶ 3.) Consumers apply for a loan on OppFi’s
website, and OppFi uses an automated underwriting model where loans can be
instantly approved or denied with most funds available the next business day. (Commissioner’s XC, ¶ 3.) 
 
The Bank is a Utah-chartered bank that
has essentially “rented” its charter to OppFi to charge higher interest rates
to consumers through the “OppLoans” product. (Commissioner’s XC, ¶ 4.) State-chartered banks that
are federally insured are exempt under Section 27 from state interest rate
caps. (Commissioner’s XC, ¶
4.) The State of Utah does not have
a state interest cap, making its state-chartered banks attractive to non-bank
lenders like OppFi. (Commissioner’s
XC, ¶ 4.) 
 
To address predatory lending (a national problem causing consumers to
become trapped in a cycle of debt due to high interest installment loans that
are difficult to pay off), approximately 45 states passed laws capping the interest rates
lenders can charge on consumer loans. (Commissioner’s XC, ¶ 1.)  
 
In 2019,
California passed AB 539, capping interest rates on most consumer loans at 36%.
(Commissioner’s XC, ¶ 1.) 
 
In response, non-bank lending
companies partner with various state-chartered banks in the few remaining
states without interest rate caps to benefit from the exemption that the
state-chartered banks have under federal law from other states’ interest rate
cap laws (also known as usury laws). (Commissioner’s
XC, ¶ 1.) 
 
These
“rent-a-bank” partnerships, like the one between OppFi and the Bank, are
typically structured so that a state-chartered bank (here, the Bank) in a state
without interest rate caps appears on paper to be the “lender” on high interest
loans to consumers in another state where rates are capped, while the non-bank
lending company (here, OppFi) performs the actual duties of a real lender such
as marketing, underwriting, and servicing. (Commissioner’s XC, ¶¶ 2, 5.) Although the state-chartered bank
purports to originate the exorbitant interest loan, it immediately sells the
loan to the non-bank lending company or the bulk of the receivables (meaning
the right to interest and principal payments). (Commissioner’s XC, ¶ 2.) From this point forward, the
state-chartered bank has no financial stake in the performance of the loan, and
the non-bank lending company, the “true lender,” reaps the economic benefits of
the loan. (Commissioner’s XC, ¶
2.) Because a state-chartered bank is the “lender” on paper, the non-bank
lending company purports to “rent” the state-chartered bank’s exemption and
charge consumers interest rates exorbitantly higher than those legally
permitted in the consumer’s state. (Commissioner’s
XC, ¶ 2.)  
 
In enacting a 36% interest rate cap on
consumer loans between $2,500 and $9,999, California has made a public policy
determination regarding the appropriate balance between affording consumers
fair access to credit and the protection of its most vulnerable citizens. (Commissioner’s XC, ¶ 7.) Far from
an effort to remove financial barriers for underserved communities, OppFi’s
predatory “rent-a-bank” ruse is an overt attempt to evade the state interest
rate cap and must be recognized as an illegal sham that has no place in
California’s innovative financial marketplace. (Commissioner’s XC, ¶ 5.) 
 
Through this rent-a-bank ruse, OppFi
uses the Bank as a straw lender in a gambit to circumvent interest rate limits
that the State of California deemed reasonable and necessary to curb predatory
lending abuses. (Commissioner’s XC, ¶
5.) 
 
However, regardless of which entity
the loan documents proffer as the purported “lender,” OppFi is the true lender
of the OppLoans, and the loans OppFi makes are illegal in California. (Commissioner’s XC, ¶ 5.)  
 
Therefore, the Commissioner filed the
Cross Complaint seeking to enjoin OppFi’s unlawful predatory lending scheme,
provide restitution to exploited borrowers, and impose penalties of at least
$100 million against OppFi, and those acting in concert, for the financial harm
inflicted on at least 38,000 California borrowers. (Commissioner’s XC, ¶ 8.) 
 
C.     
Allegations
in OppFi’s Cross-Complaint 
 
The DFPI is an agency of the State of
California that is legally charged to execute any laws relating to finance
lenders. (OppFi’s XC, ¶ 10.) 
 
OppFi’s
Cross-Complaint against the Commissioner and DFPI (collectively,
“Cross-Defendants”) challenges DFPI’s adoption of the so-called “true lender
doctrine” to determine the applicability of the interest rate caps under the
CFL. (OppFi’s XC, ¶ 1.) 
 
As outlined in OppFi’s Complaint, the
Commissioner threatened to enforce AB 539’s interest cap against OppFi for
loans originated by the “Bank.” (OppFi’s
XC, ¶ 3.) However, the CFL’s interest rate caps only apply to “finance
lenders,” which does not include state-chartered banks like the Bank. (OppFi’s XC, ¶ 3.) Nonetheless, the
Commissioner has sued OppFi for violating those interest rate caps. (OppFi’s XC, ¶ 3.) 
 
The DFPI’s underground adoption of its
“true lender doctrine” is a significant departure from Cross-Respondents’
enforcement of the CFL’s interest rate caps before AB 539. (OppFi’s XC, ¶ 6.)  
 
In addition, the Administrative
Procedure Act (“APA”), Gov’t Code § 11340 et seq. was designed to provide
regulated entities notice of a regulation’s requirements so that they could
conform their activities accordingly and, if necessary, test the authority of
the agency to implement such a rule beforehand. (OppFi’s XC, ¶ 7.) 
 
Therefore, the true lender doctrine is
subject to the notice and comment rulemaking procedures of the APA because it
is intended to “apply generally, rather than in a specific case,” and
“implement[s], interpret[s], or make[s] specific the law enforced or
administered by” Cross-Respondents. (OppFi’s
XC, ¶ 6, citing Tidewater Marine Western, Inc. v. Bradshaw (1996)
14 Cal.4th 557, 566, 571 in a footnote.)  
 
Instead of complying with the APA,
DFPI adopted the true lender doctrine without any formal notice at all, much
less fair or adequate notice, and without complying with the APA. (OppFi’s XC, ¶ 7.) As a result,
service providers like OppFi now face an existential threat to their businesses
and significant monetary penalties based on an interpretation of the CFL
adopted by the DFPI without complying with the APA. (OppFi’s XC, ¶ 7.) They also face the challenge of
complying with a vague and amorphous test that leaves the applicability of the
CFL’s interest rate cap to the regulator's discretion. (OppFi’s XC, ¶ 7.) At base, this renders the CFL’s
exemption for state-chartered banks meaningless. (OppFi’s XC, ¶ 7.) The APA’s rulemaking procedures are
intended to prevent these unfair results. (OppFi’s XC, ¶ 7.) 
 
Therefore, because DFPI did not submit
its “true lender doctrine” to the APA’s rule-making process, it is invalid as
an “underground regulation” and cannot be enforced. (OppFi’s XC, ¶ 8.)  
 
OppFi’s Cross-Complaint asserts the
following causes of action.  
 
1.  
Writ of
Mandate, Code of Civil Procedure § 1085(a) -- Violation of the California
Administrative Procedure Act, Gov’t Code § 11340 et seq.) 
2.  
Declaratory
Relief, Code Civ. Proc. § 1060; Gov’t Code § 11350—Violation of the California
Administrative Procedure Act, Gov’t Code § 11340 et seq.) 
 
D.    
The
Instant Motion to Compel Further Discovery Responses
 
On July 9, 2024, Plaintiff and Cross-Defendant
OppFi filed a Motion to Compel DFPI’s and Clothilde Hewlett’s Further Responses
to Requests for Admission nos. 17-28 (Set Two); Form Interrogatory 17.1 (Set
Two) and Special Interrogatory No. 23 (Set One), arguing:
·       
DFPI and Clothilde Hewlett violated the
Court’s 1/22/24 order by failing to provide code-compliant responses 
·       
OppFi requests sanctions in the amount
of $4,730
 
In opposition, DFPI and Clothilde Hewlett argue:
·       The Court’s 1/22/24 order did not overrule privilege objections
·       The amended responses are compliant 
·       Sanctions are unwarranted
 
In reply, OppFi maintains that further responses and sanctions are
warranted.
 
II. DISCUSSION 
 
A.     
Legal
Standard
 
“On receipt
of a response to interrogatories, the propounding party may move for an order
compelling a further response if the propounding party deems that any of the
following apply: (1) An answer to a particular interrogatory is evasive or
incomplete. (2) An exercise of the option to produce documents under Section
2030.230 is unwarranted or the required specification of those documents is
inadequate. (3) An objection to an interrogatory is without merit or too
general.”¿ CCP § 2030.300(a).¿ “A motion under subdivision (a) [of CCP §
2030.300] shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040.”¿ CCP § 2030.300(b).¿ In addition, a separate statement is required.¿
California Rules of Court (“CRC”) Rule 3.1345(a)(2).¿ 
¿ 
A motion to
compel further responses may be brought based on responses to requests for
admission (“RFA”) that: (1) provide evasive or incomplete answers; or (2) make
unmeritorious or overly-generalized objections.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2033.290(a).)  However, a motion to compel further responses cannot compel
the admission of matters already denied.  (Holguin v. Superior Court
(1972) 22 Cal.App.3d 812, 821.) 
 
If a timely
motion to compel has been filed, the¿burden is on the responding party¿to
justify any objection or failure fully to answer.¿(Coy v. Superior Court¿(1962)
58 Cal.2d 210, 220–221 [addressing a motion to compel further responses to
interrogatories]; see also¿Fairmont Ins. Co. v. Superior Court¿(2000) 22
Cal.4th 245, 255.) 
 
B.     
Procedural
Issues
 
First, the
Court notes that OppFi’s single, combined motion should have been submitted as
separate motions for the form interrogatory, special interrogatory, and RFAs
and as to each responding party. 
 
While there is no specific provision of law that, in so many words,
requires separate motions for each, Code of Civil Procedure 1003 provides: “
Every direction of a court or judge, made or entered in writing, and not
included in a judgment, is denominated an order. An application for an order is
a motion.” Additionally, motions under Code of Civil Procedure § 2033.290, §2030.300 and §2031.310
each require separate statements. The effect is to require that each request
for further response to RFAs or interrogatories, requires a separate motion as
a matter of course, as the moving party is requesting relief as to a specific
and distinct discovery request. Here, OppFi’s single motion combined multiple
motions into one. Due process and basic fairness requires that each party
against whom relief is sought is adequately appraised of the relief sought
against them in separate motions in order to prevent inequitable and unjust
results. 
 
Nevertheless, it appears that OppFi’s single motion provided sufficient
notice in this instance as the responding parties provided substantive responses.
Thus, the Court continues its discussion on the merits. 
 
C.     
Request
for Admission Nos. 17-28 (Set Two)
 
OppFi
requests further responses to Request for Admission Nos. 17-28 propounded on
DPFI and Clothilde Hewlett.
 
For
Request Nos. 17-28, DPFI and Clothilde Hewlett respond as follows:
 
“Defendant objects to the request to the extent
it calls for information protected from disclosure by the work product doctrine
and similar privileges and protections from disclosure. 
 
Subject to and without waiving the foregoing
objections, responds as follows: 
 
Admit, except to the extent the Request is
intended to imply that FinWise was the actual lender of money for such loans,
which is denied.”
 
OppFi argues the responses are not code-compliant
because the qualification “except to the extent the Request is intended to
imply that FinWise was the actual lender of money for such loans, which is
denied” is improper. OppFi also asserts that the responses fail to specify how
the work product doctrine and other privileges are implicated. Thus, OppFi is
left to guess as to what may or may not be withheld. 
 
The Court
agrees and finds further responses are warranted. Further, to the extent that DPFI and Clothilde Hewlett claim to withhold documents based on privilege, the responding
party must produce a “privilege log that adequately identifies each document
[that party] claims is privileged and the factual basis for the privilege
claim.” (Catalina Island Yacht Club v. Sup. Ct. (2015) 242 Cal.App.4th
1116, 1127; Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.240(c)(1) (a claim of privilege in a
discovery response “shall provide sufficient factual information for other
parties to evaluate the merits of that claim, including, if necessary, a
privilege log.”). Here, responding parties have not provided a privilege log. 
 
 
D.    
Form
Interrogatory 17.1 (Set Two)
 
OppFi
requests further responses to Form Interrogatory 17.1 propounded
on DPFI and Clothilde Hewlett.
 
Form Interrogatory 17.1 states: 
 
“Is your response to each request for admission
served with these interrogatories an unqualified admission? If not, for each
response that is not an unqualified admission: 
(a) state the number of the request; 
(b) state all facts upon which you base your
response; 
(c) state the names, ADDRESSES, and telephone
numbers of all PERSONS who have knowledge of those facts; and 
(d) identify all DOCUMENTS and other tangible
things that support your response and state the name, ADDRESS, and telephone
number of the person who has each DOCUMENT or thing.”
 
DPFI and Clothilde Hewlett respond to subpart b
for RFAs No. 17-28 to state:
 
“FinWise Bank is a Utah state-chartered
bank. It conducts banking business under that charter. Defendant does not admit
any implication, intended or unintended, that FinWise conducting business under
state banking law makes any of the subject loans exempt from the California
Financing Law or that FinWise is the actual lender of money as to such loans as
evaluated under California law. In this action, Defendant contends that FinWise
is not the actual lender of money as to the loans at issue and that the loans
are subject to the CFL.”
 
OppFi
argues the responses do not provide any facts to support the DFPI’s
qualified admissions to RFAs Nos. 17-28. OppFi asserts the Court should require the DFPI
to comply with the Order for its response to FROG No. 17.1 and remove its
discussion of the “implication” of the RFAs and the frivolous privilege and
work product assertions. 
 
The Court finds further responses are warranted. As discussed
above, to the extent that DPFI and Clothilde Hewlett claim to
withhold documents based on privilege, the responding party must produce a
privilege log.
 
E.     
Special
Interrogatory No. 23 (Set One)
 
OppFi
requests further responses to Special Interrogatory No. 23 propounded
on DPFI and Clothilde Hewlett.
 
Special Interrogatory No. 23 states: “State
as a percentage of the loan that a person must own to have the PREDOMINATE
ECONOMIC INTEREST.”
 
DPFI and Clothilde Hewlett respond as follows:
 
“Pursuant to the Court’s January 22,
2024, minute order, Defendant objects to the interrogatory to the extent it
calls for information protected from disclosure by the attorney-client
privilege, the work product doctrine, the privilege for official information
(see Evidence Code §§ 1040 and 1041), government investigation privilege,
deliberative process privilege, the joint defense or common interest privilege,
or other similar privileges. 
Subject to and without waiving all the
foregoing objections, Defendant responds as follows: 
There is not a specific percentage of
ownership of a loan that is determinative of the actual lender of money.”
 
OppFi argues the responses are
non-responsive. OppFi asserts that the interrogatory is not asking whether
there is a specific level of ownership that is determinative of the actual
lender of money, but what PREDOMINATE ECONOMIC INTEREST means. 
 
The Court finds further responses are warranted. DPFI and
Clothilde Hewlett’s response does not appear to clearly respond to the interrogatory.
Thus, the Court orders further code-compliant responses. 
 
E.      Sanctions
 
OppFi seeks
sanctions in the amount of $4,730 for
the misuse of the discovery process. 
 
As stated in
Section 2023.030: (a) The court may impose a monetary sanction ordering that
one engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any attorney advising
that conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney's fees,
incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct.
 
Here, the
Court does not exercise its discretion to impose monetary sanctions. Further, as
stated above, OppFi’s motion had procedural deficiencies. 
 
III. DISPOSITION 
 

The Motion
to Compel DPFI’s and Clothilde Hewlett’s Further Responses to Requests for
Admission Nos. 17-28 (Set Two), Form Interrogatory 17.1 (Set Two) and Special
Interrogatory No. 23 (Set One) is GRANTED. DPFI and Clothilde Hewlett shall serve supplemental responses within 30 days of the Court’s
order.
Sanctions are denied. 