 Case Number:  21STCV30828    Hearing Date:   October 18, 2024    Dept:  73 10/18/2024 
Dept. 73 
Hon. Rolf
Treu, Judge presiding 
 
YEDAM, INC., et al. v. DANIEL LEE, et
al. (21STCV30828)
 
Counsel for Cross-Complainants/opposing
party:  Dale Park (Law Offices of Dale J.
Park)
Counsel for Cross-Defendants/moving
party: Frederick Lee (Frederick W. Lee Law Firm APC)
 
CROSS-DEFENDANTS’ MOTION TO COMPEL
FURTHER DISCOVERY RESPONSES TO REQUESTS FOR ADMISSION (SET ONE) PROPOUNDED ON
CROSS-COMPLAINANT DANIEL N. LEE AND REQUEST FOR MONETARY SANCTIONS (filed on 07/01/2024)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Cross-Defendants’ Motion to Compel Further
Discovery Responses to Requests for Admission, Set One, propounded on Cross-Complainant
Daniel Lee is GRANTED.
 
Cross-Complainant Daniel Lee shall serve supplemental responses
within 30 days of the Court’s order.
 
Sanctions are denied. 
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On August 20, 2021, Plaintiffs Yedam, Inc. (“Yedam") and Eun
Kyung Choi (“Choi") brought this breach of loyalty and unfair business
practices action against Daniel N. Lee (“Lee") and Jin Sook Lee (together,
“the Lees"), and DM Cosmetics, Inc. (“DM Cosmetics"). 
 
On March 15, 2022, Plaintiffs filed a First Amended Complaint
(“FAC”) asserting 5 causes of action for: (1) Breach of Duty of Loyalty; (2) Intentional
Interference with Prospective Economic Advantage; (3) Negligent Interference
with Prospective Economic Advantage; (4) Unfair Business Practices; and (5) Declaratory
Relief.
 
The FAC alleges the following. Yedam imports and purchases
products including candles and scented oils that are sold at various retail
locations such as department stores in South Korea. (FAC, ¶ 9.) On or about February 2017 Defendant Daniel Lee
began working for Yedam in South Korea. (FAC, ¶
10.) In his capacity as an employee, Defendant Daniel Lee was significantly
involved in dealing with: a) manufacturers that produced candles, scented oils
or related products; b) the manufacturers’ decision makers and the purchase
terms such as price; c) the buyers at the department stores in Korea that
purchased such products from Yedam; d) the buyers’ decision makers and the
purchase terms such as price; and e) the retail locations in both the United
States of America and South Korea where such items were sold at. (FAC, ¶ 22.) Notwithstanding his duty of loyalty,
Defendant Daniel Lee, in conjunction with his wife Defendant Angela Lee, have
misused Yedam’s proprietary information in order to enrich themselves
financially. (FAC, ¶ 24). Defendants’ actions
have caused Buyers for Department Stores in South Korea to cease purchasing
products from Plaintiff Yedam and/or have caused the closure of retail
locations in South Korea. (FAC, ¶ 26).
 
The Lees and DM Cosmetics, Inc. (“Cross-Complainants" or
“Defendants”) cross-complained against Yedam, Choi, Olive House LLC, and Lamis
Tania, LLC (“Cross-Defendants"). On August 10, 2023, Cross-Complainants
filed their third amended cross-complaint (“TACC”) asserting 8 causes of action
against Cross-Defendants: (1) Breach of Oral Contract I; (2) Breach of Oral
Contract II; (3) Breach of Oral Contract III; (4) Breach of Oral Contract IV;
(5) Misappropriation of Trade Secrets; (6) Trademark Infringement; (7) Unfair
Competition in Violation of Cal. Bus. & Prof. Code §17200 et seq. and
California Trademark Law; and (8) Declaratory Relief.
 
The TACC alleges the following. Prior to 2017,
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Choi owned Yedam. (TACC, ¶
11.) Yedam was experiencing serious financial problems. (Ibid.) In
February of 2017, Choi approached Defendant/Cross-Complainant Lee asking for
help. (Id., ¶ 12.) Choi proposed Lee
serve as Yedam’s general manager, whereby Lee would oversee the Korean market
and Choi would oversee the Chinese market. (Ibid.) In exchange, Lee
would be paid a $10,000 per month salary. (Ibid.) In addition, Choi
would give Lee 49% ownership of Yedam if Lee could help Yedam “overcome [its]
financial hardship and become profitable." (Ibid.) Lee agreed and
moved from the US to Korea to serve as Yedam’s general manager. (Id., ¶ 13.) To help Yedam solve its financial issues, Lee
loaned Yedam $70,000.00 in operating capital. (Id., ¶ 14.) Choi promised that the $70,000.00 would be
paid back when Yedam become profitable, along with 7% interest per annum from
April 1, 2017. (Id., ¶ 12.) Lee
successfully managed Yedam thereafter, and Yedam went from net losses in 2016
and 2017 to net profits of over a million dollars per year by the end of 2019.
(Id., ¶ 15.) However, in July of 2019,
Yedam faced supply chain issues when the “Milk House Candle" company in
the United States refused to renew its exclusive distribution contract with
Yedam. (Id., ¶ 16.) In response, the
Lees created a new brand of merchandise named “Dani Mackenzie" under DM
Cosmetics, Inc. (Id., ¶ 17.) The Lees
trademarked Dani Mackenzie in the United States in May of 2020. (Id., ¶ 18.) Around that same time, Choi proposed that
Yedam purchase Dani Mackenzie merchandise from DM Cosmetics in exchange for
Yedam having the right to use the Dani Mackenzie name. (Id., ¶ 19.) Choi told the Lees that there was no need to
have a written licensing and distribution agreement because Choi would transfer
49% of Yedam’s ownership interest to Lee by the end of December 2020. (Id.,
¶ 20.)
 
Dani Mackenzie became highly popular in Korea, and Yedam’s sales
and profit soared to the point that Yedam was valued at over $50 million. (Id.,
¶ 22.) On December 20, 2020, Lee demanded that
Choi transfer 49% of Yedam to him. (Id., ¶
23.) Lee also demanded that Choi and Yedam repay the $70,000 operating capital
loan with 7% interest from April 1, 2017. (Ibid.) However, Choi
terminated Lee from Yedam shortly thereafter and refused to convey the 49%
ownership share. (Id., ¶ 25.) Further,
Choi and Yedam stopped purchasing Dani Mackenzie merchandise from DM Cosmetics
and started using other suppliers to manufacture products bearing the Dani
Mackenzie trade name. (Id., ¶ 28.) On
March 18, 2021 and April 14, 2021, Cross-Complainants demanded that
Cross-Defendants cease and desist manufacturing, supplying and/or selling
products under the Dani Mackenzie name. (Id., ¶
32.) 
 
A.      Motion to
Compel Further Responses to Request for Admissions (Set One)
 
On July 1,
2024, Cross-Defendants filed the Motion to Compel Further Answers to Requests
for Admissions (Set One) against Daniel Lee, arguing:
·      
Cross-Complainant improperly responded by providing a collective
objection to all requests without separately stating its responses.
·      
Monetary
sanctions should be awarded in the amount of $4,820.00.
Cross-Complainant Daniel Lee filed an opposition, arguing:
·      
Cross-Defendants’ requests are not code compliant because each request
is not full and complete. The set contains “definitions” on two pages which include subparts, compound and/or conjunctive requests.
·      
Sanctions should be awarded to Daniel
Lee in the amount of $1,920.
No reply was filed.
II. ANALYSIS
 
A.      Meet and
Confer 
 
Before
bringing a motion to compel further responses to any discovery request, the
moving party is required to make efforts to meet and confer in good faith and
must submit a declaration attesting to those efforts. (Code Civ. Proc., §§
2031.310(b)(2), 2030.300(b), 2033.290(b).) “A meet and confer declaration in
support of a motion shall state facts showing a reasonable and good faith
attempt at an informal resolution of each issue presented by the motion.” (Code
Civ. Proc. § 2016.040.)
 
Here,
counsel for Cross-Defendants submitted a declaration attesting that the parties
discussed the alleged deficient responses via email but an agreement was not
reached. (Muriella
Decl., ¶¶ 8-11.) The
Court finds the moving party has satisfied the preliminary meet and confer
requirement.
 
B.      Legal
Standard 
¿  
A motion to
compel further responses may be brought based on responses to requests for
admission (“RFA”) that: (1) provide evasive or incomplete answers; or (2) make
unmeritorious or overly-generalized objections.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2033.290(a).)  However, a motion to compel further responses cannot compel
the admission of matters already denied.  (Holguin v. Superior Court
(1972) 22 Cal.App.3d 812, 821.) 
 
Under CCP §
2017.010, “any party may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not privileged,
that is relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending action..., if
the matter either is itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.”  The Section
specifically provides that “[d]iscovery may relate to the claim or defense of
the party seeking discovery or of any other party to the action,” and that
discovery “may be obtained of the identity and location of persons having
knowledge of any discoverable matter, as well as of the existence, description,
nature, custody, condition and location of any document, electronically stored
information, tangible thing, or land or other property.” 
 
C.      Motion to
Compel Further Responses to Requests for Admissions (Set One)
Cross-Defendants request further responses to Requests
for Admissions, Set One, Nos. 1-28.
 
Cross-Complainant Daniel Lee objected to each request,
stating: 
 
“Objection on the grounds that this
set is not in compliance with the Code in that each request is not full and
complete, and this set includes subparts, or a compound or conjunctive requests
by way of “DEFINITIONS” which include subparts, or a compound or conjunctive
requests. CCP Section 2033.060 (d) and (f). Responding Party reserves all of
his/her/its right to object on other grounds.
 
CCP Section 2033.060 (d) requires: “Each request shall be
full and complete in and of itself. No preface or instruction shall be included
with a set of admission requests unless it has been approved under Chapter 17
(commencing with Section 2033.710).” CCP Section 2033.060 (f) provides: “No request
for admission shall contain subparts, or a compound, conjunctive, or
disjunctive request.”
 
While the Court agrees that Cross-Defendants’
requests are not compliant with CCP Sections 2033.060 (d) and (f), the
Court does not find that this deficiency warrants denial of Cross-Defendants’
motion to compel further responses. In Clement v. Alegre (2009)
177 Cal. App. 4th 1277, 1287-88, the court found that the rule that each
specially prepared interrogatory must be “full and complete” by itself (§
2030.060, subd. (d)), together with the rule that “[n]o specially prepared
interrogatory shall contain subparts, or a compound, conjunctive, or
disjunctive question” (§ 2030.060, subd. (f)) “prevent evasion of the statutory
limit on the number of interrogatories that one party may propound to another.” As the court stated in Clement: 
 
“As to the specific provision at issue in this case, the
Reporter's Note continues: “Prefaces, Instructions, Definitions, and Sub–Parts.
This provision is included to prevent wrangling about whether a party is evading
the 35–question limit by using prefaces, instructions, definitions, and
sub-parts to exceed the substance of the restriction it imposes. The Commission
does not believe that boiler plate interrogatories, prefaces, instructions,
definitions, or sub-parts are per se abusive. Instead, it recognizes the
need to control use of these devices lest they become the vehicle
for evasion of the 35–question limit.”
 
“Plaintiffs do not contend that any of the interrogatories to
which they objected on this basis were unclear, or that the interrogatories,
considered either singly or collectively, in any way undermined or violated the
presumptive numerical limit of 35 interrogatories of section 2030.030. Yet
plaintiffs seized on what might have been at most an arguable
technical violation of the rule, to object to interrogatories that were clear
and concise where the interrogatories did not even arguably violate
the presumptive numerical limitation set by statute. In so doing, plaintiffs
themselves engaged in the type of gamesmanship and delay decried by the
drafters of the Act.”
 
(Ibid., (emphasis
in original).) Similarly here, Cross-Complainant
Daniel Lee does not argue that the requests for admissions are unclear or violated
the presumptive numerical limit. Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that
further responses are warranted. Cross-Defendants’ Motion to
Compel Further Responses to Requests for Admissions, Set One, propounded on
Cross-Complainant Daniel Lee is GRANTED.
 
                                                              
i.     
Sanctions
 
The court may impose sanctions against any party for engaging in conduct
constituting a “misuse of the discovery process.”¿(Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030
(a).)¿Misuse of the discovery process includes “failing to respond or submit to
an authorized method of discovery.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010 (d).) 
 
Both parties
request the Court impose monetary sanctions. As discussed above, the Court
finds further responses are warranted. However, since Cross-Defendants’
requests were not compliant with CCP Sections 2033.060 (d) and (f), the Court
does not find that Cross-Complainant acted without substantial justification in
objecting to Cross-Defendants’ requests. The Court
declines to impose sanctions.  
 
III. DISPOSITION

 
Cross-Defendants’ Motion to Compel Further Discovery
Responses to Requests for Admission, Set One, propounded on Cross-Complainant
Daniel Lee is GRANTED.
 
Cross-Complainant
Daniel Lee shall serve supplemental responses within 30 days of the Court’s order.
 
Sanctions are denied. 