

Hearing Date:             November
20, 2024
Case Name:                Dream Anesthesia v. M&Y
Personal Injury Lawyers
Case No.:                    24STCV12228
Matter:                        Motion
to Quash Service of Process
Moving Parties:          Specially Appearing Defendant M&Y
Personal Injury Lawyers
Responding Party:      Plaintiff Dream
Anesthesia

Tentative Ruling:      Defendant’s
motion to quash service of process is denied.  

 
            This is action
arises from an alleged breach of the terms of a medical lien agreement. The
Complaint alleges causes of action for (1.) breach of contract, (2.) quantum
meruit, (3.) unjust enrichment, and (4.) conversion. 
 
            On July 9,
2024, Specially Appearing Defendant M&Y Personal Injury Lawyers moved for
an order quashing service of the summons and complaint. Plaintiff Dream
Anesthesia opposes the motion. Defendant M&Y replied.
 
            Defendant’s
motion for order to quash service of summons and complaint is denied. 
 
            Plaintiff’s
objection to the declaration of Nick Movagar is sustained. Defendant’s
objection to the declaration of Alan Nesbit is sustained. 
 
Legal
Standard
            
            “In the
absence of a voluntary submission to the authority of the court, compliance
with the statutes governing service of process is essential to establish that
court’s personal jurisdiction over a defendant. When a defendant challenges
that jurisdiction by bringing a motion to quash, the burden is on the plaintiff
to prove the existence of jurisdiction by proving, inter alia, the facts
requisite to an effective service.” (Dill v. Berquist Construction Co.
(1994) 24 Cal.App.4th 1426, 1439–1440; accord Lebel v. Mai (2012) 210
Cal.App.4th 1154, 1160 [“It was incumbent upon plaintiff, after the filing of
defendant’s motion to quash, to present evidence discharging her burden to
establish the requisites of valid service on defendant”].) “[T]he filing of a
proof of service creates a rebuttable presumption that the service was proper,”
but only if it “complies with the statutory requirements regarding such
proofs.” (Id. at pp. 1441-1442.) 
            Code of Civil
Procedure section 416.10 permits
service on a corporation by serving an individual or entity designated as an
agent for service of process (§ 416.10, subd. (a)); serving one of the 11
officers or managers of the corporation specified in section 416.10,
subdivision (b); serving a person authorized by the corporation to receive
service (§ 416.10, subd. (c)); or service in a manner authorized by the
Corporations Code (Code Civ. Proc., § 416.10, subd. (d)). 
Additionally, Section 415.20 permits
substitute service on a person specified in section 416.10 by leaving the
summons and complaint “in his or her office ... with the person who is
apparently in charge thereof.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 415.20, subd. (a).)[1]

Discussion
Here, the proof of service at issue
purports to serve Steven Yasmin, by effectuating substituted service on a “John
Doe” security guard in the lobby of 6300 Wilshire Blvd 807, Los Angeles, CA
90048 on June 24, 2024 at 12:16 pm.
Citing Code of Civil Procedure section
415.10, Defendant argues this service was improper. 
First, Defendant questions why Plaintiff
failed to serve Nick Thomas Movagar, Defendant’s registered agent for service
of process, Chief Executive Officer, and Secretary. Defendant cites no legal
authority showing that Plaintiff was required to first attempt service on the registered
agent for service of process. In fact, the statute specifically allows service
on any of the persons listed in Code of Civil Procedure section 416.10.
(See Code Civ. Proc., § 416.10, subd. (b) [authorizing service to “the
president, chief executive officer, or other head of the corporation, a vice
president, a secretary or assistant secretary, a treasurer or assistant
treasurer, a controller or chief financial officer, a general manager, or a person
authorized by the corporation to receive service of process”].)
Here, Defendant’s evidence shows Steven
Yamin is Defendant’s Chief Financial Officer. (Movagar Decl., ¶ 4, Ex. B.)
Moreover, Defendant’s Statement of Information, which is on-file with the
California Secretary of State, lists the Principal Address of Defendant as 6300
Wilshire Blvd, Suite 807, Los Angeles, California 90048. (Movagar Decl., ¶ 4,
Ex. B.) Thus, the evidence before the Court shows an adequate connection
between the address served and the party alleged to be served. (Corcoran v.
Arouh (1994) 24 Cal.App.4th 310, 315 [“It is crucial that a connection be
shown between the address at which substituted service is effectuated and the
party alleged to be served.”].)
Next, Defendant argues that the service
was defective because there is no evidence of a good faith effort at personal
service before substituted service was effectuated. Specifically, Defendant
argues that the law requires a showing that the summons and complaint “cannot
with reasonable diligence be personally delivered’ to the individual
defendant.” (American Express Centurion Bank v. Zara (2011) 199
Cal.App.4th 383, 389.)
Here, service was attempted at Defendant’s
office building at 12:15 p.m. on Monday, June 24 2024, in the middle of a
business day. The process server affidavit represents that the security guard
refused entrance to the process server, even after the process server’s
credentials were provided. This affidavit, however, shows only one attempt at
personal service before substitute service was effectuated. 
Ordinarily, two or three attempts at
personal service at a proper place is required to fully satisfy the requirement
of reasonable diligence and allow substituted service to be made. (Ellard v.
Conway (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 540, 545.) However, the law does not require
attempts that are futile. (See e.g., Ibid. [finding that it was futile
to attempt substituted service at a residence where the defendant no longer
lives].) Thus, no single formula or mode of search constitutes reasonable
diligence in every case, which must rest on its own facts. (Kott v. Superior
Court (1996) 45 Cal.App.4th 1126, 1138.)
Here, service on the security guard itself
was not improper. 
In Bein v. Brechtel-Jochim Group, Inc.
(1992) 6 Cal.App.4th 1387, for example, the Court of Appeal found that a guard
at the entrance of a gated community can be considered a competent member of
the household and the person in charge under section 415.20, because the guard’s
relationship to the defendants made it more likely than not that he would
deliver the papers to them. (Bein, at p. 1393.) The Bein Court thus
observed, “Litigants have the right to choose their abodes; they do not have
the right to control who may sue or serve them by denying them physical
access.” (Ibid.) However, the Court of Appeal found substitute service
was proper on this party only after the process server “made three separate
attempts to serve the Brechtels at their residence” and “[e]ach time, the gate
guard denied access.” (Ibid.)
Similarly, on Khourie, Crew &
Jaeger v. Sabek, Inc. (1990) 220 Cal.App.3d 1009, a process server
attempting service on a corporation attempted to enter the corporation's place
of business in order to serve its agent. (Id. at 1012.) The door of the
business was locked, and when the process server rang the bell a woman came to
the door, refused to unlock it, and stated that she was unwilling to accept the
documents. (Id.) The process server left the documents outside the
locked door in plain view of the woman and then mailed copies to the entity at
its place of business. (Id.) The court held that substitute service was
proper because “the process server attempted to leave a copy of the summons and
complaint during usual office hours with the person apparently in charge of
[the corporate defendant's] office – i.e., the only person who responded to his
attempt to enter.” (Id. at 1013.) Importantly, in this case, only one
attempt was made to personally serve the defendant.
Here, the evidence from the process server
suggests that multiple attempts at service on this address – the address listed
in the corporations Statement of Information – would be futile. That is, if a
security guard would refuse access during normal business hours, the process
server would be equally successful at other times and days. Because the law
does not require futile acts (Civil Code § 3532), this one attempt at service
was sufficient to show due diligence.  
Finally, Defendant
appears to challenge the veracity of the proof of service by suggesting none of the security staff in the building
recall being served with a complaint on June 24, 2024. (Movagar Decl., ¶ 5.) However,
as the Court noted in its ruling on evidentiary objections, notwithstanding
Defendant’s arguments, this evidence is based on inadmissible hearsay and lacks
personal knowledge.       
Conclusion
 
            The motion
to quash service of the summons is denied. 


