

 
            Defendant Yapstone Holdings, Inc.’s
counsel – Michael B. Garfinkel and Caitlin Blancheof Venable LLP – seeks to be
relieved as counsel of record.[1]
Plaintiff Todd Feldman opposes the motion. 
 
            The motion
to be relieved as counsel is granted.    
 
Discussion
 
            An attorney is entitled to withdraw
upon the consent of the client, or without that consent if approved by the
court. (Code Civ. Proc., § 284; Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994) 21
Cal.App.4th 904, 915.) In the latter case, counsel must make a motion to be
relieved as attorney of record.  The
motion must be made using mandatory forms: Notice of Motion and Motion to be
Relieved as Counsel – Civil (MC-051), Declaration (MC-052), and Proposed Order
(MC-053). (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362, subd. (a), (b), (e).) 
 
            The declaration accompanying the
motion to be relieved as counsel must state “in general terms and without
compromising the confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship why a
motion under Code of Civil Procedure section 284(2) is brought instead of
filing a consent under Code of Civil Procedure section 284(1).” (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1362, subd. (b).)
 
            The notice to the client must be
done by personal service, electronically, or mail. If it is done via mail under
Code of Civil Procedure section 1013, it must be accompanied by a declaration
confirming the service address to be the most current residence or that it is
the client’s last known address, and the attorney has been unable to locate a
more current address. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362, subd. (d)(1)(A)-(B).) 
 
            Here, Attorney Garfinkel has
complied with the Rules of Court by filing all the appropriate forms (MC-051,
MC-052, and MC-053). He has also submitted a supporting declaration providing
an adequate explanation for why they are moving to be relieved as counsel; he
asserts that Defendant Yapstone “has made it unreasonably difficult for the
lawyers to carry out the representation effectively” and has failed to adhere
to the material terms of its retainer agreement.
 
Further, Form MC-052 indicates that notice was provided to Defendant
via email and personally on the registered agent’s address. 
 
However, trial in this matter is set for the December 3,
2024 – less than a month away. The prejudice to Defendant in granting this
motion is substantial; it would almost certainly leave Defendant without an
attorney for trial. Defendant has not, however, opposed this motion.
 
Plaintiff opposes the motion only to the extent that it
would delay trial. Plaintiff requests that the Court either (1) condition the
order granting the motion on the filing of a notice of appearance by new
counsel for Defendant Yapstone within a reasonable period of time in light of
the current trial date, or (2) provide that if new counsel does not appear
within a specified date, Defendant Yapstone’s Answer to the Complaint will be
stricken and a default entered against Defendant Yapstone and in favor of Plaintiff.
 
This is the second time counsel for Defendant has sought to
withdraw, seemingly based on similar grounds. Neither motions to be relieved
were opposed by Defendant. 
 
Given the absence of an opposition by Defendant – the party presumably
who might be prejudiced – the Court will grant the motion to be relieved as
counsel. Trial will proceed on the date scheduled, December 9, 2024 at 9 a.m.[2]
 
 
The Court sets an Order to Show Cause re Striking
Defendant’s Answer and Defaulting Defendant for December 2, 2024, at 8:30 a.m.
in Dept. 58 of the Stanley Mosk Courthouse, 111 No. Hill Street, Los Angeles,
for failure to be represented by counsel, unless on or before that hearing,
Defendant substitutes in new counsel.
 


