

Hearing
Date:             November 20, 2024
Case
Name:                Ngo v. Unical
Aviation, Inc. 
Case
No.:                    24STCV19392
Matter:                        (1.) Motion to Compel
Arbitration 
                                    (2.)
Demurrer 
Moving Party:             (1.) Defendant Unical Aviation, Inc.
and Specially Appearing Defendant Sharon Green
                                    (2.)
Defendant Platinum Equity Advisors, LLC

Responding
Party:      (1.) Plaintiff Raymond Ngo
                                    (2.)
Plaintiff Raymond Ngo

Tentative
Ruling:      (1.) The Motion to Compel
Arbitration is granted as to Defendant Unical Aviation, Inc. and Defendant
Sharon Green. 
                                    (2.) As a
result of the Court’s ruling compelling arbitration of Plaintiff’s claims
against Defendant Platinum, the demurrer to First Amended Complaint is moot.

 
In this
employment action, Plaintiff Raymond Ngo (Plaintiff) filed a Complaint on August
2, 2024, alleging claims for FEHA violations, breach of contract, false promise,
conversion, unfair business practices, and numerous wage and hour Labor Code
claims against his former employer, Defendants Unical Aviation, Inc., Platinum
Equity Advisors, LLC, and Sharon Green.
 
            On
October 16, 2024, Defendant Unical Aviation, Inc. (Unical) and Sharon Green (Green) filed a
motion to compel arbitration pursuant to the parties’ arbitration agreement. Alternatively,
Defendant Green argues she should be dismissed for lack of personal
jurisdiction. In opposition, Plaintiff argues the arbitration agreement does
not apply to Plaintiff’s claims. 
 
            The
motion to compel arbitration is granted as to Defendant Unical and Green; the matter
is stayed pending arbitration.
 
            On October 16, 2024, Defendant Platinum Equity Advisors, LLC (Platinum) demurred to the First
Amended Complaint. Plaintiff filed an opposition. 
 
            In a footnote in the demurrer, Defendant Platinum requested that the claims
in the FAC be sent to arbitration if the Court did not sustain the demurrer.
(Dem., 25, fn. 5.) The request to compel arbitration of Plaintiff’s claims
against Defendant Platinum Equity Advisors, LLC is
also granted. For this reason, the demurrer is moot in this Court. The parties
are free to present law and motion matters to the arbitrator.
 
Legal
Standard 
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure
section 1281.2, a court may order arbitration of a controversy if it finds that
the parties have agreed to arbitrate that dispute. Because the obligation to
arbitrate arises from contract, the court may compel arbitration only if the
dispute in question is one in which the parties have agreed to arbitrate. (Weeks
v. Crow (1980) 113 Cal.App.3d 350, 352.) Since arbitration is a favored
method of dispute resolution, arbitration agreements should be liberally
interpreted, and arbitration should be ordered unless the agreement clearly
does not apply to the dispute in question. (Id. at p. 353; Segal v.
Silberstein (2007) 156 Cal.App.4th 627, 633.)
 
Analysis
 
            Defendant Unical moves to
compel arbitration of Plaintiff’s claims and dismiss the action. Further, Defendant
Green argues she is entitled to enforce the arbitration agreement as a
third-party beneficiary. In the alternative, Defendant Green moves to dismiss
this action against her based on a lack of personal jurisdiction.
 
            In
support of its motion to compel arbitration, Defendant Unical relies on a 2016 arbitration
agreement between the parties. 
 
By way of
background, Plaintiff
began working for Unical in the Lot Receiving Department on April 3, 2008.
(Rodriguez Decl., ¶ 7.) On July 5, 2013, Plaintiff resigned from Unical to
pursue an opportunity at a different company, and Unical terminated his
employment at that time. (Rodriguez Decl., ¶ 7.) In June 2015, Plaintiff
re-applied for a position at Unical and was re-hired on June 15, 2015.
(Rodriguez Decl., ¶ 8.) In connection to this new position, Plaintiff completed
all new hire paperwork in June 2015 including an application, pre-employment
drug testing, and I-9 forms. (Rodriguez Decl., ¶ 8.) Importantly to this
motion, on March 25, 2016, Plaintiff was also presented with, and signed, a standalone
arbitration agreement (Arbitration Agreement). (Rodriguez Decl., ¶ 9, Ex. A.)
 
In this Arbitration Agreement,
both Unical and Plaintiff agreed to arbitrate “any and
all claims or controversies between the [Unical] and [Plaintiff] (or between [Plaintiff] and
any present or former officer, director, agent, or employee of the Company or
any parent, subsidiary, or other entity affiliated with the [Unical]) relating in any manner to the employment or
the termination of employment.” (Rodriguez Decl., ¶ 9, Ex. A.) The Agreement expressly provides
that arbitrable claims include claims such as “contract claims, tort claims,
and claims relating to compensation, benefits, and stock options, as well as
claims based on any federal , state, or local law, statute, or regulation,
including but not limited to any claims arising under Title VII of the Civil
Rights Act of 1964, the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, the Americans
with Disabilities Act, the Fair Labor Standards Act, the Family and Medical
Leave Act, the California Fair Employment and Housing Act, the California Labor
Code, the California Unfair Competition Law, and the California Wage Orders.” (Rodriguez Decl., ¶ 9, Ex. A.)[1]
 
Defendant argues that all of Plaintiff’s
claims fall within this scope of this binding Arbitration Agreement.              

 
In
opposition, Plaintiff argues that the 2016 Arbitration Agreement does not apply
to Plaintiff’s claims because Plaintiff was terminated on March 23, 2020 and
then re-hired in May 18, 2020. Specifically, Plaintiff argues that his
purported employment “furlough” and rehire by Defendant Unical to a new
position a few weeks later in a reduced capacity[2]
constituted an implied termination that created a new employment contract and
nullified prior contractual obligations.
 
In response,
Defenant contends that all Plaintiff’s claims from 2015 to 2023 are
subject to this Arbitration Agreement because Plaintiff never experienced a
loss of employment after 2015.
 
The 2016
Arbitration Agreement applies to all of Plaintiff’s claims in this action. 
 
            Neither
the Complaint nor the First Amended Complaint allege there was any termination
prior to the alleged July 2023 termination. (Compl., ¶ 32; FAC ¶ 32.) Additionally,
the evidence shows that Plaintiff was furloughed, not terminated. Defendants’ undisputed
evidence shows that, on or around April 10, 2020, in response to the Covid-19
pandemic, Unical temporarily furloughed certain employees, including Plaintiff.
(Rodriguez
Decl., ¶ 10.) The furlough notice explained that Plaintiff remained an employee of
Unical:  
 
“Although
you are being furloughed, you will still be a Unical employee, still have all
your benefits, as well as your PTO, and health insurance premiums will be paid.
You can use your unused PTO or take it without pay by submitting for the time
off through Unical’s Mobile app. You will receive your normal paycheck for the this pay period on Thursday
April 2, 2020 for any hours you worked or time off with pay that is submitted
through the website or mobile app. 
. . .
If you find another job during this
period, please notify human resources immediately of your voluntary
resignation.” (Rodriguez Decl., ¶ 10, Ex. B.)
 
Additionally,
Plaintiff also continued to receive wage statements throughout the furlough
period. (Rodriguez Decl., ¶ 10.) Then, in a letter dated May 13, 2020, Unical
offered Plaintiff a different position within the company. (Rodriguez Decl., ¶
11, C-D.) The letter explained: “[w]e appreciate all the hard work you have put
into your position at the company, and we do not want to lose you as an
invaluable employee.” (Rodriguez Decl., ¶ 11, Ex. C.) Accordingly, on May 18,
2020, Plaintiff was transferred from the title of Senior Sales Executive to Lot
Receiving Data Analyst. (Rodriguez Decl. ¶11, Ex. D.) Further, Unical’s own
internal records show that Plaintiff was “suspended” during the furlough and became
active on May 18, 2020 upon his return from furlough. (Rodriguez
Decl., ¶ 11, Ex. E.)
 
Notwithstanding
this evidence, Plaintiff contends it was termination because Unical provided no set return date from the
furlough such that Plaintiff was effectively separated from his employment with
Unical. Plaintiff also notes that, on March 26, 2020, he received an email from
Defendant’s Vice President of Human Resources, Lorynn Negron (Negron), advising
him of the “final effective date” of the separation, that he will receive his
final paycheck, and that he will be paid out for any accrued Paid Time Off.
(Ngo Decl., ¶¶ 5-6, Ex. A.) This email also included an attached “FAQs.” (Ngo
Decl., ¶¶ 5-6, Ex. B.)
 
To support his claim that he was
terminated from his employment, Plaintiff selectively highlights statements
from this email and “FAQs.” (Opp., 3:9-4:6.) For example, Plaintiff notes that
he was denied access to the Unical intranet and database during this time, and he
was permitted to file for unemployment. However, without a clear legal definition
of what constitutes a termination of the employment relationship under the law,
it is not clear that these facts are sufficient to demonstrate a termination. 
 
Plaintiff also cites inapposite case
authority. Plaintiff first cites DiGiacinto v. Ameriko-Omserv Corp. (1997) 59
Cal.App.4th 629 for the proposition that a change in employment terms for an
at-will employee constitutes a termination of an old written employment contract.

 
DiGiacinto is inapposite.
In DiGiacinto, the plaintiff was suing for a breach of written
employment agreement. In evaluating this claim, the court considered an
employee’s action for breach of contract against his employer where the
employer had unilaterally modified a compensation term in a written employment
contract by imposing a new written contract reducing the employee’s pay for a
lower-level position. The court explained, “an at-will employee who continues
in the employ of the employer after the employer has given notice of changed
terms or conditions of employment has accepted the changed terms and
conditions.” (Id. at p. 637.) The employee's continued employment after
notice of the reduced compensation term (the new offer) was therefore
acceptance of a new unilateral contract. (Ibid.) As the reply notes, DiGiacinto
spoke only to the acceptance of new conflicting employment terms in the
context of contract law. Contrary to Plaintiff’s argument, this case does not concern
whether Plaintiff’s furlough constituted a severance of the employment
relationship.
 
Plaintiff
also cites Hartstein v. Hyatt Corporation (9th Cir. 2023) 82 F.4th 825. In Hartstein v. Hyatt Corp.,
the federal court considered whether a temporary layoff, with no specified
return date, was a discharge for purposes of Labor Code section 201. (Hartstein
v. Hyatt Corp., supra, 82 F.4th at 832.) Thus, considering the limited
context of Labor Code section 201, the court determined that if there is no
definite return date, the furlough was a discharge for purposes of triggering
the Labor Code’s requirement for the prompt payment of final wages; the court
confirmed that this interpretation was in accord with California’s public
policy supporting the prompt payment of wages. (Ibid.)
 
Hartstein does not
help Plaintiff. The
court only considered whether a plaintiff was entitled to certain statutory
rights under the law. None of these cases considered whether an arbitration
agreement applied to a parties’ claims.
 
Plaintiff’s opposition argument that
he had been terminated prior to July 2023 is irrelevant to whether the motion
to compel Plaintiff’s claims to arbitration can be granted. 
 
“An
arbitration agreement is governed by contract law. It is construed like other
contracts to give effect to the intention of the parties and the ordinary rules
of contract interpretation apply.” (Hernandez v. Sohnen Enterprises, Inc.
(2024) 102 Cal.App.5th 222, 241.)
 
As noted
above, the plain language of the Arbitration Agreement states that it applies
to “any and all claims or controversies between the [Unical] and [Plaintiff]
(or between [Plaintiff] and any present or former officer, director, agent, or
employee of the Company or any parent, subsidiary, or other entity affiliated
with the [Unical]) relating in any manner to the employment or the termination
of employment.” (Rodriguez
Decl., ¶ 9, Ex. A.) The Arbitration Agreement does not limit its
application to claims and controversies arising from a specific “employment contract”
between Plaintiff and Defendant. (See Reply 6: 15-20.) 
 
Plaintiff
cites no legal authority that an employment termination somehow either revokes
or nullifies the Arbitration Agreement. Nor does Plaintiff identify any
provision of the Arbitration Agreement that would render it inapplicable to
claims accruing after the 2020 furlough. Moreover, unlike in DiGiacinto,
Plaintiff identifies no new arbitration agreement that would supersede the 2016
Arbitration Agreement. Accordingly, the Arbitration Agreement applies to
Plaintiff’s claims. 
 
            Finally, Defendant
Unical argues that Defendant Green is an intended third-party beneficiary to
the Arbitration Agreement. 
 
            A party
seeking to compel arbitration must generally establish that he or she was a
party to an arbitration agreement. (DMS Services, LLC v. Superior Court
(2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 1346, 1352-1353; JSM Tuscany, LLC v. Superior Court
(2011) 193 Cal.App.4th 1222, 1236.) However, California courts have recognized
certain exceptions which permit a nonsignatory to an agreement with an
arbitration clause “to compel arbitration of, or be compelled to arbitrate, a
dispute arising within the scope of that agreement.” (DMS Services, supra,
205 Cal.App.4th at p. 1353; see also Metalclad Corp. v. Ventana
Environmental Organizational Partnership (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 1705,
1713-1714.) 


            Here, Defendant
Sharon Green may enforce the Arbitration Agreement under the third-party beneficiary
theory. 
 
            To invoke
the third-party beneficiary exception, the nonsignatory “ ‘ha[s] to show that the
arbitration clause ... was made expressly for [its] benefit.’ ” (Fuentes v.
TMCSF, Inc. (2018) 26 Cal.App.5th 541, 551–552.) 
 
Here, the Arbitration Agreement had
its own list of intended third-party beneficiaries. The Arbitration Agreement
requires arbitration of any employment disputes “between the [Unical] and [Plaintiff]
(or between [Plaintiff] and any present or former officer, director, agent, or
employee of the Company or any parent, subsidiary, or other entity affiliated
with the [Unical])”
(Rodriguez Decl., ¶ 9, Ex. A.) Here, the evidence and allegations show
Defendant Green is the Chief Executive Officer of Unical. (Rodriguez Decl., ¶
4; FAC ¶ 26.) As such, she may enforce the Arbitration Agreement as an intended
third-party beneficiary to the Agreement. 
 
Thus, the motion is granted as to
Defendant Green, as well.[3]

 
For similar reasons, the motion to
compel arbitration is also granted with respect to Plaintiff’s claims against
Defendant Platinum.[4]
 
 
CONCLUSION
 
            Accordingly,
the Court grants Unical
Aviation, Inc. and Specially Appearing Defendant Sharon Green’s motion to
compel arbitration.
The request to compel arbitration is also granted as to the Defendant
Platinum Equity Advisors, LLC; the demurrer to the First Amended Complaint is
moot. The matter is stayed pending arbitration.  The Court will set a hearing date for a post-arbitration
status conference.
 


