  Case Number:  22NWCV00740    Hearing Date:   January 15, 2025    Dept:  C PEREZ-MORALES V. AMERICAN HONDA MOTOR CO., INC.
CASE NO.: 22NWCV00740 
HEARING: 01/15/2025
JUDGE:  RAUL A.
SAHAGUN
 
#1
TENTATIVE ORDER
 
I.            
Plaintiff Jose Perez-Morales’s motion to
compel deposition attendance of Defendant American Honda Motor Co., Inc’s
person most qualified and custodian of records is GRANTED. 
 
II.           
Plaintiff’s request for monetary
sanctions is DENIED.
 
Moving party to give notice. 
 
Plaintiff Jose Perez-Morales (Plaintiff) moves for an order
compelling Defendant American Honda Motor Co., Inc. (Defendant) to produce a Person
Most Qualified and Custodian of Records (PMQ) pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure sections 2025.450 and 2025.230.
 
Background
 
Plaintiff filed this lemon law action on August 23, 2022. On
September 18, 2019, Plaintiff purchased a new 2019 Honda Odyssey, VIN:
5FNRL6H51KB130309 (Subject Vehicle). (Complaint, ¶ 8.) Plaintiff alleges that
the vehicle had electrical and transmission defects. (Complaint, ¶ 24.) The complaint
asserts causes of action for: (1) violation of the Song-Beverly Act – breach of
express warranty, (2) violation of the Song-Beverly Act – breach of implied warranty,
and (3) fraudulent inducement – concealment.
 
Legal Standard
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure section¿2025.450 subd. (a), a
party may move to compel a deponent’s attendance and production for inspection
of documents if after serving the deposition notice the responding party fails
to serve valid objections and fails to appear for the deposition or produce any
document described in the deposition notice. A motion under Code of Civil
Procedure section¿2025.450 subd. (a) must (1) provide specific facts showing
good cause justifying the production for inspection of any document and (2) be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration. (Code Civ. Proc. §¿2025.450 subd.
(b).)
 
“If a motion under subdivision (a) is granted, the court
shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section
2023.010) in favor of the party who noticed the deposition and against the
deponent or the party with whom the deponent is affiliated, unless the court
finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification
or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code
Civ. Proc. §¿2025.450 subd. (g)(1).)
 
Meet and Confer
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure section 2016.040, “[a] meet
and confer declaration in support of a motion shall state facts showing a
reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue
presented by the motion.” “[W]hen the deponent fails to attend the deposition and
produce the documents, electronically stored information, or things described
in the deposition notice, by a declaration stating that the petitioner has
contacted the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
2025.450 subd. (b)(2).)
 
Here, the parties have not adequately met and conferred. For
each notice of deposition Plaintiff served, Plaintiff’s counsel sent
Defendant’s counsel a meet and confer letter regarding Defendant’s attendance
and objections. (Tran Decl., ¶¶ 7, 12.) On both occasions, Defendant’s counsel
responded that it would follow up with alternative deposition dates. (Dixon
Decl., ¶¶ 10, 15.) While the parties exchanged emails regarding scheduling a
deposition date, these efforts do not demonstrate a good faith resolution of
the issues.
 
Discussion
 
Plaintiff moves for an order compelling Defendant to produce
a PMQ on the grounds that Plaintiff has properly served and noticed two
depositions of Defendant’s PMQ. In opposition, Defendant argues it properly and
timely opposed both notices of deposition.
 
On November 20, 2023, Plaintiff served Defendant with a
notice of deposition of Defendant’s PMQ for a deposition on December 11, 2023.
(Tran Decl., ¶¶ 3-4.) The notice of deposition identified 53 matters for
examination and 53 requests for document production related to the Subject
Vehicle, repairs, warranty claims, and information related to the alleged
defective torque converter lock-up clutch and transmission. (Tran Decl., ¶ 3.)
Plaintiff requested Defendant provide alternative dates by November 27, 2023.
(Tran Decl., ¶ 4.) On December 1, 2023, Defendant served a response stating it
would not produce a PMQ for the deposition and did not provide alternative
dates. (Tran Decl., ¶ 6.) On the noticed deposition date, December 11, 2023,
Plaintiff sent Defendant a video link to enable Defendant’s PMQ to participate
in the deposition. (Tran Decl., ¶ 8.) Defendant did not appear and did not
provide alternative dates. (Tran Decl., ¶ 9.)
 
On April 8, 2024, Plaintiff served an amended notice of
deposition of Defendant’s PMQ noticed for May 6, 2024. (Tran Decl., ¶ 10.) The
same sequence of events occurred. (Tran Decl., ¶¶ 10-15.) On May 29, 2024,
Plaintiff requested additional dates and Defendant proposed February 7, 2025.
(Tran Decl., ¶ 16.) Plaintiff responded inquiring whether Defendant would
respond to all matters for examination. (Tran Decl., ¶ 17.) Defendant did not
respond, and to date, no deposition date has been agreed on. (Tran Decl., ¶¶
17-18.)
 
On November 5, 2024, Defendant served Plaintiff with a
cross-notice of the deposition of Defendant’s PMQ, advising Plaintiff of the
deposition of Defendant’s PMQ on November 20, 2024 in a separate matter. (Dixon
Decl., ¶ 22, Exh. R.) The matters for examination in that matter included
transmission issues in 2011-2019 Honda Odyssey vehicles. (Dixon Decl., Exh. R.)
Plaintiff objected to this cross-notice. (Dixon Decl., ¶ 23.)
 
Upon review of Defendant’s opposition, the Court notes that
Defendant does not oppose producing its PMQ. Rather, Defendant argues that its
PMQ has limited availability. 
 
          Objections
to Matters for Examination
 
Plaintiff’s separate statement identifies issues with
matters for examinations, nos. 1-4, 6-54.
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.230 provides, in
relevant part, that “[i]f the deponent named is not a natural person, the
deposition notice shall describe with reasonable particularity the matters on
which examination is requested. In that event, the deponent shall designate and
produce at the deposition those of its officers, directors, managing agents,
employees, or agents who are most qualified to testify on its behalf as to
those matters to the extent of any information known or reasonably available to
the deponent.” 
 
Defendant objects to these requests on the basis they are
vague, ambiguous, broad, unduly burdensome, harassing, argumentative, seek
information protected by attorney-client privilege, and seek confidential
information. (Separate Statement.)
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.230, Plaintiff’s
matters for examination are intended to guide Defendant in selecting a PMQ for
deposition who is knowledgeable on the matters. The Court finds that
Plaintiff’s matters for examination are reasonably particularized. Defendant
does not provide objections as to any error or irregularity in the deposition
notice.  
 
Requests for Production
 
Defendant objects to the requests for production on the
basis they are vague, ambiguous, broad, unduly burdensome, harassing,
argumentative, seek information protected by attorney-client privilege, and
seek confidential information. (Separate Statement.)
 
A request for documents in conjunction with a deposition
notice is not the equivalent of a request for production of documents under
Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.010 et seq. A request for production of
documents in a deposition notice is intended to specify with reasonable
particularity the materials or category of materials to be produced by the
Defendant. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.220 subd. (a)(4).) “Objections to the
competency of the deponent, or to the relevancy, materiality, or admissibility
at trial of the testimony or of the materials produced are unnecessary and are
not waived by failure to make them before or during the deposition.” (Code Civ.
Proc. § 2025.460 subd. (c).)
 
The Court finds that Plaintiff’s request for production are
reasonably particularized. Defendant does not provide objections as to any
error or irregularity in the deposition notice. 

 
Plaintiffs’ motion to compel Defendant’s PMQ is GRANTED. Defendant’s
PMQ is ORDERED to appear for a
deposition and produce the documents contained within the notice of deposition,
without objection. Defendant has waived its objections to the document requests
because it failed to object to them pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
2025.410. The parties shall meet and confer to determine the date, time, and
location of the depositions, which shall take place no later than 45 days from
the date of the Court’s issuance of this Order. The date may be extended by
agreement of the parties.
 
Sanctions
 
Plaintiff’s counsel requests the Court order monetary
sanctions against Defendant pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
2025.450, subd. (g)(1). 
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.450, subd.
(g)(1), “the court shall impose a monetary sanction… in favor of the party who
noticed the deposition and against the deponent or the party with whom the
deponent is affiliated, unless the court finds that the one subject to the
sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make
the imposition of the sanction unjust.”
 
Here, the Court finds that other circumstances make the
imposition of the sanction unjust. Defendant proposed an alternative date,
which Plaintiff refused, and served a cross-notice of deposition of Defendant’s
PMQ. Additionally, the parties have failed to adequately meet and confer.
Accordingly, the Court DENIES Plaintiff’s request for sanctions.
 