 Case Number:  23NWCV00109    Hearing Date:   January 15, 2025    Dept:  C U.S. BANK NATIONAL
ASSOCIATION v. ONTIVEROS
CASE NO.: 23NWCV00109 

HEARING: 01/15/2025
 
#8
TENTATIVE ORDER
 
Plaintiff U.S. Bank National Association’s motion to
vacate default judgment and dismiss case without prejudice is DENIED without
prejudice.
 
Moving party to give notice. 
 
Plaintiff U.S. Bank National Association (Plaintiff) moves
this Court for an order vacating the default judgment entered in Plaintiff’s
favor on September 13, 2023.
 
Background
 
Plaintiff filed this complaint for replevin against
Defendant Jose Ontiveros (Defendant) on January 11, 2023. This action concerns a
written retail installment sale contract (Contract) entered into between the
parties for the purchase of a 2018 Jeep Cheroke, VIN No. 1C4RJFN95JC399616
(Subject Vehicle). (Complaint, ¶ 5.) Plaintiff alleged Defendant defaulted on the
Contract by failing and refusing to make payments as they became due.
(Complaint, ¶ 6.)
 
On August 10, 2023, Plaintiff requested the Court enter
default against Defendant. On September 13, 2023, judgment was entered for
Plaintiff and against Defendant, entitling Plaintiff to immediate possession of
the Subject Vehicle. 
 
Legal Standard
 
Discretionary and mandatory relief is available to parties
or legal representatives from “judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding
taken against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
excusable neglect.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 473 subd. (b).) “[T]he court shall,
whenever an application for relief is made no more than six months after entry
of judgment, is in proper form, and is accompanied by an attorney's sworn
affidavit attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect,
vacate any…resulting default judgment or dismissal entered against his or her
client, unless the court finds that the default or dismissal was not in fact
caused by the attorney's mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect.”  
 
Discussion
 
Plaintiff moves this Court for an order vacating the default
judgment entered in Plaintiff’s favor on September 13, 2023. 
 
Plaintiff states that “[a]fter the aforementioned default
judgment was granted, Plaintiff became aware that the contract was fraudulently
brought about by a third party unknown to Defendant.” (Motion.) However,
Plaintiff fails to include any grounds for the motion or notice of the motion.
Written notice is required for motions to set aside default pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure sections 473.5 and 585.5. (Code Civ. Proc. § 1005.)
Additionally, under Code of Civil Procedure section 663a, “[a] party intending
to make a motion to set aside and vacate a judgment… shall file with the clerk
and serve upon the adverse party a notice of his or her intention, designating
the grounds upon which the motion will be made, and specifying the particulars
in which the legal basis for the decision is not consistent with or supported
by the facts.” Here, without a legal basis for the motion and without notice of
the motion, the Court cannot find in favor of Plaintiff. 
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s motion to vacate default judgment
and dismiss case without prejudice is DENIED without prejudice. 