 Case Number:  24STCV02436    Hearing Date:   August 14, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Fred Gletten, et
  al.,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case
  No.:
 


 
24STCV02436




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Ashton Simmonds, et
  al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: August
14, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice
Leiter 
Motion to Stay Action
and for a Protective Order 
Moving Party: Defendant Ashton
Simmonds 
Responding Party: Plaintiffs Fred
Gletten and Ghost Rentals, LLC 
 
T/R:     The Motion to Stay Action and for a
Protective Order is DENIED 
 
            DEFENDANT TO
NOTICE. 
 
If the parties wish to submit
on the tentative, please email the courtroom at¿SMCdept54@lacourt.org¿with notice to opposing
counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the day of the
hearing. 
 
The Court considers the moving papers,
opposition, and reply. 
 
BACKGROUND
            
This
is an action arising from an alleged motor vehicle collision on April 3, 2023.
On January 30, 2024, Plaintiffs Fred Gletten and Ghost Rentals, LLC sued
Defendant Ashton Simmonds, alleging a single cause of action for negligence. 
 
Plaintiffs
allege that Defendant is a celebrity singer-songwriter, and that Plaintiffs are
in the business of rental high-value, exotic cars, SUVs, and trucks.
(Complaint, ¶ 8.) Defendants have long been customers of Plaintiffs, renting
vehicles for business and pleasure. (Complaint, ¶ 8.) In April 2023, Defendants
rented multiple vehicles from Plaintiffs, including a 2020 Mercedes AMG G63
(the “Subject Vehicle”). (Complaint, ¶ 8.) On April 3, 2023, Plaintiffs allege
that Defendants negligently operated the vehicles, including the Subject
Vehicle, rented from Plaintiffs and caused a crash. (Complaint, ¶ 8.) 
 
Defendant
now moves “for an order directing a stay of this litigation and for a
protective order that the deposition of [Defendant], noticed by Plaintiffs . .
. not take place and be stayed, pending the conclusion of criminal proceedings
and/or criminal investigations, if any, or until the statute of limitations on
criminal charges has expired after April 3, 2026.” 
 
ANALYSIS
 
“The court, for good cause shown, may make any
order that justice requires to protect any party, deponent, or other natural
person or organization from unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, or
oppression, or undue burden and expense.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.420, subd.
(b).) “[W]hen both civil and criminal proceedings arise out of the same or
related transactions, an objecting party is generally entitled to a stay of
discovery in the civil action until disposition of the criminal matter.” (Pacers, Inc. v. Superior Court (1984) 162 Cal.App.3d 686, 690.) “[W]here . .
. a defendant’s silence is constitutionally guaranteed, the court should weigh
the parties’ competing interests with a view toward accommodating the interests
of both parties, if possible.” (Ibid.) “An
order staying discovery until expiration of the criminal statute of limitations
would allow [plaintiffs] to prepare their lawsuit while alleviating
[defendant’s] difficult choice between defending either the civil or criminal
case.” (Ibid.) “The
fifth amendment may be invoked in a civil proceeding.” (Matter of Seper (9th Cir. 1983) 705 F.2d 1499, 1501.) “The
privilege against self-incrimination does not depend upon the likelihood, but upon the possibility of prosecution.” (Ibid. [emphasis in original].) 
 
The Court must examine the circumstances and
competing interests in the case. (Avant! Corp. v. Superior Court (2000) 79 Cal.App.4th 876, 885 [citation omitted].) “This means the
decisionmaker should consider the extent to which the defendant’s fifth
amendment rights are implicated.” (Ibid. [citation omitted].) “In addition, the decisionmaker should generally
consider the following factors: (1) the interest of the plaintiffs in
proceeding expeditiously with [the] litigation or any particular aspect of it,
and the potential prejudice to plaintiffs of a delay; (2) the burden which any
particular aspect of the proceedings may impose on defendants; (3) the
convenience of the court in the management of its cases, and the efficient use
of judicial resources; (4) the interests of persons not parties to the civil
litigation; and (5) the interest of the public in the pending civil and
criminal litigation.” (Ibid.
[citation omitted.) “Not only is it permissible to conduct a civil proceeding
at the same time as a related criminal proceeding, even if that necessitates
invocation of the Fifth Amendment privilege, but it is even permissible for the
trier of fact to draw adverse inferences from the invocation of the Fifth
Amendment in a civil proceeding.” (Ibid.) 
 
According to the April 3, 2023
Traffic Collision Report, there was just one vehicle involved in the collision,
a 2022 Tesla Model X, which sped and crashed into multiple objects in the
intersection of Marmont Lane and Sunset Boulevard in West Hollywood. One of the
passengers in the Tesla was trapped inside and died at the scene. Witness
statements indicate that some witnesses smelled alcohol from the driver(s). Plaintiffs
allege Defendant was somehow involved.  
 
            The
two alleged drivers, Albert Green and Corbyn Thomas Smith, have been indicted
regarding the incident and are awaiting criminal trials. Defendant decided that
invoking his Fifth Amendment rights against self-incrimination in this lawsuit would
be in his best interest.  
 
            In
opposition, Plaintiffs state that Defendant did not mention Fifth Amendment
concerns when Plaintiffs requested deposition dates. Only after Plaintiffs
noticed Defendant’s deposition did he object, citing Fifth Amendment
implications.  
 
Defendant has not shown a basis
for a protective order or to stay the deposition or litigation. There is no
evidence Defendant is the subject of a criminal investigation or criminal
proceedings. 
 
Defendant’s reliance on County
of Orange v. Superior Court (2000) 79 Cal.App.4th 759 is inapposite. That
case involved a request by suspects in a criminal investigation to review the
contents of an investigative file through civil discovery. Defendant’s reliance
on Pacers, Inc., supra, 162 Cal.App.3d 686 also is inapplicable;
it a refusal to testify at a civil deposition due to a threatened criminal
proceeding. 
 
The factors set forth in Avant!,
supra, 79 Cal.App.4th 876 do not warrant a stay.  Delaying this action “for the result of the
related criminal action would increase the danger of prejudice resulting from
the loss of evidence, including the inability of witnesses to recall specific
facts, or the possible death of a party.” (Avant!, supra, 79
Cal.App.4th 876, 887.) Nor will proceeding burden Defendant where there is no
evidence of possible criminal prosecution against Defendant. “Until the
deposition[] go[es] forward and . . . [defendant] object[s] to specific
questions, the court has no basis on which to ascertain, with particularity,
whether the information [plaintiffs] seek would support a conviction or lead to
prosecution . . . .” (Fuller v. Superior Court (2001) 87 Cal.App.4th
299, 310.)  
 
The Court also finds that “denial
of the stay motion promotes the convenience of the court in the management of
its cases.” (Avant!, supra, 79 Cal.App.4th 876, 888.) And the
public has an interest in this litigation; Plaintiffs seek to vindicate their
rights and “[t]he public has a significant interest in a system that encourages
individuals to come to court for the settlement of their disputes.” (Id.
at p. 889.) 
