  Case Number:  20STLC05588    Hearing Date:   April 8, 2024    Dept:  26   
Krain v. Grygoryshyna, et al.COMPEL
THIRD PARTY PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS(CCP §§ 1985.3(g), 1987.1, 1785.11(a)(1) AND FAM. CODE § 511(a))
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Judgment Creditor Andrew Krain’s Motion to Compel Third
Party Production of Documents is DENIED. THIRD PARTY SAMMY HAKIM’S REQUEST FOR
A PROTECTIVE ORDER REGARDING HIS TESTIMONY IS DENIED. 
 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
Judgment Creditor Andrew Krain (“Judgment Creditor”), in pro
per, filed the instant action for fraud against Alina Grygoryshyna (“Judgment
Debtor”), also in pro per, on July 6, 2020. Following Judgment Debtor’s failure
to appear, the Court entered default judgment in Judgment Creditor’s favor on
January 4, 2021. Judgment Creditor filed the instant Motion to Compel Third
Parties to Produce Documents on September 25, 2023. Third-party Bank of Hope
filed an opposition on November 13, 2023 and third-party Sammy Hakim (“Hakim”)
filed a “Response to Subpoena for Production”, which appears to partially
oppose the instant Motion, on December 11, 2023.  
 
The Motion initially came for hearing on December 14, 2023,
at which time the Court granted the Motion in part and continued it in part.
Specifically, the Court granted Judgment Creditor’s request for production of
Judgment Debtor and Hakim’s confidential marriage license and continued the
request for production of documents from third-party financial entities to
March 14, 2024. (Minute Order, 12/14/23, pp. 1-2.) The request for production
of documents by third-party financial entities was continued to allow for
clarity on the question of the marriage of Judgment Debtor and Hakim. (Id.
at p. 3.) On February 9, 2024, the Court granted Judgment Creditor’s Motion for
In Camera Examination with respect to the confidential marriage license of
Judgment Debtor and Hakim. (Minute Order, 02/09/24.) 
 
Following the in-camera hearing on March 25, 2024, the Court
found that “there is a Confidential Marriage License. Date of marriage is
3/5/22 which is after the judgment date of 1/4/21.” (Minute Order, 03/25/24.) Hakim
also filed an Objection to Third Party Subpoena on March 7, 2024. 
 
Discussion
 
Judgment Creditor’s Motion to Compel Production is brought
with respect to subpoenas issued to (1) Sammy Hakim; (2) Bank Of Hope; (3) Bank
Of America, N.A.; (4) Capital One, N.A.; (5) JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., Newrez,
LLC; (6) Wells Fargo Bank, N.A.; (7) Chex Systems, Inc.; and (8) Lexisnexis
Risk Solutions, Inc. 
 
Subpoena to Sammy Hakim
 
The Motion to Compel Production of Documents sought by this
subpoena is brought pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure sections 1987.1, which
allows the Court to “make an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying
it, or directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court
shall declare, including protective orders.” (Code Civ. Proc., §1987.1,
subd. (a).) 
 
Plaintiff contends “there is overwhelming evidence of
community property in possession of Hakim and associated business entities that
is collectable [sic] under this judgment pursuant to Family Code §§ 910(a) and
911(a) and Code of Civil Procedure §§ 706.109 and 708.205.” (Motion, p.
1:25-28.) Family Code section 910 states in relevant part: “Except as otherwise
expressly provided by statute, the community estate is liable for a debt
incurred by either spouse before or during marriage, regardless of which spouse
has the management and control of the property and regardless of whether one or
both spouses are parties to the debt or to a judgment for the debt.” (Cal. Fam.
Code, § 910, subd. (a).) Family Code section 911 elucidates on this concept, as
follows: “The earnings of a married person during marriage are not liable for a
debt incurred by the person’s spouse before marriage. After the earnings of the
married person are paid, they remain not liable so long as they are held in a
deposit account in which the person’s spouse has no right of withdrawal and are
uncommingled with other property in the community estate, except property
insignificant in amount.” (Cal. Fam. Code, § 911, subd. (a).) 
 
Following the in-camera hearing on March 25, 2024, the Court
found that Judgment Debtor and Hakim were married on March 5, 2022, thereby
making their community estate liable for the judgment in this action, except
with respect to earnings held separately by Hakim. 
 
Judgment Creditor contends this evidence of community
property is set forth in the Affidavit for Order for Appearance and Examination
of Sammy Hakim filed on June 26, 2023. (Motion, p. 1:25-28.) The June 26, 2023
Affidavit itself, however, refers to Judgment Creditor’s Affidavit for Order to
Show Cause Re Contempt for evidence that Hakim is in possession and control of
the family’s cash and deposit accounts. The Affidavit for OSC Re Contempt,
filed on May 16, 2023, attaches Judgment Debtor’s testimony at the judgment
debtor examination, that Hakim gives Judgment Debtor cash for spending every
month. (Affidavit for OSC Re Contempt, filed 05/16/23, Exh. D, p. 8:20-23.)
Judgment Debtor also testified that she does not have a bank account in her
name. (Ibid.) This is not evidence of community property in Hakim’s
possession and control. 
 
The documents sought by the subpoena directed to Hakim by
Judgment Creditor are for the following:
 
-Current Driver’s license (or another valid
government-issued photo identification document)
-Marriage certificate
-Prenuptial/postnuptial agreements
-Titles for any and all vehicles owned (including financed
vehicles with third-party liens)
-State registration and auto insurance policies for said
vehicles
-Sworn statement or photo of the current odometer reading
for said vehicles
-Real estate deeds and mortgage account statements for the
previous two years for all properties
owned, including, but not limited to:
 -604 N Foothill Rd, Beverly Hills, CA 90210
(owner of record: Sam Hakim Trust)
 -10520 Wilshire Blvd Apt 603 Los Angeles, CA
90024 (owner of record: Tracery 1031 LLC c/o
Sam Hakim)
 -152 S. Lasky Drive, Beverly Hills, CA 90212
(owner of record: 152 Lasky, LLC c/o Sam Hakim)
 -14216 W Calvert St, Los Angeles, CA 91401
(owner of record: Nettle 1031, LLC)
-Any and all life insurance policies (including beneficiary
designations)
-Any and all trusts and will
-Statements for the previous two years for the following
accounts (whether or not currently open
or closed):
 -Any and all deposit
accounts
 -Any and all
brokerage/investment accounts
 -Any and all credit
card accounts
 -Any and all mortgage
accounts
-Federal and state tax returns (or Verification of Nonfiling
Letters) for the previous two years
-Articles of incorporation/organization,
shareholder/operating agreements, federal and state tax
returns for the previous two years (or official IRS
Verification of Nonfiling Letters), business deposit
account statements and mortgage account statements for the
previous two years for any and all
business entities owned. 
 
(Motion, Exh. A, Attachment 2.) Hakim’s response argues that
this subpoena is overly broad and constitutes a fishing expedition. The Court
agrees. Discovery of financial information must meet a higher standard than
typical discovery, specifically that the information sought must be directly
relevant to the action. (Britt v. Superior Court (1978) 20 Cal.4th 844,
___.) Also, “When an individual’s right of privacy in his financial affairs
conflicts with the public need for discovery in litigation, the competing
interests must be carefully balanced.” (Moskowitz v. Superior Court
(1982) 137 Cal.App.3d 313, 316.) The Motion only points to limited testimony by
Judgment Debtor regarding cash given to her by Hakim for her expenses but the
source of that cash is not indicated. Judgment Debtor has not shown how the
documents listed above are directly relevant to the community estate. 
 
Therefore, Judgment Creditor’s Motion to Compel Production
by Hakim in response to the above subpoena is denied.
 
Subpoenas to Bank of Hope 
 
The subpoenas to Bank of Hope were directed to Hakim’s
personal account (“Hakim Account”) and accounts of five business entities
related to, or associated with, Hakim (“the Related Accounts”). Hakim objected
to Bank of Hope’s production of any documents for the all the accounts. (Bank
of Hope Objection, Karasik Decl., ¶¶4-6 and Exhs. 1-4.) Bank of Hope cites Code
of Civil Procedure section 1985.3 and 1985.6 excusing it from production of the
subpoenaed documents in light of Hakim’s objection. Absent a court order, Bank
of Hope is not required to produce the records sought. (Code Civ. Proc., §
1985.3, subd. (g); § 1985.6, subd. (f)(3).)
 
Bank of Hope’s response explains that it already advised
Judgment Creditor that it has no documents response to the subpoena for the
Hakim account and four of the related/associated entities. (Bank of Hope
Response, Karasik Decl., ¶7 and Exh. 5.) Bank of Hope only has records relevant
to the subpoena directed to the entity Cotner Avenue, LLC. (Ibid.) The
Motion to Compel, however, does not show that records regarding Cotner Avenue,
LLC are directly relevant to the community estate. The Motion says that the limited
deposit account statements provided by Judgment Debtor show evidence of
commingled funds. (Motion, p. 3:13-17.) The “limited deposit account
statements” are not attached. 
 
Therefore, the Motion to Compel Production of Documents by
Bank of Hope is also denied. 
 
Subpoenas to Bank of America, Capital One, JP Morgan
Chase, and Wells Fargo
 
Judgment Creditor also moves to compel production of
documents based on the subpoenas issued to Bank of America, Capital One, JP
Morgan Chase, and Wells Fargo. Hakim’s response asks the Court to deny Judgment
Creditor access to those records because the information sought is overbroad
and invasive for protected financial interests. Hakim also declares that
Judgment Creditor has made false statements to the Court about community
property; in fact, all the properties owned by Hakim are separate property and
have not increased in value. (Response, Hakim Decl., ¶¶4-5.) 
 
As discussed above, the Motion does not demonstrate the
existence of community assets such that discovery into these financial records
is warranted. The Motion to Compel Production of Documents by Bank of America,
Capital One, JP Morgan Chase, and Wells Fargo is denied.
 
Protective Order Regarding Hakim’s Testimony
 
Finally, Hakim asks the Court for a protective order with
respect to his own testimony at the examination scheduled for April 17, 2024,
limiting the questions to Judgment Creditor’s personal knowledge of Hakim. The
request for a protective order is denied. This is a highly restrictive
limitation that would prevent Judgment Debtor from questioning Hakim about the
extent, if any, of the community estate that may be liable for the judgment. No
analysis of why such an order is appropriate, other than a conclusory assertion
that other questions would be “inappropriate and potentially prejudicial.”   
 
Conclusion
 
Based on the foregoing, Judgment Creditor Andrew Krain’s
Motion to Compel Third Party Production of Documents is DENIED. THIRD PARTY
SAMMY HAKIM’S REQUEST FOR A PROTECTIVE ORDER REGARDING HIS TESTIMONY IS DENIED.

 
 
Court clerk to give notice. 
 
 