 Case Number:  21STCV02739    Hearing Date:   January 10, 2025    Dept:  T Joshua Huber vs State of California, Department of Transportation, et al.  Motion for Summary Judgment, or in the alternative, Summary AdjudicationMoving Party: Defendant County of Los AngelesResponding Party: Plaintiff Joshua Huber Tentative Ruling: DenyBACKGROUNDOn January 22, 2021, Plaintiff Joshua Huber (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint for injuries from an alleged motor vehicle accident that occurred on January 19, 2020 on Soledad Canyon Road near its intersection with the SR-14 northbound on-ramp. (Complaint ¶ 14.) Plaintiff alleges he was driving his motorcycle on Soledad Canyon Road when Defendant Veronica Ilene Alcala (“Alcala”) collided her vehicle into Plaintiff. Against Moving Defendant County of Los Angeles (“Defendant”), the complaint asserts one cause of action for dangerous condition of public property. Plaintiff alleges the subject roadway where the incident occurred was in a “dangerous condition due, but not limited to, the excessive posted speed limit, inadequate sight lines, the lack of adequate traffic controls, warnings signs, and/or insufficient pavement markings, insufficient lighting, and/or any warnings signs were unreasonable and inadequate on a motorist's approach to the Subject Roadway thereby creating a dangerous condition and trap.” (Complaint ¶ 18.) Plaintiff further alleges that Defendant was negligent by allowing faded or non-existent double yellow lines along the lane where vehicles would make a left turn onto northbound SR-14, which contributed to this incident. (Id. ¶ 19.) Defendant now moves for summary judgment, or alternatively, for summary adjudication. Plaintiff opposes and Defendant replies. MOVING PARTY POSITION Defendant first argues design immunity applies, and that Plaintiff cannot establish a change in physical condition. Next, Defendant contends the condition of the road was not a “dangerous condition” as a matter of law because a person using reasonable care would not have a substantial risk of injury. Defendant also argues Plaintiff’s injuries were not proximately caused by the condition of the road, that it lacked actual or constructive notice, and that immunities for insufficient warning signs and pavement markings apply.OPPOSITION In opposition, Plaintiff contends the design immunity does not apply because the defect alleged in not based on the design of the road, but rather negligent maintenance of the road, specifically the double yellow lines separating the left turn lane from the opposing westbound traffic. Plaintiff also argues that the signage immunity does not protect against negligent maintenance, and that Defendant’s inspections did not include inspecting markings or signage. Furthermore, Plaintiff contends the evidence supports an inference that the road condition contributed to the harm. REPLY In reply, Defendant argues that even if the lines were faded, a person using reasonable care would have been safe making the turn. Defendant contends that Plaintiff must show a connection between the faded yellow striping and other accidents to prove notice. Defendant argues that Plaintiff cannot demonstrate there was a changed physical condition.  ANALYSISI. Summary Judgment Legal Standard“[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears the burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue of material fact and that he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law[.] There is a triable issue of material fact if, and only if, the evidence would allow a reasonable trier of fact to find the underlying fact in favor of the party opposing the motion in accordance with the applicable standard of proof.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)  “[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears an initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact; if he carries his burden of production, he causes a shift, and the opposing party is then subjected to a burden of production of his own to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of material fact.” (Ibid.; Smith v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 1463, 1474 [summary judgment standards held by Aguilar apply to summary adjudication motions].)  Further, in line with Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co., “[o]n a motion for summary adjudication, the trial court has no discretion to exercise.  If a triable issue of material fact exists as to the challenged causes of action, the motion must be denied. If there is no triable issue of fact, the motion must be granted.” (Fisherman's Wharf Bay Cruise Corp. v. Superior Court (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 309, 320.) “On a summary judgment motion, the court must therefore consider what inferences favoring the opposing party a factfinder could reasonably draw from the evidence. While viewing the evidence in this manner, the court must bear in mind that its primary function is to identify issues rather than to determine issues.  Only when the inferences are indisputable may the court decide the issues as a matter of law. If the evidence is in conflict, the factual issues must be resolved by trial.” (Binder v. Aetna Life Ins. Co. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839 [cleaned up].)  Further, “the trial court may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a factfinder to determine whose version is more likely true.  Nor may the trial court grant summary judgment based on the court's evaluation of credibility.” (Id. at p. 840 [cleaned up]; see also Weiss v. People ex rel. Department of Transportation (2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for summary judgment or summary adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must instead view it in the light most favorable to the opposing party and draw all reasonable inferences in favor of that party”].)   II. Evidentiary ObjectionsThe Court rules as follows on Plaintiff’s objections to Defendant’s evidence:Declaration of Vanessa Estrada1. Overruled.2. Overruled.Declaration of Dominic Osmena1. Overruled. Declaration of Rock Miller1. Overruled. 2. Overruled.3. Overruled.The Court rules as follows on Defendant’s objections to Plaintiff’s evidence: Declaration of Lynn P. Whitlock1. Sustained because the Decalration of Galliher, paragraph 2, does not verify that the sixteen photographs are included in exhibit 4 of the opposition. 2. Overruled.3. Overruled.4. Overruled.5. Overruled.6. Overruled.Declaration of Dale R. Dunlap1. The Court declines to rule on the objections as they have no effect on the ruling herein. Declaration of Clark Galliher1. Overruled. 2. Sustained. 3. Sustained.4. Sustained.5. Sustained.6. Sustained.7. Sustained.8. Sustained.9. Sustained. Declaration of Ilene Zackowitz1. Overruled. 2. Overruled. 3. Sustained.4. Overruled.5. Overruled.6. Overruled.7. Overruled.8. Overruled.9. Overruled.10. Sustained to the extent it relies on evidence sustained from the declaration of Clark Galliher.11. Sustained to the extent it relies on evidence sustained from the declaration of Clark Galliher.12. The Court declines to rule on this objection as it has no effect on the ruling herein. 13. The Court declines to rule on this objection as it has no effect on the ruling herein. 14. Overruled.15. Overruled. Declaration of Joshua Huber 1. Overruled. III. Request for Judicial Notice The Court denies Plaintiff’s request for judicial notice of his exhibits 1-3, 6-11, and 16-17. IV. Dangerous Condition of Public PropertyGovernment Code section 835 states:¿“Except as provided by statute, a public entity is liable for injury caused by a dangerous condition of its property if the plaintiff establishes that the property was in a dangerous condition at the time of the injury, that the injury was proximately caused by the dangerous condition, that the dangerous condition created a reasonably foreseeable risk of the kind of injury which was incurred, and either:¿¿¿ ¿¿ (a) A negligent or wrongful act or omission of an employee of the public entity within the scope of his employment created the dangerous condition; or¿¿¿¿ ¿¿ (b) The public entity had actual or constructive notice of the dangerous condition under Section 835.2 a sufficient time prior to the injury to have taken measures to protect against the dangerous condition.”¿¿¿  Government Code section 835 sets out the exclusive conditions under which a public entity is liable for injuries caused by a dangerous condition of public property. (Metcalf v. County of San Joaquin (2008) 42 Cal.4th 1121, 1129, citing Brown v. Poway Unified School Dist. (1993) 4 Cal.4th 820, 829; see also Zelig v. County of Los Angeles (2002) 27 Cal.4th 1112.)   A public entity is only liable for a dangerous condition of property if it either creates the condition or has actual or constructive notice of the condition.¿ (See Gov Code §835(a),(b).)¿ V. DiscussionHere, the following relevant facts about the incident are undisputed. On January 19, 2020, Plaintiff was driving his motorcycle westbound on Soledad Canyon Road approaching the intersection with the SR-14 northbound on-ramp. (UMF 1.) Alcala was driving her vehicle eastbound on Soledad Canyon Road and was turning left onto the SR-14 northbound on-ramp at the subject intersection, when Plaintiff’s motorcycle struck the right side of Alcala’s vehicle. (UMF 2-3.) At the intersection, there was a left turn pocket for eastbound traffic on Soledad Canyon Road to turn left and enter the on-ramp. (UMF 5.) A. Design ImmunityTo prevail on the defense of design immunity, the following three elements must be established: "(1) a causal relationship between the plan or design and the accident, (2) discretionary approval of the plan or design prior to construction, and (3) substantial evidence supporting the reasonableness of the plan or design.” (Cornette v. Department of Transp. (2001) 26 Cal.4th 63, 66; see Gov. Code, § 830.6.)¿ Of the three elements, "[t]he first two elements, causation and discretionary approval, may only be resolved as issues of law if the facts are undisputed." (Grenier v. City of Irwindale (1997) 57 Cal.App.4th 931, 940.) A defendant may rely on the complaint to establish causation in the context of a design immunity defense. (Fuller v. Dep't of Transp. (2001) 89 Cal.App.4th 1109, 1114.) To establish the second element of discretionary approval, a defendant must show “approval in advance of construction by the legislative body or officer exercising authority.” (Alvarez v. State of California (1999) 79 Cal.App.4th 720, 734; Ramirez v. City of Redondo Beach (1987) 192 Cal.App.3d 515, 526.) As to the third element, Wyckoff v. State¿(2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 45, 50–51 provides:¿¿ ¿¿ The normal rules governing a¿motion¿for¿summary¿judgment, and requiring its denial if any triable issue of fact appears, are not fully applicable [to cases involving¿design¿immunity¿under¿Government Code section 830.6.]¿ For example, the defendant is not required to prove to the court that the¿design¿or plan was in fact a reasonable one. Instead, the defendant is merely required to adduce any ‘substantial evidence’ that a reasonable public employee or legislative body could have approved the plan or¿design¿used under¿[Government Code section] 830.6.¿Thus, when the defendant files a¿motion¿for¿summary¿judgment, the existence of a possible conflict of evidence, as shown by the proof submitted on the motion, will not create a triable issue on this aspect of the defense that can defeat a summary judgment . . . ." "We are not concerned with whether the evidence of reasonableness is undisputed; the statute provides immunity when there is substantial evidence of reasonableness, even if contradicted.”¿ However, the design immunity is limited to a design-caused accident. “Stated otherwise, it does not immunize against liability caused by negligence independent of design, even though independent negligence is only a concurring proximate cause of the accident.” (Mozzetti v. City of Brisbane (1977) 67 Cal.App.3d 565, 575 [finding that design immunity could not be invoked where there was evidence of poor maintenance of a drainage system].) A motion for summary judgment is framed by the issues in the pleading. (Lyons v. Security Pacific Nat. Bank (1995) 40 Cal.App.4th 1001, 1018.) Here, the complaint alleges that faded markings in the left turn lane contributed to Plaintiff’s injury. (Complaint ¶ 19.) Therefore, this allegation involves an issue of poor maintenance of the road, which is independent from the design. (See Mozzetti, supra, 67 Cal.App.3d at 575.) In opposition, Plaintiff argues that because of this rule, Defendant cannot raise the affirmative defense of design immunity. (Opp., 17.) In reply, Defendant fails to address Mozzetti, but merely argues that Plaintiff has not established there was a changed physical condition. (Reply, 8-9.)Therefore, because Defendant has failed to explain how the faded markings on the subject left turn lane constitute a design-based incident, it fails to meet its initial burden. B. “Dangerous Condition” of the RoadNext, Defendant argues that the subject road/intersection was not a dangerous condition as a matter of law. The term “dangerous condition” means a “condition of property that creates a substantial (as distinguished from a minor,¿trivial¿or insignificant) risk of injury when such property or adjacent property is used with due care in a manner in which it is reasonably foreseeable that it¿will be used.” (Gov. Code, § 830, subd. (a).)¿ “A condition is not a dangerous condition within the meaning of this chapter if the trial or appellate court, viewing the evidence most favorably to the plaintiff, determines as a matter of law that the risk created by the condition was of such a minor, trivial or insignificant nature in view of the surrounding circumstances that no reasonable person would conclude that the condition created a substantial risk of injury when such property or adjacent property was used with due care in a manner in which it was reasonably foreseeable that it would be used.” (Gov. Code, § 830.2.)  “Thus, even though it is foreseeable that persons may use public property without due care, a public entity may not be held liable for failing to take precautions to protect such persons.”¿(Matthews v. City of Cerritos¿(1992) 2 Cal.App.4th 1380, 1384.)¿“The condition of the property involved should create a ‘substantial risk’ of injury, for an undue burden would be placed upon public entities if they were responsible for the repair of all conditions creating any possibility of injury however remote that possibility might be.”¿(Fredette¿v. City of Long Beach¿(1986) 187 Cal.App.3d 122, 130, fn. 5.) “The existence of a dangerous condition ordinarily is a question of fact, but the issue may be resolved as a matter of law if reasonable minds can come to only one conclusion.”¿(Peterson v. San Francisco Comm. College Dist.¿(1984) 36 Cal.3d 799, 810.)¿Defendant contends the intersection did not create a substantial risk of injury when used with due care. Defendant sets forth generally undisputed facts that there was striping for the eastbound lanes on Soledad Canyon Road, including the left turn lane. (UMF 7-9.) Defendant asserts that Alcala simply failed to yield to her right of way when turning left. (UMF 20; Motion, 14.) In opposition, Plaintiff disputes that Alcala was at fault for the collision. (Pl. Resp. UMF 20.) Daniel Quintana, the head of the traffic design section within Traffic Safety and Mobility Division, testified that it was Defendant’s policy to maintain the striping that was designed by his section. The Operational Services Division was responsible for maintaining the striping on the road.  (Pl. Exh. 29, Quintana Depo. 44:3-17.) After being shown a Google street view photo dated June 2016, Mr. Quintana agreed that there were faded yellow lines in the subject left turn lane. (Id., Quintana Depo. 51:18-52:6.) Defendant’s expert also conceded that based on Google street view historical drawings from September 2019, the double yellow line of the left turn lane “is worn for the last 35 feet prior to where is installed.” (Miller Decl. ¶ 50.) In reply, Defendant also concedes that “there was faded yellow striping in the left turn pocket onto northbound SR-14.” (Reply, 3.) Plaintiff’s counsel has also accessed historical Google Map street view images of the subject intersection, which were not objected to by Defendant. (Whitlock Decl. ¶ 2, Exh. 6-11.) The images span from December 2011 to September 2019. The images from December 2011 and June 2015 (Exh. 6, 8), show that the double yellow lines are intact. However, the images dated February 2019 and September 2019 (Exh. 10-11), show the double yellow lines are faded and not clearly distinguishable. Officer Daniel Allen, the California Highway Patrol officer who responded to the incident in this case, wrote the Traffic Collision Report, and testified that the positions of the vehicles on pages 4 and 5 of the Report, were accurate representations of where they were located during the incident. (Pl. Exh. 22, Allen Depo. 34:20-35:2.) The Traffic Collision Report was produced by Defendant and shows that Alcala prematurely made a left turn before the left-turn lane ended. (Def. Exh. D, page 4-5.)  Alcala also confirmed that she began her left turn before the left turn pocket ended. (PAMF 41; Pl. Exh. 21, Alcala Depo. 41:16-20.) When asked why she turned left before the left-turn pocket ended, she replied: “From the point of where I had stopped was still about a car's distance away from where the edge of the white line is. So I would have started to make the left turn, probably would have had to go out a little bit wider because of where I stopped, and because there's no line there, there's no guidance to lead you like okay, you have to go a little bit forward before the lane ends, but -- and it's a big opening there, so if I would have rounded the corner and kind of cut a little bit sooner into the lane, it's just thinking with common sense and visually you see -- if you don't see a lane anymore then you're more likely to cut into wherever you are turning.” (Pl. Exh. 21, Alcala Depo. 42:6-22.) Alcala also testified that she likely was able to see the white line that bordered the right side of the left-turn pocket. (Pl. Exh. 21, Alcala Depo. 57:24-58:13.) However, when asked if the white line would have given her an estimation on where to stop her vehicle before making the left turn onto the on-ramp, she responded, “I would say yes, technically the white line should give you some indication on where to stop, but as a driver you follow -- I have always been taught you follow the yellow line.” (Id., Alcala Depo. 58:14-24.) Plaintiff’s human factors and safety analyst expert, Ilene Zackowitz, opines that “Alcala’s driving behavior was uninformed due to the lack of appropriate and effective positive guidance on the roadway, which contributed to the cause of this incident.” (Zackowitz Decl. ¶ 10.) She further opines that “[w]hen pavement delineation striping is not easily detectable, it delays perception and response times because it violates driver expectations since the roadway is not providing the visual cues that drivers typically rely on with sufficient advanced notice to respond to hazards and avoid incidents.” (Id. ¶ 16.)Based on the evidence surrounding the incident, and the evidence that there were faded double yellow lanes, the Court finds that reasonable minds could come to differing conclusions on whether the faded yellow lines would pose a substantial risk of injury by causing drivers using due care to turn prematurely when the lines ended. Defendant also argues that the faded markings cannot be grounds for liability under Government Code sections 830.4 and 830.8. Section 830.4 states, “[a] condition is not a dangerous condition within the meaning of this chapter merely because of the failure to provide regulatory traffic control signals, stop signs, yield right-of-way signs, or speed restriction signs, as described by the Vehicle Code, or distinctive roadway markings as described in Section 21460 of the Vehicle Code.” (Gov. Code, § 830.4.) Section 21460 of the Vehicle Code states in relevant part: “[i]f double parallel solid yellow lines are in place, a person driving a vehicle shall not drive to the left of the lines, except as permitted in this section.” (Veh. Code, § 21460, subd. (a).) Section 830.8 also states: “Neither a public entity nor a public employee is liable under this chapter for an injury caused by the failure to provide traffic or warning signals, signs, markings or devices described in the Vehicle Code. Nothing in this section exonerates a public entity or public employee from liability for injury proximately caused by such failure if a signal, sign, marking or device (other than one described in Section 830.4) was necessary to warn of a dangerous condition which endangered the safe movement of traffic and which would not be reasonably apparent to, and would not have been anticipated by, a person exercising due care.” (Gov. Code, § 830.8.) Based on the facts in this case, section 830.4 would likely apply if Plaintiff was arguing that the accident occurred because Defendant failed to provide the double yellow lines at this left turn. (See Frazier v. County of Sonoma (1990) 218 Cal.App.3d 454, 459-60 [finding that the recommended double parallel solid lines fall under section 830.4].) However, here Defendant provided yellow lines, but allegedly failed to maintain them. “[A]lthough a public entity is not liable for failure to install traffic signs or signals (Govt. Code, ss 830.4, 830.8), when it undertakes to do so and invites public reliance upon them, it may be held liable for creating a dangerous condition in so doing.” (De La Rosa v. City of San Bernardino (1971) 16 Cal.App.3d 739, 746.) Defendant fails to show how sections 830.4 and 830.8 apply to this case, given the undisputed facts regarding the faded yellow lines.  Therefore, the initial burden is not met.  Defendant also argues that even if the markings were faded, there was sufficient sight distance where a person using reasonable care would have seen vehicles approaching and would have not collided with Plaintiff. (Motion, 15.) Defendant offers a declaration from Rock Miller, a registered Traffic Engineer and Civil Engineer, who inspected the subject area and used a Google Map measure tool to measure the sight distance. Mr. Miller noted there is a guardrail about 275 east of the ramp interchange, which limits visibility of vehicles approaching around the curve. (Miller Decl. ¶ 27.) Considering this, Miller determined the sight distance of a “motorist in the front of the left turn lane to the center of the westbound roadway that did not pass over or through the guardrail at the water crossing” to be 440 feet. (Id.) The line of sight that passed over the guardrail was 570 feet; Miller determined that part of a motorcycle would be visible at this point. (Id.) Though Defendant argues Alcala simply failed to yield to oncoming traffic, there are triable issues of fact as to whether Alcala was entirely at fault and whether there was a physical characteristic of the road (i.e. the faded double yellow lines) that contributed to the harm. (See Sun v. City of Oakland (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 1177, 1187, quoting Cerna v. City of Oakland (2008) 161 Cal.App.4th 1340, 1348 [“A public entity may be liable for a dangerous condition of public property even where the immediate cause of a plaintiff's injury is a third party's negligent or illegal act ... if some physical characteristic of the property exposes its users to increased danger from third party negligence or criminality.”] Therefore, even if Alcala acted negligently by attempting to cross the intersection, it does not foreclose Defendant’s liability since the evidence shows the fact finder could determine the faded lines increased the danger. C. Actual and Constructive NoticeDefendant next argues that it lacked actual or constructive notice of the defect. A public entity had actual notice of a dangerous condition if it had actual knowledge of the existence of the condition and knew or should have known of its dangerous character.¿ (Gov. Code § 835.2(a).)¿ “To establish actual notice, ‘[t]here must be some evidence that the employees had knowledge of the particular dangerous condition in question’; ‘it is not enough to show that the [public entity's] employees had a general knowledge’ that the condition can sometimes occur. [Citation.]”¿ (Martinez v. City of Beverly Hills (2021) 71 Cal.App.5th 508, 519.)¿  A public entity has constructive notice of a dangerous condition only if the plaintiff establishes that the condition had existed for such a period of time and was of such an obvious nature that the public entity, in the exercise of due care, should have discovered the condition and its dangerous character.¿ (Gov. Code § 835.2 (b).)¿ On the issue of due care, admissible evidence includes, but is not limited to evidence of whether the condition and its dangerous character would have been discovered by an inspection system that was reasonably adequate or whether the public entity maintained and operated an inspection system with due care and did not discover the condition.¿ (Gov. Code § 835.2 (b)(1)-(2).)¿ “Whether the dangerous condition was obvious and whether it existed for a sufficient period of time are threshold elements to establish a claim of constructive notice.”¿ (Heskel v. City of San Diego (2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 313, 317.)¿ “Where the plaintiff fails to present direct or circumstantial evidence as to either element, his claim is deficient as a matter of law.”¿ (Ibid.) ¿¿¿ ¿¿ Although the conspicuousness of the condition and the length of time it existed are normally questions of fact for resolution by the jury, they may be resolved as matter of law where the plaintiff's evidence as to either element is legally insufficient. (Kotronakis v. City & County of San Francisco (1961) 192 Cal.App.2d 624, 629 [jury verdict for plaintiff reversed where there was no evidence the puddle of vomit in which plaintiff slipped had been on the sidewalk longer than overnight]; Heskel v. City of San Diego (2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 313, 318-319, 321 [summary judgment proper where plaintiff failed to provide evidence to rebut the City's showing the condition was not obvious].)¿¿¿ Defendant provides a declaration from Dominic Osmena, the Road Maintenance Assistant District Engineer in the Road Maintenance Division. Osmena declares that on December 27, 2019 and January 27, 2020, the Road Maintenance Division conducted an inspection of the area and noted no defects. (Osmena Decl. ¶ 5; Def. Exh. R.) However, the Osmena declaration does not specifically state that the Road Maintenance Division was looking for defects regarding faded striping, which is at issue in this case. Furthermore, the conflicting testimony from Mr. Quintana that the Operational Services Division was responsible for maintaining the striping, suggests an issue of fact regarding whether the Road Maintenance Division inspection was adequate. Defendant also fails to show evidence that the faded the striping was not obvious, or only existed for a limited period of time. As mentioned above, Defendant’s expert conceded that the double yellow lines were worn based on September 2019 Google map images. (Miller Decl. ¶ 50.) Therefore, since there is evidence the condition existed at least four months prior to the instant, there is a triable issue of fact regarding whether Defendant had constructive notice.D. CausationDefendant also argues that Plaintiff’s injuries were not proximately caused by the condition of the road. Causation is generally a question of fact. (Constance B. v. State of California (1986) 178 Cal.App.3d 200, 207.) Given the undisputed facts of the faded yellow lines, there is a question of fact whether the lack of maintenance on the double yellow lines proximately caused Plaintiff’s injury. RULINGDefendant County of Los Angeles’ Motion for Summary Judgment, or in the alternative, Summary Adjudication, is DENIED. 