 Case Number:  24NNCV05211    Hearing Date:   January 10, 2025    Dept:  T Stella Iskanaryan
as Personal Representative of Estate of Rafik Degeryan vs Ruzanna Degeryan, et
al.  
Demurrer
to Plaintiff’s Complaint
Moving Party:                         Defendants
Ruzanna Degeryan, Arthur Degeryan, Zaven Alen Degeryan, Alin Degeryan
Responding Party:                   None (Untimely) 
Tentative Ruling:                    Overrule
 
BACKGROUND
 
On October 21, 2024, Plaintiff Stella Iskanaryan as Personal Representative of
Estate of Rafik Degeryan (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint for an unlawful
detainer action against Defendants Ruzanna Degeryan, Arthur Degeryan, Zaven
Alen Degeryan, Alin Degeryan (“Defendants”). The complaint alleges that
Defendants orally agreed to rent the subject premises from Decedent Rafik
Degeryan (“Decedent”). 
 
Defendants now demur to the complaint, arguing that
the Court lacks jurisdiction to hear this case because there is another action
pending between the parties. No opposition has been filed. 
 
MOVING PARTY POSITION
 
Defendants argue the Court
lacks jurisdiction under Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10(c) because
there is a pending dissolution of marriage action (Los Angeles Superior Court
case No. GD050254) that has yet to determine the character or ownership of the
subject property at issue in this complaint. As a result, Defendants ask the
Court to abate this action pending a complete resolution of the family law
matter.   
 
OPPOSITION
            
The untimely
opposition was filed on January 8, 2025. 
The Court exercises its discretion to not consider the opposition. 
REPLY

No reply was filed. 
            
ANALYSIS
I.                  
Legal
Standard
A demurrer is a pleading
used to test the legal sufficiency of other pleadings.  It raises issues of law, not fact, regarding
the form or content of the opposing party's pleading (complaint, answer or
cross-complaint).  (Code Civ. Proc. §§
422.10, 589; see Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th
968, 994.)  It is not the function of the
demurrer to challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for purposes of
the ruling on the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are assumed to
be true.  (Donabedian, 116
Cal.App.4th at 994.)
A demurrer may be made where “[t]here is another action
pending between the same parties on the same cause of action.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 430.10, subd. (c).) “Under the rule of exclusive concurrent
jurisdiction, ‘when two superior courts have concurrent jurisdiction over the
subject matter and all parties involved in litigation, the first to assume
jurisdiction has exclusive and continuing jurisdiction over the subject matter
and all parties involved until such time as all necessarily related matters
have been resolved.’ [Citations.]” (Plant Insulation Co. v.
Fibreboard Corp. (1990) 224 Cal.App.3d 781, 786-87.) The rule is based upon
the public policies of avoiding conflicts that might arise between courts if
they were free to make contradictory decisions or awards relating to the same
controversy, and preventing vexatious litigation and multiplicity of suits. (Id.
at p. 787.) “A plea in abatement pursuant to section 430.10, subdivision (c),
may be made by demurrer or answer when there is another action pending between
the same parties on the same cause of action.” (Id.)
 
“In
determining whether the causes of action are the same for purposes of pleas in
abatement, the rule is that such a plea may be maintained only where a judgment
in the first action would be a complete bar to the second action. Where a
demurrer is sustained on the ground of another action pending, the proper order
is not a dismissal, but abatement of further proceedings pending termination of
the first action.”  (Plant Insulation Co., supra, 224
Cal.App.3d at pp. 787-788.)  “Abatement of the second action is a matter
of right.  A trial court has no discretion to allow the second action to
proceed if it finds the first involves substantially the same controversy
between the same parties.”  (Leadford v. Leadford (1992) 6
Cal.App.4th 571, 574.) 
 
II.               
Request for
Judicial Notice
The Court grants Defendants’ request
for judicial notice of exhibits A, B, and C. (Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (d).) 
III.            
Meet and
Confer
No declaration was included with
this demurrer detailing a meet and confer effort. Nevertheless, “[a]
determination by the court that the meet and confer process was insufficient
shall not be grounds to overrule or sustain a demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
430.41 (a)(4).) 
IV.            
Discussion
The complaint alleges that
Defendants entered into an oral agreement with Decedent to rent the premises in
a tenancy at sufferance. The complaint seeks the reasonable rental value from
the date of Decedent’s death, presumably December 30, 2020. The judicially
noticed materials show that on May 24, 2012, Decedent filed a petition for a
dissolution of marriage against Ruzanna Degeryan (“Ruzanna”). (Exh. A.) Ruzanna
filed a response on June 20, 2012. (Exh. B.) On October 4, 2024, the Family Law
Court entered judgment in the dissolution action finding that the marital or
domestic partnership status ended on January 15, 2016. (Exh. C.) The Court also
reserved jurisdiction over all other issues. (Exh. C, item 4g.)
 However, Defendants fail to show
that both cases involve the same parties on the same causes of action. Furthermore,
the October 4, 2024 Judgment does not state which remaining issues are still
pending in the dissolution proceeding. Though Defendants argue that the issues
in Family Law Court cannot be reframed as separate civil lawsuits, the general
rule is “[w]hen a dissolution proceeding is pending, neither party to that
proceeding has the right to file a separate civil action to enforce an interim
support order issued in the dissolution proceeding. The same rule applies to
filing a purported tort action arising from conduct that relates to the interim
support order and, but for the dissolution proceeding, would not have occurred.”
(Burkle v. Burkle (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 387, 393.) Here, based on the judicially noticed materials, the unlawful
detainer action does not appear to enforce any interim support order from the
dissolution action.RULING
Defendants’ Demurrer to Plaintiff’s
complaint is OVERRULED. Moving parties are ordered to file a Notice of Related
Case in Department 1 and all departments with related matters pursuant to Local
Rule 3.3(f)(2). 