  Case Number:  20STCV29973    Hearing Date:   January 10, 2025    Dept:  T Earl
Rose vs David Simon
Motion
for Order Compelling Plaintiff to Complete Physical Examination and for Brief
Continuance of Trial
Moving Party:                         Defendant
David Simon         
Responding Party:                   Plaintiff
Earl Rose
Tentative Ruling:                    Grant
 
BACKGROUND
 
On August 7, 2020, Plaintiff
Earl Rose (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendant David Simon
(“Defendant”) for negligence based on a motor vehicle accident that allegedly
occurred on August 7, 2018. Trial was initially set for February 4, 2022. 
 
Defendant filed his answer on March 24, 2022. 
 
At a trial setting conference, trial was set for June 2, 2023. (Min. Order,
6/28/22.) 
 
On May 6, 2023, pursuant to stipulation, the Court continued trial and related
dates to January 10, 2024. 
 
On November 17, 2023, pursuant to stipulation, the Court continued trial
and related dates to August 30, 2024.
 
On May 30, 2024, the Court continued trial to February 10, 2025. 
 
Defendant now moves to compel Plaintiff to appear and complete a physical
examination on January 16, 2025. Plaintiff opposes and Defendant replies.
 
 
MOVING PARTY POSITION
 
Defendant seeks to compel
Plaintiff’s physical
examination with Hillel Sperling, M.D., an orthopedic surgeon, on January 16,
2025. Defendant seeks $2,435.64 in monetary sanctions against Plaintiff and his
counsel of record. Defendant also asks to continue trial and all related dates
to May 12, 2025 in order to accommodate the examination and Dr. Sperling’s accompanying
report. A jury trial is currently set for February 10, 2025.  
 
Defendant previously noticed Plaintiff’s examination with Dr. Sperling
for November 12, 2024. Plaintiff appeared for the examination, but informed the
office that Plaintiff’s counsel would attend the examination telephonically,
via facetime or zoom. (Sperling Decl. ¶ 4.) Dr. Sperling refused to conduct the
examination with counsel on the telephone and the examination did not occur. 
 
Defendant contends Plaintiff will not agree to the examination unless
Plaintiff’s counsel is allowed to attend the examination remotely. Accordingly,
Defendant seeks to compel the examination and notes that the Code of Civil
Procedure does not allow for remote observations. 
 
OPPOSITION
            
Plaintiff argues that because the intended January 16, 2025 examination
will take place less than 30 days before the February 10, 2025 trial, it will
be past the discovery cut-off and untimely under Code of Civil Procedure
section 2024.020. Plaintiff also argues the Code of Civil Procedure does not
specifically state that attending an examination is limited to in-person. Plaintiff
also contends there are no HIPAA or privacy concerns because Plaintiff consented
to counsel’s remote presence.
 
REPLY

            In
reply, Defendant contends that the examination falls under the expert discovery
cut-off of fifteen days before trial, and if not, the Court has inherent
authority to order the discovery. Defendant argues that section 2032.510 does
not allow for remote observations, and that Dr. Sperling’s concerns are valid. 
 
ANALYSIS
I.                  
Legal
Standard
“In any case in which a plaintiff is seeking recovery for
personal injuries, any defendant may demand one physical examination of the
plaintiff, if both of the following conditions are satisfied: (1) The examination
does not include any diagnostic test or procedure that is painful, protracted,
or intrusive. (2) The examination is conducted at a location within 75 miles of
the residence of the examinee.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.220, subd. (a).)¿
“The plaintiff to whom a demand for a physical examination
. . . is directed shall respond to the demand by a written statement that the
examinee will comply with the demand as stated, will comply with the demand as
specifically modified by the plaintiff, or will refuse, for reasons specified
in the response, to submit to the demanded physical examination.” (Code
Civ. Proc. § 2032.230(a).) 
“Within 20 days after service of the demand the plaintiff
to whom the demand is directed shall serve the original of the response to it
on the defendant making the demand, and a copy of the response on all other
parties who have appeared in the action.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2032.230(b).) 
 
Code of Civil Procedure
section 2032.240 provides that, when a plaintiff fails to timely respond to a
demand, the defendant may move for an order compelling a response to the demand
and compelling compliance with the request for an exam. (Code Civ. Proc. §
2032.240(b).) 
The court shall impose a
monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against
any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to
compel response and compliance with a demand for a physical examination, unless
it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2032.240(c).)
II.        Discussion
A.        Motion
to Compel     
As an initial matter, it does not
appear that Defendant needs to seek leave of court under Code of Civil
Procedure section 2032.310 because no previous physical examination has taken
place. Plaintiff concedes that Dr. Sperling ended the examination due to
Plaintiff’s counsel’s remote attendance. (Panah Decl. ¶ 6.) 
            Here, on
September 19, 2024, Defendant served a demand for a physical examination on
Plaintiff for November 12, 2024. (Mikhail Decl. ¶ 5, Exh. A.) The purpose of
the exam was to assess Plaintiff’s claimed physical injuries in this case. No
objections were received. According to Defendant, Dr. Sperling will not conduct
the examination with counsel over the telephone due to HIPAA concerns that he
cannot confirm there are no unauthorized observers or recordings.  (Exh. D, Sperling Decl. ¶ 7.) 
            This motion
was filed because Plaintiff’s counsel will not agree to the examination unless
they are allowed to attend remotely. (Mikhail Decl. ¶ 6, 8, Exh. B, C.)
            Code of
Civil Procedure section 2032.510 provides in relevant part: “[t]he attorney for
the examinee or for a party producing the examinee, or that attorney's
representative, shall be permitted to attend and observe any physical
examination conducted for discovery purposes, and to record stenographically or
by audio technology any words spoken to or by the examinee during any phase of
the examination.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.510, subd. (a).) The statute does
not specify whether a remote appearance is allowed. However, summarizing the
history of this statute, the Court of Appeal stated, “[t]he statute codified
the existing case law in allowing for the presence of the examinee's attorney
and audio recording of the examination. Like its predecessor, the statute does
not authorize videotaping of medical examinations.” (Ramirez v. MacAdam
(1993) 13 Cal.App.4th 1638, 1641.) 
Here, given the restriction on videotaping
the examination, the Court finds that allowing a remote attendance via
videoconference would risk unauthorized video recordings. In light of this, it
is unclear how anyone could “attend and observe” the examination without being
physically present. Moreover, Plaintiff points to no attempt by the Legislature
to modify this statute to expressly allow for remote appearances as done in
other discovery statutes. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.310, subd. (a) [“At the
election of the deponent or the deposing party, the deposition officer may
attend the deposition at a different location than the deponent via remote
means.”].) Therefore, without any direct authority from Plaintiff to support
his position, the Court concludes that Plaintiff’s counsel or representative
must appear in-person to the examination under section 2032.510. 
            Next,
Plaintiff contends that Dr. Sperling’s HIPAA concerns are unfounded because Plaintiff’s
counsel is not a “covered entity” under HIPAA. However, Plaintiff does not
discuss any of Dr. Sperling’s ethical obligations as a medical provider and
fails to show they are without merit. 
Finally, though Plaintiff contends
the January 16, 2025 examination will be past the discovery cut-off, it is
undisputed that this discovery motion is timely. (See Code Civ. Proc., §
2024.020, subd. (a) [“any party shall be entitled as a matter of right to . . .
have motions concerning discovery heard on or before the 15th day, before the
date initially set for the trial of the action.”].) Therefore, because the
motion is timely, the resulting discovery proceeding is timely. 
Therefore, because Defendant has
shown that Plaintiff did not respond to the initial demand, the motion to
compel is granted. (Mikhail Decl. ¶ 5.)
            B.        Sanctions
Though
Defendant seeks $2,435.64 in monetary sanctions against Plaintiff and his
counsel of record, the Court finds that Plaintiff acted with substantial
justification regarding the interpretation of Section 2032.510 and declines to
award sanctions. 
C.        Request
to Continue Trial
Defendant also seeks to continue
trial and related dates for 90 days. This case was filed on August 7, 2020. Defendant
filed an answer on March 24, 2022. Given the pending defense examination and
considering the time for Defendant’s expert to produce a report, the Court
finds good cause for a brief continuance.   
RULING
            Defendant David
Simon’s Motion for Order Compelling Plaintiff to Complete Physical Examination
and for Brief Continuance of Trial is GRANTED. Plaintiff shall appear on January 16, 2025 at 2:00 p.m. for
a physical examination with Dr. Hillel Sperling.  Any attendance and observation of
the physical examination by Plaintiff’s attorney or the attorney’s
representative shall be in-person.  The request for sanctions is denied.  The Motion to Continue Trial is GRANTED. 
 The Court will address the new trial
date at the time of the hearing.