 Case Number:  24NNCV03315    Hearing Date:   January 10, 2025    Dept:  T Marianna
Vardanyan, et al. vs Los Angeles Unified School District, et al.
Demurrer
to Plaintiff’s Complaint
Moving Party:                         Defendants
Los Angeles Unified School District and Maria D. Awakian
Responding Party:                   Plaintiff
Marianna Vardanyan, a minor
Tentative Ruling:                    Sustained with Leave to Amend
 
BACKGROUND
 
On August 2, 2024, Plaintiff
Marianna Vardanyan, a minor by and through her guardian ad litem (“Plaintiff”)
filed a complaint against Defendants Los Angeles Unified School District
(“LAUSD”), Saticoy Elementary School, Maria D. Awakian, and Does 1 to 50
alleging injuries from another student at Plaintiff’s elementary school. 
 
Plaintiff alleges that on April 13, 2023, she was
pinned to the floor by another student during recess, which caused injuries.
(Complaint ¶ 15.) Plaintiff also alleges this same student attacked her again on
May 18, 2023. 
 
Against demurring parties, Defendants Los Angeles
Unified School District and Maria D. Awakian (“Defendants”), Plaintiff asserts
two causes of action for negligence and negligent hiring, retention,
supervision and training. 
 
Defendants now demur to both causes of the action,
arguing that they fail to state sufficient facts and are uncertain. Plaintiff
opposes and Defendants reply. 
 
MOVING PARTY POSITION
 
Defendants argue the
complaint fails to state with particularity how Defendants breached their duty.
The complaint also does not state when Plaintiff’s mother made complaints that
Plaintiff was being bullied and harassed. As to the principal, Awakian, the
complaint only states that Plaintiff’s mother previously complained to Awakian
about the attacker student, and that she refused to dial 911 after Plaintiff’s
injury; Defendants contend these allegations are insufficient to maintain an
action against Awakian. 
 
Defendants also argue the
complaint fails to articulate which statute applies to this action and how it
imposes a duty on Defendants. Lastly, Defendants contend that Saticoy
Elementary School is an improperly named Defendant.  
 
OPPOSITION
            
In opposition, Plaintiff argues that the second incident between the
student and Plaintiff occurred a month after the April 13, 2023 incident, and
that the mention of the April 23, 2023 incident in the complaint is a clerical
error. (Opp., 3.) Still, Plaintiff asserts the general allegations are
sufficiently plead and the applicable law, under Government Code section 815.2
and 820 has been stated. Plaintiff asks for leave to amend if the demurrer is
sustained. 
 
REPLY

In reply,
Defendants note that Plaintiff has identified Government Code sections 815.2
and 820 but fail to articulate how these sections impose a duty on Defendants. Defendants
also contend Plaintiff must allege that the student attack was foreseeable.
Furthermore, Defendants argue causation is not sufficiently alleged and must
state it was more probable than not that a different supervision would have
prevented the injury. (Reply, 4.) Defendants ask the Court to sustain without
leave to amend. 
            
ANALYSIS
I.                  
Legal
Standard
A.        Demurrer
A demurrer is a pleading
used to test the legal sufficiency of other pleadings.  It raises issues of law, not fact, regarding
the form or content of the opposing party's pleading (complaint, answer or
cross-complaint).  (Code Civ. Proc. §§
422.10, 589; see Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th
968, 994.)  It is not the function of the
demurrer to challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for purposes of
the ruling on the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are assumed to
be true.  (Donabedian, 116
Cal.App.4th at 994.)
The general rule is that the plaintiff need only allege
ultimate facts, not evidentiary facts. (Doe v. City of Los Angeles
(2007) 42 Cal.4th 531, 550.) “All that is required of a plaintiff, as a matter
of pleading, even as against a special demurrer, is that his complaint set
forth the essential facts of the case with reasonable precision and with
sufficient particularity to acquaint the defendant with the nature, source and
extent of his cause of action.” (Rannard v. Lockheed Aircraft Corp. (1945) 26 Cal.2d 149,
156-157.) 
 
A demurrer for uncertainty will be sustained only
where the pleading is so bad that the responding party cannot reasonably
respond, i.e., he or she cannot reasonably determine what issues must be
admitted or denied, or what claims are directed against him or her. (Khoury
v. Maly’s of California (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) Where a demurrer
is made upon the ground of uncertainty, the demurrer must distinctly specify
exactly how or why the pleading is uncertain, and where such uncertainty
appears by reference to page and line numbers. (See Fenton v. Groveland
Comm. Services Dist. (1982) 135 Cal.App.3d 797, 809.)
 
Where a demurrer is sustained, leave to amend must be
allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman
v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) The burden is on the plaintiff to
show the court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.; Lewis
v. YouTube, LLC (2015) 244 Cal.App.4th 118, 226.) However, “[i]f there is
any reasonable possibility that the plaintiff can state a good cause of action,
it is error to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend.” (Youngman v.
Nevada Irrigation Dist. (1969) 70 Cal.2d 240, 245.) 
 
B.        Government
Tort Liability
 
Except
as otherwise provided by statute, “[a] public entity is not liable for an
injury, whether such injury arises out of an act or omission of the public
entity or a public employee or any other person.” (Gov. Code § 815(a).) “[T]his
section ‘abolished all common law or judicially declared forms of liability for
public entities, except for such liability as may be required by the federal or
state Constitution. Thus, in the absence of some constitutional requirement,
public entities may be liable only if a statute declares them to be liable’
[Citation.]” (Becerra v. County of Santa Cruz (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th
1450, 1457; Tuthill v. City of San Buenaventura (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th
1081, 1088 (emphasis in original).)
 
Moreover, to state a cause of action [for government tort
liability] every fact essential to the existence of statutory liability must be
pleaded with particularity, including the existence of a statutory duty.” (Searcy
v. Hemet Unified School Dist. (1986) 177 Cal.App.3d 792, 802.) “Duty cannot
be alleged simply by stating ‘defendant had a duty under the law’; that is a
conclusion of law, not an allegation of fact. The facts showing the existence
of the claimed duty must be alleged. [Citations.] Since the duty of a
governmental agency can only be created by statute or ‘enactment,’ the statute
or ‘enactment’ claimed to establish the duty must at the very least be
identified.” (Id.)
 
II.               
Meet and
Confer
The declaration of Jeff Harrison,
Defendants’ counsel, states the following: “[i]n compliance with the Code of
Civil Procedure, Section 430.41, I contacted Arsen Keshishian of Law Offices of
Larry Clough, counsel for Plaintiff, via email, on November 1, 2024. Although I
requested Plaintiff’s counsel’s availability for a telephone call, Plaintiff’s
counsel never responded.” (Harrison Decl. ¶ 3.) 
III.            
Discussion
California law imposes a duty on
school authorities to “supervise at all times the conduct of the children on
the school grounds and to enforce those rules and regulations necessary to
their protection.” (C.A. v. William S. Hart Union High School Dist.
(2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 869 [quoting Dailey v. Los Angeles Unified Sch. Dist.
(1970) 2 Cal.3d 741, 747].) “The standard of care imposed upon school personnel
in carrying out this duty to supervise is identical to that required in the
performance of their other duties. This uniform standard to which they are held
is that degree of care ‘which a person of ordinary prudence, charged with
(comparable) duties, would exercise under the same circumstances.’ [Citations.]
Either a total lack of supervision [citation] or ineffective supervision
[citation] may constitute a lack of ordinary care on the part of those
responsible for student supervision. Under section 815.2, subdivision (a) of
the Government Code, a school district is vicariously liable for injuries
proximately caused by such negligence.” (Dailey, supra, 2
Cal.3d at 747.)  
“In addition, a school district and
its employees have a special relationship with the district's pupils, a
relationship arising from the mandatory character of school attendance and the
comprehensive control over students exercised by school personnel, ‘analogous
in many ways to the relationship between parents and their children.’
[Citations.] Because of this special relationship, imposing obligations beyond
what each person generally owes others under Civil Code section 1714, the duty
of care owed by school personnel includes the duty to use reasonable measures
to protect students from foreseeable injury at the hands of third parties
acting negligently or intentionally.” (C.A., supra, 53 Cal.4th at
869-70.)  
Here, the complaint states that
Plaintiff was a minor attending Saticoy Elementary School when the incident occurred.
Defendant Maria D. Awakian (“Awakian”) is the principal of Saticoy Elementary.
(Complaint ¶ 7.) On April 13, 2023, Plaintiff was playing during recess when a
student (“Student”) jumped on her back causing her to briefly lose
consciousness. (Id. ¶ 15.) When Plaintiff regained consciousness, the
Student was still on top of her; Plaintiff’s nose was “profusely bleeding.”
Afterward, Plaintiff was accompanied to the principal’s office. (Id.)
Plaintiff alleges that Awakian refused to call 911 and did not notify
Plaintiff’s parents. Instead, another teacher who saw Plaintiff in the office
called the parents. Plaintiff alleges she suffered a concussion, fractured and
bloody nose, bruised lip, and post-traumatic stress due to this event.
Plaintiff also alleges she was
subject to prior bullying and harassment from the Student. (Complaint ¶ 16.)
The complaint alleges that “Minor Plaintiff’s mother had complained to Mrs.
Awakian and Minor Plaintiff’s teachers two times prior to this incident that
Minor Plaintiff was being harassed, bullied, and or injured” by the Student,
“yet no action was taken.” (Id. ¶ 16b.) Plaintiff then alleges that on
May 18, 2023, she was attacked a second time by the Student. Afterward, a plan
was adopted to ensure that Plaintiff and the Student would be in separate
classrooms and play with different roster students during lunch and recess. (Id.
¶ 16e.) The plan was supposed to be revisited by August 15, 2023, but no
further communication of the new plan was discussed. Plaintiff reports that the
Student is in the same group during recess. 
The complaint also alleges that “Defendants
knew or should have known that” the Student “was harassing, bullying, and
attacking Minor Plaintiff as well as other students because there had been
several complaints to the teachers about” the Student “by Minor Plaintiff, her
parents, and other students for that specific behavior.” (Complaint ¶ 21.) 
            Here, the
complaint only asserts that Defendants are liable under Government Code sections
“815.2(a), 815.4, 815.6, 820(a), and/or 835.” (Complaint ¶ 23, 30.) This
allegation is conclusory and fails to state with particularity exactly how
these statutes impose liability and the facts showing the existence of a duty. In
opposition, Plaintiff argues that LAUSD is liable for negligent supervision of
an employee or student under Government Code sections 815.2 and 820, and cites C.A.
(Opp., 6.) However, in that case, the Court concluded that “a public school
district may be vicariously liable under section 815.2 for the negligence of
administrators or supervisors in hiring, supervising and retaining a school
employee who sexually harasses and abuses a student.” (C.A., supra,
53 Cal.4th at 879.) Here, because there are no allegations of sexual harassment
or abuse, and the statutory basis for liability is not stated with
particularity, Plaintiff fails to show a basis for the negligent hiring,
supervision cause of action. (See de Villers v. County of San Diego
(2007) 156 Cal.App.4th 238, 256 [“[A] direct claim against a governmental
entity asserting negligent hiring and supervision, when not grounded in the
breach of a statutorily imposed duty owed by the entity to the injured party,
may not be maintained.”].)
            Additionally,
Plaintiff fails to sufficiently allege facts whether Plaintiff lacked
supervision or was ineffectively supervised during the two incidents. While the
complaint contains generalizations that Defendants failed to supervise the
students, maintain discipline, and enforce rules protecting students (Complaint
¶ 20), these do not clearly state what exactly Defendant and Awakian did or
failed to do to breach their duty during each of the two incidents. 
            Accordingly,
because it appears Plaintiff can reasonably amend her complaint, the demurrer
is sustained with leave to amend. 
Plaintiff should take the
opportunity to correct any clerical errors in the original complaint and to
clarify the number of incidents in this case. 
RULING
Defendants’ Demurrer to Plaintiff’s
complaint is SUSTAINED with 20 days leave to amend.  
 