 Case Number:  24NNCV04130    Hearing Date:   January 10, 2025    Dept:  T Nina Khashan vs
Upgrade, Inc., et al.
Demurrer
to Complaint
Moving Party: Defendant
Upgrade, Inc.
Responding Party:  Plaintiff
Nina Khashan
Tentative Ruling:    Sustain
with/without Leave to Amend
 
BACKGROUND
 
On September 9, 2024, Plaintiff Nina Khashan (“Plaintiff”) filed a
complaint against Defendants Upgrade, Inc, J.C. Penney Corporation, Inc.,
Penney OPCO LLC, Synchrony Bank, Inc., Synchrony Financial, LLC, JPMorgan Chase
& Co., Byline Bank, First Bank & Trust Company, and Does 1 to 25.
 
Plaintiff generally alleges that she had a JCPenney
credit card that was issued by codefendant Synchrony. In June 2023, JCPenney
charged the credit card over $1,200, which Plaintiff asserted was invalid.
(Complaint ¶ 65.) Plaintiff asserts that JCPenney and Synchrony kept demanding
the debt and ultimately reported this to credit reporting agencies between
October 2023 and March 2024. (Id. ¶¶ 66-71.) During this time, the other
defendants, Upgrade, JPMorgan, and Byline Bank began lowering Plaintiff’s
credit limits even though she was never late making payments which then caused
her credit score to drop from over 780 to less than 620. (Id. ¶ 71.) 
 
As a result, on April 1, 2024, Plaintiff mailed a
letter to Defendants demanding they correct the false reports and to reinstate
Plaintiff’s former credit limit. (Complaint ¶ 72.) Despite this, Plaintiff
alleges the credit reporting agencies have not been informed of the inaccurate
reporting, and that Defendants failed to perform a diligent investigation to
correct the reports and continued to report the incorrect information. (Id.
¶¶ 75, 82-85.) Due to these events, Plaintiff alleges she has “suffered
damages, including but not limited to, time spent reviewing consumer reports,
preparing, and mailing detailed disputes, attorney fees, loss of access to
credit, mental and emotional distress and anguish, humiliation, and
embarrassment.” (Id. ¶ 91.) 
 
The complaint alleges Upgrade, Inc. (“Upgrade”) is a
Consumer Lending Support Service, which issued a Visa credit card ending in
6825 to Plaintiff. (Complaint ¶ 30-31.)  
 
Upgrade now demurs to the following causes of action,
arguing that they fail to state sufficient facts: (1) first cause of action for
Injunctive Relief and Damages in Violation of the Consumer Legal Remedies Act;
(2) third cause of action for Injunctive Relief and Restitution for violation
of the Unfair Competition Laws; (3) fourth cause of action for violation of the
Consumer Credit Reporting Agencies Act; and (4) fifth cause of action for Public
Injunction and Declaratory Relief for Violation of the Unfair Competition Law.
 
Plaintiff opposes and Upgrade replies. 
 
MOVING PARTY POSITION
 
Upgrade argues the first
cause of action for a violation of the Consumer Legal Remedies Act fails
because the Act does not apply to credit card issuers, citing Berry v.
American Express Publishing, Inc. (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 224. Next, Upgrade
contends the fourth cause of action under the Consumer Credit Reporting
Agencies Act fails because the allegations are vague and conclusory. Finally,
Upgrade asserts the third and fifth causes of action fail because they are
preempted by the federal Fair Credit Reporting Act. 
 
OPPOSITION
            
Regarding the first cause of action, Plaintiff argues that Berry v. American Express Publishing, Inc. is distinguishable and attempts to assert that Upgrade issued a personal
loan to Plaintiff, as opposed to a credit card. Regarding the fourth cause of
action, Plaintiff argues that the complaint alleges that Upgrade should have
known that its report to the credit reporting agency was false. For the third
and fifth causes of action, Plaintiff argues preemption does not apply. 
 
REPLY
 
In reply, Upgrade
contends the new allegation that Upgrade issued a personal loan does not change
the disposition and that allowing leave to amend would be futile. For the
fourth cause of action, Upgrade argues Plaintiff must allege facts such as the
amount of the credit decrease, and exactly what Upgrade reported to the
reporting agency. Upgrade also asserts the complaint alleges that Upgrade was
contractually permitted to lower Plaintiff’s credit limit at its leisure.
(Reply, 3-4.) Lastly, Upgrade contends the gravamen of Plaintiff’s complaint
falls under the scope of the FCRA, and is preempted.        
ANALYSIS
I.                  
Demurrer
Legal Standard
A demurrer is a pleading
used to test the legal sufficiency of other pleadings.  It raises issues of law, not fact, regarding
the form or content of the opposing party's pleading (complaint, answer or
cross-complaint).  (Code Civ. Proc. §§
422.10, 589; see Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th
968, 994.)  It is not the function of the
demurrer to challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for purposes of
the ruling on the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are assumed to
be true.  (Donabedian, 116
Cal.App.4th at 994.)
The general rule is that the plaintiff need only allege
ultimate facts, not evidentiary facts. (Doe v. City of Los Angeles
(2007) 42 Cal.4th 531, 550.) “All that is required of a plaintiff, as a matter
of pleading, even as against a special demurrer, is that his complaint set
forth the essential facts of the case with reasonable precision and with
sufficient particularity to acquaint the defendant with the nature, source and
extent of his cause of action.” (Rannard v. Lockheed Aircraft Corp. (1945) 26 Cal.2d 149,
156-157.) 
 
Where a demurrer is sustained, leave to amend must be
allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman
v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) The burden is on the plaintiff to
show the court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.; Lewis
v. YouTube, LLC (2015) 244 Cal.App.4th 118, 226.) However, “[i]f there is
any reasonable possibility that the plaintiff can state a good cause of action,
it is error to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend.” (Youngman v.
Nevada Irrigation Dist. (1969) 70 Cal.2d 240, 245.) 
II.               
Meet and
Confer
The declaration of Omomah I. Abebe,
Upgrade’s counsel, states the following: “[o]n October 29, 2024, I left a
voicemail message for Plaintiff’s counsel in order to meet and confer regarding
Upgrade’s potential demurrer to the Complaint. On November 3, 2024, I sent a
follow up email to Plaintiff’s counsel requesting to meet and confer.
Plaintiff’s counsel responded and requested that the meet and confer be in
writing. On November 5, 2024, I emailed Plaintiff’s counsel Upgrade’s
anticipated arguments objecting to the demurrer. On November 7, 2024,
Plaintiff’s counsel explained that she did not agree with the arguments and to
proceed with the demurrer. (Omomah Decl. ¶¶ 3-5.) 
Though it does not appear there was
a meet and confer in-person, by telephone, or by video conference, “[a]
determination by the court that the meet and confer process was insufficient
shall not be grounds to overrule or sustain a demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41, subd. (a)(4).) 
III.            
Discussion
A.               
Consumer
Legal Remedies Act (First Cause of Action)
The California Consumers Legal
Remedies Act (“CLRA”), Civil Code section 1750 et seq., protects
consumers from a broad range of unfair or deceptive business practices. 
The necessary elements of a CLRA
cause of action are: (1) a consumer; (2) who suffers any damage; and (3)
because of the use or employment by any person of a method, act, or practice
declared to be unlawful by Civil Code section 1770. (Civ. Code, §1780 (a); Buckland
v. Threshold Ent., Ltd. (2007) 155 Cal.App.4th 798, 809, 811 [“actual
reliance is an element of a CLRA claim sounding in fraud”], overruled in other
part by Kwikset Corp. v. Superior Court (2011) 51 Cal.4th 310, 326-327.)

Civil Code section 1770 makes
unlawful a variety of acts or practices “undertaken by any person in a
transaction intended to result or that results in the sale or lease of goods or
services to any consumer.” (Civ. Code, § 1770, subd. (a).) Under the CLRA, “goods”
are defined as “tangible chattels bought or leased for use primarily for
personal, family, or household purposes, including certificates or coupons
exchangeable for these goods.” (Civ. Code, § 1761, subd. (a).) “Services” are
defined as “work, labor, and services for other than a commercial or business
use, including services furnished in connection with the sale or repair of
goods.” (Civ. Code, § 1761, subd. (b).)
In an issue of first impression, the
Court of Appeal in Berry v. American Express Publishing, Inc., after
viewing the text and legislative history, held that issuing credit is
not a “good” or “service” under the CLRA. (Berry v. American Express
Publishing, Inc. (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 224, 233 [affirming sustaining
demurrer without leave to amend where plaintiff alleged violation of CLRA regarding
arbitration agreement for his American Express credit card].) 
Here, the complaint asserts that
Upgrade issued a credit card to Plaintiff and then began lowering Plaintiff’s
credit limit in response to the false reporting. (Complaint ¶¶ 30-31, 71.)
Though the complaint alleges that “Plaintiff’s credit constitutes ‘services’ as
defined by Cal. Civ. Code § 1761(a)” (Complaint ¶ 175), that proposition is
directly refuted by Berry. (See Berry, supra, 147
Cal.App.4th at 229-30 [rejecting the argument that credit is a service
furnished in connection with the sale of goods “because the cardholder may use
the credit provided to purchase goods.”].)
            Though
Plaintiff attempts to recharacterize the credit card as a “personal loan”,
using facts beyond the complaint and not judicially noticed, it is unclear how
a personal loan would still fall under the CLRA. (See Berry, supra,
147 Cal.App.4th at 231 [“[T]he Legislature's deletion of the terms ‘money’
and ‘credit’ from CLRA's definition of ‘consumer’ strongly counsels us not to
stretch the provision to include extensions of credit unrelated to the purchase
of any specific good or service.”].) Additionally, though Plaintiff observes
that courts should construe the CLRA liberally (Opp., 4), this argument was
also rejected in Berry. (Berry, supra, 147
Cal.App.4th at 232 [“We cannot . . . rewrite a statute under the guise of a
liberal interpretation. Although CLRA has been interpreted broadly, courts have
not expanded it beyond its express terms.”].) 
            Therefore,
the demurrer to the first cause of action is sustained. 
B.                
Consumer Credit Reporting Agencies Act (Fourth Cause
of Action)
Under the California Consumer Credit
Reporting Agencies Act, “[a] person shall not furnish information on a specific
transaction or experience to any consumer credit reporting agency if the person
knows or should know the information is incomplete or inaccurate. (Civ. Code, §
1785.25, subd. (a); see Carvalho v. Equifax Information Services, LLC (9th
Cir. 2010) 629 F.3d 876, 888 [finding that Civil Code section 1785.25(f) is
preempted by the federal Fair Credit Reporting Act (“FCRA”), but not section
1785.25(a), as held in Gorman v. Wolpoff & Abramson, LLP (9th Cir.
2009) 584 F.3d 1147, 1172-73].)
Here, Upgrade argues that Plaintiff
is not alleging that it reported inaccurate information to the credit reporting
agencies. The debt at issue was reported by JCPenney and Synchrony. Therefore,
it fails to allege that Upgrade knew or should have known of the inaccurate
reporting. (Demurrer, 4.) 
The complaint alleges that Plaintiff
mailed a notice to Upgrade on April 1, 2024, demanding that the false reports be
corrected. (Complaint ¶ 72.) Plaintiff appears to argue in opposition that
despite being notified, Upgrade’s decision to lower Plaintiff’s credit line,
despite Plaintiff not being in default to her obligation to Upgrade, means
Upgrade knew or should have known the report to the credit reporting agencies
was false. (Opp., 8.) The complaint further alleges that Upgrade “should have
discovered from their own records, and Plaintiff’s formal disputes, that their
monetary demands and lowering lines of credit were frivolous and any adverse
information they were furnishing to CRA were inaccurate and false.” (Complaint
¶ 78.) 
However,
assuming these allegations to be true, the complaint fails to show how Upgrade,
which is a separate entity from JCPenney and Synchrony, would know that the
charges that fueled the negative credit reporting, and thus caused Upgrade to
lower Plaintiff’s line of credit, were false. 

Therefore,
the demurrer to the fourth cause of action is sustained. 
C.               
Unfair Competition Laws (Third and Fifth Cause of
Action)
Upgrade alleges the third and fifth
causes of action are preempted by the federal Fair Credit Reporting Act
(“FCRA”), 15 U.S.C. § 1681, et seq. 
“Unfair competition” means “any unlawful, unfair or
fraudulent business act or practice and unfair, deceptive, untrue or misleading
advertising and any act prohibited by Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 17500)
of Part 3 of Division 7 of the Business and Professions Code.” (Bus. & Prof.
Code, § 17200.) “ ‘[S]ection 17200 is written in the disjunctive [and]
establishes three varieties of unfair competition—acts or practices which are
unlawful, or unfair, or fraudulent.” [Citation.] The three prongs of the law
have different thresholds. Under its ‘unlawful’ prong, ‘the UCL borrows
violations of other laws ... and makes those unlawful practices actionable
under the UCL.’ [Citation.] Thus, a violation of another law is a predicate for
stating a cause of action under the UCL's unlawful prong. In a consumer case,
determining whether a business practice is ‘unfair’ involves ‘weigh[ing] the
utility of the defendant's conduct against the gravity of the harm to the
alleged victim.’ [Citation.]” (Prakashpalan v. Engstrom, Lipscomb & Lack
(2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 1105, 1133.) 
 
“The Fair Credit
Reporting Act (15 U.S.C. § 1681 et seq.) was adopted by Congress to ensure
accuracy and fairness in credit reporting and to protect the rights of
individual consumers.” (Sanai v. Saltz
(2009) 170 Cal.App.4th 746, 763.) “With respect to furnishers of information to
consumer credit reporting agencies, . . . section 623 of the FCRA imposes two
general requirements: the duty to provide accurate information (15 U.S.C. §
1681s–2)(a)) and the duty to investigate the accuracy of reported information
upon receiving notice of a dispute (15 U.S.C. § 1681s–2(b)).” (Id. at p.
763-64.) 
“The FCRA contains
two preemption sections affecting state law claims that apply to persons who
furnish information under the FCRA. First, 15 U.S.C. § 1681t(a) provides only
state law claims inconsistent with the express provisions of the FCRA are
preempted… [¶] Notwithstanding this general language preserving state laws that
do not conflict with the FCRA, however, in 1996 Congress amended the FCRA to
strictly limit the availability of consumer's state remedies against furnishers
of credit information. As amended, 15 U.S.C. § 1681t(b) provides, ‘No
requirement or prohibition may be imposed under the laws of any State—[¶] (1)
with respect to any subject matter regulated under—[¶] ... [¶] (F) section 623
[15 U.S.C. § 1681s–2], relating to the responsibilities of persons who furnish
information to consumer reporting agencies, except that this paragraph shall
not apply…’” (Sanai, supra, 170 Cal.App.4th at p. 773.)
“While furnishers
may be liable to private litigants under 15 U.S.C. § 1681s–2(b) based on the
information they provide to credit agencies, [citation] it appears that
Congress intended the FCRA to be the sole remedy against these furnishers.” (Howard v. Blue Ridge Bank (N.D. Cal. 2005) 371 F.Supp.2d 1139,
1143.) Moreover, in Roybal v. Equifax
(2005) 405 F.Supp.2d 1177, the court found that the plaintiffs’ state law
claims for violation of California's unfair competition and consumer legal
remedies statutes, negligent misrepresentation, and common law negligence,
which were based on alleged injury arising “purely from reporting of credit
information by a furnisher of credit,” were completely preempted by the FCRA. (Id. at p. 1181.)
In
line with the authorities above, and because the complaint bases Upgrade’s
liability related to its failure to furnish correct information to credit
reporting agencies, the third and fifth causes of action are preempted by the
FCRA. Plaintiff fails to explain in opposition how the facts do not concern the
subject matter of the FCRA, particularly 15 U.S.C. § 1681s-2. (See Opp., 13.) Though
Plaintiff appears to argue this case falls under subsection (b) of section 1681s-2,
the Court notes that the third and fifth causes of action are only asserted
under the California unfair competition law. (Opp., 15.) 
 
Therefore, the demurrer to the third
and fifth causes of action is sustained without leave to amend, absent
Plaintiff showing that it can be reasonably amended. 
 
RULING
Defendant
Upgrade, Inc.’s Demurrer to Plaintiff’s complaint
is SUSTAINED with 20 days’ leave to amend as to the first and fourth causes of
action. The demurrer is SUSTAINED without leave to amend as to the third and fifth causes of action. 
 