 Case Number:  23STCV12888    Hearing Date:   October 11, 2024    Dept:  52 Defendant American Health Services,
LLC’s Motion for Summary Judgment or Summary Adjudication
Defendant American Health Services, LLC moves
for summary judgment of this action by plaintiff Eileen Garcia.  In the alternative, defendant moves for
summary adjudication of each cause of action Garcia alleges.
Evidentiary Objections
            Plaintiff
makes seven objections to defendant’s evidence. 
All seven objections are overruled.
            Defendant
makes seven objections to plaintiff’s evidence. 
All seven objections are overruled.
Legal Standard for Summary Judgment or
Adjudication                     
Summary judgment should be granted where no
triable issues of fact exist and the moving party is entitled to judgment as a
matter of law.  (CCP § 437c(c); Villa v. McFerren (1995) 35 Cal.App.4th
733, 741.)  Courts use a three-step
analysis: “(1) identify the issues framed by the pleadings; (2) determine
whether the moving party has negated the opponent’s claims; and (3) determine
whether the opposition has demonstrated the existence of a triable, material
factual issue.”  (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289,
294.)  
1st Cause of Action:
Disability Discrimination & 4th Cause of Action: Wrongful Termination in
Violation of FEHA
Both the first and fourth causes of action allege defendant terminated
plaintiff because of her disability.  “A prima facie case of disability discrimination
under FEHA requires the employee to show he or she (1) suffered from a
disability, (2) was otherwise qualified to do his or her job, and (3) was
subjected to adverse employment action because of the disability.”  (Nealy v. City of Santa Monica (2015)
234 Cal.App.4th 359, 378 (Nealy).) 
For the second element, “a qualified individual is someone who is able
to perform the essential functions of his or her job, with or without
reasonable accommodation.”  (Ibid.)  The typical burden-shifting framework used
in most discrimination and retaliation cases does “not apply in discrimination
cases where … the plaintiff presents direct evidence of the employer’s
motivation for the adverse employment action.” 
(Wallace v. County of Stanislaus (2016) 245 Cal.App.4th 109, 123
(Wallace).)  
In Wallace, the Court of Appeal explained, “[D]isability
discrimination cases often involve direct evidence of the role of the
employee’s actual or perceived disability in the employer’s decision to
implement an adverse employment action. 
Instead of litigating the employer’s reasons for the action, the
parties’ disputes in disability cases focus on whether the employee was able to
perform essential job functions, whether there were reasonable accommodations
that would have allowed the employee to perform those functions, and whether a
reasonable accommodation would have imposed an undue hardship on the
employer.”  (Wallace, supra, 245
Cal.App.4th at p. 123.)  “The FEHA itself
recognizes that employers have legitimate reasons for discriminating against
disabled persons (i.e., treating them differently)–reasons that have no
parallel when the discriminatory employment action is based on race, religion,
national origin, age or sex.  Those
legitimate reasons include whether a disabled employee, even with reasonable
accommodation, can perform essential job duties and do so safely.”  (Id. at p. 126.)
This case
exemplifies the type of disability discrimination claim Wallace
described.  There is no dispute over
why defendant terminated plaintiff. 
Defendant itself asserts it terminated plaintiff because she stopped
coming to work.  Plaintiff argues defendant
was required to allow her a leave of absence as a reasonable accommodation.
Defendant
meets its burden of showing plaintiff could not perform her job’s essential
functions.  “ ‘Essential functions’ means
the fundamental job duties of the employment position the individual with a
disability holds.”  (Gov. Code, § 12926,
subd. (f).)  A job “function may be
essential because the reason the position exists is to perform that
function.”  (Id., subd.
(f)(1)(A).)   
Plaintiff
worked as a “front desk medical assistant” or “front desk receptionist” at a
medical office.  (Hobson Decl., Ex. 5;
Opp. Ex. 2, Sosa Depo., 27:11-25.)  Plaintiff did not dispute the following
facts: “Plaintiff was hired on a full-time basis and was expected to work in
person Monday through Friday from 6:00am to 2:30pm at” her assigned
office.  (UMF 5.)  “It was Plaintiff’s understanding that she
needed to be present at the Pico location in order to perform her job duties.”  (UMF 6.) 
There is no dispute that being present in the office is an essential job
duty (or was otherwise required for doing all other essential duties) for a
front desk receptionist.
Defendant
presents undisputed evidence that, after April 7, 2023, plaintiff was incapable
of performing her essential duties.  In
April 2023, plaintiff submitted a
doctor’s note seeking 30 days off from April until May 2023.  (Hobson Decl., Ex. 3, Garcia Depo., 48:1-9; Hobson
Decl., Ex. 4, Sosa Depo., 64:14-65:5.)  It
is undisputed that plaintiff was last present at work on April 6, 2023.  (Hobson Decl., Ex. 3, Garcia Depo.,
42:14-25.)  On April 17, 2023, plaintiff
sent the following text message to a supervisor: “Due to the severe pain I've
been having my surgeon has put me on medical leave I’m not sure when I will
return but I will keep you updated.” 
(Hobson Decl., Ex. 10, p. 3; see also Garcia Depo., 46:6-13.) 
Defendant did not grant a leave of absence and
instead terminated plaintiff.  (Hobson
Decl., Ex. 4, Sosa Depo., 70:8-71:10.) 
Defendant’s evidence includes a termination letter dated April 11,
2023.  (Hobson Decl., Ex. 13.)  At deposition, defendant’s person most
qualified testified she believed the date on that letter was a typo, and
defendant considered her termination effective as of April 24.  (Hobson Decl., Ex. 4, Sosa Depo.,
44:5-45:8.)  
Plaintiff
presents no evidence demonstrating any of these facts are disputed.  In her response to defendant’s separate
statement of material facts, she purports to dispute facts by making arguments
based on defendant’s facts.  For example,
defendant’s separate statement asserts, “Plaintiff was absent from work from
April 7, 2023, onward.”  (UMF 20.)  Plaintiff responded, “Disputed.  Plaintiff was absent from work from April 7,
2023, onward solely because of her disability. 
Plaintiff was unable to work because of her disability from April 7,
2023… .”  (Response to UMF 20.)  That does not dispute the fact asserted.  Instead, that is an argument that plaintiff
should not have been fired despite the undisputed fact of her absence after
April 7.  Plaintiff’s first and fourth causes
of action turn on whether that argument is correct: was defendant obligated to
provide a leave of absence as a reasonable accommodation?  The answer is no.  
Although
it is clear that plaintiff could not perform her essential job duties if she
was not present, plaintiff can still establish the second element of this cause
of action—that she is otherwise qualified to do the job—if she can prove that
she could have performed her essential job duties with a reasonable
accommodation.  
 “The reasonableness of an accommodation generally
is a question of fact.”  (Nealy,
supra, 234 Cal.App.4th at p. 374.)  “[I]n
appropriate circumstances, reasonable accommodation can include providing the
employee … additional unpaid leave for treatment.”  (Hanson v. Lucky Stores, Inc. (1999)
74 Cal.App.4th 215, 226 (Hanson).) 
“[A] finite leave can be a reasonable accommodation under FEHA, provided
it is likely that at the end of the leave, the employee would be able to
perform his or her duties.”  (Ibid.)  “ ‘Reasonable accommodation does not require
the employer to wait indefinitely for an employee’s medical condition to be
corrected.’ ”  (Id. at pp.
226-227.)
Defendant
has met its burden of showing that plaintiff cannot prove that she could have
performed her essential job duties with a reasonable accommodation.  At the time plaintiff requested to take
additional time off as an accommodation, she did not ask for a finite period
off.  Although she initially requested a
30-day leave of absence (Hobson Decl.,
Ex. 3, Garcia Depo., 48:1-9; Hobson Decl., Ex. 4, Sosa Depo., 64:14-65:5), on
April 17, 2023, plaintiff told a supervisor via text message, “Due to the
severe pain I've been having my surgeon has put me on medical leave I’m not
sure when I will return but I will keep you updated.”  (Hobson Decl., Ex. 10, p. 3; see also Garcia
Depo., 46:6-13.)  This was her final
communication to defendant before her termination.  From defendant’s perspective, plaintiff was
not asking for a finite leave of absence at the end of which it was likely that
plaintiff would be able to perform her job duties.  The accommodation plaintiff sought was not
reasonable because defendant was not required “to wait indefinitely” for
plaintiff’s “medical condition to be corrected.”  (Hanson, supra, 74 Cal.App.4th at pp.
226-227.)
Plaintiff presented no evidence showing when she
could have returned to work.  At her
deposition, plaintiff testified she received state disability benefits from
“the beginning of June until the beginning of September of 2023.”  (Ex. 3, Garcia Depo., 53:20-22.)  But plaintiff did not provide evidence that
she could have returned to work in September 2023 or on any other date.  Nothing in the record permits a trier of fact
to find any finite leave of absence would have made it likely that, at the end
of the leave, plaintiff could have performed her essential functions.  Defendant had the right to terminate
plaintiff for her indefinite absence.  
This
case is like Canupp v. Children’s Receiving Home of Sacramento (E.D.
Cal. 2016) 181 F.Supp.3d 767.  There,
“[a]t the time [defendant] terminated plaintiff, the undisputed evidence was
that plaintiff did not know when any of her surgeries would be performed or
when she might be able to return to work.” 
(Id. at p. 777.)  The court
ruled, “Because the undisputed evidence shows that the duration of any leave of
absence at the time of plaintiff’s termination would have been indefinite,
plaintiff cannot show that any additional leave would have been a reasonable accommodation
under FEHA.”  (Id. at p.
778.)  In this case, plaintiff expressly
told defendant she was not sure when she would return.  That means the duration of any leave would
have been indefinite.  Such an accommodation
is unreasonable as a matter of law.    
Additionally,
the records of plaintiff’s employment (Hobson Decl., Ex. 12) show that, from
September 26, 2022, to April 11, 2023, plaintiff worked only 55 of 142
workdays.  Assuming (without evidence)
plaintiff could have returned to work on September 1, 2023, when plaintiff’s
disability benefits expired, and defendant granted her leave through September
1, that would mean having plaintiff work for only 55 of about 237 workdays
since defendant hired her.  On this
evidence, no reasonable trier of fact could find plaintiff was able to perform
her essential job functions or that granting a leave of absence as an
accommodation would have been reasonable.
Plaintiff
attempts to dispute various facts about whether granting a leave of absence
would have been an undue hardship on defendant. 
Plaintiff seeks to dispute, for example, facts about defendant’s ability
to have other employees cover for plaintiff and how her absence impacted
defendant’s business operations and profitability.  Any such disputes are immaterial.  Whether a proposed accommodation “would pose
an undue hardship . . . is an affirmative defense under the FEHA.”  (Nadaf-Rahrov v. Neiman Marcus Group, Inc.
(2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 952, 978 (Nadaf-Rahrov).)  But “whether the employee can perform the
essential functions of a job with a requested modification is a question of
‘whether the accommodation requested is reasonable and thus required in the
first place.’  The burden of proving this
fact [at trial] lies with the plaintiff.” 
(Ibid.)  Defendant presents
evidence establishing plaintiff cannot prove that element of her prima facie
case.  Plaintiff’s evidence does not demonstrate
any triable issue of material fact as to her prima facie case.  Evaluating defendant’s affirmative defenses
is unnecessary.  
2nd
Cause of Action: Failure to Reasonably Accommodate Disability
Defendant is
entitled to summary adjudication of this cause of action.  “ ‘The essential elements of a failure to
accommodate claim are: (1) the plaintiff has a disability covered by the FEHA;
(2) the plaintiff is a qualified individual (i.e., he or she can perform the
essential functions of the position); and (3) the employer failed to reasonably
accommodate the plaintiff’s disability.’ ” 
(Cuiellette v. City of Los Angeles (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 757,
766.)  For the reasons discussed above, the
undisputed facts show plaintiff was not a qualified employee who could perform her
position’s essential functions.  
Defendant also
meets its burden on summary adjudication by showing no reasonable accommodation
was available.  “[A]n employer is liable
under [Government Code] section 12940(m) for failing to accommodate an employee
only if the work environment could have been modified or adjusted in a manner
that would have enabled the employee to perform the essential functions of the
job.”  (Nadaf-Rahrov, supra, 166
Cal.App.4th at p. 975; accord Shirvanyan v. Los Angeles Community College
District (2020) 59 Cal.App.5th 82, 101 (Shirvanyan).)  The record shows the only requested
accommodation defendant did not provide was a leave of absence beginning April
7, 2023.  As discussed above, that
accommodation was not reasonable.  Defendant
therefore cannot be liable for failing to provide the accommodation.
Plaintiff
asserts defendant failed to provide another requested accommodation: a leave of
absence from March 27 to March 31, 2023.  In response to that request, defendant sent
plaintiff a letter stating, “[Y]our leave request is not approved due to Family
Medical Leave or California Family Rights Act eligibility guidelines.  …  We
ask that you please return to work on 4/3/2023, or we will assume you
voluntarily resigned your position with American Health Services.”  (Hobson Decl., Ex. 11.)  Plaintiff returned to work on April 3.  Defendant took no adverse employment action
against plaintiff until she was again absent beginning April 7.  Despite the letter nominally stating
otherwise, plaintiff got the accommodation she asked for.  She did not work from March 27 to March 31,
and defendant allowed her to return to work with no consequences.  
Plaintiff
cannot proceed on this cause of action merely because defendant said it denied
an accommodation that it actually granted. 
In Shirvanyan, the Court of Appeal held that a cause of action
for failing to engage in the interactive process requires “a finding that a
reasonable accommodation was available.” 
(59 Cal.App.5th at p. 96.)  The
court reasoned, “Under such circumstances, had the employer engaged in an
interactive process, that process could not have benefited the employee.”  (Id. at p. 97.)  “A necessary corollary to this is that the failure
to engage in such process could not have negatively impacted her ability to
work.  Permitting
a FEHA cause of action on such facts thus would allow recovery for harm
resulting solely from an employee’s perception that she was not permitted a fair chance to perform her
job—as opposed to her actually having been denied such a fair chance.”  (Id. at pp. 97-98.)  “[S]uch a result would serve no purpose at
all, let alone the anti-discrimination purpose of FEHA.”  (Id. at p. 98.)
The
same reasoning applies to plaintiff’s cause of action for failure to
accommodate.  Like a claim for failure to
engage in the interactive process, a plaintiff cannot bring a cause of action
for failure to accommodate when the employer’s conduct had no impact on the
employee.  The letter informing plaintiff
the request for leave was denied only affected plaintiff’s perception of events.  The terms and conditions of plaintiff’s employment
were the same as they would have been if defendant told plaintiff her request
was granted.
3rd
Cause of Action: Failure to Engage in Interactive Process
            Defendant is entitled to summary
adjudication of this cause of action. 
Like the first, second, and fourth causes of action, a claim for failing
to engage in the interactive process requires that plaintiff could perform her
essential job duties.  “In framing and
defining” concepts including the “interactive process”, “ ‘FEHA seeks to assure
[that] “those employees with a disability who can perform the essential duties
of the employment position with reasonable accommodation” have the opportunity
to do so and are not discriminated against based on their disability.’ ”  (Kaur v. Foster Poultry Farms LLC
(2022) 83 Cal.App.5th 320, 343.)  As
stated above, the undisputed facts show plaintiff was not capable of performing
her position’s essential functions.  
            The record also shows that, based on
the undisputed facts, no reasonable accommodation was available.  “To prevail on a claim for failure to engage
in the interactive process, the employee must identify a reasonable
accommodation that would have been available at the time the interactive
process occurred.”  (Nealy, supra,
234 Cal.App.4th at p. 379; accord Shirvanyan, supra, 59 Cal.App.5th at
p. 96.)  With no available accommodation,
defendant cannot be liable for failing to engage in the interactive process.
5th Cause of Action:
Retaliation
            Defendant is also entitled to summary
adjudication of this cause of action.  “The
elements of a cause of action for retaliation in violation of [FEHA] are: ‘(1) the employee’s engagement in a
protected activity ...; (2) retaliatory animus on the part of the employer; (3)
an adverse action by the employer; (4) a causal link between the retaliatory
animus and the adverse action; (5) damages; and (6) causation.’ ”  (Brown v. Los Angeles Unified School
District (2021) 60 Cal.App.5th 1092, 1105.) 

Defendant meets its
initial burden by showing plaintiff cannot establish the second and fourth
elements: retaliatory motive and causal link between it and the adverse action.  “FEHA expressly defines
an ‘unlawful employment practice’ as an adverse action taken ‘because of’ an
employee’s protected characteristic.”  (Ververka
v. Department of Veterans Affairs (2024) 102 Cal.App.5th 162, 172.)  “ ‘[B]ecause of’ means the employee’s
protected characteristic was at least a ‘substantial motivating factor’
in the adverse action.”  (Ibid.,
quoting Harris v. City of Santa Monica (2013) 56 Cal.4th 203, 232.)  For retaliation under FEHA, it is unlawful to
take an adverse action against an employee: (1) “because the [employee] has
opposed any practices forbidden under this part or because the person has filed
a complaint, testified, or assisted in any proceeding under this part” (Gov.
Code, § 12940, subd. (h)), or (2) “for requesting accommodation” of disability,
“regardless of whether the request was granted” (id., subd. (m)(2)).
As
discussed above, there is no dispute over why defendant terminated
plaintiff.  She requested a leave of
absence.  Defendant denied the request,
then fired plaintiff for not returning to work. 
Plaintiff presents no evidence permitting an inference that defendant terminated
plaintiff because she opposed FEHA violations or because she requested an
accommodation.  Plaintiff makes no
attempt to do so.  She attempts only to
dispute whether FEHA required defendant to grant plaintiff’s request for a
leave of absence as a reasonable accommodation of her disability.  Even if so, that would not suffice for
plaintiff’s retaliation claim.  There is
no triable issue of material fact on the fifth cause of action.
6th
Cause of Action: Wrongful Termination in Violation of Public Policy
            Defendant is entitled to summary
adjudication of this cause of action.  “[A]
common law tort cause of action exists for at-will employees against employers
who discharge them in violation of fundamental public policy.”  (Prue v. Brady Co./San Diego, Inc.
(2015) 242 Cal.App.4th 1367, 1377.) 
Terminating an employee “ ‘ “violates public policy when it contravenes
the provision of a statute forbidding termination for a specified reason.” ’ ”  (Ibid.)  
Plaintiff
alleges her termination violated public policy because it violated FEHA, the
Americans with Disabilities Act, and “the Federal and California Constitution.”  (Comp., ¶ 61.)  This cause of action thus relies on and fails
along with plaintiff’s first, fourth, and fifth causes of action. 
Disposition
Defendant
American Health Services, LLC’s motion for summary judgment is granted.  Defendant shall submit a proposed judgment of
dismissal forthwith.