 Case Number:  23STCV09441    Hearing Date:   October 16, 2023    Dept:  50 Superior Court of CaliforniaCounty of Los AngelesDepartment 50 TEA HERMANKOVA, et al.,                         Plaintiffs,            vs.RUNWAY SUB REIT, LLC, et al.,                         Defendants.Case No.:  23STCV09441Hearing Date:October 16, 2023Hearing Time:    2:00 p.m. TENTATIVE RULING RE: DEFENDANT RUNWAY SUB REIT, LLC’S DEMURRER TO PLAINTIFFS’ COMPLAINT; MOTION OF DEFENDANT RUNWAY SUB REIT, LLC TO STRIKE PORTIONS OF PLAINTIFFS’ COMPLAINT            BackgroundPlaintiffs Tea Hermankova and Tomas Hermanek, a Minor, by and through his Guardian Ad Litem, Tea Hermankova (jointly, “Plaintiffs”) filed this action on April 27, 2023 against Defendants Runway Sub Reit, LLC (“Runway”) and Bozzuto Management Company. The Complaint alleges causes of action for (1) breach of lease, (2) breach of implied covenant of habitability, (3) trespass, (4) negligence, (5) breach of covenant of quiet enjoyment, (6) maintenance of nuisance, (7) constructive eviction, (8) intentional infliction of emotional distress, and (9) negligent infliction of emotional distress.Runway now demurs to the Complaint and moves to strike portions of the Complaint. Plaintiffs oppose both.DiscussionAs an initial matter, the Court notes that Runway’s counsel’s declaration filed in support of the demurrer indicates, inter alia, that “on July 5, 2023, I attempted to engage in a good faith meet and confer attempt with counsel for Plaintiffs regarding the areas subject to challenge in the Complaint via demurrer as well as to a motion to strike. Attached hereto as Exhibit ‘B’ is a true and correct copy of my meet and confer correspondence.” (Ferreira Decl., ¶ 3.) Runway’s counsel further indicates that “[t]he parties were unable to resolve the issues now before the Court, thus leaving Defendants with no choice but to move forward with this Demurrer and Motion to Strike.” (Ferreira Decl., ¶ 4.)The Court notes that Runway’s counsel’s declaration does not demonstrate that the parties met and conferred by telephone or in person in advance of Runway filing the instant demurrer and motion to strike.Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41, subdivision (a), “[b]efore filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Emphasis added.) In addition, “[b]efore filing a motion to strike…the moving party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to the motion to strike for the purpose of determining if an agreement can be reached that resolves the objections to be raised in the motion to strike.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5, subd. (a), emphasis added.)In addition, Plaintiffs assert in their opposition to the demurrer that “Defendant’s claim that it met and conferred as required by C.C.P. Section 430.41 prior to filing the instant demurrer is simply false. On July 5, 2023, on the same day that Defendant filed its demurrer, Defendant’s counsel sent the letter attached to the demurrer as Exhibit ‘B.’ It should be evident that Defendant did not ‘engage in a good faith meet and confer attempt’ prior to filing its demurrer.” (Opp’n to Demurrer at p. 5, fn. 2.) Indeed, as set forth above, Runway’s counsel states in his declaration that “on July 5, 2023, I attempted to engage in a good faith meet and confer attempt with counsel for Plaintiffs regarding the areas subject to challenge in the Complaint via demurrer as well as to a motion to strike. Attached hereto as Exhibit ‘B’ is a true and correct copy of my meet and confer correspondence.” (Ferreira Decl., ¶ 3.) The instant demurrer and motion to strike were filed on the same date, July 5, 2023.In light of the foregoing, Runway’s demurrer and motion to strike  are overruled and denied. Runway is ordered to give notice of this order.  DATED:  October 16, 2023                            ________________________________Hon. Rolf M. TreuJudge, Los Angeles Superior Court