 Case Number:  23STCV14805    Hearing Date:   October 16, 2023    Dept:  50 Superior Court of CaliforniaCounty of Los AngelesDepartment 50 BRYAN DIAZ,                         Plaintiff,            vs. RINGLOGIX, LLC d/b/a RINGLOGIX.COM,                         Defendant.Case No.:23STCV14805Hearing Date:October 16, 2023Hearing Time:10:00 a.m. TENTATIVE RULING RE: DEFENDANT RINGLOGIX, LLC’S MOTION TO QUASH FOR LACK OF JURISDICTION BackgroundPlaintiff Bryan Diaz (“Plaintiff”) filed this action on June 26, 2023 against Defendant Ringlogix, LLC dba Ringlogix.Com. The Complaint alleges causes of action for (1) “California Unauthorized Access to Computer Data Act,” (2) “California Invasion of Privacy Act,” (3) “California Invasion of Privacy,” (4) “intrusion upon seclusion,” and (5) “publication of private information.”In the Complaint, Plaintiff alleges that “Defendant has secretly installed spyware on its website at www.ringlogix.com to de-anonymize and ‘dox’ every visitor to its site so that Defendant knows – and shares with others – each visitor’s name, face, I.P. address, Linked-In Profile, and e-mail address. Defendant uses the spyware (called ‘Lead Forensics’ or ‘LF’) to obtain user data in real-time, aggregate it with other data obtained from the dark web, and secretly turn anonymous visitors into ‘actionable sales leads in real-time’ who are then bombarded with targeted marketing.” (Compl., p. 2:2-7.) Plaintiff further alleges that he “visited Defendant’s website in the Spring of 2023 and communicated with Defendant. Without Plaintiff’s knowledge or consent, Defendant used the LF code to access Plaintiff’s device, extract personal data, and expose Plaintiff’s identity for Defendant, Lead Forensics, and scores of other companies. Defendant’s conduct illegally transforms anonymous ‘web-surfing’ into a means to surveil, commoditize, and control personal information of users.” (Compl., p. 2:8-12.)On June 26, 2023, a Summons on the Complaint was filed. The Court notes that no proof of service of the summons appears to have yet been filed.Ringlogix, LLC (“Ringlogix”), specially appearing, now “moves to quash the summons for lack of personal jurisdiction.” Plaintiff opposes.DiscussionProcedural IssuesAs an initial matter, Ringlogix asserts that Plaintiff’s opposition was filed two days late and should be disregarded. Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 1005, subdivision (b), “[a]ll papers opposing a motion so noticed shall be filed with the court and a copy served on each party at least nine court days, and all reply papers at least five court days before the hearing.” Nine court days prior to the October 16, 2023 hearing date is October 3, 2023. Plaintiff’s opposition was filed on October 3, 2023, and the proof of service attached the opposition indicates that it was served by electronic service on October 3, 2023. However, under ¿Code of Civil Procedure section 1010.6, subdivision (a)(3)(B)¿, “[a]ny¿period of notice, or any right or duty to do any act or make any response within any period or on a date certain after the service of the document, which time period or date is prescribed by statute or rule of court, shall be extended after service by electronic means by two court days.” (Emphasis added.) As noted by Ringlogix, eleven court days before October 16, 2023 is September 29, 2023. Because Ringlogix has submitted a substantive reply brief that address the arguments made in Plaintiff’s opposition, the Court elects to exercise its discretion to consider the untimely opposition.¿(Cal Rules of Court, rule 3.1300, subd. (d).) Legal StandardCode of Civil Procedure section 418.10 provides in part: “A defendant, on or before the last day of his or her time to plead or within any further time that the court may for good cause allow, may serve and file a notice of motion … (1) To quash service of summons on the ground of lack of jurisdiction of the court over him or her.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 418.10, subd. (a).)“California courts may exercise jurisdiction on any basis that is not inconsistent with the state and federal Constitutions. Thus, the inquiry in California is whether the assertion of personal jurisdiction comports with the limits imposed by federal due process.” (Young v. Daimler AG (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 855, 865 [internal quotations and citations omitted].) Due process permits courts to exercise personal jurisdiction over nonresidents who have “minimum contact” with the forum state such that the exercise of jurisdiction does not offend “traditional notions of fair play and substantial justice.” (Int’l Shoe Co. v. Wash. (1945) 326 U.S. 310, 316.)“Personal jurisdiction may be either general or specific.” (Vons Companies, Inc. v. Seabest Foods, Inc. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 434, 445.) “A defendant that has substantial, continuous, and systematic contacts with the forum state is subject to general jurisdiction in the state, meaning jurisdiction on any cause of action.” (HealthMarkets, Inc. v. Superior Court (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1160, 1167.) A nonresident may be subject to specific jurisdiction if a three-prong test is met. “First, the defendant must have purposefully availed itself of the state’s benefits. Second, the controversy must be related to or arise out of the defendant’s contacts with the state. Third, considering the defendant’s contacts with the state and other factors, California’s exercise of jurisdiction over the defendant must comport with fair play and substantial justice.” (Gilmore Bank v. AsiaTrust New Zealand Ltd. (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 1558, 1568 [internal citations and emphasis omitted].)“When a defendant moves to quash service of process on jurisdictional grounds, the plaintiff has the initial burden of demonstrating facts justifying the exercise of jurisdiction. Once facts showing minimum contacts with the forum state are established, however, it becomes the defendant’s burden to demonstrate that the exercise of jurisdiction would be unreasonable.” (Vons Companies, Inc. v. Seabest Foods, Inc., supra, at p. 449 [internal citations omitted].)General JurisdictionRinglogix asserts that it is not subject to general jurisdiction in California. In support of the motion, Ringlogix submits the Declaration of Alberto Diaz, Ringlogix’s Chief Executive Officer. (Alberto Diaz Decl., ¶ 1.) Mr. Diaz states that “Ringlogix is Florida limited liability company with its principal place of business in Miami Lakes, Florida, and its sole member is Ringlogix, Inc. Ringlogix, Inc. is incorporated in Delaware, and its principal place of business is in Miami Lakes, Florida.” (Alberto Diaz Decl., ¶ 2.) “Ringlogix is a business to business Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) service provider whose platform allows a range of corporate customers to sell, provision, bill, and support their own branded VoIP services to their customers.” (Alberto Diaz Decl., ¶ 2.) Mr. Diaz states that “Ringlogix has never physically operated in California and has no offices or property in California,” and that “[n]one of Ringlogix’s employees reside in California.” (Alberto Diaz Decl., ¶¶ 5-6.) Mr. Diaz also states that “[a]pproximately 10% of Ringlogix’s total revenue is generated from California. No revenue is generated from Ringlogix’s website, as it is not possible to purchase products or services via Ringlogix’s website.” (Alberto Diaz Decl, ¶ 7.)In the opposition, Plaintiff does not appear to dispute Ringlogix’s assertion that Ringlogix is not subject to general jurisdiction in California.Specific Jurisdiction            As set forth above, a nonresident may be subject to specific jurisdiction if a three-prong test is met. “First, the defendant must have purposefully availed itself of the state’s benefits. Second, the controversy must be related to or arise out of the defendant’s contacts with the state. Third, considering the defendant’s contacts with the state and other factors, California’s exercise of jurisdiction over the defendant must comport with fair play and substantial justice.” (Gilmore Bank v. AsiaTrust New Zealand Ltd., supra, 223 Cal.App.4th at p. 1568 [internal citations and emphasis omitted].)Ringlogix asserts that “Plaintiff has made no plausible allegation that Ringlogix purposefully directed its activities at or targeted California.” (Mot. at p. 12:10-11.) “The purposeful availment inquiry…focuses on the defendant’s intentionality. This prong is only satisfied when the defendant purposefully and voluntarily directs his activities toward the forum so that he should expect, by virtue of the benefit he receives, to be subject to the court’s jurisdiction based on his contacts with the forum. Thus, the purposeful availment requirement ensures that a defendant will not be haled into a jurisdiction solely as a result of random, fortuitous, or attenuated contacts, or of the unilateral activity of another party or a third person.”(Pavlovich v. Superior Court (2002) 29 Cal.4th 262, 269 [internal quotations and citations omitted].)The Pavlovich Court found that “[n]ot surprisingly, the so-called Internet revolution has spawned a host of new legal issues as courts have struggled to apply traditional legal frameworks to this new communication medium. Today, we join this struggle and consider the impact of the Internet on the determination of personal jurisdiction. In this case, a California court exercised personal jurisdiction over a defendant based on a posting on an Internet Web site. Under the particular facts of this case, we conclude the court’s exercise of jurisdiction was improper. (Pavlovich v. Superior Court, supra, 29 Cal.4th at p. 266.) The Pavlovich Court further noted that “[a]lthough we have never considered the scope of personal jurisdiction based solely on Internet use, other courts have considered this issue, and most have adopted a sliding scale analysis. At one end of the spectrum are situations where a defendant clearly does business over the Internet. If the defendant enters into contracts with residents of a foreign jurisdiction that involve the knowing and repeated transmission of computer files over the Internet, personal jurisdiction is proper. At the opposite end are situations where a defendant has simply posted information on an Internet Web site which is accessible to users in foreign jurisdictions. A passive Web site that does little more than make information available to those who are interested in it is not grounds for the exercise [of] personal jurisdiction. The middle ground is occupied by interactive Web sites where a user can exchange information with the host computer. In these cases, the exercise of jurisdiction is determined by examining the level of interactivity and commercial nature of the exchange of information that occurs on the Web site.” (Id. at p. 274 [internal quotations and references to [Citation.] omitted.)Ringlogix asserts that “Plaintiff cannot establish personal jurisdiction based on his access of the Website because he alleges nothing about its interactivity.” (Mot. at p. 13:10-11.) Ringlogix contends that “[b]esides declaring without explanation in his unverified Complaint that the Website can operate as a ‘gateway’ to sales’ (Compl. ¶ 1)—which is not true—the Complaint includes no facts showing that the Website does anything more than ‘make information available to those who are interested in’ Ringlogix’s services.” (Mot. at p. 13:11-14.) Paragraph 1 of the Complaint alleges that “Plaintiff believes that Defendant generates a minimum of eight percent of revenues from its website based upon interactions with Californians (including instances in which the website operates as a ‘gateway’ to sales), such that the website ‘is the equivalent of a physical store in California.’” (Compl., ¶ 1.)In the opposition, Plaintiff asserts that Ringlogix’s website “offers numerous interactive features and is highly commercial.” (Opp’n at p. 13:8.) Plaintiff states that “[t]he website at https://www.ringlogix.com (the ‘Website’) offers a ‘STAY IN THE KNOW’ pop-up window when a user visits the homepage of the Website, which invites the user to input the user’s email address in order to subscribe to Defendant’s online blog.” (Ferrell Decl., ¶ 2, Ex. 1.) Plaintiff further states that “[t]he Website’s homepage invites users to ‘Contact us for a Test Drive’ and ‘Request Demo’ by inviting users to input the user’s full name, email address, company name, and phone number.” (Ferrell Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. 2.) Plaintiff states that “[t]he Website’s homepage has a ‘Request Demo’ button and hyperlink on the top right hand corner of the Website, which, if clicked, takes the user to the landing page at: https://www.ringlogix.com/request-a-demo-white-label-voip-platform, which invites users to “Request Demo” by inviting users to input the user’s full name, email address, company name, and phone number.” (Ferrell Decl., ¶ 4, Ex. 3.)Lastly, Plaintiff states that “[t]he Website’s homepage has a ‘Contact’ hyperlink in the bottom footer, which, if clicked, takes the user to a landing page at: https://www.ringlogix.com/contact-us/, which invites users to input the user’s name, email address, company name, and message.” (Ferrell Decl., ¶ 5, Ex. 4.) However, as noted by Ringlogix, “none of the features that Plaintiff claims evidence the Website’s interactivity are features that Plaintiff claims to have used...” (Reply at p. 6:5-6.) Rather, Plaintiff states in his declaration in support of the opposition that “[i]n 2023, I visited the website at https://www.ringlogix.com...and watched a certain video.” (Bryan Diaz Decl., ¶ 2.)Ringlogix also cites to Jacqueline B. v. Rawls Law Group, P.C. (2021) 68 Cal.App.5th 243, 254, where the “Defendants did not purposefully direct any activities toward California residents. At most, the law firm operated a website that could be accessed by California residents, but the website did not target California residents specifically and it was plaintiff who first contacted defendants.” The Jacqueline B. Court found that “the fact that plaintiff herself had to reach out to the firm directly confirms the minimal interactivity of the website.” (Id. at p. 255 [emphasis in original].)In the opposition, Plaintiff also asserts that “[Penal Code] section 502(j) provides a statutory basis for the Court to hold that the purposeful direction prong of specific jurisdiction has been satisfied here.” (Opp’n at p. 9:15-16.) Penal Code section 502, subd. (j) provides that “[f]or purposes of bringing a civil or a criminal action under this section, a person who causes, by any means, the access of a computer, computer system, or computer network in one jurisdiction from another jurisdiction is deemed to have personally accessed the computer, computer system, or computer network in each jurisdiction.”[1] In his supporting declaration, Plaintiff states that “[i]n 2023, I visited the website at https://www.ringlogix.com (the ‘Website’), and watched a certain video.” (Bryan Diaz Decl., ¶ 2.) In his supporting declaration, Plaintiff states, “I am a resident of the state of California. I have been a resident of California during all relevant events mentioned in my Complaint in this action. At all times that I used and navigated the Website, I was located in the state of California.” (Bryan Diaz Decl., ¶ 3.) Plaintiff asserts that accordingly, under Penal Code section 502, subdivision (j), “Defendant’s causing of ‘access’ ‘of a’ ‘computer’ in ‘one jurisdiction’ such as the state of California from another jurisdiction such as the state of Florida, which is Defendant’s corporate headquarters[2]…is deemed to have personally access [sic] the computer ‘in each jurisdiction.’ That is, Defendant is deemed to have personally accessed Plaintiff’s computer in the state of California.” (Opp’n at p. 9:10-14.)In the motion, Ringlogix asserts that “no court has held that the California Penal Code can establish personal jurisdiction over a foreign defendant where it is lacking under Calder, and such an outcome would run afoul of the due process clause in the Fourteenth Amendment.” (Mot. at p. 14, fn. 1.) In Calder, the United States Supreme Court found that “[t]he Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution permits personal jurisdiction over a defendant in any State with which the defendant has certain minimum contacts . . . such that the maintenance of the suit does not offend traditional notions of fair play and substantial justice. In judging minimum contacts, a court properly focuses on the relationship among the defendant, the forum, and the litigation.” (Calder v. Jones (1984) 465 U.S. 783, 788 [internal quotations and citations omitted].) Ringlogix also notes that “[u]nder California’s long-arm statute, California courts may exercise personal jurisdiction over nonresidents ‘on any basis not inconsistent with the Constitution of this state or of the United States.’” (ViaView, Inc. v. Retzlaff (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th 198, 209, quoting Code Civ. Proc., § 410.10.) Plaintiff does not appear to address this point in the opposition.Plaintiff also asserts that “an alternative basis for applying the purposeful direction test exists because of the indisputable economic activity that Defendant has engaged in within California.” (Opp’n at p. 10:6-7.) Plaintiff cites to As You Sow v. Crawford Labs. (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 1859, 1870, where the Court of Appeal noted that “[a]n enterprise obtains the benefits and protection of our laws if as a matter of commercial reality it has engaged in economic activity within this state…” (Internal quotations omitted.) The As You Sow Court found that “[a]lthough Crawford did not send any employees to California to negotiate the contracts, it does not deny contracting directly with private distributors located in California. Thus, unlike its contracts with the G.S.A., Crawford purposefully consummated business arrangements with California companies on 16 separate occasions so it could profit from the products’ use in California. Such contact constituted economic activity within California as a matter of commercial actuality.” (Id. at p. 1871 [internal quotations omitted].)Plaintiff notes that Ringlogix acknowledges that “[a]pproximately 10% of Ringlogix’s total revenue is generated from California.” (Alberto Diaz Decl., ¶ 7.) Plaintiff asserts, “[t]hat high percentage matters for purposes of specific jurisdiction because it shows that Defendant has engaged in economic activity within California for purposes of the ‘commercial actuality’ or ‘commercial reality’ test applied by California courts.” (Opp’n at p. 10:23-25.) But noted by Ringlogix in the motion, Plaintiff does not claim that he purchased anything from Ringlogix’s website. Ringlogix provides evidence that “[n]o revenue is generated from Ringlogix’s website, as it is not possible to purchase products or services via Ringlogix’s website.” (Alberto Diaz Decl., ¶ 7.) As discussed, under the second prong of the specific jurisdiction analysis, “the controversy must be related to or arise out of the defendant’s contacts with the state.” (Gilmore Bank v. AsiaTrust New Zealand Ltd., supra, 223 Cal.App.4th at p. 1568 [emphasis in original].) In the opposition, Plaintiff contends that his “claims arise out of Defendant’s forum related activities” because “[i]f Defendant had not engaged in the alleged wrongdoing at issue herein via its Website made available to California residents, Plaintiff’s claims would not have arisen.” (Opp’n at p. 15:10; 15:27-16:1.) Plaintiff references Ringlogix’s “alleged wrongdoing,” but the Court notes that “¿[o]n a challenge to personal jurisdiction by a motion to quash, the plaintiff has the burden of proving, by a preponderance of the evidence, the¿factual bases justifying the exercise of jurisdiction. The plaintiff must come forward with affidavits and other competent evidence to carry this burden and cannot simply rely on allegations in an unverified complaint. If the plaintiff meets this burden, it becomes the defendant’s burden to demonstrate that the exercise of jurisdiction would be unreasonable.¿” (¿ViaView, Inc. v. Retzlaff, supra, 1 Cal.App.5th at pp. 209-210 [internal quotations and citations omitted]¿.)Plaintiff alternatively requests a continuance to conduct jurisdictional discovery. “¿A trial court has discretion to continue the hearing on a motion to quash service of summons for lack of personal jurisdiction to allow the plaintiff to conduct discovery on jurisdictional issues.¿” (Burdick v. Superior Court (2015) 233 Cal.App.4th 8, 30¿; ¿see also Magnecomp Corp. v. Athene Co. (1989) 209 Cal.App.3d 526, 533¿, “¿[When] jurisdiction is challenged by a nonresident defendant, the burden of proof is upon the plaintiff to demonstrate that minimum contacts exist between defendant and the forum state to justify imposition of personal jurisdiction. The plaintiff has the right to conduct discovery with regard to the issue of jurisdiction to develop the facts necessary to sustain this burden.”¿ [internal quotations and citations omitted].)Plaintiff asserts that “full and straightforward responses to Plaintiff’s discovery would provide strong evidentiary support for Plaintiff’s argument in favor of specific personal jurisdiction over Defendant.” (Opp’n at p. 14:19-21.) Plaintiff states that as an example, he “intends to propound discovery regarding ‘Ringlogix’s occasional sales to California consumers.’” (Opp’n at p. 14:21-22.) Plaintiff further states that he “intends to elicit the proportion of sales of Defendant’s digital products sold to consumers located in the state of California versus sales of the products nationwide to consumers.” (Opp’n at p. 14:24-26.) In the reply, Ringlogix notes that Plaintiff’s declaration provides, “[i]n 2023, I visited the website at https://www.ringlogix.com...and watched a certain video.” (Bryan Diaz Decl., ¶ 2.) Ringlogix asserts that Plaintiff “made no purchase on the Website, and Ringlogix does not sell products or services via the Website. Alberto Diaz Decl. ¶ 7. Thus, ‘the proportion of sales of [Ringlogix’s] digital products sold to consumers located in the state of California[,]’ Opp at. 14:23-26, is not relevant to determining whether this court may exercise personal jurisdiction over Ringlogix, and thus is not ‘likely to lead to the production of evidence of facts establishing jurisdiction.’” (Reply at p. 10:11-16.)Ringlogix cites to ¿Preciado v. Freightliner Custom Chassis Corp. (2023) 87 Cal.App.5th 964, 972¿, where the Court of Appeal noted that “¿[i]n order to prevail on a motion for a continuance for jurisdictional discovery, the plaintiff should demonstrate that discovery is likely to lead to the production of evidence of facts establishing jurisdiction.¿” In Preciado, the Court of Appeal concluded that “¿[b]ecause Plaintiffs failed to articulate what specific facts they would seek to develop if granted a continuance, the trial court could reasonably conclude that Plaintiffs did not demonstrate that discovery is likely to lead to the production of evidence of facts establishing jurisdiction. Accordingly, the trial court did not abuse its discretion by denying Plaintiffs’ request for a¿continuance of the motion to quash to conduct discovery.¿” (¿Id. at pp. 973-74 [internal quotations and citation omitted]¿.) The Preciado Court also noted that “¿there were 85 days between the April 1, 2021 filing of FCCC’s motion to quash and¿the June 25, 2021 filing of Plaintiffs’ opposition to that motion, and 99 days between the filing of the motion and the hearing date. However, Plaintiffs did not use that time period to propound¿any¿discovery targeted to the issue of personal jurisdiction. On the contrary, on June 10, 2021, Plaintiffs propounded lengthy discovery requests on FCCC, but Plaintiffs did not design that discovery to lead to evidence relevant to issues of personal jurisdiction.”¿ (¿Id. at pp. 972-973¿.) Ringlogix asserts “Plaintiff has had ample opportunity to conduct jurisdictional discovery,” more specifically, that “Plaintiff had 57 days—from August 7, when Ringlogix met and conferred with Plaintiff regarding Ringlogix’s intention to file the present motion to quash, until October 3, but has chosen to serve no discovery.” (Reply at p. 10:23-25.) The Court notes that Ringlogix does not provide evidence to support this assertion.The Court agrees with Ringlogix that Plaintiff’s intention to propound discovery regarding ‘Ringlogix’s occasional sales to California consumers’” does not appear “likely to lead to the production of evidence of facts establishing jurisdiction,” given Plaintiff’s statement in his declaration that “[i]n 2023, I visited the website at https://www.ringlogix.com (the “Website”), and watched a certain video.” (Bryan Diaz Decl., ¶ 2; Preciado v. Freightliner Custom Chassis Corp., supra, 87 Cal.App.5th at p. 972.) As noted by Ringlogix, Plaintiff does not state that he made any purchase on the subject Website. However, Plaintiff asserts that “full and straightforward responses to Plaintiff’s discovery would provide strong evidentiary support for Plaintiff’s argument in favor of specific personal jurisdiction over Defendant.” (Opp’n at p. 14:19-21.) The Court notes that “¿[a] plaintiff attempting to assert jurisdiction over a nonresident defendant is entitled to an opportunity to conduct discovery of the jurisdictional facts necessary to sustain its burden of proof.¿In order to prevail on a motion for a continuance for jurisdictional discovery, the plaintiff should demonstrate that discovery is likely to lead to the production of evidence of facts establishing jurisdiction.¿” (¿In re Automobile Antitrust Cases I & II (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 100, 127 [internal citation omitted, emphasis added]¿.) Plaintiff also states in his declaration that “[a]t all times that I used and navigated the Website, I was located in the state of California. As such, the events and allegations giving rise to my Complaint in this action occurred within the state of California.” (Bryan Diaz Decl., ¶ 3.) Plaintiff should have an opportunity to conduct discovery on such allegations that may affect the question of personal jurisdiction over Ringlogix.In light of the foregoing, the Court will continue the hearing on the instant motion to allow Plaintiff to conduct discovery on jurisdictional issues.  ConclusionBased on the foregoing, the Court continues the hearing on Ringlogix’s motion to quash to January 18, 2024 at 10:00 a.m. Plaintiff may conduct discovery on jurisdictional issues only. Plaintiff may file a supplemental opposition to the instant motion and Ringlogix may file a supplemental reply. Any supplemental opposition and reply papers must be filed and served per ¿Code of Civil Procedure section 1005, subdivision (b)¿ based on the new hearing date. /////////Ringlogix is ordered to give notice of this Order.  DATED:  October 16, 2023                                                                           ________________________________Hon. Rolf M. TreuJudge, Los Angeles Superior Court