 Case Number:  BC574630    Hearing Date:   October 16, 2023    Dept:  50 Superior Court of CaliforniaCounty of Los AngelesDepartment 50 ALVIN TATE, an incompetent adult, by and through his Guardian Ad Litem CLARENCE TATE,                        Plaintiff,            vs. FCA US LLC, et al.                        Defendants.Case No.:BC574630Hearing Date:October 16, 2023  Hearing Time:   10:00 a.m. TENTATIVE RULING RE:  DEFENDANT FCA US LLC’S MOTION FOR TERMINATING SANCTIONS BackgroundPlaintiff Alvin Tate, an incompetent adult, by and through his Guardian Ad Litem Clarence Tate (“Plaintiff”) filed this action on March 5, 2015 against, among other defendants, Defendant FCA US LLC (“FCA”). The Complaint alleges causes of action for (1) strict product liability, and (2) negligence product liability. The case arises out of a car accident involving a 1998 Dodge Caravan and an airbag that did not deploy.FCA now moves “for an Order imposing a terminating sanction pursuant to California Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.030(d) for Plaintiff Alvin Tate’s repeated violations of this Court’s Orders dated February 2, 2023 and June 1, 2023.” The motion is unopposed.DiscussionDisobeying a court order to provide discovery is a misuse of the discovery process. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010, subd. (g).) Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.030, subdivision (d), “[t]o the extent authorized by the chapter governing any particular discovery method or any other provision of this title, the court, after notice to any affected party, person, or attorney, and after opportunity for hearing, may impose the following sanctions against anyone engaging in conduct that is a misuse of the discovery process:…(d) The court may impose a terminating sanction by one of the following orders: (1) An order striking out the pleadings or parts of the pleadings of any party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process. (2) An order staying further proceedings by that party until an order for discovery is obeyed. (3) An order dismissing the action, or any part of the action, of that party. (4) An order rendering a judgment by default against that party.”FCA asserts that here, “[t]he Court should impose terminating sanctions against Plaintiff for his misuse of the discovery process.” (Mot. at p. 11:12-13.)FCA notes that it previously moved for an order to compel Plaintiff’s further response to FCA’s Requests for Production and Inspection of Tangible Things Set Six. On February 2, 2023, the Court in this action issued an Order on FCA’s “Motion to Compel Plaintiff’s Further Response to Requests for Production and Inspection of Tangible Things, Set Six.” The Court’s February 2, 2023 Order provides, inter alia, as follows: “Based on the foregoing, the Court grants FCA’s motion. At the hearing, the Court discussed with the parties the scope of the search described in the proposed protocol and the procedure for complying with the motion. Pursuant to that discussion, the Court orders as follows: On or before 2/16/23, Defendant will email to Mr. Davis (a) the address for a location in New Smyrna Beach Florida where Mr. Davis resides, for the production on March 2, 2023 by Mr. Davis of the ‘things’ identified in RFP No. 6, and (b) the time for the production which will be set between 10 a.m. and 4 p.m. The production will be to Mr. Reinmuth of Expert Insights or his agent who will follow the protocol attached to RFP No. 6. Mr. Davis informed the Court that he does not have any of the items identified in RFP 121 in RFP No. 6 (e.g., USB Devices, etc.). The Court orders FCA to give notice of this order.”(February 2, 2023 Order at p. 8:2-11.)FCA indicates that notice of the Court’s February 2, 2023 Order was served on February 10, 2023. (Gilmer Decl., ¶ 15.) FCA’s counsel states that “[d]uring the hearing on FCA’s Motion to Compel Further Responses, after the Court issued its ruling, Mr. Davis stated in open court that he would not comply with the order and would consider withdrawing as counsel as a result.” (Gilmer Decl., ¶ 16.)FCA asserts that Mr. Davis engaged in a “continuing violation and disregard of the Court’s February 2, 2023, order…” (Mot. at p. 8:10-11.) FCA indicates that pursuant to the Court’s order, on February 12, 2023, counsel for FCA emailed Mr. Davis notifying him that the production and inspection would take place at Hampton Inn, 214 Flagler Ave, New Smyrna Beach, FL 32169-2637, on March 2, 2023, between 10:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. ET. (Gilmer Decl., ¶ 17, Ex. F.) On February 27, 2023, Mr. Davis emailed counsel for FCA stating he was having “some health issues” and he did not think he would return to Smyrna Beach. (Gilmer Decl., ¶ 20, Ex. H.) That same day on February 27, 2023, FCA’s counsel emailed Mr. Davis and proposed the following in response to his asserted health concerns: (1) that the production would remain on Calendar per the Court’s order until Mr. Davis provides documentation from a treating physician (to be received by FCA no later than close of business on March 1, 2023) setting forth the nature and severity of his health problems that require rescheduling; and (2) upon receipt of such treater documentation, FCA will agree to reschedule the production, but would schedule an IDC forthwith to seek formalization of an order setting forth a date certain for the rescheduled date. (Gilmer Decl., ¶ 21, Ex. I.) FCA’s counsel states that Mr. Davis never responded to FCA’s meet and confer, nor did he appear for the production on the Court ordered date. (Gilmer Decl., ¶ 22.)In addition, on June 1, 2023, the Court issued an Order regarding FCA’s “Application Request an Order to Show Cause Re: Contempt of Court Against Joseph Daniel Davis for Violation of Court’s Order.” The Court’s June 1, 2023 Order provides, inter alia, as follows: “At the hearing, the parties agreed and the Court ordered as follows: On 6/7/2023, at 9:00 a.m., Mr. Davis will deliver to Mr. Ulloa, at his office, his Microsoft Surface Pro computer to be searched and copied pursuant to the protocol previously ordered. When the copying of the computer is finished, Mr. Ulloa will notify Mr. Davis and he will promptly exchange the computer for his Apple cell phone which will then be searched and copied pursuant to the protocol previously ordered on February 2, 2023 (the ‘Order’). On or before June 5, 2023 Mr. Davis will email Mr. Ulloa the model numbers of the computer and cell phone. The copying will be completed by 3:00 P.M. at which time Mr. Davis will retrieve the cell phone. On or before June 5, 2023, Mr. Davis also will email Mr. Ulloa the passwords and domain names for Mr. Davis’s cloud data, email, text messages, etc. as provided in the Order.” (June 1, 2023 Order at p. 7, see also June 1, 2023 Minute Order.)FCA indicates that on June 6, 2023, the day before the inspection was scheduled to take place, Mr. Davis emailed FCA’s counsel again claiming that due to heart problems/health issues, he would not comply with the Court’s Order and that he did not anticipate compliance in the future. (Gilmer Decl., ¶ 25, Ex. L.) More specifically, Mr. Davis’s June 6, 2023 email states that “[o]n Sunday I tried playing golf for the first time in 2-3 months. Even with a cart I couldn’t finish two holes because I had no balance and couldn’t stay upright. Yesterday I stumbled around the house and fell twice. I don’t feel I can even drive to the airport much less travel safely. There is something seriously wrong with my equilibrium. I am continuing to speak with other attys to take over for me. I will not be flying to LA today--- or anytime soon at this rate...” (Ibid.) FCA’s counsel indicates that Mr. Davis has still not produced any type of medical documentation showing the extent and severity of his health problems which he claims are preventing him from complying with the Court’s Orders. (Gilmer Decl., ¶ 26.)In the motion, FCA cites to Los Defensores, Inc. v. Gomez (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 377, 390, where the Court of Appeal noted that “[t]he trial court may order a terminating sanction for discovery abuse after considering the totality of the circumstances: [the] conduct of the party to determine if the actions were willful; the detriment to the propounding party; and the number of formal and informal attempts to obtain the discovery. Generally, [a] decision to order terminating sanctions should not be made lightly. But where a violation is willful, preceded by a history of abuse, and the evidence shows that less severe sanctions would not produce compliance with the discovery rules, the trial court is justified in imposing the ultimate sanction. Under this standard, trial courts have properly imposed terminating sanctions when parties have willfully disobeyed one or more discovery orders.” (Internal quotations and citations omitted.)As to the element of willfulness, FCA asserts that “[h]ere, this Court has twice ordered Plaintiff’s counsel to produce his cell phone and laptop for forensic inspection. Consistent with his explicit and defiant pronouncement at the February 2, 2023 hearing that he would not comply with the Court’s order, Mr. Davis has continuously and willingly failed and refused to comply with the orders.” As discussed, FCA’s counsel states in his declaration that “[d]uring the hearing on FCA’s Motion to Compel Further Responses, after the Court issued its ruling, Mr. Davis stated in open court that he would not comply with the order and would consider withdrawing as counsel as a result.” (Gilmer Decl., ¶ 16.)As to the “detriment to the propounding party” (Los Defensores, Inc. v. Gomez, supra, 223 Cal.App.4th at p. 390), FCA asserts that “Plaintiff’s counsel’s actions and misconduct have prejudiced [FCA].” (Mot. at p. 15:18-19.) FCA asserts that “[w]ithout the opportunity to inspect Mr. Davis’s items, namely his computer, cell phone, USB storage devices and cloud data information, FCA will not have a fair opportunity to investigate whether Mr. Davis did in fact steal, destroy or otherwise dispose of a key piece of evidence in this case.” (Mot. at p. 18:25-19:1.)In the Complaint, Plaintiff alleges, inter alia, that “[o]n or about November 8, 2013, at approximately 1:30 p.m., plaintiff ALVIN TATE was driving the SUBJECT VEHICLE and was attempting to enter Interstate 10 westbound from the on-ramp on Sierra Avenue in the city of Fontana. No airbag warning light was or had been illuminated in the SUBJECT VEHICLE. As the on-ramp curved the SUBJECT VEHICLE accidentally left the roadway and struck the freeway sign in the median area before ultimately colliding with the bridge abutment along the south road edge of the Sierra Avenue northbound to the 1-10 westbound onramp. Due to a defect in the design and/or manufacture of the SUBJECT VEHICLE, plaintiffs airbag failed to deploy, causing his head and body to be thrust forward into the steering wheel and dashboard assembly, causing the head of plaintiffs femur to be driven into his pelvis, his jawbone to break, and, most significantly, traumatic brain injury that has rendered ALVIN TATE bedridden and requiring assistance with activities of daily living.” (Compl., ¶ 21.) FCA’s counsel states that “[a] significant item of evidence at trial was the Airbag Electronic Control Module (AECM), which served as an event recorder of the vehicle’s airbag system and recorded the operability of the airbags.” (Gilmer Decl., ¶ 4.) FCA’s counsel further states that “[t]rial began in October 2018. On December 7, 2018, while the jury was still deliberating, Clarence Tate[1] came forward and testified under oath about various alleged misconduct by Mr. Davis.” (Gilmer Decl., ¶ 8.) FCA’s counsel states that Mr. Tate’s “myriad accusations included, for example, claims that Mr. Davis: (1) intentionally spoliated evidence by concealing and possibly destroying the subject AECM and lied to the Court and counsel about the AECM’s whereabouts…” (Gilmer Decl., ¶ 9.)As to “the number of formal and informal attempts to obtain the discovery” (Los Defensores, Inc. v. Gomez, supra, 223 Cal.App.4th at p. 390), FCA states that the Court’s February 2, 2023 and June 1, 2023 Orders required Mr. Davis to produce his computer, cell phone, USB storage devices and cloud data information for inspection. (Notice of Motion at p. 2:5-7.) FCA’s counsel indicates that the subject “Motion to Compel was filed after Plaintiff failed to respond to meet and confer efforts and failed to appear at an Informal Discovery Conference [sic] was held on August 30, 2022.” (Gilmer Decl., ¶ 12.) In addition, as discussed above, FCA indicates that on February 27, 2023, FCA’s counsel emailed Mr. Davis and proposed the following in response to his alleged health concerns: (1) that the production would remain on Calendar per the Court’s order until Mr. Davis provides documentation from a treating physician (to be received by FCA no later than close of business on March 1, 2023) setting forth the nature and severity of his health problems that require rescheduling; and (2) upon receipt of such treater documentation, FCA will agree to reschedule the production, but would schedule an IDC forthwith to seek formalization of an order setting forth a date certain for the rescheduled date. (Gilmer Decl., ¶ 21.) As discussed, FCA’s counsel states that “Mr. Davis never responded to FCA’s meet and confer, nor did he appear for the production on the Court ordered date.” (Gilmer Decl., ¶ 22.)As set forth above, Plaintiff does not oppose the instant motion. Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that FCA has demonstrated that terminating sanctions are warranted under the circumstances here. As discussed, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.030, subdivision (d), “[t]he court may impose a terminating sanction by one of the following orders: (1) An order striking out the pleadings or parts of the pleadings of any party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process. (2) An order staying further proceedings by that party until an order for discovery is obeyed. (3) An order dismissing the action, or any part of the action, of that party. (4) An order rendering a judgment by default against that party.” As set forth in FCA’s proposed order, FCA seeks an order dismissing the action.ConclusionBased on the foregoing, the Court grants FCA’s motion for terminating sanctions. The Court orders FCA to file and serve a proposed judgment of dismissal within 10 days of the date of this Order.The Court orders FCA to give notice of this order. DATED:  October 16, 2023                            ________________________________Hon. Rolf M. TreuJudge, Los Angeles Superior Court