  Case Number:  23LBCV01066    Hearing Date:   January 21, 2025    Dept:  S25 Defendant American Honda Motor Company, Inc.’s Motion to Compel Plaintiff Annette Hamilton’s DepositionRulingDefendant’s Motion to Compel Plaintiff’s Hamilton Deposition is GRANTED. Plaintiff is ordered to: (1) provide deposition dates within 10 days of the date of this hearing, (2) appear for deposition within 30 days of the date of this hearing and (3) provide code-compliant responses to the requests for production contained in the deposition notice.The Court will not award monetary sanctions at this time.Plaintiff Annette Hamilton’s Motion to Compel Defendant’s Compliance with Defendant American Honda Motor Company, Inc.’s Own Response to Plaintiff’s Request for Production of Documents, Set One, and for Monetary SanctionsTentative RulingIt appears the instant motion is moot. Defendant states it provided responsive documents on December 20, 2024 – the day after the motion was filed. See Adjei Declaration Dated January 12, 2025. The issue of whether Defendant’s document production is incomplete should be resolved in a motion compel further responses, if necessary. As guidance, the Court refers the parties to the recent discovery guidelines set forth in CCP Section 871.6(h) which requires a defendant or manufacturer to provide the following:1. Copy of or access to a version of the owner’s manual for a motor vehicle of the same make, model, and year.2. Any warranties issued in conjunction with the sale of the motor vehicle.3. Sample brochures published for the motor vehicle.4. The motor vehicles original invoice, if any, to the selling dealer.5. Sales or lease agreement, if the manufacturer is in possession.6. Motor vehicle information reports, including build documentation, component information, and delivery details.7. Entire warranty transaction history for the motor vehicle.8. Listing of required field actions applicable to the motor vehicle.9. Published technical service bulletins (TSBs) for the same make, model, and year reasonably related to the nonconformities pertaining to the motor vehicle.10. Published information service bulletins (ISBs) for the same make, model, and year reasonably related to the nonconformities pertaining to the motor vehicle.11. Records relating to communications between the manufacturer or dealership and the owner or lessee of the motor vehicle, including those related to repair orders or claims involving the motor vehicle.12. Warranty policies and procedure manuals.13. Service manuals reasonably related to the nonconformities pertaining to the motor vehicle.14. If a pre-suit restitution or replacement request is made, all call recordings of pre-suit communications with the consumer available at the time of service of the complaint.15. If a pre-suit restitution or replacement request is made, the manufacturers written statement of policies and procedures used to evaluate customer requests for restitution or replacement pursuant to Lemon Law claims.16. If a pre-suit restitution or replacement request is made, any nonprivileged, prelitigation evaluation.17. Any warranty extensions or modifications issued by the manufacturer on the motor vehicle.”The Court declines to award monetary sanctions.