  Case Number:  24GDCV00126    Hearing Date:   August 8, 2024    Dept:  E Hearing Date: 08/08/2024 – 8:30am
Case No: 24GDCV00126
Trial Date: UNSET
Case Name: FELICIDAD HONKALA, by and through her Guardian ad Litem, Rowena
Anonas v. LAC VERDUGO OPERATIONS, LLC dba GLENDALE POST ACUTE CENTER; LAC SNF,
LLC; CAMBRIDGE HEALTHCARE SERVICES, LLC; and DOES 1-100
TENTATIVE
RULING ON MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION
Moving Party: Defendants, LAC Verdugo Operations LLC
dba Glendale Post Acute Center; LAC SNF, LLC; Cambridge Healthcare Services,
LLC
Responding Party: Plaintiff, Felicidad Honkala
Moving Papers: Notice/Petition; Proposed Order
Opposing Papers: Opposition; Request for Judicial
Notice; Objections to Evidence
Reply Papers: Reply; Response to Plaintiff’s
Objections
Proof of Service Timely Filed (CRC Rule 3.1300(c)): Ok
16/21 Court Days Lapsed (CCP 1005(b)): Ok
Correct Address (CCP §1013, §1013a, §1013b): Ok
RELIEF REQUESTED
Defendants,
LAC Verdugo Operations, LLC dba Glendale Post Acute Center (Glendale Post); LAC
SNF, LLC (LAC SNF); and Cambridge Healthcare Services, LLC (Cambridge), petition
for an order compelling Plaintiff to arbitrate the controversy alleged in the
Complaint in binding arbitration and “to stay the Superior Court matter will be
heard.”
 
The Motion is based upon
this Notice, the accompanying Petition to Compel Binding Arbitration pursuant
to the Federal Arbitration Act or in the alternative California Code of Civil
Procedure §§ 1281, 1281.2, 1281.4, and 1290 et. seq., the Memorandum of Points
and Authorities in support, the attached declaration of Custodian of Records,
the attached exhibits, all pleadings, papers and records on file herein, and
upon any oral argument of counsel at the time of the hearing of this Petition
 
LEGAL STANDARD – MOTION
TO COMPEL ARBITRATION
CCP
§ 1281.2, governing orders to arbitrate controversies, provides in pertinent
part:
On petition of a party to
an arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to
arbitrate a controversy and that a party to the agreement refuses to arbitrate
that controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to
arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the
controversy exists, unless it determines that:
(a)   The
right to compel arbitration has been waived by the petitioner; or
(b)   Grounds
exist for recission of the agreement.
 
(CCP §1281.2(a)-(b).)
 
Under the Federal
Arbitration Act, arbitration agreements “shall be valid, irrevocable and
enforceable, save upon such grounds that exist at law or in equity for the
revocation of a contract.”  (9 U.S.C. §
2.) 
 
There is a strong public
policy in favor of arbitration of disputes and any doubts concerning the scope
of arbitrable disputes should be resolved in favor of arbitration. (Moncharsh
v. Heily & Blase (1992) 3 Cal.4th 1, 9 (“courts will ‘indulge every
intendment to give effect to such proceedings.’”) (quotation omitted)). (See
also AT&T Mobility, LLC v. Concepcion (2011) 563 U.S. 333,
339.)  
 
ANALYSIS
Plaintiff,
Felicidad Honkala, by and through her Guardian ad Litem, Rowena Anonas, filed
the instant Complaint against Defendants Glendale Post,  LAC SNF, and Cambridge on 1/23/2024.
 
The Complaint alleges three
causes of action for (1) Elder Abuse and Neglect (Welfare and Institutions Code
§ 15600 et seq.),  (2) Violation of Residents’
Bill of Rights (Health & Safety Code § 1430(b), and (3) Negligence.
 
Arbitration Agreement
Plaintiff
was allegedly admitted to Glendale Post on December 9, 2018. (Kim Decl. ¶ 2.)
 
Defendants seek to compel
all claims in the Complaint to arbitration based on the two arbitration
agreements that Plaintiff signed on 12-27-18 and that Plaintiff’s
representative, Rowena Anonas, signed on 12-11-18. These two arbitration
agreements are attached as Exhibit A and Exhibit B to Defendants’ petition.
 
Further, attached to the
petition is the declaration of Marie Toni Cabrera, which declares:
 
1. I am the Custodian of Records at
Glendale Post Acute Center. As part of my duties, I oversee resident’s records,
including admissions paperwork. I have personal knowledge of the facts
contained herein and if called to testify I could and would do so competently. 
 
2. Attached hereto as Exhibit “A” is a
true and correct copy of the arbitration agreement “ARBITRATION OF MEDICAL
MALPRACTICE DISPUTES” pertaining to Felicidad Honkala.
 
3. Attached hereto as Exhibit “B” is a
true and correct copy of the arbitration agreement “ARBITRATION OF DISPUTE
OTHER THAN MEDICAL MALPRACTICE” pertaining to Felicidad Honkala. 
 
4. The above records are maintained in
their ordinary course and scope of business.
 
(Cabrera Decl. ¶¶ 1-4.)

As
stated in Harris v. TAP Worldwide, LLC:
 
California law favors enforcement of valid
arbitration agreements. (Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare Services,
Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 97, 99 Cal.Rptr.2d 745, 6 P.3d 669 (Armendariz ); Broughton
v. Cigna Healthplans (1999) 21 Cal.4th 1066, 1074, 90 Cal.Rptr.2d 334,
988 P.2d 67.) Because arbitration is a contractual matter, a party who has not
agreed to arbitrate a controversy cannot be compelled to do so. (Grey v.
American Management Services (2012) 204 Cal.App.4th 803, 808, 139
Cal.Rptr.3d 210; Sparks v. Vista Del Mar Child and Family Services (2012)
207 Cal.App.4th 1511, 1518, 145 Cal.Rptr.3d 318 (Sparks ).)
When the material facts are undisputed, we determine the existence of an
agreement to arbitrate de novo. (Casas v. Carmax Auto Superstores Cal. LLC (2014)
224 Cal.App.4th 1233, 1235, 169 Cal.Rptr.3d 96 (Casas, hereafter); Sparks, supra, 207
Cal.App.4th at p. 1519, 145 Cal.Rptr.3d 318.) The party seeking arbitration
bears the initial burden of demonstrating the existence of an arbitration
agreement. (Pinnacle Museum Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle Market Development (US),
LLC (2012) 55 Cal.4th 223, 236, 145 Cal.Rptr.3d 514, 282 P.3d
1217 (Pinnacle ); Engalla v. Permanente Medical Group,
Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 972, 64 Cal.Rptr.2d 843, 938 P.2d
903; Sparks, supra, 207 Cal.App.4th at p. 1518,
145 Cal.Rptr.3d 318.) Once the moving party has satisfied its burden,
the litigant opposing arbitration must demonstrate grounds which require
that the agreement to arbitrate not be enforced. (Pinnacle, supra, 55
Cal.4th at p. 236, 145 Cal.Rptr.3d 514, 282 P.3d 1217; Engalla v.
Permanente Medical Group, Inc., supra, 15 Cal.4th at p.
972, 64 Cal.Rptr.2d 843, 938 P.2d 903; Sparks, supra, 207
Cal.App.4th at p. 1518, 145 Cal.Rptr.3d 318.)
 
(Harris v. TAP Worldwide,
LLC (2016) 248 Cal.App.4th 373, 380-81.)
 
Plaintiff attempts to argue that Defendants held the
initial burden to prove the contract and signatures are authentic. Plaintiff
also argues that the Cabrera declaration does not provide sufficient evidence
authenticating the signatures of the arbitration agreement because the
declaration does not give specific details about the circumstances surrounding
the agreements’ execution. Plaintiff argues that Cabrera does not state when or
how the agreements were presented to Plaintiff and her representative.
Plaintiff argues that the Cabrera declaration fails to state if the arbitration
agreements were thoroughly explained to either Plaintiff or her representative.
 
The Court does not find Plaintiff’s argument (i.e., that
Defendants failed to authenticate the arbitration agreements, and that the
arbitration agreements are not admissible as credible evidence) availing. 
 
As stated in Condee:
 
For purposes of a petition to compel
arbitration, it is not necessary to follow the normal procedures of document
authentication. “[T]he court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to
arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate
the controversy exists....” (§ 1281.2.) The statute does not require the
petitioner to introduce the agreement into evidence. A plain reading of the
statute indicates that as a preliminary matter the court is only required to
make a finding of the agreement's existence, not an evidentiary determination
of its validity.
 
(Condee v. Longwood Management Corp. (2001) 88
Cal.App.4th 21, 218-19.)
 
Therefore, as a preliminary matter, Defendants met
their initial burden of demonstrating the existence of an agreement to
arbitrate by attaching the Cabrera Declaration and the two arbitration
agreements in Exhibits A and B.
 
Plaintiff attempts to shift the burden to Defendants
to prove the contract and signatures are authentic by relying on Ruiz v.
Moss Bros. Auto Group, Inc. (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 836, 845-46 (Ruiz)
and Fabian v. Renovate America, Inc. (2019) 42 Cal.App.5th 1062, 1069 (Fabian).
However, Plaintiff cites Ruiz and Fabian out of context.
 
In Ruiz, Ruiz submitted a declaration claiming
he did not recall signing the agreement to arbitrate at any time and that he
would not have signed it had it been presented to him. (Ruiz v. Moss Bros.
Auto Group, Inc. (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 836, 840 & 846.) Therefore, the
court of appeal held that in light of this, Moss Bros. had the burden of
proving by a preponderance of the evidence that the electronic signature was
authentic. (Ruiz v. Moss Bros. Auto Group, Inc. (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th
836, 846.)
 
In Fabian, Fabian submitted a declaration
asserting that she was not provided documents to sign, that she did not sign
the contract physically or electronically, and that what purports to be her
electronic signature was “placed” on the contract without her consent or
authorization. (Fabian v. Renovate America, Inc. (2019) 42 Cal.App.5th
1062, 1065.) The court of appeal held that because Fabian declared that she did
not sign the contract, the other party 
had the burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence that the
electronic signature was authentic. (Fabian v. Renovate America, Inc. (2019)
42 Cal.App.5th 1062, 1067.)
 
Here, Plaintiff attempts to shift the burden to Defendants
to authenticate the documents by arguing that Plaintiff is challenging the
validity of the arbitration agreements. However, even though Plaintiff
conclusorily states it is challenging the validity of the arbitration
agreements, the documents submitted, or lack thereof, show that Plaintiff is
not in fact challenging the validity of the arbitration agreements. 
 
Nowhere in the opposing papers does Plaintiff attach a
declaration by Plaintiff, or her representative who also signed the arbitration
agreements, attesting that they did not sign the documents. In both Ruiz and
Fabian, declarations were submitted contesting the validity of the signatures
on the agreements. Here, no such declarations were attached with the opposing
papers that contested the validity of the signatures on the two arbitration
agreements. Therefore, under Condee, Defendants met their initial burden of
demonstrating the existence of an agreement to arbitrate. The burden did not
shift back to Defendants to prove, by a preponderance of the evidence, that the
signatures were authentic because Plaintiff never submitted declarations in
Opposition actually challenging the validity of the signatures.
 
Plaintiff’s
Signature
Both of the arbitration agreements submitted by
Defendants contain signatures by both the Plaintiff and the Plaintiff’s
representative.
 
With respect to the
Plaintiff’s signature, Plaintiff argues in Opposition that both the arbitration
agreements are unenforceable because Plaintiff lacked the required mental
capacity to enter into an agreement when she signed it on 12-27-2018.
 
“All persons are capable of
contracting, except minors, persons of unsound mind, and persons deprived of
civil rights.” (Civil Code § 1556.)
 
As explained in Probate
Code § 811(a)-(e):
 
(a) A determination that a person is of unsound mind
or lacks the capacity to make a decision or do a certain act, including, but
not limited to, the incapacity to contract, to make a conveyance, to marry, to
make medical decisions, to execute wills, or to execute trusts, shall be
supported by evidence of a deficit in at least one of the following mental
functions, subject to subdivision (b), and evidence of a correlation between
the deficit or deficits and the decision or acts in question:
 
(1) Alertness
and attention, including, but not limited to, the following:
(A) Level
of arousal or consciousness.
(B) Orientation
to time, place, person, and situation.
(C) Ability
to attend and concentrate.
(2) Information
processing, including, but not limited to, the following:
(A) Short-
and long-term memory, including immediate recall.
(B) Ability
to understand or communicate with others, either verbally or otherwise.
(C) Recognition
of familiar objects and familiar persons.
(D) Ability
to understand and appreciate quantities.
(E) Ability
to reason using abstract concepts.
(F) Ability
to plan, organize, and carry out actions in one’s own rational self-interest.
(G) Ability
to reason logically.
(3) Thought
processes. Deficits in these functions may be demonstrated by the presence of
the following:
(A) Severely
disorganized thinking.
(B) Hallucinations.
(C) Delusions.
(D) Uncontrollable,
repetitive, or intrusive thoughts.
(4) Ability
to modulate mood and affect. Deficits in this ability may be demonstrated by
the presence of a pervasive and persistent or recurrent state of euphoria,
anger, anxiety, fear, panic, depression, hopelessness or despair, helplessness,
apathy or indifference, that is inappropriate in degree to the individual’s
circumstances.
(b) A deficit in the mental functions listed above
may be considered only if the deficit, by itself or in combination with one or
more other mental function deficits, significantly impairs the person’s ability
to understand and appreciate the consequences of his or her actions with regard
to the type of act or decision in question.
 
(c) In determining whether a person suffers from a
deficit in mental function so substantial that the person lacks the capacity to
do a certain act, the court may take into consideration the frequency,
severity, and duration of periods of impairment.
 
(d) The mere diagnosis of a mental or physical
disorder shall not be sufficient in and of itself to support a determination
that a person is of unsound mind or lacks the capacity to do a certain act.
 
(e) This part applies only to the evidence that is
presented to, and the findings that are made by, a court determining the
capacity of a person to do a certain act or make a decision, including, but not
limited to, making medical decisions. Nothing in this part shall affect the decision-making
process set forth in Section 1418.8 of the Health and Safety Code, nor increase
or decrease the burdens of documentation on, or potential liability of, health
care providers who, outside the judicial context, determine the capacity of
patients to make a medical decision.
(Probate Code § 811(a)-(e).)
 
Further, as indicated in Probate Code § 810:
(a) For purposes of this part, there shall
exist a rebuttable presumption affecting the burden of proof that all persons
have the capacity to make decisions and to be responsible for their acts or
decisions.
(b) A person who has a mental or physical
disorder may still be capable of contracting, conveying, marrying, making
medical decisions, executing wills or trusts, and performing other actions.
(c) A judicial determination that a person
is totally without understanding, or is of unsound mind, or suffers from one or
more mental deficits so substantial that, under the circumstances, the person
should be deemed to lack the legal capacity to perform a specific act, should
be based on evidence of a deficit in one or more of the person’s mental
functions rather than on a diagnosis of a person’s mental or physical disorder.
(Probate Code § 810(a)-(c).)
As stated in Algo-Heyres v. Oxnard Manor LP
(2023) 88 Cal.App.5th 1064:
“[T]he determination of a person's mental
capacity is fact specific, and the level of required mental capacity changes
depending on the issue at hand ... with marital capacity requiring the least
amount of capacity, followed by testamentary capacity, and on the high end of
the scale is the mental capacity required to enter contracts.”
(Greenway, supra, 217 Cal.App.4th at p. 639, 158 Cal.Rptr.3d 364.) “More
complicated decisions and transactions ... require greater mental function.” (Andersen
v. Hunt (2011) 196 Cal.App.4th 722, 730, 126 Cal.Rptr.3d 736.) 
(Algo-Heyres v.
Oxnard Manor LP (2023) 88Cal.App.5th 1064, 1071.)
Here, Opposition submits Exhibits A-I to support
its argument that Plaintiff lacked capacity to contract.
The Court notes that it appears as if Exhibits
A-F are the only relevant exhibits because the exhibits after Exhibit F pertain
to dates that fall after the Plaintiff signed the arbitration agreements.
Further, the Court notes that Exhibits A-F
submitted by Plaintiff appear to be from Glendale Post.
While Defendants’ reply argues that Plaintiff
did not rely on declarations from medical experts, Defendants’ moving and reply
papers also did not rely on declarations from medical experts. In fact, in
Reply, Defendants rely on the exhibits the Plaintiff submitted in Opposition to
argue that Plaintiff did in fact have capacity to contract.
Therefore, the Court will consider the
Opposition’s Exhibits A-F because both parties relied on the exhibits, and
Exhibits A-F appear to be the exhibits that are relevant in determining whether
Plaintiff had capacity when she signed the contract on 12-27-1018.
In light of Exhibits A-F, the Court finds that
Plaintiff sufficiently demonstrated that Plaintiff did not have the capacity to
contract and enter into the instant two arbitration agreements.
The bottom of Exhibit B, dated 12-14-2018, which
precedes Plaintiff signing the agreements, indicates that Plaintiff had
impaired cognitive ability. It is unclear what Exhibit D demonstrates, but a
Care Area for Cognitive Loss/Dementia was triggered on 12/21/2018, which also
precedes signing the arbitration agreements. Exhibit E also indicates that the
resident has impaired cognitive function/dementia or impaired thought processes
“r/t Aging process.” Further, Exhibit F, which was dated 12-19-2018, which
precedes signing of the arbitration agreements indicates a medical condition
of  “severe dementia.”
Most of this evidence appears to be diagnoses. “The
mere diagnosis of a mental or physical disorder shall not be sufficient in and
of itself to support a determination that a person is of unsound mind or lacks
the capacity to do a certain act.” (Prob. Code § 811(d).)
However, there does appear to be evidence that
Plaintiff lacked capacity to contract based on evidence of a deficit in at
least one of the mental functions listed in Probate Code § 811(a)(2) –
Information processing, including, but not limited, to, short- and long-term
memory, including immediate recall.
Exhibit E was initialed on 12/21/2018, which
precedes the signatures on the arbitration agreement. Exhibit E indicated that
“the resident is able to remember one/two/three instructions, find room, read,
sit for an hour, do puzzles, etc.” 
Further, Exhibit C pertains to Cognition
Patterns. Exhibit C shows evidence of short term memory issues because
Plaintiff could only identify one of the three words she was previously recited
in her cognitive patterns test.
Therefore, in light of the combination of diagnoses
of mental disorders relating to cognitive ability/dementia, and Exhibits E and
C showing evidence of short term memory problems that preceded the date
Plaintiff signed the arbitration agreement, this Court finds that Plaintiff
successfully demonstrated that she lacked capacity to sign the two arbitration
agreements.
Further, even though Plaintiff’s representative
also signed these arbitration agreements, Opposition argues that the
representative did not have authority to bind Plaintiff. The Reply does not address
the Opposition’s argument that the representative did not have the authority to
bind Plaintiff; therefore, the Court finds the Opposition’s argument availing. Further,
the Supreme Court of California recently held that under the power of attorney,
signing an arbitration agreement was not a health-care decision that is within
an agent’s power. (See Harrod v. Country Oaks Partners, LLC (2024) 15
Cal.5th 939; Petition for Certiorari Docketed by COUNTRY OAKS PARTNERS,
LLC, DBA COUNTRY OAKS CARE CENTER, ET AL. v. MARK HARROD, U.S., June
28, 2024)
TENTATIVE RULING
Since Plaintiff lacked capacity to
sign the arbitration agreements, and since Defendants did not oppose
Plaintiff’s argument that the representative did not have the authority to bind
Plaintiff, and since it appears that Plaintiff’s representative cannot bind
Plaintiff to arbitration under Harrod v. Country Oaks Partners, LLC (2024)
15 Cal.5th 939, this Court DENIES Defendants’ motion to compel arbitration.
 
 
 