  Case Number:  23STCV28112    Hearing Date:   October 2, 2024    Dept:  52 Tentative Ruling: 
            Plaintiff
Helen Gezalyan’s Motion for Order That Matters In Request for Admissions Be
Deemed Admitted
            Plaintiff Helen Gezalyan moves for
an order deeming admission of the matters specified in her request for
admissions, set one, to defendant BMW/Mini of Monrovia (BMW/Mini).
In
its opposition, BMW/Mini argues plaintiff did not effect valid electronic
service of the request for admissions.  Proper
service is necessary to trigger the obligation to respond to discovery.  “The party requesting admissions shall serve
a copy of them on the party to whom they are directed and on all other parties
who have appeared in the action.”  (CCP §
2033.070.)  The responding party must
respond “[w]ithin 30 days after service of requests for admission.”  (CCP § 2033.250(a).)  
Plaintiff
served the request for admissions on March 20, 2024, by email to email addresses
for three of the four attorneys listed on the first page of BMW/Mini’s
answer.  (Simons Decl., Ex. A.)  For the fourth attorney, plaintiff misspelled
the email address.  
Discovery
may be served by email when the responding party expresses consent to receive
electronic service (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.251(b)) or when required by the
court (rule 2.251(c)).  Plaintiff’s reply
brief argues that including four attorneys’ email addresses on BMW/Mini’s
answer constituted consent to electronic service.  (Reply, p. 4.)  Rule 2.251(b) provides two ways of indicating
consent to accept electronic service. 
Including email addresses on papers is not one of them.  Plaintiff does not show BMW/Mini expressed
consent using either method provided in rule 2.251(b).
As
for mandatory service, plaintiff has not shown this court has required
electronic service.  Assuming plaintiff
could use electronic service without BMW/Mini’s prior consent, plaintiff was
required to confirm the appropriate email address first.  “Before first serving a represented person
electronically, the person effecting service shall confirm the appropriate
electronic service address for the counsel being served.”  (CCP § 1010.6(b)(3).)  Plaintiff does not show she did so.  BMW/Mini later informed plaintiff that the
correct email address for service is “BMW@clarkhill.com” rather than the
address for any individual attorney.  
Plaintiff
Helen Gezalyan’s motion to deem matters admitted is denied.
 