  Case Number:  19STCV02913    Hearing Date:   December 1, 2023    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  SALVADOR ELIZARRARAS, ET AL. Plaintiff(s), vs.  DHOOR GURPREET SINGH, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 19STCV02913  [TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING DEFENDANTS’ MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT  Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  December 1, 2023  I. Background Plaintiffs Salvador Elizarraras (“Elizarraras” or “Decedent”) and Fernando Garcia (“Garcia”), a minor by and through his guardian ad litem Gabriela Garcia, (collectively, “Plaintiffs”), filed this action against Defendants Dhoor Gurpreet Singh and Triple Eight Transport Inc. (“Defendants”) for damages arising from a motor vehicle incident.  Defendants now move for summary judgment, or alternatively, summary adjudication, against Plaintiff Elizarraras arguing that Plaintiff Elizarraras is now deceased and lacks standing to assert any cause of action. The motion is unopposed.      II. Motion for Summary Judgment Burdens on Summary Judgment Summary judgment is proper “if all the papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”  (Code Civ. Proc. §437c(c).)  The moving party bears the initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of material fact.  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)  A defendant moving for summary judgment must show either (1) that one or more elements of the cause of action cannot be established or (2) that there is a complete defense to that cause of action.  (Id. at §437c(p).)  A defendant may discharge this burden by furnishing either (1) affirmative evidence of the required facts or (2) discovery responses conceding that the plaintiff lacks evidence to establish an essential element of the plaintiff's case. If a defendant chooses the latter option, he or she must present evidence “and not simply point out that plaintiff does not possess and cannot reasonably obtain needed evidence….”  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at 865-66.)  [A] defendant may simply show the plaintiff cannot establish an essential element of the cause of action “by showing that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence.” (Id. at p. 854.)  Thus, rather than affirmatively disproving or negating an element (e.g., causation), a defendant moving for summary judgment has the option of presenting evidence reflecting the plaintiff does not possess evidence to prove that element. “The defendant may, but need not, present evidence that conclusively negates an element of the plaintiff's cause of action. The defendant may also present evidence that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence—as through admissions by the plaintiff following extensive discovery to the effect that he has discovered nothing” to support an essential element of his case. (Aguilar, supra, at p. 855.) Under the latter approach, a defendant's initial evidentiary showing may “consist of the deposition testimony of the plaintiff's witnesses, the plaintiff's factually devoid discovery responses, or admissions by the plaintiff in deposition or in response to requests for admission that he or she has not discovered anything that supports an essential element of the cause of action.” (Lona v. Citibank, N.A., supra, 202 Cal.App.4th at p. 110.)  In other words, a defendant may show the plaintiff does not possess evidence to support an element of the cause of action by means of presenting the plaintiff's factually devoid discovery responses from which an absence of evidence may be reasonably inferred. (Scheiding v. Dinwiddie Construction Co. (1999) 69 Cal.App.4th 64, 83.)  Thus, a moving defendant has two means by which to shift the burden of proof under the summary judgment statute: “The defendant may rely upon factually insufficient discovery responses by the plaintiff to show that the plaintiff cannot establish an essential element of the cause of action sued upon. [Citation.] [Or a]lternatively, the defendant may utilize the tried and true technique of negating (‘disproving’) an essential element of the plaintiff's cause of action.” (Brantly v. Pisaro (1996) 42 Cal.App.4th 1591, 1598.)   (Leyva v. Garcia (2018) 20 Cal.App.5th 1095, 1103.)  Until the moving defendant has discharged its burden of proof, the opposing plaintiff has no burden to come forward with any evidence. Once the moving defendant has discharged its burden as to a particular cause of action, however, the plaintiff may defeat the motion by producing evidence showing that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action.  (Id. at §437c(p)(2).)  On a motion for summary judgment, the moving party's supporting documents are strictly construed and those of his opponent liberally construed, and doubts as to the propriety of summary judgment should be resolved against granting the motion.  (D’Amico v. Board of Medical Examiners (1974) 11 Cal.3d 1, 21.)  Analysis  A pending action does not abate by the death of a party if the cause of action survives. (CCP § 377.21.) Unless the decedent's personal representative is made a party, a judgment should not be rendered for or against a decedent, nor for or against the representative. (See¿Sacks v. FSR Brokerage, Inc.¿(1992) 7 Cal.4th 950, 957;¿Sellery v. Cressey¿(1996) 48 Cal.4th 538, 541, fn. 2.) Defendants argue that since Plaintiff Elizarraras has passed away, there can be no cause of action rendered for him. However, Defendants omit the second portion of their citation to Sacks, which provides that when a party passes away, judgment may not be rendered for or against the deceased party. Here, Defendants seek summary judgment against the deceased party, Plaintiff Elizarraras.  Defendants also argue that Plaintiff Garcia, the grandson, cannot be Decedent’s successor-in-interest because Probate Code §6402 states that the estate will pass first to the issue of the Decedent, if there are no issue, to the parent of the Decedent and if there are no surviving issue or parent, to the issue of the parents. Defendants contend Decedent had no surviving spouse, and thus Plaintiff Garcia cannot be the successor-in-interest. However, the Court finds issues with this contention. First, Probate Code §6402 is for intestacy. Defendants provide no evidence that Decedent is truly intestate for this probate section to apply. Second, even if Decedent was intestate, Defendants provide no evidence that there is, indeed, a surviving issue or parents of Decedent for the grandson to not possibly be the successor-in-interest, since intestacy follows a successive chain depending on whether there are any survivors of a certain category.  Defendants provide no supporting authority or evidence that any issues regarding a deceased plaintiff and questions of substitution of a successor-in-interest may be resolved on summary judgment. Therefore, Defendants do not meet their prima facie burden demonstrating there are no triable issues of material fact.   III. Conclusion  Based on the foregoing, Defendants’ motion for summary judgment or in the alternative adjudication is DENIED.  Defendants are ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 30th day of November 2023      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court   