  Case Number:  24STCV24233    Hearing Date:   January 6, 2025    Dept:  71 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



ALICIA HARRIS,
  
         vs.
 
TURNING POINT
  ALCOHOL AND DRUG EDUCATION PROGRAM, INC., et al. 


 Case No.: 
  24STCV24233
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  January 6, 2025



 
Defendants Turning
Point Alcohol and Drug Education Program, Inc.’s and Antonio Owens’ motion to
strike portions of Plaintiff Alicia Harris’ complaint is granted with 20
days leave to amend as to Defendant Turning Point Alcohol and Drug Education
Program, Inc. and denied as to Defendant Antonio Owens. 
 
Defendants Turning Point Alcohol and Drug Education
Program, Inc.  (“Turning Point”) and
Antonio Owens (“Owens”) (collectively, “Defendants”) move to strike portions of
Plaintiff Alicia Harris’ (“Harris”) (“Plaintiff”) Complaint pertaining to
punitive damages, specifically: (1) ¶62 (“Said actions justify the imposition
of punitive damages in that Defendants committed the acts alleged herein
maliciously, fraudulently, and oppressively, with the wrongful intention of
injuring Plaintiff, from improper and evil motives amounting to malice, and in
conscious disregard of Plaintiff’s rights. Based upon the foregoing, Plaintiff
is entitled to recovery punitive damages form Defendants, and each of them, in
an amount according to proof.”); (2) ¶93 (“Said actions justify the imposition
of punitive damages in that Defendants committed the acts alleged herein
maliciously, fraudulently, and oppressively, with the wrongful intention of
injury Plaintiff, from improper and evil motives amounting to malice, and in
conscious disregard to Plaintiff’s rights. Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff is
entitled to recovery punitive damages, and each of them, in an amount according
to proof.”); and (3) ¶124 (“Defendants’ conduct in forcing Plaintiff to resign
was wrongful and justifies the imposition of punitive damages since it was
against public policy. In doing so, Defendants acted maliciously, fraudulently,
and oppressively, with the wrongful intention of injuring Plaintiff. Based upon
the foregoing, Plaintiff is entitled to recovery punitive damages from
Defendants and each of them, in an amount according to proof.”).  (Notice of MTS, pg. 2; C.C.P. §§435, 436.)
 
Meet and Confer
Before filing a motion to strike, the moving party must
meet and confer in person, by telephone, or by video conference with the
party who filed the pleading to attempt to reach an agreement that would
resolve the objections to the pleading and obviate the need for filing the motion.
 (C.C.P. §435.5(a).)
The moving party shall file and serve with the motion to
strike a declaration stating either of the following: (A) The means by which
the moving party met and conferred with the party who filed the pleading
subject to motion, and that the parties did not reach an agreement resolving
the objections raised in the motion to strike. (B) That the party who filed the
pleading subject to motion failed to respond to the meet and confer request of
the demurring party or otherwise failed to meet and confer in good faith.  (C.C.P. §435.41(a)(3).)
Defendants’ counsel declares that on November 20, 2024, counsel
for the parties met and conferred telephonically, and the parties were unable
to reach an agreement, necessitating the instant motion.  (See Decl. of Cox ¶3.)  Defendants’ counsel’s declaration is
sufficient under C.C.P. §435.41(a). 
Therefore, the Court will consider Defendants’ motion to strike.
 
Procedural
Background
          Plaintiff
filed her operative Complaint on September 18, 2024 against Defendants alleging
six causes of action: (1) hostile work environment (sexual harassment); (2) failure
to prevent and remedy harassment; (3) constructive termination in violation of
FEHA; (4) violation of Labor Code §§226.2 and 226.7 (failure to provide meal
breaks); (5) violation of Labor Code §226(A) (failure to provide accurate wage
statements); and (6) violation of Labor Code §§200-204 (waiting time penalties).
Defendants filed the instant motion to strike on November 19,
2024.  Plaintiff filed her opposition on
December 20, 2024.  Defendants filed
their reply on December 27, 2024.
 
Legal Standard
C.C.P. §436 provides that the Court may, upon a motion made
pursuant to C.C.P. §435, or at any time within its discretion and upon terms it
deems proper, “strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in
any pleading” or any pleading or part thereof “not drawn or filed in conformity
with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.”  (C.C.P. §436.)
 
Summary of Motion
Defendants move to strike portions of the Complaint pertaining to
recovery of punitive damages.  (Motion,
pgs. 6-13.)
 
Punitive Damages
Punitive damages may be
recovered upon a proper showing of malice, fraud, or oppression.  (Civ. Code §3294(a).)  “Malice” is defined as conduct intended to
cause injury to a person or despicable conduct carried on with a willful and
conscious disregard for the rights or safety of others.  (Turman v. Turning Point of Central California,
Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 63.) 
“Oppression” means despicable conduct subjecting a person to cruel and
unjust hardship, in conscious disregard of the person’s rights.  (Id.) 
“Fraud” is an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a
material fact known by defendant, with intent to deprive a person of property,
rights or otherwise cause injury.  (Id.)  Conclusory allegations, devoid of any factual
assertions, are insufficient to support a conclusion that parties acted with
oppression, fraud, or malice.  (Smith
v. Superior Court (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1033, 1042.)
“Conduct which warrants punitive damages must be of ‘such severity
or shocking character [as] warrants the same treatment as accorded to willful
misconduct – conduct in which defendant intends to cause harm.’”  (Woolstrum v. Mailloux (1983) 141
Cal.App.3d Supp. 1, 10, quoting Nolin v. National Convenience Stores, Inc.
(1979) 95 Cal.App.3d 279, 286.)  “Despicable
Conduct” is conduct that is so vile, base, contemptible, miserable, wretched or
loathsome that it would be looked down upon and despised by ordinary decent
people.”  (Scott v. Phoenix
Schools, Inc. (2009) 175 Cal.App.4th 702, 715.) 
“With respect to a corporate employer, the advance knowledge and
conscious disregard, authorization, ratification or act of oppression, fraud,
or malice must be on the part of an officer, director, or managing agent of the
corporation.”  (Civ. Code § 3297.)  Generally, “principal liability for punitive
damages [does] not depend on employees’ managerial level, but on the extent to
which they exercise substantial discretionary authority over decisions that
ultimately determine corporate policy.”  (White
v. Ultramar, Inc. (1999) 21 Cal.4th 563, 576-577.)  Furthermore, “supervisors who have no
discretionary authority over decisions that ultimately determine the corporate
policy would not be considered managing agents even though they may have the
ability to hire or fire other employees.”  (Id.)  Instead, “to establish that an individual is a
managing agent, a plaintiff seeking punitive damages must show that ‘the
employee exercised substantial discretionary authority over significant aspects
of a corporation’s business.’”  (CRST,
Inc. v. Superior Court (2017) 11 Cal.App.5th 1255, 1273.)  
Here, Plaintiff fails to sufficiently allege malice and oppression
in her causes of action to support her request for punitive damages against
Defendant Turning Point.  Plaintiff fails
to allege that Owens was an agent of Defendant Turning Point; Plaintiff only
alleges Owens was a manager at Turning Point, and that she was forced to work
alongside Owens, who was her manager. 
(Complaint ¶¶7, 10.)  Plaintiff
fails to allege Owens “exercised substantial discretionary authority over
significant aspects of a corporation’s business.”  (CRST, Inc., 11 Cal.App.5th at
pg. 1273.)  Therefore, Plaintiff fails to
sufficiently allege that Defendant Turning Point was vicariously liable for
Owens’ alleged actions.
Regarding Defendant Owens, Plaintiff sufficiently alleges malice
and oppression.  Plaintiff alleges Owens made
comments regarding her body, stating that Plaintiff is “shaped like his
girlfriend, “is pretty,” and “reminds him of his girlfriend.”  (See Complaint ¶14.)  Plaintiff alleges that after it became
apparent to her that Owens was attempting to start a relationship with her, she
proceeded to ignore Owens and report his behavior to her direct supervisor,
Leshun Phillips-Patton.  (Complaint
¶¶14-15, 18.)  Plaintiff alleges that after
she complained to her supervisor, Owens proceeded to “walk around Ms. Harris’
desk slamming things around her.”  (Complaint
¶16.)  Plaintiff alleges that on one
occasion, Owens “yelled and screamed” at her, proclaiming “You haven’t talked
to me in months” and then called Plaintiff a “stupid ass bitch.”  (Complaint ¶¶19-20.)  Plaintiff alleges Owens threatened her to
“meet [him] outside,” then “proceeded to walk toward Ms. Harris in a
threatening manner causing Ms. Harris to fear that Mr. Owens was going to hit
her.”  (Complaint ¶¶21-22.)  Plaintiff alleges Owens’ behavior was acting
in such a violent manner that it prompted another employee to plead with Owens
to “stop and to get out of Ms. Harris’ face.”  (Complaint ¶22.)  Plaintiff sufficiently alleges Owens acted
with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others and
subjected Plaintiff to cruel and unjust hardship.
Accordingly, Moving Defendants’ motion to strike Plaintiff’s
request for punitive damages from the Complaint is granted with 20 days
leave to amend as to Defendant Turning Point and denied as to Defendant Owens.  
 
Conclusion
Defendants’ motion to strike is granted with 20 days leave
to amend as to Defendant Turning Point and denied as to Defendant Owens.
Moving Party to give notice.
 
Dated:  January _____, 2025
                                                                             





  