 Case Number:  23STCV16851    Hearing Date:   November 20, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



MELISSA ZIEBELL,
  an individual, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
ROCKLEY PHOTONICS, INC., a Delaware
corporation; AL BENZONI, an individual;
  and
DOES 1-99, inclusive, 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.:  23STCV16851
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
MOTION TO COMPEL DEFENDANT ROCKLEY PHOTONICS,
  INC. TO PROVIDE FURTHER RESPONSES TO PLAINTIFF ZIEBELL’S FORM INTERROGATORIES
  - EMPLOYMENT, SET ONE
 
Date: November 20, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff
MELISSA ZIEBELL (“Plaintiff”)      
 
RESPONDING PARTY: Defendant
ROCKLEY PHOTONICS, INC. (“Defendant”)
 
The
Court has considered the moving and opposition papers.  No reply has been filed.  Any reply was required to have been filed and
served at least five court days prior to the hearing.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1005, subd. (b).)
 
BACKGROUND
             This action arises from an employment
relationship.  On July 19, 2023,
Plaintiff filed a complaint (“Complaint”) asserting the following causes of
action: (1) Lab. Code § 1102.5 retaliation; (2) FEHA discrimination: disparate
treatment; (3) FEHA harassment: hostile work environment; (4) FEHA retaliation;
(5) FEHA failure to prevent harassment, discrimination, or retaliation; (6) constructive
discharge; (7) violation of Equal Pay Act; and (8) Equal Pay Act – retaliation.
 
            On August 20, 2024, Plaintiff filed
the instant Motion to Compel Defendant to Provide Further Responses to Form
Interrogatories, Set One (the “Motion”). 
Defendant filed an opposition on November 6, 2024.  No reply has been filed.
 
MEET AND CONFER 
            The meet and confer requirement has been met.
             
DISCUSSION
            A motion to compel further responses to form or specially prepared
interrogatories may be brought if the responses contain: (1) answers that are
evasive or incomplete; (2) an unwarranted or insufficiently specific exercise
of an option to produce documents in lieu of a substantive response; or (3)
unmerited or overly generalized objections. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300(a).) 

 
            Motions to compel
further responses must always be accompanied by a meet-and confer-declaration
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2016.040) demonstrating a “reasonable and good faith
attempt an informal resolution of each issue presented by the motion.”  (Id., §§ 2030.300(b), 2031.310(b)(2),
2033.290(b).)  They must also be
accompanied by a separate statement containing the requests and the responses,
verbatim, as well as reasons why a further response is warranted.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345(a).)  The separate statement must also be complete
in itself; no extrinsic materials may be incorporated by reference.  (Id., rule 3.1345(c).)
 
            Here, Plaintiff served Form
Interrogatories – Employment (Set One) (“FIs”) served to Defendant on February
29, 2024.  (Declaration of Eric
Hahn,  ¶ 2; Exh. A.)  Defendant served its objections to the FIs on
June 26, 2024, and served the verifications on July 2, 2024.  (Declaration of Janet H. Leader, ¶ 8,10, Exh.
C.)  
 
            In support of the
Motion, Plaintiff contends that Defendant’s responses were evasive and solely
intended to prevent Plaintiff from obtaining directly relevant information.  
 
            In opposition, Defendant
asserts that the FI at issue, Form Interrogatory No. 209.2, seeks every civil
action filed in the past ten (10) years (November 2020 through November 2024)
against Defendant by any employee at any facility regarding any type of employment-related
dispute.  Defendant thus contends that
the FI is excessively overbroad and seeks information that has no relevance to
Plaintiff’s factual allegations in this case. 

 
            The Court agrees with
Defendant.  Plaintiff’s complaint against
Defendant revolves solely on wage discrimination on the basis of gender.  As such, Plaintiff’s demand for information
relating to any civil action filed by any of Defendant’s former employees for
the past 10 years relating to their employment with Defendant, regardless of the
type of employment dispute, and not relating to the same decision-maker and the
same work location, is overly broad and has no direct bearing on Plaintiff’s
allegations in her complaint
 
Defendant therefore had a good faith basis for its
objections to the FIs.  The Court finds,
however, that overbreadth alone is an insufficient ground for completely
objecting to and not responding to a form interrogatory.  As such, the Motion is GRANTED insofar as it
relates to any civil action filed by any of Defendant’s former employees for
the past 10 years relating to their employment with Defendant arising from wage
discrimination based on gender. 
Defendant is ordered to serve supplemental, verified and Code-compliant
further responses to FI 209.2 within twenty days of the date of this Order.
 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at
SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If the
department does not receive an email and there are no appearances at the
hearing, the motion will be placed off calendar.
 
Dated this 20th day of November 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 




 