  Case Number:  23PSCV00365    Hearing Date:   February 15, 2024    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
(1)   DEFENDANT
HUSSEIN ABIDALI, D.O.'S DEMURRER TO THIRD AMENDED COMPLAINT is SUSTAINED
with leave to amend for the sole purpose of modifying the Willful
Misconduct COA to a Battery COA. 
 
(2)  
DEFENDANT HUSSEIN ABIDALI, D.O,'S MOTION TO
STRIKE PORTIONS OF THE THIRD AMENDED COMPLAINT is GRANTED without
leave to amend, because Plaintiff did not seek leave of court (and the issue
was previously addressed). 
 
Background
 
This is an elder abuse case. Plaintiff EVANGELINE MUNOZ
(“decedent” or “Ms. Munoz”), in and through her Successor-In-Interest, Jenny
Macias, and JENNY MACIAS allege the following against Defendants CASA COLINA
HOSPITAL; CASA COLINA HOSPITAL & CENTERS FOR HEALTHCARE dba CASA COLINA
HOSPITAL; CASA COLINA, INC (hereinafter, “Casa Colina”).; JALAL BADDAY, M.D
(“Dr. Badday”).; HUSSEIN ABIDALI, D.O (“Dr. Abidali”): Ms. Munoz was a resident
of Casa Colina from March 27, 2022 to April 22, 2022 where she was admitted for
rehabilitative care following a stroke. Dr. Badday was Ms. Munoz’s attending
physician. Due to her poor appetite, Ms. Munoz required one-on-one supervision
to ensure she adequately ate. Additionally, Ms. Munoz was to be monitored for a
urinary tract infection (“UTI”) and perform bladder scans every six hours. On
April 6, 2022, decedent was diagnosed with depression, and prescribed
medication, which severely reduced her appetite severely. Thus, Ms. Munoz’s
physicians began discussing the possibility of a G-tube insertion due to their
concern of her lack of eating. On April 14, 2022, Dr. Abidali performed the
G-tube placement, but it was later determined that the tube was improperly
place, leading to an infection. After an emergency surgery, Ms. Munoz suffered
at least one additional stroke, leading her to become severely impaired and put
in a semi-vegetative state, where she remained in a semi-vegetative state until
her passing on September 11, 2022.  
 
On February 7, 2023, Plaintiffs filed suit for:
            
1. Elder Abuse (Welfare And
Institutions Code § 15600, Et Seq.) 
2. Negligence 
3. Willful Misconduct 
4. Wrongful Death. 
 
On September 20, 2023, the court granted Dr. Badday’s motion
to abate proceedings (as to the wrongful death COA). That same day, Plaintiffs
filed their second amended complaint (SAC) naming Daniel Munoz as a named
Plaintiff.[1] 
 
On September 2, 2023, Dr. Badday filed is Reply to
Plaintiffs’ opposition to Dr. Badday’s demurrer and motion to strike portions
of the FAC. 
 
On November 9, 2023, the court issued the following minute
order regarding Hearing on Motion to Strike Portions of First Amended
Complaint; Hearing on Demurrer - with Motion to Strike (CCP 430.10); Hearing on
Demurrer - with Motion to Strike (CCP 430.10); Case Management Conference;
Informal Discovery Conference (IDC): Defendant Casa Colina, Inc., dba Casa
Colina Hospital and Centers for Healthcare's Notice of Motion and Motion to
Strike Portions of Plaintiff's First Amended Complains is GRANTED. Demurrer of
Defendant Jalal Badday, M.D., to Plaintiffs' First Amended Complaint is
SUSTAINED without leave to amend. Motion of Defendant Jalal Badday, M.D., to
Strike Portions of Plaintiffs' First Amended Complaint is MOOT. Defendant
Hussein Abidali, D.O.'s Motion to Strike Portions of Plaintiffs' First Amended
Complaint is GRANTED with leave to amend. Defendant Hussein Abidali, D.O.'s
Demurrer to First Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED with leave to amend. 
 
On December 11, 2023, Plaintiffs filed their third amended
complaint (3AC) for: 1.    
Elder Abuse 2.    
Negligence 3.    
Willful Misconduct 4.    
Wrongful Death
 
On January 10, 2024, Dr. Badday and Casa Colina filed their
respective answers. That same day, Dr. Abidali filed the instant demurrer w/a
MTS.
 
On January 12, 2024, the parties filed a ‘STIPULATION TO
STRIKE CERTAIN DAMAGES FROM PLAINTIFFS' THIRD AMENDED COMPLAINT AND ORDER
THEREON.’
 
On January 31, 2024, Plaintiffs filed their opposition. 
 
On February 7, 2024, Dr. Abidali/Defendant filed his reply. 
 
 
 
Legal Standard
 
In pertinent part, a demurrer may be asserted on any one or
more of the following grounds: (e) The pleading does not state facts sufficient
to constitute a cause of action. (Code of Civ. Proc., §430.10.) A demurrer
tests the sufficiency of a pleading, and the grounds for a demurrer must appear
on the face of the pleading or from judicially noticeable matters. (Blank v.
Kirwan, (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)
 
Discussion
 
Previously, Dr. Abidali demurred
to the 1st (Elder abuse) through 3rd (willful misconduct)
COAs. 
In its ruling, the court sustained
the demurrer reasoning that an unsuccessful surgery is a
medical negligence COA, not one of willful misconduct. 
 
Now, Defendant Dr. Abidali again
demurs to the 3rd COA on similar grounds.
 
3rd COA for Willful
Misconduct
 
In order to establish willful
misconduct, a plaintiff must prove not only the elements of a negligence cause
of action, that is, duty, breach of duty, causation, and damage, but also (1)
actual or constructive knowledge of the peril to be apprehended, (2) actual or
constructive knowledge that injury is probable, as opposed to a possible,
result of the danger, and (3) conscious failure to act to avoid the peril.
(Motion p. 5, citing Doe v. United States Youth Soccer Association, Inc.
(2017) 8 Cal.App.5th 1118, 1140.) “‘[W]illful misconduct is not marked by a mere absence of
care. Rather, it “ ‘ “involves a more positive intent actually to harm
another or to do an act with a positive, active and absolute disregard
of its consequences.” (Ibid, emphasis added.) “No amount of
descriptive adjectives[, adverbs] or epithets may turn a negligence action into
an action for intentional or wilful misconduct.” (Motion p. 5, quoting Carter
v. Prime Healthcare Paradise Valley LLC (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 396, 413,
quoting Mahoney v. Corralejo (1974) 36 Cal.App.3d 966, 973.)
 
The relevant allegations in the
3rd COA are as follows:
 
As Ms. MUNOZ’s surgeon, Dr. ABIDALI
failed to provide and ensure that Ms. MUNOZ received basic custodial needs. Dr.
ABIDALI failed to protect Ms. MUNOZ from health and safety hazards by puncturing
her colon while performing the G-tube surgery and placing the
G-tube too tightly on her abdomen. Additionally, Dr. ABIDALI failed to
provide medical care by ensuring the surgery went well
by performing an ultrasound or x-ray to confirm that there
were no issues caused by the surgery. Additionally, prior to surgery, Dr.
ABIDALI failed to receive informed consent to perform the G-tube
surgery, violating Ms. MUNOZ’s Patient Rights. Once he went forward with the
surgery, he willfully committed a battery against her knowing that he did
not receive informed consent. The Department of Public Health investigated
Ms. MUNOZ’s care and found that Defendants violated Ms. MUNOZ’s Patient Rights
by failing to receive informed consent from Ms. MUNOZ’s responsible party prior
to surgery. Dr. ABIDALI failed to secure the G-tube correctly, and secured
it too tightly to Ms. MUNOZ’s abdomen which he knew would cause leakage of
the G-tube feedings and gastric contents onto Ms. MUNOZ’s abdomen. As a result,
it was highly probable Ms. MUNOZ would develop cellulitis on the areas of her
abdomen exposed to acidic gastric contents. (3AC P128, emphasis and underline added.)
 
Effectively, the COA is predicated upon two (2) allegations: (1)
relating to the surgery itself and (2) battery. 
 
Re: Post-Surgery Conduct
 
As for the surgery, the court adheres to its analysis in the
previous tentative which, essentially stated that failing to perform a successful
surgery amounts to medical negligence, not willful misconduct. In fact, as
Plaintiffs’ own 3AC alleges, Dr. Abidali allegedly “breached the standard of
care,” suggesting medical or professional negligence. (3AC P39.)
 
Now, Plaintiffs largely focus on post-surgery actions.
(Opp. p. 13:1-4 [“This is not a case where a surgeon performed a bad surgery
and was unaware of it. Here, there were many symptoms showing something went
wrong with the surgery, and instead of conducting further testing to
confirm whether it was due to wrong placement of the G-tube, Dr. Abidali chose
to ignore them.”], emphasis added.) 
 
But failing to perform mandatory tests (e.g., x-ray) to ensure
a procedure went well would still again amount to at most medical
negligence (i.e., another physician would have performed a certain test). To
the extent that Plaintiff is arguing that Dr. Abidali “chose to ignore” that
the surgery went wrong, Plaintiff has conclusively made such an
allegation without the ultimate facts to support that conclusion. Plaintiff
is not alleging that Dr. Abidali knew that he had to confirm the
placement of the G-tube or else Plaintiff would suffer from blood clots from
the severe abdominal wound infection and suffer another stroke that left her
semi-vegetative. Therefore, absent allegations of intentional conduct to harm
Plaintiff, the allegations regarding the performance of the surgery does not
amount to willful misconduct. 
 
Re: Battery
 
In the 3AC, Plaintiffs make the new allegation that Dr.
Abidali’s alleged failure to receive consent to perform the G-tube surgery
amounts to willful misconduct. 
 
In demurrer, Dr. Abidali argues that “a surgery that did not
go well and a lack of informed consent is the basis of a medical negligence
cause of action, not a willful misconduct cause of action.” (Demurrer p. 6,
citing Cobbs v. Grant (1972) 8 Cal.3d 229, 241.) While Defendant’s case
citation may be accurate, the case is inapposite as it doesn’t encompass the
instant facts (different doctor performing the surgery). 
 
The relevant allegations are as follows:
 
On April 8, 2022, Ms. MUNOZ informed
her physicians that she did not want a G-tube. . . On April 11, 2022 . . .Ms.
MACIAS was briefed about the G-tube being a temporary option as Ms. MUNOZ
continued her recovery, therefore, Ms. MUNOZ agreed to move forward with the
G-tube placement with Krishan Malhotra, M.D as the surgeon. On April 13,
2022, Ms. MUNOZ’s G-tube placement was scheduled for 2:00 p.m. the next day.
Dr. ABIDALI was scheduled to perform the G-tube placement, at the insistence of
Dr. BADDAY, instead of Dr. Malhotra who Ms. MUNOZ and Ms. MACIAS wanted to
perform the G-tube placement. Dr. ABIDALI failed to receive consent from Ms.
MUNOZ or Ms. MACIAS prior to the surgery. (3AC p. 9, emphasis added.)
 
In any event, battery and willful misconduct are not the same COAs. Therefore, the court SUSTAINS the demurrer, but only for the
limited purpose of changing the COA from willful misconduct to battery.[2] 
 
Punitive Damages
 
Section 425.13(a) establishes
a procedure for claiming punitive damages in certain cases. It provides, “In any action for damages arising out of the
professional negligence of a health care provider, no claim for punitive damages shall be included
in a complaint or other pleading unless the court enters an order allowing
an amended pleading that includes a claim for punitive damages to be filed.
The court may allow the filing of an amended pleading claiming punitive damages
on a motion by the party seeking the amended pleading and on the basis of the
supporting and opposing affidavits presented that the plaintiff has established
that there is a substantial probability that the plaintiff will prevail on the
claim pursuant to Section 3294 of the Civil Code....” (emphasis
added.) “[I]dentifying a
cause of action as an “intentional tort” as opposed to “negligence” does not
itself remove the claim from the requirements of section
425.13(a).” (Central
Pathology Service Medical Clinic, Inc. v. Superior Court (1992) 3 Cal.4th
181, 192 (Central Pathology).  
 
Because the claim for punitive
damages arises from the provision of medical services, section 425.13 applies,
and punitive damages cannot be alleged against Dr. Abidali absent leave of
court. (See MTS pp. 7-8.)
 
As with before, the opposition
does not address this argument.
 
Therefore, regardless of
whether Plaintiff asserts a battery COA in its fourth amended complaint, the
court GRANTS the MTS WITHOUT leave to amend because the Central Pathology argument
was raised and addressed in Dr. Abidali’s previous demurrer and was left unaddressed
then and remains unaddressed now. 
 
Conclusion
 
Based on the foregoing, the
demurrer is SUSTAINED with leave to amend, and the MTS is GRANTED without
leave to amend. 
 
 
 
 


