 Case Number:  23STCP04176    Hearing Date:   April 9, 2024    Dept:  14 in re: Paul RicchiutiCase Background
 
Petitioner seeks a court order
declaring that various names used by his grandfather belonged to “one and the
same person.”
 
On November 8, 2023, Petitioner
filed his verified Petition for Declaratory Relief. No respondent or other
party is named. 
 
No trial date has been set.
 
Instant Motion
 
This is a petition action. This is
the date the court has set for the hearing on the petition, which forms the
moving papers.
 
Decision
 
The hearing is CONTINUED to May 21,
2024. Petitioner is to file supplemental papers by May 9, 2024. Those papers
are to include at least (1) a proposed order/judgment in the form Petitioner
seeks and (2) a brief or declaration discussing this court’s jurisdiction and identifying
any other instances where such an order/judgment has been issued or authorized
by California courts.
 
Discussion
 
Petitioner presents a unique
request. He is trying to secure recognition of his birthright citizenship from
the nation of Italy. In order to do so, he must prove that he is descended from
someone who was an Italian citizen. And in order to do that, he must submit
documents tracing his descent.
 
So far so good. But, as is not
uncommon, the names of Petitioner’s ancestors are not given quite the same way
in every record. Apparently, where there is a discrepancy between the names in
the records, Italian law requires a court order finding that the different
names refer to “one and the same person.” Petitioner does not cite to the
provision of Italian law which contains this requirement, but the court accepts
his representation for present purposes.
 
Petitioner is here now to ask the
court to issue the order he needs to take back to the Italian authorities. And
the court is not unwilling to assist him. The problem is that the court is
unsure of (a) what it is being asked to do, and (b) whether it has the
jurisdiction to do it.
 
Petitioner has not submitted a
proposed order or judgment. In the absence of such a proposal, the court cannot
tell exactly what the import of granting the petition would be.
 
Perhaps more importantly, this
court’s jurisdiction is not unlimited. It is confined to following procedures
authorized by statute, constitution, or enforcing causes of action recognized
at common law. See e.g. Drink Tank Ventures LLC v. Real Soda in Real
Bottles, Ltd. (2021) 71 Cal.App.5th 528, 533. Italian law may
refuse to recognize certain documents without a court order from the relevant
jurisdiction. But the requirements of Italian law cannot confer jurisdiction on
a California court to issue such an order.
 
The petition relies on two code
sections. One is the provision which allows for name changes. But Petitioner
expressly denies asking for a name change. (Petition ¶ 21). The other is
Code of Civil Procedure § 1060, which permits this court to grant
declaratory relief. However, the plain language of the statute does not seem to
include an action like this one.
 
Section 1060 provides that a person
“interested under a written instrument…or who desires a declaration of his or
her rights or duties with respect to another… may, in cases of actual
controversy relating to the legal rights and duties of the respective parties,
bring an original action… for a declaration of his or her rights and duties in
the premises, including a determination of any question of construction or
validity arising under the instrument.” It is not clear that Plaintiff is
properly a “person interested” or that his grandparents’ records are a “written
instrument” within the meaning of this section, which is generally applied to
contracts or documents transferring interests in property. Nor is it clear that
there is an “actual controversy” here; there is no other party to this case.
 
            Petitioner
has provided this court with no instance of any other court undertaking to make
an order of this type under Section 1060. In the absence of some precedent, or
at least a more detailed discussion of the court’s jurisdiction to make the
ruling Petitioner wants, the court cannot grant his request.
 
Conclusion
 
The court is sympathetic to
Petitioner’s situation and request. However, the court has questions about the
nature of the order sought and its own power to issue such an order. Therefore,
The hearing is CONTINUED to May 21, 2024. Petitioner is to file supplemental
papers by May 9, 2024. Those papers are to include at least (1) a proposed
order/judgment in the form Petitioner seeks and (2) a brief or declaration
discussing this court’s jurisdiction and identifying any other instances where
such an order/judgment has been issued or authorized by California courts.