 Case Number:  23STCV15877    Hearing Date:   April 9, 2024    Dept:  14 Ramos v Sood EnterprisesCase Background
 
Plaintiff alleges that she was
forced to combine her breaks and subjected to unwanted sexual advances from her
manager. 
 
            On July 6,
2023, Plaintiff filed her Complaint for (1) Failure to Provide Meal Breaks, (2)
Failure to Provide Rest Breaks, (3) Failure to Provide Wage Statements, (4)
Failure to Pay Wages, (5) Failure to Respond, (6) Failure to Permit Inspection,
(7) Sexual Harassment, (8) Failure to Prevent, and (9) Constructive Termination
against Defendants Sood Enterprises, Inc. dba Jack in the Box 325 (“Sood”), Jose
Aldana Garcia (“Garcia”), and DOES 1-50. 
 
            On November
7, 2023, Defendants Sood and Garcia filed their joint Answer.
 
            On October
20, 2023, Defendant Reynaga filed his Answer.
 
            Bench Trial
is currently set for August 5, 2024.

(1)-(3) and (5)-(8) Rogs and RFPs
 
Plaintiff now moves this court, per
Code of Civil Procedure §§ 2030.290 and 2031.300 for orders compelling
Defendants Reynaga to serve initial responses to Plaintiff’s Form
Interrogatories, Set No. One, Special Interrogatories, Set No. One, and
Requests for Production, Set No. One. Plaintiff also seeks sanctions of
$1,881.36 per motion.
 
Decision
 
The motions are DENIED as MOOT. The
request for sanctions is also DENIED.
 
Defense counsel is ORDERED to file
and serve Notices of Related Case in this case and in LASC Case No. 22 STCV
41106, pursuant to California Rules of Court Rule 3.300. The notices are to be
filed by April 12, 2023.
 
Discussion
 
            Plaintiff
propounded this discovery on November 1, 2023. (Declaration of Frank Chica
Exhibit 1). Counsel agreed that responses would be due on December 18, 2023.
(Id. Exhibits 2-3). That morning, Defense counsel emailed to ask for another
extension based on two things: (1) his own personal family health issues, and
(2) that he changed firms recently, but the client file had hit a snag in the
transfer. (Id. Exhibit 4).
 
            Counsel
spoke on the phone, and later confirmed a further extension to December 29,
2023. (Id. Exhibit 5). Counsel were unable to connect after that, and no
further extensions were agreed to. (Declaration of Robert A. Orozco ¶¶ 14-15).
Defense counsel secured the client file only after the motions were filed, and
has served verified responses concurrently with the opposition. (Id. ¶¶ 17, 20,
Exhibit 1).
 
            The service
of verified responses renders this motion moot. If Plaintiff has an issue with
how the responses are framed (including an argument that objections have been
waived by failure to timely respond), her remedy is first in a meeting and
conference, then an Informal Discovery Conference, and a motion to compel
further responses if all else fails.
 
            The failure
to serve responses appears to be the result of difficulties in transferring the
client file between firms. This sort of clerical snafu is largely out of
anyone’s hands. It would be unjust to impose sanctions under these
circumstances.
 
            One final
item requires comment. Defense counsel represents that this matter is
“informally related” to another matter, bearing Case No. 22 STCV 41106 and
currently pending before Judge Kristin S. Escalante in Department 24 of this
courthouse. (Declaration of Robert A. Orozco ¶ 4). In that other matter, a
different plaintiff is suing the same defendants for the same behavior. (Id.
¶¶ 4-6). Both counsel in this case are also counsel in that case. The
declarations and exhibits from both counsel indicate that they are treating the
cases as a paired set, with efforts to settle that case affecting the timeline
in this case.
 
            There is no
such thing as an “informally related” case. California Rules of Court Rule
3.300(b) imposes a duty to file a Notice of Related Case. Counsel need to
fulfill that duty, so that Judge Escalante can decide if the cases are truly
related or not. Although both counsel have this duty, the court will direct Defense
counsel to take the laboring oar in filing the required Notices, based solely
on the fact that he is the member of a larger firm and presumably has practical
access to more resources.
 
Conclusion
 
            The service
of verified responses renders the motion MOOT. Therefore, it is DENIED. The
failure to timely serve responses appears to be the result of clerical and
logistical issues in transferring files when counsel transferred firms.
Therefore, the imposition of sanctions would be unjust in these circumstances
and the request for sanctions is DENIED.
 
Finally, if counsel are going to
treat two cases as related, they have an obligation to file Notices of Related
Case as required by California Rules of Court Rule 3.300. Because they have the
larger firm, Defense counsel is ORDERED to file and serve Notices of Related
Case in this case and in LASC Case No. 22 STCV 41106, pursuant to Rule 3.300.
The notices are to be filed by April 12, 2023.
 
(4)        Deem
Admitted
 
Plaintiff now moves this court for
an order deeming the Requests for Admissions, Set No. One, served on Defendant
Garcia as admitted by him. Plaintiff also seeks sanctions of $1,881.36.
 
Decision
 
            The motion
is DENIED as MOOT. Counsel for Defendant Garcia, Mr. Robert A. Orozco, is
ORDERED to pay $981.36 in sanctions. The amount is to be delivered to counsel
for Plaintiff within 30 days.
 
Discussion
 
            The history of this discovery is the
same as the motions discussed above, with two key differences. First, Defense
counsel’s declaration does not attach a copy of the verified responses to these
requests. Nevertheless, the court will accept his testimony that such responses
have been served. Second, as counsel know, Requests for Admissions are
different from other discovery requests. While the purpose of other discovery
devices is to provide information and make evidence available for trial,
Requests for Admissions directly frame the issues to be tried. For this reason,
the legislature has treated them with much more urgency, affording extra
remedies like the one sought here (or an award of attorney’s fees under Code of
Civil Procedure § 2033.420 for having to prove a matter that the opposing
party refused to admit) to the requesting parties.
 
            Code of
Civil Procedure § 2033.280(c) contains no exception permitting the court
to decline a sanction request. Instead, it directly instructs the court to
impose monetary sanctions on “the party or attorney” whose delay caused the
motion to be filed, even if responses have subsequently been served.
 
            As
discussed above, the reason for the late response was a delay in transferring
the client file when counsel transferred firms. While, as a practical matter,
the court understands that this may have been out of counsel’s hands, care of
the client file is ultimately counsel’s responsibility. Therefore, counsel must
be the one to pay the sanctions.
 
            The rate
sought by Plaintiff’s counsel, $300 per hour, is eminently reasonable. The
amount of time reasonably spent on this motion is two hours to draft the moving
papers, and one hour to appear at the hearing. No reply was timely filed, so
Plaintiff may not recover for any expense connected with reviewing an
opposition or filing a reply. Three hours at $300 per hour, plus the $61.65
filing fee and $19.71 attorney service fee for this motion, results in a
sanction of $981.36.
 