 Case Number:  22STCV02795    Hearing Date:   April 9, 2024    Dept:  14  


Tanner v. County of Los Angeles
 
Case Background
 
Plaintiff alleges that she was
stalked by an employee of the LA County Sheriff’s office. This culminated in a
home invasion where she fired multiple gunshots at the intruder. That incident
resulted in Plaintiff’s arrest by the Sheriff’s Department (for negligent
discharge of a firearm) and a resulting report to Plaintiff’s employer, the LA
County Department of Children and Family Services (“DCFS”). After receiving the
report, DCFS compelled Plaintiff to undergo a fitness evaluation, placed her on
involuntary disability leave, attempted to fire her, ultimately demoted her,
then finally returned her to her original position three years later.
 
            On January 24,
2022, Plaintiff filed her Complaint for (1) Disability Discrimination, (2) FEHA
Retaliation, (3) Failure to Accommodate, (4) Failure to Engage, (5) Failure to
Prevent, (6) Declaratory Relief, and (7) Violation of Labor Code § 230 against
Defendants County of Los Angeles (“County”) and DOES 1-100. 
 
On March 14, 2022, Defendant County
filed its Answer.
 
            Jury Trial
is currently set for July 22, 2024.
 
Instant Motion
 
Defendant County now moves this
court for an order sealing (a) Exhibit Nos. 11, 17, 22, submitted in support of
their motion for summary judgment filed on January 23, 2024, and (b) the
Declaration of John Stalberg submitted in support of their motion for summary
judgment filed on January 23, 2024.
 
Governing Rules
 
            California
Rules of Court Rule 2.550 provides in relevant part:
 
            “(d)
Express factual findings required to seal records
The court may order that a record
be filed under seal only if it expressly finds facts that establish:
(1) There exists an overriding
interest that overcomes the right of public access to the record;
(2) The overriding interest
supports sealing the record;
(3) A substantial probability
exists that the overriding interest will be prejudiced if the record is not
sealed;
(4) The proposed sealing is
narrowly tailored; and
(5) No less restrictive means
exist to achieve the overriding interest.
(e) Content and scope of the
order
(1) An order
sealing the record must:
(A) Specifically state the facts
that support the findings; and
(B) Direct the sealing of only
those documents and pages, or, if reasonably practicable, portions of those
documents and pages, that contain the material that needs to be placed under
seal. All other portions of each document or page must be included in the
public file.
 
            California
Rules of Court Rule 2.551 provides in relevant part:
 
            “(a)
Court approval required
A record must not be filed under
seal without a court order. The court must not permit a record to be filed
under seal based solely on the agreement or stipulation of the parties.
…
(e) Order
(1) If the court grants an order
sealing a record and if the sealed record is in paper format, the clerk must
substitute on the envelope or container for the label required by (d)(2) a
label prominently stating “SEALED BY ORDER OF THE COURT ON (DATE),”
and must replace the cover sheet required by (d)(3) with a filed-endorsed copy
of the court's order. If the sealed record is in electronic form, the
clerk must file the court's order, maintain the record ordered sealed
in a secure manner, and clearly identify the record as sealed by court order on
a specified date.
(2) The order must state
whether--in addition to the sealed records--the order itself, the register of
actions, any other court records, or any other records relating to the case are
to be sealed.
(3) The order must state whether
any person other than the court is authorized to inspect the sealed record.
(4) Unless the sealing order
provides otherwise, it prohibits the parties from disclosing the contents of
any materials that have been sealed in anything that is subsequently publicly
filed.
 
Decision
 
            The motion
is GRANTED, in part and DENIED, in part, as follows. 
 
Exhibit 11 will be partially
sealed. Plaintiff’s Social Security number will be sealed. The sections headed
“Social History,” “Employment History,” “Medical History,” “Kaiser Medical
Records,” “Drug History,” and “Financial and Criminal History” will be sealed.
The sections headed “Employee’s Current Work Status,” “Purpose of this
Reevaluation and Referral Issues,” “Clinical Observation and Mental Status,”
“Evaluation Procedures,” “Employment History with DCFS,” “County Equity of
Policy Filings,” “Mental Health History,” “Kaiser Psychiatry Service,”
“Circumstances Leading to FFDE Referral,” “Test Results,” “Diagnostic
Impressions,” “Diagnosis,” and “Conclusions and Recommendations” will not be
sealed.
 
Exhibit 17 will be partially
sealed. Of the attached Assessment by Ana L. Nogales Sections I-II, IV, and IX
will be sealed. Sections III, V-VIII, and X-XII will not be sealed. Of the
attached letter by Gordon A. St. Mary, the first, sixth, seventh, and eighth
paragraphs will be sealed. The remainder will not be sealed.
            
            Exhibit 22
will be partially sealed. Plaintiff’s Social Security number will be sealed.
The first, fifth, and sixth paragraphs of the section headed “Employment
History” will be sealed. The second and third paragraphs of the section headed
“Diagnostic Impressions” will be sealed. The sixth, seventh, eighth, ninth, and
tenth paragraphs of the section headed “Conclusions and Recommendations” will
be sealed. The sections headed “Family Background,” “Relationship History,” “Educational
History,” “Military History,” “Driving Record,” “Legal Record,” “Financial
History,” “Medical History,” “Substance Use,” “Kaiser Medical Records, will be
sealed. No other portions will be sealed.
 
            The
Declaration of John Stalberg will be partially sealed. Paragraphs 6-7 will be
sealed. No other portions will be sealed.
 
No other records relating to this
case are sealed. No persons other than the court and department staff are
entitled to inspect the sealed records, absent further order of court.
 
Discussion
 
            As part of
its motion for summary judgment, Defendant County submitted (1) a series of records
showing psychiatric evaluations of Plaintiff and (2) a declaration from an
expert who had reviewed some of Plaintiff’s records. This is an employment
discrimination case in which Plaintiff claims that Defendant County tried to
fire her because of their perception that she was disabled. Defendant County’s
response is that Plaintiff had real psychiatric issues which prevented her from
performing in a satisfactory manner. 
 
            The
constitutional right to privacy is certainly an interest that might overcome
the right of public access in the right circumstances. See NBC Subsidiary
(KNBC-TV), Inc. v. Superior Court (1999) 20 Cal.4th 1178, 1222
fn.46. However, when a party brings a lawsuit which places their medical
condition at issue, they may not reasonably expect to keep that medical
condition private. See John B. v. Superior Court (2006) 38 Cal.4th
1177, 1199. Plaintiff has brought a disability discrimination claim. That
places her disability, and/or Defendant’s perception of that disability,
directly in issue. The pieces of evidence Defendant seeks to seal are central
to their motion for summary judgment. The public cannot reasonably evaluate the
operations of this court without seeing some portion of this evidence.
 
            However,
these records are so broadly comprehensive that they contain certain details
(things like where Plaintiff worked as a teenager, whether or not she served in
the military, and the state of her driving record) which are only tangentially
related to this case. Items like that may be of some peripheral relevance to an
examining expert, but they do not form the meat of the legal and factual issues
here. They’re not even on the same plate. There is no need for those private
facts to make their way into the public record at this time.
 
            Therefore,
the court has gone through each document and identified each portion which contains
information which is both private and not directly related to this dispute.
Those portions are listed above. Counsel will need to speak with the clerk to
determine the best logistical manner to clean up the record, including the
filing of the documents with only the redactions directed by the court.