  Case Number:  20STCV08423    Hearing Date:   July 10, 2024    Dept:  M LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                                       Wednesday,
July 10, 2024
Department M                                                                                                                           Calendar No. 16
 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Maria
Luz Nieves, et al. v. Kevin George Aziz Riad, et al.  
20STCV08423
1.      K&K Limousine Services, Inc., et al.’s Motion for
Summary Judgment, or in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication          
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
             K&K Limousine Services, Inc.’s
Motion for Summary Judgment is granted. 
 
            KMK
Properties, LLC (“KMK”) and AVA Mina Properties, LLC’s (“AVA”) Motion for
Summary Judgment, or in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication is deemed moot.
These Defendants were dismissed on June 28, 2024. 
 
Background
 
Plaintiffs filed their Complaint on February 28, 2020.
Plaintiffs’ First Amended Complaint was filed on June 11, 2020. Plaintiffs
allege the following facts. Plaintiffs’ decedent was killed in an automobile
accident. Defendants were operating a 2016 Tesla Model S which purportedly
suffered from defects. Plaintiffs allege the following causes of action: 1)
Wrongful Death-General Negligence 2) Wrongful Death-Negligent Hiring, Training,
and Supervision 3) Negligent Entrustment of Motor Vehicle 4) Products Liability-Negligence
5) Products Liability- Design Defect 6) Products Liability- Manufacturing
Defect 7) Products Liability- Failure to Warn 8) Negligence- Manufacturer or
Supplier-Duty to Warn 9) Negligence- Recall/Retrofit. 
 
Motion for Summary Judgment or Summary Adjudication
 
The purpose of a motion for summary judgment or
summary adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the
parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations,
trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.”  (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  “Code of Civil Procedure section 437c,
subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the
evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’
and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no
triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law.”  (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7
Cal. App. 4th 1110, 1119.)
 
“On a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden
is always on the moving party to make a prima facie showing that there are no
triable issues of material fact.”  (Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005)
128 Cal. App. 4th 1510, 1519.)  A
defendant moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or
her burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party has
shown that one or more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be
established, or that there is a complete defense to the cause of action.”  CCP § 437c(p)(2).  “Once the defendant . . . has met that
burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a triable issue
of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense
thereto.” CCP § 437c(p)(2).  “If the
plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment should be granted.”  Avivi
v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal. App. 4th 463, 467.
 
“A plaintiff or cross-complainant has met his or her
burden of showing that there is no defense to a cause of action if that party
has proved each element of the cause of action entitling the party to judgment
on the cause of action. Once the plaintiff or cross-complainant has met that
burden, the burden shifts to the defendant or cross-defendant to show that a
triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or
a defense thereto.” Code Civ. Proc., § 437c(p)(1).
 
“When deciding whether to grant summary judgment, the
court must consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers (except
evidence to which the court has sustained an objection), as well as all
reasonable inferences that may be drawn from that evidence, in the light most
favorable to the party opposing summary judgment.”  (Avivi,
159 Cal.App.4th at 467; CCP § 437c(c).)
 
Defendants move this Court pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure Section 437c for entry of summary judgment, or alternatively summary
adjudication, in Defendants’ favor and against Plaintiffs Maria Luz Nieves,
individually and as a successor-in-interest of Maria Guadalupe Nieves,
deceased; Lorena Ochoa individually and as successor in interest to Gilberto
Lopez, Deceased; Ulises Alcazar through Guardian Ad Litem, Rosalia Lopez,
individually, Hector Rafael Alcazar through Guardian Ad Litem, Rosalia Lopez,
Marilee Cristina Alcazar through Guardian Ad Litem and Rosalia Lopez. Issues 1
to 3 seek summary adjudication of the first through third causes of action.
 
At the time of the accident, Defendant Kevin George
Aziz Riad was driving a 2016 Tesla Model S.  Plaintiffs named as Defendants Kevin Riad, as
well as the registered owners of the Tesla George Salib and K&K Limousine
Services, Inc. (“K&K Limousine”).  Plaintiffs also named KMK and AVA Mina as
Defendants. However, as mentioned above, these Defendants were dismissed. 
 
“To state a cause of action for negligence, a
plaintiff must allege (1) the defendant owed the plaintiff a duty of care, (2)
the defendant breached that duty, and (3) the breach proximately caused the
plaintiff's damages or injuries.” Lueras v. BAC Home Loans Servicing, LP
(2013) 221 Cal.App.4th 49, 62.
 
“Negligent entrustment is a common law liability
doctrine, which arises in numerous factual contexts. [Citation.] In cases
involving negligent entrustment of a vehicle, liability ‘“is imposed on [a]
vehicle owner or permitter because of his own independent negligence and not
the negligence of the driver.”’ [Citations.] ‘“Liability for the negligence of the
incompetent driver to whom an automobile is entrusted does not arise out of the
relationship of the parties, but from the act of entrustment of the motor
vehicle, with permission to operate the same, to one whose incompetency,
inexperience, or recklessness is known or should have been known by the
owner.”’ [Citation]; accord, Rest.2nd Torts, § 308 [‘It is negligence to permit
a third person to use a thing or to engage in an activity which is under the
control of the actor, if the actor knows or should know that such person
intends or is likely to use the thing or to conduct himself in the activity in
such a manner as to create an unreasonable risk of harm to others’].)” [¶] California
case law recognizes the theory that an employer can be liable to a third person
for negligently hiring, supervising, or retaining an unfit employee.
[Citation.] Liability is based upon the facts that the employer knew or should
have known that hiring the employee created a particular risk or hazard and
that particular harm materializes.” [¶] A claim that an employer was negligent
in hiring or retaining an employee-driver rarely differs in substance from a
claim that an employer was negligent in entrusting a vehicle to the employee.
Awareness, constructive or actual, that a person is unfit or incompetent to
drive underlies a claim that an employer was negligent in hiring or retaining
that person as a driver. (See Judicial Council of Cal., Civ. Jury Instns.
(2010) CACI No. 426.) That same awareness underlies a claim for negligent
entrustment. (See CACI No. 724.) In a typical case ... the two claims are
functionally identical.” McKenna v. Beesley (2021) 67 Cal.App.5th 552,
565–567 (internal citations and quotations omitted).
 
The following statutory authority applies in this
action: “Every owner of a motor vehicle is liable and responsible for death or
injury to person or property resulting from a negligent or wrongful act or
omission in the operation of the motor vehicle, in the business of the owner or
otherwise, by any person using or operating the same with the permission,
express or implied, of the owner.” Veh. Code, § 17150.
 
Defendant K&K Limousine has met its initial burden
to show that an essential element or elements of Plaintiff’s causes of action
cannot be established and/or that there is a complete defense to the causes of
action. Plaintiffs have not met their burden to provide specific facts to show
the existence of a triable issue of material fact as to the causes of
action.  CCP § 437c(p)(2).
 
Plaintiffs failed to dispute any of the separate
statement of facts submitted by Defendants. Most significantly, Plaintiffs did
not dispute fact number 5 which stated that Defendant K&K Limousine did not
give permission for Defendant Riad to operate the vehicle and that permission
to operate the vehicle had only been granted by George Salib. Thus, Plaintiffs
submitted no facts or evidence to support the proposition that K&K
Limousine gave permission, express or implied, to operate the vehicle. With no
evidence of permission, liability as the owner pursuant to Veh. Code § 17150
cannot be established. The Court notes that George Salib is not a moving party
on this motion. In addition, Plaintiffs submitted no evidence that Riad was
employed by K&K Limousine to support the theories of negligent entrustment
and negligent hiring, training, and supervision.
 
Therefore, for the foregoing reasons, K&K
Limousine’s Motion for Summary Judgment is granted. 
 
Defendant is ordered to give notice of this ruling.