 Case Number:  22STCV07864    Hearing Date:   July 10, 2024    Dept:  M LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                               Wednesday,
July 10, 2024
Department M                                                                                                   Calendar No. 14
 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Gina
Solis, et al. v. Estate of John Russell Calvert, et al.  
22STCV07864
1.      Nicholas J. Ajello’s Application to Appear as Counsel
Pro Hac Vice        
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
             Nicholas J. Ajello’s Application to
Appear as Counsel Pro Hac Vice is
granted. 
 
Background
 
Plaintiffs filed the Complaint on March 3, 2022.
Plaintiffs’ First Amended Complaint was filed on March 9, 2022. Plaintiffs
allege the following facts. Plaintiffs’ decedent was killed in aircraft crash
on March 13, 2020.   
 
Application to Appear Pro Hac Vice
 
            Cal.
Rules of Court, Rule 9.40 states, in relevant part:
 
            “(d) The
application must state:
(1) The applicant's residence and office address;
(2) The courts to which the applicant has been
admitted to practice and the dates of admission;
(3) That the applicant is a licensee in good standing
in those courts;
(4) That the applicant is not currently suspended or
disbarred in any court;
(5) The title of each court and cause in which the
applicant has filed an application to appear as counsel pro hac vice in this
state in the preceding two years, the date of each application, and whether or
not it was granted; and
(6) The name, address, and telephone number of the
active licensee of the State Bar of California who is attorney of record.
            (e)
An applicant for permission to appear as counsel pro hac vice under this rule
must pay a reasonable fee not exceeding $50 to the State Bar of California with
the copy of the application and the notice of hearing that is served on the
State Bar.”
 
            The
applicant has met all the requirements mandated in Rule 9.40. The Application
to be admitted as counsel pro hac vice is therefore granted. 
 
            Nicholas
J. Ajello is admitted as counsel pro hac vice in the pending matter.
 
            Defendant
Rapco, Inc. is ordered to give notice of this ruling.  
 