  Case Number:  23TRCV02558    Hearing Date:   November 13, 2024    Dept:  M 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT – SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 




 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka Wednesday, November 13, 2024
Department M    Calendar No. 11   



 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Jan
Building, Inc. v. Padilla’s Company, Inc., et al.   
23TRCV02558
1.     
James S. Cooper’s,
of Levinson Arshonsky Kurtz & Komsky, LLP Counsel for Defendant Padilla’s
Company, Inc., et al., Motion to be Relieved as Counsel    
 
 
TENTATIVE RULING

James S. Cooper’s, of Levinson Arshonsky Kurtz &
Komsky, LLP Counsel for Defendant Padilla’s Company, Inc., et al., Motion to be
Relieved as Counsel is granted. 
 
Background
 
Plaintiff’s Complaint was filed on August 7, 2023 and
the First Amended Complaint was filed on May 28, 2024. Plaintiff alleges the
following facts. Plaintiff is the general contractor for a construction project
(“Project”) located at 1700 S. Pacific Coast Highway, Redondo Beach, California.
Plaintiff entered into sub-contracts with Padilla’s Company, Inc. for rough
grading and shoring, and, later, for concrete masonry. Defendant failed to adequately
perform the contracts and failed to have the proper licensing to perform the
contracts.   Plaintiff alleges the following causes of
action: 1. Disgorgement (B&P 7031(b)); 2. Disgorgement (B&P 7031); 3.
Fraud; 4. Negligence; 5. Unlawful, Fraudulent, and Unfair Business Practices
(B&P 17200 et seq.); 6. Breach of Contract; 7. Breach of Contract.
 
Motion to be Relieved
as Counsel
 
Counsel
states, in the declaration, valid reasons for withdrawal. Counsel states that
there has been a breakdown of the relationship. The Court finds that the
attorney has filed the required declaration. 
The Court also finds that the attorney has shown sufficient reasons why
the motion to be relieved as counsel should be granted and why the attorney
brought a motion under Code of Civil Procedure § 284(2) instead of filing a
consent under section 284(1). The Court finds that the attorney filed and
served the proposed order. 
 
Therefore, the motion to be relieved as counsel is granted.
 
The attorney is relieved as counsel of record for the client effective
upon the filing of the proof of service of the signed order upon the client. 

 
James S. Cooper is ordered to give notice of the
Court’s ruling.