 Case Number:  23SMCV02492    Hearing Date:   June 13, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE
RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


June
  13, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV02492




MOTION


Motion
  to Compel Arbitration




MOVING PARTY


Defendant
  Frida Restaurant Beverly Hills, LLC




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff
  Sebastian Covarrubias



 
MOTION
 
On June 7, 2023, Plaintiff Sebastian Covarrubias (“Plaintiff”) brought
this California Private Attorney Generals Act (“PAGA”) action individually and
on behalf of all aggrieved employees against Defendant Frida Restaurant Beverly
Hills, LLC (“Defendant”), Plaintiff’s former employer.  
 
Defendant now moves to compel Plaintiff’s individual claims to
arbitration, based on a standalone arbitration agreement Plaintiff signed when
he was hired.  Plaintiff opposes the
motion, Defendant replies, and Plaintiff objects to the evidence submitted with
the Reply.[1]   
 
ANALYSIS
 
1.    
MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION – LEGAL STANDARDS
 
            “[T]he advantages of arbitration
include a presumptively less costly, more expeditious manner of resolving
disputes.  It follows a party to a valid
arbitration agreement has a contractual right to have its dispute with another
party to the contract resolved quickly and inexpensively.”  (Henry v. Alcove Investment, Inc.
(1991) 233 Cal.App.3d 94, 99–100 [cleaned up].) 
Thus, “on petition of a party to an arbitration agreement alleging the
existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a party to
the agreement refuses to arbitrate that controversy, the court shall order the
petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines
that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy exists.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2; see also 
EFund
Capital Partners v. Pless (2007) 150 Cal.App.4th 1311, 1320 [the language
in section 1281.2 compelling arbitration is mandatory].) The right to compel
arbitration exists unless the court finds that the right has been waived by a
party’s conduct, other grounds exist for revocation of the agreement, or where
a pending court action arising out of the same transaction creates the possibility
of conflicting rulings on a common issue of law or fact.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2, subds.
(a)-(c).)    
 
            “On a petition to compel
arbitration, the trial court must first determine whether an agreement to
arbitrate the controversy exists.  Because
the existence of the agreement is a statutory prerequisite to granting the
petition, the petitioner bears the burden of proving its existence by a
preponderance of the evidence.  The party
seeking arbitration can meet its initial burden by attaching to the petition a
copy of the arbitration agreement purporting to bear the respondent's
signature.”  (Bannister v. Marinidence
Opco, LLC (2021) 64 Cal.App.5th 541, 543-544 [cleaned up].)  The
party seeking to compel arbitration must also “plead and prove a prior demand
for arbitration and a refusal to arbitrate under the agreement.”  (Mansouri v. Superior Court (2010) 181
Cal.App.4th 633, 640-641.)  
 
            And while the moving party on a
motion to compel arbitration “bears the burden of proving the existence of a
valid arbitration agreement by a preponderance of the evidence, [a] party
opposing the petition bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of the
evidence any fact necessary to its defense.  The trial court sits as the
trier of fact, weighing all the affidavits, declarations, and other documentary
evidence, and any oral testimony the court may receive at its discretion, to
reach a final determination.”  (Ruiz
v. Moss Bros. Auto Group, Inc. (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 836, 842 [cleaned
up]; see also Pinnacle Museum Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle Market Development (US), LLC (2012) 55 Cal.4th 223, 236 [“The party
seeking arbitration bears the burden of proving the existence of an arbitration
agreement, and the party opposing arbitration bears the burden of proving any
defense, such as unconscionability”].)  
 
2.    
ENFORCEABLE ARBITRATION AGREEMENTS
 
Defendant advanced the Declaration of Gilberto Romo who states:
 
1. I am employed as the Head Chef at the Cantina
Frida restaurant in Beverly Hills, California, which is owned by Frida
Restaurant Beverly Hills, LLC (“Frida”), the Defendant in the above-entitled
action. I have personal knowledge of the facts set forth herein, which are
known by me to be true and correct, and if called as a witness, I could and
would competently testify thereto. 
 
2. In operating its restaurant in Beverly Hills,
California, Frida is engaged in interstate commerce. The food and beverages
Frida purchases to prepare its menu items are, in some cases, supplied by
vendors from outside of California. Likewise, the food and beverages (such as
Tequila and other liquor) Frida offers on its menu are, in some cases, produced
outside the United States, and in other cases produced in states outside
California. Frida is also a public restaurant located in a popular tourist location
(Beverly Hills) that serves all customers, including those from outside of
California and the United States. 
 
3. Part of my responsibilities for Frida involve
hiring employees at the restaurant. It is Frida’s policy that all of its new
employees are given the option of reviewing and filling out employment
paperwork (including agreements to arbitrate) in either English or Spanish. It
is also Frida policy that a Frida employee go over the employment paperwork
(including agreements to arbitrate) with all new employees any questions they
may have and to ensure they fully understand the paperwork they are signing. The
executed employment paperwork is then kept on site at the restaurant in each
employee’s respective files. 
 
4. Plaintiff Sebastian Covarrubias is a former
employee of Frida. At the time he was hired by Frida, Covarrubias signed a
written arbitration agreement (“Arbitration Agreement”). A true and correct
copy of the Arbitration Agreement signed by Covarrubias is attached hereto as
Exhibit A. The original Arbitration Agreement was made in the regular course of
Frida’s business, and is maintained (along with all of Frida’s other employee
files) at the restaurant. 
 
5. Mr. Covarrubias speaks both English and
Spanish, and has no difficulty understanding English.
 
6. On or about July 30, 2022, Covarrubias’
employment with Frida was terminated. A true and copy of the separation notice
from his employment file is attached hereto as Exhibit B.
 
(Romo
Decl. ¶¶ 1-6.)  Attached as Exhibit A to
the Romo Declaration is a copy of a Mutual Arbitration/Class Action Waiver
Agreement signed only by Plaintiff.  The
signature and date lines for “Vicente Del Rio, President” to sign on behalf of
Defendant are blank.  Further, the
“Employee” and “Employer” lines at the beginning of the agreement are blank.
 
Defendant argues that “the writing memorializing an arbitration
agreement need not be signed by both parties in order to be upheld as a binding
arbitration agreement.”  (Serafin v.
Balco Properties Ltd., LLC (235 Cal.App.4th 165, 176) (hereafter Serafin).)  
 
The Court generally agrees that an agreement to arbitrate may be
express or implied (Craig v. Brown & Root, Inc. (2000) 84
Cal.App.4th 416, 420-421) and that a writing memorializing an agreement does
not necessarily have to be signed by both parties for the Court to find the
existence of a binding agreement to arbitrate  (Serafin, supra, 235 Cal.App.4th
at p. 176.)  As the Court of Appeal has
explained, “it is not the presence or absence of a signature which is
dispositive; it is the presence or absence of evidence of an agreement
to arbitrate which matters.”  (Banner
Entertainment, Inc. v. Superior Court (1998) 62 Cal.App.4th 348, 361, emphases
in original.)  
 
For example, in Serafin, the employee was presented with a
“MANDATORY ARBITRATION POLICY” that indicated “Any and all claims arising out
of or in any way connected with your employment […] must be submitted to
binding arbitration.” and “All employees will be required to sign an
acknowledgment stating that they understand this policy and will comply with
it.”  (Serafin, supra, 235
Cal.App.4th at pp. 174-175.)  Thus, in Serafin,
the employer had a mandatory arbitration policy that all employees were
required to agree to, and the employee’s assent to that policy was demonstrated
by virtue of the employee’s signature (as well as by the employee’s choice to continue
employment.)
 
By contrast, here, Plaintiff was presented with a standalone “Mutual
Arbitration/Class Action Waiver Agreement” (emphasis added.)  The Agreement provides:
 
4.         THIS
AGREEMENT CONTAINS A BINDING INDIVIDUAL ARBITRATION AGREEMENT AND CLASS ACTION
WAIVER PROVISION SUCH THAT BOTH PARTIES GIVE UP ALL RIGHTS TO A JURY TRIAL AND
TO PROCEED IN A CLASS OR MULTIPLE PARTY ACTION. […]
 
5.         This
Agreement contains all the terms, obligations and understandings between the
parties regarding its subject matter.
 
(Ex.
A to Romo Decl. at ¶¶ 4-5.)
 
Thus, unlike the writing in Serafin, which informed the
employee of the employer’s mandatory arbitration policy and evidenced the
employee’s assent thereto, here, the writing is, by its own terms, the
agreement itself.  Because Defendant did
not sign it, there is no evidence of a mutual agreement to arbitrate.  “A contract must be so interpreted as to give
effect to the mutual intention of the parties as it existed
at the time of contracting, so far as the same is ascertainable and
lawful.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1636,
emphases added.)  
 
CONCLUSION
 
            Because the evidence does not
demonstrate Defendant entered into a valid and binding arbitration agreement
with Plaintiff, the Court denies Defendant’s motion to compel arbitration.
 
            Defendant shall provide notice of
the Court’s ruling and file the notice with a proof of service forthwith.
 
 
 
DATED:  June 13, 2024                                                         ___________________________
                                                                                    Michael E. Whitaker
                                                                                    Judge of the Superior Court


