 Case Number:  23SMCV04856    Hearing Date:   June 13, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


June 13, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV04856




MOTIONS


Demurrer and Motion to Strike Portions of Plaintiffs’ Second
  Amended Complaint




MOVING PARTIES


Defendants LA Solar Group, Inc and Ara Petrosyan




OPPOSING PARTIES


Plaintiffs Daniel Eisenberg and Martha Bailey



 
MOTIONS
 
Plaintiffs Daniel Eisenberg and Martha Bailey (“Plaintiffs”) filed a Second
Amended Complaint (“SAC”) against Defendants LA Solar Group, Inc., dba AP
Electrical System (“LA Solar”); Ara Petrosyan (“Petrosyan”); and Merchants
Bonding Company (Mutual) (“Merchants”); alleging five causes of action for (1)
breach of express warranty; (2) negligence; (3) breach of contract; (4) fraud;
and (5) breach of contract against surety. 
The first four causes of action are brought against all Defendants
except Merchants, and the fifth cause of action is brought only against
Merchants.
 
Defendants LA Solar Group, Inc. and Ara Petrosyan (“Defendants”) demur
to the fourth cause of action alleged against them for failure to state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 430.10, subdivision (e). 
Defendants also move to strike Plaintiffs’ allegations of, and the
request for, punitive damages.
 
Plaintiffs oppose the demurrer and Defendants reply.
 
REQUEST
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
            Plaintiffs request judicial notice
of “Decision and Order, Before the Registrar of Contractors State License Board
Department of Consumer Affairs State of California, Case No. N2021-152; OAH No.
2022030467; In the Matter of the Accusation Against LA Solar Group, Inc., dba A
P Electrical Ara Petrosyan, RMO/CEO/Pres.; Contractors License No. 974115,
C-10, C-46.”
 
            Judicial notice may be taken of
“Official acts of the legislative, executive, and judicial departments of the
United States and of any state in the United States.” (Evid. Code, § 452, subd.
(c).)  “Official acts” of which courts
may take judicial notice under subdivision (c) include records, reports, and
orders of administrative agencies, including the Registrar of Contractors,
Contractors’ State License Board, Department of Consumer Affairs.  (Rodas v. Spiegel (2001) 87
Cal.App.4th 513, 518.)
 
            Defendants oppose the request on the
grounds that (1) it is an improper attempt to circumvent the general rule
barring extrinsic evidence on a demurrer; (2) Plaintiffs have not furnished the
Court with sufficient information for it to take judicial notice of the
requested document; and (3) it improperly asks the Court to judicially notice
the truth of hearsay matters asserted within the document.
 
            Regarding Defendants’ first
argument, “a demurrer may be sustained where judicially noticeable facts render
the pleading defective, and allegations in the pleading may be disregarded if
they are contrary to facts judicially noticed.” 
(Scott v. JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (2013) 214 Cal.App.4th 743,
751 [cleaned up.])  Therefore, there is
nothing inherently improper in making a request for judicial notice in
connection with a demurrer.
 
            Regarding Defendants’ second
argument, the Court disagrees that Plaintiffs have not furnished the Court with
the necessary information for the Court to take judicial notice.  Plaintiffs have provided the Court with the
relevant legal authority, cited above, and have provided a copy of the decision
they wish the Court to take judicial notice of. 
That is all which is required.
 
            Regarding Defendants’ third
argument, “while courts are free to
take judicial notice of the existence of each document in a court file,
including the truth of results reached, they may not take judicial notice of
the truth of hearsay statements in decisions and court files.  Courts may not take judicial notice of
allegations in affidavits, declarations and probation reports in court records
because such matters are reasonably subject to dispute and therefore require
formal proof.”  (Lockley v. Law Office
of Cantrell, Green, Pekich, Cruz & McCort (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 875,
882 [cleaned up].)
 
            Here,
Plaintiffs request the court to take judicial notice of the findings of fact
and conclusions of law in the Administrative Law Judge’s proposed decision,
which was adopted by the Registrar of Contractors and incorporated into its
decision.  As such, the contents are
properly the subject of judicial notice.
 
ANALYSIS
 
1.     DEMURRER
 
“It is black letter law that a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of
the allegations in a complaint.”  (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015)
235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  In testing the sufficiency of a cause of
action, a court accepts “[a]s true all material facts properly pled and matters
which may be judicially noticed but disregard contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law.  [A court
also gives] the complaint a reasonable interpretation, reading it as a whole
and its parts in their context.”  (290
Division (EAT), LLC v. City & County of San Francisco (2022) 86
Cal.App.5th 439, 450 [cleaned up]; Hacker v. Homeward Residential, Inc.
(2018) 26 Cal.App.5th 270, 280 [“in considering the merits of a demurrer,
however, “the facts alleged in the pleading are deemed to be true, however
improbable they may be”].)
 
Further, in ruling on a demurrer, a court must “liberally construe”
the allegations of the complaint “with a view to substantial justice between
the parties.”  (See Code Civ. Proc., §
452.)  “This rule of liberal construction
means that the reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not
the defendant.”  (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209
Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.)   
 
In summary, “[d]etermining whether the complaint is sufficient as
against the demurrer on the ground that it does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action, the rule is that if one consideration of all the
facts stated it appears the plaintiff is entitled to any relief at the hands of
the court against the defendants the complaint will be held good although the
facts may not be clearly stated, or may be intermingled with a statement of
other facts irrelevant to the cause of action shown, or although the plaintiff
may demand relief to which he is not entitled under the facts alleged.”  (Gressley v. Williams (1961) 193
Cal.App.2d 636, 639.)
 
A.   
FAILURE TO STATE A CAUSE OF ACTION – FRAUD
 
The elements for fraudulent
misrepresentation are “(1) the defendant represented to the plaintiff that an
important fact was true; (2) that representation was false; (3) the defendant
knew that the representation was false when the defendant made it, or the
defendant made the representation recklessly and without regard for its truth;
(4) the defendant intended that the plaintiff rely on the representation; (5)
the plaintiff reasonably relied on the representation; (6) the plaintiff was
harmed; and (7) the plaintiff's reliance on the defendant's representation was
a substantial factor in causing that harm to the plaintiff.”  (Graham v. Bank of America, N.A.
(2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 594, 605–606.)  
 
“In a promissory fraud action,
to sufficiently alleges [sic] defendant made a misrepresentation, the complaint
must allege (1) the defendant made a representation of intent to perform some
future action, i.e., the defendant made a promise, and (2) the defendant did
not really have that intent at the time that the promise was made, i.e., the
promise was false.”  (Beckwith v. Dahl
(2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 1039, 1060.)   
 
“In California, fraud must be
pled specifically; general and conclusory allegations do not suffice.”  (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12
Cal.4th 631, 645.)  “This particularity
requirement necessitates pleading facts which show how, when, where, to whom,
and by what means the representations were tendered.”  (Ibid.)  
 
“One of the purposes of the
specificity requirement is notice to the defendant, to furnish the defendant
with certain definite charges which can be intelligently met.”  (Alfaro v. Community Housing Improvement
System & Planning Assn., Inc. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1356, 1384.)  As such, less specificity is required “when
it appears from the nature of the allegations that the defendant must
necessarily possess full information concerning the facts of the
controversy[.]”  (Ibid.)  “Even under the strict rules of common law
pleading, one of the canons was that less particularity is required when the
facts lie more in the knowledge of the opposite party.”  (Ibid.)
 
Defendants argue that
Plaintiffs fail to plead fraud with the requisite specificity.  Specifically, Defendants argue that most of
Plaintiffs’ allegations occurred after the alleged promise was made, and
therefore Plaintiffs do not establish that Defendants’ promise was knowingly
false when made.  
 
Plaintiffs’ allegations of
fraud are as follows:
 
61. Defendant Solar (as the alter ego of
Defendant Petrosyan and on its own even absent being the alter ego) made a
promise in writing to Plaintiffs as follows: “Roof Penetrations Warranty: 25
years. The Roof Penetrations warranty applies if the leak is caused by solar
penetration.” (hereinafter the “Warranty Promise.”) The Warranty Promise was
made in writing on April 10, 2021 by Defendant Solar in the Contract at page 4.

 
62. Defendant Solar (as the alter ego of
Defendant Petrosyan and on its own even absent being the alter ego) made a
promise in writing to Plaintiffs as follows: 
 
“LA Solar shall provide its services and meet its
obligations under this Contract in a timely and workmanlike manner, using
knowledge and recommendations for performing the services which meet generally
acceptable standards in customers community and region, and shall provide a
standard of core equal to, or superior to, care used by service providers
similar to LA Solar on similar projects.” (hereinafter the “Workmanlike
Promise”). 
 
The Workmanlike Promise was made in writing on
April 10, 2021 by Defendant Solar in the Contract at page 3. The Warranty
Promise and the Workmanlike Promise are hereinafter referred to as the
“Promises.” 
 
63. Defendants did not intend to perform the
Promises when they were made. The Promises implied an intention to perform the
Promises. The false Promises are actionable on the theory that Defendants
misrepresented its intention to perform. (5 Witkin, Cal. Proc. 6th Plead § 718
(2024).) Liability for deceit may be based on a promise that is made without
any intention of performing it. (Civ. Code, § 1710(4).) A statement of what the
defendant intends to do relates to an existing state of mind, and as such is a
representation of fact. A promise to do something in the future implies the
intention to perform. Where this intention is absent, there is an implied
misrepresentation of fact. (Witkin, 5 Summary of California L., Torts § 899
(11th ed.).) 
 
64. Defendants’ fraudulent intent will be
established by circumstantial evidence. That fraudulent intent can be inferred
from such circumstances as Defendants’ failure to attempt to perform the
Promises. Plaintiffs retained an expert forensic roofer who confirmed that
intrusions into the roof by Defendants relating to the installation of the
solar panels had not been properly done. The improper and defective solar
penetrations were identified as the source of the water leaks. The Warranty
Promise was expressly applicable. However, Defendants refused to perform the
Warranty Promise and concocted numerous excuses. 
 
65. Instead of performing the Warranty Promise,
on January 4, 2023, Defendants (by Hagop) sent an email to Plaintiffs
suggesting that they should replace the clay tiles with shingles and offering
to "upgrade the technology" of the solar panels already installed and
charging the Plaintiffs "at cost." This suggestion is evidence that
Defendants never intended to perform the Warranty Promise. Then Defendants
informed Plaintiffs that the Warranty Promise would be void if the Plaintiffs
did not upgrade their roof. This also constituted evidence that Defendants
never intended to perform the Warranty Promise. Plaintiffs were not required to
upgrade their roof as a condition of Defendants performing the Warranty
Promise. In the Contract, Defendants represented that: “If solar is recommended
then it means there were not any obvious roofing issues found.” However, once
the roof leaked, Defendants falsely blamed the condition of the roof as an
excuse to fail to perform the Warranty Promise. 
 
33. (sic) Defendants tried to charge the
Plaintiffs for additional work, made appointments to conduct repairs without
showing up, made purported repairs which did not resolve the issues, and
erroneously claimed that the roof had been repaired. All of this subsequent
conduct is evidence that Defendants never intended to perform the Warranty
Promise. (See, Tenzer v. Superscope, Inc., (1985) 39 Cal. 3d 18, 30-31.) 
 
66. In addition, Defendants’ fraudulent intent to
fail to perform the Promises can be inferred from other circumstances
surrounding its business practices and its scheme to fraudulently induce
customers to enter into contracts without any intention to perform and with the
intent to refuse to honor the Promises, which Plaintiffs are informed and
believe are in Defendants’ written contracts with other customers. As of March
27, 2024, there were about 123 extremely negative one star reviews of
Defendants on Yelp. Moreover, presumably every defrauded customer does not
leave a Yelp review. One star reviews are the lowest review that a customer can
provide on Yelp. Many customers wrote that they would have provided zero stars
if Yelp allowed zero star reviews. Many customers referred to Defendants as
“scammers.” Most customers warned others not to use Defendants. One customer
noted that Defendants probably pay for positive reviews. One customer noted
that Defendants would only respond to a complaint if the negative review was
removed. Many customers expressly noted that Defendants (including expressly
Defendant Petrosyan) lied and made false promises and excuses. Defendant
Petrosyan personally responded to many of the negative reviews. The numerous
negative reviews are evidence of a business custom and practice of making false
promises to induce customers into entering into contracts without the intention
to perform the Promises. A small sample of those Yelp reviews is as follows:
 
a. “These guys are scammers. They messed up my
roof causing my ceiling which is under the solar panel to leak. I called them
to tell them about the leak, they said they would charge me $450 if they found
nothing. Obviously they ‘found nothing’, sent me a bill for $450 and then had
the audacity to say I need a new roof and they will replace it for a cool
$15,000 Little did they know my roof was replaced in 2012 (hell it's still
under warranty), never had a leak until the solar panels were installed, and ironically
the leak was coming at the exact spot where the solar panels were installed. So
I called a different solar company to come out and look. And guess what, they
found one of the mounts sticking up from improper installation. These folks are
the definition of shady. Class action lawsuit time!” March 12, 2024: Marketing
T 
 
b. “Don't fall into their traps!! Not a reliable
company!! 1. They do a very bad job and after their installation, my roof
leaks. 2. They're very irresponsible and not responsive at all. Due to the
leaks and they blamed our roof was too old and then we decided to replace our
roof. We consulted other roofing companies, they recommended to have the same
company to do the roof to prevent for future disputes. Sure enough, even we
used the same company for roof and solar panels reinstalled. Now that it's still
leaking and they are pushing the responsibility within the roof and solar
department and not want to repair it. 3. The worst part is they are not
communicating within the company/department. And they don't follow up with
customer on the service plans. They will send technicians out, but the
schedules always off or wrong. 4. One last thing, their technicians do not
speak English well, so very hard to communicate with them when they come out.
Also the customer service reps are rude and no basic communication training. In
conclusion, when they want your business, they will be very aggressive and once
they got your business, take forever to respond. And now that we have to go
thru CSLB to get them out to work. AGAIN, if you're smart you should know what
I'm trying to say about this company! Don't EVER TRUST them! Their job is the
worst ever !” February 22, 2024 Connie L -Diamond Bar 
 
c. “LA SOLAR GROUP has been a nuisance from day
1. We signed the contract on 02/25/2022 to start the work. It roughly took 8
months to complete what they consider a completed job to be done. More than a
dozen missed appointments / NO CALL NO SHOW. Every Time I speak with them they
promise everything and anything and disappear. From their sales rep to the
customer service to managers to techs. During the install they damaged more
then 60% of my roof tiles and told me they will replace it while breaking more tiles
in the process. They Broke/Damaged my outdoor Camera, outdoor Speaker, outdoor
Light, Rain Gutters, Cracked Stucco, Roof / Roof Tiles,. Drilled a screw right
into the bathroom tile breaking it. I didn't even know until I took a shower
and cut my foot on the broken glass. It's been over a year and I am still
waiting for repairs. Since day one 4 of the panels have not been working, They
told me they would change the inverter and said they ordered it and will arrive
in a few weeks. When the tech showed up he brought a used and dirty inverter. I
told him I don't want used equipment installed and he assured me it's new.
After installing it, it did not work and he said I must have picked up the
wrong one. I will go to the office and be back in an hour. It's been over a
year. How far is the office???? During the sales pitch they assured me they
have 24/7 monitoring and if anything goes wrong they will be out to fix the
issue before I even notice. What a joke that was. They lied during the sales
pitch and lied throughout the whole project. They told me for the amount of
panels I need I will have to do a panel upgrade and only installed 1/3 of the
panels they said I needed . They assure you in every way till you sign the
contract then the games start. When I asked them for their insurance / bond
info so I can make a claim to have my house repaired they gave me the run
around for 2 months then said go through your own insurance it is not our
issue. The sheer negligence by this company must be stopped. This company does
Inadequate Maintenance / repairs, Causes Property damages, Installs
Used/Damaged equipment, No Show to appointments, AND has a history of
Promissory Fraud, Breach of contract and Negligence. To all the home owners
Please be aware. With everyone's help we can put an end to this. Join me and
TOGETHER WE CAN TAKE ACTION.” 2/15/2024 Adam M 
 
d. “I'm actually growing concerned that this
company is a bunch of scammers. As the negative reviews have stated below, if
anything goes wrong with your project, don't expect anything to be fixed or
refunded for a long time or if at all. They still owe us tens of thousands of
dollars after over a month of back and forth. They always have some sort of
excuse why we're not getting our money back yet. We had requested cancellation
of our project because they had zero progress on our roofing for over 3 months,
even though they kept assuring us it would be done "soon." Every
week, we'd reach out to see what was going on and either we would get no
response or a vague "we're working on it." You could tell the
disorganization of this company since there seems to be a lot of turnaround. We
were assigned a project manager and then the next week, a different project
manager was assigned to us. Then they tried to charge us a SECOND time for the
deposit, stating we didn't pay. We had to send them receipts and screenshots for
proof and then they responded with "oh, oops. We didn't have it in our
system." That's when we really knew we had to stop working with this
company. Of course right when we sent a message to cancel, the roofers were
"ready to go" the next day. They kept trying to push it, even after
we had told them our mind was made up. We didn't even have the roofing
materials picked out -- how the heck would the roofers have been ready to go??
When we first requested the refund, we were supposed to contact one person.
After over a week of no response, LA Solar said "oh, she left the company.
Here, talk to this person." Now the person we're talking to either doesn't
respond for days/a week, or tells us the refund is ready to go and then another
excuse pops up as to why the refund is delayed. We are getting so tired of
this, we may have to make this a legal issue soon. Do not go with LA Solar”
Sharon C 11/28/2023 
 
e. “LA Solar Group installed Panels on my roof
about 4 years ago. The installation was not done correctly and the panels
cooked my shingles. We started having leaks on an 10 year old roof only on the
areas where the panels were installed. I brought in over 7 roofers and
contractors to take a look. The panels were not installed correctly and all
considerations were not done. I am currently spending over 40K redoing the roof
and when I saw the pictures of the shingles under the roof. Its astonishing. I
am currently rethinking my decision for solar.” John P. 5/31/2023 
 
f. “I regret choosing this company to do my solar
installation. LA Solar caused roofing damage during the installation and has
yet to fix the issue. They have scheduled the repairs multiple times and have
not shown up to complete the work.” Trent H. 1/3/2023 
 
g. “I had a solar panel installation two years
ago. My roof has leaked with every rainfall that has occurred since the
install. LA Solar Group will not return calls, emails or text messages. I have
reached out to them at least 9 different times over the last 3 weeks to try and
get final resolution/fix, yet no response or reply. I will keep trying to reach
Ara Petrosyan (President of LA Solar Group) or "Jack" from the
roofing department, while I simultaneously pursue a legal avenue and submit a
complaint and photos to the Contractors State Licensing Board. My advice to
anyone contemplating solar panel installation is to seek firms that do not have
this very poor track record of quality, communication and service. Trust is a
big part of any material purchase and I have lost all trust in LA Solar Group.”
Robert B. 12/27/2022 
 
h. “The absolute worst. They could not do
anything correct while installing my system. Their planning, execution and
follow up were terrible. The system does not deliver what they promised and I
have to monitor it each week as their monitoring service doesn't really notice
when something goes wrong. I had an inverter fail and 2 months after it went
out, they still hadn't noticed the problem. When they did come out to fix it,
they didn't get the failed panel back up until a week later. The State Contractors
Licensing Review Board has investigated them numerous times and found them in
the wrong every time. Save yourself years of headaches and stay FAR away from
this company!” Kevin K. 8/29/2023 
 
i. “The good reviews must be fake. I have been
trying to get my panels repaired for nearly a year. They are still under
warranty however receive endless excuses. No after sales support. Be careful
with this company as empty promises and I can relate to the negative reviews
here, they are going through exactly what I am going through. Do not waste your
time and money, I have been trying to get my panels fixed for nearly a year
now.” Michael H. 8/22/2023 
 
j. “ Absolutely the worst. Run. And don't stop.
Multiple missed appointments. No follow up. No customer service. They don't
care. Roof leaks they caused and they don't care once they have your money.
Dealing with these people is hands down the most frustrating experience ever.
If I could give negative stars I would. Run.” Aaron K. 6/9/2023 
 
k. “BUYER BEWARE!!!! Though we had our solar
panels turned on in March 2021 (started this project back in the Fall of 2020),
I am finally able to write my series of reviews now as we finally received our
first DWP bill (actually two bills, but one of the solar invertors failed
already and had to be replaced, driving the bill up again!). Yes, thankfully
the number of panels they installed covered the electric portion of our bill,
but I would NOT choose LA Solar if I had it to do over again. Yes, I DID MY RESEARCH
before choosing them, and found VERY FEW NEGATIVE REVIEWS before choosing them,
but have now found out why! When things go wrong, they WILL NOT REMEDY THEIR
MISTAKES WITH YOU UNLESS YOU TAKE DOWN ANY NEGATIVE WARNING REVIEWS!! To be
clear, I'm used to giving 5-star reviews. MY PURPOSE in these postings,
therefore, is SIMPLY TO WARN. As there were quite a few areas of warning, I
will need to split this into a few sections. Also, I want to make clear that
there were a FEW "good eggs" at LA Solar, and I don't want to
"throw them under the bus" with the rest...Emily, Greg, and Alex
(head installer)...I do appreciate you guys and the fact that you did your best
to be responsive when I wrote you or tried to get you to understand my
predicament thru all of this. But, I do need to follow-thru and file these
reviews to warn people.” Kari S. 9/28/2021 
 
l. “ Do not waste your time or money. We signed
in October and are currently trying to cancel after over a dozen failed
inspections we are now 8 months later. Our roof was destroyed.. over 100 tiles
broken. Our yard left a mess. No follow up. No communication. Charging our
account while providing no service. Blaming PGE while PGE was waiting for them
to submit permits and photos for over 2 months. And still no PTO. To this day
we have loose panels on our roof and no connection as they refuse to remove their
equipment. Save yourself the legal fees and find another company.” Jonathan B.
6/15/2021 
 
m. “ I don't know where to begin. I am 9 months
into a project with LA solar group. I have had 5 different representatives. I
have paid LA solar group 90% of the cost of the project, for which I am now
carrying interest. I leave voicemails with no return call. I send emails to the
named employees, the monitoring group and the admin with no response. I am
beyond frustrated. I would love to be able to change this review to positive,
but at this point I am entertaining options of how to get the job finished by
another provider, and seek recourse for refund from LA Solar group. This has
been a terrible experience. Unfortunately, this company went downhill. I used
them the 2nd time last year and it is a DISASTER. Almost 3 months passed since
installation and still can't pass city final inspection. Staff don't know what
they are doing, and none of the supervisors is willing to help you. Ara, the
owner, who was responsive before you signing contract, disappeared the second
issues arise. Don't expect anybody in this company will solve any problem for
you. Good luck!” Travis R 12/11/2020. 
 
67. In addition, Defendants’ fraudulent intent to
fail to perform the Promises can be inferred from the experience of other
customers which resulted in complaints to the California State License Board
(the “CSLB”) and investigations. Plaintiffs are informed and believe that
Defendants have been investigated on numerous occasions due to customers’
complaints to the CSLB. 
 
68. In addition, Defendants’ fraudulent intent to
fail to perform the Promises can be inferred from numerous claims made against
its surety bonds. On December 29, 2023, one of Defendants’ surety bond issuers,
Great American Insurance Company, filed a lawsuit in Los Angeles Superior
Court, Case No. 23STLC08235. There were so many complaints made on the surety
bonds issued by Great American that it interpled the amount of its bond with
the Court and thus the entire amount of the bond will be paid pro-rata in some
amount to certain complaining customers. Plaintiffs’ claim is at least the
sixth complaint against just that bond, which was issued September 22, 2022 and
cancelled April 13, 2023.
 
69. Platte River Insurance Company issued two
surety bonds on behalf of Defendants: PR2711149, effective from July 15, 2020,
to July 15, 2021 and PR2738822, effective from July 14, 2022, to September 23,
2022. Platte River Insurance Company has notified Plaintiffs that so many
complaints have been made against its surety bonds that it is also considering
filing an interpleader action. 
 
70. Defendant Solar intended that Plaintiffs rely
on the Promises and each of them. 
 
71. Plaintiffs reasonably relied on Defendants’
Promises. 
 
72. Defendant Solar did not perform the Promises.

 
73. Plaintiffs have been harmed and damaged by
Defendant Solar’s failure to perform the Promises in the amount of at least
$90,000. 
 
74. Plaintiffs’ reliance on Defendants’ Promises
was a substantial factor in causing Plaintiffs’ harm. (See CACI, 1902.) 
 
75. In addition, Plaintiffs are informed and
believe, and based on such information and belief allege, that other claims
have been made against Defendants and Defendants do not honor the terms of its
Promises. Plaintiffs are informed and believe that the California State
Contractors License Board has commenced proceedings against Defendants relating
to its defective work. The CSLB has filed an Accusation (Case No. N2021-152)
against Defendants that alleges claims similar to those here, in part that: “LA
Solar failed to properly install the flashings, racking, and solar panels on
multiple occasions resulting in a large number of penetrations to the roofing
system and excessive wear and tear on the roof due to foot traffic.” 
 
76. The CSLB Accusation against Defendants arises
out of a contract executed on or about October 29, 2019, before the Contract
executed by Plaintiffs. The CSLB accused Defendants of willfully departing from
accepted trade standards for good and workmanlike construction. 
 
77. The CSLB had also previously issued Citation
No. 2-2019-1537 against Defendants and had ordered Defendants to pay
restitution to the homeowner. 
 
78. Plaintiffs are informed and believe, and
based on such information and belief allege, that when Defendants made the
aforesaid Promises, they knew they had no intention of performing the Promises
and that Defendants had a history of violations of applicable standards. 
 
79. Plaintiffs were ignorant of the falsity of
Defendants’ Promises and did not discover the falsity until the roof began to
leak and Plaintiffs demanded that Defendants perform the Warranty Promise. 80.
Had Plaintiffs known the true facts, they would not have agreed to enter into
the Contract with Defendants. 81. As a proximate result of the above-described
conduct of Defendants, Plaintiffs have been damaged in the sum of at least
$90,000 in accordance with their proof. 82. Plaintiffs are informed and believe,
and based on such information and belief allege, that the aforesaid conduct of
Defendants occurred deliberately and intentionally, with fraud, oppression and
malice, and with a conscious and callous disregard of the rights of Plaintiffs,
so that Plaintiffs are entitled to recover punitive damages from Defendants.
 
83. Defendant Solar is liable for punitive
damages because it authorized, ratified and approved the false Promises.
Defendant Petrosyan was an officer, director or managing agent of Defendant
Solar and Defendant Solar is the alter ego of Defendant Petrosyan. Defendant
Solar’s written Promises in the Contract were authorized, ratified and approved
by Defendant Petrosyan.
 
(FAC
¶¶ 61-83.)  
 
Therefore, Plaintiffs have adequately pleaded facts, direct and
circumstantial, suggesting Defendants have a modus operandi of damaging their
customers’ roofs while installing solar panels, and then instead of honoring
the warranty to repair the damage, they attempt to upsell the customers on an
entirely new roof when they complain. 
This alleged pattern of behavior is sufficient to satisfy Plaintiffs’
pleading burden to allege Defendants’ warranty promise was knowingly false when
made.
 
Therefore, the Court overrules Defendants’ demurrer to the fourth
cause of action for fraud.
 
2.     MOTION
TO STRIKE
 
Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading, may serve
and file a motion to strike the whole pleading or any part thereof.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1); Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1322, subd. (b).) 
On a motion to strike, the court may: (1) strike out any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike out all or
any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of
California, a court rule, or an order of the court.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a)-(b); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767,
782.)  Here, Chan moves to strike from the complaint,
references to and claims for punitive damages. 
  
 
In ruling on a motion to strike punitive damages, “judges read
allegations of a pleading subject to a motion to strike as a whole, all parts
in their context, and assume their truth.” 
(Clauson v. Superior Court
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.)  To
state a prima facie claim for punitive damages, a plaintiff must allege the
elements set forth in the punitive damages statute, Civil Code section 3294.  (College
Hosp., Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 721.)  Per Civil Code section 3294, a plaintiff must
allege that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.  (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).)   As set forth in the Civil Code, 
 
(1) “Malice” means conduct which is intended
by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which
is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard
of the rights or safety of others.  (2)
“Oppression” means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and
unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person's rights.  (3) “Fraud” means an intentional
misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the
defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving
a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.
 
(Civ.
Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1)-(3), emphasis added.)  
 
Further, a plaintiff must assert facts with specificity to support a
conclusion that a defendant acted with oppression, fraud or malice.  To wit, there is a heightened pleading
requirement regarding a claim for punitive damages.  (See Smith v. Superior Court (1992) 10
Cal.App.4th 1033, 1041-1042.)  “When
nondeliberate injury is charged, allegations that the defendant’s conduct was
wrongful, willful, wanton, reckless or unlawful do not support a claim for
exemplary damages; such allegations do not charge malice.  When a defendant must produce evidence in
defense of an exemplary damage claim, fairness demands that he receive adequate
notice of the kind of conduct charged against him.” (G. D. Searle & Co.
v. Superior Court (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 22, 29 [cleaned up].)  In Anschutz Entertainment Group, Inc. v.
Snepp, the Court of Appeal noted that the plaintiffs’ assertions related to
their claim for punitive damages were “insufficient to meet the specific
pleading requirement.”  (Anschutz
Entertainment Group, Inc. v. Snepp (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 598, 643
[plaintiffs alleged “the conduct of Defendants was intentional, and done
willfully, maliciously, with ill will towards Plaintiffs, and with conscious
disregard for Plaintiff's rights. Plaintiff's injuries were exacerbated by the
malicious conduct of Defendants. Defendants' conduct justifies an award of
exemplary and punitive damages”]; see also Grieves
v. Superior Court (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 166 [“The mere allegation an
intentional tort was committed is not sufficient to warrant an award of
punitive damages.  Not only must there be
circumstances of oppression, fraud, or malice, but facts must be alleged in the
pleading to support such a claim”].)  
 
Moreover, “the imposition of punitive damages upon a corporation is
based upon its own fault.  It is not imposed vicariously by virtue of the
fault of others.”  (City Products Corp. v. Globe Indemnity Co.
(1979) 88 Cal.App.3d 31, 36.)  “Corporations are legal entities which do
not have minds capable of recklessness, wickedness, or intent to injure or
deceive.  An award of punitive damages against a corporation therefore
must rest on the malice of the corporation’s employees.  But the law does
not impute every employee’s malice to the corporation.  Instead, the
punitive damages statute requires proof of malice among corporate
leaders:  the officers, directors, or managing agents.”  (Cruz v.
Home Base (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 160, 167 [cleaned up].)  
            
Here, as discussed above, Plaintiffs have alleged facts with requisite
specificity to state a cause of action for fraud against Defendants.  As such, the Court finds that the allegations
similarly support a claim for punitive damages.[1]    
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
For the reasons stated, the Court overrules Defendants’ Demurrer to
the Fourth Cause of Action and denies Defendants’ Motion to Strike punitive
damages from the Second Amended Complaint. 

 
Further, the Court orders Defendants to file and serve an Answer to
the Second Amended Complaint on or before June 27, 2024.  
 
Defendants shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file the
notice with a  proof of service forthwith.  
 
 
DATED: 
June 13, 2024                                                         ___________________________
                                                                                    Michael E. Whitaker
                                                                                    Judge of the Superior Court


