 Case Number:  23STCV22458    Hearing Date:   April 15, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



MIGUEL A. LICEA,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
RACK ROOM SHOES, INC., a North Carolina corporation d/b/a
  RACKROOMSHOES.COM,
                        Defendants.


 Case No.:          23STCV22458
 Hearing Date:   4/15/24
 Trial Date:        N/A
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Defendant Rack
  Room Shoes, Inc.’s Demurrer to Plaintiff’s Complaint.



 
I. Background
A. Pleadings
Plaintiff Miguel A.
Licea (Licea) sues Defendant Rack
Room Shoes, Inc. (RR Shoes) pursuant to a September 18, 2023, Complaint
alleging claims of (1) Violations of the California Invasion of Privacy Act
(Cal. Penal Code § 631) and (2) Violations of the California Invasion of
Privacy Act (Cal. Penal Code § 632.7).
The claims arise from the following allegations. RR Shoes secretly
enables and allows a third-party spyware company (Freshworks) to eavesdrop on
the private conversations of everyone who communicates through the chat feature
at https://www.rackroomshoes.com/ (the Website). Freshworks, the third-party
spyware company, then exploits and monetizes that data by sharing it with other
third parties, who use the private chat data to bombard the unsuspecting
visitor with targeted marketing. Within the last year, Plaintiff visited RR
Shoes’ Website, sharing personal data and personally identifying information
with RR Shoes via the Website chat feature on Plaintiff’s smart phone. RR Shoes
failed to inform Plaintiff that RR Shoes was secretly allowing, aiding, and
abetting Freshworks to intercept and eavesdrop on the conversations during
transmission, or that Freshworks provided data from such transcripts to Meta
(formerly Facebook) through integration with Meta software.
B. Motion Before the
Court
On November 29, 2023,
RR Shoes filed a demurrer to the Complaint’s two causes of action.
On April 2, 2024,
Plaintiff Licea filed an opposition to RR Shoes’ demurrer.
On April 8, 2024, RR
Shoes filed a reply to Plaintiff’s opposition.
RR Shoes’ demurrer is
now before the Court.
 
II. Demurrer Request for Judicial Notice
A. Demurrer Request for Judicial
Notice
The Court denies judicial notice of
three pleadings filed by Plaintiff Licea in other actions and of a screenshot
of RR Shoes’ website.
The pleadings for other actions are
not relevant to the sufficiency of the instant pleadings or the Court’s
analysis of the relevant controlling authorities. (People ex rel. Lockyer v.
Shamrock Foods Co. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 415, 422, fn. 2 (Lockyer) [“[A]
precondition to the taking of judicial notice in either its mandatory or
permissive form” is that the “matter to be judicially noticed [is] be relevant
to a material issue”].)
The screenshot of the RR Shoes
website is extrinsic evidence not on the face of the pleadings or attached to
the pleadings. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d
311, 318 (Kirwan) [demurrer challenges face of the pleadings]; Frantz
v. Blackwell (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 91, 94 (Blackwell) [face of
pleadings includes exhibits to pleading].) Nor is the screenshot the type of
evidence subject to judicial notice. (Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (h).)
B. Opposition Request for
Judicial Notice
The Court denies judicial notice of
court orders made in other actions arising from similar pleadings and issues
relating to Penal Code sections 631 and 632.7. Those orders are not relevant to
the sufficiency of the instant pleadings or the Court’s analysis of the
relevant controlling authorities. (Lockyer, supra, 24 Cal.4th at
p. 422, fn. 2.)
C. Reply Request for Judicial
Notice
The Court denies judicial notice of
court orders made in other actions arising from similar pleadings and issues
relating to Penal Code sections 631 and 632.7. Those orders are not relevant to
the sufficiency of the instant pleadings or the Court’s analysis of the
relevant controlling authorities. (Lockyer, supra, 24 Cal.4th at
p. 422, fn. 2.)
 
III. Demurrer Evidentiary Objections
Opposition Objections to
Demurrer’s Request for Judicial Notice
Objections: MOOT. (See
Section II.A. discussion supra.)
 
IV. Demurrer Discussion
A.
Legal Standard
A
demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action.
(Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747; see Code Civ. Proc., §
430.10, subd. (e).)
To
sufficiently allege a cause of action, a complaint must allege all the ultimate
facts—that is, the facts needed to establish each element of the cause of
action pleaded. (Committee on Children’s Television, Inc. v. General Foods
Corp. (1983) 35 Cal.3d 197, 212, superseded by statute as stated in Branick
v. Downey Savings & Loan Assn. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 235, 242.) “[E]ach
evidentiary fact that might eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need
not be alleged.” (C.A. v. William S. Hart Union High School Dist. (2012)
53 Cal.4th 861, 872.)
In
testing the sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer admits the truth
of all material facts properly pleaded. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist.
(1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-67.) Courts read the allegations liberally and in context.
(Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144
Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228, disapproved on other grounds, Jones v. Lodge at
Torrey Pines Partnership (2008) 42 Cal.4th 1158, 1162.) A demurrer,
however, “does not admit contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or
law.” (Daar v. Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713.) 
A
demurrer may only be used to challenge defects that appear on the face of the
pleading under attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially
noticeable. (Kirwan, supra, 39 Cal.3d at p. 318.) The face of the
complaint includes exhibits attached to the complaint. (Blackwell, supra,
189 Cal.App.3d at p. 94.) If facts appearing in the exhibits contradict those
alleged, the facts in the exhibits take precedence. (Holland v. Morse Diesel
Intern., Inc. (2001) 86 Cal.App.4th 1443, 1447, superseded by statute on
other grounds as stated in White v. Cridlebaugh (2009) 178 Cal.App.4th
506, 521.)
B.
Analysis
1. Demurrer, Complaint, First
Cause of Action, Violations of the California Invasion of Privacy Act (Cal.
Penal Code § 631): OVERRULED.
a. Relevant
Law
Penal Code section 631 subdivision
(a) provides, in full, as follows: “Any person who, by means of any machine,
instrument, or contrivance, or in any other manner, [1] intentionally taps, or
makes any unauthorized connection, whether physically, electrically,
acoustically, inductively, or otherwise, with any telegraph or telephone wire,
line, cable, or instrument, including the wire, line, cable, or instrument of
any internal telephonic communication system, or who [2] willfully and without
the consent of all parties to the communication, or in any unauthorized manner,
reads, or attempts to read, or to learn the contents or meaning of any message,
report, or communication while the same is in transit or passing over any wire,
line, or cable, or is being sent from, or received at any place within this
state; or who [3] uses, or attempts to use, in any manner, or for any purpose,
or to communicate in any way, any information so obtained, or who [4] aids,
agrees with, employs, or conspires with any person or persons to unlawfully do,
or permit, or cause to be done any of the acts or things mentioned above in
this section, is punishable by a fine not exceeding two thousand five hundred
dollars ($2,500), or by imprisonment in the county jail not exceeding one year,
or by imprisonment pursuant to subdivision (h) of Section 1170, or by both a
fine and imprisonment in the county jail or pursuant to subdivision (h) of
Section 1170.” 
b. Complaint’s
Allegations
The Complaint’s first cause of
action alleges that RR Shoes violated Penal Code section 631, subdivision (a),
by “‘aiding, abetting, and conspiring’ with both [Freshworks] and Meta/Facebook
to intercept, eavesdrop upon, learn, share, and monetize the contents of [RR
Shoes’] chat conversations” over the internet by “secretly allowing, aiding,
and abetting [Freshworks] to intercept and eavesdrop on … conversations
[between Plaintiff Licea and RR Shoes] during transmission, or that [Freshworks]
provided data from such transcripts to Meta through ‘integration’ with Meta
software.” (Complaint, ¶¶ 25, 28.) The communications are alleged to have been
initiated by Plaintiff Licea from his cellular telephone (smart phone) through
the use of a web browser that connected to RR Shoes’s website. (Complaint, ¶ 23.)
Presumably the pleadings
incorporate the allegations preceding the first cause of action by reference
although the first pleaded count does not explicitly so state.
c. Parties’
Arguments
The parties’ arguments center on
whether (1) Plaintiff had a diminished expectation of privacy in the
communications at issue, undercutting both counts, (2) service providers cannot
wiretap under section 631, subdivision (a), (3) the Complaint sufficiently
alleges aiding and abetting, and (4) whether the Complaint states liability
against Freshworks. (Demurrer, pp. 13-21; Opp’n, pp. 10-21.)
d. Court’s
Determination
The Court finds in favor of
Plaintiffs.
The Complaint sufficiently alleges
that Freshworks, by use of some electronic software, willfully and without
Plaintiff’s consent learned the contents of Plaintiff’s online telephony
communications with RR Shoes, which were sent from or received in California by
Plaintiff Licea. (Complaint, ¶¶ 10-11, 20-27, 30-32.) Such allegations support
a Penal Code section 631, subdivision (a), claim based on prong “[2]” in the
Relevant Law above.
The Complaint sufficiently alleges
that Freshworks shared or communicated with Meta the information sourced from
the Licea-RR Shoes communications. (Complaint, ¶¶ 21, 25.) Such allegations
support a Penal Code section 631, subdivision (a) claim based on prong “[3]” in
the Relevant Law above.
The Complaint sufficiently alleges that
RR Shoes allowed and even paid Freshworks to employ electronic means to learn
the contents of the Licea-RR Shoes online communications. (Complaint, ¶¶ 10,
25-26.) Such allegations support a Penal Code section 631, subdivision (a)
claim based on prong “[4]” in the Relevant Law above.
The Complaint thus facially alleges
section 631 liability against Freshworks based on prong “[2]” and “[3]” in the
Relevant Law above and alleges section 631 liability against RR Shoes based on
prong [4] in the Relevant Law above.
RR Shoes’ argument that Freshworks
was a mere extension of RR Shoes and was thus essentially a party to the
communication is unavailing. Whether software providers are third parties under
California’s eavesdropping statute, or mere tools used by websites, turns on
whether the third party is being used more like a tape recorder used by one
party (deemed not to be eavesdropping) or a friend listening in on another
extension (deemed to be eavesdropping prohibited by the act). (See Ribas v.
Clark (1985) 38 Cal.3d 355, 361-362.) Here, the Complaint alleges that
Freshworks not only recorded the contents of the Licea-RR Shoes telephony
communications, but also shared that information with Meta. Such allegations go
beyond mere recordation and undercut the party exception argument.
RR Shoes’ expectation of privacy
argument is also unavailing. Section 631 does not exist in a vacuum. It
specifically relates to wrongful interceptions of communications. As noted by
the opposition, “a person may reasonably expect privacy against the electronic
recording of a communication, even though he or she had no reasonable
expectation as to the confidentiality of the communication’s contents.” (Sanders
v. American Broadcasting Companies, Inc. (1999) 20 Cal.4th 907, 915.) Even the
fact that Plaintiff may be a tester litigant is irrelevant for expectation of
privacy from recordation. (See Havens Realty Corp. v. Coleman (1982) 455
U.S. 363, 364 [“That the tester may have approached the real estate agent fully
expecting that he would receive false information, and without any intention of
buying or renting a home, does not negate the fact of injury within the meaning
of § 804(d)”].)
RR Shoes’ demurrer is thus
OVERRULED as to the Complaint’s first cause of action.
2. Demurrer,
Complaint, Second Cause of Action, Violations of the California Invasion of
Privacy Act (Cal. Penal Code § 632.7): OVERRULED.
a. Relevant
Law
“Every person who, without the
consent of all of the parties to a communication, intercepts or receives and
intentionally records, or assists in the interception or reception and
intentional recordation of, a communication transmitted between two cellular
radio telephones, a cellular radio telephone and a landline telephone, two
cordless telephones, a cordless telephone and a landline telephone, or a
cordless telephone and a cellular radio telephone, shall be punished by a fine
not exceeding two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500), or by imprisonment in
a county jail not exceeding one year, or in the state prison, or by both that
fine and imprisonment.” (Pen. Code, § 632.7, subd. (a).)
b. Complaint’s
Allegations
The Complaint’s second cause of
action alleges that RR Shoes violated Penal Code section 632.7 by “record[ing]
telephony communication [of Plaintiff Licea] without the consent of all parties
to the communication,” as previously alleged in the Complaint. (Complaint, ¶¶ 37-38.)
c. Parties’
Arguments
The parties’ papers dispute whether
the telephony communications alleged in the Complaint are the type of calls at
issue in Penal Code section 632.7 and whether use of internet can amount to use
of telephonic lines. (Demurrer, pp. 21-25; Opp’n, pp. 21-23.)
RR Shoes also raises its reasonable
expectation of privacy argument in relation to this cause of action, but the
Court has discussed and disposed of that argument in relation to the first
cause of action above. (Demurrer, pp. 13-15.)
d. Court’s
Determination
The Court finds in favor of
Plaintiff Licea.
In Flanagan v. Flanagan
(2002) 27 Cal.4th 766, 776, the California Supreme Court stated that section
632.7 prohibited the “intentional interception or recording of a communication
involving a cellular phone or a cordless phone.”
Penal Code section 632.7,
subdivision (c)(3) clarifies that a “‘communication’ includes, but is not
limited to, communications transmitted by voice, data, or image,
including facsimile,” italics added.
In Gruber v. Yelp, Inc.
(2020) 55 Cal.App.5th 591, 613, the court of appeal reversed a trial court’s
grant of summary judgment made on the ground that the website’s
telecommunication device—Voice over Internet Protocol, also called IP telephony
or VoIP—was not governed by
section 632.7. The court of appeal adopted the reasoning of nonbinding federal
cases declining to decide as a matter of law whether section 632.7 governs a
defendant’s use of VoIP technology, holding that the issue warranted further factual
development before a ruling could be made. (Ibid.)
Based on these authorities, and
without contrary direction from the court of appeal on this issue, the Court
cannot say as a matter of law, that the use of a smart phone for the purpose of
transmitting a communication in the form of data on RR Shoes’ website, is not a
communication for the purposes of section 632.7. As applied to the pleadings
here, the Court cannot say that the use of RR Shoes’ chat function on their
website is not the type of communication contemplated in section 632.7. The Complaint alleges
that, as with VoIP, chats like those
on RR Shoes’ website are a
kind of telephony technology (Complaint, ¶¶ 23-24, 35-37) and thus would
qualify as communications contemplated in section 632.7. 
RR Shoes’ demurrer is thus
OVERRULED as to the Complaint’s second cause of action. 
V. Conclusion
Defendant Rack Room Shoes, Inc.’s Demurrer to Plaintiff’s Complaint is
OVERRULED.