 Case Number:  23CHCV02664    Hearing Date:   August 19, 2024    Dept:  F49 Motion
filed: 4/3/24
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant General Motors LLC (“GM”) 
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff Robert Henderson (“Plaintiff”
or “Henderson”)
NOTICE: OK.
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED: An
order to grant GM’s demurrer to the Fifth Cause of Action in Plaintiff’s First
Amended Complaint, and to strike the prayer for punitive damages.
 
TENTATIVE
RULING: The demurrer
is OVERRULED. The motion to strike is DENIED.
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is a
Song-Beverly Act case. Plaintiff filed this action over alleged defects in
their 2018 Chevrolet Silverado (the “Subject Vehicle”), which was manufactured
by Defendant GM. Plaintiff purchased the Subject Vehicle on August 29, 2018,
from Chevrolet of Montebello, an authorized dealership of GM. (FAC. ¶ 6.)
 
On September 5, 2023, Plaintiff initiated this action.
Subsequently, on April 18, 2024, Plaintiff filed their operative First Amended
Complaint (“FAC”) in response to a demurrer filed by GM on November 3, 2023,
resulting in GM’s withdrawal of its demurrer. The FAC alleges the following
causes of action: (1) Violation of Subdivision (d) of Civil Code Section
1793.2, (2) Violation of Subdivision (b) of Civil Code Section 1793.2, (3)
Violation of Subdivision (a)(3) of Civil Code Section 1793.2, (4) Breach of the
Implied Warranty of Merchantability (Civ. Code, §§ 1791.1, 1794, and 1795.5),
and (5) Fraudulent Inducement – Concealment. 
 
On May 17, 2024, GM filed the instant Demurrer (the
“Demurrer”) with Motion to Strike (the “Motion”). Subsequently, on August 6,
2024, Plaintiff filed their Opposition. On August 12, 2024, GM replied.
 
ANALYSIS
 
A demurrer can be
used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under
attack; or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal 3d 311,
318.) No other extrinsic evidence can be considered.
 
A demurrer for
sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App. 4th
740, 747 (Hahn).)  When
considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in
context.  (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dep’t of Water & Power (2006) 144
Cal. App. 4th 1216, 1228.)  In a demurrer
proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via
proper judicial notice.  (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004)
116 Cal. App. 4th 968, 994.)  
 
“A demurrer tests
the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters.  Therefore, it lies only where the defects
appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed.”  (SKF Farms v. Superior Ct. (1984) 153
Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.)  “The only issue
involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands,
unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”  (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at 747.) 
 
A.   
Meet and
Confer Requirement
 
A party filing a demurrer “shall meet and confer in
person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to
demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached
that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ.
Proc., section 430.41(a).) A failure to meet and confer does not constitute
grounds to sustain or overrule a demurrer. (See Code Civ. Proc., sections
430.41 (a)(4).)
 
            Here, GM’s counsel has not provided
a declaration stating that any meet and confer efforts were made to resolve the
issues raised in the Demurrer regarding the FAC filed on April 18, 2024. GM’s
counsel’s declaration only states that he spoke with Plaintiff’s counsel to
meet and confer regarding the initial Complaint; however, based on his
extensive experience with Plaintiff’s counsel’s firm, he believed that the
parties would reach an impasse again. (Kay Decl. ¶ 2.)
 
            Consequently, the Court concludes
that the meet and confer requirement has not been satisfied.
 
B.    
Statute of
Limitations
 
The statute of limitations
for an action for relief on the ground of fraud or mistake is three years.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 338, subd. (d).) “The cause of action in that case
is not deemed to have accrued until the discovery, by the aggrieved party, of
the facts constituting the fraud or mistake.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 338, subd.
(d).)
 
“A close cousin of the
discovery rule is the ‘well accepted principle ... of fraudulent concealment.’”
(Bernson v. Browing-Ferris
Industries (1994) 7 Cal.4th 926, citing Sanchez
v. South Hoover Hospital (1976) 18 Cal.3d 93, 99.) “It has long been
established that the defendant's fraud in concealing a cause of action against him
tolls the applicable statute of limitations, but only for that period during
which the claim is undiscovered by plaintiff or until such time as plaintiff,
by the exercise of reasonable diligence, should have discovered it.” (Ibid.)
 
Here, the FAC alleges that the GM concealed material
facts related to the Subject Vehicle, specifically that “its 8-speed
transmission were defective and susceptible to sudden and premature failure.”
(FAC ¶ 61.) The FAC further alleges that “GM continued to conceal the defect
and its inability to repair it.... For example, Defendant GM did not disclose
its wrongdoing nor offer to rectify it during successive repair visits.” (Id.
¶ 71.)  
 
Moreover, the FAC details
these successive repair visits, beginning with the earliest on “January 4,
2022, with approximately 37,913 miles on the odometer, Plaintiff presented the
Subject Vehicle to Defendant’s authorized repair facility with various
concerns, including transmission concerns.” (FAC ¶ 21.) 
 
            GM argues
that the FAC conceded the alleged defects were discovered during the warranty
period, thereby Plaintiff cannot sustain his burden of demonstrating that he
did not discover alleged fraudulent concealment within the applicable
limitations period. 
 
However, this argument is
unpersuasive. Even if it is assumed that Plaintiff should have discovered the
defects by the exercise of reasonable diligence, the earliest alleged repair occurred
on January 4, 2022 (FAC ¶ 21), which would
mark the commencement of the three-year statutory of limitations. Given that
this action was initiated on September 5, 2023, it is clear that it falls
within the limitations period.
 
            Consequently,
the Court concludes that the statute of limitations does not provide a basis
for sustaining the demurrer.
 
C.   
Fifth Cause
of Action – Fraudulant Inducement - Concealment
 
“As with all fraud claims, the necessary elements of a concealment/suppression claim consist of
‘“(1) misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (2)
knowledge of falsity (scienter); (3) intent to defraud (i.e., to induce
reliance); (4) justifiable reliance; and (5) resulting damage.”’” (Hoffman v. 162 North Wolfe LLC (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th
1178, 1185–1186.) Suppression of a material fact is actionable when there is a
duty of disclosure, which may arise from a relationship between the parties,
such as a buyer-seller relationship. (Id.
at pp. 1186–1187.) Fraud, including concealment, must be pleaded with
specificity. (Linear Technology Corp. v.
Applied Materials, Inc. (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 115, 132.)
            
In Dhital v. Nissan North America, Inc. (2022) 84
Cal.App.5th 828 (review granted [“Superior courts may, in the exercise of their
discretion, choose to follow a published review-granted Court of Appeal
opinion.” Comment, par. 2, concerning Cal. Rules of Court, rule 8.1115(e)(3)]),
the Court of Appeal concluded that the plaintiff’s claim is adequately pleaded
by alleging: the CVT transmissions installed in numerous Nissan vehicles
(including the one plaintiffs purchased) were defective; Nissan knew of the
defects and the hazards they posed; Nissan had exclusive knowledge of the
defects but intentionally concealed and failed to disclose that information;
Nissan intended to deceive plaintiffs by concealing known transmission
problems; plaintiffs would not have purchased the car if they had known of the
defects; and plaintiffs suffered damages in the form of money paid to purchase
the car. (Id. at p. 844.) 
 
Here, the FAC alleges that Defendant GM committed fraud by
allowing the Subject Vehicle to be sold to Plaintiff without disclosing that
the Subject Vehicle and its 8-speed transmission were defective and susceptible
to sudden and premature failure. (FAC ¶
61.) GM was well aware and knew that “the 8-speed transmission had one
or more defects that can result in various problems, including, but not limited
to hard or harsh shifts, jerking, lurching, hesitation on acceleration, surging
and/or inability to control the vehicle’s speed, acceleration, or deceleration
(“Transmission Defect”). These conditions present a safety hazard and are
unreasonably dangerous to consumers because they can suddenly and unexpectedly
cause the driver to be unable to control the speed and
acceleration/deceleration of the vehicle. Such unexpected inability to control
the vehicle’s speed and acceleration/deceleration thereby exposes Plaintiff and
his passengers (along with other drivers who share the road or garage with
Plaintiff) to a serious risk of accident and injury.” (Id. ¶ 63.) GM
was in a superior position from various internal sources to know (or should
have known) the true state of facts about the material defects contained in
vehicles equipped with the 8-speed transmission. (Id. ¶ 72.)
Defendant concealed the Transmission Defect with the intent to induce Plaintiff
to purchase Subject Vehicle. (Id. ¶ 77.) Had Plaintiff known that the
Vehicle suffered from the Transmission Defect, Plaintiff would not have
purchased the Vehicle. (Id. ¶ 69.)
 
 Based on the above
records, the Court concludes that at the pleading stage, Plaintiff allegations
are sufficient.
 
Conversely, GM contends that it had no duty to disclose to
Plaintiff because there existed no fiduciary relationship, nor has Plaintiff
offered support for an exception to this requirement. (Reply at p. 3.) As shown
below, the Court finds this contention lacks merit.
  
1)      Duty
to Disclose Material Facts
 
“[T]o establish fraud through
nondisclosure or concealment of facts, it is necessary to show the defendant
‘was under a legal duty to disclose them.’” 
(OCM Principal Opportunities Fund
v. CIBC World Markets Corp. (2007) 157 Cal.App.4th 835, 845.)  “‘There are four circumstances in which
nondisclosure or concealment may constitute actionable fraud: (1) when the
defendant is in a fiduciary relationship with the plaintiff; (2) when the
defendant had exclusive knowledge of material facts not known to the plaintiff;
(3) when the defendant actively conceals a material fact from the plaintiff;
and (4) when the defendant makes partial representations but also suppresses
some material facts.’”  (Hoffman v. 162 N. Wolfe LLC (2014) 228
Cal. App. 4th 1178, 1186.)  “A
relationship between the parties is present if there is ‘some sort of
transaction between the parties.’”  (Ibid.) (Underlines added.) 
 
A duty to disclose that is based
upon a “transaction must necessarily arise from direct dealings between the
plaintiff and the defendant; it cannot arise between the defendant and the
public at large.” (Bigler-Engler v. Breg,
Inc. (2017) 7 Cal.App.5th 276, 312.) 
Even where the defendant has volunteered information, it does not have a
further obligation to correct half-truths where no sufficient relationship or
transaction exists.  (Id. at p.312.)  Simply speaking does not give rise to a duty
to disclose.  (Ibid.)  In Bigler-Engler, the court noted that the
manufacturer in that case was not involved “in any way” with the patient, and
that there was no evidence that the manufacturer “directly advertised its
products to consumers such as” the patient. 
(Id. at p.314.)
 
Here, Plaintiff alleges that he
purchased the Subject Vehicle from a GM dealership, that GM backed the car with
an express warranty (FAC ¶ 6). In light of these allegations, the Court finds
that Plaintiff’s claim is not barred on the ground there was no relationship
requiring GM to disclose known defects.
 
Furthermore, the Court finds that
Plaintiff has adequately alleged a duty to disclose based on Defendant’s
superior knowledge. To plead that a defendant had a duty to disclose a material
fact, a plaintiff must allege that “the defendant has exclusive knowledge of
material facts not known or reasonably accessible to the plaintiff.” (See Collins
v. eMachines, Inc. (2011) 202 Cal.App.4th 249, 255.) Plaintiff alleges that
“Defendant GM was in a superior position from various
internal sources to know (or should have known) the true state of facts about
the material defects contained in vehicles equipped with the 8-speed
transmission; and Plaintiff could not reasonably have been expected to learn of
or discover the Vehicle’s Transmission Defect and its potential consequences
until well after Plaintiff purchased the Vehicle.” (FAC ¶ 72.)
“Defendant GM acquired its knowledge of the Transmission Defect and its
potential consequences prior
to
Plaintiff acquiring the subject vehicle, though sources not available to
consumers such as Plaintiff, including but not limited to pre- production
testing data, early consumer complaints about the Transmission Defect made
directly to Defendant GM and its network of dealers, aggregate warranty data
compiled from GM’s network of dealers, testing conducted by Defendant GM in
response to these complaints, as well as warranty repair and part replacements
data received by Defendant GM from Defendant GM’s network of dealers, amongst
other
sources of internal information.”
 
            Consequently, Plaintiff’s
allegations are sufficient to establish that GM had a legal duty to disclose the alleged defects due to its exclusive
knowledge of material facts that were not known to the Plaintiff. While a
fiduciary relationship between GM and Plaintiff is one sufficient condition to
establish such a duty, it is not required in this case.
            
Based on the foregoing, the Court
OVERRULES the Demurrer as to the Fifth Cause of Action in the FAC.
 
D.   
Motion to
Strike
 
The court may, upon a motion, or at any
time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436,
subd. (a).) The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn
or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order
of the court. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (b).) The grounds for a motion to
strike are that the pleading has irrelevant, false, or improper matter, or has
not been drawn or filed in conformity with laws. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436.) The
grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way
of judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)
 
In its Motion to Strike, GM seeks to
strike the following portions from the Prayer for Relief in the FAC:
 
            Paragraph
g: “For punitive damages.”
 
            GM moves to strike Plaintiff’s
prayer for punitive damages from the FAC on the grounds that (1) the FAC has
not alleged a viable fraud claim, (2) the punitive damages are not available
under the Song-Beverly Act, and (3) the FAC fails to state facts sufficient to
support punitive damages. (Mot. at p. 3.) 
 
Firstly, given that
the Court has concluded that the allegations for the fraud claim in the FAC are
sufficient at this stage of pleading, it consequently finds that GM’s
contention on the sufficiency does not form a basis to grant a motion to
strike.
 
The Court proceeds
to examine the remaining basis that GM replied upon.
 
1)     
Punitive
Damages and Song-Beverly Act Civil Penalties
 
GM argues
that the statute limits recovery to a refund of the purchase price paid and
payable plus a Civil Penalty under certain circumstances, citing that “the
penalty under section 1794(c), like other civil penalties, is imposed as punishment or deterrence of the
defendant, rather than to compensate the plaintiffs. In this, it is akin
to punitive damages.”
(Kwan v. Mercedes-Benz of N. America (1994) 23 Cal.App.4th 174, 184.) GM
further contends that “by seeking a ‘civil penalty’ and also
attorney’s fees and all reasonable
expenses as allowed by Civil Code section 1794, plaintiffs had in effect
elected to waive punitive damages under section 3294,” citing Troensegaard
v. Silvercrest Industries, Inc. (1985) 175 Cal.App.3d 218, 228.)
 
            “The
appropriate inquiry should be focused on the underlying conduct.” (Anderson
v. Ford Motor Co. (2022) 74 Cal.App.5th 946, 965 (Anderson).) The Anderson
Court stated, “Our reading of Troensegaard is that the court’s holding was
based on conduct that was the same, i.e., identical, not just ‘substantially’
the same. And that conduct tool place at the same time, post-sale during the
warranty repair process.” (Ibid.) The Anderson court concluded
that punitive damages and the Song-Beverly Act civil penalty were both properly
awarded to the plaintiffs, reasoning that the punitive damages and statutory
penalties in that case were based on different conducts that took place at
different times – the punitive damage were based on conduct underlying the
fraud cause of action and took place before the sale whereas the civil penalty
was based on defendant’s post-sale failure to comply with its Song-Beverly Act
obligations to replace the vehicle or make restitution when reasonable attempts
to repair has failed. (Id. at p. 966.)
 
            Here,
in the operative FAC, under the Fraudulent Inducement – Concealment cause
of action, Plaintiff alleges that GM induced him to purchase the Subject
Vehicle equipped with GM’s 8-speed transmission by concealing that the Subject
Vehicle and its 8-speed transmission were defective and susceptible to sudden
and premature failure. (FAC ¶
61.) GM was well aware and knew that the 8-speed transmission
installed on the Subject Vehicle was defective but failed to disclose this fact
to Plaintiff prior to the sale. (Id. ¶ 62.) Had Plaintiff known that the Subject
Vehicle suffered from the Transmission Defect, Plaintiff would not have
purchased the Subject Vehicle. (Id. ¶ 69.)
 
            Consequently, in line with the
precedent set forth in Anderson, the Court concludes that the recovery
of punitive damage is not prohibited because the underlying conduct for the
remedy is based on the Fraudulent Inducement -Concealment cause of action,
distinct from the conduct alleged for violations of Song-Beverly Act.
 
            As a result, GM’s argument that the
pursuit of civil penalty under the Sang-Beverly Act necessarily precludes
recovery of punitive damage is not well-founded.
 
2)     
Pleading Standards for Punitive Damages
 
GM argues that the FAC fails to state facts sufficient to
support punitive damages.
 
Under Civil Code section 3294, a
plaintiff may recover punitive damages “where it is proven by clear and convincing evidence that
the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.” (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).) 
 
Case law further establishes that
punitive damages may be awarded where
a defendant fraudulently
induces
the plaintiff to enter into a contract. (Kuchta v. Allied Builders Corp.
(1971) 21 Cal.App.3d 541, 549.) 
 
Additionally, “[t]he words ‘oppression, fraud, or malice’ in Civil Code
section 3294 being in the disjunctive, fraud alone is an adequate basis for
awarding punitive
damages.”
(Glendale Fed. Sav. & Loan Assn. v. Marina View Heights Dev. Co.
(1977) 66 Cal.App.3d 101, 135.)
            
Given that the Court has previously found that the allegations in the FAC
are sufficient at this stage of pleading to state a fraud claim, it concludes
that the allegations also provide an adequate basis for punitive damages.
 
Therefore, GM’s
Motion to Strike is DENIED.
 
CONCLUSION
 
Defendant
General Motors LLC’s Demurrer is OVERRULED. Defendant’s Motion to Strike is
DENIED.
 
Defendant
General Motors LLC is ordered to file and serve its Answer to the First Amended
Complaint within 20 days. 
 
Moving party
to give notice.