 Case Number:  24STCP02183    Hearing Date:   September 5, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



PEPE’S INC. DBA PEPE’S TOWING, 
 
                                  Petitioner,
  
         v.
 
 
MARTIN ALEJANDRO BERNAL GARCIA,
 
                                  Respondent.
 


 Case No: 
  24STCP02183
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  September 5, 2024
 Calendar Number:  3



 
 
 
Petitioner Pepe’s Inc. (“Petitioner”) applies for an order
granting leave to conduct certain discovery to preserve evidence relating to
the medical records and employment records of Respondent Martin Alejandro
Bernal Garcia (“Respondent”).
 
The Court DENIES the petition.
 
Background
 
Petitioner expects to be a defendant in an action relating
to an automobile collision (the “Incident”)  that occurred on December 23, 2023. Petitioner
expects Respondent to be the adverse party in the litigation. Petitioner’s
interest in the expected action is its defense as the owner of a vehicle
allegedly involved in the Incident. Petitioner bases these expectations on a
December 26, 2023 letter of representation that Los Angeles Legal Solutions
issued to Petitioner’s insurer on Respondent’s behalf.
 
Petitioner’s counsel has attempted to meet and confer with Respondent’s
counsel seeking information about the nature of Respondent’s injuries and the
scope and cost of medical treatment. Respondent’s counsel only replied that
Respondent was still treating his injuries. Petitioner has also requested that
Respondent provide a Medical Release Form/Authorization that Petitioner’s
counsel could use to obtain the relevant medical records. Respondent’s counsel
did not provide an authorization form.
 
Petitioner filed this petition on July 9, 2024. Respondent
filed an opposition on August 22, 2024. Petitioner filed a reply on August 28,
2024.
 
Legal Standard
 
“One who expects to be a party or expects a successor in
interest to be a party to an action that may be cognizable in a court of the
state, whether as a plaintiff, or as a defendant, or in any other capacity, may
obtain discovery within the scope delimited by Chapter 2 (commencing with
Section 2017.010), and subject to the restrictions set forth in Chapter 5
(commencing with Section 2019.010), for the purpose of perpetuating that
person's own testimony or that of another natural person or organization, or of
preserving evidence for use in the event an action is subsequently filed.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2035.010.)


Discovery methods available in these cases include oral and
written depositions, inspection of documents, things, and places, and physical
and mental examinations. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2035.020.)  
 
A petition under this chapter must be verified and filed in
the superior court of the county where at least one adverse party
resides. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2035.030, subd. (a) [emphasis added].) The
petition must also include all of the following (1) the expectation that the
petitioner will be a party to an action cognizable in this state; (2)
petitioner’s present inability either to bring that action or to cause it to be
brought; (3) the subject matter of the expected action and the petitioner’s
involvement and must attach a copy of any written instrument connected to the
litigation; (4) the particular methods the petition seeks to employ; (5) the
facts the petitioner wishes to establish by engaging in discovery under this
section; (6) the reasons for desiring to perpetuate testimony or preserve
evidence before an action has been filed; (7) the name or description of those
the petitioner expects to be adverse parties; (8) the name and address of those
from whom discovery is sought; and (9) the substance of the information
expected to be elicited from each of those from whom discovery is sought. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2035.030, subd. (b).)  
 
Service of this petition must be made in the same manner as
service of summons on each person named in the petition as an expected adverse
party. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2035.040, subd. (a).)  
 
“If the Court determines that all of part of the discovery
requested under this chapter may prevent a failure or delay of justice, it
shall make an order authorizing that discovery.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2035.050,
subd. (a).) “The order shall identify any witnesses whose deposition may be
taken, and any documents, things, or places that may be inspected, and any
person whose physical or mental condition may be examined.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2035.050, subd. (b).)  
 
 
Discussion
 
            Petitioner
seeks to employ the following discovery methods to preserve evidence in
anticipation of Respondent filing a lawsuit: physical examinations of
Respondent and inspections of documents, things, and places, including document
production demands propounded onto Respondent and subpoenas to Respondent’s
medical providers as they become known.
 
            Petitioner
seeks to obtain all medical, billing, and radiology records relating to
Respondent’s injury claims arising out of the Incident from Plaintiff’s medical
providers. Petitioner does not know the identities of Plaintiff’s medical
providers and does not explain how it intends to find them.
 
            Petitioner
seeks to subpoena records form Respondent’s employers. Petitioner seeks to
obtain employment records, pay stubs, and related information connected to
Respondent’s anticipated claim for loss of earnings.
 
            Petitioner
seeks to subject Respondent to a physical examination in order to discovery
Respondent’s injuries, current status, and future medical needs.
 
            Petitioner
has not provided adequate reasons for desiring to perpetuate testimony or
preserve evidence before an action has been filed. Petitioner argues that
“because it is unclear who Respondent’s employers and medical providers are or
if they have policies that would result in the destruction of records
(evidence) after a given time.” (Petition at p. 8:27-28.) However, the State of
California requires that medical records be retained for a minimum of 7 years
(Cal. Code Regs., tit. 22, § 72543, subd. (a)) and that employment records,
including payroll records, be retained for at least 3 years. (Lab. Code, §
1174.) Both of these periods exceed the statute of limitations for an action
for personal injuries, which is 2 years. (Code Civ. Proc., § 335.1.) Thus, if
Respondent files an action for personal injuries arising out of the Incident,
Petitioner will have at least one year to obtain Respondent’s pay records and
at least five years to obtain medical records before the earliest date that it
is legal for the record holders to destroy these records.
 
            Petitioner
argues that Respondent’s medical condition may change if Respondent undergoes
any invasive medical treatment. However, Respondent’s medical condition would
necessarily be reflected in the medical records produced by any such treatment.
Petitioner has not explained why this case uniquely requires that the potential
plaintiff to be examined by the potential defendant before undergoing any
treatment following the incident.
 
            The
Court therefore finds that the discovery sought is not necessary to prevent a
failure or delay of justice.
 
            The
Court denies the petition.
 