  Case Number:  19STCV11738    Hearing Date:   September 5, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



HAMID MIRGHAMBARI, et al.
 
                                  Plaintiffs,
  
         v.
 
 
PEYMAN JACOB
  YADEGAR, et al.
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No:  19STCV11738
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  September 5, 2024
 Calendar
  Number:  1




 


 



 
             Ten plaintiffs who are minors seek Court
approval for the minor’s compromise of their claims.  The Court finds the terms of the compromise
fair to the minors with the sole exception of the amount of attorney’s
fees.  The Court declines to approve of a
45% contingency fee on the recovery of each of the minors.  The Court would approve a 30% contingency fee
for each of the minors.
 
            Pursuant
to California Code of Civil Procedure section 372, any settlement of a claim
made by a minor or adult with a disability must be approved by the
court. If the court is satisfied that the settlement is in the best
interest of the claimant, then the court shall approve the
settlement. (See Pearson v. Superior Court (2012) 202 Cal.App.4th
1333, 1338.)   
 A petition for court approval of a
compromise or covenant not to sue under Code of Civil Procedure section 372
must comply with California Rules of Court, Rules 7.950, 7.951, and 7.952. The
petition must be verified by the petitioner and contain a full disclosure of
all information that has “any bearing upon the reasonableness” of the
compromise or the covenant. (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 7.950.)  The
person compromising the claim on behalf of the minor or person who lacks
capacity, and the represented person, must attend the hearing on compromise of
the claim unless the court for good cause dispenses with their personal
appearance. (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 7.952.)  
California Rule of Court 7.955(b) lists factors
the court may consider in determining the reasonable attorney’s fees.  These include the amount of the fee in proportion
to the value of the services performed, the novelty and difficulty of the
questions involved, and the skill required to perform the legal services, the
amount involved and the results obtained, the time and labor required, the
risks borne by the attorney in a continent matter, and a host of other relevant
factors.
 
This case is a habitability case on behalf of
fifty-nine plaintiffs, approximately 17 of whom appear to be minors.  Plaintiffs’ counsel engaged in significant
legal work including written discovery and over twenty depositions.  The settlement amount is $2.95 Million in
total, or $50,000 per plaintiff, before attorney’s fees and costs.  Pursuant to their retainer agreement,
plaintiffs’ counsel seeks 45% of each plaintiffs’ recovery—including the minor
plaintiffs’ recovery—with the costs borne by the adult plaintiffs.
 
Forty-five percent of the minor plaintiffs’
recovery is too high under these circumstances.  Plaintiffs have not presented specific
evidence that would justify a split of close to fifty-fifty as between these
children and the lawyers who represented them. 
Contingency fees in cases involving minor’s compromises are often
limited to 25% in many instances.  Under
the circumstances of the case, given the work done by plaintiffs’ counsel and
the other factors set forth in California Rule of Court 7.955(b), the Court is
willing to approve a 30% contingency fee applied to the minor plaintiffs’
recovery. 
 
Accordingly, the Court DENIES the request to
approve the minors’ compromise under the current terms.  The Court would approve the compromise if the
attorney’s fees were reduced to 30% for each of the minors.
 
  
            