 Case Number:  22STCV09549    Hearing Date:   September 5, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



WILSHIRE WEST MEDICAL TOWER, LLC, 
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
KIAN KARIMI MD, INC., et al.,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No: 
  22STCV09549
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  September 5, 2024
 Calendar Number:  4



 
 
 
Plaintiff and Cross-Defendant Wilshire West Medical tower,
LLC (“Wilshire”) and Cross-Defendant Boulevard Investment Group (“Boulevard”)
(collectively, “Cross-Defendants”) have filed this demurrer.
 
Cross-Defendants demur to the first four causes of action in
the First Amended Cross-Complaint (“FACC”) asserted against them by Defendants
and Cross-Complainants Kian Karimi MD, Inc. (“KKM”) and Kian Karimi, M.D. (“Dr.
Karimi”) (collectively, the “Karimi Parties”). Cross-Defendants additionally
move to strike certain portions of the FACC.
 
The Court SUSTAINS the demurrer WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.
 
The Court GRANTS the motion to strike.
 
Background
 
This is a real estate case. The following facts are taken
from the allegations of the FACC and from Cross-Complainants summary judgment
motion which they filed in their capacity as defendants and on which they
prevailed. 
 
On May 1, 2021, KKM entered a lease agreement (the “Lease”)
with Wilshire to rent the premises located at 11645 Wilshire Blvd, Suite 1100,
Los Angeles, CA 90025 (the “Property”). Dr. Karimi is a guarantor for KKM under
the Lease.  Boulevard is Wilshire’s
property manager.
 
Wilshire alleged in its complaint that KKM breached the
lease by abandoning the premises; Wilshire alleged Dr. Karimi breached the
guarantee agreement. The Court previously granted summary judgment in favor of the
Karimi Parties on the complaint on the basis that the Lease had been
terminated.
 
The Lease provides that “[t]his Lease contains the entire
agreement of the parties hereto with respect to the subject matter hereof and
supersedes any previous negotiations …. [t]his Lease may not be modified except
by a written document executed by the parties hereto.” (Lease, pp. 16-17,
Sections 37.17-37.18.)
 
The Karimi Parties intended to operate an ambulatory surgery
center at the Property where surgery could be performed on patients.
Construction work on the Property was necessary to attain this function.
(Undisputed Material Fact (“UMF”) 1; Karimi Decl., Exh. A (“Lease”) Exhibit C
(“Work Agreement”), Section 1.5.) The Lease included a Work Agreement (Lease,
Exh. C) which is incorporated into the Lease. (UMF 1; Lease, Section 7.1, Exh.
C.) Under the Work Agreement, Wilshire was obligated to construct tenant improvements
to the Property at a cost of up to $299,355.00 (the “Tenant Improvement
Allowance”). (Work Agreement, Section 1.1.)
 
Before entering into the Lease, on around February 19, 2021,
Wilshire provided Dr. Karimi with plans and a 2018 construction bid for a prior
prospective tenant of the Property, Murtaza Rizvi, M.D. (UMF 3.) The bid for
Dr. Rizvi’s planned improvements for the entire Property was $367,947. (UMF 3.)
 
The Work Agreement provided that Wilshire’s interior
architect, the Borsuk Company (“Borsuk”) would submit a Preliminary Space Plan
(“PSP”) to KKM and Wilshire for review. (Work Agreement, Sections 2.2, 2.4.) The
PSP was required to itemize the work to be done by each party, including a cost
excess of any work that Wilshire would conduct in excess of the Tenant
Improvement Allowance. (Work Agreement, Section 2.3.) KKM was then obligated to
either approve the PSP and preliminary cost estimate or specify its objections
thereto within 10 days of its receipt of the PSP. (Work Agreement, Section
2.5.) Under the Work Agreement, if KKM rejected any part of the PSP, the
parties would have 10 days to attempt in good faith to modify the PSP to their
mutual satisfaction. (Work Agreement, Section 2.6) If the PSP could not be
modified to Wilshire and KKM’s mutual satisfaction, “the Lease [would]
terminate and neither party [would] thereafter be obligated to the other party
for any reason whatsoever having to do with [the] Lease.” (Work Agreement,
Section 2.6.)
 
According to the plan, the construction would be carried out
in two phases, Phase 1 and Phase 2. Wilshire submitted a declaration stating that
during the summer of 2021, Dr. Karimi requested that the scope of the PSP be
limited to only Phase 1 so that The Karimi Parties could occupy the Property
more quickly and begin treating patients sooner.
 
On December 8, 2021, Wilshire provided the Karimi Parties
with (1) Mancilla Construction Contract No. 3045-B for Tenant Improvement (the
“Mancilla Bid”); (2) Mancilla’s Bid Addendum #1 for Phase 1 (“Addendum #1”);
and (3) Boruk’s plan drawings for Phase 1 (the “Borsuk Drawings”)
(collectively, the “December 8 Documents”). The Mancilla Bid estimated a total
price of $585,207.05. The Mancilla Bid contained a clause stating as follows:
“NOTICE OF CANCELLATION: CONTRACT CANCELABLE FOR 72 HOURS FOLLOWING DATE OF
ACCEPTANCE BY CONTRACT BUYER[.]” Wilshire contends that the December 8
Documents constituted a PSP under the Lease; Defendants contend that they do
not.
 
On December 8, 2021, Dr. Karimi initialed each page of the
Mancilla Bid and signed the last page. Cross-complainants contend that Dr.
Karimi initially mistakenly believed that the Mancilla Bid, for $585,207.05,
was for the entire project, but later realized that it was for Phase 1 only. On
December 10, 2021, Dr. Karimi sent an email to Edward Hudson and Cody Powers,
individuals associated with Wilshire, stating that due to the unexpectedly high
cost, he “decided not to approve the bids for the buildout of [the Property]”
and stating that “the bids and the plans are not approved.” On December 11,
2021, Dr. Karimi sent another email to Martha Garcia, Wilshire’s manager of the
property, with copies to Powers and Borsuk, stating his intent pause everything
and for Gracia to disregard the signed bids and plans that Karimi had sent.
 
On February 1, 2022, Dr. Karimi sent Wilshire a formal
“Rejection, Cancellation and Notice of Termination,” stating the position that
the Lease had been terminated. 
 
The Karimi Parties never moved into the premises and never
paid rent on the Lease.
 
Wilshire filed the Complaint against the Karimi Parties on
March 18, 2022, stating claims for (1) breach of contract; (2) abandoning the
premises; and (3) breach of guarantee agreement.
 
The Karimi Parties moved for summary judgment as to the
Complaint on August 31, 2023. 
 
On November 7, 2023, the Karimi Parties filed the
Cross-Complaint, raising claims for (1) breach of contract; (2) negligence; (3)
intentional misrepresentation; (4) breach of fiduciary duty; and (5)
declaratory relief.
 
On December 28, 2023, the Court granted the Karimi Parties’ motion
for summary judgment as to Wilshire’s complaint. The Court explicitly found
that the Lease was cancelled by December 11, 2021 because Dr. Karimi sent two
emails, one on December 10, 2021  and one
on December 11, 2021, indicating to Wilshire that he was cancelling the Lease.
The Court found that, because the Lease had been cancelled, the Karimi Parties were
entitled to summary judgment.  (The
summary judgment order contains a typographical error recording these dates as
2023 instead of 2021; the Court expects to correct that error.)
 
The Court originally set trial in this matter for September
25, 2023, and continued it to June 3, 2024. On May 2, 2024, the Court continued
trial again to December 9, 2024, but ordered that all deadlines remain based on
the original trial dates.
 
On May 21, 2024, the Court granted judgment on the pleadings
for Cross-Defendants on the Karimi Parties’ Cross-Complaint with leave to amend
as to the first three claims, and without leave to amend as to the fourth claim
for breach of fiduciary duty.
 
On June 20, 2024, the Karimi Parties filed the FACC, raising
claims for (1) breach of contract; (2) negligent misrepresentation; (3)
intentional misrepresentation; (4) breach of fiduciary duty; and (5)
declaratory relief.
 
Legal Standard
 
“The party against whom a complaint or cross-complaint has
been filed may object, by demurrer or answer as provided in Section 430.30, to
the pleading on any one or more of the following grounds:
 
(a) The court has
no jurisdiction of the subject of the cause of action alleged in the pleading.
(b) The person who filed the pleading does not have the
legal capacity to sue.
(c) There is
another action pending between the same parties on the same cause of action.
(d) There is a defect or misjoinder of parties.
(e) The pleading does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action.
(f) The pleading is
uncertain. As used in this subdivision, “uncertain” includes ambiguous and
unintelligible.
(g) In an action
founded upon a contract, it cannot be ascertained from the pleading whether the
contract is written, is oral, or is implied by conduct.
(h) No certificate was filed as required by Section 411.35.”
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10.)
 
As a general matter, in a demurrer proceeding, the defects
must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial
notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins.
Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A demurrer tests the pleading
alone, and not the evidence or facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants,
Inc. Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) The court assumes the truth
of the complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Ibid.) The only issue a demurrer is
concerned with is whether the complaint, as it stands, states a cause of
action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)
 
Where a demurrer is sustained, leave to amend must be
allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335,
348.) The burden is on the plaintiff to show the court that a pleading can be
amended successfully. (Ibid.;
Lewis v. YouTube, LLC (2015) 244 Cal.App.4th 118, 226.) However, “[i]f
there is any reasonable possibility that the plaintiff can state a good cause
of action, it is error to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend.” (Youngman v. Nevada Irrigation Dist.
(1969) 70 Cal.2d 240, 245).
 
Discussion
 
Judicial Estoppel
 
As a preliminary matter, the Court makes the determination
that it is appropriate to rely on the Karimi Parties’ position, taken in their
summary judgment motion, that the Lease was terminated by either the December
10, 2021 or December 11, 2021 emails to Wilshire stating that the lease was
being terminated.   
 
Judicial
estoppel applies “when:
(1) the same party has taken two positions; (2) the positions were taken in
judicial or quasi-judicial administrative proceedings; (3) the party was
successful in asserting the first position (i.e., the tribunal adopted the
position or accepted it as true); (4) the two positions are totally
inconsistent; and (5) the first position was not taken as a result of
ignorance, fraud, or mistake.” (State Water Resources Control Bd. Cases
(2006) 136 Cal.App.4th 674, 826–827.)
 
“Because of its harsh consequences, the [judicial estoppel] doctrine should be applied with caution and
limited to egregious circumstances.” (Blix Street Records, Inc. v. Cassidy
(2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 39, 47; see also Minish v. Hanuman Fellowship
(2013) 214 Cal. App. 4th 437, 449 [“because judicial estoppel is an extraordinary and equitable remedy that can impinge on
the truth-seeking function of the court and produce harsh consequences, it must
be ‘applied with caution and limited to egregious circumstances’….”].)
 
The Karimi Parties prevailed on the summary judgment motion
because the Court accepted their position that they had terminated the Lease.  The Karimi Parties therefore cannot take the
position that the Lease was not terminated by December 11, 2021.
 
The Karimi Parties argue that judicial estoppel is not
proper at the pleading stage. They provide no authority in support of this
assertion.
 
Judicial Admissions
 
“Judicial admissions may be made in a pleading, by
stipulation during trial, or by response to request for admission.” (Myers
v. Trendwest Resorts, Inc. (2009) 178 Cal.App.4th 735, 746, as modified
(Nov. 20, 2009).) “Facts established by pleadings as judicial admissions “ ‘ “are
conclusive concessions of the truth of those matters, are effectively removed
as issues from the litigation, and may not be contradicted by the party whose
pleadings are used against him or her.” ’ [Citation.] ” (Ibid.) The
Court therefore treats the factual allegations of the Cross-Complaint as
judicial admissions. The Karimi Parties may not contradict those allegations in
the FACC.
 
Breach of Contract – First Cause of Action
 
To state a cause of action for breach of contract, a
plaintiff  must be able to establish “(1)
the existence of the contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for
nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach, and (4) the resulting damages to the
plaintiff.” (Oasis West Realty, LLC v.
Goldman (2011) 51 Cal.4th 811, 821.)
 
The Karimi Parties allege that Cross-Defendants breached the
Lease by failing to provide a proper PSP. The Karimi Parties allege that the
documents that Cross-Defendants provided on December 8 were not a proper PSP. 
 
The Court agreed in its order on the Karimi Parties’ motion
for summary judgment that Cross-Defendants had not provided a proper PSP.
However, the Court finds that Cross-Defendants did not breach the lease because
the Karimi Parties canceled the Lease without giving Cross-Defendants an
opportunity to cure.
 
The Lease is attached to the FACC as Exhibit A. Under the
Lease, Wilshire may not be deemed to be in default unless it is provided
written notice of any failure to perform and given 30 days to cure. (Lease §
20.1.)
 
The original Cross-Complaint alleged that Dr. Karimi gave Wilshire
notice of the default on December 10, 2021. (Cross Complaint at p. 8:18-20.)
However, the Cross-Complaint also states that “[o]n December 10, 2021 … Dr.
Karimi immediately notified [Wilshire] in writing that Karimi … was exercising
its rights under paragraph 2.5 of Exhibit C to the Lease to terminate the Lease
and Guaranty.” (Cross-Complaint at pp. 7:26-8:3.)
 
If the PSP could not be modified to Wilshire and KKM’s
mutual satisfaction, “the Lease [would] terminate and neither party [would]
thereafter be obligated to the other party for any reason whatsoever having to
do with [the] Lease.” (Work Agreement, Section 2.6.)
 
Because they plead that the Lease was terminated on December
10, 2021, the unavoidable inference that follows is that Wilshire had no
further obligation under the lease – including no obligation to cure default. 
 
The Court previously granted leave to amend because the
Karimi Parties argued that they could clarify their allegations as to the
termination in a manner that allows them to plead the breach of contract claim.
They have not done so. They now contend that they may allege the
Cross-Defendants breached the Lease as an alternative theory to the theory that
Dr. Karimi terminated the Lease by December 11, 2023. The problem is that this
requires not just an alternative legal theory, but alternative facts. The Karimi
Parties cannot use the concept of pleading alternative legal theories to get
around the very factual contentions that won them their summary judgment
motion.
 
An opportunity to amend has failed to cure the defects in
this claim. The Court determines the further amendment would be futile. Accordingly,
the Court sustains the demurrer to this claim without leave to amend.
 
Negligent Misrepresentation – Second Cause of Action
 
            As
the Court explained in its order on the motion for judgment on the pleadings, the
Karimi Parties did not raise a claim for negligent misrepresentation in the
original Cross-Complaint. The Court’s grant of leave to amend did not include
leave to raise a new claim for negligent misrepresentation.
 
“A party may amend its pleading once without leave of the
court at any time before the answer, demurrer, or motion to strike is filed, or
after a demurrer or motion to strike is filed but before the demurrer or motion
to strike is heard if the amended pleading is filed and served no later than
the date for filing an opposition to the demurrer or motion to strike. A party
may amend the pleading after the date for filing an opposition to the demurrer
or motion to strike, upon stipulation by the parties. The time for responding
to an amended pleading shall be computed from the date of service of the
amended pleading.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 472, subd. (a).)
 
The Karimi Parties’ amendment to include this new claim was
not timely and was not authorized by the Court. The Court therefore grants the
motion to strike as to this claim.
 
This claim is based on the same alleged misrepresentations
as the Karimi Parties’ intentional misrepresentation claim. As discussed below,
the Karimi Parties have failed to adequately plead the misrepresentations in
question despite the opportunity for amendment. The Court therefore determines
that granting leave to amend for this claim would be futile. The Court, as a
second basis for its ruling on this claim, sustains the demurrer to this claim
without leave to amend.
 
Intentional Misrepresentation – Third Cause of Action
 
“The elements of a cause of action for intentional
misrepresentation are (1) a misrepresentation, (2) with knowledge of its
falsity, (3) with the intent to induce another’s reliance on the
misrepresentation, (4) actual and justifiable reliance, and (5) resulting
damage.” (Daniels v. Select Portfolio
Servicing, Inc. (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 1150, 1166.) The facts constituting
the alleged fraud must be alleged factually and specifically as to every
element of fraud, as the policy of “liberal construction” of the pleadings will
not ordinarily be invoked. (Lazar v.
Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.) To properly allege fraud
against a corporation, the plaintiffs must plead the names of the persons
allegedly making the false representations, their authority to speak, to whom
they spoke, what they said or wrote, and when it was said or written. (Tarmann v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co.
(1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 157.)
 
The Karimi Parties have specifically pleaded who made the
representations in question, when and where they were made, and to whom the
representations were made. (Cross Complaint pp. 3:3-4:14.) However, the
representations themselves – that the Property was suitable for a surgery
center and that the necessary upgrades would fall within a certain price range
– do not support a fraud claim.
 
Cost Projections
 
Cost projections generally cannot form a basis for a fraud
claim. Statements of opinion and future projections generally cannot constitute
fraud. (Pacesetter Homes, Inc. v. Brodkin (1970) 5 Cal.App.3d 206, 211.)
Cross-Defendants’ alleged representations do not even constitute a bid on
Defendants’ own construction plans – Defendants merely allege that
Cross-Defendants told Defendants a bid price that a previous prospective
tenant had obtained and stated that Defendants’ upgrade costs would be
similar. (FACC ¶ 55.) 
 
The Karimi Parties contend that “grossly inaccurate
estimates” can form the basis for a fraud claim. (Thrifty Payless, Inc. v.
The Americana at Brand, LLC (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 1230, 1241-1242.) However,
in Thrifty Payless, Inc., the defendant landlord had issued a Letter of
Intent to the plaintiff business detailing specific property tax values,
insurance premiums, and common area maintenance fee amounts that the plaintiff
would have to pay. (Id. at pp. 1234-1235.) The actual amounts that the
defendant charged to the plaintiff were well in excess of what the defendant
had stated it expected to charge. (Id. at p. 1235.) Here,
Cross-Defendants did not formulate the example bid. The example bids were
formulated by third-party construction companies contacted by previous
potential tenants, none of whom are parties to this action. Cross-Defendants
merely pointed Defendants to those bids as examples. This is not the type of
“grossly inaccurate estimate” that can form the basis for fraud.
 
Furthermore, the Lease had a built-in escape valve for
precisely such a situation as this one where the actual costs exceeded
expectations. Defendants were permitted to cancel the Lease, a right which they
exercised.
 
Similarly, Cross-Defendants’ alleged representations that the
Karimi Parties’  intended improvements
would go smoothly are not actionable. Statements of opinion and future
projections generally cannot constitute fraud. (Pacesetter Homes, Inc. v.
Brodkin (1970) 5 Cal.App.3d 206, 211.)
 
Defects in the Premises
 
The representation that the Property was suitable for the
kind of surgery center Dr. Karimi wanted to build is not specific enough. The
Karimi Parties must plead the specific representations about the state of the
property – e.g. its size, amenities, etc. – that were untrue. ‘Suitability’ for
a surgery center could refer to any number of things, and does not give
Cross-Defendants adequate notice of the representations at issue. 
 
The Karimi Parties do allege specific defects which
existed – leaking water tanks, HVAC problems, electrical problems, fumes
seeping in from a nearby dental office, and an ongoing investigation by the
County Department of Health. However, they do not adequately allege that
Cross-Defendants made representations about either of these facts. 
 
The Karimi Parties allege that two previous potential
tenants declined to move forward with renting the Property due to these
reasons, but that Cross-Defendants instead represented that the reasons the
potential tenants had not gone forward were unrelated and innocuous reasons. the
Karimi Parties allege no facts indicating that Cross-Defendants would have
known the potential tenants’ reasons for choosing other locations. The Karimi
Parties do not allege that the potential tenants told Cross-Defendants why they
chose not to lease the Property, nor do they allege any other reason why
Cross-Defendants would have known the potential tenants’ true motivations.
 
            The
Court previously granted leave to amend this claim. Amendment has not cured the
claim’s defects.
 
The Court sustains the demurrer without leave to amend with
respect to this claim.
 
Breach of Fiduciary Duty – Fourth Cause of Action
 
The Court previously granted judgment on the pleadings as to
this claim without leave to amend. The Court grants the motion to strike this
claim.
 
 