..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is the summary in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 23STCV09448
Plaintiff's Name: Steven Czarnecki
Defendant's Name: AAMCOM, LLC
People-Names: Steven Czarnecki
Company-Names: AAMCOM, LLC
Places: None
Dates: December 4, 2023
Events: Motion to compel arbitration
Money: None
Intentions: Defendant seeks to compel arbitration, Plaintiff seeks to void the agreement
Facts: Defendant moves to compel arbitration, Plaintiff alleges unconscionability
Disputes: Procedural and substantive unconscionability of the arbitration agreement
Acts: Execution of the arbitration agreement, signing of the agreement
Agreements: Arbitration agreement
Laws: California Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.2, California Constitution Article 1, Section 16
Case Citations: Acquire II, Ltd. v. Colton Real Estate Group, Engineers & Architects Assn. v. Community Development Dept., Vianna v. Doctors’ Management Co., Giuliano v. Inland Empire Personnel, Inc., Iyere v. Wise Auto Group, Espejo v. Southern California Permanente Medical Group, Condee v. Longwood Management Corp., Rice v. Downs, Lane v. Francis Capital Management, LLC, Nixon v. AmeriHome Mortgage Company, LLC, Crowley Maritime Corp. v. Boston Old Colony Ins. Co., Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare Services, Inc., OTO, LLC v. Kho, Baltazar v. Forever 21, Inc., Domestic Linen Supply Co., Inc. v. L J T Flowers, Inc., Dougherty v. Roseville Heritage Partners, Grafton Partners v. Superior Court
Statutes: California Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.2, California Constitution Article 1, Section 16
Roles: Judge, Plaintiff, Defendant
Significant Statements:
* The Court finds the arbitration agreement to be procedurally unconscionable due to its adhesive nature, inconspicuous appearance, and lack of reference to procedural rules.
* The Court finds the arbitration agreement to be substantively unconscionable due to its pre-dispute jury trial waiver and lack of provision explaining how to initiate arbitration.
* The Court concludes that the agreement is tainted by illegality and will not enforce it.
```

Note: This summary is based on the text provided and may not cover every aspect of the case.
