  Case Number:  23STCV09448    Hearing Date:   December 4, 2023    Dept:  1 Moving Party:             Defendant
AAMCOM, LLC 
Responding Party:      Plaintiff
Steven Czarnecki 
Ruling:                        Motion
denied.
 
This is a wage-and-hour proposed class action.  Plaintiff Steven Czarnecki (Plaintiff)
alleges that he and others were employed by defendant AAMCOM, LLC (Defendant),
during which employment Defendant committed various violations of labor
law.  Defendant moves to compel Plaintiff
to submit his claims to binding arbitration pursuant to an agreement Plaintiff
purportedly signed.
 
Legal Standards
Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.2 states, in relevant
part:¿ 
On petition of a party to an
arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to
arbitrate a controversy and that a party thereto refuses to arbitrate such
controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate
the controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy
exists….¿ 
“California law reflects a strong public policy in favor of
arbitration as a relatively quick and inexpensive method for resolving
disputes. To further that policy, section 1281.2 requires a trial court to
enforce a written arbitration agreement unless one of three limited exceptions
applies. Those statutory exceptions arise where (1) a party waives the right to
arbitration; (2) grounds exist for revoking the arbitration agreement; and (3)
pending litigation with a third party creates the possibility of conflicting
rulings on common factual or legal issues.” (Acquire II, Ltd. v. Colton Real
Estate Group¿(2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 959, 967, citations omitted.)¿ 
“There is no public policy favoring arbitration of disputes
which the parties have not agreed to arbitrate.” (Engineers & Architects
Assn. v. Community Development Dept.¿(1994) 30 Cal.App.4th 644, 653.)
Nevertheless, the strong public policy promoting private arbitration of civil
disputes gives rise to a presumption in favor of arbitrability and compels the
Court to construe liberally the terms of the arbitration agreement. (Vianna
v. Doctors’ Management Co.¿(1994) 27 Cal.App.4th 1186, 1189).¿ ¿¿ 
“The petitioner bears the burden of proving the existence of
a valid arbitration agreement by the preponderance of the evidence, and a party
opposing the petition bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of the
evidence any fact necessary to its defense. In these summary proceedings, the
trial court sits as a trier of fact, weighing all the affidavits, declarations,
and other documentary evidence, as well as oral testimony received at the
court's discretion, to reach a final determination.” (Giuliano v. Inland
Empire Personnel, Inc.¿(2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 1276, 1284.)¿¿ The
movant may bear this initial burden “by attaching a copy of the arbitration
agreement purportedly bearing the opposing party's signature.” (Iyere v.
Wise Auto Group (2023) 87 Cal.App.5th 747, 755 (Iyere); Espejo
v. Southern California Permanente Medical Group (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th
1047, 1060.)  “At this step, a movant
need not ‘follow the normal procedures of document authentication’ and need
only ‘allege the existence of an agreement and support the allegation as
provided in [Rules of Court, Rule 3.1330].’” 
(Iyere, supra, 87 Cal.App.5th at 755; Condee v.
Longwood Management Corp. (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215, 219 (Condee).)  
“The party opposing arbitration has the burden of demonstrating
that an arbitration clause cannot be interpreted to require arbitration of the
dispute. Nonetheless, this policy does not override ordinary principles of
contract interpretation. The contractual terms themselves must be carefully
examined before the parties to the contract can be ordered to arbitration:
Although [t]he law favors contracts for arbitration of disputes between
parties, there is no policy compelling persons to accept arbitration of
controversies which they have not agreed to arbitrate.” (Rice v. Downs¿(2016)
247 Cal.App.4th 1213, 1223, citations and quotations omitted.)¿¿¿ 
“A party seeking
to enforce an arbitration agreement has the burden of showing FAA
preemption.”  (Lane v. Francis Capital
Management, LLC (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 676, 687; see also Nixon v.
AmeriHome Mortgage Company, LLC (2021) 67 Cal.App.5th 934, 946
[“The party seeking to enforce the arbitration agreement also bears the burden
of establishing the FAA applies and preempts otherwise governing provisions of
state law or the parties’ agreement.”].)
 
Evidentiary Objections
 
Defendant’s Objections
 
Defendant’s
objections 1-7 are overruled.  What
Plaintiff was and was not told at the time he executed the Agreement is
material to the unconscionability question. 
Plaintiff has foundation to testify to what he experienced and was
told.  Statements of Defendant’s
employees are authorized admissions and not inadmissible hearsay.  Plaintiff is not providing secondary evidence
of writings, nor is his testimony more prejudicial than probative.  
 
Defendant’s
objection 8 is overruled.  Plaintiff’s
state of mind and whether he would have signed the document if he had known
what it was is relevant to this motion and is not inadmissible opinion.  Plaintiff has foundation to discuss his own
state of mind.  It is not secondary
evidence or  unduly prejudicial.
Discussion
 
Plaintiff does
not dispute that the Agreement, if valid, encompasses all of Plaintiff’s claims
in this lawsuit, or that the FAA applies to the Agreement.  Plaintiff instead contends that Defendant has
not met its initial burden to show an enforceable agreement, and that the
Agreement is unconscionable.  
 
I.                  
Initial Burden/Lack of Consideration
 
Plaintiff
contends that the Agreement is unenforceable for lack of consideration because
the agreement is between him and a third party, Oasis Outsourcing (Oasis).  (See Bonner Decl., Ex. A.)  Because Defendant is not a party to the
Agreement, it did not promise to arbitrate and offered no consideration for
Plaintiff’s promise to arbitrate.  However,
“[u]nder California law, a nonsignatory can be compelled to arbitrate under two
sets of circumstances: (1) where the nonsignatory is a third party beneficiary
of the contract containing the arbitration agreement; and 2) where ‘a
preexisting relationship existed between the nonsignatory and one of the
parties to the arbitration agreement, making it equitable to compel the
nonsignatory to also be bound to arbitrate his or her claim.’”  (Crowley Maritime Corp. v. Boston Old
Colony Ins. Co. (2008) 158 Cal.App.4th 1061, 1069-1070 (Crowley).)  Both of these appear to be the case
here.  Defendant is an express
third-party beneficiary under the Agreement using the label “Worksite
Employer[,]” which is “[t]he company for which I [i.e. Plaintiff] perform
services[.]”  (See Bonner Decl., Ex. A, ¶
1.)  The Agreement provides that any
dispute with Defendant, Oasis, or any other person with whom Plaintiff has an
employment relationship, which arises out of out of Plaintiff’s employment,
will be resolved by arbitration.  (Id.,
¶ 3.)  Plaintiff agreed that
Defendant, his Worksite Employer, would receive the benefit and burden of the
Agreement.  
 
Moreover, the
Agreement provides that Oasis had been engaged by Defendant to provide services
related to Plaintiff’s employment, such as paying Plaintiff’s wages and
possibly also providing other benefits. 
(Bonner Decl., Ex. A, ¶ 1.)  Even
if Defendant were not an express third-party beneficiary, the agency
relationship between Oasis and Defendant would render it equitable to bind
Defendant to the Agreement even if it disputed the Agreement’s
application.  (See Crowley, supra, 158
Cal.App.4th at 1069-1070.)  
 
II.               
Unconscionability
 
Unconscionability
is a valid defense to a petition to compel arbitration. (Sonic-Calabasas A,
Inc. v. Moreno (2013) 57 Cal.4th 1109, 1143 (Sonic-Calabasas A).)
State law governs the unconscionability defense. (Doctor’s Assocs., Inc. v.
Casarotto (1996) 517 US 681, 687.) The core concern of the
unconscionability doctrine is the “absence of meaningful choice on the part of
one of the parties together with contract terms which are unreasonably
favorable to the other party.” (Sonic-Calabasas A, Inc., 57 Cal.4th at
1145.) The unconscionability doctrine ensures that contracts—particularly
contracts of adhesion—do not impose terms that have been variously described as
overly harsh, unduly oppressive, so one-sided as to shock the conscience, or
unfairly one-sided. (Id.)
 
The prevailing
view is that procedural and substantive unconscionability must both be present
for a court to exercise its discretion to refuse to enforce a contract or
clause under the doctrine of unconscionability. (Armendariz v. Foundation
Health Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 114 (Armendariz).)
But they need not be present to the same degree; the more substantively
oppressive the contract term, the less evidence of procedural unconscionability
is required to conclude that the term is unenforceable, and vice versa. (Id.)  However, when there is no other indication of
oppression other than the adhesive aspect of an agreement, the degree of
procedural unconscionability is low. (Serpa v. California Surety
Investigations, Inc. (2013) 215 Cal.App.4th 695, 704.)
 
a.      Procedural
Unconscionability
 
“A procedural
unconscionability analysis ‘begins with an inquiry into whether the contract is
one of adhesion.’ [Citation.]  An
adhesive contract is standardized, generally on a preprinted form, and offered
by the party with superior bargaining power ‘on a take-it-or-leave-it
basis.’”  (OTO, LLC v. Kho (2019)
8 Cal.5th 111, 126 (OTO).) 
“Arbitration contracts imposed as a condition of employment are
typically adhesive[.] The pertinent question, then, is whether circumstances of
the contract's formation created such oppression or surprise that closer
scrutiny of its overall fairness is required.” 
(Ibid.)  “Oppression occurs
where a contract involves lack of negotiation and meaningful choice, surprise
where the allegedly unconscionable provision is hidden within a prolix printed
form.” (Ibid.)
 
It is undisputed that
the Agreement was a contract of adhesion. 
(See Torres Decl., ¶ 13; Czarnecki Decl., ¶ 2.)  This supplies some procedural
unconscionability.  However, when there
is no other indication of oppression other than the adhesive aspect of an
agreement, the degree of procedural unconscionability is low. (Serpa v.
California Surety Investigations, Inc. (2013) 215 Cal.App.4th 695, 704.)
 
Plaintiff further
contends that the Agreement is “inconspicuously buried in a document titled
‘Employee Acknowledgments.’”  An
examination of the Agreement indicates that it is in small type, approximately
eight point (rather than the common standard twelve point font which defendant
inaccurately claims), is not titled “Arbitration Agreement” or something
similar, and does not contain bold text or any other indication that might
indicate to a less-than-careful reader that they are signing an arbitration agreement.  The clauses of the Agreement that bind
Plaintiff to arbitration do not begin until the third paragraph.  This is not sufficient to void the Agreement
entirely for lack of consent, because “[g]enerally, it is not reasonable to
fail to read a contract; this is true even if the plaintiff relied on the
defendant's assertion that it was not necessary to read the contract.
[Citation.] Reasonable diligence requires a party to read a contract before
signing it.”  (Brown v. Wells Fargo
Bank, N.A. (2008) 168 Cal.App.4th 938, 959.)  However, it does supply some further
procedural unconscionability.  The fact
that the Agreement is a separate document is of less significance when all the
documents are presented electronically, and a document may be signed with a
single mouse click.  (See Torres Decl., ¶
12.)  The form and format of the
Agreement therefore supplies further procedural unconscionability.
 
Finally, Plaintiff
points out that the Agreement does not specify what rules will apply to the
arbitration.  That is so.  (See Bonner Decl., Ex. A.)  Although the failure to attach the pertinent
rules supplies no procedural unconscionability where the rules are not part of
the unconscionability challenge (see, e.g., Baltazar v. Forever 21, Inc. (2016)
62 Cal.4th 1237, 1246), here there are no pertinent rules at
all.  Even if Plaintiff had read the
Agreement closely enough to recognize its nature as an arbitration agreement,
he would have no way of knowing what procedure he was agreeing to by accepting
it.  The fact that the Agreement references
the Federal Rules of Evidence is insufficient. 
Knowing what evidence might or might not be admissible tells a litigant
nothing about how to initiate an arbitration claim, how discovery may be had,
or how proceedings will otherwise proceed. 
This omission supplies still further procedural unconscionability.
 
Between the
adhesive nature of the Agreement, the inconspicuous appearance and small print
of its format, and the lack of any reference to any procedural rules, Plaintiff
has established significant procedural unconscionability.   
b.     
Substantive Unconscionability
Substantive
unconscionability focuses on the actual terms of the agreement and evaluates
whether they create an overly harsh or one-sided result. (Armendariz, supra,
24 Cal.4th at 114.)  Where provisions
of the arbitration contract are unconscionable, courts may sever or restrict
the operation of those provisions.  (Id.
at 124.)  Where the “central purpose of
the contract is tainted with illegality,” then severance is not appropriate and
the contract should be voided.  (Ibid.)  Where “multiple defects indicate a systematic
effort to impose arbitration on an employee not simply as an alternative to
litigation, but as an inferior forum that works to the employer's advantage
[,]” voiding the contract rather than severing the unconscionable provisions is
appropriate.  (Ibid.) “Although
procedural unconscionability alone does not invalidate a contract, its
existence requires courts to closely scrutinize the substantive terms ‘to
ensure they are not manifestly unfair or one-sided.’”  (OTO, supra, 8 Cal.5th at
130.)
 
Plaintiff
contends that the Agreement is substantively unconscionable because it contains
an unlawful pre-dispute jury trial waiver, and it is not bilateral in that it
binds Plaintiff but not Defendant.  The latter
contention is summarily rejected for the reasons discussed above.  As an express third-party beneficiary and the
principal of a signatory agent, Defendant is bound by the Agreement as though
it were a signatory.  (See Crowley,
supra, 158 Cal.App.4th at 1069-1070.)  
 
The former
contention has merit.  Article 1, Section
16 of the California Constitution provides that “[t]rial by jury is an
inviolate right and shall be secured to all” and that [i]n a civil cause a jury
may be waived by the consent of the parties expressed as prescribed by statute.”  The right to jury trial “is basic and should
be zealously guarded by the courts[,]” and “[i]n case of doubt, the issue
should be resolved in favor of the right to a trial by jury.”  (Domestic Linen Supply Co., Inc. v. L J T
Flowers, Inc. (2020) 58 Cal.App.5th 180, 185.)  Pre-dispute, parties may waive jury trial for
claims which they agree to arbitrate, as an agreement to arbitrate claims is
inherently and necessarily a waiver of jury trial for those claims.  (See Madden v. Kaiser Foundation Hospitals
(1976) 17 Cal.3d 699, 714 [“When parties agree to submit their disputes to
arbitration they select a forum that is alternative to, and independent of, the
judicial—a forum in which, as they well know, disputes are not resolved by
juries.”])  However, a pre-dispute
agreement to waive jury trial for claims other than claims which will be
arbitrated is unlawful, even if contained in an arbitration agreement.  (Dougherty v. Roseville Heritage Partners (2020)
47 Cal.App.5th 93, 107, citing Grafton Partners v. Superior Court
(2005) 36 Cal.4th 994, 961.) 

 
The Agreement states
that “if for any reason a matter is not arbitrated, I AGREE THAT THE MATTER
WILL BE HEARD BY A JUDGE AND WAIVE TRIAL BY JURY[.]” (Bonner Decl., Ex. A, ¶
3.)  This is a pre-dispute waiver of jury
trial for claims other than those which will be arbitrated and is unlawful
under Dougherty.  
 
Although not
raised by either party, the Court also notes that the Agreement contains no
rules or reference to rules, and therefore no explanation of how to initiate
arbitration.  As discussed by the CA
Supreme Court in the often cited OTO case, this is a substantively
unconscionable defect in the employment context because employees who do not
know how to initiate arbitration may incur unnecessary delay and expense by
bringing suit only to encounter a motion to compel, or “may be so confused by
the agreement that they are deterred from bringing their wage claims at all.”  (OTO, supra, 8 Cal.5th at
131.)  This is of particular concern in
wage cases such as this one, because wage claimants would otherwise have access
to the Berman process at the California Labor Commission, where they may receive
free assistance directly from a Labor Commissioner.  (Ibid.)  
 
Although it has
been held that reference to the California Arbitration Act is sufficient to
inform an employee how to initiate arbitration (see Alvarez v. Altamed
Health Services Corp. (2021) 60 Cal.App.5th 572, 590; Fuentes
v. Empire Nissan, Inc. (2023) 90 Cal.App.5th 919, 934), the
instant Agreement contains no such reference. 
Because the Agreement requires Plaintiff to give up his Berman rights
while not telling him how to begin to exercise his arbitral rights, it is
substantively unconscionable.  (OTO,
supra, 8 Cal.5th at 136-137.) 

 
c.       Unconscionability
Summary
 
The Agreement was
executed under significantly procedurally unconscionable conditions: not only
was it a contract of adhesion, but it is not immediately recognizable as an
arbitration agreement (referencing arbitration only in the third paragraph), is
printed in small font, and has a misleadingly vague title.  It contains no reference whatsoever to what
rules would govern the arbitration. 
Substantively, it contains two significant infirmities: a pre-dispute
jury trial waiver which would apply regardless of arbitration, forbidden by the
Dougherty case, and a lack of any provision stating how to initiate
arbitration, forbidden by the OTO case. 
(See Dougherty, supra, 47 Cal.App.5th at 107; OTO,
supra, 8 Cal.5th at 136-137.) 
Even if the Court were to sever the jury trial waiver, the Court cannot add
provisions explaining how to initiate arbitration.  (See Armendariz, supra, 24 Cal.4th
at 125 [courts cannot reform a contract by augmentation, i.e. adding terms, to
make it lawful.])  On balance, the Agreement
is tainted by illegality, and the Court will not enforce it.  (See Id. at 124.)
 
Conclusion
 
For the foregoing
reasons, the motion is denied.  Plaintiff
to give notice.