 Case Number:  22VECV01923    Hearing Date:   December 8, 2023    Dept:  W RACHEL ZOVAR v. AMERICAN HONDA MOTOR CO.,
INC.
 
PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER discovery
responses
 
Date of Hearing:        December
8, 2023                                         Trial Date:       April 29, 2024   
Department:              W                                                                    Case
No.:        22VECV01923
 
Moving Party:            Plaintiff Rachel Zovar
Responding Party:     Defendant American Honda Motor Co., Inc. 
Meet and Confer:      Yes. (Lupinek Decl. ¶¶9-10.)  
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is a lemon law action. On November
8, 2022, Plaintiff Rachel Zovar filed a complaint against American Honda Motor
Co., Inc. for violation of Song-Beverly Act – Breach of Express Warranty and
Fraudulent Inducement – Concealment. Plaintiff leased a 2020 Honda CR-V from American
Honda. Plaintiff alleges the vehicle suffers from a Sensing Defect. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
I.                   
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests for
Production Set One is GRANTED. 
II.                 
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Special
Interrogatories is GRANTED. 
 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
In reply, Plaintiff requests this court
take judicial notice of the first amended complaint and Stipulated Protective
Order in Kathleen Cadena, et al., v. American Honda Motor Company, Inc., et
al., United States District Court, Central District of California Case No.
2:18-cv-04007-MWF-PJW (RJN, Exhs. 1, 2.) 
 
The court grants Plaintiff’s request for
judicial notice. 
 
discussion
 
I.                   
PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO REQUESTS FOR
PRODUCTION SET ONE 
 
Plaintiff
Zovar moves the court for an order compelling further responses to Plaintiff’s
Request for Production of Documents, Set One Nos. 20, 53-55. Plaintiff further
moves for an order awarding sanctions in the amount of $2,245.00 against
Defendant and its attorney of record, Nelson Mullins Riley & Scarborough,
LLP. 
 
A motion to compel further responses to a demand for inspection or
production of documents (“RFP”) may be brought based on: (1) incomplete
statements of compliance; (2) inadequate, evasive, or incomplete claims of
inability to comply; or (3) unmerited or overly generalized objections. 
(CCP § 2031.310(c).) A motion to compel further production must set forth
specific facts showing good cause justifying the discovery sought by the
inspection demand. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310(b)(1).) In Digital Music
News LLC v Superior Court (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 216 at 224, the Court
defined “good cause” as a showing that there “a disputed fact that is of
consequence in the action and the discovery sought will tend in reason to prove
or disprove that fact or lead to other evidence that will tend to prove or
disprove the fact.”  
 
The following RPDs are at issue: 
 
RPD
20: The operative dealership agreement, if any, on the date of sale of the
SUBJECT VEHICLE between YOU and the dealership that sold the SUBJECT VEHICLE to
Plaintiffs.
 
RPD
53: All DOCUMENTS evidencing complaints by owners of 2020 Honda Civic
vehicles regarding any of the complaints that the SUBJECT VEHICLE was presented
to YOUR or YOUR authorized repair facilities for repair during the warranty
period.
 
RPD
54: All DOCUMENTS evidencing warranty repairs to 2020 Honda Civic vehicles
regarding any of the components that YOU or YOUR authorized repair facilities
performed repairs on under warranty.
 
RPD
55: All DOCUMENTS produced by YOU in discovery in the matter of Kathleen
Cadena, et al., v. American Honda Motor Company, Inc., et al, United States
District Court, Central District of California Case No. 2:18-cv-04007-MWF-PJW.
 
As for RPD 20, Defendant originally objected to the request on the
grounds the request was vague, ambiguous, overly broad, unduly burdensome,
oppressive, calls for private information, and as asking for information that
is not relevant to the subject matter of this action. 
 
In opposition, Honda argues the motion is moot as to RPD 20 as it
has provided a further response. However, Plaintiff contends the further
response is non-code complaint. Plaintiff contends a sample of its standard
Automobile Dealers Sales and Service Agreement is not sufficient. The court
agrees the response does not address the request. If Defendant does not have
the operative agreement, the response must state such. If the operative
agreement is in Defendant’s custody, possession, or control, Defendant must
produce such. 
 
As for RPD 53-55, Defendant objects to the demands on the grounds
the documents are irrelevant to the issues in the case because they seek
documents and information beyond the Subject Vehicle and which have no bearing
on Plaintiff’s burden of proof.
 
Plaintiff argues the requests are relevant on the grounds the
documents relate to similar customer complaints and warranty repairs. Plaintiff
contends customer complaints relating to the defects and nonconformities in
2020 Honda CR-V vehicles that overlap with the same defects alleged in
Plaintiffs’ vehicle are clearly relevant to AHM’s knowledge of ongoing and
uncurable defects and nonconformities in Plaintiffs’ Vehicle. Moreover, the
documents associated with the class action lawsuit in Cadena would undoubtedly
contain relevant information in the form of various consumer complaints with
similar defects associated with the Honda Sensing system in Plaintiff’s subject
vehicle.
 
The court finds further responses are required. Evidence regarding
other vehicles with similar defects as Plaintiff’s has been found to
potentially be admissible at trial in a¿lemon law¿action.¿(Donlen v. Ford
Motor Co. (2013) 217 Cal.App.4th 138, 154; see also¿Doppes v. Bentley
Motors, Inc. (2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 967, 971.) 
 
Accordingly, the court GRANTS Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further
Responses to Requests for Production Set One is GRANTED but only for complaints
about the same make, model and year of the subject vehicle in California in
response to Requests Nos. 53 and 54.  The
motion is denied as to Request No 55, as plaintiff has failed to provide any
information about this class action or to establish its relevance to the
instant lawsuit.  
 
Sanctions
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.310 (h) provides for the
imposition of monetary sanctions against any party who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes such a motion unless the court finds that the one subject to sanction
acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the
imposition of sanctions unjust. 
 
There being
substantial justification, with merit to both sides, the court denies the
requests for sanctions.   
 
II.                 
PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO SPECIAL
INTERROGATORIES
 
Plaintiff Zovar moves the court for an order compelling further
responses to Plaintiff’s First Set of Special Interrogatories and for monetary
sanctions in the amount of $1,927.50 against Defendant and its attorneys of
record, Nelson
Mullins Riley & Scarborough, LLP. Plaintiff makes the motion on the grounds
Defendant as not provided Code-compliant responses to Plaintiff’s Special
Interrogatory No. 14. 
 
A
motion to compel further responses to form or specially prepared
interrogatories may be brought if the responses contain: (1) answers that are
evasive or incomplete; (2) an unwarranted or insufficiently specific exercise
of an option to produce documents in lieu of a substantive response; or (3)
unmerited or overly generalized objections.  (CCP §
2030.300(a).)   
 
SROG
14 seeks the following: 
 
If YOU contend that the SUBJECT VEHICLE does not qualify for
repurchase under the provisions of the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act,
please state all facts supporting YOUR contention.
 
Defendant
initially objected to the interrogatory on the ground it is vague, ambiguous,
overly broad, protected by attorney-client privilege, the work product
doctrine, and/or the premature discovery of information and materials to be
provided by an expert witness, and a response to this interrogatory would
necessitate the making of a compilation, abstract, audit, or summary of
documents, the burden or expense of which is substantially the same for
Plaintiff as it is for AHM. However, AHM referred Plaintiff to and stated it
would produce the service records received from Riverside Honda. 
 
In
opposition, Defendant argues the response was sufficient as it referred to and
produced repair records it received from Ocean Honda of Soquel, Woodland Hills
and Swickward Honda of Thousand Oaks (formerly Honda of Thousand Oaks). Nonetheless,
Defendant contends although it is not obligated or required to do so under the
Code, in the interest of cooperation, AHM served a further response to Special
Interrogatory No. 14, summarizing the repair orders. 
 
Plaintiff
concedes the motion as moot and withdraws this request. However, Plaintiff
still seeks sanctions. 
 
Sanctions
 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2030.300(d) provides that for mandatory monetary
sanctions “against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes a motion to compel a further response to interrogatories, unless it
finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification
or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” 
(CCP § 2030.300(d).)   
 
Defendant
argues Plaintiff has proffered no evidence to support the position that AHM has
acted without substantial justification with its discovery obligations. AHM’s
initial response was sufficient and code-compliant. 
 
Plaintiff
contends the parties met and conferred on multiple occasions regarding
Defendant’s discovery responses to Special Interrogatories; however, Defendant
refused to provide further responses to the request at issue in this motion and
did not provide further responses to the request at issue until the day their
opposition was due. 
 
There
being substantial justification, with merit to both sides, the court denies the
requests for sanctions.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 