  Case Number:  21STCV36655    Hearing Date:   December 8, 2023    Dept:  W MELVY CARDONA,
et al. v. SFV PORTFOLIO - 14732 BLYTHE OWNER, LP, et al.
 
motion for
determination of good faith settlement  
 
Date of Hearing:        December
8, 2023                             Trial Date:       None
set.   
Department:              W                                                        Case No.:        21STCV36655
 
Moving Party:            Defendant 14732 Blythe Associates L.L.C. 
Responding Party:     Defendant
SFV Portfolio – 14732 Blythe Owner LP   
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is a habitability action. On July
26, 2023, Plaintiffs Melvy Cardona; Felipe Argueta; Ever Carbajal; Maymarie
Carbajal, a minor by and through her Guardian ad Litem, Melvy Cardona; Melanie
Carbajal, a minor by and through her Guardian ad Litem, Melvy Cardona; Michael
Carbajal, a minor by and through his Guardian ad Litem, Melvy Cardona, Bella
Rodriguez, a minor by and through her Guardian ad Litem, Melvy Cardona, Chanel
Carbajal, a minor by and through her Guardian ad Litem, Melvy Cardona; and Mason
Cardona, a minor by and through his Guardian ad Litem, Melvy Cardona filed a
complaint against SFV Portfolio – 14732 Blythe Owner, LP and 14732 Blythe
Associates, L.L.C. for 1. Failure to Provide Habitable Dwelling; 2. Breach of Covenant
and Right to Quiet Enjoyment and Possession of the Property; 3. Nuisance 4.
Negligence 5. Violation of Civil Code Section 1942.4. Plaintiffs allege the
property suffered from several nuisances as well as untenantable and
substandard conditions including cockroaches, mice, inoperable heating, mold,
deteriorated closet, and so on.
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Motion for
Determination of Good Faith Settlement by Defendant 14732 Blythe Associates
L.L.C. is GRANTED. 
 
discussion
 
Defendant
14732 Blythe Associates L.L.C. moves the court for an order determining that
Defendant’s good faith settlement with Melvy Cardona, Felipe Argueta, Ever
Carbajal, Maymarie Carbajal, Melanie Carbajal, Michael Carbajal, Bella
Rodriguez, and Chanel Carbajal was made in good faith pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 877.6.
 
Code of Civil Procedure section
877.6(a)(1) provides that a “party to an action in which it is alleged that two
or more parties are joint tortfeasors or co-obligors on a contract debt shall
be entitled to a hearing on the issue of the good faith of a settlement entered
into by the plaintiff or other claimant and one or more alleged tortfeasors or
co-obligors…” Under subdivision (a)(2), a settling party may give notice of
settlement to the parties and court, together with an application for
determination of good faith settlement and a proposed order. The application
“shall indicate the settling parties, and the basis, terms, and amount of the
settlement” and must include a proof of service. (CCP §877.6(a)(2).)
 
In determining the good faith of a
settlement, the court may consider the affidavits served with the notice of
hearing, and any counter-affidavits filed in response, or other evidence in the
court’s discretion. (CCP §877.6(b).) The California Supreme Court, in Tech-Bilt
Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde & Associates (1985) 38 Cal.3d 488, provided
factors to be considered in determining the good faith of a particular
settlement. The court explained that the policies and intent underlying section
877.6 “require that a number of factors be taken into account,” such as: a
rough approximation of a plaintiff’s total recovery and the settlor’s
proportionate liability; the amount paid in settlement; the allocation of
settlement proceeds among plaintiffs; a recognition that a settlor should pay
less in settlement than he would if he were found liable after a trial. (Tech-Bilt
at p. 499.) Other relevant factors include financial conditions and insurance
policy limits of settling defendants, and the existence of collusion, fraud, or
tortious conduct aimed to injure the interests of non-settling defendants. (Id.).
This evaluation must be made “on the basis of information available at the time
of settlement.” (Id.) The court further explained that settlement by a
defendant “must not be grossly disproportionate to what a reasonable person, at
the time of the settlement, would estimate the settling defendant’s liability
to be.” (Id., citations omitted.) 

 
The non-settling tortfeasors or
obligors bear the burden of demonstrating the absence of good faith in the
settlement.  (CCP §877.6(d).) In order to
demonstrate a lack of good faith, the non-settling party must show that the
settlement is so far “out of the ballpark” as to be inconsistent with the
equitable objectives of Section 877.6.  (Nutrition
Now, Inc. v. Superior Court (2003) 105 Cal.App.4th 209, 213.)
 
Defendant
14732 Blythe Associates L.L.C. (“Blythe Associates”) has filed an application for good faith settlement providing
that Defendant and Plaintiff would settle for $100,000.00 in exchange for
dismissal with prejudice and release of all of their claims against Defendant
Blythe Associates and its insurers. Defendant contends the settlement was reached
in order to avoid the substantial costs and uncertainties inherent to
litigation. The court finds Defendants’ motion satisfies the Tech-Bilt
factors.
 
Defendant SFV Portfolio – 14732 Blythe
Owner LP (“SFV Portfolio”) opposes the motion on the grounds Defendant Blythe Associates’ settlement was not “reasonable”
compared to the degree of its proportionate liability and damages claimed by Plaintiffs,
the motion does not account for the Plaintiffs’
potential attorneys’ fees or punitive damages, the motion does not include
information regarding the amount paid in settlement to each Plaintiff, and Blythe’s
motion also fails to provide any information regarding her financial condition
or insurance limits as indicated in Tech-Bilt. 
 
Reasonableness

 
SFV Portfolio
argues Plaintiff Melvy Cardona testified that she first saw the mold in 2018,
before the property was sold to SFV Portfolio. SFV provides Plaintiff Melvy’s
testimony that when the mold began in 2018, she informed Coastline (Blythe
Associates’ management company) on numerous occasions of the mold but Coastline
did nothing to remediate the situation. As a result, SFV contends Defendant
Blythe Associates’ claim that Plaintiffs’ damages stem from SFV’s ownership of
the property is very far from the truth of the circumstances in this case and their
settlement with Plaintiffs is by no means proportionate or reasonable and only
an attempt to cover the problematic circumstances of Plaintiffs’ lack of
complaints to appropriate government agencies and Blythe Associates’ active
failure to remedy the conditions in Plaintiffs’ unit during its ownership of
the property. SFV also refers to a 998 Offer by Plaintiffs to SFV in 2023,
where Plaintiffs sought at least $300,000.00 from SFV. 
 
As noted by Blythe
Associates, determination of good faith settlements are based on facts known at
the time of the settlement. (Tech-Bilt, Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde &
Associates (1985) 38 Cal. 3d 488, 499.) Here, plaintiffs have settled with Defendants
Blythe Associates for more than the amount specified in the plaintiffs’
responses to discovery.  Per Plaintiffs’
discovery responses, the most that Plaintiff could be seeking from Blythe
Associates for special damages is $56,669.95 which includes the total amount
claimed from both defendants for non-rent special damages ($40,093.98 property
damages + $1,664.93 other damages + $213.00 medical expenses + $14,698.04 rent
damages). (Dorman Decl. ¶ 9.) The court concludes that the settlement for
$100,000 is eminently reasonable, since it exceeds plaintiffs’ claimed injuries.
This is not the situation where plaintiff has settled with a tortfeasor for a
fraction of the likely damages in a case, thereby leaving the other defendants
“holding the bag.”  
 
As such, the
court cannot find the settlement to be so far “out of the ballpark” in relation
to the Tech-Bilt factors as to be inconsistent with the equitable
objectives of the statute.
 
Attorney
Fees/Punitive Damages
 
SFV Portfolio
next argues Blythe Associates’ motion does not account for the Plaintiffs’
potential attorneys’ fees or punitive damages liability.
 
As noted
above, determination of good faith settlements are based on facts known at the
time of the settlement. According to Blythe Associates, the evidence presented
shows Plaintiffs sought a combined $41,971.90 from both defendants and another
$14,698.04 in rent damages for Blythe’s ownership period. SFV has not presented
evidence showing that Blythe might be found liable for punitive damages.  Further, the settlement would appear to also
compensate plaintiff for some of the attorney’s fees they would likely be able
to claim in this suit, if they prevailed, given that it exceeds their claim for
damages.   
 
Individual
Plaintiffs
 
SFV Portfolio
also opposes the motion on the grounds the motion fails to provide any
information regarding the amount paid in settlement to each Plaintiff. SFV
contends such information regarding any settlement is also necessary for
purposes of set off. Moreover, SFV Portfolio contends the motion is solely based
on its own self-serving conclusions and assumptions.
 
SFV does not
provide authority that the settlement must include the proportionate amount to
each Plaintiff. The court notes that it does have in the record the division
between the minor plaintiffs and the parents: each of the five minor plaintiffs
is to receive $4,000.  This division of
the settlement proceeds has been approved the court. Thus, there is a record,
should it be needed, of how much has been paid to each plaintiff as a result of
this settlement.  
 
Financial
Condition
 
SFV next
argues Blythe has not disclosed her professional liability insurance coverage
limits, and has provided no information about its finances, as required by Tech-Bilt.
Although financial condition is a factor, the failure to provide such
information does not preclude a good faith settlement. (Cahill v. San Diego
Gas & Electric Co. (2011) 194 Cal. App. 4th 939, 968.) The party
opposing a good faith determination has the burden to prove the settlement was
not made in good faith.
 
Accordingly, Defendant
14732 Blythe Associates L.L.C.’s Motion for Determination of Good Faith
Settlement is GRANTED. 