Here is the summary of the Tentative Ruling in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 20STCV46671
Plaintiff's Name: Annette Turner, Tammy Davis
Defendant's Name: AIDS Healthcare Foundation
People-Names: Annette Turner, Tammy Davis, Robert B. Broadbelt III
Company-Names: AIDS Healthcare Foundation, Victor's Services, LLC
Places: Los Angeles, California
Dates: January 6, 2025, April 19, 2024, June 4, 2024, December 7, 2025
Events: Motion to bifurcate and order separate trials, filing of pleadings, consideration of motion
Money: N/A
Intentions: Plaintiffs sought to bifurcate the action and order separate jury trials for each plaintiff
Facts: Plaintiffs have different claims against the defendant, defendant refused to stipulate to severance
Disputes: Plaintiffs' motion to bifurcate and order separate trials
Acts: Filing of pleadings, consideration of motion
Agreements: Code of Civil Procedure sections 1008, 1048
Laws: Code of Civil Procedure sections 1008, 1048
Case Citations: California Correctional Peace Officers Assn. v. Virga (2010), Grappo v. Country Financial Corp. (1991)
Statutes: Code of Civil Procedure sections 1008, 1048
Roles: Judge (Robert B. Broadbelt III), Plaintiffs (Annette Turner and Tammy Davis), Defendant (AIDS Healthcare Foundation)
Significant Statements:
* The court finds that Plaintiffs did not comply with the statutory requirements of Code of Civil Procedure section 1008.
* The court finds that the proposed severance would not serve judicial economy and efficiency.
* The court denies Plaintiffs' motion to bifurcate and order separate trials.
```

And here is a summary of the Judge's Tentative Ruling in English text:

The Judge has denied the Plaintiffs' motion to bifurcate the action and order separate jury trials for each plaintiff. The Plaintiffs, Annette Turner and Tammy Davis, sought to separate their claims against the Defendant, AIDS Healthcare Foundation, despite having different claims. The Judge found that the Plaintiffs did not comply with the statutory requirements of Code of Civil Procedure section 1008, which requires a renewed motion to be based on new or different facts, circumstances, or law. Additionally, the Judge found that the proposed severance would not serve judicial economy and efficiency, as it would require the court to conduct two separate trials and expend significant judicial resources. The Judge denied the motion and ordered the Defendant to give notice of the ruling.