 Case Number:  21STCV14665    Hearing Date:   January 6, 2025    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




benjamin trevino-rocha

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
james hardie building
   products inc.

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


21STCV14665




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


January
   6, 2025




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[tentative]
  Order RE:
 
defendants’ motion to compel mental
  examination and for sanctions
 



 
MOVING PARTIES:             Defendants James Hardie Building
Products Inc., Elizabeth Brown, and Steve Nunez
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff Benjamin Trevino-Rocha 
Motion to Compel Mental Examination and for Sanctions
The court
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in connection with
this motion. 
DISCUSSION
Defendants James Hardie Building Products Inc., Elizabeth Brown, and
Steve Nunez (“Defendants”) move the court for an order (1) compelling plaintiff
Benjamin Trevino-Rocha (“Plaintiff”) to submit to a mental examination, to be
conducted remotely by Dr. Francine Kulick, Ph.D. (“Dr. Kulick”), and (2)
awarding monetary sanctions in favor of Defendants and against Plaintiff in the
amount of $7,750.  In the alternative,
Defendants request that the court impose evidentiary sanctions against
Plaintiff to limit the evidence and testimony that he may introduce at trial
relating to his claim for mental and emotional distress damages. 
“Any party may obtain discovery, subject to the restrictions set forth
in Chapter 5 (commencing with Section 2019.010), by means of a physical or
mental examination of . . . a party to the action . . . in any action in which
the mental or physical condition (including the blood group) of that party or
other person is in controversy in the action.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.020,
subd. (a).)¿ If any party desires to obtain discovery by a mental examination,
the party must obtain leave of court.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.310, subd.
(a).)¿ “To protect the plaintiff’s privacy interests from unnecessary
intrusion, the mental examination may be ordered only upon a showing of good
cause.”¿ (Carpenter v. Superior Court (2006) 141 Cal.App.4th 249, 259;
Code Civ. Proc., §¿2032.320, subd. (a) [“The court shall grant a motion for
physical or mental examination under Section 2032.310 only for good cause
shown”].)¿¿ 
            The court grants Defendants’ motion
as follows. 
            First, the court finds that there is
good cause to compel the mental examination of Plaintiff because (1) Plaintiff (i)
has alleged that he suffered severe emotional distress as a result of
Defendants’ conduct (Compl., ¶ 61), and (ii) has claimed emotional distress
damages (Compl., ¶¶ 18, 28, 36, 51, 56, 61, 36), and (2) Plaintiff has stated,
in his discovery responses, that he still suffers from “humiliation,
depression, embarrassment, anger, mental and emotional distress, and discomfort
as a result of Defendants’ unlawful conduct[,]” such that Plaintiff’s mental
condition is in controversy in this action. 
(Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2032.020, subd. (a), 2032.320, subd. (a); Vinson
v. Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 839-840 [concluding that the
plaintiff’s “mental state is in controversy” since the plaintiff alleged that
the defendants caused various mental and emotional ailments]; Hamer Decl., Ex B,
p. 42:2-25.)  
The court also notes that Plaintiff (1) has not agreed to stipulate that
no claims are being made for mental and emotional distress over and above that
usually associated with physical injuries claimed and that no expert testimony
regarding this usual mental and emotional distress will be presented at trial
in support of his claim for damages pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
2032.320, and (2) does not appear to dispute that there is good cause to
conduct his mental examination, and disputes only the limitations that should
be imposed on that examination.  (Hamer
Decl., ¶ 6 and Ex. E.) 
            Second, the court finds that
Defendants’ motion includes all the information required by Code of Civil
Procedure section 2031.310, subdivision (b). 
(Notice of Mot., pp. 1:14-2:28 [identifying time, place, manner,
conditions, scope, and nature of the examination, and the identity and
specialty of the examiner (i.e., Dr. Kulick)]; Hamer Decl., ¶¶ 7-14 [meet and
confer declaration].) 
            Third, the court grants in part
Plaintiff’s requests to limit the mental examination as follows. 
The court denies Plaintiff’s request that the court order Dr. Kulick
to make the recording available to Plaintiff’s counsel within 5 days after the
examination because (1) Plaintiff has not shown that such an order is
necessary, and (2) Plaintiff has the right to record his mental examination by
audio technology, such that Plaintiff may, on his own, record the examination
and provide it to his counsel.  (Opp., p.
8:14-16; Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.530, subd. (a).)  Plaintiff also has not shown that an order requiring
Dr. Kulick to accommodate reasonable efforts to audio record the examination is
necessary in light of Plaintiff’s statutory right to record the
examination.  (Opp., p. 8:17-22; Code
Civ. Proc., § 2032.530, subd. (a).)  
The court grants Plaintiff’s request to include an order that Dr.
Kulick shall not collect from Plaintiff photographs, his fingerprints, or his
social security number.  (Opp., p.
8:23-24.)  The court denies Plaintiff’s
request that Dr. Kulick shall not collect from Plaintiff his driver’s license
in the event that such identification is required before beginning the
examination.  (Ibid.) 
The court denies Plaintiff’s request to include an order that
Plaintiff is not required to fill out any new patient identification forms because
Plaintiff has not presented authority, argument, and analysis establishing that
such a limitation is necessary.  (Opp.,
p. 9:1-5.)
The court grants Plaintiff’s request to include an order that Dr.
Kulick shall not ask Plaintiff about his sexual history and his monetary goals
relating to this lawsuit because (1) the court agrees that Plaintiff’s right to
privacy regarding his sexual history outweighs any interest that disclosure
serves, and (2) Defendants have agreed that Dr. Kulick will not ask Plaintiff
questions regarding those matters.  (Opp.,
p. 9:9-11; Dr. Kulick Decl., ¶ 10; Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3
Cal.5th 531, 552 [setting forth framework for evaluating invasions of privacy].)  
The court denies Plaintiff’s request for an order that Dr. Kulick shall
ask Plaintiff only about his “employment history with Defendants dating back no
further than January 2015 to the present regarding the experiences he was
subjected to by Defendants” and only as to “the nature and extent of the mental
and emotional distress he claims to have suffered as a consequence of
Defendants’ employment practices[.]” 
(Opp., p. 9:6-14.)  As set forth
above, Plaintiff has placed his mental state in controversy.  The court finds that (1) Plaintiff has not
shown that the proposed scope of the examination violates his right to privacy,
and (2) the scope of the examination, as set forth in Defendants’ notice of
motion, is sufficiently limited and includes topics that are relevant to
determining the source of Plaintiff’s claimed mental and emotional damages in
this action.  (Notice of Mot., p. 2:7-18;
Vinson, supra, 43 Cal.3d at pp. 840 [“by asserting a causal link
between [the plaintiff’s] mental distress and [the] defendants’ conduct,
plaintiff implicitly claims it was not caused by a preexisting mental
condition, thereby raising the question of alternative sources for the
distress”]; Williams, supra, 3 Cal.5th at p. 552; Dr. Kulick
Decl., ¶ 6 [in order to assess the emotional damages claimed, Dr. Kulick must
examine Plaintiff regarding his personal and social history, educational and
work history, medical history, and the history of his alleged illnesses].) 
The court denies Plaintiff’s request for an order that Dr. Kulick produce
to Plaintiff’s counsel any written reports regarding Plaintiff’s examination
within 15 days of the date of the examination because (1) Plaintiff has not
explained why counsel requires the reports to be produced within 15 days, and
(2) Plaintiff may still obtain any written reports setting out the history,
examinations, findings, diagnoses, prognoses, and conclusions of the examiner
within the earlier of 30 days after service of the demand or within 15 days of
trial pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.610.  (Opp., Harris Decl., Ex. 1, ¶ 13.) 
The court denies Plaintiff’s request for an order that test results (1)
be used solely for purposes of this lawsuit and will be shared only with
parties to this action, their counsel, and experts or consultants and (2) shall
be subject to a protective order, because Plaintiff has not presented argument,
authority, and analysis to establish why such a protective order is
warranted.  (Opp., Harris Decl., Ex. 1, ¶¶
14-15.)  The court also denies
Plaintiff’s request that the court order that the failure to abide by the terms
of the examination shall be grounds to strike the testimony of Dr. Kulick.  (Opp., Harris Decl., Ex. 1, ¶ 17.)
Fourth, the court denies Defendants’ request for monetary and evidentiary
sanctions against Plaintiff.  Plaintiff
has not failed to submit to a mental examination required by an order of the court
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.410) and the court has granted two of Plaintiff’s
requests to limit the mental examination. 
  
ORDER
            The court grants defendants James
Hardie Building Products, Inc., Elizabeth Brown, and Steve Nunez’s motion to
compel mental examination and for sanctions as follows. 
            The court orders that Dr. Francine
Kulick, Ph.D. shall remotely conduct the mental examination of plaintiff
Benjamin Trevino-Rocha on _________________, to be conducted on a
videoconferencing platform to be selected by Dr. Francine Kulick, Ph.D., and to
begin at 10:00 a.m. and to last up to 7 hours, excluding reasonable breaks.
            At the mental examination, Dr.
Francine Kulick, Ph.D. may (1) examine plaintiff Benjamin Trevino-Rocha
regarding (i) his past and present psychological condition, (ii) the extent,
nature, and cause of any humiliation, depression, embarrassment, anger, mental
and emotional distress, discomfort, or psychological injury and the need for
past and/or future treatment, (iii) his current mental status and cognitive and
emotional function, (iv) the work experiences that plaintiff Benjamin
Trevino-Rocha alleges contributed to his emotional distress, (v) any medical or
psychological treatment for symptoms of that distress, (vi) plaintiff Benjamin
Trevino-Rocha’s experiences between the end of his work at James Hardie
Building Products Inc. to the time of his evaluation, as relevant to assess the
factors contributing to his emotional distress, and (vii) his past personal
history involving his family, significant developmental experiences,
educational and occupational history, dating and marital history, litigation
history, financial history, and past medical and psychiatric history, and (2)
conduct the Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory-2 Test.  
The court orders that Dr. Francine Kulick, Ph.D. shall not (1) ask
plaintiff Benjamin Trevino-Rocha any questions regarding his conversations with
his counsel, his monetary goals in this action, or his sexual history, or (2)
collect from plaintiff Benjamin Trevino-Rocha any photographs, his
fingerprints, or his social security number. 
            The court denies defendants James
Hardie Building Products, Inc., Elizabeth Brown, and Steve Nunez’s request for
monetary and evidentiary sanctions against plaintiff Benjamin Trevino-Rocha. 
            The court orders defendants James
Hardie Building Products, Inc., Elizabeth Brown, and Steve Nunez to give notice
of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  January 6, 2025
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court