  Case Number:  20STCV46671    Hearing Date:   January 6, 2025    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




annette turner

   , et al.;
 


   Plaintiffs,
 
 
vs.
 
 
aids healthcare foundation

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


20STCV46671




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


January
   6, 2025




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[tentative]
  Order RE:
 
plaintiffs’ motion to bifurcate and order
  separate trials of the plaintiffs
 



 
MOVING PARTIES:             Plaintiffs Annette Turner and Tammy
Davis               
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Defendant AIDS Healthcare Foundation
Motion to Bifurcate and Order Separate Trials of Plaintiffs 
The court
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in connection with
this motion. 
DISCUSSION
Plaintiffs Annette Turner (“Turner”) and Tammy Davis (“Davis”) (collectively,
“Plaintiffs”) move the court for an order bifurcating this action to order
separate jury trials for Plaintiffs. 
Defendant AIDS Healthcare Foundation (“Defendant”) has opposed the
motion. 
The court finds that Plaintiffs (1) have not satisfied the
requirements for a renewed motion under Code of Civil Procedure section 1008,
and (2) have not shown that severance in the manner proposed would serve the
interests of convenience and judicial economy. 
First, the court finds that Plaintiffs have not satisfied the
requirements of Code of Civil Procedure section 1008. 
“A party who originally made an application for an order which was
refused in whole or part, or granted conditionally on terms, may make a
subsequent application for the same order upon new or different facts,
circumstances, or law, in which case it shall be shown by affidavit what
application was made before, when and to what judge, what order or decisions
were made, and what new or different facts, circumstances, or law are claimed
to be shown.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1008,
subd. (b).)  Thus, “[l]ike a motion for
reconsideration, a renewed motion must be based upon new or different facts,
circumstances, or law, and must be accompanied by a supporting affidavit.”  (California Correctional Peace Officers
Assn. v. Virga (2010) 181 Cal.App.4th 30, 43.) 
Because Plaintiffs are seeking the same relief that they sought in
connection with their motion to bifurcate that was filed on April 19, 2024 and
denied by the court on June 4, 2024, Plaintiffs were required to comply with
section 1008.  (Pl. April 19, 2024 Notice
of Mot. to Bifurcate, p. 2:3-5 [moving for an order “to bifurcate this action
to order separate jury trials for Plaintiffs”]; June 4, 2024 Order, p. 4:19-20;
Pl. Aug. 16, 2024 Notice of Mot. to Bifurcate, p. 2:3-5 [moving for an order
“to order separate jury trials for Plaintiffs”].)  However, the declaration filed in support of
Plaintiffs’ motion did not set forth “what application was made before, when
and to what judge, [and] what order or decisions were made[.]”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1008, subd. (b); Farrell
Decl., ¶¶ 1-5.)  Further, Plaintiffs’
counsel did not clearly set forth “what new or different facts, circumstances,
or law are claimed to be shown.”  (Ibid.)  While Plaintiffs’ counsel has stated, in her
declaration, that “despite Plaintiffs having no claims in common, Defendant AHF
still refuses to stipulate to severance[,]” which appears to reference
Plaintiffs’ filing of their Fourth Amended Complaint, counsel did not clearly
articulate the new or different facts or circumstances that support
reconsideration of the court’s June 4, 2024 order or the renewal of their
previous motion to bifurcate.  (Farrell
Decl., ¶ 5.) 
Thus, the court finds that Plaintiffs did not comply with section
1008. 
Second, even if Plaintiffs had complied with the statutory
requirements of section 1008, the court finds that Plaintiffs have not shown
that the proposed severance would serve judicial economy and efficiency. 
“[T]rial courts have broad discretion to determine the order of proof
in the interests of judicial economy.”¿ (Grappo v. Country Financial Corp. (1991)
235 Cal.App.3d 496, 504.)¿ Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 1048,
“[t]he court, in furtherance of convenience or to avoid prejudice, or when
separate trials will be conducive to expedition and economy, may order a
separate trial of any cause of action, including a cause of action asserted in
a cross-complaint, or of any separate issue or of any number of causes of
action or issues, preserving the right of trial by jury required by the
Constitution or a statute of this state or of the United States.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1048, subd. (b).) 
¿ The court acknowledges that Plaintiffs no longer assert the
same causes of action against Defendant. 
Specifically, plaintiff Davis alleges causes of action for sexual
harassment, negligence, and sexual battery against Defendant and defendants Victor’s
Services, LLC and Tony Rositas based on the sexual harassment and assault of
Davis, while plaintiff Turner has alleged causes of action for negligence,
breach of the implied warranty of habitability, conversion, failure to provide
deadbolt, failure to return security deposit, and failure to exercise ordinary
care of property against Defendant based on Defendant’s alleged failure to
provide safe and habitable premises, alleged conversion of or failure to
protect Turner’s property, alleged failure to provide a deadbolt, and alleged
failure to return Turner’s security deposit. 
(4AC ¶¶ 88, 102, 107, 115, 120-121, 126, 131, 134, 140.)  However, the court finds that it would not
serve the interests of judicial economy and efficiency to conduct two separate
trials in this single action.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 1048, subd. (b).)  Instead,
requiring the court to conduct two trials to resolve this action before
December 7, 2025 (i.e., five years after the date this action was filed) would
require the court to expend a significant amount of judicial resources.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 583.310 [“An action shall
be brought to trial within five years after the action is commenced against the
defendant”].)  Moreover, the court finds
that Plaintiffs have not shown that they would be prejudiced if they are
required to adjudicate their claims in one trial.   
Thus, for the reasons set forth above, the court denies Plaintiffs’
motion.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 1008, subd.
(b), 1048, subd. (b).) 
 
ORDER
            The court denies plaintiffs Annette
Turner and Tammy Davis’s motion to bifurcate and order separate trials of the
plaintiffs. 
            The court orders defendant AIDS
Healthcare Foundation to give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  January 6, 2025
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court