 Case Number:  23STCV31759    Hearing Date:   January 6, 2025    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




tiyon christopher paul
   cooper

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
security industry services
   inc.

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


23STCV31759




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


January
   6, 2025




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[tentative]
  Order RE:
 
defendants’ motion to compel arbitration and
  stay civil court proceedings
 



 
MOVING PARTIES:             Defendants Security Industry
Specialists, Inc., Matthew Garay, Omar Rosales, Glen Pacis, Vashti Simpson,
Timika Rieves, and Manuel Montoya            
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Unopposed
Motion to Compel Arbitration and Stay Civil Court Proceedings
The court
considered the moving papers filed in connection with this motion.  No opposition papers were filed. 
DISCUSSION
Defendants Security Industry Specialists, Inc. (“SIS”), Matthew Garay,
Omar Rosales, Glen Pacis, Vashti Simpson, Timika Rieves, and Manuel Montoya (collectively,
“Defendants”) move the court for an order (1) compelling plaintiff Tiyon
Christopher Paul Cooper (“Plaintiff”) to submit the claims alleged against them
in his Complaint to binding arbitration, and (2) staying this action pending completion
of arbitration. 
 
 
1.    
Applicability of the Federal
Arbitration Act
As a threshold matter, the court finds that Defendants have not met
their burden to show that the Federal Arbitration Act (9 U.S.C. § 1 et seq.)
(the “FAA”) governs this motion.  (Evenskaas
v. California Transit, Inc. (2022) 81 Cal.App.5th 285, 292 [“The party
asserting the FAA applies to an agreement has ‘the burden to demonstrate FAA
coverage by declarations and other evidence’”].) 
“‘The FAA’s basic coverage provision, section 2, makes the FAA
applicable to contracts “evidencing a transaction involving commerce.”  (9
U.S.C. § 2.)  Courts broadly construe section 2 to “provide for the
enforcement of arbitration agreements within the full reach of the Commerce
Clause.”  [Citation.]  “Accordingly, in most cases, the FAA mandates
arbitration when contracts involving interstate commerce contain arbitration
provisions.” ’  [Citations.]”  (Mendoza
v. Trans Valley Transport (2022) 75 Cal.App.5th 748, 761-762; 9 U.S.C. § 2
[“A written provision in . . . a contract evidencing a transaction involving
commerce” to arbitrate a controversy shall be valid, irrevocable, and
enforceable, save upon such grounds as exist at law or in equity for revocation
of any contract].)  “The United States Supreme Court has identified ‘three
categories of activity that Congress may regulate under its commerce power: (1)
“the use of the channels of interstate commerce”; (2) “the instrumentalities of
interstate commerce, or persons or things in interstate commerce, . . .”; and
(3) “those activities having a substantial relation to interstate commerce, . .
. i.e., those activities that substantially affect interstate commerce.”
’  [Citations.]”  (Evenskaas, supra, 81 Cal.App.5th at
p. 293.)
The court acknowledges Defendants have submitted evidence showing that
(1) SIS, with which Plaintiff executed the subject the “Employment Arbitration
Agreement and Procedure” (the “Arbitration Agreement”), is a private security
contractor with offices in California, Washington, New York, Texas, and Florida
and (i) provides contract security specialists to clients in California and
elsewhere in the United States, (ii) provides security services in 29 states
and 19 countries, and (iii) provides international services, and (2) during
Plaintiff’s training with SIS, Plaintiff was trained on SIS’s US and global
security operations.  (Prybyla Decl., ¶¶
2, 7.)  Defendants have also presented
evidence showing that Plaintiff was required to use the Internet to access
SIS’s time management system and was required to wear a uniform that was
purchased from an entity in Pennsylvania. 
(Prybyla Decl., ¶¶ 14-15.)
Thus, Defendants have presented evidence showing that SIS is involved
in activities that substantially affect interstate commerce.  However, the court finds that Defendants did
not present evidence establishing that the Arbitration Agreement entered into
by Plaintiff and SIS constitutes a contract involving interstate commerce
because Defendants did not submit evidence showing that Plaintiff, while assigned
as a security specialist to an Apple campus in Culver City, California, was meaningfully
involved in activities that substantially affect interstate commerce.  (Prybyla Decl., ¶ 6; Lane v. Francis Capital
Management LLC (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 676, 688 [finding that there was
insufficient evidence to support a finding that the plaintiff’s employment
involved interstate commerce because, inter alia, the plaintiff never
admitted to being engaged in interstate commerce and the defendant was a
California corporate entity doing business and with its principal place of
business in California]; Hoover v. American Income Life Ins. Co. (2012)
206 Cal.App.4th 1193, 1207-1208 [although the defendant was based in Texas and
the plaintiff in California, “there was no evidence in the record establishing
that the relationship between [the defendant and the plaintiff] had a specific
effect or ‘bear[ing] on interstate commerce in a substantial way[,]’” including
because the plaintiff did not work in other states or engage in loan activity
that affected interstate commerce by engaging with a bank headquartered in
another state].) 
The court acknowledges that the Arbitration Agreement states that
“[a]ny proceeding pursuant” thereto “is deemed to be an arbitration proceeding
subject to the [FAA], if applicable, to the exclusion of any state law
inconsistent therewith; or, if the FAA is not applicable, to the law of the
state of venue.”  (Prybyla Decl., Ex. B, Arbitration
Agreement, ¶ 22.1.)  While the court
agrees that parties to an arbitration agreement may incorporate the FAA’s
procedural provisions if the agreement “‘contains a choice-of-law clause
expressly incorporating them[,]’” the court finds that the language in the
parties’ Arbitration Agreement does not expressly incorporate the procedural
provisions of the FAA.  (Victrola 89,
LLC v. Jaman Properties 8 LLC (2020) 46 Cal.App.5th 337, 345.)  The Arbitration Agreement does not, for
example, state that its enforcement shall be governed by the FAA.  (Id. at p. 346 [“when an agreement
provides that its ‘enforcement’ shall be governed by the FAA, the FAA governs a
party’s motion to compel arbitration”].) 
Further, the Arbitration Agreement states that any proceeding pursuant
thereto is subject to the FAA “if applicable[.]”  (Prybyla Decl., Ex. B, Arbitration Agreement,
¶ 22.1 [emphasis added].)  This language
(1) is not broad and unconditional, and does not adopt the FAA to govern any
arbitration under the Arbitration Agreement, and instead adopts the FAA only to
the extent applicable, and (2) does not apply here because, as set forth above,
the court finds that Defendants have not shown that the Arbitration Agreement
involves interstate commerce and therefore have not shown that the FAA is
applicable.  (Ibid.; Rodriguez
v. American Technologies, Inc. (2006) 136 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1121-1122 [agreement
to arbitrate “‘[p]ursuant to the Federal Arbitration Act’” was broad and
unconditional and therefore adopted the procedural provisions of the FAA to
govern their arbitration].)  
Thus, the court finds that the California Arbitration Act governs this
motion and therefore does not apply the FAA.[1]
2.    
Existence of Agreement to Arbitrate 
“On petition of a party to an arbitration agreement alleging the
existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a party to
the agreement refuses to arbitrate that controversy, the court shall order the
petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines
that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy exists[,]” unless the court
finds that the right to compel arbitration has been waived by the petitioner or
that grounds exist for rescission of the agreement.¿ (Code Civ. Proc.,
§¿1281.2.)¿¿¿¿  
“‘ “The party seeking to compel arbitration bears the burden of
proving the existence of an arbitration agreement, while the party opposing the
petition bears the burden of establishing a defense to the agreement’s
enforcement.” ’”¿ (Beco v. Fast Auto Loans (2022) 86 Cal.App.5th 292,
302.)¿ To determine the existence of an arbitration agreement, the court uses
“a three-step burden-shifting process.”¿ (Iyere v. Wise Auto Group (2023)
87 Cal.App.5th 747, 755.)¿ “The arbitration proponent must first recite verbatim,
or provide a copy of, the alleged agreement.¿ [Citations.]¿ A movant can bear
this initial burden ‘by attaching a copy of the arbitration agreement
purportedly bearing the opposing party’s signature.’”¿ (Ibid. [internal
citations omitted].)¿ “If the movant bears its initial burden, the burden
shifts to the party opposing arbitration to identify a factual dispute as to
the agreement’s existence . . . .”¿ (Ibid.)¿ If the opposing party meets
its burden to “submit sufficient evidence to create a factual dispute” as to
the existence of the agreement, the burden shifts back to the arbitration
proponent, who retains the ultimate burden of proving its existence by a
preponderance of the evidence.¿ (Ibid.; Gamboa v. Northeast Community
Clinic (2021) 72 Cal.App.5th 158, 165-166.)¿ 
First, the court finds that Defendants have met their burden to show
that an arbitration agreement exists between SIS and Plaintiff by submitting a
copy of the Arbitration Agreement entered into by and between Plaintiff, on the
one hand, and defendant SIS, on the other hand, and executed upon Plaintiff’s
commencement of employment with SIS for the second time.  (Prybyla Decl., Ex. B, Arbitration Agreement.)
The Arbitration Agreement (1) states that all disputes are subject to
the Arbitration Agreement, (2) defines disputes to mean “any and all claims,
disputes, or issues of which the Employee (including former Employee) is or
should be aware during the employment relationship or after termination
thereof, and which relate to or arise out of the employment of the Employee by
the Employer (including without limitation any claim of constructive
termination, any benefits-related claim or any related claim against an
individual Employee of the Employer),” including claims that arise out of or
are related to, inter alia, civil rights laws, fair employment laws,
wage and hour laws, laws against discrimination, harassment, or retaliation,
and the employee’s employment or termination thereof, and (3) was
electronically signed by Plaintiff on August 17, 2022.  (Prybyla Decl., Ex. B, Arbitration Agreement,
¶¶ 1.1, 1.2, and PDF p. 31 [signature page].) 

Thus, the court finds that Defendants have met their burden to produce
prima facie evidence of an arbitration agreement between Plaintiff and
defendant SIS.  
Second, the court finds that Defendants have met their burden to
produce prima facie evidence of an arbitration agreement between Plaintiff and
individual defendants Matthew Garay, Omar Rosales, Glen Pacis, Vashti Simpson,
Timika Rieves, and Manuel Montoya. 
The Arbitration Agreement defines “Employer” to include SIS as well as
“its parent company, subsidiaries and affiliates and/or their respective
directors, officers, employees, or agents and/or affiliated benefits plan
administrators and/or plan fiduciaries and their respective employees or
agents.”  (Prybyla Decl., Ex. B, ¶
1.3.)  Plaintiff has alleged that
individual defendants Matthew Garay, Omar Rosales, Glen Pacis, Vashti Simpson,
Timika Rieves, and Manuel Montoya are employees of SIS, such that those defendants
therefore fall within the scope of the Arbitration Agreement.  (Ibid.; Compl., ¶¶ 14, subds. (a)
[defendant Garay was brought onto the team as a security guard training for a
manager], (l) [identifying defendant Rosales as a hiring manager], and (m)
[identifying defendant Simpson as a supervisor], 11 [alleging that Plaintiff
was hired by supervisor defendant Pacis (using the incorrect name of Glen
Casias)], 2 [defendants Rieves and Montoya were both human resources
generalists].) 
The court further finds that Defendants have shown that the
Arbitration Agreement applies to the claims that Plaintiff alleges in his
Complaint, which (1) arise from Plaintiff’s employment and his termination of
employment with SIS, and (2) allege causes of action for discrimination, harassment,
retaliation and whistleblower retaliation, failure to provide reasonable
accommodation, failure to engage in the interactive process, failure to prevent
discrimination, harassment, and/or retaliation, breaches of an oral and
implied-in-fact agreement not to terminate Plaintiff without good cause, negligent
hiring, supervision, and retention, wrongful termination, and intentional
infliction of emotional distress.  (Compl.,
¶¶ 21-24, 29, 37, 44, 52, 60, 67-68, 71-72, 75, 78, 85.)
Third, the court finds that Plaintiff has not met his burden (1) to
identify a factual dispute as to the Arbitration Agreement’s existence, or (2)
to establish a defense to the enforceability of the Arbitration Agreement because
Plaintiff did not file an opposition or other evidence with the court disputing
that he signed the Arbitration Agreement or that it is not authentic or
enforceable for any other reason.  (Iyere,
supra, 87 Cal.App.5th at p. 755; Beco, supra, 86
Cal.App.5th at p. 302.) 
The court therefore grants Defendants’ motion to compel arbitration
and to stay this action.
ORDER
            The court grants defendants Security
Industry Specialists, Inc., Matthew Garay, Omar Rosales, Glen Pacis, Vashti
Simpson, Timika Rieves, and Manuel Montoya’s motion to compel arbitration and
stay civil proceedings. 
            The court orders (1) plaintiff Tiyon
Christopher Paul Cooper and defendants Security Industry Specialists, Inc., Matthew
Garay, Omar Rosales, Glen Pacis, Vashti Simpson, Timika Rieves, and Manuel
Montoya to arbitrate the claims alleged in plaintiff Tiyon Christopher Paul
Cooper’s Complaint, and (2) this action is stayed until arbitration is
completed.
            The court sets an Order to Show
Cause re completion of arbitration for hearing on June 17, 2025, at 8:30 a.m.,
in Department 53.   
            The court orders defendant Security
Industry Specialists, Inc., Matthew Garay, Omar Rosales, Glen Pacis, Vashti
Simpson, Timika Rieves, and Manuel Montoya to give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  January 6, 2025
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court


