  Case Number:  24STCP01227    Hearing Date:   October 2, 2024    Dept:  26  
Heinz
v. TikTok, Inc., et al.PETITION TO
COMPEL ARBITRATION AND STAY PROCEEDINGS(CCP §§ 1281.2, et seq., 638) 
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Petitioner Brian Heinz’s Petition to Compel Arbitration is
DENIED.
 
 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
On April 17, 2024, Petitioner Brian Heinz (“Petitioner”)
filed the instant Petition to Compel Arbitration against Respondent TikTok,
Inc., fka Musical.ly, Inc. (“Respondent”). An Amended Petition to Compel
Arbitration with a supporting memorandum of points and authorities was filed on
May 7, 2024. Respondent filed a response on July 31, 2024 and Petitioner
replied on August 13, 2024. Petitioner’s counsel pro hac vice also filed
a supplemental declaration on August 20, 2024. The hearing on the Amended
Petition was held on August 21, 2024, at which time the Court heard oral
argument and continued the matter to October 2, 2024. (Minute Order, 08/21/24.)
 
Discussion
 
The Petition is brought pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 1281, et seq., which provides in relevant part: 
 
On petition of a party to an
arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to
arbitrate a controversy and that a party thereto refuses to arbitrate such
controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate
the controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy
exists, unless it determines that:
 
(a) The right to compel arbitration has
been waived by the petitioner; or 
(b) Grounds exist for the revocation of
the agreement.
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2, subds. (a)-(b).) 
 
Petitioner contends that the parties entered into an
agreement containing an arbitration provision, which is purportedly attached to
the supporting declaration of Angel Getsov at Exhibit. (Pet., ¶10.) Exhibit B
to the Getsov declaration, however, is Petitioner’s demand for arbitration
submitted to the American Arbitration Association (“AAA”). (Pet., Getsov Decl.,
Exh. B.) It appears that the agreement to arbitration upon which Petitioner relies
is contained in Respondent’s February 2019 Terms of Service, at paragraph 11. (Amended
Pet., Gestov Decl., ¶¶3-5.) In its response, Respondent contends there is no
agreement to arbitrate because the February 2019 Terms of Service on which
Petitioner relies had been replaced by subsequent terms of service in July 2023
that did not contain a provision for arbitration. (Opp., Nguyen Decl., Exhs.
A-F.) Respondent also points to a pending class action involving the same
claims against it, in which Petitioner would be a putative class member as
grounds to deny the Amended Petition. This argument, however, requires a
finding that Petitioner is a party to an arbitration agreement, which is the
opposite of the main argument in Respondent’s opposition. (See Code Civ. Proc.,
§1281.2, subd. (c) [the court shall order the parties to arbitration unless it
determines “[a] party to the arbitration agreement is also a party to a pending
court action or special proceeding”].)
 
Petitioner makes multiple arguments in reply, including that
the question of conflicting terms of service is one for the arbitrator to
decide. Respondent contends that the scope of this question is governed by the
terms of the later agreement, pursuant to case law. However, the Court must first
address this issue by determining “what the parties have agreed to—i.e., which
contract controls.” (Coinbase, Inc. v. Suski (2024) 144 S. Ct. 1186,
1190.) 
 
The Controlling Agreement
 
            Retroactive
Application of Contract Terms
 
Petitioner initiated the dispute resolution process outlined
in the February 2019 Terms of Service on or around July 10, 2023. (Pet., Getsov
Decl., ¶3.) By that time, Respondent had released multiple Terms of Service
subsequent to the February 2019 Terms of Service on May 6, 2023 and July 31,
2023. (Opp., Nguyen Decl., Exhs. B-F.) The May 6, 2023 Terms of Service
specifically state “This Arbitration Agreement shall apply to all Claims, including
those that arose or were asserted before the effective date of this Arbitration
Agreement.” (Id. at Exh. C, §12(B)(1).) The July 31, 2023 Terms of
Service, which eliminate the arbitration provision, do not indicate that the
informal dispute resolution procedure set forth therein applies to claims that
arose or were asserted before its effective date, however. Instead, it broadly
states that “[t]hese Terms constitute the whole legal agreement between you and
TikTok and govern your use of the Services and completely replace any prior
agreements between you and TikTok in relation to the Services.” (Id.
at Exh. F, §§ 11-12.) In this respect, Respondent’s citation to Coinbase
is not helpful in determining which terms of service control. Coinbase
did not concern a dispute that arose or was asserted between the two different
agreements at issue. Both the agreements in Coinbase were entered into
before the conflict came to a head. (Coinbase, Inc., supra, 144 S. Ct.
at 1191-1192.) 
 
Nor is Respondent’s citation to Jarboe v. Hanlees Auto
Grp. (2020) 53 Cal. App. 5th 539, 552 for the rule that “an earlier
arbitration agreement is nullified by a subsequent agreement that ‘expressly
superseded the prior [agreement]” helpful. The claims in Jarboe, like Coinbase,
and unlike this case, arose after the parties executed both agreements that
were purportedly in conflict. Respondent argues that the language “any claims”
in the July 2023 Terms of Service applies to claims regardless of when they arose.
This language, however, is distinctly different from the language, “all Claims,
including those that arose or were asserted before the effective date of
this Arbitration Agreement” from the May 6, 2023 Terms of Service. In fact,
the July 2023 Terms of Service refer to “any claims, causes of action, of any
kind or character, or demand arising out of or relating to the Terms,” which
specifically excludes the temporally all-encompassing language previously used
by Respondent. The Court must consider whether this change in language between
the February 2019 and May 2023 terms of service—namely that the latter terms of
service failed to include language that they applied to “all Claims, including
those that arose or were asserted before the effective date of this Arbitration
Agreement,”—makes a difference to whether the July 2023 Terms of Service apply
retroactively 
 
Respondent cites Salgado v. Carrows Rests., Inc.
(2019) 33 Cal.App.5th 356 for the holding that a dispute resolution agreement
that governs “any” dispute between the parties necessarily includes disputes
that arose prior to the formation of the agreement, not just future disputes,
unless expressly limited. (Salgado v. Carrows Rests., Inc. (2019) 33
Cal.App.5th 356, 361-362.) In Salgado, the Court of Appeals considered
whether an arbitration agreement in an employment contract applied to disputes
that occurred prior to the execution of the agreement. (Id. at 358.) The
arbitration agreement between Carrows Restaurants Group, Inc. and Catalina
Restaurant Group, Inc. (“Carrows”) and Salgado, which was signed by
Salgado on December 7, 2016, stated: 
 
“The Company and I agree and
acknowledge that we will utilize binding arbitration as the sole and exclusive
means to resolve all disputes which may arise out of or be related in any way
to my application for employment and/or employment, including but not limited
to the termination of my employment and my compensation.”
 
The second provision provided, in
relevant part, “Both the Company and I agree that any claim, dispute, and/or
controversy that I may have against the Company ... or the Company may have
against me, shall be submitted to and determined exclusively by binding
arbitration ....”
 
(Id. at 359.) In determining whether the arbitration
agreement applied to Salgado’s lawsuit, the Court of Appeals ruled that the
“any claim, dispute, and/or controversy” language was broad and without
qualification. (Id. at 361.) It further ruled that it is not correct to
argue “that an agreement to arbitrate a dispute must pre-date the actions
giving rise to the dispute.” (Ibid.) Under this holding, the broad
language of the July 2023 Terms of Service, which likewise refers to “any
claims, causes of action, of any kind or character, or demand arising out of or
relating to the Terms,” also applies retroactively to Petitioner’s dispute and
eliminates the possibility of seeking arbitration.  
 
Petitioner’s reply cites to a federal district court case
for the position that contractual language must state that it is retroactive on
its face to apply to disputes that arise prior to the date of execution. (Citing
Morse v. ServiceMaster Global Holdings Inc. (N.D. Cal. 2012) 2012 WL
4755035, at *4 [“the contractual language in this case, “any and all claims,”
is not retroactive on its face.”].) However, Petitioner does not address the
holding of Salgado, which is based on application of California case law.
(See Salgado, supra, 33 Cal.App.5th at 361-362.) Nor does Petitioner
explain why a federal district court holding should control over California
appellate law. Accordingly, the February 2019 Terms of Service do not control
this dispute and there is no basis to find the July 2023 Terms of Service
cannot apply retroactively. 
 
            Sufficient
Notice of the July 2023 Terms of Service
 
Petitioner also argues in the reply that the 2023 terms of
service, including the one dated May 6, 2023, do not apply because Respondent’s
pop-up notice was insufficient, and Petitioner did not consent to those terms.
Petitioner points to case law regarding what kind of hyperlink is necessary to
provide consumers notice of a clickwrap agreement (an agreement where a website
requires users to click an “I agree” box) and argues that the hyperlink in
Respondent’s pop-up notice did not meet the requirements for what a reasonable
person would understand was a link to the applicable terms. The Court will
consider the case law raised in the reply. 
 
 In Sellers v.
JustAnswer LLC (2021) 73 Cal.App.5th 444, the court held that “the full
context of any transaction is critical to determining whether any particular
notice is sufficient to put a consumer on inquiry notice of contractual terms
contained on a separate, hyperlinked page.” (Sellers v. JustAnswer LLC
(2021) 73 Cal.App.5th 444, 453.) “[C]lickwrap agreements, “ ‘in which website
users are required to click on an “I agree” box after being presented with a
list of terms and conditions of use’ ” to “confirm their assent to the agreement's
terms,” are generally considered enforceable.” (Id. at 470.) This is
because clickwrap agreements “necessitate an active role by the user of a
website.” (Ibid [citing Berkson v. Gogo LLC (E.D.N.Y. 2015) 97
F.Supp.3d 359, 397].) Sellers, however, did not concern a clickwrap
agreement but a sign-in wrap agreement and its discussion regarding hyperlinks
did not take into account a clickwrap agreement. (Sellers, supra, 73
Cal.App.5th at 462-466.) It does not follow, as Petitioner argues, that the
criteria for a sufficiently conspicuous hyperlink in a sign-in agreement
necessarily applies to hyperlinks in clickwrap agreements. Instead, the Court
must consider the full context of the transaction. 
 
In Berkson v. Gogo LLC (E.D.N.Y. 2015) 97 F.Supp.3d
359, a case cited by Sellers, the district court identified three
principles for evaluating contract formation over the internet: (1) “the
validity of the [internet] agreement turns on whether the website puts a
reasonably prudent user on inquiry notice of the terms of the contract;” (2)
“terms of use” will be enforced when a user is encouraged by the design and
content of the website and the agreement's webpage to examine the terms clearly
available through hyperlinkage; and (3) “terms of use” will not be enforced
where the link to a website's terms is buried at the bottom of a webpage or
tucked away in obscure corners of the website where users are unlikely to see
it. (Berkson v. Gogo LLC (E.D.N.Y. 2015) 97 F.Supp.3d 359, 401-402.)
Here, the nature of the pop-up notice necessarily made Petitioner aware of the
updated terms of service and required Petitioner to take action to indicate
assent to those terms. (Opp., Nguyen Decl., Exhs. D-F.) This is not a situation
where the hyperlink to the terms of service was somewhere on Respondent’s
website and could only be located by hyperlink signage such as large font, high
contrast text, and underlining. While the hyperlink to the July 31, 2023 Terms
of Use was not particularly high contrast, it was contained within the popup
notice, which was impossible to avoid. (Ibid.) Furthermore, the
hyperlink was in bold font, making it distinct from the remainder of the short
paragraph indicating that an updated terms of service was now in effect.
Therefore, the Court finds that Petitioner was on inquiry notice of the July 31,
2023 Terms of Service as binding on the parties. 
 
Those terms of service eliminated arbitration as a means of
dispute resolution and required that any dispute be “be resolved exclusively in
the U.S. District Court for the Central District of California or the Superior
Court of the State of California, County of Los Angeles.” (Id., Exh. F,
§ 12.B.) Therefore, Petitioner has not demonstrated the existence of an
arbitration agreement as required to compel arbitration under Code of Civil
Procedure section 1281.2. 
 
Conclusion
 
Petitioner Brian Heinz’s Petition to Compel Arbitration is
DENIED. 
 
 
Court clerk to give notice. 
 