

 
            On or
about June 29, 2023, Plaintiff Calon Golubski (Plaintiff)
purchased a 2023 Chevrolet Silverado 1500 (Vehicle). Plaintiff alleges that, at
the time of the purchase, his Vehicle contained defects covered under the
express warranty and that Defendant General Motors LLC (GM) failed to repair
the Vehicle in compliance with the warranty. Plaintiff also claims that Defendant
GM’s fraudulent conduct contributed to his decision to purchase the Vehicle. 
 
On April 5,
2024, Plaintiff sued GM. The First Amended Complaint contains causes of action
for breach of warranty claims under the Song-Beverly Act, and a fraud claim. 
 
            Defendant GM now demurs to the fifth
cause of action for fraud. GM also moves to strike the request for punitive
damages. Plaintiff opposes the demurrer and the motion to strike. 
 
            The Court sustains
the demurrer with leave to amend. The motion to strike is granted. 
 
Legal Standard for
Demurrers
 
A demurrer is an objection to a
pleading, the grounds for which are apparent from either the face of the
complaint or a matter of which the court may take judicial notice. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a); see also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39
Cal.3d 311, 318.) The purpose of a demurrer is to challenge the
sufficiency of a pleading “by raising questions of law.” (Postley v.
Harvey (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.) “In the construction of a
pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its allegations must be
liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice between the parties.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 452.) The court “ ‘ “treat[s] the demurrer as
admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions
or conclusions of fact or law . . . .” ’ ”  (Berkley v. Dowds
(2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518, 525.) In applying these standards, the court
liberally construes the complaint to determine whether a cause of action has
been stated. (Picton v. Anderson Union High School Dist. (1996) 50
Cal.App.4th 726, 733.)
 
Analysis
 
Fifth Cause of Action for Fraud:
 
Defendant GM argues that the
fraudulent concealment claims contained within the fifth cause of action fails
to state a claim. Defendant argues that the FAC does not state a claim because
Plaintiff has not alleged fraud with the requisite specificity and the
allegations are insufficient to demonstrate a duty to disclose.
 
            The
Complaint fails to allege facts sufficient to support fraudulent concealment.
 
            Defendant contends
that the FAC fails to allege (i) the identity of the salespersons who
purportedly concealed material facts about his Vehicle, (ii) their authority to
speak and act on behalf of GM, (iii) GM’s knowledge about alleged defects in
Plaintiff’s Silverado at the time of purchase; (iv) any interactions with GM
before or during the purchase of the Silverado, or (v) GM’s intent to induce
reliance by Plaintiff to purchase the specific Silverado at issue and (iv).
(Dem., 9:8-13.)
 
            To state a
claim for fraudulent inducement-concealment, Plaintiffs must allege: (1) the
defendant “concealed or suppressed a material fact,” (2) the defendant was
“under a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff,” (3) the defendant
“intentionally concealed or suppressed the fact with the intent to defraud the
plaintiff,” (4) the plaintiff was “unaware of the fact and would not have acted
as he did if he had known of the concealed or suppressed fact,” and (5) “as a
result of the concealment or suppression of the fact, the plaintiff must have
sustained damage.” (BiglerEngler v. Breg, Inc. (2017) 7 Cal.App.5th 276,
310-311.) 
 
            As a
preliminary matter, Plaintiff adequately alleges reliance. (FAC ¶ 67 [“Had
Plaintiff known that the Vehicle suffered from the Transmission Defect,
Plaintiff would not have purchased the Vehicle.”]; 72.) Based on this material
fact, the allegation claiming Defendant intended to induce reliance is
adequate. (FAC ¶¶ 72-74.)
 
Also, Defendant GM’s argument that
the concealment is not alleged with adequate specificity is also not
well-taken. 
 
The ordinary rule about pleading
fraud with specificity is less demanding when the alleged fraud is concealing
the truth. Ordinarily, “fraud must be pleaded specifically; general and
conclusory allegations do not suffice.” (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996)
12 Cal.4th 631, 645.). “This particularity requirement necessitates pleading
facts which show how, where, to whom, and by what means” the alleged fraud
occurred. (Id.) The purpose of the particularity requirement is to
“separate meritorious and nonmeritorious cases, if possible in advance of
trial.” (Small v. Fritz Companies, Inc. (2003) 30 Cal.4th 167,
184.)  
 
Some cases,
however, conclude that this standard is less stringent when the defendant
already has “ ‘full information concerning the facts of the controversy.’ ” (Committee
on Children’s Television, Inc. v. General Foods Corp. (1983) 35 Cal.3d 197,
217, superseded by statute on other grounds as stated in Californians for
Disability Rights v. Mervyn's, LLC (2006) 39 Cal.4th 223, 227.) Relaxation
of the specificity requirement is particularly appropriate in
a concealment case.  Unlike
intentional misrepresentation, which requires some affirmative representation
or promise, a fraudulent concealment is the absence of something, the
suppression of a fact. (Civ. Code § 1710.) 
 
This
distinction was recognized in Turner v. Milstein (1951) 103
Cal.App.2d 651. In rejecting a demurrer based on uncertainty,
the Turner court explained that the uncertainty doctrine does
not apply when the facts are known by the demurring party:
 
The only
specification of uncertainty was that it could not be determined how, or in
what manner, Milstein concealed from plaintiff the time and place of
the sale of the real property. The ultimate fact is pleaded. It is an old and
elemental rule of pleading that a demurrer for uncertainty does not lie if what
is sought is a statement of matter already within the knowledge of the
demurring party.... If, in truth, Milstein concealed from plaintiff
the fact that the property was to be sold, he knows it and he knows the time
and place of concealment, if there was a time and place. It would seem
that concealment is negative and that it would occur without any time
or place. Milstein knows the facts. 
(103
Cal.App.2d at p. 658.)
 
            Thus, based
on the nature of this type of claim, a plaintiff in a fraud by omission suit
will not be able to specify the time, place, and specific content of an
omission as precisely as would a plaintiff in a false representation claim.
Here, the Court cannot conclude that the contents of the alleged concealment
was not pleaded with the adequate level of specificity. 
 
            However,
Defendant also argues that the FAC does not adequately allege facts showing a duty
to disclose. 
            
Absent a fiduciary relationship
between the parties (which Plaintiff does not allege here), a duty to disclose
can arise in only three circumstances: (1) the defendant had exclusive
knowledge of the material fact; (2) the defendant actively concealed the
material fact; or (3) the defendant made partial representations while also
suppressing the material fact. (BiglerEngler, supra, 7 Cal.App.5th at p.
311; LiMandri v. Judkins (1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 326, 336.) The California
Supreme Court “has described the necessary relationship giving rise to a duty
to disclose as a ‘transaction’ between the plaintiff and defendant ….” (Bigler-Engler,
supra, 7 Cal.App.5th at p. 311; Warner Construction Corp. v. City of Los
Angeles (1970) 2 Cal.3d 285, 294 [“In transactions which do not involve
fiduciary or confidential relations”]; Hoffman v. 162 North Wolfe LLC
(2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 1178, 1187–89 [rejecting concealment claim where
plaintiffs “were not involved in a transaction with the parties they claim
defrauded them”]; LiMandri, supra, 52 Cal.App.4th at p. 337 [“such a
relationship can only come into being as a result of some sort of transaction
between the parties”].)
 
Defendant GM argues there are no
facts alleged that would support a duty to disclose. The FAC contains no
allegations of any direct dealing with GM. Instead, the FAC alleges Plaintiff
visited and purchased the Vehicle from Wittmeier Chevrolet. (FAC ¶ 6.) 
 
 In opposition, Plaintiff argues that GM had
exclusive knowledge of the Defective Transmission. In support, Plaintiff argues
that the dealer’s warranty agreement with GM create a sufficient transactional
relationship, citing Dhital v. Nissan North America, Inc. (2022) 84
Cal.App.5th 828, 844. (Opp. 3:23-5-7.) 
 
Dhital found that
the plaintiffs’ statutory warranty claims under the Song-Beverly Act were the
equivalent of contract claims for the purposes of determining whether the
economic loss rule applies. This did not, however, establish a duty to
disclose. (Dhital, 84 Cal. App. 5th at 838, fn. 3.) Only later in its
decision did the Dhital court state that the plaintiffs’ allegations
were sufficient to overcome the defendant's argument that there was no
buyer-seller relationship giving rise to a duty to disclose. (Id. at
844.) The Dhital court explained that the plaintiffs sufficiently
alleged that the requisite buyer-seller relationship existed because the
plaintiffs had alleged that they bought the car from a Nissan dealership,
Nissan backed the purchase with an express warranty, and Nissan's authorized
dealerships are its agents for purposes of the sale of Nissan vehicles to
customers. (Id.) 
 
In this
case, Plaintiff’s allegations are distinguishable because Plaintiff does not
allege that he bought the Vehicle from a GM dealership. (FAC ¶ 31.) Although
the FAC refers to Wittmeier
Chevrolet as “GM’s authorized dealer” – this conclusory allegation is unsupported
by any ultimate facts that the dealer was an agent in fact of Defendant. (See Avalon
Painting Co. v. Alert Lumber Co. (1965) 234 Cal.App.2d 178, 184 [“A . . .
dealer or retailer may in a layman’s view be an agent of the [auto
manufacturer], but he is not an agent in the legal sense of that
relationship”].) 
 
Further, the FAC does not adequately
allege GM’s exclusive knowledge of the Transmission Defect in the Vehicle that
Plaintiff purchased. Although Plaintiff cites Paragraphs 62, 70a-70b -- these
citations do not contain factual allegations – as opposed to conclusory
statements – to support the exclusive knowledge about a Transmission Defect in Plaintiff’s
specific Vehicle. (FAC ¶ 62.)
 
Similarly,
Plaintiff’s argument that the allegations show active concealment of material
facts by Defendant is not well taken. (Opp. 4:23-25 [citing Paragraphs 27, 29,
35-36, 64, 67-68, 71-72, 74, 76].) Like Plaintiff’s other allegations, these
allegations are entirely conclusory and lacking ultimate facts.
 
Thus,
Plaintiff has not pled a transactional relationship giving rise to a duty to
disclose. This
is a ground for sustaining the demurrer to the fifth cause of action.
            
Legal Standard for
Motions to Strike
 
            “The court may, upon a
motion made pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon
terms it deems proper: (a) Strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter
inserted in any pleading. (b) Strike out all or any part of any pleading not
drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an
order of the court.”¿(Code Civ. Proc., § 436.) “Immaterial” or “irrelevant”
matters include allegations not essential to the claim, allegations neither
pertinent to nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or a demand for
judgment requesting relief not supported by the allegations of the complaint.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 431.10, subds. (b)(1)-(3).)
 
Discussion
 
            Punitive
Damages Allegations 
 
            Defendant
GM moves to strike the request for punitive damages in the FAC. Defendant
argues, based on
its demurrer arguments, Plaintiff lacks any viable fraud-based claims to
support the punitive damage request. Further, even with the fraud claim, GM
argues the allegations in the FAC do not satisfy the statutory standards
required to seek punitive damages.
 
Punitive
damages are recoverable where the defendant has been guilty of oppression,
fraud, or malice, express or implied. (Civ. Code § 3294.) “Something more than
the mere commission of a tort is always required for punitive damages. There
must be circumstances of aggravation our outrage, such as spite or malice, or a
fraudulent or evil motive on the part of the defendant, or such a conscious and
deliberate disregard of the interests of others that his conduct may be called
willful or wanton.” (Taylor v. Superior
Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, 894.) Specific intent to injure is not
necessary for a showing of malice—it is sufficient that the defendant’s conduct
was so “wanton or so reckless as to evince malice or conscious disregard of
others’ rights.” (McConnell v. Quinn (1925)
71 Cal. App. 671, 682.) 
 
A request
for punitive damages that is not supported with specific allegations of
oppression, fraud, or malice is subject to a motion to strike. Conclusory
allegations that defendants acted “willfully,” “maliciously,” or with
“oppression, fraud, or malice” are not, without more, sufficient to give rise
to a claim for punitive damages, but such language is permissible where the
complaint contains sufficient factual support for the conclusions. (Perkins v. Superior Court (1981) 117
Cal.App.3d 1, 6-7.) 
 
Here, given the
Court’s ruling sustaining the demurrer to the fifth causes of action, there is
no underlying claim to support a request for punitive damages. The motion to
strike the punitive damage allegations is granted. 
 
Conclusion
 
The demurrer to the fifth cause of
action is sustained. The motion to strike is granted. Plaintiff shall have
leave to amend. An amended pleading shall be filed and served on or before
February 13, 2025.