 Case Number:  23NWCV02945    Hearing Date:   October 2, 2024    Dept:  C NAHM v. PAX
AMERICA DEVELOP, LLC, ET AL. 
CASE NO.:  23NWCV02945
HEARING:  10/02/24
 
#6
TENTATIVE ORDER
 
Plaintiff Choong Hee Nahm’s motion for order allowing
service of summons and complaint through California Secretary of State is GRANTED.
 
Plaintiff Choong Hee Nahm to give notice. 
 
Procedural Background
 
This is a breach of contract action. On September 18, 2023,
Plaintiff CHOONG HEE NAHM (“Plaintiff”) sued Defendants PAX AMERICA DEVELOP,
LLC; TAE W. KIM a/k/a THOMAS KIM; UNIMAE (“Defendants”) and DOES 1 to 5. 
 
On October 13 and 27, 2023, Plaintiff filed an Amendment to
Complaint correcting Defendant PAX AMERICA DEVELOP, LLC’s name to PAX AMERICA
DEVELOPMENT, LLC, and Defendant UNIMAE’s name to UNIMAE, INC.
 
On December 13, 2023, Defendant PAX AMERICA DEVELOPMENT, LLC
(“PAD LLC”) filed an Answer. 
 
Plaintiff now moves for an order allowing service of summons
and complaint on Defendant UNIMAE, INC. (“Unimae”) through and by the
California Secretary of State. The motion is unopposed. 
 
Analysis
 
Legal Standard re: Motion to Allow Service via The
California Secretary of State 
 
Corporations Code Section 1702, subdivision (a) states in
pertinent part: “If an agent for the purpose of service of process has resigned
and has not been replaced or if the agent designated cannot with reasonable
diligence be found at the address designated for personally delivering the
process, or if no agent has been designated, and it is shown by affidavit to
the satisfaction of the court that process against a domestic corporation
cannot be served with reasonable diligence upon the designated agent by hand
in the manner provided in Section 415.10, subdivision (a) of Section 415.20 or
subdivision (a) of Section 415.30 of the Code of Civil Procedure or upon the
corporation in the manner provided in subdivision (a), (b), or (c) of Section
416.10 or subdivision (a) of Section 416.20 of the Code of Civil Procedure, the
court may make an order that the service be made upon the corporation by
delivering by hand to the Secretary of State, or to any person employed
in the Secretary of State's office in the capacity of assistant or deputy, one
copy of the process for each defendant to be served, together with a copy of
the order authorizing such service. Service in this manner is deemed complete
on the 10th day after delivery of the process to the Secretary of State.” (Cal.
Corp. Code, § 1702, subd. (a) (emphasis added).)
 
“Upon the receipt of any such copy of process and the fee
therefor, the Secretary of State shall give notice of the service of the
process to the corporation at its principal office, by forwarding to such
office, by registered mail with request for return receipt, the copy of the
process or, if the records of the Secretary of State do not disclose an address
for its principal office, by forwarding such copy in the same manner to the
last designated agent for service of process who has not resigned. If the agent
for service of process has resigned and has not been replaced and the records
of the Secretary of State do not disclose an address for its principal office,
no action need be taken by the Secretary of State.” (Cal. Corp. Code, § 1702,
subd. (b).)
 
Here, Plaintiff advances the declaration of his counsel of
record, Donald M. Barker, who states he hired a Certified Process Server by the
name of Robert Hall, License No. 6932 to effect service on Unimae. (Barker
Decl., ¶3, Ex. A – Declaration of Diligence.) Mr. Barker further states Mr.
Hall made six separate attempts to serve Unimae between November 2023 and
December 2023, through its Agent for Service, Defendant Kim, at the address
listed with the California Secretary of State and a second address found for
Defendant Kim in Los Angeles. (Id.) 
 
The Court finds that Mr. Hall’s declaration of diligence is
sufficient to establish Unimae, Inc. cannot be served on Defendant Kim, who is
its Agent for Service per the California Secretary of State’s website, with
reasonable diligence. Also, Mr. Barker on behalf of Plaintiff sent Defendant
Kim a demand letter to his email address and never received a response to the
initial email or subsequent emails. (Barker Decl., ¶2.) Lastly, Mr. Barker left
numerous cellphone voicemail messages for Defendant Kim, which he never
received a response to either. (Id.)
 
Conclusion
 
Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff
Choong Hee Nahm’s motion for order allowing service of summons and complaint
through California Secretary of State is GRANTED.