 Case Number:  22NWCV01760    Hearing Date:   October 2, 2024    Dept:  C SAVANNAH HAYNIE, et al. vs AMERICAN HONDA MOTOR CO.,
INC. 
CASE NO.:  22NWCV01760
HEARING:  10/02/2024
 
#2
TENTATIVE ORDER
 
Plaintiffs’ Motion to Compel Further Responses to Request
for Production of Documents (set one) directed towards AMERICAN HONDA MONTOR
CO., INC. is GRANTED in part and DENIED in part.  
 
Plaintiffs’ Request for Sanctions is GRANTED.
 
Moving parties to give notice. 
 
 
Plaintiffs move to compel further responses to Requests for
Production of Documents, Set One, numbers 18-20, 22, 23, 26-30, 45-46, and
48-49, and seeks sanctions. 
 
Background 
 
On December 29, 2022, Plaintiffs Savannah Hayne and Porfirio
Hernandez (“Plaintiffs”) filed their complaint against Defendant American Honda
Motor Co., Inc. (“Defendant”) alleging (1) violation of Song-Beverly Act –
breach of express warranty; and (2) violation of Song-Beverly Act – breach of
implied warranty. Specifically, Plaintiffs allege that they entered into a
warranty contract with Defendant on July 22, 2021, regarding a 2021 Honda
Civic. Defendant sold Plaintiffs a defective vehicle and failed to promptly
repurchase or replace the vehicle in accordance with the Song-Beverly Act.
 
On February 24, 2023, Plaintiffs propounded Requests for
Production of Documents, set one, (“the RFPs”) on Defendants. (Tran Decl., ¶ 5,
Exh. A.)
 
On April 11, 2023, Defendant served responses to the RFPs,
in which it stated its objections to requests nos. 18-20, 22, 23, 26-30, 45-46,
and 48-49. 
 
On October 20, 2023, Plaintiffs filed the instant motion and
request for monetary sanctions in the amount of $2,125.00.
 
On May 9, 2024, Defendant filed their opposition. 
 
On May 15, 2024, Plaintiffs filed their reply. 
On August 6, 2024, the Court granted Defendant’s Ex Parte
Application for an Order to Continue Trial. The Jury Trial scheduled for August
29, 2024, was advanced and continued to March 12, 2025. All discovery cut off
dates/deadlines track the new trial date. 
 
Motion to Compel Further Responses
 
Legal Standard 
 
“On receipt of a response to a demand for inspection,
copying, testing, or sampling, the demanding party may move for an order
compelling further response to the demand if the demanding party deems that any
of the following apply: (1) A state of compliance with the demand is
incomplete. (2) A representation of inability to comply is inadequate,
incomplete, or evasive. (3) An objection in the response is without merit or
too general.” (CCP §2031.310(a).)  
A motion to compel further responses to a request for
production “shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the
discovery sought by the inspection demand.” (CCP §2031.310(b).)  
 
Meet and Confer
 
This matter was originally continued from May 22, 2024, when
the Court ordered the parties to further meet and confer and submit a joint
statement. The parties submitted a joint statement on July 2, 2024. On July 17,
2024, the Court reviewed the joint statement and found that the parties did not
adequately meet and confer and continued this motion to October 2, 2024. The
Court ordered the parties to meet and confer again. If there were discovery
issues that could not be resolved, the parties were ordered to submit an
amended joint separate statement of the remaining issues by September 18, 2024.

 
The parties did not submit an amended joint separate
statement. No further filings have been made to reflect the parties’ efforts to
meet and confer again. Thus, the Court finds that the parties have not
adequately met and conferred. The Court admonishes the parties but will rule on
the merits of this motion in the interest of the timely and efficient
resolution of this case. 
 
Discussion
 
          Request
for Production #18: 
The operative Franchise Agreement,
if any, on the date of sale of the SUBJECT VEHICLE between AHM and the
dealership that sold the SUBJECT VEHICLE to Plaintiffs.
          
          Response
to Request for Production #18: 
AHM objects to this request as
vague, ambiguous, overly broad, unduly burdensome, oppressive, and as asking
for information that is not relevant to the subject matter of this action and
not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.
Moreover, as phrased, the request is overly broad, unduly burdensome, and fails
to describe with reasonable particularity the documents or categories of
documents being requested in violation of Code of Civil Procedure section
2031.030(c)(1). Subject to and without waiving these objections, not
applicable. There are no franchise agreements between AHM and its authorized
dealerships.
 
Analysis of #18: 
A statement of inability to produce
the documents must comply with statutory requirements. (CCP §§2031.220 and
2031.330.) With regard to
document requests, a response expressing an inability to comply shall state
that a diligent search and reasonable inquiry was made to locate the items, and
the reason for an inability to comply, including that the item never existed,
was lost or stolen, was destroyed, or is not in respondent’s possession, along
with the identity and address of anyone believed to have the document. Code
Civ. Proc., § 2031.230.
 
“Even where a party deems a demand
to be objectionable, he [she, or it] still must identify those items which fall
into the category of item in the demand to which an objection is being made.” Standon Co. v. Superior Court (1990) 225
Cal.App.3d 898, 901, fn.3.
 
Here, the Court finds that RPD #18
pertains to relevant information as a franchise agreement can establish whether
the dealership where Plaintiffs purchased the vehicle was a dealership and
repair facility authorized by Defendant such that Defendant may have ratified
the dealership’s acts. Further, Defendant failed to give a code-compliant
response because it did not state that a diligent search and reasonable inquiry
was made to locate the documents. 
 
Where general
boilerplate objections were made, courts have authority to compel further
responses (but not to find a waiver of privilege objections). Best Products, Inc. v. Superior Court
(2004) 119 Cal.App.4th 1181, 1189. Ambiguity objections as to discovery are
overruled unless requests are unintelligible. Deyo v. Kilbourne (1978) 84 Cal.App.3d 771, 783, superseded by statute on another ground as
stated in Guzman v. General Motors Corp. (1984) 154 Cal.App.3d 438,
444. Cf. Standon Co. v. Superior Court
(1990) 225 Cal.App.3d 898, 901 (ambiguity objection deemed a nuisance objection
as to request for any medical bills or expense documentation). Objecting
parties must file evidence detailing the amount of work involved, in order to
support objections based upon burden and oppression. West Pico Furniture Co.
v. Superior Court (1961) 56 Cal.2d 407, 417. 
 
Here, Defendant
lodged the following boilerplate objections: vague, ambiguous, overly broad,
unduly burdensome, oppressive, and relevance. The ambiguity objection is
overruled as the request is not unintelligible because it clearly requests a
franchise agreement between Defendant and the dealership. Further, the unduly
burdensome objection is overruled as Defendant did not provide evidence
detailing the amount of work involved in responding. The remaining boilerplate
objections are overruled. 
 
Thus, Defendant is ORDERED
to provide further verified responses and documents to RPD No. 18, or a
code-compliant response indicating the grounds for failure to comply after a diligent
search and reasonable inquiry was made to locate the documents. 
 
Request for Production #19:
All DOCUMENTS which describe the
procedures used by YOU for evaluating and responding to complaints by
California consumers regarding vehicles YOU manufactured or distributed since
2022. 
 
Response to Request for
Production #19:
AHM objects to this request as
vague, ambiguous, overly broad, unduly burdensome, and as asking for
information that is not relevant to the subject matter of this litigation and
not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. Moreover,
as phrased, the request fails to describe with reasonable particularity the
documents or categories of documents being requested in violation of Code of
Civil Procedure, Section 2031.030(c)(1). AHM further objects to this request to
the extent it may be interpreted to be asking for communications between AHM,
its employees, and AHM's legal counsel that is protected by the attorney-client
privilege.
AHM further objects to the extent
this request asks AHM to respond on behalf of any other entity and responds
only on behalf of AHM. Subject to and without waiving these objections,
assuming this request is not directed to attorney-client communications, AHM is
unable to comply with this request. AHM has made a diligent search and
reasonable inquiry in an effort to comply with this request and AHM has no
written procedures used for evaluating and responding to complaints by
California consumers regarding vehicles distributed by AHM and no such
documents have ever existed. In the interest of cooperation, although not
considered responsive to this request, AHM will produce guideline documents
titled "Lemon Law Inquiries," "Early Warning," and
"Attorney Involved," which are confidential, contain proprietary,
trade secret, and commercially sensitive information, and thus, will be
produced to Plaintiffs pursuant to the entry of an appropriate protective
order.
 
Analysis of #19: 
“[I]f documents
responsive to a document request are withheld on privilege grounds, a privilege
log or some equivalent specification of any asserted privilege objection
‘shall’ be supplied.” Roche v. Hyde
(2020) 51 Cal.App.5th 757, 813.
 
Here, the Court finds that RPD #19
pertains to relevant information as procedures used by Defendant in evaluating
and responding to consumer claims regarding vehicles Defendant manufactured can
establish whether Defendant complied with the Song-Beverly Act in their
dealings with Plaintiffs. However, Defendant gave a code-compliant response as
they stated the reason for an inability to comply, “AHM has no written
procedures used for evaluating and responding to complaints by California
consumers regarding vehicles distributed by AHM and no such documents have ever
existed,” and stated that a diligent search and reasonable inquiry was made to
locate the documents. 
 
Defendant lodged
boilerplate objections which are overruled. As to Defendant’s objection on the
basis of attorney-client privilege, Defendant shall supply a privilege log
indicating any documents withheld on privilege grounds. 
 
Defendant is willing to provide guideline
documents titled "Lemon Law Inquiries," "Early Warning,"
and "Attorney Involved," which they contend are confidential, contain
proprietary, trade secret, and commercially sensitive information, and thus,
will be produced to Plaintiffs pursuant to the entry of an appropriate
protective order.
 
Accordingly, the
Court ORDERS that a protective order should be entered to govern the
disclosure of implicated documents produced in response to Request #19, or that
are to be produced throughout the course of discovery. (CCP §2031.060(b).)
Therefore, it is ORDERED that documents to be produced by Defendant in
response to RPD No. 19, which contain confidential information are “Protected
Documents.” The Protected Documents and the information contained therein shall
be treated by all parties as confidential. Except upon the prior written
consent of Defendant or upon further order of this Court, the Protected
Documents or information contained therein may be shown, disseminated, or
disclosed only to: the parties of this litigation and/or their counsel of record
in this case; or employees of counsel or of associated counsel who assist in
the preparation of this case; or experts and consultants retained by the
parties to this litigation.  
 
Thus, Defendant is ORDERED
to provide further verified responses and documents to RPD No. 19 and produce a
privilege log if applicable. 
 
Request for Production #20:
All DOCUMENTS which describe
policies, procedures, and/or instructions since 2022 that YOUR employees and
agents should follow when evaluating a customer request for a refund of their
money paid towards or owed on a motor vehicle manufactured or distributed by
YOU. 
 
Response to Request for
Production #20:
AHM objects to this request as
vague, ambiguous, overly broad, unduly burdensome, and as asking for information
that is not relevant to the subject matter of this litigation and not
reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.
Moreover, as phrased, the request fails to describe with reasonable
particularity the documents or categories of documents being requested in
violation of Code of Civil Procedure, Section 2031.030(c)(1). AHM further
objects to this request to the extent it may be interpreted to be asking for
communications between AHM, its employees, and AHM's legal counsel that is
protected by the attorney-client privilege.
AHM further objects to the extent
this request asks AHM to respond on behalf of any other entity and responds
only on behalf of AHM. Subject to and without waiving these objections,
assuming this request is not directed to attorney-client communications, AHM is
unable to comply with this request. AHM has made a diligent search and
reasonable inquiry and has no written policies, procedures, and/or instructions
to follow when evaluating a customer request for a refund of the price paid for
a vehicle or replacement of a new motor vehicle, and no such documents have
ever existed. Such evaluations are performed on a case-by-case basis. 
 
Analysis of #20: 
Here, the Court finds that RPD #20
pertains to relevant information. However, Defendant gave a code-compliant
response as they stated the reason for an inability to comply, “AHM has no
written policies, procedures, and/or instructions to follow when evaluating a
customer request for a refund of the price paid for a vehicle or replacement of
a new motor vehicle, and no such documents have ever existed. Such evaluations
are performed on a case-by-case basis.” Defendant further stated that a
diligent search and reasonable inquiry was made to locate the documents. 
 
Thus, Plaintiffs’ Motion to Compel Defendant’s
further response to RPD No. 20 is DENIED. 
 
Request for Production #22:
All training materials regarding
the handling of consumer requests for a vehicle repurchase in California since
2022. 
 
Response to Request for
Production #22:
AHM objects to this request as
vague, ambiguous, overly broad, unduly burdensome, and as asking for
information that is not relevant to the subject matter of this litigation and
not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. Moreover,
as phrased, the request fails to describe with reasonable particularity the
documents or categories of documents being requested in violation of Code of
Civil Procedure, Section 2031.030(c)(1). In addition, the term "handling
of consumer requests" is not defined, described, or otherwise explained in
this request and, without definition, description, or explanation, are vague,
ambiguous, and the information referred to or sought cannot be determined,
without speculation. AHM further objects to this request to the extent it may
be interpreted as asking for communications between AHM, and its employees, and
AHM's legal counsel that are protected by the attorney-client privilege. AHM
further objects to the extent this request asks AHM to respond on behalf of any
other entity and responds only on behalf of AHM. Subject to and without waiving
these objections, assuming this request is not directed to attorney-client
communications, AHM is unable to comply with this request. AHM has made a
diligent search and reasonable inquiry in an effort to comply with this request
and has no training materials regarding the handling of consumer requests since
2022 and no such documents have ever existed.
 
Analysis of #22: 
Here, the Court finds that RPD #22
pertains to relevant information. However, Defendant gave a code-compliant
response as they stated that they made a diligent search and reasonable inquiry
in an effort to comply with this request and has no training materials
regarding the handling of consumer requests since 2022 and no such documents
have ever existed.
 
Thus, Plaintiffs’ Motion to Compel Defendant’s
further response to RPD No. 22 is DENIED. 
 
Request for Production #23:
All training materials for YOUR
employees or agents tasked with determining whether a vehicle is eligible or a
vehicle repurchase pursuant to the Song-Beverly Act since 2022.
 
Response to Request for
Production #23:
AHM objects to this request as
vague, ambiguous, overly broad, unduly burdensome, and as asking for
information that is not relevant to the subject matter of this litigation and
not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. Moreover,
as phrased, the request fails to describe with reasonable particularity the
documents or categories of documents being requested in violation of Code of
Civil Procedure, Section 2031.030(c)(1). AHM further objects to this request to
the extent it may be interpreted as asking for communications between AHM and
its employees, and AHM's legal counsel that are protected by the
attorney-client privilege. AHM further objects to the extent this request asks
AHM to respond on behalf of any other entity and responds only on behalf of
AHM. Subject to and without waiving these objections, assuming this request is
not directed to attorney-client communications, AHM is unable to comply with
this request. AHM has made a diligent search and reasonable inquiry in an effort
to comply with this request and has no training materials for determining
whether a vehicle is eligible for repurchase pursuant to the Song-Beverly
Consumer Warranty Act since 2022 and no such documents have ever existed. 
 
Analysis of #23: 
Here, the Court finds that RPD #23
pertains to relevant information. However, Defendant gave a code-compliant
response as they stated that they made a diligent search and reasonable inquiry
in an effort to comply with this request and has no training materials for
determining whether a vehicle is eligible for repurchase pursuant to the
Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act since 2022 and no such documents have ever
existed. 
 
Thus, Plaintiffs’ Motion to Compel Defendant’s
further response to RPD No. 23 is DENIED. 
 
The Court’s Summary of Requests
for Production #26-30:
Requests 26-30 seek documents
describing Defendant’s policies, procedures and parameters since 2022 for
determining the following pursuant to the Song-Beverly Act: 26) what
constitutes a “non-conformity” to determine eligibility for a vehicle
repurchase; 27) what constitutes a “substantial impairment” of a vehicle’s use,
value or safety to determine eligibility for a vehicle repurchase; 28) what
constitutes a “reasonable number of repair attempts” to determine eligibility
for a vehicle repurchase; 29) parameters for establishing the turn-around time
to respond to a vehicle repurchase request; 30) documents utilized to determine
whether a vehicle is eligible for a repurchase. 
 
The Court’s Summary of Responses
to Requests for Production #26-30:
AHM objects to these requests as
vague, ambiguous, overly broad, unduly burdensome, and as asking for
information that is not relevant to the subject matter of this litigation and
not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.
Moreover, as phrased, the requests fail to describe with reasonable
particularity the documents or categories of documents being requested in
violation of Code of Civil Procedure, Section 2031.030(c)(1). AHM further
objects to this request to the extent it may be interpreted as asking for
communications between AHM and its employees, and AHM's legal counsel that are
protected by the attorney-client privilege. AHM further objects to the extent
this request asks AHM to respond on behalf of any other entity and responds
only on behalf of AHM. Subject to and without waiving these objections assuming
this request is not directed to attorney-client communications, AHM is unable
to comply with this request. AHM has made a diligent search and reasonable
inquiry in an effort to comply with this request and has no written policies,
procedures, or parameters for determining any of the above, and no such
documents have ever existed. Eligibility for repurchase is evaluated under the
Act in good faith on a case-by-case basis. 
 
Analysis of #26-30: 
Here, the Court finds that RPDs
#26-30 pertain to relevant information. However, Defendant gave a
code-compliant response as they stated that they made a diligent search and
reasonable inquiry in an effort to comply with these requests and has no
written policies, procedures, or parameters for determining any of the above,
and no such documents have ever existed.
 
Thus, Plaintiffs’ Motion to Compel Defendant’s
further response to RPD Nos. 26-30 is DENIED. 
 
Request for Production #45:
All DOCUMENTS evidencing complaints
by owners of 2021 Honda Civic vehicles regarding any of the complaints that the
SUBJECT VEHICLE was presented to YOUR or YOUR authorized repair facilities for
repair during the warranty period.
 
Response to Request for
Production #45:
AHM objects to this request as
vague, ambiguous, overly broad, unduly burdensome, harassing, and as asking for
information that is not relevant and not reasonably calculated to lead to the
discovery of admissible evidence and it misrepresents and/or does not take into
consideration the statutory construct of the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty
Act. Whether Plaintiffs are entitled to relief under the Song-Beverly Consumer
Warranty Act is entirely unrelated to alleged complaints by owners of 2020
Honda Accord vehicles. This case concerns whether Plaintiffs are
entitled to a remedy under the
facts of this case. See, Calcor Space Facility, Inc. v. Superior Court (1997)
53 Cal.App.4th 216. Moreover, as phrased, the request fails to describe with
reasonable particularity the documents or categories of documents being
requested in violation of Code of Civil Procedure, Section 2031.030(c)(1).
Moreover, as phrased, this request asks for information concerning complaints
involving different allegations and circumstances, different consumers, with
different use and repair histories, and other circumstances that are separate
and distinct from the alleged facts and circumstances of this case. AHM objects
to the extent this request asks for information that is protected by the right
to privacy. In addition, AHM objects to this request to the extent it may call
for information that is confidential, commercially sensitive, and proprietary
or trade secret. AHM further objects to the extent this request asks AHM to
respond on behalf of any other entity.
 
Analysis of #45: 
Here, the Court finds that RPD #45
pertains to relevant information reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery
of admissible evidence. However, this request is overbroad because it seeks
information related to vehicles worldwide. Therefore, the request is limited to
complaints by owners of 2021 Honda Civic vehicles sold in California. Defendant
is ordered to provide further responses as to complaints by owners of 2021
Honda Civic vehicles sold in California. Defendant’s other boilerplate
objections are overruled. As to Defendant’s objection on the basis of the right
to privacy, confidentiality, commercial sensitivity, and proprietary or trade
secret, Defendant shall supply a privilege log indicating any documents
withheld on such grounds. 
 
Thus, Defendant is ORDERED
to provide further verified responses and documents to RPD No. 45 as to 2021
Honda Civic vehicles sold in California and/or produce a proper privilege log. 
 
Request for Production #46:
All DOCUMENTS evidencing warranty
repairs to 2021 Honda Civic vehicles regarding any of the components that YOU
or YOUR authorized repair facilities performed repairs on under warranty.
 
Response to Request for
Production #46:
AHM objects to this request as
vague, ambiguous, overly broad, unintelligible, unduly burdensome, harassing,
and as asking for information that is not relevant and not reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence and it misrepresents
and/or does not take into consideration the statutory construct of the
Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act. Whether Plaintiffs are entitled to relief
under the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act is entirely unrelated to warranty
repairs of other 2020 Honda Accord vehicles. This case concerns whether
Plaintiffs are entitled to a remedy under the facts of this case. See, Calcor
Space Facility, Inc. v. Superior Court (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 216. Moreover, as
phrased, the request fails to describe with reasonable particularity the
documents or categories of documents being requested in violation of Code of
Civil Procedure, Section 2031.030(c)(1). Moreover, as phrased, this request
asks for information concerning complaints involving different allegations and
circumstances, different consumers, with different use and repair histories,
and other circumstances that are separate and distinct from the alleged facts
and circumstances of this case. AHM objects to the extent this request asks for
information that is protected by the right to privacy. In addition, AHM objects
to this request to the extent it may call for information that is confidential,
commercially sensitive, and proprietary or trade secret. AHM further objects to
the extent this request asks AHM to respond on behalf of any other entity.
 
Analysis of #46: 
Here, the Court finds that RPD #46
pertains to relevant information reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery
of admissible evidence.
However, this
request is overbroad because it seeks information related to vehicles
worldwide. Therefore, the request is limited to warranty repairs to 2021 Honda
Civic vehicles in California. Defendant is ordered to provide further responses
as to 2021 Honda Civic vehicles in California. Defendant’s other boilerplate
objections are overruled. As to Defendant’s objection on the basis of the right
to privacy, confidentiality, commercial sensitivity, and proprietary or trade
secret, Defendant shall supply a privilege log indicating any documents
withheld on such grounds. 
 
Thus, Defendant is ORDERED
to provide further verified responses and documents to RPD No. 46 as to 2021
Honda Civic vehicles in California, and/or produce a proper privilege log. 
 
Request for Production #48:
Produce all DOCUMENTS showing any
application to the California Department of Consumer Affairs for certification
of a third-party dispute resolution process from 2021 to the present.
 
Response to Request for
Production #48:
AHM objects to this request as
vague, ambiguous, overly broad, unduly burdensome, and as asking for
information that is not relevant and not reasonably calculated to lead to the
discovery of admissible evidence. Moreover, as phrased, the request fails to
describe with reasonable particularity the documents or categories of documents
being requested in violation of Code of Civil Procedure, Section
2031.030(c)(1). AHM further objects to the extent this request asks AHM to
respond on behalf of any other entity.
 
Analysis of #48: 
Here, the Court finds that RPD #48
pertains to relevant information reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery
of admissible evidence.
Defendant’s
boilerplate objections are overruled as the request clearly seeks applications
to the California Department of Consumer Affairs for certification of a
third-party dispute resolution process from 2021 to present. This request does
not ask Defendant to respond on behalf of any other entity as any applications
submitted by Defendant to the California Department of Consumer Affairs would
be in Defendant’s possession and would require no response from another entity.

 
Thus, Defendant is ORDERED
to provide further verified responses and documents to RPD No. 48. 
 
Request for Production #49:
Produce all DOCUMENTS showing any
response to the California Department of Consumer Affairs to any application by
YOU for certification of a third-party dispute resolution process from 2021 to
the present.
 
Response to Request for
Production #49:
AHM objects to this request as
vague, ambiguous, overly broad, unduly burdensome, and as asking for
information that is not relevant and not reasonably calculated to lead to the
discovery of admissible evidence. Moreover, as phrased, the request fails to
describe with reasonable particularity the documents or categories of documents
being requested in violation of Code of Civil Procedure, Section
2031.030(c)(1). AHM further objects to the extent this request asks AHM to
respond on behalf of any other entity.
 
Analysis of #49: 
Here, the Court finds that RPD #49
pertains to relevant information reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery
of admissible evidence.
Defendant’s
boilerplate objections are overruled as the request clearly seeks responses to
any applications Defendant submitted to the California Department of Consumer
Affairs for certification of a third-party dispute resolution process from 2021
to present. This request does not ask Defendant to respond on behalf of any
other entity as any response to applications submitted by Defendant to the
California Department of Consumer Affairs would be in Defendant’s possession
and would require no response from another entity.
 
Thus, Defendant is ORDERED
to provide further verified responses and documents to RPD No. 49. 
 
Therefore, Defendant is ORDERED to provide further
verified responses and documents to RPD Nos. 18, 19, 45-46, 48-49, no later
than 30 days from the Court’s issuance of this Order. This date may be
extended pursuant to agreement of the parties.  
 
As to Request No. 19, the Court ORDERS
that a protective order should be entered to govern the disclosure of
implicated documents produced in response to Request #19, or that are to be
produced throughout the course of discovery. (CCP §2031.060(b).) Therefore, it
is ORDERED that documents to be produced by Defendant in response to RPD
No. 19, which contain confidential information are “Protected Documents.” The
Protected Documents and the information contained therein shall be treated by
all parties as confidential. Except upon the prior written consent of Defendant
or upon further order of this Court, the Protected Documents or information
contained therein may be shown, disseminated, or disclosed only to: the parties
of this litigation and/or their counsel of record in this case; or employees of
counsel or of associated counsel who assist in the preparation of this case; or
experts and consultants retained by the parties to this litigation.  
 
Sanctions
 
“[T]he court shall impose a monetary sanction ... against
any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to
compel further response to a demand [for document production], unless it finds
that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or
that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” 
Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310 (h). 
 
Plaintiffs are entitled to recoup their attorneys’ fee and
costs incurred because of needing to file the instant motion. The Court
finds that Defendant’s opposition to the motion is without substantial
justification, and it finds no circumstances that make the imposition of a
sanction against Defendant unjust. 
 
The Court awards reasonable attorneys’ fees according to the
lodestar.¿ See PLCM Group v. Drexler (2000) 22 Cal.4th 1084, 1096; see
also Ketchum v. Moses (2001) 24 Cal.4th 1122, 1132.  Plaintiffs
request fees in the total amount $2,125.00, representing the $60.00 filing fee
and the following attorneys’ fees:
 
·        
3 hours of law clerk time at $175.00 per hour
preparing the motion;

1 hour
     of attorney time reviewing and editing the motion at $395.00 per hour;


3
     hours of associate attorney time reviewing the opposition and drafting a
     reply at $250 per hour; 
1 hour
     preparing for and attending the hearing at $395.00 per hour. 

 
(See Tran Decl., ¶ 15-16.) 
 
The Court finds Plaintiff’s requested attorneys’ fees to be
reasonable as to both the stated hourly rate and the hours expended on each
individual task. Plaintiff will therefore be awarded attorneys’ fees on
this motion in the total amount of $2,125.00 (3 hours x $170.00/hour = $525) + (2
hours x $ 395.00 = 790.00) + (3 hours x $250 = $750) + ($60.00 filing
fee). 
 