 Case Number:  23NWCV02918    Hearing Date:   October 2, 2024    Dept:  C GARCIA V. SANTA
FEE INN, ET AL.
CASE NO.:  23NWCV02918
HEARING:  10/2/2024
 
#10
TENTATIVE ORDER
 
The hearing on Plaintiffs Griselda Aguilar Garcia and
Juan C. Aguilar’s Motion for Leave to File Second Amended Complaint is CONTINUED
October 31, 2024 at 9:30 a.m. in Dept. SE-C. 

 
Moving party(s) to give notice. 
 
Background
 
On September 13, 2023, Plaintiff Griselda Aguilar Garcia
(“Plaintiff” or “Garcia”) filed an action against Defendants Santa Fe Inn
(“Inn”), 6340 Santa Fe, LLC (“6340 Santa Fe”), and Jayesh Patel (“Patel”)
arising out of the alleged uninhabitable conditions and insect infestation of a
hotel complex owned, managed, operated, and maintained by Defendants.
 
On January 12, 2024, Plaintiffs Garcia and Juan C. Aguilar
(“Aguilar”) filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”), the operative pleading in
this action, against the Defendants for (1) negligence – premises
liability/failure to maintain, failure to warn, (2) negligence per se, (3)
negligent infliction of emotional distress, and (4) loss of consortium.
 
On January 22, 2024, Sai-Pride, LLC dba Santa Fe Inn (erroneously
sued as Santa Fe Inn) (“Sai-Pride”) filed an Answer to the FAC.
 
On February 14, 2024, default was entered against Defendants
6340 Santa Fe and Patel.
 
On March 18, 2024, pursuant to the stipulation of the
parties, the Court made the following orders. 
The Court set aside the defaults entered against Defendants 6340 Santa
Fe and Patel.  The Court also ordered the
Answer, filed on January 22, 2024, by Defendant Sai Pride, stricken.  All three Defendants were ordered to file an
answer within ten days of the Court’s order.
 
On March 19, 2024, Defendants Sai Pride, 6340 Santa Fe, and
Patel filed an Answer to the FAC.
 
On June 20, 2024, Plaintiffs filed the instant Motion for
Leave to File Second Amended Complaint (“Motion”).  On July 3, 2024, the Court granted
Plaintiffs’ Ex Parte Application for an Order Shortening Time for the Hearing
on Plaintiffs’ Motion and advanced the March 19, 2025, hearing date to October
2, 2024.  On September 18, 2024,
Defendants filed an Opposition to the Motion and on September 23, 2024,
Plaintiffs filed a Reply.
 
Legal Standard
 
Leave to amend is permitted
under Code of Civil Procedure sections 473, subdivision (a), and 576.  The policy favoring amendment and resolving
all matters in the same dispute is “so strong that it is a rare case in which
denial of leave to amend can be justified. 
[Citation.]”  (Howard v. County
of San Diego (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 1422.) 
Notwithstanding the “policy of great liberality in permitting amendments
to the complaint at any stage of the proceedings, up to and including trial
[citations], this policy should be applied only ‘where no prejudice is shown to
the adverse party . . . .’
[citation].  A different result is
indicated ‘where inexcusable delay and probable prejudice to the opposing
party’ is shown. [Citation].”  (Magpali
v. Farmers Group (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 471, 487.)
 
A motion for leave to amend a
pleading must also comply with the procedural requirements of California Rules
of Court, Rule 3.1324, which requires a supporting declaration to set forth
explicitly what allegations are to be added and where, and explicitly stating
what new evidence was discovered warranting the amendment and why the amendment
was not made earlier.  The motion must
also include (1) a copy of the proposed and numbered amendment, (2)
specifications by reference to pages and lines the allegations that would be
deleted and added, and (3) a declaration specifying the effect, necessity and
propriety of the amendments, date of discovery and reasons for delay.  (See Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324,
subds. (a), (b).)
 
Analysis
 
Plaintiffs move for leave to file a Second Amended Complaint
(“SAC”) in the instant action.  A copy of
the proposed SAC is attached to the declaration of counsel Levik Yarian.  (Yarian Decl. ¶ 23, Ex. 1.)
 
Counsel Yarian filed a declaration in support of the Motion
on June 20, 2024, and, what appears to be, an amended declaration on July 2,
2024.  The Court considers the
declaration filed on July 2, 2024.
 
Plaintiffs’ counsel indicates that he met and conferred with
defense counsel prior to filing the instant Motion; however, no resolution was
reached, and Defendants were unwilling to stipulate to the filing of a second
amended complaint.  (Yarian Decl. ¶¶ 3-5.)
According to Plaintiffs, the discovery process has revealed
new information that necessitates the filing of the SAC.  Discovery efforts have revealed that Defendant
6340 Sant Fe is a “shell” entity and “is involved in a ‘sham’ business
relationship with SAI-PRIDE LLC (“SAI LLC”) disguised as a lease agreement.”  (Yarian Decl. ¶ 21A.)  Members of 6340 Santa Fe have not treated the
LLC as an independent entity and there is evidence to establish piercing of the
corporate veil.  (Id. at ¶ 21B.)  Moreover, the relationship between Sai-Pride
and 6340 Santa Fe is not a true landlord-tenant relationship, as revealed by
the evidence gathered, but rather a business relationship in which the “alleged
landlord has maintained and continues to maintain control over issues relevant
to the allegations and defenses of this case.” 
(Id. at ¶ 21C.)  This
new evidence will also allow Plaintiffs to seek punitive damages.  (Id. at ¶¶ 21D-21E.)
 
Plaintiffs also argue that filing the SAC is necessary for
the purpose of judicial economy because it would allow the existing dispute to
be fully litigated without the need to add additional defendants, file motions
for punitive damages, or initiate other related actions.  (Yarian Decl. ¶¶ 24, 28.)  Trial is currently set for April 30, 2025, and
will not need to be continued, and the filing of the SAC would not cause
Defendants to suffer any prejudice.  (Id.
at ¶¶ 27, 29, 32-33.)  Defense counsel
will most likely represent the two additional defendants, Mahendra Somabhai
Ahir and Pallavi Ahir, who are members of Defendant Sai-Pride.  (Id. at ¶ 31.)
 
In opposition, Defendants argue that Plaintiffs have failed
to comply with the California Rules of Court and have filed a procedurally defective
Motion.  First, the SAC does not
delineate what allegations are to be deleted and what allegations are to be
added in a clear manner, “leaving Defendants to attempt to decipher the
proposed SAC themselves.”  (Oppos. p.
3.)  As a result, Defendants find the
allegations in the Motion and the SAC confusing and contradictory, particularly
in regard to alter ego liability. 
Second, the Notice of the Motion does not comply with California Rules
of Court, rule 3.1110, subdivision (a), as it does not present the relief
requested and the grounds for requesting such relief.
 
Defendants also argue that they and the newly added
defendants would be prejudiced by the filing of the SAC as discovery would have
to restart six months before trial to address the new allegations regarding
alter ego liability, breach of contract, and punitive damages.  Since these allegations, claims, and the new
defendants were not part of the FAC, if the Motion is granted, additional
extensive discovery would be required, the SAC would be subject to demurrer
and/or motion to strike, and a continuance would have to be sought as the
parties would not be ready for trial. 
Thus, the parties would have to expend additional costs to litigate the
case.
 
In their Reply, Plaintiffs argue that the changes sought in
the SAC are so substantial “that a detailed chart of the changes would be an
exercise in futility.”  (Reply p.
2.)  The parties met and conferred
regarding the SAC; thus, Defendants are aware of the changes to be made,
including the new claims, addition of punitive damages, and inclusion of two
new defendants.  These changes “render a
line-by-line analysis unnecessary and at best ceremonial.”  (Ibid.)  In case the Motion is denied on this
procedural basis, Plaintiffs request a 30-day continuance to present the
differences between the FAC and SAC.
 
Plaintiffs also contest the need to continue the trial date
after the filing of the SAC.  Defense
counsel represents all the defendants and witnesses and has represented the person
most knowledgeable of these entities during depositions.  Discovery is nearly completed as both
Plaintiffs have been deposed and all named Defendants have been deposed.  Defendants have been on notice regarding the
alter ego liability claims and have been questioned about the formalities of
the LLCs and their operational practices. 
As stated in the Motion, discovery has revealed additional evidence to
establish piercing of the corporate veil. 
Defendants have also been on notice regarding the breach of contract
claim as it arises from the motel stay agreement between Plaintiffs and
Defendants.  Finally, the claim for
punitive damages was included in the original complaint but was removed from
the FAC.  Additional discovery has
revealed that a claim for punitive damages is indeed justified.
 
As noted by Defendants, Plaintiffs’ Motion does not clearly
specify the allegations to be added or removed and, thus, does not comply with California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1324, subdivision (a). 
Although Plaintiffs argue that the substantial changes do
not warrant a detailed delineation of these changes, they do not present any
authority that waives the requirements of Rule 3.1324 when substantial changes
are proposed in an amended complaint.
 
For this reason, the Court continues the hearing on the
Motion and provides Plaintiffs an opportunity to file additional papers clearly
specifying the allegations to be added and removed, in compliance with Rules of
Court, rule 3.1324, subdivision (a).
 
The hearing on Plaintiffs Griselda
Aguilar Garcia and Juan C. Aguilar’s Motion for Leave to File a Second Amended
Complaint is CONTINUED TO October 31, 2024 at 9:30 a.m.
in Department SE-C.  At least 9 court
days before the next scheduled hearing, Plaintiffs must file and serve supplemental papers addressing the errors
discussed herein.  Failure to do so may
result in the Motion being placed off calendar or denied.  Defendant may file a supplemental opposition
by at least 5 court days before the next scheduled hearing.  
 