 Case Number:  23NWCV01018    Hearing Date:   October 2, 2024    Dept:  C MARIVEL
CARDOZA vs. ALAN GILBERT HERNANDEZ 
CASE NO.:  23NWCV01018
HEARING:  10/02/2024
 
#3
TENTATIVE ORDER
 
Plaintiff’s unopposed
Motion to Compel the Deposition of Defendant Alan Gilbert Hernandez is GRANTED.
 
Moving party to give
notice. 
 
Background
 
On April 3, 2023,
Plaintiff Marivel Cardoza (“Plaintiff”) sued Defendant Alan Gilbert Hernandez
(“Defendant”) alleging (1) general negligence; and (2) motor vehicle negligence.
Specifically, Plaintiff alleges that on January 19, 2022, Plaintiff was struck
by Defendant’s vehicle which caused Plaintiff’s damages. 
 
On September 15,
2023, Defendant filed their Answer. 
 
On March 5, 2024,
Plaintiff served notice of Defendant’s deposition set for April 5, 2024. 
 
On April 3, 2024,
Defense counsel confirmed that he was unable to reach Defendant so Defendant
would not be appearing at the deposition. 
 
On April 10, 2024,
Plaintiff filed the instant motion.
 
Defendants did not
file an opposition. 
 
Legal Standard
 
C.C.P. §2025.450(a) provides that,
“[i]f, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the action… without
having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for
examination…, the party giving the notice may move for an order compelling the
deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of any
document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice.” 
 
 
 
Meet and Confer
 
The Court finds that Plaintiff’s
meet-and-confer efforts were sufficient, as Code of Civil Procedure section
2025.450 subdivision (b)(2) requires that the motion to compel deposition be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration, or, when the deponent fails to
attend the deposition, by a declaration stating that the petitioner has
contacted the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance. 
 
On review of the Declaration of Laura
Ames, Esq., the Court notes that Plaintiff has satisfied their meet and confer
obligation prior to filing the instant motion. Plaintiff’s Attorney Ames
declares that they engaged in telephone correspondence with Defense Counsel two
days before the scheduled deposition wherein Defense Counsel’s confirmed their inability
to reach Defendant such that Defendant would not be appearing at the deposition.
(Mot, Ames Decl., ¶ 3.) Plaintiff subsequently confirmed the information
discussed on the phone via email and notified Defense counsel that Plaintiff
would be moving to compel Defendant’s deposition. (Mot, Ames Decl., ¶ 4, Exh. 2.)
 
The Court finds Plaintiff’s efforts
sufficient to fulfill this procedural requirement. 
 
Discussion
 
Plaintiff moves to compel
the deposition of Defendant. The notice of
deposition was properly served on Defendant’s attorney, E. Michael Kwan, by
electronic service on March 5, 2024. (Mot, Ames Decl., Exh. 1.) Defendant did
not file an opposition and did not serve a valid objection under Section
2025.410. Defendant failed to appear for examination and Defense Counsel has
been unable to contact Defendant. (Mot, Ames Decl., ¶ 3.) Therefore, Plaintiff
is entitled to an order compelling the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and
the production for inspection of any document, electronically stored
information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.
 
 
 
 
 