 Case Number:  20STCV01345    Hearing Date:   November 3, 2023    Dept:  52 Motions to Seal
Plaintiffs
Alvarado Hospital, LLC et al. move to seal portions of the final arbitration
award attached as exhibit F to the declaration of David J. Tassa in support of
plaintiffs’ petition to confirm arbitration award.
Defendant
Health Net of California, Inc. (Health Net) moves to seal plaintiffs’ petition
to confirm arbitration award and its supporting papers and Health Net’s
opposition and its papers in support of the opposition.  
Legal
Standard for Sealing Records
California Rules of Court, rule 2.550(d)
provides:
A court may order that a record be filed under
seal only if it expressly finds facts that establish: 
(1) There exists an overriding interest that
overcomes the right of public access to the record; 
(2) The overriding interest supports sealing
the record; 
(3) A substantial probability exists that the
overriding interest will be prejudiced if the record is not sealed; 
(4) The proposed sealing is narrowly tailored;
and 
(5) No less restrictive means exist to achieve
the overriding interest.
Plaintiffs’ Motion to Seal
            Plaintiffs move to seal individuals’ protected
health information.  “[M]edical records
are constitutionally private and statutorily confidential.”  (Oiye v. Fox (2012) 211 Cal.App.4th
1036, 1070.)  Courts “regard medical
records as presumptively private, such that plaintiff was not required to state
the obvious in a declaration, that she would be personally embarrassed to have
her medical records copied into court records.” 
(Ibid.)  
The records plaintiffs lodged with the court
as the “unredacted” copy, however, have the same redactions as the publicly
filed version.  These filings establish
that plaintiff does not meet the fifth element. 
Redaction is a simple, less restrictive means to fully achieve the
overriding interest in protecting people’s private health information.  None of their health information is relevant
to the petition to confirm the arbitration award.  The final award has a handful of redactions
that appear to be patients’ names.  (E.g.,
Tassa Decl., Ex. F, Sample Claims Decisions, pp. 2-9.)  Plaintiffs’ counsel states, “No material
other than patient names has been redacted.” 
(Tassa Decl. ISO Motion to Seal, ¶ 5.) 
That plaintiffs did not lodge the unredacted version of the document
makes no difference to the court’s ability to consider the petition to compel
arbitration.  There is no need to seal
anything.  The publicly filed redacted
documents suffice.
Health Net’s Motion to Seal
            Health
Net moves to seal its entire opposition and the entire declaration in support
of its opposition.  It also purports to
move to seal all of plaintiffs’ papers in support of their petition to confirm
the arbitration award.
Health Net does not meet any of the first four
elements under California Rules of Court, rule 2.550(d).  Its motion to seal argues the records have
“confidential information” that “contain proprietary, financial, and/or trade
secret information.”  (Motion, p.
4.)  “[C]onfidential matters relating to
the business operations of defendant” can constitute an overriding interest
that justifies sealing of records when “public revelation of [the] matters
would interfere with its ability to effectively compete in the marketplace…
.”  (Universal
City Studios, Inc. v. Super. Ct. (2003) 110 Cal.App.4th 1273, 1286.)  A court may deny a motion to seal if it finds
the supporting “declarations conclusory or otherwise unpersuasive.”  (In re Providian Credit Card Cases
(2002) 96 Cal.App.4th 292, 301.)
The memorandum in support of Health Net’s
motion asserts, “Health Net derives independent economic value from the
programs and services provided in the Agreements and discussed in the
Confidential Information.”  (Memo, p.
5.)  Health Net provides no supporting
evidence.  As the Court of Appeal has
stated, “There is no concrete evidence of any interest, let alone an overriding
one, that would be damaged by the unsealing of these materials.  At most there are contentions and conclusory
averments” about confidentiality.  (H.B.
Fuller Co. v. Doe (2007) 151 Cal.App.4th 879, 891–892.)            
Health Net’s only evidence in support of its
motion is the declaration of attorney David S. Yates, which authenticates
“copies of the confidentiality provisions of the agreements between Health Net
and Prime.”  (Yates Decl., ¶ 2, Exs.
A-O.)  But “the mere agreement of the
parties alone is insufficient to constitute an overriding interest to justify
sealing the documents.”  (McNair v.
National Collegiate Athletic Assn. (2015) 234 Cal.App.4th 25, 36.)  The parties must also make “ ‘a specific
showing of serious injury.’ ”  (Ibid.)
The agreements provide, “The parties agree
that the content and decision of any arbitration proceeding shall be
confidential unless disclosure is required by applicable State or federal
statutes or regulation.”  (Yates Decl.,
Exs. A, p. 18 of 45.)  These agreements do
not constitute any overriding interest that justifies sealing the records.  There is applicable State and federal law
requiring disclosure: California has “recognized a constitutional right of
access to certain court documents grounded in the First Amendment.”  (Overstock.com, Inc. v. Goldman Sachs
Group, Inc. (2014) 231 Cal.App.4th 471, 484.)
            Moreover,
the proposed sealing is far from narrowly tailored.  Health Net moves to seal its entire opposing
memorandum.  Its opposing memorandum
contains only legal arguments and references to evidence about the conduct of
the arbitration proceeding.  It includes
no protected health information or purported trade secret or proprietary
information, such as the capitation fees Health Net pays.  
Disposition
Plaintiffs Alvarado
Hospital, LLC, et al.’s motion to seal is denied.  
Defendant Health Net
of California, Inc.’s motion to seal is denied.
California Rules of Court, rule 2.551(b)(6) states
the procedure after the court denies a motion to seal: “If the court denies the
motion or application to seal, the moving party may notify the court that the
lodged record is to be filed unsealed.  This
notification must be received within 10 days of the order denying the motion or
application to seal, unless otherwise ordered by the court.  On receipt of this notification, the clerk
must unseal and file the record.  If the
moving party does not notify the court within 10 days of the order, the clerk
must (1) return the lodged record to the moving party if it is in paper form or
(2) permanently delete the lodged record if it is in electronic form.”
The
parties thus have two options.  First, if
they do not act within 10 days, the court will return and delete the lodged
records.  The redacted versions of the records
will remain in the court’s public file.  As
to Health Net’s opposing brief, doing so will be fatal to Health Net’s
opposition to the petition to confirm arbitration award because the publicly
filed document is fully redacted.  (The
only exceptions are the caption and proof of service.)
Second,
the parties may notify the court within 10 days that they choose for the
unredacted records to be filed unsealed. 
Plaintiffs Alvarado Hospital, LLC et
al.’s Petition to Confirm Final JAMS Arbitration AwardPlaintiffs
Alvarado Hospital, LLC et al. petition to confirm the final arbitration award
against defendant Health Net of California, Inc. (Health Net).  In its opposition, Health Net moves to vacate
the arbitration award.Legal
Standard for Confirming or Vacating Arbitration AwardsCode of Civil Procedure section 1286 provides, “If
a petition or response under this chapter is duly served and filed, the court
shall confirm the award as made … unless in accordance with this chapter it
corrects the award and confirms it as corrected, vacates the award or dismisses
the proceedings.”  Plaintiffs’ petition meets all requirements for a
petition to confirm arbitration award under Code of Civil Procedure sections
1285 and 1285.4.  The court therefore
must confirm the award unless Health Net’s response establishes a basis for
vacating the award.Did the arbitrator exceed his powers?A court must vacate the award if it determines “[t]he
arbitrators exceeded their powers and the award cannot be corrected without
affecting the merits of the decision upon the controversy submitted.”  (CCP § 1286.2(a)(4).)  “Arbitrators do not ordinarily exceed their
contractually created powers simply by reaching an erroneous conclusion on a
contested issue of law or fact, and arbitral awards may not ordinarily be
vacated because of such error, for  ‘
“[t]he arbitrator’s resolution of these issues is what the parties bargained
for in the arbitration agreement.” ’ ”  (Gueyffier
v. Ann Summers, Ltd. (2008) 43 Cal.4th 1179, 1184.)  Parties may, however, agree to “constrain the
arbitrators’ authority by requiring a dispute to be decided according to the
rule of law, and make
plain their intention that the award is reviewable for legal error.”  (Cable Connection, Inc. v. DIRECTV, Inc.
(2008) 44 Cal.4th 1334, 1355 (Cable
Connection).)The Cable
Connection court stressed that its
holding was based on the parituclar language of the arbitration clause in that
case.  (Cable
Connection, supra, 44 Cal.4th at p.
1361.)  The court further advised parties
seeking to allow judicial review on the merits to  “explicitly and unambiguously” grant that
power in the arbitration clause.  (Ibid.)Here, the parties’ arbitration agreements provide,
“The arbitrator shall have no authority to make material errors of law or to
award punitive damages or to add to, modify, or refuse to enforce any
agreements between the parties.  The
arbitrator shall make findings of fact and conclusions of law and shall have no
authority to make any award, which could not have been made by a court of law.”  (Tassa Decl., Exs. G-U, § 7.6.)  Plaintiffs contend this provision does not
explicitly and unambiguously grant this court the power to review the
arbitrator’s decision on the merits.  The
court does not reach this issue because assuming this provision expands the
typical scope of judicial review of an arbitration award, the court would not
vacate the award on that basis.  Health Net contends “the arbitrator exceeded his
powers by requiring Health Net to reimburse Prime [plaintiffs] for claims that
are the financial responsibility of Delegated Entities.”  (Opp., p. 9.) 
Health Net forfeited this argument by failing to raise it during the
arbitration.  “ ‘[A] party who knowingly
participates in the arbitration process without disclosing a ground for
declaring it invalid is properly cast into the outer darkness of forfeiture.’
”  (Goodwin v. Comerica Bank, N.A.
(2021) 72 Cal.App.5th 858, 866–867.) 
“‘[A] party may not sit idle through an arbitration proceeding and then
collaterally attack that procedure on grounds not raised before the arbitrators
when the result turns out to be adverse.’ ” 
(Mossman v. City of Oakdale (2009) 170 Cal.App.4th 83, 93.)The argument that delegated entities were
financially responsible for many claims was one of Health Net’s primary
substantive defenses in the arbitration proceeding.  (See, e.g., Health Net’s Pre-Hearing
Arbitration Brief, pp. 8-14.)  For
example, Health Net briefed the issue of its “liability for claims that are a
Delegated Entity’s financial responsibility.” 
(Id., p. 12.)   But Health Net never raised any argument that,
under the PPAs’ arbitration provisions or the parties’ stipulation to
arbitrate, the arbitrator had no power
to impose liability on Health Net for those claims.  “[C]ourts should generally defer to an
arbitrator’s finding that determination of a particular question is within the
scope of his or her contractual authority.” 
(Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. v. Intel Corp. (1994) 9 Cal.4th
362, 372.)  Health Net deprived the
arbitrator of an opportunity to determine whether he had such power.  Vacating the award on this basis would permit
Health Net to unfairly reserve an argument to use only if it lost at
arbitration.    Even if Health Net had not forfeited this argument,
the arbitrator did not exceed his powers because he made no material error of
law.  Health Net relies on arguments the
arbitrator, Hon. Fred K. Morrison (Ret.), expressly rejected in the final
award.  (Tassa Decl., Ex. F, Award, pp.
8-17.)  The court agrees with the
arbitrator’s analysis.  As the award states, sections 3.1 and 4.1 of the
parties’ provider participation agreements (PPAs) state that Health Net shall
either pay or “shall require Payor to” pay the applicable rates.  (Tassa Decl., Ex. F, p. 12.)  The arbitrator further found, “[T]he evidence
showed that Health Net’s contracts with the delegated entities give Health Net
the right to compel them to pay claims that are otherwise the responsibility of
the delegated entity.”  (Ibid.)  The
arbitrator thus ruled, “[W]here Health Net failed to demonstrate it pursued the
[claim] review process with the nonpaying delegated entity, or failed to pay a
timely submitted complete claim by deducting capitation fees where the
delegated entity failed to pay, Health Net breached sections 3.1 and 4.1 of the
PPAs.”  (Id., p. 13.)  The
arbitrator concluded, “Health Net was contractually obligated under the PPAs to
require payors to pay Prime, through its capitation deduction process, where
delegated entities failed to pay Prime’s timely submitted and appealed complete
claims.”  (Id., p. 42.)  Health Net also argues, “The Parties only agreed to
submit to arbitration the issue of whether Health Net or a Delegated Entity was
financially responsible for the claims at issue in the arbitration.  They did not agree that the arbitrator could order Health Net
to pay Prime for the claims that were the financial responsibility of the
Delegated Entities and then seek to recover those amounts through the cap
deduct process.”  (Opp., p. 11.)  The parties agreed to arbitrate any “Dispute” as
defined in the PPAs.  (Tassa Decl., Exs.
G-U, § 7.6.)  The PPAs provide, “The term
‘Dispute’, as used in this Agreement, including Sections 7.5 and 7.6, shall
mean any controversy or disagreement that may arise out of or relate to this
Agreement, or the breach thereof, whether involving a claim in tort, contract
or other applicable area of law.”  (Supp.
Tassa Decl., Ex. B, § 1.10.)  These disputes
all arise out of or relate to the PPAs between Health Net and the plaintiff
hospitals.  The parties thus agreed the
arbitrator could resolve these disputes as to whether Health Net breached the PPAs
(along with other related legal theories to recover any money owed).  And the arbitrator decided that, for some of
the sample claims where a Delegated Entity was financially responsible, Health
Net breached sections 3.1 and 4.1 of the PPAs.Did
the arbitrator refusal to hear material evidence?Health Net also argues the award should be
vacated because the arbitrator refused to hear material evidence regarding
other claims plaintiffs settled with delegated entities.  (Opp., pp. 12-15.)  A court shall vacate an arbitration award if
“[t]he rights of the party were substantially prejudiced … by the refusal of
the arbitrators to hear evidence material to the controversy.”  (CCP § 1286.2(a)(5).)  “The statutory provision is ‘a safety valve
in private arbitration that permits a court to intercede when an arbitrator has
prevented a party from fairly presenting its case.’ ”  (Epic Medical Management, LLC v. Paquette
(2015) 244 Cal.App.4th 504, 518.)  This
provision reflects “the fundamental principle that ‘[a]rbitration should give
both parties an opportunity to be heard.’ ” 
(Royal Alliance Associates, Inc. v. Liebhaber (2016) 2
Cal.App.5th 1092, 1108.)  In Royal
Alliance, the arbitrators violated this provision because, while both
parties “were permitted to submit written evidence,” only one party “was given
the opportunity to offer oral evidence.” 
(Ibid.)The arbitrator did not refuse to hear
material evidence.  Health Net’s argument
on this subject concerns refusing to compel discovery, not refusing to hear
evidence.  The opposition argues, “[T]he
arbitrator improperly denied Health Net’s request to compel Prime to produce
information regarding its settlements with Delegated Entities that may have
reduced the award against Health Net.”  (Opp.
p. 12.)  In Hyatt
Franchising, L.L.C. v. Shen Zhen New World I, LLC (7th Cir. 2017) 876 F.3d 900, 901, the court interpreted a similar
provision in the Federal Arbitration Act permitting vacatur “ ‘where the
arbitrators were guilty of misconduct in … refusing to hear evidence pertinent
and material to the controversy.’ ”  The
court reasoned, “The statutory phrase ‘refusing to hear evidence’ concerns the
conduct of the hearing, not the conduct of discovery.”  (Ibid.) 
Health Net provides no authority that denying a motion to compel
discovery constitutes “refusal of the arbitrators to hear evidence material to
the controversy” under Code of Civil Procedure section 1286.2(a)(5).    Moreover, it is undisputed that Health Net moved to
compel discovery of plaintiffs’ settlements with delegated entities “after the
arbitration hearing.”  (Opp, p. 12.)  “[S]ubdivision
(a)(5) of section 1286.2 does not oblige the arbitrator to ‘reopen’ the
presentation of evidence to consider new evidence.”  (Cooper v. Lavely & Singer
Professional Corp. (2014) 230 Cal.App.4th 1, 20, fn. 8.)  The hearing was held in July and August
2022.  (Tassa Decl., ¶ 7.)  The parties submitted post-hearing briefs on
October 12, 2022 and responding post-hearing briefs on November 2, 2022.  (Id., ¶ 8.)  The arbitrator’s interim award was served on
the parties on January 3, 2023.  (Id.,
¶ 9.)  Health Net moved to compel
plaintiffs to produce documents regarding claims settled with delegated
entities two weeks later on January 19, 2023. 
(Allen Decl., ¶ 8, Ex. G.)  The arbitrator “determined that the hearing was
‘deemed closed’ ” already.  (Opp., p.
13.)  Even if the arbitrator had
discretion to reopen the hearing and grant Health Net’s motion to compel
discovery, failing to do so after the arbitration hearing does not constitute
refusing to hear material evidence.  The
arbitrator’s decision to deny Health Net’s request did not deprive it of a fair
opportunity to be heard.   DispositionPlaintiffs
Alvarado Hospital, LLC et al.’s petition to confirm final JAMS arbitration
award is granted.  The final arbitration award (Tassa Decl., Ex. F) is hereby confirmed.  Plaintiffs shall submit a proposed
judgment forthwith.  
