 Case Number:  20STCV36130    Hearing Date:   April 24, 2024    Dept:  78 Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles Department 78  608 Mateo, LLC,Plaintiff, vs.Arts District Patients Collective, Inc., et al.Defendants.   Case No.:  20STCV36130 Hearing Date:  April 24, 2024     The motion to file Cross-Complaint filed by Defendant Arts District Patients Collective, Inc. (ADPC) is DENIED.Moving party to give notice.FACTUAL BACKGROUNDThis is an action for breach of contract. The Complaint alleges as follows. Plaintiff 608 Mateo, LLC (Mateo), as lessor, and Defendants Arts District Patient Collective, Inc. (ADPC) and James Shaw (Shaw), as lessees, entered into a lease on April 4, 2018, for the Subject Premises. (Compl. ¶ 11.) On June 14, 2018, the lease was amended pursuant to a second Amendment to Lease. (Compl. ¶ 12.) Plaintiff performed its obligations under the lease, but Defendants breached the lease and have failed to pay various amounts owed under the lease in the amount of at least $395,380.54. (Compl. ¶ 17-18.) The Complaint alleges that Defendants THC Design (THC, Inc.) and Ryan Jennemann (Jennemann) signed a guaranty of the lease. (Compl. ¶ 20.)PROCEDURAL HISTORY On September 22, 2020, Mateo filed the initial Complaint.On May 13, 2021, ADPC filed a Motion for Leave to File a Cross-Complaint. That Motion was taken off calendar as ADPC did not properly serve notice on Plaintiff. On May 17, 2021, Jennemann and THC filed a Cross-Complaint. On October 22, 2021, AWA Oasa filed a Cross-Complaint.On April 4, 2022, the Court granted ADPC’s first motion for leave to file a Cross-Complaint.On December 12, 2023, ADPC filed its second motion for leave to file a Cross-Complaint.On April 8, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition.On April 17, 2024, ADPC filed a reply.DISCUSSIONCode of Civil Procedure section 428.50 provides:  “(a) A party shall file a cross-complaint against any of the parties who filed the complaint or cross-complaint against him or her before or at the same time as the answer to the complaint or cross-complaint.  (b) Any other cross-complaint may be filed at any time before the court has set a date for trial.  (c)¿A party shall obtain leave of court to file any cross-complaint except one filed¿within¿the time¿specified in subdivision (a)¿or¿(b).¿ Leave may be granted in the interest of justice at any time during the course of the action.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 428.50.)   “A party who fails to plead a cause of action subject to the requirements of this article, whether through oversight, inadvertence, mistake, neglect, or other cause, may apply to the court for leave to amend his pleading, or to file a cross-complaint, to assert such cause at any time during the course of the action. The court, after notice to the adverse party, shall grant, upon such terms as may be just to the parties, leave to amend the pleading, or to file the cross-complaint, to assert such cause if the party who failed to plead the cause acted in good faith.  This subdivision shall be liberally construed to avoid forfeiture of causes of action.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 426.50.) (Emphasis added.)  The Court of Appeals has explained: “The legislative mandate is clear. A policy of liberal construction of section 426.50 to avoid forfeiture of causes of action is imposed on the trial¿court. A motion to file a cross-complaint at any time during the course of the action must be granted unless bad faith of the moving party is demonstrated where forfeiture would otherwise result. Factors such as oversight, inadvertence, neglect, mistake or other cause, are insufficient grounds to deny the motion unless accompanied by bad faith.” (Silver Organizations Ltd. v. Frank¿(1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 94, 98–99.) “‘‘Bad faith,’ is defined as ‘[t]he opposite of ‘good faith,’ generally implying or involving actual or constructive fraud, or a design to mislead or deceive another, or a neglect or refusal to fulfill some duty or some contractual obligation, not prompted by an honest mistake . . ., but by some interested or sinister motive[,] . . . not simply bad judgment or negligence, but rather . . . the conscious doing of a wrong because of dishonest purpose or moral obliquity; . . . it contemplates a state of mind affirmatively operating with furtive design or ill will. (Id. at 100.) A cross-complaint is compulsory when a related cause of action existed at the time of serving the defendant’s answer to the complaint.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 426.30, subd. (a); see also Crocker Nat. Bank v. Emerald (1990) 221 Cal.App.3d 852, 864.)  A related cause of action is “. . . a cause of action which arises out of the same transaction, occurrence, or series of transactions or occurrences as the cause of action which the plaintiff alleges in his complaint.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 426.10, subd. (c).)  Leave must be granted to file a compulsory cross-complaint when the defendant is acting in good faith.  (See Code Civ. Proc. § 426.50.)Here, ADPC moves for leave to file a Cross-Complaint. ADPC alleges that the Cross-Complaint was not filed sooner because Plaintiff has changed its legal position repeatedly between 2019 and 2021. Additionally, ADPC alleges it found new information during discovery that contradict Plaintiff’s representations. ADPC also argues it is not acting in bad faith because the parties are discussing continuing the trial date because Plaintiff recently filed a First Amended Complaint. ADPC fails to explain why it did not file its Cross-Complaint when the Court granted its first motion in 2022. ADPC’s motion appears to be substantially similar to a motion granted in 2022. Although ADPC represented that a proposed Cross-Complaint was attached as Exhibit D to its motion, no proposed Cross-Complaint was attached. The motion contains outdated information because Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint was filed in 2021. ADPC knew of Mateo’s changed legal position and of new information which contradicts Plaintiff’s representations by 2021. Additionally, as Plaintiff points out, ADPC never filed the Cross-Complaint in 2022. Given that ADPC knew of the facts giving rise to this Cross-Complaint by 2021, ADPC delayed filing this motion by three years.The Court cannot find that ADPC acted in good faith in failing to file a timely Cross-Complaint. ADPC knew of the facts giving rise to its Cross-Complaint as early as 2021 and did not file a Cross-Complaint despite the Court granting its first motion for leave to file the Cross-Complaint in 2022. Although ADPC argues that it did not want to add to litigation without more sufficient grounds for filing a Cross-Complaint, this argument is nonsensical because the Court previously granted ADPC leave to file a Cross-Complaint. Thus, the Court had already agreed that ADPC had sufficient grounds to file a Cross-Complaint and ADPC elected not to file its Cross-Complaint.The Court finds that ADPC’s delay is unacceptable and constitutes a bad faith attempt to delay proceedings and deprive other parties of the opportunity to defend against its Cross-Complaint. Plaintiff and any proposed Cross-Defendants have had no opportunity to participate in this litigation during the three-year delay. As Plaintiff alleges, ADPC intends to introduce two new parties and new causes of action by filing its Cross-Complaint just three months before trial. Because it appears ADPC acted in bad faith by failing to file a timely Cross-Complaint, ADPC’s motion is denied.DATED: April 24, 2024                                                                      ________________________________ Hon. Jill Feeney Judge of the Superior Court 