 Case Number:  24STCV00294    Hearing Date:   November 7, 2024    Dept:  14 #13Case Background
This is an action for breach of implied warranty of
habitability, negligence, intentional infliction of emotional distress, private
nuisance, violation of Civil Code, section 1942.4, and violation of Business
and Professions Code, section 17200. Plaintiffs are a group of families who
resided in the same apartment building in Los Angeles, California. Plaintiffs
allege that the building suffered from serious defects which made the building
uninhabitable.
On January 4, 2024, a large group of Plaintiffs filed
their Complaint against Defendants Melannie L. Munoz, 5914 Hoover St., LLC, and
PI Properties No. 86, LLC (PI).
On September 30, 2024, Defendant PI filed this motion
to strike. 
On October 25, 2024, Plaintiffs filed an opposition.
On October 31, 2024, PI filed its reply.
Instant Pleading
Defendant PI moves to strike Plaintiffs’ demand for
punitive damages from the Complaint.
Decision
Defendant PI’s motion to strike is DENIED.
Legal Standard
In
order to state a
prima facie claim for punitive damages, a complaint
must set forth the elements as stated in the general punitive damage statute,
Civil Code section 3294. (College Hospital, Inc. v. Superior Court
(1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 721.) These statutory elements include allegations
that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud or malice. (Civ. Code, section
3294, subd. (a).) 
“Malice
is defined in the statute as conduct intended by the defendant to cause injury
to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant
with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.” (College
Hospital, Inc., supra, 8 Cal.4th at p. 725 [examining Civ. Code,
section 3294, subd. (c)(1)].) “A conscious disregard
of the safety of others may constitute malice within the meaning of section
3294 of the Civil Code. In order to justify an award of punitive damages
on this basis, the plaintiff must establish that the defendant was aware of the
probable dangerous consequences of his conduct, and that he willfully and
deliberately failed to avoid those consequences.” (Taylor v. Superior
Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, 895-896.) 
“As
amended to include [despicable], the statute plainly indicates that absent an
intent to injure the plaintiff, ‘malice’ requires more than a ‘willful and
conscious’ disregard of the plaintiffs’ interests. The additional component of
‘despicable conduct’ must be found.” (College Hospital, Inc.,
supra, 8 Cal.4th at p. 725.) The statute’s reference to despicable
conduct represents a “new substantive limitation on punitive damage
awards.” (Ibid.) Despicable conduct is “conduct which is so vile, base, contemptible,
miserable, wretched or loathsome that it would be looked down upon and despised
by ordinary decent people. Such conduct has been described as ‘having the
character of outrage frequently associated with crime.’” (Tomaselli v.
Transamerica Ins. Co. (1994) 25 Cal.App.4th 1269, 1287.) 
“[T]he imposition of punitive damages upon a
corporation is based upon its own fault. It is not imposed vicariously by
virtue of the fault of others.” (City Products Corp. v. Globe Indemnity
Co. (1979) 88 Cal.App.3d 31, 36.) “Corporations are legal entities
which do not have minds capable of recklessness, wickedness, or intent to
injure or deceive. An award of punitive damages against a corporation
therefore must rest on the malice of the corporation’s employees. But the
law does not impute every employee’s malice to the corporation. Instead,
the punitive damages statute requires proof of malice among corporate
leaders: the ‘officer[s], director[s], or managing agent[s].’” (Cruz
v. Home Base (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 160, 167 [citation omitted].) As to
ratification, “[a] corporation cannot confirm and accept that which it does not
actually know about.’” (Ibid. [citing College Hospital, Inc.,
supra, 8 Cal.4th at p. 726 [for ratification sufficient to justify
punitive damages against corporation, there must be proof that officers,
directors, or managing agents had actual knowledge of the malicious conduct and
its outrageous character]].) 
Discussion
Defendant PI moves to strike Plaintiffs’ demand for
punitive damages on the grounds that (1) Plaintiffs fail to allege PI engaged
in conduct which would constitute oppression, fraud, or malice, and (2)
Plaintiffs failed to meet the standard for seeking punitive damages against a
corporate defendant.
Whether PI engaged in conduct constituting
oppression, fraud, or malice
PI alleges that the Complaint fails to state it engaged
in conduct constituting oppression, fraud, or malice because it makes general
allegations that Defendants permitted substandard living conditions to exist
without distinguishing between the three Defendants. PI argues it cannot
determine what it did or how its conduct was malicious.
The Complaint alleges that PI owned the subject
property between June 27, 2017, and November 25, 2017. (Compl., ¶9.) All
Defendants had notice of defects with the property and failed to repair or
abate them. (Compl., ¶15.) Defendants intentionally ignored complaints from
Plaintiffs and other tenants. (Compl., ¶17.) Defendants failed to repair or
maintain the subject property solely to save money and increase their own
income. (Compl., ¶19.) Defendants and their employees or agents harassed
Plaintiffs to intimidate and/or coerce them into not complaining about the
condition of the property. (Compl., ¶35.) 
The Complaint alleges that Defendants, through their
agents, intentionally failed to remedy defects to the subject property in order
to save money. The Court finds that these allegations are sufficient to show
Defendants, including PI, engaged in malicious conduct. Defendants’ decision
not to repair the property demonstrates a conscious disregard for the safety of
Plaintiff and other Defendants. The allegations that Defendants made this
decision to save money and thereafter harassed tenants to discourage complaints
are sufficient to show Defendants’ conduct was despicable. 
Although the Complaint does refer to all Defendants
without distinguishing one from the other, it is possible that all three
Defendants engaged in the same malicious conduct. PI can determine from the
Complaint that Plaintiff is suing PI because the subject property was
uninhabitable; PI ignored Plaintiffs’ complaints about the property; PI refused
to repair the property to save money; and PI harassed Plaintiffs to discourage
them from complaining about the defects. The facts alleged are sufficiently
detailed to apprise PI of the allegations against it. Therefore, the facts
alleged are sufficient to support a demand for punitive damages.
Whether the Complaint meets pleading standards for a
corporate defendant
PI next argues that the Complaint fails to meet
pleading standards for a corporate defendant because it fails to allege that an
officer, director, or managing agent ratified any malicious conduct. However,
the Complaint does allege that an officer, director, or managing agent of PI
ratified the alleged wrongful conduct. (Compl., ¶9.) Although the Complaint
does not name the person who ratified the conduct or describe how they ratified
the conduct, it is reasonable to infer that Plaintiffs would not have this
information before engaging in discovery. For the purposes of this motion to
strike, the ultimate fact that an officer, director, or managing agent of PI
ratified the wrongful conduct is sufficient to support a demand for punitive
damages.
PI’s motion to strike punitive damages is DENIED.
Conclusion
Defendant PI’s motion to strike is DENIED.