 Case Number:  23STV17716    Hearing Date:   November 7, 2024    Dept:  14 #10Case Background
This is an action for breach of contract, common count,
intentional misrepresentation, negligent misrepresentation, and conversion. Plaintiff
is a product design studio and alleges that Defendants failed to pay for design
services.
On July 27, 2023, Plaintiff Agency Enterprise, LLC
filed its Complaint against Defendant True Perspective Global, LLC.
On February 5, 2024, Plaintiff filed a First Amended
Complaint (FAC). The FAC added Defendants Michelle Huntington, Carl Maybin, and
Milton Bledsoe.
On September 30, 2024, Gregory Smith, counsel for
Defendants, filed this motion to be relieved as counsel.
Instant Pleading
Counsel Gregory Smith moves to be relieved as counsel
for Defendants Michelle Huntington, True Perspective Global, Carl Maybin, and
Milton Bledsoe.
Decision
The motion to be relieved as counsel filed by Counsel
Gregory Smith is GRANTED. The order granting the motion is effective upon the filing of the proof of service of the signed
order upon the client.
Legal Standard
California Rules of Court Rule
3.1362 requires that counsel fill out forms MC-051, MC-052, and MC-053. These
forms serve two basic functions: (1) ensuring that notice is given to the
client and (2) providing the court with an adequate explanation of why the
matter is being handled via motion rather than mutual consent. See Code of
Civil Procedure § 284; California Rules of Court Rule 3.1362.
Discussion
Counsel completed the required forms. Those forms
indicate that Counsel served Plaintiffs at their last known addresses which he
confirmed were current via a Westlaw Edge PeopleMap Report, at least 30 days
before the hearing on this matter. Counsel relied on public filings to
determine that the address for True Perspective Global was current. Counsel
also served each Defendant via email at addresses which they previously used to
communicate with Counsel. Counsel represents there has been a breakdown of the attorney-client
relationship due to Defendants’ breach of the engagement agreement.
Counsel complied with the requirements of Rule 3.1362,
and relief is appropriate under the circumstances of this case. The motion is
GRANTED, effective upon the filing of
the proof of service of the signed order upon the client. 
Conclusion
The motion to be relieved as counsel filed by Counsel
Gregory Smith is GRANTED. The order granting the motion is effective upon the filing of the proof of service of the signed
order upon the client.