 Case Number:  23TRCV03033    Hearing Date:   June 26, 2024    Dept:  8  
            Tentative Ruling¿ 
¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 June 26, 2024¿ 
¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                  23TRCV03033
¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Automobile Driving Museum; Historic Automobile
Preservation Entity v. The Zimmerman Trust of 1978, et al. 
¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                (1) Defendants,
Jay Zimmerman and Thomas Zimmerman, as co-trustees of The Zimmerman Trust of
1978
                                                
RESPONDING PARTY:       (1) Plaintiffs,
Automobile Driving Museum and Historic Automobile Preservation Entity
¿¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                        Not
Set 
¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Demurrer to the Second Amended Complaint
                                                
Tentative Rulings:                  (1)  SUSTAINED
without leave to amend 
 
 
 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A. Factual¿¿ 
¿¿ 
On September
13, 2023, Plaintiffs, Automobile Driving Museum and Historic Automobile
(“Plaintiffs”) filed a Complaint against Defendants, The Zimmerman Trust of
1978, Myrna Zimmerman, Jay Zimmerman, as co-trustee of the Zimmerman Trust of
1978, Thomas Zimmerman, as co-trustee of The Zimmerman Trust of 1978, and DOES
1 through 10. On January 30, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a First Amended Complaint
(“FAC”) alleging one cause of action for: (1) Breach of Written Contract.  
 
On March 22,
2024, this Court sustained Defendant’s demurrer to the FAC, with leave to amend
being requested by Plaintiff. 
 
On April 23,
2024, Plaintiffs filed a Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) alleging causes of
action for: (1) Breach of Written Contract.  Defendants, Jay and Thomas Zimmerman, as
co-trustees of The Zimmerman Trust of 1978 (“Co-Trustees”) have now filed a
Demurrer to the SAC.
 
B. Procedural¿¿ 
¿ 
            On May 20, 2024, Co-Trustees filed a
demurrer to the SAC. On June 11, 2024, Plaintiffs filed an opposition brief. On
June 12, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a revised opposition. On January 18, 2024,
Co-Trustees filed a reply brief.  
 
II. REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
Filed with Defendant, Co-Trustees,
requested this Court take judicial notice of the following documents: 
 
1.     
Tentative Ruling on January 9, 2024, hearing on
Demurrer to Complaint, a true and correct copy of which is attached hereto as
Exhibit 1. Cal. Evid. Code § 452(c). 
2.     
Tentative Ruling on March 22, 2024, hearing on Demurrer
to First Amended Complaint, a true and correct copy of which is attached hereto
as Exhibit 2. Cal. Evid. Code § 452(c). 
3.     
April 2, 2024, Notice of Ruling And Entry Of Order On
Demurrer To First Amended Complaint Filed By Defendants Jay Zimmerman And
Thomas Zimmerman, As Cotrustees Of The Zimmerman Trust Of 1978, And Myrna
Zimmerman, By And Through Her Attorneys-In fact Jay Zimmerman And Thomas
Zimmerman, a true and correct copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 3.
Cal. Evid. Code § 452(c).
 
The Court GRANTS this request and takes
judicial notice of the above. 
 
III. ANALYSIS 
 
A.    Legal Standard  
 
“The primary function of a pleading is to
give the other party notice so that it may prepare its case [citation], and a
defect in a pleading that otherwise properly notifies a party cannot be said to
affect substantial rights.” (Harris v. City of Santa Monica (2013) 56
Cal.4th 203, 240.) “A¿demurrer¿tests the legal sufficiency of the factual
allegations in a complaint.” (Ivanoff v. Bank of America, N.A.¿(2017)
9 Cal.App.5th 719, 725.) The Court looks to whether “the complaint alleges facts
sufficient to state a cause of action or discloses a complete defense.” (Id.)
The Court does not “read passages from a complaint in isolation; in reviewing a
ruling on a demurrer, we read the complaint ‘as a whole and its parts in
their context.’ [Citation.]” (West v. JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (2013)
214 Cal.App.4th 780, 804.) The Court “assume[s] the truth of the properly
pleaded factual allegations, facts that reasonably can be inferred from
those expressly pleaded and matters of which judicial notice has been
taken.” (Harris, supra, 56 Cal.4th p. 240.) “The court does
not, however, assume the truth of contentions, deductions or conclusions
of law. [Citation.]” (Durell v. Sharp Healthcare (2010) 183
Cal.App.4th 1350, 1358.) 
 
A general demurrer may be brought under Code
of Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivision (e) if insufficient facts are
stated to support the cause of action asserted or under section 430.10,
subdivision (a), where the court has no jurisdiction of the subject of the
cause of action alleged in the pleading. All other grounds listed in Section
430.10, including uncertainty under subdivision (f), are special demurrers.
Special demurrers are not allowed in limited jurisdiction courts. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 92, subd. (c).) 
 
Leave to amend must be allowed where there
is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy
(1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.)  The burden is on the complainant to show the
Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.)  
 
 
B.    
Discussion

 
Preliminarily,
this Court notes that this is the third demurrer hearing as to Co-Trustees demurrers.
As such, in the interest of brevity, the Court finds no reason to regurgitate
the same level of analysis as its previous tentative rulings. Thus, the Court
will provide an abridged analysis for Co-Trustees’ demurrer to Plaintiffs’ SAC.

 
Breach of Contract 
 
            In
this Court’s March 21, 2024 tentative ruling, it indicated that it was not persuaded
by Plaintiffs’ arguments, and that it did not interpret the provisions of the
pledge agreement to mean what Plaintiffs are interpreting it to mean. The Court
previously reasoned that paragraph 1, section (b) does not, in the Court’s
view, have anything to do with the “upon the earlier” clause in section (a).
Instead, this Court noted that paragraph 1 indicates that it is an agreement
that the Donors jointly and severally agreed and irrevocably promised to give
to HAPE: (a) Annual Pledge; and (b) Testamentary Pledge. The Court noted
that this does not mean that the termination of the pledge via written notice
from a donor terminating the pledge after the last date of the calendar year in
which the notice is delivered (paragraph 1(a)(ii)) invalidates the Testamentary
pledge found in paragraph 1(b). However, this Court noted that such a
scenario was not being raised by Plaintiffs in the FAC. Instead, this Court
noted that the issue Plaintiffs raised in their FAC was a single issue for a
breach of contract and seeks to recover damages for the annual pledges under
the terms of the written contract. As such, because this Court found that the
use of the phrase “upon the earlier” presents a clear and unambiguous meaning
of paragraph 1(a) – which the Court views as meaning the earlier of the two
options laid out in paragraph 1(a)(i) and 1(a)(ii). 
 
            In
Defendants’ Demurrer, they argue that the parol evidence rule bars Plaintiffs’
evidence of prior negotiations and prior contemporaneous oral argument. Defendants
argue that Plaintiff is not arguing that the pledge agreement is ambiguous, and
instead, claim that the extrinsic evidence shows that the contract means
something other than what the plain language of the contract states. The parol
evidence rule generally prohibits the introduction of either oral or written
extrinsic evidence to vary, alter, or add to the term of an integrated written
agreement. (Casa Herrera, Inc. Beydoun (2004) 32 Cal.4th 336, 343 (“Casa
Herrera”).) However, extrinsic evidence introduced to explain the meaning
of a written contract is admissible if the interpretation of the contract urged
is consistent with the document. (Ibid.) Moreover, “as a matter of
substantive law [evidence that contradicts an integrated written contract]
cannot serve to create or alter the obligations under the instrument.” (Id.
at 344.) Thus, a written agreement supersedes any prior or contemporaneous
negotiations, either oral or written. (Alling v. Universal Manufacturing
Corp. (1992) 5 Cal.App.4th 1412, 1434 (“Alling”))
 
            Plaintiffs
included documents which allegedly support their contractual interpretation,
despite this Court noting that it views the language of the contract as clear
and unambiguous. Exhibit C is entitled “Areas of Discussion – Future of the
Automobile Driving Museum – Meeting with Stanley Zimmerman, Principal Sponsor –
July 15, 2019.” Despite this Court’s noted interpretation of the clause in
issue in the Pledge Agreement, Plaintiffs have maintained that “it was specifically
discussed that the delivery of notice per paragraph 2 of the Pledge could only
be delivered upon the death of the last Donor.” (SAC, ¶ 18.) Plaintiffs contend
that this agenda was created in collaboration with Defendant, Stanley Zimmerman
and with the Plaintiffs, not solely by Plaintiffs, and is has introductory
paragraphs noting that the board members are looking to create an understanding
between the Board and Stan Zimmerman, as to ongoing operations and expectation
for short-term and long-term support of the ADM, to properly execute the
Boards’ duties. The introductory paragraph noted that the Board’s current
understanding of financial stability did not enable to Board to properly plan
strategy and execution for more than 6 months to 1 year, and was followed by
six (6) questions. 
 
            The
Court is confused as to how the above is the evidence Plaintiffs claim proves
their interpretation of the contract. Specifically, exhibit C, is disputed by
the parties to be a “collaborative” document. At first blush, the Court notes
that it appears to be questions listed by the Board (per the introductory
paragraphs) to ask Stan Zimmerman prior to signing the Pledge Agreement. As
noted above, written agreements supersede any prior or contemporaneous
negotiations, either oral or written. (Alling v. Universal Manufacturing
Corp. (1992) 5 Cal.App.4th 1412, 1434.) There is no indication that this
document is anything different than what it appears to be, i.e., negotiation
questions that the Board took into the meeting with Stan Zimmerman.  Exhibit C is not signed by defendants and does
not indicate that it was drafted by or in collaboration with the
defendants.  Thus, Exhibit C would be
barred by the parol evidence rule. Further, Plaintiffs’ opposition brief
discusses each of the questions and provides answers to them. However, the
document itself does not represent any of what Plaintiffs’ believed answers to
the questions stand for. 
 
            Next,
Exhibit B is a letter sent from Jay and Thomas Zimmerman, which is entitled
“RE: Notice of Termination of Annual Pledge.”   Exhibit B states that Stanley Zimmerman had
passed away in July of that year (2020), and further notes that Defendants are
providing written notice terminating the pledge pursuant to paragraph 1. Plaintiffs’
opposition brief argues that this notice of termination impeaches Defendants’
argument that they could unilaterally terminate the Pledge Agreement.
Plaintiffs argue that this exhibit is evidence that the defendants provided
notice terminating the Pledge Agreement based upon the death of Stanley
Zimmerman, not on the reading of a bilateral contract. Plaintiffs contend that
Defendants’ Notice of Termination admits now that the death of Stanley was the
precipitating factor to terminate the Pledge Agreement thus confirming
Plaintiffs’ theory on interpreting the Pledge Agreement. 
 
            Plaintiffs
appear to have disregarded this Court’s interpretation of the language in the
Pledge Agreement to be both clear and unambiguous.  The Court notes that the new arguments made
in the SAC, as well as the arguments made in the opposition brief as to
Exhibits B and C, seem to be unilateral interpretations of documents by
Plaintiffs. For example, the Notice of Termination does not state that the pledge
is being terminated because of Stanley Zimmerman’s death in reference to
paragraph 1(a)(i). It certainly mentions that Stanley Zimmerman passed away,
however, this was written notice of terminating the Pledge Agreement.
Plaintiffs’ attempted use of Exhibit B would also violate the parol evidence
rule as it does not seek to clarify an alleged ambiguity (where the Court has
not found one), but instead seeks to speculate the purpose of Defendants’
sending of that notice. The Court is no persuaded by Plaintiff’s argument.
 
            As
such, the demurrer is sustained without leave to amend. It is clear that
Plaintiffs do not have any evidence to support their interpretation of a
contract this Court has already found to be unambiguous, and interpreted
differently than how Plaintiffs have asked this Court to interpret it. 
            
V.
CONCLUSION¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
For the foregoing reasons,
Defendants’ Demurrer to the Complaint is SUSTAINED without leave to amend.
Moving party is to give notice. 
 
¿¿¿ 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 