 Case Number:  BC700634    Hearing Date:   June 26, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿ 
¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 June 26, 2024
¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                   BC700634
¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Julie A. Esphorst v.
Darryl Leander Hicks, et al.
¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                 Plaintiff, Jesse Franklin Esphorst) 
 
RESPONDING PARTY:        Defendant Tung Ming and Prosed
Intervenor, State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Company 
¿¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                        Not
Set. 
¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Motion for Objection to Undertaking and Motion for Order that
Sufficient Bond be Given
                                                
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) DENIED, at least as to the $60,000 amount of the undertaking. An appeal bond or undertaking
by defendant’s liability insurer to stay the part of a judgment within the
policy limits is effective to stay enforcement of that part of the judgment.  There is no other stay of enforcement besides
to the extent of the undertaking
 
                                                 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A. Factual¿¿ 
¿¿ 
On
March 1, 2021, Plaintiffs, Jesse Franklin Esphorst, an individual, and as
successor-in-interest to The Estate of Jesse Eric Esphorst, deceased
(Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants, Tung Ming, Kwan Cheung,
Teddyland, LLC, and DOES 1 through 50. On October 16, 2018, Plaintiffs filed a
First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) alleging causes of action for: (1) Wrongful
Death – Negligence; (2) Negligence Per Se; and (3) Dangerous Condition of
Public Property (Government Code § 835). 
 
On
January 26, 2024, this Court entered judgment in favor of Plaintiffs and
against Defendant, Tung Ming, in the amount of $58,762,500 plus costs and
interest. Post-trial, this Court reduced the non-economic damages by 20%.
Accordingly, on April 26, 2024, the Court entered an Amended Judgment against
Defendant, Tung Ming, in the amount of $47,410,000 plus costs and interest. 
 
On
May 3, 2024, Defendant, Tung Ming filed a Notice of Appeal. On May 14, 2024,
Defendant, Tung Ming and insurer served a document entitled “undertaking on
Appeal” which purports to be an undertaking in the amount of $60,000.
(Plaintiff’s Moving Papers, Exhibit 1.) Because of this, Plaintiff, Jesse
Franklin Esphorst has filed this objection to the undertaking of $60,000 given
by Defendant Tung Ming and insurer, State Farm Fire and Casualty Company on May
14, 2024, as insufficient to stay enforcement of the judgment because it is
less than one and a half times the amount of the Judgment (Code Civ. Proc., §917.1) Jesse Franklin Esphorst notes that
this Court has entered judgment against Tung Ming in the amount of $47,410,000
plus costs and interest. As such, Jesse Franklin Esphorst argues that an amount
that would be sufficient is estimated to be $71,115,000. 
 
B. Procedural¿¿ 
 
On May 17, 2023, Plaintiff, Jesse Franklin Esphorst
filed this Objection to Defendant Tung Ming’s Undertaking and Motion for an
Order that Sufficient Bond be Given. On May 21, 2024, Plaintiff, Julie A.
Esphorst filed a joinder to this motion. 
 
On June 12, 2024, Defendant, Tung Ming, and proposed
intervenor, State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Company (“State Farm”) filed
an opposition brief. 
 
On June 20, 2024, Plaintiff, Jesse Franklin Esphorst
filed a rely brief. On June 20, 2024, Plaintiff, Julie A. Esphorst filed a
joiner to that reply brief. 
 
II. ANALYSIS 
 

A.    Legal Standard  
 
An
appeal of a trial court order involving the payment of money does not stay
enforcement of the order unless the appellant posts an undertaking.  (Code
Civ. Proc., §917.1(a)(1).)  Costs awarded by the trial court under Code of
Civil procedure section 1021 et seq. shall be included in the
order.  (Code Civ. Proc. §917.1(d).)  If the order is affirmed or the
appeal withdrawn or dismissed, the party ordered to pay shall pay the amount of
the order, together with any interest which may have accrued pending the appeal
and costs which may be awarded against the appellant on appeal.  (Code Civ.
Proc. §917.1(b).)  The undertaking posted shall be for double the amount
of the order unless given by an admitted surety in which event it shall be for
one and one-half times the amount of the order. (Code Civ. Proc. §917.1(b).)The
liability may be enforced if the party ordered to pay does not do so within 30
days after the remittitur is filed in the lower court. (Code Civ. Proc.
§917.1(b).) 
 
An
objection to a bond must be made within ten days after service of a copy of the
bond on the beneficiary.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 995.930(b).)  “If no
objection is made within the time required by statute, the beneficiary is
deemed to have waived all objections except upon a showing of good cause for
failure to make the objection within the time required by statute or of changed
circumstances.”  (Code Civ. Proc. §995.930(c).) 
 
Further,
Code of Civil Procedure section 996.010(a) provides: “If a bond is given in an
action or proceeding, the court may determine that the bond is or has from any
cause become insufficient because the sureties are insufficient or because the
amount of the bond is insufficient.”  Motions challenging the sufficiency
of a bond are deemed objections to the bond.  (Code Civ. Proc.
§996.010(b).)  If the court determines the bond to be insufficient, it
shall order that a new, additional, or supplemental bond be given within a
reasonable time not less than five days.  (Code Civ. Proc. §996.010(c).) Should
a bond become insufficient during the case, Code of Civil Procedure section
996.010 enables a court to make that determination and order a sufficient new
or supplemental bond.  (Grant v. Superior Court (1990) 225
Cal.App.3d 929, 938.) The statute reflects a common sense view that the
sufficiency of the undertaking should be assessed in light of those sums which
it may be required to satisfy, not in light of the formula for initially
setting the amount of the undertaking.  (Ibid.)  The statute’s
purpose is to guard against a bond or undertaking failing to serve its original
purpose. (Ibid.) 
 
B.   
Discussion

 
Here,
the Court notes that Plaintiff timely objected in writing to the $60,000
undertaking as insufficient to stay the enforcement of judgment during
Defendant Tung Ming’s appeal. However, the case of Merritt v. J.A. Stafford
Co. (1968) 68 Cal.2d 619 (“Merritt”), relied upon by Defendant, Tung
Ming and Intervenor, State Farm, and distinguished by Plaintiffs’ reply brief
is the crux of the issue here. 
 
In
Merritt, plaintiff had recovered against defendant, the J.A. Staffing
Company, a corporation, and one of its employees for $434,441.68 for personal
injuries suffered in a truck accident, and Merritt’s employer recovered
judgment for $21,255.93 against Stafford and its employee for property damage.
(Merritt, supra, 68 Cal.2d at 621.) Subsequently, Stafford and its
employee filed a notice of appeal, and on May 22, 1964, Stuyvesant Insurance
Company filed an “undertaking for Appeal Bond.” (Ibid.) The filing
indicated that Stuyvesant was obliged itself ‘under said statutory obligations’
in the sum of $181,883.90. The judgement was affirmed, and the remittitur was
filed on October 13, 1965. (Ibid.) Stuyvesant and Reserve Insurance
Company filed an action for declaratory relief alleging that Reserve had issued
to Stafford a liability insurance policy providing that the limit for injury to
any one person was $100,000 and that the company shall pay ‘all costs and all
interests accruing after entry of judgment until the company has paid or
tendered or deposited in court such part od such judgment as does not exceed
the limit of the company’s liability thereon. (Ibid.) The trial court
then issued a temporary restraining order in the declaratory relief action
enjoining Merritt from seeking an ex parte judgment against Stuyvesant but
providing that upon notice Merritt could move for judgment on the appeal bond.
(Id. at 622.) 
 
Subsequently,
Merritt noticed a motion for judgment on the appeal bond, alleging that no  part of the judgment in the personal injury
action had been paid. (Ibid.) The motion for judgment on the appeal bond
was denied and was followed by an appeal to the California Supreme Court. (Ibid.)
The Supreme Court held “that a bond furnished by a liability insurer to stay
the part of a judgment within the policy limits is effective to stay
enforcement of that part of the judgment.” (Id. at 625.) The Merritt
Court reasoned that “[p]rotection of the right of appeal of insurers, and
consideration of the rights of insureds and of judgment creditor require such a
result. Liability insurance is ordinarily written with limits, and when a
judgment is obtained in excess of those limits, an insurer should not be faced
with the alternatives of either posting a bond for the entire judgment or
refusing to pose a bond at all.” (Id. at 626.) 
 
Here,
the declaration of Ming’s attorney, Allison L. Grandy, indicates that the bond
is being furnished by Ming’s insurer and reflects the coverage limits of Ming’s
policy. (Declaration of Allison L. Grandy (“Grandy Decl.”), ¶ 2.) As such,
pursuant to the Merritt decision, State Farm is allowed, in the interest
of public policy, to post a bond reflecting the limits of Ming’s insurance
policy, and which is in turn allowed to stay the part of the judgment within
the policy limits as to that part of the judgment. 
 
The
Merritt Court further reasoned that an “insurer cannot be required to
post a bond for the entire judgment when its liability does not extend to the
entire judgment. Fairness to the insurer and the insured requires that the
insurer be permitted to fulfill its covenant of good faith and fair dealing by
filing an appeal bond in an amount sufficient to cover part of the judgment for
which it is liable and that the respondent be denied his right to seek
execution with regard to such part of the judgment. Such a rule does not harm
to the respondent. As to the excess part of the judgment he may seek execution
or enter into an agreement to stay execution with the insured, and as to the
part of the judgment within the policy limits he will be protected by the bond.”
(Merritt, supra, 68 Cal.2d at 626.) “In other words, where there is a
judgment in excess of the policy limits, the insurer and the insured have
separate and differing interests; the insurer may furnish a bond for the
portion of the judgment within the policy limits, and the bond will be given
effect pending appeal to stay execution on that portion of the judgment.” (Ibid.)
 
Thus,
State Farm is allowed to post a bond for $60,000 of its potential liability,
and would stay that portion of the judgment, not the entirety of the awarded
judgment to Plaintiff. As such, like the plaintiff/respondent in Merritt,
Plaintiffs here will not be burdened by a stay on appeal for the entirety of
the judgment for which they were awarded. Plaintiff’s arguments on why Merritt
is distinguishable enough from the case at bar are not persuasive as to this Court’s
tentative ruling that only $60,000 of Plaintiff, Jesse Esphorst’s judgment
amount will be stayed pending appeal, not the rest of the $47,350,000. 
 
            As such, this Court DENIES
Plaintiff’s motion to object to the undertaking amount and motion for order
that sufficient bond be given. 
            
IV.
CONCLUSION¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
For the foregoing reasons, Plaintiff’s
motion is DENIED. 
 
Defendant Tung Ming and/or Intervenor, State Farm are ordered to
give notice.¿
 