  Case Number:  23TRCV00445    Hearing Date:   June 26, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿ 
¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 June 26, 2024
¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                  23TRCV00445
¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Gabriella
Morgan v. American Honda Motor Co., Inc., et al. 
¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                
Plaintiff, Gabriella Morgan
¿¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Defendant,
American Honda Motor Co., Inc. 
 
TRIAL DATE:                        May 5, 2025
¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Motion to Compel Further
Responses to Plaintiff’s Request for Production of Documents, Set One
                                                (2) Request for
Sanctions
 
Tentative Rulings:                   (1) GRANTED in part and
DENIED in part.
                                                (2) Plaintiff’s
Request for Sanctions is DENIED  
¿¿ 
¿ 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A. Factual¿¿ 
¿ 
On
February 15, 2023, Plaintiff, Gabriella Morgan (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint
against Defendant, American Honda Motor Co., Inc., and DOES 1 through 10. The
Complaint alleges causes of action for: (1) Violation of Song-Beverly Act –
Breach of Express Warranty; and (2) Fraudulent Inducement – Concealment. 
 
On
October 17, 2023, Plaintiff propounded her first set of discovery requests,
including Requests for Production of Documents (“RFPs”), to investigate and
develop the case.  Per the moving papers,
on November 30, 2023, Defendant served its responses to Plaintiff’s discovery
requests, but Plaintiff found them deficient. 
Plaintiff notes that many of Defendant’s responses failed to either
agree to produce the documents, agreed to produce certain document and failed
to do so, or failed to properly object in a manner required by the Code of
Civil Procedure. Plaintiff notes that on January 8, 2024, Plaintiff initiated a
meet and confer letter to Defendant specifying the deficiencies in Defendant’s
responses and requesting they be corrected, but claims that Defendant ignored
all attempts at meeting and conferring to resolve. 
 
As
such, Plaintiffs bring this motion to compel further responses seeking an order
from this Court to compel Defendant to produce proper, Code compliant, verified
further responses Plaintiff’s Requests for Production of Documents, all
documents, and award monetary sanctions. 
 
B. Procedural¿¿ 
¿ 
            On January 16, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Motion to Compel
Further Responses to Plaintiff’s Requests for Production of Documents, Set One.
On March 1, 2024, Defendant filed an opposition. On March 6, 2024, Plaintiff
filed a reply brief. 
 
            This motion was originally heard on March 13, 2024, where
this Court continued the hearing to April 26, 2024. Further, on April 26, 2024,
the motion was continued again, with an order for the parties to meet and
confer pursuant to guidelines provided by this Court.   On May 17, 2024, Plaintiff filed an amended separate
statement. 
¿ ¿¿ 
¿II. MEET
AND CONFER 
 
            Code of Civil Procedure § 2025.450(b)(2) requires that a
motion to compel a part deponent to appear or produce documents “shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration
under Section 2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to attend the deposition
and produce the documents, electronically stored information, or things
described in the deposition notice, by a declaration stating that the
petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the
nonappearance.”  (C.C.P. §2025.450(b)(2).) The attempt to resolve
informally may be made either by conferring “in person, by telephone, or by
letter with an opposing party or attorney.”  (C.C.P. §2023.010(i),
[failure to make such attempt constitutes “misuse of discovery process”].)
 
            Here, the
Court notes the parties have not sufficiently met and conferred, but that
Plaintiff made an effort to do so, and thus the hearing on the motion to compel
will go forward.   
 
III. ANALYSIS¿ 
¿ 
A.   
Legal
Standard 
“Unless otherwise limited by order
of the court in accordance with this title, any party may obtain discovery
regarding any matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter
involved in the pending action or to the determination of any motion made in
that action, if the matter either is itself admissible in evidence or appears
reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.” (Code
of Civ. Proc. § 2017.010.) For discovery purposes, information is regarded as
relevant “if it might reasonably assist a party in evaluating the case,
preparing for trial, or facilitating settlement thereof.” (City of Los
Angeles v. Superior Court (2017) 9 Cal.App.5th 272, 288.)  
A motion to compel further
responses to a demand for inspection or production of documents (“RFP”) may be
brought based on: (1) incomplete statements of compliance; (2) inadequate,
evasive, or incomplete claims of inability to comply; or (3) unmerited or
overly generalized objections.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310(c).) A
motion to compel further production must set forth specific facts showing good
cause justifying the discovery sought by the inspection demand. (See Code Civ.
Proc., § 2031.310(b)(1).) In Digital Music News LLC v Superior Court
(2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 216 at 224, the Court defined “good cause” as a showing
that there “a disputed fact that is of consequence in the action and the
discovery sought will tend in reason to prove or disprove that fact or lead to
other evidence that will tend to prove or disprove the fact.” If the
moving party has shown good cause for the requests for production, the burden
is on the objecting party to justify the objections. (Kirkland v. Sup.Ct
(2002) 95 Cal. App.4th 92, 98.) ¿ 
"The court shall limit the
scope of discovery if it determines that the burden, expense, or intrusiveness
of that discovery clearly outweighs the likelihood that the information sought
will lead to the discovery of admissible evidence." (Cal. Code of Civ.
Proc. § 2017.020(a).) Generally, objections on the ground of burden require the
objecting party to produce evidence of (a) the propounding party's subjective
intent to create burden or (b) the amount of time and effort it would take to
respond. (See West Pico Furniture Co. of Los Angeles v. Superior Court In
and For Los Angeles County (1961) 56 Cal.2d 407, 417.) However, no such
evidence is necessary where discovery is obviously overbroad on its face. (See Obregon
v. Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 424, 431.)
B.     Discussion 
 
Plaintiff seeks an order from this Court compelling AHM’s further
responses to Requests for Production of Documents Nos. 25-38, 44, and
46-47. The Court discusses and rules on each of the requests as follows: 
 
The
Amended Separate Statement.  The Court
continued the hearing in part to obtain a truncated, bare-bones statement
limited to just the discovery request, discovery response, and any amended or
supplemental response, i.e., without briefing, without argument as to reasons
why a further response should be compelled, and without regurgitating arguments
made in a memorandum or points and authorities. 
Plaintiff did amend and reduce the size of the separate statement, but
still included page after page after page after page of reasons why a further
response should or should not be compelled. 
It is still 94 pages long, set for a continued hearing on a calendar
with 19 other cases to be heard.  That is
not what the Court requested.  To avoid
further delay, the Court is proceeding with the merits of the motion
regardless.  But in future, when a judge
wants JUST or ONLY a very limited separate statement, counsel should respect
that there is a very good reason why a trial court might make such a request in
continuing a hearing.  
 
RFP Nos. 24-26:
These requests ask AHM to provide documents evidencing their goals to
reduce warranty costs, reduce the number of vehicles repurchased or replaced,
and to reduce the costs associated with repurchases or replacements from 2020
to present. In response to each of these requests, AHM objected to the requests
as vague, ambiguous, overly broad, unduly burdensome, and irrelevant.  Ostensibly, Plaintiff seeks background evidence
to support one of its civil penalty theories which is that AHM has a policy or
goal to save costs by declining to repurchase defective vehicles.  Further, Plaintiff seeks evidence bearing on
its fraudulent concealment claim, i.e., that AHM knew that other customers had
a similar malfunction with one of the 6 included symptoms in the definition of
“Honda Sensing System.”  But the 3 RFPs
at issue contain much more than that seemingly straightforward discovery effort.  The “costs associated” language could
reasonably be interpreted to include efforts by the defendant to negotiate the
expenses of its litigation counsel in all 50 states.  The goals to reduce buybacks could reasonably
be interpreted to include quality improvements among outside vendors that may
have caused buy-backs caused by faulty components as to systems or features of
other Honda models and complaints that Plaintiff never reported.  
 
            The Court agrees with Defendant and
denies the motion to compel these requests. 
Not only the time range, but also the breadth of documents sought are
overbroad and unreasonably burdensome, “taking
into account the needs of the case, the amount in controversy, and the
importance of the issues at stake in the litigation.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2019.030(a)(2).)    Without
the parties having narrowed the scope of the requested discovery, despite prior
hearings where the Court clearly indicated that it would not grant the motion
in its entirety, RFP Nos. 24-26 are DENIED.  
 
RFP Nos. 27-28,
34: These requests ask AHM to provide documents evidencing or describing
the statistics for the number of repurchases and replacements AHM has made in
California in response to consumers’ personal requests as well as the
statistics for the number of service contracts AHM gave consumers in California
in response to their personal requests for buyback or replacement from 2020 to
present. Also, RFP No. 34 seeks documents from 2020 to present that reflect the
relative frequency of Honda Sensing System repairs for 2020 Honda Insight
Vehicles including, but not limited to, all such documents that reflect any
comparison with the frequency of repairs to comparable transmissions in
vehicles manufactured or distributed by AHM’s competitors In response to each
of these requests, AHM objected to the requests as vague, ambiguous, overly
broad, unduly burdensome, and irrelevant.  
            Here, the Court agrees that the requests are overly broad
and unduly burdensome. A trial court is empowered to restrict the use of
discovery methods by “taking into account the needs of the case, the amount in
controversy, and the importance of the issues at stake in the litigation.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2019.030(a)(2).)  Plaintiff’s moving papers do not provide the
Court with a compelling reason as to how statistics evidencing documents relating
to all vehicles sold by AHM would be relevant to the case at bar. This is not a
class action case. Instead, this is a single-vehicle warranty plus fraudulent
concealment case. RFP Nos. 27 and 28 are not even limited to the make, model,
or year of the subject vehicle and instead seek documents that likely have
nothing to do with the subject vehicle or the alleged defects present in the
subject vehicle. For example, matters concerning AHM’s offer of service
contracts to other customers with unknown repair histories would, in the
Court’s view, lead into additional discovery as to why a given customer other
than plaintiff was offered something that this Plaintiff was not offered, an
inquiry into matters this Court, on the limited record presented here, finds to
be beyond what is “reasonably calculated” to lead to the discovery of
admissible evidence.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2017.010.)  As such, the Motion to Compel
Further Responses to RFP Nos. 27 and 28 are DENIED but without prejudice to a
more tailored RFP or RFPs concerning the same make, model and model year as the
plaintiff’s vehicle. 
 
With
respect to RFP No. 34 and the “Honda sensing system” expansively defined with 6
sub-parts, the Court believes that more narrowly tailored document requests
that focus on the exact symptoms this plaintiff reported in the instant
vehicle’s repair history could be fashioned and would be reasonably calculated,
but such narrowing has not been accomplished by the parties in the months since
the first meet and confer letter was mailed in January.  Did this plaintiff experience each of the 6
examples of a manifestation of the claimed defect?  If so, Plaintiff could reasonably revise its
discovery request and ask AHM to produce 6 separate categories of document
consistent with the Court’s Tentative Ruling as to this and other RFPs in this
set.   The Court would also suggest defining
“relative frequency” and eliminating the reference to competitors’
vehicle.   
 
            Given the plaintiff’s discovery
requests seeking evidence including emails of AHM employees generally and ESI
relating to other vehicles besides plaintiff’s with any of the constellation of
possible repair complaints not only in California but in any other state, this
set of Requests is unduly burdensome, taking into account the needs of this
case, the amount in controversy, and the importance of the issues at stake in
this litigation. See Code of Civil Procedure § 2019.030(a)(2). Thus, the Motion
to Compel Further Responses as to RFP No. 34 is also DENIED, but without
prejudice to a future narrowly tailored request or requests, as discussed above.

 
RFP Nos. 29-31,
35-36: These requests seek documents evidencing complaints, surveys,
reports, and summaries from other 2020 Honda Insight vehicles of any “Honda
Sensing Defects” as well as the tracking of vehicle repurchases made by AHM of
2020 Honda Insight vehicles allegedly containing “Honda Sensing Defects.”
Further, these requests seek the aggregate warranty repair costs relating to
“Honda Sensing Defects” from 2020 to present date. In response, AHM objected to
these requests as vague, ambiguous, overly broad, harassing, and irrelevant.
AHM further objected to the definition of “Honda Sensing Defect” and its
subparts as overly broad and failing to describe with reasonable particularity
the documents or categories of documents being requested. 
 
            Here, the Court agrees that the
definition of “Honda Sensing Defects,” is overly broad and would require AHM to
produce an overly burdensome amount of documents, especially with the inclusion
of what appears to be a compound definition. Plaintiff’s definition includes:
“quality, design, engineering, materials, software, programming, and/or
manufacturing problems or defects that impede the Honda Sensing System’s
ability to reliably and accurately detect and respond to conditions on the
roadway and which result in symptoms and malfunctions including: (1) numerous
warning messages intermittently appearing on the vehicle’s instrument cluster
alerting drivers to a problem inappropriately or falsely, (2) autonomous
fluctuation of the vehicle’s highway speed without warning when adaptive cruise
control is set, (3) a vehicle alert instructing drivers to apply brakes
immediately even though no obstruction is present, (4) the vehicle
independently applying brakes even though no obstruction is present, (5)
vehicle alerts inaccurately alerting drivers that the vehicle is not driving
within road lane markings, (6) the vehicle autonomously steering itself outside
the lane of travel, and other similar concerns.”
 
            As noted above, there is no
indication that the six specific sub-definitions were actual symptoms
experienced in the subject vehicle. However, evidence of other customers’
complaints is a topic that can be reasonably calculated to lead to the
discovery of admissible evidence, both bearing on the existence of a
warranty-covered defect, whether a reasonable number of repair opportunities
were provided by Plaintiff in this case, the civil penalty claimed, and bearing
on the fraudulent concealment cause of action. 
As noted above with respect to RFP No. 34, the Court believes that more
narrowly tailored document requests that focus on the exact symptoms this
plaintiff reported in the instant vehicle’s repair history could be fashioned
and that the Court would be inclined to require AHM to provide such
discovery.  But since the parties failed
to achieve a reasonable narrowing of the scope of what was requested here, the Court
will rule on the language used by Plaintiff in this set of RFPs.  
 
While
the full Motion to Compel Further Responses as to RFP Nos. 29-31, and 35-36 are
DENIED, the Court will GRANT the motion in tightened, narrowed, and focused
part as follows.  As to RFPs No. 29 and
30, if AHM has a report in existence or can generate a report from its warranty
claim database as to the 1 to 6 defined specific sensing system complaints that
Plaintiff herself reported to an authorized Honda dealer in the subject
vehicle’s repair history, as to California buyers or lessees of a 2020 Honda Insight,
AHM is order to produce a single report in chart or spreadsheet form of such
complaints reported to AHM by a dealer in a warranty reimbursement request or
warranty claim.  The report shall not
identify any other customers by name, address, email address or other PII, but
the report shall contain the VIN of each such vehicle, the name of the
servicing dealership, the date of the repair visit, and the dealer’s identified
cause and correction, for the time period of January 1, 2020 through the
February 15, 2023 filing of the lawsuit in this case.  As to RFP 31, AHM shall provide a single
report for that same time period containing a list of the VINs of any and every
2020 Honda Insight vehicles repurchased, reacquired, or replaced in California where
Honda included the 1 to 6 defined specific sensing system complaints (that
Plaintiff herself reported to an authorized Honda dealer in the subject
vehicle’s repair history) in the reason or reasons the other vehicles were reacquired.  To those extents, the motion compel as to
RFPs  Nos. 29-31, and 35-36 are
GRANTED.  The motion as to those RFPs are
otherwise DENIED.  
 
RFP No. 32, 44:
These requests seek AHM to produce documents evidencing or describing the
numbers of owners of 2020 Honda Insight vehicles who have complained of any of
the conditions, defects, or nonconformities for which the subject vehicle was
presented as well as the complaints by owners of 2020 Honda Insight vehicles
regarding any of the complaints for which the subject vehicle was present for
repair. In response, AHM objected to this request as vague, ambiguous, overly
broad, unduly burdensome, harassing, and irrelevant.  The Court makes the same order here as it did
for RFPs No. 29 and 30, i.e., AHM is to provide the single report detailed as
to RFPs 29 and 30, but RFPs 32 and 44 are otherwise denied as overly broad and
not reasonably calculated, “taking into account the needs of the case, the
amount in controversy, and the importance of the issues at stake in the
litigation.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2019.030(a)(2).)  
 
RFP
No. 33: This request seeks AHM to produce all documents evidencing quality
problems identified by AHM in the Honda Sensing System used in 2020 Honda
Insight vehicles. The undefined term “quality problems” is vague and ambiguous,
but the Court will attempt to fashion an order to address the thrust of what
Plaintiff reasonably seeks.  The Court
GRANTS the motion to compel RFP No. 33 by requiring AHM to produce its Technical
Service Bulletins, work instructions, diagnostic procedures, and/or Recall
Notices applicable to  model year 2020
Honda Insight vehicles purchased in California, as to the 1 to 6 defined
specific sensing system complaints that Plaintiff herself reported to an
authorized Honda dealer in the subject vehicle’s repair history.  Except as expressly granted, the Court DENIES
the motion as it relates to RFP No. 33. 
 
RFP Nos. 37-38:
These requests seek AHM to produce all documents evidencing the agendas
and/or minutes of AHM’s board of directors or committee meetings, at which any
concerns of the automatic transmissions in 2020 Honda Insight vehicles were
addressed or discussed or where AHM’s warranty spending or reacquired vehicle
spending pertaining to 2020 Honda Insight vehicles was addressed or discussed. 
 
The
Court agrees that the requests are overly broad, irrelevant, and unduly
burdensome. Plaintiff’s motion does not provide the Court with a compelling
reason as to how agenda or minute documents from board of director or committee
meetings addressing the automatic transmission or AHM’s warranty spending or
reacquired vehicle spending as they relate to 2020 Honda Insights generally would
be relevant to the case at bar. RFP Nos. 37 and 38 are not even limited to the alleged
defects actually reported by Plaintiff as to the subject vehicle, and have the
potential to include a multiply of documents not relevant at all to the case at
bar. As such, the Motion to Compel Further Responses to RFP Nos. 37-38 is
DENIED. 
 
RFP No. 46: This
request seeks to compel AHM to produce all documents it produced in connection
with the Cadena, et al. v. American Honda Motor Co., Inc., United States
District Court, Central District of California, Case No. 2018- cv-04007 lawsuit
which, was filed on May 14, 2018. The Motion is DENIED as to RFP No. 46. 
 
RFP No. 47: This
request seeks to compel AHM to produce all documents showing that AHM has a
third-party dispute resolution process in California that is certified by the
California Department of Consumer Affairs.  The Court will take oral argument as to the
discoverability of a California Lemon Arbitration program, including a
discussion of whether Plaintiff contends this is a “presumption” case, whether
Honda contends that documents relating to any then-existing Honda arbitration
program were provided with the subject vehicle at the point of sale, and other reasons
why Plaintiff contends that production of correspondence rather than the
certification of the program itself is discoverable in this case.  
 
 
C.    Sanctions
 
Here,
the Court notes that although sanctions have been requested in this case, the
Court did not entirely grant any one of Plaintiff’s requests and denied more
than it granted.  As such AHM had
substantial justification for many of its asserted objections.  Thus, the Court does not award sanctions at
this time. 
 
IV. CONCLUSION¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
            For the foregoing reasons, Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests for Production of Documents, Set
One is GRANTED in part and DENIED in part. Further, Plaintiff’s request for
sanctions is DENIED.  As to the portions
granted, the Court will inquire at oral argument as to how long AHM will need
to comply with the Court’s order.  
 
            AHM is ordered to give written notice
or the final ruling.