 Case Number:  23TRCV04083    Hearing Date:   June 26, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿ 
¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 June 26, 2024¿ 
¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                   23TRCV04083
¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Natasha
Campisi v. Searock PVE, LLC, et al.  
¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                 (1) Defendant/Cross-Complainant,
Searock PVE, LLC and Defendants, Pinky Khan, Ahmad Khan 
¿¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY:        (1) Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant, Natasha Campisi
¿¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                        None
set.  
¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Demurrer to the
First Amended Complaint
¿ 
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) OVERRULED.   Defendants are to answer within 20 days.
 
¿¿ 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A. Factual¿¿ 
¿ 
On
December 6, 2023, Plaintiff, Natasha Campisi (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint
against Defendants, Searock OVE, LLC, Pinky Khan, Ahmad Khan, Tiffany Kawata,
Murat Mese, and DOES 1 through 100. The Complaint alleges causes of action for:
(1) Intentional Misrepresentation; (2) Negligent Misrepresentation; (3)
Fraudulent Concealment; (4) Private Nuisance; (5) Invasion of Privacy,
Intrusion into Seclusion; (6) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress; (7)
Breach of Implied Warranty of Habitability; and (8) Unlawful Self-Help by
Landlord in Violation of Civil Code § 789.3.
 
Previously,
Defendants, Searock, Pinky Khan, Ahmad Khan (collectively, “Demurring
Defendants”), filed a demurrer as to the First, Second, Third, Sixth, Seventh,
and Eighth causes of action on the grounds that they argue Plaintiff  has failed to allege sufficient facts to
allege these causes of action. 
 
In
the Court’s April 2, 2024 minute order, it noted that the First Cause of Action
for Intentional Misrepresentation as it related to the allegations against
Demurring Defendants as to the harassing neighbor, the Court contended that
Plaintiff had specifically alleged all elements of the cause of action and overruled
the demurrer. However, the First Cause of Action as it related to the parking
and electrical/appliances, this Court sustained demurrer with leave to amend. 
 
As
to the Second Cause of Action for Negligent Misrepresentation, this Court overruled
the demurrer as to the harassing neighbor, but sustained the demurrer as to the
parking and electrical/appliances.  As to
the Third Cause of Action for Fraudulent Concealment, the Court sustained the
demurrer for failure to sufficiently allege duty.   As to Sixth Cause of Action for Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress, this Court sustained the demurrer.   As to the Seventh Cause of Action for Breach
of Implied Warranty of Habitability, this Court sustained the demurrer.  Lastly, as to the Eighth Cause of Action for
Unlawful Self-Help by Landlord in Violation of Civil Code § 789.3, this Court overruled
the demurrer. 
 
On
April 22, 2024, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”), alleging the
same eight causes of action.  Demurring
Defendants have filed a demurrer to Plaintiff’s FAC. 
 
B. Procedural¿¿ 
¿ 
On May 23, 2024, Demurring
Defendants filed their demurrer to Plaintiff’s Complaint. On June 12, 2024,
Plaintiff filed an opposition brief. On June 18, 2024, Demurring Defendants
filed a reply brief.  
 
II. REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL
NOTICE
 
            Along with their moving papers, Demurring Defendants have
filed a Request for Judicial Notice of the following Document: 
 
1.     This
Court’s Minute Order for Defendants’ Demurrer to the Complaint, filed April 2,
2024. (Exhibit A); and
2.     A
copy of Searock’s cross-complaint filed in this matter on February 5, 2024.
(Exhibit B.)
 
The Court GRANTS this request and
takes judicial notice of the above documents. 
 
 
 
III. ANALYSIS¿ 
¿ 
A. Legal Standard 
¿ 
A demurrer can be used only to challenge
defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters
outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan
(1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) “To survive a demurrer, the complaint need only
allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action; each evidentiary fact that
might eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need not be alleged.” (C.A.
v. William S. Hart Union High School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 872.) For
the purpose of testing the sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer
admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded. (Aubry v. Tri-City
Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967.) A demurrer “does not admit
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Daar v. Yellow Cab
Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713.)¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A pleading is uncertain if it is
ambiguous or unintelligible. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (f).) A demurrer
for uncertainty may lie if the failure to label the parties and claims renders
the complaint so confusing defendant cannot tell what he or she is supposed to
respond to.¿ (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d
135, 139, fn. 2.) However, “[a] demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed,
even where a complaint is in some respects uncertain, because ambiguities can
be clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly's of
California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)¿¿ 
 
B. Discussion 
 
            Demurring Defendants demur to
Plaintiff’s FAC on the grounds they argue her first, second, third, and seventh
causes of action fail to state sufficient facts to state a cause of action
against them and are uncertain. Further, Demurring Defendants seek an order
dismissing the sixth cause of action against them because they argue Plaintiff
agreed to dismiss it. 
 
            Preliminarily, this Court notes that
its previous minute order analyzes each cause of action in great detail.
Because the Court has previously provided such great detail, in the interest of
brevity, this Court notes that it will be abridging its analysis to determine
whether Plaintiff’s FAC has cured the previously identified deficiencies. 
 
Intentional
Misrepresentation
Here,
Demurring Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s cause of action for Intentional
misrepresentation remains unrepaired as to the issues causing the Court to sustain
the prior demurrer in part. Previously, this Court found that Plaintiff sufficiently
pled intentional misrepresentation as to the harassing neighbor component of
her pleading. However, the Court noted that for the alleged parking spot
misrepresentation as well as the alleged electrical/appliance
misrepresentation, Plaintiff had failed to sufficiently allege intentional
misrepresentation. As such, the Court only analyzes the first cause of action
in connection with the parking and electrical/appliance issues.  
Parking
Misrepresentation
Demurring
Defendants again ask the Court to take judicial notice of their cross-complaint
which contained the lease. The lease indicates that in paragraph 7A, there is a
2-car garage, parking in the front of the home and side garage is in an
easement, and that the easement can be utilized for temporary parking but needs
to be readily accessible. In Plaintiff’s previous opposition brief, she argued
that the fact that the lease said that there was an easement did not explain
why Pinky continued to state that Plaintiff would be able to park the third
vehicle in the driveway as the Complaint had alleged. However, this Court noted
that the complaint failed to contain allegations of continuing
misrepresentation about the parking sport after the signing of the lease.
Further, this Court also noted that although Plaintiff was alleging that oral
representations were made, contrary to the express language of the lease,
Plaintiff nonetheless signed the lease. Lastly, with Plaintiff’s allegation
that the nearest street parking was a considerable distance away, this Court
noted that the complaint did not contain any allegation that any defendant
promised the street parking would be immediately in front of the home or that
the street parking was available within a block or similar claim.  
Plaintiff’s
FAC now alleges that prior to signing the lease, she made it clear that she
would not be able to move into the Subject Property, under any conditions,
unless there was space to park three vehicles. (FAC, ¶ 21.) Plaintiff alleges
that both Pinky and Kawata assuaged Plaintiff’s concerns by claiming that
although the driveway in front of the subject property is on an easement,
Plaintiff and her family would be able to park the third vehicle “on the side
of the Subject Property next to where the trash cans are.” (FAC, ¶ 21.)
Plaintiff suggests that this representation was made by both Kawata and Pinky
and was made by them both on June 19, 2023, when Plaintiff signed the lease, as
well as after plaintiff signed the lease, and even after Plaintiff and her
family began to occupy the subject property on or around July 3, 2023. (FAC, ¶
21.) 
Regardless
of the fact that the lease clearly warned about the existence of the easement, continuing
assurances may still amount to intentional misrepresentation.  In allegedly making the false representations,
plaintiffs must allege the allegedly misrepresenting persons’  authority to speak, to whom they spoke, what
they said or wrote, and when it was said or written. (Tarmann v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153,
157.) As such, Plaintiff may not merely add in an allegation that the
misrepresentations continued from both Pinky and Kawata after signing the lease
without more particularity. The only time frame Plaintiff provides is “after
July 3, 2023.”   Plaintiff’s FAC states
that she was told by Pinky, “through Searock”, on August 14, 2023, that she was
not allowed to park the vehicle on the Subject Property. As such, the purported
misrepresentations about 3 parking spots must have occurred between July 3 and August
14, 2023.  While not quoting verbatim
what Pinky or Kawata said in those five weeks, the Court is satisfied at the pleading
stage that sufficient specificity has been alleged.  
Electrical
Issues 
            Previously, this Court found that although Plaintiff had
technically satisfied each of the elements of a cause of action for intentional
misrepresentation, she did so in a conclusory way. Plaintiff’s complaint
suggested that on July 1, 2023, representations were made to her regarding the
electricity at the apartment and that such electricity and appliances were in
good working order. However, this Court warned that Plaintiff would need to
plead much more specific facts in order to state a cause of action for
intentional misrepresentation, i.e., whether Plaintiff inquired as to the
electrical and appliances? What question were asked by Plaintiff regarding the
electrical and appliances, and what were the answers? This Court noted that
these inquiries would be necessary and required to be pled in order for
Plaintiff to maintain this cause of action as it relates to the electrical and
appliances.       
            In Plaintiff’s FAC, she now alleges that before signing
the lease, she “specifically asked the agent before she moved about the
electrical system and the health of the appliances, specifically if she should
expect any issues with the appliances upon moving into the Subject Property.”
(FAC, ¶ 22.) Plaintiff notes that she had concerns because she was experiencing
both refrigerator and stove top issues at her previous residence. (FAC, ¶ 22.)  Because of this, Plaintiff alleges that she
“asked the agent Kawata if everything was in working order, meaning all of the
appliances,” and that Kawata told her that she spoke to the owners [Searock,
Pinky, and Ahmad], and the owners told her that, “everything was in working
order,” and “she should have no issues,” and “if there were any issues, that
they would fix it immediately.” (FAC, ¶ 22.) 
            Demurring Defendants argue that these additional
allegations are still entirely conclusory and did not cure the defects
identified in this Court’s previous minute order nor answer the Court’s
questions. The Court disagrees. Plaintiff was asked to identify questions she
asked prior to moving in and the answers provided by Demurring Defendants. Plaintiff
has done so here. A demurrer tests the sufficiency of the pleadings on their
face. As pled, Plaintiff has sufficiently alleged intentional misrepresentation
as it relates to the electrical and appliances. 
Thus, the demurrer is OVERRULED as to the first cause of action for
intentional misrepresentations as to the parking spaces and electrical/appliance
issues. 
Negligent
Misrepresentation
Here, this
Court’s ruling as to this cause of action, and the first cause of action is the
same, for the same reasons despite the slightly different elements. As such, the
demurrer is OVERRULED. 
Fraudulent
Concealment
In the FAC,
Plaintiff has added the allegations that Searock, Pinky, and Ahmad had a duty
to disclose the following material facts to Plaintiff: (1) the danger Murat
would pose to Plaintiff and her family; (2) the parking and electrical system
because Searock, Pinky, and Ahmad are the owners of the Subject Property, and
the material facts concealed from Plaintiff were not known to Plaintiff nor
could they be reasonably ascertained by Plaintiff, and these facts were only
known to Searock, Pinky, Amad, and Kawata. (FAC, ¶ 32.) Further, Plaintiff
alleges that Kawata had a duty to disclose because her office was acting as a
dual agent, and was supposed to act in the best interest of Plaintiff as well,
but did not. (FAC, ¶ 32.) Plaintiff alleges that Kawata had a fiduciary
relationship with plaintiff, meaning she was under a duty to fully disclose all
material facts that were concealed from plaintiff. Plaintiff further alleges
the following material facts which were allegedly concealed: (1) the dangerous,
violent, and harassing propensities of the neighbor Murat; (2) the faulty and
dangerous electrical wiring that resulting in a power outage for three days,
with continued issues; (3) that the electrical wiring does not conform to code;
and (4) that the fact that there is no functioning oven on the premises, making
it nearly impossible for Plaintiff and her family to enjoy homecooked meals.
(FAC, ¶ 56.) 
Here, the
Court finds that Plaintiff has sufficiently alleged fraudulent concealment.  Plaintiff cured the previously identified
deficiencies.  The Demurrer to the third cause
of action is thus OVERRULED.
Breach of
Implied Warranty of Habitability
Previously, this Court ruled that the
original complaint failed to allege how the electrical issue in this case is a
breach of the implied warranty of habitability. The Court gave the example of Plaintiff
not describing the consequence or effect of the habitability concerns. Had
Plaintiff been unable to keep food refrigerated? Had Plaintiff been unable to
use cooking amenities? Had Plaintiff’s air conditioning or heating gone out?
Without more, this Court noted that Plaintiff could not maintain a cause of
action for Breach of the Implied Warranty of Habitability. 
Plaintiff has now added that Demurring
Defendants breached the implied warranty of habitability because the oven did
not function, and electricity in most areas of the home was non-existent. (FAC,
¶ 25.) For example, Plaintiff notes the electric/appliance issues she was: (1)
unable to use any cooking amenities, which were all located downstairs, meaning
her family was unable to cook; (2) unable to use the front and back patio
lights which presented a safety concern because of Murat’s alleged relentless
harassment, torment, and nuisance; (3) that she and her family were unable to
go to the restroom downstairs without a flashlight, and were forced to walk
around the subject property without flashlights at night; (4) that plaintiff
had to purchase a 120 foot extension cord, plug it in upstairs in an area where
the electricity was actually working, and take the power from upstairs to the
downstairs; (5) that she and her family could not shower at night because of
the lack of electricity; (6) that eventually the lights upstairs failed to work
as well; and (7) that Plaintiff was forced to discard hundreds of dollars’
worth of perishable groceries when the electricity completely went out on the
subject property. (FAC, ¶¶ 25, 97.) 
            Again, Demurring
Defendants argue that Plaintiff has again alleged such allegations in a
conclusory way and failed to answer the Court’s questions, however, the Court
disagrees. Plaintiff has provided allegations the Court noted would cure the
deficiencies of her previous pleading.  Whether
Plaintiff can actually prove these allegations is a question better decided on
a Motion for Summary Judgment. Thus, the demurrer is OVERRULED as to the sixth
cause of action for breach of the implied warranty of habitability. 
III. CONCLUSION¿¿ 
 
For the foregoing reasons, the
Defendants’ demurrer is OVERRULED. 
Defendants are to file an Answer to the FAC within 20 days.  
¿¿¿ ¿¿¿¿ 
 
 