 Case Number:  24STCV00258    Hearing Date:   June 26, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     June 26, 2024             TRIAL DATE: NOT
SET
                                                           
CASE:                         Darron Treude v. Orinda Care Center,
LLC, et al. 
 
CASE NO.:                 24STCV00258            
 
MOTION
TO COMPEL ARBITRATION

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendants Orinda Care Center, LLC, Renew Health
Consulting Services, LLC, Renew Health Group, LLC, and Crystal Solorzano.
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff Darron
Treude.
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an action for fraud and wrongful termination that was filed on
January 4, 2024. Plaintiff alleges that Defendants deprived him of a share of
the profits from the business which he was promised as a condition of his
employment. Plaintiff also alleges that he was terminated in retaliation for complaints
of allegedly unlawful billing by Defendants.  
 
Defendants move to compel this
matter to binding arbitration and stay this action pending resolution of the
arbitration. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
            Defendants’
Motion to Compel Arbitration is GRANTED.
 
            This
action is stayed pending resolution of the arbitration. 
 
            All
further hearings are advanced to this date and vacated. The Court sets a Status
Conference Re: Arbitration for Monday, December 16, 2024 at 8:30 AM. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Defendants move to compel this
matter to binding arbitration and stay this action pending resolution of the
arbitration. 
Existence of an Arbitration Agreement
 
Under California law, arbitration
agreements are valid, irrevocable, and enforceable, save upon such grounds as
exist at law or in equity for the revocation of any contract. (Blake v. Ecker (2001) 93 Cal.App.4th
728, 741 (overruled on other grounds by
Le Francois v. Goel (2005) 35 Cal.4th 1094).) A party petitioning to compel
arbitration has the burden of establishing the existence of a valid agreement
to arbitrate, and the party opposing the petition has the burden of proving, by
a preponderance of the evidence, any fact necessary to its defense. (Banner Entertainment, Inc. v. Superior Court
(1998) 62 Cal.App.4th 348, 356-57.) 
 
As to the burden of production,
rather than persuasion, courts have articulated a three-step burden shifting
process: 
 
First, the moving party bears the
burden of producing “prima facie evidence of a written agreement to arbitrate
the controversy.” [citation] The moving party “can meet its initial burden by
attaching to the [motion or] petition a copy of the arbitration agreement
purporting to bear the [opposing party’s] signature.” [citation] Alternatively,
the moving party can meet its burden by setting forth the agreement’s
provisions in the motion. [citations] For this step, “it is not necessary to
follow the normal procedures of document authentication.” [citation] If the
moving party meets its initial prima facie burden and the opposing party does
not dispute the existence of the arbitration agreement, then nothing more is
required for the moving party to meet its burden of persuasion.
 
If the moving party meets its initial
prima facie burden and the opposing party disputes the agreement, then in the
second step, the opposing party bears the burden of producing evidence to
challenge the authenticity of the agreement. [citation] The opposing party can
do this in several ways. For example, the opposing party may testify under oath
or declare under penalty of perjury that the party never saw or does not
remember seeing the agreement, or that the party never signed or does not
remember signing the agreement. [citations]
 
If the opposing party meets its burden
of producing evidence, then in the third step, the moving party must establish
with admissible evidence a valid arbitration agreement between the parties. The
burden of proving the agreement by a preponderance of the evidence remains with
the moving party. [citation].
 
(Gamboa v. Northeast Community Clinic (2021) 72
Cal.App.5th 158, 165-66.) An electronic record or signature is attributable to
a person if it was the act of the person. (Civ. Code § 1633.9(a).) The act of
the person may be shown in any manner. (Id.) As described by the Court
of Appeal, “the burden of authenticating an electronic signature is not great.”
(Ruiz v. Moss Bros. Auto Group, Inc. (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 836, 844.)
 
            Defendants contend that Plaintiff began his employment with Renew Health
Consulting Services, LLC in 2017, transitioned to work at Orinda Care Center in
2020, transitioned back to Renew Health Consulting in August 2021, and then
back again to Orinda Care Center on February 3, 2023. (Declaration of Damian
Cardenas ISO Mot. ¶¶ 4-7.) As part of that transition, Plaintiff was required
to complete onboarding documents. (Id. ¶ 8.) Defendants state that those
papers included an “California Mutual Dispute Resolution Agreement,” a copy of
which has been provided and which appears to bear Plaintiff’s electronic
signature, though not the signature of any representative of Orinda, dated
February 10, 2023 at 1:28 PM. (Declaration of Michael Holmes ISO Mot. Exh. B.) Defendants
authenticate Plaintiff’s electronic signature via a declaration from Michael
Holmes, the Vice President of Human Resources & Business Development for
Orinda’s human resources contractor, CPE HR, Inc. Mr. Holmes describes the
electronic system used for signing onboarding documents by Orinda, and states that
the Agreement was signed using Plaintiff’s unique user ID and password. (Holmes
Decl. ¶¶ 6-11.) Defendants have therefore demonstrated that Plaintiff entered
into an arbitration agreement with Orinda Care Center.
 
Applicability of the FAA
 
            The Agreement expressly states that
any arbitration conducted pursuant to the terms of the Agreement "shall be
governed by the Federal Arbitration Act.” (Holmes Decl. Exh. B. pp. 3, 4.)
Plaintiff does not dispute that the Agreement is subject to the Federal
Arbitration Act. 
 
Scope of the Arbitration Agreement
 
             “The scope of arbitration is a matter of
agreement between the parties.” (See, e.g., Ericksen, Arbuthnot, McCarthy,
Kearney & Walsh, Inc. v. 100 Oak Street (1983) 35 Cal.3d 312, 323.) “A
party can be compelled to arbitrate only those issues it has agreed to
arbitrate.” (Perez v. U-Haul Co. of California (2016) 3 Cal.App.5th 408,
419.)
 
            The Agreement states:
 
This Agreement
applies to claims Employee may bring against the Company [Orinda Care Center,
LLC] or CPE HR for wrongful termination, discrimination, harassment,
retaliation, breach of contract, wage and hour violations, and claims related
to any services provided by CPE HR to employee, whether directly or indirectly,
and torts such as invasion of privacy, assault and battery, or defamation. This
Agreement also applies to claims that the Company or CPE HR might bring against
Employee such as, for example, theft of money or trade secrets, breach of a
confidentiality Agreement, or breach of a contract. Included within the scope
of this Agreement are all disputes, whether based on tort, contract, statute
(for example, without limiting the scope of claims covered by this Agreement,
the California Fair Employment and Housing Act, Title VII of the Civil Rights
Act of 1964, as amended, the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, the
Americans with Disabilities Act, the Fair Labor Standards Act (including the
Equal Pay Act), the Civil Rights Act of 1991, Section 1981 of U.S.C. Title 42,
the Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act, the Fair Credit
Reporting Act, the California Consumer Credit Reporting Act, the Uniform
Services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act, the Genetic Information
Nondiscrimination Act, Family and Medical Leave Act, California Family Rights
Act, the Families First Coronavirus Response Act (FFCRA), the Coronavirus Aid,
Relief, and Economic Security Act (CARES Act), the Consolidated Appropriations
Act of December 2020 (CAA), the American Rescue Plan Act of 2021, the
Occupational Safety and Health Act, the California Occupational Safety and
Health Act, the California Labor Code and the California Wage Orders
(including, but not limited to, claims for overtime wages, unpaid wages,
vacation, paid sick leave and incentive compensation, and claims involving meal
and rest breaks), or any other local, state, or federal law, order, directive,
or regulation), equitable law, or otherwise, and all disputes related to
employee benefits including those brought on behalf of an employee benefit plan
or in Employee's capacity as a participant of an employee benefits plan.
 
Employee's agreement
to arbitrate claims against the Company or CPE HR includes claims that Employee
may bring against the Company's or CPE HR's respective parent, subsidiary,
affiliated or client entities as well as against owners, directors, officers, managers,
employees, agents, brokers, contractors, attorneys, including in their capacity
as benefit plan administrators or fiduciaries to any employee benefit plan of
which Employee is a participant or beneficiary and insurers of the Company or
CPE HR (hereinafter "Company Entities"). Employee also agrees to
arbitrate claims against any person or entity that Employee may allege to be a
joint employer, joint enterprise, alter ego, or to have common ownership 
with the Company.
 
(Holmes Decl. Exh. B. § 2 pp. 1-2.) Defendants contend that
Plaintiff’s claims arise out of his employment on their face. Plaintiff does
not dispute this contention.
 
Unconscionability
 
            Plaintiff’s
sole challenge to the Arbitration Agreement is that it is unenforceable because
it is unconscionable. 
 
1.            Procedural
Unconscionability
 
“‘To
briefly recapitulate the principles of unconscionability, the doctrine has
“‘both a “procedural” and a “substantive” element,’ the former focusing on
‘“oppression”’ or ‘“surprise”’ due to unequal bargaining ¿power, the latter on ‘“overly harsh”’ … or ‘“one-sided”’
results.” [Citation.] The procedural element of an unconscionable contract
generally takes the form of a contract of adhesion, “‘which, imposed and
drafted by the party of superior bargaining strength, relegates to the
subscribing party only the opportunity to adhere to the contract or reject
it.’” … [¶] Substantively unconscionable terms may take various forms, but may generally be described as unfairly one-sided.’
[Citation.]” (Citation omitted.) 
 
“Under this approach, both the procedural
and substantive elements must be met before a contract or term will be deemed
unconscionable. Both, however, need not be present to the same degree. A
sliding scale is applied so that ‘the more substantively oppressive the
contract term, the less evidence of procedural unconscionability is required to
come to the conclusion that the term is unenforceable, and vice versa.’
(Citations omitted.) 
 
(Walnut Producers of California v. Diamond Foods, Inc. (2010) 187 Cal.App.4th 634, 645
(bold emphasis added).)  
 
            Plaintiff
first argues that the arbitration agreement is procedurally unconscionable
because it is a contract of adhesion. Contracts of adhesion only demonstrate a
minimum amount of procedural unconscionability.
 
“The
procedural element of the unconscionability analysis concerns the manner in which
the contract was negotiated and the circumstances of the parties at that time.
[Citation.] The element focuses on oppression or surprise. [Citation.]
‘Oppression arises from an inequality of bargaining power that results in no
real negotiation and an absence of meaningful choice.’ [Citation.] Surprise is
defined as ‘“the extent to which the supposedly agreed-upon terms of the
bargain are hidden in the prolix printed form drafted by the party seeking to
enforce the disputed terms.”’ [Citation.]” (Citation omitted.) 
 
Plaintiffs claim the Agreement is procedurally
unconscionable because it is an adhesion contract. An adhesion contract is “a
standardized contract … imposed upon the subscribing party without an
opportunity to negotiate the terms.” (Citation omitted.) “The term signifies a
standardized contract, which, imposed and drafted by the party of superior
bargaining strength, relegates to the subscribing party only the opportunity to
adhere to the contract or reject it. [Citation.]” (Citation omitted.) 
 
The California Supreme Court has consistently
stated that “‘[t]he procedural element of an unconscionable contract generally
takes the form of a contract of adhesion … .’ ”
(Citations omitted.) 
 
“Whether the challenged provision is within a
contract of adhesion pertains to the oppression aspect of procedural
unconscionability. A contract of adhesion is “imposed and drafted by the party
of superior bargaining strength” and “relegates to the subscribing party only
the opportunity to adhere to the contract or reject it.” (Citations omitted.) “[A]bsent unusual
circumstances, use of a contract of adhesion establishes a minimal degree of
procedural unconscionability notwithstanding the availability of market
alternatives.” (Citation omitted.) 
 
(Walnut Producers of California,
supra, 187 Cal.App.4th at 645-46 [bold emphasis added].) Thus,
although it is undisputed that the Arbitration Agreement is a condition of
Plaintiff’s employment (see Mot. p.8:4-22), that fact only demonstrates a
minimal level of procedural unconscionability.
 
            Plaintiff
also contends that the Arbitration Agreement is procedurally unconscionable
because of surprise. “Unfair surprise results from misleading bargaining
conduct or other circumstances indicating that a party’s consent was not an
informed choice.” (Penilla v. Westmont Corp. (2016) 3 Cal.App.5th 205,
215 [internal citations omitted].) Surprise “covers a variety of deceptive
practices and tactics.” (Id. at 216.) Plaintiff asserts that he was not
given an opportunity to negotiate the agreement or to consult with counsel
because he was informed that he had to complete the onboarding documents
“immediately” or risk a delay in his paycheck. (Declaration of Darron Treude
ISO Opp. ¶¶ 5, 7.) Plaintiff’s declaration to that effect is devoid of further
details or supporting documentation that would establish the basis for his
belief beyond an unspecified “instance” where another employee “had an issue
receiving a paycheck.” (Id. ¶ 5.) Such conclusory statements are not sufficient
to carry Plaintiff’s evidentiary burden to demonstrate further procedural
unconscionability.
 
            Finally,
Plaintiff contends that the arbitration agreement is procedurally
unconscionable because it does not provide the rules under which the
arbitration agreement would operate or state where those rules may be found. Failure
to provide arbitration rules or specify where they might be found is evidence
of procedural unconscionability. (See, e.g., Carbajal v. CWPSC, Inc.
(2016) 245 Cal.App.4th 227, 244-46.) Here, however, this contention is plainly
belied by the agreement on its face, which states, in relevant part: 
 
At the beginning of
any arbitration process under this Agreement, Employee and the Company or CPE
HR will need to select an arbitrator by mutual agreement. Such an arbitrator
shall be a retired California Superior Court Judge, or another qualified and impartial
person that Employee and the Company or CPE HR decide upon. In the event
Employee and the Company or CPE HR cannot agree on the selection of an
arbitrator, they will select an alternative dispute resolution provider and
request from that provider a list of an odd number of potential arbitrators.
From that list Employee and the Company or CPE HR will alternatively strike
arbitrators, with the Company or CPE HR going first, until one arbitrator is
left. That arbitrator shall be the arbitrator who will hear the case. If
Employee and the Company or CPE HR cannot agree on an alternative dispute
resolution provider, an arbitrator will be appointed according to law. 
 
Any arbitration
proceeding under this Agreement shall proceed under and be governed by the
Federal Arbitration Act ("FM") because Employee, the Company, and CPE
HR are engaged in interstate commerce. The procedures of the California
Arbitration Act ("Act") shall also apply, to the extent they are not
contrary to the FM. The Act is found at California Code of Civil Procedure
section 1280 and following sections, including section 1283.05, and all of the
Act's other mandatory and permissive rights to discovery and provisional
relief, shall also apply. In any arbitration proceeding under this Agreement,
all California rules of pleading (including the right of demurrer), all rules
of evidence, all rights to resolution of the dispute by means of motions for
summary judgment, judgment on the pleadings, and judgment under Code of Civil
Procedure Section 631.8 shall apply and be observed, unless Employee and the
Company or CPE HR agree otherwise. 
 
The arbitrator shall
have the immunity of a judicial officer from civil liability when acting in the
capacity of an arbitrator, which immunity supplements any other existing
immunity. Likewise, all communications during or in connection with the
arbitration proceedings are privileged in accordance with California Civil Code
Section 4 7(b), to the extent permitted by law. The arbitrator's award(s) shall
include the arbitrator's written reasoned opinion. Resolution of all disputes
shall be based solely upon the law governing the claims and defenses pleaded,
and the arbitrator may not invoke any basis (including but not limited to,
notions of "just cause") other than such controlling law. 
 
Following the
issuance of the arbitrator's decision, any party may petition a court to
confirm, enforce, correct or vacate the arbitrator's opinion and award under
the Federal Arbitration Act, 9 U.S.C. §§ 1- 16, if applicable, and/or
applicable state law.
 
(Holmes Decl. Exh. B.) Plaintiff’s argument in this respect
is therefore without merit. 
 
            In sum,
Plaintiff has demonstrated minimal procedural unconscionability based solely on
the agreement’s undisputed nature as a contract of adhesion. Plaintiff thus
bears a correspondingly greater burden to demonstrate substantive
unconscionability. 
 
2.     
Substantive Unconscionability
 
            Plaintiff argues that the agreement
is substantively unconscionable. As Plaintiff has shown only a minimal level of
procedural unconscionability, Plaintiff bears a substantially higher burden to
demonstrate substantive unconscionability. 
 
“A
provision is substantively unconscionable if it ‘involves contract terms that
are so one-sided as to “shock the conscience,” or that impose harsh or
oppressive terms.’ [Citation.] The phrases ‘harsh,’ ‘oppressive,’ and ‘shock
the conscience’ are not synonymous with ‘unreasonable.’ Basing an
unconscionability determination on the reasonableness of a contract provision
would inject an inappropriate level of judicial subjectivity into the analysis.
¿‘With a concept as nebulous as “unconscionability” it is important that courts
not be thrust in the paternalistic role of intervening to change contractual
terms that the parties have agreed to merely because the court believes the
terms are unreasonable. The terms must shock the conscience.’ [Citations.]”  
 
(Walnut Producers of California v. Diamond Foods, Inc.
supra, 187 Cal.App.4th at 647-48.) An
agreement is not substantively unconscionable if it:
 
(1)
provides for neutral arbitrators, (2) provides for more than minimal discovery,
(3) requires a written award, (4) provides for all of the types of relief that
would otherwise be available in court, and (5) does not require employees to
pay either unreasonable costs or any arbitrators’ fees or expenses as a
condition of access to the arbitration forum. Thus, an employee who is made to
use arbitration as a condition of employment "effectively may vindicate
[his or her] statutory cause of action in the arbitral forum.’ "
 
(Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare
Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83,
102.)
 
            Plaintiff
contends that the agreement is substantively unconscionable because the
agreement only bears his own electronic signature and not the signature of
Defendants or their agents. Plaintiff relies on Carmona v. Lincoln
Millennium Car Wash, Inc. (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 74, 86, in support of that
assertion. In that case, the Court of Appeal found that the arbitration
agreements between a set of car wash employees and their employers were
substantively unconscionable not because only the employees signed and
initialed the agreement, but because the terms of the agreement allowed the
employers to choose litigation or arbitration for breaches of a broad
confidentiality sub-agreement. (Id. at 86-87.) In that context, the absence
of employer signatures was evidence that the employers intended not to be bound
by the agreement. (Id. at 86.) Here, however, Plaintiff does not point
to any terms in the agreement that are unfair or one-sided so as to support a
corresponding inference from the lack of an employer signature. Plaintiff has
therefore failed to demonstrate that the agreement is substantively
unconscionable. 
 
            As
Plaintiff has failed to demonstrate that the agreement is substantively
unconscionable, Plaintiff has likewise failed to demonstrate unconscionability
on the whole, and Defendant Orinda Care Center is entitled to enforce the
agreement. 
 
//
 
Third-Party Enforcement
 
            Plaintiff
contends that even if Orinda Care Center is entitled to enforce the arbitration
agreement, the remaining Defendants may not do so. Defendants, in response,
argue that they are entitled to enforce the arbitration agreement as intended
third-party beneficiaries. 
 
“Someone who is not a party to a contractual arbitration provision
generally lacks standing to enforce it.” (Cohen v. TNP 2008 Participating
Notes Program, LLC (2019) 31 Cal. App. 5th 840, 856 [Citations
omitted].)  A nonsignatory may enforce an
arbitration provision “where they are intended third party beneficiaries or are
assigned rights under the contract.”  (Ibid.
[Citations omitted].)  This enforcement
right is “in Civil Code section 1559, which provides: ‘A contract, made
expressly for the benefit of a third person, may be enforced by him at any time
before the parties thereto rescind it.’” 
(San Diego Hous. Comm'n v. Indus. Indem. Co. (2002) 95 Cal. App.
4th 669, 685.)  “It is well settled,
however, that Civil Code section 1559 excludes enforcement of a contract by
persons who are only incidentally or remotely benefited by the agreement.
[Citations.] The Supreme Court has held: ‘A third party should not be permitted
to enforce covenants made not for his benefit, but rather for others. He is not
a contracting party; his right to performance is predicated on the contracting
parties' intent to benefit him. [Citations.]’” 
(Harper v. Wausau Ins. Co. (1997) 56 Cal. App. 4th 1079, 1087.)
 
            The California Supreme Court
addressed the circumstances when a nonsignatory has standing to assert rights
under a contract as a third-party beneficiary in Goonewardene
v. ADP, LLC (2019) 6 Cal.5th 817. 
Under Goonewardene, a non-party to a contract is a third-party
beneficiary if demonstrates “not only (1) that it is likely to benefit from the
contract, but also (2) that a motivating purpose of the contracting parties is
to provide a benefit to the third party, and further (3) that permitting the
third party to [assert rights under the contract] against a contracting party
is consistent with the objectives of the contract and the reasonable
expectations of the contracting parties.” 
(Id., at p. 821.)  
 
            Here, the agreement expressly states
that “Employee's agreement to arbitrate claims against the Company or CPE HR
includes claims that Employee may bring against the Company's or CPE HR's
respective parent, subsidiary, affiliated or client entities as well as against
owners, directors, officers, managers, employees, agents, brokers, contractors,
attorneys, including in their capacity as benefit plan administrators or
fiduciaries to any employee benefit plan of which Employee is a participant or
beneficiary and insurers of the Company or CPE HR (hereinafter "Company
Entities"). Employee also agrees to arbitrate claims against any person or
entity that Employee may allege to
be a joint employer, joint enterprise, alter ego, or to have common ownership
with the Company.” (Holmes Decl.
Exh. B.) This language plainly establishes all three Goonewardene factors
since Plaintiff’s Complaint expressly alleges that all the Defendants are joint
employers and enterprises or alter egos of each other (Complaint ¶¶ 1, 4.) The
remaining Defendants are therefore entitled to enforce the arbitration
agreement as intended third party beneficiaries. 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly,
Defendants’ Motion to Compel Arbitration is GRANTED.
 
            This
action is stayed pending resolution of the arbitration. 
 
            All
further hearings are advanced to this date and vacated. The Court sets a Status
Conference Re: Arbitration for Monday, December 16, 2024 at 8:30 AM. 
 
            Moving
Parties to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  June 26, 2024                                     ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 