 Case Number:  24STCV10864    Hearing Date:   January 14, 2025    Dept:  072  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



WILLIAM ZEPEDA, et al., 
 
                                  Plaintiffs,
  
         v.
 
 
BMO HARRIS BANK, N.A. SUCCESSOR BY
  MERGER TO BANK OF THE WEST,
 
                                  Defendant.
 


 Case No: 
  24STCV10864
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  January 14, 2025
 Calendar Number:  12



 
 
 
Defendant BMO Bank N.A., formerly known as BMO Harris Bank,
N.A. (“Defendant”) demurs to the first, second, and fourth claims in the First
Amended Complaint (“FAC”) filed by Plaintiff William Zepeda, as an individual,
and Plaintiff William Zepeda, as successor to the Estate of Lydia Meza
(collectively, “Plaintiff”).
 
The Court OVERRULES the demurrer to the second and fourth
claims.
 
The Court SUSTAINS the demurrer to the first claim WITHOUT
LEAVE TO AMEND.
 
Defendant shall have twenty days to answer the FAC.
 
Background
 
This is a contract dispute relating to a mortgage agreement.
The following facts are taken from the allegations of the FAC, which the Court
accepts as true for the purposes of the demurrer.
 
            In
2009, Defendant’s predecessor in interest, Bank of the West, made a $149,000.00
loan to Lydia Meza, Plaintiff’s mother.
 
            Meza
passed away in 2010. Plaintiff subsequently made monthly mortgage payments of
$772.64 to Defendant. 
 
            In
April 2023, Plaintiff received a letter from Defendant indicating that the loan
was in default and that “he must pay $3,237.30, which is the total amount due
as of the date of this notice, plus any additional payments or other sums
which come due after the date of this letter.” (Complaint ¶ 18, Ex. G
[emphasis in original].) The letter informed Plaintiff that default must be
cured by May 6, 2023.
 
            On
June 8, 2023, Plaintiff made a payment of $3,237.30. (Complaint at ¶ 20.)
 
            On
July 26, 2023, a notice of default was recorded against the subject property. As
set forth in the Notice of Default, the amount due was $4,964.81 as of July 26,
2023.
 
            Around
August 1, 2023, Defendant stopped accepting Plaintiff’s mortgage payments.
 
On October 25, 2023, the newly substituted foreclosure
trustee, Trustee Corps, recorded a Notice of Trustee’s Sale scheduling the sale
for November 28, 2023.
 
On October 27, 2023, in response to a request from
Plaintiff, Trustee Corps provided Plaintiff with a payoff quote in the amount
of $84,049.68. The letter stated that the payoff window closed on October 30,
2023, the following Monday. The letter stated that the amount actually due upon
repayment may be greater due to potential interest and late charges.
 
On October 30, 2023, Plaintiff paid off the loan for the sum
of $84,049.68. However, Plaintiff alleges that the actual principal balance of
his loan when Defendant stopped accepting repayments was $73,654.04.
 
On November 9, 2023, the deed of trust was reconveyed to
Plaintiff. (Complaint ¶ 40, Ex. T.)
 
 
            Plaintiff
filed this action on May 1, 2024, raising claims for (1) violation of Civil
Code, section 2923.5, subd. (b) for failure to provide foreclosure
alternatives; (2) violation of Civil Code, section 2924c, subd. (a)(2) for
failure to rescind a notice of default; (3) negligence; (4) slander of title;
(5) breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing; and (6) intentional
infliction of emotional distress (“IIED”).
 
            On
October 8, 2024, the Court sustained Defendant’s demurrer with leave to amend
as to the third, fourth, and sixth claims for negligence, slander of title, and
IIED. The Court sustained the demurrer without leave to amend as to the first
and second claims.
 
            The
operative complaint is now the FAC, which raises claims for (1) negligence; (2)
slander of title; (3) breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing;
and (4) IIED.
            
Request for Judicial Notice
 
The Court grants Defendant’s request for judicial notice and
takes notice of the submitted public records.
 
 
Discussion
 
Negligence – First Claim
 
In order to state a claim for negligence, a plaintiff must
allege the elements of (1) “the existence of a legal duty of care,” (2) “breach
of that duty,” and (3) “proximate cause resulting in an injury.” (McIntyre v. Colonies-Pacific, LLC (2014)
228 Cal.App.4th 664, 671.)
 
The Court previously sustained Defendant’s demurrer to this
claim on the grounds that Plaintiff had not alleged a duty of care because
Defendant was a mortgage servicer in privity with Plaintiff. Defendant argues
that Plaintiff has again failed to allege a duty and that Plaintiff’s claim is
barred by the economic loss rule.
 
“[A]s a general rule, a financial institution owes no duty
of care to a borrower when the institution's involvement in the loan
transaction does not exceed the scope of its conventional role as a mere lender
of money.” (Nymark v. Heart Fed. Savings & Loan Assn. (1991) 231
Cal.App.3d 1089, 1096.)
 
Plaintiff argues, as he did in opposition to the previous
demurrer, that the issue of whether a financial institution owes a duty of care
to a borrower “involves the balancing of various factors” as set forth by Biakanja
v. Irving (1958) 49 Cal.2d 647, “among which are the extent to which the
transaction was intended to affect the plaintiff, the foreseeability of harm to
him, the degree of certainty that the plaintiff suffered injury, the closeness
of the connection between the defendant's conduct and the injury suffered, the
moral blame attached to the defendant's conduct, and the policy of preventing
future harm.” (Biakanja v. Irving (1958) 49 Cal.2d 647, 650.)
 
But, as explained in the order on the previous demurrer, Biakanja
does not apply to existing contractual relationships. “Subsequent to Biakanja,
[the California Supreme Court has] repeatedly stated that its factors are used
to determine whether persons must exercise reasonable care to avoid negligently
causing economic loss to others with whom they were not in privity.” (Sheen
v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2022) 12 Cal.5th 905, 937.) “[W]e have never
done what plaintiff now asks us to do: rely on Biakanja to impose a tort
duty on a contracting party to avoid negligently causing monetary harm to
another party to that contract.” (Id. at p. 938.) “[T]here is good
reason that our precedents have applied the Biakanja multifactor test to
find liability only when the parties to a proceeding are contractual strangers.
…. The first, second, and fourth Biakanja factors are heavily skewed in
favor of liability in cases where the litigants are contractual partners and
the alleged duty arises from the underlying contract. …. Applying Biakanja in
this and other similar contexts thus would unduly tip the scale in favor of
finding a tort duty and subvert the economic loss rule in a class of cases in
which that principle clearly applies.” (Id. at p. 941.)
 
Plaintiff argues that this case is unique because it
involves alleged intentional wrongful conduct. But such intentional conduct is
properly addressed by Plaintiff’s intentional tort claims – not by a negligence
claim.
 
The Court therefore sustains the demurrer to this claim
without leave to amend.
 
Slander of title – Second Claim
 
“Slander of title is effected by one who without privilege
publishes untrue and disparaging statements with respect to the property of
another under such circumstances as would lead a reasonable person to foresee
that a prospective purchaser or lessee thereof might abandon his intentions. It
is an invasion of the interest in the vendibility of property. . . . Damages
usually consist of loss of a prospective purchaser.” (Phillips v. Glazer (1949) 94 Cal.App.2d 673, 677, citations
omitted.) “To state a claim for slander of title, a plaintiff must allege (1) a
publication, (2) which is without privilege or justification, (3) which is
false, and (4) which causes direct and immediate pecuniary loss.” (Schep v. Capital One, N.A. (2017) 12
Cal.App.5th 1331, 1336.)
 
Defendant argues that Plaintiff has not alleged facts
establishing malice or a direct pecuniary loss.
 
            Notices
of default are privileged communications. (Civ. Code, § 2924, subd. (d)(1).)
Such communications are subject to a qualified privilege and require that the
statements be made without malice. (Kachlon v. Markowitz (2008) 168
Cal.App.4th 316, 341.)
 
            The
Court previously found that Plaintiff had not alleged malice. Plaintiff has
remedied this defect. Plaintiff alleges that the party that executed the
allegedly false declaration of compliance claimed to have spoken to Plaintiff’s
mother regarding forbearance at a time when Plaintiff’s mother was deceased.
Plaintiff has therefore adequately alleged malice, which can be proven by
circumstantial evidence. (Reader's Digest Assn. v. Superior Court (1984)
37 Cal.3d 244, 257.)
 
            Plaintiff
has also alleged pecuniary loss. Plaintiff alleges that he was not able to
obtain the information on how to pay off his mortgage until he retained an
attorney and filed a lawsuit, incurring attorney’s fees as a result. 
 
“ ‘[A]ttorney fees incurred in removal of a cloud on a title
caused by a spurious and vexatious deed do constitute proof of special damages
in a slander of title action even in the absence of proof of an impairment of
vendibility.’ [Citation.] ” (Sumner Hill Homeowners’ Assn., Inc. v. Rio Mesa
Holdings, LLC (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 999, 1033–1034, as modified on denial
of reh'g (May 30, 2012).) An award of such attorney’s fees as special damages
does not violate the American rule as adopted in Code of Civil Procedure,
section 1021. (Id. at p. 1034.) “The section is not applicable to cases
where a defendant has wrongfully made it necessary for a plaintiff to sue a
third person. [Citation]. In this case we are not dealing with ‘the measure and
mode of compensation of attorneys’ but with damages wrongfully caused by
defendant's improper actions.” (Prentice v. North Am. Title Guaranty Corp.,
Alameda Division (1963) 59 Cal.2d 618, 621.)
 
Defendant argues that the attorney’s fees were unnecessary
because Plaintiff successfully repaid the loan before obtaining court
intervention in that case. But Plaintiff’s allegation is that the litigation
was necessary to obtain a response regarding his repayment information from the
loan trustee and Defense counsel. That they provided the information before the
lawsuit was resolved does not show that the litigation was unnecessary to
induce such a response.
 
Plaintiff has therefore alleged pecuniary damages resulting
from the allegedly false notice of default.
 
The Court therefore overrules the demurrer to this claim.
 
Intentional infliction of emotional distress – Fourth Claim
 
“The elements of a prima facie case for the tort of
intentional infliction of emotional distress are: (1) extreme and outrageous
conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard
of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff’s
suffering severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual and proximate
causation of the emotional distress by the defendant’s outrageous conduct.
Conduct to be outrageous must be so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually
tolerated in a civilized community.” (Wilson
v. Hynek (2012) 207 Cal.App.4th 999, 1009, citation and ellipses omitted.) “Whether
a defendant’s conduct can reasonably be found to be outrageous is a question of
law that must initially be determined by the court; if reasonable persons may
differ, it is for the jury to determine whether the conduct was, in fact,
outrageous.” (Berkley v. Dowds (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518, 534.)
 
Defendant argues that Plaintiff has not alleged any
outrageous conduct.
 
Here, Plaintiff alleges that Defendant failed to send a
pre-foreclosure letter prior to the notice of default. Plaintiff alleges that
the pre-foreclosure he eventually received was pre-dated over two weeks prior
to the time he received it. Plaintiff alleges that a subsequent letter,
received on September 18, 2023, was also predated to September 3, 2023 which
stated that Defendant would respond within the time limit required by law
without indicating what it was responding to. Plaintiff alleges that Defendant
surreptitiously sent the notice of substitution of trustee to Plaintiff’s
former probate counsel when changing trustees. On September 21, 2023, Plaintiff
received another letter pre-dated to September 6, 2023 which stated both that
“we have accelerated your loan” and are “returning your funds”. Furthermore,
Plaintiff alleges that no funds were actually returned to Plaintiff. As
discussed above, Plaintiff alleges that Defendant submitted a false notice of
default where the executing party falsely claimed to have spoken to Plaintiff’s
mother at a time when she was deceased. Plaintiff has also alleged that
Defendant withheld the information necessary to pay off Plaintiff’s loan until
Plaintiff filed a lawsuit, at which point Defendant and the trustee disclosed
the information.
 
This behavior did not merely relate to a business
transaction or a garden variety personal loan – they related to the foreclosure
of Plaintiff’s home. These facts adequately allege outrageous conduct.
 
The Court overrules the demurrer to this claim.