 Case Number:  23PSCV03431    Hearing Date:   February 1, 2024    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
DEFENDANT
HOME EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICE, LLC dba TEMCO LOGISTICS’S MOTION TO STRIKE
PORTIONS OF PLAINTIFF’S COMPLAINT is GRANTED with 15 days leave to
amend. 
 
Background
 
This is a
wrongful termination case. Plaintiff BILL WELCH alleges the following against
Defendant HOME EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICE, LLC dba TEMCO LOGISTICS: Plaintiff
began his employment with Defendant in November 2021 as a technician. On his
first day (12/7/21), Plaintiff got in a car accident; Plaintiff was the
passenger, and another company employee was the driver. Plaintiff was taken
back to the warehouse and treated by “Industrial Athletes.” (¶17.) After weeks
of pain, Defendant was put Plaintiff on light duty (e.g., sweeping), but
Plaintiff could not endure that pain, so Defendant placed Plaintiff on
temporary leave. (¶20.) Plaintiff’s temporary disability/medical leave was
extended to 2/28/22. (¶23.) For the first time, during his 5/11/22 worker’s compensation
claim deposition, Plaintiff learned he had been terminated on 1/21/22 for not
providing medical documents as requested, which he always did. (¶¶24, 25.) 
 
On November
3, 2023, Plaintiff filed suit asserting the following causes of action (COAs): 
 
1.     Wrongful Employment Termination In
Violation Of Public Policy
2.     Retaliation (Gov. Code §12940 (H))
3.     Disability Discrimination In Violation
Of The FEHA (Govt’ Code § 12940, Et Seq.)
4.     Failure To Engage In The Interactive
Process In Violation Of The FEHA (Govt’ Code § 12940, Et Seq.)
5.     Failure To Provide Reasonable
Accommodation In Violation Of The FEHA (Govt’ Code § 12940, Et Seq.)
6.     Failure To Prevent And/Or Remedy
Discrimination/ Retaliation In Violation Of The FEHA (Govt’ Code § 12940, Et
Seq.) 
 
On December
7, 2023, Defendant filed the instant motion to strike (MTS). 
 
On January
19, 2024, Plaintiff filed his opposition to the MTS. 
 
On January
23, 2024, Defendant filed its reply. 
 
Legal
Standard[1]
 
California
Civil Code section 3294 authorizes the recovery of punitive damages in
non-contract cases where “the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud,
or malice . . . .” (Civ. Code § 3294(a).) 
 
“‘Oppression’ means despicable conduct that subjects a
person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s
rights.” (Id., § 3294(c)(2).) “‘Fraud’ means an intentional
misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the
defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving
a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.” (Id.,
§ 3294(c)(3).) “‘Malice’ means conduct which is intended by the defendant
to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by
the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of
others.” (Id. § 3294(c)(1).) “Malice and
oppression may be inferred from the circumstances of a defendant's conduct.” (Monge v. Superior Court (1986)
176 Cal.App.3d 503, 511, 222 Cal.Rptr. 64.) 
 
 
A plaintiff
must establish the defendant was aware of the probable dangerous consequences
of his conduct and that he willfully and deliberately failed to avoid those
consequences to support an award of punitive damages based on conscious
disregard of the safety of others. (Penner v. Falk (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d
858, 867.) Punitive damages thus require more than the mere commission of a
tort. (See Taylor v. Superior Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, 894-95.)
Specific facts must be pleaded in support of punitive damages. (See Hillard
v. A.H. Robins Co. (1983) 148 Cal.App.3d 374, 391-92.) 
 
Should a plaintiff not make the allegations required by
CCP section 3294, a party may move to strike the allegations pursuant to CCP
section 436 subdivision (a) which provides that “The Court may, upon a notice
made pursuant to section 435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms
it deems proper: (a) strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter
inserted in any pleading.” (Motion p. 2.) 
 
Discussion
 
Defendant
seeks to strike allegations of malice, oppression, or fraud to support the
prayer for or imposition of punitive damages as there are no specific factual
allegations of such. 
 
Here, while the court disagrees with Defendant
that the allegations are conclusory,[2]
the court agrees with Defendant that the allegations are insufficient to
demonstrate malice, fraud, or oppression. 
 
Plaintiff
asserts its request for punitive damages based upon a variety of
conduct: Plaintiff was never told he was fired, never asked to get written work
restrictions almost a week after already being terminated, Defendant stayed in
communication with Plaintiff after his termination indicating to him that he
was still employed, and Defendant lied to him about the reason for termination
stating instead that Plaintiff failed to provide documentation. (Opp. p. 8:4-9,
see generally Complaint pp. 4-5.) 
 
But Plaintiff has
not explained how the aforementioned conduct constitutes as “despicable
conduct” carried on by Defendant “with a willful and conscious disregard of the
rights or safety” of Plaintiff. (Motion pp. 5-6.) Patently, lying to an employee about their
termination is fraudulent, but fraud for purposes of punitive damages requires more
than a mere showing of a misrepresentation but an intention of doing
so to deprive the person of a property or legal right or otherwise
causing injury. (§ 3294(c)(3).) Plaintiff’s complaint is silent as
to Defendant’s intention. 

In opposition, Plaintiff cites to two cases: Contreras-Velazquez v. Family
Health Centers of San Diego, Inc. (2021) 62 Cal.App.5th 88, 106 and Colucci
v. T-Mobile, USA, Inc. (2020) 48 Cal. App. 5th 442, WL 2059849. (Opp. pp.
6-7.) Both, however, are distinguishable. (See also Reply pp. 2-3.) 
 
Contreras-Velazquez is not instructive because the case did not involve a motion to strike but an appeal from a judgment. A motion to strike, however, does not consider evidence. (See Code of Civ. Proc. § 435 [“(a) The grounds for a motion to strike shall appear on the face of the challenged pleading or from any matter of which the court is required to take judicial notice.”].) With that, the appellate court’s discussion on the punitive damages award was not concerned with a finding of malice, oppression, or fraud but the guideposts set forth State Farm Mut. Automobile Ins. Co. v. Campbell (2003) 538 U.S. 408, considerations which determine the level of punitive damages. Thus, as the court here is not making any findings (Contreras-Velazquez, supra, 62 Cal.App.5th at pp. 104-107), the similarity in facts of the case (both stemming from a work-place related injury) are unhelpful.  
Colucci v. T-Mobile, USA, Inc. (2020) 48 Cal. App. 5th 442, WL
2059849 is equally unhelpful as that too involved an appeal from a judgment and
involved the issue of whether the amount of punitive damages should be reduced.
As noted above, the court’s concern on this motion to strike is whether
Plaintiff has sufficiently pled facts, not evidence, but facts. Even assuming
the case was procedurally similar, the facts undermine Plaintiff’s position
that it has pled sufficient facts for punitive damages. In Colucci, the
plaintiff suffered from an anxiety disorder that prevented him from performing his job in the crowded mall
location, to which store manager stated, “this is the most ridiculous thing
I've ever heard.” (Id. at p. 447.) Later, the plaintiff learned that employees
were spreading inflammatory rumors and/or making defamatory statements about
him (defamation incident). When the plaintiff asked the manager to investigate,
the manager agreed to do so “but allowed the investigation to languish, telling
Colucci he should “quit complaining” and that he had been “nothing but
problems.” (Ibid.)  Ultimately, the manager recommended to HR that
T-Mobile terminate the plaintiff, “bypass[ing] T-Mobile's progressive
discipline policy, which might have included a warning or less severe
consequence before resorting to termination.” (Id. at p. 449.) Despite
the plaintiff lodging a second internal complaint against the store manager,
“[u]ndeterred, [the manager] proceeded with processing Colucci's termination.”
(Ibid.) At trial, the jury agreed that
the manager was a managing agent of T-Mobile and that the defendant’s actions
were committed with malice or oppression. (Id. at p. 450.) 
 
Here, however,
Defendant’s employees made no such statements to Plaintiff or about
Plaintiff. In fact, when Plaintiff was injured, an employee (Ray)[3] communicated with
Plaintiff, did not make statements to other employees, and checked on
Plaintiff. (See e.g., ¶23
[In response to Plaintiff’s 1/27/22 text that he isn’t sure if he can get back
to limited duty, Ray responds “Let me know if I can help in anyway. Please send
me a copy of the medical note so I can extend leave on our end.”].) As noted by
Defendant, at most Ray’s text suggests carelessness (i.e., Ray was not aware of
Plaintiff’s termination). 
 
Therefore, absent statements or
conduct made prior to termination, Plaintiff has not made sufficient
allegations to support malice, fraud, or oppression. 
 
Conclusion
 
Based on the foregoing, the MTS is
GRANTED. Though Plaintiff does not seek leave to amend in its opposition, the
court grants leave to amend. The court grants 15 days leave to amend.
 
 


