  Case Number:  21STCV13311    Hearing Date:   November 12, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



PI PROPERTIES
  NO. 79, LLC, a California
limited liability company, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
EVERILDA ROMERO aka EVIE ROMERO,
an individual; FREMONT OAKS, LLC, a
California limited liability company;
  and DOES 1-10, inclusive,
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.    
                           


 


     
  CASE NO.:  21STCV13311
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
DEMURRER OF DEFENDANTS TO
PLAINTIFF PI PROPERTIES NO. 79,
LLC’S THIRD AMENDED COMPLAINT
 
Date: November 12, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Defendants
Everilda Romero and Fremont Oaks, LLC (“Fremont”) (collectively, “Defendants”)
 
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff
PI Properties No. 79, LLC (“Plaintiff”)
 
            The Court has considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers. 
 
BACKGROUND
             This action stems from the sale of real
property located at 5055 Alhambra Avenue, Los Angeles, California 90032 (the
“Property”).  The operative Third Amended
Complaint (“TAC”) alleges causes of action for (1) Breach of Contract; (2) Breach
of Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing; (3) Failure to Disclose
Material Facts; (4) Fraudulent Deceit; (5) Intentional Misrepresentation; (6) Constructive
Fraud; (7) Negligent Misrepresentation; and (8) Breach of Express Warranty.  
 
            On September 30, 2024, Defendants
filed the instant demurrer to the TAC (the “Demurrer”).  Plaintiff filed an opposition on October 29,
2024, and Plaintiff filed a reply on November 4, 2024.
 
JUDICIAL NOTICE 
            Defendants request judicial notice of the following: (1) the City of Los
Angeles building records; (2) the Certificate of Occupancy for 5055 Alhambra Avenue,
Los Angeles, California 90032; (3) the California Department of Real Estate
(“DRE”) real estate licensing information; (4) DRE information that Srinivas
Yalamanchili is a license real estate broker in California; and (5) the Court’s
July 23, 2024 Order in this action.
 
            The Court declines to
take judicial notice of the information and documents in Item Nos. 1 through 4,
as these are not relevant to the matters at issue in the Demurrer.  The Court takes judicial notice of Item No. 5,
which is already part of the Court’s records in this case.
 
MEET AND CONFER 
             The meet and confer requirement has been met.
 
DISCUSSION
Legal Standard
“The primary function of a pleading is to give the
other party notice so that it may prepare its case [citation], and a defect in
a pleading that otherwise properly notifies a party cannot be said to affect
substantial rights.”  (Harris v. City
of Santa Monica (2013) 56 Cal.4th 203, 240.)  “A demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of
the factual allegations in a complaint.” (Ivanoff v. Bank of America, N.A. (2017)
9 Cal.App.5th 719, 725.)  The Court looks
to whether “the complaint alleges facts sufficient to state a cause of action
or discloses a complete defense.” (Id.) 
The Court does not “read passages from a complaint in isolation; in
reviewing a ruling on a
demurrer, we read the complaint ‘as a whole and its
parts in their context.’ [Citation.]” (West v.
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (2013) 214 Cal.App.4th 780, 804.)  The Court “assume[s] the truth
of the properly pleaded factual allegations, facts
that reasonably can be inferred from those
expressly pleaded and matters of which judicial notice
has been taken.” (Harris, supra, 56 Cal.4th p. 240.) “The
court does not, however, assume the truth of contentions, deductions or
conclusions of law. [Citation.]” (Durell v. Sharp
Healthcare (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 1350,
1358.)
 
            As a general matter, in a demurrer
proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via
proper judicial notice.  (Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)  “The only issue a demurrer is concerned with
is whether the complaint, as it stands, states a cause of action.  (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th
740, 747.)
 
Leave
to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful
amendment.  (Goodman v. Kennedy
(1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349 (court shall not “sustain a demurrer without leave to
amend if there is any reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by
amendment”); Kong v. City of Hawaiian Gardens Redevelopment Agency (2002)
108 Cal.App.4th 1028, 1037 (“A demurrer should not be sustained without leave
to amend if the complaint, liberally construed, can state a cause of action
under any theory or if there is a reasonable possibility the defect can be
cured by amendment.”).)  The burden is on
the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be amended
successfully.  (Blank v. Kirwan
(1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)
            Here, Defendants demur to the TAC on
the grounds that the first through the eighth causes of action in the TAC fail
to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action against Defendants,
and that Plaintiff failed to cure defects identified by this Court in its July
23, 2024 Order.
 
Contract-Based
Claims (First, Second and Eighth Causes of Action)
“To establish a cause of action for breach of
contract, the plaintiff must plead and prove (1) the existence of the contract,
(2) the plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3) the
defendant’s breach, and (4) resulting damages to the plaintiff.”  (Maxwell v. Dolezal (2014) 231
Cal.App.4th 93, 97-98 [internal citation omitted].)  
 
            Plaintiff’s contract-based claims
are based mainly on the allegation that Fremont breached the Purchase Agreement
by failing to deliver a 15-unit residential building as set forth in the Purchase
Contract & Joint Escrow Instructions (“Purchase Agreement”), attached to
the TAC as Exhibit 3. Specifically, Plaintiff alleges that “[t]he Purchase
Agreement stated, in pertinent part, that Yalamanchili and/or assignee was purchasing
‘A 15 Unit Residential Building and the Fee Simple Land in Which It Is
Situated.’”  (TAC, ¶ 21; Exh. 3.)  The TAC then alleges that “during the due
diligence period, Yalamanchili, on behalf of PI Properties, inspected the Property
and, in line with the previous representations made by Russell, visibly saw
fifteen rooms which appeared to be bachelor units.”  (TAC, ¶ 23.) 
Based on these allegations, which are assumed to be true to the extent
they are not inconsistent with the exhibit attached to the pleading, it is
apparent that Fremont’s obligation was to deliver a 15-unit residential
building, and that Fremont did perform its obligation.  Plaintiff’s own allegations reflect that the
Property, does, in fact, consist of 15 bachelor units.  Plaintiff does not allege that Fremont
represented and was, therefore, obliged to deliver a Property with 15 approved
or permitted apartment units. 
 
            Based on this premise, Plaintiff, therefore,
has not articulated the element of “breach” essential to the contract-based
claims.  Accordingly, the demurrer to the
first, second, and eighth cause of action is SUSTAINED.
 
Fraud-Based Claims (Third, Fourth, Fifth, Sixth and
Seventh Causes of Action)
“The elements of fraud, which give rise to the tort
action for deceit, are (a) misrepresentation (false representation,
concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) knowledge of falsity (or ‘scienter’); (c)
intent to defraud, i.e., to induce reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e)
resulting damage.”  (Lazar v. Superior
Court (1996) 12 Cal. 4th 631, 638.)  “[F]raud
must be pled specifically; general and conclusory allegations do not suffice...
This particularity requirement necessitates pleading facts which show how,
when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations were tendered.”  (Lazar, supra, 12 Cal. 4th at 645.)
 
            In a similar vein as the above discussion, Plaintiff has also failed to
allege any misrepresentation by Defendants. 
Specifically, Plaintiff does not allege that Defendants represented that
the 15 units were approved or permitted, but merely that there were 15 bachelor
units at the Property.  (TAC, ¶ 23.)  Neither does the Offering Memorandum attached
to the TAC (Exh. 2) contain such misrepresentation. 
 
In fact, Plaintiff cannot allege such a
misrepresentation since under the Purchase Agreement, Plaintiff expressly
agreed that it would “purchase the Property ‘as is’ and solely on reliance of
[his] own investigation of the Property,” and that with regards to “the
legality of the present or any possible future use of the Property under any
federal, state, or local law,” that “Buyer agrees that investigation and
analysis of the foregoing matters is Buyer’s sole responsibility.”  (TAC, Exh. 3, ¶ 23.) The PSA is clear that
Plaintiff was obligated to and expressly agreed to conduct his own
investigation.  
Accordingly, Plaintiff cannot reasonably allege
justifiable or reasonable reliance in its fraud claims, in the same way that it
cannot establish that Defendants breached the Purchase Agreement, an express
warranty, or the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, when it was
Plaintiff’s obligation under the Purchase Agreement to conduct due diligence
and investigate the Property.  
 
As this Court noted in its July 23, 2024 Order
sustaining the previous demurrer to Plaintiff’s second amended complaint
(“SAC”), “[t]he entire verified SAC is based on the premise that Defendants
misrepresented the Property as a  “15
unit residential building” when in fact it was not permitted as such, yet the
above section of the Purchase Contract appears to waive any such
representations regarding “the physical condition, or value of the Property or
its suitability for Buyer’s intended use.” 
(7/23/2024 Order, p. 8.) In holding that the SAC was subject to
demurrer, this Court stated that the exhibits to a complaint control over the
allegations in that complaint, and the allegations in the SAC do not state a
basis for avoiding the waiver provision contained in Section 23 of the Purchase
Agreement.  Similarly, in Plaintiff’s present
TAC, Plaintiff has not stated a basis for avoiding Section 23 of the Purchase
Agreement.
 
Accordingly, the demurrer to the third through
seventh causes of action based on fraud is SUSTAINED.
 
RULING
In its Opposition, Plaintiff does not request leave
to amend its TAC if Defendants’ Demurrer is sustained, nor does it give any
indication as to how it might amend to rectify the above defects.  The Court thus finds that there is no reasonable
possibility that the defects in the TAC can be cured by an amendment, and considering
that this is Plaintiff’s fourth attempt to state legally cognizable
claims, the Demurrer to the entire TAC is SUSTAINED without leave to amend.
 
The Court orders Defendants to file and serve a
proposed judgment of dismissal within 10 days of the date of this
order.  
            
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at
SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If the
department does not receive an email and there are no appearances at the
hearing, the motion will be placed off calendar.
 
Dated this 12th day of November 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



