 Case Number:  23LBCV01659    Hearing Date:   August 20, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiffs, Michael Caballero and
Eunice Angelica Ibarra filed this action against Defendants, Jenny Dang, Tam
Pham, and US Land Realty, Inc. for failure to disclose during the course of a
real estate transaction.  Plaintiffs were
the buyers of the property; Pham and US Land Realty were the sellers of the
property; Dang was the dual agent for the purchase of the property.    
 
Plaintiffs filed their complaint on
9/01/23.  On 3/11/24, Defendants filed a
cross-complaint against Plaintiffs for breach of contract and negligence.  The crux of the cross-complaint is that the
parties, during escrow, learned of problems Defendants had not known when they
filed their disclosures, and Defendants thereafter paid cash to have the
problems remedied, but Plaintiffs refused to complete the sale despite the good
faith efforts to remedy the problems.  
2.     Demurrer
a.     Legal
Standard on Demurrer
A demurrer is a pleading used to
test the legal sufficiency of other pleadings. It raises issues of law, not
fact, regarding the form or content of the opposing party’s pleading.  It is not the function of the demurrer to
challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for purpose of the ruling on
the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are assumed to be true,
however improbable they may be.
 
A demurrer can be used only to
challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack; or from
matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. Blank v. Kirwan 39
Cal.3d 311 (1985). No other extrinsic evidence can be considered (i.e., no
“speaking demurrers”). A demurrer is brought under CCP § 430.10 [grounds], §
430.30 [as to any matter on its face or from which judicial notice may be
taken], and § 430.50(a) [can be taken to the entire complaint or any cause of
action within].  Specifically, a demurrer
may be brought per CCP § 430.10(e) if insufficient facts are stated to support
the cause of action asserted.  Per CCP
§430.10(a) a demurrer may be brought where the court has no jurisdiction of the
subject of the cause of action alleged in the pleading.  Furthermore, demurrer for uncertainty will be
sustained only where the complaint is so bad that the defendant cannot
reasonably respond.  CCP §
430.10(f).  
 
However, in construing the
allegations, the court is to give effect to specific factual allegations that
may modify or limit inconsistent general or conclusory allegations. Financial
Corporation of America v. Wilburn, 189 Cal.App.3rd 764, 769 (1987). And, if the
facts pled in the complaint are inconsistent with facts which are incorporated
by reference from exhibits attached to the complaint, the facts in the
incorporated exhibits control. Further, irrespective of the name or label given
to a cause of action by the plaintiff, a general demurrer must be overruled if
the facts as pled in the body of the complaint state some valid claim for
relief. Special demurrers are not allowed in limited jurisdiction courts. (CCP
§ 92(c).)
Leave to amend must be allowed
where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. Goodman v.
Kennedy, 18 Cal.3d 335, 348 (1976). The burden is on the complainant to show
the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.) 
 
Finally, CCP section 430.41
requires that “[b]efore filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining
whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be
raised in the demurrer.” (CCP §430.41(a).) The parties are to meet and confer
at least five days before the date the responsive pleading is due. (CCP
§430.41(a)(2).) Thereafter, the demurring party shall file and serve a
declaration detailing their meet and confer efforts. (CCP §430.41(a)(3).)
 
b.     Meet and Confer
Cross-Defendants filed a meet and
confer declaration with their demurrer. 
Specifically, Cross-Defendants’ attorney declares (and attaches email
evidence) that Cross-Complainants’ attorney repeatedly conceded the defects in
the cross-complaint and indicated he would amend the cross-complaint without
the need to file a demurrer.  Despite the
numerous representations to this effect, Cross-Complainants never did so, and
Cross-Defendants were forced to file this demurrer.  
 
c.     Breach
of Contract
Cross-Defendants demur to the cause
of action for breach of contract, contending Cross-Complainants failed to
attach a copy of the parties’ contract or plead its terms verbatim in the body
of the complaint, as required by Otworth v. Southern Pac. Transportation Co.
(1985) 166 Cal.App.3d 452, 459. 
Additionally, they note that Dang was not a party to any contract, and
was merely the agent representing the other parties in connection with the
sale.  Finally, they correctly note that
¶26 of the cross-complaint simply alleges Cross-Defendants failed to abide by
the terms of the contract, but fails to specify the breach that occurred.  
 
The demurrer is sustained on all
grounds asserted by Cross-Defendants.
 
It is not up to the Court to figure
out how the complaint can be amended to state a cause of action.  Rather, the burden is on the plaintiff to
show in what manner he or she can amend the complaint, and how that amendment
will change the legal effect of the pleading. 
Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349; Hendy v. Losse (1991) 54
Cal.3d 723, 742.
 
Because Cross-Complainants did not
oppose the demurrer, they necessarily failed to make this showing.  Leave to amend is therefore denied.  
 
d.     Negligence
Cross-Complainants’ second cause of
action is for negligence. 
Cross-Defendants, in their demurrer, establish that purchasers in a real
estate transaction owe no duty (outside the terms of the parties’ contract) to
the sellers, and therefore any claim must sound in contract, not in tort.  See Erlich v. Menezes (1999) 21 Cal.4th
543, 553.  
 
The demurrer is sustained.  Again, in light of the lack of opposition,
leave to amend is denied.  
 
e.     Motion
to Strike
Cross-Defendants include a request
to strike portions of the prayer for damages in their demurrer.  Demurrers and motions to strike must be filed
as two separate pleading challenges.  CCP
§435(b)(3), CRC 3.1322(b).  In any event,
the motion to strike is moot in light of the ruling on the demurrer.  
f.      Conclusion
The demurrer is sustained without
leave to amend.  The motion to strike is
improper and, in any event, moot.  
 
Cross-Defendants are ordered to
give notice.   
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative.  If
the parties do not submit on the tentative, they should arrange to appear
remotely.