 Case Number:  BC685348    Hearing Date:   August 20, 2024    Dept:  S27 
Background Facts

Plaintiffs, Justin, Sarah, and
Sawyer Morgenthaler filed this action against Defendants, Juan Antonio
Haromartinez, et al. for damages arising out of an automobile accident.  Plaintiff, Justin was permanently paralyzed
as a result of the accident.  Sawyer is a
minor and appearing in the action by and through his mother and GAL, Sarah;
Sawyer and Sarah suffered only very minor injuries as a result of the accident,
and sue largely for emotional distress suffered as a result of Justin’s serious
injuries.  
 
Plaintiffs’ operative complaint is
the First Amended Complaint, which they filed on 5/23/19.  As against Lear, it includes causes of action
for strict products liability, negligence, breach for express and implied
warranties, failure to warn/negligent failure to recall, and punitive
damages.  
 

Motion for Summary
     Judgment

a.     Evidentiary
Objections
Plaintiffs submitted objections
with their opposition papers.  The
objections are overruled.
 
Defendants submitted evidentiary
objections with their reply papers.  As
will be discussed more fully below, the objections are also overruled.
 
b.     Parties’
Positions
Lear moves for summary judgment on
Plaintiffs’ complaint.  It argues, first
and foremost, that Plaintiffs’ own FAC and discovery responses establish it was
not Lear’s component part, but instead the design of the automobile itself,
that caused the accident.  Additionally,
it argues the seats were not defective, and contends its engineer, Russell
Davidson’s declaration is sufficient to so establish.  
 
Plaintiffs, in opposition, contend
Lear has cherry-picked their allegations and discovery responses, and has
failed to meet its moving burden to show the component part it manufactured was
not defective.  Plaintiffs argue Davidson
is not qualified to so opine.    
 
Lear, in reply, contends it
sufficiently shifted the moving burden, and Plaintiffs failed to raise any
triable issues because all evidence in support of the reply is outside the
scope of the operative complaint and/or contradicts their sworn discovery responses.  
 
c.     Burdens
on Summary Judgment
Summary judgment is proper “if all
the papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material
fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of
law.”  (Code Civ. Proc. §437c(c).)  Where a defendant seeks summary judgment or
adjudication, he must show that either “one or more elements of the cause of
action, even if not separately pleaded, cannot be established, or that there is
a complete defense to that cause of action.” 
(Id. at §437c(o)(2).)  A defendant
may satisfy this burden by showing that the claim “cannot be established”
because of the lack of evidence on some essential element of the claim.  (Union Bank v. Superior Court (1995) 31
Cal.App.4th 574, 590.)  Once the
defendant meets this burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a
“triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action
or defense thereto.”  (Ibid.)  
 
The moving party bears the initial
burden of production to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable
issues of material fact.  (Aguilar v.
Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)  A defendant moving for summary judgment must
show either (1) that one or more elements of the cause of action cannot be
established or (2) that there is a complete defense to that cause of action.  (Id. at §437c(p).)  A defendant may discharge this burden by
furnishing either (1) affirmative evidence of the required facts or (2)
discovery responses conceding that the plaintiff lacks evidence to establish an
essential element of the plaintiff's case. If a defendant chooses the latter
option he or she must present evidence “and not simply point out that plaintiff
does not possess and cannot reasonably obtain needed evidence….” Aguilar,
supra, 25 Cal.4th at 865-66,
[A] defendant may simply show the
plaintiff cannot establish an essential element of the cause of action “by
showing that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain,
needed evidence.” (Id. at p. 854.)  Thus,
rather than affirmatively disproving or negating an element (e.g., causation),
a defendant moving for summary judgment has the option of presenting evidence
reflecting the plaintiff does not possess evidence to prove that element. “The
defendant may, but need not, present evidence that conclusively negates an
element of the plaintiff's cause of action. The defendant may also present
evidence that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain,
needed evidence—as through admissions by the plaintiff following extensive discovery
to the effect that he has discovered nothing” to support an essential element
of his case. (Aguilar, supra, at p. 855.) Under the latter approach, a
defendant's initial evidentiary showing may “consist of the deposition
testimony of the plaintiff's witnesses, the plaintiff's factually devoid
discovery responses, or admissions by the plaintiff in deposition or in
response to requests for admission that he or she has not discovered anything
that supports an essential element of the cause of action.” (Lona v. Citibank,
N.A., supra, 202 Cal.App.4th at p. 110.) 
In other words, a defendant may show the plaintiff does not possess
evidence to support an element of the cause of action by means of presenting
the plaintiff's factually devoid discovery responses from which an absence of
evidence may be reasonably inferred. (Scheiding v. Dinwiddie Construction Co.
(1999) 69 Cal.App.4th 64, 83.)
 
Thus, a moving defendant has two
means by which to shift the burden of proof under the summary judgment statute:
“The defendant may rely upon factually insufficient discovery responses by the
plaintiff to show that the plaintiff cannot establish an essential element of
the cause of action sued upon. [Citation.] [Or a]lternatively, the defendant
may utilize the tried and true technique of negating (‘disproving’) an
essential element of the plaintiff's cause of action.” (Brantly v. Pisaro
(1996) 42 Cal.App.4th 1591, 1598.) 
Leyva v. Garcia (2018) 20 Cal.App.5th
1095, 1103.
 
Until the moving defendant has
discharged its burden of proof, the opposing plaintiff has no burden to come
forward with any evidence. Once the moving defendant has discharged its burden
as to a particular cause of action, however, the plaintiff may defeat the
motion by producing evidence showing that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to that cause of action.  (Id. at §437c(p)(2).)  On a motion for summary judgment, the moving
party's supporting documents are strictly construed and those of his opponent
liberally construed, and doubts as to the propriety of summary judgment should
be resolved against granting the motion. 
(D’Amico v. Board of Medical Examiners (1974) 11 Cal.3d 1, 21.) 
d.    
Analysis
Regardless of whether Lear met its
moving burden, the Court finds the motion must be denied because the expert
declarations of Ziejewski and Leiss raise triable issues of material fact
concerning whether the Lear component part was defective and contributed to the
injuries sustained in the accident.  
 
Leiss is an automobile engineer
with expertise in the area of automotive seat design and engineering.  He declares he has extensive experience with
crashworthiness and safety systems through positions at Chrysler.  He inspected the subject vehicle, including
the third row seat designed by Lear.  He
opines that the seat itself is defective and that the defect is separate and
apart from the defect of the integrated seat into the overall automobile.  He then goes on to provide specifics
concerning how and why the seat was defective as designed.  
 
Ziejewski is a PhD in mechanical
engineering and a professor of mechanical engineering.  He teaches in various areas, including
vehicle dynamics.  He has testified
previously as an expert in accident reconstruction, occupant kinematics,
biomechanics, and injury causation.  He
reviewed the automobile at issue, as well as various documents and evidence
from the case.  He goes on to conclude
that the vehicle, specifically the seats designed by Lear, was not crashworthy,
which caused the injuries at issue; he extrapolates at length to explain his
opinion.  
 
Lear, in reply, contends the expert
declarations (a) are irrelevant because they contain opinions outside the scope
of the operative complaint, and (b) are inadmissible because they contradict
prior sworn discovery responses.  
 
Lear’s first argument is that the
expert declarations expand the scope of the case beyond the allegations of the
operative First Amended Complaint.  Lear
notes a variety of allegations in the FAC to the effect that the third row seat
was defective as installed in the subject vehicle, because the third row seat,
during the collision, deformed upward toward the vehicle roof, resulting in a
significant loss in occupant survival space. 
The Court has reviewed ¶¶155-167 of the FAC, and finds the allegations
against Lear are broad in nature.  By way
of example, at ¶161, Plaintiffs allege the third row seating system was
designed in a manner such that it failed to comply and failed to allow for the
proper distribution of energy during the subject rear impact accident.  This is similar to the opinions set forth in
¶¶22, et seq. of Ziejewski’s declaration. 
The Court finds the allegations of the FAC are sufficiently broad to
support the contentions being made in opposition to the summary judgment
motion.
 
Lear’s second argument is that the
expert declarations impermissibly contradict Plaintiffs’ prior sworn discovery
responses.  Specifically, Lear notes that
Plaintiffs, in response to special interrogatories, stated, “If the subject
seat had performed similar to the way the third row seat performs in rear
impact crash testing on the Tahoe, Justin Morgenthaler would have been
significantly less likely to have suffered a spinal cord injury.”  Lear argues it has provided evidence that the
Tahoe seat and the Suburban seat (in which Plaintiffs were riding) are the same
seat manufactured by Lear, with the only difference being the installation, for
which Lear is not responsible, and thus the expert declarations contradict the
sworn discovery responses.  
 
This argument is rejected for two
reasons.  First, the evidence that the
Tahoe seat and the Suburban seat are the same is the deposition testimony of
Davidson, which was submitted with the opposition papers.  The opposition did not, however, rely on the
Davidson deposition to stand for this point. 
Lear did not provide this evidence with the moving papers, and
Plaintiffs have had no opportunity to contradict the evidence.  
 
Second, the Court finds the expert
declarations do not “contradict” the statement made in response to FROG
17.1.  The expert declarations provide
additional and unrelated information about how the design of the third row seat
was defective and contributed to the injuries sustained.  
 
e.     Summary
Adjudication
Lear also seeks summary adjudication of each cause of action asserted
against in in the FAC.  Lear failed,
however, to file a separate statement in compliance with CRC 3.1350(b) and (h),
which requires Lear to separate each cause of action in the statement and to
indicate which facts apply to which causes of action.  The Court therefore summarily denies the
alternative summary adjudication motion. 

 
f.      Conclusion
Plaintiffs, through their expert
declarations, raised triable issues of material fact concerning whether Lear’s
third row seat was defectively designed, manufactured, and/or distributed.  The summary judgment motion is therefore
denied.  Lear failed to file a proper
separate statement in support of its alternative request for summary
adjudication, which is therefore also denied.
 
Lear is ordered to give notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.   