 Case Number:  23LBCV01989    Hearing Date:   August 20, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiffs, Dr. Golamali Oftadeh
and Dr. Lydia Oftadeh filed this action against Defendants, Matt Knabe, Brianna
Knabe, and Bixby Hill Community Association for private nuisance, breach of
contract, and injunctive relief.  Plaintiffs
allege their neighbors, the Knabes, have planted trees, bushes, and shrubs and
allowed them to grow in excess of the height permitted by the CC&Rs, thus
obstructing Plaintiffs’ view from their property.  
 
The Knabes joined with another
neighbor, Autrey, to file a cross-complaint against the Oftadehs.  The cross-complaint is for trespass,
harassment, invasion of privacy, private nuisance, IIED, trespass to chattels,
conversion, and declaratory relief.  The
crux of the cross-complaint is that the CC&Rs re: height of landscaping
have never been enforced, and virtually all members, including the Oftadehs,
are in violation of the rules in this regard. 
The Knabes allege the Oftadehs have engaged in ongoing inappropriate and
actionable behavior in an attempt to have the Knabes trim their trees,
including approaching their gardeners, yelling over the fence, following them
around the community, and poisoning the subject landscaping.  Autrey alleges she is also a neighbor of the
Oftadehs, and alleges the Oftadehs have engaged in similar behavior concerning
her landscaping, which behavior includes viewing her and her guests through
binoculars in their pool and hot tub, peering into her windows, using drones to
spy on her in her home, threatening her and her significant other, and
poisoning her landscaping.  
 
2.     Demurrer
a.     Legal
Standard on Demurrer
A demurrer is a pleading used to
test the legal sufficiency of other pleadings. It raises issues of law, not
fact, regarding the form or content of the opposing party’s pleading.  It is not the function of the demurrer to
challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for purpose of the ruling on
the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are assumed to be true,
however improbable they may be.
 
A demurrer can be used only to
challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack; or from
matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. Blank v. Kirwan 39
Cal.3d 311 (1985). No other extrinsic evidence can be considered (i.e., no
“speaking demurrers”). A demurrer is brought under CCP § 430.10 [grounds], §
430.30 [as to any matter on its face or from which judicial notice may be
taken], and § 430.50(a) [can be taken to the entire complaint or any cause of
action within].  Specifically, a demurrer
may be brought per CCP § 430.10(e) if insufficient facts are stated to support
the cause of action asserted.  Per CCP
§430.10(a) a demurrer may be brought where the court has no jurisdiction of the
subject of the cause of action alleged in the pleading.  Furthermore, demurrer for uncertainty will be
sustained only where the complaint is so bad that the defendant cannot
reasonably respond.  CCP §
430.10(f).  
However, in construing the
allegations, the court is to give effect to specific factual allegations that
may modify or limit inconsistent general or conclusory allegations. Financial
Corporation of America v. Wilburn, 189 Cal.App.3rd 764, 769 (1987). And, if the
facts pled in the complaint are inconsistent with facts which are incorporated
by reference from exhibits attached to the complaint, the facts in the
incorporated exhibits control. Further, irrespective of the name or label given
to a cause of action by the plaintiff, a general demurrer must be overruled if
the facts as pled in the body of the complaint state some valid claim for
relief. Special demurrers are not allowed in limited jurisdiction courts. (CCP
§ 92(c).)
 
Leave to amend must be allowed
where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. Goodman v.
Kennedy, 18 Cal.3d 335, 348 (1976). The burden is on the complainant to show
the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.) 
 
Finally, CCP section 430.41
requires that “[b]efore filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining
whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be
raised in the demurrer.” (CCP §430.41(a).) The parties are to meet and confer
at least five days before the date the responsive pleading is due. (CCP
§430.41(a)(2).) Thereafter, the demurring party shall file and serve a
declaration detailing their meet and confer efforts. (CCP §430.41(a)(3).)
 
b.     Meet and Confer
Cross-Defendants filed meet and
confer declarations with their demurrer, and the Court will rule on the
demurrer on its merits.  
 
c.     Parties’
Positions
Cross-Defendants demur to the cross-complaint
as brought by Autrey, contending (a) Autrey is a misjoined party and her claims
do not belong in the lawsuit.  They
contend Autrey’s claims do not arise out of the same transaction, occurrence,
or events as the complaint or the Knabes’ cross-complaint.  Additionally, Cross-Defendants contend the
purpose of joining Autrey in the cross-complaint is to establish liability on
the part of Cross-Defendants based on prior similar bad acts, but such acts are
not admissible per Evidence Code §1101(a). 
  
 
Cross-Complainants oppose the
demurrer.  They argue Autrey’s claims are
properly joined in the lawsuit because they arise out of the same series of
occurrences that form the basis of the Knabes’ cross-complaint, and share
common questions of law and fact. 
Additionally, Cross-Complainants contend Autrey has an interest adverse
to Plaintiffs in connection with the main complaint in this action, because she
is a member of the HOA that Plaintiffs have sued.  Finally, they argue Cross-Defendants will not
be prejudiced by the joinder of Autrey in the action, and their argument
concerning §1101(a) is premature.  
 
d.     Law
re: Joinder of Co-Plaintiffs
California law permits joinder of
plaintiffs and defendants as long as there is a single common question of law
or fact affecting each of the persons joined.  
Anyone may join as a co-plaintiff, or be sued as a defendant, if they
have or claim an interest “in the property or controversy which is the subject
of the action.”  CCP §§378(a)(2),
379(a)(2).  Any person may join as a co-plaintiff,
or be joined as a defendant, if:
•           A
right to relief is asserted by, or against, them jointly, severally, or in the
alternative; and
•           The
right to relief arises out of the same transaction or series of transactions;
and
•           There is at least one question of law
or fact common to all parties joined.  CCP
§§378(a)(1), 379(a)(1).
The requirement that the right to
relief arise from the same transaction or series of transactions is construed
broadly. It is sufficient if there is any factual relationship between the
claims joined (and this tends to merge with the “common question” requirement.  Petersen v. Bank of America (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th
238, 249;  State Farm Fire & Cas. Co.
v. Superior Court (1996) 45 Cal.App.4th 1093, 1113.  
 
Demurrer is proper when plaintiffs
lack sufficient unity of interest (CCP §378), or there is no common question of
law or fact as to the defendants (CCP §379). 
Where the ground for demurrer is misjoinder (improper parties), the Code
is silent concerning prejudice, but case law is to the contrary: i.e., a
demurrer for misjoinder will be overruled if the defendant shows no prejudice
suffered or interests impaired by the misjoinder.  Anaya v. Superior Court (1984) 160 Cal.App.3d
228, 231.  
 
In practical effect, this means
only the persons improperly joined can raise this ground for demurrer. (A
proper party-defendant will rarely be injured by joinder of unnecessary or
improper parties.) Moreover, such prejudice can rarely be determined at the
demurrer stage; i.e., it rarely would appear on the face of the plaintiff's
complaint.  Royal Surplus Lines Ins. Co.,
Inc. v. Ranger Ins. Co. (2002) 100 Cal.App.4th 193, 198.  
 
e.     Analysis
While the issue of whether Autrey’s
cross-complaint arises out of the same transactions, events, and/or occurrences
as the complaint and/or the Knabes’ cross-complaint, the demurrer is overruled
due to the Oftadehs’ inability to show prejudice at the pleading stage.  The Oftadehs argue they will be prejudiced
because the Knabes will use Autrey’s experience to show “prior bad acts” in
violation of Evidence Code §1101(a). 
This showing is not apparent from the face of the cross-complaint, and
can be determined only as the evidence stage of the proceedings draws
near.  
 
f.      Conclusion
The demurrer is overruled.  The Oftadehs are ordered to file an answer to
the cross-complaint within ten days.  
 
Cross-Defendants are ordered to
give notice.   
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative.  If
the parties do not submit on the tentative, they should arrange to appear
remotely.