  Case Number:  22LBCV01046    Hearing Date:   August 20, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiff, Nena Maynez filed this
action against Defendant, Cristina Cruz-Madrid for partition of the parties’
jointly owned real property.  
 
2.     Prior
Motion to Enforce Settlement
The Court has held three prior
hearings on Defendant’s motions to enforce settlement.  The first hearing occurred on 2/29/24.  Prior to the hearing, the Court issued a
tentative ruling including the following language:
The Court was originally scheduled
to hear this motion on 2/29/24.  Prior to
the hearing, the Court issued the following tentative ruling:
The parties entered into a
settlement agreement pursuant to which Defendant would pay Plaintiff $305,000
and, upon completion of all payments, Plaintiff would quitclaim title to the
subject property to Defendant.  Defendant
has made all payments to Plaintiff, but Plaintiff has not quitclaimed title to
the property to Defendant.  Defendant
seeks an order enforcing the settlement pursuant to CCP §664.6; specifically,
Defendant seeks an order requiring the Court to act as excelsior and sign the
quitclaim deed on behalf of Plaintiff.   

 
CCP §664.6 clearly permits the
Court to reduce the parties’ settlement to a legal judgment when one party is
in breach of the settlement agreement. 
Specifically, §664.6(a) provides, in relevant part:
If parties to pending litigation
stipulate, in a writing signed by the parties outside of the presence of the
court or orally before the court, for settlement of the case, or part thereof,
the court, upon motion, may enter judgment pursuant to the terms of the
settlement.
 
Defendant fails, however, to cite
any specific authority permitting the Court to “act as excelsior” and sign the
quitclaim deed itself on behalf of Plaintiff. 
The Court knows of no such authority. 
Absent such authority, the Court is not inclined to fashion this unique
remedy.  
 
If Defendant submits a proper
proposed judgment reflecting the terms of the parties’ settlement, the Court
will process the judgment.  If Plaintiff
continues to fail to comply with the terms of the settlement, once entered as a
judgment, Defendant may pursue any remedies for violation of the terms of the
judgment, including but not limited to contempt of court.  
 
The second hearing was held on
4/04/24.  Defendant had not submitted
additional argument, but had submitted a proposed judgment.  The Court indicated it would permit Plaintiff
time to oppose the proposed judgment.  
 
On 6/20/24, the Court held a status
conference.  The Court noted that the
proposed judgment was contested, and set a hearing on the issue for
7/25/24.  However, no party filed any
papers concerning the proposed judgment prior to 7/25/24, and therefore, on
7/25/24, the Court continued the hearing to 8/20/24.  
 
3.     Motion
to Enforce Settlement
On 7/31/24, Defendant filed papers
in support of her request to enforce the settlement.  Defendant’s motion seeks issuance of a
judgment making clear that Defendant is the sole owner of the subject property.  In the alternative, Defendant seeks an order
requiring Plaintiff to return the $305,000 cash payment already made back to
Defendant and restoring the case to the civil active list.
 
On 8/09/24, Plaintiff filed a
response to the motion.  Plaintiff
indicates she does not object to signing the quit claim deed, but she needs
Defendant to obtain a new loan on the property and take her off the loan or,
alternatively, sign something clarifying that she will indemnify Plaintiff in
the event the mortgagor ultimately seeks recovery of funds from Plaintiff on
the loan.  
 
The Court has not received any
response from Defendant to Plaintiff’s response.  That said, Defendant addressed this argument
in the moving papers.  Defendant
indicates, in the moving papers, that there is only one loan on the subject
property, and ONLY Defendant, not Plaintiff, is on the loan.  Specifically, Defendant points to her own
declaration, filed on 4/18/24, that includes a copy of the only Note on the
subject property, which is solely in her own name.  
Absent any showing that there is
any loan with Plaintiff as a borrower, the Court finds Plaintiff’s objections
spurious.  That said, the Court is not
clear that the proposed judgment is the correct mechanism for enforcement of
the settlement agreement.  The proposed
judgment includes the following language:
The Court finds that Defendant
Cristina Cruz-Madrid, as Trustee of the Cristina Cruz-Madrid Revocable Family
Trust dated July 29, 2019 has acquired full, complete, and undivided fee-simple
ownership of 472 West 18th Street, San Pedro, California 90731 [APN:
7456-028-021] from Plaintiff Nena Maynez.
 
First, it is not clear what the
effect of this judgment would be.  Could
the judgment be recorded in order to clarify ownership?  Second, as the Court has previously
indicated, would it not be better to have the judgment simply reflect the terms
of the parties’ settlement agreement? 
The judgment can simply say that Plaintiff is ordered to quit claim the
property to Defendant immediately.  The
Court understands this is more in line with a typical order than a typical
judgment, but it is not clear that the Court can sign a judgment including a
term not specifically provided for in the parties’ settlement agreement.  In the event Plaintiff fails to comply with
the terms of the judgment, Defendant would have the opportunity to proceed by
way of contempt proceedings to ensure compliance.  
 
The Court wishes to hear from the
parties, at the time of the hearing, concerning exactly how the judgment should
be crafted to ensure Defendant ultimately obtains ownership of the subject
property.  
 
The Court asks Counsel to make
arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing on the motion to enforce
settlement.  