 Case Number:  24LBCV00437    Hearing Date:   August 20, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiffs, Eric and Carly
Chevalier filed this action against Defendants, Bowl Choi, Inc., Golden Bowl
Charbroiled Teriyaki, David Yashar, and Pibson Partners, LLC for private
nuisance, aiding and abetting private nuisance, trespass to land, and
negligence.      
 
The crux of Plaintiffs’ complaint
is that Defendants reside in a home near Defendants’ restaurant, which emits
smoke and odors without effective filtration. 

 
2.     Motion
to Strike
a.     Meet and Confer
Defense Counsel declares the
parties met and conferred by email and telephone, but were unable to resolve
the issues presented on the motion to strike. 

 
b.     Punitive
Damages
Bowl Choi moves to strike
Plaintiffs’ prayer for punitive damages, contending there are no facts pled
with specificity that show fraud, malice, or oppression.  
 
Plaintiffs’ opposition does not
meaningfully detail why Plaintiffs believe imposition of punitive damages is
appropriate.  Plaintiffs restate the
facts from their complaint, then conclude the facts are sufficient.  Plaintiffs do not address the lack of
specificity of allegations against Choi, as opposed to the other defendants,
and do not address the failure to plead malice, fraud, or oppression.  
 
The motion to strike is therefore
granted.  Plaintiffs ask for leave to
amend in the event the motion is granted, but fail to indicate how they would
amend if given leave to do so.  The Court
therefore denies leave to amend.  
 
c.     Aiding
and Abetting
Defendant moves to strike all
references to aiding and abetting, noting that aiding and abetting is not a
legally recognized claim in California civil law.  Plaintiffs expressly indicate that they do
not oppose the motion to strike these references, and therefore the references
are stricken without leave to amend.  
 
d.     Damages
Under Civil Code §3334
Defendant moves to strike
Plaintiffs’ prayer for damages under Civil Code §3334, correctly noting that
these section provides a remedy for damages for wrongful “occupation of real
property,” which is not alleged in Plaintiffs’ complaint.  Plaintiffs’ opposition is silent concerning
the motion to strike this prayer for damages, and therefore it is granted
without leave to amend.  
 
e.     Conclusion
The motion to strike is granted
without leave to amend.  Defendant is
ordered to file an answer to the complaint, with the subject allegations and
prayer deemed stricken, within ten days. 
  
 
3.     Case
Management Conference
The parties are reminded that there
is a CMC on calendar concurrently with the hearing on the motion to
strike.  The Court asks Counsel to make
arrangements to appear remotely at the CMC and hearing on the motion to strike.  