..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is the summary in YAML format:

```
Case:
  Number: 23LBCV02312
  Hearing Date: November 21, 2024
  Dept: S25

People:
  Plaintiff: Unknown (Plaintiff's counsel)
  Defendant: Ford

Companies:
  None

Places:
  None

Dates:
  November 7, 2024
  December 11, 2024

Events:
  Defendant's Requests for Production of Documents, Set One
  Plaintiff's supplemental responses to Defendant's Requests for Production of Documents, Set One
  Defendant's Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests for Production of Documents, Set One
  Request for Verifications to Plaintiff's Discovery Reponses

Money:
  None

Intentions:
  Defendant Ford seeks verified, timely discovery responses
  Plaintiff's counsel attempts to comply with discovery obligations

Facts:
  Plaintiff's responses are not verified
  Defendant Ford's motion is granted

Disputes:
  Lack of verified discovery responses

Acts:
  Defendant Ford's requests for production
  Plaintiff's supplemental responses
  Defendant Ford's motion to compel

Agreements:
  Plaintiff is ordered to provide supplemental, verified responses

Laws:
  Discovery obligations (e.g. Rule 34 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure)

Case Citations:
  None

Statutes:
  None

Roles:
  Judge: [Unknown]
  Plaintiff's counsel: [Unknown]
  Defendant Ford: [Unknown]

Significant Statements:
  "While the Court recognizes the efforts made by Plaintiff's counsel to comply with discovery obligations and counsel's attempts to locate Plaintiff, Defendant Ford is entitled to verified, timely discovery responses."
```

And here is a summary of the judge's tentative ruling in English text:

The judge's tentative ruling relates to a dispute over discovery responses. The Plaintiff's counsel submitted supplemental responses to the Defendant's Requests for Production of Documents, Set One, but these responses are not verified. The judge recognizes the Plaintiff's counsel's efforts to comply with discovery obligations, but finds that the Defendant Ford is entitled to verified and timely discovery responses. As a result, the judge grants the Defendant Ford's Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests for Production of Documents, Set One and Request for Verifications to Plaintiff's Discovery Reponses. The judge orders the Plaintiff to provide supplemental, verified responses by December 11, 2024.
