 Case Number:  24SMCV00596    Hearing Date:   August 13, 2024    Dept:  I The matter is here on a motion for summary judgment and for
an FSC.  The court turns first to the
MSJ.
 
Defendant brings this motion in the instant UD action on the
ground that plaintiff failed to register the property as required by the rent
stabilization ordinance (RSO).  The
penalty for failing to do so is that the owner cannot accept any rent.  According to the defense, the property in
question is a condominium.  The RSO
exempts single family homes from its reach, but not condominiums.  Because this is a condominium, defendant
argues, it is subject to the RSO and the failure to register it is fatal to the
case.  In support, defendant has
submitted the deed, which states that the property is a condominium unit.  Plaintiff opposes, stating that the board has
refused to allow him to register. 
 
The court notes that the deed is a bit more ambiguous.  It has two parts.  One is a divided interest in a particular
unit (Unit 7), which is the unit that plaintiff rented to the defendant.  It also has a 1/12 undivided interest in the
common areas.  It is part of a
condominium development.
 
In opposition, plaintiff states that he did register the
until for a number of years.  But in
2018, he was informed by the Board that he could no longer register it because
it had an “ineligible Land Use Code.” 
After being so informed by the Board, he stopped registering the
property or trying to do so. 
Recently—after suit was filed but before the motion—he double checked.  He personally went to the Board, and it
confirmed that he could not register the property.  To make sure, he went to Building and Safety,
but they provided no information.  He
went to Housing, but they too provided no information.  Then he went to Billing, and they confirmed
what he had been told in 2018.  (Tseng
Decl., and Ex. 3 thereto.)
 
The court notes two things. 
First, the ordinance is ambiguous. 
It exempts single family homes. 
It appears that the property in question is what a lay person would view
as a single family home.  The court
gleans that it is a standalone dwelling on a divided interest of the
development.  It is not a part of a
converted apartment building; it does not share walls or pipes or wiring or the
like with other units any more than would two neighbors owning separate
parcels.  The term “condominium” is not
defined in the ordinance, or at least no definition has been pointed out.  The court does not believe it is irrational
or improper for this home to be exempt. 
But the converse is also true. 
The development as a whole is called a condominium.  It is (one would think) governed by an
association that has responsibilities that might be stronger than a normal
neighborhood association.  There are
common areas jointly owned.  It would not
be irrational nor improper for this home to be within the RSO either.
 
It appears that the agency has interpreted the RSO as
exempting this property.  From the lofty
halls of the US Supreme Court to this lowly trial court, judges are looking at
how much deference to give agency interpretations of statutes (or
ordinances).  The court will not go into
that detailed analysis (and the court is, of course, not governed by federal
law here).  But suffice it to say that
the court is inclined to give the agency some deference in the interpretation
of the RSO.  The court notes that such
agencies generally are not shy about drawing units into their purview, and so a
determination that this property is outside the RSO’s scope is hardly one that
the court ought to look at with a jaundiced eye.  The court will therefore adopt the Board’s
interpretation and find that this unit need not be registered.  The court notes that in many ways the reasons
that single family homes are exempted would apply to this unit.
 
But there is a bit more. 
This is an unusual case.  The
court has seen a number of cases with units that are plainly within the RSO but
that have not been registered because the owner simply does not want to be
bothered or have any agency tell the owner what can or cannot be charged as
rent.  But this plaintiff is not such a
person.  This plaintiff did register the
property until he was told by the Board that he could no longer do so.  This is no scofflaw; this is someone who has
made an effort to comply.  That does not
change the ordinance’s meaning, of course. 
But it is relevant.  Where the
reason that property is not registered with the Board is because the Board
refuses to allow it to be registered, it would be a deprivation of due process
to then tell the owner that the owner is in violation of the registration
requirement and impose a penalty. 
Fundamental due process theory tells us that a person cannot be
penalized by the government for not doing something that the government will
not allow the person to do.  And such a
result would be a grossly unfair windfall to the tenant.  Defendant’s argument is that he is entitled
to stay on the property forever, rent free (or at least until the Board changes
its mind, if ever).  While the court
would go there if the law absolutely required it, the court does not go
willingly to such an absurd and unfair position.
 
For the foregoing reasons, the motion for summary judgment
is DENIED.
 
Given that, the court will inquire about the trial.  The court is in receipt of the joint jury
instructions and the joint statement of compliance.  The joint statement is only applicable to
limited jurisdiction cases.  This is an
unlimited jurisdiction case. 
Accordingly, it is not sufficient. However, on August 12, 2024, the
parties filed joint witness and exhibit lists that are essentially the same,
and that is closer.  But there are still
some missing documents.  The court will
inquire as to the situation.  The court
notes that it is in trial, so this case may trail that one.  If the case is ready for trial, then the
court will continue it to a Friday so as to accommodate the jury trial starting
today.