  Case Number:  19STCV34640    Hearing Date:   March 7, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



JOSE R.
   ROCALEON,              Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
HARLEY-DAVIDSON
   MOTOR COMPANY, INC., et al.,
 
                   Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 19STCV34640
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSITION OF LEAH
   ORLOFF
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
March 7,
  2024



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
On September 30, 2019, plaintiff Jose
R. Rocaleon (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against defendant Harley-Davidson
Motor Company Group, LLC (“Defendant”) (erroneously sued as Harley-Davidson
Motor Company, Inc.), TMCHB, Inc. dba Huntington Beach Harley- Davidson
(“TMCHB”) (erroneously sued as The Motorcycle Company, LLC), and Precision
Performance, LLC dba TNT Cycle Works.
          On February
4, 2024, Plaintiff filed this motion to compel the deposition of Defendant’s
employee, Leah Orloff. Plaintiff did not request an order compelling the
production of documents identified in the deposition notice. Therefore, this
order is only applicable to Ms. Orloff’s deposition testimony. 
II.         
LEGAL
STANDARD
Any party may obtain discovery, subject
to restrictions, by taking the oral deposition of any person, including any
party to the action.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.010.)  A properly served deposition
notice is effective to require a party or party-affiliated deponent to attend
and to testify, as well as to produce documents for inspection and
copying.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.280,
subd. (a).)
“If, after service of a deposition notice, a party . . .
without having served a valid objection . . . fails to appear for examination,
or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any document . . .
described in the deposition notice, the party giving notice may move for an
order compelling deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the production . . .
of any document . . . described in the deposition notice.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a).)
III.       
DISCUSSION       
Plaintiff argues that the deposition is
necessary because Ms. Orloff submitted a declaration in support of Defendant’s
motion for summary judgment as a “Principal Engineer in Product Integrity” at
Defendant’s Product Development Center. Defendant argues that Plaintiff cannot
take Ms. Orloff’s deposition because she was already deposed as its Person Most
Knowledgeable (“PMK”) and is an expert witness. As discussed further below,
neither argument is availing.
First, the Code of Civil Procedure
“does not preclude taking one subsequent deposition of a natural person who has
previously been examined” as a result of their designation as a PMK. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2025.610, subd. (c).) 
          Second, the
Court rejects Plaintiff’s argument that Defendant waived any objections on the
grounds that Ms. Orloff was an expert witness or that her testimony is
protected by the attorney-client privilege or work product doctrine; Code of
Civil Procedure section 2025.460 allows specific objections to the disclosure
of privileged or protected information if they are “timely made during the
deposition.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.460, subd. (a).) Also, objections to the
relevancy of testimony are unnecessary and are not waived by the failure to
make them before or during the deposition. (Id., subd. (c).)
Nevertheless, the Court agrees with Plaintiff that Ms. Orloff’s testimony is
not expert witness testimony. Ms. Orloff declared that she has personal
knowledge of factual issues as a result of her job duties as Defendant’s
employee and Defendant offers no evidence that she is a retained expert witness.
The Court additionally notes that, Defendant did not “promptly” move for a
protective order on the grounds that Ms. Orloff would be subjected to
“unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, or oppression.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.420, subd. (a).)  
IV.        
CONCLUSION
Plaintiff’s motion is GRANTED and
Defendant is ordered to produce Ms. Orloff for deposition within 20 days of the
date of this Order. 
 
 
Moving party to give notice.
 
 
Dated this 7th day of March
2024
 




 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 