 Case Number:  23AHCV02716    Hearing Date:   March 7, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



CITY OF HOPE NATIONAL MEDICAL CENTER, 
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
BLUECROSS
   BLUESHIELD OF SOUTH CAROLINA, et al.,
 
                   Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
  )
  )
  )


     CASE NO.:  23AHCV02716
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.

March
   7, 2024




 


)


 



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
On November 17, 2023, plaintiff City of
Hope National Medical Center (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against defendants
Blue Cross and Blue Shield of South Carolina (“South Carolina Blue”)
(erroneously named as “BlueCross BlueShield of South Carolina”) and California
Physicians’ Service dba Blue Shield of California ("Defendant”). Plaintiff
brings this action to recover $1,647,205.52 plus applicable interest in
reimbursement owed for medically necessary hospital care provided to a patient
(“Patient D.B.”). Plaintiff asserts causes of action for intentional
misrepresentation, negligent misrepresentation, promissory estoppel, unjust
enrichment, breach of written contract, breach of implied contract, and quantum
meruit.
On January 12, 2024, Defendant filed
this motion to dismiss or stay action pending arbitration. Defendant notes it
is already involved in an arbitration proceeding with Plaintiff regarding the
reimbursements at issue in this action. South Carolina Blue was named as
another party in the arbitration, but the arbitrator dismissed South Carolina
Blue upon finding that it was not a party to the Agreement between Defendant
and Plaintiff. The arbitrator stayed the proceeding for 180 days, during which
Plaintiff filed this action against South Carolina Blue and Defendant. 
Plaintiff filed an opposition brief on February
23, 2024. 
Defendant filed a reply brief on
February 29, 2024. 
II.         
LEGAL
STANDARD
In deciding a motion to compel
arbitration, trial courts must decide first whether an enforceable arbitration
agreement exists between the parties, and then determine the second gateway
issue whether the claims are covered within the scope of the agreement. (Omar
v. Ralphs Grocery Co. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 955, 961.) The party seeking
arbitration has the “burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration
agreement by a preponderance of the evidence, while a party opposing the
petition bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence any
fact necessary to its defense.” (Ruiz v. Moss Bros. Auto Group, Inc.
(2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 836, 842.) The trial court “sits as the trier of fact,
weighing all the affidavits, declarations, and other documentary evidence, and
any oral testimony the court may receive at its discretion, to reach a final
determination.” (Id.) General principles of contract law govern whether parties
have entered a binding agreement to arbitrate. (Pinnacle Museum Tower Assn.
v. Pinnacle Market Development (US), LLC (2012) 55 Cal.4th 223, 236; see
also Winter v. Window Fashions Professions, Inc. (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th
943, 947.)¿
III.       
DISCUSSION
“The party seeking to compel
arbitration bears the burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration
agreement.” (Flores v. Evergreen at San Diego, LLC (2007) 148
Cal.App.4th 581, 586.) 
The fee-for-service hospital agreement
between Plaintiff and Defendant (“Agreement”) provides the following under
Section 9, entitled “Resolution of Disputes”: 
9.2 Arbitration of Disputes Any dispute
(other than a claim of medical malpractice) between the parties that exceeds
the jurisdiction of Small Claims Court and that was reviewed through, but not
resolved by, the Appeal Process set forth in Section 9.1 shall be settled by
final and binding arbitration in Los Angeles, California. Arbitration shall be
conducted by and under the Commercial Rules of the American Arbitration
Association. The arbitrator shall be a retired judge of the State of
California, unless otherwise agreed to by the parties. The arbitration decision
shall be binding on both parties. The arbitrator shall be bound by applicable
state and federal law and shall issue written findings of fact and conclusions
of law. The arbitrator shall have no authority to award damages or provide a
remedy that would not be available to such prevailing party in a court of law
nor shall the arbitrator have the authority to award punitive damages. The cost
of the arbitration shall be shared equally by Hospital and Blue Shield;
provided that each party shall be responsible for its own attorneys' fees and
costs 
 
(Schoenfeld Decl., Exh. A.) Section 9.1(e) of the Agreement also
states that “[Defendant] and [Plaintiff] agree to submit any disputes that
cannot be resolved by the Appeal Process to binding arbitration pursuant to
Section 9.2 of this Agreement.” (Id. at p. 24.) 
Additionally, the Agreement includes a
section relating to “Other Payors” such as South Carolina Blue for whom
Defendant provides administrative services (e.g., claims processing) if their
members use Defendant’s contracted facilities. The Agreement states, in
relevant part: 
11.1 Other Payors. Blue Shield may
contract with employers, insurance companies, associations, health and welfare
trusts, or other organizations to provide administrative services for plans
provided by those entities that are not underwritten by Blue Shield (including
both local and Blue Cross/Blue Shield National Accounts Programs). In addition,
Blue Shield may extend this Agreement to managed care arrangements established
by Blue Shield subsidiaries, or by persons or entities using the network Blue
Shield has established pursuant to agreements with CareTrust Networks and Blue
Shield of California Life & Health Insurance Company. All such entities
shall be referred to as “Other Payors.” Blue Shield shall require that the
health programs of Other Payors include provisions to encourage the use of Blue
Shield Providers (including Hospital).
 
11.2 Responsibility for Payment.
Hospital agrees to look solely to Other Payors for payment for services
furnished to Members of such Other Payor. If Hospital is unable to obtain
payment from any Other Payor, Blue Shield shall, upon notice from Hospital,
make reasonable efforts to assist Hospital in obtaining such payment. However,
any continuing dispute with respect to such payment shall be settled solely
between Hospital and such Other Payor.
 
(Schoenfeld Decl., ¶ 3, Exhibit A at p. 27.
The Agreement requires the parties to
arbitrate “any dispute between the parties”, which includes tort and
contractual liabilities. (EFund Capital Partners v. Pless (2007) 150
Cal.App.4th 1311, 1322.) Plaintiff’s claims stem from the Agreement because
Plaintiff claims that payment was due under the Agreement and that Defendant
did not cause South Carolina Blue to pay for the services provided to Patient
D.B. (Compl., ¶¶ 31-34, 95-98.) 
In opposition, Plaintiff does not
dispute that its claims in this action relate to the same claims of
underpayment brought in arbitration. Instead, Plaintiff argues that its fraud
claims are not arbitrable because they are premised on Defendant’s
representations made during the Appeals Process, therefore, the dispute could
not be “subject to review” through the Appeals Process. However, this
interpretation ignores Section 9.1, which states that the parties agree to
submit any disputes which cannot be resolved by the Appeals Process to
arbitration. 
Plaintiff also argues that the motion
should be denied pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.2(c) because
it is required to litigate its claims against South Carolina Blue and there is
a risk of inconsistent rulings. South Carolina Blue has been dismissed from
this case due to lack of personal jurisdiction and there is no indication that
any other court action is pending. 
Therefore, Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.2(c) is inapplicable.
And, even if another action were pending, thus creating the risk of
inconsistent rulings, the Court would not be inclined to deny Defendant’s
motion, but would stay the instant action until Plaintiff’s claims against
South Carolina Blue have been resolved in court before ordering Plaintiff to
arbitrate its claims against Defendant. (Metis Development LLC v. Bohacek (2011)
200 Cal.App.4th 679, 692-693.) 
IV.        
CONCLUSION
Accordingly, Defendant’s motion is GRANTED
and the action is dismissed. 
Dated
this 7th
day of March, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.