  Case Number:  20STCV48300    Hearing Date:   March 14, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
December 17, 2020, Plaintiff Petrolina Marcial-Sernas (“Plaintiff”) filed this
action against Defendants Carly Chiarella
(“Defendant”) and Does 1-50 for negligence. 
On
February 1, 2023, Defendant filed an answer. 
On
February 13, 2024, Defendant filed a motion for leave
to take Plaintiff’s physical examination in the specialty of neurology.  The motion was set to be heard on March 14,
2024.  Plaintiff did not file an
opposition. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for June 12, 2024. 
PARTY’S REQUESTS 
Defendant
asks the Court to order Plaintiff to appear for a physical examination on March
25, 2024 at 12:30 p.m. with Lorne Sheldon Label, M.D., whose specialty is neurology,
at 2190 Lynn Road, Suite 380, Thousand Oaks, California 91360. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.220 provides: 
“(a) In any case in which a plaintiff is seeking
recovery for personal injuries, any defendant may demand one physical
examination of the plaintiff, if both of the following conditions are
satisfied: 
“(1) The examination does not include any diagnostic
test or procedure that is painful, protracted, or intrusive. 
“(2) The examination is conducted at a location within
75 miles of the residence of the examinee. 
“(b) A defendant may make a demand under this article
without leave of court after that defendant has been served or has appeared in
the action, whichever occurs first. 
“(c) A demand under subdivision (a) shall specify the
time, place, manner, conditions, scope, and nature of the examination, as well
as the identity and the specialty, if any, of the physician who will perform
the examination. 
“(d) A physical examination demanded under subdivision
(a) shall be scheduled for a date that is at least 30 days after service of the
demand. On motion of the party demanding the examination, the court may shorten
this time. 
“(e) The defendant shall serve a copy of the demand
under subdivision (a) on the plaintiff and on all other parties who have
appeared in the action.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., §
2032.220.) 
          Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.310
provides: 
“(a) If any
party desires to obtain discovery by a physical examination other than that
described in Article 2 (commencing with Section 2032.210), or by a mental
examination, the party shall obtain leave of court. 
“(b) A motion
for an examination under subdivision (a) shall specify the time, place, manner,
conditions, scope, and nature of the examination, as well as the identity and
the specialty, if any, of the person or persons who will perform the
examination. The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration
under Section 2016.040. 
“(c) Notice
of the motion shall be served on the person to be examined and on all parties
who have appeared in the action.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.310.) 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.320 provides in
part: 
“(a) The
court shall grant a motion for a physical or mental examination under Section
2032.310 only for good cause shown. 
* * *
  “(d) An order
granting a physical or mental examination shall specify the person or persons
who may perform the examination, as well as the time, place, manner, diagnostic
tests and procedures, conditions, scope, and nature of the examination. . . ." 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.320, subds. (a), (d).) 

DISCUSSION 
Defendant
moves for leave of court to take an additional physical examination of
Plaintiff under Code of Civil Procedure sections 2032.310 and 2032.320.  Plaintiff has asserted that she is experiencing neurological
symptoms (headaches) and has received treatment from a neurologist in addition
to treatment for orthopedic injuries. 
Therefore, Defendant argues, Defendant should be allowed to conduct a neurological
examination in addition to the previous orthopedic examination. 
Defendant
has satisfied the requirements of Code of Civil Procedure sections 2032.310 and
2032.320.  The Court finds good cause and
grants the motion. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS Defendant Carly Chiarella’s motion for leave to take Plaintiff
Petrolina Marcial-Sernas’s physical examination
in the specialty of neurology.  The Court orders Plaintiff Petrolina Marcial-Sernas to appear for a physical
examination on March 25, 2024 at 12:30 p.m. (or on another date and time on
which the parties agree) with Lorne Sheldon Label, M.D., whose specialty is
neurology, at 2190 Lynn Road, Suite 380, Thousand Oaks, California 91360. 
The
purpose of the examination is to determine, evaluate, and assess Plaintiff’s
physical condition and claims of injury in controversy in the specialty of
neurology. Claims of continuing, ongoing, or permanent problems, if any,
including claims for future care, are within the examination’s scope. 
The
examination will be consistent with the practices of neurology in Southern
California and consultations in connection with those practices. It will
consist of procedures and tests routinely used by physicians examining patients
for conditions such as those Plaintiff alleges in this action, including the
taking of an oral history. The examination may include taking a medical
history during which the examiner will evaluate response to treatment along with a
past medical history focused on the affected body parts and systems. The
examiner will obtain current chief complaints and then perform a physical
examination focused on the claimed injuries. The examination shall not exceed six
hours. 
The examination will include a cranial nerve exam, motor exam checking
range of motion, strength, reflexes, and tone, including palpation, of the
head, neck, upper back, and shoulders, stance and gait exam, and sensory exam
of upper extremities, coordination, sensory cerebellar exam, mental status
exam, and Montreal cognitive assessment. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days. 