 Case Number:  21STCV19791    Hearing Date:   March 14, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposing and reply papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
May 26, 2021, Plaintiff Sedigheh Hajizadeh (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendants Magic Mountain, LLC
(“Defendant”) and Does 1-50 for general negligence and premises liability. 
On
June 21, 2021, Defendant filed an answer. 
On
May 5, 2023, the Court granted in part Defendant’s ex parte application and
continued the trial from July 13, 2023 to September 20, 2023.  The Court granted Defendant’s request that
the discovery and law-and-motion deadlines related to Defendant’s motion to
compel Plaintiff’s independent medical examination be based on the new trial
date.  The Court declined to extend other
discovery and law-and-motion deadlines. 
On
July 28, 2023, the Court granted Plaintiff’s motion to continue the trial and
continued the trial from September 20, 2023 to March 1, 2024.  The Court granted Plaintiff’s request to
continue the expert discovery cut-off dates to correspond with the new trial
date but denied Plaintiff’s request to continue the fact discovery cut-off date
to correspond with the new trial date. 
On
January 9, 2024, Defendant filed a motion for leave to conduct Plaintiff’s
psychological examination and for sanctions. 
The motion was set for hearing on March 14, 2024.  On March 1, 2024, Plaintiff filed an
opposition. On March 7, 2024, Defendant filed a reply. 
On
January 11, 2024, the Court granted in part Defendant’s ex parte application
and continued the trial from March 1, 2024 to May 6, 2024.  The Court denied without prejudice the
request to reopen discovery with the exception of the March 14, 2024 hearing on
Defendant’s motion for leave to conduct Plaintiff’s psychological examination. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for May 6, 2024. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Defendant
asks the Court for leave to conduct Plaintiff’s examination with psychologist
Heleya Rad, PsyD., via remote video conference on February 15, 2024 at 9:00
a.m.  Defendant also asks the Court to
impose $2,760.00 in sanctions on Plaintiff. 
Plaintiff
asks the Court to deny the motion and impose sanctions of $2,000.00 on
Defendant. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
          Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.310
provides: 
“(a) If any
party desires to obtain discovery by a physical examination other than that
described in Article 2 (commencing with Section 2032.210), or by a mental
examination, the party shall obtain leave of court. 
“(b) A motion
for an examination under subdivision (a) shall specify the time, place, manner,
conditions, scope, and nature of the examination, as well as the identity and
the specialty, if any, of the person or persons who will perform the examination.
The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040. 
“(c) Notice
of the motion shall be served on the person to be examined and on all parties
who have appeared in the action.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.310.) 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.320 provides in
part: 
“(a) The
court shall grant a motion for a physical or mental examination under Section
2032.310 only for good cause shown. 
* * *
  “(d) An order
granting a physical or mental examination shall specify the person or persons
who may perform the examination, as well as the time, place, manner, diagnostic
tests and procedures, conditions, scope, and nature of the examination. . . ."
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.320, subds. (a), (d).) 

DISCUSSION 
Defendant
moves for leave of court to conduct a mental examination of Plaintiff.  Defendant argues that Plaintiff received
psychological treatment from Anthony E. Reading, M.Phil., Ph.D., of UCLA
Resnick Neuropsychiatric Hospital in July 2023 and Plaintiff’s counsel received
a report from Dr. Reading dated August 16, 2023.  However, Plaintiff’s counsel did not disclose
the report or Plaintiff’s treatment with Dr. Reading to Defendant’s counsel
until December 31, 2023.  According to Defendant,
Plaintiff should have disclosed this information five months earlier in
response to Defendant’s discovery requests. 
Instead, Defendant asserts, Plaintiff withheld this information until the
time to notice a timely independent medical examination had expired.  Defendant argues that it is entitled to
conduct a psychological examination to evaluate Plaintiff’s newly revealed claims
of psychological injury and claim for future psychological care. 
Defendant
has attached a copy of the parties’ June 2023 stipulation which withdrew
Plaintiff’s traumatic brain injury claim and provided that “Plaintiff however
is permitted to make a claim at trial for physical injuries (other than a
traumatic brain injury), associated emotional distress/pain and suffering, and
psychological injuries which include, but are not limited to: post-traumatic
stress disorder, anxiety, depression, panic attacks, adjustment disorder, and
sleep disorders.  [¶]
 As psychological claims remain at
issue: Plaintiff may call as a witness, at time of trial, a clinical
psychologist to testify about any psychological injuries.  [¶]  Likewise, Defendant may elect to call a
clinical psychologist to testify about any psychological injuries at time of
trial. [¶]  Defendant may further notice
a [defense medical examination] of Plaintiff by a clinical psychologist on
proper statutory notice.”  (Stipulation ¶¶
10-14.) 
Defendant
argues that Plaintiff has waived the stipulation’s requirement of proper statutory
notice because “Plaintiff has not timely produced the discovery responses and
documents relating to Plaintiff’s care . . . .” 
(Motion p. 9; see ibid. [“Plaintiff’s argument relating to
timeliness is waived as it is the Plaintiff who has not timely produced
relevant documents although Defendant’s counsel has asked for Code compliant
responses for over five months”].) 
Plaintiff
opposes Defendant’s motion, arguing the deadline specified in the parties’
stipulation has passed.  The stipulation
allows Defendant to “notice a [defense medical
examination] of Plaintiff by a clinical psychologist on proper statutory
notice.”  (Stipulation ¶ 14.)  According to Plaintiff, Defendant did not
provide proper statutory notice because the discovery cut-off for a mental
examination was in August 2023 but Defendant first noticed the examination in
January 2024.  Moreover, Plaintiff argues,
the stipulation is binding because Defendant has not moved to set it aside and the Court has not granted that relief. 
Even
without the stipulation, Plaintiff argues, the Court lacks authority to compel
a mental examination because discovery has closed and Defendant has not moved
to reopen discovery.
In
addition, Plaintiff denies that she withheld
information about her psychological condition and treatment until December 31,
2023.  Plaintiff points to the stipulation,
which, as noted, states that “psychological claims remain at issue” and that Plaintiff
“is permitted to make a claim at trial for physical injuries (other than a
traumatic brain injury), associated emotional distress/pain and suffering, and
psychological injuries which include, but are not limited to: post-traumatic
stress disorder, anxiety, depression, panic attacks, adjustment disorder, and
sleep disorders.”   Plaintiff also cites her August 2021 discovery responses identifying anxiety and depression as
injuries resulting from the accident and naming a psychologist and doctors who
provided evaluation, recommendations, and treatment. 
Plaintiff also denies that Dr. Reading treated her.  Instead, Plaintiff asserts, her counsel
retained Dr. Reading to perform a forensic evaluation.  As a result, Plaintiff argues, she was not required to
disclose Dr. Reading until he was designated as an expert witness. 
Defendant
does not directly address Plaintiff’s assertion that, in her August 2021 discovery
responses, she disclosed psychological injuries and named a psychologist and
doctors who provided evaluation, recommendations, and treatment.  Instead, Defendant asserts in its reply that
the need for a psychological examination “first arose” when Plaintiff produced
Dr. Reading’s report in December 2023. 
(Reply p. 7.) 
The
Court has reviewed Plaintiff’s August 2021 discovery responses and concludes
that Plaintiff did not withhold information about her psychological
symptoms.  Defendant had sufficient
information to support a request for a psychological examination when it
received Plaintiff’s August 2021 discovery responses.  Defendant’s subsequent receipt of Dr. Reading’s
report does not change this conclusion. 
Defendant
has not shown good cause for an order granting leave to conduct Plaintiff’s
physical examination because Defendant was not
diligent in attempting to conduct the examination.  Moreover, an order granting leave to conduct
Plaintiff’s the examination is likely to prevent the case from going to trial
on May 6, 2024 as scheduled.  
The
Court denies Defendant's motion and request for sanctions.  The Court also denies Plaintiff’s request for
sanctions for lack of statutory authorization. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court DENIES Defendant Magic Mountain, LLC’s motion for leave to take Plaintiff
Sedigheh Hajizadeh’s psychological examination and
for sanctions. 
The
Court DENIES Plaintiff Sedigheh
Hajizadeh’s request for sanctions. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.