 Case Number:  23AHCV02819    Hearing Date:   May 13, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



ALMA ROSA LOPEZ, et al.,
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
BEADOR
   CONSTRUCTION COMPANY, INC., et al.,
 
                   Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 23AHCV02819

 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEMURRER FILED BY DEFENDANT STATE OF CALIFORNIA
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
May 13,
   2024



 
I.       INTRODUCTION
         On December
6, 2023, plaintiffs Gabriela Quintero Lopez and Jorge Arnulfo Hernandez Lopez, individually
and as successors-in-interest to Alma Rosa Lopez (“Decedent”), along with
Claudia Lorena Martinez (“Martinez”) (collectively, “Plaintiffs”), filed this
action against defendants Beador Construction Company (“Beador”), State of
California (“Defendant”), County of Los Angeles, and City of Pasadena asserting
causes of action for negligence, premises liability, and dangerous condition of
public property. Plaintiffs allege that on or about August 25, 2023, Martinez
and Decedent were driving on the westbound 134 Freeway when a piece of metal
from a construction site became airborne and went through the vehicle striking
Decedent in the head. (Compl., ¶ 17.) Decedent later passed away from her
injuries on September 16, 2023.
Plaintiffs allege that Defendant
negligently failed to maintain, inspect, control, and supervise the
construction site and the equipment that was used on the site, and its failure
to do so caused the piece of metal to strike Decedent through the vehicle.
(Compl., ¶18.) Plaintiffs assert common law actions for negligence and premise
liability as well as a claim for dangerous condition of public property
pursuant to Government Code section 835. 
II.     LEGAL
STANDARDS
A demurrer tests the legal sufficiency
of the pleadings and will be sustained only where the pleading is defective on
its face. (City of Atascadero v. Merrill
Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Inc. (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 445,
459.)  “We treat the demurrer as
admitting all material facts properly pleaded but not contentions, deductions
or conclusions of fact or law. We accept the factual allegations of the complaint
as true and also consider matters which may be judicially noticed.  [Citation.]” (Mitchell v. California Department of Public Health (2016) 1
Cal.App.5th 1000, 1007; Del E. Webb Corp.
v. Structural Materials Co. (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 593, 604 [“the facts
alleged in the pleading are deemed to be true, however improbable they may
be”].) Allegations are to be liberally construed. (Code Civ. Proc., § 452.) In
construing the allegations, the court is to give effect to specific factual
allegations that may modify or limit inconsistent general or conclusory
allegations.  (Financial Corporation of America v. Wilburn (1987) 189 Cal.App.3rd
764, 769.)
III.    DISCUSSION
“The California Tort Claims Act
provides that ‘a public entity is not liable for an injury,’ ‘except as
otherwise provided by statute.’  (Gov.
Code, § 815, subd. (a).) As that language indicates, the intent of the Tort
Claims Act is to confine potential governmental liability, not expand it.” (Eastburn v. Regional Fire Protection
Authority (2003) 31 Cal.4th 1175, 1179.) Therefore, public entities cannot
be liable for common law theories of general negligence and premises liability.
(Miklosy v. Regents of University of
California (2008) 44 Cal.4th 876, 899 [“section 815 abolishes common law
tort liability for public entities”].) Instead, liability against a public
entity must be authorized by statute. (Eastburn, supra, 31 Cal.4th at p. 1179.) A demurrer
is properly sustained where a plaintiff fails to allege a statutory basis for
liability against a public entity. (Tilton v. Reclamation Dist. No. 800
(2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 848, 863-864.)
Defendant demurs to Plaintiffs’ common
law claim for negligence and premises liability because Plaintiffs fail to
allege a statutory basis for liability against a public entity. As part of both
causes of action, Plaintiffs allege that Defendant “knew or should have known
that [Beador] [was] unfit to operate the equipment at the [construction site]
and knew or should have known the equipment was defective and therefore,
[Defendant] [was] negligent in hiring, retaining, training, and entrusting the
subject equipment to [Beador].” (Compl., ¶¶ 23, 34.) Since the First and Second
Causes of Action do not identify a statutory basis for liability, Defendant’s
argument is well-taken and the demurrer is SUSTAINED as to the First Cause of
Action with 20 days’ leave to amend. The demurrer to the Second Cause of Action
for premises liability is SUSTAINED without leave to amend because the
applicable statute imposing liability on a public entity for a dangerous
condition of property is Government Code section 835. (Longfellow v. County
of San Luis Obispo (1983) 144 Cal.App.3d 379, 383.)
The Court acknowledges that Plaintiffs
refer to Government Code section 815.4 in their opposition brief, which
provides that a public entity is liable for the torts of an independent
contractor, such as Beador, “to the same extent that the public entity would be
subject to such liability if it were a private person.” (Gov. Code, § 815.4.) But
this section is only included as part of the Third Cause of Action. Also, there
are no factual allegations from which an independent contractor relationship
between Defendant and Beador may be inferred. (Shields v. County of San
Diego (1984) 155 Cal.App.3d 103.) 
The Court additionally notes that while
the demurrer to these two causes of action is sustained, the Court rejects
Defendant’s claim that Plaintiffs are obligated to identify any particular
employee who committed a tortious act in order to state a valid claim. (C.A.
v. William S. Hart Union High School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 872.) The
Court also rejects Defendant’s blanket assertion that a public entity cannot be
held liable for the acts and omissions of its independent contractors because Government
Code section 840 prevents public employees from being liable for dangerous
conditions of public property. The language of section 840 is more limited and
provides that “except as provided in this article”, a public employee is not
liable for injuries caused by a condition of public property where the
condition exists because of any act or omission of the employee within the
scope of employment. Government Code section 840.2, in turn, sets forth the
conditions in which a public employee may be found liable. 
Next, the Court addresses Defendant’s
demurrer to Plaintiffs’ Third Cause of Action for dangerous condition of public
property pursuant to Government Code section 835. Defendant argues that
Plaintiffs do not identify a dangerous condition. The Court agrees. A dangerous
condition of public property must be a physical defect. (Zelig v. County of
Los Angeles (2002) 27 Cal.4th 1112, 1135.) Here, Plaintiffs only allege
that Defendant (and its employees and/or agents) “chose to use defective
equipment that ultimately led to a piece of metal going airborne and striking
[P]laintifs’ vehicle.” They do not identify a physical condition on the
property which is dangerous or defective. 
Therefore, the demurrer to the Third
Cause of Action is SUSTAINED with 20 days’ leave to amend. 
IV.    CONCLUSION
The demurrer to the First and Third
Causes of Action is SUSTAINED with 20 days’ leave to amend. 
The demurrer to the Second Cause of
Action is SUSTAINED without leave to amend. 
 
Moving party to give notice.
 
Dated
this 13th
day of May 2024
 




 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 