  Case Number:  22AHCV00871    Hearing Date:   May 13, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



LYCO 1, LLC, 
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
MICHAEL
   CHENG,
 
                   Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 22AHCV00871
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: CROSS-DEFENDANTS' DEMURRER TO CROSS-COMPLAINT FILED BY TRUONG
   NGOC
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
May 13,
   2024



 
On October
18, 2022, plaintiff Lyco 1, LLC (“Lyco 1”) filed this action for partition
against defendant Michael Cheng (“Michael”) regarding real property at 3603
Vane Avenue, Rosemead, California 91770 (the “Property”). Lyco 1 is comprised
of Randy Cheng (“Randy”) and Alice Liu (“Alice”), who are husband and wife;
Randy and Michael are brothers. (As many of the parties in this action share
the same last name, the Court refers to them by their first names for clarity
and intends no disrespect.) 
On August 23,
2023, Michael filed the First Amended Cross-Complaint against Lyco 1, Randy,
Alice, Truong Ngoc (“Ngoc”), Steve Q. Cheng, Lydia Cheng, and Fiona Cheng. Ngoc
is the mother of Randy and Michael. 
On November
21, 2023, Ngoc filed a cross-complaint against Lyco 1, Randy, and Alice,
claiming an undivided 50% tenant in common fee title to the Property. Ngoc
seeks a declaratory judgment establishing a life estate in the Property for her
benefit. Ngoc also seeks a judicial determination to settle and establish a
resulting trust. 
On January
25, 2024, Lyco 1, Alice, and Randy (collectively, “Cross-Defendants”) filed
this demurrer to Ngoc’s Cross-Complaint. Cross-Defendants argue that the
cross-complaint fails to join Michael and that the court is unable to impose a
life estate on a property owner. 
Failure to Join Michael as a Party
A party may demur to a cross-complaint
on the ground that “[t]here is a defect or misjoinder of parties.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 430.10, subd. (d).) Code of Civil Procedure section 389 (a) provides: 
A
person who is subject to service of process and whose joinder will not deprive
the court of jurisdiction over the subject matter of the action shall be joined
as a party in the action if (1) in his absence complete relief cannot be
accorded among those already parties or (2) he claims an interest relating to
the subject of the action and is so situated that the disposition of the action
in his absence may (i) as a practical matter impair or impede his ability to
protect that interest or (ii) leave any of the persons already parties subject
to a substantial risk of incurring double, multiple, or otherwise inconsistent
obligations by reason of his claimed interest. If he has not been so joined,
the court shall order that he be made a party.
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 389, subd. (a).) 
          Cross-Defendants
argue that it is necessary to join Michael because Ngoc’s cross-complaint
implicates his interests in the Property. But Ngoc’s cross-complaint only seeks
a judicial determination of Cross-Defendant’s one-half interest in the Property.
The controversy does not exist between Ngoc and Michael, but between Ngoc and
Cross-Defendants. Also, Michael is already a party to this action because he
has filed his own cross-complaint against Ngoc and Cross-Defendants. Therefore,
there is no risk that his ability to protect his own interests in the Property
are impaired or impeded. Accordingly, the demurrer to Ngoc’s entire
cross-complaint on this ground is OVERRULED. 
          Failure to
State Sufficient Facts
          Next,
Cross-Defendants demur to Ngoc’s cause of action for declaratory relief on the
grounds that Ngoc fails to state sufficient facts to support her claim to a
life estate in the Property. A party may demur to a pleading on the ground that
the pleading “does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).) 
“A life estate is an estate whose
duration is limited to the life of the person holding it or of some other
person.” (Peterson v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2015) 236 Cal.App.4th 844,
850–851.) “A life estate may be granted or reserved by a deed, or it may be
created by a will. If created by deed, it is created on the delivery of the
deed; if created by will, it is created on the death of the decedent. It also
may be created by implication, as when a grantor delivers a deed to a third
party to be given to the grantee on the grantor's death. (Miller and Starr, 4
Cal. Real Est. § 12:20 (4th ed.)) “It is not essential that the term “life
estate” be used in the instrument creating the estate nor that it be declared
expressly to be a life estate if adequate words are used describing its
characteristics and showing an intention to vest a life estate.” (Ibid.)

Ngoc does not allege the factual basis
for her claim that a life estate was created for her, nor does Ngoc explain how
the Court may create a life estate absent any written instrument. Ngoc does not
allege that Cross-Defendants are estopped from asserting the statute of frauds,
nor does she allege any facts supporting such a claim. 
Accordingly, Cross-Defendant’s demurrer
to the First Cause of Action is SUSTAINED with 20 days’ leave to amend. 
 
Moving party to give notice.
 
 
Dated
this 13th
day of May
2024
 




 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot 
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.