  Case Number:  21STCV32906    Hearing Date:   September 19, 2024    Dept:  T HELGAGER V
DOHENY 21STCV32906
 
[TENTATIVE]
ORDER:  Defendants Doheny Vidovich
Partners and De Anza Properties’ Motion to Bifurcate Trial is DENIED.
 
Introduction

Defendants
Doheny Vidovich Partners (Doheny) and De Anza Properties (De Anza)
(collectively, Defendants) moved to bifurcate so as to separate the
determinations of liability and damages regarding Plaintiff Susan Helgager’s
(Plaintiff) First Amended Complaint (FAC).
Discussion 
The Court
may bifurcate trial for the convenience of witnesses, the ends of justice, or
the economy and efficiency of handling the litigation.  (Code Civ. Proc., sec. 598.)  Defendants asserted that trial should be
bifurcated because the liability stage of trial will be straightforward (i.e.,
Defendants intend to call only four or five liability experts).  However, Defendants asserted that the damages
stage of trial will be lengthy due to the many witnesses Defendants intend to
call (i.e., approximately eight or more expert witnesses to attest to damages;
seven or more treating physicians and physical therapists and additional
witnesses to authenticate business records.) 
However, simply based upon the number of witnesses that a party
anticipates it will call is insufficient to show that convenience of witness or
judicial economy will be served.  Without
more facts, Defendants failed to show how these policies will be promoted.  
Defendants
further argued that prejudice will be mitigated through bifurcation.  Defendants’ argument is lacking in any
supportive facts.  There are no facts to
show how the trier of fact would be prejudiced or biased against or for one
side.  Defendants’ argument is
conclusory.  In the reply, Defendants
argued prejudice would exist based upon the facts being claimed (i.e.,
significant injuries sustained due to the toilet malfunction).  However, the argument makes assumptions of
the trier of fact that are not supported by any facts.  The argument assumes that the trier of fact
will be swayed by the significant injuries and will not render an unprejudiced
or unbiased decision.  There are
insufficient facts to support the argument. 
Defendants’ reliance upon the existence of jury instructions to limit
such prejudice or bias is insufficient grounds to show prejudice upon
Defendants.
Defendants’
arguments are not persuasive to show how bifurcation will promote the
convenience of witnesses or judicial economy. 
Defendants failed to meet their initial burden as the moving parties.  
To clarify,
the Court did not consider the parties’ arguments related to motions for
summary judgment, whether Defendants could or could not obtain a 100% verdict,
or the parties’ purported settlement negotiations.
The motion
to bifurcate is DENIED.  
IT IS SO
ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE NOTICE.