  Case Number:  BC665798    Hearing Date:   June 17, 2024    Dept:  200 LOS ANGELES
SUPERIOR COURT 
WEST DISTRICT -
BEVERLY HILLS COURTHOUSE 
DEPT. 200
 
TENTATIVE
RULING ON OSC RE: STRIKING TESTIMONY OF BARBARA BECK  
 
Consumer Advocacy
Group v. Gel Spice Company, et al., Case No. BC 665798
Hearing Date: June
17, 2024, 8:30 a.m. 
 
 
INTRODUCTION 
 
        The issue
here is the appropriate remedy when a lawyer causes her in-house consultant to contact
the witness about her testimony while she is on the witness stand. 
 
STATEMENT OF FACTS 
 
          On May
13, 2024, during the ongoing bench trial in this case, one of Defendants’
experts, Dr. Barbara Beck, testified remotely for her cross-examination. (As
with all the witnesses, her direct testimony was by declaration, pursuant to
stipulation.) Due to a technical error, the Court overheard a conversation
between one of Defendants’ counsel, Carol Brophy, and the law firm’s scientific
consultant, David Easter, both of whom were participating remotely, about the
completeness of a document the witness was being shown. Later that morning,
after a break in the interim, the witness volunteered that the document in
question she had been shown could not be relied upon – the exact subject Ms.
Brophy had raised earlier. 
 
          The Court
questioned whether this testimony was the result of communications with Ms.
Brophy - notwithstanding that the witness had been on the witness stand - and
sought an explanation from counsel. The witness testified she had reviewed what
counsel had caused be sent to her during the break. Brophy promptly acknowledged
her fault in communicating with a witness while on the witness stand. The Court
issued an order to show cause why the witness’ testimony should not be stricken
where it appeared that her testimony on a material issue resulted from a
communication from counsel that neither the Court nor opposing counsel would
have known about but for the earlier inadvertent disclosure of a conversation
on that subject. The Court gave Defendants an opportunity to provide evidence
concerning precisely what occurred, and to brief the issue, prior to the Court
taking any action. The Court also permitted Plaintiff to brief the issue. 
 
          The
examination of Barbara Beck was not completed and was continued to a later
date. Her further examination has not yet taken place; this OSC being heard
beforehand. 
 
          On May
31, 2024, both sides submitted their responses to the OSC. 
          It
appears that Brophy told Easter to provide – during the break - the information
she wanted the witness to review. Easter provided the information to Beck
before the break. Beck testified she did not review the e-mail until the break.
Defendants acknowledge LASC Rule 3.114, providing that “[n]o consultations
between counsel and a witness while on the stand will be permitted without
leave of court.” They argue that Calif. Rules of Court (“CRC”), Rule 2.30, is
the relevant rule for determining what action to take if this rule was violated.
They contend that they did not violate Rule 3.114 because Brophy did not review
the e-mail until the break and that under CRC Rule 2.30(b) any sanctions should
be imposed on counsel and not adversely affect the party’s case. They argue
also that ultimately the issue is whether the other side was unduly prejudiced,
citing Sabella v. Southern Pac. Co. (1969) 70 Cal.2d 311, 321. In
conclusion, they contend the most appropriate action where there may have been
coaching of a witness is for the trier of fact to draw its own conclusion,
citing Barksdale School Portraits v. Williams, 339 F.R.D. 341 (D. Mass. 2021).

 
          Plaintiff
explains in significant detail why what Brophy did was to change Beck’s
testimony on an issue that is highly material to what is at stake in this case.
Specifically, CAG contends that the document Beck was shown, a glossary of
definitions, defines “Developmental Toxicity” in line with OEHHA to include the
postnatal effects of prenatal exposures, which Plaintiff contends is the
correct definition. By contrast, Defendants allegedly contend that the glossary
definition is not relevant for Proposition 65 purposes. Plaintiff argues that the
definition of developmental toxicity is relevant to what sort of exposure
analysis is required. Beck allegedly contends that lead does not have acute
developmental effects and therefore averaging exposure over time is appropriate
which would not otherwise be the way to analyze exposure to a teratogen in
food. By contrast, Plaintiff contends that there should not be averaging in
assessing acute exposure. Plaintiff contends Beck changed her testimony related
to this definition from how she testified before conferring with counsel and
reviewing the e-mail sent her. 
 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
          The Court
will not address the underlying issues at this time where they do not change
the material facts on this OSC and the Court does not have Defendants’ position
on these issues. 
 
          The Cout
finds Easter contacted Beck while she was on the stand about her testimony. Beck,
however, seemingly did not consider that contact until the break. The
communication was intended to be made during a break though it was made before
the break. Where the witness and counsel are both remote, those in the
courtroom (including Plaintiff’s counsel) would not know there is this ongoing
communication while the witness is testifying. Moreover, they would have less
ability to know that there is communication while on a break than they would if
everyone was in the courthouse. While counsel could have asked the witness if
she spoke to counsel during a break, what is material that occurred here was
communicated before the break. 
 
          The Court
finds Defendants’ counsel violated LASC Rule 3.114. 
 
          Defendants’
reliance on CRC Rule 2.30 is misplaced. Rule 2.30 pertains to violations of the
CRC, not the separate rules of this Court or of other bodies. (IRMO Bianco
(2013) 221 Cal.App.4th 826) In addition, CRC Rule 2.30 pertains to
imposition of monetary sanctions, not as here whether to strike testimony. Hence,
their argument that under this rule the client should not pay for the actions
of their counsel is not applicable. In fact, LASC Rule 3.10 provides that the
court may impose appropriate sanctions on a party for violation of LASC Rules. 
 
          That
said, any sanction should be tailored to the wrongdoing and how the action
impacts the fairness of trial. On the one hand, counsel “fell on her sword” and
admitted what occurred. The Court does not believe anything devious was
intended, even if the conduct was overzealous. On the other hand, had the
earlier conversation not been heard, the effect of the communication would have
changed a witness’s testimony without the Court or the other side knowing about
it. This was wrongful conduct, even if inconsistent with the otherwise high
level of practice demonstrated in this case. 
 
          The Court
does not find in this bench trial though that Plaintiff was ultimately prejudiced
or that the fairness of trial was compromised. Counsel (on both sides) have
already been very involved in the presentation of their experts’ testimony by
way of their direct examinations having been by declarations prepared on some
level by counsel. 
 
          In
deciding this case, the Court will consider what occurred and Plaintiff’s
briefing will be useful at that time in determining what weight to give Beck’s
testimony and how that impacts the underlying issues at stake. The Court
believes that in assessing credibility the Court has sufficient ability to
address this issue and after further consideration does not need to strike all
or part of Beck’s testimony. Moreover, Plaintiff still has an opportunity, if
necessary, to examine her on this issue.  
 
CONCLUSION 
 
          For these reasons, the Court
discharges the OSC. Notwithstanding the violation of this Court’s basic trial
rules, striking all or the relevant part of Dr. Beck’s testimony would not be
useful to reaching an understanding of the complex regulatory and scientific
issues on which both parties have already invested significant resources. Instead,
the Court will consider the materiality of any change in her testimony as part
of the analysis of all the evidence and applicable law and regulations after the
case is submitted for decision. That scrutiny should itself be sufficient consequence
to address this significant lapse in professional conduct.  