  Case Number:  24PSCV02565    Hearing Date:   January 6, 2025    Dept:  G Plaintiff
Interpool’s Application for Default Judgment
Respondent: NO OPPOSITION
TENTATIVE RULING
Plaintiff’s
Application for Default Judgment is DENIED
WITHOUT PREJUDICE.
BACKGROUND
This is a breach of contract action. On
January 2, 2024, Plaintiff and Defendants executed an “Equipment Interchange
Agreement For Marine Chassis Pools.” 
Plaintiff alleges that Defendants took chassis from the chassis pool and
thereafter failed to pay Plaintiff for the rent of said chassis.
On August 8, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
complaint against Defendants 3Sunzeal Trucking, Inc., Qinhong Lou, and Does 1-20,
alleging the following causes of action: (1) breach of contract, (2) common
counts (within last 4 years), (3) common counts (within last 2 years), (4) injunctive
relief and surrender order, (5) action for possession of personal property, and
(6) conversion. On August 22, 2024, Plaintiff’s process server served Defendants
3Sunzeal Trucking, Inc. and Qinhong Lou with substitute service in Pomona, CA.
On November 12, 2024, the court entered
default against Defendants 3Sunzeal Trucking, Inc., Qinhong Lou after Defendants
failed to file a timely answer. On November 12, 2024, Plaintiff dismissed
Defendant Qinhong Lou and Does 1-20 without prejudice, submitting an
application for default judgment as to Defendant 3Sunzeal Trucking, Inc., along
with supporting declarations.
A Case Management Conference is set for
January 6, 2025 in Dept. G (Pomona).
LEGAL
STANDARD
Code of Civil Procedure section 585
permits entry of a default judgment after a party has filed to timely respond
or appear.  A party seeking judgment on the default by the court must file
a Request for Court Judgment, and: (1) a brief summary of the case; (2)
declarations or other admissible evidence in support of the judgment requested;
(3) interest computations as necessary; (4) a memorandum of costs and
disbursements; (5) a proposed form of judgment; (6) a dismissal of all parties
against whom judgment is not sought or an application for separate judgment
under CCP § 579, supported by a showing of grounds for each judgment; (7)
exhibits as necessary; and (8) a request for attorneys’ fees if allowed by
statute or by the agreement of the parties.  (Cal. Rules of Court 3.1800.)
ANALYSIS
Plaintiff seeks default judgment against
3Sunzeal Trucking in the amount of $29,052.27, including $26,251.00 in damages,
interest of $1,107.26, attorneys’ fees of $1,177.53, and $516.48 in costs. For
the following reasons, the court DENIES
WITHOUT PREJUDICE Plaintiff’s application and will permit
Plaintiff an opportunity to submit a supplemental declaration.
First, Plaintiff requests the court award $1,107.26 in attorney fees, which the
court finds is permissible under paragraph 12 of the subject “Equipment Interchange Agreement For Marine Chassis
Pools” executed by the parties.  However,
Plaintiff’s declaration submitted by Howard Goodman, Esq. is silent as to how attorneys’
fees were calculated.  Plaintiff is
directed to submit a supplemental declaration addressing attorneys’ fees.
Second, Garcia requests $516.48 in
costs.  Plaintiff fails, however, to
specify how costs were calculated.  Plaintiff is directed to submit a supplemental
declaration addressing costs.
Third, as to Plaintiff’s
calculation of interest, the court accepts as the declaration of Howard
Goodman, Esq. and its calculated as accurate and awards interest of $1,107.26.
Finally, as to Plaintiff’s request
for an injunction requiring the return of chassis being used by Defendant 3Sunzeal
trucking, the court finds good cause to order the return of said chassis.  The declaration of Howard Goodman, Esq. in
support of the injunction, however, is vague as to the number of chassis
possessed by Defendant 3Sunzeal Trucking which belong to Plaintiff, and which
should be returned to Plaintiff. 
Further, Plaintiff neglects to provide the court with any identifying information
upon which the court may tailor an order for the return of the subject
chassis.  Plaintiff is directed to submit a supplemental
declaration addressing the quantity and identification of the subject chassis
to be returned.
CONCLUSION
Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s application for default judgment
is DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE.