 Case Number:  23PSCV03472    Hearing Date:   April 4, 2024    Dept:  K Defendant Jesus
Camacho’s Demurrer to Plaintiff Brandy Camacho’s Complaint for Damages is SUSTAINED.
The court will hear from counsel for Plaintiff as to whether leave to amend is
requested, and as to which cause(s) of action, and will require an offer of
proof if so.
 
Background    
 
Plaintiff Brandy Camacho
(“Plaintiff”) alleges that her father, Jesus Camacho (“Defendant”), neglected
and abused her while she was a minor. 
 
On November 8, 2023, Plaintiff filed
a complaint, asserting a cause of action against Defendant and Does 1-10 for:
 
1.      Negligent
Child Abuse
 
A Case Management Conference is set
for April 4, 2024. 
 
Legal Standard 
 
A
demurrer may be made on the grounds that the pleading, inter alia, does not
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action and/or is uncertain.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subds. (e) and (f).) A demurrer may also be made on
the basis that there is a defect or misjoinder of parties. (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.10, subd. (d).)
 
When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in
context. In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of
the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A
demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic
matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the
pleading or are judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984)
153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905 [citations omitted].) At the pleading stage, a
plaintiff need only allege ultimate facts sufficient to apprise the defendant
of the factual basis for the claim against him. (Semole v. Sansoucie (1972) 28 Cal. App. 3d 714, 721.) “[A] demurrer
does not, however, admit contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law
alleged in the pleading, or the construction placed on an instrument pleaded
therein, or facts impossible in law, or allegations contrary to facts of which
a court may take judicial knowledge.” (S.
Shore Land Co. v. Petersen (1964) 226 Cal.App.2d 725, 732 [citations
omitted].) 
 
Discussion 
 
Defendant demurs to Plaintiff’s complaint, per Code of Civil
Procedure § 430.10, subdivisions (d)-(f), on the basis that it fails to join a
mandatory party, fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action and is uncertain. 
 
Defendant first asserts that Plaintiff has failed to join
her mother, Gabriela Camacho (“Gabriela”), and that Gabriela is a mandatory
party. A demurrer made on this ground, however, lies only where it appears from
the face of the complaint or judicially noticed matters that a third person is
a “necessary” or “indispensable” party to the action and must be joined before
the action may proceed. This is not the case here. Defendant’s references to
Gabriela are extrinsic to the face of the complaint and are not the subject of
judicial notice. Defendant’s demurrer made on the basis of subdivision (d) is
overruled.
 
“The elements of any
negligence cause of action are duty, breach of duty, proximate cause, and
damages.” (Peredia v. HR Mobile Services,
Inc. (2018) 25 Cal.App.5th 680, 687.) It does not appear to the
court that Plaintiff has pled the elements of duty, breach or causation.
 
Defendant’s demurrer is
sustained on the basis of subdivision (e).