 Case Number:  23PSCV03862    Hearing Date:   April 4, 2024    Dept:  K Counsel for Plaintiff David Raymond Dauer’s
(i.e., Abkarian and Associates) Motion to be 
Relieved as Counsel is GRANTED, effective upon the filing of a proof of service showing

service of the
signed order upon the Client at the Client’s last known address.
 
Background    
 
Plaintiff David Raymond Dauer
(“Plaintiff”) sustained injuries in a December 7, 2022 motor vehicle accident. 
 
On December 13, 2023, Plaintiff filed a complaint, asserting a cause of
action against Ulises Sanchez, Evans Good Group Ltd., Benestar Holdings, LLC
and Does 1-50 for:
 
1.     
Auto
Negligence
 
A Case Management Conference is set for May 9, 2024.
 
Discussion 
 
Abkarian and
Associates (“Firm”) seeks to be relieved as counsel of record for Plaintiff
(“Client”).
 
The court has discretion to allow an attorney to withdraw,
and such a motion should be granted provided that there is no prejudice to the
client and it does not disrupt the orderly process of 
justice. (See
Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994) 21
Cal.App.4th 904, 915; People v. Prince
(1968) 268 Cal.App.2d 398.)
 
California
Rules of Court (“CRC”) Rule 3.1362 requires (1) a notice of motion and motion
directed to the client (made on the Notice
of Motion and Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil form (MC-051)); (2) a
declaration stating in general terms and without compromising the
confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship why a motion under Code of
Civil Procedure § 284(2) is brought instead of filing a consent under section
284(1) (made on the Declaration in
Support of Attorney's Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil form
(MC-052)); (3) service of the notice of motion and motion, the declaration, and
the proposed order on the client and on all other parties who have appeared in
the case; and (4) a proposed order relieving counsel (prepared on the Order Granting Attorney's Motion to Be
Relieved as Counsel—Civil form (MC-053)). The court may delay the effective
date of the order relieving counsel until proof of service of a copy of the
signed order on the client has been filed with the court.
 
Attorney Gregor Aleksanian (“Aleksanian”) represents that Firm is having
difficulty communicating with the Client and that the Client insists on a
course of action that is not agreeable. The Client advised Firm that he will
seek new representation; however, the Client has not presented Firm with a
substitution of counsel.
 
Aleksanian states that he has served the Client by mail at the Client’s
last known address with copies of the motion papers served with this
declaration and that he has confirmed, within the past 30 days, that the
address is current, “by all available options.” The court notes that Aleksanian
has failed to identify what options were available to him; however, the
accompanying proof of service reflects that the Client has been served via
certified mail. 
 
The court
determines that the requirements of Rules of Court Rule 3.1362 enumerated above

have been
sufficiently met. 
 
Accordingly, the
motions are granted, effective upon the filing of a proof
of service showing 
service of the signed order upon
the Client at the Client’s last known address.
 