On October 15, 2021, Plaintiff Rafie Rafiee filed the Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) against Defendants Daniel Dangoor, Iman Eshaghyan, Mina Eshaghyan, Re Broker Group, Inc., Re eBroker Group Inc., Coldwell Banker Realty, Golcheh Family Trust Dated August 3, 2016 (“Trust”), Morad Golcheh, and Nahid Golcheh for (1) intentional misrepresentation, (2) negligent misrepresentation, (3) unjust enrichment, (4) conversion, (5) violation of the UCL, (6) breach of contract, (7) breach of implied contract, and (8) violation of Penal Code § 496.  Plaintiff alleges that when he purchased certain real property, Defendants promised to pay for and provide certain furniture, which Plaintiff never received.  Plaintiff also alleges that Defendants promised that Plaintiff could have his cabinets stained for only $2,000 when they knew or should have known the real cost was about $10,000.  With respect to Defendants Morad Golcheh and Nahid Golcheh, only the first three causes of action remain.Defendants Morad Golcheh and Nahid Golcheh now seek summary judgment because they contend that they never represented that they would provide furniture and never made any representations about staining cabinets.  Instead, they argue that the listing agents, personally, made such representations.  They also contend that they did not conspire to deprive Plaintiff from having furniture or staining.  They further assert that Plaintiff has no damages.The law of summary judgment provides courts “a mechanism to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.”  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  In reviewing a motion for summary judgment or adjudication, courts employ a three-step analysis: “(1) identify the issues framed by the pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving party has negated the opponent’s claims; and (3) determine whether the opposition has demonstrated the existence of a triable, material factual issue.”  (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.)  The moving party bears the initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue, in which case the burden shifts to the opposing party to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a triable issue.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c(p)(2).)  To show a triable issue of material fact exists, the opposing party may not rely on the mere allegations or denials of the pleadings, but instead must set forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto.  (Aguilar, at p. 849.)  Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.”  (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)Defendants have carried their burden to show that the contract at issue required that the listing agents, and not the seller, provide furniture and staining.  Indeed, the contract states, “1. Furniture at showing or equivalent to be included by Listing Agents, not Seller, 2. Kitchen cabinets to be stained white or cream, Listing Agents will pay up to $2,000.”  Further, discovery responses show that Defendants never made a separate promise to guarantee the furniture and staining.  Contrary to Plaintiff’s argument—which would eviscerate the plain language of the agreement—simply signing the agreement does not mean that the Defendants undertook the listing agents’ obligations.Defendants also adequately cite their own testimony that they never entered into an agreement with the listing agents to deprive Plaintiff of the furniture and staining.The Opposition, which consists of two substantive paragraphs, fails to raise a triable issue of fact.Therefore, the Motion for Summary Judgment is granted.  The objections are overruled.A proposed judgment is to be provided within 10 days.Moving parties to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic.