This is an employment action.  Plaintiff Martin Ansoorian seeks to quash business record subpoenas issued to his current and prior employers Dapper Fellas Barbershop, Games and Cards Superstore, Guess ? Inc., OE Automotive, and VinFast USA by Defendant Tesla Motors, Inc.The subpoenas at issue seek documents relating to (1) hiring (2) circumstances surrounding termination or separation of employment, (3) compensation and benefits, (4) job performance, performance reviews, (5) job duties, titles, positions held, (6) requests for vacation, sick time, and/or leave of absences, (7) complaints Plaintiff made alleging harassment, discrimination, etc., and (8) administrative complaints.Code of Civil Procedure § 1987.1 authorizes courts to quash a subpoena entirely, modify it, or direct compliance with it upon the court’s own terms and conditions, including protective orders. In addition, the court may take other appropriate means to protect parties or nonparties “from unreasonable or oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the right of privacy.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 1987.1(a).)  Discovery devices are meant to facilitate litigation, not wage it.  (Calcor Space Facility, Inc. v. Superior Court (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 216, 221.)As an initial matter Defendant argues that the Motion is late: “Under Code of Civil Procedure section 1985.6(f), a motion to quash must be served and noticed on opposing counsel and the subpoenaed parties at least five days before the date of production of documents. [ ] Here, the date of production for the Employment Subpoenas was September 20, 2024, yet Plaintiff served and noticed his Motion on September 18, 2024—only two days before the production date.”This lacks merit because CCP § 1985.6(f) states, “The failure to provide notice to the deposition officer does not invalidate the motion to quash or modify the subpoena duces tecum . . . .”Next, the subpoenas are overbroad.  For Plaintiff’s current employer(s), the Court will only allow documents relating to (1) hiring, (2) compensation, and (3) job duties.For Plaintiff’s prior employers, the Court will only allow documents relating to (1) job duties, (2) complaints about discrimination, etc., and (3) administrative complaints.  The Motion to Quash is granted in part.  Given the mixed results, the Court declines to award sanctions.Moving party to give notice.