

 
 
On July 1, 2024, Plaintiffs The
Access Fund I, LP; The Norton Family Living Trust; PG  Mountain Ventures LLC; Buh Dop a Dee
Ventures, LLC; The 2001 Arthur Family Trust; and AKH Global, LLC filed the
operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) for (1) fraudulent misrepresentation,
(2) breach of contract, (3)-(4) breach of fiduciary duty, (5) breach of duty of
loyalty, (6) intentional interference with prospective economic advantage, (7)
successor liability, (8) fraudulent transfer, (9) civil theft, and (10) violations
of the UCL.
Plaintiffs allege, “In April 2022,
Plaintiffs collectively invested $1.15 million in convertible promissory notes
in Dash Radio, Inc. (‘Dash Radio’) pursuant to a Note Purchase Agreement.
Plaintiffs’ investment was premised, in large part, on representations made
that Dash Radio would have a robust business that included an online radio and
a memorabilia authentication service. Instead, defendants drove Dash Radio into
insolvency and misrepresented Dash Radio’s financial state thereby depriving
Plaintiffs of their rights under the Note Purchase Agreement. In a clear breach
of these representations, defendants, at the behest of defendant Scott P.
Keeney (‘Mr. Keeney’), took Dash Radio’s business and concepts and diverted
those opportunities to other entities where Mr. Keeney had a financial interest
and deprived Dash Radio’s investors and creditors of their investment. For
example, defendants diverted Dash Radio’s online radio business to another
entity for below market value, which substantially contributed to Dash Radio’s
inability to repay Plaintiffs.”
Defendant Kevin Tsujihara now demurs
to the first and fourth causes of action for failure to state sufficient facts.
When
considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context,
and “treat the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but
not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Serrano v. Priest (1971) 5 Cal.3d 584,
591.)  “A demurrer tests the pleadings
alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only
where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed.
The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it
stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”  (Hahn
v. Mirda¿(2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) 
It is error “to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if the
plaintiff shows there is a reasonable possibility any defect identified by the
defendant can be cured by amendment.”  (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist.¿(1992)
2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)
Defendant first argues that a direct
breach of fiduciary duty claim is barred under Delaware law and that Plaintiffs
do not and cannot plead a derivative claim.
As Defendant points out, “The
creditors of a Delaware corporation that is either insolvent or in the zone of
insolvency have no right, as a matter of law, to assert direct claims for
breach of fiduciary duty against its directors.”  (N. Am.
Catholic Educ. Programming Found., Inc. v. Gheewalla (Del. 2007) 930 A.2d
92, 103.)  The FAC does not assert a
derivative claim, and there are no allegations as to a demand.  Therefore, the Demurrer is sustained as to
the fourth cause of action.  
Plaintiffs contend that they can
plead demand futility so as to assert a derivative claim.  The Court will grant 20 days leave to amend
at this juncture.
Defendant also argues that a
conspiracy to defraud has not been pleaded with specificity. 
“The elements of fraud, which give
rise to the tort action for deceit, are (a) misrepresentation (false
representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) knowledge of falsity (or
‘scienter’); (c) intent to defraud, i.e., to induce reliance; (d) justifiable
reliance; and (e) resulting damage.”  (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12
Cal.4th 631, 638, internal quotation marks omitted.) 
“[F]raud must be pled specifically;
general and conclusory allegations do not suffice. [Citations] Thus the policy
of liberal construction of the pleadings . . . will not ordinarily be invoked
to sustain a pleading defective in any material respect.  This particularity requirement necessitates
pleading facts which show how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the
representations were tendered.”  (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12
Cal.4th 631, 645, internal quotation marks omitted.)  
The fraud claim asserts that
Defendants Keeney and Boyce misrepresented Dash Radio’s solvency and that had
Plaintiffs known of Dash Radio’s actual financial status that would have been
an “event of default” making the outstanding balance on the loans immediately
due.   
The FAC sufficiently alleges
misrepresentation/concealment. It is stated that Dash Radio’s insolvency was
hidden despite inquiries.  (FAC ¶
65.)  Plaintiffs point to an email by Boyce
in May 2023 that states that Dash Radio was EBITDA positive.  Plaintiffs point to another email by Boyce in
June 2023 that states that Dash Radio entered into a $9 million dollar
transaction.  Plaintiffs allege this
transaction never took place.  Plaintiffs
allege that Dash Radio was sold in November 2023 for only $200,000 when just
months prior Dash was purportedly negotiating a $15-20 million acquisition with
Amazon.  Dash Radio was allegedly sold to
companies that were founded or owned by Keeney, despite the fact that Keeney
was the CEO of Dash.  It is alleged that
there is an event of default when Dash “admit[s] in writing its inability to
pay its debts generally as they mature”. 
It is alleged that Dash could not pay its debts; that Defendants made
false representations to the contrary; and that had an inability to pay been
admitted, a default would have been called before the asset sale.
Further, Plaintiffs contend that
Tsujihara conspired in this fraud as he knew of the
misrepresentations/concealment and then approved of the asset sale as a
director.  Notably, a conspiracy is “easy
to allege . . . .”  (Choate v. County of Orange (2000) 86 Cal.App.4th 312,
333.)  Overt and independently tortious
conduct in furtherance of the conspiracy need not be alleged (Ramey v. General Petroleum Corp. (1959)
173 Cal.App.2d 386, 403), and general allegations of agreement have been held
sufficient (Bartley v. California
Association of Realtors (1980) 115 Cal.App.3d 930, 934.)  
In sum, the Demurrer is overruled as
to the first cause of action but sustained as to the fourth cause of action,
with twenty days leave to amend.
Moving party to give notice.