This is a wage and hour dispute.Defendants Shidong Jia and Predicine, Inc. seek to transfer venue to the County of Alameda.The burden is on the moving party to establish whatever facts are needed to justify transfer.  Normally, this requires declarations containing admissible evidence, but the court may also consider facts alleged in the moving party's verified complaint if uncontroverted by opposing affidavits.  (Mission Imports, Inc. v. Superior Ct. (1982) 31 Cal.3d 921, 929.)Code Civ. Proc. § 397 provides in relevant part, The court may, on motion, change the place of trial in the following cases:(a) When the court designated in the complaint is not the proper court.. . .(c) When the convenience of witnesses and the ends of justice would be promoted by the change. . . . This is a transitory action with both natural persons and corporate entities.  Code Civ. Proc. § 395(a) is applicable and provides:[T]he superior court in the county where the defendants or some of them reside at the commencement of the action is the proper court for the trial of the action. . . . Subject to subdivision (b), if a defendant has contracted to perform an obligation in a particular county, the superior court in the county where the obligation is to be performed, where the contract in fact was entered into, or where the defendant or any defendant resides at the commencement of the action is a proper court for the trial of an action founded on that obligation, and the county where the obligation is incurred is the county where it is to be performed, unless there is a special contract in writing to the contrary. . . .Here, Defendants indicate that “Predicine’s principal place of business is located in Hayward, California. (Jia Decl., ¶¶ 6, 7.) Plaintiff's Complaint also names Predicine’s Chief Executive Officer, Shidong Jia [ ], as a codefendant; he resides in the Bay Area. The alleged wrongful acts purportedly committed by Predicine and Jia occurred in Predicine’s Hayward office. Given that Predicine’s principal place of business and allege[d] acts giving rise to Plaintiff's Complaint against the Defendants purportedly occurred in Hayward, Plaintiff's Complaint against Defendants should be transferred to Alameda County.”  Defendants also point to a relocation bonus of $100,000 that was apparently given to Plaintiff so that she would move from Los Angeles to Hayward.  The Motion is granted.  This is because there is no opposition, and (a) Defendants reside in Alameda and Santa Clara County, (b) the allegations apparently arise from Plaintiff’s employment in Alameda County, and (c) no evidence has been provided to support the allegation that Plaintiff “worked for Defendants in both Los Angeles County and Alameda County . . . .”  (Compl. ¶ 9.)  Defendants request $3,900 in sanctions.  Code Civ. Proc. § 396b(b) stated, “In its discretion, the court may order the payment to the prevailing party of reasonable expenses and attorney's fees incurred in making or resisting the motion to transfer whether or not that party is otherwise entitled to recover his or her costs of action.  In determining whether that order for expenses and fees shall be made, the court shall take into consideration (1) whether an offer to stipulate to change of venue was reasonably made and rejected, and (2) whether the motion or selection of venue was made in good faith given the facts and law the party making the motion or selecting the venue knew or should have known.”The Court, in the exercise of its discretion, will award reduced sanctions in the amount of $2,000.  Moving party to give notice.