  Case Number:  24STCP01361    Hearing Date:   September 23, 2024    Dept:  37 HEARING DATE:                 Monday, September 23, 2024
CASE NUMBER:                   24STCP01361
CASE NAME:                        ABC Funding, LLC v. Nicholas Gross
TRIAL DATE:                        Not Applicable.  
PROOF OF SERVICE:           OK

                                                                                                                                                            

MOVING PARTY:                 Respondent Nicholas Gross
OPPOSING PARTY:             Petitioner ABC Funding, LLC
PROCEEDING:                      Petition to Vacate
Arbitration Award
OPPOSITION:                        29 July 2024
REPLY:                                  09
August 2024
 
TENTATIVE:                         Respondent’s motion to vacate the
arbitration award is denied. 

                                                                                                                                                

 
MOVING PARTY:                 Petitioner ABC Funding, LLC
 
OPPOSING PARTY:             Respondent Nicholas Gross
PROCEEDING:                      Motion to Confirm
Arbitration Award
OPPOSITION:                        28 June 2024
REPLY:                                  None
Filed. 
 
TENTATIVE:                         Petitioner’s Motion to confirm the
arbitration award is granted. 

 

                                                                                                
Background
 
On April
29, 2024, ABC Funding LLC (“Petitioner”) filed a Petition to Confirm
Arbitration Award. Nicholas Gross (“Respondent”) moves to vacate the
arbitration award. On June 28, 2024, Respondent filed a Response to the
Petition and a Cross-Petition to Vacate the Arbitral Award.  The arbitration occurred before the
International Court of Arbitration of the International Chamber of Commerce
(“ICC”) before Arbitrator David Huebner (“Arbitrator”). 
The
arbitration arose due to a dispute about a document titled “Guaranty”
purportedly entered by the parties to this arbitration and dated as of
September 25, 2020 (the “Guaranty”). On its face, the Guaranty references and
guarantees certain obligations arising under a Financing Agreement dated
September 25, 2020, and subsequent modifications thereto. 
 
The
arbitration hearing took place between November 27 and 29, 2024.  On April 16, 2024, the Arbitrator issued the
Final Award (“Award”). 
 
Petitioner
now moves to confirm the Arbitration Award. Respondent opposes the Motion and
moves to vacate the Award. The matter is now before the court. 
 
petition
to vacate arbitration award[1]
 
I.         Legal Standard
 
CCP § 1286.6 provides that the court “shall correct the
award and confirm it as corrected if the court determines that:¿¿ 
¿ 
(a)
There was an evident miscalculation of figures or an evident mistake in the
description of any person, thing or property referred to in the award;¿ 
(b) The
arbitrators exceeded their powers but the award may be corrected without
affecting the merits of the decision upon the controversy submitted; or¿ 
(c) The
award is imperfect in a matter of form, not affecting the merits of the
controversy. 
 
CCP § 1286.2(a) provides that the court shall vacate an
arbitration award if it determines any of the following:¿¿ 
 
1) the award was procured by corruption, fraud, or other
undue means;¿ 
2) the arbitrator was corrupt;¿ 
3) the arbitrator's misconduct substantially prejudiced a
party's rights;¿ 
4) the arbitrator exceeded his power and the award cannot
be corrected without affecting the merits of the decision;¿ 
5) the arbitrator refused to hear material evidence, to
postpone the hearing, or acted contrary to the provisions of the code
concerning arbitration;¿ and 
6) the arbitrator was subject to disqualification but did
not disqualify himself.¿ 
¿¿ 
This statute provides the exclusive grounds upon which a
court may review private arbitration awards. (Moncharsh v. Heily & Blase
(1992) 3 Cal.4th 1, 26-28 (Moncharsh).)¿ A court may not set aside an
arbitration award even if the arbitrator made an error of law because the
parties have agreed to bear the risk of an erroneous decision in return for a
quick, inexpensive, and conclusive resolution to their dispute.¿ (Schlessinger
v. Rosenfeld, Meyer & Susman (1995) 40 Cal. App. 4th 1096, 1109; Moncharsh,
at p. 11-12.)¿ Courts may not review the merits of the controversy, the
validity of the arbitrator's reasoning, or the sufficiency of the evidence. (Jordan
v. Department of Motor Vehicles (2002) 100 Cal. App. 4th 431, 443.)¿ An
arbitrator's decision is not generally reviewable for errors of fact or law,
even if the error appears on the face of the award and causes substantial
injustice. (Ibid.) This ensures that the arbitrator’s decision is the
end, not the beginning, of the dispute. (Ibid.)¿ 
 
II.        Discussion
 
            A.        Factual
Background
 
As part of a Financing Agreement
(“Financing Agreement”), affiliates of Petitioner, known as  Summit, loaned $35.5 million to ReKTGlobal LLC
(“ReKT LLC”), a subsidiary of ReKT Global, Inc. (“ReKT Inc.”). (Award, ¶¶
138-140.) On September 25, 2020, ReKT issued warrants that entitled the Lenders
to purchase a certain number of shares of ReKT. (Id., ¶ 141.) The
warrants are referenced in the Financing Agreement. (Id; see also White
Decl., Ex. 28 [Financing Agreement, §§ 1.01, 5.01(d)(xiii)].) As a condition to
completing the financing, Respondent agreed to act as Personal Guaranty for the
loan. (Award, ¶¶ 142, 145-146; see also Bobroff Decl., Ex. 2 [Guaranty]; White
Decl., Ex. 30 [Guaranty].) 
 
When ReKT LLC failed to fulfill certain
obligations, Petitioner moved to enforce the terms of the Guaranty through
arbitration, pursuant to the arbitration clause in the Guaranty. At issue was
whether the warrants referenced in the Financial Agreement which entitled
Summit/Petitioner under certain conditions to either obtain ReKT Inc. shares in
exchange for its warrants or to exercise an option, known as “put”, the
required ReKT Inc. to pay Summit the fair market value of the shares that the
warrants represented. (Award, ¶¶ 148, 180; Bobroff Decl., Ex. 6 [Warrant PW-5 issued
by ReKT Inc. to Summit, § 3].) On April 16, 2024, the Arbitrator issued a final
award (“Award”) in favor of Petitioner and against Respondent in the sum of
approximately $35 million. (Award, ¶¶ 195, 301-302, 307.) 
 
Respondent
moves to vacate the arbitration award on four grounds: (1) the Arbitrator
exceeded his authority by compelling Respondent to arbitrate a non-arbitrable
claim of fraud in the execution; (2) the Arbitrator resolved conflicting forum
selection provisions when such questions should have been decided by a court
rather than an arbitrator, (3) the Arbitrator abused his discretion by refusing
to postpone the hearing in favor of pending state court litigation, thus
prejudicing Respondent; and (4) the Arbitrator exceeded his powers by ignoring
Petitioner’s failure to fulfill a condition precedent to any right to
arbitrate. The court examines each contention in turn. 
 
B.        Arbitrator Did Not Exceed His Authority
Because Respondent Submitted the Issue of Jurisdiction to Arbitration 
 
In
issuing the final Award, the Arbitrator addressed the issue of jurisdiction and
the Respondent’s contention that no arbitration agreement existed such that the
Arbitrator lacked jurisdiction to hear and decide the issues presented in
arbitration. (Award, ¶ 12.) The Arbitrator stated “Respondent subsequently
agreed to appear in this proceeding on the condition that the Arbitrator hear
and decide his jurisdictional objection (“Objection”) before a procedural
timetable, if any, was set in the case.” (Id. ¶ 13.) 
 
The
Arbitrator stated that Respondent disputed the formation and existence of the
Guaranty, including the arbitration clause contained therein “on the ground the
Guaranty was obtained ‘by fraud in the execution (referred to in certain
circumstances as ‘fraud in the factum’) and this is ‘void ab initio, not
merely voidable.’ ” (Award, ¶ 15.) The Arbitrator rejected Respondent's
contention that only a court of law—rather than the ICC Court of Arbitration or
any arbitrator—could decide the issue of fraud in the exaction because
“Respondent waived this argument by expressly agreeing to submit the question
of jurisdiction to the Arbitrator [citation], but the Arbitrator nonetheless
considered and determined the contention on its merits [citations].” (Id,
¶ 17.) 
 
The
Arbitrator noted that by selecting the ICC Rules of Arbitration (“ICC Rules”),
the Parties agreed to abide by Article 6(3), which is a delegation clause that
leaves the question of jurisdiction to the Arbitrator. (Award, ¶ 21.) The
Arbitrator noted that the evidence before him showed that the dispute
resolution provision, section 12 in the Guaranty, that was originally reviewed
and executed by Respondent on September 9, 2020, was identical to the September
25, 2020, revised version that is now at issue and that Respondent contends was
procured by fraud and that “[t]he record before the Arbitrator contains no
evidence of any disagreement between the parties at any time over
the language of Guaranty § 12, nor any objection to the use of the arbitration
under the ICC Rules as the parties’ dispute resolution mechanism, until
Respondent received notice in 2023 of the filing of Claimant’s Request for
Arbitration.” (Id., ¶¶ 41-42 [italics original]; see also ¶ 186 subd.
(d), (s).) 
 
After fully considering the legal
authorities submitted by the parties, the Arbitrator was unpersuaded by
Respondent’s core contention that a mere allegation of fraud in the inducement
or in the execution of a contract invalidates per se an agreement to
arbitrate embedded therein and necessarily propels a dispute into state or
federal court. If such were the case, all arbitration agreements would be
subject to unilateral repudiation by a party who, at the time a dispute arises,
sees advantage in court proceedings. The Arbitrator reads no case presented by
Respondent supporting such an expansive proposition, particularly in a
situation, such as presented here, in which the record is devoid of any
evidence, allegation, or even vague hit of disagreement, confusion, or
deception as to the dispute resolution provision at issue.
 
(Id,
¶ 44.) 
 
The
Arbitrator acknowledged that while Respondent alleged fraud in the execution of
the Guaranty signed in late September 2020, Respondent did not challenge the
validity of the earlier signed Guaranty that contained an identical arbitration
clause requiring arbitration under the ICC Rules. (Award, ¶¶ 41-42, 144.) Furthermore,
while Respondent alleged that the Guaranty signed in late September 2020 was
modified as to the loan term and certain definitions in the financing agreement
referenced in the Guaranty, no fraud in the execution was alleged as the
arbitration clause itself.  (Award, ¶¶ 45-48,
54-56, 181-197.) 
“If
the party's challenge is directed to the agreement as a whole--even if it
applies equally to the delegation clause--the delegation clause is severed out
and enforced; thus, the arbitrator, not the court, will determine whether the
agreement is enforceable.” (Malone v. Superior Court (2014) 226
Cal.App.4th 1551, 1559–1560; see also Rent-A-Center, West, Inc. v. Jackson (2010)
561 U.S. 63, 70-71.) Therefore, even if the later signed September 2020
Guaranty was invalid due to fraud, the earlier signed Guaranty was not
challenged by Respondent, remained valid, and obligated Respondent to arbitrate
the dispute. “By contrast, when—as here—the alleged illegality goes to only a
portion of the contract (that does not include the arbitration agreement), the
entire controversy, including the issue of illegality, remains arbitrable.” (Moncharsh,
supra, 3 Cal.4th at p. 30.) 
 
The
court finds that Respondent waived the right to challenge the Arbitrator’s
jurisdiction by agreeing to have the arbitrator decide the issue of
jurisdiction and also agreeing to have the arbitrator decide the issue of fraud
in the execution. (Award, ¶¶ 13, 128, 155-157.) Respondent cannot agree
to submit the question of jurisdiction into arbitration and then challenge the
arbitrator’s authority only after obtaining an unfavorable award. (See Malek
v. Blue Cross of California (2004) 121 Cal.App.4th 44, 58 referencing
United Food &
Commercial Workers Union v. Clougherty Packing Co. (1984) 154 Cal.App.3d 282
[parties could not challenge the arbitrator’s findings as to whether a
particular seniority provision was arbitrable because the parties by agreement
asked the arbitrator to decide the issue].) “A claimant may not voluntarily
submit his claim to arbitration, await the outcome, and if the decision is
unfavorable, challenge the authority of the arbitrator to act.” (University
of San Francisco Faculty Assn. v. University of San Francisco (1983) 142
Cal.App.3d 942, 954.) 
 
Generally,
“[t]he ‘gateway’ question of whether the parties are bound by a particular
arbitration agreement is a question of arbitrability for the court.” (Malek,
supra, 121 Cal.App.4th.) However, by submitting the question of
jurisdiction and fraud in the execution of the Guaranty to the Arbitrator,
there were no longer any gateway questions for the court to determine. (Award,
¶¶ 13, 44.) “[A] party who questions the validity of the arbitration agreement
may not proceed with arbitration and preserve the issue for later consideration
by the court after being unsuccessful in the arbitration.” (Bayscene
Resident Negotiators v. Bayscene Mobilehome Park (1993) 15 Cal.App.4th 119,
129.) 
By submitting to the Arbitrator, the question of
jurisdiction and whether a valid arbitration agreement exists, the Respondent waived
the right to challenge the Arbitrator’s authority and findings of fact and law
as to these issues. Consequently, because these issues were voluntarily submitted
to arbitration by the Respondent, the Arbitrator did not usurp the court’s
authority in deciding those issues. If Respondent wished to have the court
decide the issue of arbitrability, he should not have submitted the question to
the Arbitrator and instead forced Petitioner to move to compel arbitration via a
court order. 
Therefore, the court will not vacate the arbitration award on
the basis the Arbitrator acted in excess of his jurisdiction. 

 
C.        There was No Mandatory Forum Selection
Clause in the Joiner Agreement that Conflicts with the Guaranty’s Arbitration
Clause Requiring the Dispute be Adjudicated in Court Rather than in Arbitration

Respondent asserts that the Arbitrator did not have the
power to arbitrate the dispute because the Joiner Agreement contained a
mandatory forum selection clause: 
27. Submission to Jurisdiction.
Any legal suit, action or proceeding arising out of or based upon this Warrant
or the transactions contemplated hereby may be instituted in the federal courts
of the United States of America or the courts of the State of New York in each
case located in the city of New York, and each party irrevocably submits to the
exclusive jurisdiction of such courts in any such suit, action or proceeding.
Service of process, summons, notice or other document by certified or
registered mail to such party’s address set forth herein shall be effective
service of process for any suit, action or other proceeding brought in any such
court. The parties irrevocably and unconditionally waive any objection to the
laying of venue of any suit, action or any proceeding in such courts and
irrevocably waive and agree not to plead or claim in any such court that any
such suit, action or proceeding brought in any such court has been brought in
an inconvenient forum. 
(White Decl., Ex. 36 [Ex. A: Warrant, ¶27].) 
Respondent asserts that pursuant to Coinbase, Inc. v.
Suski (2024) 144 S.Ct. 1186, issues arising out of and based on the
warrants, as referenced in the Joiner Agreement, were to be decided by New York
courts rather than in arbitration. 
What happens if parties have multiple agreements that
evidence a conflict over the answer to the third-order question of who decides
arbitrability? That question can be answered as to these parties only by
determining which contract applies. Homing in on the conflict between the
delegation clause in the first contract and the forum selection clause in the
second, the question becomes whether the parties agreed to send the given
dispute to arbitration. And that question must be answered by a court.
 
(Coinbase, Inc., at p. 1189.)
Petitioner contends that Coinbase is not applicable
because the sole contract at issue was the Guaranty and Respondent’s
obligations under said contract. (Award, ¶ 128; Respondent’s Ex. 23, ¶ 12.) Petitioner
asserts Respondent is not a signatory to the warrants and Petitioner could not
have sued Respondent under the warrants. (Bobroff Decl., Ex. 6.)  
Petitioner states the Joiner
Agreement, signed on the same day of the Guaranty, imposed limited obligations
on Respondent, not in his individual capacity, but in his capacities as
shareholder and board member of ReTK Inc., and are unrelated to Respondent’s
obligations to pay under the Guaranty. (Opposition, at p. 2:7-11.) The Joiner
Agreement only required the Respondent to comply with three provisions: 
 
1.         Joiner.
To directly and to cause each Affiliate of the Joining Party to comply with,
and to vote (whether as a stockholder and/or member of the Company’s board of
directors) to cause the Company to comply with, the following provisions of the
Warrants: (1) Section 7 (Tag-Along), (ii) Section 29 (Preemptive Rights) and
(iii) Section 30 (Registration of Warrant Shares). 
 
(White Decl., Ex. 36, ¶ 1.) Accordingly,
the Respondent’s obligations under the Joiner Agreement did not implicate the
Parties’ dispute regarding the Respondent’s obligations under the Guaranty. 
 
Petitioner does not dispute that
the warrants contained a forum selection clause but asserts that the clause was
incorporated to enforce the substantive rights under the Joiner Agreement. Petitioner
contends that the Joiner Agreement does not apply to the dispute because Petitioner
never claimed that Respondent failed to comply with the Tag-Along, Preemptive
Rights, or Registration provisions of the warrants. Most importantly, the
Joiner Agreement did not make Respondent a party to the warrants. Therefore,
because the Joiner Agreement imposed different obligations on the Respondent,
the dispute resolution provision in the Guaranty did not implicate the Joiner
Agreement. This contrasts with the forum dispute in Coinbase, wherein
the cryptocurrency exchange sought to impose an arbitration clause contained in
a User Agreement to a dispute governed by the sweepstakes rules that provide
for adjudication in court. (Coinbase, supra, 144 S.Ct, at pp.
1191-1192.) 
 
Petitioner further contends that Coinbase does not
apply because the forum section clause is not mandatory and does not bar
arbitration:
27. Submission to Jurisdiction.
Any legal suit, action or proceeding arising out of or based upon this Warrant
or the transactions contemplated hereby may be instituted in the
federal courts of the United States of America or the courts of the State of
New York in each case located in the city of New York, and each party
irrevocably submits to the exclusive jurisdiction of such courts in any such
suit, action or proceeding. . . .
 
(White Decl., Ex. 36 [emphasis added].)  Respondent cites no legal authority supporting
the conclusion that the Submission of Jurisdiction clause was a mandatory forum
selection clause that mandated that issues regarding the warrants be submitted
to a court for adjudication. 
Respondent also fails to articulate how the Guaranty dispute
implicated the Joiner Agreement and warrants. Respondent does not identify what
specific provisions of the Joiner Agreement Petitioner violated. Consequently,
the court is not persuaded that the arbitration dispute implicated the Joiner
Agreement or that the Submission of Jurisdiction clause was a mandatory forum
selection clause that required a court, rather than an arbitrator, to decide
jurisdiction. 
Respondent asserts that he brought the Submission of
Jurisdiction clause to the attention of the Arbitrator in a motion to modify
the procedural timetable for arbitration. (White Decl., Ex. 20, at p. 19.) However,
Respondent’s request to modify the timetable did not argue that the Guaranty
dispute required adjudication by a court rather than by arbitration. Instead,
Respondent argued issue of warrant defenses should be decided by New York
courts and the hearing postponed. (Id., Ex. 20, at pp. 16-19.)
Respondent contended that the arbitration clause in the Guaranty should be
narrowly construed and deemed inapplicable to the warranty defenses. (Id.,
Ex. 20, at pp. 17-19.) 
Respondent specifically contends that the following issues
related to the warrants should have been decided by a New York court rather
than the Arbitrator: 
(1) whether the put options had been timely and validly
exercised in accordance with the terms of the warrants, (2) when, pursuant to
the terms of the warrants, the alleged put amounts were immediately payable or
payable over time, (3) how much, if anything, was owed upon exercise of the put
rights given the fair market value provisions of the warrants, and (4) whether
Petitioner and ReKT had reached agreement regarding the valuation.
 
(Motion, at p. 12:2-7.) 
The Arbitrator responded to Respondent’s motion by noting
that the Parties had not sought to join additional parties, such as those
involved in the New York litigation. (White Decl., Ex. 23, 4.) Furthermore, the
Respondent failed to show he had standing to enforce the terms of the warrants,
let alone any defenses related to the warrants. 
Secondly, the Arbitrator was unpersuaded that the Guaranty’s
language limited the issues to be decided in arbitration. (White Decl., Ex.
23.) However, the Arbitrator noted: “[t]he Arbitrator’s conclusion with respect
to the interpretation of the language of the Guaranty is without prejudice to
the parties presenting testimony and other evidence of contractual
interpretation at the merits hearing.” (Id., Ex. 23, ¶ 14(d); Ex. 40, §
14.11.) 
Third, the Arbitrator explained that on April 5, 2023, the
Parties approved and executed the Terms of Reference setting out the issues to
be decided in arbitration, including Respondent’s defenses, Petitioner’s lack
of entitlement to immediate payment because of the prematurity of its demand,
Respondent’s non-compliance with the terms of the warrants on which it purposes
to rely, and Petitioner’s erroneous valuation of the securities it purports to
put up for sale. (White Decl., Ex. 23, ¶ 10.) 
Accordingly, the issues of the warrants that Respondents now
contend should have been decided by a court were instead submitted to
arbitration with the express consent and authorization of Respondent. This fact
is distinguishable from the facts in Coinbase, wherein the users never acquiesced
to arbitration and instead argued in court that the sweepstakes dispute
required adjudication by a court and no arbitration agreement existed. (Coinbase,
supra 144 S.Ct. at p. 1191.) 
Therefore, the court considers any issues regarding the Arbitrator’s
authority to decide the warrant issues as waived by the Respondent because the
warrant issues were presented to the Arbitrator and the Respondent acquiesced
to the arbitration of those issues. (Award, ¶¶ 128, 129.) Moreover, as
explained above, the Respondent failed to show that the Submission of
Jurisdiction clause is a mandatory forum selection clause that barred arbitration
as a possible forum. 
Respondent fails to show that the Arbitrator exceeded his
powers by deciding questions of arbitrability related to the warrants. 
D.        The Arbitrator’s Refusal to Postpone the
Arbitration Pending State Court Litigation Did Not Substantially Prejudice Respondent
Respondent asserts that the Arbitrator abused his discretion by refusing to postpone the hearing in favor
of pending New York litigation, thus prejudicing Respondent’s ability to
effectively present ReKT’s defenses. According to respondent, the focus of ReKT’s
defenses included:
(1) the existence of a
payoff letter acknowledging that all payment obligations related to the
Financing Agreement between Petitioner and ReKT were satisfied and released,
(2) Petitioner’s failure to fulfill the warrants’ requirement of appointing an
independent appraiser to determine the fair market value of the shares
Petitioner sought to put, and (3) the warrants’ provision that payment is not
due unless and until ReKT has sufficient funds legally available to pay, with
any unpaid amount becoming an unsecured loan accruing interest at 2% per year.
 
(Motion, at p. 15:18-24.) 
In denying Respondent’s
motion for bifurcation and request to stay the arbitration, the Arbitrator
stated that the ICC Rules provided useful guidance on case management
techniques but “[t]he record currently before the Arbitrator, however, provides
no basis for a finding that the bifurcation sought by Respondent ‘may genuinely
be expected to result in a more efficient resolution of the case.’ ” (White
Decl., Ex. 23, ¶ 15(f).) “Rather, it appears that bifurcation is more likely to
produce extended delay, a certain amount of redundant activity, and increased
costs.” (Id.)
The Arbitrator asserted
that he was “not persuaded that there is a meaningful risk of actual prejudice
to Respondent if this Arbitration proceeds as currently configured and
scheduled.” (Id., ¶ 14(b).)  The
Arbitrator proceed to note: 
On the record currently
established, the Arbitrator sees insufficient basis for concluding that
Respondent’s ability to be heard and to receive a fair and reasonable hearing
in this arbitration will be impaired if determination of certain claims or
defenses herein are not deferred until such time as the New York Action
concludes. The balance of equities, as evidenced on the record currently
establish, weighs in favor of proceeding with the case as set forth in the
existing Procedural Timetable. 
 
(Id., ¶ 15(h).) Lastly,
the Arbitrator noted that by their own accord, the Parties had conducted “fulsome
‘discovery’ in this arbitration, including document productions and
deposition.” (Id., ¶ 13.) 
“‘[A] court's review of the arbitrator's decision to postpone or
not postpone the hearing is quite limited.’” (SWAB Financial, LLC v. E*Trade
Securities, LLC (2007) 150 Cal.App.4th 1181, 1197 (SWAB).) Respondent
fails to show that the Arbitrator’s decision to not postpone the arbitration was
without reasonable justification. (See City of Fresno v. California Highway
Com. (1981) 118 Cal.App.3d 687, 700 [“Abuse of discretion is arbitrary
determination, capriciousness or ‘whimsical thinking.’ ”].) “The arbitrator,
and not the court, decides questions of procedure and discovery. [Citations.]” (Titan/Value
Equities Group, Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 29 Cal.App.4th 482, 488 [footnote
omitted].) 
 
Arbitrators may exceed
their powers when they act in a manner not authorized by the contract or by
law, act without subject matter jurisdiction, decide an issue that was not
submitted to arbitration, arbitrarily remake the contract, uphold an illegal
contract, issue an award that violates a well-defined public policy, issue an
award that violates a statutory right, fashion a remedy that is not rationally
related to the contract, or select a remedy not authorized by law. 


(Cohen v. TNP 2008 Participating Notes Program, LLC (2019)
31 Cal.App.5th 840, 868.)
 
CCP § 1286.2 mandates that an arbitration award be vacated upon a
showing that “[t]he rights of the party were substantially prejudiced by the
refusal of the arbitrators to postpone the hearing upon sufficient cause
being shown therefor[.]” (Id. [italics added].)  The record before the court reflects that at
the time Respondent requested a postponement, the Arbitrator sufficiently
explained why Respondent had not made a sufficient showing that a postponement
was necessary. (See White Decl., Ex. 23.) 
 
“Where, as here, a party complains of excluded material evidence,
the reviewing court should generally focus first on prejudice, not materiality.
To find substantial prejudice the court must accept, for purposes of analysis,
the arbitrator's legal theory and conclude that the arbitrator might well have
made a different award had the evidence been allowed.” (Hall v. Superior
Court (1993) 18 Cal.App.4th 427, 439.) Respondent asserts that presenting
ReKT defenses required knowledge and access to the history of negotiations
between Petitioner and ReKT and that an expedited discovery severely curtailed
Respondent’s access to such discovery. (Motion, at pp. 15:25-16:9.)
 
Respondent fails to show that if Respondent had an adequate
opportunity to conduct discovery, Respondent would have uncovered evidence that
would have resulted in a different outcome than the one produced at
arbitration. Furthermore, Respondent’s discovery pertained to defenses related
to the warrants, which the Arbitrator found to be without merit. 
 
The Arbitrator sided with the
Petitioner in determining that case law did not support the proposition that
guarantors are entitled to the same defenses as borrowers. (Award, ¶ 219.)
Accordingly, any defenses that ReKT could assert did not mean that Respondent
could also assert the same defenses to excuse his obligations under the
Guaranty. The Arbitrator further noted that Section 1 of the Guaranty provides,
“‘The Individual Guarantor hereby uncondi-tionally irrevocably and absolutely
guarantees to each of the Secured Parties, as primary obligor and not merely as
a surety, the full and prompt payment when due of all Obligations
arising under or out of the Financing Agreement and other Loan Documents . . .’
” (Id., ¶ 220, [italics original].) Therefore, Respondent fails to show
he was substantially prejudiced by not being given a full opportunity to engage
in discovery regarding ReKT’s defenses to the warrants. 
Respondent asserts that the biggest prejudice resulted from
Respondent being deprived of the benefit of an independent appraisal process contemplated
by the warrants. However, the Arbitrator determined that as an independent
appraisal was not required, no postponement was required. CCP § 1283.4
provides that an arbitration “shall include a determination of all the
questions submitted to the arbitrators the decision of which is necessary in
order to determine the controversy.” Here, the arbitrator necessarily decided
that the Warrants fall within the ambit of the Guaranty. In determining the
scope of the Guaranty, the Arbitrator stated in the relevant part:
 
The Guaranty applies to “all Obligations arising under or out
of the Financing Agreement and other Loan Documents”; “Loan Document” is
defined in the Financing Agreement to include “any Equity Document”; and
“Equity Document” is defined expressly to include “the Warrants” here at issue.
[Citation]. 
 
(Award, ¶ 168.) 
Section 1 of the Guaranty provides, “The Individual Guarantor
hereby unconditionally, irrevocably and absolutely guarantees each of the
Secured Parties, as primary obligor and not merely as surety, the full and
prompt payment when due of all Obligations arising under or out of the
Financing Agreement and the other Loan Documents . . .” (Emphasis added). As
set forth in ¶¶ 145, 146, & 161-63, supra, the defined terms
“Obligations” and “Loan Documents” clearly bring the Warrants, and obligations
thereunder, within the ambit of the Guaranty’s mandate of “full and prompt
payment  when due.” 
 
(Award, ¶ 120.) 
“The determination of which issues are actually necessary to
the ultimate decision is a question of fact to be resolved by the arbitrator.”
(United Food & Commercial Workers Union, supra, 154
Cal.App.3d at p. 288.) Here, the arbitrator necessarily decided that the
warrants fall within the ambit of the Guaranty. The Arbitrator determined that
the warrants defined “Fair Market Value” as “the fair market value per share as
determined jointly by the Board of ReKT and the Holder” and that a formal
appraisal process was only required if the two parties were unable to agree on
the fair market value per share. (Award, ¶ 246.) The Warrant in the Joiner
Agreement similarly triggers the appraisal process only upon disagreement between
the ReKT board and the Holder: 
“Fair Market Value” means the fair market value per
share as determined jointly by the Board and the Holder; provided, that
if the Board and the Holder are unable to agree on the fair market value per
share of the Common Stock within a reasonable period of time (not to exceed 20
days from the Company’s receipt of the Notice of Exercise), each of the Board
and the Holder, at the cost of the Company, shall select, within 10 days of the
expiration of such 20-day period, an independent appraiser experienced in valuing
securities or other applicable consideration of companies comparable to the
Company (the “Company Appraiser” and the “Holder Appraiser”, respectively).
Within 10 days of their appointment, the Company Appraiser and the Holder
Appraiser shall mutually agree as to the appointment of a third independent
appraiser experienced in valuing securities or other applicable consideration
of companies comparable to the Company (the “Independent Appraiser”). The
Independent Appraiser shall be instructed to complete its valuation within 30
days following appointment and the Independent Appraiser shall deliver its
determination of valuation in writing to the Board and the Holder within such
30-day period. The Independent Appraiser’s determination of Fair Market Value
shall be binding  upon the Board and the
Holder. 
 
(White Decl., Ex. 36 [Ex. A Warrants at p. 4] [emphasis
original].) 
The Arbitrator determined that the condition requiring an
independent appraisal was not triggered because Petitioner and ReKT agreed as
to the fair market value of the shares.
“Nothing in the record before the
Arbitrator establishes or even suggests a contemporaneous disagreement between
ReKTGlobal and Summit over the fair market value of the Warrants.” (Award, ¶
242.) 
 
In Summary, no formal appraisal process or
external/independent validation of “fair market value” was required if the
company and the warrant holder agreed on share valuation. The record herein
establishes that ReKTGlobal and Summit agreed – not disagreed – on the
valuation of Summit’s warrant shares at times relevant to the dispute in this
arbitration.  Respondent has failed to
establish any basis for overturning or reconsidering, almost two years later,
such contemporaneous agreement. 
 
(Id, ¶ 245.) 
 
The Arbitrator had the authority
to decide whether the warrants required Petitioner and ReKT to engage in an
independent appraisal process. (Award, ¶¶ 228-248.) This was also a question
that was expressly submitted to the arbitrator for adjudication by the Parties:

 
Claimant and Respondent each engaged in valuation expert who
offered testimony at the final hearing. The Arbitrator will not list and
evaluate the scores of disagreements in their respective calculations and
conclusions with respect to valuation process, offsets, comparable
transactions, and retrospective valuation ranges because the record established
that ReKTGlobal and Summit actually agreed at the relevant time on the
valuation of Summit’s warrant shares.
 
(Award, ¶ 246.) 
The court has no authority to
vacate an arbitration award based on findings of errors of law or fact by the
Arbitrator. 
 
‘When parties contract to resolve their disputes by private
arbitration, their agreement ordinarily contemplates that the arbitrator will
have the power to decide any question of contract interpretation, historical
fact or general law necessary, in the arbitrator's understanding of the case,
to reach a decision. [Citations.] Inherent in that power is the possibility the
arbitrator may err in deciding some aspect of the case. Arbitrators do not
ordinarily exceed their contractually created powers simply by reaching an
erroneous conclusion on a contested issue of law or fact, and arbitral awards
may not ordinarily be vacated because of such error, for ‘[t]he arbitrator's
resolution of these issues is what the parties bargained for in the arbitration
agreement.’ [Citations].


(Cable Connection, Inc. v.
DIRECTV, Inc. (2008) 44 Cal.4th 1334, 1360–1361 (Cabel Connection).)
As no independent appraisal was required under the warrants, the Respondent was
not prejudiced by the inability to conduct an independent appraisal. Moreover,
Respondent fails to show he was a party to the warrants and had standing to
enforce the independent appraisal process contemplated by the warrants. 
 
“Only if the arbitrators
abused their discretion and there was resulting prejudice could the trial court
properly vacate the arbitration award.” (SWAB, supra, 150
Cal.App.4th at p. 1198.) Respondent fails to show the Arbitrator abused his
discretion in denying postponement of the arbitration and that postponement
substantially prejudiced Respondent who had no defenses to the enforcement of
the Guaranty, there was no basis for an independent appraisal of ReKT’s shares,
and Respondent had no standing to order an independent appraisal. 
Therefore, the arbitration
award will not be vacated on this basis. 
E.        The Arbitrator Did
Not Exceed His Powers by Ignoring Petitioner’s Failure to Fulfill a Condition
Precedent to Any Right to Arbitrate 
 
Respondent asserts that under the warrants, a condition precedent
was that “the amount payable” on account of the put options required Petitioner
to participate in an independent appraisal process. 
 
As stated above, the Arbitrator determined that no independent appraisal
process for the shares was required because Petitioner and ReKT were both in
agreement as to the fair market value of the shares.  (Award, ¶¶ 242, 245.) “ ‘Fair
Market Value’ means the fair market value per share as determined
jointly by the Board and the Holder[.]” (White Decl., Ex. 36 [Ex. A Warrants at
p. 4.] The obligation to conduct an independent appraisal was only triggered “if
the Board and the Holder are unable to agree on the fair market value per share
of the Common Stock[.]” (Id.) 
 
The
findings of the Arbitrator were that “[N]othing in the record before the
Arbitrator establishes or even suggests a contemporaneous disagreement between
ReKTGlobal and Summit over the fair market value of the Warrants.” (Award, ¶
242.) Any finding that the Arbitrator erred in determining that an appraisal
was not required, is not grounds for vacating the Award. (Cable Connection,
supra, 44 Cal.4th at pp. 1360–1361.) Respondent also fails to point to the
provision in the Guaranty or Financing Agreement that required Petitioner to submit
to an independent appraisal process before seeking the dispute to arbitration. 
 
On reply,
Respondent asserts that Section 12 of the Guaranty required arbitration only if
a dispute could not be amicably resolved. (Bobroff
Decl., Ex. 2 [Guaranty, § 12]; White Decl., Ex. 30 [Guaranty, § 12].)
Respondent speculates that had Petitioner complied with the terms of the
warrants and conducted an independent appraisal, the dispute could have been
amicably resolved making arbitration unnecessary. However, Respondent fails to
show that Respondent did not comply with the terms of the warrants, or that an
independent appraisal was required. Respondent failed to point to any evidence
that showed ReKT disagreed with the appraisal of its stock or that ReKT and
Petitioner plan to conduct an independent appraisal due to disagreement. 
 
Based on the above, the Respondent fails to show that the
Petitioner’s participation in an independent appraisal was a condition
precedent to seeking arbitration. Therefore, the Award will not be vacated on
these grounds.
 
Respondent’s motion to vacate the Award is denied. 
 
petition
to confirm arbitration award
 
I.         Legal Standard
 
“Any party to an arbitration award
in which an award has been made may petition the court to confirm, correct, or
vacate the award.” (CCP § 1285.) A petition under this chapter shall: 
 
(a) Set forth the substance of or have attached a copy of the
agreement to arbitrate unless the petitioner denies the existence of such an
agreement. 
 
(b) Set forth the names of the arbitrators. 
 
(c) Set forth or have attached a copy of the award and the
written opinion of the arbitrators, if any.
 
 (Id. § 1285.4.) “A response to a
petition under this chapter may request the court to dismiss the petition or to
confirm, correct or vacate the award.” (Id. § 1285.2.) 
 
A petition to confirm an
arbitration award must set forth the substance of or attach the arbitration
agreement, include the name of the arbitrator, and attach a copy of the award
and the written opinion of the arbitrator, if any. (CCP § 1285.4.) The petition
must be served no earlier than 10 days, but no later than 4 years, after
service of the award on the petitioner. (Id., §§ 1288, 1288.4.) The
petition, written notice of the time and place of the hearing on the petition,
and any other papers upon which the petition is based must be served in the
manner provided in the arbitration agreement for service of such petition and
notice. (Id., § 1290.4(a).)  
 
II.        Discussion
 
Petitioner moves to confirm the
April 16, 2024 Arbitration Award rendered by the
Arbitrator David Huebner (“Arbitrator”). A copy of the Award is attached
to the Petition as Attachment 8(c). A summary of the dispute is articulated
above and in Paragraph 5 of the Petition filed on April 29, 2024. 
 
The arbitration hearing occurred
in Los Angeles, CA in between November 27, 2023 to November 29, 2023. (Petition,
¶ 7.) The Arbitrator found against Respondent and awarded Petitioner $30,996,257.22
in damages and pre-judgment interest in the amount of 2% per annum as to
$30,051,983.00 of the award. (Id., ¶ 8; see also Award, ¶ 307(A)-(B).) The
Arbitrator also ordered the Respondent to pay $2,470,873.56 to Petitioner in
legal fees and expenses incurred in arbitration. (Id., ¶ 307(B)(1).) The
Arbitrator also ordered the Respondent to pay $140,000.00 to the Petitioner for
the Petitioner’s share of the arbitration costs and expenses as fixed by the
ICC Court. (Id., ¶ 307(B)(2.) 
 
“[A]n arbitrator's decision cannot
be reviewed for errors of fact or law.” (Moncharsh,
supra, 3 Cal.4th at p. 9.) An arbitrator’s award may only
be challenged based upon narrow, limited grounds articulated in CCP § 1286.2. As
articulated in the ruling denying Respondent’s petition to vacate the Award,
Respondent’s assertion the arbitration agreement was procured by fraud in the
execution is without merit as is Respondent’s contention that the Arbitrator
lacked authority to decide the issue of jurisdiction. Moreover, Respondent
failed to demonstrate that one of the limited grounds articulated within
Section 1286.2 supported vacating the Award. 
 
Therefore, the court fails to see
any basis as to why the Petition to confirm the Award should be denied.
Petitioner’s motion is granted. 
 
Conclusion
 
Respondent’s
motion to vacate the arbitration award is denied. Petitioner’s Motion to
confirm the arbitration award is granted. 
 


