  Case Number:  20STCV30194    Hearing Date:   February 13, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion to Reopen Discovery filed by Plaintiff Sadegh
Nabakhteh.
 
TENTATIVE
The motion
is granted.
BACKGROUND
Plaintiff
Sadegh Nabakhteh (“Plaintiff”) alleges that he was severely injured after he
slipped and fall on March 2, 2020 at the front area of a store in
Calabasas.  On August 7, 2020, Plaintiff filed
his complaint asserting causes of action for general negligence and premises
liability against Defendant Harbor Freight Tools USA, Inc. (“Defendant”), and
Does 1 through 100.  Defendant filed its
answer on October 14, 2020.
On filing,
the case was assigned a trial date of February 4, 2022.
On January
6, 2022, at Plaintiff’s request, and over Defendant’s opposition, trial was
continued to July 29, 2022, with all deadlines reset based on the new trial
date.
On June 24,
2022, at Plaintiff’s request, and over Defendant’s opposition, trial was
continued to September 13, 2023.  No
extension of deadlines was requested or granted.
On August
23, 2023, at Plaintiff’s request, and over Defendant’s opposition, trial was
continued to April 3, 2024.  No deadlines
were extended.
On January
19, 2024, Plaintiff filed this motion to reopen discovery for the limited
purpose of retaining experts to testify on Plaintiff’s recent surgery and
expected future costs. Defendant filed its opposition on January 30, 2024.
Plaintiff filed his reply on February 5, 2024.
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 “On motion of any party, the court may
grant leave to complete discovery proceedings, or to have a motion concerning
discovery heard, closer to the initial trial date, or to reopen discovery after
a new trial date has been set.¿ This motion shall be accompanied by a meet and
confer declaration under Section 2016.040.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., section
2024.050, subd. (a).)¿ ¿¿ 
“In exercising its discretion to grant or
deny this motion, the court shall take into consideration any matter relevant
to the leave requested, including, but not limited to, the following: (1) The
necessity and the reasons for the discovery.¿ (2) The diligence or lack of
diligence of the party seeking the discovery or the hearing of a discovery
motion, and the reasons that the discovery was not completed or that the
discovery motion was not heard earlier.¿ (3) Any likelihood that permitting the
discovery or hearing the discovery motion will prevent the case from going to
trial on the date set, or otherwise interfere with the trial calendar, or
result in prejudice to any other party.¿ (4) The length of time that has
elapsed between any date previously set, and the date presently set, for the
trial of the action.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., section 2024.050, subd.
(b)(1)-(4).)¿¿¿ 
“The court shall impose a monetary sanction
under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person,
or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to extend or to reopen
discovery, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of
the sanction unjust.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., section 2024.050, subd. (c).)¿¿¿ 
MEET AND CONFER REQUIREMENT
The
meet and confer requirement of Code of Civil Procedure section 2024.050,
subdivision (a), is satisfied. 
(Jalilvand Decl., ¶ 2.)
DISCUSSION
All discovery
is currently closed in this case. 
The parties
exchanged expert witness designations on June 7 and 8, 2022. (Id., ¶ 5,
Exh. A-B.) Plaintiff designated two retained experts: Gary White as a retail
expert to testify on store safety issues, and Dr. Babak Samimi, an orthopedic
surgeon, to testify on issues relating to Plaintiff’s injuries, causation, and treatment.  Plaintiff also listed 16 non-retained experts
who had treated Plaintiff.
The parties
noticed expert depositions in June and July 2022, but after the Court continued
trial on June 24, 2022, the parties took the depositions off calendar and stipulated
to extend the time for expert depositions to July 1, 2023. (Id., ¶ 9
& Exh. G.) 
Although
that stipulated deadline passed approximately seven months ago, no expert
depositions have been taken.  (Id.,
¶ 10.)
On July 5,
2023, after the stipulated deadline, Plaintiff served a demand for exchange of expert
information Code of Civil Procedure section 2034.210.  (Id., ¶ 11 & Exh. H.)  On July 25, Plaintiff (again after the
stipulated deadline) served an expert witness designation listing three retained
experts: Mr. White, Dr. Samimi, and Dr. Lawrence Miller, a pain management
specialist to testify on issues relating to Plaintiff’s pain, causation, and
treatment.  Plaintiff also listed 18
non-retained experts who had treated Plaintiff. 
(Id., ¶ 13 & Exh. I.) 
The next day, Defendant objected to this new designation. (Id., ¶
14 & Exh. J-K; Cho Decl., Exh. 4.)
In August
2023, Plaintiff had a stimulator implanted in his right knee.  Plaintiff’s counsel states that this was a
significant development not anticipated by counsel; Plaintiff now seeks to designate
additional expert witnesses to opine as to the necessity of the implant and
future care costs.  (Jalilvand
Decl.,, ¶¶ 15-16 & Exh. L.)  
With the
moving papers, Plaintiff provides a proposed new and updated expert
designation.  The proposed new
designation now lists four retained experts: Mr. White, Dr. Samimi, Dr. Miller,
and Dawn Cook, R.N., a life care planner to testify on issues relating to
Plaintiff’s future care, medical needs, and future costs.  Plaintiff also lists 17 non-retained experts
who have treated Plaintiff, including the doctor who performed the stimulator
implant (Dr. Kuimars Arfai).  (Id.,
¶¶ 15, 21-22 & Exh. R.)  
In ruling
on the Plaintiffs motion, the Court will consider the four factors set forth in Code
of Civl Procedure section 2024.050, subdivision (b), as set forth in the
parties’ papers.  (The Court notes that the parties appear to agree that
this motion should be decided under the standard of section 2024.050.  Neither side asserts that Code of Civil
Procedure section 2034.610 or 2034.620, or any other standard, applies.)
The necessity and the reasons for the discovery.¿
Plaintiff argues that his condition has changed since the discovery
cutoff; among other things, Plaintiff has had additional treatment and had a stimulator
implanted in his right knee in August 2023. 
Plaintiff argues, in essence, that he would be prejudiced if he were
barred from presenting expert testimony at trial regarding these recent developments,
his up-to-date medical condition, and the treatments that he is now likely to
need to receive in the future.  Although
Defendant contends that these developments could have been anticipated and/or
addressed prior to the cutoff, the Court finds that Plaintiff has shown
sufficient evidence of necessity and reasons for the discovery.  This factor weighs strongly in favor of granting
Plaintiff’s motion.
The diligence or lack of diligence of the party seeking the
discovery or the hearing of a discovery motion, and the reasons that the
discovery was not completed or that the discovery motion was not heard
earlier.¿
Plaintiff has not shown diligence.  Plaintiff’s latest surgery was in August
2023, but he did not file this motion until five months later, in January 2024.  Plaintiffs did serve supplemental discovery
responses in October 2023, and there were apparently ongoing settlement
negotiations (Jalilvand Decl., ¶¶ 18, 20 & Exhs. M-O), but settlement
discussion happen in all cases, and the potential for settlement (whether great
or small) is no excuse for failing to prepare for trial in a diligent fashion.
Plaintiff also contends that he did not receive a written
report from Dr. Arfai until December 2023, and that it was only after receiving
that report that Plaintiff decided that a life care planner expert would be
necessary.  (Jalilvand Decl., ¶¶ 21-23 &
Exhs. Q; Reply Jalilvand Decl., ¶¶ 2, 4.) 
This evidence mitigates, to some degree, the Plaintiff’s failure to act
diligently.  But nonetheless this factor
weighs moderately against granting Plaintiff’s motion.
Any likelihood that permitting the discovery or hearing the
discovery motion will prevent the case from going to trial on the date set, or
otherwise interfere with the trial calendar, or result in prejudice to any
other party.¿ 
The Court does not see why granting this motion would prevent
the case from going to trial on April 3. 
Nor would there be any unfair or undue prejudice to Defendant, provided that
(1) Defendant is given the opportunity to depose the expert witnesses not
included in the designations made prior to the deadline; and (2) Defendant is
given the opportunity to counter-designate expert witnesses to testify on the
same topics.  This factor weighs moderately
in favor of granting Plaintiff’s motion.
The length of time that has elapsed between any date
previously set, and the date presently set, for the trial of the action.
Trial was initially set for February 2022, trial is now set
for April 2024, and the parties agreed to an expert discovery cutoff of July 1,
2023.  This factor weighs moderately
against granting Plaintiff’s motion.
After carefully reviewing the evidence and the
argument of the parties, and the factors set forth in Code of Civil Procedure
section 2024.050, the Court GRANTS the motion. 
In particular, the Court finds that Defendant would not suffer any
unfair or undue prejudice from an order granting the motion, but Plaintiff
would be substantially prejudiced if he were unable to present up to date and
complete evidence, at trial, of his treatments and future care needs.
To protect against any unfairness to Defendant,
Defendant is permitted to depose the expert
witnesses designated by Plaintiff that were not included in the designations
made prior to the deadline and to counter-designate expert witnesses to testify
on the same topics.  
CONCLUSION

The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion to reopen discovery to the extent that
Plaintiff seeks to provide an updated witness designation (Exhibit R to the
moving papers).
The Court
imposes the following additional conditions: (1) Defendant may depose, no later
than 14 days before trial, any expert witness included in the updated witness
designation who was not included in the expert witness designation served by
Plaintiff prior to July 1, 2023 (Exhibit A to the moving papers); (2) Defendant
may, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2034.280, counter-designate expert
witnesses on the same subjects within 20 days; and (3) Plaintiff may depose, no
later than 14 days before trial, any expert witness so counter-designated by
Defendant.  
The
deadlines set forth in this ruling may be extended by written stipulation of
the parties, without the need for a further court order. 
In all
other respects, discovery (including expert discovery) remains closed.   
Moving
Party to provide notice.