 Case Number:  21STCV27514    Hearing Date:   February 13, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion for Summary Judgment filed by Defendant City of San Gabriel. 
 
Tentative
 
The Court will hear from counsel.
 
The Court’s tentative ruling is to continue the hearing on this motion
for summary judgment, filed by the City of San Gabriel (“City”), so that it may
be heard at the same time as the motion for summary judgment filed by the
County of Los Angeles (“County”).
 
City’s first argument in its motion is that County, and not City, was
responsible for maintenance of the portion of road at which the accident
occurred.  Unless County agrees, the
Court is concerned about the risk of unfairness or inconsistent rulings if the Court
were to adjudicate this issue (and potentially other issues) now on City’s
motion, and in County’s absence.
 
Independently, the Court would also like to hear from Plaintiffs regarding
their objections to Defendant City’s Statement of Undisputed Material Facts (“DSUMF”).  It is unclear to the Court whether this is a
formatting issue or a substantive issue; do Plaintiffs contend that they have
been in some way denied fair notice of the evidence that City cites in the DSUMF
in support of its motion?
 
Background 
 
This case
arises out of an alleged accident on November 12, 2020, near the intersection
of East Broadway and Burton Avenue in San Gabriel, California.  According to the Complaint, Decedent Mark
Anthony Cazares was lawfully operating his vehicle and “struck an uneven and/or
broken and/or deteriorating portion of the roadway,” “causing him to lose
control,” “collid[e] with a tree,” and sustain injuries that led to his
death.  (Complaint, ¶¶ 13-14.) 
 
This
action is brought by Plaintiff Victoria Ung, on her own behalf as the surviving
mother of the decedent and as successor-in-interest to the decedent; Plaintiff
Mark Dino Cazares, on his own behalf as the surviving father of the decedent
and as successor-in-interest to the decedent; and “The Estate of Mark Anthony
Cazares” (collectively “Plaintiffs”).
 
Plaintiffs
filed the Complaint in this action on July 27, 2021, asserting a claim for
premises liability/wrongful death against Defendants City of San Gabriel
(“City”); County of Los Angeles (“County”); California Department of
Transportation (“DOT”); and Does 1 through 50.
 
City,
County, and DOT each filed an Answer to the Complaint in December 2021.  The Court, at the request of Plaintiffs,
dismissed all claims against DOT without prejudice on December 20, 2021. 
 
On August
25, 2023, City filed this motion for summary judgment, along with supporting
evidence and a Request for Judicial Notice. 
Plaintiffs filed their opposition on December 29, along with supporting
evidence, their own Request for Judicial Notice, and objections to City’s
evidence.  City filed its reply on January
8, 2024, along with objections to Plaintiffs’ evidence.
 
The
hearing for this motion for summary judgment was originally set for January 12,
2024. The Court, on its own motion, continued the hearing to February 13.