 Case Number:  22STCV16906    Hearing Date:   October 2, 2023    Dept:  29 TENTATIVE 
 
The motion of Defendant ANMOL, LLC dba Studio 6 Motel to compel arbitration is CONTINUED.
 
Background 
 
On May 23, 2022, Plaintiff Latoya Moreno (“Plaintiff”) filed a
complaint against Defendants Studio 6 Commerce, Manager Batell, Studio 6 LA,
LLC, ANMOL, LLC dba Studio 6 Motel (erroneously sued as “Studio 6 Motel”) asserting
one cause of action under a strict liability theory for an injury allegedly
caused by a dog bite.  According to the
complaint, Plaintiff was attacked and bitten by a dog on April 27, 2020, while
staying as a guest at defendants’ motel.  Plaintiff further alleges that the dog belonged
either to the defendants or to someone they knew, and that the dog had previously
bitten other hotel guests as well as defendants’ staff members. 
 
On October 3, 2022, Defendant ANMOL, LLC dba Studio 6 Motel (“Defendant”)
filed its answer to the complaint and also filed a cross-complaint against
cross-defendant Carmen Castillo Araiza, alleging causes of action for equitable
indemnity, equitable contribution, and declaratory relief.  In the cross-complaint, Defendant alleges that
cross-defendant owns the subject dog.
 
On August 8, 2023, Defendant filed the instant motion to compel
arbitration and stay proceedings. No opposition has been filed.  
 
Legal Standard 
 
“A written agreement to submit to arbitration an existing
controversy or a controversy thereafter arising is valid, enforceable and
irrevocable, save upon such grounds as exist for the revocation of any
contract.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.)  “On petition of a party to an
arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to
arbitrate a controversy and that a party thereto refuses to arbitrate such
controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to
arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the
controversy exists, unless it determines that: (a) The right to compel
arbitration has been waived by the petitioner; or (b) Grounds exist for the
revocation of the agreement.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.) 
 
In ruling on a motion to compel arbitration, “the trial court sits
as a trier of fact, weighing all the affidavits, declarations, and other
documentary evidence, as well as oral testimony received at the court's
discretion, to reach a final determination.”  (Peng v. First Republic
Bank (2013) 219 Cal.App.4th 1462, 1468.)  The court’s involvement is
limited to “determining (1) whether a valid agreement to arbitrate exists and,
if it does, (2) whether the agreement encompasses the dispute at issue.” 
(See Omar v. Ralphs Grocery Co. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 955.) 
“California has a strong public policy in favor of arbitration and any doubts
regarding the arbitrability of a dispute are resolved in favor of
arbitration.”  (Coast Plaza Doctors Hosp. v. Blue Cross of Cal.
(2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 677, 686.)  
 
“The party seeking arbitration bears the burden of proving the
existence of an arbitration agreement by a preponderance of the evidence, and
the party opposing arbitration bears the burden of proving by a preponderance
of the evidence any defense, such as unconscionability.”  (Pinnacle
Museum Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle Market Dev. (US), LLC (2012) 55 Cal.4th 223,
236.)   
 
Discussion 
 
As a
threshold matter, the Court notes that there is an issue with service of this
motion.  When Plaintiff filed the complaint,
her counsel of record was identified as Michael Domingo with the Law Offices of
Jacob Emrani, email address mdomingo@calljacob.com.  No substitution of attorney form or notice of change in handling attorney has been
filed.
 
Prior to
filing this motion, Defendant attempted to reach out to Plaintiff’s counsel and
was informed that Mr. Domingo had left the firm and the case was reassigned to attorney
Cynthia Lara.  (Nguyen Decl., ¶ 5.)  Subsequently, when Defendant filed the
motion, Defendant served attorney Lara. 
(Proof of service.)  As Ms. Lara
is not counsel of record, and as Plaintiff did not file an opposition to the
motion, the Court is concerned that service is not proper. 
 
To be
clear, the Court does not fault Defendant’s counsel.  But given the combination of circumstances,
including the significance of the motion, the change in counsel, the absence of
a substitution of attorney form, and the failure of Plaintiff to respond to the
motion, the Court CONTINUES the hearing on this motion for approximately 30
days.  
 
Conclusion 
 
Accordingly, the Court CONTINUES the hearing on the motion of Defendant
ANMOL, LLC dba Studio 6 Motel to compel arbitration for approximately 30 days.  Defendant is ORDERED to address further the
service issue in advance of the next hearing.
 
Moving party is ordered to give notice.
 
 