 Case Number:  22STCV02846    Hearing Date:   October 2, 2023    Dept:  29 TENTATIVE
 
The
motion of Defendants County of Los Angeles and David Morgan Wright to
consolidate is CONTINUED.
 
Background
On January
24, 2022, in this case (Case No. 22STCV02846),
Plaintiff Ismael Carbajal (“Carbajal”) filed a
complaint for motor vehicle negligence and general negligence against Defendants
County of Los Angeles (erroneously sued as “L.A. County Fire
Department”) and David Morgan Wright, arising out of
an accident on September 29, 2021. 
According to the Complaint, Defendants were operating an emergency
vehicle traveling east bound on Highway 126 when tires fell from the vehicle
and struck Carbajal’s vehicle, causing injuries to Carbajal.  Defendants filed their answer on June 2,
2022. (This will be referred to as the “Carbajal Action.”) 
On March
23, 2023, in Case No. 23CHCV00835, Plaintiff Earl Hibbert (“Hibbert”) filed a
complaint against Defendants County
of Los Angeles (erroneously sued as “L.A. County Fire Department”), David
Morgan Wright, and Consolidated Fire Protection
District of Los Angeles County (erroneously sued as “Consolidated Fire
Protection Dist. of LA”), asserting one cause of action for negligence, arising
out of the same incident on September 29, 2021. 
On May 30 and June 6, 2023, Defendants filed their answers. (This will
be referred to as the “Hibbert Action.”)
On July
13, 2023, the Court related the Carbajal Action and the Hibbert Action, deemed
the Carbajal Action to be the lead case, and reassigned the Hibbert Action to
Department 29 in the Spring Street Courthouse. 

On August 28, 2023, Defendants
County of Los Angeles and David Morgan Wright (hereinafter, “Defendants”) filed
the instant motion to consolidate.  No opposition has been filed.
 
Legal Standard
 
“When actions involving a common question of law or fact are
pending before the court, it may order a joint hearing or trial of any or all
the matters in issue in the actions; it may order all the actions consolidated
and it may make such orders concerning proceedings therein as may tend to avoid
unnecessary costs or delay.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1048, subd.
(a).)  The purpose of consolidation is to enhance trial court efficiency
by avoiding unnecessary duplication of evidence and the danger of inconsistent
adjudications.  (See Todd-Stenberg v. Dalkon Shield Claimants
Trust (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 976, 978-979.) 
 
A Notice of Motion to consolidate cases must (1)
include a list of all named parties in each case, the names of those who have
appeared, and the names of their respective attorneys of record; (2) include
the captions of all the cases sought to be consolidated; and (3) be filed in
each case sought to be consolidated.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.350(a)(1).)   The motion must be served on all attorneys for
all parties (and on all unrepresented parties) in all actions sought to be
consolidated.  (Id., subd. (a)(2).) 
 
There are, in general, two types of consolidation.  First, actions may be consolidated only for
certain purposes, such as for pre-trial only or for trial only.  Second, and alternatively, actions may be
consolidated for all purposes.  (See 3
Weil & Brown, California Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (The
Rutter Group 2023), ¶¶ 12:341-341.3.)
 
Discussion
As a preliminary matter, Defendants
have not satisfied all of the procedural requirements set forth in the California
Rules of Court, rule 3.350.  The notice
of motion was filed in the Carbajal Action but not in the Hibbert Action.  The hearing will be CONTINUED to allow
Defendants to cure this defect.
Because this defect is a minor
one, and because all parties in both actions have been served, the Court will now
proceed to provide its tentative ruling on the merits.
Defendants move to consolidate the
Carbajal Action and the Hibbert Action for all purposes, including trial, arguing
that both involve common issues of law and fact because each action arises out
of the same multi-vehicle accident that occurred on September 29, 2021 and
involve similar theories of liability. (Motion at pg. 5; Ward Decl. ¶¶ 2-4.)
Defendants further assert that consolidation of these actions would promote
judicial economy by avoiding the duplication of procedures and unnecessary
costs and delays. (Motion at pp. 5-6.) Consequently, Defendants reason, no
party would be prejudiced if the two actions were consolidated. (Motion at pg.
6.) 
Upon reviewing the moving papers
and the Court files in both actions, the Court concludes that consolidation of
the Carbajal Action and the Hibbert Action for all purposes is warranted because there are so many common factual and
legal questions in the two actions. Both actions arise from the same conduct, Defendant
Wright’s operation of an emergency vehicle during the course of his employment with
Defendant County of Los Angeles.  Both
plaintiffs allege that they suffered personal injuries and property damage due
to Defendant Wright’s conduct. Because of these common questions, consolidation
of these actions would promote efficiency, benefit all parties, and avoid
unnecessary costs and delays. 
Further,
the Court notes that although counsel for Carbajal apparently expressed some
hesitation with consolidation of the two actions for trial (see Ward Decl., ¶
11), Carbajal was served with the motion and filed no opposition.
Accordingly,
once the procedural defect identified above is cured, the Court is tentatively
inclined to grant Defendants’ motion. 
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, the Motion to Consolidate is CONTINUED
for approximately 30 days.  
 
Moving party is
ordered to give notice. 
 