  Case Number:  20STCV05697    Hearing Date:   April 12, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
CECILE LOPEZ MACABAGDAL,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
NORMAN ROY LEVINE, et
  al., 
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  20STCV05697
  Hearing Date:  April 12, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
plaintiff’s motions to compel further
  responses 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On February 13, 2020, Plaintiff
Cecile Lopez Macabagdal initiated this action against Defendants Norman Roy
Levine and Hancock Plaza Homeowners Association, Inc. arising from alleged
habitability issues. Defendant Levine was allegedly Plaintiff’s landlord.
However, Levine died in January 2021. On July 13, 2022, Plaintiff filed a First
Amended Complaint adding Herschel Manalo, the trustee of Levine’s estate, as a
Defendant. Plaintiff filed the operative Third Amended Complaint on April 24,
2023. 
            On March 11, 2024, Plaintiff filed
the instant two motions to compel further responses to special interrogatories
and requests for production. Defendant filed his oppositions on March 29, 2024.
Plaintiff filed her replies on April 8, 2024. 
LEGAL STANDARD
Upon receiving responses to its discovery
requests, the propounding party may move for an order compelling further
responses if the responses are incomplete or evasive, or objections are without
merit or too general. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.300(a), 2031.310(a),
2033.290(a).) 
MEET AND CONFER
A motion to compel further must be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration demonstrating an attempt to
resolve the matter informally. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.300(b)(1),
2031.310(b), 2033.290(b).) The Court finds that Plaintiff has satisfied the meet
and confer requirement. (See Akhavan Decl.)
DISCUSSION
I.
Special Interrogatories
            The motion concerns SROG No. 3,
which asks whether the subject property is owned by the trust for which
Defendant is a trustee. Defendant objected to the interrogatory as vague,
irrelevant, argumentative, calling for a legal opinion, intruding on attorney-client
privilege, and intruding on privacy. Plaintiff argues that Defendant waived all
objections by serving late responses and that the objections are meritless. 
a. Relief from Waiver
            The failure to timely respond to
discovery results in waiver of objections. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290(a),
2031.300(a).) However, the Court may relieve a party from this wavier if (1)
the party serves substantially compliant responses, and (2) the failure to
timely respond was caused by mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect. (Ibid.)
There is no dispute that Defendant’s responses were untimely. However, the
Court finds that Defendant’s response to SROG No. 3 is substantially compliant
and that Defendant’s failure to timely respond was caused by inadvertence. (See
Uss Decl. ¶¶ 9-11.) Therefore, objections are not waived. 
            b. Merits of the Objections    
            A
party “is entitled to demand answers to its interrogatories, as a matter of
right . . . [and] the burden of justifying any objection and failure to
respond remains at all times with the party resisting an interrogatory.” (Williams
v. Sup. Ct. (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 541.) Here, Defendant stands only on its
privacy objection, arguing that SROG No. 3 improperly seeks protected financial
information in violation of Civil Code section 3295.
“The party asserting a privacy right must
establish a legally protected privacy interest, an objectively reasonable
expectation of privacy in the given circumstances, and a threatened intrusion
that is serious.” (Williams v. Sup. Ct. (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 552.) If
the court finds a privacy interest, the court must balance the privacy concerns
against the need for the information. (Ibid.) The party seeking
discovery need not demonstrate a compelling need for the information unless
there is “an obvious invasion of an interest fundamental to personal autonomy.”
(Id. at p. 556.)
            Here, Defendant has not articulated
an objective expectation of privacy associated with revealing whether the trust
owns the subject property. Nor has Defendant explained how merely answering
“yes” or “no” to that question constitutes a serious intrusion of privacy. Tedesco
v. White (2023) 96 Cal.App.5th 1090, the single case cited in support of a
trust’s interest in privacy, involved an overbroad subpoena seeking “all
documents, writings or communications, in whatever form, relating or referring
to Tedesco or any of his accounts or assets—including, but not limited to,
those that are held by the restated trust.” (Id. at p. 1100.) By
contrast, SROG No. 3 seeks information on a single asset, the subject property,
and the information sought is merely whether the trust owns the property.
Ownership of the subject property is directly relevant, and Plaintiff’s need
for the information outweighs the minimal privacy interest. 
Civil Code section 3295 precludes
discovery of a defendant’s financial information until the plaintiff
establishes entitlement to punitive damages. However, Section 3295 does not
preclude discovery where the information sought is fundamental to the case and
is not used solely for assessing punitive damages. (Rawnsley v. Superior
Court (1986) 183 Cal.App.3d 86, 91.) Here, SROG No. 3 seeks relevant
information regarding ownership of the subject property. This information is
fundamental to the case beyond punitive damages. Therefore, Section 3295 does
not preclude discovery.   
In sum, a further response is required for
SROG No. 3. 
II. Requests for Production
The party seeking production of documents
bears the initial burden of showing good cause through a fact-specific showing
of relevance. (Kirkland v. Superior Court (2002) 95 Cal.App.4th 92, 98.)
Once this showing is made, the burden shifts to the responding party to justify
any objections. (Ibid.) 
RFP No. 2 seeks “ALL DOCUMENTS RELATING TO
the PERSON(s) who owned, leased or operated the SUBJECT PROPERTY from 2018 to
present.” Defendant objected to the request as vague, irrelevant, overbroad,
and burdensome. Ownership and management of the subject property are relevant.
Plaintiff’s motion and separate statement sufficiently set forth good cause for
such information. Defendant maintains that the request is overbroad as phrased
because it seeks all documents pertaining to any person who owned,
leased, or operated the subject property, meaning Plaintiff could conceivably
obtain any information on the person regardless of whether that information is
related to the property. The request is limited to information regarding the
ownership, leasing, or operation of the subject property, including the
identity of the owner, lessor, or operator.  
In sum, a further response is required for
RFP No. 2, subject to the above limitations. 
CONCLUSION
            Plaintiff’s motions to compel
further are GRANTED. Defendant Manalo shall provide further responses to SROG
No. 3 and RFP No. 2 within 15 days of this order. Sanctions are denied as the
parties acted with substantial justification. 
