  Case Number:  BC647861    Hearing Date:   July 11, 2024    Dept:  SWA Tentative Ruling Judge Eric C. Taylor  Torrance/Department A  Hearing Date:                         Thursday, July 11, 2024 Case Name:                             Joseph Chase, et  al. v. Benjamin Wizmann, et al. Case No.:                                BC647861  Proceeding:                            MOTION FOR LEAVE TO  AUGMENT DEFENDANTS’ EXPERT WITNESS DISCLOSURES Moving Party:                         Defendants/X-Defendants  Benjamin Wizmann, Michelle Wizman, Caroline Denise Wizman, Mount Management,  Inc. and Cross-Complainant Jeremy Wizman Responding Party:                   Plaintiffs Joseph Chase and  Syliva Chase  Notice:                                    OK       Ruling:                                                Defendants’ Motion for Leave to Augment Defendants’  Expert Witness Disclosures is GRANTED pursuant to CCP §2034.610, et seq.  Defendants’ addition of Steve Rogers as a  sound expert will not prejudice Plaintiffs, nor have Plaintiffs relied to their  detriment on Defendants’ expert witness list.   Defendants failure to designate Rogers as a sound expert was the result  of a reasonable mistake and excusable neglect.          BACKGROUND Plaintiffs  and Defendants are adjoining landowners.   Plaintiffs allege Defendants undertook a significant renovation project  on their property that was unpermitted and done without engineering  calculations, rendering the entirety of the work illegal and dangerous.   Plaintiffs  allege Defendants also trespassed repeatedly onto Plaintiff’s property to  perform work on the renovation.  Plaintiff  alleges Defendants entered onto Plaintiffs’ property and removed a wrought iron  fence that served as a boundary between the two properties, removed a sprinkler  well, causing the plants on Plaintiffs’ property to die, and eroding the slope  to the west of Plaintiffs’ property.  Plaintiffs  further allege Defendants’ renovation work caused the soil level to drop.  Plaintiffs allege the roots from a tree on  Defendants’ property caused damage to Plaintiffs’ pool and piping.  They also assert that Defendants’ actions  left Plaintiffs’ pool without an enclosure, rendering the pool unusable since  September 2014, and that Defendants constructed an unpermitted retaining wall  impacting the pool.  And Plaintiffs  allege that Defendants have installed unpermitted machinery and equipment on  their property, and that Defendants operate the equipment at intermittent times  through the day and night, interfering with the quiet enjoyment and use of  their property.   Plaintiffs  further allege that Defendants have leased out their property to short-term  renters on AirBnB, and that these short-term tenants cause excess noise at all  times.  Plaintiffs allege these short-term  tenants have also trespassed onto Plaintiffs’ property while under the  influence of alcohol or other drugs, and damaged plants and fixtures on  Plaintiffs’ property.   Plaintiffs  assert that they confronted Defendant Benjamin Wizmann about these issues, and  that Benjamin failed to make the repeatedly promised, necessary repairs.  Plaintiffs allege that, thereafter, Defendants  Benjamin and Michelle Wizmann fraudulently transferred the property to  Defendant Mount Management, Inc. by gift deed.  On  January 23, 2017, Plaintiffs filed this action against Defendants Benjamin  Wizmann, Michelle Wizmann, Caroline Denise Wizman and Mount Management, Inc.  (“MMI”).  The operative complaint is the  First Amended Complaint filed on February 7, 2018, alleging (1) trespass; (2)  trespass to timber; (3) nuisance; (4) nuisance; (5) nuisance; (6) removal of  lateral and subjacent support; (7) negligence; and (8) fraudulent  transfer.   On  June 18, 2018, Defendants/X-Complainants Benjamin Wizmann, Michelle Wizman,  Caroline Denise Wizman, Mount Management, Inc. and Cross-Complainant Jeremy  Wizmann (collectively “X-Complainants”) filed a cross-complaint in response to Plaintiffs’  complaint.  On June 29, 2018,  X-Complainants filed a First Amended Cross-Complaint.  On November 16, 2019, X-Complainants filed the  Second Amended Cross-Complaint (“SAXC”) alleging (1) quiet title; (2) trespass;  (3) extortion; (4) assault; (5) battery; (6) IIED; (7) breach of fiduciary  duty; (8) negligence per se; (9) breach of fiduciary duty; (10) unfair, illegal  & fraudulent business practices in violation of B&PC §17200; (11) IIED;  (12) assault; (13) trespass; (14) trespass; (15) trespass; (16) invasion of  privacy; and (17) negligence pe se.  On  December 18, 2019, X-Defendants voluntarily dismissed the second through  seventeenth causes of action, leaving only the first cause of action to quiet  title. In  response to X-Defendants’ cross-complaint, on September 3, 2019, Plaintiffs  filed a cross-complaint against Defendants Benjamin Wizmann, Michelle Wizmann,  Caroline Denise Wizman and Mount Management, Inc., alleging (1) quiet title;  (2) trespass; (3) assault; (4) battery; (5) nuisance; (6) IIED; (7) declaratory  relief; and (8) injunctive relief. [1]  A  bench trial was held on December 1 and 2, 2021 on the (1) first cause of action  for quiet title in MMI’s SAXC; and (2) Plaintiffs/X-Complainant’s first cause  of action for quiet title in their cross-complaint.  The Court entered a statement of decision on January  5, 2022, finding in favor of MMI on its first cause of action for quiet title, and  against Plaintiffs/X-Complainants Chase on their first cause of action for  quiet title.  The Court’s statement of  decision dated January 5, 2022 fully resolved Defendants/X-Complaints’ SAXC, fully  resolving X-Complainants’ claims. Trial  is currently set for August 5, 2024.    DISCUSSION

I.                  
 Applicable Law

            “On motion of any
party who has engaged in a timely exchange of expert witness information, the
court may grant leave to do either or both of the following:

(1)
Augment that party's expert witness list and declaration by adding the name and
address of any expert witness whom that party has subsequently retained.

(2)
Amend that party's expert witness declaration with respect to the general
substance of the testimony that an expert previously designated is expected to
give.”  (CCP §2034.610(a).)  

            “A motion under subdivision (a)
shall be made at a sufficient time in advance of the time limit for the
completion of discovery under Chapter 8 (commencing with Section 2024.010) to
permit the deposition of any expert to whom the motion relates to be taken
within that time limit. Under exceptional circumstances, the court may permit
the motion to be made at a later time.” 
(CCP §2034.610(b).)  A meet and
confer declaration under CCP §2016.040 shall accompany the motion.  (CCP §2034.610(c).)  

“The
court shall grant leave to augment or amend an expert witness list or
declaration only if all of the following conditions are satisfied:  (a) The court has taken into account the
extent to which the opposing party has relied on the list of expert witnesses.  (b) The court has determined that any party
opposing the motion will not be prejudiced in maintaining that party's action
or defense on the merits.  (c) The court
has determined either of the following: … (2) The moving party failed to
determine to call that expert witness, or to offer the different or additional
testimony of that expert witness as a result of mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or excusable neglect, and the moving party has done both of the
following:  (A) Sought leave to augment
or amend promptly after deciding to call the expert witness or to offer the
different or additional testimony.  (B)
Promptly thereafter served a copy of the proposed expert witness information
concerning the expert or the testimony described in Section 2034.260 on all
other parties who have appeared in the action…” 
CCP §2034.620(a)-(c).

“Leave
to augment or amend is conditioned on the moving party making the expert
available immediately for a deposition under Article 3 (commencing with Section
2034.410), and on any other terms as may be just, including, but not limited
to, leave to any party opposing the motion to designate additional expert
witnesses or to elicit additional opinions from those previously designated, a
continuance of the trial for a reasonable period of time, and the awarding of
costs and litigation expenses to any party opposing the motion.”  (CCP §2034.620(d).)  

 

II.               
Defendants’ Motion to Augment
Defendants’ Expert Witness Designations is GRANTED

A.    Extent
to which Plaintiffs’ have relied on Defendants’ expert list

Defendants
only seek to add a single expert to its expert witness list, Steve Rogers, a
sound engineer.  (Lubin Dec., ¶13.)  Defendant identified Steve Rogers in every
joint witness list submitted since the date the first witness list was filed
and served on July 28, 2020.  (Lubin Dec.,
¶¶7-8, Exs. G, H and I.)  Defendants first
identified Rogers as “Acostic [sic] expert for sound levels of equipment, and
effect of remedial measures” in the First Amended Joint Witness List filed on
June 24, 2021.  (Lubin Dec., Ex. H, First
Amended Joint Witness List, p. 6.)  Defendants
identified Rogers in this way in every single witness list submitted thereafter,
including the Long Cause Package filed by the Plaintiffs on February 24, 2022.  (Id. at Exs. G, H and I.)  

Plaintiffs’
counsel was the first to point out that Defendants had not designated a sound
expert on May 12, 2024, after Defendants requested permission to measure the
sound of the air conditioning units on Plaintiffs’ property.  (Id. at ¶9.)  Plaintiffs have also listed Wayland Dong, a
sound engineer, as one of their experts since February 2, 2020.  (Chase Dec. ISO Opposition, ¶4.)  

Based
on these facts, Plaintiffs did not rely to their detriment on Defendants’ erroneous
expert witness list.  Defendants identified
Rogers as an acoustic expert as early as June 2021 in the First Amended Joint
Witness List.  Plaintiffs also designated
their own sound expert from the outset. 
There is therefore no claim that Plaintiffs failed to designate their
own sound expert as a result of Defendants’ failure to designate one.  

 

B.    
 No prejudice to Plaintiffs if Defendants
allowed to add Rogers as a sound expert

            Prejudice under
CCP §2034.620(b) evidences a “concern with prejudicing the party opposing the
motion by adding a new expert for which that party, due to its reliance on the
previous list of experts, is not prepared and cannot be prepared in time.  A party is not ‘prejudiced’ simply because
the new expert will give testimony adverse to the party.”  (Dickison v. Howen (1990) 220
Cal.App.3d 1471, 1479.)  Thus, whether an
opposing party will be prejudiced by allowing augmentation or addition under
CCP §2034.620 rests largely on the opposing party’s ability to respond to the
new expert or expert testimony.  (Id. at
1479.)  

             Plaintiffs fail to identify any prejudice if
Defendants are allowed to add Rogers as a sound expert on their witness
list.  Any claim of prejudice would be
unpersuasive given that Rogers (1) submitted multiple declarations as a sound
expert in connection with Plaintiffs’ motion for preliminary injunction, (2) inspected
the site to formulate an opinion on the sound complaint issue and (3) was
referred to as an “acoustic expert” in the joint witness lists filed and served
after July 28, 2020.  (Lubin Dec.,
¶¶4-6.)  

            Plaintiffs never objected to Rogers
inclusion on the joint witness lists as an “acoustic expert” prior to May 12,
2024, when Plaintiffs’ counsel informed Defense counsel that Defendants had
never designated a sound expert.  Defendants
also offered Rogers for deposition as a designated expert in letters dated
September 21, 2020 and September 22, 2020. 
(Lubin Dec., ¶13.)  In response,
Plaintiffs did not object to Rogers as an expert nor did they depose him.  (Id. at ¶13.)  

            Thus, throughout the litigation, Plaintiffs
have been on notice of the nature of Rogers’ testimony and Defendants’ reliance
on him as a sound expert.  Allowing
Defendants to augment their witness list to include Rogers as a sound expert
will not prejudice Plaintiffs.  

 

C.
Defendants’ failure to include Rogers as an expert on their expert witness list
was the result of mistake and excusable neglect, and they moved promptly to
augment after discovering their mistake

Defense
counsel establishes that his failure to designate Rogers as a sound expert was
the result of inadvertence and excusable neglect.  Defense counsel consistently identified
Rogers as an acoustic expert in the joint expert lists as early as June 24,
2021.  (Lubin Dec., ¶8.)  Defense counsel only realized that he had
never officially designated Rogers as an expert on May 12, 2024, when
Plaintiffs’ counsel informed him of his oversight.  (Lubin Dec., ¶9.)  Defense counsel testifies that he overlooked designating
Rogers as an expert, because Rogers had participated so extensively in the
litigation as an acoustic expert and he was listed as an acoustic expert on the
joint witness lists.  (Lubin Dec.,
¶9.)  Defense counsel’s oversight was
understandable given that Rogers’ status as an expert was a foregone conclusion,
a great deal of time had passed since the action was filed and multiple joint
witness lists had been exchanged listing Rogers as an acoustic expert.  (Lubin Dec, ¶13.)

As
required under CCP §2034.620, Defense counsel promptly filed this motion for
leave to augment on June 11, 2024, approximately a month after discovering his
oversight.  Defense counsel met and
conferred with Plaintiffs’ counsel during the months of May and June 2024 per
CCP §2034.610(b).  (Lubin Dec.,
¶11.)  Defendants also promptly served a
Supplemental Expert Witness Disclosure on June 4, 2024.  (Lubin Dec., ¶12.)

 

CONCLUSION

            For the reasons stated above, Defendants’
Motion for Leave to Augment Defendants’ Expert Witness Disclosures is GRANTED
pursuant to CCP §2034.610, et seq. 
Defendants’ addition of Steve Rogers as a sound expert will not
prejudice Plaintiffs, nor have Plaintiffs relied to their detriment on
Defendants’ expert witness list. 
Defendants failure to designate Rogers as a sound expert was the result
of a reasonable mistake and excusable neglect.    Tentative Ruling Judge Eric C. Taylor  Torrance/Department A  Hearing Date:                         Thursday, July 11, 2024 Case Name:                             Joseph Chase, et  al. v. Benjamin Wizmann, et al. Case No.:                                BC647861  Proceeding:                            DEFENDANTS’ MOTION IN  LIMINE NO. 5 TO EXCLUDE NEW EXPERT WITNESS OPINIONS NOT PREVIOUSLY DISCLOSED BY  PLAINTIFFS’ EXPERTS JEFF HUGHES, ROSALIE KLEIN AND LINDSEY PHILPOTT Moving Party:                         Defendants/X-Defendants  Benjamin Wizmann, Michelle Wizman, Caroline Denise Wizman, Mount Management,  Inc. and Cross-Complainant Jeremy Wizman Responding Party:                   Plaintiffs Joseph Chase and  Syliva Chase  Notice:                                    OK       Ruling:                                                Defendants’ Motion  in Limine No. 5 to Exclude New Expert Witness Opinions Not Previously Disclosed  by Plaintiffs’ Experts Jeff Hughes, Rosalie Klein and Lindsey Philpott is  GRANTED.         BACKGROUND Plaintiffs  and Defendants are adjoining landowners.   Plaintiffs allege Defendants undertook a significant renovation project  on their property that was unpermitted and done without engineering  calculations, rendering the entirety of the work illegal and dangerous.   Plaintiffs  allege Defendants also trespassed repeatedly onto Plaintiff’s property to  perform work on the renovation.  Plaintiff  alleges Defendants entered onto Plaintiffs’ property and removed a wrought iron  fence that served as a boundary between the two properties, removed a sprinkler  well, causing the plants on Plaintiffs’ property to die, and eroding the slope  to the west of Plaintiffs’ property.  Plaintiffs  further allege Defendants’ renovation work caused the soil level to drop.  Plaintiffs allege the roots from a tree on  Defendants’ property caused damage to Plaintiffs’ pool and piping.  They also assert that Defendants’ actions  left Plaintiffs’ pool without an enclosure, rendering the pool unusable since  September 2014, and that Defendants constructed an unpermitted retaining wall  impacting the pool.  And Plaintiffs  allege that Defendants have installed unpermitted machinery and equipment on  their property, and that Defendants operate the equipment at intermittent times  through the day and night, interfering with the quiet enjoyment and use of  their property.   Plaintiffs  further allege that Defendants have leased out their property to short-term  renters on AirBnB, and that these short-term tenants cause excess noise at all  times.  Plaintiffs allege these short-term  tenants have also trespassed onto Plaintiffs’ property while under the  influence of alcohol or other drugs, and damaged plants and fixtures on  Plaintiffs’ property.   Plaintiffs  assert that they confronted Defendant Benjamin Wizmann about these issues, and  that Benjamin failed to make the repeatedly promised, necessary repairs.  Plaintiffs allege that, thereafter, Defendants  Benjamin and Michelle Wizmann fraudulently transferred the property to  Defendant Mount Management, Inc. by gift deed.  On  January 23, 2017, Plaintiffs filed this action against Defendants Benjamin  Wizmann, Michelle Wizmann, Caroline Denise Wizman and Mount Management, Inc.  (“MMI”).  The operative complaint is the  First Amended Complaint filed on February 7, 2018, alleging (1) trespass; (2)  trespass to timber; (3) nuisance; (4) nuisance; (5) nuisance; (6) removal of  lateral and subjacent support; (7) negligence; and (8) fraudulent  transfer.   On  June 18, 2018, Defendants/X-Complainants Benjamin Wizmann, Michelle Wizman,  Caroline Denise Wizman, Mount Management, Inc. and Cross-Complainant Jeremy  Wizmann (collectively “X-Complainants”) filed a cross-complaint in response to Plaintiffs’  complaint.  On June 29, 2018,  X-Complainants filed a First Amended Cross-Complaint.  On November 16, 2019, X-Complainants filed the  Second Amended Cross-Complaint (“SAXC”) alleging (1) quiet title; (2) trespass;  (3) extortion; (4) assault; (5) battery; (6) IIED; (7) breach of fiduciary  duty; (8) negligence per se; (9) breach of fiduciary duty; (10) unfair, illegal  & fraudulent business practices in violation of B&PC §17200; (11) IIED;  (12) assault; (13) trespass; (14) trespass; (15) trespass; (16) invasion of  privacy; and (17) negligence pe se.  On  December 18, 2019, X-Defendants voluntarily dismissed the second through  seventeenth causes of action, leaving only the first cause of action to quiet  title. In  response to X-Defendants’ cross-complaint, on September 3, 2019, Plaintiffs  filed a cross-complaint against Defendants Benjamin Wizmann, Michelle Wizmann,  Caroline Denise Wizman and Mount Management, Inc., alleging (1) quiet title;  (2) trespass; (3) assault; (4) battery; (5) nuisance; (6) IIED; (7) declaratory  relief; and (8) injunctive relief. [1]  A  bench trial was held on December 1 and 2, 2021 on the (1) first cause of action  for quiet title in MMI’s SAXC; and (2) Plaintiffs/X-Complainant’s first cause  of action for quiet title in their cross-complaint.  The Court entered a statement of decision on January  5, 2022, finding in favor of MMI on its first cause of action for quiet title, and  against Plaintiffs/X-Complainants Chase on their first cause of action for  quiet title.  The Court’s statement of  decision dated January 5, 2022 fully resolved Defendants/X-Complaints’ SAXC, fully  resolving X-Complainants’ claims. Jury  Trial is currently set for August 5, 2024.    Defendants’  Motion in Limine No. 5 to Exclude New Expert Witness Opinions Not Previously  Disclosed by Plaintiffs’ Experts Jeff Hughes, Rosalie Klein and Lindsey  Philpott -- GRANTED             The Court will allow Plaintiffs’  experts to testify as to cost adjustments due to factors such as market  conditions, material cost increases and inflation, passage of time, and increases  in report costs.  As Defendants clarify  in their reply, Defendants are not seeking to preclude expert testimony  regarding the current cost of any measures that were previously discussed.  Defendants are only seeking to preclude Plaintiffs  from offering new opinions that fall outside the scope of their designation or  that could have been offered four years ago.   As such, Plaintiffs’ experts will not be allowed to testify as to new  and differing theories of liability and damages, nor will they be allowed to  testify as to new items of damages or opinions that were not provided in any  prior report or during deposition.               To the extent Plaintiffs seek to  present new and different theories of liability and damages, they must proceed  by way of a noticed motion to reopen discovery brought before the independent  calendar court.  Long cause trial courts  are directed solely to try matters.  Per  the instructions of the Honorable Michelle Williams Court, Supervising Judge of  the Civil Division, long cause trial courts are not to be involved in law and  motion or discovery disputes.  Should the  independent calendar court agree that discovery should be reopened, this Court  will adjust the trial schedule accordingly.                   