  Case Number:  19STCP04706    Hearing Date:   August 6, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
FRIEND
  OF CAMDEN INC., 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
19STCP04706




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
BARBARA
  BRANDT, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                         August 6, 2024
 
Moving Parties:                      Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant
Friend of Camden, Inc. and Plaintiffs Avondale Investment Partners, L.P. and
Ralph and Shirley Shapiro, as Trustees of The Shapiro Irrevocable Trust Dated
May 25, 1993. 
Responding
Party:                  None
Verified
Application of Stephen P. Farrelly for Leave to Appear Pro Hac Vice
 
            The court considered the moving papers.
No opposition has been received.
RULING
            The verified application of Stephen
P. Farrelly for Leave to Appear Pro Hac Vice is GRANTED.
 
BACKGROUND
            This dispute arises out of the
soon-to-be end of the Limited Liability Company Ventura-Petit East LLC, an
entity that once owned an office building. It was sold in June 2023 for $40
million. The net proceeds are approximately $31 million.
            Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Friend of
Camden, Inc. and Plaintiffs Avondale Investment Partners, L.P. and Ralph and
Shirley Shapiro, as Trustees of The Shapiro Irrevocable Trust Dated May 25, 199
(collectively, “Plaintiffs”) apply to the court for an order to admit Attorney
Stephen P. Farrelly pro hac vice as counsel for Plaintiffs. 
 
LEGAL AUTHORITY
California
Rules of Court Rule 9.40 provides that an attorney in good standing in another
jurisdiction may apply to appear as counsel pro hac vice in the State of
California by filing a verified application together with proof of service by
mail of a copy of the application and notice of hearing on all parties who have
appeared in the case and on the State Bar of California at its San Francisco
office, with payment of a $50.00 fee, so long as that attorney is not a
resident of the State of California, and is not regularly engaged in
substantial business, professional, or other activities in the State of
California.  
The
application must state:  (1) the
applicant’s residence and office addresses; (2) the courts to which the
applicant has been admitted to practice and the dates of admission; (3) that
the applicant is a member in good standing in those courts; (4) that the
applicant is not currently suspended or disbarred in any court; (5) the title
of each court and cause in which the applicant has filed an application to
appear as counsel pro hac vice in this state in the preceding two years, the
date of each application, and whether or not it was granted; and (5) the name,
address, and telephone number of the active member of the State Bar of
California who is attorney of record in the local action.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 9.40(d).)
 
DISCUSSION
The court
finds that Counsel Farrelly’s application complies with the requirements set
forth under California Rules of Court Rule 9.40.  (See generally Verified Application.)  
Counsel Farrelly
states that his residence is in Brooklyn, New York and that he is an attorney
with Ellis George LLP, with an office located at 152 W. 57th Street, 28th
Floor, New York, New York 10019. (Farrelly Decl. at ¶ 4; Cal. Rules of Court,
rule 9.40(d)(1).) He further states that he is a member in good standing with
the State Bar of New York since 2014. (Id. at ¶ 5-6; Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 9.40(d)(2)-(4).) Also, in the preceding two years he has submitted three
applications to appear as counsel pro hac vice, which each had been
approved. (Id. at ¶ 8-10; Cal. Rules of Court, rule 9.40(d)(5).) Counsel
Farrellly further states John Harabedian is an active members of the State Bar
of California and associated with Ellis George LLP, which is located at 2121
Avenue of the Stars, Suite 3000, Los Angeles, California 90067. (Id. at
¶ 10; Cal. Rules of Court, rule 9.40(d)(6).) Furthermore, the applicant has
paid the required $50.00 fee to the State Bar of California and provided notice
to the State Bar of this application.  (Harabedian
Decl. ¶ 4, Exh. B; Cal. Rules of Court, rule 9.40(e).)
Accordingly,
the application to admit Counsel Farrelly pro hac vice is GRANTED. 
 
ORDER
            The verified application of Stephen
P. Farrelly for Leave to Appear Pro Hac Vice is GRANTED.
            Moving
party is ordered to give notice of ruling.