 Case Number:  23STCP01092    Hearing Date:   March 6, 2024    Dept:  86 FRIENDS OF ROCKHAVEN v. CITY OF GLENDALE 
Case Number: 23STCP01092
Hearing Date: March 6, 2024
 
[Tentative]                     ORDER
OVERRULING DEMURRER  
 
 
Respondents, City of Glendale and the City
Council of Glendale, generally demur to the first amended petition (FAP) of
Petitioner, Friends of Rockhaven.  
 
Respondents’ Request for Judicial Notice (RJN),
filed June 12, 2023[1], of
Exhibits 1 and 2 is granted. The court judicially notices the existence of these
official records but not the truth of any factual or hearsay statements made
therein or the truth of any asserted interpretation of the records. (See Love
v. Wolf (1964) 226 Cal.App.2d 378, 403; Garcia v. Sterling (1985)
176 Cal. App. 3d 17, 22; Fremont Indemnity Co. v. Fremon General Corp. (2007)
20 Cal.4th 449, 457, fn. 9.)
 
The demurrer is overruled.
 
ALLEGATIONS IN THE FAP 
 
In 2008, the City purchased Rockhaven Sanitarium
Historic District (Rockhaven) for $8.25 million. (FAP ¶ 8.) Rockhaven is listed
on the State and National Registries of Historic Resources and Places. (FAP ¶
2.) In August 2022, the City accepted a state grant of $8 million to renovate
and preserve Rockhaven. (FAP ¶¶ 7-8.) Since taking ownership of Rockhaven in
2008, the City has ignored and continues to ignore experts who have advised on
measures to care for Rockhaven. The City “has allowed Rockhaven to fall into
decay.” (FAP ¶ 9.) The City has jeopardized Rockhaven’s “historic preservation”
and City’s “persistent failure to care for this important historic property”
has damaged “public property in violation of the law.” (FAP ¶¶ 10, 11.) The City’s
failure to act constitutes a violation of Glendale Municipal Code (GMC) section
15.20.120 and is also a waste of public funds and property within the meaning
of Code of Civil Procedure section 526a. (FAP ¶¶ 61-69, 74-87.) Petitioner
prays for a “writ of mandate under Code of Civil Procedure § 1085 ordering
Respondents to comply with their mandatory duty under Glendale Municipal Code
§15.20.120.” (FAP Prayer ¶ (v).)  
 
///
 
APPLICABLE LEGAL STANDARD 
 
A demurrer
tests the sufficiency of a pleading, and the grounds for a demurrer must appear
on the face of the pleading or from judicially noticeable matters. (Code Civil
Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a); Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)
“We assume the truth of the allegations in the complaint, but do not assume the
truth of contentions, deductions, or conclusions of law.”  (California
Logistics, Inc. v. State of California (2008) 161 Cal.App.4th 242, 247.) “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone
and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters.” (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) The
allegations in the petition must be liberally construed in favor of Petitioner
on demurrer. (See Mobil Oil Corp. v Exxon Corp. (1986) 177 Cal.App.3d
942, 947.) “A demurrer
must dispose of an entire cause of action to be sustained.”  (Poizner
v. Fremont General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 119.)
 
ANALYSIS 
 
First Cause
of Action – Writ of Ordinary Mandate 
 
Respondents
contend Petitioner has not stated a cause of action for ordinary mandate
because “the duty alleged in
the FAP necessarily requires the City’s discretion” and “mandamus will not lie
to compel a discretionary act.” (Memo 6:2, 13.) 

 
              Legal Standard for a Writ of
Ordinary Mandate
 
“Generally, mandamus is available to compel a public agency’s
performance or to correct an agency’s abuse of discretion when the action being
compelled or corrected is ministerial.”  (AIDS Healthcare Foundation v. Los
Angeles County Dept. of Public Health (2011) 197 Cal.App.4th 693, 700.) “Mandamus
does not lie to compel a public agency to exercise discretionary powers in
a particular manner, only to compel it to exercise its discretion in some
manner.” (Ibid.)  
 
However, as argued by Petitioner, a writ of ordinary mandate
may be appropriate if the agency has abused its discretion and refused to act
as required by law. Mandamus “will lie to correct abuses of discretion. In determining
whether a public agency has abused its discretion, the court may not substitute
its judgment for that of the agency, and if reasonable minds may disagree as to
the wisdom of the agency's action, its determination must be upheld. A court
must ask whether the public agency's action was arbitrary, capricious, or
entirely lacking in evidentiary support, or whether the agency failed to follow
the procedure and give the notices the law requires.” (County of Los Angeles v. City of Los Angeles (2013) 214 Cal.App.4th
643, 654.) “To compel the [respondent] to take
some action the [petitioner] must plead and prove the [respondent] has failed
to act, and its failure to act is arbitrary, beyond the bounds of reason, or in
derogation of the applicable legal standards.” (AIDS Healthcare Foundation v. Los Angeles County Dept. of Public
Health,
supra, 197 Cal.App.4th at 704.)  
 
“Where a statute leaves room for
discretion, a challenger must show the official acted arbitrarily, beyond the
bounds of reason or in derogation of the applicable legal standards. Where only
one choice can be a reasonable exercise of discretion, a court may compel an
official to make that choice.” (California Correctional Supervisors
Organization, Inc. v. Department of Corrections (2002) 96 Cal.App.4th 824,
827; see also County of Los Angeles v. City of Los Angeles, supra, 214
Cal.App.4th at 654; Fair v. Fountain Valley School Dist. (1979) 90
Cal.App.3d 180, 187.)
 
Respondents acknowledge an ordinary writ
of mandate may issue if the agency’s action or failure to act was arbitrary,
capricious, or palpably unreasonable. (See Reply 4:1-3.) 
 
Has Petitioner Sufficiently Alleged an Abuse of Discretion?    
 
Petitioner alleges the City “has failed to
perform its mandatory duty under the Glendale Municipal Code and has wasted and
continues to waste taxpayer funds and taxpayer-owned property by failing to
maintain and preserve” Rockhaven. (FAP ¶ 12.) Petitioner summarizes its claim: 
 
67.
The City is in violation of its clear mandatory duty under GMC §15.20.120. The
City has not actively prevented demolition by neglect, deterioration,
dilapidation and/or decay of Rockhaven. The City has not ensured the Rockhaven
was not subject to deterioration, dilapidation and decay or demolition by
neglect, because the City did not “make certain” that decay and deterioration
did not happen. As alleged above, since the City acquired ownership of
Rockhaven, multiple city-issued reports have identified water damage and mold
as well as structural deficits as a result of the water damage and mold, with
each new report evidencing additional and more severe water damage and mold
contamination than those that have preceeded it. . . .
 
68. For the same reasons, the City has
also failed to comply with its duty to maintain Rockhaven in a manner that
ensures its continued eligibility for listing in the Glendale Register of
Historic Resources, California Register of Historical Resources, and/or the
National Register of Historic Places. . . . The City’s acts and omissions, as
documented by its own reporting, show water damage, mold and structural damage
that have progressively become worse during the City’s ownership. This
threatens Rockhaven’s listing under both the California and National [Registries].
. . . (FAP ¶¶ 67-68.)
 
Petitioner also
includes the following factual allegations, among others: 
 
“In July
2009, ARG [Architectural Resource Group, a city consultant] issued a Draft
Report stating that ‘the Rockhaven property appears eligible for listing on the
National and California Registers. . . .’ The July 2009 ARG report noted roof
damages and evidence of leaks and/or dry rot in most of the Rockhaven. ARG
noted the roofs would require attention and that mold inspections and abatement
should be performed. . . . The ARG report also recommended preparation of a
maintenance plan that will guide future repair and maintenance with sensitivity
to the historic character of the buildings. No maintenance plan was ever
adopted. The Final October 2009 ARG Report also identified priority items that
were preventative measures to prohibit further deterioration to Rockhaven’s
buildings. Those priority items included replacing the roofs of twelve
buildings. That report also showed mold in the Dining Hall and water damage
in four of the buildings at Rockhaven.” (FAP ¶¶ 27-29 [emphasis
added].)  
 
“During a February
11, 2020 City Council Meeting, a Council Member inquired about what precautions
were being taken at Rockhaven in light of recent rain events, the City Manager
stated that every rainy season the City places tarps over the roofs.” (FAP ¶
33.)
 
“A few months later
the city reviewed its annual budget. The budget for FY20-21 indicates that
Rockhaven had a ‘Life to Date’ rehabilitation budget of just over $1 million.
As of March 31, 2020 the City’s rehabilitation budget shows that it had a
remaining balance of $44,000.00. The city appears to have expended nearly all
of the $1 million budget for Rockhaven rehabilitation apparently without
performing any identifiable work on the roofs as recommended by its expert
consultants.” (FAP ¶ 34.)
 
“In July 2021,
Historic Buildings Services (‘HBS’) issued an assessment of Rockhaven. The HBS
Report evidenced neglect, deterioration, dilapidation and decay at Rockhaven,
stating that the property has essentially been in an ad hoc mothball state
(i.e. preserving a property/asset for future use) five years past the maximum
mothballing period of ten years recommended by National Parks Service in NPS
Bulletin 31.” (FAP ¶ 37.) “The HBS 2021 Report observed that, ‘Many important
safeguards have not been in place,’ including ‘Water-tight roofs, Working rain
gutters and site drainage, Secure windows and doors, Proper ventilation,
Ensuring structural integrity, Capping or securing utilities, Monitoring the
buildings for fire, water and vandalism.’ ” 
(FAP ¶ 43.)
 
“As part of the FY
2021-2022 Budget the City of Glendale appropriated $300k for Rockhaven roof
replacement. . . . At a January 11, 2022 meeting, staff revealed that on
December 25th and/or December 26th, 2021, city workers put plastic covering
over the roofs of the Rockhaven buildings in the middle of a rain storm. . . .
At a December 13, 2022 meeting, the City Mayor asked about the status of
Rockhaven after recent rain storms. Staff stated that they were still working
on advertising bids for replacing roofs, putting down tarps and remediating
hazardous material.” (FAP ¶¶ 45-49.)
 
“On or around
January 2023, Industrial Hygiene Management Inc., issued a Report which states
that ‘The majority of buildings have widespread water damage with visible water
stains and/or active mold growth on the walls and ceilings which are
constructed of plaster and underlying button-board with a paper facing. It is
highly likely, therefore, that there is additional hidden mold growth inside
the wall cavities. The lower walls and carpets are still wet in many areas.
Patches of acoustic spray-on (popcorn) ceiling have fallen down in some rooms.’
The Report further depicted via photographs water damage, mold growth and/or
structural damage in at least 10 of the buildings.”  (FAP ¶ 50 [emphasis added].)
 
“The demolition
by neglect, deterioration, dilapidation and decay continue at Rockhaven, as
more extensive water damage, mold and structural components in need of
replacement have been identified as recently as June 2023. In fact during, a
site inspection, Petitioner took photographs that showed apparent pieces of the
ceiling that had collapsed onto the floor and broken windows in one building.”
(FAP ¶ 51 [emphasis added].)  
 
Significantly,
Petitioner alleges the City’s expenditures and actions have not prevented
demolition by neglect, deterioration, dilapidation, and decay of Rockhaven
“as reporting shows that extensive water damage, mold and structural damage
occurred and has progressively become worse over the last decade.” (FAP ¶
54 [emphasis added].)  
 
“Glendale Municipal
Code (‘GMC’) § 15.20.120 is entitled ‘Duty to maintain historic resources’ and
provides: ‘Every owner of a designated historic resource, a resource pending
designation as a historic resource, a potential historic resource, or a protected
interior shall maintain and keep such resource in a manner that ensures its
continued lawful and reasonable use, that ensures its continued eligibility for
listing in the Glendale Register of Historic Resources, California Register of
Historical Resources, and/or the National Register of Historic Places, and
ensures that it is not subject to (and actively prevents) ‘demolition by
neglect,’ as well as deterioration, dilapidation and decay of any portion of
such resource.” (FAP ¶ 61.)  
 
“‘Demolition by
neglect’ means the process by which the owner of a designated historic resource
allows its ongoing deterioration over a period of time as a result of
lack of maintenance, failure to protect it from pests or vandals, and/or
failure to take reasonable measures to prevent ingress of water or wind through
the roof, walls, or apertures, leading to deterioration and/or structural
failure that results in complete or partial demolition, the loss of
character-defining features, and/or that constitutes a threat to public
health and safety.” (FAP ¶ 62.)
 
Petitioner added
the emphasized allegations to the FAP after the court sustained the prior
demurrer. The emphasized definition of “demolition by neglect” in paragraph 62,
while included in the original petition, has greater significance in light of
the new allegations.  
 
Notably,
Respondents do not address these new allegations in the demurrer or explain why
they are insufficient to plead a claim for mandate based upon an abuse of
discretion. The new allegations support Petitioner’s claim the City has abused
its discretion by failing to take action to preserve Rockhaven over a lengthy
period of time and has engaged in “demolition by neglect” in violation of GMC
section 15.20.120. 
 
Significantly, the
FAP now alleges the following timeline: The 2009 ARG Report “showed mold in the
Dining Hall and water damage in four of the buildings at Rockhaven.” (FAP ¶¶
27-29.)  While the City appropriated
$300,000 for roof replacement in FY 2021-2022, the “City has not performed any
roof replacement or temporary roof installation, save for the roof of one
structure, which is ‘in progress’.” (FAP ¶¶ 45-48.) A 2023 expert report
“depicted via photographs water damage, mold growth and/or structural damage in
at least 10 of the buildings.” (FAP ¶ 50.) Finally, at an inspection in June
2023, Petitioner identified “extensive water damage, mold and structural
components in need of replacement.” (FAP ¶ 51.) Thus, the FAP alleges the
City has failed to take action and the water damage and mold have
“progressively become worse over the last decade.” (FAP ¶ 54.) Liberally
construing the pleading as the court must, Petitioner has now alleged
sufficient facts to support a claim the City has abused its discretion—it has
acted arbitrarily, capriciously, and unreasonably—by  failing to take action to preserve Rockhaven
and comply with its legal duties under GMC section 15.20.120.  
 
Respondents argue for
the first time in reply that Petitioner “fails to allege credible facts that
the City’s actions were ‘arbitrary, capricious, or outside the bounds of
reason’.” (Reply 2:10-12; see also Reply 5:2-5 [discussing the credibility of
Petitioner’s allegations].) Respondents did not make such an argument in their
demurrer to attack Petitioner’s claim, “[t]he actions that City has taken with
respect to Rockhaven, as well as the actions the City failed to take,
constitute an abuse of discretion because they were arbitrary and capricious in
that the City’s actions did not actively prevent Rockhaven from sustaining
demolition by neglect, deterioration, dilapidation and/or decay under a proper
interpretation of the Glendale Municipal Code.” (FAP ¶ 69.)
 
“The salutary rule is that points raised in a reply brief for the first
time will not be considered unless good cause is shown for the failure to
present them before.”  (Balboa Ins.
Co. v. Aguirre (1983) 149 Cal.App.3d 1002, 1010.) Respondents do not show
good cause to raise these new arguments in reply. The court therefore rejects
the new arguments on that procedural basis.
 
Even if considered, however, Respondents’ new reply arguments are not
persuasive at the pleading stage. As noted earlier, on demurrer, the
court “assume[s] the truth of the allegations in the complaint. . . .” (California
Logistics, Inc. v. State of California, supra, 161 Cal.App.4th at 247.) The court
cannot determine the “credibility” of Petitioner’s allegations when considering
a demurrer. Further, as
summarized earlier, Petitioner has alleged facts and a timeline that, if proven
at trial and not rebutted, could plausibly support a finding the City failed to
take reasonable action to preserve Rockhaven over a lengthy period of time and
has caused a “demolition by neglect” within the meaning of GMC section
15.20.120.  Whether the City has engaged
in arbitrary, capricious, or unreasonable conduct, in light of those
allegations, presents an inherently factual question that cannot be adjudicated
on demurrer.  
 
Petitioner prays for a “writ of mandate under
Code of Civil Procedure § 1085 ordering Respondents to comply with their
mandatory duty under Glendale Municipal Code §15.20.120.”  (FAP Prayer ¶ (v).)  Thus, contrary to Respondents’ argument, the
petition does not necessarily seek a writ directing Respondents to exercise
their discretion in a specific way. 
Rather, the petition seeks a writ directing Respondents “to take some action.” (AIDS Healthcare Foundation v. Los Angeles County Dept. of Public
Health, supra,
197 Cal.App.4th at 704.)  
 
The demurrer to the
first cause of action is OVERRULED.
 
Second and Third
Causes of Action – Waste[2] 
 
Petitioner alleges
the “City has and continues to waste public funds and damage public property by
failing to comply with its duty to actively prevent the demolition by neglect,
deterioration, dilapidation and decay and damage to Rockhaven as required by
GMC 15.20.120.”  (FAP ¶ 77.)  “The City’s actions also involve both an
actual and threatened expenditure of public funds. Not only did the City
squander its own funds, but is threatening to squander state funds allocated
for rehabilitating Rockhaven under the State Grant and recently appropriated
city funds.” (FAP ¶ 78.)  
 
Respondents contend
that Petitioner has not alleged a cause of action for waste because “Petitioner has not and cannot point to any specific
mandatory duty that the City has violated.” 
(Memo 9:12-13.)  
 
“Section 526a gives citizens standing to challenge governmental action and is
liberally construed to achieve that purpose. Taxpayer suits are authorized only
if the government body has a duty to act and has refused to do so. If it has
discretion and chooses not to act, the courts may not interfere with that
decision. [Citation.] The term ‘waste’ under section 526a ‘means something more than an alleged mistake of public
officials in matters involving the exercise of judgment or wide discretion. . .
. On the other hand, a court must not close its eyes to wasteful, improvident
and completely unnecessary public spending, merely because it is done in the
exercise of a lawful power.’ [Citation.]”  (Daily Journal Corp. v.
County of Los Angeles (2009) 172 Cal.App.4th 1550, 1557-58.)[3]
 
Here, as discussed earlier,
Petitioner has now sufficiently alleged the City has engaged in arbitrary,
capricious, and unreasonable conduct in failing to take action to preserve
Rockhaven over a lengthy period of time and has caused a “demolition by
neglect” within the meaning of GMC section 15.20.120. Petitioner alleges, in
failing to take such action, the City has wasted public funds. (FAP ¶¶ 77-85.) At
the pleading stage, Petitioner’s allegations are sufficient to support a
claim the City has engaged in “wasteful, improvident and completely unnecessary
public spending” that may be enjoined pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
526a.  Liberally construing the pleading,
Petitioner does not challenge simply an “alleged mistake of public officials,”
but rather illegal and wasteful use of public funds and property.
 
While Code of Civil
Procedure section 526a does not authorize the courts to interfere with the
agency’s exercise of discretion, taxpayer suites are authorized “if the
government body has a duty to act and has refused to do so.” (Daily Journal
Corp., supra, 172 Cal.App.4th at 1557-1558.) Because Petitioner alleges the
City failed to perform a mandatory duty enjoined by law (GMC section 15.20.120),
it has alleged a cause of action for waste pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
526a.
 
In their demurrer, Respondents have
not developed an argument the analysis under Code of Civil Procedure section
526a is materially different for a common law taxpayer action.  Accordingly, for the same reasons set forth
above, Petitioner has also sufficiently alleged a common law taxpayer action. (See
Los Altos Property Owners Assn. v. Hutcheon (1977) 69 Cal.App.3d 22, 26 [common law waste includes
“fraud, collusion, ultra vires, or
a failure to perform a duty specifically enjoined”].)  
 
The demurrer to the second and third
causes of action is OVERRULED.
 
CONCLUSION 
 
The demurrer to the first, second, and
third causes of action is OVERRULED.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
March 6, 2024                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ________________________________ 
Hon. Mitchell Beckloff  
Judge of the Superior Court 


