 Case Number:  23STCP01201    Hearing Date:   March 6, 2024    Dept:  86 TREVINO v. GORDON
(Department of Motor Vehicles)
Case No. 23STCP01201
Hearing Date: March
6, 2024
 
 
[Tentative]       ORDER GRANTING PETITION FOR WRIT OF
MANDATE
 
 
                                                                                                                                                                                            
 
Petitioner, Richardo
Trevino, seeks a writ of mandate compelling Respondent, the Department of Motor
Vehicles (DMV),[1]
to vacate its March 13, 2023 decision suspending his driver’s license and thereafter
reinstate his license. Respondent opposes the petition.
 
The petition is
granted. The DMV’s March 13, 2023 decision is vacated. The matter is remanded
to the DMV for reconsideration of the matter in light of the court’s opinion
and judgment. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1094.5, subd. (f).)
 
FACTUAL BACKGROUND
 
On November 21, 2020,
Petitioner held a commercial (Class A) driver’s license. (AR 4, 20, 25.) At
1:10 a.m. on that date, California Highway Patrol officers stopped Petitioner
who was driving a pickup truck on the freeway with “a large amount of sparks”
emitting “from under the vehicle.” (AR 13.) During the traffic stop, the
officers formed the opinion Petitioner may have been driving under the
influence of alcohol based on Petitioner’s impaired judgment, the odor of
alcohol, red watery eyes and slurred speech. (AR 20.)
 
After Petitioner
failed various field sobriety tests (AR 19) and preliminary alcohol screening
testing results showed a blood alcohol concentration (BAC) of .179 percent and
.148 percent (AR 11), Petitioner consented to a blood draw for chemical
testing. (AR 11.) Blood test results later revealed Petitioner’s BAC as .16
percent during his encounter with law enforcement. (AR 22, 23.)
 
On November 21, 2020,
the officers arrested Petitioner for violations of Vehicle Code sections 23152,
subdivision (a), 21352, subdivision (b) and 23578. The officers also served
Petitioner with an administrative per se suspension/revocation order and
temporary driver’s license. (AR 15.)
 
The DMV conducted an
administrative per se (APS) hearing on Petitioner’s driver’s license suspension
on February 21, 2023.[2] The DMV’s hearing officer
conducted the hearing. (AR 42.)
 
At the commencement
of the hearing, the DMV’s hearing officer announced: “At this time counsel, we
do have a number of documents we would like to introduce to you as
the Department’s evidence.” (AR 46 [emphasis added].) The hearing officer thereafter
identified and marked four exhibits: a three-page form (DS-367) officer’s
statement, a five-page arrest report, Petitioner’s blood testing results, and
Petitioner’s driving record. (AR 46-47.)
 
The hearing officer
then questioned whether Petitioner had any objections to the document “being
admitted into evidence.” (AR 48.) 
 
Petitioner’s counsel
objected to the admission of the documents on various grounds including
hearsay, foundation and conclusion. (AR 48, 51.) As to the form DS-367
Petitioner’s counsel noted the “employee records exception of Evidence Code
section 1280” was inapplicable because the law enforcement officer “failed to
follow procedures in preparing it.” (AR 48.) Petitioner’s counsel argued under
the Vehicle Code the form DS-367 “requires the arresting officer present it to
the DMV within five days of the arrest.” (AR 48.) Petitioner’s counsel noted a
22-day delay between the arrest and presentation of the form to Respondent
undermined any hearsay exception Respondent intended to rely upon for the
documents admission into evidence. (AR 48.) Petitioner’s counsel also noted
“discrepancies and errors” in the report suggesting the report “cannot be
relied on . . . .” (AR 52.)
 
Petitioner’s counsel
also objected to admission of the arrest report and blood test results.
Petitioner objected on hearsay, foundation and conclusion grounds. (AR 52, 53.)
Petitioner’s counsel argued MacDonald v. Gutierrez (2004) 32 Cal.4th 150
precluded reliance on the arrest report. (AR 52-53.) As for the blood test
results, Petitioner’s counsel asserted a hearsay objection.
 
Finally, Petitioner’s
counsel objected to the hearing as a violation of Petitioner’s due process
pursuant to California DUI Lawyers Association v. California Department of
Motor Vehicles (2022) 77 Cal.App.5th 517 (CDLA). (AR 54.)
 
The hearing officer
thereafter overruled the objections. He then noted: “With that said, counsel, the
Department has no further evidence to present.” (AR 54 [emphasis added].)
 
After the hearing
officer concluded Respondent’s case, the hearing officer inquired whether
Petitioner had any evidence to present. (AR 54.) Petitioner thereafter
testified. (AR 54.)
 
After an extensive
narrative response from Petitioner, the hearing officer inquired of him: “Mr.
Trevino, what type of Bud Light? I know they have different types of Bud Light
drinks now. They have platinum. They have – [] different – [] Bud Light as far
as like no carbs and so forth. Do you recall which one?” (AR 82.) The hearing
officer also inquired whether Petitioner consumed beer from “a can or a bottle”
and whether it was a “tall can.” (AR 83.) The hearing officer also questioned
whether Petitioner recalled seeing sparks or fire coming from beneath his
vehicle. (AR 84.) He also questioned Petitioner about the speed of his driving.
(AR 86.)
 
At the conclusion of
the hearing officer’s questions, the hearing officer stated: “All right.
Counsel, the Department has no further questions for Mr. Trevino today.”
(AR 91 [emphasis added.)
 
On March 9, 2023, the
DMV issued its decision upholding the suspension of Petitioner’s driver’s
license. (AR 6.) The DMV found Petitioner “was driving a motor vehicle at the
time that the concentration of alcohol in his blood was at or above 0.08%.” (AR
6.)
 
This proceeding
ensued.
 
STANDARD OF REVIEW
 
Petitioner seeks
relief pursuant Code of Civil Procedure section 1094.5. 
 
Under Code of Civil
Procedure section 1094.5, subdivision (b), the issues for review of an
administrative decision are: whether the respondent has proceeded without
jurisdiction, whether there was a fair trial, and whether there was a
prejudicial abuse of discretion. An abuse of discretion is established if the
respondent has not proceeded in the manner required by law, the decision is not
supported by the findings, or the findings are not supported by the evidence.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1094.5, subd. (b).)
 
There is no dispute the suspension of a driver’s license is reviewed
under the court’s  
independent judgment. (Berlinghieri v. Department of Motor Vehicles¿(1983)
33 Cal.3d 392, 396; Espinoza v. Shimoto (2017) 10 Cal.App.5th 85, 99.) 
 
Accordingly, the court “ ‘not only examines the administrative record for
errors of law but also exercises its independent judgment upon the evidence.’ ”
(Fukuda v. City of Angels (1999) 20 Cal.4th 805, 816, fn. 8.) Exercise
of independent judgment “does permit (indeed, [] requires) the trial court to
reweigh the evidence by examining the credibility of witnesses.” (Barber v.
Long Beach Civil Service Com. (1996) 45 Cal.App.4th 652, 658.) Under
independent judgment, “abuse of discretion is established if the court
determines that the findings are not supported by the weight of the evidence.”
(Code of Civ. Proc., § 1094.5, subd. (b).)
 
Where the issue is whether a fair administrative hearing was conducted, a
petitioner is entitled to an independent judicial determination of the issue. (Sinaiko
v. Superior Court (2004) 122 Cal.App.4th 1133, 1141; Pomona Valley
Hospital Medical Center v. Superior Court (1997) 55 Cal.App.4th 93, 101.)
Therefore, the court must independently review the fairness of the
administrative proceedings as a legal issue. (Rosenblit v. Superior Court
(1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 1434, 1438.)
 
Finally, Evidence Code section 664 creates a presumption “that official
duty has been regularly performed.” (Evid. Code, § 664.) This presumption of
correctness includes giving great weight to the agency’s credibility
determinations even where the standard of review is independent judgment. (Fukuda
v. City of Angels, supra, 20 Cal.4th at 819.)
 
ANALYSIS
 
Petitioner argues the DMV denied him a fair hearing and violated his
procedural due process rights. Petitioner contends an administrative hearing
that combines the role of the agency’s prosecutor and decision maker in the
same person is per se unconstitutional. Petitioner argues CDLA applies
here and requires the DMV’s suspension decision to be set aside. 
 
In CDLA, the Court found the hearing officer's dual roles as
advocate and adjudicator in a DMV APS hearing creates an unacceptable risk of
bias by combining advocacy and adjudicatory roles into a single DMV employee. (CDLA,
supra, 77 Cal.App.5th at 530.) The Court noted “[a]lthough procedural
fairness does not prohibit the combination of the advocacy and adjudicatory
functions within a single administrative agency, tasking the same individual
with both roles violates the minimum constitutional standards of due process.”
(Id. at 532.) The Court declared “combining the roles of advocate and
adjudicator in a single person employed by the DMV violates due process under
the Fourteenth Amendment and the California Constitution Article I, section 7.”
(Ibid.) As result of CDLA, “the DMV is permanently enjoined and
restrained from having its APS hearing officers function as advocates for the
position of the DMV in addition to being finders of fact in the same
adversarial proceeding.” (Id. at 538 [emphasis added].)
 
Petitioner argues his APS hearing took place under the same system CDLA
found violated due process. As at all APS hearings, the hearing officer
stated the issues, introduced the DMV’s evidence, and ruled on evidentiary
objections to evidence. The hearing officer did everything in the APS
hearing–no other DMV employee was involved. (AR 32-96.)
 
The DMV does not dispute it conducted Petitioner’s APS hearing with only
one DMV official, who introduced exhibits, ruled on objections, and ultimately
issued a ruling. Nonetheless, the DMV argues Petitioner “is wrong on all
accounts.” (Opposition 14:10.) The DMV contends Petitioner “mischaracterizes
the scope of [CDLA’s] ruling and omits critical language from the
decision which qualifies the scope of its holding regarding the hearing
officer’s actions.” (Opposition 14:11-12.)
 
To support its position the APS hearing here did not violate the
injunction issued against the DMV in CDLA, the DMV parses footnote 5
from CDLA. The footnote states:
 
Relying on Poland
v. Department of Motor Vehicles (1995) 34 Cal.App.4th
1128, []    the DMV contends the hearing officer may act as a proponent
of evidence and trier of fact. [The plaintiff] concedes the DMV may task the
same person with both collecting and developing the evidence and rendering a
final decision. (See, e.g., Today's
Fresh Start, supra, 57 Cal.4th at p. 220, [] [The same individual in an administrative agency may be
tasked with “developing the facts and rendering a final decision”].) He or she
must refrain, however, from advocating on
behalf of the DMV as the DSM currently mandates (i.e., present the DMV’s case
and “promote driver safety,” with no corresponding duty to present any evidence
that would support the position of the driver at the hearing). (CDLA, supra,
77 Cal.App.5th at 533, fn. 5.)
 
Based upon the footnote, the DMV argues the DMV’s APS hearing process
“merely follows long-standing federal and state due process principles.”
(Opposition 14:28-15:1.) The DMV argues “[t]he hearing officer did not engage
in advocacy by introducing documents received from law enforcement into
evidence as required by statute.” (Opposition 15:13-14.) The DMV then asserts
the hearing officer did nothing more than “flesh[] out the material facts and
issues of the suspension action . . . .” (Opposition 15:24-25.)
 
The reporter’s transcript of the APS hearing makes clear that the hearing
officer “present[ed] the DMV’s case” and acted as a prosecutor. (CDLA, supra, 77 Cal.App.5th
at 533, fn. 5.) The hearing officer aligned and identified himself with the
DMV. When the hearing began, the hearing officer announced: “At this time
counsel, we do have a number of documents we would like to
introduce to you as the Department’s evidence.” (AR 46 [emphasis added].) Thus,
the hearing officer “present[ed] the DMV’s case” and acted as the prosecutor. (CDLA, supra, 77
Cal.App.5th at 533, fn. 5.) By introducing the DMV’s evidence, the APS hearing
became one where the hearing officer’s role involved both advocating for the
DMV—putting on its case and introducing documentary evidence—and acting as fact
finder. (Id. at 532.) 
 
As noted in CDLA, Petitioner
need not demonstrate actual bias where the hearing officer acts as advocate[3]
and fact finder. (Ibid.) Instead:
 
. . . evidence of a “ ‘particular combination of
circumstances creating an unacceptable risk of bias’ is sufficient to render
the “presumption that agency adjudicators are people of “ ‘ conscience and
intellectual discipline, capable of judging a particular controversy fairly on
the basis of its own circumstances’ ” ” (Today’s Fresh Start, supra, 57
Cal.4th at pp. 221-222, . . . .)
 
Further, the hearing officer ruled on evidentiary objections. While the
Legislature has mandated that certain information be considered by the hearing
officer at an APS hearing (see Opposition 15:14-18), the hearing officer
overruled Petitioner’s objections to all evidence the hearing officer ultimately
admitted on behalf of the DMV, including Petitioner’s blood test results. After
doing so, the hearing officer indicated the DMV had no further evidence to
produce.
After Petitioner testified, the hearing officer also indicated “the
Department has no further questions for [Petitioner] today.” (AR 91.)
 
Based on the foregoing, the court finds the APS hearing conducted here
ran afoul of CDLA and deprived Petitioner of due process.
 
Finally, without
discussion of CDLA’s discussion of prejudice and explanation that
“demonstrated actual bias is not dispositive” (CDLA, supra, 77
Cal.App.5th at 532),[4] the DMV argues Petitioner
failed to demonstrate DMV error that resulted in prejudice. The DMV asserts the
“theoretical possibility of bias in hearings, such inchoate possibility of bias
alone is insufficient to warrant a decision’s reversal; actual bias or
prejudice must be shown.” (Opposition 17:7-8 [citing Southern Cal.
Underground Contractors, Inc. v. City of San Diego (2003) 108 Cal.App.4th
533, 549].) Thus, the DMV contends its violation of Petitioner’s due process
rights is subject to harmless error analysis—that is, a different outcome would
have occurred in the absence of that violation. 
 
CDLA makes clear the DMV
violated Petitioner’s due process rights with the procedure the DMV used here.
The issue then should be whether the DMV’s error is harmless as advocated by
the DMV or structural such that its decision is reversible per se or a trial error
subject to harmless error analysis. The court recognizes harmless error
analysis applies to both constitutional and nonconstitutional errors. (People
v. Anzalone (2013) 56 Cal.4th 545, 553-554.)
 
“There is a strong
presumption that any error falls within the trial error category, and it will
be the rare case where a constitutional violation will not be subject to
harmless error analysis.” (Id. at
554.) In fact, “ ‘[A] strong presumption’ exists against finding
that an error falls within the structural category, and ‘it will be the rare
case’ where an error—even ‘a constitutional violation’—‘will not be subject to
harmless error analysis.” (F.P. v. Monier (2017) 3 Cal.5th 1099, 1108
[quoting People v. Anzalone, supra, 56 Cal.4th at 554].)
 
The court finds harmless
error analysis is not appropriate here where the DMV has knowingly proceeded
with an APS hearing process that violates a driver’s due process rights.[5] The court agrees.
 
The DMV knew when it
conducted Petitioner’s APS hearing that its hearing process suffered from flaws
of a constitutional magnitude; it nonetheless utilized the flawed
procedure to address Petitioner’s challenge to his license suspension.[6] “Just as in a judicial
proceeding, due process in an administrative hearing also demands an appearance
of fairness . . . .” (Nightlife Partners, Ltd. v. City of Beverly Hills (2003)
108 Cal.App.4th 81, 90.) Given the circumstances and the DMV’s knowing
violation of Petitioner’s due process rights, the court finds Petitioner need
not show actual bias to prevail here—the issue instead is “whether the hearing
met minimal constitutional standards of due process, . . . .” (Id. at
86.) CDLA advises it did not. Petitioner is therefore entitled to a new
APS hearing. (See id. at 98.)
 
Finally, the court
concludes pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 1094.5, subdivision (b),
the DMV did not proceed in the manner required by law and abused its discretion
when it knowingly violated the injunction imposed by CDLA. Remand is
required.
 
CONCLUSION
 
The court cannot countenance the DMV’s failure to comply
with a final and binding order by the Court of Appeal requiring the DMV to be
“permanently enjoined and restrained from having its APS hearing officers
function as advocates for the position of the DMV in addition to being finders
of fact in the same adversarial proceeding.” (CDLA, supra, 77
Cal.App.5th at 538.) That the DMV knowingly elected to proceed with its hearing
in a manner finally determined by the courts to “violate[] due process under
the Fourteenth Amendment and the California Constitution Article I, section 7” requires
the DMV to provide Petitioner with a new hearing. (Id. at 532.)
Based on the
foregoing, the Petition is GRANTED. The matter is remanded to the DMV. To the
extent the DMV elects to repeat Petitioner’s APS hearing, it must do so in a
manner consistent with CDLA. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
March 6, 2024                                                                        ________________________________
                                                                                                                   Hon.
Mitchell Beckloff 
                                                                                                                   Judge
of the Superior Court


