


[1] Petitioner named
Steve Gordon in his capacity as Director of the DMV as Respondent in this
matter.


[2] The parties agreed
the DMV would provide Petitioner with the hearing as part of a settlement
agreement. (AR 109.)


[3]
CDLA defined advocating as putting
on the DMV’s case with no corresponding duty to present any evidence that would
support the driver’s position. (CDLA,
supra, 77 Cal.App.5th at 533, fn. 5.)


[4] In fact, the DMV
argues “actual bias or prejudice must be shown.” (Opposition 17:8.)


[5] CDLA distinguishes
between DMV hearing officers “ ‘developing the facts and rendering a final decision’
” and “function[ing] as advocates for the position of the DMV . . . .” (CDLA,
supra, 77 Cal.App.5th at 533 n. 5 [quoting Today’s Fresh Start v.
City of Los Angeles County Office of Education (2013) 57 Cal.4th 197, 220],
538.) In CDLA, the DMV acknowledged the DMV hearing officer “rules on
the admissibility of the documentation he or she offers as evidence as
‘advocate for the [DMV]’ in support of the DMV’s position at the APS hearing.”
(CDLA, supra, 77 Cal.App.5th at 527.) The permanent injunction ordered
by CDLA expressly prohibits DMV hearing officers from “acting as
advocates for the position of the DMV in addition to being finders of
fact in the same adversarial proceeding.” (Id. at 538 [emphasis added].)
CDLA does not prohibit DMV hearing officers from doing that approved by
our Supreme Court in Today’s Fresh Start v. City of Los Angeles County
Office of Education—“developing the facts and rendering a final decision.”
(Fresh Start v. City of Los Angeles County Office of Education, supra, 57
Cal.4th at 220.) Thus, in the court’s view, if a DMV hearing officer is
required to proffer evidence on behalf of the DMV, rule on an evidentiary
objections, and decide when “the Department has no further questions” for a
witness (AR 91) during an APS hearing, the DMV’s APS hearing process has fallen
outside what is constitutionally permissible under CDLA. Under such
circumstances, the DMV hearing officer has become a prosecutor and advocate of
the DMV’s case. 


[6] The DMV must know
that its hearing officers are violating the injunction issued in CDLA because
there is no one else presenting the DMV’s case during the APS hearing. Thus,
the hearing officers are required to act as advocates and “present the DMV’s
case.” (CDLA, supra, 77 Cal.App.5th at 533 n. 5.) CDLA draws
a clear line; the conduct violates a driver’s due process. The logical extension
of the DMV’s argument here is that the DMV—a government agency—can knowingly
violate the injunction and argue such knowing violations of due process must be
reviewed under harmless error analysis.

