  Case Number:  19STCV39598    Hearing Date:   January 22, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



MARTINA A. SILAS, 
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
ACE
   HARDWARE CORPORATION, et al.,
 
                   Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  19STCV39598
   
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANTS ACE HARDWARE CORPORATION AND THE GROMMET’S MOTION
   TO STRIKE PUNITIVE DAMAGES CLAIMS FROM PLAINTIFF’S FIRST AMENDED
  COMPLAINT
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
January
   22, 2024




 


)


 



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
In this products liability case, plaintiff
Martina A. Silas (“Plaintiff”) sues for damages from an injury she allegedly
sustained when she first tried using the QuietOn Active Noise Cancelling
Earbuds (“Earbuds”), which she purchased from defendant The Grommet. On November 16, 2023, the Court granted
Plaintiff’s motion for leave, and Plaintiff filed her operative First Amended
Complaint (“FAC”) on the same day.
On December 19, 2023, defendants The
Grommet and Ace Hardware Corporation (collectively, “Defendants”) filed this
motion to strike Plaintiff’s claim for punitive damages from the FAC, as well
as additional related allegations. 
II.         
LEGAL
STANDARD
Any
party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading may serve and file a
notice of motion to strike the whole or any part thereof. (Code Civ. Proc., §
435, subd. (b)(1).) The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its
discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or
improper matter inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc, § 436, subd. (a).) An
immaterial or irrelevant allegation is one that is not essential to the
statement of a claim or defense; is neither pertinent to nor supported by an
otherwise sufficient claim or defense; or a demand for judgment requesting
relief not supported by the allegations of the complaint. (Code Civ Proc, §
431.10, subd. (b).) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of
the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)
III.       
REQUESTS
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE AND EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
Defendants request judicial notice of
the initial complaint, a stipulation between Plaintiff and Defendants to strike
punitive damages, Plaintiff’s motion for leave to amend, and the exhibit list
in support of Plaintiff’s motion for leave to amend. Defendants’ request is
GRANTED pursuant to Evid. Code section 452(d). 
Plaintiff requests judicial notice of a
minute order dated November 16, 2023, and her FAC. Plaintiff’s request is also
GRANTED pursuant to Evidence Code section 452(d). 
The Court does not rule on Defendants’
objections to Plaintiff’s declaration as it was not material to the
determination of this motion. 
IV.        
DISCUSSION
A motion to strike punitive damages is
properly granted where a plaintiff does not state a prima facie claim for
punitive damages. (Turman v. Turning Point of Cent. California, Inc.
(2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 63.) Punitive damages may be imposed where it is
proven by clear and convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of
oppression, fraud, or malice. (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).) “Malice” is
conduct intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or
despicable conduct which is carried on with a willful and conscious disregard
of the rights or safety of others. (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1).) “As
amended to include [despicable], the [Civil Code section 3294] plainly
indicates that absent an intent to injure the plaintiff, ‘malice’ requires more
than a ‘willful and conscious’ disregard of the plaintiffs’ interests. The
additional component of ‘despicable conduct’ must be found.” (College
Hospital Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 725.) 
First, Defendants argue that
Plaintiff’s FAC does not support a claim for punitive damages. Defendants
contend that Plaintiff’s claim for punitive damages rests solely on two 1-star
reviews for the Earbuds, one of which was submitted to The Grommet two days
before Plaintiff’s alleged injury. Defendants emphasize that neither of the
reviews mentions any injury from the Subject Product and proceed to describe
and analyze the contents of these reviews. (Motion, p. 8.) 
“Marketing a product that is known to
be defective and dangerous to consumers supports an inference of malice for
purposes of punitive damages.” (Karlsson v. Ford Motor Co. (2006) 140
Cal.App.4th 1202, 1230; Grimshaw v. Ford Motor Co. (1981) 119 Cal.App.3d
757, 814; Taylor v. Superior Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, 895 [malice may
be shown by fact the defendant had acted with a “conscious disregard of the
safety of others”].) Here, Plaintiff alleges that several individuals “had
actual knowledge that at least two prior purchasers of the product complained,
prior to Plaintiff’s receipt of the product, that the product emitted an
unexpected noise when inserted into the ear.” One of those reviewers described
the noise as a “‘high pitched whistle that only stopped if [the reviewer] stood
very still.’” (FAC, ¶¶ 19a, 19c.) Plaintiff also alleges that Defendants knew
that the product “was intended for use by insertion into the ear, and that ears
are sensitive, and could be permanently damaged by noise, especially noise
right next to the ear drum” yet “took no steps to investigate or instigate any
warnings to consumers of the noise issue” or contact any consumers, and “in
fact [sic] made a decision to ‘sell through’ their remaining inventory to
consumers.” (FAC, ¶ 19c.) 
The specific timing and wording of the
reviews is probative of Defendants’ employees’ knowledge about the harm posed
to consumers, but they are not included within the allegations of the FAC and
cannot be considered on a motion to strike. Instead, this analysis is more
properly considered upon a motion for summary adjudication because regardless
of whether Defendants request judicial notice of Plaintiff’s motion for leave
to amend, Defendants are essentially requesting the Court to find that
Plaintiff has no evidence to support her punitive damages claim. But nowhere in
Plaintiff’s motion for leave to amend does she contend that this is all her
evidence, and she has no obligation to provide such evidence in response to a
motion to strike.
Second, Defendants argue that Plaintiff
fails to plead specific facts establishing corporate liability for punitive
damages because Plaintiff does not identify “specific acts of specific
corporate officers, directors, or managing agents with power to bind the
corporation, or ratification or advance knowledge that corporate employees
would so act.” (Motion, p. 9.) This assertion ignores Plaintiff’s allegations
about specific named employees (Kim Dvorak, Erica Simon, and “Joanne”) in
specific departments (merchandising and “maker operations”) who allegedly had
actual knowledge of earlier complaints and that those individuals did not take
any action to investigate or take the product off the market despite knowing
that there was a risk of serious injury to a product user’s ear by noise. (FAC,
¶¶ 19a-19c.) Plaintiff alleges that Defendants made a decision to “sell
through” their remaining inventory to consumers but does not state when this
decision was made. (FAC, ¶ 19c.) Therefore, the extent of these individuals’ managerial
authority or knowledge are evidentiary issues outside the pleadings. The Court
additionally notes Defendants’ claim that there are no factual allegations because
those facts “simply do not exist.” (Motion, p. 9.) As stated above, this is a
topic for a dispositive motion. At this time, Plaintiff’s FAC contains
sufficient factual allegations to survive a motion to strike. 
V.          
CONCLUSION
Defendants’ motion to strike is DENIED.

Dated this 22nd
day of January, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 