 Case Number:  22GDCV00618    Hearing Date:   February 23, 2024    Dept:  D TENTATIVE RULINGCalendar:     6 Date:           2/23/2024    Case No: 22 GDCV00618 Trial Date:  May 20, 2024Case Name: State Farm General Insurance Company v. Mueller Industries, Inc.MOTION TO STRIKE  Moving Party:         Defendant Mueller Industries, Inc.     Responding Party:   Plaintiff State Farm General Insurance Company    RELIEF REQUESTED:   Strike portions of First Amended Complaint pertaining to claims for damages under the storage unit fire. CAUSES OF ACTION:  from First Amended Complaint 1) Negligence 2) Strict Products Liability 3) Breach of Implied Warranties  SUMMARY OF FACTS: Plaintiff State Farm General Insurance Company brings this subrogation complaint against Mueller Industries, Inc., alleging that its insureds, Hermine Mirzayan and Artur Sarkisyan, were the owners of private property in Glendale, and that in October of 2020, as a result of the improper and wrongful acts and omissions to act by defendant, a catastrophic water loss incident occurred at the insureds’ property, when a hot water stainless steel braided water supply line that was manufactured by defendant Mueller Industries failed due to a manufacturing defect or improper design of the inner liner of the subject water supply line which separated and burst in plaintiff’s insureds’ kitchen, completely flooding the two-story residence and causing extensive property damage. Plaintiff alleges that due to the catastrophic water loss incident which was caused by the manufacturing defect or improper design of the inner liner of the subject water supply line manufactured, designed, supplied, serviced, sold or repaired by defendant Mueller Industries, plaintiffs’ insured moved all of their personal property to A to Z Restoration and Packing, Inc.   In August of 2021, A to Z Restoration and Packing, Inc. experienced a catastrophic property loss from an undetermined exterior fire which burned down the property used by A to Z Restoration and Packing, Inc.   Plaintiff alleges that but for the initial catastrophic water loss incident, the stored personal property items owned by plaintiff’s insureds would not have been stored outside the home and the insureds would not have experienced the total personal property losses.  Plaintiff alleges that plaintiff’s insureds had purchased property insurance with plaintiff prior to the catastrophic water loss incident, and plaintiff fulfilled its obligations pursuant to the insurance agreement and reimbursed its insured for the structure, personal property and loss of use damages, and that as the result of defendant’s conduct paid to its insureds the principal amount of $1,374,102.05 to date, including insurance benefits for the water loss incident and the fire loss incident.  The file shows that on September 26, 2022, plaintiff filed its First Amended Complaint, which is the operative complaint in this matter.  On November 16, 2022, defendant Mueller Industries, Inc. filed its answer.  Defendant now seeks to strike certain allegations from the FAC. ANALYSIS:ProceduralUntimely Motion  Under CCP §436, the court may “upon motion made pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its discretion” strike out “all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule or an order of the court.”   Under CCP §435, a party may serve and file a notice of motion to strike “within the time allowed to respond to a pleading…”  The statute further provides, “(c) If a party serves and files a notice of motion to strike without demurring to the complaint, the time to answer is extended and no default may be entered against that defendant…”  Under CCP §430.40, the time permitted to demur to a complaint is “within 30 days after service of the complaint…” CRC Rule 3.1322 (b) provides: “A notice of motion to strike must be given within the time allowed to plead…”  The file shows the FAC was served on defendant on October 3, 2022, by substituted service, with follow up mailing on October 4, 2022.  Under CCP § 415.20, where service is by substituted service, the service “is deemed complete on the 10th day after the mailing.”   Here, the service was therefore complete on October 24, 2022.  Thirty days after this service would have been November 23, 2022, over a year ago.  The time to move to strike the pleading therefore expired long ago.   In fact, the file shows that defendant filed an Answer to the FAC on November 16, 2022.  This motion was filed on January 30, 2024, long after the filing of defendant’s Answer.    In Adohr Milk Farms, Inc. v. Love (1967) 255 Cal.App.2d 366, it was held, based on the language in a previous version of CCP § 435 which is substantively nearly identical, “From the statutory language quoted, it expressly appears that a defendant can move to strike a complaint only before he has answered it and not afterward.”  Adohr Milk Farms, at 371, citations omitted.  Here, defendant has already answered the complaint, the time for defendant to file a noticed motion to strike expired more than a year ago, and defendant may not now bring a motion to strike the pleading.   The motion appears to briefly indicate it is an appeal to the court to strike portions of the pleading on its own motion, which the court is permitted to do “at any time in its discretion,” even after an answer has been filed.  It would appear, however, that an appeal to this court to exercise this discretion, particularly after such a lengthy delay, would require some showing or argument on the part of the moving party concerning the reason the court should take the unusual step of exercising such discretion in this particular matter.  No such showing, argument or explanation for the delay is made here, and there appears to be no good reason for the court to exercise its discretion to strike materials on its own motion here.  The motion will accordingly be denied. SubstantiveEven if the court were to consider the motion on its merits, it would be denied. Defendant Mueller Industries seeks to have the court strike from the FAC those portions of the pleading which refer to or seek to base recovery of damages against defendant on the fire loss incident at A to Z Restoration and Packing, Inc. which resulted in the destruction of plaintiff’s insureds’ personal property, which it is alleged would not have been stored at the facility where the fire occurred had it not been for the water damage incident to the premises where the personal property would have otherwise been maintained.  Defendant argues that the claimed damages due to the fire loss incident are unsupported by the cause of action pleaded because that injury was separate from, and unrelated to, defendant’s alleged negligence with respect to the water supply line.  Defendant argues that under the established principle of intervening force, a person is responsible only for the natural, probable, reasonable and proximate consequences of their acts.   In support of this argument, defendant cites to Green v. Healthcare Services, Inc. (2021)  68 Cal.App.5th 407, in which the court of appeal set forth the state of the law on superseding cause, including that, “[a]n independent intervening act is a superseding cause relieving the actor of liability for his negligence only if the intervening act is highly unusual or extraordinary and hence not reasonably foreseeable.”  Green, at 416.  The determination of whether an act is highly unusual or extraordinary would accordingly be a question of fact.  See Green, at 416 (“Reasonable foreseeability in this context is a question for the trier of fact.”).  The Second District recognizes that the issue of whether a superseding cause relieves an actor of liability for negligence depends on a determination of foreseeability and is generally a question of fact unless the undisputed facts leave no room for a reasonable difference of opinion.  See Schrimsher v. Bryson (1976) 58 Cal.App.3d 660, 664, citation omitted. There is nothing included in the FAC which would support a finding that the fire constituted a highly unusual or extraordinary act.  The argument is made that defendant had no part in deciding to store the insureds’ belongings off-site or in selecting the location where they would be stored.  These facts do not appear in the FAC.   CCP § 437 provides, in pertinent part:“(a) The grounds for a motion to strike shall appear on the face of the challenged pleading or from any matter of which the court is required to take judicial notice.”There is no request for judicial notice here, and the motion fails to point to specific facts alleged in the FAC which would affirmatively show that the facts alleged are inconsistent with the allegations of causation as asserted in the FAC.   As argued in the opposition, this argument is essentially an argument that defendant’s affirmative defense of superseding cause is so clearly established by the allegations of the pleading that defendant is entitled to a judgment on the issue as a matter of law on the pleadings alone.  As noted above, the case law relied upon by defendant requires that for an independent intervening act to be considered superseding, there must be consideration of facts and a finding that the act is highly unusual or extraordinary.   Green, at 407.   This exercise is not properly done at the pleading stage based on the allegations of this particular complaint, which contain no details concerning the circumstances of the fire or the events leading to the personal property being placed in the subject storage facility.  Plaintiff relies on CACI 432, which sets forth the instruction for the Affirmative Defense – Causation:  Third-Party Conduct as Superseding Cause:“[Name of defendant] claims that [he/she/nonbinary pronoun/it] is not responsible for [name of plaintiff]'s harm because of the later misconduct of [insert name of third party]. To avoid legal responsibility for the harm, [name of defendant] must prove all of the following:1. That [name of third party]'s conduct occurred after the conduct of [name of defendant];2. That a reasonable person would consider [name of third party]'s conduct as a highly unusual or an extraordinary response to the situation;3. That [name of defendant] did not know and had no reason to expect that [name of third party] would act in a [negligent/wrongful] manner; and4. That the kind of harm resulting from [name of third party]'s conduct was different from the kind of harm that could have been reasonably expected from [name of defendant]'s conduct. The Directions for Use with respect to this jury instruction state, in pertinent part:“Superseding cause is an affirmative defense that must be proved by the defendant. (Maupin v. Widling (1987) 192 Cal.App.3d 568, 578 [237 Cal.Rptr. 521].) Therefore, the elements of this instruction are phrased in the affirmative and require the defendant to prove that they are all present in order to establish superseding cause. (See Martinez v. Vintage Petroleum (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 695, 702 [80 Cal.Rptr.2d 449].)” The motion fails to establish that the damages allegations challenged are improperly pursued at the pleading stage as a matter of law, or that the facts alleged in the pleading support only one reasonable inference with respect to defendant’s establishment of its affirmative defense.  The court notes that the Answer to the FAC filed by defendant in this matter in fact alleges as defendant’s seventh affirmative defense “Intervening or Superseding Cause.”   The argument made here is best pursued as an affirmative defense, and not on a challenge to the FAC.  The motion accordingly is denied.RULING:Defendant Mueller Industries’ Motion to Strike Portions of Plaintiff’s Complaint is DENIED as extremely untimely, filed and served over a year later, and over a year after defendant filed its answer to the operative complaint.  To the extent the motion intends to appeal to the Court to grant a motion to strike on its own motion, no reasons for the Court doing so have been offered.   Even if the Court were to consider the motion on its merits or exercise its discretionary authority to strike matter from pleadings, the motion would be DENIED on its substance as well, as grounds for striking the subject allegations and damages do not appear from the face of the First Amended Complaint or the arguments made. DEPARTMENT D IS CONTINUING TO CONDUCT AND ENCOURAGE AUDIO OR VIDEO APPEARANCESPlease make arrangement in advance if you wish to appear via LACourtConnect by visiting www.lacourt.org to schedule a remote appearance.  Please note that LACourtConnect offers free audio and video appearances.  However, ADVANCE REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED. If no appearance is set up through LACourtConnect, or no appearance is otherwise made, then the Court will assume the parties are submitting on the tentative. 