 Case Number:  21STCV11395    Hearing Date:   February 23, 2024    Dept:  D TENTATIVE RULINGCalendar:  11 Date: 2/23/2024 Case No:  21 STCV11395 Trial Date: July 8, 2024 Case Name: Neuro Diagnostic Center, Inc., et al.  v. A & D Fire Sprinklers, Inc., et al.  MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTSMoving Party:  Defendant National Community Renaissance of California  Responding Party: Plaintiff Neuro Diagnostic Center, Inc.  Plaintiff Shushanik Devine [No opposition]RELIEF REQUESTED:Further Responses to Request for Production of Documents, Set Two from each plaintiff  DECLARATION SUPPORTING MOTION:Reasonable and good faith attempt to resolve informally:  Yes, Ex. GFACTUAL BACKGROUNDPlaintiffs Neuro Diagnostic Center, Inc. and Shushanik Devine allege that they were in possession of premises in Glendale and that defendants A & D Fire Sprinklers, Inc. and National Community Renaissance of California, while conducting construction work installing a new fire sprinkler system and plumbing at property directly behind the subject premises, were negligent, causing a major water overflow from the property which caused flooding throughout plaintiffs’ entire premises, as a result of which plaintiffs sustained significant property damage and loss of earnings. The complaint alleges that defendants were responsible for three major water flows and flooding, in December of 2018, February of 2019 and March of 2019.   The form of complaint alleges a cause of action for general negligence. ANALYSIS:ProceduralDefendant National Community Renaissance of California (National Community Renaissance) has filed one motion, which seeks to compel further responses to Requests for Production of Documents, Set Two directed to plaintiff Neuro Diagnostic Center, Inc. and to Requests for Production of Documents, Set Two, directed to plaintiff Shushanik Devine.  The motion is accordingly two motions, lumped into one motion.  The notice of motion concedes that defendant served separate discovery requests to each plaintiff, but that in the interest of judicial economy and efficiency, arguments in support of a motion to compel each set is included in the single motion.   The motion should have been brought as two motions, with the proper number of reservations for motions of this nature, to avoid calendar congestion and jumping ahead of other discovery motions, and with all separate filing fees paid.  The court orders the additional filing fees of $60 per motion to be paid for the additional motion to be considered this date. SubstantiveAs noted above, defendant National Community Renaissance has filed one motion seeking further responses and production of documents as to Requests for Production directed to two separate plaintiffs, but which appear to be the same requests and responses.  Two separate statements have been filed, which are very similar. Under CCP § 2017.010, “any party may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending action...if the matter either is itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.”  CCP § 2031.310 provides that a party demanding a document inspection may move for an order compelling further responses to the demand if the demanding party deems that:“(1)   A statement of compliance with the demand is incomplete.  (2)   A representation of inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive.  (3)   An objection in the response is without merit or too general.”  Under CCP § 2031.310 (b)(1), “The motion shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the discovery sought by the demand.”  The burden is on the moving party to show both relevance to the subject matter and specific facts justifying discovery.   Glenfed Develop. Corp. v. Superior Court (1997, 2nd Dist.) 53 Cal.App.4th 1113, 1117.   Once good cause is established by the moving party, the burden then shifts to the responding party to justify any objections made to document disclosure.   See Hartbrodt v. Burke (1996, 2nd Dist.) 42 Cal.App.4th 168, 172-174.Requests Nos.15-17Requests Nos. 15 seek from each plaintiff documents in support of plaintiffs’ wage loss claim against propounding party set forth in plaintiffs’ complaint.  Requests Nos. 16 seek documents supporting plaintiffs’ loss of earnings claims, and Requests Nos. 17 seek documents supporting plaintiffs’ lost profits claims.  The responses to each of these requests state:“Attached as Exhibit D, please find records comprising the proof of deposits made between December 2018 through June 2019 into the business account for Neuro Diagnostic Center. Pursuant to the banks retention policies, the digital check images were not available as the threshold for records has already passed. Thus, the only records establishing the proof of all deposits were provided. Plaintiff as reasonable complied with this request and has attempted in good faith to recover the requested information to date. Plaintiff reserves the right to amend or otherwise supplement its response to the production request upon the discovery of new and relevant information.”Defendant argues that the vast majority of plaintiffs’ claimed damages in this action relate to these alleged losses.  The requested documents are directly related to proving or challenging the claims for significant damages made by plaintiffs in this action, and good cause has been established for their production.    The documents provided as Exhibit D to the Responses appear to consist of 140 pages plaintiffs claim to be proofs of deposit, but which provide no information. [Jones Decl., Ex. B].  Defendant argues that many of the pages produced are totally blank, and of the documents, only one page details an amount actually deposited and names Neuro Diagnostic Center.  The documents attached to the responses submitted show that most of the documents are identified as from Bank of America, with a “Capture Date,” and a “Sequence #,” with no identification of either plaintiff, or state, “Deposit.  This deposit was made without a paper deposit slip.  We have generated this information to document your deposit.  Thank you for banking with Bank of America.”  [Jones Decl., Ex. B].  There appear to be only a handful of documents which include information or what appear to be paper deposit slips.   The documents produced are accordingly largely useless.  As noted above, once the propounding party has established good cause for further response or production, the burden shifts to the responding parties to justify their objections or failure to fully respond.    Plaintiffs have failed to file timely written opposition to the motion, and defendant has filed a “Notice of Non-Opposition,” indicating that no timely opposition has been served.   Plaintiffs have accordingly failed to meet their burden on this motion, and the motion may be granted on this ground alone.  Defendant argues that not only were the productions themselves deficient, but the written responses are not compliant with the Code.    Under CCP section 2031.210, a response shall either be a statement of compliance, a representation that the party lacks the ability to comply, or an objection. The responses appear to be intended to serve as statements of compliance.  With respect to a statement of compliance, CCP section 2031.220 requires:“A statement that a party to whom an inspection demand has been directed will comply with the particular demand shall state that the production, inspection, and related activity demanded will be allowed either in whole or in part, and that all documents or things in the demanded category that are in the possession, custody, or control of that party and to which no objection is being make will be included in the production.” This requirement is not done here, and further Code-compliant responses will be ordered to be served.  To the extent the responses are intended to be at least partial statements of inability to comply, CCP section 2031.230 requires:“A representation of inability to comply with the particular demand for inspection shall affirm that a diligent search and a reasonable inquiry has been made in an effort to comply with that demand.   This statement shall also specify whether the inability to comply is because the particular item or category has never existed, has been destroyed, has been lost, misplaced, or stolen, or has never been, or is no longer, in the possession, custody, or control of the responding party.   The statement shall set forth the name and address of any natural person or organization known or believed by that party to have possession, custody, or control of that item or category of item.” The responses reference bank retention policies, but do not clearly indicate that a diligent search and reasonable inquiry has been made, and it is not stated whether responsive documents have been destroyed or lost, and plaintiffs fail to identify the names of parties who have possession, custody or control of responsive items.   It is difficult to believe that plaintiffs have no other financial records or access to records to support their claimed damages.    The responses do not include the proper language or demonstrate the appropriate level of diligence, and defendant is entitled to further complete Code-compliant responses. In addition, defendant argues that the responses improperly include language that plaintiff reserves the right to amend or otherwise supplement the responses upon the discovery of new information is improper, as defendant is entitled to the information plaintiff has, and to have plaintiff engage in the appropriate diligence and inquiry, discussed above, at the time the discovery is propounded.  Any further responses are ordered not to include such language.   The motion accordingly is granted, and further responses and production is ordered. Requests Nos. 18 These requests seek a copy of plaintiffs’ lease for the property.   The responses are:   “Plaintiff is in the process of gathering this information and will supplement upon receipt.  Plaintiff reserves the right to amend or otherwise supplement its response to the production requestupon the discovery of new and relevant information.” These responses are not Code-compliant or proper as discussed above. Again, it is clear that the requests seek documents which are directly relevant to this matter, and clearly discoverable.  Plaintiffs have failed to oppose this motion, and evidently at plaintiff Shushanik deposition, plaintiff indicated that she would produce the lease in its entirety, seemingly conceding its clear discoverability.  The motion accordingly is granted, and further responses and production are ordered to be provided.  Sanctions This leaves the issue of monetary sanctions, which are sought by both sides.  CCP § 2031.310 (h) provides that the court “shall impose a monetary sanction...against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel further response to a demand, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”   Under CCP § 2023.010, misuse of the discovery process includes “(f) Making an evasive response to discovery.”    Where there has been misuse of the discovery process, under Section 2023.030(a), the court “may impose a monetary sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct.”  The burden is on the party subject to sanctions to show substantial justification or injustice.  Mattco Forge, Inc. v. Arthur Young & Co. (1990, 2nd Dist.) 223 Cal.App.3d 1429, 1436. Under CRC Rule 3.1348(a): “The court may award sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn, or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion was filed.”   Here, the motion is granted, and plaintiffs have failed to oppose it, and failed to oppose the request for monetary sanctions, so have failed to show that their conduct was substantially justified or that imposing sanctions would be unjust.  Sanctions are awarded.   The sanctions sought are $1,565.00.   These amounts are not unreasonable.  Plaintiffs have failed to oppose the motion, so have failed to show that any time claimed is not proper.  The sanctions accordingly are awarded in full as requested.   RULING:[No Opposition]Defendant National Community Renaissance of California’s UNOPPOSED Motion to Compel Supplemental Responses and Documents to Defendant’s Request for Production of Documents, Set Two: The Motion Reservation was for one motion:  a single motion to compel further responses to discovery.  Contrary to this reservation, defendant has combined two motions into one (1) a motion to compel further responses to Request for Production of Documents, Set Two, from plaintiff Neuro Diagnostic Center, Inc., and (2) a motion to compel further responses to Request for Production of Documents, Set Two, from plaintiff Shushanik Devine.  Two separate hearing dates should have been reserved for these two motions to compel further responses to discovery.  In the future, the defendant is ordered to obtain separate hearing reservations and pay separate filing fees. Combining multiple motions under the guise of one motion with one hearing reservation manipulates the Court Reservation System and unfairly jumps ahead of other litigants. Moreover, combining motions to avoid payment of separate filing fees deprives the Court of filing fees it is otherwise entitled to collect. The Court will proceed to consider both motions on this date, as qualified below.Motion is GRANTED.Plaintiff Neuro Diagnostic Center, Inc. is ordered to serve verified further responses to Defendant National Community Renaissance of California’s Requests for Production of Documents, Set Two, to plaintiff Neuro Diagnostic Center, Inc., Requests Nos. 15-18, without objection, and to permit inspection and copying of all responsive documents within ten days.   The further responses must fully comply with CCP §§  2031.210, 2031.220 and 2031.230, including for each request either 1) a statement that responding party will comply with the particular demand, including a statement that the production, inspection, and related activity demanded will be allowed either in whole or in part, and that all documents or things in the demanded category that are in the possession, custody, or control of plaintiff and to which no objection is being make will be included in the production, or 2) a statement of inability to comply, which statement shall specify whether any inability to comply is because the particular item or category has never existed, has been destroyed, has been lost, misplaced, or stolen, or has never been, or is no longer, in the possession, custody, or control of the responding party, and which sets forth the name and address of any natural person or organization known or believed by that party to have possession, custody, or control of that item or category of item.  To the extent some documents may be produced, but others are unavailable, both a statement of compliance and a statement of inability to comply which conform to the Code must be made.  The Court does not find acceptable a response that plaintiff reserves the right to amend or otherwise supplement the responses upon the discovery of new information, as defendant is entitled to the information plaintiff has, and to have plaintiff engage in the appropriate diligence and inquiry at the time the discovery is propounded.  Any further responses may not include such language.  Plaintiff Shushanik Devine is ordered to serve verified further responses to Defendant National Community Renaissance of California’s Requests for Production of Documents, Set Two, to plaintiff Shushanik Devine, Requests Nos. 15-18, without objection, and to permit inspection and copying of all responsive documents within ten days.   The further responses must fully comply with CCP §§  2031.210, 2031.220 and 2031.230, including for each request either 1) a statement that responding party will comply with the particular demand, including a statement that the production, inspection, and related activity demanded will be allowed either in whole or in part, and that all documents or things in the demanded category that are in the possession, custody, or control of plaintiff and to which no objection is being make will be included in the production, or 2) a statement of inability to comply, which statement shall specify whether any inability to comply is because the particular item or category has never existed, has been destroyed, has been lost, misplaced, or stolen, or has never been, or is no longer, in the possession, custody, or control of the responding party, and which sets forth the name and address of any natural person or organization known or believed by that party to have possession, custody, or control of that item or category of item.  To the extent some documents may be produced, but others are unavailable, both a statement of compliance and a statement of inability to comply which conform to the Code must be made.   The Court does not find acceptable a response that plaintiff reserves the right to amend or otherwise supplement the responses upon the discovery of new information, as defendant is entitled to the information plaintiff has, and to have plaintiff engage in the appropriate diligence and inquiry at the time the discovery is propounded.  Any further responses may not include such language.  Monetary sanctions requested by moving party:  Utilizing a lodestar approach, and in view of the totality of the circumstances, the Court finds that the total and reasonable amount of attorney’s fees and costs incurred for the work performed in connection with the pending motion is $1,505.00 (7.0 hours @ $215/hour) [7 hours requested] plus $60.00 filing fee [Amount Requested $1,565.00], which sum is to be awarded in favor of defendant National Community Renaissance of California and against plaintiffs Neuro Diagnostic Center, Inc. and Shushanik Devine, jointly and severally, payable within 30 days.  CCP sections 2031.310 (h), 2023.010 (f), 2023.030 (a) and CRC Rule 3.1348(a).The Court notes it has exercised its discretion to hear two motions, but this order will not become effective until moving party pays an additional $60.00 in filing fees.DEPARTMENT D IS CONTINUING TO CONDUCT AND ENCOURAGE AUDIO OR VIDEO APPEARANCESPlease make arrangement in advance if you wish to appear via LACourtConnect by visiting www.lacourt.org to schedule a remote appearance.  Please note that LACourtConnect offers free audio and video appearances.  However, ADVANCE REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED. If no appearance is set up through LACourtConnect, or no appearance is otherwise made, then the Court will assume the parties are submitting on the tentative. 