  Case Number:  24STCP02417    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2024    Dept:  86 MOTION TO PROCEED WITHOUT OPPOSITION
 
Date:               10/24/24
(1:30 PM)
Case:               Vincent Mouton v. Kimley
Louie et al. (24STCP02417)
 
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Petitioner Vincent Mouton’s Motion to Proceed Without
Opposition is DENIED. 
 
Petitioner moves to proceed without opposition on the ground
that respondents Kimley Louie, Los Angeles County Department of Consumer and Business
Affairs (“DCBA”), and Rental Housing Oversight Commission, County of Los
Angeles (“RHOC”) never served any responses, oppositions, or answers on
petitioner.   
 
Louie served and filed an Answer on 9/23/24. DCBA served and
filed an Answer on 9/9/24. (See also Corrected Proof of Service filed
9/17/24.) RHOC served and filed an Answer on 9/24/24. Respondents may
accordingly participate in this litigation and oppose the petition for writ of
administrative mandate. 
 
Even assuming that certain Answers were not timely filed in
accordance with CCP § 1089.5, petitioner does not show he is entitled to
“proceed without opposition” on that basis. A “writ cannot be granted by
default.” (CCP § 1088.) Further, “[t]he court must, in every stage of an
action, disregard any error, improper ruling, instruction, or defect, in the
pleadings or proceedings which, in the opinion of said court, does not affect
the substantial rights of the parties.” (CCP § 475.) Trial on the writ petition
has not been set.  Petitioner appears to
be in receipt of the respondents’ answers. (See Pet. Ex Parte
Application to Calendar and Consolidate Motion to Strike Respondents’ Answers
and Opposition, filed 10/21/24.)  Proceeding
with respondents having a fair opportunity to be heard, including setting a
briefing schedule during the Trial Setting Conference, would not substantially
affect the parties’ substantial rights. 
Indeed, the opposite would be true in that allowing petitioner to
“proceed without opposition” in this matter—notwithstanding respondents having
answered and appeared—would certainly trample upon respondents’ substantial
rights.
 
The motion is DENIED. 