 Case Number:  24STCP02890    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2024    Dept:  86 ORDER TO SHOW CAUSE
RE: PRELIMINARY INJUNCTION
 
Date:               10/24/24 (1:30 PM) 
Case:               Yvonne Marin et al. v. Torrance Unified School District
(24STCP02890) 
  
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Plaintiffs/Petitioners Yvonne Marin and Dylan Farris’ request
for a preliminary injunction is DENIED. 
 
I.                  
FACTUAL AND PROCEDURAL BACKGROUND
 
This action arises from an incident on 9/17/23, which led to
the arrest of plaintiffs/petitioners Yvonne Marin and Dylan Farris. At the
time, Marin was the Senior Director of Elementary Schools at
defendant/respondent Torrance Unified School District (“District”). (Stowe
Decl. ¶ 4.) Farris was the Chief Personnel Officer for the District. (Stowe
Decl. ¶ 4.)  
 
On 9/17/23, Farris sent to Dr. Tim Stowe, the Superintendent
of the District, a text message indicating that Marin and he wanted to talk to
Dr. Stowe as soon as possible. (Stowe Decl. ¶ 4.) Later that afternoon, petitioners
met with Dr. Stowe and, according to Stowe, told him that they were caught
urinating in public at a park in Redondo Beach and were subsequently arrested.
(Stowe Decl. ¶ 4.) According to Dr. Stowe petitioners also stated that they may
have been cited for committing a “lewd act in public” but that they were
actually arrested for urinating in public. (Stowe Decl. ¶ 4.) 
 
On 9/18/23, the District received an arrest notification
from the California Department of Justice, informing the District that petitioners
had been arrested, cited, and detained by the Redondo Beach Police Department
for having violated Penal Code sections 647(a) (Solicit Lewd Act in Public) and
90(c) (Disorderly Conduct). (Stowe Decl. ¶ 5.) Dr. Stowe then separately
interviewed petitioners regarding the events leading to their arrest. (Stowe
Decl. ¶ 6.) According to Dr. Stow, petitioners repeated the same story they had
provided on 9/17/23. (Stowe Decl. ¶ 6.)
 
On 9/20/23, Dr. Stowe spoke with the Chief of Police of the Torrance
Police Department. (Stowe Decl. ¶ 7.) The Chief of Police had communicated with
the Redondo Beach Police Department and told Dr. Stowe that the officers
involved in the arrest were wearing body cameras, the footage from which showed
that petitioners were arrested for having openly engaged in oral copulation
approximately 20 to 30 feet from families at a park. (Stowe Decl. ¶ 7.) Dr.
Stowe concluded that petitioners had lied to him about the nature of their
conduct. (Stowe Decl. ¶ 8.) Dr. Stowe notified petitioners that he would seek
their dismissal or that they could resign. (Stowe Decl. ¶ 8.) Petitioners resigned
from their employment with the District. (Stowe Decl. ¶ 8.) Dr. Stowe then
notified the California Commission on Teacher Credentialing (“CCTC”) of petitioners’
resignations and the nature of the allegations of misconduct that led to their
resignations. (Stowe Decl. ¶ 10; see Hernandez Decl. ¶ 7 & Ex. D
[contents of reports to CCTC consistent with Dr. Stowe’s averments in
declaration].)
 
On 1/9/24, the Court (Commissioner Brad Miles Fox) dismissed
the criminal prosecution arising from petitioners’ arrest. (Farris Decl. ¶ 6
& Ex. 4; Marin Decl. ¶ 5 & Ex. 4.) On 2/15/24, the Court sealed the
records of the arrest of both petitioners and deemed the arrests “not to have
occurred.” (Farris Decl. ¶ 6 & Ex. 4; Marin Decl. ¶ 5 & Ex. 4.)
 
On 6/14/24, the District received a Public Records Act
request from reporter Holly McDede. (Hernandez Decl. ¶ 2.) As pertinent to this
motion, the request sought “records related to any and all reports to the California
Commission on Teacher Credentialing (CCTC) from 2014 to the date this request
is fulfilled.” (Hernandez Decl. ¶ 2 & Ex. A.) The District notified McDede
that it had responsive documents but that it had to notify the employees whose
personnel records would be produced and ascertain whether they would file an
action to prevent disclosure of the records. (Hernandez Decl. ¶ 4 & Ex. C.)
On 8/26/24, the District served notices to petitioners with copies of the responsive
documents attached. (Hernandez Decl. ¶ 7 & Ex. D.) The notices stated that the
documents would be produced on 9/11/24 unless petitioners provided proof of a
court order enjoining production. (Hernandez Decl. ¶ 7 & Ex. D.) 
 
On 9/9/24, petitioners filed a Verified Complaint and
Petition for Writ of Mandate seeking various forms of relief that would bar production
of the documents that the District intends to disclose. (See Pet. Prayer
for Relief ¶¶ 1-4.) 
 
On 9/11/24, pursuant to petitioners’ ex parte
application, the Court issued an order to show cause why a preliminary
injunction enjoining respondent from producing respondents’ personnel files
should not be issued pending trial in this case. The Court also issued a
temporary restraining order enjoining respondent from producing respondents’
personnel files pending the determination on the order to show cause.
 
II.               
ANALYSIS
 
Petitioners seek a preliminary injunction enjoining
respondent Torrance Unified School District from disclosing their personnel
records in response to a California Public Records Act (“CPRA”) request.  Specifically, petitioners seek to prevent the
District from disclosing the notifications the District had sent to CTCC
concerning petitioners’ resignations. (See Hernandez Decl. ¶ 7
& Ex. D.)
 
“[T]he question whether a preliminary injunction should be
granted involves two interrelated factors: (1) the likelihood that the
plaintiff will prevail on the merits, and (2) the relative balance of harms
that is likely to result from the granting or denial of interim injunctive
relief.”  (White v. Davis (2003) 30 Cal.4th 528, 554.) 
 
Under the CPRA, “every
person has a right to inspect any public record” of a state or local agency
subject to statutory exemptions. (Gov. Code § 7922.530(a); see also Gov.
Code § 7920.510(d) [definition of “local agency” includes school district].)
One of those exemptions is that the CPRA “does not require disclosure of personnel,
medical, or similar files, the disclosure of which would constitute an
unwarranted invasion of personal privacy.” (Gov. Code § 7927.700.) A
public sector employee, like all persons, has a constitutional right of
privacy. (See Cal. Const. Art. I, § 1.) A citizen cannot be said to have
waived that right in return for the privilege of public employment. (Marken v. Santa Monica-Malibu
Unified School Dist. (2012) 202 Cal.App.4th 1250, 1271.)
 
Third parties
seeking to prevent an agency from producing their personnel records can file a
“reverse-CPRA” action to obtain a determination that such records are exempt
from disclosure. (Marken, 202 Cal.App.4th at 1265-67.) Courts
engage in a three-part analysis to determine whether the exemption of personnel
files from disclosure applies. (Associated Chino Teachers v. Chino Valley
Unified School Dist. (2018) 30 Cal.App.5th 530, 539.) First, the court must
determine whether the records sought constitute a personnel file or other
similar file. (Ibid.) Second, if the requested records are personnel or
similar files, the court must then determine whether the disclosure of the
requested records would compromise substantial privacy interests. (Ibid.)
Third, the court must balance the potential harm to privacy interests with the public
interest of disclosure and determine which interest prevails. (Ibid.) 
 
The parties do not dispute that the first two parts of the
three-step analysis apply, i.e., the request at issue concerns a
personnel file, the disclosure of which would compromise substantial privacy
interests. (See Associated Chino Teachers, 30 Cal.App.5th at 539,
quoting Lab. Code § 1198.5(a) [scope of personnel records generally covers
records “relating to the employee's performance or to any grievance concerning
the employee”]; Associated Chino Teachers, 30 Cal.App.5th at 541, citing
Bakersfield City School Dist. v. Superior Court (2004) 118
Cal.App.4th 1041, 1045-47 [“disclosure of a school district employee's alleged
wrongdoing involves substantial privacy interests”].) The parties focus on the
third and last part of the analysis with respect to balancing the respective
interests.
 
“[W]here complaints of a public employee’s wrongdoing and
resulting disciplinary investigation reveal allegations of a substantial
nature, as distinct from baseless or trivial, and there is reasonable cause to
believe the complaint is well founded, public employee privacy must give way to
the public’s right to know.” (Bakersfield City School Dist. v. Superior
Court (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 1041, 1046, citing American Federation of
State etc. Employees v. Regents of University of California (1978) 80
Cal.App.3d 913, 918.) There is no question that the allegations in the CCTC
report—specifically, that police officers arrested petitioners for engaging in
oral copulation in the open, approximately 20 to 30 feet from families in the
park and that petitioners lied to Dr. Stowe about the events leading to their
arrest—are substantial in nature. The question here is whether there was
reasonable cause to believe that the allegations were well-founded, in which
case the records must be disclosed. 
 
Upon review of the entire record, the Court finds that Dr.
Stowe reasonably concluded that the allegations in the CCTC report were
well-founded. Dr. Stowe spoke with the Chief of Police from the Torrance Police
Department, who learned from the Redondo Beach Police Department that the
arresting officers had video footage from the arrests. (Stowe Decl. ¶ 7.) Dr.
Stowe was informed the footage demonstrated that plaintiffs were arrested not
for public urination, but for engaging in oral copulation approximately 20 to
30 feet from families at Veteran’s Park. (Stowe Decl. ¶ 7.) 
 
Petitioners contend the allegations are not well-founded
because they are based on second-hand and purportedly unreliable information
from the Torrance Chief of Police regarding what he learned from the arresting
agency. (See Stowe Decl. ¶ 7.) Petitioners also emphasize that neither
petitioners nor the District were ever provided the arresting officer body
camera footage so that the allegations could be verified. (Farris Decl. ¶¶ 9,
10.)  The Court is not persuaded that the
circumstances under which Dr. Stowe learned the information about petitioners’
arrests renders the allegations unfounded.
 
Under Penal Code § 291, the chief of police is required to
notify the superintendent of the arrest of nonteacher public school employees
for lewd conduct in any place open to the public or in public view. (Pen. Code
§ 291(b); Ed. Code § 44010(a) [“sex offense” includes offense defined in Penal
Code § 647(a)]; Farris Decl. ¶¶ 9, 10 & Ex. 5 [arrested for violation of
Penal Code § 647(a)].) On this record, the Court has no reason to doubt
the Torrance Chief of Police’s understanding of the events leading to petitioners’
arrest or the accuracy of the information he conveyed as required.  Indeed, the Court presumes that to be the
case.  (Evid. Code § 664 [“It is
presumed that official duty has been regularly performed”].)  The fact that the arresting officer body
camera footage is unavailable does not cause this Court to doubt the presumably
correct information conveyed by the Chief of Police.  Indeed, petitioners can hardly be heard to
complain about the absence of the video footage when they were permitted access
to it in connection with their criminal case but opted to forego such access in
favor of a plea deal.  (Farris Decl.
¶ 9.)  
 
Petitioners also deny having told Dr. Stowe that they were
arrested for urinating in public. (Farris Decl. ¶ 8; Marin Decl. ¶ 4.)
Petitioners point to notes taken during their investigatory interviews which
reflect their recounting that were only looking for a restroom, not that they
had urinated in public. (Reply at 6:8-7:6; Kolodziej Decl. ¶ 2 & Ex. 6.)  To the extent there is any discrepancy, it is
immaterial.  What is material is that
petitioners gave Dr. Stowe some account of their arrest relating to their need
to urinate, as opposed to having been arrested for oral copulation in
public.  When Dr. Stowe eventually learned
the true circumstances of petitioners’ arrest, he had a well-founded belief
that petitioners had been dishonest with the District regarding their arrest.
 
Lastly, petitioners contend that the records of their arrest
were sealed, as if the arrest never occurred. (Farris Decl. ¶ 6 & Ex. 4;
Marin Decl. ¶ 5 & Ex. 4.)  That may
be true, but it is beside the point.  The
sealing order itself pertains only to “[t]he record of arrest in the [criminal]
matter.”  (Farris Decl. ¶ 6 & Ex. 4;
Marin Decl. ¶ 5 & Ex. 4.)  By its
explicit terms, the sealing order does not extend to other records referencing
the arrest, such as the CTCC notifications at issue here.  Further, insofar as the criminal sealing
pursuant to Penal Coode section 851.91 may evidence a general policy or desire
for “the arrest deemed not to have occurred” (Farris Decl. Ex. 4; Marin Decl.
Ex. 4), that general interest still gives way to other competing
interests.  Per the explicit terms of the
petitioners’ sealing orders, their arrests may still be pleaded and proved in a
subsequent prosecution and must be disclosed if required by law to be disclosed
in the future. (Farris Decl. Ex. 4; Marin Decl. Ex. 4.)  Here, the CPRA requires disclosure of the
District’s records referencing petitioners’ arrests limited to certain
exceptions, which, as discussed above, the Court does not find applicable.
 
Because the Court concludes there is reasonable cause to
believe that the allegations were well-founded, there is no basis for the
District to withhold disclosure of CCTC notifications, as requested in the CPRA
request. Consequently, the Court finds that petitioners fail to demonstrate any
likelihood of prevailing on any cause of action.  Accordingly, their request for a preliminary
injunction must be DENIED, notwithstanding any harm that may result from the
denial of the request. (Jessen v. Keystone Savings & Loan Assn.
(1983) 142 Cal.App.3d 454, 459 [“In a practical sense it is appropriate to deny
an injunction where there is no showing of reasonable probability of success,
even though the foreclosure will create irreparable harm, because there is no
justification in delaying that harm where, although irreparable, it is also
inevitable”].) 
 
For the foregoing reasons, the Court’s Temporary Restraining
Order and Order to Show Cause re: Preliminary Injunction issued on 9/11/24 is
DISCHARGED.