 Case Number:  23STCV12834    Hearing Date:   January 10, 2024    Dept:  57 Plaintiff
Jonathan Hughes alleges that he was employed as a service advisor by Kia of Van
Nuys, LLC and Van Nuys LLC dba Van Nuys Kia (collectively, “VNK”). Hughes has
sued VNK and Emir Kozoglu (collectively, “the Defendants”), whom Hughes alleges
was a supervisor at VNK, for discrimination, harassment, and retaliation on the
basis of Hughes’s race in violation of the California Fair Employment and Housing
Act and for violations of the wage and hour provisions in the California Labor
Code.  
 Pending
before the Court is the Defendants’ motion to compel arbitration of Hughes’s
claims.  The Defendants’ motion is based
on an arbitration agreement (“the Agreement”) that they maintain Hughes electronically
signed at the start of his employment with VNK and acknowledged on several subsequent
occasions during his employment with VNK. 
If the Agreement is valid, there is no dispute that Hughes’s claims are
subject to arbitration.   Hughes argues that
the Agreement is invalid for two reasons. 
First, Hughes contends that he did not electronically sign the Agreement.  Second, Hughes contends that even if he did electronically
sign it, the Agreement is unenforceable because it is unconscionable.   The Court disagrees with both of Hughes’s
contentions.  Accordingly, the Court is
granting the Defendants’ motion to compel arbitration of Hughes’s claims.  In light of that ruling, proceedings in this
Court are stayed pending the completion of the arbitration.  
 THE VALIDITY OF HUGHES’S ELECTORNIC SIGNATURE
Hughes submitted a declaration in
support of his opposition to the Defendants’ motion to compel arbitration in
which he states that he does not recall electronically signing the Agreement.  In the Court’s view, the Defendants have
established that Hughes did electronically sign the Agreement.  
Civil Code section 1633.9 addresses how
a proponent of an electronic signature may authenticate the signature.  It states that “[a]n electronic signature is
attributable to a person if it was the act of the person.  The act of the person may be shown in any
manner, including a showing of the efficacy of any security procedure applied
to determine the person to which the electronic . . . signature was attributable.”
  
In Ruiz v. Moss Bros. Auto Group,
Inc. (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 836, the Court affirmed the denial of an
employer’s motion to compel arbitration of a former employee’s claims, holding
that the employer failed to authenticate the former employee’s electronic
signature on a  purported arbitration
agreement.  That failure, the Court in Ruiz
stated, lay in the employer’s inability to point to procedures that would
confirm that the employee was the only person who could have electronically
signed the agreement.  (Id. at pp.
839-841.)
By contrast, in Espejo v. Southern
California Permanente Medical Group (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 1047, the Court reversed
the denial of an employer’s motion to compel arbitration of a former employee’s
claims, holding that the employer adequately authenticated the electronic signature
of the former employee on the arbitration agreement.  Specifically, the employer’s motion was
supported by a declaration explaining the security procedures the employer had
in place regarding the use and transmission of a prospective employee’s
username and password necessary to electronically sign documents and the steps the
prospective employee would have to take to electronically sign the documents.  Based on that declaration, the Court in Espejo
distinguished Ruiz and concluded that those procedures ensured that the
signature could only have been placed on the agreement by the former
employee.   (Id. at p. 1062.)
 Here, in support of its motion to compel
arbitration, VNK submitted the declaration of Whitney Stanley, VNK’s Human
Resources and Payroll Specialist.  Stanely’s declaration falls on the Espejo
side of the electronic signature authentication ledger, not on the Ruiz
side.  The following considerations have
informed that determination.  First, Stanely’s
declaration explains that VNK uses a web-based platform called HR Hotlink “to
administer policies and procedures to employees for their signature” and that
all employees have an individual HR Hotlink account. (Stanley Decl., ¶ 4.)  Second, Stanley’s declaration states that the
initial log-in to HR Hotlink requires the employee to create a password, which cannot
be viewed or changed by VNK.  (Id., ¶¶
5-6.)  Next, Stanley’s declaration adds
that upon termination of employment, VNK “does not gain access to that
employee’s HR Hotlink account, login credentials, or an ability to sign
documents in HR Hotlink on behalf of that former employee.” (Id., ¶ 7.)  Finally, Stanley’s declaration contains screenshots
of Hughes’ secure “File Cabinet” on HR Hotlink and its “Handbook and Policies”
folder, where employee handbooks containing Hughes’ arbitration agreements are
kept. (Stanley Decl., ¶¶ 10-11, Exs. A and B.)   All
told, Stanely’s declaration is sufficient to authenticate Hughes’s signature on
the Agreement.  Hughes’s evidentiary objections
to Stanley’s declaration are not well-grounded. 
The Court is overruling them.
Hughes’s declaration also contends that
he witnessed Kozoglu “log in to another employee’s account,” and implies that
it was Kozoglu who electronically signed the Hughes’s name on the Agreement.
(Hughes Decl., ¶¶ 3-5.)  Along with their
reply brief, the Defendants submitted a declaration from Kozoglu, who denies
knowledge of Hughes’ password to his HR Hotlink account and having ever logged
in to it. (Kozoglu Decl., ¶ 2.)  Kozoglu
further states, “I have never executed or completed an arbitration agreement on
behalf of any current or former employee of Van Nuys Kia, including Jonathan
Hughes.” (Id., ¶ 4.)  Together with the Stanley
declaration, the Kozoglu declaration supports the Defendants’ position that Hughes’s
electronic signature on the Agreement could have placed there by Hughes alone
and nobody else.   Hughes’s evidentiary objections to the Kozolgu
declaration are unavailing.  The Court is
overruling them.
THE AGREEEMET IS NOT UNCONSCIONABLE
“Unconscionability
has procedural and substantive aspects.” 
(Abramson v. Juniper Networks, Inc. (2004) 115 Cal.App.4th 638, 655.) “Both procedural and substantive
unconscionability must be present before a contract or term will be deemed
unconscionable.”  (Serafin v. Balco
Properties Ltd., LLC (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 165, 178.) 
Procedural unconscionability focuses on the circumstances surrounding
the execution of the agreement and the relative bargaining power of the parties
to the agreement; substantive unconscionability focuses on the fairness, or
lack thereof, of the agreement’s terms. 
(OTO, LLC v. Kho (2019) 8 Cal.5th 111, 125.)    In analyzing unconscionability, courts
apply a “sliding scale, which means that “the more substantively oppressive the
contract term, the less evidence of procedural unconscionability is required to
come to the conclusion that the term is unenforceable, and vice versa.”  (Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare
Services (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 114.)
Hughes’s argument for procedural and substantive
unconscionability in his brief in opposition to the Defendants’ motion to
compel arbitration rests largely on the Defendants’ failure to provide Hughes
with a copy of the rules of the Judicial Arbitration
and Mediation Services, Inc. (‘JAMS’).  The
hitch here for Hughes is that the Agreement does not reference JAMS or require
that the arbitration be conducted before JAMS arbitrators.  The Agreement states simply that the arbitration
will be conducted in accordance with the federal and California Arbitration
Acts.  Hence, the failure of the
Defendants to provide Hughes with the JAMS rules is inconsequential.
Hughes’s opposition also makes a fleeting, one-sentence argument on the first
page, which then goes undeveloped, that the Agreement is unconscionable because
the Defendants presented the Agreement to him as a condition of his employment
with VNK.   The hitch here for Hughes is that “arbitration agreements imposed as a
mandatory condition of employment are not per se unlawful or
unconscionable.”   (Rocha v. U-Haul
Co. of California (2023) 88 Cal.App.5th 65, 75; see also (Lagatree v. Luce,
Forward, Hamilton, & Scripps (1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 1105, 1127.)  
Rather, whether an arbitration agreement presents employees with a “take
it or leave it” choice (i.e. take the arbitration agreement or leave the job)
is just one factor that is to be considered in the overall, sliding scale
analysis of both procedural and substantive unconscionability.  (Serpa v. California Surety Investigators
(2013) 215 Cal.App.4th 695, 704.)   Applying that sliding scale here, Hughes has not
demonstrated that the Agreement is both procedurally and substantively
unconscionable