 Case Number:  23TRCV02100    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2023    Dept:  M    Superior Court    of California County of Los Angeles Southwest    District Torrance Dept. B       SAMUEL    TAFOLLA, et al.,          Plaintiff,     Case No.:       23TRCV02100       vs.         [Tentative]    RULING         DARREN    JOHN MARCZ, et al.,         Defendants.                                Hearing  Date:                         September  20, 2023   Moving  Parties:                      Defendant Darren John Marcz Responding  Party:                  Plaintiff Samuel Tafolla Motion to Quash  Service of Summons               The court considered the moving,  opposition, and reply papers. RULING             The motion is Denied. BACKGROUND             On June 28, 2023, plaintiff Samuel  Tafolla filed a complaint against defendants Darren John Marcz and Does 1 to  50, inclusive for (1) motor vehicle and (2) negligence.             This is a motor vehicle accident  case that occurred on August 5, 2021, in which plaintiff alleges defendant  Darren John Marcz negligently drove his car and caused physical injury to  plaintiff.   DISCUSSION Defendant requests that the court  quash service of summons for lack of personal jurisdiction due to defective  service of process.  Defendant contends he  was highly unlikely to receive actual notice of summons based on attempted  service because defendant has been either homeless or in a mental health  facility since the date of the incident.   Although defendant briefly lived with his mother at her residence at 8  Chesterfield Rd. Rolling Hills Estates, CA in December 2022, defendant has not  resided there since and currently lives in a mental health facility.  Consequently, defendant contends the attempted  substituted service on his mother was improper and invalid. In opposition, plaintiff alleges that  on the date of the incident, defendant provided his address as 8 Chesterfield Rd. Rolling Hills Estates, CA in the face page of the traffic  collision report.  Plaintiff further  contends that although defendant’s mother stated that defendant lived with her  briefly in December 2022, defendant lists 8  Chesterfield Rd. Rolling Hills Estates, CA as his address in his driver’s  license.  Finally, plaintiff alleges a  Westlaw search provides that defendant resided at 8 Chesterfield Rd. Rolling  Hill Estates CA 90274 from January 1, 1988 to July 12, 2023.  Based on the above, plaintiff argues  defendant’s primary residence is 8 Chesterfield Rd. Rolling Hills Estates, CA. In response, defendant argues  service is defective because plaintiff’s service processor did not declare  under the penalty of the perjury what attempts were made to complete personal  service on the defendant.  However, this  argument is unsupported by evidence, since the Proof of Service on file with  the Court includes a Declaration of Diligence, made under penalty of perjury, in  which the registered process server claims he made three total attempts to  serve defendant on July 5, 8, and 9, 2023 before serving by substituted service  on Defendant’s mother on the final attempt. Defendant also argues that the  service processor failed to provide defendant’s mother with a description of  the legal documents.  Finally, defendant  argues the court has no jurisdiction over him because defendant has not lived  at his mother’s residence since December 2022.    Under CCP § 415.20(b), “If a copy  of the summons and complaint cannot with reasonable diligence be personally  delivered to the person to be served, as specified in Section 416.60, 416.70,  416.80, or 416.90, a summons may be served by leaving a copy of the summons and  complaint at the person’s dwelling house, usual place of abode, usual place of  business, or usual mailing address other than a United States Postal Service  post office box, in the presence of a competent member of the household or a  person apparently in charge of his or her office, place of business, or usual  mailing address other than a United States Postal Service post office box, at  least 18 years of age, who shall be informed of the contents thereof, and by  thereafter mailing a copy of the summons and of the complaint by first-class  mail, postage prepaid to the person to be served at the place where a copy of  the summons and complaint were left. Service of a summons in this manner is  deemed complete on the 10th day after the mailing.” Section 415.20, subdivision (b)  allows a process server to leave the summons and complaint at the “dwelling  house” or “usual place or abode” of the person being served.  Zirbes v. Stratton (1986) 187 Cal.App.3d  1407, 1416.  “When a defendant  challenges the court’s personal jurisdiction on the ground of improper service  of process ‘the burden is on the plaintiff to prove the existence of  jurisdiction by proving, inter alia, the facts requisite to an effective  service.’” Summers v. McClanahan¿(2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 403, 413.  A proof of service containing a declaration  from a registered process server invokes a presumption of valid service.  American Express Centurion Bank v. Zara¿(2011)  199 Cal.App.4th 383, 390.   In Zirbes, the court found ineffective  service of process as to defendant because she had established a separate legal  household where she resided with her children which was a matter of public  record, despite having her mother’s address as her listed residence.  Zirbes v. Stratton (1986) 187 Cal.App.3d  1407, 1417.  Additionally, the court explained  that “[t]he terms 'dwelling house' and 'usual place of abode' take their  meaning from the Federal Rules.” Zirbes v. Stratton (1986) 187  Cal.App.3d 1407, 1416.  Further, it is  crucial that a connection be shown between the address at which substituted  service is effectuated and the party to be served.  Corcoran v. Arouh (1994) 24 Cal.App.4th 310,  314.   Here, a connection exists between  the address at which substituted service was effectuated and the party to be  served at the time of service.  Defendant  provided his mother’s residence in the September 10, 2021 collision report.  (Plaintiff’s Response, Exh. A.)  Additionally, defendant’s driver’s license as  of September 5, 2023 and a Westlaw search conducted on September 6, 2023 list  defendant’s address as that of his mother’s residence.  (Plaintiff’s  Response, Exhs. B, C.)  Finally, even  though defendant was homeless or in mental facilities after the date of the  incident, he returned to live at his mother’s residence briefly in December  2022, demonstrating that his mother’s address is his place of abode.  (Marcz Decl., ¶ 7.)  Unlike in Zirbes and Corcoran, where  the court found that the defendant had no legal connection with the address  where substituted service was effectuated, here defendant has a strong  connection with his mother’s residence.  Although  defendant’s mother claims defendant has not lived with her since December 2022 and  lacks knowledge of his whereabouts, that is not sufficient evidence to  demonstrate that her address is not defendant’s place of abode.  Based on the foregoing, defendant resides at  his mother’s residence for purposes of effectuating proper service of process.    The motion is thus DENIED.  Moving defendant is ordered to give  notice of the ruling.  