  Case Number:  22TRCV00550    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2023    Dept:  M 


Superior Court
  of California
County of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance Dept. M




 
ACCOUNT
  MANAGEMENT SERVICES, INC., an individual., 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
22TRCV00550




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
JAMSHID
  J. SHARIATI, M.D. a/k/a JAMES J. SHARIATI, M.D., an individual; AIRPORT
  URGENT CARE & INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE, a California corporation; and DOES 1
  through 10, inclusive,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                         September
20, 2023
 
Moving Party:                         Cross-Complainant Airport
Urgent Care & Industrial Medicine, a Professional Corporation 
Responding Parties:                Cross-Defendants Pacific Medical
Laboratory, Reza Zarghami, Jalal Zarghami aka J. Zarghami, Suzan Asilzadeh
Dardashti
Motions to Compel Four
Cross-Defendants’ Initial Responses to First Set of
Form Interrogatories, First Set of Requests for Admission, First Set of Special
Interrogatories, and First Set of Request for Production of Documents and Requests
for Sanctions
            The court considered the moving papers.  No oppositions were filed. 
RULING
            To the extent moving party
acknowledges verified responses and production occurred prior to the filing of
the motions the subject motions are moot with the exception of sanctions; for
this reason the motions to compel interrogatories and request for production are
DENIED.  Given the verified responses and
production substantially predate the filing the request for sanctions are
denied.  The court further finds that
there is no statutory authority for a motion to compel responses to requests
for admission; accordingly said motion is denied as well as the associated
request for sanctions.  
            Given that the moving party has
filed 18 motions as one paying only one motion fee the moving party is ordered
to pay 17 filing fees to the court forthwith. Counsel for the moving party is
advised to file separate motions and pay separate filing fees for any discovery
motions in the future. Parties are ordered to make an effort to meet and confer
verbally prior to bringing any further discovery motions to facilitate a
productive resolution of any discovery dispute.
BACKGROUND
            On July 5, 2022, plaintiff Account
Management Services, Inc. (“AMS”) filed a complaint against defendants Jamshid
J. Shariati, M.D. aka James J. Shariati, M.D. (“Shariati”), Airport Urgent Care
& Industrial Medicine, a Professional Corporation (“Airport”), and Does 1-10
for common counts.  
            On October 31, 2022, Shariati and Airport
(collectively, “cross-complainants”) filed a cross-complaint against Pacific Medical Laboratory (“PML”), Reza Zarghami (“Reza”),
Jalal Zarghami aka J. Zarghami (“Jalal”), and Suzan Asilzadeh Dardashti
(“Dardashi”) (collectively, “cross-defendants”) for breach of oral contract,
breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, fraud, negligent misrepresentation,
negligence, and destruction of goodwill.  
            Four discovery motions are presently
before the court.  Airport moves for
orders compelling each of the four cross-defendants to provide responses to
four sets of discovery requests. 
Specifically, each motion moves to compel initial responses to First Set
of Form Interrogatories, First Set of Requests for Admission, First Set of
Special Interrogatories, and First Request for Production of Documents.  Airport requests an award of monetary
sanctions against cross-defendants in the total amount of $5,925.00.
            The court notes Airport improperly
filed each of its motions to compel initial responses to four separate
discovery requests as single motions, when they should have been filed
as separate motions for each discovery request at issue, which would
have been a total of sixteen motions. In addition, the court notes that the
Discovery Act does not provide for a motion to compel initial responses to
requests for admission; rather the proper mechanism is a motion to deem
requests for admissions admitted. (C.C.P. §2033.280(b).)   
 
LEGAL AUTHORITY
            Interrogatories
If a party to whom interrogatories
are directed fails to serve a timely response, the propounding party may move
for an order compelling responses and for a monetary sanction.  CCP §2030.290(b).  The statute contains no time limit for a
motion to compel where no responses have been served.  All that need be shown in the moving papers
is that a set of interrogatories was properly served on the opposing party,
that the time to respond has expired, and that no response of any kind has been
served.  Leach v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal. App. 3d 902, 905-906. 
Request for Production of Documents
Where there has been no timely
response to a CCP §2031.010 demand, the demanding party must seek an order
compelling a response.  CCP
§2031.300.  Failure to timely respond
waives all objections, including privilege and work product.  Thus, unless the party to whom the demand was
directed obtains relief from waiver, he or she cannot raise objections to the
documents demanded.  There is no deadline
for a motion to compel responses. 
Likewise, for failure to respond, the moving party need not attempt to
resolve the matter outside court before filing the motion.  Where the motion seeks only a response to the
inspection demand, no showing of “good cause” is required.  Weil & Brown, Civil Procedure Before Trial, 8:1487.
Request for Admissions 
Pursuant to CCP § 2033.280(b), a
party may move for an order that the genuineness of any documents and the truth
of any matters specified in the requests be deemed admitted, as well as for a
monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010).  “Failure to timely respond to RFA does not
result in automatic admissions.  Rather,
the propounder of the RFA must ‘move for an order that the genuineness of any
documents and the truth of any matters specified in the requests be deemed
admitted, as well as for a monetary sanction’ under § 2023.010 et seq.”  Weil & Brown, Civ. Proc. Before Trial, ¶ 8:1370, citing CCP § 2033.280(b).  The court “shall” grant the motion to deem
RFA admitted, “unless it finds that the party to whom the requests for
admission have been directed has served, before the hearing on the motion, a
proposed response to the requests for admission that is in substantial
compliance with Section 2033.220.”  CCP §
2033.280(c).
DISCUSSION
            Airport requests that the court
compel cross-defendants to serve responses to cross-complainants’ form
interrogatories, set one, requests for admission, set one, special
interrogatories, set one, and requests for production of documents, set one.
            Airport contends it served the
discovery requests on May 10, 2023.  Airport
argues that although cross-defendants responded to its discovery requests, the
responses are untimely because they were unverified and therefore non-code
complaint.  On July 31, 2023, Airport sent
cross-defendants a meet and confer correspondence informing cross-defendants
that the discovery responses were late. 
In response, cross-defendants’ counsel sent the untimely verifications for
all four cross-defendants on August 7, 2023, and on August 11, 2023.  (Declaration of Koohski, ¶¶ 12-14, Exhs. H,
I.)    Airport filed the instant motions on
August 21, 2023. 
            The motions are DENIED. To the
extent verified responses and production occurred prior to the filing of the
motion the motions subjects are moot with the exception of sanctions.
            Airport asserts that cross-defendants
provided untimely responses to the four sets of discovery requests and that
cross-defendants’ counsel sent cross-defendants’ verifications thereto.  (Declaration of
Koohski, ¶¶ 12-14, Exhs. H, I.)  In
light of cross-defendants’ production of responses and untimely verifications,
there is no production to compel. To the extent Airport contends there are
defects in the discovery responses served by cross-defendants, the proper
mechanism is a motion to compel further responses, given initial
responses have already been served, which Airport does not dispute. 
            Based on the foregoing, Airport’s motions
to compel cross-defendants’ responses to special interrogatories, form
interrogatories, and requests for production are denied. Airport’s motions to
deem RFAs admitted against cross-defendants are likewise denied.
            Airport requests sanctions against
cross-defendants in the total amount of $5,925 for fees incurred in bringing
the motions.  However, as discussed
above, Airport filed the instant motions after cross-defendants had
served verifications. As such, Airport was not obligated to incur fees in
preparing the instant motions.  Where
production of responses or verifications is made after the motions are
filed, sanctions may still be at issue since the moving party incurred fees to
bring the motions; however, that is not the case here. Accordingly, Airport’s
requests for monetary sanctions are denied.