 Case Number:  21STCV08860    Hearing Date:   February 14, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


February
  14, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV08860




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Summary Judgment, or in the alternative, Summary Adjudication




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Estate of Robert Ishii




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiff
  Stewart Nakabayashi 



 
MOVING PAPERS
 
1.      Notice of Motion and Motion for Summary
Judgment or in the alternative, Adjudication; Memorandum of Points and Authorities
2.      Separate Statement of Undisputed Material
Facts
3.      Evidence in Support of Motion
4.      Notice of Lodging in Support
 
OPPOSITION PAPERS
1.      Plaintiff’s Opposition
2.      Plaintiff’s Response/ Opposition to
Defendant’s Separate Statement and Plaintiff’s Additional Undisputed Material
Facts
3.      Declaration of Thomas F. Mortimer
4.      Declaration of Daniel Franc, M.D.
 
REPLY PAPERS
1.      Reply to Plaintiff’s Opposition
2.      Objections to Plaintiff’s Evidence
 
BACKGROUND
 
On March 5, 2021, Plaintiff
Stewart Nakabayashi (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendants Estate
of Robert Ishii, Robert Ishii, Daniel Lee, and Does 1 to 100 for negligence resulting
from a motor vehicle accident. 
 
Plaintiff alleges that on
March 31, 2019, Defendant Estate of Robert Ishii had a medical emergency while
driving and crossed over the double yellow lines on a street, hitting
Plaintiff’s vehicle. (Complaint ¶ 8.) On May 24, 2022, Defendant Estate of
Robert Ishii (“Defendant”) filed an answer and asserted a fifteenth affirmative
defense that under the “Imminent Peril Doctrine,” he cannot be liable for
injuries resulting from his sudden medical emergency. 
 
Defendant Estate of Robert
Ishii (“Defendant”) now moves for summary judgment, or in the alternative, summary
adjudication, against Plaintiff arguing that under the Imminent Peril Doctrine,
he suffered a sudden stroke while driving, which caused the accident. Defendant
asserts this provides a complete defense to the action. Plaintiff opposes and
Defendant replies. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
“[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears the burden of persuasion
that there is no triable issue of material fact and that he is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law[.] There is a triable issue of material fact if,
and only if, the evidence would allow a reasonable trier of fact to find the
underlying fact in favor of the party opposing the motion in accordance with
the applicable standard of proof.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)  “[T]he party moving for summary judgment
bears an initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the
nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact; if he carries his burden of
production, he causes a shift, and the opposing party is then subjected to a burden of production of his own to make a prima facie
showing of the existence of a triable issue of material fact.” (Ibid.;
Smith v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 1463, 1474
[summary judgment standards held by Aguilar apply to summary
adjudication motions].)  Further, in line
with Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co., “[o]n a motion for summary
adjudication, the trial court has no discretion to exercise.  If a triable issue of material fact exists as
to the challenged causes of action, the motion must be denied. If there is no triable
issue of fact, the motion must be granted.” (Fisherman's Wharf Bay Cruise
Corp. v. Superior Court (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 309, 320.) 
 
“On a summary judgment motion, the
court must therefore consider what inferences favoring the opposing party a
factfinder could reasonably draw from the evidence. While viewing the evidence
in this manner, the court must bear in mind that its primary function is to
identify issues rather than to determine issues.  Only when the inferences are indisputable may
the court decide the issues as a matter of law. If the evidence is in conflict,
the factual issues must be resolved by trial.” (Binder v. Aetna Life Ins. Co.
(1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839 [cleaned up].) 
Further, “the trial court may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a
factfinder to determine whose version is more likely true.  Nor may the trial court grant summary
judgment based on the court's evaluation of credibility.” (Id. at p. 840
[cleaned up]; see also Weiss v. People ex rel. Department of Transportation
(2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for summary judgment or
summary adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must instead view it in the
light most favorable to the opposing party and draw all reasonable inferences
in favor of that party”].)                        
 
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
 
The Court declines to rule on Defendant’s objections numbers 1 through
3 as they have no effect on the ruling herein. The Court overrules Defendant’s
objection number 4 to the Declaration of Dr. Daniel Franc ¶ 15. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Negligence 
 
The
elements of a cause of action for negligence are: (1) a duty on the part of defendant
toward plaintiff; (2) defendant’s breach of that duty; and (3) harm to the
plaintiff caused by that breach. (Kesner v. Superior Court (2016) 1
Cal.5th 1132, 1142.) 
 
“Under
the ‘sudden emergency’ or ‘imminent peril’ doctrine, ‘a person who, without
negligence on his part, is suddenly and unexpectedly confronted with peril,
arising from either the actual presence, or the appearance, of imminent danger
to himself or to others, is not expected nor required to use the same judgment
and prudence that is required of him in the exercise of ordinary care in calmer
and more deliberate moments.’ [Citation.] ‘A party will be denied the benefit
of the doctrine ... where that party's negligence causes or contributes to the
creation of the perilous situation.’ [Citation.]” (Abdulkadhim v. Wu
(2020) 53 Cal.App.5th 298, 301-02.) “Whether the conditions for application of
the imminent peril doctrine exist is itself a question of fact to be submitted
to the jury.” (Damele v. Mack Trucks, Inc. (1990) 219 Cal.App.3d 29,
37.)
 
Here, Defendant sets forth the
following facts: 
 
-         
Robert Ishii unfortunately suffered a traumatic stroke
before crossing the double yellows and into the oncoming path of Plaintiff on
northbound Crenshaw Boulevard. (UMF 5.) 
-         
As a result of the subject incident, Robert Ishii was
transported to Providence Little Company of Mary Hospital, where he was
diagnosed with acute ischemic stroke in the middle cerebral artery territory of
cardioembolic mechanism secondary to atrial fibrillation by Dr. Allison Arch.
Dr. Arch is a board certified Vascular Neurologist and director of the stroke
center at Providence Little Company of Mary Medical Center. (UMF 6.) 
-         
Mr. Ishii was found to have a thromboembolic occlusion
of the proximal right middle cerebral artery causing significant neurological
disability as measured by the National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale. His
neurological deficits included left-sided homonymous hemianopsia as well as
neglect of the left side of space. These neurological symptoms would have
incapacitated him immediately at onset and would have made it impossible to
safely drive a car. The clinical syndrome he suffered from leads to anosognosia
which is a neurological condition where an individual is not aware of his own
illness. Thus, at the onset of his stroke, despite Mr. Ishii being
incapacitated, he was not aware of his neurological deficits. (UMF 7.) 
-         
Defense expert Dr. Nerses Sanossian reviewed Mr.
Ishii’s records from: Little Company of Mary Medical Center, Kaiser Permanente,
Advanced Urology, UCLA Medical Center, Rite Aid Pharmacy, McCormick Ambulance,
Torrance Fire, and Providence Health. Imaging studies from Little Company of
Mary Medical Center and Kaiser Permanente. Based on his review of the records,
his education, training, and experience, it is Dr. Sanossian’s opinion that Mr.
Ishii suffered an acute cardioembolic stroke while driving which led to his
becoming suddenly incapacitated and unable to drive a vehicle. The stroke was
in the territory of the right middle cerebral artery and led to his inability
to see and be aware of the left side of space. (UMF 9.) 
-         
The stroke suffered by Mr. Issii was not predictable
and prior to his diagnosis with atrial fibrillation. Without a diagnosis of
atrial fibrillation, his 10 year risk of stroke based on his age, ethnicity,
and risk factor profile was 13% using the Framingham Stroke Risk Profile
(Dufouil et al.  Revised Framingham
Stroke Risk Profile to Reflect Temporal Trends. Circulation
21;135(12):1145-1159.) A 13% 10-year risk translates to a 0.0004% risk of
stroke on any given day.  This stroke
risk is not out of the ordinary for a man of his age.  Even considering his diagnosis of atrial
fibrillation, his risk of stroke was 2.2% per year prior to his stroke, which
translates to 0.006% risk of having a stroke on any given day (Lip et al.
Refining clinical risk stratification for predicting stroke and thromboembolism
in atrial fibrillation using a novel risk factor-based approach: the euro heart
survey on atrial fibrillation. Chest. 137(2):263-72.) The stroke that Mr. Ishii
suffered was a sudden and unpredictable event. (UMF 10.) 
 
Plaintiff sets forth the following facts:
 
-         
Mr. Ishii's past medical history was noted to include hypertension.
(PAMF 14.) 
-         
Prior to admission to the hospital, he was treated with
a medication or benign prostatic hypertrophy. (PAMF 15.) 
-         
Mr. Ishii's previous medical records included an
emergency department presentation in 2012 for nausea and vomiting, and he was
noted to have elevations in liver enzymes and bilirubin indicating liver dysfunction.
(PAMF 19.)
-         
He was noted to have an elevation in cardiac enzymes
and left despite recommendation for further cardiac evaluations. (PAMF 20.) 
-         
The diagnosis of atrial fibrillation was made upon Mr.
Ishii's admission to the hospital on this date, and atrial fibrillation was determined
to be the likely cause of his embolic stroke. (PAMF 26.)
-         
The diagnosis of atrial fibrillation was evaluated in the
intensive care unit, and he was noted to having had an untreated diagnosis of
essential hypertension prior to his hospitalization. (PAMF 27.)
-         
Mr. Ishii had the significant atrial fibrillation risk factor
in the years prior to 2019. He was observed to have significantly elevated blood
pressure readings, and despite these readings and his knowledge, blood pressure
and hypertension medications were not initiated. (PAMF 29.)
-         
Based on the foregoing objective evidence from Mr.
Ishii's own medical records, Dr. Franc finds with reasonable medical certainty that
had the appropriate treatment for chronic hypertension been initiated and undertaken
by Mr. Ishii in the years prior to 2019 and Mr. Ishii obtained proper cardiac evaluation
as recommended by the emergency department during his 2012 treatment and addressed
his chronic hypertension, the development of structural changes in the heart would
not have occurred, and the resulting development of atrial fibrillation,
ischemic embolic stroke, and motor vehicle accident would not have occurred.
(PAMF 33) 
 
Here, the parties do not appear to
dispute that Mr. Ishii suffered a stroke while driving. However, there is a dispute
of fact regarding whether Mr. Ishii was negligent in failing to seek medical
treatment that would have decreased his chance of suffering the subject stroke.
Plaintiffs offer expert testimony from Dr. Daniel Franc, a board-certified
neurologist, who reviewed Mr. Ishii’s medical records. Dr. Franc declared that after
being admitted to the hospital post-accident, Mr. Ishii had an enlarged atria
which is seen in patients with “chronic structural changes in the heart
secondary to unmanaged hypertension.” (Franc Decl. ¶ 6.) At a 2012 emergency
department visit, Mr. Ishii “was noted to have elevations in liver enzymes and
left despite recommendation for further cardiac evaluations.” (Id. ¶ 8.)
In 2014, Mr. Ishii underwent a urologic evaluation and was noted to be
hypertensive. (Id. ¶ 9.) With this evidence, Dr. Franc declared with a
reasonable medical certainty that had Mr. Ishii sought treatment for
hypertension and sought cardiac treatment after the 2012 recommendation, the
stroke and accident would not have occurred. (Id. ¶ 15.)
 
In reply, Defendant argues that
Plaintiff’s argument surrounding Mr. Ishii’s negligence in seeking treatment is
outside the pleadings. (Reply, 3–4.) However, it is in response to Defendant’s
theory of imminent peril, and therefore does not need to be alleged in the
complaint. Second, Defendant argues that Mr. Ishii had a daily 0.0004% risk of
stroke and argues that a reasonably prudent person must be able to anticipate a
medical emergency in order for it to be predictable. (Reply, 6.) However,
Defendant does not cite any case authority that the Court can decide this issue
as a matter of law on summary judgment. The Court finds that Plaintiff has
raised a triable issue of fact.
 
Therefore, viewing the evidence and
all inferences in the light most favorable for Plaintiff, the motion for
summary judgment/adjudication is denied. 
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Based
on the foregoing, Defendant Estate of Robert Ishii’s Motion for Summary
Judgment/adjudication is DENIED.
 
            Defendant
shall give notice of the Court’s order and file a proof of service of such.