 Case Number:  22STCV18752    Hearing Date:   February 14, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


32




HEARING DATE


February
  14, 2024




CASE NUMBER


22STCV18752




MOTION


Motion to Continue Trial 




MOVING PARTIES


Defendant
  Parkwood Landscape Maintenance, Inc.




OPPOSING PARTY


Unopposed
  



 
MOTION
 
Defendant Parkwood Landscape Maintenance, Inc. (“Defendant”) moves to
continue trial. No opposition has been filed. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
The complaint was filed on June 8, 2022. 
 
Defendant’s answer was filed on December 14, 2022. 
 
On January 2, 2024, Defendant filed a motion for summary judgment. The
hearing for summary judgment is currently scheduled for February 4, 2025. 
 
Trial is currently set for April 18, 2024.
 
ANALYSIS
 
Legal
Standard
 
California Rules of Court, rule 3.1335 states as follows:¿¿ 
¿ 
(a)
Noticed motion or application required¿ 
A party
seeking to advance, specially set, or reset a case for trial must make this
request by noticed motion or ex parte
application under the rules in chapter 4 of this division.¿ 
(b)
Grounds for motion or application¿ 
The
request may be granted only upon an affirmative showing by the moving party of
good cause based on a declaration served and filed with the motion or
application.¿ 
 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1335(a)-(b).)¿ 
 
A party may move for summary judgment “at any time after 60
days have elapsed since the general appearance in the action or proceeding of
each party against whom the motion is directed or at any earlier time after the
general appearance that the court, with or without notice and upon good cause
shown, may direct.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (a)(1).)¿ Notice of the
motion and supporting papers must be served on all other parties at least 75
days before the time appointed for hearing.¿ (Id., subd. (a)(2).)¿ The
motion must be heard no later than 30 days before the date of trial, unless the
court for good cause orders otherwise.¿ (Id., subd. (a)(3).)¿¿¿ 
 
“The importance of providing the minimum statutory notice
of a summary judgment hearing cannot be overemphasized.”¿ (Robinson v. Woods
(2008) 168 Cal.App.4th 1258, 1262 (Robinson).)¿ “Because it is
potentially case dispositive and usually requires considerable time and effort
to prepare, a summary judgment motion is perhaps the most important pretrial
motion in a civil case.”¿ (Ibid.)¿ “Therefore, the Legislature was
entitled to conclude that parties should be afforded a minimum notice period
for the hearing of summary judgment motions so that they have sufficient time
to assemble the relevant evidence and prepare an adequate opposition.”¿ (Ibid.)¿
Thus, without the parties’ consent, “in light of the express statutory
language, trial courts do not have authority to shorten the minimum notice
period for summary judgment hearings.”¿ (Ibid.)¿¿¿ 
 
Discussion
 
Defendant requests the Court continue trial in this case to 90 days
after the February 4, 2025 summary judgment hearing. Defendant asserts all
parties stipulated to this continuance and have a private mediation scheduled
for March 18, 2024. (Tabor Decl. ¶ 8-9.) A party that timely files a motion for
summary judgment under Code of Civil Procedure section 437c has a right to have
their motion heard before the start of trial. (Cole v. Superior Court¿(2022)
87 Cal.App.5th 84, 88.) If served electronically, a motion for summary judgment
must be made at least 107 days before trial. (See Code Civ. Proc. § 437c(a)(2),
(3).) Therefore, a motion for summary judgment in this case needed to be filed by
January 2, 2024. 
 
 Defendant timely filed its
motion for summary judgment on January 2, 2024. Defendant argues that the
earliest date available for a summary judgment hearing was February 4, 2025. (Tabor
Decl. ¶ 7.) Since that date is after trial, Defendant requests that the Court continue
the trial date to allow for the motion for summary judgment to be heard. 
 
Therefore,
since Defendant has filed a timely summary judgment motion, the Court finds
good cause to continue trial. 
 
Accordingly,
the Court grants in part the motion to continue trial.
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
The Court GRANTS Defendant’s motion to continue trial.
 
The Final Status Conference is continued to March 24, 2025 at 10:00
a.m. in Department 32 of the Spring Street Courthouse.
 
Trial is continued to April 7, 2025 at 8:30 a.m. in Department 32 of
the Spring Street Courthouse.
 
All
discovery and pre-trial motion cut-off dates shall be in accordance with the
new trial date.  
 
 
Defendant shall give notice of this order, and file a proof of service
of such.
 