 Case Number:  21STCV40774    Hearing Date:   February 14, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


February
  14, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV40774




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Conduct Additional Medical Examination of Plaintiff




MOVING PARTY:


Defendants Aiden Cole Berlinger and Jason Berlinger




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiff
  Walter Andrade



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            On November 5, 2021, Plaintiff Walter
Andrade (Plaintiff) filed a complaint against Defendants Aiden Cole Berlinger
and Jason Berlinger (Defendants) and Does 1 to 100 for damages resulting from
an alleged motor vehicle accident. 
 
            Defendants
now move for leave to conduct a mental status examination on Plaintiff with Dr.
Barry Ludwig on February 28, 2024 at 9:00 a.m. Plaintiff opposes and Defendants
reply. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
“If any
party desires to obtain discovery by a physical examination other than that
described in Article 2 (commencing with Section 2032.210), or by a mental
examination, the party shall obtain leave of court.  A motion for an examination under subdivision
(a) shall specify the time, place, manner, conditions, scope, and nature of the
examination, as well as the identity and the specialty, if any, of the person
or persons who will perform the examination. The motion shall be accompanied by
a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.”  (Civ. Proc., §
2032.310, subds. (a)-(b).)  
 
“The court
shall grant a motion for a physical or mental examination under Section
2032.310 only for good cause shown.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.320, subd.
(a); see also Sporich v. Superior Court (2000) 77 Cal.App.4th 422, 427
[“the good cause which must be shown should be such that will satisfy an
impartial tribunal that the request may be granted without abuse of the
inherent rights of the adversary”].) A showing of good cause generally requires
“that the party produce specific facts justifying discovery and that the
inquiry be relevant to the subject matter of the action or reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.” (Vinson v.
Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 840.)  And “[a] party who chooses
to allege that he has mental and emotional difficulties can hardly deny his
mental state is in controversy.”  (Id. at p.
839.)   
 
The examination
will be limited to whatever condition is “in controversy” in the action.¿ (Code
Civ. Proc. §2032.020(a).)¿ This means the examination must be directly related
to the specific injury or condition that is the subject of the litigation.¿ (Roberts
v. Superior Court (1973) 9 Cal.3d 330, 337.)¿ Often, a party's pleadings
put his or her mental or physical condition in controversy ... as when a
plaintiff claims continuing mental or physical injury resulting from
defendant's acts: “A party who chooses to allege that he has mental and
emotional difficulties can hardly deny his mental state is in controversy.”¿
(See Vinson v. Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 837, wherein the
plaintiff claimed ongoing emotional distress from sexual harassment by former
employer.)¿ Discovery responses can also frame the issues regarding the
injuries and damages alleged.¿¿ 
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
The Declaration of David Mendoza states that he emailed Plaintiff’s
counsel about scheduling the instant examination and discussing Plaintiff’s
objections. (Mendoza Decl. ¶ 8, Exh. C.) Therefore, it appears Defendants’
counsel made a good faith attempt to resolve the issue. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
As an initial matter, Plaintiff argues this motion is untimely. When
this motion was filed on December 13, 2023, trial was scheduled for January 10,
2024. On December 15, 2023, the Court granted Defendants’ motion to continue trial
to March 22, 2024. The Court then ordered the following: “All discovery and
expert motion deadlines will be associated with the new trial date, however,
only fact discovery motions that are currently filed will be heard by the
Court.” Therefore, since the current deadline to hear this motion is fifteen
days before trial, the current motion deadline is March 7, 2024. (See Code Civ.
Proc. § 2024.020.) Additionally, since this motion was filed before the
December 15, 2023 order, it is also timely. 
 
Here, Defendants argue that Plaintiff alleges a traumatic brain
injury, and among other injuries, speech changes, memory issues, light
sensitivity, noise sensitivity, jaw pain, mental fogginess, difficulty finding
words, difficulty articulating thoughts, low self-esteem, balance issues, depth
perception issues, anxiety, concentration issues. (Mendoza Decl. ¶ 3.) Plaintiff
previously appeared for a neurological examination with Dr. Ludwig on March 7,
2023, but did not allow a mental status examination to take place. (Id. ¶ 4,
Exh. B.) The instant motion asks for leave to conduct said mental status
examination: the Montreal Cognitive Assessment and Rey 15 Item Memory Test.
Defendant’s neurological expert declares this test is necessary “to arrive at a
true and accurate diagnosis of Plaintiff's neurological complaints, if any, and
to reach conclusions regarding causation, prognosis, and recommended treatment.”
(Ludwig Decl. ¶ 8.) The examination will take approximately 45 minutes. The
test is required to “evaluate Plaintiff's level of awareness during the tests”
performed at the initial examination. (Id. ¶ 7.) 
 
While Plaintiff argues that he already appeared for an examination
with Dr. Ludwig, he does not dispute that the requested assessments were not
performed. Instead, Plaintiff requests that he be allowed to audio record the
examination and obtain the raw data from the tests.[1]
(Opp., 7-8.) In reply, Defendants agree to the demand that the examination be
audio recorded and assert that no raw data will be generated since the tests
are not neuropsychological tests. (Reply, 2.) Additionally, Defendants’ motion
and separate statement specifies the time, place, manner, conditions, scope,
and nature of the examination, as well as the identity and the specialty, of
the person who will perform the examination. Therefore, the Court finds good cause to
grant leave to conduct the mental status examination. 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Defendants
Aiden Cole
Berlinger and Jason Berlinger’s motion for leave to take Plaintiff’s
examination is GRANTED. Plaintiff shall appear for examination on February 28,
2024 at 9:00 a.m., unless otherwise stipulated by the parties.
 
Defendants shall provide notice of the Court’s order and file a proof
of service of such. 


