 Case Number:  20STCV42377    Hearing Date:   February 14, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


January
  14, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


20STCV42377




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Compel Plaintiff’s Deposition




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant David Lievanos




OPPOSING PARTY:


None



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            Defendant
David Lievanos (“Defendant”) moves to compel Plaintiff Miguel Salinas’s (“Plaintiff”)
deposition. No opposition has been filed. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
“If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the
action . . . , without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410,
fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for
inspection any document . . . described in the deposition notice, the party
giving the notice may move for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance
and testimony, and the production for inspection of any document . . .
described in the deposition notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a).) 
 
“A motion under subdivision (a) [above] shall comply with
both of the following: 
 
1. The motion
shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the production for
inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible
thing described in the deposition notice. 
2. The motion
shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040,
or, when the deponent fails to attend the deposition and produce the documents,
electronically stored information, or things described in the deposition
notice, by a declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent
to inquire about the nonappearance.” 
 
(Code Civ.
Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (b).) 
 
If a motion is granted, the court shall impose a monetary
sanction in favor of that party unless the court finds that the one subject to
the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances
make the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.450 (g).)
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
The Declaration of Mitchell Fenton does not state that counsel attempted
to contact Plaintiff regarding the non-appearance. Therefore, the meet and
confer requirement has not been met. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
This case arises from a motor vehicle accident. On June 26, 2023,
Defendant served a notice of taking Plaintiff’s deposition on his then-counsel.
(Fenton Decl. ¶ 4, Exh. B.) Deposition was set for August 3, 2023. On July 18,
2023, the Court granted Plaintiff’s then-counsel’s motion to be relieved. That
same day, former counsel filed a proof of service of the order to relieve as
counsel and the Notice of Deposition, to Plaintiff via mail. On August 3, 2023,
Plaintiff failed to appear for the deposition via video conference, and
Defendant obtained a Certificate of Non-Appearance. (Id. ¶ 7, Exh. C.)  
 
Notice of this motion was served via mail on Plaintiff at the address listed
in the Order to relieve as counsel. Therefore, seeing no opposition and because
Plaintiff failed to object or appear for the deposition, the motion to compel
is granted. The Court declines to award monetary sanctions because Defendant
did not meet and confer prior to bringing this motion. 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s
motion to compel Plaintiff’s deposition is GRANTED. Plaintiff Miguel Salinas shall
appear within 15 days’ notice of this order for a remote deposition.
 
Defendant shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service of such. 
 