 Case Number:  21STCV21713    Hearing Date:   February 14, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court. 

 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


February
  14, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV21713




MOTIONS:  


(1)  
  Compel Responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One
(2)  
  ) Compel Responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant
  David de Poto




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            Defendant David de Poto (Defendant)
moves to compel Plaintiff Woldeyesus Geberemedhin to serve verified responses,
without objections, to Form Interrogatories, Set One. Defendant also moves to
compel Plaintiff Netsanet Loffe to serve verified responses, without
objections, to Form Interrogatories, Set One. 
Defendant seeks monetary sanctions. No opposition has been filed. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
If a party to whom interrogatories are directed fails to serve a
timely response, the propounding party may move for an order compelling
responses. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.290 (b).) Failure to timely respond waives
all objections, including privilege and work product, unless “[t]he party has
subsequently served a response that is in substantial compliance” and “[t]he
party’s failure to serve a timely response was the result of mistake,
inadvertence, or excusable neglect.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290 (a)(1),
(a)(2).) The statute contains no time limit for a motion to compel where no
responses have been served and no meet and confer is required when a party does
not respond to discovery requests. All that need be shown in the moving papers
is that a set of interrogatories was properly served on the opposing party,
that the time to respond has expired, and that no response of any kind has been
served. (Leach v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 902, 905-906.) 
 
If a motion to compel responses is filed, the Court shall impose a
monetary sanction against the losing party “unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., §§
2030.290 (c).) Further, “[t]he court may award sanctions under the Discovery
Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no
opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn,
or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion
was filed.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1348(a).)
 
DISCUSSION
 
Here, Defendant served Form Interrogatories, Set One on Plaintiff
Woldeyesus Geberemedhin and Plaintiff Netsanet Loffe on December 13, 2022. (Mayers
Decl. ¶ 5, Exh. A.) Plaintiffs were represented by counsel at the time. Defendant’s
counsel granted multiple extensions for discovery until May 26, 2023. (Id. ¶ 6–9.)
Since then, no responses have been served. On June 2, 2023, all Plaintiffs in this
case substituted into this matter as their own counsel. 
 
The proof of service shows that notice of the motions were served on
Plaintiffs by overnight delivery to the address provided in their substitution
of attorney forms. Therefore, because Plaintiffs have failed to respond to
discovery, or oppose, the motions to compel are granted. 
 
Defendant also
requests $1,060.00 in monetary sanctions for each of the two motions. This represents
an hourly rate of $250.00 and the $60.00 filing fee. (Id. ¶21.) The Court finds
sanctions are warranted because Plaintiffs have failed to respond. However, the
amount is excessive due to the type of motion at issue and the fact no
opposition was filed. Therefore, the Court awards sanctions in the amount of $435
against each Plaintiff (1.5 hours of attorney plus the $60 filing fee).
             
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s Motion to Compel Form Interrogatories, Set One
is GRANTED. Plaintiff Woldeyesus Geberemedhin shall provide verified responses,
without objection, within 10 days.
 
Defendant’s Motion to Compel Form Interrogatories, Set One is GRANTED.
Plaintiff Netsanet Loffe shall provide verified responses, without objection,
within 10 days.
 
The Court further GRANTS Defendant’s request for monetary sanctions
against Plaintiff Woldeyesus Geberemedhin in the amount of $435.00. The Court further
GRANTS Defendants’ request for monetary sanctions against Plaintiff Netsanet
Loffe in the amount of $435.00.
Said
monetary sanctions are to be paid to counsel for Defendant within 30 days of
the date of this order.
 
Defendant
shall provide notice of the Court’s order and file a proof of service of such. 