  Case Number:  23STCV15864    Hearing Date:   February 1, 2024    Dept:  15 [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE MOTION FOR PREFERENCEPlaintiffs David
Rosedale and Kimberly Rosedale filed this motion for trial preference under
Code of Civil Procedure section 36, subdivision (d).  
The court has
discretion to grant a motion for trial preference accompanied by clear and
convincing medical documentation concluding that one of the parties suffers
from an illness or condition raising substantial medical doubt of survival of
that party beyond six months and satisfying the court that the interests of
justice will be served by granting the preference.  (Id., § 36, subd. (d).)  Moreover, the court in its discretion may
grant a motion for preference supported by a showing that satisfies the court
that the interests of justice will be served by granting the preference.  (Id., § 36, subd. (e).)  “Upon the granting of such a motion for
preference, the court shall set the matter for trial not more than 120 days
from that date and there shall be no continuance beyond 120 days from the
granting of the motion for preference except for physical disability of a party
or a party’s attorney, or upon a showing of good cause stated in the
record.”  (Id., § 36, subd.
(f).)  “Any continuance shall be for no
more than 15 days and no more than one continuance for physical disability may
be granted to any party.” (Ibid.) 
Plaintiffs submitted
evidence that David Rosedale has malignant pleural mesothelioma.  (Motion at p. 3; 11/1/23 Presser Decl. at ¶¶
6-7.)  Dr. Presser reviewed David
Rosedale’s records, had tele-medicine visits with David Rosedale, and continues
to be involved in the case.  (1/4/24
Presser Decl., at ¶¶ 1, 4.)  On September
21, 2023, David Rosedale underwent a left thoracotomy, radial pleurectomy, and
decortication and developed post-operative atrial fibrillation and persistent
air leak.  (Id. at ¶ 3.)  The pathology collection showed the malignant epithelioid
mesothelioma had spread to his lymph nodes.  (Ibid.)  David Rosedale is undergoing radiation therapy
because pathology from the operation showed unclear margins.  (1/4/24 Presser Decl., at ¶¶ 4.)  David Rosedale suffers from constant fatigue,
constant left chest wall and back pain, and nausea.  (Ibid.)  His health will decline and there is
substantial medical doubt as to his survival beyond the next four to six
months.  (1/4/24 Presser Decl., at ¶¶ 5.)
Defendants argue that Dr.
Presser is not David Rosedale’s treating physician and has provided
inconsistent opinions regarding David Rosedale’s survival in his two
declarations without medical records to substantiate certain claims.  (Paccar’s Opposition at pp. 3-4.)  Dr. Presser’s most recent declaration
indicating medical doubt of David Rosedale’ survival beyond four to six months from
the original declaration date relies on January 4, 2024’s tele-medicine visit,
the spread of the malignant mesothelioma to David Rosedale’s lymph nodes, as
well as general knowledge of his medical history.  (Id. at ¶¶ 3-5.)  The more recent declaration also explained the
developments since the prior declaration – that Rosedale had surgery and the
operation showed unclear margins.  Dr.
Presser’s declaration provides sufficient details about David Rosedale’s
medical records, condition and prognosis. (Ibid.)
The court finds that
there is sufficient evidence to meet the clear and convincing standard for
granting this motion.  The interests of
justice will be served upon the granting of preference in this case as this
would allow David Rosedale to pursue his case while he is able to. 
Plaintiffs’ motion for
trial setting preference is GRANTED.  
The parties are to meet
and confer on a trial setting order.  The
trial is scheduled for May 13, 2024 at 9 a.m. 
The final status conference is scheduled for May 27, 2024 at 9 a.m.  A status conference regarding the trial
setting order is set for February 15, 2024 at 9:00 a.m. 
The moving party is to
order to give notice.