On June 28, 2023, Plaintiff Chauncey Richmond filed a Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) for (1) breach of fiduciary duty; (2) breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing; (3) unfair and deceptive business practices; (4) deceit; (5) fraud; (6) fraudulent conveyance; (7) civil conspiracy; (8) violation of Civil Code § 1185; (9) constructive fraud, (10) conversion, (11) declaratory relief, (12) accounting, (13) intentional infliction of emotional distress (“IIED”), and (14) abuse of disabled person.“This action arises because Plaintiff disputes the title and ownership of the real property, which is the subject of this action, because Plaintiff was tricked and taken advantage o[f] by the Defendants to have unlawfully sold, assigned and/or transferred his ownership an[d] security interest in the Deed of Trust over to his sister, one of the Defendants. Thus, Plaintiff is challenging her right as sole owner of the real property.”  (SAC ¶ 1.)Defendant Giesel L. Richmond now demurs to the first through tenth, thirteenth, and fourteenth causes of action for failure to state sufficient facts.  When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context, and “treat the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Serrano v. Priest (1971) 5 Cal.3d 584, 591.)  “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”  (Hahn v. Mirda¿(2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)  It is error “to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if the plaintiff shows there is a reasonable possibility any defect identified by the defendant can be cured by amendment.”  (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist.¿(1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)Defendant’s arguments as to the first and second causes of action mostly raise a factual dispute and, therefore, are rejected.   Defendant does also argue that these claims are barred by a four-year period of limitations as the subject property was transferred in June 2005.  However, the SAC alleges that Plaintiff had a debilitating mental condition/intoxication from medication; that he had no idea about the transfer; and that this sort of mental incapacity continued until April 2017.  This would seem to be sufficient to establish delayed discovery.  The Demurrer is overruled as to the first and second claims.As to the third, fourth, fifth, sixth, and ninth causes of action, Defendant argues that these fraud claims lack specificity.   However, these claims are also premised on concealment, and specificity requirements are somewhat relaxed for a concealment claim.   (See Alfaro v. Community Housing Imp. System & Planning Ass’n., Inc. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1356, 1384.)  The SAC sufficiently alleges that while Plaintiff was mentally incapacitated, Defendants concealed the nature of the quitclaim deed and coerced Plaintiff to sign it to his detriment for no consideration.  The Demurrer is overruled.  Defendant also argues that the claim for conspiracy is deficient, but a conspiracy is not actually a cause of action, but rather a theory of liability.  Thus, this theory should be addressed by a motion to strike and not the instant Demurrer.  The SAC’s labels are not determinative.  In any case, the allegations are sufficient.  Indeed, a conspiracy is “easy to allege . . . .” (Choate v. County of Orange (2000) 86 Cal.App.4th 312, 333.)  Overt and independently tortious conduct in furtherance of the conspiracy need not be alleged (Ramey v. General Petroleum Corp. (1959) 173 Cal.App.2d 386, 403), and general allegations of agreement have been held sufficient (Bartley v. California Association of Realtors (1980) 115 Cal.App.3d 930, 934.)  For the eighth cause of action, Defendant argues that “California Civil Code §1185 . . . prohibits certain conduct by notary publics during the acknowledgement of documents. However, there are no allegations that Giesel acted as notary public.”However, the eighth cause of action is not alleged against Defendant Richmond.   Defendant next argues that the conversion claim fails because “When Plaintiff signed the Quitclaim Deed on June 3, 2005, he transferred his interest in the Subject Property to Giesel and no longer held an ownership right. Subsequently, Giesel was entitled to obtain loans or sell the Subject Property without a duty to share the proceeds.”  This argument is rejected as it merely raises a factual dispute. Defendant also argues that the IIED claim fails because Plaintiff does not allege severe emotional distress.  However, considering the SAC in its entirety, the Court believes the necessary facts have been alleged.  Finally, Defendant argues that the claim for “abuse of disabled person” is not a cause of action.   However, Welf. & Inst. Code § 15600, et. seq., applies to dependent adults.  Welf. & Inst. Code § 15610.23 states that “ ‘Dependent adult’ means a person, regardless of whether the person lives independently, between the ages of 18 and 64 years who resides in this state and who has physical or mental limitations that restrict his or her ability to carry out normal activities or to protect his or her rights, including, but not limited to, persons who have physical or developmental disabilities, or whose physical or mental abilities have diminished because of age.”  No analysis is provided by Defendant. In sum, the Demurrer is overruled.  An answer is to be filed within 20 days.Moving party to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 