On July 3, 2023, Plaintiff PMW Consulting, LLC filed the operative Complaint for (1) violation of Civ. Code § 2924, et seq., (2) intentional interference with prospective economic advantage, (3) negligent interference with prospective economic advantage, (4) cancellation of instruments, (5) quiet title, and (6) declaratory relief.  Plaintiff alleges that it was the winning bidder at a foreclosure sale, but that Defendants obtained the property for themselves by fraudulently claiming that Defendant Chun Ling Shum had a right to bid on the property as a tenant.  Plaintiff alleges that Shum was never a tenant and that he was merely aiding and abetting Defendant Daqing Wang, who couldn’t bid on the property himself.  Defendant Chun Ling Shum now demurs to the Complaint for uncertainty and failure to state sufficient facts.When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context, and “treat the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Serrano v. Priest (1971) 5 Cal.3d 584, 591.)  “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”  (Hahn v. Mirda¿(2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)  It is error “to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if the plaintiff shows there is a reasonable possibility any defect identified by the defendant can be cured by amendment.”  (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist.¿(1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.) Shum first argues that the Complaint does have sufficient allegations to establish fraud.  This argument is perplexing because the Complaint does not include such a cause of action. Shum next argues that all claims fail because Plaintiff did not tender the indebtedness.  This argument is also confusing because Plaintiff did not owe anything.  It was a bidder at the foreclosure sale.  This is not a wrongful foreclosure case.   Shum further argues that the claim under Civ. Code § 2924 lacks merit because it is not particularly pleaded and the allegations are insufficient to indicate that Shum was not a lessee.   This lacks merit.  Shum conflates the particularity standard for fraud with the standard for statutory claims; fraud requires greater specificity.  Here, the Complaint adequately indicates that Civ. Code § 2924(m) was violated in that Shum was not an eligible tenant bidder. Shum next argues there is no private right of action under Civ. Code § 2924m.  On this point, the Court agrees.  “The issue in a case such as this is primarily one of legislative intent. If the Legislature intended a private right of action, that usually ends the inquiry. If the Legislature intended there be no private right of action, that usually ends the inquiry. If we determine the Legislature expressed no intent on the matter either way, directly or impliedly, there is no private right of action (Moradi–Shalal v. Fireman's Fund Ins. Companies (1988) 46 Cal.3d 287, 305, 250 Cal.Rptr. 116, 758 P.2d 58 (Moradi–Shalal)), with the possible exception that compelling reasons of public policy might require judicial recognition of such a right. (See id. at pp. 304–305, 250 Cal.Rptr. 116, 758 P.2d 58; see also Katzberg v. Regents of University of California (2002) 29 Cal.4th 300, 317, 127 Cal.Rptr.2d 482, 58 P.3d 339 [considerations for judicial recognition of private right of action for constitutional violations].)”  (Id. at p. 142.)There is no private right of action because Civ. Code § 2924m and its legislative history are silent on this issue; therefore, the Demurrer is sustained as to the first cause of action, without leave to amend. Shum next argues that the second and third causes of action fail because “a purchaser at a sale has no relationship with the foreclosure trustee.”The elements of a claim for intentional interference with prospective economic advantage are “(1) an economic relationship between the plaintiff and some third party, with the probability of future economic benefit to the plaintiff; (2) the defendant's knowledge of the relationship; (3) intentional acts on the part of the defendant designed to disrupt the relationship; (4) actual disruption of the relationship; and (5) economic harm to the plaintiff proximately caused by the acts of the defendant.”  (Korea Supply Co. v. Lockheed Martin Corp. (2003) 29 Cal.4th 1134, 1153 (internal quotation marks omitted).)  “To establish a claim for interference with prospective economic advantage . . . a plaintiff must plead that the defendant engaged in an independently wrongful act.”  (Id. at p. 1158.)  An “act is independently wrongful if it is unlawful, that is, if it is proscribed by some constitutional, statutory, regulatory, common law, or other determinable standard.”   (Id. at p. 1159.)The tort of negligent interference with prospective advantage is identical, except that negligent, rather than intentional, conduct is actionable.  (See North American Chemical Co. v. Superior Court (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 764, 786.) The Complaint states that “The named defendants conduct has disrupted the economic relationship between Plaintiff as the winning bidder, and TLS, as the trustee overseeing the sale and responsible for granting a trustee’s sale deed to the winning bidder.”Shum has not cited sufficient authority to support her argument, and the Complaint alleges there was a prospective relationship in that the trustee had deemed Plaintiff to have a winning bid.Shum also argues that independently wrongful conduct has not been alleged, but the Complaint pleads a violation of Civ. Code § 2924m.  Shum’s other arguments merely raise a factual dispute.Shum next argues that the claim for cancellation of instrument lacks merit because it is “not alleged with particularity as required. Plaintiff has not articulated with any specificity why the Trustee's Deed Upon Sale is void or voidable, or why it might cause Plaintiffserious injury.”  This has already been rejected; again, the Complaint pleads a violation of Civ. Code § 2924m.Shum also argues the quiet title claim fails because “the statute governing quiet title actions requires that the plaintiff identify the date as of which the judgment or order should be effective. Code Civ. Proc. § 761.020. There is no such allegation in the Complaint.”This lacks merit as the Complaint seems to imply a determination is sought as of the filing date of the Complaint.  There is nothing to indicate otherwise.Lastly, Shum contends that the declaratory relief claim fails because it is superfluous and relates to a past controversy.  This claim seeks “For a declaratory judgment in favor of Plaintiffs and against Shum that Shum is not an Eligible Bidder; that Plaintiff was the high bidder at the foreclosure sale for the Property, and that as Plaintiff was the high bidder, TLS should issue a trustee’s deed upon sale in favor of Plaintiff upon Plaintiff’s tender to TLS of the amount of its bid at the auction.”The Court agrees that this relates to a past controversy.  (Osseous Techs. of Am., Inc. v. DiscoveryOrtho Partners LLC (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 357, 366)  Therefore, the Demurrer is sustained as to the sixth cause of action, without leave to amend.  In sum, the Demurrer is sustained as to the first and sixth causes of action, but is otherwise overruled.  Leave to amend is denied.Moving party to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic.