 Case Number:  22STCV31873    Hearing Date:   August 8, 2024    Dept:  29 Celis-Salas v. LAUSD
22STCV31873
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Deposition of
Defendant (filed 6/5/24)
Defendant’s Motion for Order Upholding Confidential Designation on Privilege Log
(filed 7/5/24)
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further Production of Documents (filed 7/10/24)


Tentative
The Court will call this matter.
The Court will hear from counsel as to
Plaintiff’s motion to compel the deposition of LAUSD.  In particular, the Court would like an update
from counsel as to whether the depositions have occurred.  (See Mullane Decl., ¶¶13-14 & Exhs. 7-9.)
LAUSD’s motion for an order upholding its
designation of student names provided to Plaintiffs as confidential is GRANTED.
The Court will hear from counsel as to
Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses to requests for production of
documents.  In addition to whatever points
counsel would like to make, the Court would like to hear the responses of
counsel to the questions set forth below in this tentative ruling.
Background
This case arises out of a tragic set of
circumstances in which (as is alleged) a minor child, Giancarlo Calvo, died on
November 17, 2021, following one or more fights with other students at school
that had occurred in the prior period of approximately three weeks.  
On September 29, 2022, Plaintiffs Elvia Celis-Salas
and Carlos Calvo (“Plaintiffs”) filed the Complaint in this action against Los
Angeles Unified School District (“LAUSD”), and Does 1 through 100, asserting causes
of action for (1) Negligence, (2) Negligent Hiring, Retention, Supervision and
Training, and (3) Wrongful Death arising out of the injuries to and death of
Giancarlo.  
LAUSD filed its Answer on November 7, 2022.
On October 9, 2023, the Court granted LAUSD’s
Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings, with leave to amend.
On November 7, 2023, Plaintiffs filed the
First Amended Complaint (“FAC”).  The FAC
asserts causes of action for (1) Survival Action (negligence); (2) Survival
Action (negligent hiring, retention, supervision, and training); and (3)
Wrongful Death.  The first two causes of
action are brought by Ms. Elvia Celis-Salas as successor-in-interest to the
decedent Giancarlo Calvo.  (FAC, ¶¶
21-22, 33-34.)  The third cause of action
is brought on behalf of Ms. Celis-Salas and Mr. Carlos Calvo on their own behalves.  (Id., ¶ 47.)
On January 5, 2024, the Court sustained LAUSD’s demurrer
to the first causes of action without leave to amend and granted LAUSD’s motion
to strike the request for prejudgment interest without leave to amend.
On January 16, 2024, LAUSD filed its Answer to the FAC.
Currently before the Court and set for
hearing on August 8 are three motions.
In the first motion, filed on June 5, 2024,
Plaintiff Elvia Celis-Salas (“Plaintiff”) seeks an order compelling the deposition
of LAUSD.  LAUSD filed an opposition on
June 17, and Plaintiff filed a reply on June 21. This motion was initially set
for hearing on July 1 and was continued to August 8.
In the second motion, filed on July 5, 2024, LAUSD
seeks an order upholding its confidential designations on a privilege log dated
April 20, 2024.  Plaintiffs filed an
opposition on July 25, and LAUSD filed a reply on August 1.  
In the third motion, filed on July 10, 2024, Plaintiff
seeks an order compelling LAUSD to provide a further verified response to
Plaintiff’s Requests for Production of Documents (Set One).  LAUSD filed an opposition on July 24, and
Plaintiff filed a reply on July 29.  This
motion was initially set for hearing on August 5 and was continued to August
8.  An informal discovery conference was
held on June 21.
Legal Standard
Motion to Compel Deposition
“Any
party may obtain discovery … by taking in California the oral deposition of any
person, including any party to the action.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.010.) 
Code of Civil Procedure sections 2025.210 through 2025.280 provide the
requirements for (among other things) what must be included in a deposition
notice, when and where depositions may be taken, and how and when the notice
must be served.  
“The
service of a deposition notice … is effective to require any deponent who is a
party to the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a
party to attend and to testify, as well as to produce any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing for inspection and
copying.”  (Id., § 2025.280, subd.
(a).)
Section
2025.230 provides: “If the deponent named is not a natural person, the
deposition notice shall describe with reasonable particularity the matters on
which examination is requested.  In that
event, the deponent shall designate and produce at the deposition those of its
officers, directors, managing agents, employees, or agents who are most
qualified to testify on its behalf as to those matters to the extent of any
information known or reasonably available to the deponent.”  
Section
2025.410, subdivision (a), requires any party to serve a written objection at
least three days before the deposition if the party contends that a deposition
notice does not comply with the provisions of sections 2025.210 through
2025.280.
Section
2025.450, subdivision (a), provides:
“If,
after service of a deposition notice, a party to the action or an officer,
director, managing agent, or employee of a party, or a person designated by an organization
that is a party under Section 2025.230, without
having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for
examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for¿inspection any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order compelling
the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of
any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in
the deposition notice.”  
Any
such motion to compel must show good cause for the production of documents and,
when a deponent has failed to appear, the motion must be accompanied “by a
declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire
about the nonappearance.”  (Id.,
subd. (b).)  “Implicit in the
requirement that counsel contact the deponent to inquire about the
nonappearance is a requirement that counsel listen to the reasons offered and
make a good faith attempt to resolve the issue,” including by rescheduling. (Leko
v. Cornerstone Bldg. Inspection Serv. (2001) 86 Cal.App.4th 1109, 1124. 
When
a motion to compel is granted, “the court shall impose a monetary sanction under
Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) in favor of the party who noticed
the deposition and against the deponent or the party with whom the deponent is
affiliated, unless the court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust.”  (Id., § 2025.450, subd. (g)(1).) 
In Chapter 7 of
the Civil Discovery Act, section 2023.010, subdivision (d), defines “[m]isuses
of the discovery process” to include “[f]ailing to respond to or to submit to
an authorized method of discovery.” 
Where a party or attorney has engaged in misuse of the discovery
process, the court may impose a monetary sanction in the amount of “the
reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result
of that conduct.”  (Id., § 2023.030,
subd. (a).)
Motion for Order Upholding Confidential
Designation
On February 8,
2024, the Court entered a Protective Order in this action.
Paragraph 2 of the
Protective Order allows a party to designate documents or other information produced
in discovery as “confidential.”  Various
provisions of the Protective Order limit the use and disclosure of documents or
other information that is produced in discovery and designated as confidential.
Paragraph 6 of the
Protective Order provides for objections to a confidentiality designation; if
the parties are unable to resolve the objection, the designating party must within
30 days either remove the confidentiality designation or file a motion for an
order upholding the confidentiality designation.
Motion to
Compel Further Response to Requests for Production
“On receipt of a response to a demand for inspection, copying,
testing, or sampling, the demanding party may move for an order compelling
further response to the demand if the demanding party deems that any of the
following apply: (1) A statement of compliance with the demand is
incomplete.  (2) A representation of
inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive.  (3) An objection in the response is without
merit or too general.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2031.310, subd. (a).)
Notice of a motion to compel further responses must be given
“within 45 days of the service of the verified response, or any supplemental
verified response, or on or before any specific later date to which the
propounding party and the responding party have agreed in writing.” (Id.,
subd. (c).)
A motion to compel further responses must set forth specific
facts showing good cause for the discovery and must be accompanied by a meet-and-confer
declaration and a separate statement or, in the discretion of the Court, a
“concise outline of the discovery request and each response in dispute.” (Id.,
subd. (b)(1)-(3); Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345.)
“[T]he court shall
impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010)
against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a
motion to compel further response to a demand, unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (h).)
Discussion
Motion to Compel
Deposition
Plaintiff served
a notice in February setting the deposition of LAUSD for April 10, 2024.  (Ramey Decl., ¶¶ 4, 6 & Exh. C.)  LAUSD served an objection to the notice on
April 4.  (Id., ¶¶ 7-8 & Exh.
D.)  Plaintiff responded with an offer to
meet and confer regarding alternative dates. 
(Id., ¶¶ 9-10 & Exh. E.)
Following
further discussion regarding the scope of the deposition topics and document
requests, Plaintiff served a notice on April 24, 2024, setting the deposition
of LAUSD for May 20, 2024.  (Id., ¶¶
16-23 & Exh. L.)  LAUSD served an
objection by personal service on May 17. 
(Id., Exh. P.)  LAUSD did not appear
for the deposition on May 20.
Subsequently,
LAUSD offered deposition dates in July. 
(Mullane Decl., ¶ 13 & Exhs. 7-8.) 
Plaintiff accepted those dates. 
(Id., ¶ 14 & Exh. 9.)
It is unclear to
the Court whether the depositions have occurred and, if so, whether the motion
is moot.  The Court will hear from
counsel.
Motion for Order Confirming
Confidential Designation
On February 8, 2024, the Court entered a stipulated
protective order in this case (the “Protective Order”).  Pursuant to Paragraph 2 of the Protective
Order, LAUSD disclosed to Plaintiffs the names of five students who are potential
witnesses in this matter and designated the names as confidential.  (Mullane Decl., ¶ 6.)  Pursuant to Paragraph 6 of the Protective
Order, Plaintiffs objected to the designation. 
(Id., ¶ 8.)  
The parties were unable to resolve the
objection.  According, and also pursuant
to Paragraph
6 of the Protective Order, LAUSD now seeks an order upholding the
confidentiality designation.
As a threshold matter, the Court notes that this is not a dispute
about whether LAUSD can withhold the names of the students.  The names have been disclosed to
Plaintiffs.  The issue is whether the provisions
of the Protective Order that impose limits on the use and disclosure of “confidential”
information should or should not apply to the names of the students.  
LAUSD has the burden of proof on this issue.  (Protective Order, ¶ 6.)
The Protective Order specifically defines “Confidential” to
mean:
“[A]ny information that is in the possession of a Designating
Party who believes in good faith that such information is entitled to
confidential treatment under applicable State and Federal law, including but
not limited to confidential pupil records and student directory information.”
(Protective Order, ¶ 1(c).) 
“Student directory information” is not a defined term in the Protective
Order, but, as both parties agree, “directory information” is defined under
federal and state law to includes (among other things) student names.  (Motion, at p. 6:13-16; Opp. at p. 5:5-10;
Reply at p. 3:3-4:1.)
LAUSD has met its burden. 
Under the terms of the Protective Order, jointly submitted by the
parties, student directory information, including student names, is the proper
subject of a “confidential” designation. 
Accordingly, LAUSD properly designated the student names as confidential
under the terms of the Protective Order, and its motion to uphold the
designation is granted.
If Plaintiffs now believe that student directory information is
not the proper subject of a confidentiality designation, as appears to be the
case, Plaintiffs are not without a remedy. 
Plaintiffs may, under the provisions of paragraph 9, seek to modify or
obtain relief from the terms of the Protective Order.  (See Protective Order, ¶ 9.)  
Motion to Compel Further Response to Requests for
Production 
Plaintiff moves to compel LAUSD to provide a
further verified response to Requests for Production (Set One), Nos. 4, 5, 6,
8, 9, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 23, 27, and 28. 
Plaintiff contends that LAUSD’s objections and assertions of various
privileges and protections from disclosure are without merit.  
In dispute are six documents: two reports
prepared by principal Cynthia Headrick, referred to as “ISTAR” reports (numbers
506949 and 507336); and four student reports (student witness statements).  
In its opposition, LAUSD contends: (1) that
the ISTAR reports are protected from disclosure by the attorney-client
privilege and work product doctrine; (2) that the ISTAR reports and the student
witness statements are subject to protection under the Family Education Rights
and Privacy Act (“FERPA”); and (3) that the four student witness statements are
subject to qualified protection from disclosure under the work product
doctrine.
The Court will hear argument from
counsel.  In addition to whatever points
counsel would like to make, the Court would like to hear the responses of
counsel to the following questions:
First, as to the ISTAR reports, is there any
case law on point?
Second, as to the ISTAR reports, LAUSD
produces a Declaration of Daryl Narimatsu executed in 2018.  Plaintiff responds, in her reply, by
attaching a Los Angeles Unified School District Policy Bulletin dated July 10,
2013.  These two documents seem to be in
tension, at least in part.  Is the 2013
Bulletin authenticated?  Has it been updated
or superseded?  Were the statements in
the 2018 Declaration still accurate and applicable at the time of the events in
question (in or possibly slightly after November 2021)?  What are the parties’ contentions regarding
what weight the Court should give to these two documents?
Third, as to the ISTAR reports, what evidence
is there in the record to support LAUSD’s contention with regard to work product
protection?
Fourth, as to LAUSD’s contention with regard
to FERPA, why is that a basis to withhold the entire report, as opposed to
producing the reports with redactions?
Fifth, as to LAUSD’s contention with regard
to FERPA, LAUSD argues in connection with its motion to uphold the
confidentiality designation (on pp. 6-8) that prior consent for disclosure is
not required where the disclosure is necessary to comply with a judicial order
or a subpoena (and, if disclosure is to be made, the educational agency or
institution must make a reasonable effort to notify the parent or student in
advance so that the parent or student may seek protection from the disclosure.  Does this provide a path forward?  Should the Court order LAUSD to give notice
to the parents and/or the students involved, and then allow them to come
forward if they have any objection to disclosure?
Sixth, as to the student witness statements, what
evidence is there in the record to support LAUSD’s contention with regard to qualified
protection from disclosure under the work product doctrine?
Conclusion
The Court will hear from counsel as to
Plaintiff’s motion to compel the deposition of LAUSD.  
LAUSD’s motion for an order upholding its
designation of student names provided to Plaintiffs as confidential is GRANTED.
The Court will hear from counsel as to Plaintiff’s
motion to compel further responses to requests for production of documents.