 Case Number:  22STCV20297    Hearing Date:   August 8, 2024    Dept:  29 Calzada Martinez v. Winfield
22STCV20297
Defendant’s Motion to Reopen Discovery
Tentative
The motion is denied.
BACKGROUND
This case arises out of a motor vehicle accident on January 16,
2021, near the intersection of South Western Avenue and West 89th Street in Los
Angeles.  
On June 21, 2022, Plaintiffs Uriel Calzada Martinez and Aracely De
Los Santos filed the Complaint in this action, asserting causes of action for
motor vehicle negligence and general negligence against Defendants Jerome
Winfield (“Defendant”) and Does 1 through 50.  On April 13, 2023,
Defendant filed his Answer to the Complaint.
On filing, the Court set trial for December 19, 2023.  In October 2023, the Court approved the
parties’ stipulation to continue trial and set a new trial date of May 3,
2024.  All discovery deadlines were reset
based on the new trial date.
On April 12, 2024, the Court continued trial, based on Defendant’s
ex parte application, to July 23, 2024. 
As the request to continue was based primarily on scheduling issues for experts
and counsel, the Court reset deadlines for expert depositions and motions
relating to experts but did not extend the deadlines for fact discovery.  Accordingly, fact discovery had closed on
April 3, 2024, and remained closed.
On June 21, 2024, the Court continued trial again, again based on
Defendant’s ex parte application, this time to September 26, 2024.  As the request to continue was based primarily
on medical issues experienced by defendant’s trial counsel, the Court did not
extend any discovery deadlines. 
Accordingly, fact discovery remained closed, and expert discovery closed
on July 8.
On July 2, 2024, the Court denied Defendant’s ex parte application
to reopen discovery, without prejudice to Defendant seeking the same relief
through a noticed motion.
Back on May 23, 2024, Defendant had filed this motion to reopen
discovery.  The hearing was initially set
for June 17 and was continued to July 22. 
Due to the cyber attack experienced by Los Angeles Superior Court, the
hearing was continued again to August 8.
Plaintiffs filed an opposition on June 4 and then another
opposition on July 9.
No reply has been filed.
LEGAL STANDARD 
“On motion of any party, the court may
grant leave to complete discovery proceedings, or to have a motion concerning
discovery heard, closer to the initial trial date, or to reopen discovery after
a new trial date has been set..”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., section 2024.050, subd.
(a).)¿ 
“In exercising its discretion to grant or
deny this motion, the court shall take into consideration any matter relevant
to the leave requested, including, but not limited to, the following: (1) The
necessity and the reasons for the discovery.¿ (2) The diligence or lack of
diligence of the party seeking the discovery or the hearing of a discovery
motion, and the reasons that the discovery was not completed or that the
discovery motion was not heard earlier.¿ (3) Any likelihood that permitting the
discovery or hearing the discovery motion will prevent the case from going to
trial on the date set, or otherwise interfere with the trial calendar, or
result in prejudice to any other party.¿ (4) The length of time that has
elapsed between any date previously set, and the date presently set, for the
trial of the action.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., section 2024.050, subd. (b)(1)-(4).)¿
A motion to reopen discovery “shall be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.”¿ (Code
Civ. Proc., section 2024.050, subd. (a).)¿ “A meet and confer declaration in
support of a motion shall state facts showing a reasonable and good faith
attempt at an informal resolution of each issue presented by the motion.” (Code
Civ. Proc., section 2016.040.)¿ 
“The court shall impose a monetary sanction
under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person,
or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to extend or to reopen
discovery, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of
the sanction unjust.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., section 2024.050, subd. (c).)¿¿¿ 
 
DISCUSSION
Defendant’s motion is denied for two independent reasons.
First, Defendant has not satisfied the mandatory requirement
to meet and confer prior to filing a motion. 
The declaration of counsel states that “the parties met and conferred,”
but there is no detail (such as who met and conferred, what they discussed,
when the meet and confer happened, and what position each side took).  (Cappell Decl., ¶ 18.)  Moreover, the supporting evidence – Exhibit B
– is a brief email exchange on March 27, 2024; the email from Defendant’s
counsel is two sentences long and addresses a trial continuance generally, not
the request made now to reopen discovery. 
(Id., Exh. B.)
A motion to reopen discovery must
“be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.”¿
(Code Civ. Proc., section 2024.050, subd. (a).)¿ Moving
party has not satisfied this mandatory statutory requirement.
Second, and independently, on the merits,
Defendant has not shown a basis to reopen discovery.  The court reaches this conclusion after a
consideration of the four factors set forth in Code of Civil Procedure section 2024.050, subdivision (b).
The necessity and the reasons for
the discovery.¿
Defendant contends that Plaintiff’s
injuries are complex. (Cappell Decl., ¶¶ 8-13 & Exh. A.)  Defendant’s discovery is not complete, as
Defendant seeks to depose Plaintiff’s employer and health care providers.  (Id., ¶ 14.) 
Defendant is also waiting on production of subpoenaed records from workers’
compensation, Plaintiff’s employer, and Plaintiff’s health insurance and automobile
insurance carriers.  (Id., ¶ 15.)  
Defendant has shown that the
discovery he seeks is necessary and important in this matter.
The diligence or lack of
diligence of the party seeking the discovery or the hearing of a discovery
motion, and the reasons that the discovery was not completed or that the
discovery motion was not heard earlier.¿
Defendant asserts in general
terms that he has been diligent.  (Id., ¶¶
7, 14; see also Mem. at pp. 3, 7.)  The
evidence, however, is to the contrary. 
Defendant filed his answer in April 2023, and had approximately one year
to conduct discovery prior to the cutoff. 
Although Defendant points to certain things that occurred between April
and early August 2023, Defendant has not explained why all of this necessary
discovery – including document productions and depositions of third party
witnesses – was not obtained, or at least sought, in 2023 or very early
2024.  There is no evidence, for example,
of when the subpoenas were served, when the productions were due, and when
deposition notices were served.  On this
record, there is no showing of diligence by Defendant.
Any likelihood that permitting
the discovery or hearing the discovery motion will prevent the case from going
to trial on the date set, or otherwise interfere with the trial calendar, or
result in prejudice to any other party.¿ 
This motion has been continued
twice, through no fault of Defendant. 
Nonetheless, trial is now set for September 26, 2024, and reopening
discovery now will, as a practical matter, almost certainly require a further
continuance of trial.
The length of time that has
elapsed between any date previously set, and the date presently set, for the
trial of the action. 
Trial was initially set for December 19, 2023.  It was then continued by stipulation to May
3, 2024; continued against to July 23, 2024, because of scheduling issues; and
then continued again to September 26, 2023, because of a health issue of
defendant’s lead trial counsel.  Approximately
nine months have elapsed between the original trial date and the current trial
date.
In considering
these factors, and particularly the failure of Defendant to show diligence in
seeking the discovery that he now contends is critical, the Court concludes that
Defendant not shown good cause for the Court reopen discovery. 
For each of
these two independent reasons, the the
motion is DENIED. 
CONCLUSION 
The Court DENIES Defendant’s motion
to reopen discovery.
Moving Party to provide
notice.