  Case Number:  22STCV28104    Hearing Date:   November 1, 2023    Dept:  39 Steve
Javidzad, et al. v. Adler Construction, Inc., et al.
Case
No. 22STCV28104
 
Order
#1 of 4
Defendants’
Motions to Compel Initial Responses 
 
            Plaintiffs
Steve Javidzad and Laleh Javidzad (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed this
wrongful eviction case against Eric Adler; Adler Construction, Inc. (“Adler
Construction); and Adler Ventures, Inc. (“Adler Ventures”) (collectively,
“Defendants”).  Plaintiffs allege that
they rented a property in Beverly Hills with a monthly rent of $12,500 from
Defendants.  Plaintiffs allege that Defendants
wrongfully entered the property on September 2, 2021, and changed the locks,
constituting an unlawful eviction. 
Defendants filed a cross-complaint alleging causes of action for breach
of contract, trespass, intentional misrepresentation, and civil extortion.  Defendants allege that Plaintiffs stopped
making rental payments in December 2019, and then falsely claimed not to be
able to pay the rent due to the pandemic. 
 
 
            Defendants
move to compel responses from Plaintiffs to the following written discovery
requests: 
 
            1.         Special Interrogatories, Set One, to
Laleh Javidzad
            2.         Form Interrogatories, Set One, to Laleh
Javidzad
            3.         Requests for Production of Documents,
Set One, to Lalel Javidzad
            4.         Special Interrogatories, Set Two, to Steve
Javidzad
            
The Court held a hearing on a
different discovery motion on October 3, 2023, and the Court discussed the
instant motions.  The Court advanced and
continued the pending motions to November 1, 2023, and ordered the parties to
meet-and-confer concerning the motions. 
(See Court’s Minute Order, dated October 3, 2023.)  The Court ordered the parties to file a joint
statement on the pending motions on or before October 16, 2023.  (Ibid.) 
Defendants’ counsel sent a proposed joint statement to Plaintiffs’
counsel on October 16, 2023, and requested a response by 4:00 p.m., and
Plaintiffs’ counsel indicated that he was out-of-the-office.  Therefore, Defendants’ counsel filed his own
statement, and Plaintiff’s counsel filed oppositions to the motions.  Therefore, the Court resolves the pending
motions.
 
            Defendants
served the discovery requests on Laleh Javidzad on August 23, 2023, via
email.  These motions were filed on September
28, 2023.  The Court grants the motion.  Although Defendants are entitled to
responses, this does not reflect a good faith effort to resolve the dispute, as
the motions were filed immediately after the deadline passed.  Therefore, the Court declines to award
sanctions for these motions.  
 
            Defendants
served the discovery requests on Steve Javidzad on earlier dates.  The Special Interrogatories, Set Two, were
served on July 24, 2023, via email.  The
Court grants the motion.  Plaintiffs’
counsel states: “On Sunday, October 22, 2023, I was finally able to meet with
Plaintiffs to prepare verified responses to this discovery . . . .  Mr. Javidzad has had two serious heart incidents
including a heart attack and has been less available to assist in this case,
and I have been overwhelmed with trial preparation in three trials. . . . .”  This does not provide sufficient information
to explain why Plaintiff Steve Javidzad could not provide discovery for three full
months.  Plaintiff’s counsel’s schedule
is not good cause to fail to provide discovery responses.  Therefore, the Court finds that the failure to
provide verified responses constitutes an abuse of the discovery process
warranting sanctions.  The Court orders Plaintiff
Steve Javidzad to pay monetary sanctions in the amount of $1,667.50 to
Defendants, by and through counsel.  
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
            Based
upon the foregoing, the Court orders as follows:
 
            1.         The Court grants Defendants’ motions to
compel initial responses to the following discovery: (a) Special
Interrogatories, Set One, to Laleh Javidzad; (b) Form Interrogatories, Set One,
to Laleh Javidzad; (c) Requests for Production of Documents, Set One, to Lalel
Javidzad; and (d) Special Interrogatories, Set Two, to Steve Javidzad
 
            2.         The Court orders that verified
responses without objections shall be served within thirty (30) days if they
have not been served already.  If
Plaintiffs fail to do so, Defendants may file a motion for monetary, issue,
evidentiary, and terminating sanctions.     
 
            3.         The Court imposes no monetary sanctions
against Defendant Laleh Javidzad.
 
            4.         The Court orders Plaintiff Steve Javidzad
to pay monetary sanctions to Defendants, by and through counsel, in the amount
of $1,661.65 within thirty (30) days.
 
            5.         Defendants’ counsel shall provide
notice and file proof of such with the Court. 

 
 
Order
#2 of 4
Motions
to Compel Further Responses
 
            Defendants
move to compel further responses from Plaintiff Steve Javidzad to Requests for
Production of Documents, Set One (“RPD”). 
The RPDs were served on February 22, 2023, and Defendant Steve Javidzad
still has not produced any documents.  The
motion is granted.  Defendant Steve Javidzad
shall produce all responsive documents within thirty (30) days and shall
provide a code-compliant response within thirty (30) days making clear that he
has done so.  The Court finds that
Plaintiff Steve Javidzad’s failure to comply with his discovery obligations under
these circumstances constitutes an abuse of the discovery process warranting
sanctions.  Therefore, the Court orders
Plaintiff Steve Javidzad to pay Defendants, by and through counsel, the amount
of $2,061.65 within thirty (30) days. 
Defendants’ counsel shall provide notice and file proof of such with the
Court.
 
Order
#3 of 4
Motion
to Compel Further Responses
 
Defendants move
to compel further responses from Plaintiff Steve Javidzad to Form Interrogatories,
Set One, Number 17.1.  The motion is
granted in part and denied in part.  The Court
rules as follows:
 
RFA #2 –
Granted
RFA #4 –
Granted 
RFA #6 –
Granted 
RFA #8 –
Granted 
RFA #27 –
Denied 
RFA #30 – Denied

RFA #31 –
Granted 
RFA #32 – Granted

RFA #34 –
Granted 
RFA #37 – Granted
RFA #38 –
Granted 
RFA #43 –
Denied 
RFA #44 –
Granted 
RFA #50 – Denied

RFA #51 –
Denied 
RFA #52 –
Denied 
RFA #53 –
Denied 
RFA #54 –
Denied 
RFA #55 –
Denied 
 
The Court orders Plaintiff Steve
Javidzad to provide code-compliant responses without objections within thirty
(30) days.  The Court denies Defendants’
request for sanctions because the motion was denied in part.  Defendants’ counsel shall provide notice and
file proof of such with the Court.  
 
 
Order
#4 of 4
Motion
to Strike
 
            Defendants
move to strike the prayers for punitive damages and attorney’s fees.  Any party, within the time allowed to respond
to a pleading, may serve and file a motion to strike the whole pleading or any
part thereof.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435,
subd. (b)(1); Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1322, subd. (b).)  On a motion to strike, the court may: (1)
strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading;
or (2) strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of California, a court rule, or an order of the
court.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd.
(a)-(b); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42
Cal.2d 767, 782.)
 
Plaintiffs have
not alleged facts to support a claim for punitive damages.  In ruling on a motion to strike punitive
damages, “judges read allegations of a pleading subject to a motion to strike
as a whole, all parts in their context, and assume their truth.”  (Clauson
v. Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.)  To state a prima facie claim for punitive
damages, a plaintiff must allege the elements set forth in the punitive damages
statute, Civil Code section 3294.  (Coll. Hosp., Inc. v. Superior Court (1994)
8 Cal.4th 704, 721.)  Per Civil Code
section 3294, a plaintiff must allege that the defendant has been guilty of
oppression, fraud or malice.  (Civ. Code,
§ 3294, subd. (a).)  “Malice is defined
in the statute as conduct intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff
or despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and
conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.”  (Coll.
Hosp., Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 725.)  “The mere allegation an intentional tort was
committed is not sufficient to warrant an award of punitive damages.  Not only must there be circumstances of oppression,
fraud or malice, but facts must be alleged in the pleading to support such a
claim.”  (Grieves v. Superior Ct. (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 166, internal
citations and footnotes omitted.)  Plaintiffs
allege that Defendants changed the locks on the property when Plaintiffs had a
right to possession and disposed of certain personal property that belonged to
Plaintiffs.  (First Amended Complaint, ¶¶
6-10.)  Plaintiffs allege that Defendants
did so “intentionally or negligently . . . .” 
(Ibid.)  Plaintiffs fail to
allege any specific facts to show that Defendants acted with oppression, fraud,
or malice. 
 
Nor have
Plaintiffs alleged any factual basis to seek attorneys’ fees.  In order to seek attorneys’ fees, Plaintiffs
must allege a contractual or statutory basis to do so.  The first amended complaint is silent on this
issue.
 
Based upon the foregoing,
the Court orders as follows:
 
1.         Defendants’ motion to strike is granted.
 
2.         Plaintiffs shall file a second amended
complaint within thirty (30) days.  If they
fail to do so, they shall waive the right to seek punitive damages and
attorneys’ fees, and the case shall proceed on the underlying causes of action.
 
3.         Defendants’ counsel shall provide notice
and file proof of such with the Court.  
 
 