  Case Number:  23PSCV02269    Hearing Date:   March 12, 2024    Dept:  G Defendants Heda Construction
Inc. and Hirbohd Hedayat’s Demurrer to Complaint
Respondent: Plaintiff Consumers
Pipe & Supply Co.
Defendants Heda
Construction Inc. and Hirbohd Hedayat’s Motion
to Strike Portions of the Complaint
Respondent:
Plaintiff Consumers Pipe &
Supply Co.
TENTATIVE RULING
Defendants Heda
Construction Inc. and Hirbohd Hedayat’s Demurrer to Complaint is OVERRULED.
Defendants Heda
Construction Inc. and Hirbohd Hedayat’s Motion
to Strike Portions of the Complaint is DENIED.
Defendants Heda Construction Inc. and Hirbohd Hedayat are ordered to
file their Answer to the Complaint in ten (10) days.
BACKGROUND
This
is a breach of contract action arising from a credit purchase agreement. In
March 2023, Plaintiff Consumers Pipe & Supply Co. (Consumers Pipe) entered
into a credit application and sales agreement with Defendant Heda Construction
Inc. (Heda Construction) in which Consumers Pipe agreed to extend credit to
Heda Construction for the purchase of goods and merchandise. In support of the
agreement, Defendant Hirbohd Hedayat executed a personal guaranty.
Subsequently, Consumers Pipe alleges Heda Construction and Hedayat failed to
make the payments required pursuant to their agreement.
On
July 26, 2023, Consumers Pipe filed a complaint against Heda Construction,
Hedayat, and Does 1-20, alleging the following causes of action: (1) goods sold
and delivered, (2) quantum valebant, (3) open book account, (4) account stated,
(5) breach of contract, and (6) breach of personal guaranty.
On November
28, 2023, Heda Construction and Hedayat filed the present demurrer and motion
to strike. Prior to filing on October 26, Heda Construction and Hedayat’s
counsel met and conferred telephonically with Consumers Pipe’s counsel and was
unable to reach a resolution. (Eghbali Decl., ¶ 6.)
A hearing
on the demurrer and motion to strike is set for March 12, 2024, along with a
case management conference.
ANALYSIS
Demurrer
Heda
Construction and Hedayat demur to Consumers Pipe’s entire Complaint. For the
following reasons, the court OVERRULES their demurrer in its entirety.
Legal Standard
A
party may demur to a complaint on the grounds that it “does not state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd.
(e).) A demurrer tests whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn
v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747 (Hahn).) When considering
demurrers, courts accept all well pleaded facts as true. (Fox v. JAMDAT
Mobile, Inc. (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 1068, 1078.) In a demurrer proceeding,
the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial
notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968,
994.) “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other
extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face
of the pleading or are judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court
(1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) “The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing
is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters,
states a cause of action.” (Hahn, supra, at p. 747.)
General Pleading Defects
Heda
Construction and Hedayat argue the entire Complaint is deficient because it
fails to include a separate statement of facts. Pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 425.10, subdivision (a), a complaint must include “(1) [a]
statement of the facts constituting the cause of action, in ordinary and
concise language[, and] (2) [a] demand for judgment for the relief to which the
pleader claims to be entitled. If the recovery of money or damages is demanded,
the amount demanded shall be stated.” But nowhere does Heda Construction and
Hedayat provide any legal authority that requires such a statement of facts to
be included separately from the individual causes of action pled.
Heda
Construction and Hedayat also argue the Complaint fails to include a
jurisdictional statement. (Demurrer, p. 2:8-12, 7:11-12, 9:3-10; Reply, p. 5:4-12.)
But while they claim this a fundamental requirement mandated by California law,
they fail develop this argument with any citations or reference to an actual
case or statute. Accordingly, Heda Construction and Hedayat’s demurrer to the
Complaint on these grounds is OVERRULED.
Common Counts (First, Second, Third, and Fourth Cause
of Action)
Heda
Construction contends Consumers Pipe’s first cause of action for goods sold and
delivered, second cause of action for quantum valebant, third cause of action
for open book account, and fourth cause of action for account stated fail to
plead sufficient facts to state a claim. The court disagrees.
Legal Standard
“A
common count is not a specific cause of action . . . ; rather, it is a
simplified form of pleading normally used to aver the existence of various
forms of monetary indebtedness, including that arising from an alleged duty to
make restitution under an assumpsit theory.” (McBride v. Boughton (2004)
123 Cal.App.4th 379, 394 (McBride).) “The only essential allegations of
a common count are “(1) the statement of indebtedness in a certain sum, (2) the
consideration, i.e., goods sold, work done, etc., and (3) nonpayment.” (Farmers
Ins. Exchange v. Zerin (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 445, 460.) “When a common
count is used as an alternative way of seeking the same recovery demanded in a
specific cause of action, and is based on the same facts, the common count is
demurrable if the cause of action is demurrable.” (McBride, supra,
123 Cal.App.4th at p. 394.)
Discussion
In
this case, Consumers Pipe’s common count claims are alleged as an alternative
way of seeking the same recovery demanded in its cause of action for breach of
contract. Because the underlying cause of action is not demurrable as it was
sufficiently pled as noted below, Heda Construction’s demurrer to these common
counts fails on the same grounds. And each common count here specifically
alleges that Heda Construction is indebted in the amount of $30,012.40 for
goods and merchandise delivered by Consumers Pipe and has failed to make full
payment on that debt. (Complaint, ¶ 6-7, 9-11, 13-14, 17-18.)
Accordingly,
Heda Construction’s demurrer to these common counts is OVERRULED.
Breach of Contract Causes of Action (Fifth and Sixth
Cause of Action)
Heda
Construction and Hedayat maintain Consumers Pipe’s fifth cause of action for breach
of contract and sixth cause of action for breach of personal guaranty fail to
plead sufficient facts to state a claim. The court disagrees.
Legal Standard
To
state a cause of action for breach of contract, a plaintiff must be able to
establish “(1) the existence of the contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse
for nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach, and (4) the resulting damages to
the plaintiff.” (Oasis West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011) 51 Cal.4th
811, 821.) If a breach of contract claim “is based on alleged breach of a
written contract, the terms must be set out verbatim in the body of the
complaint or a copy of the written agreement must be attached and incorporated
by reference.” (Harris v. Rudin, Richman & Appel (1999) 74
Cal.App.4th 299, 307.) In some circumstances, a plaintiff may also “plead the
legal effect of the contract rather than its precise language.” (Construction
Protective Services, Inc. v. TIG Specialty Ins. Co. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 189,
198-199.)
Discussion
In
this case, Heda Construction and Hedayat argue the Complaint fails to allege
each of the elements of a cause of action for breach of contract. The Complaint
alleges Consumers Pipe and Heda Construction entered into a written agreement
on March 31, 2023, and attaches a copy of the agreement. (Complaint, ¶ 20.) The
Complaint also alleges Consumers Pipe performed pursuant to the agreement by
delivering goods and merchandise to Heda Construction. (Complaint, ¶ 6, 9, 13, 20-21.)
The Complaint further alleges that Heda Construction breached the agreement by
failing to pay the amounts owed pursuant to the agreement in full. (Complaint,
¶ 6-7, 11, 14, 18, 22.) Last, the Complaint alleges Consumers Pipe has been
damaged in the amount of $30,012.40. (Complaint, ¶ 6-7, 11, 14, 18, 23.) Based
on these allegations, the Complaint has adequately stated a cause of action for
breach of contract against Heda Construction.
With
regards to Hedayat, the Complaint alleges Hedayat executed a personal guaranty
in support of Heda Construction’s agreement with Consumers Pipe on March 31,
2023, and provides a copy of the personal guaranty on the last page of the
contract attached to the Complaint. (Complaint, ¶ 26.) As noted above, the
Complaint alleges Consumers Pipe adequately performed pursuant to their
agreement with Heda Construction by delivering goods and merchandise. The
Complaint further alleges Hedayat breached the personal guaranty by failing
satisfy Heda Construction’s obligations to Consumers Pipe. (Complaint, ¶ 27.)
Last, the Complaint alleges Hedayat’s breach has damaged Consumers Pipe in the
amount of $30,012.40. (Complaint, ¶ 27.) Thus, the Complaint also has
adequately stated a cause of action for breach of personal guaranty against
Hedayat. While Hedayat maintains there is no cause of action for breach of
personal guaranty in California, Hedayat has failed to develop this argument
with any citation to legal authority.
Accordingly,
Heda Construction and Hedayat’s demurrer to these causes of action is OVERRULED.
Motion to Strike
Heda
Construction and Hedayat move to strike the Complaint in its entirety is based upon
the same grounds raised in their demurrer to the Complaint. Accordingly, their
motion to strike is summarily DENIED for the same reasons noted above.
CONCLUSION
Based on the foregoing, Heda
Construction and Hedayat’s demurrer to the Complaint is OVERRULED.
Based upon the recommendations made on the
demurrer, Heda Construction and Hedayat’s motion to strike portions of the
Complaint is DENIED.
Defendants are ordered to file their Answer to
the Complaint in ten (10) days.