 Case Number:  23SMCV05170    Hearing Date:   February 28, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


February 28, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV05170




MOTION


Demurrer




MOVING PARTY


Defendant Ford Motor Company




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff Eddie Baruta



 
MOTION
 
This case arises from alleged defects to the vehicle Plaintiff Eddie
Baruta (“Plaintiff”) purchased from Defendants Ford Motor Company and Santa
Monica Ford Lincoln.  
 
Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) alleges seven causes of
action: the first three alleging breach of express warranty under the
Song-Beverly Act, the fourth alleging breach of implied warranty under the
Song-Beverly Act, the fifth for fraudulent inducement-concealment, the sixth
for negligent repair (against Defendant Santa Monica Ford Lincoln only), and
the seventh for violation of the Consumer Legal Remedies Act.  
 
Defendant Ford Motor Company (“Defendant” or “Ford”) demurs to the
first five causes of action in the FAC for failure to state a cause of action
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivision (e).
 
Plaintiff opposes the demurrer and Ford replies.
 
MEET
AND CONFER REQUIREMENT
 
            Code of Civil Procedure section
430.41, subdivision (a) requires that “Before filing a demurrer pursuant to
this chapter, the demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by
telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for
the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would
resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.”  
 
The statute further requires “As part of the meet and confer process,
the demurring party shall identify all of the specific causes of action that it
believes are subject to demurrer and identify with legal support the basis of
the deficiencies.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41, subd. (a)(1).)  “The party who
filed the complaint, cross-complaint, or answer shall provide legal support for
its position that the pleading is legally sufficient or, in the alternative,
how the complaint, cross-complaint, or answer could be amended to cure any
legal insufficiency.”  (Ibid.)
 
“The parties shall meet and confer at least five days before the date
the responsive pleading is due.  (Code
Civ. Proc. § 430.41, subd. (a)(2).)  “The
demurring party shall file and serve with the demurrer a declaration stating
either” the means by which the parties met and conferred, or that the party who
filed the pleading subject to demurrer failed to respond to the meet and confer
request.  (Id., subd.
(a)(3).)  
 
Here, Ford met and conferred with Plaintiff prior to filing the first demurrer
to the original complaint.  In lieu of
opposing Ford’s first demurrer, Plaintiff filed the First Amended Complaint,
adding, among other things, allegations regarding the tolling of the applicable
statute of limitations.  Ford did not
meet and confer prior to filing its second demurrer, which raises the same
arguments as the first demurrer.  
 
Upon comparing the first demurrer to the second demurrer, it is clear
that Ford does address the newly-added allegations, including allegations
regarding tolling the applicable statutes of limitation.  While the Court agrees that the better
practice is to meet and confer again prior to demurring to the FAC, the Court
does not find that additional meet and confer efforts are likely to be fruitful
here.  Ultimately, Plaintiff believes the
previously identified deficiencies were cured by the new allegations and Ford
does not.
 
Therefore, the Court finds that the parties have satisfied the meet
and confer requirement.
 
ANALYSIS
 
1.      DEMURRER
 
“It is black letter law that a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of
the allegations in a complaint.”  (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015)
235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  In testing the sufficiency of a cause of
action, a court accepts “[a]s true all material facts properly pled and matters
which may be judicially noticed but disregard contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law.  [A court
also gives] the complaint a reasonable interpretation, reading it as a whole
and its parts in their context.”  (290
Division (EAT), LLC v. City & County of San Francisco (2022) 86
Cal.App.5th 439, 450 [cleaned up]; Hacker v. Homeward Residential, Inc.
(2018) 26 Cal.App.5th 270, 280 [“in considering the merits of a demurrer,
however, “the facts alleged in the pleading are deemed to be true, however
improbable they may be”].)
 
Further, in ruling on a demurrer, a court must “liberally construe”
the allegations of the complaint “with a view to substantial justice between
the parties.”  (See Code Civ. Proc., §
452.)  “This rule of liberal construction
means that the reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not
the defendant.”  (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209
Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.)   
 
In summary, “[d]etermining whether the complaint is sufficient as
against the demurrer on the ground that it does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action, the rule is that if one consideration of all the
facts stated it appears the plaintiff is entitled to any relief at the hands of
the court against the defendants the complaint will be held good although the
facts may not be clearly stated, or may be intermingled with a statement of
other facts irrelevant to the cause of action shown, or although the plaintiff
may demand relief to which he is not entitled under the facts alleged.”  (Gressley v. Williams (1961) 193
Cal.App.2d 636, 639.)
 
A.   
FAILURE TO STATE A CAUSE OF ACTION
 
                                                                   
i.           
First,
Second, and Third Causes of Action – Breach of Express Warranty under the Song-Beverly
Act
 
“The [Song-Beverly] Act regulates warranty terms, imposes service and
repair obligations on manufacturers, distributors, and retailers who make
express warranties, requires disclosure of specified information in express
warranties, and broadens a buyer’s remedies to include costs, attorney’s fees,
and civil penalties.”  (Krieger v.
Nick Alexander Imports, Inc. (1991) 234 Cal.App.3d 205, 213 (hereafter Krieger).)            
 
Ford contends the first three
causes of action, alleging breach of the express warranty under the
Song-Beverly Act, are time barred, because Plaintiff allegedly received the
subject defective vehicle on January 27, 2018, yet did not file this lawsuit
until nearly six years later, on November 1, 2023.
 
Breaches of the express
warranty under the Song-Beverly Act are subject to the four-year statute of
limitations under Commercial Code section 2725. 
(Krieger, supra, 234 Cal.App.3d at pp. 213–214.)  Further, Section 2725 provides that an action
for breach of warranty accrues on tender of delivery.  (Id. at p. 215.)  “An exception is made where a warranty ‘explicitly
extends to future performance of the goods and discovery of the breach must
await the time of such performance.’ ”  (Ibid.)  Because the Song-Beverly Act contemplates attempts
to repair the vehicle, it would undermine the legislative purpose of the
Song-Beverly Act for causes of action alleging a failure to repair the defect
to accrue when the vehicle was originally delivered, “before the seller has an
opportunity to repair any defects.”  (Id.
at p. 218.)
 
Here, Plaintiff alleges:
 
8.  Plaintiff discovered Defendant's
wrongful conduct alleged herein shortly before the filing of the complaint, as
the Vehicle continued to exhibit symptoms of defects following FMC's
unsuccessful attempts to repair them. However, FMC failed to provide
restitution pursuant to the Song – Beverly Consumer Warranty Act.
 
[and]
 
13. As a result of the foregoing, Plaintiff did
not become suspicious of Defendant’s concealment of the latent defects and its
inability to repair it until shortly before the filing of the complaint, when
the issue persisted following Defendant’s representations that the Vehicle was
repaired.  
 
(FAC
¶¶ 8, 13.)
 
            Specifically, Plaintiff alleges he
took the vehicle to Defendant’s authorized repair facility on October 22, 2018;
December 4, 2021; February 1, 2022; and March 23, 2023; finally getting the
vehicle back for the last time on May 5, 2023. 
(FAC ¶¶ 42-45.)  Each time,
Plaintiff alleges Defendant represented that the vehicle was working as
designed.  (Ibid.)  
 
Therefore, Plaintiff has
adequately alleged that the statute of limitations has not run for purposes of
withstanding demurrer. 
 
                                                                 
ii.           
Fourth Cause
of Action – Breach of Implied Warranty
 
Ford similarly argues that the
fourth cause of action for breach of implied warranty, under the Song-Beverly
Act, is time barred.
 
The statute of limitations for
breach of the implied warranty under Song-Beverly is also four years, pursuant
to Commercial Code section 2725.  (Mexia
v. Rinker Boat Co., Inc. (2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 1297, 1306 (hereafter Mexia).)
 
Ford contends that because an
implied warranty arises by operation of law, rather than express agreement of
the parties, an implied warranty does not explicitly extend to future
performance, and therefore cannot be tolled. 
(Demurrer at p. 12, citing Hauter v. Zogarts (1975) 14 Cal.3d
104, 117.)  However, the case relied upon
by Ford does not involve sale of a vehicle under the Song-Beverly Act.
 
There is a split of authority as
to whether a breach of the implied warranty can be tolled to when a plaintiff
discovers or should have discovered a latent defect that existed at the time of
delivery.  (Compare, Mexia, supra,
174 Cal.App.4th at pp. 1308-1311 [cause of action accrues when the plaintiff
discovered or should have discovered the latent defect] with Cardinal Health
301, Inc. v. Tyco Electronics Corp. (2008) 169 Cal.App.4th 116, 134 [because
implied warranty arises by operation of law rather than by express agreement of
the parties, it is not a warranty that explicitly extends to future performance].)  
 
However, most California state
courts follow Mexia, whereas federal district courts tend to hold that
the implied warranty cannot be tolled until discovery.  (See Daniel v. Ford Motor Co. (9th
Cir. 2015) 806 F.3d 1217, 1223 [noting “California federal district courts have
given Mexia mixed treatment” but Mexia represents California
state law authority].)
 
Thus, because Plaintiff
alleges Defendant concealed latent defects until shortly before Plaintiff filed
the complaint, the Court cannot sustain Ford’s demurrer to the fourth cause of
action.
 
                                                               
iii.           
Fifth Cause
of Action – Fraudulent Inducement - Concealment
 
Ford contends Plaintiff fails
to state a claim for fraudulent concealment because (1) it is time barred; (2)
Plaintiff fails to allege all required elements with the requisite
particularity; and (3) Plaintiff’s fraudulent concealment claim is barred by the
economic loss doctrine.
 
Statute of Limitations
 
Actions for fraud have a three-year
statute of limitations, but are not deemed to have accrued until the discovery
of the facts constituting the fraud.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 338, subd. (d).)  As
discussed above, Plaintiff has adequately alleged that despite diligently
taking the car back to Defendant for repairs, Plaintiff did not discover the
latent defects, until sometime after May 2023, when Plaintiff received the car
back from Defendant for the last time, because Defendant continually concealed
the nature of the defect.  Therefore, the
Court cannot sustain Ford’s demurrer on the basis of the statute of
limitations.
 
Pleading with Particularity
 
The required elements for
fraudulent concealment are (1) concealment or suppression of a material fact;
(2) by a defendant with a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff; (3) the
defendant intended to defraud the plaintiff by intentionally concealing or
suppressing the fact; (4) the plaintiff was unaware of the fact and would not
have acted as he or she did if he or she had known of the concealed or
suppressed fact; and (5) plaintiff sustained damage as a result of the
concealment or suppression of the fact.” 
(Hambrick v. Healthcare Partners Medical Group, Inc. (2015) 238
Cal.App.4th 124, 162.)   
 
“In California, fraud must be pled specifically; general and conclusory
allegations do not suffice.”  (Lazar
v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.)  “This particularity requirement necessitates
pleading facts which show how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the
representations were tendered.”  (Ibid.)  
 
The
purpose of the particularity requirement is “to apprise the defendant of the
specific grounds for the charge and enable the court to determine whether there
is any basis for the cause of action.”  (Chapman
v. Skype Inc. (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 217, 230-231.)  As such, “the requirement of specificity is
relaxed when the allegations indicate that the defendant must necessarily
possess full information concerning the facts of the controversy or when the
facts lie more in the knowledge of [the defendant]”  (Tarmann v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co.
(1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 158.)
 
Ford alleges Plaintiff fails
to allege with requisite specificity (1) what defect Ford allegedly concealed;
or (2) facts giving rise to a duty to disclose.
 
With regard to the defect,
Plaintiff alleges 
 
47. Prior to Plaintiff purchasing the Vehicle,
Defendant FMC knew that vehicles equipped with the same 10-speed transmission
as the Vehicle suffered from one or more defects that can cause the vehicles
and their 10-speed transmissions to experience hesitation and/or delayed
acceleration; harsh and/or hard shifting; jerking, shuddering, and/or juddering
("Transmission Defect").
 
48. Plaintiff is informed and believe, and
thereon allege, that Defendant acquired this knowledge prior to Plaintiff
purchasing the Vehicle through various sources of information, including but
not limited to pre-production testing, pre-production design failure mode and
analysis data, production failure mode and analysis data, early consumer
complaints made exclusively to Ford's network of dealers and directly to Ford,
aggregate warranty data compiled from Ford's network of dealers, testing
conducted by Ford in response to consumer complaints, and repair order and
parts data received by Ford from Ford's network of dealers.
 
49. As a result of this internal knowledge and
investigations, Defendant FMC subsequently issued technical service bulletins
("TSBs") concerning the Transmission Defect.
 
50. For example, on or about March 2, 2018,
Defendant FMC issued TSB 18-2079, entitled "10R80 Automatic Transmission –
Harsh or Delayed Shift Concerns And/Or Illuminated MIL – DTC P0711 – Built On
or Before 1-Aug-2017," which covers 2017 F-150 vehicles equipped with a
10R80 automatic transmission (the same type of transmission in the Subject
Vehicle). According to the TSB, "[s]ome 2017 F-150/Raptor vehicles
equipped with a 10R80 automatic transmission built on or before 1-Aug-2017 may
exhibit harsh or delayed shifts and/or an illuminated malfunction indicator
lamp (MIL) with diagnostic trouble code (DTC) P0711 stored in the transmission
control module (TCM)." 
 
[image of TSB 18-2079 omitted]
 
51. In TSB 18-2079, Defendant FMC attributed the
transmission issues to problems with the vehicles' powertrain control module
("PCM")—specifically, to problems with the vehicles' "adaptive
transmission shift strategy which allows the vehicle's computer to learn the
transmission's unique parameters and improve shift quality." 
 
(FAC
¶¶ 47-51.)  Therefore, Plaintiff
adequately pleads specific facts about the transmission defect.
 
With respect to duty, a duty
to disclose can arise (1) when plaintiff and defendant are in a fiduciary
relationship; (2) when the defendant has exclusive knowledge of the defect; (3)
when defendant actively conceals the defect from plaintiff; or (4) when the
defendant makes partial representations but suppresses some material
facts.  (LiMandri v. Judkins
(1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 326, 336.) 
 
Ford argues that Plaintiff
fails to allege a direct transactional relationship with Ford, Ford’s exclusive
knowledge of the defect, or Ford’s active concealment, giving rise to a duty
for Ford to disclose the transmission defect. 

 
With regard to a direct
transactional relationship, Plaintiff alleges he entered an express warranty
contract directly with Ford:
 
26. On or about January 27, 2018, Plaintiff
entered into a warranty contract with Defendant FMC regarding a 2018 Ford F150
vehicle identification number 1FTFW1RG9JFB45258 (hereafter
"Vehicle"), which was manufactured and/or distributed by Defendant
FMC. 
 
27. The warranty contract contained various
warranties, including but not limited to the bumper-bumper warranty, powertrain
warranty, emission warranty, etc. […]
 
(FAC
¶¶ 26-27.)   
 
Concerning knowledge of falsity, Plaintiff alleges:
 
47. Prior to Plaintiff purchasing the Vehicle,
Defendant FMC knew that vehicles equipped with the same 10-speed transmission
as the Vehicle suffered from one or more defects that can cause the vehicles
and their 10-speed transmissions to experience hesitation and/or delayed
acceleration; harsh and/or hard shifting; jerking, shuddering, and/or juddering
("Transmission Defect").
 
48. Plaintiff is informed and believe, and
thereon allege, that Defendant acquired this knowledge prior to Plaintiff
purchasing the Vehicle through various sources of information, including but
not limited to pre-production testing, pre-production design failure mode and
analysis data, production failure mode and analysis data, early consumer
complaints made exclusively to Ford's network of dealers and directly to Ford,
aggregate warranty data compiled from Ford's network of dealers, testing
conducted by Ford in response to consumer complaints, and repair order and
parts data received by Ford from Ford's network of dealers.
 
49. As a result of this internal knowledge and
investigations, Defendant FMC subsequently issued technical service bulletins
("TSBs") concerning the Transmission Defect.
 
50. For example, on or about March 2, 2018,
Defendant FMC issued TSB 18-2079, entitled "10R80 Automatic Transmission –
Harsh or Delayed Shift Concerns And/Or Illuminated MIL – DTC P0711 – Built On
or Before 1-Aug-2017," which covers 2017 F-150 vehicles equipped with a
10R80 automatic transmission (the same type of transmission in the Subject
Vehicle). According to the TSB, "[s]ome 2017 F-150/Raptor vehicles
equipped with a 10R80 automatic transmission built on or before 1-Aug-2017 may
exhibit harsh or delayed shifts and/or an illuminated malfunction indicator
lamp (MIL) with diagnostic trouble code (DTC) P0711 stored in the transmission
control module (TCM)." 
 
[image of TSB 18-2079 omitted]
 
51. In TSB 18-2079, Defendant FMC attributed the
transmission issues to problems with the vehicles' powertrain control module
("PCM")—specifically, to problems with the vehicles' "adaptive
transmission shift strategy which allows the vehicle's computer to learn the
transmission's unique parameters and improve shift quality." 
 
(FAC
¶¶ 47-51.)  
 
With respect to
misrepresentation/concealment, Plaintiff alleges:
 
42. On or about Oct. 22, 2018, with approximately
4,125 miles on the odometer, Plaintiff presented the Subject Vehicle to
Defendant’s authorized repair facility with engine complaints, transmission
complaints, and electrical/body complaints, including inter alia, an
illuminated oil light, malfunctioning passenger door lock, and performance of
Safety Recall 18S10, which
relates to a malfunctioning transmission selector lever cable. Defendant’s
technician inspected the Vehicle, verified Plaintiffs’ complaints, and
performed repairs under warranty, including performance of Safety Recall 18S10.
At pick up, Plaintiff was advised the Vehicle was working as designed. 
 
43. On or about Dec. 4, 2021, with approximately
19,927 miles on the odometer, Plaintiff presented the Subject Vehicle to
Defendant’s authorized repair facility with ongoing engine complaints,
including inter alia, performance of Customer Satisfaction Program 21B10, which
relates to engine rattling and reprogramming the Powertrain Control Module.
Defendant’s technician inspected the Vehicle, verified Plaintiff’s complaints,
and reprogrammed the Powertrain Control Module under warranty. At pick up,
Plaintiff was advised the Vehicle was working as designed. 
 
44. On or about February 1, 2022, with
approximately 21,900 miles on the odometer, Plaintiff presented the Subject
Vehicle to Defendant’s authorized repair facility with ongoing engine
complaints and electrical/body complaints, including inter alia, a malfunctioning
sunroof. 
 
45. On or about March 23, 2023, with
approximately 33,407 miles on the odometer, Plaintiff presented the Subject
Vehicle to Defendant’s authorized repair facility with ongoing engine
complaints, transmission complaints, and body complaints, including inter alia,
harsh transmission shifting, unintended tail gate opening, and engine shudders
due to reprograming the PCM. Defendant’s technician inspected the Vehicle,
verified Plaintiff’s complaints, and performed warranty repairs, including
removing and overhauling the entire transmission, and updating the Powertrain
Control Module. The Vehicle was returned to Plaintiff over a month later, on or
around May 5, 2023. At pick up, Defendant’s technician advised that the Vehicle
had been repaired and was working as designed. 
 
46. Thereafter, despite a reasonable number of
repair opportunities, Plaintiff continued to experience the symptoms of the
alleged defects.
 
(FAC ¶¶ 42-46.) 
 
Therefore, Plaintiff
adequately alleges that, despite having exclusive knowledge of the transmission
defect, it was not disclosed when Plaintiff purchased the vehicle, and each
time Plaintiff brought the subject vehicle to Defendant’s authorized repair
facility on October 22, 2018; December 4, 2021; February 1, 2022; and March 23,
2023, Defendant did not disclose that Plaintiff’s vehicle had the transmission
defect, and represented to Plaintiff, upon Defendant’s return of the vehicle to
Plaintiff, that the subject vehicle was operating normally, continually
concealing the known transmission defect.
 
Thus, Plaintiff adequately alleges Ford had a duty to disclose the
defect.
 
Economic Loss Doctrine
 
“Simply stated, the economic
loss rule provides: where a purchaser's expectations in a sale are frustrated
because the product he bought is not working properly, his remedy is said to be
in contract alone, for he has suffered only ‘economic’ losses.”  (Robinson Helicopter Co., Inc. v. Dana
Corp. (2004) 34 Cal.4th 979, 988 (hereafter Robinson Helicopter).)  “The economic loss rule requires a purchaser
to recover in contract for purely economic loss due to disappointed
expectations, unless he can demonstrate harm above and beyond a broken
contractual promise.”  (Ibid.)
 
However, “Tort damages have
been permitted in contract cases where a breach of duty directly causes
physical injury; for breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing in
insurance contracts; for wrongful discharge in violation of fundamental public
policy; or where the contract was fraudulently induced.”  (Robinson Helicopter, supra, 34 Cal.
4th at pp. 989–990.)
 
Here, as discussed above, Plaintiff
alleges he was fraudulently induced into purchasing the subject vehicle, due to
Ford’s concealment of the transmission defect. 
Therefore, the economic loss doctrine does not bar Plaintiff’s fraud
claim.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
For the reasons stated, the Court overrules Ford’s Demurrer in its
entirety.  
 
Further, the Court orders Ford to file an Answer to the Complaint on
or before March 15, 2024.  
 
Ford shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof of
service regarding the same.  
 
 
DATED:  February 28, 2024                                                  ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court