 Case Number:  23STCV07896    Hearing Date:   June 4, 2024    Dept:  55 NATURE OF PROCEEDINGS:
Demurrer of Defendant Mural Media, LLC 401k Plan to Plaintiff’s Second Amended
Complaint. Demurrer of Defendants Marcel Bruetsch and Capital
Benefit to Plaintiff’s Second Amended Complaint.
BACKGROUND
LINDA MAULTSBY (“Plaintiff”), a self-represented
litigant, brings this case against MARCEL BRUETSCH, CAPITAL BENEFIT, INC.
(collectively, “Marcel/Capital Benefit”), MURAL MEDIA, LLC. 401K PLAN (“Mural
Media”) (Marcel/Capital Benefit and Mural Media collectively referred to as “Defendants”)
and others for relief related to the foreclosure sale of an apartment property
at 4757 S. Mansfield, Los Angeles, CA 90026 (the “Property”). The causes of
action are: 1) Quiet Title; 2) Fraud; 3) Breach of Contract; and 4) Negligence.
On 12/15/23, the Court sustained a demurrer to the quiet title, fraud, and
breach of contract claims in Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint with leave to
amend. Plaintiff then filed the operative Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”). 
Now, Marcel/Capital Benefit, Inc. demur to the first,
second, and third causes of action in the SAC, and Mural Media demurs to the
entire SAC. Plaintiff did not substantively oppose the demurrers, but instead
lodged a Third Amended Complaint (TAC). Mural Media filed a reply arguing that
there is no automatic right to amend and the TAC fails to address and cure all
issues raised in the demurrers.  Marcel/Capital
Benefit did not file a reply.  
 
LEGAL STANDARD
Demurrers are to be sustained where a pleading fails
to plead adequately any essential element of the cause of action. Cantu v.
Resolution Trust Corp. (1992) 4 Cal.App.4th 857, 879-880.
ANALYSIS
Defendants’ demurrers contend that Plaintiff’s SAC fails
to state a claim for quiet title, fraud, and breach of contract. Mural Media
also contends that the entire SAC fails as a matter of law because Plaintiff executed
releases of all claims against it and because Plaintiff has failed to allege that
she tendered the debt due under the loan and thus cannot pursue relief related
to the foreclosure proceedings. Mural Media further argues that the negligence
claim fails to state a cause of action.
Plaintiff does not defend the claims as alleged in the
SAC. Rather, Plaintiff contends that the Court should grant her leave to file the
TAC, which she claims resolves the issues raised in the demurrers. Plaintiffs
have a right to amend only once, under Code of Civil Procedure section 472, and
beyond that, must move for leave to amend under section 473. Barton v. Khan
(2007) 157 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1220. Nevertheless, judges have discretion to
allow complaints without plaintiffs obtaining permission, under some
circumstances. See Harlan v. Department of Transp. (2005) 132
Cal.App.4th 868, 873 (“While the court had discretion to require a noticed
motion before permitting Harlan to file the second amended complaint late, we
think it also had discretion under these circumstances to accept the filing
without a noticed motion.”). 
As discussed below, the Court sustains the demurrers
to certain of the claims in the SAC without leave to amend. The demurrer
rulings are consistent with the proposed TAC, which abandons the same claims that
the Court is dismissing from the case without leave to amend. 
In the interests of efficiency, the Court’s tentative
is to permit Plaintiff to proceed with filing and serving the TAC that is attached
to her opposition. If Plaintiff files and serves the TAC timely, the Court will
permit additional briefing on the claims left in the TAC as described below. 
Quiet Title
Marcel/Capital Benefit’s demurrer to the quiet title
claim in the SAC is sustained without leave to amend because the claim does not
allege facts against these defendants. Moreover, while the caption for the quiet
title claim in the TAC is “against all defendants” the allegations make clear
that it abandons any claim against Marcel/Capital Benefit. 
The quiet title claim in the TAC does contain
allegations directed at Mural Media. Mural Media contends that the claim
against it still fails because (1) Plaintiff does not allege compliance with
the tender rule, (2) she cannot use a quiet title claim to challenge the
validity of foreclosure proceedings, and (3) arguments about Mural Media’s
legal status do not save Plaintiff’s claim. If Plaintiff proceeds with filing
and serving the TAC, the Court will permit further briefing on Mural Media’s arguments.

Fraud
Mural Media’s demurrer to the fraud claim in the SAC
is sustained without leave to amend because the claim does not allege any
specific facts against Mural Media. Moreover, while the caption for the fraud
claim in the TAC is “against all defendants” the allegations make clear that it
abandons any claim against Mural Media. The fraud allegations are instead
directed to Marcel/Capital Benefit. Again, if Plaintiff serves and files the
TAC then Plaintiff and Marcel/Capital Benefit will have an opportunity for
further briefing on this claim. 
Breach of Contract
The demurrers of Mural Media and Marcel to the breach
of contract cause of action in the SAC are sustained without leave to amend because
the allegations fail to state a claim against the defendants. Moreover, while the
caption for the breach of contract claim in the TAC is “against all defendants”
the allegations abandon any claim against Mural Media or Marcel. Rather, it
alleges that Capital Benefit breached an agreement it had with Plaintiff. If
Plaintiff moves forward with her TAC then the Court will permit further
briefing on this claim by Plaintiff and Capital Benefit.
Negligence
Mural Media’s demurrer to the negligence claim in the
SAC is sustained without leave to amend because the allegations fail to state a
claim. Moreover, while the caption for the negligence claim in the TAC is “against
all defendants” the allegations only allege specific breaches by Capital
Benefit and another defendant. In other words, the claim abandons any
negligence allegations against Mural Media. 
Filing of the TAC and Further Briefing
Plaintiff is tentatively permitted to file and serve the
TAC that is attached to the opposition. The Court will discuss the timing of
this filing with the parties at the hearing. Plaintiff, who has never appeared
at a hearing in this case, must attend the hearing so the Court can discuss the
filing and potential further briefing schedule. 
If Plaintiff fails to appear at the hearing, the Court
may exercise its discretion to conclude that because Plaintiff did not substantively
oppose the demurrers to the SAC, the demurrer should be sustained without leave
to amend, and that the TAC should not be permitted to be filed.