 Case Number:  23STCV09780    Hearing Date:   March 25, 2024    Dept:  71 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DAVID ARGUETA,
 
  
         vs.
 
THE AMAAD INSTITUTE, et al. 


 Case No.: 
  23STCV09780
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  March 25, 2024



 
Plaintiff David
Argueta’s motion to quash and/or limit Defendant The AMAAD Institute’s deposition
subpoenas for production of business records served on third-party Cyti Psychological
Services is denied.  
Plaintiff’s
request for sanctions against Defendant The AMAAD Institute and its counsel of
record, jointly and severally, is denied.
Defendant’s
request for sanctions is denied.
 
Plaintiff David Argueta (“Argueta”) (“Plaintiff”) moves to quash
and/or limit Defendant The AMAAD Institute’s (“AMAAD”) (“Defendant”) Deposition
Subpoena for Production of Business Records (“Subpoena”) served on third-party
Cyti Psychological Services (“Cyti”). 
(Notice Motion, pg. 2.)  Plaintiff
also requests sanctions against Defendant and its counsel of record, jointly
and severally, in the amount of $1,500.00. 
(Notice Motion, pg. 2.)
 
Background
On November 8, 2023, Defendant
served a Deposition Subpoena for Production of Business Records on Cyti for a
deposition noticed for December 11, 2023.  (Decl. of Benyamin ¶3, Exh. 1.)[1]
Plaintiff filed the instant
motion on December 6, 2023.  Defendant
filed its opposition on March 12, 2024. 
Plaintiff filed his reply on March 18, 2024.
 
           Meet and Confer
A motion to quash shall be accompanied by a declaration
showing a “reasonable and good faith attempt at informal resolution of the
dispute” between the party requesting the records and the “consumer” or
“employee” whose records are involved or counsel for such person.  (C.C.P. §§1985.3(g), 1985.6(f)(4).)
Plaintiff’s counsel declares
that he called Defendant’s counsel on December 1, 2023, to discuss the instant
subpoena, and that parties’ counsel spoke again on December 5, 2023, wherein no
agreement with reached regarding the instant motion.  (See Decl. of Benyamin ¶¶6-7.)  Plaintiff’s counsel’s declaration motion
complies with C.C.P. §1985.3(g) or §1985.6(f)(4). Therefore, the Court will
consider Plaintiff’s motion.
 
Motion to Quash
C.C.P. §1987.1 provides, in part:
If a subpoena
requires . . . the production of books, documents, electronically stored
information, or other things before a court, . . . the court, upon motion
reasonably made by [a party], or upon the court’s own motion after giving
counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make an order quashing the
subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon such terms
or conditions as the court shall declare, including protective orders. In
addition, the court may make any other order as may be appropriate to protect
the person from unreasonable or oppressive demands, including unreasonable
violations of the right of privacy of the person. 
 
(C.C.P. §1987.1.)
A party may only discover matters, not privileged, that are
relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending action and that are
either admissible evidence or “reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery
of admissible evidence.”  (C.C.P.
§2017.010.)  Broad discovery requests are
not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.  (See Calcor Space Facility, Inc. v.
Superior Court (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 216, 224-225.)
Defendant’s Subpoena requests the following:
1.   
Any and all DOCUMENTS
and COMMUNICATIONS in [Cyti’s] possession, custody and/or control RELATING TO
application for employment, employment records, personnel files, work
eligibility records, disciplinary records, workers' compensation files, pay
stubs, performance reviews, time sheets (including clock-in and clock-out
records and weekly schedules), doctor's notes, work restrictions,
medical/administration leave and payroll RELATED TO Plaintiff David J. Argueta
(“EMPLOYEE”), who was born on [redacted], and whose Social Security No. is
[redacted].
 
2.   
This request includes,
but¿ is not limited to, any and all DOCUMENTS and COMMUNICATIONS RELATED TO
threatened or actual workers’ compensation claims; threatened or actual claims
of discrimination, harassment or retaliation; threatened or actual lawsuits;
employee evaluations; threatened or actual discipline or reprimand; and
DOCUMENTS sufficient to identify EMPLOYEE’s supervisors during EMPLOYEE’s
period(s) of employment.
 
3.   
This request also
includes any and all DOCUMENTS RELATED TO any disability and/or work
restrictions that EMPLOYEE communicated to [Cyti] during his period(s) of
employment, including, without limitation, any doctor's note; any DOCUMENT
indicating any restriction EMPLOYEE had on his ability to work; any request for
accommodation of any kind; any COMMUNICATIONS with EMPLOYEE regarding any
disability, work restriction or accommodation; or any accommodation of any kind
that was provided to EMPLOYEE.
 
4.   
This request also
includes any and all DOCUMENTS given to [Cyti] by, or received from, EMPLOYEE
or any attorney, agent or representative of EMPLOYEE. 
 
(Decl. of Benyamin ¶2, Exh. 1.)
Defendant’s Subpoena seeks documents that are relevant and
reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.  The Subpoena seeks records from June 1, 2022,
to present, which covers Plaintiff’s period of employment with Cyti through the
date of the request, as indicated in Plaintiff’s Answers to Defendant’s Form
Interrogatories- Employment (Set One) (“FROG”).  (Decl. of Benyamin ¶2, Exh. 1; Decl. of Kashefipour
¶¶5-6, Exh. 1 at FROG No. 210.6.)  Plaintiff’s
complaint indicates that Plaintiff seeks lost income in the form of damage to
his career trajectory.  (Complaint ¶17.)  Therefore, Plaintiff’s employment file is relevant
to chart that progress.  Moreover,
Plaintiff’s employment actions are relevant to determine if Plaintiff has ever
informed his employers of his disability or his alleged need for accommodations,
as well as to determine the precise date Plaintiff was hired at his current
position, which goes to issues of credibility and whether this information
contradicts Plaintiff’s position in this case.  Further, Plaintiff’s employment file with his
current employer is relevant to determine the extent to which his career
trajectory was damaged by his allegedly discriminatory termination from
Defendant, and whether he is entitled to lost earnings as a result of that
decline.
Plaintiff’s supplemental interrogatory responses indicate
that he mitigated his lost earnings damages as of approximately June 2022.
However, Plaintiff’s responses also seek lost earnings damages long after his
June 2022 start date with Cyti Psychological Services. To the extent Plaintiff
seeks lost earnings, including for payment beyond June of 2022, his employment records,
including his performance reviews, payroll records, and benefit records, are
all relevant to Defendant’s defenses. Thus, the information sought is relevant,
and the language of the subpoena itself is reasonably narrowly tailored for
this case and the claims at issue.
Similarly, Plaintiff is seeking emotional distress damages
that include physical, emotional, and diminished quality of life.  Defendant seeks information relevant to
injuries and subsequent injuries that may impact the scope and cause of such
future damages, including intervening or superseding events like performance
reviews, workers compensation claims, subsequent disability claims, and the
like, which would be contained in the personnel and payroll records of his
current and future employers.
With regard to Plaintiff’s privacy rights, the language in
the Subpoena seeking Plaintiff’s employment file, which is limited in time to
the period following the date of employment identified in Defendant’s discovery
responses, is reasonable and narrowly tailored for this case and the claims at
issue. Further, to the extent that Plaintiff has any right to privacy in his
current employer’s personnel file, that right is not absolute.  (See Lantz v. Superior Court (1994) 28
Cal.App.4th 1839, 1853 [“It is also well established that this zone of privacy
is not absolute.”], citations omitted; Vinson v. Superior Court (1987)
43 Cal.3d 833, 842 [stating a plaintiff’s “privacy interests may have to give
way to [plaintiff’s] opponent's right to a fair trial”].)
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s motion
to quash Defendant’s subpoena to Cyti is denied.

 
Sanctions
In light of the Court’s ruling on the motion, Plaintiff’s
request for sanctions is denied.
Defendant’s request for sanctions is denied.
 
Conclusion
Plaintiff’s
motion to quash is denied.
Plaintiff’s
request for sanctions is denied.
Defendant’s
request for sanctions is denied

Moving Party to give
notice.
 
Dated:  March _____, 2024
                                                                                     





  