  Case Number:  23PSCP00375    Hearing Date:   December 20, 2023    Dept:  6 CASE NAME:  Alaa Latif,
M.D., F.A.C.P., et al. v. Pomona Valley Hospital Medical Center
Order to Show
Cause Re: Why Pre-Judgment Interest Should Be Awarded In The Judgment When Not
Awarded By The Arbitrator 
TENTATIVE
RULING
The Court AWARDS Respondent prejudgment interest in the amount of
$56,372.08. The Court will sign the amended proposed judgment attached to
Respondent’s brief as Exhibit 1. Upon the Court signing and filing the final
judgment, Respondent is directed to serve the final judgment upon Petitioners
and file proof of service of same. 
            Respondent is ordered to give notice
of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order. 
BACKGROUND
This is a breach of contract action. On August 17, 2023,
Petitioners Alaa Latif, M.D., F.A.C.P. (Dr. Latif) and Alaa Latif, M.D., Inc.
(Latif Inc.) (collectively, Petitioners), filed a petition to correct/vacate
arbitration award in connection with an arbitration against Respondent Pomona
Valley Hospital Medical Center (Respondent). On November 9, 2023, the Court
denied the petition and confirmed the arbitration award. 
On November 17, 2023, Respondent submitted a proposed judgment. On
November 22, 2023, the Court set an Order to Show Cause Re: Why Pre-Judgment
Interest Should Be Awarded In The Judgment When Not Awarded By The Arbitrator
and invited the parties to submit briefs ten calendar days before the hearing.
Petitioners and Respondent both filed their respective briefs on December 8,
2023. 
LEGAL
STANDARD
A person who is entitled to
recover damages certain, or capable of being made certain by calculation, and
the right to recover which is vested in the person
upon a particular day, is entitled also to recover interest thereon from that
day, except when the debtor is prevented by law, or by
the act of the creditor from paying the debt. This section is applicable to
recovery of damages and interest from any debtor, including the state or any
county, city, city and county, municipal corporation, public district, public
agency, or any political subdivision of the state. 
(Code Civ.
Proc., § 3287, subd. (a).) 
            “Section
3287 applies to arbitration awards. A prevailing party in arbitration is
entitled to prejudgment interest as of the date of the final award to entry of
judgment. [Citation.]” (Tenzera, Inc. v. Osterman
(2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 16, 21.) 
DISCUSSION
            Upon
reviewing the parties’ respective briefs and the legal authorities cited
therein, the Court finds that Respondent is entitled to prejudgment interest
from the date of the final arbitration award, which in this case was May 9,
2023. (Tenzera, Inc., supra, 205 Cal.App.4th at p. 21.) The fact the
arbitrator here did not necessarily address or consider the issue of
prejudgment interest does not preclude the Court from awarding prejudgment
interest following the final arbitration award. (See Pierotti v. Torian (2000)
81 Cal.App.4th 17, 27-28.) Awarding such prejudgment interest here is not
inconsistent with this final arbitration award because it is not a substantive
revision of the award and does not add an element of damages absent from the
award. (See Maaso v. Signer (2012) 203 Cal.App.4th 362, 377.) 
In its brief, Respondent offers to amend its request for prejudgment
interest to the date of the final arbitration award on May 9, 2023 to the date
the Court confirmed the arbitration award on November 9, 2023, for a total of
$56,372.08. Petitioners also contend that the total amount of prejudgment
interest Respondent may recover here is $56,372.08. Finding that the parties agree
Respondent is entitled to prejudgment interest, that they agree on that amount,
and that the amount is calculated correctly, the Court will award Respondent
prejudgment interest in that amount. 
            Based
on the foregoing, the Court AWARDS Respondent prejudgment interest in the
amount of $56,372.08. The Court will sign the amended proposed judgment
attached to Respondent’s brief as Exhibit 1. 
CONCLUSION
The Court AWARDS Respondent prejudgment interest in the amount of
$56,372.08. The Court will sign the amended proposed judgment attached to
Respondent’s brief as Exhibit 1. Upon the Court signing and filing the final
judgment, Respondent is directed to serve the final judgment upon Petitioners
and file proof of service of same.
Respondent is ordered to give notice of the Court's ruling within five calendar days of this order.