 Case Number:  23STLC02461    Hearing Date:   July 9, 2024    Dept:  26   
Blythe/Windsor
Country Park Healthcare Center, LLC v. California Department of Health, et al.MOTION
TO DISMISS
(Health
& Safety Code § 1428(b))
TENTATIVE RULING: 
 
Defendant California Department of Public Health’s Motion to
Dismiss is GRANTED.
 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
This action relates to Plaintiff Blythe/Windsor Country Park
Healthcare Center, LLC’s (“Plaintiff”) challenge to a citation issued by
Defendant California Department of Public Health (“Defendant”). Plaintiff is an
elder care center, and the Class “A” citation and the $25,000.00 penalty was
issued for violation of 42 Code of Federal Regulations parts 483.25(d)(1),
483.25(d)(2) and Title 22, C.C.R. Section 72523(a). Plaintiff filed this action
on April 14, 2023. Defendant filed an answer on July 25, 2023, and then filed
the instant motion to dismiss on April 22, 2024. Plaintiff filed a case
management statement on the same date. Plaintiff filed its opposition to the
Motion to Dismiss on June 24, 2024, and Defendant replied on July 1, 2024.
 
Discussion
 
Defendant requests the Court take judicial notice of (1)
Plaintiff’s Complaint filed in this action on April 14, 2023; (2) Defendant’s
general denial and proof of service filed and served on July 25, 2023; and (3)
the Court’s register of actions as of February 23, 2024, is granted pursuant to
Cal. Evidence Code section 452, subdivisions (c) and (d). The Court takes
judicial notice of the fact of the filings, not of the truth of their contents.
(See Adams v. Bank of America, N.A. (2020) 51 Cal.App.5th 666, 673
[citing Sosinsky v. Grant (1992) 6 Cal.App.4th 1548, 1569–1570].)
 
Defendant moves to dismiss the instant action pursuant to
Cal. Health and Safety Code section 1428, subdivision (b), which states in
relevant part: “[n]otwithstanding any other provision of law, a licensee
prosecuting a judicial appeal shall file and serve a case management statement
pursuant to Rule 212 of the California Rules of Court within six months after
the department files its answer in the appeal.” (Cal. Health & Safe. Code,
§ 1428, subd. (b).) California Rules of Court Rule 212, now renumbered Rules
3.720-3.730, dictates case management procedures. Defendant contends that
because Plaintiff failed to file a case management statement within six months
of the filing of Defendant’s answer on July 25, 2023, this action must be
dismissed. Plaintiff filed a case management statement on April 22, 2024, which
was nine months after the filing of Defendant’s answer.
 
California Health & Safety Code, section 1428,
subdivision (b) states:
 
If a licensee intends to contest a
class “AA” or a class “A” citation, the licensee shall inform the director in
writing, within 15 business days of the service of the citation of the
licensee's intent to adjudicate the validity of the citation in the superior
court in the county in which the long-term health care facility is located. In
order to perfect a judicial appeal of a contested citation, a licensee shall
file a civil action in the superior court in the county in which the long-term
health care facility is located. The action shall be filed no later than 90
calendar days after a licensee notifies the director that he or she intends to
contest the citation, and served not later than 90 days after filing. Notwithstanding any other provision of
law, a licensee prosecuting a judicial appeal shall file and serve a case
management statement pursuant to Rule 212 of the California Rules of Court
within six months after the department files its answer in the appeal.
Notwithstanding subdivision (d), the court shall dismiss the appeal upon motion
of the department if the case management statement is not filed by the licensee
within the period specified. The court may affirm, modify, or dismiss
the citation, the level of the citation, or the amount of the proposed
assessment of the civil penalty.
 
(Cal. Health & Safe. Code, § 1428, subd. (b) [emphasis
added].) In support of its Motion, Defendant points to York Healthcare &
Wellness Centre LP v. State Dept. of Public Health (2019) 33 Cal.App.5th
Supp. 20, a published decision of the Appellate Division of the Superior Court
of California, Los Angeles County. In York, the trial court’s dismissal
of an action challenging a citation under the Health & Safety Code due to
failure to file a case management statement within six months of the
defendant’s answer was affirmed. (York Healthcare & Wellness Centre LP
v. State Dept. of Public Health (2019) 33 Cal.App.5th Supp. 20, 24.) The
Appellate Division held that dismissal of the action is mandatory upon noticed
motion following the plaintiff’s failure to timely file a case management
statement, “even if a superior court’s local rule provides that a case
management conference is optional.” (Id. at 25.) 
 
Plaintiff opposes application of York to the facts of
this case on the grounds that this Court issued an order setting the trial date
and stating that no case management conference would be held. Plaintiff
contends these facts sufficiently distinguish this action from the York case
because the Court expressly ordered that no case management conference would be
held. The Court disagrees. The basis of the York ruling was that
statutes control over rules of procedure adopted by the courts or the Judicial
Council. (Id. at 32-32.) The Appellate Division explained: “[E]ven if it
wanted to, the Judicial Council did not have the power to give courts the
option to ignore the timely filing requirement and duty to dismiss by repealing
and replacing rule 212. (See Cal. Const., art. VI, § 6, subd. (d) [“The rules
adopted shall not be inconsistent with statute”].) Likewise, local courts lack
the authority to alter requirements in statutes. (Gov. Code, § 68070, subd.
(a).)” (Id. at 33.) 
 
The option to hold a case management conference or not,
therefore, is not what makes dismissal mandatory if the plaintiff did not file
a timely case management statement. This Court’s order that no case management
conference would be held could not alter the statutory requirement in Health
& Safety Code section 1428 because “local courts lack the authority to
alter requirements in statutes.” The Appellate Division in The Appellate
Division in York also explained that incorporation of the California
Rules of Court into the language of Health & Safety Code section 1428 does
not change the filing requirement. “The reference to the [California Rule of
Court] was not intended to specify who must file a CMS, and even if it did,
there is no indication that the Legislature intended to allow courts to opt out
of the CMS filing requirement.” (Id. at 32.) 
 
Nor does Plaintiff’s contention that the law does not
require idle acts absolve it of the need to file a case management statement
here. This, too, was addressed by the York court: 
 
York’s assertion on appeal that the
filing of a CMS “would serve no purpose” is unfounded. The CMS provides a court
with valuable information to ensure the case is smoothly progressing towards
trial, including informing the court of the parties’ progress in conducting
discovery and the motions parties expect to file. (See Judicial Council Forms,
form CM-110, required to be used as a CMS pursuant to rule 3.725(c).) Even if a
case management conference is not conducted, the filing of a CMS helps keep a
case on the judge’s radar, assisting in the “object of securing a decision ...
at the earliest possible time.” (Health & Saf. Code, § 1428, subd. (i).)
 
(Id. at 28.) Plaintiff, therefore, was required to
file and serve a case management statement within six months of the filing of
Defendant’s answer and its failure to do so mandates dismissal of the action.
 
Plaintiff alternatively moves for relief from its failure to
file a case management statement pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure, section
473, subdivision (b), on grounds of attorney or party fault. The Court does not
find that to be a means of avoiding dismissal.  In County of San Diego v. Department of
Health Services (1991) 1 Cal.App.4th 656, the Court of Appeals upheld the
trial court’s determination that relief was not available under Code of Civil
Procedure, section 473, subdivision (b) where the health care facility failed
to timely file an at-issue memorandum. (County of San Diego v. Dept. of
Health Services (1991) 1 Cal.App.4th 656, 660-661.) The reasoning in that
case is applicable here. The Court of Appeals found “the legislative history of
the 1987 amendment to section 1428, subdivision (c), indicates an intent to
expedite judicial review of licensees’ challenges to the validity of citations
issued by the Department. Construing the statute to permit judicial relief from
the six-month time limitation for filing an at-issue memorandum would
contravene such legislative intent.” (Id. at 663.) The same holds true
for the six-month time limitation on filing a case management statement. 
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff cannot be relieved from its
non-compliance with Health & Safety Code section 1428, subdivision (b) by
reliance of Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (b).  
 
Conclusion
 
Defendant California Department of Public Health’s Motion to
Dismiss is GRANTED.
 
 
Moving party to give notice. 

 
 
 
 