  Case Number:  23SMCV05453    Hearing Date:   August 9, 2024    Dept:  205    Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles – West District  Beverly Hills Courthouse / Department 205   SOMA SURGERY CENTER, INC.,   Plaintiff, v.  BYRON SANDOVAL, et al.,   Defendants.    Case No.:  23SMCV05453     Hearing Date:  August 9, 2024   [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:   DEFENDANT LAW OFFICES OF MARILU    MORENO SCHLICHT’S MOTION TO SET    ASIDE DEFAULT AND DEFAULT    JUDGMENT   BACKGROUND This is a breach of contract case.  Plaintiff Soma Surgery Center and Defendant Law Offices of Marilu Moreno-Schlicht entered into a written contract wherein Plaintiff agreed to provide various medical examinations, treatment and care to the law offices’ personal injury clients on a lien basis.  Plaintiff alleges Defendant failed to pay.   On November 20, 2023, Plaintiff filed a complaint alleging two claims for (1) breach of contract and (2) unjust enrichment.   On November 21, 2023, Defendant was served via substitute service (with mailing of the Summons and Complaint on November 22, 2023).  Defendant’s response to the Complaint was due on or before January 2, 2024. A response was not filed.  (Miskabi Decl. ¶ 4.)  On January 15, 2024, Plaintiff's counsel e-mailed Defendant as a professional courtesy and informed her that a response to the Complaint was not filed and was overdue (as it was due on January 2, 2024). Plaintiff's counsel informed Defendant that if a response was not filed on or before January 19, 2024, a default and default judgment would be obtained. A response was still not timely filed.  (Miskabi Decl. ¶ 5, Exh. A.)  On January 22, 2024, after Defendant’s response was not filed, Plaintiff filed and obtained a default against Defendant.  (Miskabi Decl., ¶ 6, Exh. B.)  In early February 2024, Plaintiff and Defendant spoke telephonically about the matter and Plaintiff informed Defendant for a second time that a response was not yet filed and was overdue and that a default was entered against Defendant.  (Miskabi Decl., ¶ 7, Exh. A.)   On February 13, 2024, Plaintiff's counsel emailed Defendant reminding her for a third time that a response to the complaint was not filed and was overdue and outlining steps to address setting aside the default, steps which were discussed telephonically in early February 2024.  (Miskabi Decl., ¶ 8, Exh. A.)  A response to this email was not received.  On May 1, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel first became aware of an answer and cross-complaint filed by Defendant which were not served on Plaintiff.  Plaintiff demanded service of the answer and cross-complaint. (Miskabi Decl., ¶ 9, Exh. A.)  A response to this email was not received.  On May 20, 2024, the Court held a case management conference (“CMC”).  Defendant did not attend the CMC.  This hearing is on Defendant’s motion to set aside default.  Defendant argues that default must be set aside because of its counsel’s mistake, inadvertence and neglect.  Specifically, counsel was severely ill, mostly bed-ridden and unable to oversee her cases; her staff was inexperienced with litigation matters and failed to apprise her that a default had been entered, and there was a staffing turnover which contributed to the mistakes and oversight.      LEGAL STANDARD Code Civ. Proc. §473, subd. (b)¿provides for two distinct types of relief from a default -- commonly differentiated as “discretionary” and “mandatory.”  “Under the¿discretionary relief provision, on a showing of ‘mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or¿excusable neglect,” the court has discretion to allow relief from default.  Under the mandatory relief provision, on the other hand, upon a showing by attorney declaration of ‘mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect,’ the court must vacate any ‘resulting default judgment or dismissal entered.’”  (Leader v. Health Industries of America, Inc.¿(2001) 89 Cal.App.4th 603, 615-616.)¿  Applications seeking relief under the mandatory provision of¿§473¿must be “accompanied by an attorney’s sworn affidavit attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect.” (Code Civ. Proc. §473, subd. (b).)  The mandatory provision further adds that “whenever relief is granted based on an attorney’s affidavit of fault [the court shall] direct the attorney to pay reasonable compensatory legal fees and costs to opposing counsel or parties.” (Id.)   The application for relief must be made no more than six months after the judgment, dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken.  (Id.)  And the application must be “accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed therein”.  (Id.) “It is settled that the law favors a trial on the¿merits. . . and therefore liberally construes¿section¿473.”  (Bonzer v. City of Huntington Park (1993) 20 Cal.App.4th 1474, 1477.)  “Doubts in applying¿section 473 are resolved in favor of the party seeking¿relief from¿default. . . and if that party has moved promptly for¿default relief,¿only slight evidence will justify an order granting such¿relief.”  (Id. at 1477-78.)  DISCUSSION Relief from default is mandatory when the defaulting party’s attorney files an affidavit attesting to the attorney’s mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect “even if the attorney's neglect was inexcusable.” (Rodrigues v. Superior Court (2005) 127 Cal.App.4th 1027, 1033.) “If the prerequisites for the application of the mandatory provision of section 473, subdivision (b) exist, the trial court does not have discretion to refuse relief.” (Gee v. Greyhound Lines, Inc. (2016) 6 Cal.App.5th 477, 484 [internal citation omitted].)  However, mandatory relief is not available when the attorney and client are the same.  Where attorney and client had no separate existence, granting mandatory relief would allow an attorney essentially representing herself a benefit denied to other self-represented litigants.  (McClain v. Kissler (2019) 39 Cal.App.5th 399, 435-428.)  The concern that not granting mandatory relief would spawn a malpractice action is also not implicated where counsel and client are the same.  Here, defense counsel does not dispute the client and the attorney in this instance are the same, and in fact, her reply concedes mandatory relief is not available in this case.  (Reply at 4:11-15.) Notwithstanding, the Court concludes discretionary relief is appropriate due to counsel’s excusable neglect.  Defendant’s attorney was seriously ill and mostly bedridden during the period of time in which Defendant’s responsive pleading was due, and the default was entered. (Moreno Decl. ¶ 2.)  Defendant’s attorney concedes that, in hindsight, she should have withdrawn from some of her litigation cases, but she mistakenly believed that her staff (who are well versed in pre-litigation matters) would inform her of any important updates on these cases.  (Id.)   Counsel’s staff failed to inform counsel that a default had been entered before the answer was filed.  Plaintiff tentatively agreed to set aside the default if an answer and cross-complaint was filed quickly.  (Schlict Decl. ¶ 4.)  Default was entered on January 22, 2024, and Defendant filed its answer on January 26, 2024, but Plaintiff did not ask the Court to set aside the default.  Defendant’s staff erroneously believed the default issue had been resolved because Plaintiff agreed to set aside the default if an answer and cross-complaint was filed quickly, which it was. Defendant’s staff and did not apprise counsel that the default was entered before the filing of the answer.  (Schlict Decl. ¶ 5.)  Counsel only learned of this mistake in or around May 2024, upon a review of her cases.  (Moreno Decl. ¶ 3.)  Counsel then moved to set aside default within a month of discovering the mistake.    Defendant argues that counsel’s neglect was inexcusable, pointing to counsel’s failure to respond to numerous emails and telephone calls, warning of an impending default and later outlining steps to address setting aside the default.  But the communications were between Plaintiff’s counsel and Defendant’s office staff, not defense counsel, which was part of the problem because the staff failed to bring the default to defense counsel’s attention.  The Court also finds compelling the fact that Defendant agreed to set aside default if an answer was filed quickly, which it was.  The answer was filed just four days after default was entered.  Plaintiff argues this case is “nearly identical” to Davis v. Thayer (1980) 113 Cal.App.3d 892.  Not so.  In Davis, the defendant stated a combination of excuses for not responding to the complaint: she was under doctor’s care for a recent heart attack and taking valium, and she was caring for her elderly mother and husband who were ill during that time.  Because of this, the Davis defendant gave the litigation documents to her son who stated that he would “take care of the problem.” (113 Cal.App.3d at 900.)  The Davis court found the defendant’s neglect inexcusable for a number of reasons: (1) she did not “state the severity of the condition or in what manner it limited her activity, nor did she present a doctor’s declaration to confirm her statements;” (2) despite her poor health, she was caring for two sick relatives and “the mere fact that the client is busy and occupied with other affairs is never held to constitute an excuse for his neglect to answer a summons within time;” (3) she handed over the papers to her son to “take care of the problem,” but this seemed ill-advised and she never followed up with him; and (4) the defendant’s declaration and her proposed answer contained discrepancies with regards to her involvement in the underlying business. (Id. at 909-910.)  In contrast to Davis, counsel here clearly stated the severity of her condition in that she “was seriously ill and mostly bedridden.”  Counsel’s declaration under penalty of perjury is sufficient, without the further need for a declaration from counsel’s doctor.  Moreover, unlike Davis, there are no facts here to dispute counsel’s claim that she was seriously ill, such as taking care of relatives while at the same time claiming to be sick.  Further, counsel does not claim she was too busy to respond, and while her staff was inexperienced in dealing with defaults, they were not an inexperienced layman like the son in Davis.  As such, Davis is distinguishable and not controlling.  In the event default is set aside, Defendant argues it is entitled to attorneys’ fees.  But the Code only provides for attorneys’ fees in the event mandatory relief is granted based on an attorney’s affidavit of fault.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 473(b).)  Here, the Court is not granting mandatory relief.   In sum, given the strong policy favoring a disposition of cases on their merits, the Court will set aside the default. CONCLUSION For the foregoing reasons, the Court GRANTS the motion to set aside default.    DATED:  August 9, 2024   ___________________________ Edward B. Moreton, Jr. Judge of the Superior Court 