  Case Number:  24VECV00181    Hearing Date:   October 30, 2024    Dept:  107 1 of 3


 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE
  STATE OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
NORTHWEST DISTRICT
 




RWA Wealth Partners, LLC,
Plaintiff,
 
   v.
 
Mariner, LLC et al.
 
Defendants. 


          Case Number             Department
     24VECV00181       107




 
COURT’S [TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:    
 
Compel Further Responses as to Defendant
Mariner, LLC
 



[THE FOLLOWING IS A TENTATIVE RULING IN THE ABOVE CASE:]
 
(1) Deny motion to compel further
responses; (2) Deny Defendant’s request for monetary sanctions.
 
I.               
BACKGROUND
 
On
June 12, 2024, Plaintiff RWA Wealth Partners, LLC (“Plaintiff”) filed a
complaint against Mariner, LLC dba Mariner Wealth Advisors, Mariner Platform
Solutions, LLC, Mariner Wealth Advisors, LLC, and Does 1-20, (collectively,
“Defendants”) alleging seven causes of action for unfair competition,
misappropriation of trade secrets, computer fraud, aiding and abetting a tort,
civil conspiracy, intentional interference with contractual relations, and
intentional interference with prospective economic relations. (Complaint p. 1.)

Plaintiff
is the successor in interest to Polaris Wealth Advisory Group, LLC (“Polaris”).
(Complaint fn. 1.) Brandon Berman worked for Polaris as a director and
investment advisor from April 2017 to April 2022. (Complaint ¶¶ 1, 11.) The complaint alleges that, in March 2022,
Berman told Defendants he used Polaris’ system to create a client list.
(Complaint ¶ 7.) Defendants accepted the list from Berman, knowing it contained
confidential information. (Complaint ¶ 7.) Defendants used the list to steal
Polaris’ clients. (Complaint ¶ 7.) Berman now works for Defendants as an
investment advisor. (Complaint ¶ 12.) To execute the scheme, Defendants
worked with Berman to create Total Wealth Services, which was included under
Defendants’ corporate umbrella. (Complaint ¶¶ 70-71.)
On April 30, 2024, Plaintiff served its Requests for Production
(“RFPs”), Set One, to Defendant Mariner, LLC. (“Defendant”). (Fearnow
Declaration ¶ 7.) On May 30, 2024, Defendant served unverified responses to
Plaintiff. (Fearnow Declaration ¶ 8.) The response was served on behalf of
Defendant, Mariner Platform Solutions, LLC, and Mariner Wealth Advisors, LLC.
(Fearnow Declaration ¶ 16.) The production was a single 140-page document
containing an email chain between Annie Taylor, counsel for Marner, and Annie
Taylor and Sean Sullivan, two attorneys who represented Berman. (Fearnow
Declaration ¶ 17.) On June 12, 2024, Defendants served Plaintiff with the
signed verification for Defendant’s responses to RFP Set One. (Fearnow
Declaration ¶ 9.) Plaintiff and Defendants met and conferred. (Fearnow
Declaration ¶¶ 20-29.)
On July 29, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion to compel further
discovery responses to Plaintiff’s RFPs, Set One (the “Motion”). Defendant
filed an opposition on August 30, 2024. Plaintiff filed a reply on September
13, 2024. 
II.            
 PROCEDURAL ISSUES
 
a.     Timeliness

All
motions to compel further responses to written discovery must be brought within
45 days of receiving the challenged responses, or as otherwise agreed upon in
writing.¿ (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2030.300(c), 2031.310(b)(1), 2033.290(c).)¿
This deadline is jurisdictional, and courts are without authority to grant
untimely motions.¿ (Vidal Sassoon, Inc. v. Superior Court (1983) 147
Cal.App.3d 681, 685.) When verifications
are provided electronically, the deadline is extended by two court days. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 1010.6(a)(3)(B).)
Defendant
served its verified responses to RFP, Set One, on June 12, 2024. (Fearnow
Declaration ¶ 9.) Plaintiff filed the Motion on July 29, 2024. With the
extension for electronic verifications, Plaintiff’s Motion was filed within the
45-day time limit. 
This
court finds that Plaintiff timely filed the Motion.
b.     Meet
and Confer
Motions
to compel further responses must always be accompanied by a “meet and confer”
declaration evidencing a “reasonable and good faith attempt an informal
resolution of each issue presented by the motion.”¿ (See Cal. Code Civ. Proc.,
§§ 2016.040, 2030.300(b), 2031.310(b)(2), 2033.290(b).)
The
parties dispute whether Plaintiff made a reasonable and good faith attempt to
resolve the issues before filing the Motion. Plaintiff’s counsel’s declaration
details various attempts to meet and confer with Defendant’s counsel via phone
and written correspondence. (Fearnow Declaration ¶¶ 20-29.) 
Defendant argues its counsel timely responded to Plaintiff’s first
meet and confer letter and responded to a subsequent letter asking Plaintiff’s
counsel to agree to an extension on motion to compel deadlines because of
Defendant’s primary counsel’s travel plans. (Whitehead Declaration ¶ 7;
Opposition pp. 7-8.)  Defendant further
argues that on the first day of Defendant’s primary counsel’s trip, Plaintiff’s
counsel sent an email demanding Defendants amend their discovery responses and
produce responsive documents within a week. (Opposition p. 7.) Defendant’s
counsel emailed Plaintiff and told Plaintiff counsel were both out of the
country and offered Plaintiff’s counsel an extension on any motion to compel
deadline. (Opposition p. 7; Whitehead Declaration ¶ 8.) Defendant’s primary
counsel returned from his trip on July 20. (Whitehead Declaration ¶ 9.) On July 25, Defendant’s primary
counsel sent a letter to Plaintiff’s counsel, stating counsel had offered to
extend the motion to compel deadline and offered to participate in an IDC
process. (Whitehead Declaration ¶ 9.) Defendant’s counsel also requested
Plaintiff provide search terms to narrow its requests. (Whitehead Declaration ¶
9.) Plaintiff then filed its first motion to compel. (Whitehead Declaration ¶
9.)
In reply, Plaintiff states it offered to withdraw its Motion if
Defendant “would meet and confer in person (or via live Zoom) and provide a
date certain for document productions.” (Reply p. 2.) Plaintiff states
Defendant “rejected the offer and refused to discuss the issues in real-time.”
(Reply p. 2.) Plaintiff further argues it provided Defendant with a list of
preliminary search terms on August 30, 2024. (Reply p. 5.) 
This court finds that Plaintiff has satisfied the meet and confer requirement.
III.          
LEGAL STANDARD
“Unless otherwise limited by
order of the court in accordance with this title, any party may obtain
discovery regarding any matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the subject
matter involved in the pending action or to the determination of any motion
made in that action, if the matter either is itself admissible in evidence or
appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.”
(Code Civ. Proc. § 2017.010.) “Discovery may relate to the claim or defense of
the party seeking discovery or of any other party to the action.” (Code Civ.
Proc. § 2017.010.) 
Under, Evidence Code section
210, “’Relevant evidence’ means evidence . . . having any tendency to prove or
disprove any disputed fact that is of consequence to the determination of the
action.” “The test of relevance is whether the evidence tends logically,
naturally, and by reasonable inference to establish material facts. The trial
court has broad discretion in determining the relevance of evidence, but lacks
discretion to admit irrelevant evidence.” (Donlen v. Ford Motor Co.
(2013) 217 Cal.App.4th 138, 148, internal quotations and citations omitted.)
A court “retains the discretion to weigh
the burden of compliance against the likelihood of producing helpful
information, to avoid duplicative production, and to narrow demands if
appropriate to balance the reasonable concerns of both parties.” (Volkswagen
of America, Inc. v. Superior Court (2006) 139 Cal.App.4th 1481, 1497.)
 
“On
receipt of a response to a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or
sampling, the demanding party may move for an order compelling further response
to the demand if the demanding party deems that … [a] statement of compliance
with the demand is incomplete[;] … [a] representation of inability to comply is
inadequate, incomplete, or evasive[; or] … [a]n objection in the response is
without merit or too general.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310(a).)
 
IV.          
DISCUSSION
 
a.     The
Motion, Opposition, and Reply
 
Plaintiff
requests this court order Defendant to provide further responses to Plaintiff’s
RFPs Nos. 1-17. (Motion p. 2.) Plaintiff argues good cause exists to compel
Defendant’s further responses because “the Complaint outlines factual
allegations regarding Defendants’ scheme with Berman to steal Polaris’
confidential information and trade secrets. The allegations further detail how
Defendants’ representatives were directly involved in the scheme and numerous
documents and communications that were exchanged among Defendants, Berman and
his business (Total Wealth Services), and their respective attorneys. Notably,
these allegations are supported by Berman’s own sworn declaration. Moreover, in
their Answer, Defendants also advance factual allegations in support of their
affirmative defenses.” (Motion p. 11.)
 
Defendant
argues it raised valid objections to Plaintiff’s discovery requests and produced
code-compliant responses. (Opposition pp. 5, 12.) 
 
In
reply, Plaintiff argues that Defendant’s objections and responses, including
Defendant’s “assertion of meritless and improper objections (general and
specific)[,]” “use of non-code-compliant responses[,]” and “refusal to perform
a diligent search and reasonable inquiry for documents and communications and
produce them.” (Reply p. 4.)
 
b.     Requests
for Production
 
RFPs
Nos. 1-2 seek documents identified in Defendant’s response to Form
Interrogatory No. 15.1 (Separate Statement p. 1-13.) Form Interrogatory No.
15.1 stated: “Identify each denial of a material allegation and each
special or affirmative defense in your pleadings and for each: (a) state all
facts upon which you base the denial or special or affirmative defense; (b)
state the names, ADDRESSES, and telephone numbers of all PERSONS who have
knowledge of those facts; and (c) Identify all DOCUMENTS and other tangible
things that support your denial or special or affirmative defense, and state
the name, ADDRESS, and telephone number of the PERSON who has each DOCUMENT.”
(Ex. 8 pp. 21-22.)
 
RFPs
Nos. 3-4 seek documents and communications supporting Defendant’s response to
Form Interrogatory 17.1. (Separate Statement p. 13-18.) Form Interrogatory
17.1. stated: “Is your response to each request for admission served with these
interrogatories an unqualified admission? If not, for each response that is not
an unqualified admission: (a) state the number of the request; (b) state all
facts upon which you base your response; (c) state the names, ADDRESSES, and
telephone numbers of all PERSONS who have knowledge of those facts; and (d)
identify all DOCUMENTS and other tangible things that support your response and
state the name, ADDRESS, and telephone number of the PERSON who has each
DOCUMENT or thing.” (Ex. 8 pp. 45-46.)
 
RFP
No. 6. seeks “All written or recorded statements identified in Form
Interrogatory No. 12.3 of Plaintiff’s Form Interrogatories, Set One, served on
April 30, 2024.” (Separate Statement p. 22.) 
Form
Interrogatory No. 12.3 stated: “Have YOU OR ANYONE ACTING ON YOUR BEHALF
obtained a written or recorded statement from any individual concerning the
INCIDENT? If so, for each statement state; (a) the name, ADDRESS, and telephone
number of the individual from whom the statement was obtained; (b) the name,
ADDRESS and telephone number of the individual who obtained the statement; (c)
the date the statement was obtained; and (d) the name, ADDRESS, and telephone
number of each PERSON who has the original statement or a copy.” (Ex. 8 pp.
13-14.) 
 
RFP
No. 7 seeks “All reports identified in Form Interrogatory No. 12.6 of
Plaintiff’s Form Interrogatories, Set One, served on April 30, 2024.” (Separate
Statement p. 27.) Form Interrogatory No. 12.6 stated: “Was a report made
by any PERSON concerning the agency, names of the parties, and case number.
INCIDENT? If so, state: (a) the name, title, identification number, and
employer of the PERSON who made the report; (b) the date and type of report
made; (c) the name, ADDRESS, and telephone number of the PERSON for whom the
report was made; and (d) the name, ADDRESS, and telephone number of each PERSON
who has the original or a copy of the report.”
 
RFP
No. 8 seeks: “All COMMUNICATIONS with Brandon Berman for the time period
between November 1, 2021 to the present.” (Separate Statement p. 31.)
 
RFP
No. 9 seeks “All COMMUNICATIONS that reference and/or refer to Brandon Berman
for the time period between November 1, 2021 to the present.” (Separate
Statement p. 35.)
 
RFP
No. 10 seeks “All COMMUNICATIONS that reference and/or refer to Total Wealth
Services, LLC for the time period between November 1, 2021 to the present.”
(Separate Statement p. 36.)
 
RFP
No. 11 seeks “All COMMUNICATIONS with Brandon Berman’s legal counsel, David
Sergenian, for the time period between November 1, 2021 to the present.”
(Separate Statement p. 37.)
 
RFP
No. 12 seeks “All COMMUNICATIONS with Brandon Berman’s legal counsel at the
Propicio law firm for the time period between November 1, 2021 to the present.”
(Separate Statement p. 39.)
 
RFP
No. 13 seeks “All COMMUNICATIONS with Total Wealth Services, LLC, including any
employee or agent thereof, between November 1, 2021 to the present.” (Separate
Statement p. 40.)
 
RFP
No. 14 seeks “All DOCUMENTS and COMMUNICATIONS that support your responses to
Plaintiff’s Requests for Admission, Set One, served on April 30, 2024.”
(Separate Statement p. 41.)
 
RFP
No. 15 seeks “All DOCUMENTS and COMMUNICATIONS RELATED TO the ‘List’ identified
in YOUR ‘Background in Support of Affirmative Defenses’ found in YOUR March 18,
2024 Answer to Plaintiff’s Complaint.” (Separate Statement p. 42.)
 
RFP
No. 16 seeks “All DOCUMENTS received from Brandon Berman.” (Separate Statement
p. 44.)
 
RFP
No. 17 seeks “All DOCUMENTS received from Total Wealth Services, LLC, including
any employee and/or agent thereof.” (Separate Statement p. 45.)
 
c.      Defendant’s
Objections
 
To
each of the RFPs, Defendant raised general objections, stating it seeks
documents protected by Defendant’s privacy rights, the attorney-client
privilege, and/or the attorney work product, the request is overly broad, not
reasonably limited in time or scope, vague and ambiguous, and calls for
Defendant to speculate about the specific documents Plaintiff seeks. (Separate
Statement.) Defendant also objected, stating the documents are not likely to
lead to the discovery of admissible evidence, the documents are equally
accessible to Plaintiff, the requests are unduly burdensome, harassing, and
improper, and assumes facts not established. (Separate Statement pp. 1, 5-6,
13-14, 18-19, 23, 27, 31, 35-38, 39, 40-41, 43, 44, 45.) Finally, Defendant
stated that “Subject to and without waiving the foregoing objections, and as
Defendant understands the Request, Defendant responds as follows: Defendant has
conducted a diligent search and reasonable inquiry and is unable to comply with
this request because there are no responsive documents in Defendant’s
possession, custody, or control.” (See e.g., Separate Statement p. 44.) For
some RFPs, Defendant stated it “believes this category of documents never existed.”
(See e.g., Separate Statement p. 45.) For other objections, Defendant stated
“[t]o the extent that this particular category of documents has ever existed
they are likely in possession of co-Defendants Mariner Platform Solutions, LLC,
and/or Mariner Wealth Advisors, LLC.” (See e.g., Separate Statement p. 6.)
 
d.     Analysis
 
This
court finds that Defendant’s general boilerplate objections are meritless.
Plaintiff’s requests seek information directly related to Defendant’s responses
to Plaintiff’s Form Interrogatories and Plaintiff’s Requests for Admission,
Brandon Berman, the “List”, or Total Wealth Services, LLC. Accordingly, the
requests are not overbroad, the requests are reasonably limited in scope, are
not vague or ambiguous, do not call for Defendant to speculate, and are likely
to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. (See e.g., Separate Statement p.
6.)  To the extent Defendant raises
objections based on the attorney-client privilege, it has produced no privilege
log. (See e.g., Separate Statement p. 6.) Finally, although not all of the RFPs
are limited by time, those that are not limited by time are sufficiently
limited by subject matter or are directly related to Defendant’s responses, its
affirmative defenses, Brandon Berman, or Total Wealth Services.
 
However,
Defendant’s statement that it was unable to find responsive documents complies
with Code of Civil Procedure section 2031, which states that “A representation
of inability to comply with the particular demand for inspection shall
affirm that a diligent search and a reasonable inquiry has been made in an
effort to comply with that demand. This statement shall also specify whether
the inability to comply is because the particular item or category has never
existed, has been destroyed, has been lost, misplaced, or stolen, or has never
been, or is no longer, in the possession, custody, or control of the responding
party. The statement shall set forth the name and address of any natural person
or organization known or believed by that party to have possession, custody, or
control of that item or category of item.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.230.)
 
Plaintiff argues Defendant’s responses are
insufficient for three reasons.
 
First, Plaintiff points to evidence that
witness deposition testimony shows that “Defendants’ business, management and
operations leaves their corporate independence a mere façade.” (Separate
Statement p. 3.) However, Defendant has directed Plaintiff to its co-defendants
who may be able to produce responsive information. Accordingly, this court
rejects Plaintiff’s argument relating to the intertwined nature of Defendants’
businesses.
 
Second, Plaintiff states that Defendant’s
response that it has been unable to find documents contradicts its Form
Interrogatory responses which referenced communications between Defendants and
Berman. (Separate Statement p. 3.) Defendant argues “[t]hat communications
between Mr. Berman and individuals employed by other parties (namely, [the
co-defendants]) may support [Defendant’s] affirmative defenses or other
discovery responses does not ipso facto mean that [Defendant] is in
possession of those documents.” (Defendant Opposition to Separate Statement p.
8.) 
 
Third, Plaintiff asserts that “during
meet and confers, [Defendant’s] counsel claim[ed] it will take ‘months’ to
search and produce responsive documents for its co-defendants. Yet, in the same
vein, [Defendant’s] counsel doubled-down that there [are] no responsive
documents in [Defendant’s] possession, custody, or control.” (See e.g.,
Separate Statement pp. 3-4.) Defendant responds that “the reason why it will
take months for co-defendants [Mariner Platform Solutions, LLC and Mariner
Wealth Advisors, LLC] to produce responsive documents is because there are
thousands of documents in these parties’ possession requiring review. That is
not the case as to [Defendant] who has stated in a verified discovery response
that it is not in possession of any responsive documents, such as
communications with Brandon Berman or Total Wealth Services.” (Defendant
Opposition to Separate Statement p. 8.)
 
The
inconsistencies in Defendant’s responses and evidence appear to arise from the
fact the Defendants do not specify which Defendants they are referring to when
they state “Defendants” (See e.g., Ex. 8, p 24) and the fact the Defendants
here have similar names. (See e.g., Defendant’s Opposition Statement p. 16-17.)
 
Defendant’s
responses complied with section 2031.230. Further, this court finds that
Plaintiff’s arguments that Defendant’s responses are inconsistent with its
other statements are meritless. Accordingly, this court denies Plaintiff’s
motion to compel Defendant’s further responses to RFP, Set One.
 
V.             
Sanctions
Unless it would be unjust to do
so under the circumstances, the Court imposes monetary sanctions against
parties and/or attorneys that unsuccessfully make or oppose motions to compel
further responses without substantial justification.¿ (See Code Civ. Proc., §§
2030.300(d), 2031.310(h), 2033.290(d).)
 
Plaintiff does not seek
monetary sanctions against Defendant. (Memorandum p. 5.) Defendant seeks
$11,400 in monetary sanctions against Plaintiff. (Opposition p. 15.) This
includes twenty hours preparing the opposition and supporting documents and
four hours reviewing the reply and attending the hearing. (Whitehead
Declaration ¶ 14.) 
 
This court finds that Plaintiff acted with substantial
justification and thus declines to impose sanctions against Plaintiff.
 
VI.          
CONCLUSION
For
the foregoing reasons, this court denies Plaintiff’s motion to compel
Defendant’s further responses to Plaintiff’s RFPs, Set One. This court also
denies Defendant’s request for monetary sanctions against Plaintiff.
 
 
Dated:  October 30, 2024                                                                                            Hon. Eric Harmon
Judge of the
Superior Court2 of 3 


 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE
  STATE OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
NORTHWEST DISTRICT
 




RWA Wealth Partners, LLC,
Plaintiff,
 
   v.
 
Mariner, LLC et al.
 
Defendants. 


          Case Number             Department
     24VECV00181       107




 
COURT’S [TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:    
 
Compel Further Responses as to Defendant Mariner Wealth Advisors, LLC.


[THE FOLLOWING IS A TENTATIVE RULING IN THE ABOVE CASE:] I.               
BACKGROUND On
June 12, 2024, Plaintiff RWA Wealth Partners, LLC (“Plaintiff”) filed a
complaint against Mariner, LLC dba Mariner Wealth Advisors, Mariner Platform
Solutions, LLC, Mariner Wealth Advisors, LLC, and Does 1-20, (collectively,
“Defendants”) alleging seven causes of action for unfair competition,
misappropriation of trade secrets, computer fraud, aiding and abetting a tort,
civil conspiracy, intentional interference with contractual relations, and
intentional interference with prospective economic relations. (Complaint p. 1.)
Plaintiff
is the successor in interest to Polaris Wealth Advisory Group, LLC (“Polaris”).
(Complaint fn. 1.) Brandon Berman worked for Polaris as a director and
investment advisor from April 2017 to April 2022. (Complaint ¶¶ 1, 11.) The complaint alleges
that, in March 2022, Berman told Defendants he used Polaris’ system to create a
client list. (Complaint ¶ 7.) Defendants accepted the list from Berman, knowing
it contained confidential information. (Complaint ¶ 7.) Defendants used the
list to steal Polaris’ clients. (Complaint ¶ 7.) Berman now works for
Defendants as an investment advisor. (Complaint ¶ 12.) To execute the scheme,
Defendants worked with Berman to create Total Wealth Services, which was
included under Defendants’ corporate umbrella. (Complaint ¶¶ 70-71.)On
April 30, 2024, Plaintiff served its Requests for Production (“RFP”), Set One,
to Defendant Mariner Wealth Advisors, LLC. (“Defendant”). (Fearnow Declaration
¶ 7.) On May 30, 2024, Defendant served unverified responses to Plaintiff.
(Fearnow Declaration ¶ 8.) The response was a single 140-page document that was
served on behalf of all three Defendants. (Fearnow Declaration ¶¶ 16-17.) On
June 12, 2024, Defendants served Plaintiff with the signed verification for
Defendant’s responses to RFP Set One. (Fearnow Declaration ¶ 9.) Plaintiff and
Defendants met and conferred between June 7, 2024, and July 11, 2024. (Fearnow
Declaration ¶¶ 20-29.)On
August 1, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion to compel further discovery responses
to Plaintiff’s RFP, Set One (the “Motion”). Defendant filed an opposition on
August 26, 2024. Plaintiff filed a reply on September 13, 2024. II.            
 PROCEDURAL ISSUES a.    
Timeliness
All motions to
compel further responses to written discovery must be brought within 45 days of
receiving the challenged responses, or as otherwise agreed upon in writing.¿
(Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2030.300(c), 2031.310(b)(1), 2033.290(c).)¿ This
deadline is jurisdictional, and courts are without authority to grant untimely
motions.¿ (Vidal Sassoon, Inc. v. Superior Court (1983) 147 Cal.App.3d
681, 685.) When verifications are provided electronically, the deadline is
extended by two court days. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1010.6(a)(3)(B).)Defendant served
its verified responses to RFP, Set One, on June 12, 2024. (Fearnow Declaration ¶ 9.) Plaintiff filed the Motion on
August 1, 2024. 45 calendar days after June 12, 2024, was July 27, 2024. Two
court days after July 27, 2024, was July 30, 2024. Accordingly,
because Plaintiff filed the Motion on August 1, 2024, two days after the July
30, 2024, deadline, this court finds that Plaintiff did not timely file the
Motion. III.          
CONCLUSIONFor
the foregoing reasons, this court denies Plaintiff’s motion to compel
Defendant’s further responses to Plaintiff’s RFPs, Set One, Nos. 1-4, 8-10, 13-14, and 16-17. This court also denies
Defendant’s request for monetary sanctions against Plaintiff. The Defendant
does not raise the jurisdictional issue of timeliness and therefore Defendant
has not successfully opposed the Motion on those grounds.    Dated:  October 30, 2024                                                                                             Hon. Eric HarmonJudge of the
Superior Court
3 0f 3


 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE
  STATE OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
NORTHWEST DISTRICT
 




RWA Wealth Partners, LLC,
Plaintiff,
 
   v.
 
Mariner, LLC et al.
 
Defendants. 


          Case Number             Department
     24VECV00181       107




 
COURT’S [TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:    
 
Compel Further Responses as to Defendant
  Mariner Platform Solutions, LLC


[THE FOLLOWING IS A TENTATIVE RULING IN THE ABOVE CASE:]  I.               
BACKGROUND On
June 12, 2024, Plaintiff RWA Wealth Partners, LLC (“Plaintiff”) filed a
complaint against Mariner, LLC dba Mariner Wealth Advisors, Mariner Platform
Solutions, LLC, Mariner Wealth Advisors, LLC, and Does 1-20, (collectively,
“Defendants”) alleging seven causes of action for unfair competition,
misappropriation of trade secrets, computer fraud, aiding and abetting a tort,
civil conspiracy, intentional interference with contractual relations, and
intentional interference with prospective economic relations. (Complaint p. 1.)
Plaintiff
is the successor in interest to Polaris Wealth Advisory Group, LLC (“Polaris”).
(Complaint fn. 1.) Brandon Berman worked for Polaris as a director and
investment advisor from April 2017 to April 2022. (Complaint ¶¶ 1, 11.) The
complaint alleges that, in March 2022, Berman told Defendants he used Polaris’
system to create a client list. (Complaint ¶ 7.) Defendants accepted the list
from Berman, knowing it contained confidential information. (Complaint ¶ 7.)
Defendants used the list to steal Polaris’ clients. (Complaint ¶ 7.) Berman now
works for Defendants as an investment advisor. (Complaint ¶ 12.) To execute the
scheme, Defendants worked with Berman to create Total Wealth Services, which
was included under Defendants’ corporate umbrella. (Complaint ¶¶ 70-71.) On
April 30, 2024, Plaintiff served its Requests for Production (“RFP”), Set One,
to Defendant Mariner Platform Solutions, LLC. (“Defendant”). (Fearnow
Declaration ¶ 7.) On May 30, 2024, Defendant served unverified responses to
Plaintiff. (Fearnow Declaration ¶ 8.) The response was served as a single
140-page document on behalf of all three Defendants. (Fearnow Declaration ¶¶
16-17.) On June 12, 2024, Defendants served Plaintiff with the signed
verification for Defendant’s responses to RFP Set One. (Fearnow Declaration ¶
9.) Plaintiff and Defendant met and conferred about the issues between June 7,
2024, and July 11, 2024. (Fearnow Declaration ¶¶ 20-29.) On
August 1, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion to compel further discovery responses
to Plaintiff’s RFP, Set One (the “Motion”). Defendant filed an opposition on
September 3, 2024. Plaintiff filed a reply on September 9, 2024.  II.            
 PROCEDURAL ISSUES a.     Timeliness
All motions to compel further responses to written discovery
must be brought within 45 days of receiving the challenged responses, or as
otherwise agreed upon in writing.¿ (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2030.300(c),
2031.310(b)(1), 2033.290(c).)¿ This deadline is jurisdictional, and courts are
without authority to grant untimely motions.¿ (Vidal Sassoon, Inc. v.
Superior Court (1983) 147 Cal.App.3d 681, 685.) When verifications are
provided electronically, the deadline is extended by two court days. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 1010.6(a)(3)(B).)Defendant served its verified responses to RFP, Set One, on
June 12, 2024. (Fearnow Declaration ¶ 9.) Plaintiff filed the Motion on August 1, 2024. 45
calendar days after June 12, 2024, was July 27, 2024. Two court days after July
27, 2024, was July 30, 2024.  Accordingly, because Plaintiff filed the Motion on August 1,
2024, two days after the July 30, 2024, deadline, this court finds that
Plaintiff did not timely file the Motion. III.          
CONCLUSIONFor
the foregoing reasons, this court denies Plaintiff’s motion to compel
Defendant’s further responses to Plaintiff’s RFPs, Set One, Nos. 1-4, 8-10, 13-14, and 16-17. This court also denies
Defendant’s request for monetary sanctions against Plaintiff. The Defendant
does not raise the jurisdictional issue of timeliness and therefore Defendant
has not successfully opposed the Motion on those grounds.    Dated:  October 30, 2024                                                                                             Hon. Eric Harmon
Judge of the
Superior Court