 Case Number:  20LBCV00504    Hearing Date:   March 21, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiff, Tokio Marine America Insurance Company filed this action
against Defendant, Prestig, Inc. for carrier liability under the Carmack
Amendment.  Plaintiff filed its original
complaint on 11/19/20 and its operative First Amended Complaint on
1/19/21.  
 
Plaintiff alleges it insured Panasonic Corporation.  Defendant received a shipment of 1024 cartons
of lithiumion batteries from Panasonic in Carson and was charged with taking
the shipment to Kansas City.  However, the
rig carrying the batteries was involved in a single vehicle accident, resulting
in the vehicle over-turning and damaging the batteries.  Plaintiff alleges it suffered loss in the
amount of $620,199.27, as it had to pay its insured for the damage to its
goods.
Relevant to today’s demurrer, Prestige Transportation, Inc. filed a cross-complaint
against Kenneth Lee Thorp and Linda Deane Thorp dba Freight Arrangers.  They filed an answer to the cross-complaint,
and ultimately a First Amended Answer.  They
filed the operative FAA on 11/22/23.  The
FAA consists of a general denial and 35 affirmative defenses.  
 
2.     Demurrer
to Amended Answer
a.    
Law
Regarding Answers
A verified complaint must be denied
positively or according to information and belief.  (CCP §431.30(d).)  Anything less than a general denial of the
whole complaint is a “qualified” or “specific” denial.  Defendant can direct his/her denials to
specific sentences, paragraphs or parts of the complaint.  Defendant can also effectively deny
allegations in the complaint by alleging contrary or inconsistent facts.  (This latter method is not widely used.)
 
In addition to denials, the answer
should contain whatever affirmative defenses or objections to the complaint
that defendant may have, and that would otherwise not be in issue under a
simple denial.  Such defenses or
objections are “new matter.”  (CCP §431.30(b).)  In general, defendant bears the burden of
proving “new matter” and, as such, must be specifically pleaded in the
answer.  (California Academy of Sciences
v. County of Fresno (1987) 192 Cal.App.3d 1436, 1442.)  The same pleading of “ultimate facts” rather
than evidentiary matter or legal conclusions is required as in pleading the
complaint.  The answer must aver facts as
carefully and with as much detail as the facts which constitute the cause of
action and which are alleged in the complaint. 
(FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashimi (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 367,
384.)  The various affirmative defenses
must be separately stated and must refer to the causes of action to which they
relate “in a manner by which they may be intelligently distinguished.”  (CCP §431.30(g).)
 
b.     Parties’
Positions
Cross-Complainant argues various
affirmative defenses do not constitute “new matter,” various affirmative
defenses do not include any supporting facts, and various affirmative defenses
are not recognized under California law. 
Cross-Defendants oppose the demurrer, arguing it must be overruled in
its entirety if the answer states at least one affirmative defense.  They argue the demurrer fails to specify why
any of the affirmative defenses are insufficiently pled.  They argue their defenses are supported by existing
law.    
 
c.     Initial
Note
Cross-Defendants argue that the demurrer
to the answer must be overruled because at least one affirmative defense is
properly pled.  Cross-Defendants misconstrue
the cases upon which they rely.  These cases,
collectively, stand for the position that the trial court errs in sustaining a
demurrer to an entire complaint without leave to amend if the complaint asserts
or could be amended to assert at least one cause of action.  Nothing in these cases suggests that, so long
as a plaintiff successfully pleads one cause of action (or, by analogy here,
one affirmative defense), then the trial court must allow the numerous improperly
pled causes of action to stand alongside the one properly pled cause of
action.  The only prohibition is a court
order sustaining the demurrer without leave to amend and dismissing the action
(or, again, by analogy, striking the answer in its entirety such that Cross-Defendants
would be in default).
 
The Court will therefore consider
whether each affirmative defense attacked in the demurrer is adequately
pled.  
 
d.     Numbering
of Affirmative Defenses
Cross-Defendants’ affirmative defenses
1-30 are consecutively numbered.  The FAA
skips affirmative defense 31, and commencing at affirmative defense 32, each
affirmative defense states, by way of example, that it is affirmative defense
32, but then contains ¶ number 31.  This
is very confusing, especially because Cross-Complainant did not, in the notice
of demurrer or demurrer, quote the affirmative defenses being attacked.  The Court has used the numbers of the
affirmative defenses and not the paragraphs in drafting this ruling.
 
e.     No
New Matter
Cross-Complainant argues
affirmative defenses 6, 10, 13, 14, 16, 20-22, 25, 27, 29-32, and 34 do not
include “new matter” and are therefore not appropriate affirmative
defenses.  Those affirmative defenses
state:
6.         All if any injuries, losses, or damages
were the direct and legal result of incidents or conditions without fault or
liability on the part of the Cross-Defendants.
10.        Cross-Defendants fully performed any and
all contractual, statutory and all other obligations to Cross-Plaintiff.  Therefore, Cross-Plaintiff is precluded from
asserting any cause of action against Cross-Defendants.
13.        Cross-Plaintiff is barred from
recovering damages with regard to any alleged conduct or breach of contract by Cross-Defendants
due to lack of reliance by Cross-Plaintiff on any alleged conduct or breach of
contract by Cross-Defendants.
14.        Cross-Plaintiff has failed to perform all
of the terms, conditions, covenants, and/or promises Cross-Defendants are
due.  Therefore, Cross-Plaintiff is
precluded from asserting any cause of action against Cross-Defendants.
16.        Cross-Defendants cannot be held liable to
Cross-Plaintiff on the ground that, to the extent they owed to the
Cross-Plaintiff any duty or obligation, the duty or obligation was discharged.
20.        Cross-Plaintiff’s claims in its
Cross-Complaint are consequential or speculative and therefore, not
recoverable.
21.        Cross-Plaintiff is precluded from
recovering on its Cross-Complaint because Cross-Plaintiff did not suffer any damages
directly or legally or foreseeably resulting from any conduct, acts or
omissions by Cross-Defendants.
22.        Cross-Plaintiff’s recovery is barred or
diminished because the damages and losses allegedly suffered by Cross-Plaintiff,
if any, were the legal result of Cross-Plaintiff’s own acts, or failure to act
timely.
25.        Cross-Defendants are entitled to each
and every defense and/or limitation of liability contained in agreements or
contracts, and all such defenses and limitations of liability are incorporated
herein by reference.
27.        Cross-Plaintiff is barred from recovery because
Cross-Plaintiff lacked good faith in the performance and enforcement of any
alleged contract.
29.        Cross-Plaintiff lacks standing to sue in
that it has not suffered an injury in fact because of Cross-Defendants’ alleged
conduct or breach of agreement.
30.        Cross-Defendants’ conduct is lawful, as
they are a licensed motor property broker and not a freight forwarded or
carrier as alleged.  Cross-defendants
have acted within the scope of their license rendering their conduct lawful.
32.        Cross-Defendants’ conduct was not unfair
as defined by the California Supreme Court in Cel-Tech Communications, Inc. v.
Los Angeles Cellular Telephone Co., 20 Cao.4th 163 (1999).
34.        Cross-Defendants’ conduct is within the
zone of federal law preemption.
 
The Court finds affirmative
defenses 6, 10, 13, 16, 20, 21, 25, and 29 all merely deny the allegations of
the complaint, such that they need not be asserted as affirmative
defenses.  The demurrer to these defenses
is sustained without leave to amend.  The
Court finds the remaining challenged defenses are in the form of “yes, but,”
and therefore properly insert new matter into the issues between the parties.
 
f.      Insufficient
Fact Pleading
Cross-Complainant argues affirmative
defenses 6, 10, 13, 14, 16, 20-22, 25, 27, 29-32, and 34 (the same affirmative defenses
challenged above) fail to state any facts in support of the defenses and amount
to mere legal conclusions.  The demurrer
is moot as to defenses 6, 10, 13, 16, 20, 21, 25, and 29.  The demurrer to the other defenses is sustained
with leave to amend.  Cross-Defendants
must plead facts in support of their defenses by way of an amended answer.
 
g.     Not
Cognizable Defenses
Cross-Complainant contends defenses
25 and 34 are not recognized affirmative defenses.  It appears Cross-Complainant is actually
challenging defenses 25 and 35, not 34, which confusion, again, is caused by
the numbering error.  Affirmative defense
25, as noted above, states, “Cross-Defendants are entitled to each and every
defense and/or limitation of liability contained in agreements or contracts,
and all such defenses and limitations of liability are incorporated herein by
reference.”  
 
Cross-Complainant’s argument re:
defense 25 is really a restatement of its prior contention that this defense
contains insufficient facts.  The demurrer
was sustained with leave to amend on that ground, and the additional argument
lends nothing more to the analysis.
 
Defense 35 alleges that there may
be additional affirmative defenses of which Cross-Defendants are not currently
aware, and they will assert those defenses if and when they learn of facts to
support them.  Cross-Complainant is
correct to note that this defense is superfluous; the Code of Civil Procedure
provides the mechanism by which a party can amend a pleading, and nothing in the
Code requires an affirmative defense to obtain permission to make use of its
mechanisms.  The demurrer to this defense
is therefore sustained without leave to amend. 

 
3.     Motion
to Strike 
Cross-Complainant’s motion to
strike largely reiterates the arguments made in the demurrer, and to the extent
the motion is duplicative, it is moot.  The
only additional argument made in the motion to strike is that the First Amended
Answer does not disclose the scope of Attorney Dennis Cammarano’s limited
representation of Cross-Defendants, who have improperly filed the FAA in pro
per.  
 
Cross-Defendants filed their
opposition through Stone Dean LLP, specifically attorney Gregg S.
Garfinkel.  The Thorpes filed a substitution
of attorney on 2/05/24 clarifying that Mr. Garfinkel is representing them.  The motion to strike is moot.  The Court anticipates Cross-Defendants’ Second
Amended Answer will be filed through their retained attorney.
 
4.     Conclusion
Cross-Complainant’s demurrer to the
answer is sustained without leave to amend in part and with leave to amend in
part as set forth fully above.  Cross-Defendants
are ordered to file a Second Amended Answer, in compliance with the above
ruling, within twenty days.  
 
Cross-Complainant is ordered to
give notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.   