  Case Number:  24STCV09682    Hearing Date:   December 3, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles   DEPARTMENT  17   TENTATIVE RULING      SHARON DAVIDSON, on behalf of the State of    California                   vs.   DG PREMIUM    BRANDS, LLC       Case    No.:  24STCV09682         Hearing Date: December 3, 2024                Defendant’s  motion to compel arbitration is GRANTED. This action is stayed pending the  completion of arbitration.              On  4/17/2024, Plaintiff Sharon Davidson (Plaintiff) filed a representative action  against DG Premium Brands, LLC, alleging civil penalties under the Private  Attorneys General Act.              On  10/14/2024, Defendant moved to compel Plaintiff to arbitrate her Complaint, and  stay this action.   Legal Standard   “Where  the Court has determined that an agreement to arbitrate a controversy exists,  the Court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the  controversy …unless it determines that…   grounds exist for rescission of the agreement.” (Code Civ. Proc., §  1281.2.) Among the grounds which can support rescission are fraud, duress, and  unconscionability. (Tiri v. Lucky  Chances, Inc. (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 231, 239.) The Court may also decline  to compel arbitration wherein there is possibility  of conflicting rulings on a common issue of law or fact. (Code Civ. Proc., §  1281.2 (c).)    Discussion    1.     Defendants’  Burden   The party  moving to compel arbitration “bears the burden of proving [the] existence [of  an arbitration agreement] by a preponderance of the evidence.” (Rosenthal v. Great Western Fin. Securities  Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413.) The moving party also bears the burden  of demonstrating that the claims fall within the scope of the arbitration  agreement. (Omar v. Ralphs Grocery Co. (2004)  118 Cal.App.4th 955, 961.)   A.    Existing Agreement   Defendant  submitted evidence that Plaintiff entered into an Arbitration Agreement  (Agreement) with Defendant on 2/3/2023. (Chu  Decl., Exhs. B, C.)              In  opposition, Plaintiff does not dispute signing the Agreement. While Plaintiff  argues that there was no mutual ascent to the Agreement, the Court finds this  argument unavailing. While Defendant did not electronically countersign the  agreement after Plaintiff’s signature, there is no indication that Defendant  would argue that it was not bound by the Agreement, or that it did not manifest  an intent to be bound by the agreement.    As for the  coverage of Plaintiff’s claims, the Arbitration Agreement expressly provides  that: 1) “[a]ll claims that are covered by [the] Agreement can only be  brought…on an individual basis”; and 2) “any…dispute which as expressly  provided by law may not be submitted to arbitration, [is] not covered by [the]  Agreement.” (Chu Decl., Exh. B, p. 1.) Read together, these provisions require  that Plaintiff submit her individual PAGA claim to binding arbitration.             The  U.S. Supreme Court has held that the representative PAGA claim Plaintiff seeks  to bring on behalf of others is not subject to arbitration. (Viking  River Cruises, Inc. v. Moriana (2022) 596 U.S. 639, 662.) However, the  Supreme Court expressly found that individual PAGA claims are subject to  arbitration. (Id.; see also Barrera v. Apple American Group LLC  (2023) 95 Cal.App.5th 63, 86 (individual PAGA claim ordered to arbitration  where the arbitration agreement required that any arbitration would be on an  individual basis). Notably, Plaintiff did not advance any argument that the  Agreement does not cover Plaintiff’s individual PAGA claim, or that her  individual PAGA claim would not be subject to arbitration.    Given that  Defendant has established by a preponderance of the evidence that an  arbitration agreement exists, and that Plaintiff’s claims are covered by that  agreement, the burden shifts to the Plaintiff to establish that the arbitration  clause should not be enforced. (Pinnacle  Museum Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle Market Development (US), LLC (2012) 55  Cal.4th 223, 236. (Pinnacle).)   2.     Plaintiff’s Burden   The party  opposing arbitration bears the burden of proving, by a preponderance of the  evidence any defense, such as unconscionability or duress. (Pinnacle, supra, 55 Cal.4th at p. 236.)    “Unconscionability has both procedural  and substantive elements. Although both must appear for a court to invalidate a  contract or one of its individual terms, they need not be present in the same degree:  ‘[T]he more substantively oppressive the contract term, the less evidence of  procedural unconscionability is required to come to the conclusion that the  term is unenforceable, and vice versa.’”   (Roman v. Superior Court (2009)  172 Cal.App.4th 1462, 1469. (“Roman”).)  Where the degree of procedural unconscionability is low, “the agreement will be  enforceable unless the degree of substantive unconscionability is high.” (Ajamian v. CantorCO2e (2012) 203  Cal.App.4th 771, 796 (Ajamian).)   A.   Procedural  Unconscionability   “Procedural  unconscionability focuses on the elements of oppression and surprise.  ‘Oppression arises from an inequality of bargaining power which results in no  real negotiation and an absence of meaningful choice … Surprise involves the  extent to which the terms of the bargain are hidden in a ‘prolix printed form’  drafted by a party in a superior bargaining position.’” (Roman, supra, 172 Cal.App.4th at p. 1469.)    Plaintiff  argues that the agreement is procedurally unconscionable because (1) it is a  contract of adhesion, and (2) a copy of the applicable AAA rules were not  attached to the agreement.   I.       Adhesion Contract   Where  pre-employment adhesion contracts are involved, a degree of procedural  unconscionability is always present. This is because, “the arbitration  agreement stands between the employee and necessary employment, and few  employees are in a position to refuse a job because of an arbitration  agreement.” (Little v. Auto Stiegler,  Inc. (2003) 29 Cal.4th 1064, 1071 (Little).)  However, where “there is no other indication  of oppression or surprise, the degree of procedural unconscionability of an  adhesion agreement is low, and the agreement will be enforceable unless the  degree of substantive unconscionability is high.” (Ajamian, supra, 203 Cal.App.4th at p. 796.)    Therefore,  while Plaintiff is correct that including the arbitration clause within a  contract of adhesion indicates a degree of procedural unconscionability, there  must be other indications of oppression or surprise to render the agreement  unenforceable. (Little, supra, 29  Cal.4th at p.1071; Ajamian, supra, 203  Cal.App.4th at p. 796.)    II.              Copy of AAA-Rules   As additional  evidence of procedural unconscionability, Plaintiff points to Defendant’s  failure to attach a copy of the applicable AAA-rules to the Arbitration  Agreement. However, courts have held that a failure to attach arbitration rules  is insufficient, by itself, to sustain a finding of procedural  unconscionability. (Peng v. First  Republic Bank (2013) 219 Cal.App.4th 1462, 1469.) Furthermore, the  applicable rules are available online.    The Court  concludes that Defendants’ failure to directly attach a copy of the applicable  AAA rules does not amount to procedural unconscionability. Because Plaintiff  has shown no other indication of oppression or surprise outside of the  existence of an employment adhesion agreement, the agreement will be  enforceable unless Plaintiff can demonstrate a high degree of substantive  unconscionability. (Ajamian, supra, Cal.App.4th at p. 796.)    B.     Substantive  Unconscionability   Plaintiff  argues the Arbitration Agreement is substantively unconscionable because (1) it  has an unenforceable confidentiality of information/non-solicitation provision;  (2) it not mutual; (3) it fails to guarantee an award of attorney fees to the  Plaintiff if she is the prevailing party; (4) it has a wholesale waiver of PAGA  actions.   “Substantive  unconscionability focuses on the actual terms of the agreement and evaluates  whether they create ‘overly harsh’ or ‘‘one-sided’ results,’ that is, whether  contractual provisions reallocate risks in an objectively unreasonable or  unexpected manner.” (Roman, supra, 172  Cal.App.4th at pp. 1469-1470.)  Substantive unconscionability ‘may take various forms,’ but typically is found  in the employment context when the arbitration agreement is ‘one-sided,’ in  favor of the employer without sufficient justification. (Id.) Common examples of substantive unconscionability include “when  ‘the employee's claims against the employer, but not the employer's claims  against the employee, are subject to arbitration’” (Id.), or when employees are required to pay excessive fees to gain  access to the administrative forum. (Armendariz,  supra, 24 Cal.4th at p.  90-91.)    “Where appropriate, courts  have discretion to sever or limit the application of unconscionable provisions  and enforce the remainder of an arbitration agreement under Civil Code section 1670.5, subdivision (a).” (Ramos,  supra, 28 Cal.App.5th at p. 1065.)  Circumstances in which severability can be appropriate include where the  unconscionability can be cured by striking the offending clause or clauses. (Id. at p. 1069.)             As  for the first contention, Plaintiff argues that the Arbitration Agreement and  the “Agreement Regarding Confidentiality of Information and Non-Solicitation,”  should be read together, as they were presented on the same date and during the  same single primary transaction. Moreover, the “Agreement Regarding  Confidentiality of Information and Non-Solicitation” requires Plaintiff to  agree without any dispute that “Company’s Confidential Information constitutes  valuable trade secrets of the Company that have independent economic value. As  a result, Plaintiff argues that “there is no mutuality here as it presumes  certain legal predicates and harm against Defendant, but does not presume any  elements of any of Plaintiff’s potential claims.” (Opp., 10:6-8.)              However,  to show that this constitutes substantive unconscionability, Plaintiff cites Alberto  v. Cambrian Homecare (2023) 91 Cal.App.5th 482, 493. However, there the  Confidentiality Agreement and Addendum required Alberto to agree in advance to  the existence of irreparable injury and required Alberto to consent to the  issuance of an injunction. Here, by contrast, Defendant’s Agreement defines the  Company’s Confidential Information as valuable trade secrets of the Company which  have independent economic value. Beyond that, the agreement does not  unilaterally define irreparable injury, nor does it require Plaintiff to  consent to the issuance of an injunction. As such, the Court finds Alberto to  be insufficiently analogous to establish substantive unconscionability here.              As  for Plaintiff’s contention that Plaintiff’s employment with Defendant as a  Sales Manager does not fall within one of the statutory exceptions for  non-compete agreements, a factual determination is not appropriate at the  pleadings stage as to the enforceability of the Non-Compete Provision. Rather,  it is sufficient for the Court to determine that this provision could be  severed from the Agreement in order to cure any unconscionability. The Court  finds that it could be.              Plaintiff  also argues that the strict obligations imposed upon by Plaintiff by the  provision will force her “to engage in cost prohibitive formal discovery  procedures to the extent they exist in arbitration.” (Opp., 14: 13-14.)  However, this is speculative, and Plaintiff does not cite any analogous case  law to show that Courts have found this conduct to be evidence of substantive  unconscionability.    As for the  third contention, the agreement provides that “[i]f any party prevails on a  statutory claim that affords the prevailing party attorneys’ fees and costs . .  . the Arbitrator may award reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs to the  prevailing party.” (Flores Decl., Exh. A.) As such, the Agreement does not  limit the ability to recover attorney fees or any type of relief otherwise  available in court because the Arbitration Agreement states that the Arbitrator  “has the authority to award the Parties all form[s] of relief that would  otherwise be available to the Parties in a court of law …” (Id.) As  such, the Court interprets the Agreement’s use of “may award” as affirming the  arbitrator’s ability to award any fees and costs Plaintiff would otherwise be  entitled to as prevailing party. The Court is therefore unpersuaded that this  is an indication of substantive unconscionability.             As  for the final contention, the arbitration agreement provides in relevant part  that: “All claims that are covered by this Agreement can only be brought by me  or the Company on an individual basis. The Company and I agree to waive any  right to join or consolidate claims with others, or to make any claims as a  representative of a class, or in a private attorney general capacity.” While an  arbitration agreement’s wholesale PAGA waiver is unenforceable as a matter of  law, it can easily be severed from the Complaint without fundamentally altering the parties’  agreement regarding the scope of arbitration and the powers of the arbitrators  to provide relief. (Ramos, supra, 28 Cal.App.5th at p. 1065.)   The Court  concludes that Plaintiff has only shown a degree of substantive  unconscionability. While Plaintiff has demonstrated a degree of procedural  unconscionability, she has not demonstrated sufficient substantive  unconscionability to render the Agreement unenforceable, The Court finds that  the arbitration agreement is enforceable. (Ajamian,  supra, Cal.App.4th at p. 796.)    Based on the  foregoing, Defendant’s motion to compel arbitration is granted. This action is  stayed pending the completion of arbitration, after a weighing of the factors  set forth in Landis v. N. Am. Co. (1936) 299 U.S. 248.    It is so ordered.    Dated:  December     , 2024                                                                                                                                           Hon. Jon R.  Takasugi    Judge of the  Superior Court       Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must  send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org  by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court  website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits  on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must  identify the party submitting on the tentative.   If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this  tentative as the final order.  If the department  does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the  tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed  off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)  633-0517.      