  Case Number:  23STCP02362    Hearing Date:   March 14, 2024    Dept:  71 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



JOEY FRANCO, 
  
  
        
  vs.
 
RADIANT REVOLUTION ENTERPRISES, LLC, et al.


 Case
  No.:  23STCP03262
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  March 14, 2024



 
Defendants Valerie Peng’s and
Radiant Revolution Enterprises, LLC’s motion for change of venue is granted in
the alternative to transfer venue to Lake County.
Defendant Valerie Peng’s
Counsel, Carver Farrow II’s, Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel is granted.
Defendant Radiant Revolution
Enterprises, LLC’s Counsel, Carver Farrow II’s, Motion to Be Relieved as
Counsel is granted.
 
Defendants
Radiant Revolution Enterprises, LLC (“Radiant”) and Valerie Peng (“Peng”)
(collectively, “Defendants”) move for this Court to order venue transferred to
Napa County, or in the alternative, Lake County.  (Notice Venue, pg. 1; C.C.P. §§395, 392.)
Defendants’
Counsel, Carver Farrow II, of Dracup & Patterson, Inc., moves to be
relieved as Defendants’ counsel.  (Motion
Radiant; Motion Peng.)
 
1.    
Motion
for Change of Venue
Legal Standard
“The court may, on timely motion, order transfer of an action
‘[w]hen the court designated in the complaint is not the proper court.’
[Citations] The moving party must overcome the presumption that the plaintiff
has selected the proper venue. [Citation] Thus, ‘[i]t is the moving defendant’s
burden to demonstrate that the plaintiff’s venue selection is not proper under
any of the statutory grounds.’ [Citation] In opposing the motion to change
venue, ‘[t]he plaintiff may bolster his or her choice of venue with
counter-affidavits consistent with the complaint’s theory of the type of action
but amplifying the allegations relied upon for venue.’ [Citation.]”  (Fontaine
v. Superior Court (2009) 175 Cal.App.4th 830, 836.) 
A corporation or association may be sued in the county where the
contract is made or is to be performed, or where the obligation or liability
arises, or the breach occurs; or in the county where the principal place of
business of such corporation is situated, subject to the power of the court to
change the place of trial as in other cases. 
(C.C.P. §395.5.)
If venue is proper in either of several counties (i.e., actions
triable at defendant’s residence or elsewhere), defendant must do more than
merely show residence in another county.  Rather, defendant has the burden of “negating
the propriety of venue as laid on all possible grounds”: i.e., it must show
that the county selected by plaintiff was not the place of
injury or contracting, etc.  (Karson
Industries, Inc. v. Superior Court (1969) 273 Cal.App.2d 7, 8-9.)
“Generally,
when venue is proper in more than one county, a plaintiff has the choice of
where to file the action from among the available options. There is a
presumption that the county in which the plaintiff chose to file the action is
the proper county. The burden rests on the party seeking a change of venue to
defeat the plaintiff’s presumptively correct choice of court.”  (Battaglia Enterprises, Inc. v. Superior
Court (2013) 215 Cal.App.4th 309, 313-314.)
For venue purposes, actions are classified as “local” or
“transitory.”  (Brown v. Superior
Court (1984) 37 Cal.3d 477, 482 n.5.) 
To determine whether an action is “local” or “transitory,” the Court
looks to the “main relief sought.”  (Id.)  Where the main relief sought is personal, the
action is transitory; however, where the main relief involves rights to real
property, the action is local.  (Id.)  In transitory actions against individual
defendants, the general rule of venue is applicable, where the county in which
the defendants or some of them reside at the commencement of the action is the
proper county for the trial of the action. 
(See C.C.P. §395(a); see also Brown, 37 Cal.3d at
pg. 483.)  Under C.C.P. §395, “residence”
means “actual bodily presence in the place combined with a freely exercised
intention of remaining there permanently or for an indefinite time.”  (See Enter v. Crutcher (1958) 159
Cal.App.2d Supp. 841, 845.)
 Venue is determined based on the complaint on file at the
time the motion to change venue is made.  (Brown, 37 Cal.3d at pg. 482, citing
Haurat v. Superior Court (1966) 241 Cal.App.2d 330, 337.)  
 
Discussion
          Defendants met their burden to defeat the presumption that
the Plaintiff filed his action in a proper county under C.C.P. §395.  First, the Complaint does not allege any of
the Defendants reside in Los Angeles County. 
(Decl. of Peng ¶¶3-4.)  Second,
Defendants submitted affidavits that they do not conduct business in Los
Angeles County.  (Decl. of Peng ¶5.)  Plaintiff’s Complaint alleges Defendant Radiant’s
member, Defendant Peng, is a resident of Lake County.  (Complaint ¶4.)  This is sufficient to demonstrate Peng’s
place of residence as well as Radiant’s. 
The Complaint also alleges Radiant’s principal place of business is Sebastopol,
California, located in Sonoma County, which is Radiant’s additional place of
residence.  (Complaint ¶3.)  Therefore, neither Defendants are residents
of Los Angeles County.
          Plaintiff Joey Franco (“Franco”) (“Plaintiff”) alleges in
his Complaint that venue is proper in Los Angeles County because “the conduct
from which the Complaint stems was committed on Plaintiff in the County of Los
Angeles and the sale of converted marijuana is likely to take place in in the
County of Los Angeles.”  (Complaint
¶6.)  However, this is not the standard
for determining the propriety of venue on a motion to transfer venue.  
          Since Radiant and Peng are residents of Lake County, and
the gravamen of Plaintiff’s allegations stem from conduct that took place at real
property located at a farm (“Farm”) located at 2593 New Long Valley Road,
Clearlake Oaks, California 95423 in Lake County, venue is proper in Lake
County.  (See Complaint ¶¶13, 17, 18a,
23, 31, 33, 40, 42-44.)
Further, there is no
allegation in Plaintiff’s Complaint of the existence of a contract that was
entered into in Los Angeles County. 
Plaintiff’s argument in opposition that the Court should take judicial
notice of Exhibit 1 of Defendants’ Cross-Complaint for the proposition that a
contract was entered into in Los Angeles County is unavailing—the mere listing
of Plaintiff’s address in West Hills, California is not sufficient to
demonstrate that an alleged contract between Plaintiff and Defendants—only
alleged in the Cross-Complaint—was executed in Los Angeles County.  Nothing in Exhibit 1 of Defendants’
Cross-Complaint makes note of the location in which the contract was entered
into.  (See Cross-Complaint, Exh.
1.)  
Further, the Letter of Intent
(“LOI”) submitted with Plaintiff’s opposition is similarly unavailing.  While the LOI indicates that the forum for
any dispute arising under the LOI shall be in Los Angeles, California, the LOI
also indicates that the LOI automatically terminates upon on the execution of
the Definitive Agreements. (Decl. of Franco, Exh. A, ¶ 10.)  The Court understands the cross-complaint to
be based upon the “Definitive Agreements,” not the LOI.  Moreover, the LOI is between Plaintiff,
Defendant Peng, and two other non-parties; Radiant is not a party to the LOI,
and therefore the LOI is not enforceable against Radiant.
          Accordingly, Defendants’ motion for change of venue is granted
in the alternative to transfer venue to Lake County.
 
Conclusion
Defendants’ motion to for
change of venue is granted in the alternative to transfer venue to Lake County.
Moving Party to give notice.
 
2.    
Motion
to be Relieved as Counsel- Peng
On
September 7, 2023, Plaintiff filed his operative Complaint against Defendants.  On November 27, 2023, Radiant filed its
Answer.  On November 27, 2023, Peng filed
her Cross-Complaint against Plaintiff. 
On December 29, 2023, Plaintiff filed his answer to Peng’s
Cross-Complaint.
On
March 8, 2024, Peng’s counsel, Carver Farrow, filed the instant Motion to be
Relieved as Counsel.
No
trial is set in this matter. 
 
Legal
Standard
California Rule of Court rule 3.1362 (Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel)
requires (1) notice of motion and motion to be directed to the client (made on
the Notice of Motion and Motion to be Relieved as Counsel—Civil form (MC-051));
(2) a declaration stating in general terms and without compromising the
confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship why a motion under Code of
Civil Procedure section 284(2) is brought instead of filing a consent under
Code of Civil Procedure section 284(1) (made on the Declaration in Support of
Attorney’s Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil form (MC-052)); (3) service
of the notice of motion and motion and declaration on all other parties who
have appeared in the case; and (4) the proposed order relieving counsel
(prepared on the Order Granting Attorney’s Motion to Be Relieved as
Counsel—Civil form (MC-053)). 
The court has discretion to allow an attorney to withdraw, and such a
motion should be granted provided that there is no prejudice to the client, and
it does not disrupt the orderly process of justice.  (Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994) 21
Cal.App.4th 904, 915.)
 
Discussion
Counsel
has submitted completed MC-051, MC-052, and MC-053 forms. Counsel has provided
a declaration stating a there are irreconcilable differences with his client,
including his client’s attempt to negotiate with opposing counsel directly
without including him.  (See Decl.
of Farrow.)  Counsel has indicated that Peng
was served with copies of the motion papers filed with the declaration at Defendant
Peng’s last known address and confirmed within the past 30 days that the
address is current by conversation.
 
Conclusion
Peng’s counsel’s Motion to Be
Relieved as Counsel is granted.
Counsel will be relieved upon
filing proof of service on their client of the Order Granting Attorney’s Motion
to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil (Judicial Council form MC-053).
Moving Party to give notice.
 
3.    
Motion
to be Relieved as Counsel- Radiant
On
September 7, 2023, Plaintiff filed his operative Complaint against Defendants.  On November 27, 2023, Radiant filed its
Answer.  On November 27, 2023, Peng filed
her Cross-Complaint against Plaintiff. 
On December 29, 2023, Plaintiff filed his answer to Peng’s
Cross-Complaint.
On
March 7, 2024, Radiant’s counsel, Carver Farrow, filed the instant Motion to be
Relieved as Counsel.
No
trial is set in this matter. 
 
Legal
Standard
California Rule of Court rule 3.1362 (Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel)
requires (1) notice of motion and motion to be directed to the client (made on
the Notice of Motion and Motion to be Relieved as Counsel—Civil form (MC-051));
(2) a declaration stating in general terms and without compromising the
confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship why a motion under Code of
Civil Procedure section 284(2) is brought instead of filing a consent under
Code of Civil Procedure section 284(1) (made on the Declaration in Support of Attorney’s
Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil form (MC-052)); (3) service of the
notice of motion and motion and declaration on all other parties who have
appeared in the case; and (4) the proposed order relieving counsel (prepared on
the Order Granting Attorney’s Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil form
(MC-053)). 
The court has discretion to allow an attorney to withdraw, and such a
motion should be granted provided that there is no prejudice to the client, and
it does not disrupt the orderly process of justice.  (Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994) 21
Cal.App.4th 904, 915.)
 
Discussion
Counsel
has submitted completed MC-051, MC-052, and MC-053 forms. Counsel has provided
a declaration stating a there are irreconcilable differences with his client,
including his client’s attempt to negotiate with opposing counsel directly
without including him.  (See Decl.
of Farrow.)  Counsel has indicated that Peng
was served with copies of the motion papers filed with the declaration at Defendant
Peng’s last known address and confirmed within the past 30 days that the
address is current by conversation.
 
Conclusion
Radiant’s counsel’s Motion to
Be Relieved as Counsel is granted.
Counsel will be relieved upon
filing proof of service on their client of the Order Granting Attorney’s Motion
to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil (Judicial Council form MC-053).
Moving Party to give notice.
 
Dated:  March _____, 2024
                                                                             





  