  Case Number:  23TRCV00918    Hearing Date:   January 16, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿ 
¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 January 16, 2024 
¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                      23TRCV00918
¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                           Vivianne Jean
Coe v. Subaru of America, Inc., et al.         .¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                   Defendant, Subaru Pacific 
¿¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY:        Plaintiff,
Vivianne Jean Coe
¿¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                       Not
Set.
¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Motion for Summary Judgment,
or in the alternative, Summary Adjudication 
                                                
Tentative Rulings:                  (1)  DENIED.  Jensen, not Rodriguez, controls here since there is a triable issue that the seller was an SOA  authorized dealer and that the CPO warranty was issued by SOA
 
 
 
 
                                                 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A.   
Factual¿¿ 
On March 28, 2023,
Plaintiff, Vivianne Jean Cole (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against Subaru of
America Inc., Subaru Pacific, and DOES 1 through 10. On June 16, 2023,
Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) alleging causes of action
for: (1) Violation of the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act – Breach of
Express Warranty; (2) Violation of the Song Beverly Consumer Warranty Act –
Breach of Implied Warranty; (3) Violation of Business and Professions Code §
17200; and (4) Negligent Repair. 
 
Subaru of America (“SOA”) and Subaru Pacific now
file a Motion for Summary Judgment, or in the alternative, Summary
Adjudication.  
B.   
Procedural¿¿ 
On October 27, 2023, SOA and Subaru Pacific filed
their Motion for Summary Judgment, or in the alternative, Summary Adjudication.
On January 2, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition. To date, no reply brief has
been filed. 
 
 
 
II. EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS 
 
            In
opposition, Plaintiff filed evidentiary objections as to Defendants’ evidence.
The Court’s decision is to overrule both of the two objections. 
 
III. ANALYSIS¿ 
 
A.   
Legal
Standard 
 
The function of a motion for summary judgment or
adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an opposing party cannot
show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and to enable an order of
summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield
Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) CCP Section 437(c) “requires the trial
judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all
inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other
inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material
fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”¿ (Adler
v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)¿ “The function
of the pleadings in a motion for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of
the issues; the function of the affidavits or declarations is to disclose
whether there is any triable issue of fact within the issues delimited by the
pleadings.”¿ (Juge v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67,
citing FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 367,
381-382.)¿ 
 
As to each claim as framed by the complaint, the defendant
moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial burden of proof by
presenting facts to negate an essential element, or to establish a defense.
(CCP § 437c(p)(2); Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th
1510, 1520. ) Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of the party
opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor
of that party.”¿ (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc.¿(2006) 39 Cal.4th 384,
389.)¿ 
 
Once the defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts
to the plaintiff to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts
exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto.¿¿¿ 
 
To establish a triable issue of material fact, the party
opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster
v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.) 
 
B.   
Discussion
 
Here, Defendants file this motion for an order granting
summary judgment in their favor as to the following issues: 
 
1.     Plaintiff,
VIVIANNE JEAN COE’s (Plaintiff), first cause of action for violation of the
Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act for Breach of Express Warranty is without
merit because Plaintiff bought a used vehicle with a balance remaining on the
new vehicle limited warranty and Song-Beverly does not apply to sales of used
vehicles with a balance remaining on the new vehicle limited warranty (See
Rodriguez v. FCA US, LLC (2022) 77 Cal.App.5th 209, 222-223 [used vehicle
sold with balance remaining on new vehicle warranty is not a “new motor
vehicle” under Song-Beverly]); and 
2.     Plaintiff’s
second cause of action for violation of the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act
for Breach of Implied Warranty is without merit because Civil Code Section
1795.5 only imposes liability for breach of the implied warranty in connection
with the sale or lease of a used vehicle on a distributor who makes an express
warranty in connection with the sale or lease of the used vehicle, rather than
on a retail seller or distributor, like Defendants, who only made express
warranties with respect to the vehicle when it was new. 
 
Alternatively, Defendants seek an
order adjudicating: 
 
1.     Plaintiff’s
first cause of action for violation of the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act
for Breach of Express Warranty is without merit because Plaintiff bought a used
vehicle with a balance remaining on the new vehicle limited warranty and
Song-Beverly does not apply to sales of used vehicles with a balance remaining
on the new vehicle limited warranty (See Rodriguez v. FCA US, LLC (2022) 77
Cal.App.5th 209, 222-223 [used vehicle sold with balance remaining on new
vehicle warranty is not a “new motor vehicle” under Song-Beverly] ); and 
2.    
Plaintiff’s second cause of action for violation
of the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act for Breach of Implied Warranty is
without merit because Civil Code Section 1795.5 only imposes liability for
breach of the implied warranty in connection with the sale or lease of a used
vehicle on a distributor who makes an express warranty in connection with the
sale or lease of the used vehicle, rather than on a retail seller or
distributor, like Defendants, who only made express warranties with respect to
the Vehicle when it was new.
 
Breach of
Express Warranty
 
            It is undisputed that Plaintiff
purchased the subject vehicle used from an SOA authorized retailer of SOA,
Subaru Pacific. However, Defendants SOA and Subaru Pacific move for summary
judgment as to Plaintiff’s express warranty claims on the basis that the
purchase of a used vehicle with balance remaining on the manufacturer’s express
warranty is not covered by the Song-Beverly Act. 
 
Under the Song-Beverly Act, “[i]f the manufacturer or
its representative in this state is unable to service or repair a new motor
vehicle, as that term is defined in paragraph (2) of subdivision (e) of Section
1793.22, to conform to the applicable express warranties after a reasonable
number of attempts, the manufacturer shall either promptly replace the new
motor vehicle ... or promptly make restitution to the buyer....” (Civ. Code §
1793.2, subd. (d).)  
 
Section
1793.22, subdivision (e)(2) provides, in relevant part, “ ‘New motor vehicle’
means a new motor vehicle that is bought or used primarily for personal,
family, or household purposes. . . . ‘New motor vehicle’ includes … a
dealer-owned vehicle and a ‘demonstrator’ or other motor vehicle sold with a
manufacturer's new car warranty.”   
 
In their
moving papers, Defendants rely on Rodriguez v. FCA US, LLC (2022) 77 Cal.App.5th 209. The issue in Rodriguez was
“whether a used car purchased from a retail seller unaffiliated with the
manufacturer qualifies as a ‘new motor vehicle’ simply because there is some
balance remaining on the manufacturer's warranty.” (Rodriguez, supra, 77
Cal.App.5th at 223.) The plaintiffs had argued that the phrase “other
motor vehicle sold with a manufacturer's new car warranty” in section
1793.22(e)(2) applied to their vehicle, which was purchased used with balance
remaining on an express warranty from the manufacturer. (Id. at 219.)
The Court of Appeal disagreed, and concluded that "the phrase ‘other motor
vehicles sold with a manufacturer's new car warranty’ refers to cars sold with
a full warranty, not to previously sold cars accompanied by some balance of the
original warranty.” In
Defendants’ analysis of Rodriguez, they omit the portion of the analysis
that the vehicle was purchased from a retail seller who was unaffiliated with
the manufacturer. Here, this is not the case. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff relies on Jensen v. BMW of North America,
Inc. (1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 112, where the
Court held that “cars sold with a balance remaining on the manufacturer's new
motor vehicle warranty are included within its definition of ‘new motor
vehicle.’ ” (Id. at 123.) The Rodriguez court purported to
distinguish Jensen on the basis that “Jensen involved a lease by
a manufacturer-affiliated dealer who issued a full new car warranty
along with the lease.” (Rodriguez, 77 Cal.App.5th at 223.) 
 
The Supreme Court granted a petition for review of Rodriguez
on July 13, 2022, and denied requests for depublication of the opinion.
“Pending review, the opinion of the Court of Appeal [in Rodriguez] . . .
may be cited, not only for its persuasive value, but also for the limited
purpose of establishing the existence of a conflict in authority that would in
turn allow trial courts to exercise discretion under Auto Equity Sales, Inc.
v. Superior Court (1962) 57 Cal.2d 450, 456 . . ., to choose between sides
of any such conflict.” (Rodriguez v. FCA US (Cal. 2022) 512 P.3d 654;
see Rules of Court, rule 8.1115, subd. (e).) 
 
In Defendants’ moving papers, they argue that Jensen affirmed
that a used vehicle does not qualify for the protections of Song-Beverly. Defendants
assert the like Rodriguez, Jensen affirms the express terms of
Song-Beverly Act, a “demonstrator” vehicle that was sold with an additional
warranty (rather than the balance of a warranty) qualifies as a “new vehicle”
under Song-Beverly. However, the Court does not agree with Defendants’ narrow
reading of Jensen. The Court in Jensen held that cars sold with a
balance remaining on the new motor vehicle warranty falls within the scope of
the Song-Beverly Act. (35 Cal.App.4th at p. 123 [“We conclude the words of
section 1793.22 are reasonably free from ambiguity and cars sold with a balance
remaining on the manufacturer's new motor vehicle warranty are included within
its definition of ‘new motor vehicle.’ The use of the word ‘or’ in the statute
indicates ‘demonstrator’ and ‘other motor vehicle’ are intended as alternative
or separate categories of ‘new motor vehicle’ if they are ‘sold with a
manufacturer's new car warranty.‘”) Here, Defendants have presented no evidence
that Plaintiff did not buy the subject vehicle with a remaining balance on its
original new motor vehicle warranty. In fact, Defendants concede this point.
(MSJ, p. 1-3.)
 
Based
on this, the Court finds that Defendant has not met its moving burden as to
Plaintiff’s first cause of action for breach of express warranty under the
Song-Beverly Act. While the Supreme Court of California has stated that Rodriguez
may be relied upon for its persuasive value or in establishing the
existence of a conflict in authority that would allow trial courts to choose
between sides of a dispute, it is not binding precedent. (Rodriguez v. FCA
US (2022) 512 P.3d 654). Additionally, this Court is obligated to construe
the facts in the light most favorable to the non-moving party on a motion for
summary judgment or summary adjudication, (D’Amico v. Bd. of Medical
Examiners (1974) 11 Cal.3d 1, 21). Jensen was decided nearly 3 decades
ago and despite other legislative changes to the Song=Beverly Act in the intervening
time, it has not changed the Lemon Law to address much less overrule Jensen.  Accordingly, the Court declines to rely on Rodriguez. Motion
for Summary Judgment as to the First Cause of Action for Breach of Express
Warranty is DENIED. 
 
Breach of
Implied Warranty
 
            Next, Defendants
move for summary judgment on Plaintiff’s second cause of action for Breach of
Implied Warranty because they argue that Plaintiff bought a used vehicle, and
defendants did not issue any express warranties at the time of sale. Civil
Code section 1795.5(a) provides that, “Notwithstanding the provisions of
subdivision (a) of Section 1791 defining consumer goods to mean “new” goods,
the obligation of a distributor or retail seller of used consumer goods in a
sale in which an express warranty is given shall be the same as that imposed on
manufacturers under this chapter except: (a) It shall be the obligation of the
distributor or retail seller making express warranties with respect to used
consumer goods (and not the original manufacturer, distributor, or retail
seller making express warranties with respect to such goods when new) to
maintain sufficient service and repair facilities within this state to carry
out the terms of such express warranties.” (Civ. Code § 1795.5(a) [emphasis
added].)
 
“It
is evident from these provisions that only distributors or sellers of used
goods—not manufacturers of new goods—have implied warranty obligations
in the sale of used goods. (See § 1795.5.) As one court has put it, the
Song-Beverly Act provides similar remedies (to those available when a
manufacturer sells new consumer goods) ‘in the context of the sale of used
goods, except that the manufacturer is generally off the hook.’ (Kiluk v.
Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC (2019) 43 Cal.App.5th 334, 339 [256 Cal. Rptr. 3d
484] (Kiluk), citing § 1795.5; see Kiluk, at p. 337 [Song-Beverly
Act ‘generally binds only distributors and retail sellers in the sale of used
goods’].)” (Nunez v. FCA US LLC (2d Dist. 2021) 61 Cal. App. 5th 385,
399.) 
 
Here,
the parties do not dispute that the subject vehicle was a used vehicle sold by
Subaru Pacific, and not SOA directly. Here, Defendants also argue that SOA did
not step into the shoes of the retailer, like in Kiluk because it did
not offer any new warranties with Plaintiff’s purchase of the vehicle. However,
although not argued in Plaintiff’s opposition, Plaintiff’s separate statement
as to the facts hinging on this cause of action, Plaintiff cites to the Exhibit
B to the declaration of James Hartzberg noting that the certified pre-owned
service agreement states that the vehicle was sold with a limited warranty from
Subaru of America which started on September 18, 2021, the date of the sale to
Plaintiff. However, the Court is having a difficult time deciding this issue as
there is no attachment for Exhibit B to the declaration of James Hartzberg. As
such, the Court is unable to determine based on the moving papers, whether or
not SOA stepped into the role of a retailer, opening it up to implied warranty
liability. 
 
The
parties are requested to provide arguments and documents as to this cause of
action. However, the Court’s tentative ruling is to DENY the motion.