 Case Number:  23AHCV02819    Hearing Date:   March 6, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



ALMA ROSA LOPEZ by and through her successors-in-interest,
   et al., 
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
BEADOR
   CONSTRUCTION COMPANY, INC., et al.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 23AHCV2819
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANT BEADOR CONSTRUCTION COMPANY, INC.’S MOTION TO
   STRIKE PORTIONS OF PLAINTIFF’S COMPLAINT
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
March 6,
   2024



 
On December 6, 2023, plaintiffs
Gabriela Quintero Lopez and Jorge Arnulfo Hernandez Lopez, individually and as
successors-in-interest to Alma Rosa Lopez (“Decedent”), along with Claudia
Lorena Martinez (“Martinez”) (collectively, “Plaintiffs”), filed this action
against defendants Beador Construction Company (“Defendant”), State of California,
County of Los Angeles, and City of Pasadena asserting causes of action for
negligence, premises liability, and dangerous condition of public property. 
Plaintiffs allege that on or about
August 25, 2023, Martinez and Decedent were driving on the westbound 134
Freeway when a piece of metal from a construction site became airborne and went
through the vehicle striking Decedent in the head. (Compl., ¶ 17.) Decedent later
passed away from her injuries on September 16, 2023. Plaintiffs allege that
Defendant negligently failed to maintain the construction site and the
equipment that was used on the site, which caused the piece of metal to strike
Decedent through the vehicle. (Compl., ¶¶ 21, 26.)  
On January 19, 2024, Defendant filed
this motion to strike Paragraphs 26, 37, and Plaintiff’s prayer for punitive
damages. 
Any party, within the time allowed to
respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole
or any part thereof. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435 subd., (b)(1).) The court may,
upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems
proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any
pleading.  (Code Civ. Proc, § 436, subd. (a);
Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767, 782 [“Matter
in a pleading which is not essential to the claim is surplusage; probative
facts are surplusage and may be stricken out or disregarded”].) An immaterial
or irrelevant allegation is one that is not essential to the statement of a
claim or defense; is neither pertinent to nor supported by an otherwise
sufficient claim or defense; or a demand for judgment requesting relief not
supported by the allegations of the complaint. 
(Code Civ Proc, § 431.10, subd. (b).) The grounds for moving to strike
must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)
Defendant argues that Plaintiffs fail
to plead a factual basis for punitive damages. A motion to strike punitive
damages is properly granted where a plaintiff does not state a prima facie
claim for punitive damages, including allegations that defendant is guilty of
oppression, fraud or malice.  (Turman v. Turning Point of Cent. California,
Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th
53, 63.)  “Mere negligence, even gross
negligence, is not sufficient to justify such an award” for punitive
damages.  (Kendall Yacht Corp. v. United California Bank (1975) 50 Cal. App.
3d 949, 958.)  The allegations supporting
a request for punitive damages must be alleged with specificity; conclusory
allegations without sufficient facts are not enough.  (Smith
v. Superior Court (1992) 10
Cal.App.4th 1033, 1041-1042.)
Punitive damages may be imposed where
it is proven by clear and convincing evidence that the defendant has been
guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice. (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).) Here,
Plaintiffs allege without any particular detail that Defendant was “grossly
negligent” and that one or more of its respective officers, directors, or
managing agents acted with malice, oppression or recklessness because these
individuals “knew or should have known of their broken equipment and the lack
of maintenance, inspections and supervision of the area and equipment used.”
(Compl., ¶¶ 26, 37.) This conclusory and vague allegation fails to allege a
factual basis supporting a prima facie finding of malice, oppression, or fraud.
“Malice” is conduct intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff
or despicable conduct which is carried on with a willful and conscious
disregard of the rights or safety of others. (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1).)
“As amended to include [despicable], the [Civil Code section 3294] plainly
indicates that absent an intent to injure the plaintiff, ‘malice’ requires more
than a ‘willful and conscious’ disregard of the plaintiffs’ interests. The
additional component of ‘despicable conduct’ must be found.” (College Hospital Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 725.) The
statute’s reference to despicable conduct represents a “new substantive
limitation on punitive damage awards.” (Id.) Despicable conduct is “conduct which is so vile, base,
contemptible, miserable, wretched or loathsome that it would be looked down
upon and despised by ordinary decent people. Such conduct has been described as
‘having the character of outrage frequently associated with crime.’” (Tomaselli v. Transamerica Ins. Co.
(1994) 25 Cal.App.4th 1269, 1287.) Further, “[t]here must be evidence that
defendant acted with knowledge of the probable dangerous consequences to
plaintiff’s interests and deliberately failed to avoid these consequences.” (Flyer’s Body Shop Profit Sharing Plan v.
Ticor Title Ins. Co. (1986)
185 Cal.App.3d 1149, 1155; see also Angie
M. v. Superior Court (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1217, 1228 [“Conscious disregard
for the safety of another may be sufficient where the defendant is aware of the
probably dangerous consequences of his or her conduct and he or she willfully
fails to avoid such consequences”].) 
In addition to failing to identify any conduct
rising to the level of malice, oppression, or fraud, Plaintiffs also fail to
identify any conduct by an officer, director, or managing agent, as required
for a corporate defendant to be liable for punitive damages. (Civ. Code, § 3294,
subd. (b).) 
Accordingly, Defendant’s motion to
strike is GRANTED. Leave to amend is not granted at this time, but Plaintiffs
may file a motion for leave to file an amended complaint if, during discovery,
they find evidence that supports a prayer for punitive damages. 
 
Moving party to give notice.
 
Dated
this 6th
day of March 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot 
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to appear
at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the hearing and
argue the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If
the Court does not receive emails from the parties indicating submission on
this tentative ruling and there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court
may, at its discretion, adopt the tentative as the final order or place the
motion off calendar.
 