Plaintiff Jila Babazadeh-Shraga seeks a discovery referee in this matter for all purposes because Defendant Gohar Babazadeh has obstructed discovery.  Jila particularly points to the deposition of Gohar in which she contends that opposing counsel asserted so many meritless objections that Jila was forced to suspend the deposition.  Jila also points to numerous discovery motions pertaining to her written discovery. Currently, there is no trial date.  There are 4 discovery motions scheduled.  There are also 7 discovery motions that are reserved.  A discovery referee may be appointed upon agreement of the parties to hear and determine any or all legal or factual issues in the action, and to report a statement of decision. (Code Civ. Proc., § 638.) When the parties do not consent, the court may, upon the written motion of any party, or of its own motion, appoint a referee when the court determines it is “necessary” to appoint a referee to hear and determine any and all discovery motions and disputes relevant to discovery in the action and report findings and make a recommendation thereon.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 639(a)(5).)  Blanket orders directing “any and all” discovery motions to a referee are improper in routine matters.  (See Hood v. Superior Court (1999) 72 Cal.App.4th 446, 449.)  But such orders may be upheld in “unusual” cases where a majority of the following factors exist: (1) multiple issues to be resolved; (2) multiple motions to be heard simultaneously; (3) present motion is only one in a “continuum” of many; and (4) numerous and voluminous documents to be reviewed (especially in connection with issues based on assertion of a privilege) make the inquiry “inordinately time consuming.”  (Taggares v. Superior Court (1998) 62 Cal.App.4th 94, 105.)All appointments of referees pursuant to Code Civ. Proc. § 639(a)(5), must be by written order and must include the following: [1] the exceptional circumstances requiring the reference, which must be specific to the circumstances of the particular case. [2] The subject matter or matters included in the reference. [3] The name, business address, and telephone number of the referee. [4] The maximum hourly rate the referee may charge and, at the request of any party, the maximum number of hours for which the referee may charge. Upon the written application of any party or the referee, the court may, for good cause shown, modify the maximum number of hours subject to any findings as set forth in paragraph (6) [of Code Civ. Proc., § 639]. [5] Either a finding that no party has established an economic inability to pay a pro rata share of the referee's fee or a finding that one or more parties has established an economic inability to pay a pro rata share of the referee's fees and that another party has agreed voluntarily to pay that additional share of the referee's fee. A court shall not appoint a referee at a cost to the parties if neither of these findings is made.(Code Civ. Proc. § 639(d).) Gohar has submitted a declaration indicating she does not have the financial means to pay for a discovery referee.  She states that she makes less than $100,000 in income and that she has “nearly depleted” her savings.  She contends that she can hardly afford the attorneys’ fees arising out of this dispute.Jila contends that Gohar is lying because Gohar lives in a “swanky” apartment and has enough money to prosecute a separate action against Jila. The Court finds Gohar’s declaration to be sufficient to show that she cannot bear the expenses of a discovery referee for all purposes.The Court will reserve the right to refer any individual discovery motion it considers in the future to a referee if it is too voluminous.  The motions that are currently on the docket do not appear to be too voluminous for the Court to hear.   Jila alternatively requests that the Court appoint a referee solely for Gohar’s deposition.  Jila seems to believe there is no way to move forward when opposing counsel is so contentious.  The Court has reviewed the excerpts of the deposition that Jila has highlighted.  The Court also reviewed some portions of the full transcript to gain a “flavor” for the interactions. The Court is not yet ready to assign a discovery referee for the deposition.  Some basic observations for guidance:  opposing counsel is allowed to assert a number of objections, but is not allowed to instruct the witness not to answer unless there is a privilege or harassing conduct that would warrant suspension of the deposition.  Indeed, “Taken as a whole, [the provisions of Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.460] clearly contemplate that deponents not be prevented by counsel from answering a question unless it pertains to privileged matters or deposing counsel’s conduct has reached a state where suspension is warranted.  The fact that suspension is available only where an interrogation into improper matters reveals an underlying purpose to harass, annoy, etc., indicates that witnesses are expected to endure an occasional irrelevant question without disrupting the deposition process.”  (Stewart v. Colonial Wester Agency, Inc. (2001) 87 Cal.App.4th 1006, 1015.)  Objections as to relevancy during a deposition are “unnecessary.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.460.)  Gohar’s counsel objected based on attorney-client privilege and there was no response given when Jila asked when Gohar last reviewed Shalom Brothers’ partnership agreement.  That objection lacks merit and a response should be provided.    Gohar also refused to reveal her current employer based on an NDA that she executed.  The Court believes Gohar’s response was sufficient in that regard.  If there is further information that Jila needs on that topic, she can attempt to ask different questions that do not invoke the NDA.   Further, relevancy is not typically an allowable objection, and Gohar’s counsel should limit the number of objections that are made based on vagueness and lack of foundation.  Everything lacks foundation to a certain extent.  Gohar should try to provide the best response she can without her counsel obstructing the flow of the deposition. The deposition is to resume within 30 days. In sum, the Motion is denied.  However, the Court will consider a discovery referee for individual motions as they come before the Court. Moving party to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 