On November 6, 2023, Plaintiff Meir Siboni filed the operative Complaint against Defendants Frank Menlo, individually and as trustee of the Frank Menlo Trust U/T/L February 22, 1983, and Miracle Mile Properties, LP for (1)-(3) quiet title, (4) declaratory relief, and (5)-(7) cancellation of instruments.  The allegations of the Complaint are as follows.  Siboni is a licensed contractor.  Siboni and Defendant Menlo were involved in the business of renovating properties.  Through threats of ruining Plaintiff’s reputation, Menlo forced Siboni to sign three baseless promissory notes and accompanying deeds of trust (“DOT”) that were secured against his personal residence.  Siboni claims that he was never loaned the money associated with the notes, that he never received any consideration, that he was not given sufficient time to review the notes/DOTS, and that he would not have signed these documents but for Menlo’s duress.  Defendants have initiated foreclosure proceedings.  Siboni now seeks to enjoin the foreclosure sale of his property.  “In deciding whether to issue a preliminary injunction, a court must weigh two ‘interrelated’ factors: (1) the likelihood that the moving party will ultimately prevail on the merits and (2) the relative interim harm to the parties from issuance or nonissuance of the injunction. . . . . The trial court's determination must be guided by a ‘mix’ of the potential-merit and interim-harm factors; the greater the plaintiff’s showing on one, the less must be shown on the other to support an injunction.”  (Butt v. State of California (1992) 4 Cal.4th 668, 677-78 (citations omitted).)  “Plaintiff carries the burden of proof and persuasion on these issues.”  (Drakes Bay Oyster Co. v. California Coastal Com. (2016) 4 Cal.App.5th 1165, 1172.)With respect to the balance of harms, if a preliminary injunction is not ordered, Siboni stands to lose unique real property that is his residence.  If the foreclosure sale is enjoined, Menlo will face further delay in obtaining repayment as a creditor.  On balance, this factor weighs in favor of Siboni as money will not fully account for the unique state of his property.As discussed, the second factor is the probability of prevailing.  The foreclosure at issue relates specifically to the DOT associated with the $340,000 note.   Siboni has submitted a declaration indicating the notes/DOTs were procured by duress and that the notes were designed by Menlo to recoup money that was never intended to be a loan.  There are three notes: one for $1.4 million, one for $340,000, and another for $725,000.   Siboni claims that the note in the amount of $1.4 million is actually directed at funds that Menlo’s mother gifted to Siboni for a downpayment on a house.  While the Court ordered that Siboni not file any reply, Siboni filed a supplemental declaration in which he discussed the other notes.  Siboni claims that the note in the amount of $340,000 represents a donation that Menlo made to Siboni’s temple in Israel.  Finally, Siboni claims that the $725,000 note represents money that Siboni actually received as compensation for his contractor services.  The supplemental declaration also includes a letter purportedly from Menlo’s mother stating that she gifted Siboni $1.4 million.  This letter, however, is hearsay and there is no foundation laid for the letter.  There is no explanation as to the purpose of the letter or the circumstances surrounding its preparation; why it is directed to “whom it may concern”; or why Menlo’s mother refers to Siboni as a “family member”.  The Court sustains the objections to this letter.More importantly, there is no documentary evidence that Siboni presents with respect to the note at issue for the foreclosure.  There is only his testimony that the money relates to a donation for his temple in Israel and that he only signed the note because Menlo threatened to expose and accuse Siboni of improprieties relating to their real estate venture that were actually the fault of Menlo’s son.Based only on the evidence presented by Siboni in his application, the Court does not believe Siboni has a strong likelihood of prevailing.  Again, there is only his testimony that the DOTS were procured by duress.  There is very little provided in the way of details as to the donations, gifts, and the compensation that these notes purportedly represent and not a shred of admissible documentary evidence.Although the balance of harms moderately favors Siboni, given the low likelihood of prevailing (again based only on the evidence presented at this time), the Court does not believe a preliminary injunction is warranted. The objections are sustained, except with respect to Siboni’s statements as to the temple donation, as to which the objections are overruled.Moving parties to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 