This is an interpleader action.  Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. holds frozen funds that Advance Aircraft Training, LLC claims were fraudulently sent to Ningning Ding.Wells Fargo now seeks an order allowing it to serve Ding via publication.  Code Civ. Proc. § 415.50(a) states, “A summons may be served by publication if upon affidavit it appears to the satisfaction of the court in which the action is pending that the party to be served cannot with reasonable diligence be served in another manner specified in this article and that either: (1) A cause of action exists against the party upon whom service is to be made or he or she is a necessary or proper party to the action. (2) The party to be served has or claims an interest in real or personal property in this state that is subject to the jurisdiction of the court or the relief demanded in the action consists wholly or in part in excluding the party from any interest in the property.”“A number of honest attempts to learn the defendant's whereabouts through inquiry and investigation generally are sufficient. (Watts, supra, 10 Cal.4th at p. 749, fn. 5, 42 Cal.Rptr.2d 81, 896 P.2d 807.) A plaintiff must show such efforts because it is generally recognized that service by publication rarely results in actual notice. (Ibid.; accord Donel, Inc. v. Badalian (1978) 87 Cal.App.3d 327, 332, 150 Cal.Rptr. 855 (Donel); Sanford v. Smith (1970) 11 Cal.App.3d 991, 1001, 90 Cal.Rptr. 256 (Sanford).) Whether the plaintiff exercised the diligence necessary to justify resort to service by publication depends on the facts of the case. (Donel, at p. 333, 150 Cal.Rptr. 855.) The question is whether the plaintiff took the steps a reasonable person who truly desired to give notice of the action would have taken under the circumstances.”  (Rios v. Singh (2021) 65 Cal.App.5th 871, 880.)Wells Fargo indicates that it could not render personal service at Ding’s listed residential address; his neighbor stated that he has never seen Ding before; the post office states that Ding moved but there is no forwarding address; Ding’s phone number has been disconnected; Ding does not answer emails; Ding will not respond by mail; online databases indicate that Ding does not have any other address in California; searches indicate that there are individuals by the name of “Ningning Ding” in Dayton, Ohio, Evanston, Illinois, and New York City, New York, but Wells Fargo contends it would be too onerous to attempt personal service at all of these potential addresses; Wells Fargo searched social media and saw that persons by the same name are located in New York, Illinois, Florida, Oregon, and Ohio.Here, Ding is a necessary party as this is an interpleader relating to money sent to his bank account. Further, the Court, in the exercise of its discretion, finds that Wells Fargo has shown diligence in attempting to serve Ding by other means.  Thus, the Motion is granted.  Publication is to take place in the Los Angeles Times, Dayton Daily News, New York Times, and Chicago Tribune. Moving party to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 