 Case Number:  23LBCV02508    Hearing Date:   October 1, 2024    Dept:  S25 BackgroundOn December 29, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a complaint against Defendants Providence Health System – Southern California dba Providence Little Company of Mary MC – San Pedro; Providence Health & Services; Vermont Healthcare Center, LLC dba Vermont Healthcare Center; H & H Healthcare Management, LLC; Lamar Salter, a nominal defendant, and DOES 1 through 100. The complaint asserts causes of action for:1. Dependent Adult Abuse and Neglect (Welfare and Institutions Code § 15600, et seq.) against Providence Health System – Southern California dba Providence Little Company of Mary MC – San Pedro; Providence Health & Services (hereinafter collectively referred to as “Providence”) and Does 1-20;2. Violation of Residents’ Bill of Rights (Health & Safety Code § 1430(b)) against Providence;3. Negligence against Providence and Does 1-20;4. Wrongful Death against Providence and Does 1-20;5. Dependent Adult Abuse and Neglect (Welfare and Institutions Code § 15600, et seq.) against Vermont Healthcare Center, LLC dba Vermont Healthcare Center; H & H Healthcare Management, LLC (hereinafter collectively referred to as “Vermont”) and Does 21-40;6. Violation of Residents’ Bill of Rights (Health & Safety Code § 1430(b)) against Vermont and Does 21-40;7. Negligence against Vermont and Does 21-40; and8. Wrongful Death against Vermont and Does 21-40.Plaintiffs assert that Plaintiff Abraham Salter (“Decedent”) passed away on August 31, 2023 and his daughter and successor-in-interest Latia Salter (“Latia Salter” or “Ms. Salter”) brings the instant action. (Compl., ¶ 2.) Plaintiffs alleged on December 9, 2022, Decedent suffered a heart attack that led to his hospitalization and his subsequent discharge to Defendants Providence Health System – Southern California dba Providence Little Company of Mary MC – San Pedro and Does 1 to 10 (hereinafter collectively referred to as “Providence Little Company”). Plaintiffs claim Decedent developed a pressure ulcer, among other injuries, while under the care of Defendant Providence Little Company. (Compl., ¶¶ 15-24.) Plaintiffs further assert that Decedent was a resident at Defendants Vermont Healthcare Center, LLC dba Vermont Healthcare Center and Does 21-30 (hereinafter collectively referred to as “Vermont Healthcare Center”), a skilled nursing facility, where Decedent failed to receive proper care related to his pressure sores and other injuries during his residency. (Compl., ¶¶ 25-32.) On January 18, 2024, Defendant Vermont filed an answer. On February 5, 2024, Defendant Providence filed an answer.On August 2, 2024, Defendants Vermont Healthcare, LLC dba Vermont Healthcare Center and H & H Healthcare Management, LLC (“Defendants”) filed the instant motion to compel arbitration. On September 17, 2024, Plaintiffs filed an opposition. On September 24, 2024, Defendants filed a reply.Legal StandardThe Federal Arbitration Act (“FAA”) creates a general presumption in favor of arbitration and requires the enforcement of a written agreement to arbitrate. (Gilmer v. Interstate/Johnson Lane Corp. (1961) 500 U.S. 20, 24-25.)“‘The party seeking to compel arbitration bears the burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration agreement.’” (Lopez v. Bartlett Care Center, LLC (2019) 39 Cal.App.5th 311, 317, 251 Cal.Rptr.3d 813 (“Lopez”).) “‘Even the strong public policy in favor of arbitration does not extend to those who are not parties to an arbitration agreement or who have not authorized [an agent] to act for them in executing such an agreement.’” (Young v. Horizon West, Inc. (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 1122, 1128 (“Young”).) “‘[A]n agency cannot be created by the conduct of the agent alone; rather, conduct by the principal is essential to create the agency.”’ (Lopez, supra, 39 Cal. App. 5th at p. 318; see also Civ. Code, § 2315 [“An agent has such authority as the principal, actually or ostensibly, confers upon him”]; id., § 2316 [“Actual authority is such as a principal intentionally confers upon the agent, or intentionally, or by want of ordinary care, allows the agent to believe himself to possess”]; id., § 2317 [“Ostensible authority is such as a principal, intentionally or by want of ordinary care, causes or allows a third person to believe the agent to possess”].) A person who chooses to pursue a contract with a principal through a purported agent “takes the risk not only of ascertaining whether the person with whom he is dealing is the agent, but also of ascertaining the scope of his powers.” (Young, supra, 220 Cal.App.4th at p. 1134.)Enforceability of an arbitration agreement is determined pursuant to the FAA, which requires that: (1) parties have entered into a written arbitration agreement, (2) there exists an independent basis for federal jurisdiction, and (3) the underlying transaction involves interstate commerce. (Cosmotek Mumessillik Ve Ticaret Ltd Sirkketi v. Cosmotek USA, Inc. (D.Conn.1996) 942 21 F.Supp. 757, 759.)“California law reflects a strong public policy in favor of arbitration as a relatively quick and inexpensive method for resolving disputes. To further that policy, Code of Civil Procedure, section 1281.2 requires a trial court to enforce a written arbitration agreement unless one of three limited exceptions applies. Those statutory exceptions arise where (1) a party waives the right to arbitration; (2) grounds exist for revoking the arbitration agreement; and (3) pending litigation with a third party creates the possibility of conflicting rulings on common factual or legal issues.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2; Acquire II, Ltd. v. Colton Real Estate Group (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 959, 967.)Similarly, public policy under federal law favors arbitration and the fundamental principle that arbitration is a matter of contract and that courts must place arbitration agreements on an equal footing with other contracts and enforce them according to their terms. (AT&T Mobility LLC v. Concepcion (2011) 56 U.S. 333, 339.)DiscussionDefendants contend arbitration should be compelled since Decedent’s daughter, Latia Salter, signed the Arbitration Agreement on Decedent’s behalf after Valery Barragan, Defendants’ Admissions Coordinator presented the Arbitration Agreement to Ms. Salter and reviewed it with her. (Declaration of Valery Barragan (“Barragan Decl.”) ¶¶ 9-11, Ex. A.) Particularly, Defendants refer to the Arbitration Agreement as being “binding on all parties, including the Resident’s representatives, executors, family members, and heirs. The Resident’s . . . family members, successors in interest . . . who execute the agreement on the “Resident Representative/Agent Signature” line are doing so not only in their representative capacity for the Resident, but also in their individual capacity and thus agree that any claims brought by Resident’s . . . family members, successors in interest . . . are subject to binding arbitration.” (Barragan Decl., Ex. A at Article 4; see also Ex. A at Article 2 [Ms. Salter’s certification that she had consent or instruction from Decedent to execute the Arbitration Agreement on his behalf].)The Arbitration Agreement has a choice of law provision that states that the agreement shall be construed and enforced in accordance with the Federal Arbitration Act. (Id., Ex. A at Article 7.) Defendants rely on Article 1 of the Arbitration Agreement which states:“It is understood that any dispute as to medical malpractice, that is as to whether any medical services rendered under this-contract were unnecessary or unauthorized or were improperly, negligently or incompetently rendered, will be determined by submission to arbitration as provided by California law, and not by a lawsuit or resort to court process except as California law provides for judicial review of arbitration proceedings. Both parties to this contract, by entering into it, are giving up their constitutional right to have any such dispute decided in a court of law before a jury, and instead are accepting the use of arbitration.”(Id., Ex. A at Article 1.)Based on this provision, Defendants argue this Court lacks authority to consider any of Plaintiffs' arguments in opposition to the instant motion.In opposition, Plaintiffs argue Defendants failed to meet their initial burden of presenting admissible evidence that Latia Salter had actual of implied authority to bind the Plaintiffs to Arbitration. (Pagarigan v. Libby Care Center, Inc. (2002) 99 Cal.App.4th 298, 301 [holding that defendant did not prove actual or ostensible authority merely by presenting evidence that plaintiff's daughter signed the arbitration agreement and thereby implicitly represented she had authority as any such representation is "totally irrelevant" because "[a] person cannot become the agent of another merely by representing herself as such".])Plaintiffs further contend that the Arbitration Agreement is procedurally unconscionable because (1) it was buried in an 80-page Admissions Agreement that appeared as a take-it-or-leave-it agreement and (2) the Arbitration Agreement incorporated rules and terms such as the Federal Arbitration Act and Code of Civil Procedure that were not included and laid out in the Arbitration Agreement presented to Latia Salter. Plaintiffs also state that the Arbitration Agreement is substantively unconscionable as it (1) lacks bilateral mutuality in that the Arbitration Agreement language requires Arbitration for all claims Plaintiffs could have against Defendants but allows Defendants to pursue certain claims against Plaintiffs in court (See Barragan Decl., Ex. A at Article 4 [“This agreement shall be binding for any dispute, except pertaining to collections or evictions brought by the parties hereto”]) and (2) contains an improper fee splitting provision that requires Plaintiffs to pay half of the Arbitration fees and expenses that goes against the spirit of the Elder and Dependent Adult Abuse Act. Lastly, Plaintiffs argue that there is a substantial likelihood of inconsistent rulings with Defendant Providence not being heard the same forum should the instant motion be granted.In reply, Defendants argue Latia Salter represented herself to be the agent of Decedent and, thus had the ability to sign the Arbitration Agreement. (See Civ. Code, § 2317; see Barragan Decl., Ex. A at Article 4.) Defendants also argue that the Arbitration Agreement is both procedurally and substantively conscionable. Defendants further assert that the severability clause in the Arbitration Agreement would rectify any portion of the Arbitration Agreement that the Court finds unconscionable. Moreover, Defendants contend that granting the motion would not result in a substantial likelihood of inconsistent rulings, stating that while there is some overlap in the factual background of the case any judge or arbitrator would enter a ruling against each facility defendant based upon the care and treatment provided to Decedent by the specific facility.Tentative RulingDefendants failed to meet their burden to show that Decedent, through his conduct, conferred actual or ostensible authority on Latia Salter to execute the Arbitration Agreement on his behalf. Without some conduct by Decedent conferring agency and authority upon Latia Salter to agree to arbitration on his behalf, there simply was no agreement to arbitrate. (Flores v. Evergreen at San Diego, LLC (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 581, 593-595 [trial court properly denied skilled nursing facility's petition to compel arbitration, notwithstanding patient's husband's execution of arbitration agreements during admission process, where facility failed to meet its burden to show patient had engaged in conduct causing facility to believe her husband had authority to execute arbitration agreements].); Garcia v. KND Development (2020) 58 Cal.App.5th, 736 [substantial evidence supported conclusion that hospitals failed to show that patient conferred authority to his wife or son to execute arbitration agreements on his behalf]; see Young, supra, 220 Cal.App.4th at p. 1133, [following Flores; “appellants offer nothing to suggest that plaintiff acted in any way to cause the facility's admission coordinator to believe that plaintiff's daughter was authorized to sign an arbitration agreement on plaintiff's behalf”]; Lopez, supra, 39 Cal.App.5th at pp. 317-320 [substantial evidence supported trial court's finding that patient's daughter lacked authority to execute arbitration agreement on patient's behalf, where daughter contradicted skilled nursing facility's evidence that patient verbally authorized her to sign and that she signed in patient's presence].) “Generally, a person who is not a party to an arbitration agreement is not bound by it…However, there are exceptions....[f]or example, a patient who signs an arbitration agreement at a health care facility can bind relatives who present claims arising from the patient's treatment. Further, a person who is authorized to act as the patient's agent can bind the patient to an arbitration agreement… [A]n agency relationship may arise by oral consent or by implication from the conduct of the parties. However, an agency cannot be created by the conduct of the agent alone; rather, conduct by the principal is essential to create the agency.” (Flores, supra, 148 Cal.App.4th at pp. 587-588.) Agency “can be established either by agreement between the agent and the principal, that is, a true agency … or it can be founded on ostensible authority, that is, some intentional conduct or neglect on the part of the alleged principal creating a belief in the minds of third persons that an agency exists, and a reasonable reliance thereon by such third persons.” (Id. at 588.) “The principal must in some manner indicate that the agent is to act for him, and the agent must act or agree to act on his behalf and subject to his control.” (Ibid.)Defendants present no evidence that Decedent intentionally consented to or authorized Latia Salter to act as his agent. Defendants failed to present any persuasive evidence that Decedent caused or allowed Defendants to believe that Latia Salter had such authority by his own negligence or want of ordinary care. For example, there is no evidence: that Decedent knew Latia Salter had signed the Arbitration Agreement on his behalf, that Decedent was presented with the documents and asked Defendants’ staff to give them to Latia Salter, that Decedent authorized or otherwise consented to Latia Salter signing any of the Admission Documents, including the Arbitration Agreement, that Latia Salter requested that the Admissions Agreement and Arbitration Agreement be given to her for signature as opposed to being presented to Decedent.On these grounds, the motion to compel arbitration is DENIED. (Flores, supra, 148 Cal.App.4th at 593-595; Valentine v. Plum Healthcare Grp., LLC (2019) 37 Cal. App. 5th 1076, 1087 [Ostensible agency cannot be established by the representations or conduct of the purported agent; the statements or acts of the principal must be such as to cause the belief the agency exists].