 Case Number:  22STCV25657    Hearing Date:   January 10, 2024    Dept:  71  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
71
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



TEODULO CASTELLANOS, et al.,  
  
         vs.
 
PINNACLE ESTATE PROPERTIES, INC., et al.


 Case No.: 
  22STCV25657
 
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date:  January 10, 2024



 
Cross-Defendants
Pinnacle
Estate Properties, Inc.’s and Jeremy Rodriguez’s demurrer to Cross-Complainant
Jose Valentin Ramirez Solano’s Second Amended Cross-Complaint is sustained with
20 days leave to amend as to the 2nd cause of action, and overruled as to the
3rd, 4th, and 5th causes of action.
Cross-Defendants
Pinnacle Estate Properties, Inc.’s and Jeremy Rodriguez’s motion to strike is
denied as moot. 
The
Court, sua sponte, strikes Cross-Complainant’s allegations against
Pinnacle Cross-Defendants in the 1st, 6th, 7th, and 8th causes of action and
strikes Cross-Complainant’s 9th cause of action in its entirety, as
Cross-Complainant was not granted leave of Court to make such amendments to his
pleading.
 
Cross-Defendants Pinnacle Estate Properties, Inc. (“Pinnacle”) and
Jeremy Rodriguez (“Rodriguez”) (collectively, “Pinnacle Cross-Defendants”)
demur to Cross-Complainant Jose Valentin Ramirez Solano’s (“Solano”) (“Cross-Complainant”)
second amended Cross-Complaint (“SAXC”). 
(Notice of Demurrer, pg. 2.)  Pinnacle Cross-Defendants also move to strike
portions of the SAXC.  (Notice of MTS,
pg. 2.)
 
          Background
Cross-Complainant filed its initial Cross-Complaint on December 5,
2022, against Pinnacle Cross-Defendants and Non-moving Cross-Defendant Efrain
Flores-Yanez (“Yanez”) (collectively, “Cross-Defendants”) for eight causes of
action.  On July 27, 2023, this Court sustained
Pinnacle Cross-Defendants’ demurrer with 20 days leave to amend as to the 2nd,
3rd, 4th, and 5th causes of action.  On
July 14, 2023, Cross-Complainant submitted his first amended cross-complaint
without leave of this Court, which was rejected by the clerk for filing.  
On August 17, 2023, Cross-Complainant filed the operative SAXC
alleging nine causes of action: (1) intentional misrepresentation; (2)
negligent misrepresentation; (3) professional negligence; (4) negligent hiring,
training, supervision, and/or retention; (5) breach of fiduciary duty; (6)
false promise; (7) conversion; (8) intentional infliction of emotional distress;
and (9) aiding and abetting, conspiracy.
Cross-Complainant alleges in or about July 27, 2019, Cross-Complainant,
through a mutual friend named Adan Vargas (“Vargas”) was introduced to
Defendant Yanez at a baby shower and was told by Vargas that Yanez was a real estate
agent.  (SAXC ¶10.)  Cross-Complainant alleges he continued to see
Yanez at certain parties and social gatherings over the next year, but no discussions
of real estate took place.  (SAXC ¶10.)  Cross-Complainant alleges in or around June
2020 he obtained Yanez’s cell phone number, and he called Yanez asking if Yanez
could help him refinance his property located 44250 Artesia Mill Court, Lancaster,
CA 93535.  (SAXC ¶11.)  Cross-Complainant alleges Yanez told him that
he was a real estate agent for Pinnacle and that he could help Cross-Complainant
refinance.  (SAXC ¶11.)  Cross-Complainant alleges after this initial
phone conversation, Yanez sent Cross-Complainant an email requesting certain
information and this email contained Yanez’s name with his association to
Pinnacle at the bottom of the email, adding legitimacy to Yanez’s claims as
being an agent for Pinnacle.  (SAXC ¶11; see
Exh. A.) 
Cross-Complainant alleges despite Pinnacle Cross-Defendants
knowing that Yanez was not a licensed real estate agent they intentionally
represented to him that Yanez was one of their agents by allowing Yanez to
handle all aspects of the Artesia Mill Court refinance.  (SAXC ¶12.) 
Cross-Complainant alleges Pinnacle Cross-Defendants knew or should have
known that Yanez had already been sued on at least two occasions in 2019 for
collections.  (SAXC ¶12; see Exh.
B.)  Cross-Complainant alleges Pinnacle
Cross-Defendants not only allowed Yanez to fraudulently and illegally work for
them as an unlicensed agent but also allowed Yanez a man twice named in a
collections lawsuit as a Defendant to handle a property and money transaction
involving one of their clients.  (SAXC ¶12.)
Cross-Complainant alleges that four years prior to him ever
meeting Yanez, Rodriguez and Yanez had set up a shell LLC known as C.E.
Consultants in order to illegally pay Yanez for his illegal and fraudulent work
as an unlicensed agent. (SAXC ¶13.) 
Cross-Complainant alleges if this shell corporation was legitimate at
all then Pinnacle Cross-Defendants were required to disclose this information
to Cross-Complainant as their client and their intentional failure to do so is
an adoptive admission and ratification that Pinnacle was intentionally in on
any and all criminal and illegal schemes perpetrated by Yanez and Rodriguez.  (SAXC ¶13.)
Cross-Complainant alleges in or around July 15, 2020, he with Yanez’s
assistance, refinanced his property at Artesia Mill Court completing their
first legitimate transaction together.  (SAXC
¶14.)  Cross-Complainant alleges he at
this point, he being ignorant to the real estate business, he had no reason to
believe Yanez was not licensed and reasonably believed Yanez’s representations
because the refinance of his property was completed successfully.  (SAXC ¶14.) 

Cross-Complainant alleges in or around the end of April 2021, he once
again contacted Yanez by phone telling him that he wanted to sell his property
located on Artesia Mill Court.  (SAXC
¶15.)  Cross-Complainant alleges Yanez
told him that Pinnacle charged a 5% commission, and he would be his agent.  (SAXC ¶15.) 
Cross-Complainant alleges the property was put up for sale in or around
May 3, 2021.  (SAXC ¶15.)  
Cross-Complainant alleges towards the close of escrow, for the
first time he received an email for the first time from Rodriguez.  (SAXC ¶15.) 
Cross-Complainant alleges when he asked Yanez who Rodriguez is, Yanez said
that Rodriguez was his boss at Pinnacle and a broker.  (SAXC ¶15.) 
Cross-Complainant alleges despite Rodriguez’s email, not once did
Rodriguez or anyone else from Pinnacle contact Cross-Complainant by phone or
meet with him in person to act as Cross-Complainant’s agent or the clarify the
status of Cross-Complainant’s agent representation which was required since it
was Pinnacle Cross-Defendants who were listed as the agent and broker on the
sale of this property, and with such inaction Pinnacle Cross-Defendants
intentionally ratified any and all conduct taken by Yanez.  (SAXC ¶15; see Exh. C.)  
Cross-Complainant alleges escrow closed for the sale of his
Artesia Mill property on or around June 21, 2021, completing his second transaction
with Yanez performing as a real estate agent with Pinnacle Cross-Defendants.  (SAXC ¶15.) 
Cross-Complainant alleges for this transaction, Yanez was illegally paid
a commission as a fraudulent and illegal real estate agent.  (SAXC ¶15; see Exh. D.)  Cross-Complainant alleges after this second
transaction, he had even more reason to believe that Yanez was a valid real
estate agent with Pinnacle.  (SAXC ¶15.)
Cross-Complainant alleges after the sale of the property on
Artesia Mill, he wanted to purchase a new house and began sharing more and more
text message communications with Yanez for the purpose of looking for a
property to purchase. (SAXC ¶16.) 
Cross-Complainant alleges he found a property he wanted located at 2757 Emerald
Lane, Lancaster, CA 93535 (“Emerald Lane Property”).  (SAXC ¶16.) 
Cross-Complainant alleges by this time, as they already knew in 2016, Pinnacle
Cross-Defendants knew that Yanez was illegally acting as a real estate agent for
Plaintiff Teodulo Castellanos (“Castellanos”) (“Plaintiff”) sending him and his
daughter Jessica Oliva (“Oliva”) emails representing himself as an employee for
Pinnacle and collecting personal and confidential private information.  (SAXC ¶16; see Exh. E.)  Cross-Complainant alleges based on Yanez’s
communication, representations, and dealings with Castellanos, based on Yanez’s
August 25, 2021 email to Castellanos, Pinnacle Cross-Defendants had an absolute
duty to notify Cross-Complainant that Yanez was not an agent and was not Cross-Complainant’s
agent because Yanez represented himself as a Pinnacle agent through the Castellanos
email, but intentionally failed to do so because Cross-Defendants were all
intentionally in on the fraudulent schemes together.  (SAXC ¶16.)
Cross-Complainant alleges Yanez helped him with the purchase of
the Emerald Lane Property, and again, Cross-Complainant was illegally and
fraudulently being represented by Yanez as his agent with Pinnacle
Cross-Defendants being Yanez’s superiors. 
(SAXC ¶17.)  Cross-Defendant
alleges Yanez fraudulently and illegally acted as an agent working with
Pinnacle Cross-Defendants, and during the transaction Pinnacle Cross-Defendants
never once acted as Cross-Complainant’s agent or clarify the status of
Cross-Complainant’s representation or provide or explain any real estate
contracts or disclosures to Cross-Complainant in his native language of
Spanish.  (SAXC ¶17.)  Cross-Complainant alleges Pinnacle
Cross-Defendants had a duty to perform all aspects of an agent and broker or at
the very least disclose to Cross-Complainant that Yanez was not a licensed real
estate agent so that Cross-Complainant could make the decision of whether or
not he wanted to deal with Yanez, and it was Pinnacle Cross-Defendants who were
listed on the real estate documents. 
(SAXC ¶17.)  Cross-Complainant
alleges Yanez was illegally paid a commission for illegally and fraudulently
performing as a real estate agent.  (SAXC
¶17; see Exh. D.)  
Cross-Complainant alleges a few weeks after he moved into his new
house, Yanez showed up to give him his leftover escrow check, and upon this
meeting Yanez told Cross-Complainant of a hard money loan opportunity for Cross-Complainant.
 (SAXC ¶18.)  Cross-Complainant alleges Yanez told him that
Castellanos was a client of Pinnacle and that he needed a loan of $200,000 to complete
a real estate purchase transaction through his company.  (SAXC ¶18.)  
Cross-Complainant alleges he was told that Castellano already had the
other $250,000 and just needed the $200,000 more to complete the sale through
Cross-Defendants.  (SAXC ¶18.)  Cross-Complainant alleges Yanez told him that
each of them would lend $100,000 to Castellanos and that Castellanos would
return to them $120,000 each in six or seven months.  (SAXC ¶18.) 
Cross-Complainant alleges Yanez assured him that Castellanos was a
client through Pinnacle, a true fact, and they would make sure the transaction
is carried out.  (SAXC ¶18.)  Cross-Complainant alleges Yanez represented
that Castellanos had a plumbing company and billed his clients a lot of money.  (SAXC ¶18.) 
Cross-Complainant alleges having already completed three legitimate
transactions with Yanez as his agent and Pinnacle Cross-Defendants, and
reasonably believing that he once again was dealing with Cross-Defendants, he agreed
to the deal through this trusted relationship. 
(SAXC ¶18.)
Cross-Complainant alleges in or around March 20, 2022, Yanez
showed up to his house to collect the $100,000 cash for the loan agreement with
Castellanos to help finance the purchase through Pinnacle Cross-Defendants.  (SAXC ¶19.) 
Cross-Complainant alleges Yanez showed him what appeared to be a
legitimate loan agreement contract displaying the terms discussed above.  (SAXC ¶19.) 
Cross-Complainant alleges because all prior real estate contracts and
disclosures in his prior transaction were done in English and were completed,
Cross-Complainant reasonably relief on Yanez’s representations that this hard
money loan was between him and Cross-Defendants.  (SAXC ¶19.) 
Cross-Complainant alleges he was given even more assurance by Yanez when
Yanez told him that to protect their investment, they would place a lien on
Castellanos’ property if he didn’t pay them back as it was part of the
business, and assured Cross-Complainant that Castellanos would pay them the
money as he was a trustworthy client through Pinnacle. (SAXC ¶19.)  
Cross-Complainant alleges he believed Yanez’s representations and
trusted him, so he signed the personal loan agreement.  (SAXC ¶20.) 
Cross-Complainant alleges Yanez also signed the hard money loan
agreement and Cross-Complainant gave Yanez the $100,000.  (SAXC ¶20.)  Cross-Complainant alleges Yanez then told him
that he would have Castellanos sign the agreement the next day in front of a notary
and that Castellanos was the only one who needed to sign in front of the Notary
because he was the one asking for a loan.  (SAXC ¶20.) 
Cross-Complainant alleges a few weeks later, Yanez gave him copy of the
contract with what appeared to be Castellanos’ signature and a notary
certificate by a person named J. Oronoz.  (SAXC ¶20; see Exh. E.)  Cross-Complainant alleges that because he was
ignorant to real estate transactions and paperwork and not fluent in English,
he had no reason to believe the hard money loan contract was any different from
his previous transactions, as all transactions including the hard money loan
involved property and money.  (SAXC ¶20.)
Cross-Complainant alleges in or around June 2022, he learned from a
woman, Bricia Ontiveros (“Ontiveros”), the wife of Vargas, that Yanez was
leaving his wife whose name is Yahaira for another woman because Yahaira had
found messages from that woman on Yanez’s phone.  (SAXC ¶21.) 
Cross-Complainant alleges he learned from Ontiveros that Yanez was
buying his new lover bags, shoes, designer clothes, and was spending and
betting large amounts of money at casinos and hotels.  (SAXC ¶21.)
Cross-Complainant alleges he began calling Yanez to ask about the money
for the hard money real estate transaction loan and Yanez insisted that he
would get his money.  (SAXC ¶22.)  Cross-Complainant alleges he began
investigating and asked another friend who is a real estate agent to review his
real estate documents for the purchase of his house.  (SAXC ¶22.) 
Cross-Complainant alleges upon review of the paperwork, he noticed that Yanez’s
name did not appear on any of his real estate documents and that the only names
that appeared were Pinnacle Cross-Defendants’ names.  (SAXC ¶22.) 
Cross-Complainant alleges upon further investigation by his real estate agent
friend, it was revealed that Yanez is not even a real estate agent.  (SAXC ¶22.) 

Cross-Complainant alleges he was now fully aware that he had been
defrauded by Cross-Defendants and went to the Lancaster Sheriff Station to make
a report but was told by officers that the hard money real estate transaction
loan agreement had not expired yet and that he must show that Castellanos never
received the money for the loan or was refusing to pay it back.  (SAXC ¶23.)
Cross-Complainant alleges on or around August 7, 2022, he went to Castellanos’
house to find out if he ever received the $200,00 dollars from Yanez. (SAXC ¶24.)  Cross-Complainant alleges when he arrived, Castellanos’
daughter answered the door asking him if he wanted Plumbing Work.  (SAXC ¶24.) 
Cross-Complainant alleges he did not want to discuss the hard money real
estate transaction loan agreement with her and told her that he was looking for
Plumbing Work.  (SAXC ¶24.)  
Cross-Complainant alleges when he did talk to Castellanos and
showed him the loan agreement, Castellanos told him that he never signed the
agreement and never received any money from Yanez, but that Cross-Defendants
had stolen even more money from him, even more than Cross-Complainant had lost.
 (SAXC ¶24.)  Cross-Complainant alleges he asked Castellanos
to go to the Sheriff Station with him to make the report, but Castellanos told
him that he is going to call his lawyer and would make a report if his lawyer
told him to.  (SAXC ¶24.)  Cross-Complainant alleges he left Castellanos
with a copy of loan agreement and a picture of Yanez.  (SAXC ¶24.) 

Cross-Complainant alleges after contacting his counsel, Castellanos
filed his Complaint in the instant matter naming Yanez, Cross-Complainant, Rodriguez,
Oronoz, and Pinnacle as Defendants.  (SAXC
¶25.)  Cross-Complainant alleges despite
being an innocent victim and being the only party to have been damaged, he was
named as a Defendant and falsely accused of being involved with the actions of Yanez
and the other Defendants.  (SAXC ¶25.)  
Cross-Complainant alleges on August 10, 2022, the date the hard
money loan agreement was due, he received a call from Rodriguez asking him what
the lawsuit was all about and if he had heard from Yanez.  (SAXC ¶26.) 
Cross-Complainant alleges he asked Rodriguez to disclose the whereabouts
of his employee, Yanez.  (SAXC ¶26.)  Cross-Complainant alleges Rodriguez denied
that Yanez worked for him and said he simply referred him clients.  (SAXC ¶26.) 
Cross-Complainant alleges he told Rodriguez that Yanez is the one who
did all the work for the sale and purchase of his properties.  (SAXC ¶26.) 
Cross-Complainant alleges he told Rodriguez that Rodriguez was not his
agent as he never met him in person, that Yanez did all the agent work, and
that and this was the first and only time he and Rodriguez had ever talked on
the phone.  (SAXC ¶26.)  
Cross-Complainant alleges Rodriguez was never present for any
negotiations, walkthroughs, inspections, and played no part in helping
Cross-Complainant with any part of his Pinnacle transactions.  (SAXC ¶26.) 
Cross-Complainant alleges Rodriguez never once went over any
documentation in English or in Spanish with him.  (SAXC ¶26.) 
Cross-Complainant alleges despite Rodriguez’s lie that Yanez is only a
“finder” for him and Pinnacle, not once has Pinnacle Cross-Defendants sought
prosecution of Yanez or presented any tangible evidence they are not involved
in Yanez’s criminal schemes, which serves as an adoptive admission and
ratification that Pinnacle Cross-Defendants are intentionally involved in
Yanez’s criminal conduct.  (SAXC ¶26.)
Cross-Complainant alleges on information and belief that the
officers, directors, managing agents of Pinnacle, including but not limited to,
Jeffrey Owen Black, CFO, Dana Potter (CEO), Danial Ross (President), and Carl
Torres (COO), Kent Palmer, in the conduct described in this Cross-Complaint and
Plaintiff’s Complaint, specifically, with knowledge of, participated in and in
concert with Defendants Rodriguez and Yanez, individually or together,
ratified, endorsed, approved of and/or directed the conduct and actions of
Defendants Rodriguez and Yanez as alleged herein.  (SAXC ¶27.)
Cross-Complainant alleges in or around August 15, 2022, Castellanos
was granted an order protecting against any liens or encumbrances being placed
on the Subject Property.  (SAXC ¶28.)  Cross-Complainant alleges he revisited with
the Sheriff’s Department and was able to file a report against Yanez which is
still pending investigation.  (SAXC ¶28.)  Cross-Complainant alleges Yanez has
disappeared leaving him damaged and out of his $100,000 dollars.  (SAXC ¶28.) 
Cross-Complainant alleges the actions of Yanez, Rodriguez, and Pinnacle have
left him substantially economically and psychologically damaged and remains
damaged to this day.  (SAXC ¶28.)  
On September 18, 2023, Pinnacle Cross-Defendants filed the instant
demurrer and motion to strike.  On December
26, 2023, Cross-Complainant filed an opposition to the demurrer and an
objection to the motion to strike, which the Court believes is intended to be
an opposition.  On January 3, 2024,
Pinnacle Cross-Defendants filed its replies. 
On January 3, 2024, Cross-Complainant filed a pair of notices of errata
regarding its opposition filings.
 
Meet and Confer
Before filing a demurrer, the moving party must meet and
confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading to
attempt to reach an agreement that would resolve the objections to the pleading
and obviate the need for filing the demurrer. 
(C.C.P. §430.41.) 
Pinnacle
Cross-Defendants’ counsel submitted a declaration stating that on September 6,
2023, she sent an email to Cross-Complainants’ counsel regarding the issues
presented in the instant demurrer, and Cross-Complainants’ counsel did not
agree to amend the SAXC.  (Decl. of
Hawatmeh ¶2, Exh. A.)  Pinnacle
Cross-Defendants’ counsel’s declaration is insufficient, as the moving party must meet and confer in person or by
telephone with the party who filed the pleading, and the parties only
communicated via email.  (C.C.P. §430.41(a),
emphasis added.)  However, a
determination by the court that the meet and confer process was insufficient is
not grounds to overrule a demurrer.  (C.C.P.
§430.41(b).)  Therefore, the Court will
consider the instant demurrer.
 
A.  
Demurrer
Summary of Demurrer
Pinnacle Cross-Defendants demur on the basis that Cross-Complainant’s
1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 5th, 6th, 7th, 8th, and 9th causes of action fail to state
facts sufficient to constitute causes of action and are uncertain.  (Demurrer, pgs. 3-4; C.C.P. §§430.10(e), (f).)[1]
 
Legal Standard
“[A] demurrer tests the legal
sufficiency of the allegations in a complaint.” (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc.
(2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  A
demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the
pleading under attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially
noticeable.  (See Donabedian v.
Mercury Insurance Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 [in ruling on a
demurrer, a court may not consider declarations, matters not subject to
judicial notice, or documents not accepted for the truth of their
contents].)  For purposes of ruling on a
demurrer, all facts pleaded in a complaint are assumed to be true, but the
reviewing court does not assume the truth of conclusions of law.  (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital District
(1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)
 
Failure to State a Claim
Negligent
Misrepresentation (2nd COA)
A cause of action for negligent misrepresentation requires the
following elements: (1) assertion of an untrue fact; (2) honestly made in the
belief it is true; (3) but without a reasonable ground for such belief; (4) defendant’s
intent to induce plaintiff’s reliance upon the representation; (5) plaintiff’s
justifiable reliance upon the representation; and (6) resulting damage.  (Melican v. Regents of University of
California (2007) 151 Cal.App.4th 168, 182; County of Kern v. Sparks
(2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 11, 20; Small v. Fritz Companies, Inc. (2003) 30
Cal.4th 167, 173-174; see also Charnay v. Cobert (2006) 145
Cal.App.4th 170, 185, n.14 [requiring pleading particularity with facts that
show how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations were
tendered]; Cadlo v. Owens-Illinois, Inc. (2004) 125 Cal.App.4th 513, 519
[requiring pleading specificity]; Byrum v. Brand (1990) 219 Cal.App.3d
926, 940 [rejecting a cause of action for negligent misrepresentation based on
unintentional omission or concealment]; see CACI 1903.)
Cross-Complainant alleges Pinnacle Cross-Defendants and Yanez
negligently represented to him that Yanez was an agent for Pinnacle and that
Rodriguez was Yanez’s boss.  (SAXC ¶39.)  Cross-Complainant alleges by allowing Yanez
to operate under the license of Rodriguez and never once communicating to Cross-Complainant
that Yanez was not a licensed agent, Pinnacle Cross-Defendants are liable for
any and all representations made to Cross-Complainant by Yanez.  (SAXC ¶39.) 
Cross-Complainant alleges it is Rodriguez and Pinnacle’s name on all real
estate transactions, and they had the duty and responsibility to supervise and
monitor all conduct taken by Yanez and communicate to Cross-Complainant that
Yanez not licensed and that Rodriguez was Cross-Complainant’s agent.  (SAXC ¶39.) 

Cross-Complainant alleges because Pinnacle Cross-Defendants never
once stepped in for all three transactions and disclosed what their
relationship was with Yanez and intentionally acted to defraud
Cross-Complainant, Cross-Complainant reasonably believed that Yanez was his
agent and that he worked for Pinnacle and that Rodriguez was his boss.  (SAXC ¶40.) 
Cross-Complainant alleges because Pinnacle Cross-Defendants affiliated
themselves with Yanez and did not take steps to oversee his representation,
they are liable for all representations made by Yanez, as he made them under the
guise of being Pinnacle’s agent illegally and fraudulently working under
Rodriguez’s credentials.  (SAXC ¶40.)
Cross-Complainant fails to allege a misrepresentation made by
Pinnacle Cross-Defendants and fails to allege a misrepresentation with the
requisite specificity showing how, when, where, to
whom, and by what means the representations were tendered.  (SAXC ¶¶32, 39, 69.)  To the extent Cross-Complainant alleges
Pinnacle Cross-Defendants ratified Yanez’s representations to
Cross-Complainant, Cross-Complainant must allege with specificity the date of
ratification showing how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the
representations were tendered.
Accordingly, Pinnacle Cross-Defendants’ demurrer
to Cross-Complainant’s 2nd cause of action is sustained with 20 days
leave to amend.
 
Professional Negligence & Breach of Fiduciary Duty (3rd &
5th COAs)
A cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty requires the
following elements: (1) the existence of a fiduciary duty; (2) a breach of the
fiduciary duty; and (3) resulting damage.  (See Pellegrini v. Weiss (2008) 165
Cal.App.4th 515, 524; Knox v. Dean (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 417, 432.)  Similarly, a claim of professional malpractice
requires there to be a duty of the professional to use such skill, prudence,
and diligence as other members of his profession commonly possess and exercise
and a breach of that duty.  (Budd v.
Nixen (1971) 6 Cal.3d 195, 200.)
“Under the common law, . . . a broker’s fiduciary duty to his
client requires the highest good faith and undivided service and loyalty. ‘The
broker as a fiduciary has a duty to learn the material facts that may affect
the principal’s decision. He is hired for his professional knowledge and skill;
he is expected to perform the necessary research and investigation in order to
know those important matters that will affect the principal's decision, and he
has a duty to counsel and advise the principal regarding the propriety and
ramifications of the decision. The agent’s duty to disclose material
information to the principal includes the duty to disclose reasonably
obtainable material information. [¶] . . . [¶] The facts that a broker must
learn, and the advice and counsel required of the broker, depend on the facts
of each transaction, the knowledge and the experience of the principal, the
questions asked by the principal, and the nature of the property and the terms
of sale. The broker must place himself in the position of the principal and ask
himself the type of information required for the principal to make a
well-informed decision. This obligation requires investigation of facts not
known to the agent and disclosure of all material facts that might reasonably
be discovered.’”  (Field v. Century 21
Klowden-Forness Realty (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 18, 25-26, internal citations
omitted.)
“A fiduciary must tell its principal of all information it
possesses that is material to the principal’s interests. A fiduciary’s failure
to share material information with the principal is constructive fraud, a term
of art obviating actual fraudulent intent.  (Michel v. Moore & Associates, Inc.
(2007) 156 Cal.App.4th 756, 762, internal citations omitted.). “[Fiduciary]
duties require full and complete disclosure of all material facts respecting
the property or relating to the transaction in question.”  (Padgett v. Phariss (1997) 54
Cal.App.4th 1270, 1286.)
Cross-Complainant sufficiently alleges causes of action for breach
of fiduciary duty and professional negligence against Pinnacle Cross-Defendants
for the Artesia Mill Property, which Cross-Complainant refers to in Exhibit C.  (See SAXC ¶15, Exh. C at pg. 1.)  Cross-Complainant sufficiently alleges a breach
of fiduciary duty by allowing Yanez to act as Cross-Complainant’s real estate
agent, and failing to communicate to Cross-Complainant that Rodriguez was his
actual agent and Solano was not a licensed agent.  (SAXC ¶47.)  Cross-Complainant sufficiently alleges he was
harmed by Pinnacle Cross-Defendants by having $100,000 stolen from him by
Solano, Pinnacle Cross-Defendants’ agent. 
(SAXC ¶46.)  Therefore, Cross-Complainant
sufficiently alleges a breach of fiduciary duty Pinnacle Cross-Defendants owed
to Cross-Complainant and professional negligence by Pinnacle Cross-Defendants.
Accordingly, Pinnacle Cross-Defendants’ demurrer
to Cross-Complainant’s 3rd and 5th causes of action is overruled.
 
Negligent Hiring/Supervision/Retention (4th COA)
A cause of action for negligent hiring, supervision, or retention
of an employee requires: (1) employer hires employee; (2) the employee
was/became unfit or incompetent to perform the work for which he was hired; (3)
employer knew or should have known the employee was/became unfit or incompetent
and that this unfitness or incompetence created a particular risk to others; and
(4) hiring/supervising/retaining employee was a substantial factor in causing
plaintiff’s harm.  (CACI 426).  To establish a cause of action for negligent
hiring, retention or supervision, a plaintiff must show that the employer knew
or should have known that hiring or retaining the employee created a particular
risk or hazard and that particular harm occurs.  (Z.V. v. County of Riverside (2005) 238
Cal.App.4th 889, 902.)
Cross-Complainant sufficiently alleges Pinnacle Defendants allowed
Yanez to work for them as an unlicensed agent. 
(SAXC ¶12.)  Cross-Complainant
alleges Pinnacle Cross-Defendants paid Yanez for this work as an unlicensed
agent.  (SAXC ¶¶13,
17; Exh. D.)  Cross-Complainant
sufficiently alleges Pinnacle Cross-Defendants knew or should have known that
Yanez was not a licensed real estate agent. 
(SAXC ¶17.)  Cross-Complainant
sufficiently alleges Pinnacle Cross-Defendants’ hiring of Yanez was a
substantial factor in causing Cross-Complainant’s harm.  (SAXC ¶¶14-20.)
Accordingly, Pinnacle Cross-Defendants’ demurrer
to Cross-Complainant’s 4th cause of action is overruled.
 
Conclusion
Pinnacle Cross-Defendants’ demurrer to Cross-Complainant’s
Cross-Complaint is sustained with 20 days leave to
amend as to the 2nd cause of action, and overruled as to the 3rd, 4th, and 5th
causes of action.
Moving Party to give notice.
 
B.   
Pinnacle Cross-Defendants’ Motion to
Strike
In light of the Court’s ruling on the demurrer, Pinnacle
Cross-Defendants’ motion to strike is denied as moot.
 
C.   
The Court’s Motion to Strike
The Court moves, sua sponte, to strike Cross-Complainant’s
allegations against Pinnacle Cross-Defendants in the 1st, 6th, 7th, and 8th
causes of action and strikes Cross-Complainant’s 9th cause of action in its
entirety, as Cross-Complainant was not granted leave of Court to make such
amendments to his pleading.
 
Legal Standard 
C.C.P. §436 provides that the Court may .
. . at any time within its discretion and upon terms it deems proper, “[s]trike
out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the
laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.”  (C.C.P.
§436(b).) 
 
Discussion
It is the general rule that when a court “sustains a demurrer with
leave to amend, the scope of the grant of leave is ordinarily a limited one. It
gives the pleader an opportunity to cure the defects in the particular causes
of action to which the demurrer was sustained, but that is all.”  (Community Water Coalition v. Santa
Cruz County Local Agency Formation Commission (2011) 200 Cal.App.4th 1317,
1329.)  “The Plaintiff may not amend the
complaint to add a new cause of action without having obtained permission to do
so, unless the new cause of action is within the scope of the order granting
leave to amend.”  (Id., quoting Harris
v. Wachovia Mortgage, FSB (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 1018, 1023.)  “[L]eave to amend must be construed as
permission to the pleader to amend the cause of action which he pleaded in the
pleading to which the demurrer has been sustained.” (People ex rel. Department
of Public Works v. Clauson (1957) 248 Cal.App.2d 770, 785.)
The prior demurrer and motion to strike did not address Cross-Complainant’s
causes of action against Pinnacle Cross-Defendants for intentional
misrepresentation (1st cause of action), fraud by false promise (6th cause of
action), conversion (7th cause of action), and intentional infliction of
emotional distress (8th cause of action) because those causes of action were
stated specifically against Yanez, and not against Pinnacle Cross-Defendants,
in the initial Cross-Complaint.  Here, these
causes of action ambiguously state each cause of action is against each Cross-Defendant.
Further, the 9th cause of action against all Cross-Defendants for aiding and
abetting, conspiracy is newly stated without leave of this Court. Cross-Complainant
was not permitted to amend his pleading to state these new legal theories
against Pinnacle Cross-Defendants from this Court’s 7/28/23 Ruling, or by
Cross-Complainant moving for leave of this Court to amend.
Accordingly, Cross-Complainant’s allegations against Pinnacle
Cross-Defendants in the 1st, 6th, 7th, and 8th causes of action and 9th cause
of action in its entirety are stricken from Cross-Complainant’s SAXC.
 
Conclusion
The Court, sua sponte, strikes Cross-Complainant’s
allegations against Pinnacle Cross-Defendants in the 1st, 6th, 7th, and 8th
causes of action and strikes Cross-Complainant’s 9th cause of action in its
entirety.
 
Dated: 
January _____, 2024
                                                                             





  