 Case Number:  24TRCV00333    Hearing Date:   May 29, 2024    Dept:  B Hearing Date: May 29, 2024Moving Parties: (1) Defendant Delta Air Lines, Inc.(2)-(4) Plaintiffs Z.B., a minor, J.B., a minor by their guardian, S.S. and S.S., an individualResponding Party: None as of May 24, 2024(1) Application for Pro Hac Vice of Kathryn A. Grace(2) Application for Pro Hac Vice of Adam S. Kaufmann(3) Application for Pro Hac Vice of Jeffrey D. Robinson(4) Application for Pro Hac Vice of Karen AgnifiloThe court considered Plaintiffs’ and Defendant’s Applications for Pro Hac Vice. No oppositions or replies were filed. RULINGDefendant’s Application for Pro Hac Vice of Kathryn A. Grace is GRANTED.Plaintiffs’ Application for Pro Hac Vice of Adam S. Kaufmann is GRANTED.Plaintiffs’ Application for Pro Hac Vice of Jeffrey D. Robinson is GRANTED.Plaintiffs’ Application for Pro Hac Vice of Karen Agnifilo is GRANTED.BACKGROUNDPlaintiff Z.B. was a minor when she was sexually assaulted by Defendant Brian Patrick Durning on Delta Air Lines Flight 2954. Plaintiffs allege Defendant Delta Air Lines, Inc. allowed Durning to board the flight while being visibly intoxicated, continued to serve him alcohol, failed to restrain him from roaming the cabin and failed to escort or allow law enforcement to escort Durning off the aircraft. On January 30, 2024, Plaintiffs Z.B. and J.B., by S.S., their guardian and S.S. individually filed a complaint against Defendants Delta Air Lines, Inc. and Brian Patrick Durning alleging (1) intentional infliction of emotional distress; (2) gross negligence; (3) negligence; (4) negligent infliction of emotional distress; (5) violation of Business & Professions Code §17200; (6) assault; (7) sexual battery (Civil Code §1708.5); (8) battery; and (9) intentional infliction of emotional distress. LEGAL AUTHORITYCalifornia Rules of Court Rule 9.40 provides that an attorney in good standing in another jurisdiction may apply to appear pro hac vice in this State by way of verified written application upon notice by mail to all interested parties, as well as service on the State Bar in San Francisco with payment of a $50.00 fee, so long as that attorney is not a resident of California, does not work in California, and does not perform regular or substantial business, professional, or other activities in the State. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 9.40(c)(1) and (e).) The verified written application must provide the following information: (1) applicant attorney’s residence and office addresses; (2) the courts to which the applicant attorney has been admitted and dates of admission; (3) representation that the attorney applicant is a member in good standing in the courts of admission and is not currently suspended or disbarred in any court; (4) the title of each court and action in which the applicant attorney has appeared pro hac vice in this State in the preceding two years, if any; and (5) the name, address, and telephone number of the active California State Bar member who is counsel of record in the local action. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 9.40(d).) CRC Rule 9.40 (d) requires that the pro hac vice application be verified. Under CCP §2015.5, verification of a document signed outside of California must recite that “it is certified or declared by him or her to be true under penalty of perjury, is subscribed by him or her and if executed at any place, within or without this state, states the date of execution and that it is so certified or declared under the laws of the State of California.” (CCP §2015.5.) The certification should substantially comply with the following form: “I certify (or declare) under penalty of perjury under the law of the State of California that the foregoing is true and correct.” (Id.)DISCUSSIONDefendant Delta’s Application for Pro Hac Vice Admission of Kathryn GraceGrace submits a declaration attesting to the following facts: (1) she is a resident of Viriginia, not California; (2) her business address is located in Virginia; (3) she is not regularly employed in California or engaged in substantial business, professional or other activities in California and not engaged in the regular practice of law in California; (4) she is admitted to practice in multiple jurisdictions identified in her declaration; (5) she is in good standing in each jurisdiction and is not currently nor has she ever been suspended or disbarred from practice before any court; (6) she has not filed any pro hac vice applications in the last two years; (7) the California attorneys with whom she will be associating are identified in her declaration at ¶10: and (8) a $50 fee has been paid to the State Bar as required; and (9) a copy of the application has been served on the State Bar. (Delta Application for Pro Hac Vice of Kathryn Grace, Grace Dec., ¶¶2-14.) Delta and Grace satisfy the requirements for pro hac vice admission. Delta’s Application for Pro Hac Vice Admission of Kathryn Grace is granted.Plaintiffs’ Application for Pro Hac Vice Admission of Adam S. KaufmannKaufmann submits a declaration attesting to the following facts: (1) he is a resident of New York, not California; (2) his business address is located in New York; (3) he is not regularly employed in California or engaged in substantial business, professional or other activities in California and not engaged in the regular practice of law in California; (4) he is admitted to practice in New York; (5) he is in good standing and has never been suspended or disbarred from practice before any court; (6) he has not filed any pro hac vice applications in the last two years; (7) the California attorney with whom he will be associating is identified in his declaration at ¶7. (Plaintiffs’ Application for Pro Hac Vice Admission of Adam Kaufmann, Kaufmann Dec., ¶¶2-7.) Jessica R. Lobis submits a declaration attesting to (1) payment of $50 to the State Bar and (2) service of the Application on the State Bar prior to filing. (Id., Lobis Dec., ¶¶3-4.) Plaintiffs and Kaufmann satisfy the requirements for pro hac vice admission. Plaintiffs’ Application for Pro Hac Vice Admission of Adam Kaufmann is granted.Plaintiffs’ Application for Pro Hac Vice Admission of Jeffrey D. RobinsonRobinson submits a declaration attesting to the following facts: (1) he is a resident of Washington, D.C.; (2) his business address is located in Washington, D.C.; (3) he is not regularly employed in California or engaged in substantial business, professional or other activities in California and not engaged in the regular practice of law in California; (4) he is admitted to practice in the United States District Court of Columbia; (5) he is in good standing and has never been suspended or disbarred from practice before any court; (6) he has not filed any pro hac vice applications in the last two years; (7) the California attorney with whom he will be associating is identified in his declaration at ¶6. (Plaintiffs’ Application for Pro Hac Vice Admission of Adam Kaufmann, Robinson Dec., ¶¶2-7.) Jessica R. Lobis submits a declaration attesting to (1) payment of $50 to the State Bar and (2) service of the Application on the State Bar prior to filing. (Id., Lobis Dec., ¶¶3-4.) Plaintiffs and Robinson satisfy the requirements for pro hac vice admission. Plaintiffs’ Application for Pro Hac Vice Admission of Jeffrey Robinson is granted.Plaintiffs’ Application for Pro Hac Vice Admission of Karen AgnifiloAgnifilo submits a declaration attesting to the following facts: (1) she is a resident of New York, not California; (2) her business address is located in New York; (3) she is not regularly employed in California or engaged in substantial business, professional or other activities in California and not engaged in the regular practice of law in California; (4) she is admitted to practice in New York; (5) he is in good standing and has never been suspended or disbarred from practice before any court; (6) in the last two years, she filed pro hac vice applications in three California federal district court cases, including this case after it was removed to federal court, and none in California state court; (7) the California attorney with whom she will be associating are identified in her declaration at ¶7. (Plaintiffs’ Application for Pro Hac Vice Admission of Karen Agnifilo, Agnifilo Dec., ¶¶2-7.) Jessica R. Lobis, local counsel, submits a declaration attesting to (1) payment of $50 to the State Bar and (2) service of the Application on the State Bar prior to filing. (Id., Lobis Dec., ¶¶3-4.) Plaintiffs and Agnifilo satisfy the requirements for pro hac vice admission. Plaintiffs’ Application for Pro Hac Vice Admission of Karen Agnifilo is granted.ORDERDefendant’s Application for Pro Hac Vice of Kathryn A. Grace is GRANTED.Plaintiffs’ Application for Pro Hac Vice of Adam S. Kaufmann is GRANTED.Plaintiffs’ Application for Pro Hac Vice of Jeffrey D. Robinson is GRANTED.Plaintiffs’ Application for Pro Hac Vice of Karen Agnifilo is GRANTED.Plaintiffs’ are ordered to give notice of ruling.