 Case Number:  23TRCV03696    Hearing Date:   May 29, 2024    Dept:  B Hearing Date: May 29, 2024Moving Parties: Plaintiff Nolvia Corea Castillo Responding Party: None as of May 24, 2024Motion for Leave to Amend Complaint to Add Minor Plaintiffs The court considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers.RULINGThe motion is GRANTED.BACKGROUNDPlaintiff Nolvia Corea Castillo was involved in multi-car rear-end accident. One of the vehicles was driven by an employee of Defendant Cal Building & Maintenance Industries, Inc. Plaintiff filed a complaint on November 6, 2023 alleging (1) motor vehicle and (2) general negligence. LEGAL AUTHORITY“A party may amend its pleading once without leave of the court at any time before the answer, demurrer, or motion to strike is filed, or after a demurrer or motion to strike is filed but before the demurrer or motion to strike is heard if the amended pleading is filed and served no later than the date for filing an opposition to the demurrer or motion to strike.” (CCP §472.)“The court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or demurrer. The court may likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like terms allow an answer to be made after the time limited by this code.” (CCP §473(a)(1).)The policy favoring amendment is so strong that it is a rare case in which denial of leave to amend can be justified: “If the motion to amend is timely made and the granting of the motion will not prejudice the opposing party, it is error to refuse permission to amend; and, where the refusal also results in a party being deprived of the right to assert a meritorious cause of action or a meritorious defense, it is not only error but an abuse of discretion.” (Morgan v. Sup.Ct. (1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530 (emphasis added).) Courts are bound to apply a policy of great liberality in permitting amendments to the complaint "at any stage of the proceedings, up to and including trial," absent prejudice to the adverse party. (Atkinson v. Elk Corp. (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 739, 761.)Prejudice exists where the amendment would require delaying the trial, resulting in loss of critical evidence or added costs of preparation, increased burden of discovery, etc. (Magpali v. Farmers Group, Inc. (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 471, 486-488.) Delay alone is insufficient grounds for denial of leave of amend. If the delay in seeking the amendment has not misled or prejudiced the other side, the liberal policy of allowing amendments prevails. Indeed, it is an abuse of discretion to deny leave in such a case even if sought as late as the time of trial. (Higgins v. Del Faro (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 558, 564-565.)DISCUSSIONPlaintiff moves for leave to file a First Amended Complaint adding her minor children, Genesis Orantes Corea and Mauricio Orantes Corea to the complaint. Plaintiff alleges the children were injured in the accident and have already settled their claims with Defendants herein. Plaintiff argues it is necessary to add them to the complaint, so that a Minor’s Compromise Petition may be heard by the Court.Plaintiff’s request for leave to amend is granted. Plaintiff’s counsel submits a declaration in compliance with CRC Rule 3.1324, identifying the amendments and attaching a copy of the proposed pleading. There is no trial date. No oppositions were filed. ORDERPlaintiff’s Motion for Leave to File First Amended Complaint is GRANTED.Moving party is ordered to give notice of ruling.