  Case Number:  23TRCV01578    Hearing Date:   November 7, 2024    Dept:  E 
Los Angeles Superior Court

825 MAPLE AVENUE l TORRANCE l
CALIFORNIA l 90503
 

HONORABLE ALAN B.
HONEYCUTT
DEPARTMENT E – TENTATIVE
RULING
 



v
Case Name:


Wise v. Macy’s, Inc. et al.




v
Case Number:          


23TRCV01578




v
Hearing Date:        


November 7,
  2024




v
Trial Date:


April 8, 2025




v
Notice Sufficiency:


OK / Unopposed (after Amended Notice; see below)




 


 




 


 




 


 




Motion(s):


Motion for
  Summary Judgment / Adjudication




Movant(s):


Defendant Schindler
  Elevator Corporation




Opposing Party(ies):


Plaintiff
  Aurelia Wise




 


 



 
Defendant’s motion for summary judgment is granted.
 
BACKGROUND
 
On May 17, 2023, Plaintiff Aurelia Wise (“Plaintiff”) sued
Defendants Macy’s, Inc., Macy’s Retail Holdings, LLC, and Does 1-25. On
November 1, 2023, Plaintiff amended her complaint to substitute Defendant
Schindler Elevator Corporation (“Defendant”), the moving party here, for fictitiously-named
Doe 1.
 
Plaintiff’s complaint asserts two (2) causes of action: 1.
Premises Liability and 2. General Negligence. Specifically, Plaintiff alleges
that on March 20, 2022, she sustained injuries as a result of a slip and fall
accident on a stopped escalator in a Macy’s store. 
 
On November 28, 2023, Defendant filed its answer.
 
On July 30, 2024, Defendant moved for summary judgment
and/or adjudication of both causes of action in Plaintiff’s complaint. On
August 14, 2024, Defendant refiled its motion due to a notice defect, properly
setting the hearing at least seventy-five (75) days after filing.
 
On September 30, 2024, Plaintiff filed her opposition. On
October 7, 2024, Defendant replied.
 
 
 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
 
Plaintiff filed no evidentiary objections. Instead, she
filed a Request for Judicial Notice asking the Court take notice of its own
prior ruling on objections to Defendant’s evidence in support of its motion.
 
Judicial notice of the Court’s own rulings is unnecessary.
The prior ruling also not “relevant”, in the evidentiary sense, to Defendant’s
motion or Plaintiff’s opposition. The request is denied.
 
Plaintiff has asserted no objections. If she intended to
do so via reference to a prior ruling, she has not followed the Rules of Court.
(Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1354(b).) It is improper and ineffective to force
Defendant and the Court to cross-reference prior rulings to ascertain
Plaintiff’s objections.
 
Nonetheless, for the sake of argument, the Court adopts
its ruling on all relevant prior objections. Excluding the evidence in question
does not affect the result.
 
Defendant asserted no objections to Plaintiff’s evidence.
  
LEGAL STANDARD
  
The function of a motion for summary judgment or
adjudication is to enable summary dismissal without the need for trial where an
opposing party cannot show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim. (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Ritchfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) Summary judgment is
granted when, after the Court’s consideration of the evidence set forth in the
papers and all reasonable inferences accordingly, no triable issues of fact
exist, and the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c(c); Villa v. McFarren (1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 733,
741.) Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing
summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that
party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384,
389.)  
 
A defendant may move for
summary judgment/adjudication if it contends that the action or individual
cause of action has no merit. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c(a), (f).) The moving
party has the initial burden of proof to demonstrate with admissible evidence the
action or cause of action lacks merit.  (Id., § 437c(a).) A cause
of action has no merit if either (1) one or more of the elements of the cause
of action cannot be separately established, even if that element is separately
pleaded or (2) defendant establishes an affirmative defense to that cause of
action.” (Id., § 437c(o); Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co., supra,
25 Cal.4th at p. 853.) Once the moving party has met the burden, the burden
shifts to the opposing party to show via specific facts that a triable issue of
material facts exists as to a cause of action or a defense thereto.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c(o)(2).)
 
 
 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Defendant moves for summary judgment or adjudication on
the following grounds:
 
             (1)
Defendant did not control the premises where Plaintiff’s accident took place, a
Macy’s store (“the Premises”);
 
             (2)
Defendant was not negligent because there was no dangerous condition at the
scene of Plaintiff’s accident;
 
             (3)
Defendant had no duty to warn of any dangerous condition that may have existed,
because it was open and obvious;
 
             (4)
Plaintiff was fully aware and warned about any dangerous condition;
 
             (5)
“Defendant was not negligent because Defendant did not cause the incident”, as
framed in Defendant’s notice; and
 
             (6) Plaintiff
caused her own injuries.
  
Premises Liability
 
Premises liability shares its elements with negligence:
duty, breach, causation, and damages. (Castellon v. U.S. Bancorp (2013)
220 Cal.App.4th 994, 998.) Premises liability is simply a species of negligence
“grounded in the possession of [a] premises and the attendant right to control
and manage the premises.” (Kesner v. Superior Court (2016) 1 Cal.5th
1132, 1158, quotation marks omitted.) The theory relies on a crucial premise:
that the defendant in a premises liability action owns or controls the property
on which a plaintiff’s injury took place. (Martin v. Gladston (2023) 96
Cal.App.5th 681, 689 [collecting precedents]; Kinsman v. Unocal Corp.
(2005) 37 Cal.4th 659, 672 [“proper test” is reasonable care in “management of
[one’s] property”]; Soto v. Union Pacific Railroad Co. (2020) 45
Cal.App.5th 168, 177.)
 
Defendant neither owned nor controlled the Premises, that
is, the Macy’s in which Plaintiff’s injury took place. The fact that “the
escalator was lockout / tagout by Schlinder [sic]” (Pl. Resp. to DSMF 9)
does not show Defendant owned or controlled any portion of the Premises,
including the escalator. Plaintiff does not define “lockout / tagout” in her
opposition, nor does she dispute Kay Donovan’s attestation that “Schindler
never controlled the layout of the Macy’s store ... the location of the
escalators and elevators at the Premises, the condition of the Premises, [or]
the actions of the staff at the Premises[.]” (Donovan Decl., ¶ 4.)
 
Defendant negates Plaintiff’s claim that Defendant owned
or controlled any portion of the premises, and Plaintiff raises no triable
issue. Plaintiff’s premises liability claim fails.
 
Negligence
 
As noted, the elements of negligence are duty, breach,
causation, and damages. (Thomas v. Stenberg (2012) 206 Cal.App.4th 654,
662.)
 
Defendant’s arguments go to the first through third
elements: (1) that, assuming it had a duty to maintain the escalator in safe
condition, it did not breach that duty; (2) that it had no separate duty to
warn Plaintiff about any dangerous condition on the escalator; if it did have
such a duty, it warned her as required and she received that warning; and (3)
if it breached either purported duty, Plaintiff cannot show those breaches
caused her injuries – in fact, the evidence demonstrates she caused her injuries
herself.
 
1. Plaintiff has not
raised a triable issue that the escalator was a dangerous condition, or that
Schindler had a duty to warn of such condition.
 
First: liability for a dangerous condition on a premises
attaches to the landowner on a theory of premises liability. (Jones v. Awad
(2019) 39 Cal.App.5th 1200, 1207 [“landowners are liable for injuries
caused by a lack of due care” (italics added)].) As discussed above, Defendant
is entitled to adjudication of Plaintiff’s cause of action for premises
liability because Defendant has demonstrated, as a matter of law, that it did
not own or control the Premises.
 
Second: even if Defendant owned or controlled the Premises
– and did not – the dangerous condition Plaintiff relies on was open and
obvious, making it an “exception to the general duty of care rule”. (Cf. Jones
v. Awad, supra, 39 Cal.App.5th, at p. 1208 [no liability if
purported dangerous condition were “the step in general”].) Plaintiff does not
identify any particular dangerous condition that caused her injury, except for
the stopped escalator. The parties agree the escalator required a right
handrail replacement. But as Plaintiff describes her accident, she “had her left
hand on the railings [sic]” and “fell after the escalator caught her
foot”. (Opp., 7:13-16, italics added.) Because she does not identify any
specific dangerous condition, she must rely on the escalator’s condition as a
whole, that is, that was stopped pending repairs. That condition was open and
obvious.
 
Defendant negates Plaintiff’s claim that it owed her a
duty to repair or warn about the condition of the escalator. Plaintiff raises
no triable issue.
 
            2.
Plaintiff has not raised a triable issue that the escalator caused her damages.
 
The evidence Plaintiff offers in support of her opposition
to Defendant’s motion is nearly identical to the evidence she offered in
opposition to its co-defendants’ motion, which the Court heard and granted on
October 17, 2024. The only distinction between the evidence is her inclusion here
of pages 38 and 44 of her deposition transcript. Neither page contains further
facts that might raise a triable issue as to causation.
 
On October 17, 2024, the Court ruled that the evidence in
question established that “Plaintiff does not possess evidence to establish that
Macy’s caused her injuries”, which carried Macy’s initial burden to negate the
question of causation. (10-17-2024 Minute Order, at p. 5.) The reasoning
applies equally here: Plaintiff admitted she doesn’t know what happened when
she fell and she has no evidence of malfunction or debris that caused her
injury.
 
To raise a triable issue in her opposition to Macy’s
motion, Plaintiff “only offer[ed] her deposition transcript”, and that did not
raise a triable issue. The addition of two new pages of her deposition does not
contribute to her showing on that score. She has not raised a triable issue as
to causation in her opposition to this motion either.
 
            3.
Conclusion
 
Defendant negates Plaintiff’s showing of duty and
causation, and she does not raise a triable issue as to either. Both of her
causes of action fail, and Defendant is entitled to summary judgment. Ancillary
points in Defendant’s motion – e.g., whether Plaintiff was aware of the
dangerous condition, whether she caused her own injuries, and whether a stopped
escalator constitutes a dangerous condition – need not be discussed.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
Defendant’s motion is granted. Defendant is ordered to
submit a proposed form of judgment within ten (10) days of this order.
 
 