  Case Number:  23STCV25240    Hearing Date:   March 21, 2024    Dept:  34 SUBJECT:        Motion to
Strike First Amended Cross-Complaint 
 
Moving Party: ASMS,
LLC  
Resp. Party:    Sea Port Care Center, L.P.
 
 
The Motion is DENIED. 
 
 
PRELIMINARY COMMENT:
 
        The Court wonders why ASMS’ counsel decided
it was worth the time to file this motion. 
Even assuming the Court had granted the motion to strike, it would not
have changed this litigation one iota.  The
three attorneys who are listed on the caption page of the motion have, collectively,
been licensed as attorneys in the State of California for over 55 years.  Certainly, one of them should have realized
that this motion is a waste of the Court’s time and their client’s money.
 
 
BACKGROUND:
        
On October 16, 2023, ASMS, LLC (“ASMS”) filed its Complaint against Sea
Port Care Center, L.P. (“SPCC”) on causes of action of breach of contract,
contractual indemnity, and money had and received. 
 
On December 11, 2023, SPCC filed: (1) Answer to the Complaint; and (2)
Cross-Complaint against ASMS.
 
On January 19, 2024, SPCC filed its First Amended Cross-Complaint
(FACC). 
 
On February 20, 2024, ASMS filed its Motion to Strike First Amended
Cross-Complaint (“Motion”). In support of its Motion, ASMS concurrently filed:
(1) Declaration of Todd W. Smith; (2) Request for Judicial Notice; and (3)
Proposed Order. 
 
On March 8, 2024, SPCC filed its Opposition to the Motion. 
 
On March 14, 2024, ASMS filed its Reply in support of the Motion.
 
ANALYSIS:
 
I.         
Request for Judicial Notice
 
ASMS requests that the Court take judicial
notice of a variety of items, including filings in other trial court cases and
demands for arbitration filed with the American Arbitration Association. 
 
The Court DENIES as irrelevant judicial notice to
these items. “Although a court may judicially notice a variety of matters
(Evid. Code, § 450 et seq.), only relevant material may be noticed.” (Am.
Cemwood Corp. v. Am. Home Assurance Co. (2001) 87 Cal.App.4th 431, 441, fn.
7, quotation omitted, italics in original.)
 
II.      
Legal Standard
 
“Any party,
within the time allowed to respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of
motion to strike the whole or any part thereof, but this time limitation shall
not apply to motions specified in subdivision (e).” (Code Civ. Proc., § 435,
subd. (b)(1).)
 
“The court may, upon a motion made
pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it
deems proper: 
 
“(a) Strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper
matter inserted in any pleading. 
 
“(b) Strike out all or any part of any pleading not
drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an
order of the court.”
 
(Code Civ. Proc., §
436.)
 
“The grounds for
a motion to strike shall appear on the face of the challenged pleading or from
any matter of which the court is required to take judicial notice.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 437, subd. (a).)
 
“A notice of motion to strike a portion of a pleading must
quote in full the portions sought to be stricken except where the motion is to
strike an entire paragraph, cause of action, count, or defense. Specifications
in a notice must be numbered consecutively.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1322(a).)
 
III.    
Discussion
 
ASMS moves the Court to strike the phrase
“and outside therapy contracts, including with Express Therapy, Inc.” from
paragraph 10 of the FACC. (Motion, p. 7:3–5.) 
 
ASMS argues that this phrase should be
stricken because: (1) it cannot support an indemnity claim on behalf of SPCC
because the FACC does not allege facts showing SPCC suffered any indemnifiable
loss associated with the therapy contract into which ASMS entered with Express
Therapy; and (2) the issues with Express Therapy’s therapy contracts are
already being litigated in multiple fora, which would make it inefficient and
improper to allow such allegations to be the subject of discovery and trial in
this action. (Motion, pp. 5:22–26, 6:15–22, 6:28, 7:1.)
 
The Court disagrees with ASMS’s
arguments. 
 
        SPCC is allowed to make such an
allegation in its pleading. The Court has not been presented with a judgment in
any other matter that would indicate the truth of this allegation has already
been adjudicated. Thus, there is nothing irrelevant, false, or improper about
making the allegation at issue. 
 
Moreover, merely making this allegation
does not affect the substantial rights of ASMS.
 
“The court must, in every stage of an action,
disregard any error, improper ruling, instruction, or defect, in the pleadings
or proceedings which, in the opinion of said court, does not affect the
substantial rights of the parties.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 475.)
 
The Court does not and need not address
at this time any other issues that are not properly before the Court. 
 
IV.      Conclusion

 
The Motion is DENIED. 
 
 