  Case Number:  23CHCV01602    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2023    Dept:  F47 Dept. F47
Date: 12/6/23
Case #23CHCV01602
 
DEMURRER TO THE
ORIGINAL COMPLAINT
 
Demurrer filed on 7/24/23.
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant Janet Schori, M.D.
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiffs William Angulo, a minor
through his Guardian ad Litem, Joseph Angulo; Michellyn Russel and Joseph
Angulo
NOTICE: ok
 
Demurrer is to the entire complaint:
            1.  Professional/Medical Negligence
            2.  Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress
 
RULING: The demurrer is overruled as to the 1st
cause of action and sustained with 30 days leave to amend as to the 2nd
cause of action.  
 
SUMMARY OF FACTS & PROCEDURAL HISTORY
 
Plaintiffs Michellyn Russel (Michellyn) and Joseph Angulo
(Joseph) filed this action on behalf of themselves and their son Plaintiff
William Angulo (William) (collectively, Plaintiffs) against several medical
providers, including Defendant Janet Schori, M.D. (Dr. Schori), for
professional/medical negligence (alleged on behalf of Michellyn and William) and
negligent infliction of emotional distress (alleged on behalf of Michellyn and
Joseph) arising out of the care and treatment provided to Michellyn and William
during the course of the pregnancy and the birth of William.  (Complaint ¶¶3, 8).  Plaintiffs allege that all of the defendants
acted below the standard of care by improperly and negligently providing continuing
prenatal care and care associated with the birth of William which resulted in
injuries.  (Complaint ¶¶8-9).    
 
After meet and confer efforts failed to resolve the
issues Dr. Schori had with Plaintiffs’ complaint, on 7/24/23, Dr. Schori filed
and served the instant demurrer to the entire complaint on the grounds that it
fails to allege sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action and/or is
uncertain.  (Hughes Decl.); CCP
430.10(e), (f).  Plaintiffs have opposed
the demurrer and Dr. Schori has filed a reply to the opposition.  
 
In the reply, Dr. Schori withdraws her demurrer to the
medical negligence cause of action.  (See
Reply, p.2:3-7).  Therefore, this ruling
does not specifically address the 1st cause of action for professional/medical
negligence except to overrule the demurrer to that cause of action.    
 
ANALYSIS
 
The charging allegations in the 2nd cause of
action for negligent infliction of emotional distress are: 
 
“The Plaintiffs Michellyn Russell
and Joseph Angulo were the biological parents of Plaintiff William Angulo. They
are [as?] parents were direct victims and also had direct sensory view of the
negligent acts that were perpetrated on Plaintiff William Angulo at the time of
and during the course of his birth. Plaintiffs suffered great emotional
distress in that it was foreseeable that these Plaintiffs as parents would
suffer great emotional distress by virtue of being in close proximity when the
negligent acts of defendants occurred and resulted in injuries to the minor
Plaintiff, William Angulo.” (Complaint ¶13). 

 
Based on the allegations in the complaint and argument in
the opposition, it appears that Michellyn’s negligent infliction of emotional
distress claim is based on a direct and, possibly, an indirect theory of
liability and Joseph’s claim is based on an indirect theory of liability.
 
To the extent Michellyn claims she is a direct victim,
the negligent infliction of emotional distress claim is duplicative of the
professional/medical negligence claim alleged on her behalf.  (Complaint ¶11); See Marlene F.
(1989) 48 C3d 583, 588; Banerian (1974) 42 CA3d 604, 611; Flowers
(1994) 8 C4th 992, 998, 1000.
 
To state a claim for negligent infliction of emotional
distress as a bystander, a plaintiff must allege facts showing plaintiff: (1)
is closely related to the injury victim; (2) was present at the scene of the
injury-producing event at the time it occurred and was then aware that it was
causing injury to the victim; and (3) as a result suffered serious emotional
distress.  See Thing (1989)
48 C3d 644, 667-668.
 
The complaint fails to state what negligent act committed
by Dr. Schori Michellyn and Joseph viewed at the time of and during the course
of William’s birth and/or how they knew, at the time, that it was causing
injury to William.  As such, the
complaint fails to allege sufficient facts to state a claim under a bystander
theory of liability and/or is uncertain in that regard.  
 
CONCLUSION
 
The demurrer is overruled as to the 1st cause
of action and sustained with 30 days leave to amend as to the 2nd
cause of action.  Due to the liberal
policy of allowing leave to amend and because this is only the original
complaint, Plaintiffs are given the opportunity to try to cure the defects in
their 2nd cause of action.   