 Case Number:  23STCV07881    Hearing Date:   February 21, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     February
21, 2024                 TRIAL DATE:  N/A


CASE:                                Shuki
International, Inc. v. Antonio Brown
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV07881
 





















 
MOTION
FOR LEAVE TO INTERVENE



 
MOVING PARTY:               Judgment
Creditor KH Capital, LLC
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Plaintiff Shuki
International, Inc.
 
 
I.          INTRODUCTION
 
On April 10, 2023, Plaintiff, Shuki International, Inc.,
filed a Judicial Council Form Complaint against Defendant, Antonio Brown, and
Does 1 to 10, for (1) Breach of Oral Contract, (2) Open Book Account for Money
Due.  Plaintiff deals in high-end jewelry.  Plaintiff alleges
Defendant agreed to pay for jewelry that Plaintiff provided to Defendant. 
The jewelry was valued at $1,095,000.  Defendant breached the agreement on
December 1, 2022 by failing to pay Plaintiff.   
 
On November 11, 2023, nonparty KH Capital, Inc. (“KH
Capital”) filed a Notice of Lien based on a money judgment against Shaoul Amar (“Amar”)
in the civil action Amar v. Schuller, et al., Case No. EC059084.  KH Capital alleges that Amar conducts business
as Shuki International.  KH Capital is
the assignee of record of the judgment against Amar.   
 
On December 8, 2023, KH Capital filed this motion for leave
to intervene.  
 
            Plaintiff
filed an opposition.  KH Capital replied.
 
II.        LEGAL STANDARD
 
“A nonparty shall petition the court for leave to intervene
by noticed motion or ex parte application.  The petition shall include a
copy of the proposed complaint in intervention or answer in intervention and
set forth the grounds upon which intervention rests.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 387, subd. (c).)  
 
“The court shall, upon timely application, permit a nonparty
to intervene in the action or proceeding if either of the following conditions
is satisfied: 
 
(A)¿A
provision of law confers an unconditional right to intervene.
(B)¿The
person seeking intervention claims an interest relating to the property or
transaction that is the subject of the action and that person is so situated
that the disposition of the action may impair or impede that person’s ability
to protect that interest, unless that person’s interest is adequately
represented by one or more of the existing parties.”  
 
(Code
Civ. Proc. § 387, subd. (d)(1).)
 
If leave to intervene is granted by the court, the
intervenor shall separately file the complaint in intervention and serve notice
of the court’s decision to parties who have appeared. (Code Civ. Proc. § 387,
subd. (e).) 
 
III.       JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
            KH Capital requests
judicial notice of 37 documents.  The
unopposed request is GRANTED.  (Evid.
Code, 452, subds. (d), (h).) 
 
IV.       DISCUSSION 
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 708.430 provides, “The court
in which the action or special proceeding is pending may permit a judgment
creditor who has obtained a lien under this article to intervene in the action
or proceeding pursuant to Section 387.” 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 708.430, subd. (a).) 
“An intervention takes place when a nonparty, deemed an intervenor,
becomes a party to an action or proceeding between other persons by doing any
of the following:
 
(1) Joining a plaintiff in claiming what is sought by the
complaint.
(2) Uniting with a defendant in resisting the claims of a
plaintiff.
(3) Demanding anything adverse to both a plaintiff and a
defendant.”
 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 387, subd. (b).) 
 
KH Capital seeks mandatory leave to intervene on the grounds
it is a judgment creditor of Shaoul Amar, who is the equitable owner of Shuki
International.  As such, KH Capital has
an interest in the value of the jewelry that is the subject of this action.  In support, KH Capital offers several
documents which establish: (1) Amar conducted business as Shuki International
(Request for Judicial Notice (RJN), Exs. 16, 17, 19, 24, 25), (2) Amar owned
the trademark of Shuki International (RJN, Exs. 42, 45), (3) Shuki
International deals in jewelry (RJN, Ex. 24), (4) Amar claimed in the media
that he lent jewelry to Defendant Antonio Brown which Defendant has refused to
return (Manasserian Decl., Ex. 10), and (5) KH Capital is the assignee of
record of the judgment creditor who has a judgment against Amar (RJN, Exs. 21, 39,
40).  KH Capital also includes a copy of
the proposed complaint-in-intervention to be filed.  (Manasserian Decl., Ex. 15.)  
KH Capital further argues intervention is mandatory because it
is not so situated that the disposition of this action may impair or impede KH
Capital’s ability to protect its interest. 
For instance, KH Capital argues it cannot levy the stock share
certificates of Shuki International to take ownership of the entity because
Amar is not the legal owner of the entity. 
Nor can KH Capital move to amend its judgment under the alter ego
doctrine because “outside-reverse” piercing is not allowed in instances where
the alter ego is a corporation.  (See,
e.g. Post Instant Press, Inc. v. Kaswa Corp. (2008) 162 Cal.App.4th 1510
(disallowing outside-reverse piercing from individual judgment debtor to
corporation).)  Additionally, KH
Capital’s interest in the property is not adequately represented by the parties
of the action.  Plaintiff is an entity
controlled by Amar, a judgment debtor of KH Capital.  Defendant is facing liability to
Plaintiff.  Thus the parties are either
directly (Plaintiff) or indirectly (Defendant) adverse to KH Capital.
 
Plaintiff opposes the motion on the grounds that Leslie
Richards is, and at all times has been, the sole shareholder, director, and
officer of Shuki International, Inc. 
Plaintiff offers the Declaration of Leslie Richards in support of this
contention.  However, the declaration is
self-serving and demonstrably false.  KH
Capital has submitted documents showing Amar was the owner of Shuki
International.  Those documents have been
judicially noticed.  (See RJN, Exs. 16,
17, 19, 24, 25, 42, 45.)  Further, KH Capital
offers court documents which show Ms. Richards has similarly acted as legal
owner of Amar’s companies and properties and filed declarations to assist Amar
in evading creditors.  (See RJN, Exs. 26,
27, 28, 30, 31.)  Importantly, Plaintiff
does not address any of the arguments raised in support of KH Capital’s right
to intervene.  
 
Based on the foregoing, the court finds KH Capital has
mandatory right to intervene.  KH Capital
has established its interest in the property that is the subject of this action,
that it is not so situated that the disposition of this action may impair or
impede KH Capital’s interest, and further, that none of the parties adequately
represent KH Capital’s interest.  KH
Capital’s right to intervene is proper even if default judgment has been
entered in favor of Plaintiff.  (See Mallick
v. Superior Court (1979) 89 Cal.App.3d 434, 437 (noting limitation on
statutory intervention under CCP section 387 was removed by the 1988 amendment
to the section).)
 
IV.       CONCLUSION         
 
            The motion
is granted.  KH Capital is ordered to
file its proposed Complaint-in-Intervention within five (5) days of the date of
this Order.  
 
            Moving
party to give notice.
 
 
Dated:   February 21,
2024




 


  


 




 


  Kerry Bensinger 
  Judge of the
  Superior Court


 




                                                
 