  Case Number:  21STCV44756    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2023    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Jane Doe,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
21STCV44756




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
County of Los Angeles,


 
 
 
Defendant.


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date:
October 31, 2023
Department 54,
Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion for
Sanctions
Moving Party: Plaintiff
Jane Doe 
Responding
Party: Defendant County of Los Angeles
 
T/R:      PLAINTIFF’S MOTION IS DENIED.
 
PLAINTIFF TO NOTICE. 
 
If the parties
wish to submit on the tentative, please email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with notice to opposing
counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the day of the hearing.
 
The Court considers the moving papers, opposition, and reply.
 
BACKGROUND
                
On June 6, 2022, Plaintiff Jane Doe filed the operative first amended
complaint against Defendant County of Los Angeles, asserting claims for
injunctive relief and possession of personal property. Plaintiff alleges
Defendant wrongfully confiscated Plaintiff’s phone data.
 
 
 
 
ANALYSIS
 
It is a misuse of the discovery process
to fail “to respond or to submit to an authorized method of discovery,” (CCP §
2023.010(d)) or to disobey “a court order to provide discovery.”  (CCP § 2023.010(g).)  Under CCP § 2023.030, courts have the
authority to issue monetary sanctions, evidentiary sanctions, or terminating
sanctions after giving parties proper notice and the opportunity to be heard.
 
In determining whether sanctions should
be imposed, courts consider the totality of the circumstances, including the
“conduct of the party to determine if the actions were willful; the detriment
to the propounding party; and the number of formal and informal attempts to
obtain the discovery.”  (Lang v.
Hochman (2000) 77 Cal. App. 4th 1225, 1246.)   “The penalty should be appropriate to the
dereliction, and should not exceed that which is required to protect the
interests of the party entitled to but denied discovery.”  (Wilson v. Jefferson (1985) 163 Cal.
App. 3d 952, 959.)
 
Plaintiff moves for sanctions against
Defendant on the ground that Defendant made misrepresentations in discovery.
The Court denied Plaintiff’s previous motion for sanctions in July 2023.
Plaintiff makes the same assertions in this motion: that Defendant falsely
stated that Plaintiff’s cell phone data could not be read without Cellbrite
software. The Court already has rejected this argument. Plaintiff asserts this
motion contains new evidence, a declaration of Michelle Bush. Bush declares
Defendant did not use best practices in preserving evidence and extracting data
from Plaintiff’s phone. This issue goes to the merits of Plaintiff’s case, not to
discovery.
 
The Court again declines to award the
sanctions requested by Plaintiff. As noted in the Court’s prior order, Plaintiff has not
established that Defendant made misrepresentations; in any event, Plaintiff was
able to inspect the data. 
 
Plaintiff’s motion is DENIED.


 