 Case Number:  23STCV11308    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2023    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Jena Rose Raphael,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23STCV11308




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Sweety High, Inc., et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: October 31, 2023
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Demurrer to Complaint and Motion to
Strike
Moving Party: Defendants Sweety High, Inc., Frank
Simonetti and Veronica Zelle
Responding Party: Plaintiff Jena Rose Raphael
 
T/R:      DEFENDANTS’ DEMURRER IS OVERRULED.
 
DEFENDANTS’ MOTION TO STRIKE IS DENIED.
 
DEFENDANTS TO FILE AND SERVE ANSWERS TO
THE COMPLAINT WITHIN 30 DAYS OF NOTICE OF RULING. 
 
DEFENDANTS TO NOTICE. 
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please
email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing.
 
The Court considers the moving papers, opposition,
and reply.
 
BACKGROUND
                
On May 18, 2023, Plaintiff Jena Rose
Raphael sued Defendants Sweety High, Inc., Frank Simonetti and Veronica Zelle,
asserting causes of action for (1) violation of the Krekorian Talent Scam
Prevention Act; (2) fraud; and (3) accounting. 
 
Plaintiff alleges Defendants
fraudulently collected advanced fees for talent management services in
violation of the Krekorian Talent Scam Prevention Act.
 
ANALYSIS
 
A demurrer to a complaint may be taken
to the whole complaint or to any of the causes of action in it.  (CCP § 430.50(a).)  A demurrer challenges only the legal
sufficiency of the complaint, not the truth of its factual allegations or the
plaintiff's ability to prove those allegations. 
(Picton v. Anderson Union High Sch. Dist. (1996) 50 Cal.
App. 4th 726, 732.)  The court must treat
as true the complaint's material factual allegations, but not contentions,
deductions or conclusions of fact or law. 
(Id. at 732-33.)  The
complaint is to be construed liberally to determine whether a cause of action
has been stated.  (Id. at 733.)
 
A. First Cause of Action for Violation
of the Krekorian Talent Scam Prevention Act
 
The Krekorian Talent Scam Prevention
Act prohibits talent managers from collecting advance fees for management
services. (Labor Code § 1702.1.) 
 
Defendants demur to this claim on the grounds that Defendants did not
provide management services to Plaintiff and that the cause of action is barred
by the statute of limitations. Plaintiff alleges Defendants acted as her talent
managers; the Court must accept this allegation as true on demurrer. Plaintiff
alleges Defendants’ wrongdoing occurred through December 2022, and does not specify
when Plaintiff made the payments at issue. The Court cannot sustain a demurrer to
a cause of action on these bases.    
 
The demurrer to the first cause of
action is OVERRULED.
 
B. Second Cause of Action for Fraud
 
The elements of fraud are: “(a)
misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b)
knowledge of falsity (or ‘scienter’); (c) intent to defraud, i.e., to induce
reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting damage.” (Charnay v.
Cobert (2006) 145 Cal.App.4th 170, 184.) In California, fraud, including
negligent misrepresentation, must be pled with specificity. (Small v. Fritz
Companies, Inc. (2003) 30 Cal.4th 167, 184.) “The particularity demands
that a plaintiff plead facts which show how, when, where, to whom, and by what
means the representations were tendered.” (Cansino v. Bank of America
(2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 1462, 1469.)
Defendants demur to the second cause of
action for fraud on the ground that the parties had a purely contractual
relationship. As stated, the Court must treat the allegations in the complaint
as true. Plaintiff alleges Defendants misrepresented the need for and use of
almost $2.5 million that Plaintiff paid Defendants since 2019. This is
sufficient to state a claim for fraud.
 
The demurrer to the second cause of
action is OVERRULED.
 
 
 
C. Third Cause of Action for Accounting
 
“The right to an accounting can arise
from the possession by the defendant of money or property which, because of the
defendant’s relationship with the plaintiff, the defendant is obliged to
surrender.” (Teselle v. McLoughlin (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 156,
179-80.)  
 
Plaintiff alleges Defendants
misappropriated money belonging to Plaintiff and seeks an accounting to
determine the amount. This is sufficient to state a claim for accounting.
 
The demurrer to the third cause of
action is OVERRULED.
 
D. Motion to Strike
 
“Any party, within the time allowed to response to a pleading, may serve
and file a notice of motion to strike the whole or any part" of that
pleading. (CCP § 435(b)(1).) “The Court may, upon a motion made pursuant to
Section 435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper:
(a) Strike out any irrelevant, false or improper matter asserted in any
pleading; (b) Strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the
Court." (CCP § 436.)
 
Defendant moves to strike allegations of misconduct that occurred from
2019 to 2021 on the ground that they are barred by the one-year statute of
limitations. As stated, the complaint, as pleaded, is not barred by the statute
of limitations. 
 
The motion to strike is DENIED. 
 
 
 