 Case Number:  21STCV33629    Hearing Date:   November 8, 2023    Dept:  29 TENTATIVE
 
The motion to continue trial is GRANTED. 
 
Background 
 
On September 13, 2021, Plaintiff Nasser
Baharloo (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants Mina George
Baskharon (“Defendant”) and Does 1 to 10, alleging causes of action for (1)
motor vehicle and (2) general negligence. 
 
The Complaint alleges the following. On
August 19, 2020, in Los Angeles, California, Plaintiff was driving when
Defendant, operating his vehicle in a reckless, negligent, and wanton manner,
caused his vehicle to collide with Plaintiff’s vehicle. As a result, Plaintiff
was injured. 
 
On July 5, 2022, default was entered
against Defendant. 
 
On September 1, 2022, Defendant filed a
motion to set aside the default. 
 
On March 21, 2023, the Court granted the
opposed motion to set aside the default. 
 
On March 22, 2023, Defendant filed his
Answer. 
 
On October 9, 2023, Defendant filed the
instant motion to continue trial and all trial-related dates. 
 
As of November 3, 2023, no opposition to
the motion has been filed. 
 
The Final Status Conference is scheduled
for November 27, 2023. 
 
Trial is scheduled for December 11, 2023. 
 
Legal Standard
California Rules of
Court, rule 3.1332, subdivision (c) states that although disfavored, the trial
date may be continued for “good cause,” which includes (without limitation):
(1) unavailability of trial counsel or witnesses due to “death, illness, or
other excusable circumstances”; (2) the addition of a new party depriving the
new party (or other parties) from conducting discovery and preparing for trial;
(3) “excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other
material evidence despite diligent efforts”; or (4) “[a] significant,
unanticipated change in the status of the case” preventing it from being ready
for trial. (Id., Rule 3.1332(c).) 
Other relevant
considerations may include: “(1) The proximity of the trial date; [¶] (2)
Whether there was any previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of
trial due to any party; [¶] (3) The length of the continuance requested; [¶]
(4) The availability of alternative means to address the problem that gave rise
to the motion or application for a continuance; [¶] (5) The prejudice that
parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance; [¶] (6) If the
case is entitled to a preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status
and whether the need for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay; [¶]
(7) The court’s calendar and the
impact of granting a continuance on other pending trials; [¶] (8) Whether trial
counsel is engaged in another trial; [¶] (9) Whether all parties have
stipulated to a continuance; [¶] (10) Whether the interests of justice are best
served by a continuance, by the trial of the matter, or by imposing conditions
on the continuance; and [¶] (11) Any other fact or circumstance relevant to the
fair determination of the motion or application.” (Id., Rule 3.1332(d).) 
Code of Civil
Procedure section 2024.050 allows a court to grant leave to complete discovery
proceedings. In doing so, a court shall consider matters relevant to the leave
requested, including, but not limited to: (1) the necessity of the discovery,
(2) the diligence in seeking the discovery or discovery motion, (3) the
likelihood of interference with the trial calendar or prejudice to a party, and
(4) the length of time that has elapsed between previous trial dates. (Code
Civ. Proc. § 2024.050.)
Discussion
Defendant Mina George
Baskharon (“Defendant”) moves to continue
trial to a date in mid-September 2024, arguing (1) Plaintiff has yet to respond
to discovery, (2) counsel’s office reserved hearings for motions to compel the
discovery but the first available date was June 13, 2024, after the current
trial date of December 11, 2023, (3) counsel mistakenly believed that the Court
had continued the trial date based on its tentative ruling on a prior motion,
and (4) if trial is not continued, Defendant will be prejudiced because he has
not had the opportunity to conduct investigation and discovery. 
The Court finds there is good cause to
continue the trial. Although this is the second
request for trial continuance, the Court granted the first continuance to allow
the Defendant (among other things) to file a motion to set aside the default
that had been entered against him on July
5, 2022. (See Minute Order, dated
December 2, 2022, pp. 1-3].) In addition, Defendant would suffer prejudice if the
trial occurred before his pending motions to compel Plaintiff’s responses to
his discovery could be heard. Lastly, in the absence of any opposition, it does
not appear that any party would be prejudiced by the requested continuance. 
Conclusion
 
Accordingly, the motion to continue trial is GRANTED. The date of trial is advanced and continued to
mid-September 2024. Final status conference and all deadlines are reset based
on the new trial date.
 
Moving party is ordered to give notice.
 