 Case Number:  21STCV38979    Hearing Date:   November 8, 2023    Dept:  29 TENTATIVE Defendant’s motion to continue trial is GRANTED. Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions is DENIED. Background This case arises from a vehicle accident that allegedly occurred on November 6, 2019 on Wilshire Boulevard in Beverly Hills, California.  Plaintiff Daniela Cohen (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendants Richard Jordan Frye (“Defendant”) and Does 1 through 10 on October 21, 2021.  Defendant filed an answer on January 5, 2022.On October 11, 2023, Defendant filed this motion to continue trial. On October 24, 2023, Plaintiff filed an opposition. On October 30, 2023, Defendant filed a reply.  On October 31, 2023, Plaintiff filed a notice of errata and correction to her opposition.Trial is currently set for November 14, 2023.Legal StandardCalifornia Rules of Court, rule 3.1332, subdivision (a) states that “the dates assigned for a trial are firm. All parties and their counsel must regard the date set for trial as certain.”Subdivision (c) states that although “continuances of trials are disfavored, each request for a continuance must be considered on its own merits.” Requests for a continuance may be continued for “good cause,” which may include (without limitation): (1) unavailability of trial counsel or witnesses due to “death, illness, or other excusable circumstances”; (2) the addition of a new party depriving the new party (or other parties) from conducting discovery and preparing for trial; (3) “excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite diligent efforts”; or (4) “[a] significant, unanticipated change in the status of the case” preventing it from being ready for trial. (Id., Rule 3.1332(c).) Other relevant considerations may include: “(1) The proximity of the trial date; [¶] (2) Whether there was any previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to any party; [¶] (3) The length of the continuance requested; [¶] (4) The availability of alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the motion or application for a continuance; [¶] (5) The prejudice that parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance; [¶] (6) If the case is entitled to a preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status and whether the need for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay; [¶] (7) The court's calendar and the impact of granting a continuance on other pending trials; [¶] (8) Whether trial counsel is engaged in another trial; [¶] (9) Whether all parties have stipulated to a continuance; [¶] (10) Whether the interests of justice are best served by a continuance, by the trial of the matter, or by imposing conditions on the continuance; and [¶] (11) Any other fact or circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the motion or application.” (Id., Rule 3.1332(d).) Except as otherwise provided, any party shall be entitled as a matter of right to complete discovery proceedings on or before the 30th day, and to have motions concerning discovery heard on or before the 15th day, before the date initially set for trial of the action.  (Code of Civ. Proc., § 2024.020, subd. (a).)  On motion of any party, the court may grant leave to complete discovery proceedings, or to have a motion concerning discovery heard, closer to the initial trial date, or to reopen discovery after a new trial date has been set.  This motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration demonstrating a good faith effort at informal resolution.  (Code of Civ. Proc., § 2024.050, subd. (a).)  The court shall take into consideration any matter relevant to the leave requested, including the necessity and reasons for discovery and the diligence or lack thereof of the moving party.  (Code of Civ. Proc., § 2024.050, subd. (b).)Evidentiary ObjectionsPlaintiff’s objections to Exhibits 1-11 and 13, and all references to those exhibits in Defendant’s reply, are SUSTAINED.  These exhibits are not properly authenticated.Plaintiff’s other objects are OVERRULED. DiscussionDefendant moves to continue trial from November 14, 2023, and the Final Status Conference from October 31, 2023, to a new date, and requests that all discovery and motion cut-off dates be based upon the new trial date. Defendant argues good cause exists for a continuance because Plaintiff has failed to attend and testify at deposition according to notices served on April 1, 2022, September 20, 2022, January 30, 2023, March 29, 2023, August 30, 2023, and September 15, 2023, and Defendant’s motion to compel is scheduled to be heard on November 9, 2023, five days before the current trial date. (Keshishian Decl. ¶3.)In response, Plaintiff makes a series of arguments.  First, she argues that Defendant was failed to meet and confer as required by Code of Civil Procedure, section 2024.050, subdivision (a).  Even assuming that this is factually accurate (which Defendant disputes in the reply), this is not a motion brought under section 2024.050 – which applies when a party seeks to reopen discovery “after a new trial date has been set.”  Here, Defendant seeks to continue trial (a motion that is not governed by section 2024.050 and its meet and confer requirements), and as part of that motion seeks the additional relief of resetting the discovery deadlines.Next, Plaintiff argues that she is more than willing to cooperate and sit for her deposition but on the most recently noticed date her counsel was engaged in a trial.  But Plaintiff provides no explanation for why she did not appear on the five other dates that were noticed for her deposition.Similarly, Plaintiff’s argument that Defendant has not been diligent in seeking the deposition is unsupported and contradicted by Defendant’s evidence that the deposition was noted on six occasions, , with the first notice having been served in April 2022.After considering all of the evidence and argument presented by both sides (except for the evidence as to which objections were sustained), the Court finds there is good cause to continue the trial.  Defendant’s motion is GRANTED.Plaintiff’s request for sanctions is DENIED.  There has been no showing of sanctionable conduct.Conclusion The Court GRANTS the motion to continue trial. Trial is continued to a date in approximately mid May 2024.  The Final Status Conference and all deadlines are reset based on the new trial date.   Moving party to give notice. 