 Case Number:  20STCV49096    Hearing Date:   November 8, 2023    Dept:  29 TENTATIVE
 
The motion to
continue trial and related deadlines is granted. 
 
Legal Standard
 
California Rules of Court, rule
3.1332, subdivision (c) states that
although disfavored, the trial date may
be continued for “good cause,” which includes (without limitation): (1)
unavailability of trial counsel or witnesses due to “death, illness, or other
excusable circumstances”; (2) the addition of a new party depriving the new
party (or other parties) from conducting discovery and preparing for trial; (3)
“excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material
evidence despite diligent efforts”; or (4) “[a] significant, unanticipated
change in the status of the case” preventing it from being ready for
trial.  (Id., Rule 3.1332(c).)   
 
Other relevant considerations may include: “(1) The
proximity of the trial date; [¶] (2) Whether there was any previous
continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to any party; [¶] (3) The
length of the continuance requested; [¶] (4) The availability of alternative
means to address the problem that gave rise to the motion or application for a
continuance; [¶] (5) The prejudice that parties or witnesses will suffer as a
result of the continuance; [¶] (6) If the case is entitled to a preferential trial
setting, the reasons for that status and whether the need for a continuance
outweighs the need to avoid delay; [¶] (7) The court's calendar and the impact
of granting a continuance on other pending trials; [¶] (8) Whether trial
counsel is engaged in another trial; [¶] (9) Whether all parties have
stipulated to a continuance; [¶] (10) Whether the interests of justice are best
served by a continuance, by the trial of the matter, or by imposing conditions
on the continuance; and [¶] (11) Any other fact or circumstance relevant to the
fair determination of the motion or application.”  (Id., Rule
3.1332(d).) 
 
Code of Civil
Procedure section 2024.050 allows a court to grant leave to complete discovery
proceedings.  In doing so, a court shall consider matters relevant to the
leave requested, including, but not limited to: (1) the necessity of the
discovery, (2) the diligence in seeking the discovery or discovery motion, (3)
the likelihood of interference with the trial calendar or prejudice to a party,
and (4) the length of time that has elapsed between previous trial dates. 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 2024.050.) 
 
Discussion
 
Defendants move to continue trial to March 25, 2024, arguing
good cause exists as the parties have agreed to mediate this matter in January.  Additionally, Defendants argue, the fact that
the remaining parties are seeking to mediate this dispute shows a high degree
of diligence in litigating the matter and bringing it to some resolution.  
 
The motion is not opposed.
 
The Court finds that
there is good cause for continuing the trial date as the parties have agreed to
attend mediation on January 8, 2024, where the case may be resolved entirely. Additionally,
it does not appear that Plaintiffs would be prejudiced by a continuance and
Plaintiffs did not file an opposition to the instant motion.  Thus, the motion is granted. 
 
Conclusion
 
Accordingly, the
motion to continue trial and all related deadlines is GRANTED. Trial is
continued to approximately March
25, 2024. The Final Status Conference and all deadlines are reset based on the new
trial date.
 
Moving party is ordered to give notice.
 