 Case Number:  23STCV25496    Hearing Date:   May 16, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



PATRICIA MARAVILLA, an individual,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
AIR TIGER EXPRESS (USA) INC.; MATTHEW TRAN, an individual; and
  DOES 1 through 10, inclusive,
                        Defendants.


 Case No.:          23STCV25496
 Hearing Date:   5/16/24
 Trial Date:        N/A
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Defendant Air
  Tiger Express (USA) Inc.’s Demurrer to Plaintiff Patricia Maravilla’s
  Complaint; and
Defendant Air
  Tiger Express (USA) Inc.’s Motion to Strike Portions of the Complaint.



 
I. Background
A. Pleadings
Plaintiff Patricia
Maravilla sues Defendants Air Tiger Express (USA) Inc. (ATE), Matthew Tran, and
Does 1 through 10 pursuant to an October 18, 2023, Complaint alleging claims of
(1) Discrimination on the Basis of Age (Cal. Govt. Code § 12940(a), et seq.),
(2) Harassment on the Basis of Age (Cal. Govt. Code § 12940(j), et seq.), (3)
Hostile Work Environment Harassment on the Basis of Age (Cal. Govt. Code §
12900, et seq.), (4) Failure to Prevent Discrimination, Harassment, and
Retaliation (Cal. Govt. Code § 12940(k), et seq.), (5) Retaliation in Violation
of FEHA (Cal. Govt. Code § 12940(h), et seq.), and (6) Wrongful Termination in
Violation of Public Policy (Tameny v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (1980) 27 Cal.3d
167).
The claims arise from the
following allegations. After 20 years of employment with ATE, Plaintiff was
terminated from her employment as a result of her age. Plaintiff was also
terminated as a result of filing complaints with Branch Manager Stephanie Tran
regarding alleged ageist comments made by Defendant Matthew Tran—a Manager at
ATE—in front of Plaintiff or other employees in the workplace, and with
non-party Stephanie Hang—Branch Manager at ATE—allegedly failing to take action
in response to complaints about Defendant Tran’s alleged ageist conduct.
Plaintiff Maravilla was 45 years old at the time of her termination.
B. Motion Before the
Court
On December 22, 2023, ATE
filed a demurrer challenging the Complaint’s six causes of action.
That same day, ATE
filed a motion to strike punitive damages and attorney’s fees allegations and
prayers from the Complaint.
On May 3, 2024,
Plaintiff Maravilla filed oppositions to ATE’s demurrer and motion to strike.
On May 9, 2024, ATE
filed replied to Plaintiff Maravilla’s oppositions.
Defendant ATE’s
demurrer and motion to strike are now before the Court.
II. Demurrer
A. Request
for Judicial Notice
Per
Plaintiff Marvilla’s request, the Court takes judicial notice of the Complaint
in this action. (Opp’ns, RJN, p. 2, Ex. A; Evid. Code, §§ 452, subd. (d), 453,
subds. (a)-(b).)
B.
Legal Standard
A
demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action.
(Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747; see Code Civ. Proc., §
430.10, subd. (e).)
To
sufficiently allege a cause of action, a complaint must allege all the ultimate
facts—that is, the facts needed to establish each element of the cause of
action pleaded. (Committee on Children’s Television, Inc. v. General Foods
Corp. (1983) 35 Cal.3d 197, 212, superseded by statute as stated in Branick
v. Downey Savings & Loan Assn. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 235, 242.) “[E]ach
evidentiary fact that might eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need
not be alleged.” (C.A. v. William S. Hart Union High School Dist. (2012)
53 Cal.4th 861, 872.)
In
testing the sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer admits the truth
of all material facts properly pleaded. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist.
(1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-67.) Courts read the allegations liberally and in
context. (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and Power (2006)
144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228, disapproved on other grounds, Jones v. Lodge at
Torrey Pines Partnership (2008) 42 Cal.4th 1158, 1162.) A demurrer,
however, “does not admit contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or
law.” (Daar v. Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713.) 
C.
Analysis
1. Demurrer, Complaint, First Cause of
Action, Discrimination on the Basis of Age (Cal. Govt. Code § 12940(a), et
seq.): OVERRULED.
a. Relevant Law
To
establish a prima facie case of discrimination, a plaintiff must allege (1) that
he or she was a member of a protected class, (2) that he or she was qualified
for and performing competently in the position she held, (3) that he or she
suffered an adverse employment action, and (4) conduct by the employer
suggesting that it is more likely than not that the adverse employment action
was due to a discriminatory motive. (Guz v. Bechtel National, Inc.
(2000) 24 Cal.4th 317, 355.) It is sufficient to show that one of the
employer’s motives was to discriminate, even if the employer had other lawful
motives for the adverse employment action. (University of Texas Southwestern
Medical Center v. Nassar (2013) 570 U.S. 338, 343.)
b. Court’s Determination
The
Court finds in favor of Plaintiff Maravilla.
The
Complaint alleges that:
(1)
Plaintiff was a member of a protected class in her employment with ATE, i.e.,
age over 40 (see, e.g., Complaint, ¶ 13, 27);
(2)
Plaintiff was qualified for and competently performed her employment throughout
her employment with ATE (see, e.g., Complaint, ¶¶ 12, 24);
(3)
ATE terminated Plaintiff’s employment on March 24, 2020 (see, e.g., Complaint,
¶¶ 12, 14, 23); and
(4)
Plaintiff’s termination of employment was preceded by circumstances that, taken
as true for pleading purposes, could suggest ageist animus to a jury, e.g. Defendant
Tran allegedly walking around the workplace yelling, “I’m going to get rid of
all you old people,” Defendant Tran allegedly screaming at a different employee
for being too slow to learn despite Plaintiff’s request that Tran cease this
conduct, and Branch Manager Stephanie Hang allegedly failing to take any action
in response to Defendant Tran’s alleged conduct, with Ms. Hang allegedly characterizing
the behavior as “Matt was just venting” on at least two occasions to a third
party (see, e.g., Complaint, ¶¶ 16-22).
These
allegations amount to a prima facie allegation of FEHA discrimination based on
age, as shown by Defendant Tran’s alleged ageist behavior and the Branch
Manager’s alleged failure to act in response to Defendant Tran’s conduct, tacit
ratification for pleading purposes.
Consequently,
the first cause of action is sufficiently alleged.
The
Court disagrees with the moving papers’ arguments as to this cause of action.
The
first cause of action is not conclusorily alleged. Rather, the first cause of
action is alleged sufficiently as to FEHA discrimination, as summarized above. Only
ultimate facts need to be alleged in a pleading, and here, more than sufficient
ultimate facts were alleged to show an ageist animus to Plaintiff’s
termination. Even if some of the ageist comments alleged in the Complaint were
not directed at Plaintiff, such comments are relevant to informing a jury’s
determination of whether Plaintiff was terminated based on her age.
Moreover,
there are clear connections alleged between Plaintiff’s age and her
termination: Defendant Tran’s alleged ageist conduct; Stephanie Hang’s alleged ratification
of Defendant Tran’s conduct; and Stephanie Hang’s termination of Plaintiff’s
employment after Plaintiff allegedly complained to Stephanie Hang regarding
Defendant Tran’s conduct. (See, e.g., Complaint, ¶¶ 16-22.)
ATE’s
demurrer is thus OVERRULED as to the Complaint’s first cause of action.
2. Demurrer, Complaint, Second Cause of
Action, Harassment on the Basis of Age (Cal. Govt. Code § 12940(j), et seq.):
OVERRULED.
a. Relevant Law
To
establish harassment under FEHA, a plaintiff must show: (1) plaintiff belongs
to a protected group; (2) plaintiff was subject to harassment; (3) the
harassment complained of was based on the plaintiff’s membership in the
protected group; (4) the harassment complained of was sufficiently pervasive so
as to alter the conditions of employment and create an abusive working
environment; and (5) respondeat superior. (Jones v. Dep’t of Corrections
& Rehabilitation, supra, 152 Cal.App.4th at p. 1377.) Individual
employees may be liable for their own acts of harassment. (See Gov. Code, §
12940, subd. (j)(3); Reno v. Baird (1998) 18 Cal.4th 640, 644-645.)
In
a workplace harassment suit, the plaintiff need only “prove that a reasonable
person subjected to the discriminatory conduct would find, as the plaintiff
did, that the harassment so altered working conditions as to make it more
difficult to do the job.” (Harris v. Forklift Systems (1993) 510 U.S.
17, 26.) “A single incident of harassing conduct is sufficient to create a
triable issue regarding the existence of a hostile work environment if the
harassing conduct has unreasonably interfered with the plaintiff’s work
performance or created an intimidating, hostile, or offensive working
environment.” (Gov. Code., § 12923, subd. (b).) The court looks to the totality
of the circumstances to determine whether there exists a hostile work
environment. (Gov. Code, § 12923, subd. (c).)
b. Court’s Determination
The
Court finds in favor of Plaintiff Maravilla.
The
Complaint alleges that:
(1)
Plaintiff was a member of a protected class in her employment with ATE, i.e.,
age over 40 (see, e.g., Complaint, ¶ 13, 27);
(2)
Plaintiff was subject to ageist comments in the workplace as allegedly uttered
by Defendant Tran, which Plaintiff Maravilla reported to Stephanie Hang as
Branch Manager, but Hang allegedly failed to take action, elsewhere describing
that behavior to a different employee as Defendant Tran “just venting” (see,
e.g., Complaint, ¶¶ 18-19, 21);
(3)
Defendant Tran’s alleged harassment of older employees including Plaintiff was
based on their age (see, e.g., Complaint, ¶ 21 [yelling “‘I’m going to get rid
of all you old people’”]);
(4)
Defendant Tran’s alleged ageist behavior and ATE’s alleged failure to rectify
that behavior created an abusive work environment, where management refused to
seriously consider Plaintiff’s complaints regarding Defendant Tran’s alleged conduct,
and where Tran allegedly screamed at employees regarding their age and
inability to learn as to humiliate those individuals (see, e.g., Complaint, ¶¶
21-22); and
(5)
Respondeat superior based on Defendant Tran’s alleged management position and
Stephanie Hang’s alleged Branch Manager position (see, e.g., Complaint, ¶¶ 3, 5,
16).
These
allegations sufficiently plead FEHA harassment/hostile work environment based
on age.
Consequently,
the second cause of action is sufficiently alleged.
The
Court disagrees with the moving papers’ arguments as to this cause of action.
First,
there are allegations that Defendant Tran made ageist comments around Plaintiff
and that Plaintiff reported those comments to Branch Manager, Stephanie Hang.
(See, e.g., Complaint, ¶ 21.) ATE’s argument that this allegation is “vague”
stretches the reasonable argument that Plaintiff could have done more to allege
the fact that she directly heard these comments when Defendant Tran was walking
the floor yelling ageist comments. However, when read liberally and in context,
the 21st paragraph of the Complaint alleges that “Plaintiff also worked with
Tran,” followed by allegations that Tran made ageist comments on the work
floor, and with “Plaintiff … [subsequently] verbally complain[ing] to
[Stephanie] HANG about the [ageist] comments.” Such allegations imply
Plaintiff’s presence on the floor when Defendant Tran made ageist comments, sufficiently
supporting the FEHA harassment claim for pleading purposes. 
Second,
the conduct alleged in relation to Defendant Tran was sufficiently severe and
pervasive as to alter the conditions of Plaintiff’s employment. Plaintiff
pleads to have been a witness and victim to age discrimination and that management
allegedly failed to take any action in response, e.g., investigation or
rectification of conduct. (See, e.g., Complaint, ¶¶ 21-22.)
ATE’s
demurrer is thus OVERRULED as to the Complaint’s second cause of action.
3. Demurrer, Complaint, Third Cause of
Action, Hostile Work Environment Harassment on the Basis of Age (Cal. Govt.
Code § 12900, et seq.): OVERRULED.
Because
the second and third causes of action allege harassment, and because the
demurrer’s arguments against these claims are identical (Demurrer, pp. 8-9),
the Court adopts its reasoning as to the second cause of action to OVERRULE
ATE’s demurrer to the Complaint’s third cause of action.
4. Demurrer, Complaint, Fourth Cause of
Action, Failure to Prevent Discrimination, Harassment, and Retaliation (Cal.
Govt. Code § 12940(k), et seq.): OVERRULED.
a. Relevant Law
Government
Code section 12940(k) provides that it is an unlawful employment practice
“[f]or an employer, labor organization, employment agency, apprenticeship
training program, or any training program leading to employment, to fail to
take all reasonable steps necessary to prevent discrimination and harassment
from occurring.” (Gov. Code, § 12940, subd. (k).) To establish this claim, a
plaintiff must establish the defendant’s legal duty of care, breach of duty,
legal causation, and damages to the plaintiff. (See Trujillo v. North County
Transit District (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 280, 286-287.)
b. Court’s Determination
The
Court finds in favor of Plaintiff Maravilla.
The
Court adopts its above discussions relating to the first and second causes of
action, as well as its below discussion regarding the fifth cause of action, to
determine that the Complaint sufficient alleges (1) the duty of ATE to protect
its employees from discriminatory behavior in violation of the FEHA, (2) breach
of that duty through the alleged ageist conduct by Defendant Tran, subsequent inaction
by management, and Plaintiff’s subsequent termination, and (3) economic and
non-economic damages.
ATE’s
demurrer is thus OVERRULED as to the Complaint’s fourth cause of action.
5. Demurrer, Complaint, Fifth Cause of
Action, Retaliation in Violation of FEHA (Cal. Govt. Code § 12940(h), et seq.):
OVERRULED.
a. Relevant Law
“[I]n
order to establish a prima facie case of retaliation under the FEHA, a
plaintiff must show (1) he or she engaged in a ‘protected activity,’ (2) the
employer subjected the employee to an adverse employment action, and (3) a
causal link existed between the protected activity and the employer’s action.”
(Yanowitz v. L’Oreal USA Inc. (2005) 36 Cal.4th 1028, 1042 [internal
citations omitted].) “A plaintiff … need only prove that a retaliatory animus
was at least a substantial or motivating factor in the adverse employment
decision” to prevail on her claim. (George v. California Unemployment Ins.
Appeals Bd. (2009) 179 Cal.App.4th 1475, 1492 (George).)
b. Court’s Determination
The
Court finds in favor of Plaintiff Maravilla.
The
Complaint alleges:
(1)
Plaintiff made at least one complaint to Branch Manager Stephanie Hang
regarding Defendant Tran’s alleged ageist comments on the floor (see, e.g.,
Complaint, ¶ 21[“Plaintiff also verbally complained to HANG about the comments,
but HANG did nothing”]);
(2)
ATE terminated Plaintiff’s employment on March 24, 2020 (see, e.g., Complaint,
¶¶ 12, 14, 23); and
(3)
A causal link between Plaintiff’s complaints against Defendant Tran in 2019 and
her termination in March 2020 (see, e.g., Complaint, ¶¶ 22-23).
These
allegations sufficiently allege FEHA retaliation based on age.
Consequently,
the fifth cause of action is sufficiently alleged.
The
Court disagrees with the moving papers’ arguments as to this cause of action.
First,
contrary to ATE’s argument, Plaintiff has alleged facts that she made
complaints to Stephanie Hang regarding Defendant Tran’s alleged ageist conduct.
(See, e.g., Complaint, ¶ 21.)
Second,
the Complaint sufficiently alleges a causal connection between Defendant Tran’s
pattern of ageist conduct, management’s failure to correct that conduct on more
than one occasion, Plaintiff’s complaint against Defendant Tran in 2019, and
Plaintiff’s termination in March 2020.
Even
if, as alleged in the Complaint, the COVID-19 pandemic is another reason for
Plaintiff’s termination, the Court determines that the Complaint sufficiently
alleges that age was a substantial and motivating factor behind Plaintiff’s
termination, as shown by Defendant Tran’s alleged ongoing pattern of ageist
conduct and management’s inaction in relation to that conduct. (George, supra,
179 Cal.App.4th at p. 1492.)
ATE’s
demurrer is thus OVERRULED as to the Complaint’s fifth cause of action.
6. Demurrer, Complaint, Sixth Cause of
Action, Wrongful Termination in Violation of Public Policy (Tameny v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (1980) 27 Cal.3d 167): OVERRULED.
a. Relevant Law
“The
elements of a claim for wrongful discharge in violation of public policy are
(1) an employer-employee relationship, (2) the employer terminated the
plaintiff’s employment, (3) the termination was substantially motivated by a
violation of public policy, and (4) the discharge caused the plaintiff harm.” (Yau
v. Allen (2014) 229 Cal.App.4th 144, 154.)
b. Court’s Determination
The
Court finds in favor of Plaintiff Maravilla.
The
Court adopts its above discussions relating to the first, second, and fifth
causes of action to determine that the Complaint sufficiently alleges (1) an
employer-employee relationship between ATE and Plaintiff Maravilla, (2) termination
of Plaintiff’s employment in March 2020, (3) termination based on ageism and
retaliation in violation of the FEHA, and (4) economic and non-economic
damages.
ATE’s
demurrer is thus OVERRULED as to the Complaint’s sixth cause of action.
 
III. Motion
to Strike
A.
Request for Judicial Notice
Per
Plaintiff Marvilla’s request, the Court takes judicial notice of the Complaint
in this action. (Opp’ns, RJN, p. 2, Ex. A; Evid. Code, §§ 452, subd. (d), 453,
subds. (a)-(b).)

B. Legal Standard
The court may, upon a motion or at
any time in its discretion and upon terms it deems proper: (a) strike out any
irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (b) strike
out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the
laws of California, a court rule, or an order of the court. (Code Civ. Proc. §
436, subds. (a), (b); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767, 782
[“Matter in a pleading which is not essential to the claim is surplusage;
probative facts are surplusage and may be stricken out or disregarded”].)
For the purposes of a motion to
strike pursuant to Sections 435 to 437 of the Code of Civil Procedure, the term
“pleading” generally means a demurrer, answer, complaint, or cross-complaint,
(Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (a)), and an immaterial allegation or irrelevant
matter in a pleading entails (1) an allegation that is not essential to the
statement of a claim or defense, (2) an allegation that is neither pertinent to
nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or defense, or (3) a demand for
judgment requesting relief not supported by the allegations of the complaint or
cross-complaint (Code Civ. Proc., § 431.10, subds. (b)(1)-(3), (c)).
C. Analysis
1. Motion
to Strike, Complaint, Punitive Damages: DENIED.
a. Relevant
Law
“In an action for the breach of an
obligation not arising from contract, where it is proven by clear and
convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or
malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual damages, may recover damages
for the sake of example and by way of punishing the defendant.” (Civ. Code, §
3294, subd. (a); College Hospital Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8
Cal.4th 704, 725 (College Hospital) [explaining amendments requiring
“despicable” conduct for malice and oppression].)
Under the Civil Code, “[a]n
employer shall not be liable for damages pursuant to subdivision (a), based
upon acts of an employee of the employer, unless the employer had advance
knowledge of the unfitness of the employee and employed him or her with a conscious
disregard of the rights or safety of others or authorized or ratified the
wrongful conduct for which the damages are awarded or was personally guilty of
oppression, fraud, or malice.” (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (b).) Moreover,
“corporate employers[] […] may not be liable for punitive damages unless ‘the
advance knowledge and conscious disregard, authorization, ratification or act
of oppression, fraud, or malice [is] on the part of an officer, director, or
managing agent of the corporation.’ [Citation.]” (White v. Ultramar
(1999) 21 Cal.4th 563, 566, fn. 1.) The statute was amended in 1980 to include
the limitations in subdivision (b). (Ibid.)
b. Court’s
Determination
The Court finds in favor of
Plaintiff Maravilla.
Here, the Court adopts its demurrer
discussion to determine that Defendant Tran’s alleged ageist conduct and ATE’s
alleged ratification of that conduct through alleged inaction in the face of
complaints of ageism against Defendant Tran constitute malice and oppression
for pleading purposes.
Moreover, the Court determines that
because the Complaint sufficiently alleges that Branch Manager Stephanie Hang
ratified Defendant Tran’s alleged ageist conduct, punitive damages are
sufficiently alleged against ATE as a corporate entity through the conduct of
its officer, director, or managing agent (Branch Manager). (See, e.g.,
Complaint, ¶¶ 18-19-21-22.)
2. Motion
to Strike, Complaint, Attorney’s Fees: DENIED.
a. Relevant
Law
Attorney fees are only recoverable
when authorized by contract, statute or law. (Code Civ. Proc. 1033.5, subd.
(a)(10).) Otherwise, regardless of who prevails in litigation, each party must
bear his or her own attorneys’ fees—a proposition known as the American Rule. (Alyeska
Pipeline Service Co. v. Wilderness Society (1975) 421 U.S. 240, 247; Trope
v. Katz (1995) 11 Cal.4th 274, 278-279 [“California follows what is
commonly referred to as the American rule, which provides that each party to a
lawsuit must ordinarily pay his own attorney fees. [Citation.] The Legislature
codified the American rule in 1872 when it enacted Code of Civil Procedure
section 1021, which states in pertinent part that ‘Except as attorney’s fees
are specifically provided for by statute, the measure and mode of compensation
of attorneys and counselors at law is left to the agreement, express or
implied, of the parties ….’ [Citation.]”].)
b. Court’s
Determination
The Court finds in favor of
Plaintiff Maravilla.
As acknowledged by the moving
papers, “fees are only even potentially recoverable if Plaintiff prevails on
her FEHA causes of action.” (Mot., p. 7.)
Here, the Court has overruled ATE’s
demurrer. Consequently, all the FEHA claims remain viable for pleading
purposes. “In civil actions brought under [the FEHA], the court, in its
discretion, may award to the prevailing party, including the [civil rights] department,
reasonable attorney’s fees and costs, including expert witness fees, except
that, notwithstanding Section 998 of the Code of Civil Procedure, a prevailing
defendant shall not be awarded fees and costs unless the court finds the action
was frivolous, unreasonable, or groundless when brought, or the plaintiff
continued to litigate after it clearly became so.” (Code Civ. Proc., 12965,
subd. (b).) Given that the FEHA claims have survived, there is a statutory
basis for fees.
ATE’s motion is thus DENIED as to striking
fees from the Complaint. 
IV. Conclusion
A. Demurrer
Defendant Air Tiger Express (USA)
Inc.’s Demurrer to Plaintiff Patricia Maravilla’s Complaint is OVERRULED.
B. Motion to Strike
Defendant Air Tiger Express (USA) Inc.’s Motion to Strike Portions of the
Complaint is DENIED.