 Case Number:  20STCV39112    Hearing Date:   December 18, 2023    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  LYNN A. IBARRA, Plaintiff(s),  vs.  BROOKFIELD ASSET MANAGEMENT, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 20STCV39112 (R/T 23STCV15759)  [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: DEFENDANT’S MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE CROSS-COMPLAINT   Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  December 18, 2023  On October 13, 2020, Plaintiff, Lynn A. Ibarra (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendant Brookfield Asset Management and Does 1 to 50 for premises liability which occurred at 725 S. Figueroa Street, Los Angeles, CA 90017. Plaintiff filed amendments to complaint, naming both Brookfield Properties Retail, Inc. and Brookfield Properties Management, LLC1 as Doe 1, Able Maintenance, Inc. as Doe 3, Able Maintenance as Doe 4, Able Services as Doe 5, and EYP Realty, LLC as Doe 6.   On June 23, 2023, Crown Building Maintenance Co. dba Able Building Maintenance Co., sued and served as Able Maintenance (Doe 4) and Able Services (Doe 5), (“Able”) filed the instant motion seeking leave to file a cross-complaint against Universal Protection Service, LP (“Universal”) for apportionment of fault, indemnification, contribution, and declaratory relief. Plaintiff opposes the motion, and Able filed a reply.   The Court notes that Able filed a separate and related action (Case No. 23STCV15759) against Universal, setting forth causes of action for equitable indemnity, comparative partial/implied indemnity, and contribution. The Hearing on Motion to Consolidate the related actions is currently on calendar for February 29, 2024.  Because the motion for leave to file a cross-complaint is related to the motion to consolidate, and the outcome may potentially render duplicative actions against Universal and strain judicial resources, the Court on its own motion will continue the Hearing on Motion for Leave to File a Cross-Complaint to be heard on the same day as the Hearing on Motion to Consolidate on February 29, 2024. The Court wishes to speak to the parties at the hearing to discuss a few potential issues. The parties are ordered to appear at the hearing (remote appearance permissible) and to be prepared to discuss this matter.   Lastly, to accommodate the hearing on the motions, the February 15, 2024 Trial date is continued to ______________ at 8:30 a.m. in Department 31 of the Spring Street Courthouse. The February 1, 2024 Final Status Conference is continued to _______________ at 10:00 a.m. in Department 31. All discovery and expert cutoff dates are continued to reflect the new trial date.     Moving party is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 15th day of December 2023      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court   