 Case Number:  21STCV38636    Hearing Date:   December 18, 2023    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  DIVA ABDUL-MANSOUR, Plaintiff(s),  vs.  CITY OF LOS ANGELES, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 21STCV38636  [TENTATIVE] ORDER FINDING MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT/ADJUDICATION MOOT  Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  December 18, 2023  On January 20, 2023, Defendant Stephen R. Dixon (“Defendant”) filed this motion for summary judgment, or in the alternative adjudication, against Plaintiff Diva Abdul-Mansour’s (“Plaintiff”) complaint as to the causes of action for negligence and premises liability.   The motion for summary judgment/adjudication is directed at Plaintiff’s original complaint, which was filed October 20, 2021. On November 13, 2023, Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”).    Both parties request the motion be continued in order for Plaintiff to conduct Defendant’s deposition, which had not proceeded due to Defendant’s illness.   On November 9, 2023, the Court granted Plaintiff’s motion for leave to amend the complaint, wherein Plaintiff sought leave to file a FAC to allege additional allegations as to Defendant’s prior knowledge of the alleged dangerous condition, to set forth a third cause of action for intentional concealment, and to allege punitive damages. Plaintiff argues in her supplemental brief that the FAC renders the motion moot. Defendant contends in its supplemental brief that its motion to Plaintiff’s original complaint is not moot because the issue of the third cause of action for concealment can be reserved for another day. However, Plaintiff’s FAC did not only add a cause of action, but also substantially amended the causes of action for negligence and premises liability by adding new factual allegations.   A motion for summary judgment is shaped by the pleadings.  (See Laabs v. City of Victorville 163 Cal.App.4th 1242; Tsemetzin v. Coast Federal Savings & Loan Assn. (1997) 57 Cal.App.4th 1334, 1342.)  Further, an amended complaint supersedes all prior complaints.  (State Compensation Ins. Fund v. Superior Court (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 1124, 1130-31.)  The amended complaint furnishes the sole basis for the cause of action, and the original complaint ceases to have any effect either as a pleading or as a basis for judgment.  (Id.)  Since there is but one complaint in a civil action, the filing of an amended complaint moots a motion directed to a prior complaint.  (Id.)  Accordingly, once an amended complaint is filed, it is error to grant summary judgment or adjudication on a cause of action contained in a previous complaint.  (Id.)  In this case, Defendant’s motion for summary judgment/adjudication is to the complaint, but the operative complaint is the FAC, which superseded the complaint.    Defendant’s motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication is thus moot.  Moving Defendant is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 15th day of December 2023      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court    