 Case Number:  21STCV46421    Hearing Date:   March 6, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court. 

 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


March
  6, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV46421




MOTIONS:  


Compel
  Further Responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One 




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff
  Rosa Yen




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendant
  Ernesto Ramos Esparza  



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On December 20, 2021, Plaintiffs David L. Yen and Rosa Yen filed a
complaint against Defendants V&V Hauling, Inc., Ernesto Ramos Esparza,
Maria Ramirez Villegas, Josue J. Valerio, and Does 1 to 50 for injuries
resulting from a motor vehicle accident.
 
On September 21, 2022, Plaintiff Rosa Yen (“Plaintiff”) propounded Form
Interrogatories, Set One on Defendant Ernesto Ramos Esparza (“Defendant”).
(Padgette Decl. ¶ 2, Exh. 1.) Defendant served responses dated December 13,
2022, after receiving multiple extensions. (Id. ¶ 3, Exh. 2.)  
 
Plaintiff moves to compel further responses to Form Interrogatories,
Set One. Plaintiff argues Defendant has only asserted boilerplate objections.
Plaintiff requests full and complete responses without objections. The parties
have agreed to waive the Separate Statement requirement. (Id. ¶ 9.) Defendant
opposes and Plaintiff replies. 
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
Plaintiff scheduled an informal discovery conference (IDC) pursuant to
the Court’s Eighth Amended Standing Order. On October 31, 2023, an IDC was held
and the issues were not resolved. Therefore, Plaintiff has met the IDC
requirement. (Min. Order, 10/31/23.) 
 
ANALYSIS
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.300(a) provides that
“on receipt of a response to interrogatories, the propounding party may move
for an order compelling a further response if the propounding party deems that
any of the following apply:¿¿ 
¿¿ 
(1) An answer to a particular interrogatory is evasive or
incomplete.¿¿ 
(2) An
exercise of the option to produce documents under Section 2030.230 is
unwarranted or the required specification of those documents is inadequate.¿¿ 
(3) An objection to an interrogatory is without merit or
too general.”¿¿ 
¿ 
The motion must be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.300(b)(1).) “Unless notice of this motion
is given within 45 days of the service of the verified response, or any
supplemental verified response, or on or before any specific later date to
which the propounding party and the responding party have agreed in writing,
the propounding party waives any right to compel a further response to the
interrogatories.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.300(c).)¿¿ 
¿ 
“The court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a further response to
interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.300(d).)¿¿¿ 
 
Form
Interrogatories, Set One
 
Plaintiff
moves to compel each Form Interrogatories, Set One, numbers: 1.1, 2.1-2.13,
4.1-4.2, 12.1-12.7, 13.1-13.2, 14.1-14.2, 15.1, 16.1-16.5, 16.9-16.10, and
20.1-20.11 on the basis that the objections lack merit. Defendant responded
with various objections including: 
 
“Objection: Not
relevant or reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible
evidence. The interrogatory fails to comply with Code of Civil Procedure
§2030.060. The interrogatory is overbroad as to scope and time. The
interrogatory is vague, ambiguous and unintelligible. This interrogatory is
unduly burdensome, oppressive and harassing. The interrogatory seeks information
contained in public records to which Propounding Party has equal access.
Responding Party further objects that this interrogatory seeks information
which is protected from disclosure by the attorney-client privilege. Further,
this interrogatory improperly seeks the Responding Party's legal conclusions
and other material which is protected from disclosure by the work product doctrine.
Moreover, this interrogatory improperly seeks expert witness information and
opinions not yet discoverable pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure §2034.210. As
a further objection, the interrogatory seeks Responding Patty's confidential,
proprietary information and trade secrets. The interrogatory violates the
privacy interests of parties and non-parties to the action.”
 
According to the
parties, Defendant cannot be located. It appears Defendant’s prior counsel, who
served the responses, was also not in contact with Defendant. Therefore, it
appears Defendant could not respond, resulting in his counsel asserting general
objections. In opposition, Defendant states that new defense counsel has been
retained in this matter and that counsel hired an investigator to locate
Defendant.  
 
However, given
that the objections lack merit, Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses
to Form Interrogatories, Set One is granted. 

 
Sanctions
 
Plaintiff seeks $1,260 in sanctions against Defendant and his counsel
of record, representing an hourly rate of $600 and the $60 filing fee.
(Kasparian Decl. ¶ 4.) Therefore, the Court awards sanctions in the amount of $1,260.00 (2
hours of attorney time to file and appear at the hearing, plus the $60 filing
fee).
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion to compel further
responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One. Defendant shall serve further
responses, without objections, within 10 days. 
 
The Court further GRANTS Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions in
the amount of $1,260 against Defendant.[1]
Said monetary sanctions are to be paid to counsel for Plaintiff within 30 days
of the date of this order.
 
Moving party to give notice and file a proof of service of such. 
 


