 Case Number:  21STCV05323    Hearing Date:   March 6, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:  
Parties are encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to
determine if a resolution may be reached.  If the parties are unable to
reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the
party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that
party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number,
date and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable),
and the identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the
Court does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on this
tentative ruling and there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may
place the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the
Court.  If all parties do not submit on this tentative ruling, they should
arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the Court has posted/issued a tentative
ruling, the Court has the inherent authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the
subject motion and adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.   
 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


32




HEARING DATE


March 6, 2024




CASE NUMBER


21STCV05323




MOTION


Motion for Summary Judgment, or in the alternative, Motion
  for Summary Adjudication




MOVING PARTY


Defendants Jeffrey Abernathy and Laura Abernathy




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff Demetra Lipkins



 
 
MOVING PAPERS:
 

Notice of Motion for
     Summary Judgment, or in the Alternative Summary Adjudication; Memorandum
     of Points and Authorities 
Separate Statement of
     Undisputed Material Facts in Support of Motion for Summary Judgment, or in
     the Alternative Summary Adjudication
Request for Judicial
     Notice
Evidence in Support of Defendants’ Motion

 
OPPOSITION
PAPERS:
 

Memorandum of Points and
     Authorities in Support of Plaintiff’s Opposition
Plaintiff’s Separate
     Statement of Disputed and Undisputed Material Facts and Additional Disputed
     Facts 
Request for Judicial Notice
Declaration of Oscar A. Bustamante
Declaration of Demetra Lipkins
Declaration of Edi Kristopher

 
REPLY
PAPERS: 
 

Defendants’ Reply
Objections to Plaintiff’s Evidence
Defendants’ Response to Plaintiff’s Separate
     Statement
Evidence in Support of Defendant's Reply

 
BACKGROUND
 
On February 10, 2021, Plaintiff Demetra Lipkins (“Plaintiff”) filed a
complaint against Defendants Elisa Enriquez and Does 1 to 25 alleging causes of
action for negligence, negligence per se under Civil Code section 3342, and
strict liability for a dog bite that occurred on September 5, 2020 at 1415 W.
107th Street, Los Angeles. Plaintiff alleges the subject dog, a
Husky named “Ajeno”, was owned by Elisa Enriquez and Does 1 to 25. (Complaint ¶
8.) 
 
On May 5, 2021, Plaintiff filed an amendment to the complaint, substituting
Jeffrey Abernathy and Laura Abernathy as Does 1 and 2 respectively. Defendants
Jeffrey Abernathy and Laura Abernathy (“Defendants”) filed an answer on June
14, 2021.
 
Defendants now moves for summary judgment, or in the alternative,
summary adjudication, arguing that no triable issue of fact exists, specifically
that: (1) they did not own the subject dog; (2) they did not have actual or
constructive notice of the dog, let alone any dangerous propensity; and (3)
Plaintiff cannot prove causation. In the alternative, Defendants move for
summary adjudication of the third cause of action for strict liability because
they did not own the dog and had no notice of a dangerous propensity. Plaintiff
opposes and Defendants reply. 
 
JUDICIAL
NOTICE
 
Defendants’
request for judicial notice of exhibits 1–3 (Plaintiff’s complaint, Doe
Amendments, and Defendants’ Answer) is granted. (Evid. Code § 452(d).) 
 
Plaintiff’s
request for judicial notice of exhibit 1, the Los Angeles County Development
Authority Owner’s Guide to Section 8 is denied. 
 
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
 
Plaintiff appears to object to Defendants’ evidence in her response to
Defendants’ separate statement. However, since the objections were not asserted
in a separate filing under California Rules of Court, rule 3.1354, the Court
declines to rule on the objections asserted in the separate statement. 
 
The Court declines to rule on Defendants’ objections as they have no
effect on the ruling herein. 
 
LEGAL STANDARD 
 
“A party may move for summary adjudication as to one or
more causes of action within an action, one or more affirmative defenses, one
or more claims for damages, or one or more issues of duty, if the party
contends that the cause of action has no merit, that there is no affirmative
defense to the cause of action, that there is no merit to an affirmative
defense as to any cause of action, that there is no merit to a claim for
damages, as specified in Section 3294 of the Civil Code, or that one or more
defendants either owed or did not owe a duty to the plaintiff or plaintiffs.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1).) “A motion for summary adjudication
shall be granted only if it completely disposes of a cause of action, an
affirmative defense, a claim for damages, or an issue of duty.” (Id.) The function of a motion for summary judgment or
adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an opposing party cannot
show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and to enable an order of summary
dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001)
25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) “[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears an
initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue of
material fact; if he carries his burden of production, he causes a shift, and
the opposing party is then subjected to a burden of production of his own to
make a prima facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of material
fact.” (Ibid.; Smith v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2005) 135
Cal.App.4th 1463, 1474 [summary judgment standards held by Aguilar apply
to summary adjudication motions].)  Further, in line with Aguilar v.
Atlantic Richfield Co., “[o]n a motion for summary adjudication, the trial
court has no discretion to exercise.  If a triable issue of material fact
exists as to the challenged causes of action, the motion must be denied. If
there is no triable issue of fact, the motion must be granted.” (Fisherman's
Wharf Bay Cruise Corp. v. Superior Court (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 309, 320.) 
 
“On a summary judgment motion, the court must therefore
consider what inferences favoring the opposing party a factfinder could
reasonably draw from the evidence. While viewing the evidence in this manner,
the court must bear in mind that its primary function is to identify issues
rather than to determine issues.  Only when the inferences are
indisputable may the court decide the issues as a matter of law. If the
evidence is in conflict, the factual issues must be resolved by trial.” (Binder
v. Aetna Life Ins. Co. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839 [cleaned up].) 
Further, “the trial court may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a
factfinder to determine whose version is more likely true.  Nor may the
trial court grant summary judgment based
on the court's evaluation of credibility.” (Id. at p. 840 [cleaned up];
see also Weiss v. People ex rel. Department of Transportation (2020) 9
Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for summary judgment or summary adjudication
may not weigh the evidence but must instead view it in the light most favorable
to the opposing party and draw all reasonable inferences in favor of that
party”].) 
 
 
DISCUSSION
 

Negligence 

 
“The elements of a negligence cause of action are the existence of a
legal duty of care, breach of that duty, and proximate cause resulting in
injury. The elements of a cause of action for premises liability are the same
as those for negligence: duty, breach, causation, and damages.” (Castellon
v. U.S. Bancorp (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 994, 998 [citation omitted].) 
 
“It is generally true that a person is liable for injuries to another
only as a result of his or her own conduct. Liability is based not on responsibility
for the conduct of others, but on the failure of the landowner or occupier to
act reasonably under the circumstances when he or she has reason to anticipate
the probability of injury and has an opportunity to prevent the injury or warn
of the peril. Thus, liability is based on his or her own failure to act
reasonably.” (Cody F. v. Falletti (2001) 92 Cal.App.4th 1232, 1242
[cleaned up]; Delgado v. American Multi-Cinema, Inc. (1999) 72
Cal.App.4th 1403, 1406, fn. 1 [“premises liability alleges a defendant property
owner allowed a dangerous condition on its property or failed to take
reasonable steps to secure its property against criminal acts by third
parties”].)  
 
“[I]t is well established that a landlord does not owe a duty of care
to protect a third party from his or her tenant's dog unless the landlord has
actual knowledge of the dog's dangerous propensities, and the ability to
control or prevent the harm.” (Chee v. Amanda Goldt Prop. Mgmt. (2006)
143 Cal.App.4th 1360, 1369.) “[A] duty of care arises when the landlord has
actual knowledge of the presence of the dangerous animal and when he has the
right to remove the animal by retaking possession of the premises.” (Uccello
v. Laudenslayer (1975) 44 Cal.App.3d 504, 507.) A landlord owes a duty of
care to his tenant's invitees to prevent injury from the tenant's vicious dog
when the landlord has “actual knowledge” of the dog's vicious nature in time to
protect against the dangerous condition on his property (Ibid.) The
landlord must have “[a]ctual knowledge and not mere constructive knowledge” in
order to be liable. (Ibid. at 514.)  
Circumstantial evidence of a dog’s dangerousness, as well as direct
evidence, can satisfy the requirement that a landlord have actual knowledge of
the dangerous tendencies of an animal on their property. (Donchin v.
Guerrero (1995) 34 Cal.App.4th 1832, 1838.) 
 
2. Strict Liability/Negligence per se 
 
Under Civil Code section 3342, dog owners are legally responsible for
the monetary damages that result from any person who is bitten by their dog:
“The owner of any dog is liable for the damages suffered by any person who is
bitten by the dog while in a public place or lawfully in a private place … .”
Strict liability for a dog bite can attach to a non-owner who is “knowingly
keeping or harboring the dog upon his premises, after knowledge of his vicious
propensities … .” (Buffington v. Nicholson (1947) 78 Cal.App.2d 37, 41,
emphasis in original.) “The word ‘keeper’ is equivalent to ‘the person who
harbors.’” (Ibid. citing 3 C.J.S., Animals § 165, p. 1266 ) “Harboring
means protecting.” (Id.) “[O]ne who treats a dog as living at his house,
and undertakes to control his actions” is considered to be “keeping or
harboring” the dog. (Ibid.)
 
“The
negligence
per se doctrine, as codified in Evidence Code section 669, creates
a presumption of negligence if four elements are established: (1) the defendant
violated a statute, ordinance, or regulation of a public entity; (2) the
violation proximately caused death or injury to person or property; (3) the
death or injury resulted from an occurrence of the nature of which the statute,
ordinance, or regulation was designed to prevent; and (4) the person suffering
the death or the injury to his person or property was one of the class of
persons for whose protection the statute, ordinance, or regulation was adopted.”
(Spates v. Dameron Hospital Association (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 208, 218,
quotation marks omitted.) “The doctrine of negligence per se is not a
separate cause of action, but creates an evidentiary presumption that affects
the standard of care in a cause of action for negligence.” (Johnson v.
Honeywell International Inc. (2009) 179 Cal.App.4th 549, 555, quotation
marks and brackets omitted.)   
 
            3. Analysis
 
Here, the following facts are undisputed. At the time of the incident,
Defendants owned the subject property which they rented out to Ms. Enriquez. (Pl.
Resp. to UMF 5.) Defendants did not own the subject dog. (See Pl. Resp. to UMF
6.) Ms. Enriquez was a tenant at the subject property pursuant to the terms of Rental
Agreement dated November 3, 2019, which she signed. (Pl. Resp. to UMF 7–8.) The
Lease provided that the tenant, Ms. Enriquez was not allowed to keep an animal
or pet on the subject property without defendants’ prior written consent. (Pl.
Resp. to UMF 9.) Defendant Jeffrey Abernathy is Ms. Enriquez’s primary contact.
(UMF 10.) 
 
Defendants set forth the following additional facts:
 
-         
Ms. Enriquez never informed defendants that a dog would
be kept at the subject property. (UMF 11.) 
-         
Defendants never observed the subject dog being kept at
the subject property. (UMF 12.) 
 
Defendants have met their burden in showing that they had no notice of
the subject dog that allegedly bit Plaintiff. As a result, the burden now
shifts to Plaintiff to establish a triable issue of fact. 
 
Plaintiff argues that Defendants knew of dangerous dogs on the
premises. Plaintiff sets forth the following facts: 
 
-         
The Abernathy Defendant frequently drive by the Subject
Property. (PAMF 7.)
-         
There were at least three dogs on the premises. (PAMF
9.) 
-         
There were at least two adult sized huskies mix at the
Subject property. (PAMF 10.) 
-         
The dogs are allowed to roam freely around the front
yard of the property. (PAMF 13.) 
-         
The dogs have snarled, growled and harassed people in
the past. (PAMF 14.) 
-         
Defendant Abernathy knew that Defendant Enriquez owned
the husky involved in this Subject Incident. (PAMF 15.) 
-         
Defendant Abernathy knew that there were vicious dogs
on the premises. (PAMF 16.) 
-         
Defendant Abernathy saw the large chicken fence
installed on his property. (PAMF 17.) 
-         
Defendant, Jeffrey Abernathy by his own admission said
he thought the chicken fence was for a small dog he had previously seen on the
property. (PAMF 19.) 
-         
Defendant Abernathy also saw a large BEWARE OF DOG sign
on his property. (PAMF 20.) 
-         
Defendant Abernathy did not speak to Defendant Enriquez
about the BEWARE OF DOG when he saw the sign on his property. (PAMF 21.) 
-         
Defendant Abernathy testified that he only found out
about the Subject Incident when he was served on May 14, 2021. (PAMF 22, 23.)
-         
Defendant Abernathy’s text messages to Defendant
Enriquez predate the date he was served. (PAMF 24.) 
-         
Defendant Abernathy admits that he intentionally did
not follow the terms of his own lease agreement. (PAMF 25.) 
 
“[A]ctual knowledge can be inferred from the circumstances only if, in
the light of the evidence, such inference is not based on speculation or conjecture.
Only where the circumstances are such that the defendant ‘must have known’ and
not ‘should have known’ will an inference of actual knowledge be permitted.” (Uccello
v. Laudenslayer (1975) 44 Cal.App.3d 504, 514, fn. 4.) One way to set forth
a fact is “to introduce evidence tending to show an opponent's denial of the
existence of the fact is to be disbelieved, that is, evidence challenging the
credibility of his denial.” (Donchin v. Guerrero (1995) 34 Cal.App.4th
1832, 1840.) “[I]f a party takes the affirmative step of testifying that he
denies any knowledge about a certain topic it is possible to introduce evidence
bearing on the credibility of that denial.” (Id.) “[A] civil defendant's
false exculpatory statement can be evidence of his consciousness of liability
and casts doubt on his denial of knowledge affecting his liability.” (Id.
at 1841–1843 [landlord’s initial statement denying he knew his tenant had dogs
is evidence of the falsity of his later denial that he knew the dogs had
vicious propensities].) 
 
Here, Plaintiff argues that Defendants knew of the subject dog. However,
the text messages do not show that Defendants knew of the subject dog prior to
being notified about this case. Plaintiff relies on conjecture to infer that since
Jeffrey Abernathy texted that the dog was not his, nor the friend, he knew that
the dog belonged to Ms. Enriquez. (Opp., 14.) Moreover, the text messages do
not support an inference that Defendants knew of the dog’s dangerous propensities
prior to the subject incident. Additionally, while Defendant Jeffrey Abernathy
admitted to seeing the chicken wire around the front yard, he testified that he
only saw a “little Chihuahua-like dog” and assumed the wire was to keep it out.
(Kristopher Decl., Exh. 1, Abernathy Depo. 36:1–23.) Plaintiff also points to evidence
that Defendants saw a “Beware of Dog” sign on the property, but not whether
Defendant saw it before the incident. (See Exh. 1, Abernathy Depo. 27:18–28:8.)
Also, Plaintiff has failed to show an inference that Defendants “must have
known” of the subject dog that bit Plaintiff since the text messages occurred
after the incident. Based on the above, there is no evidence creating a
material triable issue of fact regarding actual knowledge. 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
            Based
on the foregoing, Defendants Jeffrey Abernathy and Laura Abernathy’s Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED.  Defendants shall file a proposed judgment within 10 days.
 
Moving Defendants shall provide notice of this ruling and file a proof
of service of such. 
 