 Case Number:  EC063728    Hearing Date:   July 18, 2024    Dept:  X    Tentative Ruling   Judge Joel L. Lofton,  Department X     HEARING DATE:      July 18, 2024                                      TRIAL DATE: Disposed (8/16/21)                                                             CASE:                         Soni v.  Cartograph, Inc.   CASE NO.:                 EC063728                               MOTION TO SET  ASIDE/VACATE JUDGMENT AND STAY OF EXECUTION AND PROCEEDINGS    MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff Surjit P. Soni dba The  Soni Law Firm   RESPONDING PARTY:      Defendants  Timothy Tierney and Simplelayers, Inc. f/k/a Cartograph, Inc.   SERVICE:                              Filed on June 14, 2024   OPPOSITION:                       Filed on July 3, 2024   REPLY:                                   Filed on July 11, 2024   RELIEF  REQUESTED                 Plaintiff Surjit P. Soni  dba The Soni Law Firm seeks an order setting aside and vacating the August 16,  2021 Judgment in this case and all orders issued by Judge Ralph C. Hofer since November  25, 2020.                Plaintiff  also requests a stay of execution on the judgment in this case until this  motion is ruled upon.    BACKGROUND                On March 18, 2015, Plaintiff Surjit  P. Soni dba The Soni Law Firm (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against  Defendants Cartograph, Inc., Simplelayers, Inc., Timothy Tierney, and DOES 1-10.  The Complaint asserted eight causes of action for:               1. Breach of Contract             2. Quantum Meruit             3. Money Had and Received             4. Book Account             5. Fraudulent Misrepresentation             6. Negligent Misrepresentation             7. Fraudulent Inducement to Enter  into Contract             8. Breach of Guaranty   On August 16, 2021, this Court entered  Judgment in favor of Defendants and awarded attorneys’ fees and costs in the  amount of $334,458.41.    On October 22, 2021, Plaintiff filed an  appeal as to the August 16, 2021 Judgment. The matter was finally disposed on  August 2, 2023, wherein the Court of Appeal affirmed the August 16, 2021  Judgment.    On June 14, 2024, Plaintiff filed the  instant motion to set aside/vacate judgment and stay of execution and  proceedings. On July 3, 2024, Defendants Timothy Tierney and Simplelayers, Inc. f/k/a  Cartograph, Inc. (“Defendants”) filed an opposition. On July 11, 2024,  Plaintiff filed a reply.      TENTATIVE RULING                Plaintiff Surjit P. Soni dba The Soni Law  Firm’s Motion to Set Aside and Vacate Judgment and Stay of Execution and  Proceedings is DENIED.      LEGAL STANDARD               Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure Section 663a, subdivision (a), “A  party intending to make a motion to set aside and vacate a judgment, as  described in Section 663, shall file with the clerk and serve upon the adverse  party a notice of his or her intention, designating the grounds upon which the  motion will be made, and specifying the particulars in which the legal basis  for the decision is not consistent with or supported by the facts, or in which  the judgment or decree is not consistent with the special verdict, either: (1)  After the decision is rendered and before the entry of judgment…(2) Within 15  days of the date of mailing of notice of entry of judgment by the clerk of the  court pursuant to Section 664.5, or service upon him or her by any party of  written notice of entry of judgment, or within 180 days after the entry of  judgment, whichever is earliest.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 663a(a).)   “A judgment or decree, when based upon a decision by the court, or the  special verdict of a jury, may, upon motion of the party aggrieved, be set  aside and vacated by the same court, and another and different judgment  entered, for either of the following causes, materially affecting the  substantial rights of the party and entitling the party to a different  judgment: [¶](1) Incorrect or erroneous legal basis for the decision, not  consistent with or not supported by the facts; and in such case when the  judgment is set aside, the statement of decision shall be amended and  corrected. [¶] (2) A judgment or decree not consistent with or not supported by  the special verdict.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 663.)   DISCUSSION               Plaintiff  moves for an order setting aside and vacating the August 16, 2021 Judgment  pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure Section 663a(a)(2). Plaintiff contends all  orders issued by Judge Hofer after November 25, 2020 are void and should be  vacated pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure Section 170.4, subdivision (c)(1) because  Judge Hofer took inconsistent positions with respect to his relationship with  Attorney Jeffrey G. Sheldon in sworn declarations and it impacted his  impartiality in this present case. Furthermore, Plaintiff contends Judge Hofer  refused to recuse himself from this case when Plaintiff brought a Code of Civil  Procedure Section 170.6 Preemptory Challenge and Motion to Disqualify in 2020  on the basis that Judge Hofer was presiding over case involving someone who had  extensive litigation against his “close and personal friend.” Moreover,  Plaintiff contends only after appeal and affirmance of his rulings on attorney  fee and costs motions did Judge Hofer voluntarily recuse himself in the  interest of justice pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure Section 170.1,  subdivision (a)(6)(A)(i). As such, Plaintiff argues Judge Hofer must be deemed  disqualified pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure Section 170.6. Lastly,  Plaintiff argues Judge Hofer should not have ruled on the sufficiency of his  Statement of Disqualification pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure Section  170.3, subdivision (5)(c)(5).               By  contrast, Defendants argue Plaintiff fails to disclose the dispute between him  and Attorney Sheldon occurred thirteen (13) years ago. Defendants also argue  there is no evidence that Judge Hofer ever discussed Plaintiff with his friend.  Similarly, Defendants contend in Judge Hofer’s order striking Plaintiff’s Ex  Parte Application seeking disqualification, he stated he had a past and casual  relationship with Attorney Sheldon. On the other hand, Defendants contend Judge  Hofer’s minute order recusing himself from the case, Siguo Su v. Sherry Lin,  et. al. (Case No. 19GDCV00656) on July 28, 2020,  states he was a “close and personal friend of Jeffrey G. Sheridan and his  family,” so he appears to be discussing a different person than Attorney  Sheldon. Likewise, Defendants assert there is no basis other than pure  speculation to assume Judge Hofer recused himself due to a relationship with  Attorney Sheldon, let alone create doubt as to his impartiality in handling  this case. Moreover, Defendants argue Plaintiff’s Ex Parte Application for  disqualification raised no grounds for disqualification and was untimely, thus  Judge Hofer’s order striking the application were proper under Code of Civil  Procedure Section 170.4, subdivision (b). Additionally, Defendants contend the  instant motion is untimely because it was filed outside the fifteen (15) day  deadline. Finally, Defendants argue to the extent Plaintiff seeks  reconsideration of Judge Hofer’s 2020 order striking the Ex Parte Application,  it fails to comply with Code of Civil Procedure Section 1008.    Here, the Court finds that the  instant motion fails on both procedural and substantive grounds discussed more  thoroughly below.    First, Plaintiff seeks to set  aside and vacate the August 16, 2021 Judgement. However, the Notice of Entry of  Judgment was served on Plaintiff’s counsel of record on August 25, 2021. (Soni  Decl., ¶19n, 19r, Exs. 14, 18.) Thus, Plaintiff had until September 16, 2021 to  seek to set aside or vacate the August 16, 2021 Judgment because it would have  been fifteen (15) days from the service of the notice of entry. Further, the  Court had until December 15, 2021 to move to set aside or vacate the judgment  on its own pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure Section 663a, subdivision (b).    Next, the instant motion does  not raise any arguments to suggest the August 16, 2021 is based on an incorrect  legal conclusion or erroneous judgment inconsistent with the facts of this  case. Neither does the motion raise any arguments indicating the judgment is  inconsistent with a special verdict. Although Defendants do not make this  argument, the case law supporting a motion pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure  663a stand for the proposition that such motion may only be brought on the  grounds set forth in Code of Civil Procedure Section 663. In Garibotti v. Hinkle (2015) 243  Cal.App.4th 470, the court held “A motion to vacate under section 663 may only  be brought when ‘the trial judge draws an incorrect legal conclusion or renders  an erroneous judgment upon the facts found by it to exist.” (Garibotti v.  Hinkle (2015) 243 Cal.App.4th 470, 477.) However, “‘[i]n ruling on a motion  to vacate the judgment the court cannot ‘“in any way change any finding of  fact.’” (Id.)    Moreover, Plaintiff cites to no  other legal authority that would allow this Court to set aside or vacate the  August 16, 2021 and other orders issued by Judge Hofer, let alone on the basis  raised in the present motion, i.e., Judge Hofer’s alleged inconsistent statements  concerning his relationship Attorney Sheldon and his voluntarily recusal due to  purported impartiality. Code of Civil Procedure 170.4, subdivision (c)(1),  states in pertinent part, “If a statement of disqualification is filed after a  trial or hearing has commenced by the start of voir dire, by the swearing of  the first witness or by the submission of a motion for decision, the judge  whose impartiality has been questioned may order the trial or hearing to  continue, notwithstanding the filing of the statement of disqualification. The  issue of disqualification shall be referred to another judge for decision as  provided in subdivision (a) of Section 170.3, and if it is determined that the  judge is disqualified, all orders and rulings of the judge found to be  disqualified made after the filing of the statement shall be vacated.” (Code  Civ. Proc., § 170.4(c)(1).) Even though Plaintiff cites this statute in support  of his contention that Judge Hofer’s Judgment and orders are void, there is no  indication that Plaintiff’s Ex Parte Application was filed under the  circumstances set forth in Code of Civil Procedure 170.4, subdivision (c)(1).   Last, assuming arguendo  that Plaintiff was seeking reconsideration of the order to strike his Ex Parte  Application for Disqualification on the basis that Judge Hofer’s inconsistent  statements regarding his relationship with Attorney Sheldon warrants  disqualification, the motion does not meet the requirements set forth in Code  of Civil Procedure Section 1008.    Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure Section 1008, subdivision (a),  “[w]hen an application for an order has been made to a judge, or to a court,  and refused in whole or in part, or granted, or granted conditionally, or on  terms, any party affected by the order may, within 10 days after service upon  the party of written notice of entry of the order and based upon new or  different facts, circumstances, or law, make application to the same judge or  court that made the order, to reconsider the matter and modify, amend, or  revoke the prior order. The party making the application shall state by  affidavit what application was made before, when and to what judge, what order  or decisions were made, and what new or different facts, circumstances, or law  are claimed to be shown.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1008(a).)¿As it relates to new or  different facts, circumstances, or law under Code of Civil Procedure Section  1008, subdivision (a), “the moving party must provide a satisfactory  explanation for the failure to produce that evidence at an earlier time.”¿ (Shiffer  v. CBS Corp. (2015) 240 Cal.App.4th 246, 255.) Furthermore, “facts of which  the party seeking reconsideration was aware at the time of the original ruling  are not “new or different.” (In re Marriage of Herr (2009) 174  Cal.App.4th 1463, 1468.)¿   In this instant case, Plaintiff does not appear to set  forth new or different facts, or arguing that there’s been a change in the law,  and such motion would be untimely as it would not have been filed within the  ten (10) days required under Code of Civil Procedure Section 1008.     CONCLUSION   Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff  Surjit P. Soni dba The Soni Law Firm’s Motion to Set Aside and Vacate Judgment  and Stay of Execution and Proceedings is DENIED.     MOTION  TO CORRECT THE JUDGMENT    MOVING PARTY:               Defendants Timothy Tierney and  Simplelayers, Inc. f/k/a Cartograph, Inc.   RESPONDING PARTY:      Plaintiff  Surjit P. Soni dba The Soni Law Firm   SERVICE:                              Filed on June 20, 2024   OPPOSITION:                       Filed on July 3, 2024   REPLY:                                   Filed on July 9, 2024   RELIEF  REQUESTED                 Defendants Timothy Tierney  and Simplelayers, Inc. f/k/a Cartograph, Inc. seek an order correcting the  spelling of Plaintiff Surjit P. Soni’s name in the final judgment.   BACKGROUND               On March 18, 2015, Plaintiff Surjit  P. Soni dba The Soni Law Firm (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against  Defendants Cartograph, Inc., Simplelayers, Inc., Timothy Tierney, and DOES  1-10. The Complaint asserted eight causes of action for:               1. Breach of Contract             2. Quantum Meruit             3. Money Had and Received             4. Book Account             5. Fraudulent Misrepresentation             6. Negligent Misrepresentation             7. Fraudulent Inducement to Enter  into Contract             8. Breach of Guaranty   On August 16, 2021, this Court entered  Judgment in favor of Defendants and awarded attorneys’ fees and costs in the  amount of $334,458.41.    On October 22, 2021, Plaintiff filed an  appeal as to the August 16, 2021 Judgment. The matter was finally disposed on  August 2, 2023, wherein the Court of Appeal affirmed the August 16, 2021  Judgment.    On June 20, 2024, Defendants Timothy Tierney and  Simplelayers, Inc. f/k/a Cartograph, Inc. (“Defendants”) filed the instant  motion to correct the judgment. On July 3, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition.  On July 9, 2024, Defendants’ filed a reply.      TENTATIVE RULING               Defendants Timothy Tierney and  Simplelayers, Inc. f/k/a Cartograph, Inc.’s Motion to Correct the Judgment is  GRANTED.                  LEGAL STANDARD   Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure Section 473, subdivision (a)(1), “The  court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow  a party to amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name  of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a  mistake in any other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for  answer or demurrer. The court may likewise, in its discretion, after notice  to the adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any  pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like terms allow  an answer to be made after the time limited by this code.” (Code Civ. Proc., §  473(a)(1).)   Similarly, “The court may, upon motion of the injured party, or its own  motion, correct clerical mistakes in its judgment or orders as entered, so as  to conform to the judgment or order directed, and may, on motion of either  party after notice to the other party, set aside any void judgment or order.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 473(d).) Essentially, “[a] court of general jurisdiction  has the power, after final judgment, and regardless of lapse of time, to  correct clerical errors or misprisions in its records, whether made by the  clerk, counsel or the court itself, so that the records will conform to and  speak the truth. [Citations.]” (Ames v. Paley (2001) 89 Cal.App.4th 668,  672.)     DISCUSSION                          Here,  Defendants contend there is a clerical error in the Final Judgment entered on  August 16, 2021. Specifically, Defendants assert the Final Judgment contains a  misspelling of Plaintiff Surjit P. Soni’s name in the fourth paragraph  on line 17. The fourth paragraph, line 17 spells Plaintiff’s first name as  “Surgit,” instead of “Surjit.” (Weisel Decl., ¶2, Ex. A.)             In  opposition, Plaintiff argues correction of the Final Judgment is both  unnecessary and a wasted exercise because the judgment is void or voidable as a  result of Judge Hofer’s voluntary self-recusal in the interests of justice. As  addressed in the tentative for Plaintiff’s Motion to Set Aside and Vacate  Judgment, Plaintiff fails to raise arguments pursuant to Code of Civil  Procedure Section 663 that supports setting aside or vacating the Final  Judgment. Furthermore, Plaintiff’s contention that Code of Civil Procedure  Section 473, subdivision (d) only relates to errors made by the clerk or the  Court is incorrect. As cited in the legal standard section of the tentative,  California courts have interpreted Code of Civil Procedure Section 473,  subdivision (d) to include errors by legal counsel. Thus, Defendants properly seek  relief under Code of Civil Procedure Section 473, subdivision (d) in the  instant motion. Lastly, Plaintiff does not refute that his first name is  misspelled in the Final Judgment.      CONCLUSION                          Based on  the foregoing, Defendants Timothy  Tierney and Simplelayers, Inc. f/k/a Cartograph, Inc.’s Motion to Correct the  Judgment is GRANTED.    MOTION
FOR ATTORNEY’S FEES



 

MOVING PARTY:               Defendants Timothy Tierney and
Simplelayers, Inc. f/k/a Cartograph, Inc. 

 

RESPONDING PARTY:      Plaintiff
Surjit P. Soni dba The Soni Law Firm

 

SERVICE:                              Filed on September 8, 2023

 

OPPOSITION:                       Filed on December 29, 2023

 

REPLY:                                   Filed on January 5, 2024

 

RELIEF
REQUESTED 

 

             Defendants Timothy Tierney
and Simplelayers, Inc. f/k/a Cartograph, Inc. seek an order awarding the reasonable
attorneys’ fees and costs incurred on appeal and post-appeal in the amount of
$109,021.00.

 

BACKGROUND

 

             On March 18, 2015, Plaintiff Surjit
P. Soni dba The Soni Law Firm (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against
Defendants Cartograph, Inc., Simplelayers, Inc., Timothy Tierney, and DOES
1-10. The Complaint asserted eight causes of action for:

 

            1. Breach of Contract

            2. Quantum Meruit

            3. Money Had and Received

            4. Book Account

            5. Fraudulent Misrepresentation

            6. Negligent Misrepresentation

            7. Fraudulent Inducement to Enter
into Contract

            8. Breach of Guaranty

 

On August 16, 2021, this Court entered
Judgment in favor of Defendants and awarded attorneys’ fees and costs in the
amount of $334,458.41. 

 

On October 22, 2021, Plaintiff filed an
appeal as to the August 16, 2021 Judgment. The matter was finally disposed on
August 2, 2023, wherein the Court of Appeal affirmed the August 16, 2021
Judgment. 

 

On September 8, 2023, Defendants Timothy Tierney and
Simplelayers, Inc. f/k/a Cartograph, Inc. (“Defendants”) filed the instant
motion for attorneys’ fees. On December 29, 2023, Plaintiff filed an
opposition. On January 5, 2024, Defendants’ filed a reply. 

 

TENTATIVE RULING

 

             Defendants
Timothy Tierney and Simplelayers, Inc. f/k/a Cartograph, Inc.’s Motion
for Attorneys’ Fees is GRANTED in the amount of $109,021.00.

 

OBJECTIONS TO EVIDENCE 

 

            The
Court OVERRULES Plaintiff’s objections to the declaration of Jessica
Weisel. 

 

LEGAL STANDARD

 

“Neither party to the
arbitration may recover costs or attorney's fees incurred in preparation for or
in the course of the fee arbitration proceeding with the exception of the
filing fee paid pursuant to subdivision (a) of this section. However, a
court confirming, correcting, or vacating an award under this section may award
to the prevailing party reasonable fees and costs incurred in obtaining
confirmation, correction, or vacation of the award including, if applicable,
fees and costs on appeal.” (Bus. & Prof. Code, § 6203(c).)

 

 

DISCUSSION

 

            Defendants Timothy Tierney and
Simplelayers, Inc. f/k/a Cartograph, Inc. (“Defendants”) seek $109,021.00 in
attorneys’ fees consisting of $86,946 in fees for litigation or collection
efforts, $13,705.00 in fees for preparing the instant motion, and $9,000.00 in
additional fees for filing a reply to the opposition. 

 

            Here, the
parties do not dispute Defendants were the prevailing parties on appeal and are
entitled to attorneys’ fees and costs. However, Plaintiff contends the Court of
Appeal only awarded Defendants costs on appeal. This argument is irrelevant
because Defendants may also recover reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs
associated with having to obtain confirmation of the arbitration award
including appellate costs and fees. Defendants done just that by opposing
Plaintiff’s appeal of the August 16, 2021 Judgment that confirmed the
arbitration award. Next, Plaintiff contends Defendants’ cannot recover
attorneys’ fees because they were represented by pro bono counsel. The
California case law does not support such contention. In Aerotek, Inc. v.
Johnson Group Staffing Company, Inc. (2020) 54 Cal.App.5th 670, the court
reiterated “even attorneys who perform services pro bono may obtain
“reasonable” attorney fees under a fee-shifting statute.” (Aerotek, Inc. v.
Johnson Group Staffing Company, Inc. (2020) 54 Cal.App.5th 670, 683.)
Finally, Plaintiff asserts Defendants are seeking recovery at excessive billing
rates where the motion fails to provide adequate descriptions of the work
performed and contain time entries that are blocked billed. As such, Plaintiff
argues a negative lodestar of at least 30 percent should be placed on the
billing rates requested. However, Defendants’ advance the declaration of their
attorney Jessica Weisel, which attests to the prevailing market rates for
appellate lawyers involving complex litigation issues. (Weisel Decl., ¶¶37-46.)
Additionally, Weisel attests to the number of hours expended by each attorney
and paralegal in this matter in connection to the preparing the response brief
to the second appeal, holding a moot court, preparing for oral argument, and
even engaging in settlement talks. (Id. at ¶¶27-35.) Thus, Defendants’
describe the type of work that was performed and the associated hours expended
to complete these tasks including preparing the present motion. 

 

 

CONCLUSION

 

Based on the foregoing, Defendants Timothy Tierney and Simplelayers, Inc. f/k/a
Cartograph, Inc.’s Motion for Attorneys’ Fees is GRANTED in the amount of
$109,021.00.                      Dated:   July 18, 2024                                     ___________________________________                                                                                     Joel  L. Lofton                                                                                     Judge  of the Superior Court    