 Case Number:  22AHCV00548    Hearing Date:   July 18, 2024    Dept:  X    Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Joel L. Lofton,
Department X
 
 
HEARING DATE:      July 18, 2024                                      TRIAL DATE: No date set. 
                                                           
CASE:                         PREF PASADENA
COLLECTION, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, v. PASADENA COLLECTION
WEST PROPERTY OWNERS’ ASSOCIATION, a California mutual benefit corporation; and
DOES 1 through 20, inclusive.  
 
CASE NO.:                 22AHCV00548
 
 
 
MOTIONS
TO QUASH BUSINESS RECORD SUBPOENA

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant Pasadena Collection West
Property Owners’ Association 
 
RESPONDING PARTY:      Plaintiff
Pref Pasadena Collection, LLC
 
SERVICE:                              Filed May 10, 2024 and May 21, 2024
 
OPPOSITION:                       Filed July 1, 2024
 
REPLY:                                   Filed May 23, 2024
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED 
 
            Defendant moves to quash Plaintiff’s deposition subpoena for production
of business records to: (1) non-party Darryl Young; (2) non-party Jerry Acker,
Jerry Acker Construction Consulting; (3) non-party All Pro Copper Repipes,
Inc.; and (4) non-party James E. Vitale.
 
BACKGROUND
 
            This case arises out of Plaintiff
Pref Pasadena Collection, LLC’s (“Plaintiff”) claim that Defendant Pasadena
Collection West Property Owner’s Association (“Defendant”) failed to abide by
the Declaration of Establishment of Conditions, Covenants, and Restrictions
(“CC&R”) for the Pasadena Collection West. Plaintiff filed this complaint
on August 5, 2022, alleging three causes of action for (1) declaratory relief,
(2) breach of fiduciary duty, and (3) breach of the covenant of good faith and
fair dealings. 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Defendant’s motions to quash
business record subpoenas are DENIED.
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
Code of Civil Procedure section
1987.1 authorizes courts to quash a subpoena entirely, modify it, or direct
compliance with it upon the court’s own terms and conditions, including
protective orders. In addition, the court may take other appropriate means to
protect parties or nonparties “from unreasonable or oppressive demands,
including unreasonable violations of the right of privacy.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
1987.1, subd. (a).) Discovery devices are meant to facilitate litigation, not
wage it. (Calcor Space Facility, Inc. v. Superior Court (1997) 53
Cal.App.4th 216, 221.)
 
Where privacy rights are at stake,
“[t]he party asserting a privacy right must establish a legally protected
privacy interest, an objectively reasonable expectation of privacy in the given
circumstances, and a threatened intrusion that is serious. The party seeking
information may raise in response whatever legitimate and important
countervailing interests disclosure serves, while the party seeking protection
may identify feasible alternatives that serve the same interests or protective
measures that would diminish the loss of privacy. A court must then balance
these competing considerations. . . . Courts must instead place the burden on
the party asserting a privacy interest to establish its extent and the
seriousness of the prospective invasion, and against that showing must weigh
the countervailing interests the opposing party identifies. . . . What suffices
to justify an invasion will . . . vary according to the context. Only obvious
invasions of interests fundamental to personal autonomy must be supported by a
compelling interest.” (Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal. 5th 531,
552-557 (internal citations omitted).) In instances in which the interests at
stake are fundamental to personal autonomy, the party seeking discovery must
demonstrate that the information is directly relevant to the issues in the action,
and that there is a compelling public interest in the disclosure of the
information that outweighs the right to privacy. (Board of Trustees v.
Superior Court (1981) 119 Cal.App.3d 516, 525.)
 
DISCUSSION
 
Darryl Young
 
On or about April 18, 2024, Plaintiff served a Deposition Subpoena for
Production of Business Records to Non-Party Darryl Yong. Defendant served
objections to Plaintiff’s subpoena on May 1, 2024. Defendant argues that the
subpoena seeks records that are not relevant to the current case, are outside
the statute of limitations from claims in a prior lawsuit, and impose an undue
burden and expense on Yong. Defendant requests that the Court quash the
subpoena because it is unreasonable and oppressive, including violations of the
right to privacy, as protected under Code of Civil Procedure § 1987.1.
 
            The subpoena seeks documents
relating to the property, correspondence between the requester and the Board of
the Pasadena Collection West Mixed-Use Condominium Project, and documents from
2004 to the present, including communications with HOA management companies,
Board documents, and architectural review committee meeting minutes.
Additionally, documents related to both the City of Pasadena, the Pasadena
Planning Department, the Pasadena Building Department, and the Pasadena
Business Licensing Department are requested. Further, documents concerning
Association Board meetings, any Association Board member, Association Property
Management companies and their employees, Association advisors, and Association
attorneys are sought. Specific attention is given to the commercial condominium
unit at 825 Cordova, Pasadena, California, and any construction activities on
the Association Property. This includes documents concerning any construction
that occurred or was planned, repairs of faulty water supply lines and valves,
fire sprinkler lines, and any portion of the fire sprinkler system. The
requests also extend to backup documents for payment requests related to these
repairs, including receipts, daily logs, invoices, and material orders. Lastly,
documents concerning the repair and construction activities in the Common Area
of the Association Property are included. 
 
Plaintiff describes Yong as follows:
 
Daryll
Yong is a former Board Member of the Defendant Association, in the early years
of the Board’s existence. Interestingly, when Defendant produced records, some
of their records were “Bates stamped,” with the name “Yong” in the production.
Mr. Yong’s records would tend to show if the Association treated the commercial
unit unequally with respect to the one and only tenant that ever occupied the
commercial unit, a “Kut-n-Beauty” hair salon that was in existence from about
the time the mixed-use project was first occupied. (Nevin Decl., ¶ 24.) Of
course, all of Mr. Yong’s documents are discoverable because they could show
the Board treated the commercial unit differently by “prioritizing residential
quiet over commercial needs,” or any other type of “unequal treatment.”
 
Plaintiff argues that Defendant’s Motions to
Quash assert incorrect and irrelevant authority. Plaintiff highlights that
discovery cannot be denied simply because the evidence might not be admissible
at trial, as established in Volkswagen of America, Inc. v. Sup. Ct. (2006)
139 Cal.App.4th 1481. The Court agrees that the cases relied upon by Defendant,
such as Terry v. SLICO (2009) 175 Cal.App.4th 352, Fuentes v. Tucker (1941)
31 Cal.2d 1, and Dept. of Health Servs. v. Sup. Ct. (1980) 104
Cal.App.3d 80, discuss trial procedures and the admissibility of evidence, not
the discovery process. Thus, the cited cases do not support the Defendant’s
arguments for quashing the subpoenas. The Court also finds that the subpoenas
are relevant as they seek records to prove unequal treatment by the
Association, which is central to the case. Plaintiff explains that the
documents requested are likely to show how the commercial unit was treated
differently compared to residential units, both in terms of construction
defects and subsequent repairs. Thus, the Court denies the motion to quash
subpoena as to Yong. 
 
Jerry Acker,
Jerry Acker Construction Consulting
 
On or about April 18, 2024, Plaintiff served a Deposition Subpoena for
Production of Business Records to Non-Party Jerry Acker, Jerry Acker
Construction Consulting. Defendant served objections to Plaintiff’s subpoena on
May 1, 2024. Defendant makes the same arguments as above.
 
            The subpoena seeks similar documents
as above.
 
Plaintiff describes Acker as follows:
 
Jerry
Acker was a construction consultant, who as the Association’s agent was
integrally involved in the construction defect litigation; his involvement
included advising on the litigation and a post-defect litigation survey and
questionnaire of unit owners related to construction defects throughout the
mixed-use project. (Nevin Decl., ¶ 20.) His records would show if the
Association treated the commercial unit unequally with respect to the defect,
the lawsuit, the repairs, and the post-repair continuing problems. More
importantly, Mr. Acker was also the Association’s consultant and agent during
the time Plaintiff was attempting to obtain the Association’s approval for
Magnailificent, a nail salon that signed a lease and then spent over three
years trying to obtain Defendant’s approval, after which it gave up and
cancelled its lease with Plaintiff. (Nevin Decl., ¶ 22.)
 
            For the reasons discussed above, the
Court denies the motion to quash subpoena as to Acker.
 
All Pro Copper
Repipes, Inc.
 
On or about April 18, 2024, Plaintiff served a Deposition Subpoena for
Production of Business Records to Non-Party All Prop Copper Repipes. Defendant
served objections to Plaintiff’s subpoena on May 1, 2024. Defendant makes the
same arguments as above.
 
            The subpoena seeks similar documents
as above.
 
Plaintiff describes All Pro Copper Repipes as follows:
 
All
Pro Copper Repipes is a Corona, California company that appears to have
completely re-piped the project. Their records would tend to show if the Association
treated the commercial unit unequally with respect to the defect, the lawsuit,
and the repairs. Equally importantly, the records produced thus far by
Defendant show that the project suffered from further plumbing, water, and leak
problems, both before and also after the construction defect repairs were
performed. (Nevin Decl., ¶ 25.) The unequal treatment would potentially be
shown not only by whether or not the commercial unit was repaired: all other
communications between the Association and All Pro would be discoverable
because it could show the Board treated the commercial unit differently.
Moreover, the documents obtained thus far confirm that the project has
experienced water, plumbing, and leak issues both before and after the
construction defect was repaired. (Nevin Decl., ¶ 19.)
 
For the reasons discussed above, the Court denies the motion to quash
subpoena as to All Pro Copper Repipes.
 
James E. Vitale
 
On or about April 18, 2024, Plaintiff served a Deposition Subpoena for
Production of Business Records to Non-Party James E. Vitale. Defendant served
objections to Plaintiff’s subpoena on May 1, 2024. Defendant makes the same
arguments as above.
 
            The subpoena seeks similar documents
as above.
 
Plaintiff describes James E. Vitale as follows:
 
Jim
Vitale was a construction consultant, who as the Plaintiff’s consultant and
agent was integrally involved during the time Plaintiff was attempting to
obtain the Association’s approval for Magnailificent, a nail salon that signed
a lease and then spent over three years trying to obtain Defendant’s approval,
after which it gave up and cancelled its lease with Plaintiff. (Nevin Decl., ¶
23.) As he was Plaintiff’s consultant, the Defendant’s Motion to Quash the
subpoena directed to him is particularly meritless. His records will directly
show the type of scrutiny the Defendant exhibited, the unreasonable delays
caused by the Defendant that caused the nail salon approval process to be
unresolved for over 3 years, and the unequal treatment the Defendant exhibited
compared to residential tenants’ requests for approval of modifications and
construction.
 
For the reasons discussed above, the Court denies the motion to quash
subpoena as to James E. Vitale.
 
CONCLUSION 
 
            Defendant’s
motions to quash business record subpoenas are DENIED.
 
            Moving
Party to give notice. 
 
            
Dated:   July 18, 2024                                     ___________________________________
                                                                                    Joel
L. Lofton
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court


