 Case Number:  22PSCV01623    Hearing Date:   January 29, 2024    Dept:  6 1.     Defendant  Sistine Manor, Inc. dba Springville Residential Care for the Elderly’s Demurrer  to Plaintiff’s Second Amended Complaint; and2.       Defendant  Sistine Manor, Inc. dba Springville Residential Care for the Elderly’s Motion  to Strike Plaintiff’s Second Amended Complaint  TENTATIVE  RULING             The Court SUSTAINS the demurrer to  Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint. The Court will allow Plaintiff to make an  offer of proof as to why leave to amend should be granted.              The Court DENIES the motion to  strike as moot.              Defendant is ordered to give notice  of the Court’s ruling and file a proof of service of same within five calendar  days of the Court’s order.  BACKGROUND This is an elder abuse case. On November  2, 2022, Plaintiff Kung Alan Chang (Plaintiff), by and through her guardian ad  litem, Kelly Chang, filed this action. On November 27, 2023, Plaintiff filed  the operative Second Amended Complaint (SAC) against Defendant Sistine Manor,  Inc. dba Springville Residential Care for the Elderly (Defendant),[1] and Does  1 through 100, alleging a single cause of action for elder abuse and neglect.  On December 22, 2023, Defendant  filed a demurrer and motion to strike the SAC. On January 16, 2024, Plaintiff  filed an opposition to the demurrer, but not to the motion to strike.[2] Defendant did not file a reply.  LEGAL  STANDARD – Demurrer             A demurrer is a pleading used to test the legal sufficiency of  other pleadings. It raises issues of law, not fact, regarding the form or  content of the opposing party's pleading (complaint, answer or  cross-complaint). (Code Civ. Proc., § 422.10; see Donabedian v.  Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) It is not the function  of the demurrer to challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for  purposes of ruling on the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are  assumed to be true. (Id.)   A  demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the  pleading under attack; or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially  noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318; Donabedian,  supra, 116 Cal.App.4th at p. 994.) No other extrinsic evidence can be  considered. (Ion Equip. Corp. v. Nelson (1980) 110 Cal.App.3d 868,  881 [error for court to consider facts asserted in memorandum supporting  demurrer]; see also Afuso v. United States Fid. & Guar. Co. (1985) 169 Cal.App.3d 859, 862, disapproved on other grounds in Moradi-Shalal  v. Fireman’s Fund Ins. Cos. (1988) 46 Cal.3d 287 [error to consider  contents of release not part of court record].)   A  demurrer can be utilized where the “face of the complaint” itself is incomplete  or discloses some defense that would bar recovery. (Guardian North Bay, Inc.  v. Superior Court (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 963, 971-972.) The “face of  the complaint” includes material contained in attached exhibits that are  incorporated by reference into the complaint, or in a superseded complaint in the same action. (Frantz v.  Blackwell (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 91, 94; see also Barnett v. Fireman’s  Fund Ins. Co. (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 500, 505 [“[W]e rely on and accept as true the contents of the exhibits and treat as  surplusage the pleader’s allegations as to the legal effect of the exhibits.”])   A demurrer  can only be sustained when it disposes of an entire cause of action. (Poizner  v. Fremont General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 119; Kong v. City of  Hawaiian Gardens Redev. Agency (2003) 108  Cal.App.4th 1028, 1046.)  DISCUSSION –  Demurrer Meet  and Confer Per  Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41, subdivision (a), Defendant was required  to meet and confer before bringing this demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41,  subd. (a).) The Court finds Defendant’s efforts to meet and confer satisfactory.  (Asiryan Decl., ¶¶ 2-5.)  First Cause of Action – Elder  Abuse and Neglect The elements of a cause of action for elder abuse and neglect are  determined by the Elder Abuse and Dependent Adult Civil Protection Act  (EADACPA). (Welf. & Inst. Code § 15600 et seq.)  The EADACPA defines “neglect” as “[t]he negligent failure of any person having the care or  custody of an elder or a dependent adult to exercise that degree of care that a  reasonable person in a like position would exercise.” (Welf. & Inst.  Code § 15610.57.) Neglect under the EADACPA “refers not to the substandard  performance of medical services but, rather, to the failure of those  responsible for attending to the basic needs and comforts of elderly or  dependent adults, regardless of their professional standing, to carry out their  custodial obligations. Thus, the statutory definition of ‘neglect’ speaks not  of the undertaking of medical services, but of the failure to provide  medical care.” (Sababin v. Superior Court (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 81, 89,  quotation marks and citation omitted, italics in original.)  Several factors “must be present for conduct to constitute neglect within  the meaning of the Elder Abuse Act and thereby trigger the enhanced remedies  available under the Act. The plaintiff must allege (and ultimately prove by  clear and convincing evidence) facts establishing that the defendant: (1) had  responsibility for meeting the basic needs of the elder or dependent adult,  such as nutrition, hydration, hygiene or medical care; (2) knew of conditions  that made the elder or dependent adult unable to provide for his or her own  basic needs; and (3) denied or withheld goods or services necessary to meet the  elder or dependent adult's basic needs, either with knowledge that injury was  substantially certain to befall the elder or dependent adult (if the plaintiff  alleges oppression, fraud or malice) or with conscious disregard of the high  probability of such injury (if the plaintiff alleges recklessness). The  plaintiff must also allege (and ultimately prove by clear and convincing  evidence) that the neglect caused the elder or dependent adult to suffer  physical harm, pain or mental suffering. Finally, the facts constituting the  neglect and establishing the causal link between the neglect and the injury  must be pleaded with particularity, in accordance with the pleading rules  governing statutory claims.” (Carter v. Prime Healthcare Paradise Valley LLC  (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 396, 406-407 (quotation marks and internal citations  omitted).)  Defendant  demurs to the SAC on the grounds that it fails to plead facts with sufficient  particularity, fails to plead facts amounting to egregious abuse or neglect, and  fails to plead facts sufficient to show that Defendant acted with recklessness,  oppression, fraud, or malice. Defendant also contends the SAC fails to plead  facts that show involvement by an officer, director, or managing agent of a  corporate defendant, and that Kelly Chang lacks standing to bring a survival  action on behalf of Plaintiff, who died on December 9, 2022.  Elder abuse  claims must be pled with sufficient particularity. (Carter v. Prime  Healthcare Paradise Valley LLC (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 396, 410, internal  citation omitted.) The Court finds that the SAC pleads facts with sufficient  particularity to support Plaintiff’s elder abuse claim here. Plaintiff alleges  that Defendant (1) had responsibility for meeting the basic needs of Plaintiff,  such as lodging, daily meals and snacks, housekeeping, … as well as personal care  services such as bathing, dressing, eating, toileting, incontinence care,  mobility, grooming and medication assistance (at ¶ 11) and nutrition,  hydration, hygiene and medical care (at ¶13); (2) knew that Plaintiff had  become totally bedridden requiring full time care, which made Plaintiff unable  to provide for her own basic needs (at   ¶¶ 12, 14); and (3) denied or withheld goods or services  necessary to meet Plaintiff’s basic needs,  either with knowledge that injury was substantially certain to befall Plaintiff  or with conscious disregard of the high probability of such injury by  monitoring Plaintiff daily and not addressing the bed sores and failing to  manually reposition Plaintiff every two hours (at ¶¶15-19). Plaintiff also  alleges that the neglect caused Plaintiff to suffer physical harm, such as bed  sores and decubitus ulceration (at ¶¶ 17-18). These allegations are sufficient  to state a cause of action for elder abuse and neglect.  The Court  finds that Plaintiff has pled with specificity facts demonstrating that  Defendant denied or withheld goods or services, either with knowledge that  injury was substantially certain to befall Plaintiff or with conscious  disregard of the high probability of such injury, and that Plaintiff has pled a  causal link with specificity.  The Court, however,  finds that Plaintiff fails to allege sufficient facts to establish employer  liability through ratification. The SAC again contains no factual allegations  to show involvement or ratification by an officer, director, or managing agent  of Defendant. Plaintiff’s references to “managing agent” are vague and  conclusory, and are insufficient to satisfy the heightened pleading  requirements. (See SAC, ¶¶ 18, 39.)  Finally, as for lack of capacity,  the Court notes that lack of capacity is a separate ground for a demurrer  compared to failure to state a cause of action. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10,  subds. (b), (e).) Defendant’s demurrer only cited failure to state a cause of  action as the grounds for this demurrer. (Notice, 2:4-6; see also Code Civ.  Proc., § 430.60 [“A demurrer shall distinctly specify the grounds upon  which any of the objections to the complaint, cross-complaint, or answer are  taken. Unless it does so, it may be disregarded.”]; Cal. Rules of Court, rule  3.1320, subd. (a) [“Each ground of demurrer must be in a separate paragraph and  must state whether it applies to the entire complaint, cross-complaint, or  answer, or to specified causes of action or defenses.”]) Accordingly, lack of  capacity is not a basis for sustaining Defendant’s demurrer.  Nevertheless, the Court finds that the SAC is subject to demurrer  for the other reasons stated above. Therefore, the Court SUSTAINS the demurrer  to Plaintiff’s Second Amended Complaint. The Court will allow Plaintiff to make  an offer of proof at the hearing on the demurrer as to why leave to amend  should be granted.  LEGAL  STANDARD – Motion to Strike             “The Court may, upon a motion made  pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it  deems proper: (a) Strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted  in any pleading. (b) Strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or  filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of  the court.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5, subd. (b)(2).)  DISCUSSION  – Motion to Strike Meet and  Confer Per  Code of Civil Procedure section 435.5, subdivision (a), Defendant was required  to meet and confer telephonically or in person before bringing this motion to  strike. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5, subd. (a).) The Court finds Defendant’s  efforts to meet and confer satisfactory. (Asiryan Decl., ¶¶ 2-5.)  Analysis In light of the Court sustaining the demurrer to the SAC, Defendant’s  motion to strike is moot.  Therefore, the Court DENIES Defendant’s motion to strike as moot.  CONCLUSION             The Court SUSTAINS the demurrer to  Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint. The Court will allow Plaintiff to make an  offer of proof as to why leave to amend should be granted.              The Court DENIES the motion to  strike as moot.              Defendant is ordered to give notice  of the Court’s ruling and file a proof of service of same within five calendar  days of the Court’s order.    