 Case Number:  23BBCV02466    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
OCTOBER 4,
2024

MOTION
TO STRIKE

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV02466

 



MP:  


Prime Sports Nutrition & Prime
  Sports Nutrition 1 (Defendants)




RP:  


Alex Soblavarro (Plaintiff)



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Alex Soblavarro
(Plaintiff) brings this action against Prime Sports Nutrition & Prime
Sports Nutrition 1 (Defendants). Plaintiff alleges that he purchased a
pre-workout product from Defendants’ retail store. Plaintiff alleges that upon
ingesting the pre-workout product, he became ill and required medical
attention. Plaintiff’s Complaint states causes of action for (1) Products
Liability-Negligence, (2) Strict Products Liability, (3) Breach of Implied
Warranties, and (4) Negligence. 
 
Before the Court is a
motion by Defendants to strike Plaintiff’s request for punitive damages as
stated in his Complaint. Plaintiff opposes the motion. Defendants have rendered
no reply. 
  
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Motions to strike are used to reach
defects or objections to pleadings that are not challengeable by demurrer, such
as words, phrases, and prayers for damages. (See C.C.P. §§ 435, 436, and 437.)
The proper procedure to attack false allegations in a pleading is a motion to
strike. (C.C.P. § 436(a).) In granting a motion to strike made under C.C.P. §
435, “[t]he court may, upon a motion made pursuant to Section 435 [notice of
motion to strike whole or part of complaint], or at any time in its discretion,
and upon terms it deems proper: (a) Strike out any irrelevant, false, or
improper matter inserted in any pleading.” (C.C.P. § 436(a).) Irrelevant
matters include immaterial allegations that are not essential to the claim or
those not pertinent to or supported by an otherwise sufficient claim. (C.C.P. §
431.10.) The court may also “[s]trike out all or any part of any pleading not
drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an
order of the court.” (C.C.P. § 436 (b).)
 
In ruling
on a motion to strike punitive damages, “judges read allegations of a pleading
subject to a motion to strike as a whole, all parts in their context, and
assume their truth.” (Clauson v. Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th
1253, 1255.) To state a prima facie claim for punitive damages, a plaintiff
must allege the elements set forth in the punitive damages statute, Civil Code §
3294. (College Hosp., Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 721.)
Per Civil Code § 3294, a plaintiff must allege that the defendant has been
guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice. (Civ. Code § 3294(a).) As set forth in
the Civil Code:
 
(1) “Malice” means conduct which is intended by
the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is
carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the
rights or safety of others. 
 
(2) “Oppression” means despicable conduct that
subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that
person’s rights. 
 
(3) “Fraud” means an intentional
misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the
defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving
a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.
 
(Civ.
Code § 3294(c)(1)-(3).)
 
Further,
a plaintiff must assert facts with specificity to support a conclusion that a
defendant acted with oppression, fraud, or malice as there is a heightened
pleading requirement regarding a claim for punitive damages. (See Smith v.
Superior Court (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1033, 1041-1042.) 
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Facts 
 
Plaintiff
alleges that he purchased a pre-workout powder named Heavy Hitter from
Defendants. (Compl. ¶ 6.) Plaintiff further alleges that, unbeknownst to
him, Heavy Hitter contained “substances that are harmful to human
health…similar to methamphetamine.” (Compl. ¶ 9.) As a result, Plaintiff
fell ill and was rushed to the hospital where he was admitted and discharged
after five hours. (Compl. ¶ 9.) 
 
As
concerns Defendants’ role in placing Heavy Hitter in the stream of commerce,
Plaintiff alleges the following: 
 
·        
Defendants knowingly supplied the subject incident
pre-workout without ensuring that the promises made by Defendants were upheld.
(Compl. ¶ 12.) 
 
·        
Defendants knew, or reasonably should have known that the
Heavy Hitter, and those alike, were dangerous when used or misused in a
reasonably foreseeable manner. (Compl. ¶¶ 17.) 
 
·        
Defendants conduct described herein was despicable conduct
carried out with a willful and conscious disregard of the risk of safety to
Plaintiff. Defendants failed to conduct any testing or safety precautions on
the pre-workout. (Compl. ¶ 20.) 
 
·        
Defendant failed to take steps to ensure the safety of
Heavy Hitter and/or warn users of such known risks. Defendants placed profit
over safety and knowingly decided to forego testing because of decisions to cut
corners and costs. (Compl. ¶ 21.) 
 
·        
Heavy Hitter Contains substances which have been banned by
the FDA. (Compl. ¶¶ 22-23.) 
 
Discussion 
 
Here,
the Court finds that above facts are pleaded with insufficient particularity to
state a claim for punitive damages. 
 
To
prove that a defendant acted with "willful and conscious disregard of the
rights or safety of others," it is not enough to prove negligence, gross
negligence or even recklessness. (Dawes v. Superior Court (1980) 111
Cal. App. 3d 82, 87.) Rather, a plaintiff must allege facts demonstrating that
"the defendant acted in such an outrageous and reprehensible manner that
the jury could infer that he [or she] knowingly disregarded the substantial
certainty of injury to others." (Id. at 90). Further, the allegations
must be sufficient for a reasonable jury to conclude that Defendants’ conduct
was "despicable" defined as "base, vile or contemptible." (College
Hospital Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal. 4th 704, 725.)
 
Plaintiff’s
allegations as to Defendants’ knowledge of the dangerous nature of Heavy Hitter
are conclusory. There are no factual allegations that Defendants had prior
knowledge that Heavy Hitter contained the substances banned by the FDA.
Plaintiff’s Complaint merely concludes that because Heavy Hitter was dangerous,
Defendants’ placing it in the stream of commerce is akin to willful and
conscious disregard of Plaintiff’s rights. 
 
Each
of Plaintiff’s pleadings as to Defendants’ failure to ensure Plaintiff’s safety
or to warn of the presence of dangerous substances in Heavy Hitter are
predicated on Defendants’ knowledge that such substances were in Heavy Hitter.
Where Plaintiff has not sufficiently pled Defendants’ knowledge that Heavy Hitter
was dangerous, Plaintiff’s claim that Defendants then consciously ignored this
knowledge must necessarily fail. 
 
The
above being established, the Court finds the deficiencies in the pleadings
could be remedied with the addition of facts upon amendment. If Plaintiff were
to allege facts speaking to Defendants’ knowledge that Heavy Hitter was an
inherently dangerous product, it stands to reason that he could then state a
claim for punitive damages. This would require Plaintiff to allege specific
actions by the corporate officers of Defendants. (See Civ. Code § 3294 [“With
respect to a corporate employer, the advance knowledge and conscious disregard,
authorization, or ratification … must be on the part of an officer, director,
or managing agent of the corporation.”].) 
 
Accordingly,
the motion to strike is GRANTED. Plaintiff’s requests for punitive damages are
stricken from the Complaint without prejudice. Should Plaintiff become aware of
additional facts after discovery which would support his claim for punitive
damages, he should seek leave to amend the Complaint via noticed motion at that
time. 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Prime Sports
Nutrition & Prime Sports Nutrition 1’s Motion to Strike came on regularly for hearing on October 4, 2024, with
appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the court,
being fully advised in the premises, did then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE MOTION TO STRIKE IS GRANTED. 
 
PLAINTIFF’S REQUESTS FOR PUNITIVE DAMAGES ARE STRICKEN FROM
THE COMPLAINT WITHOUT PREJUDICE.
 
DEFENDANT PRIME SPORT NUTRITION TO GIVE NOTICE.
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: October
4, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 