 Case Number:  24NNCV00416    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
OCTOBER 4,
2024

MOTION
TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSE

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 24NNCV00416

 



MP:  


Lilit Khachatryan (Plaintiff) 




RP:  


BMW of North America, LLC (Defendant)



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Lilit Khachatryan
(Plaintiff) brings this action against BMW of North America, LLC (BMW).
Plaintiff alleges that BMW sold her a defective 2022 BMW iX xDrive50 and thereafter refused to repurchase the vehicle in
violation of the Song-Beverly Act. 
 
Before
the Court are the following motions, all brought by Plaintiff: 
 
1.     
Motion to
Compel Further Responses to Plaintiff’s Form Interrogatories (FROG)
2.     
Motion to
Compel Further Responses to Plaintiff’s Request for Admissions (RFA)
3.     
Motion to
Compel Further Responses to Plaintiff’s Special Interrogatories (SPROG)
4.     
Motion to
Compel Further Responses to Plaintiff’s Request for Production of Documents
(RFPD)
 
BMW has
only opposed the third and fourth motions. 
  
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Motion to
Compel Further Responses to Interrogatories 
 
On
receipt of a response to interrogatories, the propounding party may move for an
order compelling a further response if the propounding party deems that the
responses contain: (1) answers that are evasive or incomplete, (2)¿an
unwarranted or insufficiently specific exercise of an option to produce
documents in lieu of a substantive response, or (3) unmerited or overly
generalized objections.  (C.C.P. §¿2030.300(a).)
The responding party has the burden of justifying the objections thereto. (Coy
v. Sup.Ct. (1962) 58 Cal.2d 210, 220-21.)
  
Motion to
Compel Further Responses to RFPD
 
A motion
to compel further responses to RFPD may be brought based on: (1) incomplete
statements of compliance; (2) inadequate, evasive, or incomplete claims of
inability to comply; or (3) unmerited or overly generalized objections. 
(C.C.P. § 2031.310(c).) 
 
A motion
to compel further production must set forth specific facts showing good cause
justifying the discovery sought by the inspection demand. (See C.C.P. §
2031.310(b)(1).) In Digital Music News LLC v Superior Court (2014) 226
Cal.App.4th 216 at 224, the Court defined “good cause” as a showing that there
“a disputed fact that is of consequence in the action and the discovery sought
will tend in reason to prove or disprove that fact or lead to other evidence
that will tend to prove or disprove the fact.”  
 
If the
moving party has shown good cause for the requests for production, the burden
is on the objecting party to justify the objections. (Kirkland v. Sup.Ct
(2002) 95 Cal. App.4th 92, 98.) 
 
Motion to
Compel Further Responses on RFA
 
On receipt of a response to
requests for admission, the party requesting admissions may move for an order
compelling a further response if that party deems that either or both of the
following apply: (1) an answer to a particular request is evasive or incomplete
or (2) an objection to a particular request is without merit or too general.
(C.C.P. § 2033.290(a).)
Failure to Oppose a Motion
Pursuant to C.R.C. Rule
8.54 a failure to oppose a motion may be deemed a consent to the granting of
the motion as being meritorious.
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Meet and Confer 
 
Upon
review, the Court finds the meet and confer efforts sufficient. (Mukai Decl.
¶¶ 8-9, Exhs. C-D.) Plaintiff states that her counsel sent a meet and
confer letter to BMW’s counsel and followed up thereafter. (Id.)
Plaintiff states that neither correspondence elicited a response from BMW’s
counsel. (Id.) BMW’s oppositions are silent on these communications. 
 
Form Interrogatories 
 
Plaintiff
seeks further responses to FROG Nos. 15.1 and 17.1. BMW does not oppose this
motion. Pursuant to C.R.C. Rule 8.54
a failure to oppose a motion may be deemed a consent to the granting of the
motion as being meritorious.
 
FROG
No. 15.1 asks BMW to identify all facts, witness, and documents which support
each of BMW’s material allegations and affirmative defenses. BMW responded with
a variety of objections and identified the following documents as responsive to
the interrogatory: 
 
1.     
A copy of the underlying agreement regarding the subject
vehicle  
 
2.     
A copy of the written limited warranty that was provided
for the subject vehicle when it was originally distributed  
 
3.     
A copy of the Warranty Vehicle Inquiry (WVI) for the
subject vehicle 
 
4.     
A copy of the vehicle repair records obtained from any
authorized repair facilities concerning service to the subject vehicle 
 
5.     
A copy of the call records containing communications with
Plaintiff relating to the subject vehicle
 
(Mukai
Decl. Exh. B.) 
 
Plaintiff
argues that this response is insufficient because it is incomplete. Plaintiff
argues BMW’s response does not associate any of the above items with an
individual material claim or affirmative defense. Plaintiff argues that BMW has
asserted 34 affirmative defenses in its Answer but has identified none of the
requested information as concerns those 34 affirmative defenses. The Court
agrees that BMW’s answer is unresponsive to the question posed. 
 
FROG
No. 17.1 asks BMW to identify all facts, witness, and documents in association
with all denials/qualified admissions rendered in response to Plaintiff’s RFA.
BMW’s response was that their RFA responses are self-evident and that they have
“reasonably and clearly qualify its responses as required by the California
Code of Civil Procedure” (Muka Decl. Exh. B.) The Court finds this answer to be
evasive. If BMW maintains the reasonable belief that their responses to the
relevant RFA are sufficient to answer this question, logic dictates that BMW
could simply copy those responses in replying to FROG 17.1.  Plaintiff should not have to guess what BMW
believes is the answer.  BMW’s refusal to
answer the interrogatory on grounds that the answer is located elsewhere is
unsatisfactory. 
 
Accordingly,
the motion to compel further responses to FROG Nos. 15.1 and 17.1 is GRANTED. 
 
Request for Admissions
 
Plaintiff
moves to compel BMW’s further responses to RFA Nos. 3-5, 9, 12, 13, 18-20,
21-22 and 33-35. BMW does not oppose this motion. 
 
BMW’s
response to each of the above RFA is the following statement of objections: 
 
Responding Party
objects on grounds that it is vague, ambiguous and unintelligible. Responding
Party objects on grounds that it is over broad and unduly burdensome.
Responding Party objects to the extent it seeks information that is not
relevant and not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible
evidence. Responding Party objects to the extent it seeks information that is
protected by the attorney-client privilege and/or attorney work product
doctrine. Responding Party objects on grounds that it was not a party to the
underlying agreement regarding the subject vehicle and it did not manufacture,
sell, lease, inspect, service or repair the subject vehicle. Responding Party
objects to the extent it seeks information in the possession, custody and/or
control of third parties. Responding Party objects on grounds that it assumes
facts that have not been established. Responding Party objects on grounds this
is argumentative. Responding Party objects on grounds that it is an incomplete
hypothetical
 
(Mukai
Decl. Exh. B.) 
 
Plaintiff argues that each of these objections have been
interposed without consideration of the RFA to which BMW is responding.
Plaintiff further argues that each of these objections are without merit. By
virtue of failing to oppose the motion, BMW has provided no argument to the
contrary. As such, BMW have failed to carry their burden of justifying their
objections.
 
Accordingly,
the motion to compel further responses to RFA Nos. 3-5, 9, 12, 13, 18-20, 21-22
and 33-35 is GRANTED. 
 
Special Interrogatories 
 
Plaintiff
seeks to compel further responses to SROG Nos. 1-3, 8-12, 14-17, 18-27, 29-31,
40-41 and 43-44. BMW opposes on grounds that they have provided code compliant
responses to each of these requests. 
 
As
concerns SPROG Nos. 1-3, 8-12, and 14-17, BMW responded identically to each
with the following statement: 
 
Subject to and without
waiving the foregoing, and to the extent it understands the interrogatory,
Responding Party responds as follows: Pursuant to California Code of Civil
Procedure Section 2030.230, Responding Party elects to refer to documents
rather than create a compilation, abstract, audit, or summary. Responding Party
refers to the following documents which may have been obtained by third
parties. 
 
(Mukai
Decl. Exh. B.) 
 
This
statement is followed by the identification of various documents such as “A
copy of the Warranty Vehicle Inquiry (WVI) for the subject vehicle.” (SPROG No.
2.) 
 
Plaintiff
argues that such a response is insufficient. Plaintiff represents that BMW’s is
improperly gesturing toward its entire document production with specifying
which documents are response to each of these SPROG. Plaintiff states that
BMW’s document production in this case to this point consists of 164 pages of
documents presented with no index, table of contents, or identifying
information. (Mukai Decl. ¶ 7.) 
 
The
Court agrees that BMW’s general gesturing toward this mass of documents is
insufficiently responsive to Plaintiff’s SPROG. C.C.P. § 2030.230 requires that
a statement referring the propounding party to responsive documents “…shall be
in sufficient detail to permit the propounding party to locate and to identify,
as readily as the responding party can, the documents from which the answer may
be ascertained.” Here, BMW does identify various documents in its SPROG
responses. However, none of these documents are accompanied by information
which would allow Plaintiff to locate and identify those documents among the
mass of 164 pages BMW produced. 
 
Accordingly,
the motion to compel further responses to SPROG Nos. 1-3, 8-12, and 14-17 is
GRANTED. 
 
As
concerns SPROG Nos. 18-27, 29-31, 40-41 and 43-44, BMW responded to each with
the following objections: 
 
Responding Party
objects on grounds that it is vague, ambiguous, and unintelligible. Responding
Party objects on grounds that it is over broad and unduly burdensome.
Responding Party objects to the extent it seeks information that is not
relevant and not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible
evidence. Responding Party objects to the extent it seeks information that is
protected by the attorney-client privilege and/or attorney work product
doctrine. Responding Party objects on grounds that it seeks information that is
confidential, proprietary and trade secret. The information is proprietary to
and owned by Responding Party. If the information was disclosed, it would
infringe on Responding Party’s proprietary rights. Responding Party objects on
grounds that it calls for a legal conclusion. Responding Party objects on
grounds that it assumes facts that have not been established. Responding Party
objects on grounds that it is an incomplete hypothetical.  
 
(Mukai
Decl. Exh. B.) 
 
In
defending this response, BMW focuses solely on their objections of relevance.
BMW argues that because these RFPD solicit information pertaining to vehicles
other than the Subject Vehicle, any information produced would be irrelevant to
the underlying action. The Court finds this argument unpersuasive. 
 
In the discovery context, information is
relevant “if it might reasonably assist a party in evaluating its case,
preparing for trial, or facilitating a settlement. [citations omitted]
Admissibility is not the test and information, unless privileged, is discoverable
if it might reasonably lead to admissible evidence.” (Lipton v. Superior
Court (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 1599, 1611-1612.) It must be noted
that discovery rules are to be applied liberally “and (contrary to popular
belief), fishing expeditions are permissible in some cases.” (Cruz v.
Superior Court (2004) 121 Cal.App.4th 646, 653-654.) 
 
In fact, evidence regarding other vehicles
with similar defects as Plaintiff’s could potentially be admissible at trial in
a lemon law action. (Donlen v. Ford Motor Co. (2013) 217
Cal.App.4th 138, 154; see also Doppes v. Bentley Motors, Inc.
(2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 967, 971.) While Donlen does not specifically
address the scope of discovery requests, it does concern the admissibility of
evidence of defects in similar vehicles. It follows that if evidence of a type
is admissible then it must also be discoverable.
 
Although
it is not supported by declaration, the Court is sensitive to BMW’s objection
on grounds of proprietary/trade secret protection. Protective orders are
routinely used in Song-Beverly cases to protect the release of such information
in discovery. As such, any confidential, commercially sensitive, proprietary,
and trade secret documents may be produced subject to a protective order that
allows such documents to be designated confidential. 
 
Accordingly,
the motion to compel further responses to SPROG Nos. 18-27, 29-31, 40-41 and
43-44 is GRANTED subject to the parties entry of a stipulated protective
order.  
 
Request for Production of Documents
 
Plaintiff
moves to compel further responses to RFPD Nos. 1, 2, 4-15-17, 19-41, and
44-46.  
 
As a
preliminary matter, the Court finds Plaintiff has demonstrated good cause for
production of these documents. Each of the requests concern either the subject
vehicle, BMW’s repurchase policy/procedure, or information related to vehicles
of the same year, make, and model as the Subject Vehicle. As explained above,
the Court finds this information is relevant to the underlying dispute in this
case. 
 
As
concerns RFPD Nos. 1-2, 4-15, 17, 19-32, 37-41 and 44, the Court finds further
production is warranted by virtue of BMW’s incomplete statement of compliance.
BMW responded to each of these RFPD with the following statement: 
 
Responding Party will
produce all relevant and non-privileged documents currently in its possession,
custody and/or control which may have been obtained from third parties
 
(Muklai
Decl. Exh. B.) 
 
Plaintiff
argues that BMW’s agreement to produce only documents which “may have been
obtained by a third party” constitutes an incomplete statement of compliance.
The Court agrees. These RFPD request BMW to produce all documents within their
possession, not just those that are obtained from third parties. BMW provides
no explanation as to why this statement was included in their responses.
Regardless of BMW’s subsequent production, the fact remains that they have only
stated they will produce documents obtained from third parties. While this may
be an overemphasis on semantics, ensuring discovery compliance often requires more
scrupulous analysis of the language employed. 
 
Accordingly,
the motion to compel further responses to RFPD Nos. 1-2, 4-15, 17, 19-32, 37-41
and 44 is GRANTED. 
 
This
leaves RFPD Nos. 16, 32-36, and 45-46. 
 
As
concerns RFPD No 16, BMW appears to concede that its initial response was
insufficient. To that end, BMW’s counsel represents that BMW intends to serve a
supplemental response to RFD No. 16 as follows: 
 
Subject to a
protective order, BMW NA will comply in part and will produce a copy of its
2021 Warranty Policies and Procedures Manual. 
 
The
Court finds this supplemental response would be insufficient. RFPD No. 16 asks
for “warranty claims policy and procedure manual(s) from 2022 to the present.”
(Mukai Decl. Exh. A.) The production of a warranty manual from 2021 would
therefore be unresponsive to the request. 
 
Accordingly,
the motion to compel further response to RFPD No. 16 is GRANTED. 
 
As
concerns RFPD Nos. 32-36 and 45-46, BMW maintains that its objections on
grounds or irrelevance are with merit. As previously explained, information
relating to vehicles of the same year, make, and model are relevant and
discoverable. Echoing its ruling on the SPROG, the Court finds BMW’s objection
on the grounds of proprietary information to be salient but not a total barrier
to production. 
 
The
Court notes that RFDP Nos. 45 and 46 requests customer complaints related to a
2013 BMW 3 Series Vehicle. The Court does not find good cause exists to compel
this information because this case does not concern such a vehicle. In contrast
to requests which seek information for vehicles of the same year, make, and
model, these requests are entirely irrelevant. 

 
Accordingly,
the motion to compel further responses to RFPD Nos. 32-36 is GRANTED. Any
confidential, commercially sensitive, proprietary, and trade secret documents
may be produced subject to a protective order that allows such documents to be
designated confidential. The motion to compel further responses to RFPD Nos.
45-46 is DENIED. 
 
Sanctions 
 
The court shall impose a monetary sanction against any
party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to
compel a further response, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction
acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the
imposition of the sanction unjust. (C.C.P. § 2031.310(h).) 
 
Here the Court finds that BMW opposed the instant motion
without substantial justification. The fact that BMW conceded the necessity for
supplemental responses belies the fact that this motion was necessary. Further,
BMW’s complete failure to engage in any meet and confer efforts means Plaintiff
had no opportunity to narrow the scope of its motion. 
 
As such, the Court awards Defendant sanctions against BMW’s
counsel in the amount of $1,740. This amount reflects five hours of attorney
work in bringing and arguing these motions at a rate of $300 per hour, plus the
$60 filing fee for each motion. (Mukai Decl. ¶ 11.) The Court finds this
rate reasonable based upon the complexity of the matter and the amount of work
commensurate with bringing motions of this type. 
 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Lilit Khachatryan’s
Motions to Compel Further Responses came on regularly
for hearing on October 4, 2024, with appearances/submissions as noted in the
minute order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the
premises, did then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE MOTIONS TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO FROG
NOS. 15.1 AND 17.1; RFA NOS.  3-5, 9, 12, 13, 18-20,
21-22 AND 33-35; SPROG NOS. 1-3, 8-12, 14-17, 18-27, 29-31, 40-41 AND 43-44;
RFPD NOS. 1, 2, 4-15-17, AND 19-44 ARE GRANTED. 
 
THE
MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO RFPD NOS. 45 AND 46 IS DENIED. 
 
FURTHER
PRODUCTION TO OCCUR WITHIN 30 DAYS. 
 
SANCTIONS
ARE GRANTED AS AGAINST BMW’S COUNSEL IN THE AMOUNT OF $1,740. SANCTIONS TO BE
PAID WITHIN 30 DAYS. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
October 4, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 