 Case Number:  24BBCV00094    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
OCTOBER 4,
2024

MOTION
TO COMPEL ARBITRATION

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 24BBCV00094

 



MP:  


Hyundai Motor America (Defendant)




RP:  


Ben and Nina Kass (Plaintiffs)



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Ben and Nina Kass (Plaintiffs) bring this action against Hyundai Motor
America (Hyundai) for claims arising out of the
purchase of a 2016 Hyundai Tucson (the Subject Vehicle). The Complaint alleges
several causes of action for violation of the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty
Act. 
 
Hyundai
now moves to compel Plaintiffs’ claims against them to arbitration. Plaintiff
opposes and Hyundai replies. 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
C.C.P. §
1281.2 states: “[o]n petition of a party to an arbitration agreement alleging
the existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a party
thereto refuses to arbitrate such controversy, the court shall order the
petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines
that an agreement arbitrate the controversy exists.” 
 
A party
seeking to compel arbitration has the initial burden to prove, by a
preponderance of the evidence, the existence of a valid and enforceable
arbitration agreement. (Engalla v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc. (1997)
15 Cal.4th 951, 972.) If the moving party has met its initial burden, then the
burden shifts to respondents to prove the falsity or unenforceability of the
arbitration agreement. (Id.) 
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Request for Judicial Notice

 
Plaintiff requests judicial
notice be granted of a number of Court of Appeal cases concerning Song-Beverly
actions posing issues of arbitrability. Plaintiff does not brief why these
documents should be judicially noticed. To the extent that Plaintiff requests
judicial notice be granted of binding or persuasive authority relevant to this motion,
such notice is unnecessary. (See Jaramillo v. County of Orange (2011)
200 Cal.App.4th 811, 818 [ holding that a request for judicial notice of
published material is unnecessary and that citation to the material is
sufficient.].) As such, Plaintiff’s request is DENIED. 
 
Discussion 
 
The basis of Hyundai’s
motion is the Retail Installment Sale Contract (Sales Agreement) signed by
Plaintiff on May 31, 2017. (Willette Decl. Exh. A.) The Sales Agreement was
made exclusively between Plaintiff and the dealership from which he purchased
the Subject Vehicle, Keyes Hyundai (Keyes). (Willette Decl. ¶ 3.) The Sales
Agreement contain an arbitration clause (Arbitration Agreement) that reads, in
relevant part, as follows: 
 
Any claim or dispute, whether in contract, tort, statute or
otherwise (including the interpretation and scope of this Arbitration
Provision, and the arbitrability of the claim or dispute), between you and us
or our employees, agents, successors or assigns, which arises out of or relates
to your credit application, purchase or condition of this vehicle, this
contract or any resulting transaction or relationship (including any such
relationship with third parties who do not sign this contract) shall, at your
or our election, be resolved by neutral, binding arbitration and not by a court
action. 
 
(Willette Decl. Exh. A, p. 5.)
 
The Court notes that “you”
is defined in the Sales Agreement as the buyer and “we” or “us” is defined as
the seller/creditor. (Id., p.1.) 
 
Although they are not a
party to the Sales Agreement, Hyundai argues that it can enforce the
arbitration agreement between Plaintiff and Keyes because Hyundai is a
contemplated third party within the meaning of the Arbitration Agreement. Hyundai’s
primary authority for this argument is the Fourth District Appellate Court
decision in Felisilda v. FCA US LLC (2020) 53 Cal.App.5th 486. Felisilda
concerned arbitration clauses in dealership contracts which are nearly
identical to those used by various dealerships, including the one in this case.
For some time, Felisilda was the only on-point precedent in these
matters, and many courts employed its holding to compel arbitration of
automobile manufacturer claims based on dealership contracts. 
 
However, on April 4, 2023,
the Second District Appellate Court rendered an opposite decision in Ochoa
v. Ford Motor Company (2023) 89 Cal.App.5th 1324.  Ochoa disagreed with Felisilda and
found manufacturers could not compel arbitration under equitable estoppel or as
third party nonsignatories. 
 
On July 19, 2023, the
California Supreme Court granted review of the ruling in Ochoa. In
granting review, the Supreme Court held that the decision in Ochoa may
be cited for its persuasive value and to show a conflict in authority which
would allow trial courts to exercise discretion in ruling on such motions. (Ochoa
v. Ford Motor Co. (In re Ford Motor Warranty Cases) (July 19, 2023,
No. S279969) [2023 Cal. LEXIS 4235].) “Where there is more than one appellate
court decision, and such appellate decisions are in conflict the superior court
can and must make a choice between the conflicting decisions” (Auto Equity
Sales, Inc. v. Superior Court (1962) 57 Cal.2d 450, 456, citations and
quotation marks omitted.) 

The Court notes the arbitration clauses in Felisilda, Ochoa, and this
case are virtually identical.
 
The rulings in Felisilda
and Ochoa present conflicting opinions from the Fourth and Second
Appellate districts respectively. Ultimately, the Court finds the reasoning in Ochoa
to be more persuasive in deciding whether to compel arbitration. 
 
Hyundai’s argument in
support of its right to compel arbitration asserts the right under both
equitable estoppel and their status as a third party nonsignatory. The Court
will address both of these in turn. 
 
Equitable Estoppel 
 
Under both California and
federal case law, “a nonsignatory defendant may invoke an arbitration clause to
compel a signatory plaintiff to arbitrate its claims when the causes of action
against the nonsignatory are ‘intimately founded in and intertwined’ with the
underlying contract obligations.” (Felisilda supra, 53 Cal.App.5th 486,
495.) “Where the equitable estoppel doctrine applies, the nonsignatory has
a right to enforce the arbitration agreement.” (Id. at 496.)
 
The Felisilda court
found equitable estoppel applied because the plaintiff’s claims were intimately
founded in and intertwined with the dealership contract. The Felisilda court
explained, “[t]he Felisildas’ claim against FCA directly relates to the
condition of the vehicle that they allege to have violated warranties they
received as a consequence of the sales contract. Because the Felisildas
expressly agreed to arbitrate claims arising out of the condition of the
vehicle - even against third party nonsignatories to the sales contract - they
are estopped from refusing to arbitrate their claim against FCA.” (Id.
at 497.)
 
The Ochoa court disagreed
with Felisilda’s finding that the plaintiff’s claims were “founded in or
intertwined with” the dealership sales contracts. The court “disagree[d] with Felisilda
that ‘the sales contract was the source of [FCA’s] warranties at the heart of
this case.’” (Ochoa supra, 89 Cal.App.5th at 1334.) Instead, the Ochoa
court held plaintiff’s claims were “…based on FMC’s statutory obligations
to reimburse consumers or replace their vehicles when unable to repair in
accordance with its warranty,” and not “on any express contractual language in
the sale contracts.” (Id. at 1335.) The Ochoa court further
reasoned “The sale contracts include no warranty, nor any assurance regarding
the quality of the vehicle sold, nor any promise of repairs or other remedies
in the event problems arise.  To the contrary, the sale contracts disclaim
any warranty on the part of the dealers, while acknowledging no effect on ‘any
warranties covering the vehicle that the vehicle manufacturer may
provide.’  In short, the substantive terms of the sale contracts relate to
sale and financing and nothing more.” (Id.)   
 
The Court is of the same
opinion as Ochoa that Plaintiff’s claims are not “intimately founded in
and intertwined” with the substantive terms of the dealership contract. Here,
as in Ochoa, the dealership sales contract contains no aversion to a
manufacturer warranty and in fact disclaims any warranty explicitly. (Willette
Decl. Exh. A, pg. 4.) The Court further agrees Plaintiff’s claims are based on
statutory obligations under Song-Beverly, rather than the contractual
relationship between Plaintiff and Keyes. No language in the contract serves as
the source of Plaintiff’s claims against Keyes, absent extrapolation from the
third party nonsignatory language. As will now be discussed, the Court feels
this language is not intended to allow third parties to compel arbitration. 
 
Third-Party Nonsignatories 
 
The Court similarly agrees
with Ochoa’s interpretation of the “third party nonsignatory” language
employed in the Sales Agreement. 
 
At issue in Felisilda an
Ochoa was the contract language “between you and us or our employees, agents, successors or assigns, which arises out
of or relates to your… purchase or condition
of this vehicle, this contract or any resulting transaction or relationship
(including any such relationship with third
parties who do not sign this contract) shall, at [Plaintiff’s] or
[Dealer’s] election be resolved by neutral, binding arbitration and not by a
court action…” 
 
The court in Felisilda
read the above language to mean that third parties could compel arbitration in
disputes relating to the purchased vehicle. (Felisilda supra, at 498.)
The Ochoa court instead read the language as “a further delineation of
the subject matter of claims the purchasers and dealers agreed to
arbitrate.”  (Ochoa supra, at 1335.) 
 
Ochoa clearly distinguishes between (1) the parties
to the claims or disputes and (2) the subject matters of the claims or
disputes. Here, the parties are defined as “…you and us or our employees,
agents, successors or assigns”. The subject matter of the claim is “…any
resulting transaction or relationship (including any such relationship with
third parties who do not sign this contract.)”. If there was a dispute between
Plaintiff and the dealership that arose out of or related to a resulting
transaction or relationship with a third party, then Plaintiff and the
dealership could arbitrate that dispute.  However, based on the
arbitration provision’s language and Ochoa’s clear interpretation
thereof, there is no agreement requiring Plaintiff to arbitrate a claim or
dispute between himself and a non-signatory third-party. 
 
The Court notes that the
reasoning in Ochoa was echoed by Division Seven of the Second Appellate
District in Montemayor v. Ford Motor Co. (2023) 92 Cal.App.5th 958.
Review in Montemayor was granted and is also pending. The same can be
said for the decision in Yeh v. Superior Court (2023) 95
Cal.App.5th 264 by Division Four of the Fourth Appellate District. Both of
these cases ultimately denied the manufacturer’s motion to compel arbitration. 
 
The Court finds Ochoa’s interpretation
of the arbitration language to be the most logical. The language indicates the
clause intends to allow arbitration of claims arising out of interaction with
third party nonsignatories by either Plaintiff or the dealership. The clause
simply does not contemplate manufacturers, or any third party for that matter,
as having the right to compel arbitration under the terms of the agreement. 
 
Accordingly, Hyundai’s
motion to compel arbitration is DENIED. 
 
Arbitration Stay 
 
As the Court denies the
motion to compel arbitration in its entirety, its motion to stay proceedings is
moot.  
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Hyundai Motor America’s
Motion to Compel Arbitration came on regularly for
hearing on October 4, 2024, with appearances/submissions as noted in the minute
order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the premises, did
then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION IS DENIED.
 
THE CASE MANAGEMENT CONFERENCE SCHEDULED FOR
OCTOBER 9, 2024 IS ADVANCED AND CONTINUED TO FEBRUARY 6, 2025 AT 9:00 AM.
 
DEFENDANT HYUNDAI TO GIVE NOTICE.  
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
October 4, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 