 Case Number:  24BBCV00444    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
OCTOBER 4,
2024

DEMURRER

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 24BBCV00444

 



MP:  


Lauren Miller (Defendant) 




RP:  


Liza Abbot (Plaintiff) 



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Liza Abbot
(Plaintiff) brings this action against N.K. Studio City, Lauren Miller (Miller),
and Peter Verdell (Verdell). Plaintiff alleges that she was attacked by a dog
owned by Verdell, who is Miller’s boyfriend. The attack is alleged to have
occurred at 11170 Aqua Vista St., Studio City, California 91602 (the Subject
Premises), a residential property owned and operated by N.K. Studio City. At
the time of the incident, both Plaintiff and Miller were tenants at the Subject
Premises. 
 
Before
the Court is a demurrer brought by Miller. Miller demurs to Plaintiff’s causes
of action for Breach of Contract - Third Party Beneficiary and Negligence on
grounds that Plaintiff fails to allege sufficient facts. Plaintiff opposes the
demurrer and Miller replies. 
  
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
The
grounds for a demurrer must appear on the face of the pleading or from
judicially noticeable matters. (C.C.P. § 430.30(a); Blank v. Kirwan
(1985) 39 Cal. 3d 311, 318.) A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the
complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147
Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether
the complaint states a cause of action. (Id.)
 
A
demurrer assumes the truth of all factual, material allegations properly pled
in the challenged pleading. (Blank v. Kirwan, supra, 39 Cal. 3d at p.
318.) No matter how unlikely or improbable, the plaintiff’s allegations must be
accepted as true for the purpose of ruling on the demurrer. (Del E. Webb
Corp. v. Structural Materials Co. (1981) 123 Cal.  App. 3d 593, 604.)
But this does not include contentions; deductions; conclusions of fact or law
alleged in the complaint; facts impossible in law; or allegations contrary to
facts of which a court may take judicial notice.  (Blank, supra,
39 Cal. 3d at 318.)
 
Pursuant
to C.C.P. §§ 430.10(e) and (f), the party against whom a complaint has been
filed may demur to the pleading on the grounds that the pleading does not state
facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action, or that the pleading is
uncertain, ambiguous and/or unintelligible. It is an abuse of discretion to
sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if there is a reasonable probability
that the defect can be cured by amendment. (Schifando v. City of Los Angeles
(2003) 31 Cal. 4th 1074, 1082.)
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Meet and Confer 
 
C.C.P.
§ 430.41(a) requires that the moving party meet and confer with the party who
filed the pleading that is subject to the demurrer. Upon review the Court finds
the meet and confer requirements were met. (Clark Decl. ¶¶ 2-4.) 
 
Facts 
 
On July
29, 2023, Plaintiff was bitten by a dog at the Subject Premises. (Compl.
¶ 9.) The dog was owned by Verdell. (Comp. ¶ 10.) Plaintiff alleges
that the dog that bit her was not allowed on the premises due to restrictions
in the Lease Agreement. (Compl. ¶ 13.) 
 
Second COA – Breach of Contract Third Party Beneficiary –
Sustained with Leave To Amend 
 
To state a cause of action for breach of contract, Plaintiff
must be able to establish “(1) the existence of the contract, (2) plaintiff’s
performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach, and (4) the
resulting damages to the plaintiff.” (Oasis
West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011) 51 Cal.4th 811, 821.)
 
Here,
Plaintiff alleges that Miller is in breach of the contract N.K. Studio City;
however, the only reference Plaintiff makes is to Plaintiff’s own lease with no
reference to Miller’s relationship. The contract as pled is Plaintiff’s Lease
Agreement with N.K. Studio City, attached to the Complaint as Exhibit 1. A
review of the contract shows that Miller is nowhere mentioned, and Miller is
not a signatory to Plaintiff’s Lease Agreement. Plaintiff does not dispute
this. 
 
Instead,
Plaintiff argues that the contract can be enforced against Miller because she
is a third-party beneficiary to Plaintiff’s Lease Agreement.  If Miller was a third-party beneficiary, that
does not necessarily mean that Miller faces liability to a contract Miller
never signed.  Nor are there sufficient
facts to show that Miller was expressly intended to be a third-party
beneficiary.  From reading the parties
arguments, it appear that Plaintiff may not have properly pled this cause of
action leading to an ambiguity to which Miller relies upon to support the
demurrer.  Plaintiff reasons that because
the Lease Agreement (which was defined in the complaint as the agreement
between Plaintiff and he landlord) prohibits pets without the prior written
consent of the landlord, the provision necessarily contemplates the safety of
other tenants. The Court finds this argument unpersuasive for a variety of
reasons. 
 
Civil
Code § 1559 provides “A contract, made expressly for the benefit of a third
person, may be enforced by him at any time before the parties thereto rescind
it.” As evident from the plain language of the statute, Civil Code § 1559 only
permits the enforcement of a such a contract by the third party to be
benefitted. The statute states the third-party beneficiary to be benefitted
must be expressly part of the contract.  However,
there are insufficient facts to support a claim that other tenants were
intended third party beneficiaries to Plaintiff’s own lease.
 
If
the Plaintiff intended to argue that Plaintiff is the third-party beneficiary
to Miller’s rental agreement, the Plaintiff does not effectively do so.  If that were the intent, the cause of action
still is subject to a successful demurrer. 
In an effort to be efficient, the Court will address that issue.  Plaintiff may be arguing that because N.K.
Studio’s Lease Agreements contain a provision which prohibits pets without
prior written consent, Plaintiff is a beneficiary of any Lease Agreement which
Miller supposedly signed. The Court finds this argument unpersuasive. 
 
To
begin, Miller’s Lease Agreement is not before the Court. Miller’s Lease
Agreement is not attached to the pleadings, nor has it been judicially noticed.
If a breach of contract claim “is based on alleged breach of a written
contract, the terms must be set out verbatim in the body of the complaint or a
copy of the written agreement must be attached and incorporated by reference.”
(Harris v. Rudin, Richman & Appel (1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 299, 307.) Here,
Plaintiff attaches only her own Lease Agreement with N.K. Studio City to the
Complaint. (Compl. Exh. 1.) Plaintiff assumes that Miller’s Lease Agreement is
identical to hers, but such assumptions do not constitute sufficient facts to
state a cause of action for breach of contract. 
 
Even
if Plaintiff’s cause of action were proper under Civil Code §1559, her
arguments regarding the pet prohibition are misplaced. the Court finds the
language of the pet prohibition provision does not specifically contemplate a
benefit to Plaintiff.  
 
To
plead a proper claim for breach of contract by third party beneficiary a
plaintiff must allege the following in order: 
 
(1)
whether the third party would in fact benefit from the contract, but also 
 
(2)
whether a motivating purpose of the contracting parties was to provide a
benefit to the third party, and 
 
(3)
whether permitting a third party to bring its own breach of contract action
against a contracting party is consistent with the objectives of the contract
and the reasonable expectations of the contracting parties." 
 
(Goonewardene
v. ADP, LLC (2019) 6 Cal.5th 817, 830; see also Kalmanovitz v. Bitting
(1996) 43 Cal.App.4th 311, 314 ["While it is not necessary that a third
party be specifically named, the contracting parties must clearly manifest
their intent to benefit the third party"].)
 
Here,
the Lease Agreement is clearly a contract between N.K. Studio City and
Plaintiff. (Compl. Exh. 1.) The provision which states that pets are not
allowed on the Subject Premises without prior written consent of N.K. Studio is
located in section eight of the Lease Agreement. 
 
Without
the Owner/Agent’s prior written permission as an addendum to this Agreement, no
pets, no waterbeds, charcoal burners or other open-flame cooking devices, or
liquefied petroleum gas fueled cooking devices (“grills”) or waterbeds and
water filled furniture shall be kept or allowed in or about the said premises. 
 
(Compl.
Exh. 1.) 
 
Nothing
in the language of this provision specifically contemplates the benefit of
other tenants. There is no “manifestation of intent” to benefit a third party
in the Lease Agreement. Plaintiff’s interpretation of this provision as being
intended to protect other tenants is just that, her interpretation.  That the prohibition of unauthorized pets could
benefit the safety of other tenants does not mean N.K. Studio City and Miller
intended it to do so. It appears just as, if not more, likely that the provision
was intended to shield N.K. Studio city from liability or to prevent unwanted
property damage. The law is clear that Plaintiff must plead specific language
contemplating the benefit of a third party, language which is simply absent
from the Lease Agreement. 
 
Lastly,
the lone case upon which Plaintiff relies in opposition, Spinks v. Equity
Residential Briarwood Apartments, is irrelevant to the resolution of this
demurrer. The plaintiff in Spinks sought to enforce a Lease Agreement
her former employer made with a property management company. (Spinks v.
Equity Residential Briarwood Apartments (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1004, 1018.)
The plaintiff resided on the property after the termination of her employment
which explicitly granted her the dwelling as compensation. (Id. at
1036.) The court in Spinks was tasked with determining whether the
plaintiff was an intended third party beneficiary to the Lease Agreement
between her former employer and the property management company. (Id. at
1022-1023.) 
 
Contrary
to Plaintiff’s representation, nothing in Spinks concerns tenant safety.
The facts of Spinks are entirely inapposite to this case. Further, Spinks
concerned an attempt by a third party beneficiary to enforce a contract,
whereas this case presents the opposite. In short, the holding of Spinks is
unhelpful to Plaintiff’s argument.  
 
Accordingly,
the demurrer to the first cause of action is SUSTAINED with leave to amend. The
Court does not see how additional factual allegations would allow Plaintiff to
state this claim under Civil Code § 1559. 
 
Third COA – Negligence – Sustained Without Leave to Amend 
 
In order to state a
claim for negligence, Plaintiff must allege the elements of (1) “the existence
of a legal duty of care,” (2) “breach of that duty,” and (3) “proximate cause
resulting in an injury.” (McIntyre v.
Colonies-Pacific, LLC (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 664, 671.)
 
Defendant
first argues that Plaintiff has failed to plead any duty which Miller owed her.
The Court finds this argument persuasive. 
 
As a
general rule, a defendant owes a duty of care to all persons who are
foreseeably endangered by defendant’s conduct, with respect to all risks which
make the conduct unreasonably dangerous. (Tarasoff v. Regents of University
of California (1976), 17 Cal.3d. 425, 434-4345.) However, it is also well
established that there is no duty to act to protect others from the conduct of
third parties. (Id. at 435.) 
 
Plaintiff’s
Complaint alleges only that Verdell was present at the time of the incident.
(Compl. ¶ 11.) While Plaintiff alleges that Miller was aware of the dog’s
vicious temperament, she does not allege any facts as to Miller’s knowledge
that the dog was present at the subject premises at the time of the incident.
(Compl. ¶ 38.) Allegations that Miller knew the dog to be vicious are not
the same as allegations that Miller knew the dog was at the subject premises at
the time of the incident. As it stands, the Complaint only alleges facts as to actions
taken by Verdell. As Plaintiff fails to allege any conduct by Miller, it cannot
be said that her conduct created a foreseeable harm required to trigger her
general duty of care. Nor has Plaintiff pled any special relationship between
which would otherwise establish a duty between herself and Miller (See Melton
v. Boustred (2010) 183
Cal.App.4th 521, 531.)
 
To the extent that Plaintiff believes Miller
had a duty to take proactive measures to prevent the incident, the law is clear
that such a duty must be established by the existence of a special
relationship. (See Seo v. All-Makes Overhead Doors (2002) 97 Cal.App.4th
1193, 1202 [holding that liability for nonfeasance is limited to situations in
which there is a special relationship that creates a duty to act.].)
 
In
short, Plaintiff has pled no actions of Miller which would trigger the general
duty of care. As a duty of care is a prerequisite to maintaining a negligence
cause of action, Plaintiff’s pleadings are insufficient. The Court finds that
this deficiency could possibly be cured upon demurrer should Plaintiff add
allegations speaking to Miller’s specific actions. 
 
Accordingly,
the demurrer to the second cause of action is SUSTAINED with leave to amend.
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Lauren Miller’s Demurrer came on regularly for hearing on October 4, 2024, with appearances/submissions
as noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the court, being fully
advised in the premises, did then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE
DEMURRER TO THE SECOND AND THIRD CAUSE OF ACTION IS SUSTAINED WITH 20 DAYS’
LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
DEFENANT MILLER
TO GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
October 4, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 