 Case Number:  23BBCV00259    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
OCTOBER 4,
2024

MOTION
TO DEEM REQUEST FOR ADMISSIONS MATTERS ADMITTED

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV00259

 



MP:  


California Automobile Insurance Company
  (Plaintiff)




RP:  


Karim Araujo (Defendant) [No Response
  Rendered]



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
California Automobile
Insurance Company (Plaintiff) brings this action against Karim Araujo
(Defendant). Plaintiff alleges that Defendant, an unlicensed electrician, was
hired by Plaintiff’s Insured to install a new bathroom fan in the Insured’s
apartment. Defendant allegedly cut into the emergency sprinkler lines, causing
significant flooding and damage to the Insured’s apartment. Plaintiff seeks to
be reimbursed for insurance payments made to rectify Defendant’s alleged
negligence.  
 
Before the Court is a
motion by Plaintiff to deem matters in their Request for Admissions (RFA) admitted.
Plaintiff states that Defendant has rendered no response to their RFA matters
as of the filing of this motion. Defendant has filed no opposition to this
motion. 
  
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
If a party fails to respond
to requests for admission in a timely manner, the requesting party may move for
an order that the matters be deemed admitted. (C.C.P. § 2033.280(b).) The requesting party’s motion must be
granted by the court unless the party to whom the requests for admission have
been directed has served a proposed response to the requests for admission that
is in substantial compliance with C.C.P. § 2033.220 prior to the hearing. 
(C.C.P. § 2033.280(c).)  By failing
to timely respond, the party to whom the requests are directed waives any
objection to the requests, including one based on privilege or work
product.  (C.C.P. §
2033.280(a).) 
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Request to Deem RFA Matters
Admitted  
 
On April
12, 2024, Plaintiff served their RFA on Defendant via mail to Defendant at 1309
W. 56th St. Los Angeles CA 90037. (Espinosa Decl. ¶ 1, Exh. A.) A review
of the record shows that this address is the same listed by Defendant in his
Answer filed July 17, 2023. Discovery responses were due on May 17, 2024 but Plaintiff
received no responses. (Espinosa Decl. ¶ 1.) As of the filing of this
motion, Defendant has received no responses. (Id.) 
 
On July
3, 2024, Plaintiff served this motion and accompanying papers on Defendant via
mail to the same W. 56th St. address.  
 
Based on
the foregoing, Defendant’s unopposed motion to deem RFA matters admitted
is GRANTED.
 
Sanctions

 
The Court shall impose
monetary sanctions for failure to timely respond to requests for admission
unless the party acted with substantial justification, or the circumstances
render imposition of sanctions unjust. (C.C.P. §
2033.280(c).) The Court must impose a monetary sanction on the party or
attorney whose failure to serve timely RFA responses necessitated the motion. (Id.)
 
Here,
Plaintiff requests $460 in sanctions in connection with the motion to compel.
The Court notes that sanctions are mandatory where a party’s failure to timely
respond to RFA necessitates a motion to compel as per C.C.P. § 2033.280(c). Counsel’s
declaration request $400 for two hours of work at $200 an hour plus the filing
fee.  The Court finds this reasonable and
grants the request.
 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
The
Motion to Deem RFA Matters admitted is granted; however, the request for
sanctions are denied.
 
 
ORDER 
 
California Automobile
Insurance Company’s Motion to Deem RFA Matters Admitted
came on regularly for hearing on October 4, 2024, with appearances/submissions
as noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the court, being fully
advised in the premises, did then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE MOTION TO DEEM RFA MATTERS ADMITTED IS
GRANTED. 
 
PLAINTIFF’S RFA NOS. 1-8 ARE DEEMED ADMITTED. 
 
DEFENDANT IS TO PAY SANCTIONS IN THE AMOUNT OF
$460.00 DUE IN 30 DAYS.
 
PLAINTIFF TO GIVE NOTICE.  
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
October 4, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 