 Case Number:  23GDCV01942    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
OCTOBER 4,
2024

MOTION
TO COMPEL DEPOSITION 

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23GDCV01942

 



MP:  


Kia America, Inc. (Defendant) 




RP:  


Matthew A. Solomon (Plaintiff)



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
  
Matthew A. Solomon
(Plaintiff) brings this action against Kia
America, Inc. (Kia). Plaintiff alleges
that Kia sold him a defective 2019 Kia Niro in violation of the Song Beverly
Act. 
 
Kia now moves to
compel Plaintiff’s deposition pursuant to C.C.P. § 2025.240. Plaintiff opposes
the motion and Kia replies. 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL STANDARD 
 
“If, after service of a deposition
notice, a party to the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or
employee of a party, or a person designated by an organization that is a party
under Section 2025.230, without having served a valid objection under Section
2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce
for inspection any document, electronically stored information, or tangible
thing described in the deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move
for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the
production for inspection of any document, electronically stored information,
or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.” (C.C.P. § 2025.450(a).)
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Separate Statement 
 
The Court first addresses Plaintiff’s
argument that Kia’s motion is procedurally defective for failure to include a
Separate Statement pursuant to C.R.C. Rule 3.1345. Rule 3.1345 requires a
separate statement for motions seeking to compel answers at a deposition (under
C.C.P. § 2025.480) or to compel/quash the production of documents at a
deposition. This motion is neither, thus no separate statement is required.  
 
Timeline 
 
On October 6, 2023, Kia unilaterally
noticed the deposition of Plaintiff. (Naqvi Decl. ¶ 2, Exh. A.) The
deposition was set for January 4, 2024. (Id.) On December 29, 2023,
Plaintiff objected on grounds of unavailability and unilateral notice. (Naqvi
Decl. ¶ 3, Exh. B.) On March 25, 2024, Kia served an amended notice of deposition.
(Naqvi Decl. ¶ 4, Exh. C.) This deposition was set for May 16, 2024. (Id.)

 
On May 9, 2024, Plaintiff formally
responded and agreed to appear for the noticed deposition (Naqvi Decl.
¶ 5, Exh. D.) On May 15, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel contacted counsel for
Kia and requested a 1:00 p.m. deposition time rather than the noticed 10:00
a.m. time. (Naqvi Decl. ¶ 6.) Kia agreed to this request. (Id.)
Later that same day, counsel for Plaintiff emailed Kia’s counsel to inform that
Plaintiff could no longer attend the deposition because Plaintiff had a
doctor’s appointment. (Id, Exh. E.) Plaintiff’s counsel also represented
that “we will provide new dates soon”.  (Id.)

 
On June 26, 2024, Kia’s counsel
requested Plaintiff provide alternative dates for the deposition. (Naqvi Decl.
¶ 7, Exh. F.) Kia reached out again on July 17, 2024. (Id.) Neither
request received a response. On August 12, 2024, Kia filed the instant motion. 
 
On September 19, 2024, Plaintiff’s
counsel contacted counsel for Kia and offered October 16 and 17 as available
deposition dates. (Gopstein Decl. ¶ 7.) Kia’s reply makes no reference to
this communication. 
 
Discussion
 
The Court finds Plaintiff’s argument
that the instant motion is moot to be unpersuasive. Although Plaintiff has now
offered alternative dates for the deposition, Kia is without a guarantee that
the deposition will occur on either of those dates. This concern is especially
cogent given Plaintiff failed to appear for the May 16, 2024 deposition despite
serving a response stating he was available on that date. While Plaintiff’s
counsel asserts that Plaintiff had a doctor’s appointment, presumably the
existence of that appointment would have been known the day prior when the time
was changed, or when the deposition date was agreed upon.  It is clear to the Court that Kia’s motion
for an order compelling Plaintiff’ attendance at a deposition is not without
purpose. 
 
The facts here are clear. Kia appropriately
noticed Plaintiff’s deposition for May 16, 2024 and Plaintiff agreed to attend.
Plaintiff then did not attend the deposition asserting the existence of a
doctor’s appointment which presumably should have been known when the date was
agreed upon, and certainly the day prior when the time was changed. The Court
finds that Kia appropriately attempted to meet and confer with Plaintiff as to
alternative deposition dates, but that attempt fell upon deaf ears. Plaintiff
did not offer alternative dates until well after Kia filed this motion to
compel. 
 
Accordingly, Kia’s motion is GRANTED.
Since Plaintiff has already indicated availability on October 16, 2024, the
Court orders the deposition to proceed on or before that day. This is consistent
with Plaintiff’s request that the Court order the deposition to occur within
the next 15 days. 
 
Sanctions 
 
“If a motion under subdivision (a) is
granted, the court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing
with Section 2023.010) in favor of the party who noticed the deposition and
against the deponent or the party with whom the deponent is affiliated, unless
the court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.” (C.C.P. § 2025.450.) 
 
Here, the Court finds Plaintiff was
without substantial justification in opposing the motion. Plaintiff’s refusal
to appear and thereafter participate in meet and confer efforts clearly
necessitated the bringing of this motion. Kia overlooked filing a declaration
concerning reasonable sanctions. The declaration of Kia’s counsel is inadvertently
silent as to the hours expended on this motion or counsel’s rates. Accordingly,
Kia shall file a supplemental declaration concerning sanctions within ten
days.  
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Kia America,
Inc.’s Motion to Compel Deposition came on regularly for hearing on October 4, 2024, with
appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the
court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there rule as
follows: 
 
THE MOTION TO COMPEL PLAINTIFF’S ATTENDANCE AT
DEPOSITION IS GRANTED.  PLAINTIFF’S
DEPOSITION SHALL OCCUR NO LATER THAN OCTOBER 16, 2024. 
 
DEFENDANT KIA TO FILE A SUPPLEMENTAL DECLARATION
CONCERNING A REQUESTED AMOUNT OF SANCTIONS WITHIN TEN DAYS. PLAINTIFF MAY FILE
AN OPPOSITION WITHIN 2 COURT DAYS THEREAFTER. A NON-APPEARANCE CASE REVIEW RE:
DISCOVERY SANCTIONS IS SET FOR OCTOBER 17, 2024.  FAILURE TO FILE THE MEMORANDUM WILL RESULT IN
NO SANCTIONS BEING ISSUED AND THE MATTER TAKEN OFF CALENDAR.
 
DEFENDANT
KIA TO GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
October 4, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 