  Case Number:  19SMCV00603    Hearing Date:   February 9, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Snukal, et
al., v. 926 Broadway LLC, et al.
CASE NO.:                19SMCV00603
MOTION:                  Motion
for Attorneys’ Fees 
HEARING DATE:   2/9/2024

 
Legal
Standard
 
With respect to attorney fees and costs,
unless they are specifically provided for by statute (e.g., CCP §§ 1032, et
seq.), the measure and mode of compensation of attorneys and counselors at law
is left to the agreement, express or implied, of the parties.¿(CCP § 1021.) The
prevailing party on a contract, which specifically provides for attorney fees
and costs incurred to enforce the agreement, is entitled to reasonable attorney
fees in addition to other costs.¿(Civ. Code § 1717(a); CCP §§ 1032, 1033.5(a)(10)(A).)¿The
court, upon notice and motion by a party, shall determine the prevailing party
and shall fix, as an element of the costs of suit, the reasonable attorney
fees.¿(Civ. Code § 1717(a), (b).)¿Any notice of motion to claim attorney fees
as an element of costs under shall be served and filed before or at the same
time the memorandum of costs is served and filed; if only attorney fees are
claimed as costs, the notice of motion shall be served and filed within the
time specified in CRC 3.1700 for filing a memorandum of costs.¿(CRC 3.1702; Gunlock
Corp. v. Walk on Water, Inc. (1993) 15 Cal.App.4th 1301, 1303, fn. 1.) 
 
“It is well established that the
determination of what constitutes reasonable attorney fees is committed to the
discretion of the trial court, whose decision cannot be reversed in the absence
of an abuse of discretion. [Citation.]” (Melnyk v. Robledo (1976) 64
Cal.App.3d 618, 623 624.) The fee setting inquiry in California ordinarily
“begins with the ‘lodestar’ [method], i.e., the number of hours reasonably
expended multiplied by the reasonable hourly rate.” (Graciano v. Robinson
Ford Sales, Inc. (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 140, 154.) “[A] computation of time
spent on a case and the reasonable value of that time is fundamental to a
determination of an appropriate attorneys’ fee award.” (Margolin v. Reg’l
Planning Comm’n (1982) 134 Cal.App.3d 999, 1004.) The lodestar
figure may then be adjusted, based on consideration of factors specific to the
case, in order to fix the fee at the fair market value for the legal services
provided. (See Serrano v. Priest (1977) 20 Cal.3d 25, 49 [discussing
factors relevant to proper attorneys’ fees award].) Such an approach anchors
the trial court’s analysis to an objective determination of the value of the attorney’s
services, ensuring that the amount awarded is not arbitrary. (Id. at 48,
fn. 23.) The factors considered in determining the modification of the lodestar
include “(1) the novelty and difficulty of the questions involved, (2) the
skill displayed in presenting them, (3) the extent to which the nature of the
litigation precluded other employment by the attorneys, (4) the contingent
nature of the fee award.” (Mountjoy v. Bank of Am. (2016) 245
Cal.App.4th 266, 271.) 
 
In challenging attorney fees as excessive
because too many hours of work are claimed, it is the burden of the challenging
party to point to the specific items challenged, with a sufficient argument and
citations to the evidence.¿(Premier Medical Management Systems, Inc. v.
California Ins. Guaranty Assoc. (2008) 163 Cal.App.4th 550, 564.)¿General
arguments that fees claimed are
excessive, duplicative, or unrelated do not suffice. (Ibid.) 
 
Finally, a “trial court may award fees solely
on the basis of the experience and knowledge of the trial judge.” (East West Bank v. Rio School Dist.,
(2015) 235 Cal. App. 4th 742, 750 (“[a] trial court may award fees
solely on the basis of the experience and knowledge of the trial judge.”); see
also Fed-Mart Corp. v. Pell Enterprises, Inc., (1980) 111 Cal. App. 3d
215, 227 (“award for attorney fees may be made in some instances solely on the
basis of the experience and knowledge of the trial judge without the need to
consider any evidence.”).)  
 
Analysis
 
Plaintiffs Daniel J. Snukal, Robert
M. Snukal, Mark Mittleman and T.C.P. II, LLC d/b/a Tacos Punta Cabras
(“Plaintiffs”) move for an award of attorney’s fees in the amount of
$1,024,930.00 plus amounts not yet invoiced for defense of the post-judgment
motions and preparation of this motion, against Defendants 926 Broadway, LLC
and Fortuna Asset Management. 
 
Plaintiffs meet their burden to
show that they are entitled to attorneys’ fees for time spent by their counsel prosecuting
their action and defending against the cross-complaint, which had been filed as
a separate action, but later consolidated with Plaintiff’s action. Plaintiffs brought
the instant action against Defendants on allegations that they conspired to
induce Plaintiffs into a long-term commercial lease in a unit with numerous
structural and non-structural problems known to Landlord and undisclosed to
Plaintiffs that made the unit unfit for a restaurant, including faulty and
leaking plumbing throughout the building and the unit, noxious odors and
rodents through the common areas, etc.  A
trial on this matter was held in May and June 2023. After hearing the evidence,
the jury found in Plaintiffs’ favor on the Breach of Contract, Breach of
Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing, Fraud in the Inducement and
Constructive Eviction claims, and granted Plaintiffs’ punitive damages request.
Plaintiffs also prevailed against the cross-complaint filed in this action. Altogether,
the jury awarded $1,750,000 in favor of Plaintiffs. Plaintiffs are the
prevailing party in this matter. 
 
The pertinent Lease Agreement
contains the following attorneys’ fees provision:
 
31. Attorneys’ Fees. If any Party
or Broker brings an action or proceeding involving the Premises whether founded
in tort, contract or equity, or to declare rights hereunder, the Prevailing
Party (as hereafter defined) in any such proceeding, action, or appeal thereon,
shall be entitled to reasonable attorneys’ fees. Such fees may be awarded in
the same suit or recovered in a separate suit, whether or not such action or
proceeding is pursued to decision or judgment. The term, ‘‘Prevailing Party’’ shall
include, without limitation, a Party or Broker who substantially obtains or defeats
the relief sought, as the case may be whether by compromise, settlement, judgment,
or the abandonment by the other Party or Broker of its claim or defense. The
attorneys’ fees award shall not be computed in accordance with any court fee schedule,
but shall be such as to fully reimburse all attorneys’ fees reasonably incurred.
In addition, Lessor shall be entitled to attorneys’ fees, costs and expenses incurred
in the preparation and service of notices of Default and consultations in connection
therewith, whether or not a legal action is subsequently commenced in connection
with such Default or resulting Breach ($200 is a reasonable minimum per occurrence
far such services and consultation). 
 
(Turken Decl., Ex. B.)
 
As the prevailing parties in this
action on the Lease, and the inextricably intertwined nature of counsels’
representation of Plaintiffs collectively, Plaintiffs are entitled to
attorneys’ fees in this action. (See Civ. Code § 1717, CRC Rule 3.1702.) The Court
also agrees that this was a fully litigated matter, justifying a substantial number
of attorneys’ fees. Notably, this action lasted over four years, and included
heavy motion practice. For instance, the parties fully briefed Defendants’ Motion
for Summary Judgment or, in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication; motions
related to the designation of expert witnesses, several motions to compel, and
numerous motions in limine and other oral motions at trial. The parties engaged
in extensive discovery efforts and trial preparation, including preparing for
trial initially in 2022, and then again in 2023. (See Connolly Decl.) Based
upon the Court’s experience handling this case and other matters, the Court concurs
that this record warrants a significant sum of attorneys’ fees.
 
Plaintiffs claim 1,024,930.00 in fees
for 1,425.30 hours of counsels’ time at various rates (approximately $719.25/hr.
on average).  Plaintiff’s summaries of
time spent, however, do not provide the Court with a complete picture of the
work being performed.  Generally, the
summaries provide opaque descriptions such as 334.7 hours of “Discovery and
Fact Preparation;” 126.8 on “Trial Preparation” for April 2022; 562.2 hours on
“Trial Preparation and Trial” for April-June 2023; 90 hours on “Post-Judgment
motions;” and 100.3 hours for “Expert Witnesses.” Such entries make it
difficult for the Court to determine the specific actions of counsel during a
time period, whether it was duplicative of other work, and otherwise
warranted.  Furthermore, spending almost
700 hours preparing for trial in both 2022 and 2023 could be viewed as excessive
in light of the lack of details provided. On the other hand, the Court understands
the Plaintiff prepared trial in 2022 without Defendants’ input, including preparing
all trial documents such as witness lists, exhibit lists, and jury
instructions, and that Plaitniffs would have to revisit that work once
Defendant participated in the process.  The
issue of the Court is that the supplied invoices redact all information
regarding the nature of counsel’s work. This makes it difficult to
assess whether the time spent on unspecified tasks were reasonably spent.
 
Despite this lack of information,
Plaintiffs are still the prevailing party entitled to reasonable
attorneys’ fees. Moreover, the Court can rely upon its own experience in handling
this case, the motion practice, and the trial preparation and testimony to
determine whether the requested fees are reasonable.  As stated earlier, this was not a simple breach
of lease case, but a complicated commercial dispute between Plaintiffs and
Defendants, including cross-claims.  The
parties were well prepared and efficiently prepared their testimony and evidence
over an almost two-week trial.  Naturally,
this type of trial preparation is time consuming.  Moreover, the Court finds some of the proffered
entries are sufficiently clear for the Court to assess when considering time
spent on this matter, such as entries related to mediation and the opposition
to the motion for summary judgment/adjudication.  Considering these entries, and the Court’s
participation in this case, the Court would not find all hours requested as reasonable,
such as the full amount for the 176.3 hours claimed defending against the summary
judgment motion, or the request for attorneys’ fees to non-attorneys, such as
those entries entitled “Practice Support,” “Summer Associate,” and “Law Clerk,”
whose rates appear high. Thus, the Court will conduct its own, independent
lodestar calculations.
 
Using the lodestar method, based on
the entirety of the record, including the supplied invoices and timesheets, Defendants’
specific objections, and the nature of the matter, the Court finds that a
reasonable lodestar in this matter is $693,550.00, not inclusive of costs,
which would represent 1,067 hours at the blended rate of $650.00/hour.  Accordingly, the motion is GRANTED in the
reduced amount of $693,550.00.
 