 Case Number:  24STCV10296    Hearing Date:   October 28, 2024    Dept:  56  
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



GERALDINE ANGEL,
  an individual, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
ALVIN BAUTISTA FERNANDEZ,
GEORGE W. ANGEL, GEORGE C. FERNANDEZ, and
  DOES 1 through 50, inclusive, 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.       
 
AND RELATED CROSS-ACTION.
                        


 


     
  CASE NO.:  24STCV10296
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
DEMURRER TO THE CROSS-COMPLAINT
 
Date: October 28, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant
GERALDINE ANGEL (“Plaintiff” or “Cross-Defendant”)
 
RESPONDING PARTY: Defendants/Cross-Complainants
ALVIN BAUTISTA FERNANDEZ,
GEORGE W. ANGEL, GEORGE
C. FERNANDEZ (collectively, “Defendants” or “Cross-Complainants”)
 
            The Court has considered the moving,
opposition and reply papers. 
 
BACKGROUND
            This case stems from an alleged
agreement between Plaintiff and Defendants regarding certain services to be provided
by Plaintiff to Defendants.  On April 24,
2024, Plaintiff filed a complaint against Defendants asserting the following
causes of action: (1) Fraudulent Inducement of Contract; (2) Fraud and Deceit;
(3) Breach of the Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing; (4) Promissory
Estoppel; (5) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress; (6) Negligence Per
Se; (7) Negligence; (8) Quantum Meruit; (9) Breach of Contract; and (10)  Declaratory Relief.
 
            On May 29, 2024, Defendants filed a
cross-complaint (the “Cross-Complaint”) alleging 1) Negligence; 2) Fraud and Deceit;
3) Breach of Contract; 4) Fraudulent Billing; 5) Violation of CCP § 1029.8; and
6) Breach of Fiduciary Duty.
 
            On July 15, 2024, Plaintiff filed
the instant Demurrer to the Cross-Complaint (the “Demurrer”).  Defendants filed an opposition on September
24, 2024, and Plaintiff filed a reply on October 21, 2024.
 
MEET AND CONFER 
            The meet and confer requirement has been met. 
 
DISCUSSION
Legal Standard
“The primary function of a pleading is to give the
other party notice so that it may prepare its case [citation], and a defect in
a pleading that otherwise properly notifies a party cannot be said to affect
substantial rights.”  (Harris v. City
of Santa Monica (2013) 56 Cal.4th 203, 240.)  “A demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of
the factual allegations in a complaint.” (Ivanoff v. Bank of America, N.A. (2017)
9 Cal.App.5th 719, 725.)  The Court looks
to whether “the complaint alleges facts sufficient to state a cause of action
or discloses a complete defense.” (Id.) 
The Court does not “read passages from a complaint in isolation; in
reviewing a ruling on a
demurrer, we read the complaint ‘as a whole and its
parts in their context.’ [Citation.]” (West v.
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (2013) 214 Cal.App.4th 780, 804.)  The Court “assume[s] the truth
of the properly pleaded factual allegations, facts
that reasonably can be inferred from those
expressly pleaded and matters of which judicial notice
has been taken.” (Harris, supra, 56 Cal.4th p. 240.) “The
court does not, however, assume the truth of contentions, deductions or
conclusions of law. [Citation.]” (Durell v. Sharp
Healthcare (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 1350,
1358.)
 
            As a general matter, in a demurrer
proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via
proper judicial notice.  (Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)  “The only issue a demurrer is concerned with
is whether the complaint, as it stands, states a cause of action.  (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th
740, 747.)
 
Leave
to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful
amendment.  (Goodman v. Kennedy
(1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349 (court shall not “sustain a demurrer without leave to
amend if there is any reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by
amendment”); Kong v. City of Hawaiian Gardens Redevelopment Agency (2002)
108 Cal.App.4th 1028, 1037 (“A demurrer should not be sustained without leave
to amend if the complaint, liberally construed, can state a cause of action
under any theory or if there is a reasonable possibility the defect can be
cured by amendment.”).)  The burden is on
the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully.  (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,
318.)
 
Here,
Plaintiff demurs to the Cross-Complaint generally, as well as
specifically to each of the six causes of action asserted therein on the grounds
that the Cross-Complaint fails to state a cause of action and is vague and
uncertain. 
 
Preliminarily,
Plaintiff asserts that the Cross-Complaint lacks any specific dates regarding
the alleged acts or omissions, making it impossible to determine compliance
with the statute of limitations, and is therefore inherently and fatally vague
on its face.  The Court, however,
declines to sustain the demurrer solely on this ground.  “If the dates establishing the running of the
statute of limitations do not clearly appear in the complaint, there is no
ground for general demurrer.  The proper
remedy ‘is to ascertain the factual basis of the contention through discovery
and, if necessary, file a motion for summary judgment....’  (Roman v. Cnty. of Los Angeles (2000) 85
Cal. App. 4th 316, 324–25, citing United Western Medical Centers v. Superior
Court (1996) 42 Cal.App.4th 500, 505.) 
“While a demurrer based on statute of limitations lies where the dates
in question are shown on the face of the complaint, if those dates are missing,
there is no ground for a general demurrer.” 
(United Western, supra, at 505.)
 
First and Sixth Causes
of Action: Negligence; Breach of Fiduciary Duty
To
plead a cause of action for negligence, one must allege (1) a legal duty owed
to plaintiffs to use due care; (2) breach of duty; (3) causation; and (4)
damage to plaintiff.  (County of Santa
Clara v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2006) 137 Cal. App. 4th 292, 318.)  “In order to state a cause of action for
negligence, the complaint must allege facts sufficient to show a legal duty on
the part of the defendant to use due care, a breach of such legal duty, and the
breach as the proximate or legal cause of the resulting injury.”  (Bellah v. Greenson (1978) 81
Cal.App.3d 614, 619.) 
 
In
the same vein, the following elements must be alleged to plead breach of
fiduciary duty: 1) fiduciary duty; 2) breach of the duty; and 3) damage caused
by the breach.  (Charnay v. Cobert
(2006) 145 Cal.App.4th 170, 182; Stanley v. Richmond (1995) 35
Cal.App.4th 1070, 1086.  
 
Here,
the Cross-Complaint asserts conclusory allegations that “19. Cross-Defendant
was negligent in the handling of the Cross-Complainants' legal matters…. 20.
Cross-Defendant was negligent in not providing proper legal representation and
in misrepresenting her qualifications and role to the Cross-Complainants.”  (Cross-Complaint, ¶¶ 19-20.)  The Cross-Complaint does not state facts,
however, to support the essential element of whether Plaintiff had a duty of
care towards Defendants in the first place, and what that duty consists of,
since the Cross-Complaint does not clearly state what type of services the
parties have agreed upon (i.e., whether Plaintiff, as agreed, had the
duty to render legal services and legal representation as a non-attorney, or merely
in a secretarial or administrative role).
 
Similarly,
for the breach of duty cause of action, the Cross-Complaint again states in a
conclusory manner that Plaintiff “breached her fiduciary duty to
Cross-Complainants by not rendering proper care to them over their legal matter”
(Cross-Complaint, ¶ 69.)  Defendants must
first show the existence of a fiduciary relationship. Alleging that “Cross-Defendant
acted as fiduciaries over Cross-Complainants having taken over as their legal
advisor and consultant” (Id.) does not suffice.  Facts giving rise to a confidential,
fiduciary or trustee relationship must be pled, and a “bare allegation that
defendants assumed a fiduciary relationship” is a conclusion.  (Zumbrun v. Univ. of So. Cal. (1972)
25 Cal.App.3d 1, 13.)
 
On
these grounds, the demurrer to the first and sixth causes of action is
SUSTAINED with 20 days leave to amend. 
 
Second Cause of Action: Fraud and Deceit
“The elements of fraud, which give rise to
the tort action for deceit, are (a) misrepresentation (false representation,
concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) knowledge of falsity (or ‘scienter’); (c)
intent to defraud, i.e., to induce reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e)
resulting damage.”  (Lazar v. Superior
Court (1996) 12 Cal. 4th 631, 638.)  “[F]raud
must be pled specifically; general and conclusory allegations do not suffice...
This particularity requirement necessitates pleading facts which show how,
when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations were tendered.”  (Lazar, supra, 12 Cal. 4th at 645.)
 
Here,
the Cross-Complaint does not clearly allege what misrepresentations were made
by Plaintiff on which Defendants justifiably relied.  It is alleged that “Cross-Defendant held and
presented herself as a professional equivalent to a lawyer who
was able to perform legal services when, in fact, she was unlicensed and
unqualified to provide legal services.” 
(Cross-Complaint, ¶ 33 [emphasis added].)  It is thus clear from the Cross-Complaint
that Cross-Complainants knew that Plaintiff was not an attorney.  
 
Representing
herself as “a professional equivalent to a lawyer” is not the same as
misrepresenting that she is a lawyer.  As
a corollary to that issue, Defendants cannot justifiably or reasonably rely on
any representation that she would be qualified to perform legal services.  The allegation that “reliance was reasonable
under the circumstances because it appeared to save them money” (Id., ¶
36) suggests that Defendants knew of Plaintiff’s qualification, or lack
thereof, and seems to contradict the position that they were induced to rely on
Plaintiff’s misrepresentation.  
 
Moreover,
allegations of fraud and deceit must be pled with particularity, and the
Cross-Complaint also fails in this respect. 
As currently alleged, the cause of action for fraud cannot stand.  
 
Thus,
the demurrer to the second cause of action for fraud and deceit is SUSTAINED
with twenty days leave to amend.
 
Third Cause of Action: Breach of Contract
“To establish a cause of action for breach of
contract, the plaintiff must plead and prove (1) the existence of the contract,
(2) the plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3) the
defendant’s breach, and (4) resulting damages to the plaintiff.”  (Maxwell v. Dolezal (2014) 231
Cal.App.4th 93, 97-98 [internal citation omitted].)  
 
Here, the Cross-Complaint does not clearly allege
the existence of the contract.  Paragraphs
13 and 14 of the Cross-Complaint make reference to a written agreement between
the parties, but do not set forth what the relevant terms of the agreement are
(e.g. what type of services or billing arrangements were agreed upon), nor is
the purported agreement attached to the Cross-Complaint.  Instead, the Cross-Complaint states “a copy
of which will be provided during discovery” as Ex. 1 and Ex.2.  (Cross-Complaint, ¶¶ 13-14.)  
 
“In an action based on a written contract, the
plaintiff may plead the legal effect of the contract rather than its precise
language.” Ochs v. PacifiCare of Cal.
(2004) 115 Cal.App.4th 782, 795. Accord
Construction Protective Services, Inc. v.
TIG Specialty Ins. Co. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 189, 198-199.)  To “plead a contract by its legal effect,
plaintiff must ‘allege the substance of its relevant terms. This is more
difficult, for it requires a careful analysis of the instrument,
comprehensiveness in statement, and avoidance of legal conclusions.’ ” (McKell
v. Washington Mutual, Inc. (2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 1457, 1489.)  
 
Without clearly alleging the contract terms, the
Cross-Complaint necessarily does not state facts to support allegations of
performance or excuse for non-performance (which the Cross-Complaint also does
not allege) as well as any alleged breach. 
Moreover, the Cross-Complaint confusingly alleges in paragraph 36 that “Cross-Complainants
do not believe there ever was a binding legal contract other than a contingency
that did not come about” 
(Cross-Complaint, ¶ 36), which negates any allegations of the existence
of a contract.
 
Therefore, the demurrer to the third cause of action
is SUSTAINED with twenty days leave to amend.
 
Fourth Cause of Action: Fraudulent Billing
The Cross-Complaint alleges that Plaintiff
fabricated charges and billed Defendants with charges that were unauthorized
under the agreement.  (Cross-Complaint,
¶¶ 49-52.)  As discussed above, neither
the existence nor the terms of the agreement are clearly alleged.  In any case, “fraudulent billing” is not a
separate tort, but any allegations of fraudulent billing for legal services can
form the basis or be pursued under claims of fraud or breach of fiduciary duty.   (Charnay
v. Cobert (2006) 145 Cal.App.4th 170 [billing for work not performed or
performed by others at lower rates constitutes a breach of fiduciary duty and
fraud];  Bird, Marella, Boxer &
Wolpert v. Superior Court  (2003) 106
Cal.App.4th 419 [the court recognized a fraud claim where the plaintiff alleged
that the defendants engaged in block billing, vague descriptions of work,
excessive fees, and inflated billings for simple tasks].)
 
Accordingly, the demurrer to the fourth cause of
action for fraudulent billing is SUSTAINED without leave to amend.
 
Fifth Cause of Action: Violation of CCP § 1029.8
            Code Civ. Proc. § 1029.8
provides that “[a]ny unlicensed person who causes injury or damage to another
person as a result of providing goods or performing services for which a
license is required… shall be liable to the injured person for treble the
amount of damages assessed in a civil action in any court having proper
jurisdiction. The court may, in its discretion, award all costs and attorney’s
fees to the injured person if that person prevails in the action.”  (CCP, § 1029.8(a).)  Under subdivision (b), however, of the same
provision, it states that “[t]his section shall
not be construed to confer an additional cause of action or to affect or limit any other remedy, including, but not limited to, a
claim for exemplary damages.”  (Id.,
§ 1029.8(b) (emphasis added).)
 
            Clearly, this provision
provides for a remedy, but does not authorize a separate cause of action.  Accordingly, the demurrer to the fifth cause
of action is SUSTAINED without leave to amend.
            
RULING
            Based on the foregoing, the demurrer
to the first, second, third, and sixth causes of action is SUSTAINED with
twenty days leave to amend.  The demurrer
to the fourth and fifth causes of action is SUSTAINED without leave to amend.
 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at
SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If the
department does not receive an email and there are no appearances at the
hearing, the motion will be placed off calendar.
 
Dated this 28th day of October 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



