  Case Number:  22STCV18851    Hearing Date:   October 28, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



DANA
  URICK, an individual and former
trustee and beneficiary of the Allyne L.
Urick Trust, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
BOHM WILDISH & MATSEN, LLP, a
California limited liability
  partnership;
JAMES G. BOHM, an individual;
CYNTHIA R. BEEK, an individual; and
DOES 1-10, inclusive, 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.       

                        

 
AND RELATED CROSS-ACTION.
 


 


     
  CASE NO.:  22STCV18851
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
MOTION TO DISQUALIFY / RECUSE JUDICIAL
  REFERENCE
 
Date: October 28, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
            This action arises out of an
attorney-client relationship.  On June 8,
2022, Plaintiff Dana Urick (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint alleging (1)
negligence (legal malpractice); (2) breach of fiduciary duty; and (3) breach of
contract.
 
            On September 30, 2022, Defendants
Bohm Wildish & Matsen, LLP (“BWM”); James G. Bohm and Cynthia R. Beck (collectively,
“Defendants”) filed a Motion to Compel Judicial Reference on the ground that
the Retainer Agreement executed by Plaintiff and BWM contains a provision that
provides for the resolution of Plaintiff’s claims by a judicial referee.  The Court granted the Motion to Compel on
November 8, 2022.
 
            Plaintiff reserved a hearing date for
a Motion to Disqualify the Honorable James L. Crandall (Ret.) (the “Motion”) for
October 16, 2024.  Plaintiff, however, failed
to properly file the moving documents, prompting the Court to continue the
hearing of the Motion to October 28, 2024 in order to allow Plaintiff to re-file
the moving documents, and instructed Plaintiff to remove the reference to
CCP § 170.1 in the Motion.  (10/16/2024
Minute Order.)  
 
            On October 3, 2024, Defendants, having
been served with the Motion, filed an opposition to the continued Motion.  Plaintiff filed a reply on October 9, 2024.
 
            On October 14, 2024, the Honorable James
L. Crandall (Ret.) filed a Verified Answer of Judicial Referee to Plaintiff’s
Motion to Disqualify (“Crandall Answer”). 

 
            On October 18, 2024, Plaintiff filed
the Revised Motion to Disqualify the Honorable James L. Crandall (Ret.) (the “Revised
Motion”).  Defendants filed an Objection
to the Revised Motion, arguing that the Revised Motion introduces new arguments
and authorities not previously asserted in the Motion, and thus, it deprives
Defendants of adequate notice to oppose the Revised Motion.  On October 24, 2024, Defendants filed a Surresponse
in Opposition to Plaintiff’s Revised Motion. 
Considering that Defendants filed a substantive reply to the Revised
Motion, the Court will proceed to consider the same. 
 
DISCUSSION
Code
Civ. Proc. (“CCP) § 641 provides, as follows: “A party may object to the
appointment of any person as referee, on one or more of the following grounds:
(a) A want of any of the qualifications prescribed by statute to render a
person competent as a juror, except a requirement of residence within a
particular county in the state. (b) Consanguinity or affinity, within the third
degree, to either party, or to an officer of a corporation which is a party, or
to any judge of the court in which the appointment shall be made. (c) Standing
in the relation of guardian and ward, conservator and conservatee, master and
servant, employer and clerk, or principal and agent, to either party; or being
a member of the family of either party; or a partner in business with either
party; or security on any bond or obligation for either party. (d) Having
served as a juror or been a witness on any trial between the same parties. (e)
Interest on the part of the person in the event of the action, or in the main
question involved in the action. (f) Having formed or expressed an unqualified
opinion or belief as to the merits of the action. (g) The existence of a state
of mind in the potential referee evincing enmity against or bias toward either
party.”  
 
            Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.905
provides, as follows: “A stipulation or an agreement for an order appointing a
referee does not constitute a waiver of grounds for objection to the
appointment of a particular person as referee under Code of Civil Procedure
section 641. Any objection to the appointment of a person as a referee must be
made with reasonable diligence and in writing. The objection must be served on
all parties and the referee and filed with the court. The objection must be
heard by the judge to whom the case is assigned or by the presiding judge or
law and motion judge if the case has not been assigned.”
 
Here,
Plaintiff seeks to disqualify the Honorable James L. Crandall (Ret.) (“Judge
Crandall”) based on the assertions that Judge Crandall has shown a bias towards
Defendants and Defendants’ counsel, and his conduct has created a reasonable
doubt of impartiality. 
 
In
support of Plaintiff's claims of bias, Plaintiff notes that since his assignment
on July 27, 2023, Judge Crandall has accepted offers to serve as a third-party
neutral in twelve (12) cases, with the Defendants or their counsel involved in
nine (9), which means that they represent over two-thirds of his assignments.  In Judge Crandall’s Verified Answer, Judge
Crandall points out that this assertion seems to be based on a misunderstanding
of the applicable disclosure requirements, and the misconception that he disclosed
to the parties every new employment opportunity that he accepted.  Judge Crandall declares that BWM has been
involved in only thirteen (13) of the two-hundred and seventy-six (276) cases
for which he has been selected to serve as a neutral at Judicate West, and
clarifies that he only disclosed to them the cases in which there could be a
potential conflict with the current action, which is the reason why Defendants
and their firms appeared more frequently than they would have if he had
disclosed to the parties every matter scheduled before him.   (Crandall Answer, ¶¶ 2-3.)  Plaintiff’s assertion of bias on this ground
is therefore unfounded.
 
Plaintiff
also points to additional facts set forth in the declaration of Plaintiff’s former
counsel, Shawn C. Halbert to support her claim of Judge Crandall’s bias.  Pertinently, Halbert states that in one
occasion, when Plaintiff’s Motion to Stay was denied by Judge Crandall, and the
parties began to work out the remaining schedule for the case,  Judge Crandall allegedly advised Hao Nguyen,
counsel for Defendants, not to forego filing a motion for summary judgment if
she needed to, stating that “You don’t want to give that up (the MSJ), it’s
good for you.”  (Declaration of Shawn
Halbert in Support of Revised Motion, ¶ 20.) 
On the other hand, attorney Hao Nguyen contradicts this statement and
states that “Honorable Crandall discouraged me from considering a Motion for
Summary Judgment and informed me that he rarely ever grants Motions for Summary
Judgment, but that it was Defendants’ right to file one, if we wish.  Hon. Crandall never advised me that we should
bring a motion for summary judgment and never stated ‘You don't want to give
that up (the MSJ), it's good for you,’ but rather discouraged me from bringing
a dispositive motion.”  (Declaration of
Hao Nguyen in Support of Defendant’s Opposition to Plaintiff’s Motion, ¶
33.)  The Court finds Nguyen’s statement
to be more credible.  In any case, assuming
arguendo that Judge Crandall did make the alleged statement, the same does not sufficiently
rise to the level of impartiality as to demonstrate “a state of mind in the
potential referee evincing enmity against or bias toward either party”.  (CCP 641(g).)
 
Plaintiff
further asserts that Judge Crandall was improperly assigned to serve as
judicial referee for this action, arguing that instead of being properly
appointed by the court, as required by CCP section 640, Judge Crandall was
unilaterally selected by Judicate West, and that Judge Crandall was appointed
without court involvement or the consent of the parties.  This assertion, however, is unsupported by
evidence.  Specifically, Defendants
present evidence that Judge Crandall was appointed upon agreement of the
parties to participate in a rank and strike process with Judicate West.  Plaintiff's counsel at the time, Jared Walder,
Esq. of Makarem & Associates agreed to Judge Crandall as Judicial Referee
via the rank and strike list process offered by Judicate West.  The parties, in turn, executed a new services
Agreement regarding the retention of Judge Crandall on July 21, 2023.  Plaintiff was then served with Order of
Appointment of Hon. Crandall as the new Judicial Referee and did not raise any
objections to same.  In fact, the parties
jointly served a Status Report with the Court to update the Court on the new
appointment of Hon. Crandall.  (Declaration
of Hao Nguyen In Support of ¶¶ 11-18, Exhs. C-J.)
 
In
sum, Plaintiff failed to provide the Court with any evidence to support a valid
objection to Judge Crandall as judicial referee based on the grounds identified
in CCP § 641.  Moreover, Plaintiff’s
belief that Judge Crandall is biased is unsupported.
 
 
 
RULING
Based
on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s Motion is DENIED. 
Plaintiff is further ORDERED to pay the appropriate fees to Judge
Crandall as agreed to by the parties.
 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at
SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If the
department does not receive an email and there are no appearances at the
hearing, the motion will be placed off calendar.
 
Dated this 28th day of October 2024




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



