  Case Number:  24SMCV00144    Hearing Date:   May 15, 2024    Dept:  P Tentative
Ruling
Ferrazzi
Greenlight, Inc. v. Whitfield, et al., case no. 24SMCV00144
Hearing
Date: May 15, 2024
(1)  
Cross-Defendants
Ferrazzi Greenlight’s Special Motion to Strike the Sixth Cause of Action to Cross-Complainants’
First Amended Cross-Complaint (anti-SLAPP)
(2)  
Cross-Defendants
Ferrazzi Greenlights’ Demurrer to Cross-Complainant

Ferrazzi Greenlight (FG) sued former employees Whitfield and
Wakefield alleging trade secret misappropriation and to prevent further alleged
misuse of confidential information. FG alleges: (1) breach of contract; (2)
breach of the duty of loyalty; (3) misappropriation of trade secrets; (4)
receipt of stolen property; (5) unfair competition; and (6) interference with
prospective economic advantage.
Whitfield & Wakefield cross-complained against FG and
its owner Ferrazzi alleging: (1) fraud in the inducement (by Whitfield against
FG); (2) breach of contract (by Whitfield against FG); (3) intentional infliction
of emotional distress (by Whitfield against FG and Ferrazzi); (4) breach of contract
(by Wakefield against FG); (5) intentional infliction of emotional distress (by
Wakefield against FG and Ferrazzi); (6) unfair business practices (by Whitfield
against FG); and (7) declaratory relief (by Whitfield and Wakefield against FG).
FG and Ferrazzi filed an anti-SLAPP motion to strike the
sixth cause of action and demur to all seven causes of action in the FACC. 

FG alleges
Whitfield and Wakefield created a competing enterprise in the same
corporate-coaching industry, called Redefine Winning (RDW), using FG’s trade
secrets, including marketing, promotional, sales and financial strategies,
design and product development and strategic plans. Complaint ¶4, 19, 22. FG
found over 160 RDW entries in defendant’s calendar records, such that FG
personnel could not book appointments with him for FG client prospecting or
delivery of services to existing clients. Id. Upon confrontation,
Wakefield admitted to actions that undermined FG’s business. Id. ¶6. FG
terminated cross-complainants. Id. ¶7.
Whitman and
Wakefield allege FG and Ferrazzi are retaliating against them for challenging
FG’s allegedly unethical business practices and for Whitfield exercising his
contractual right to operate a competing business while employed at FG. FACC  ¶1. Whitfield alleges the parties agreed he
could continue his own business in competition with FG. Id. ¶2.
Whitfield alleges he attempted to address organizational and leadership issues
within FG, particularly Ferrazzi’s management style, including bullying and
aggressive tactics. Id. ¶4. Despite contributing significantly to FG’s
revenues, Whitman and Wakefield felt undermined by Ferrazzi and began making
plans to leave. Id. ¶5. Cross-Complainants claim FG’s legal action
against them is an attempt to use unenforceable contract provisions to suppress
Whitfield’s competing business. Id. 
Special Motion to Strike (Anti-SLAPP)
Courts resolving an anti-SLAPP motion under Cal. Civ. Code §425.16
follow a two-step process. Jarrow Formulas, Inc. v. LaMarche (2003)
31 Cal.4th 728, 733. In prong one, the court determines whether the conduct
underlying plaintiff’s cause of action arises from defendant’s constitutional
rights of free speech or petition. Baral v. Schnitt (2016) 1
Cal. 5th 376, 395. This is a threshold issue—if moving party fails to show the
conduct is constitutionally protected, the court need not address prong
two. Jarrow, supra, 31 Cal.4th at 733.
 
The anti-SLAPP statute covers litigation-related activities, and
statements or writing made in “connection with” litigation receive
protection. Seltzer v. Barnes (2010) 182 Cal.App.4th 953, 962.
Statements made during contractual arbitration are not subject to the
anti-SLAPP statute. Century 21 Chamberlain & Assoc. v.
Haberman (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 1, 8. Courts take an expansive view of
what constitutes “litigation-related activities” in the context of anti-SLAPP
analysis. Baral, supra.
 
Under the second prong, the burden shifts to plaintiff to show a
legally sufficient claim and to prove with admissible evidence a reasonable
probability that plaintiff will prevail. E.g., Navellier v.
Sletten (2002) 29 Cal.4th 82, 88. To fulfill prong two, plaintiff
cannot rely on the allegations of the complaint but must produce evidence
admissible at trial. HMS Capital, Inc. v. Lawyers Title Co. (2004)
118 Cal.App.4th 204, 212.
 
Regarding prong one, FG and Ferrazzi argue the
protected activity is their suit. Whitman and Wakefield contend the sixth cause
of action for unfair business practices – the target of the instant anti-SLAPP
motion – is based off the instant litigation, which Cross-Complainants argue is
an exercise of their right to redress their claims through the courts. Cross-Complainants
argue the anti-SLAPP motion should be denied because the sixth cause of action
is not based on the lawsuit, but rather on Cross-Defendants’ unlawful action of
attempting to enforce a non-compete clause in the parties’ 2020 Whitfield
Employment Agreement. See Exh. D of Cross-Complainants’ Compendium. Cross-Complainants
argue they establish a probability of prevailing because of the unlawful act of
attempting to enforce a non-compete clause in the parties’ 2020 Whitfield
Employment Agreement. 
(1)   First
Prong: Protected Speech
As to the first prong, cross-defendants argue the
sixth cause of action is based on the fact that they had to stop using
proprietary trade secret information because of the pending lawsuit. FACC,
¶103. Although Cross-Complainants contend they were using Whitfield’s
proprietary information, they were precluded from operating RDW, Whitfield’s
company, because of the lawsuit. However, under Cal. Civ. Code §425.16(e)(1)
any written or oral statement made before a judicial proceeding is “an act in
furtherance of a person’s right of petition or free speech…” that is protected
under the statute. Therefore, if the cause of action is grounded in
Cross-Defendants’ filing of this suit, the anti-SLAPP motion must be granted. 
Cross-Complainants argue the sixth cause of action
instead is grounded in the unlawful action of attempting to enforce a
non-compete clause in the 2020 Whitfield Employment Agreement. The 2020
Whitfield Employment Agreement does have an invalid non-compete clause. See
Exh. D of Cross-Complainants’ Compendium, §6(a). In fact, both parties
acknowledge this section is void.
The primary issue is whether FG’s cease and desist
letter prior to the lawsuit is the action that the sixth cause of action is
grounded in. Cross-Complainants argue FG intended to enforce the whole of §6(a)
of the 2020 Whitfield Employment Agreement, whereas Cross-Defendants argue they
were simply attempting to enforce the confidentiality section (see §6(c) of the
2020 Whitfield Employment Agreement) to protect trade secrets they allege were
stolen. Nothing in the confidentiality section is impermissible, so FG may
enforce it. 
Cross-Complainants argue §6 of the 2020 Whitfield
Employment Agreement should be void, citing AMN Healthcare, Inc. v. Aya
Healthcare Services, Inc. (2018) 28 Cal.App.5th 923, 923-928 and
936-937. AMN is distinguishable; it held the non-compete clauses
in the contracts of temporary nurses was void and in violation of Bus. &.
Prof. Code §16600. However, the court made no mention of a severability clause,
and the employer put forth no evidence showing one existed. 
The only pre-litigation conduct by FG was sending the cease-and-desist
letter. As FG points out, a cease-and-desist letter to protect confidential
trade secrets is protected activity. Cal. Civ. Code §425.16(b)(1). As both the
cease-and-desist letter, as well as the filing of the initial complaint are
protected activities, the first prong is met.
(2)   Second
Prong: Probability Plaintiff Will Prevail
The burden shifts to Cross-Complainants to show the
probability they will prevail. Cross-Complainants’ primary argument is that it
was the pre-litigation conduct by FG that violated Bus. & Prof. Code
§16600. With the non-compete clauses deemed void, a cease-and-desist letter to
protect confidential information is not unlawful. Cross-Complainants fail to
carry their burden.
GRANTED. 
Demurrer
“[A]
demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the allegations in a complaint.” Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235
Cal.App.4th 385, 388. A demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that
appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters outside the
pleading that are judicially noticeable. See Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 [in
ruling on a demurrer, a court may not consider declarations, matters not
subject to judicial notice, or documents not accepted for the truth of their
contents]. For purposes of ruling on a demurrer, all facts pleaded in a
complaint are assumed to be true, but the reviewing court does not assume the
truth of conclusions of law. Aubry v.
Tri-City Hosp. Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.
a)      First
Cause of Action: Fraud in the Inducement
The elements of fraud,
including fraudulent inducement, are (a) a misrepresentation; (b) scienter or
knowledge of its falsity; (c) intent to induce reliance; (d) justifiable
reliance; and (e) damage. Hinesley v.
Oakshade Town Ctr. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294. The facts constituting
the alleged fraud must be alleged specifically as to every element of fraud, as
the policy of “liberal construction” of the pleadings will not ordinarily be
invoked. Lazar v. Superior Court (1996)
12 Cal.4th 631, 645. To properly allege fraud against a corporation, plaintiffs
must plead the names of persons allegedly making the false representations,
authority to speak, to whom they spoke, what they said and when. Tarmann v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co.
(1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 157.
The Court overrules Cross-Defendants’ demurrer to the
first cause of action because all of the elements have been sufficiently plead.
FG argues nothing was concealed from Whitfield. FG contends the fraudulent
inducement is based on the assertion that FG made the representation Whitfield
could continue to work for his own company while also working for FG. Whitfield
argues the claim fails because a provision in the 2020 Whitfield Employment
Agreement so stated. See FACC, Exh. B, §1(“Your employment by the Company shall
be full-time and exclusive, except for work you may do with a Company of your
own, subject, of course, to the other provisions of this Agreement…”)
FG misunderstands the gravamen of Whitfield’s claim.
Fraud in the inducement need not only be based on concealment but can be based
on false representation. Whitfield was permitted to perform work for a company
of his own, based on the 2020 Whitfield Employment Agreement; however, the
fraud Whitfield alleges stems from the filing of FG’s complaint. FG’s complaint
alleges Whitfield performed work in a competing company when he should not have,
contrary to the 2020 Whitfield Employment Agreement. This is the thrust of FG’s
complaint, specifically the second cause of action. This was a
misrepresentation by FG, and Whitfield alleges he never would have worked for
FG had he not been able to operate his own company. FACC, ¶67. Whitfield relied
on these statements to enter into the 2020 Whitfield Employment Agreement and
did so justifiably. Overruled.  
b)      Second
and Fourth Causes of Action: Breach of Written Contract
To state a cause of
action for breach of contract, plaintiff must establish “(1) the existence of
the contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3)
defendant’s breach, and (4) the resulting damages to the plaintiff.” Oasis West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011)
51 Cal.4th 811, 821.
FG asserts FEHA
exclusivity of remedy. While the FACC alleges harassing and unlawful conduct in
violation of FEHA, it also alleges FG breached its obligation to pay amounts
owed at termination. FACC, ¶¶75-77. Additionally, FG breached the January 2020 agreement
by underpaying Whitfield in 2020 and in 2022. Id. In addition, upon
termination, FG failed to calculate and pay Whitfield the bonus owed for 2023,
and to reimburse him for expenses. Id. The Court finds these allegations
to be sufficient for Whitfield to allege breach of contract. 
As to Wakefield’s breach of contract claim, it is not
alleged that any breach of a written agreement occurred. It is alleged that
violations of FEHA occurred when Ferrazzi allegedly instructed Wakefield to
review Ferrazzi’s Instagram account for “hot muscular Asian guys who might be
interested in him.” FACC, ¶89. Wakefield alleges this made him feel humiliated,
embarrassed and uncomfortable. Id. Although FG assert FEHA is the sole
remedy for a breach such as this, and Wakefield failed to exhaust FEHA remedies,
it is unnecessary to do so.
See Farmers Ins. Exchange v. Superior Court (1992) 2 Cal.4th 377, 396
(“exhaustion of available remedies under the FEHA is necessary before a
plaintiff may proceed with statutory claims under that act, but prior resort is
unnecessary if plaintiff proceeds with a civil suit based on common law claims
for damages resulting from sex discrimination in employment.” Citations
omitted.) Overruled.    
c)      Third
and Fifth Causes of Action: Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress (IIED)
The elements intentional infliction of emotional
distress are: (1) extreme and outrageous conduct with the intention of causing,
or reckless disregard of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2)
plaintiff’s suffering severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual and
proximate causation. “Conduct to be outrageous must be so extreme as to exceed
all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized community.” Wilson v.
Hynek (2012) 207 Cal.App.4th 999, 1009, citation and ellipses omitted.
FG contends the causes of action are time-barred under
Code Civ. Proc. §335.1. FG argues the time for accrual began at latest in 2017
for Whitfield and 2018 for Wakefield. Although both Whitfield and Wakefield
allege the misconduct began in 2017 and 2018 respectively, they allege it
continued throughout their employment until termination in November 2023. FACC,
¶¶28 & 29. The FACC was filed February 2, 2024, within the statute of
limitations.
FG argues workers’ compensation laws are the only
avenue for relief, and Cross-Complainants fail to allege extreme and outrageous
conduct. As to the first contention, a “claim for distress arising out of employment is ‘not
barred where the distress is engendered by an employer’s illegal discrimination
practices.’ Nazir v. United Airlines, Inc. (2009) 178 Cal.App.4th 243,
288. Cross-Defendants cite Miklosy v. Regents of University of California
(2008) 44 Cal.4th 876, 902 and argue wrongful conduct at the worksite
in the normal course of the employer-employee relationship is encircled by
workers’ compensation. Whitfield alleged Ferrazzi made berating comments about
Whitfield’s sexual orientation and forced him to review sexually explicit
photos. FACC, ¶29, 74. Cross-Complainants provide no argument that these
allegations are a part of the “normal course” of the employer-employee
relationship. Workers compensation is not intended to address such workplace
issues.
As to the
second contention, these allegations fall within the definition of extreme and
outrageous conduct. A defendant's conduct is considered to be outrageous if “it
is so ‘extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized
community.” Hughes v. Pair, 46 Cal.4th at 1051; see Potter v.
Firestone Tire & Rubber Co. (1993) 6 Cal.4th 965, 1001; see also
Rest.2d Torts, § 46. Alleging disparaging and disrespectful comments regarding
Whitfield’s sexual orientation forcing an employee to view sexually explicit
images sufficiently alleges outrageous conduct for pleading purposes. Overruled.

 Sixth Cause of Action:
Unfair Business Practices
To plead a claim for a
violation of Business and Professions Code section 17200 (“UCL”), plaintiff
must establish defendant was engaged in an “unlawful, unfair or fraudulent
business act or practice and unfair, deceptive, untrue or misleading
advertising” and certain specific acts. A cause of action for unfair
competition “is not an all-purpose substitute for a tort or contract action.” Cortez v. Purolator Air Filtration Products
Co. (2000) 23 Cal.4th 163, 173.
FG argues Whitfield has no standing because Bus. &
Prof. Code §17200 requires plaintiff to have lost money or property due to the
unfair competition, and (2) the claim is barred by litigation privilege.
Whitfield alleges FG refused to identify the confidential and proprietary trade
secret information, but the FACC makes no allegation as to property damaged nor
money lost. 
As to litigation privilege, the Court incorporates its
discussion regarding the sixth cause of action in the anti-SLAPP section above.
The litigation privilege applies because allegations concerning FG’s underlying
conduct were in the context of steps taken prior to trial. The litigation
privilege provides a “publication or broadcast” made as part of a “judicial
proceeding” is privileged. Action Apartment Ass’n., Inc. v. City of Santa
Monica (2007) 41 Cal.4th 1232, 1241. The privilege is not
limited to statements made during trial but may extend to steps taken prior to
trial. Id. “The principal purpose of [the litigation privilege] is to
afford litigants and witnesses the utmost freedom of access to the courts
without fear of being harassed subsequently by derivative tort actions.” Id.
The litigation privilege is an absolute privilege that bars all tort causes of
action except malicious prosecution. City of Colton v. Singletary (2012)
206 Cal.App.4th 751, 771. Sustained without leave to amend. 
d)       Seventh Cause of Action: Declaratory Relief
“To
qualify for declaratory relief, a party would have to demonstrate its action
presented two essential elements: (1) a proper subject of declaratory relief,
and (2) an actual controversy involving justiciable questions relating to the
party’s rights or obligations.” Jolley v.
Chase Home Finance, LLC (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 872, 909, quotation marks
and brackets omitted.
A cause of action for
declaratory relief should not be used as a second cause of action for the
determination of identical issues raised in another cause of action. General of America Ins. Co. v. Lilly (1968)
258 Cal.App.2d 465, 470. “The availability of another form of relief that is
adequate will usually justify refusal to grant relief” California Ins. Guarantee Ass’n. v. Superior Court (1991) 231
Cal.App.3d 1617, 1624, and a duplicative cause of action is subject to demurrer.
Palm Springs Villas II Homeowners Ass’n.,
Inc. v. Parth (2016) 248 Cal.App.4th 268, 290. Further, “there is no basis
for declaratory relief where only past wrongs are involved.” Osseous Technologies of America, Inc. v.
DiscoveryOrtho Partners LLC (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 357, 366, quotation
marks omitted.
The cause of action fails
because the primary allegation is that FG violated Bus. & Prof. Code §16600
by attempting to enforce an unlawful non-compete clause. As discussed, FG is
not attempting to enforce the voided non-compete clause, but trying to enforce
the confidentiality clause. As there is no statutory violation, there is no
controversy involving a justiciable question; sustained with leave to amend. 
Conclusion
Cross-Defendants’
Special Motion to Strike the Sixth Cause of Action to Cross-Complainants’ First
Amended Cross-Complaint is GRANTED. Cross-Defendants’ Demurrer to
the First Amended Cross-Complaint is SUSTAINED in part and OVERRULED in
part. The demurrer is sustained as without leave to amend as to the
sixth cause of action. The demurrer is sustained with leave to amend as to the
seventh cause of action. The demurrer is overruled as to the first, second,
third, fourth, and fifth causes of action. 