 Case Number:  22STCV03287    Hearing Date:   October 15, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
MOTIONS FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT 
Hearing Date: 10/15/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 22STCV03287 KATHRYN LEWIS vs.
ZOE DIMME-ALEXEFF, et al.
Moving Party: Defendants Los Angeles
County and Total Barricade Services 
Responding Party: Plaintiff 
Notice: Sufficient 
Ruling: MOTIONS FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT ARE
GRANTED 
 
Background
On September 26, 2021,
Plaintiff was participating in the bicycle portion of the Triathlon on a
designated racecourse along Pacific Coast Highway (PCH) in Malibu. Approximately
2000 feet southeast of the intersection of PCH and Guernsey Drive,  Defendant Alexeff made an illegal U-turn,
colliding with Plaintiff, who was riding in the separated bike lane on the
highway. Defendants Los Angeles County and Total Barricade Services were
responsible for implementing the Traffic Control Plan to divert traffic and
ensure the safety of triathlon participants. Both Defendants now move for
summary judgment, arguing that Plaintiff signed waivers releasing them from any
liability for negligence related to the event. In opposition, Plaintiff argues
that Defendants were grossly negligent, which is not covered by the waiver.
Legal Standard
In reviewing a motion for summary judgment or
adjudication, courts must apply a three-step analysis: “(1) identify the issues
framed by the pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving party has negated the
opponent’s claims; and (3) determine whether the opposition has demonstrated
the existence of a triable, material factual issue.”¿(Hinesley v.
Oakshade Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.) 
 
“[T]he initial burden is always on the moving party to
make a prima facia showing that there are no triable issues of material fact.”¿(Scalf v. D. B.
Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.)¿A defendant moving
for summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or her burden of
showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party has shown that one or
more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be established, or that there
is a complete defense to the cause of action.”¿(Code Civ. Proc., §
437c, subd. (p)(2).)¿If the moving party
fails to carry its burden, the inquiry is over, and the motion must be denied.
(See Id.; see also Consumer Cause, Inc. v. SmileCare (2001) 91
Cal.App.4th 454, 468.)¿Even if the moving
party does carry its burden, the non-moving party will still defeat the motion
by presenting evidence of a triable issue of material fact. (Aguilar v.
Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 849-50.) 
 
To meet this burden of showing a cause of action cannot
be established, a defendant must show not only “that the plaintiff does not
possess needed evidence” but also that “the plaintiff cannot reasonably
obtain needed evidence.”¿(Aguilar, supra,
25 Cal.4th at p. 854.)¿It is insufficient
for the defendant to merely point out the absence of evidence.¿(Gaggero v. Yura
(2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 884, 891.)¿The defendant “must
also produce evidence that the plaintiff cannot reasonably obtain evidence to
support his or her claim.”¿(Ibid.)¿The supporting
evidence can be in the form of affidavits, declarations, admissions,
depositions, answers to interrogatories, and matters of which judicial notice
may be taken.¿(Aguilar, supra, 25
Cal.4th at p. 855.) 
 
“Once the defendant … has met that burden, the burden
shifts to the plaintiff … to show that a triable issue of one or more material
facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 437c, subd. (p)(2).) The plaintiff may not merely rely on allegations or
denials of its pleadings to show that a triable issue of material fact exists,
but instead, “shall set forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue
of material fact exists as to the cause of action.”¿(Ibid.)¿“If the plaintiff
cannot do so, summary judgment should be granted.”¿(Avivi v. Centro
Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.) 
 
The court must “liberally construe
the evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve all
doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party,” including “all
inferences reasonably drawn therefrom.”¿(Yanowitz v.
L’Oreal USA, Inc. (2005) 36 Cal.4th 1028, 1037; Aguilar, supra,
25 Cal.4th at pp. 844-45.) “On a summary judgment motion, the court must
therefore consider what inferences favoring the opposing party a factfinder
could reasonably draw from the evidence.¿While viewing the
evidence in this manner, the court must bear in mind that its primary function
is to identify issues rather than to determine issues.¿[Citation.]¿Only when the
inferences are indisputable may the court decide the issues as a matter of law.¿ If the evidence is
in conflict, the factual issues must be resolved by trial.”¿(Binder v. Aetna
Life Ins. Co. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839.)¿Further, “the trial
court may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a factfinder to determine
whose version is more likely true.¿[Citation.]¿Nor may the trial
court grant summary judgment based on the court’s evaluation of credibility.
[Citation.]” (Id. at p. 840; see also Weiss v. People ex rel.
Department of Transportation (2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding
motions for summary judgment or summary adjudication may not weigh the evidence
but must instead view it in the light most favorable to the opposing party and
draw all reasonable inferences in favor of that party”].) 
 
Evidentiary
Rulings
 
Total
Barricade Services' Objections to declaration of Louis Rubenstein Nos. 2, 3, 4, and 6: Sustained
for lack of foundation. All other Total Barricade Service objections are
overruled.
 
Los Angeles County’s Objections to
declaration of Louis Rubenstein Nos. 2, 3, 7, and 9: Sustained for lack of
foundation and evidentiary basis. All other Los Angeles County objections are
overruled.
 
Undisputed Facts
Los
Angeles County
·       
The Triathlon took place on September
25-26, 2021, in Malibu, organized by Malibu Triathlon Productions, LLC, Generic
Events, and USA Triathlon ("Triathlon Defendants").
·       
Defendant Brennan Lindner was the Race
Producer/Director for Malibu Triathlon Productions, LLC.
·       
Triathlon Defendants contracted with
Total Barricade Services, LLC to prepare and implement the Traffic Control Plan
for the bike portion of the event.
·       
Detective Scott Shean prepared an Event
Action Plan (EAP), which required placing Los Angeles County Sheriff's Deputies
at 14 key Fixed Traffic Control Posts along the closed racecourse, including
Post #5 at PCH and Guernsey Avenue.
·       
The closest traffic control post to the
incident was Post #5 (PCH/Guernsey Drive). 
Accident
·       
On September 26, 2021, Plaintiff was
participating in the bicycle portion of the Triathlon on a designated
racecourse along PCH in Malibu.
·       
The impact occurred approximately 2370
feet south of Guernsey Avenue, on PCH.
·       
While riding eastbound in the bike lane
on PCH, Plaintiff observed Defendant Alexeff, driving westbound, make an
illegal U-turn across the road.
·       
Plaintiff was unable to avoid the
collision with Defendant Alexeff’s vehicle, resulting in Plaintiff falling off
her bicycle and allegedly sustaining injuries.
·       
The Los Angeles County Sheriff's
Department investigated the incident. Deputy Paul Ferreira’s body-worn camera
recorded an interview with Alexeff at the scene.
·       
Defendant Alexeff was cited for
violations of Vehicle Code § 21651 (unlawful U-turn) and § 2818 (traveling over
a cone pattern).
Waiver
·       
Plaintiff electronically signed two
waivers before the event:


The
      USAT Membership Agreement and Waiver included a provision where Plaintiff
      assumed the risks associated with participation in the event, including
      contact with vehicles and inadequate safety measures, and released law
      enforcement agencies and public entities from liability (para 3, para 6).
The
      Malibu Tri Agreement and Waiver similarly stated that Plaintiff
      voluntarily assumed all risks of participation, including contact with
      vehicles, and forever waived and released the County of Los Angeles and
      other municipal agencies from any claims or liability arising from
      injury, disability, or death, including those caused by negligence (para
      1, para 4).


Total Barricade
Services
·       
Total Barricade Service, Inc.
("TBS") is a traffic control contractor that has provided services
for the Malibu Triathlon since 2003, including for the 2021 Malibu Triathlon,
organized by Malibu Triathlon Productions, LLC.
·       
The City of Malibu issued a Temporary
Use Permit for the 2021 Triathlon.
·       
According to the Traffic Control Plan,
the 2021 Triathlon’s cycling route was delineated along both sides of PCH using
orange traffic cones placed by TBS.
·       
PCH was not completely closed to
vehicular traffic during the event. Orange cones were used to block off the
outer lanes (typically the number 2 lane) nearest the bike lanes. This provided
cyclists with both a vehicle lane and a bike lane for use, while vehicles could
continue using the number 1 lane unless otherwise noted.
·       
Around May 18, 2021, Plaintiff
registered for the Malibu Triathlon online.
·       
Plaintiff, like all other participants,
was required to and did fill out and electronically sign the USAT Membership
Agreement and Waiver, as well as the Malibu Tri Agreement and Waiver, during
registration for the 2021 Malibu Triathlon. These waivers included a clause
where Plaintiff waived her negligence claim against Defendant.
Defendants’ Initial Burden
        Los
Angeles County
Defendant
Los Angeles County has met its initial burden through evidence demonstrating
the following:

Defendant Alexeff, while driving
     westbound on PCH, made an illegal U-turn across the road and collided with
     Plaintiff, who was cycling in the eastbound bike lane. Plaintiff saw Defendant
     Alexeff make the U-turn but was unable to avoid the collision. (Exhibit
     “B,” Traffic Collision Report (TCR), p. 4; Exhibit “D,” LASD Body Cam
     Video; Decl. Scott Shean ¶ 13; Decl. Paul Ferreira ¶ 7.)
Defendant Alexeff admitted to
     knowingly making the illegal U-turn, disregarding two sets of double
     yellow lines and a cone pattern, which were designed to prevent her from
     entering the racecourse. (Exhibit "B," TCR p. 4; Exhibit
     "D," LASD Body Cam Video; Decl. Scott Shean ¶ 13; Decl. Paul
     Ferreira ¶ 7.)

 
Event Organization
and Traffic Control Plan:
 

The event organizers, Malibu
     Triathlon Productions, LLC, Generic Events, and USA Triathlon
     ("Triathlon Defendants"), contracted with Total Barricade
     Services, LLC to prepare and implement the Traffic Control Plan for the
     bike portion of the Triathlon. (Exhibit “E.”)
The Traffic Control Plan was
     approved by Caltrans, confirming that the measures were appropriate for
     the event. (Exhibit "F.")
The Traffic Control Plan was
     provided to Los Angeles Sheriff Detective Shean, who was responsible for
     ensuring deputies performed traffic control per the approved plan. (Decl.
     Shean ¶ 5.)
Detective Shean prepared an Event
     Action Plan (EAP), which placed Los Angeles Sheriff’s Deputies at 14 key
     Fixed Traffic Control Posts along the closed racecourse.
     (Decl. Shean ¶¶ 7-8; Exhibit “G” (EAP).)

 
Waivers Signed by
Plaintiff:
 

Plaintiff electronically signed
     two waivers that expressly waived and released the County from liability,
     including for any negligence arising from the event. (Exhibit “I”
     (Waivers).)

Defendant
has met its burden by demonstrating that 
 
Defendant
Alexeff made an illegal U-turn, which directly resulted in the collision with
Plaintiff. Additionally, the Traffic Control Plan, approved by Caltrans, was
properly implemented in accordance with the event's requirements. Furthermore,
Plaintiff signed waivers explicitly releasing the County and other defendants
from liability, including for any negligence arising from the event.
Defendant’s evidence shows that Defendant adhered to the approved safety
measures, the accident was caused by Defendant Alexeff and Plaintiff
voluntarily waived her right to pursue claims of negligence, thereby
establishing that Defendant is not liable for the incident.
Total Barricade
Service, Inc
TBS has similarly met
its burden by showing the following:

TBS
     obtained the necessary permits for the triathlon cycling course from both
     Caltrans and the City of Malibu.
     (Caltrans Permit, COE Ex. 4; City of Malibu Permit, COE Ex. 5.)
The
     permits were issued after Caltrans reviewed and approved the detailed
     Traffic Control Plan ("the Plan") submitted by TBS, which
     outlined the 2021 Triathlon's route. (Becerril Decl. ¶¶ 6-9.)


In
     accordance with the approved Traffic Control Plan, TBS placed orange cones
     along both sides of PCH, blocking off the outer lanes (usually the number
     2 lane) nearest the designated bike lanes. This setup provided cyclists
     with both a vehicle lane and a bike lane to use. (Becerril Decl. ¶¶ 7-8.)
TBS
     also installed "No U-turn" signs and cones, and law enforcement
     officers were posted at key intersections to manage traffic and ensure
     safety. (Traffic Control Plan, COE Ex. 2; Becerril Decl. ¶ 8.)

Plaintiff’s Waiver:

Plaintiff
     signed a waiver that expressly released TBS and other defendants,
     including the County, from any negligence claims related to the event. (COE
     Ex. 8.)

Driver's Admission of Fault:

At
     the scene, Defendant Dimmel-Alexeff acknowledged she was aware of the
     double yellow lines, the "No U-turn" signage, and the cone
     pattern but knowingly performed an illegal U-turn, admitting that she was
     at fault for the accident.
     (Det. Shean Decl. ¶¶ 11-13, COE Ex. 7.)

Defendant TBS has
demonstrated that their Traffic Control Plan was approved by Caltrans and the
City of Malibu. During the event, TBS had the appropriate cones, "No
U-turn" signs, and personnel in place as required by the approved plan.
Plaintiff signed a waiver releasing TBS and other defendants from liability for
negligence arising from the event. Additionally, the collision was caused by
Defendant Dimmel-Alexeff, who admitted to knowingly making an illegal U-turn in
violation of the traffic control measures, leading to the accident. TBS has
shown that it is not negligent and that the accident was solely caused by
Defendant Dimmel-Alexeff’s unauthorized U-turn.
Triable Issue of Fact
Plaintiff, in her
opposition, does not dispute that she signed the waivers releasing both the
County and TBS from liability for negligence arising out of the triathlon.
However, Plaintiff argues that Defendants were grossly negligent, which is not
covered by the waiver as a matter of public policy, thereby raising a triable
issue of fact. (City of Santa Barbara v. Superior Court (2007) 41
Cal.4th 747, 777.) Plaintiff essentially makes this exact argument and relies
on the same evidence to oppose both Defendants' motions for summary judgment.
Plaintiff contends that
Defendants were grossly negligent because only one out of the three required
"No U-turn" signs was posted in the area of the incident. Plaintiff
points to a still image from body camera footage (Plf’s Exhibit "1";
Dep. of Det. Shean, 21:22, Exhibit "6"). However, the image is
blurry, and while there appears to be a sign in the circled area, the content
is not discernible, making it unclear whether it is a "No U-turn"
sign or something else. In any event, in the police report (Plf’s Exhibit 10),
Defendant Alexeff admitted that she knew the U-turn was unsafe and had seen a
"No U-turn" sign but chose to proceed regardless. This directly
undermines Plaintiff’s argument that the presence of additional signs would
have changed Defendant Alexeff’s actions.
Plaintiff argues that a
police officer stationed closest to the accident was dismissed one hour prior
to the scheduled end time, even though at least three cyclists, including
Plaintiff, were still traveling through that location (Dep. of Det. Shean, 14:4,
15:1, Exhibit "6"). Plaintiff further claims that the presence of a
police officer would have deterred Defendant Alexeff from making an illegal
U-turn as Defendant allegedly passed by where the officer should have been
stationed. However, no evidence has been provided to show that Defendant
Alexeff actually drove past Police Post #5.
This argument is
further undermined by the GPS coordinates of the impact (Long. 34.024060, Lat:
-118.833578), which are undisputed by the parties and show that the accident
occurred approximately 2000 feet southeast of Police Post #5. (Def’s Ex. H.)
According to the drawing showing the locations of cones, flaggers, officers,
and signs near the intersection of PCH and Guernsey Avenue (Plf’s Ex. 7), the
officer stationed at Post #5 would have been located north of the intersection,
far from the scene of the accident.
Additionally, evidence
provided by Plaintiff contradicts this claim. Detective Shean testified in his
deposition that Plaintiff would have already passed the Guernsey intersection
before the collision occurred (Dep. of Det. Shean, 18:18, 31:19). Therefore,
Defendant Alexeff, who was traveling westbound, would not have passed the
officer stationed at Post #5 near the intersection to have been deterred by his/her
presence.
Plaintiff’s expert’s
declaration is also problematic because it fails to cite any evidence from the
record or exhibits to support its conclusions. For example, expert Louis Rubenstein
opines that the Traffic Control Plan prepared by Total Barricade Service and
amended by Caltrans required three "No U-turn" signs to be posted
near a driveway approximately 2000 feet south of Guernsey Avenue, and that no
"No U-turn" sign was posted facing northbound traffic in that area.
However, Rubenstein provides no evidence to support this assertion.
Rubenstein concludes
that had the other two "No U-turn" signs been posted, they would have
been visible to Defendant Alexeff when she made the illegal U-turn. However,
Defendant Alexeff admitted in the police report (Exhibit 10) that she saw the
"No U-turn" sign but chose to make the U-turn anyway. This undermines
Rubenstein’s conclusion, as the presence or absence of additional signs would
not necessarily have changed Defendant’s actions.
Rubenstein also asserts
that there was no flagger stationed in front of the driveway approximately 2000
feet from Guernsey Avenue and that a flagger was required under the revisions
to Total Barricade’s plan mandated by Caltrans. Again, no evidence is cited to
support this claim. If Plaintiff is referring to Exhibit 7, the drawing that
shows the placement of flaggers and signs near Guernsey Avenue, the drawing seems
to indicate that a flagger was to be placed west of the intersection. However,
the GPS coordinates of the incident (Long. 34.024060, Lat: -118.833578),
undisputed by Plaintiff, show that the impact occurred approximately 2370 feet
southeast of the intersection, meaning a flagger would not have been stationed
near the accident site to deter Defendant from making the illegal U-turn. Furthermore,
Plaintiff provided no clear evidence demonstrating that no flagger was present
at the location at the time of the incident.
Similarly, the officer
stationed at Post #5, as shown on the drawing/map (Plf’s Exhibit 7), was
located north of the intersection of Guernsey Avenue and PCH, and would not
have been in a position to prevent the accident, which occurred significantly
southeast of the post’s location. Contrary to Plaintiff’s allegation,
Defendant, who was traveling westbound, would not have passed the police post,
and Rubenstein’s assertion that the presence of the officer would have deterred
Defendant from making the illegal U-turn is unsupported by the facts.
Aside from the
conclusory statement that Defendant was grossly negligent, Rubenstein’s
declaration lacks any substantive reasoning to show how the alleged
omissions—such as the failure to provide additional "No U-turn"
signs, the early dismissal of the officer at Post 5, or the absence of a
flagger—constitute gross negligence. Gross negligence requires a "want of
even scant care" or an "extreme departure from the ordinary standard
of conduct" (City of Santa Barbara v. Superior Court, 41 Cal.4th at
p. 754). Even assuming these omissions occurred, conduct that merely fails to
guard against or warn of a potential danger typically amounts to ordinary
negligence, not gross negligence (Anderson v. Fitness Int’l, LLC, 4
Cal.App.5th 867, 881). Plaintiff’s allegations, at best, describe ordinary
negligence and do not meet the high standard required to establish gross
negligence.
Plaintiff does not
dispute that Defendants are not liable for ordinary negligence under the waiver
Plaintiff signed. Plaintiff has failed to raise a triable issue of fact as to
gross negligence. Therefore, Defendants’ motions for summary judgment are granted.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿The body of the email must include the hearing date and
time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿You should assume that others may appear at the hearing
to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.
 