 Case Number:  21STCV40558    Hearing Date:   October 15, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
MOTION TO SEAL
Hearing Date: 10/15/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 21STCV40558 ASHLEY OELSEN vs
KATHERINE UNVERFERTH, M.D., et al.
Moving Party: Plaintiff 
Responding Party: Unopposed
Notice: Sufficient 
Ruling: MOTION TO SEAL IS CONTINUED
 
Law
re Sealing of Documents
 
Unless confidentiality
is required by law, court records are presumed to be open to the public,
pursuant to a potent “open court” policy undergirded by the First Amendment and
favoring the public nature of court proceedings. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.550(c);
see NBC Subsidiary (KNBC-TV), Inc. v. Superior Court (1999) 20
Cal.4th 1178, 1199-10.) Consequently, pleadings, motions, discovery
documents, and other papers may not be filed under seal merely by stipulation
of the parties; filing under seal requires a court order.1 (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.551(a); see H.B. Fuller
Co. v. Doe¿(2007) 151 Cal.App.4th
879, 888.)
 
A sealing order must be
sought by means of a motion (or application) and accompanied by a memorandum of
points and authorities, as well as evidence and testimony containing facts
sufficient to justify the mandatory findings required to support a sealing
order. (Cal. Rules of Court, rules 2.550(d) and 2.551(b).) The proponent
of the sealing order must also conditionally lodge the unredacted matter to be
sealed with the court. (Id., rule 2.551(b)(4).)
 
In order to issue a
sealing order, the Court must expressly find that: (1) there exists an
overriding interest that overcomes the right of public access to the record;
(2) the overriding interest supports sealing the record; (3) a substantial
probability exists that the overriding interest will be prejudiced if the
record is not sealed; (4) the proposed sealing is narrowly tailored; and (5) no
less restrictive means exist to achieve the overriding interest. (CRC
2.550(d)(1)-(4); CRC 2.550(e); McGuan v. Endovascular Techs., Inc. (2010) 182 Cal.App.4th 974, 988.) In determining whether to seal
records, courts must weigh constitutional requirements for disclosure against
such factors as privacy rights. (People v. Jackson (2005) 128
Cal.App.4th 1009, 1026-27.) The Court exercises its discretion in making a
determination on a motion to seal. (Universal City Studios, Inc. v. Superior
Court (2003) 110 Cal.App.4th 1273, 1285.)
 
Unless the court orders otherwise, any
party that already has access to the records to be placed under seal must be
served with a complete, unredacted version of all papers as well as a redacted
version. Other parties must be served with only the public redacted version. If
a party's attorney but not the party has access to the record, only the party's
attorney may be served with the complete, unredacted version. CRC 2.551(b)(2)
 
Discussion
 
Although notice of the
motion and redacted versions of the documents were served on opposing counsel,
Plaintiff failed to serve the unredacted versions on opposing counsel as
required under California Rules of Court, Rule 2.551(b)(2). Rule 2.551(b)(2)
explicitly mandates that both redacted and unredacted versions of the documents
be served on opposing counsel to allow a meaningful opportunity for counsel to
assess the redactions.  Likewise, the
Court needs such unredacted versions readily available to it. In this case,
Plaintiff seeks to redact portions of 23 documents, and it is unreasonable to
expect the Court or opposing counsel to conduct an exhaustive search through
the record to identify exactly what was redacted.    
Plaintiff argues that
she seeks to redact personal medical records, reproductive history, and mental
health evaluations. The Court recognizes this as a legitimate, recognized basis
for redaction.  In Oiye v. Fox
(2012) 211 Cal.App.4th 1036, 1070, the court was confronted with a similar
decision and the motion to seal was granted because the medical records at
issue were tangentially related to the litigation. The plaintiff in Oiye
sought to seal records in a sexual abuse case, including disputes with her health
insurer and a personal diary about her treatment for anxiety, depression, and
eating disorders. These records were not central to the case, as the main issue
was whether the defendant had sexually molested the plaintiff. In contrast,
here, Plaintiff’s medical condition and history are directly related to the
claims and defenses in this medical malpractice action. As such, Plaintiff’s
medical records are not tangentially related but are central to the litigation,
making broad redactions likely inappropriate. 
Thus, again, providing the Court with clear guidance on what Plaintiff
seeks redacted is necessary.  
Furthermore,
Plaintiff’s requests, on their face, do not appear to be narrowly tailored to
seal only sensitive medical information. For example, Plaintiff seeks to redact
the title for the second cause of action and, at times, entire pages of the
complaint. Based on a brief review of the unredacted Complaint, the Court does
not believe that the requested redactions of the Complaint are narrowly
tailored.  
The documents Plaintiff
seeks to redact, including the complaint, Plaintiff’s Notice of Motion and
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Demand for Production of Documents, Set
No. Two, the Informal Discovery Conference Form for Personal Injury Courts, and
various attachments to Defendant's Motion for Summary Judgment, have all
already been filed in the public domain. As the court in Hurvitz v. Hoefflin
(2000) 84 Cal.App.4th 1232, 1245, held, "there can be no privacy with
respect to a matter which is already public or which has previously become part
of the ‘public domain.’" Once the information has been released, it cannot
be recaptured and sealed, unlike a physical object.
Nonetheless, the Court
recognizes Plaintiff’s desire to keep her medical records and history out of
the public domain, even if they have been part of that domain.  Accordingly, the Court is willing to make the
appropriate findings and seal documents that warrant it.  For that purpose, the Court continues this
motion to give Plaintiff an opportunity to ensure that her request is narrowly
tailored and to provide an exhibit containing unredacted documents, which can
be filed under seal. 
The Motion is continued
to _______________________________.