 On December 22, 2023, Plaintiffs Evelin Liseth Gonzalez Rodriguez, individually and as successor-in-interest of her deceased husband, Wilmer Ruben Martinez Paredes, Brianna Magali Martinez Gonzalez, Andy Ruben Martinez, and Aliyah Liseth Martinez Gonzalez filed the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) for (1) negligence, (2) strict liability—warning defect, (3) strict liability—design defect, (4) fraudulent concealment, and (5) breach of implied warranties.  The primary allegations of the FAC are as follows.  “From about 2004 to 2021, Decedent, WILMER RUBEN MARTINEZ PAREDES, cut, ground, drilled, edged, polished, fabricated and installed artificial stone and natural stone countertops for kitchens and bathrooms.”  “Decedent, WILMER RUBEN MARTINEZ PAREDES, was thereby exposed to and inhaled respirable crystalline silica, metals and other toxins from said products. As a direct and proximate result of WILMER RUBEN MARTINEZPAREDES’ exposure to silica, metals and other toxins within said products manufactured, distributed and/or supplied by Defendants, Decedent, WILMER RUBEN MARTINEZ PAREDES, developed and suffered from silicosis, pulmonary fibrosis, progressive massive fibrosis, rheumatoid arthritis, tuberculosis, and other medical conditions that required medical treatment and hospitalizations, from which he died.”DemurrerDefendant Caesarstone USA, Inc. demurs to the FAC for uncertainty and failure to state sufficient facts.  Specifically, Defendant contends that (1) “Plaintiffs fail to plead any facts which would establish dates, times or methods of exposure to any of Caesarstone’s products”; (2) there are no specific facts as to causation; (3) “Caesarstone USA cannot be held liable if the injury occurred even with adequate warning”; (4) “Plaintiffs have failed to allege that Caesarstone USA’s, (or any defendants’) products were used in a reasonably foreseeable way and were a substantial factor in causing decedent WILMER RUBEN MARTINEZ PAREDES’ alleged injury”; and (5) concealment is not pleaded with specificity. When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context, and “treat the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Serrano v. Priest (1971) 5 Cal.3d 584, 591.)  “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”  (Hahn v. Mirda¿(2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)  It is error “to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if the plaintiff shows there is a reasonable possibility any defect identified by the defendant can be cured by amendment.”  (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist.¿(1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)In toxic tort cases, “(1) Plaintiff must allege that he was exposed to each of the toxic materials claimed to have caused a specific illness. An allegation that he was exposed to ‘most and perhaps all’ of the substances listed is inadequate. (2) He must identify each product that allegedly caused the injury. It is insufficient to allege that the toxins in defendants' products caused it. (3) He must allege that as a result of the exposure, the toxins entered his body. (4) He must allege that he suffers from a specific illness, and that each toxin that entered his body was a substantial factor in bringing about, prolonging, or aggravating that illness. (5) Finally, except in a case . .  governed by the principle of liability based on market share for a uniform product that we outlined in Sindell v. Abbott Laboratories (1980) 26 Cal.3d 588, 612 [163 Cal.Rptr. 132, 607 P.2d 924, 2 A.L.R.4th 1061], he must allege that each toxin he absorbed was manufactured or supplied by a named defendant.”  (Bockrath v. Aldrich Chem. Co. (1999) 21 Cal.4th 71, 80.)“The required elements for fraudulent concealment are (1) concealment or suppression of a material fact; (2) by a defendant with a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff; (3) the defendant intended to defraud the plaintiff by intentionally concealing or suppressing the fact; (4) the plaintiff was unaware of the fact and would not have acted as he or she did if he or she had known of the concealed or suppressed fact; and (5) plaintiff sustained damage as a result of the concealment or suppression of the fact. [Citation.]”  (Graham v. Bank of America, N.A. (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 594, 606.)The Demurrer is without merit.  The FAC provides 55 pages of detailed allegations against Caesarstone specifically.  The FAC sufficiently indicates (1) a list of products manufactured by Caesarstone that are at issue, including Caesarstone Classico Caesarstone Concetto, Caesarstone Motivo, Caesarstone Supernatural, and Caesarstone Metropolitan; (2) that these products are meant to be fabricated and modified before installation; (3) that Wilmer fabricated, cut, and installed the aforementioned products over the course of 17 years; (4) that these slabs contained over 90% silica, which when fabricated, entered the air that Plaintiff inhaled; (5) that the dangers of inhaling silica dust have been generally known for hundreds of years; (6) that Caesarstone knew about the risk of silicosis from its products for years as, among other reasons, in 1997 the National Lung Transplant Center for Israel observed silicosis in a worker exposed to Caesarstone and because cases had been filed against Caesarstone by at least 2008; (8) that despite this, Caesarstone only started providing warnings in 2010 and, even then, its warning labels inadequately covered less than 1% of the surface area of its slabs, contained five languages in that space, and lacked a warning symbol until 2020; and (9) over the course of 17 years, Wilmer inhaled dangerously high amounts of silica from Defendant’s products that were a substantial factor in causing silicosis, which is supported by known literature.  Additional facts can be determined in discovery.  The Demurrer is overruled.  An answer is to be filed within 20 days.Motion to StrikeDefendant also seeks to strike the FAC’s references to (1) punitive damages and (2) the phrase, “[a]nd other stone products to be identified through the course of discovery.”Motions to strike are used to challenge defects in the pleadings not subject to demurrer.  Any party may move to strike the whole or any part of a pleading within the time allotted to respond to the pleading.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 435(b)(1).)  The grounds for a motion to strike shall appear on the face of the challenged pleading or from any matter of which the Court is required to take judicial notice.  (Id. § 437(a).)  The Court may strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading, and strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.  (Id. § 436.)  An “irrelevant” matter includes any “demand for judgment requesting relief not supported by the allegations of the complaint or cross-complaint.”  (Id. § 431.10(b)(3), (c); see also Smith v. Superior Court (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1033, 1036-1042.)Punitive damages are available when the plaintiff establishes oppression, fraud, or malice by clear and convincing evidence.  (Civ. Code § 3294(a).)  Malice means “conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.”  (Civ. Code § 3294(c)(1).)  In this context, despicable conduct is conduct considered “so vile, base, contemptible, miserable, wretched or loathsome that it would be looked down upon and despised by ordinary decent people.”  (Scott v. Phoenix Schools, Inc. (2009) 175 Cal.App.4th 702, 715, internal quotation marks omitted.)  Oppression means “despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s rights.”  (Civ. Code § 3294(c)(2).)  Fraud means “an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.”  (Id. § 3294(c)(3).)“[M]alice does not require actual intent to harm. (Id. at p. 895, 157 Cal.Rptr. 693, 598 P.2d 854.) Conscious disregard for the safety of another may be sufficient where the defendant is aware of the probable dangerous consequences of his or her conduct and he or she willfully fails to avoid such consequences. (Id. at pp. 895–896, 157 Cal.Rptr. 693, 598 P.2d 854.) Malice may be proved either expressly through direct evidence or by implication through indirect evidence from which the jury draws inferences.”  (Angie M. v. Superior Ct. (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1217, 1228.)The Motion to Strike is denied as to punitive damages because, among other things, the FAC adequately pleads fraud or malice (see supra), and the involvement of Caesarstone’s officers, directors, or managing agents can be inferred from the extensive history detailed against Caesarstone.  As to the reference of liability for “other stone products to be identified through the course of discovery”, the Court believes this is a nonissue to the extent that specific products have already been identified by the FAC.  That is, the Motion to Strike is denied as an improper line-item veto.  (See PH II, Inc. v. Superior Court (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1680, 1683.)Moving party to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 