  Case Number:  23TRCV01694    Hearing Date:   April 30, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 April 30, 2024
¿¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                   23TRCV01694
¿¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Pawnee Leasing
Corporation v. Makai Solutions, et al. 
¿¿¿ ¿¿¿ 
ATTORNEY NAME:             Defendants, Makai Solutions, Daniel
George Peterson II aka Daniel G. Peterson aka Daniel Peterson, an individual,
Jordan Darst Peterson aka Jordan Peterson attorney, Yoon S. Kim, The Barnes
Firm, L.C.’s attorney, Erica Loftis Pacheco, Esq.
 
TRIAL DATE:                        July
28, 2025 
¿¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Motion to be Relieved as Counsel for Jordan Peterson
¿ 
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) GRANTED. 
 
 
I.               
Background  
 
On
May 26, 2024, Plaintiff, Pawnee Leasing Corporation (“Plaintiff”) filed a
Complaint against Defendants, Makai Solutions, a California corporation, Daniel
George Peterson II aka Daniel G. Peterson aka Daniel Peterson, an individual,
Jordan Darst Peterson aka Jordan Peterson an individual (collectively,
“Defendants”), and DOES 1 through 100. The Complaint alleges causes of action
for: (1) Breach of Written Agreement; (2) Breach of Personal Guaranty; (3)
Breach of Written Agreement; (4) Breach of Personal Guaranty; (5) Breach of
Written Agreement; (6) Breach of Personal Guaranty; (7) Open Book Account; (8)
Reasonable Value; (9) Account Stated; (10) Indebtedness; (11) Unjust
Enrichment; (12) Claim and Delivery; and (13) Conversion.  On April 5, 2024, Defendants’ attorney, Erica
Loftis Pacheco, Esq. (“Pacheco”) filed a Motion to be Relieved as Counsel for
Defendant, Jordan Darst Peterson.  The Court
previously granted a similar motion as to Defendant Daniel Peterson.   
 
Trial is currently set for July 28, 2025. 
 
II.             
Legal Standard & Discussion  
 
Last week the Court heard and
granted a nearly identical motion by the same defense attorney seeking to be relieved
from representing a different defendant, Daniel Peterson.  Here, Defense counsel Pacheco, again moves the Court
to relieve her as attorney of record, this time for Jordan Peterson.   In her
declaration Pacheco notes that this motion is made on the grounds that her law
firm has been unable to meaningfully communicate with Defendants regarding the
case for approximately the last five (5) months prior to the filing of the
instant motion. Pacheco notes her firm first notified of their intent to
withdraw in November 2023 if communication did not improve and the fee
agreement was not upheld. Pacheco also notes that on February 21, 2024,
Pacheco’s firm formally notified Defendants that opportunity to correct had
expired and the motion to be relieved as counsel would be filed. Pacheco
further contends that her firm has continued to formally notify Defendants of
their intent to withdraw on an approximately weekly basis since February 2024. 
 
Since Defendants’ attorney
has complied with all procedural requirements in filing a motion to be relieved
as counsel and because the withdrawal would not cause an injustice or undue
delay in proceedings, the Court finds that withdrawal of Erica Loftis Pacheco, Esq. as attorney of record for Jordan Peterson can be
accomplished without undue prejudice to his interests. 
 
 
III.           
Conclusion & Order 
 
For the foregoing reasons, Erica Loftis
Pacheco, Esq.’s, Motion to Be Relieved As Counsel for Jordan Peterson is
GRANTED and the Order will be signed at the hearing. “After the order is
signed, a copy of the signed order must be served on the client and on all
parties that have appeared in the case.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362(e).)
The Order on this Motion will not be effective “until proof of service of a
copy of the signed order on Plaintiff and Defendant has been filed with the
court.” (Id.) Moving counsel is ordered to
give notice.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 