 Case Number:  23TRCV01697    Hearing Date:   April 30, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative
Ruling¿ 
¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 April
30, 2024
¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                   23TRCV01697
¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Lottie Mae Patterson Shumate v. General
Motors, LLC, et al.   
¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendant, General Motors, LLC
 
RESPONDING PARTY:        Plaintiff, Lottie Mae Patterson Shumate 
¿¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                        Not
Set   
¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Demurrer¿ 
(2) Motion to Strike 
¿ 
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) Defendant’s Demurrer is
SUSTAINED
(2) Defendant’s Motion to Strike is MOOTED
 
¿ 
 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A. Factual¿¿ 
¿ 
On May 26,
2023, Plaintiff, Lottie Mae Patterson Shumate (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint
against Defendant General Motors (“GM”) and DOES 1 through 10. On September 12,
2023, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”). On January 12, 2024,
Plaintiff filed a Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) alleging causes of action
for: (1) Violation of Civil Code § 1793.2(d); (2) Violation of Civil Code §
1793.2(b); (3) Violation of Civil Code § 1793.2(a)(3); (4) Breach of the
Implied Warranty of Merchantability; and (5) Fraudulent Inducement –
Concealment. 
 
On December
15, 2023, this Court sustained the previous demurrer to the fraudulent concealment
cause of action and noted that the Motion to Strike was mooted.  After being granted leave to amend, Plaintiff
revised the allegations in what is now the SAC. 
Defendant GM filed a Demurrer and Motion to Strike portions of the SAC, again
attacking the fraudulent concealment cause of action. 
            
B. Procedural¿¿ 
 
On March 11, 2024, Defendant,
GM filed a Demurrer and Motion to Strike. On April 17, 2024, Plaintiff filed
opposition papers. On April 22, 2024, Defendant, GM filed a reply brief. 
 
 
¿II. MOVING PARTY’S GROUNDS
¿ 
GM again demurs to
Plaintiff’s complaint on the grounds that it argues the Fifth Cause of Action
for Fraudulent Inducement – Concealment is barred by the statute of
limitations, fails to state facts relevant to the elements of the claim, and
fails to allege a transactional relationship giving rise to a duty to disclose.

 
III. ANALYSIS¿ 
¿ 
A. Demurrer 
¿ 
A demurrer can be used only to challenge
defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters
outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan
(1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) “To survive a demurrer, the complaint need only
allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action; each evidentiary fact that
might eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need not be alleged.” (C.A.
v. William S. Hart Union High School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 872.) For
the purpose of testing the sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer
admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded. (Aubry v. Tri-City
Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967.) A demurrer “does not admit
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Daar v. Yellow Cab
Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713.)¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A pleading is uncertain if it is
ambiguous or unintelligible. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (f).) A demurrer
for uncertainty may lie if the failure to label the parties and claims renders
the complaint so confusing defendant cannot tell what he or she is supposed to
respond to.¿ (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d
135, 139, fn. 2.) However, “[a] demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed,
even where a complaint is in some respects uncertain, because ambiguities can
be clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly's of
California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)¿¿ 
 
Fraud – Fraudulent Inducement – Concealment 
GM demurs to
Plaintiff’s cause of action for fraudulent inducement – concealment on the
grounds it argues the Plaintiff fails to state facts sufficient to establish
fraud, fails to allege a transactional relationship, and that the three-year
statute of limitations for fraud bars Plaintiff’s claim. 
 
Statute of
Limitations
 
The statute of limitations for fraud
generally is three years. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 338(d).) But under the “discovery
rule,” a cause of action begins to accrue when the aggrieved party discovers
the facts constituting the fraud. (San Francisco Unified School Dist. v.
W.R. Grace & Co. (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1318, 1327 (“A cause of action
does not accrue until the plaintiff either discovers the injury and its
negligent cause or could have discovered the injury and cause through the
exercise of reasonable diligence.”).)   
 
 
The Court does not wish to reanalyze the
issue of statute of limitations as it previously noted in the tentative ruling
to the demurrer to the FAC that it was not “clearly and affirmatively” apparent
from the FAC that the fraudulent inducement – concealment claim is barred by
the statute of limitations. Defendant makes the exact same argument in this
demurrer with references to the exact same paragraphs. Thus, this Court’s
analysis will be the same on demurrer to the SAC, and it finds that based on
Plaintiff’s allegations, tolling is sufficiently alleged.  Thus, the statute of limitations ground for
the demurrer is denied yet again.  
 
 Specificity Requirement 
 
 Defendant also argues again that Plaintiff’s
fraud claim fails as a matter of law because it is not pleaded with the
requisite specificity. As noted in this Court’s previous ruling, the
elements of a cause of action for fraudulent concealment are: (1) concealment
of a material fact; (2) by a defendant with a duty to disclose; (3) the
defendant intended to defraud by failing to disclose; (4) plaintiff was unaware
of the fact and would not have acted as it did had it known the fact; and (5)
damages.” (Butler America, LLC v. Aviation Assurance Company, LLC (2020)
55 Cal.App.5th 136, 144.) 
 
Here, GM argues the same argument made in
its last demurrer to the SAC. In the interest of brevity, this Court will not reanalyze
the exact same argument when it found in the last ruling on demurrer that that
such specificity meets the requisite pleading standard for fraudulent
concealment. As the Court noted last time, with fraudulent concealment, a duty
to disclose material facts may arise (1) when the defendant is in a fiduciary
relationship with the plaintiff; (2) when the defendant has exclusive knowledge
of material facts not known to the plaintiff; (3) when the defendant actively
conceals a material fact from the plaintiff; or (4) when the defendant makes
partial representations but also suppresses some material facts. (Falk v.
General Motors Corp. (N.D. Cal. 2007) 496 F.Supp.2d 1088, 1098-1099 citing LiMandri
v. Judkins (1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 326.) 
The Opposition again alleges that the SAC contains allegations
supporting that the transmission defect was a material fact, that it poses
safety risks, and that it arose during the warranty period.  
 
Transactional Relationship
 
GM again argues that Plaintiff’s fraud claim
fails because Plaintiff does not allege a transactional relationship between GM
and Plaintiff, or other circumstances giving rise to a duty to disclose.  Plaintiff contends, again, that a
transactional relationship is not required for GM to have a duty to disclose. Plaintiff
again argues that the other requirements, including exclusive knowledge to
material fact, active concealment of a material fact, or partial representation
but suppression of a material fact are what she is basing her argument.
However, this Court notes – as it did in the previous order to demurrer to the
FAC – that the SAC does not allege exclusive knowledge, but it does allege
superior position. (SAC, ¶78(b).) Essentially, Plaintiff argues the exact same
arguments, but has merely updated the paragraphs cited to, which do not answer
the fundamental defects this Court previously acknowledged were present in the
FAC. 
 
In the intervening time since the hearing on
the previous demurrer to the fraudulent concealment cause of action, the Central
District of California issued a persuasive opinion addressing the same problems
this Court noted previously, and addressed the Dhital decision’s cursory examination
of the transactional relationship issue. 
The Court will quote portions from that recent federal district court
decision, Antonov v. General Motors LLC (C.D. Cal., Jan. 19, 2024, No.
823CV01593FWSMJR) 2024 WL 217825, at *10-11:
 
 “Under
California law, a duty to disclose may arise where: (1) “the defendant is the
plaintiff's fiduciary;” (2) “the defendant has exclusive knowledge of material
facts not known or reasonably accessible to the plaintiff;” (3) “the defendant
actively conceals a material fact from the plaintiff;” or (4) “the defendant
makes partial representations that are misleading because some other material
fact has not been disclosed.” Collins v. eMachines, Inc., 202 Cal. App.
4th 249, 255-56, 134 Cal.Rptr.3d 588 (2011) (citing LiMandri v. Judkins,
52 Cal. App. 4th 326, 336, 60 Cal.Rptr.2d 539 (1997); Falk v. Gen. Motors
Corp., 496 F. Supp. 2d 1088, 1094-95 (N.D. Cal. 2007)).
 
“Where no fiduciary relationship exists
between the parties, a duty to disclose “arises only when the parties are in a
relationship that gives rise to the duty, such as ‘seller and buyer, employer
and prospective employee, doctor and patient, or parties entering into any kind
of contractual arrangement.’ ” Bigler-Engler v. Breg, Inc., 7 Cal. App.
5th 276, 311, 213 Cal.Rptr.3d 82 (2017) (quoting Shin v. Kong, 80 Cal.
App. 4th 498, 509, 95 Cal.Rptr.2d 304 (2000)). Generally, a relationship giving
rise to a duty to disclose requires “a transaction between the plaintiff and
defendant,” which “necessarily arise[s] from direct dealings between the
plaintiff and the defendant,” rather than “the defendant and the public at
large.” Id. at 311-12; see also Hoffman v. 162 N. Wolfe LLC,
228 Cal. App. 4th 1178, 1187, 175 Cal.Rptr.3d 820 (2014) (“A relationship
between the parties is present if there is some sort of transaction
between the parties.”) (internal quotation marks omitted).”
 
“The court finds Plaintiff has failed to
allege a transactional relationship giving rise to a duty to disclose.
Plaintiff alleges Defendant had a duty to disclose that the Vehicle's battery
was unsafe because Defendant: (1) “had exclusive knowledge of the material;”
(2) “took affirmative actions to conceal the material facts;” and (3) “made
partial representations about the mileage range, battery safety, and
performance of the vehicle that were misleading without disclosure of the fact
that the vehicle contained unsafe batteries that caused the vehicle to overheat
and pose a risk of fire.” (Compl. ¶ 78.) The court finds the first two
allegations are merely “[t]hreadbare recitals” of circumstances in which the
duty to disclose can arise under California law that are otherwise unsupported
by specific facts and thus insufficient to demonstrate a duty to disclose. Iqbal,
556 U.S. at 678, 129 S.Ct. 1937; see also Shah, 2023 WL 8852491,
at *8 (finding identical allegations were “rote recitations of when the duty to
disclose can arise under California law,” “conclusory,” and “lacking in
specific substantiating facts”). In addition, Plaintiff cannot rely on the
“partial misrepresentations” referenced in allegation three to demonstrate a
duty to disclose because Plaintiff has not adequately alleged any affirmative
misrepresentations under Rule 9(b). See section III.B.1, supra.”
 
“The court further finds Plaintiff has not
adequately alleged that the dealership where he purchased the Vehicle operated
as Defendant's agent. Plaintiff alleges that only that he acquired the Vehicle
“from an authorized dealer and agent” of Defendant and the dealership was
“authorized by [Defendant] to do business in the State of California on behalf
of [Defendant].” (Compl. ¶ 9.) This “[c]onclusory allegation[ ] of agency,”
without additional supporting facts, is “insufficient to establish an agency
relationship for pleading purposes.” Kuehl, 2023 WL 8353784, at *3
(citations omitted); see also Epperson, 2023 WL 8234646, at *9
(finding the plaintiff failed to “allege facts establishing an agency
relationship between [the defendant] and the dealership” by making “the
conclusory assertion that [the plaintiff] acquired the [Vehicle] ... from an
authorized dealer and agent of [the defendant]”) (cleaned up); Friedman v.
Mercedes Benz, 2013 WL 8336127, at *6 (C.D. Cal. June 12, 2013) (finding
plaintiff failed to allege an agency relationship by stating only that the
dealer “as an authorized Mercedes dealership, served as Mercedes' agent and
representative” without any supporting facts); Keegan v. Am. Honda Motor Co.,
838 F. Supp. 2d 929, 953 (C.D. Cal. 2012) (finding plaintiffs failed to allege
an agency relationship by stating that “Honda's dealers ... are its agents for
vehicle repairs” because this was “essentially a legal conclusion framed as a
factual allegation, unsupported by factual allegations concerning the
relationship between defendants and the dealers”).”
 
“Moreover, Plaintiff's argument that he
sufficiently alleged an agency relationship pursuant to the California Court of
Appeal's in Dhital does not alter the court's conclusion. (Dkt. 17 at
4-5.) The court notes that in Dhital the California Court of Appeal
conducted limited substantive analysis of the plaintiffs' transactional
relationship allegations due to the defendant's failure to fully brief the
argument. 84 Cal. App. 5th at 844 (holding plaintiffs' allegations regarding
buyer-seller relationship were sufficient at the pleading stage “in the
absence of a more developed argument by Nissan on this point”). The court
finds Dhital's cursory analysis of the parties' alleged transactional
relationship, without citation to Bigler-Engler or other California
precedent governing transactional relationships, unconvincing. See, e.g.,
Epperson, 2023 WL 8234646, at *9 (finding “the reasoning [in] Dhital
unpersuasive” with respect to the transactional relationship because “it fails
to discuss Bigler-Engler; any of the numerous cases holding automobile
dealerships to not be agents of manufacturers; or engage in a substantive
analysis regarding what factual allegations are required to successfully plead
an agency relationship”); Kuehl, 2023 WL 8353784, at *3 (rejecting Dhital
because the California Court of Appeal accepted the transactional relationship
“allegation without analysis based on the applicable state pleading standard”
and the case “is currently under review by the California Supreme Court”). In
sum, the court concludes Plaintiff has failed to allege a transactional
relationship giving rise to a duty to disclose for purposes of his fraudulent
concealment claim.”
 
As this Court did at the least hearing, it will
invite oral argument from Plaintiff’s counsel as to what specific allegations
it believes can be added to the SAC to address the deficiencies in the
allegation of a fraudulent concealment cause of action in the Lemon law context
where the Court notes as the Anotov case did that the relationship between
an automobile dealer and its franchisor/distributor is NOT one of agency and thus
the requisite transactional relationship between GM and the Plaintiff is not
sufficiently alleged with facts as opposed to conclusions.  
 
This Court notes as it did previously that
its view of California law is that there is no general duty by a motor vehicle
manufacturer to disclose to a consumer that it has had warranty complaints or
reports of malfunctions or that a component or system in a prior version of a
transmission has been the subject of repair recommendations or procedures. The
creation of such a duty seems better left to the policy-making branches of
government rather than the judiciary. Such a duty seems to implicate balancing
the burden that would be placed on manufacturers of such a broad duty against
the perceived value that disclosures of such a wide array of information might
yield for consumers. The law already recognizes a duty to recall or retrofit
(see, e.g., Hernandez v. Badger Construction Equipment Co. (1994) 28
Cal.App.4th 1791, 1827; Lunghi v. Clark Equipment Co. (1984) 153
Cal.App.3d 485, 494), but such a cause of action requires harm in the form of
personal injury rather than the economic losses alleged in the SAC here.  The Court also notes that the SAC contains allegations
that GM did in fact make public disclosures of information about the alleged transmission
defect by posting TSBs to the federal government which NHTSA places on its
publicly accessible website.  There is no
allegation as to any specific facts that GM intentionally omitted from its
NHTSA disclosures that were material to this specific plaintiff, or that this specific
plaintiff read what was posted in the NHTSA website and was defrauded into the
purchase of the subject vehicle because of the omission of material facts from the
TSBs GM submitted for disclosure to the public. 
Were Plaintiff to truthfully make such allegations here, the Court would
grant leave to amend. 
 
The Court rejects GM’s argument that a claim
for fraudulent inducement by concealment is barred by the economic loss rule,
pending a decision by the California Supreme Court on certified question from
the Ninth Circuit and on petition for review of Dhital v. Nissan North
America, Inc. (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 828 
This Court finds Dhital’s reasoning of the economic loss issue to
be sound and persuasive, and far more detailed than its cursory treatment given
to the transactional relationship issue which this Court does NOT find
persuasive.  
 
As such, the Court’s tentative ruling is to
SUSTAIN demurrer to the fraudulent concealment cause of action without leave to
amend.
 
A.    Motion to Strike 
 
Here, again,
GM bases its Motion to Strike Plaintiff’s prayer for Punitive Damages on the
argument that Plaintiff has not pleaded the fraud cause of action with the
specificity required. Plaintiff’s prayer for punitive damages, and Defendant’s
argument against it, are intrinsically intertwined with the fraudulent
inducement – concealment cause of action, and as such, the Court’s ruling as to
the Motion to Strike is determined by the Court’s ruling of the demurrer. The
Motion to Strike is thus MOOTED.  
 
IV.
CONCLUSION¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
For the foregoing reasons, Defendant’s Demurrer is SUSTAINED. Additionally,
Defendant’s Motion to Strike is MOOTED. 
¿¿¿ 
GM is ordered to give notice.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 