 Case Number:  23TRCV02524    Hearing Date:   April 30, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 April 30, 2024
¿¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                   23TRCV02524
¿¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        County of Los
Angeles v. Stadco LC, LLC     
¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                 Plaintiff, County of Los Angeles 
¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY:        Defendant,
Stadco LA, LLC or Hollywood Park Land Company, LLC (No Opposition)
¿¿¿ ¿¿¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                         Not Set. 
¿¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Plaintiff’s Motion for
Leave to File First Amended Complaint 
¿¿ 
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) CONTINUED to June 13,
2024 to enable filing of a supplemental declaration containing the missing components
of a motion to amend a pleading
 
 
¿¿ 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
A. Factual¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
On August 3, 2023, Plaintiff, County of
Los Angeles (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against Defendants, Stadco LA, LLC,
Hollywood Park Land Company, LLC, and DOES 1 through 20. The Complaint alleges
a cause of action for: (1) Premises Liability. Also p[ending is a workers
compensation subrogation action involving the same incident, case no.
23TRCV02978.  On
March 13, 2024, the parties filed a stipulation to consolidate actions, which
was granted that same day. 
 
Now, Plaintiff has filed a Motion for
Leave to File First Amended Complaint (“FAC”). 
 
B. Procedural¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
On March 25, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
Motion for Leave to Amend and file First Amended Complaint (“FAC”). To date, no
opposition has been filed. 
 
¿II. ANALYSIS¿¿ 
 
A.    Legal Standard 
 
 Leave to amend is permitted
under Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (a) and section 576. The
policy favoring amendment and resolving all matters in the same dispute is “so
strong that it is a rare case in which denial of leave to amend can be
justified. . ..” “Although courts are bound to apply a policy of great
liberality in permitting amendments to the complaint at any stage of the
proceedings, up to and including trial [citations], this policy should be
applied only ‘where no prejudice is shown to the adverse party . . ..
[citation].  A different result is indicated ‘where inexcusable delay and
probable prejudice to the opposing party’ is shown. [Citation].” (Magpali v.
Farmers Group (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 471, 487.)  
 
A motion for leave to amend a pleading must also
comply with the procedural requirements of California Rules of Court, Rule
3.1324, which requires a supporting declaration to set forth explicitly what
allegations are to be added and where, and explicitly stating what new evidence
was discovered warranting the amendment and why the amendment was not made
earlier. The motion must also include (1) a copy of the proposed and numbered
amendment, (2) specifications by reference to pages and lines the allegations
that would be deleted and added, and (3) a declaration specifying the effect,
necessity and propriety of the amendments, date of discovery and reasons for
delay. (See Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324, subds. (a), (b).) 
 
B.    Discussion 
 
            Here,
Plaintiff asserts that the consolidation of the workers compensation
subrogation action with the personal injury action arises out of an incident
that occurred on September 12, 2021 when Plaintiff’s employee, Deputy Sheriff
Deloy Baker was boarding a freight elevator at SoFi Stadium while in the course
and scope of his employment. Plaintiff alleges that as Deputy Baker was
entering the elevator, the horizontal doors of the elevator began to close, and
he tripped over the lower door thereby sustaining injuries and damages
requiring Plaintiff to pay workers compensation benefits to and on behalf of
Deputy Baker.    
 
            Plaintiff
notes that its original Complaint contained one cause of action for Premises
Liability against the owner/operator of SoFi Stadium, Stadco LA, LLC, and
Hollywood Park Management Company, LLC.  IN this motion, Plaintiff seeks to add causes
of action for General Negligence including Common Carrier Liability and
Products Liability based on information obtained after the filing of its
original complaint. 
 
            Plaintiff
argues that this amendment is necessary and proper because it would be in the
furtherance of justice so that the County of Los Angeles can allege the
appropriate causes of action against Otis Elevator Company, Contemporary
Services Corporation once they are added to the complaint and that manufacturer
of the elevator once its identity is determined through written discovery,
which has just commenced. (Declaration of Richard M. Stoll (“Stoll Decl.”), ¶
5.) Plaintiff also notes that since it filed its original complaint, Deputy
Baker filed his own complaint stating causes of action for Common Carrier
Liability, Negligence, and Premises Liability. 
            
            This
Court notes that Plaintiff has not entirely complied with California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324, since it did not
include in the Stoll Declaration what allegations are to be added and where,
and explicitly what new evidence was discovered warranting the amendment and
why the amendment was not made earlier. Although the Stoll declaration does include:
(1) a copy of the proposed and numbered amendment, and (2) a declaration
specifying the effect, necessity, and propriety of the amendments, it does not
include: (1) specifications by reference to pages and lines the allegations
that would be deleted and added, nor does it include (2) the date of discovery
and reasons for delay. (See Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324, subds. (a),
(b).) As such, this Court’s tentative ruling is to CONTINUE the hearing on
the motion to enable Plaintiff to submit a supplemental declaration informing
the Court of the missing information.  Given a TSC on Juhne 13 is already on
calendar, the Court suggests the hearing on this motion be continued to that
same date, time and place.  
 
III. CONCLUSION 
 
For
the foregoing reasons, Plaintiff’s Motion for Leave to File her First Amended
Complaint is CONTINUED to provide Plaintiff with the opportunity to submit a supplemental
declaration containing the missing ingredients. 

 
            Plaintiff is ordered to give notice.

 
 
 