 Case Number:  24STCV20078    Hearing Date:   January 17, 2025    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     January
17, 2025                                           TRIAL DATE:  Not set
                                                           
CASE:                                Arturo Viscarra v. Liliana Frankel, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                      24STCV20078
 





















 
MOTION
TO QUASH SERVICE OF SUMMONS
      


 
MOVING PARTY:              Defendant Liliana Frankel, Specially Appearing
 
RESPONDING
PARTY:     No opposition
 
 
I.          INTRODUCTION
 
            On August 8, 2024, plaintiff Arturo Viscarra commenced this
action against defendants Liliana Frankel (Frankel) and Andrew Bahena (Bahena)
alleging causes of action for (1) defamation, (2) negligent infliction of
emotional distress, and (3) intentional infliction of emotional distress.  
 
            On November
6, 2024, defendant Frankel, specially appearing, filed this Motion to Quash
Service of Summons.
 
The motion is unopposed.
 
II.        LEGAL
STANDARDS 
 
A defendant must file a motion to quash service of summons
on or before the last day on which the defendant must plead unless the time is
extended by stipulation or by a judge’s order for good case.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 418.10, subd. (a)(1).)  Although the notice of motion must
designate a hearing date not more than 30 days after the notice is filed,
scheduling a hearing date beyond the 30-day time period does not deprive the
court of jurisdiction to consider the merits of the motion.  (Olinick
v. BMB Entertainment (2006) 139 Cal.App.4th 1286, 1295-96.) 
  
When a defendant moves to quash service of process on
jurisdictional grounds, the plaintiff has the initial burden of demonstrating
facts justifying the exercise of jurisdiction. (Jayone Foods, Inc. v.
Aekyung Industrial Co. Ltd. (2019) 31 Cal.App.5th 543, 553.)¿ Once facts
showing minimum contacts with the forum state are established, the defendant
has the burden to demonstrate that the exercise of jurisdiction would be
unreasonable.¿ (Ibid.)¿  
 
            A failure
to oppose a motion may be deemed a consent to the granting of the motion. (Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 8.54(c).) 
 
III.       DISCUSSION
 
            Defendant
Frankel has not been served with the summons and complaint.  Nonetheless, she seeks an order quashing
service of process for lack of personal jurisdiction on the following grounds: 
 
1.     
Frankel is a non-resident defendant
who lives in Mexico.
2.     
Frankel has never resided in
California.
3.     
Frankel has never been employed by a
company with headquarters in California.
 
In support, Frankel offers her declaration wherein she
attests to each foregoing fact.  (Frankel
Decl., ¶¶ 3-9.)  
 
Based on the foregoing, the court finds the exercise of
personal jurisdiction over Frankel would be unreasonable.  First, Plaintiff, having not filed an
opposition, does not meet his initial burden to justify the exercise of
jurisdiction.  Second, Frankel establishes
that she lacks sufficient minimum contacts with California.  
 
IV.       CONCLUSION 
 
Accordingly, the Motion to Quash Service of Summons is GRANTED
for lack of personal jurisdiction.    
 
Moving party to give notice.
 
 
Dated:   January 17,
2025                                         




 


   




 


  Kerry
  Bensinger  
  Judge of
  the Superior Court 




 
 