 Case Number:  22TRCV01130    Hearing Date:   October 10, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
BRITTANY
  HARMAN, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
22TRCV01130




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
KALEO
  MARKETING, LLC, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                         October 10,
2024
 
Moving
Parties:                      Defendants Kaleo Marketing, LLC and Michael Oberlander
Responding
Party:                  Plaintiff Brittany Harman
Motion for Summary
Judgment or, in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication
 
            The Court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.
RULING
            The motion for summary judgment is DENIED.  The motion for summary adjudication is DENIED
as to the first, third, fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, and ninth causes of
action and GRANTED as to the second and eighth causes of action.
BACKGROUND
On November 7, 2022, plaintiff
Brittany Harman filed a complaint against Kaleo Marketing, LLC and Michael
Oberlander for (1) pregnancy discrimination, (2) retaliation for taking
pregnancy leave, (3) violation of Family Rights Act, (4) violation of pregnancy
disability leave, (5) disability discrimination, (6) failure to engage in a
good faith interactive process, (7) failure to provide reasonable
accommodations, (8) retaliation for reasonable complaint to employer, and (9)
wrongful termination in violation of public policy.
On December 14, 2022, defendants
filed an amended answer.
            On
February 23, 2023, the court sustained with leave to amend plaintiff’s demurrer
to the FAA.
On March 27, 2023, the court
granted plaintiff’s motion for protective order re her deposition, ordering
that plaintiff’s deposition was to be conducted after defendant served its
further responses and produced responsive documents.  The court also granted plaintiff’s motion to
compel further responses to interrogatories and requests for production and
ordered defendant to pay sanctions in the amount of $3338.
            On July 14, 2023, the court granted
defendant’s motion for protective order that plaintiff must view requested
documents provided to plaintiff in response to plaintiff’s request for
production of documents, set two, Nos. 56-63 in the presence of her counsel, in
person, or via video conferencing and shall not make copies or take possession
of any of the Confidential Materials.
            On August 9, 2023, the parties
stipulated and the court ordered a protective order – confidential designation
only.
            On October 5, 2023, the court
granted plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses to Form Interrogatories
– Employment, Nos. 209.2, 211.1, 214.1, 214.2, and 216.1, Special
Interrogatories, Nos. 18, 30, 36, 42, and 48, and Request for Production of Documents,
Nos. 22-27 and 29-34, within fifteen days and ordered sanctions in the amount
of $2538.
            On April 15, 2024, the parties
stipulated and the court ordered a protective order addendum re highly
confidential designation.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
The purpose of a motion for summary
judgment or summary adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut
through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their
allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.”  Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal. 4th 826, 843.  “Code of Civil Procedure section 437c,
subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the
evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’
and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no
triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law.”  Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7
Cal. App. 4th 1110, 1119.
“On a motion for summary judgment,
the initial burden is always on the moving party to make a prima facie showing
that there are no triable issues of material fact.”  Scalf
v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal. App. 4th 1510, 1519.  A defendant moving for summary judgment or
summary adjudication “has met his or her burden of showing that a cause of
action has no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the
cause of action . . . cannot be established, or that there is a complete
defense to the cause of action.”  CCP §
437c(p)(2).  “Once the defendant . . .
has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a
triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or
a defense thereto.” CCP § 437c(p)(2).  
“When deciding whether to grant
summary judgment, the court must consider all of the evidence set forth in the
papers (except evidence to which the court has sustained an objection), as well
as all reasonable inferences that may be drawn from that evidence, in the light
most favorable to the party opposing summary judgment.” Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal. App.
4th 463, 467; CCP §437c(c).
DISCUSSION
Defendants
request summary judgment as to the complaint on the grounds that there are no
triable issues of material fact and as a matter of law, they prevail.  In the alternative, defendants request
summary adjudication in their favor as to each of the causes of action in the
complaint.
            The
complaint alleges that defendant Kaleo is a marketing agency.  Complaint, ¶10.  Michael Oberlander was the CEO and President
of Kaleo.  Id., ¶11.  On February 4, 2020, Kaleo hired plaintiff as
a business development manager.  Id., ¶12.  One month later, in March 2020, plaintiff
began to work remotely from home.  Id., ¶13.  On April 25, 2022 plaintiff took pregnancy
leave.  Before taking pregnancy leave,
plaintiff trained an employee to take over her duties.  Id., ¶14. 
On May 15, 2022, plaintiff gave birth. 
Id., ¶15.  Plaintiff was scheduled
to return to work on September 12, 2022. 
Id., ¶16.  On August 30, 2022,
plaintiff contacted Oberlander via text message to speak about her return to
work.  Id., ¶17.  On August 31, 2022, Oberlander replied that
he would look at his schedule to coordinate a phone call.  Id., ¶18. 
On September 7, 2022, plaintiff contacted Oberlander again to
speak.  Later that day, plaintiff and
Oberlander spoke by phone.  Plaintiff
confided to Oberlander that she had been suffering post-partum depression and
separation anxiety from her child.  She
explained that she had been treating with a doctor for both.  She further explained that she needed to
continue working remotely while treating for this disability.  Id., ¶19. 
On September 9, Oberlander called plaintiff in the evening and told her
that she could not accommodate her.  Id.,
¶20.
            The
complaint further alleges that during this same period and after, Kaleo
permitted and continues to permit at least four people to work remotely, three
full-time and one part-time.  Id., ¶21.  On September 12, plaintiff provided a
doctor’s note to Oberlander detailing a medical recommendation to work from
home.  Id., ¶22.  On September 15, Oberlander acknowledged
receipt of the doctor’s note.  He replied
that Kaleo is “unable to accommodate you to work from home.”  He claimed that working remotely was an undue
hardship for the company.  Id., ¶23.  That same day, plaintiff asked Oberlander why
it would be an undue hardship for Kaleo. 
He did not reply.  Id., ¶24.  On September 19, plaintiff asked again to be
returned to her job.  She reiterated that
her doctor’s note stated that she was able to work from home.  She explained that she was not comfortable
deviating from her doctor’s medical advice. 
Id., ¶25.  On September 20,
Oberlander acknowledged receipt and stated he was consulting with employment
counsel “to make sure that the jobs we are offering you are legally
compliant.”  Id., ¶26.  On September 23, plaintiff checked in via
email.  Oberlander did not respond.  Id., ¶27. 
On September 29, plaintiff submitted a modified doctor’s note stating
that she would only need to work remotely until January 1, 2023.  Oberlander did not respond.  Id., ¶28. 
Since September 30, Kaleo and Oberlander have not communicated with
plaintiff.  On that date or sometime
shortly thereafter, Kaleo constructively discharged plaintiff.  Id., ¶29.
            The
following chronology is helpful, and the facts are not in dispute:
Feb. 2020
– plaintiff hired at Kaleo as Events Coordinator and Assistant
            March
2020 – company employees start working remotely because of the Covid pandemic;
Kaleo terminates over eighty workers; retained four employees, including
plaintiff
            2021
– plaintiff promoted to senior sales and development manager
            End
of 2021 – plaintiff discovers she is pregnant
November 5, 2021 letter from
medical provider – “The patient’s medical conditions make working in the usual
workplace inadvisable in the time of the coronavirus pandemic, as these
conditions greatly increase the risk of severe complications.  Please allow them to work from home
remotely.”
April 2022 – plaintiff takes
pregnancy leave
May 15, 2022 – plaintiff gives
birth
            August
30, 2022 text from plaintiff to Oberlander, in part – “My projected return date
is 9/12, pending one more doctor’s appt for medical clearance.  I am hoping we can get together before then
to touch base.  Please let me know when
you are available.”
            August
21, 2022 text from Oberlander to plaintiff, in part:  “Sounds good. 
Let me check my schedule and I’ll circle back with you glad you’re doing
well!”
            September
7, 2022 text from plaintiff to Oberlander – “Hi Michael, are you in town this
week?”
            September 12, 2022 email from
plaintiff to Oberlander – “Attached is a note from my doctor’s office regarding
my current health status.  Please let me
know if you’re able to provide reasonable accommodations.  I look forward to speaking with you
soon.”  The September 12, 2022 letter
from Beach Obstetrics & Gynecology Medical Group states:  “Brittany is currently under my medical care
and has been advised to work from home until further notice as she navigates
her postpartum adjustment and mental health care.  She has been referred to a mental health
provider as well to continue to support her mental health.”  
            September 13, 2022 text from
Oberlander to plaintiff – “Hey sorry I can’t talk right now.  I’m in a meeting.  I’ve received your doctor’s note and we’ll
circle back with you tomorrow, thanks.”
September 15, 2022 email from
Oberlander to plaintiff – “While we appreciate your letter, we are unable to
accommodate you to work from home, as it constitutes an undue hardship to our
company if you are not able to perform essential functions of the job.  As you know, your job tasks consist of much
in-person work, including but not limited to recruiting.  Therefore, we do need you in the office.  If for some reason you are not interested in
a recruiting/events management duties split, you may return solely as an events
manager.  We are excited about having you
rejoin our management team when you are able. 
Your excellence is valued, respected and appreciated.  We are open to possibilities.”
            September 19, 2022 email from
plaintiff to Oberlander – “I am reaching out again since I haven’t heard back
from you. . . . I never planned on being without an income as I expected to
start a week ago and I need to be able to provide for my family.  My doctor says I can work and I look forward
to doing so in either role, but I need to be able to do it from home
temporarily based on her recommendations. 
I do not feel comfortable going against medical advice. . . . I thought
over the other options you provided of going on back disability or looking for
another job but I am really hoping you will reconsider my doctor’s request
while I navigate my postpartum.  I am
confident I can do my job from home as I had been doing prior to maternity
leave.”
            September 20, 2022 email from
Oberlander to plaintiff – “I am consulting with our employment council [sic] to
make sure that the jobs we are offering you are legally compliant.”
            September 23, 2022 email from
plaintiff to Oberlander – “I’m reaching out in hopes you’ve spoken with your
counsel and that I can return to my position soon.  I will be going on three weeks without any
income which I was not expecting at all after my maternity leave.”
            September 29, 2022 email from
plaintiff to Oberlander – “Attached is my doctor’s note advising temporary
telework until January 1, 2023.  Please
let me know if you’re able to accommodate.” 
The note states the same as the September 12 note except it provided an
end date.
 
First cause of action for pregnancy
discrimination
Government Code §12940(a) prohibits
an employer from discriminating against an employee based on a protected
characteristic, including sex, which includes pregnancy or medical conditions
related to pregnancy and childbirth or medical conditions related to
childbirth.  See Gov. Code §12926(r)(1).
“California has adopted the
three-stage burden-shifting test established by the United States Supreme Court
[in McDonnell-Douglas] for trying claims of discrimination . . . based
on a theory of disparate treatment.”  Guz
v. Bechtel Nat. Inc. (2000) 24 Cal. 4th 317, 354.  Under the McDonnell-Douglas framework,
(1) the plaintiff must initially establish a prima facie case of
discrimination, (2) the defendant must then articulate a legitimate
nonretaliatory explanation for its acts, and (3) in response, the plaintiff
must show that this explanation is pretextual. 
See Patten v. Grant Joint Union High School Dist. (2005) 134 Cal.
App. 4th 1378, 1384 (citations omitted).
“The McDonnell-Douglas
framework is modified in the summary judgment context.  In a summary judgment motion in ‘an employment
discrimination case, the employer, as the moving party, has the initial burden
to present admissible evidence showing either that one or more elements of
plaintiff's prima facie case is lacking or that the adverse employment action
was based upon legitimate, nondiscriminatory factors.’”  Serri v. Santa Clara University (2014)
226 Cal. App. 4th 830, 861 (citation omitted). 

“’If the employer meets its initial
burden, the burden shifts to the employee to 'demonstrate a triable issue by
producing substantial evidence that the employer's stated reasons were untrue
or pretextual, or that the employer acted with a discriminatory animus, such
that a reasonable trier of fact could conclude that the employer engaged in
intentional discrimination or other unlawful action.’”  Id. (citation omitted).  “Generally in cases involving affirmative
adverse employment actions, pretext may be demonstrated by showing ‘the
proffered reason had no basis in fact, the proffered reason did not actually
motivate the discharge, or, the proffered reason was insufficient to motivate
discharge.’”  Soria v. Univision Radio
Los Angeles, Inc. (2016) 5 Cal. App. 5th 570, 594 (citations omitted).  See also Hersant v. Department of Social
Services (1997) 57 Cal. App. 4th 997, 1005 (“pretext may be
shown by ‘such weaknesses, implausibilities, inconsistencies, incoherencies, or
contradictions in the employer's proffered legitimate reasons for its action
that a reasonable factfinder could rationally find them “unworthy of credence,”
and hence infer “that the employer did not act for [the asserted] non-discriminatory
reasons”’”); Mamou v. Trendwest Resorts, Inc. (2008) 165 Cal. App. 4th
686, 715 (court may “take into account . . . manifest weaknesses in the cited
reasons [for termination] in considering whether those reasons constituted the
real motive for the employer’s actions, or have instead been asserted to mask a
more sinister realty”).  “[S]imply
showing the employer was lying, without some evidence of discriminatory motive,
is not enough to infer discriminatory animus.” 
Soria, supra, at 594.
To meet the prima facie case on a
discrimination claim, the plaintiff must generally show (1) she was a member of
a protected class, (2) she was performing competently in the position she held,
(3) she suffered an adverse employment action, such as termination, demotion,
or denial of an available job, and (4) some other circumstance suggests
discriminatory motive.  See Guz,
supra, at 355.
The complaint alleges that plaintiff
was a member of a protected class as a result of plaintiff’s pregnancy, taking
of pregnancy leave and post-partum depression and other post-birth disabilities.  Complaint, ¶40.  Plaintiff was
performing competently in the position plaintiff held with defendants.  Id., ¶41.  Plaintiff suffered the adverse employment
actions of unlawful discrimination, failure to prevent discrimination, and
termination, and was harmed thereby. 
Id., ¶42.
                        Prima
facie case 
Defendants argue that plaintiff
cannot show that she suffered an adverse employment action.  Michael Oberlander states in his declaration
that at no time did he threaten to terminate her or terminate her.  Defendants also contend that defendant’s
inability to allow plaintiff to return from pregnancy leave as a remote
employee does not materially affect the terms and conditions of plaintiff’s
employment because when she applied to work for defendant, she was aware that
the position required her to work on site, in-office, five days per week.  
In opposition, plaintiff argues
that she has met her prima facie case. 
She asserts that she was a member of a protected class (postpartum
depression).  See September 12, 2022
doctor’s note.  She contends she was performing
competently in the position she held, which defendants do not dispute.  She asserts that she suffered adverse
employment actions, including being denied a request for medical accommodation
to continue to work remotely, defendants failing to interact, defendants trying
to change her position to an in-office position, and defendants not paying her
from September 12, 2022 onward (from when she was supposed to have returned to
work).
The Court finds that defendants
have not shown that plaintiff’s prima facie case is lacking.
                                    Legitimate,
non-discriminatory reason
            According to Michael Oberlander’s
(president and CEO of Kaleo Marketing) declaration, in September 2022, when
plaintiff sought to work remotely, “although available during COVID, was no
longer compatible with the workload presented in our new era of business
without any restrictions limiting our access to in-person events and marketing.”  Defendant explains that during the time that
plaintiff was supposed to return, Kaleo grew from four to over eighty
employees, “all of whom required on-going communication and supervision.”  He states that plaintiff’s position was “key
to the entire equation” as she was “the point of contact between the main
decision makers of the company in the Torrance office, helping identify,
locate, price, negotiate, acquire, communicate, and send staff to all the event
bookings on behalf of our clients.”  He
states that during the time that plaintiff had made this request, “Kaleo’s
business had increased dramatically and all employees with similar duties were
required to return to the office to carry out business and continue to expand
and grow our efforts.”  He states further
that allowing plaintiff to work from home during this time would have required
“my direct and constant contact with her via phone and Zoom Monday through
Friday from 10am until 6pm,” which was not feasible as he would be limited in
his ability to communicate and supervise other employees.  Defendant also notes that even if it were
feasible to stay on the phone with plaintiff throughout the cay, it “still was
most likely not possible due to [plaintiff’s] non-responsive communication
style, and “[i]t is her lack of response that influenced my decision not to
allow her to work from home.”  He refers
to the last few months of plaintiff’s employment before pregnancy leave where her
“communication habits became increasingly difficult” and she “repeatedly
ignored my phone calls, text messages and emails.”  Thus, defendants argue, plaintiff was unable
to perform the essential duties of the job from home.
            Moreover, citing to plaintiff’s
reason for remaining remote as due to postpartum depression, defendant states
that plaintiff’s position “required a lot of communication . . . . I could not
have her speak on behalf of the company if her disability was severe enough to
create a bad impression for the firm.” 
As to the doctor’s note mentioning “depression,” defendant states that
plaintiff’s position required a lot of stress “and I did not want her to work
until she felt better, in efforts to not inadvertently exasperate her condition
due to the job stress.” 
            The Court finds that whether
defendants have met their burden of showing a legitimate, non-discriminatory
reason for denying plaintiff’s request to work remotely is a triable issue of
material fact.  On one hand, defendants
cite to Oberlander wanting to have constant in-person communication with
plaintiff, which is triable as to whether such reason is legitimate.  And, on the other hand, defendants contend
that they were concerned because of her disability (postpartum depression and
mental health), which is triable as to whether such reason is discriminatory.
                                    Pretext
In the opposition,
plaintiff disputes that she was not responsive while she was working remotely
prior to when she took pregnancy leave. 
She states in her declaration that she never put Oberlander on a “do not
disturb” list and never blocked him.  She
states also that throughout her employment, she regularly answered Oberlander’s
calls and on the occasions when she missed them, she would return them right
away without Travis Johnson’s intervention. 
She states that during her employment, Oberlander never told her that
she was not answering his calls or not returning his calls or being
nonresponsive.  Further, plaintiff
argues, defendants’ claim that plaintiff’s alleged lack of responsiveness to
phone calls is an essential job function is incorrect, citing to Gov. Code §12926(f).  Rather,
plaintiff asserts, it was a marginal job function she spent far less than 4.8
hours per week communicating with Oberlander.
Further,
plaintiff argues, there were other management employees who were working
remotely.  In his declaration, Oberlander
acknowledges that VP Danny Livingston worked a hybrid schedule and VP Nicolas
Holden worked remotely but asserts that they “did not have the understanding
that [plaintiff] was non-responsive to me, nor did they understand that she was
requesting to be fully remote due to an alleged mental disability.”
            The
Court finds that plaintiff has shown pretext. 
The Court notes again Oberlander’s declaration citing to her disability
as a reason for not accommodating her. 
            The motion for summary adjudication
is DENIED.
 
Second cause of action for
retaliation for taking pregnancy leave
Claims for retaliation under FEHA
are analyzed under the McDonnell-Douglas test.  See Jones v. Department of Corrections
& Rehabilitation (2007) 152 Cal. App. 4th 1367, 1380.
The complaint alleges that this
cause of action is based upon Gov. Code 12940, et seq., which prohibits
employers from retaliating against employees who make complaints alleging FEHA
violations, including discrimination and harassment on the basis of pregnancy.  Complaint, ¶49.  Defendants violated Government Code §12940,
et seq. by doing the following acts all because of plaintiff’s complaints
including but not limited to, discriminating against plaintiff and terminating
her as a result of her complaints as described in the general allegations above.  Id., ¶51.
Plaintiff does not identify specifically
whether this cause of action is under Gov. Code §§12940(h) or (m)(2).  Section 12940(h) states that an employer may
not “discharge, expel, or otherwise discriminate against any person because the
person has opposed any practices forbidden under this part or because the
person has filed a complaint, testified, or assisted in any proceedings under
this part.”  Under Gov. Code §12940(m)(2),
an employer may not retaliate or otherwise discriminate against a person for
requesting accommodation under this subdivision, regardless of whether the
request was granted.  
Under section 12940(h) she has not
presented any evidence that she engaged in “protected activity”; thus, she has
not met her prima facie case.  As to
section 12940(m)(2), plaintiff has not raised a triable issue that she was
discriminated or retaliated against (i.e., discharged or denied a reasonable
accommodation) as a result of requesting an accommodation.
The motion for summary adjudication
is GRANTED.
 
Third cause of action for violation
of Family Rights Act
The purpose of the CFRA “is to
allow employees to take leave from work for certain personal or family medical
reasons without jeopardizing their job security.”  Richey v. AutoNation, Inc. (2015) 60
Cal.4th 909, 919 (citation omitted). 
“The CFRA has two principal components: 
a right to leave of up to 12 weeks in any 12-month period to take care
for a family member or for the employee’s own medical condition, and a take up
to 12 weeks of family care or medical leave in a 12-month period, and a right
to reinstatement in the same, or a comparable, position at the end of the
leave.”  Id. (citations
omitted).  See Gov. Code §12945.2(a).
“’Employment in the same or a
comparable position’ means employment in a position that has the same or
similar duties and pay that can be performed at the same or similar geographic
location as the position held prior to the leave.”  Gov. Code §12945.2(b)(6).
“It shall be an unlawful employment
practice for an employer to . . . to discharge, fine, suspend, expel, or
discriminate against, any individual because of any of the following:  (1) An individual’s exercise of the right to
family care and medical leave provided by subdivision (a).”  Gov. Code §12945.2(k).
The complaint alleges that defendants
refused to restore plaintiff to employment in the same or comparable position
upon her return from her protected leave.  Defendants discriminated against, took adverse
employment action against, retaliated against, and/or terminated plaintiff for
asking to be returned to the same or comparable position.  Complaint, ¶62.
Defendants argue that defendant has
not performed any adverse employment action; there is no causal connection; a
reasonable accommodation was not possible without undue hardship; and actions
were consistent with the treatment of other employees.
In opposition, plaintiff argues
that defendants have not met their burden because they “reincorporate their
arguments” that plaintiff suffered no adverse employment action and that defendant
would have suffered undue hardship if it allowed plaintiff to work remotely.
The Court finds that there are
triable issues of material fact as to whether defendants restored plaintiff to
employment in the same or comparable position upon her return.  Defendants denied her return remotely to the
same position, although they would have restored plaintiff to employment in the
same or comparable position if she had agreed to return in person.  Whether returning her to work remotely would
have been an undue hardship is a triable material fact.
The motion for summary adjudication
is DENIED.
 
Fourth cause of action for
violation of pregnancy disability leave
The California Pregnancy Disability
Leave Law (Gov. Code §12945), which is part of FEHA, states, in part, as
relevant here:  “(a) In addition to the
provisions that govern pregnancy, childbirth, or a related medical condition in
Sections 12926 and 12940, each of the following shall be an unlawful employment
practice . . . :  . . . (3) (A) For an
employer to refuse to provide reasonable accommodation for an employee for a
condition related to pregnancy, childbirth, or a related medical condition, if
the employee so requests, with the advice of the employee’s health care
provider.”  
Pursuant to 2 CCR §11043(a), “an
employee who exercises her right to take pregnancy disability leave is
guaranteed a right to return to the same position, or, if the employer is
excused by section 11043(c)(1), to a comparable position.”
In order to establish a claim for
pregnancy disability leave violation, plaintiff must show that she is an
eligible employee, she has a qualifying pregnancy related condition, she has timely
requested leave or accommodation, there was an adverse employment action, and
that adverse employment action was causally connected to plaintiff’s request
for or taking of pregnancy disability.
The complaint alleges that this cause
of action is based upon Cal. Code Regs. Tit. 2 § 11043 et seq., which provides
a guarantee of reinstatement; specifically, that section provides that an
“employee who exercises her right to take pregnancy disability leave is
guaranteed a right to return to the same position” or in some cases, a
comparable position.  Defendants refused
to restore plaintiff to employment in the same position and were not eligible
for the circumstances under which they could return her only to a comparable
position.  Even if defendants were, plaintiff
alleges that defendants did not return her to a comparable position.  Complaint, ¶70.
Defendants argue that plaintiff
does not have a qualified disability related to pregnancy because she gave
birth to a healthy child and was physically and mentally healthy after giving
birth (which was in May 2022) and that her declining mental health was
correlated to the status of her relationship with her child’s father and was
not pregnancy-related.  The Court notes
though that as stated under the first cause of action, defendants cited to her
postpartum depression and mental health as a reason for not allowing her to
work remotely.  Defendants also contend
that plaintiff failed to provide adequate notice by giving notice on the date
she was set to return.  The Court notes
though that plaintiff attempted to communicate with Oberlander in August but
that he was non-responsive.  Defendant further
contends has they have not performed any adverse employment action because they
did not terminate plaintiff; rather, they welcomed her to return to her
position when she as ready to come back to work in the office, although they do
not deny not paying her.  Defendants also
reiterate that a reasonable accommodation was not possible without undue
hardship and defendant’s actions were consistent with the treatment of other
employees.
In opposition, plaintiff argues
that plaintiff’s September 12, 2022 medical note states her postpartum
interfered with her ability to work if it was not remote.  Plaintiff also argues that whether “her
alleged troubles with her child’s father” were the “true basis for her need to
work remotely” is a triable issue.  
The Court finds the same as under
the fourth cause of action, that there are triable issues of material fact as
to whether defendants denied her the right to return to her position.  There is also a triable issue of material
fact as to whether allowing her to work remotely would have caused an undue
hardship.
The motion for summary adjudication
is DENIED.
 
Fifth cause of action for
disability discrimination
Under FEHA, “It shall be an
unlawful employment practice . . . [¶] (a) For an employer, because of the . .
.  physical disability [or] . . .  medical condition . . . of any person, to
refuse to hire or employ the person . . . , or to bar or to discharge the
person from employment . . . , or to discriminate against the person in
compensation or in terms, conditions, or privileges of employment.”  Gov. Code § 12940(a).  The elements of disability discrimination in
violation of FEHA are:  (1) plaintiff has
a disability or medical condition or was regarded as suffering from a
disability; (2) plaintiff could perform the essential duties of the job with or
without reasonable accommodations; (3) the defendant’s adverse employment
decision; and (4) because of plaintiff's actual or perceived disability or
medical condition.  Faust v. Cal.
Portland Cement Co. (2007) 150 Cal. App. 4th 864, 886.
The complaint alleges that plaintiff
was a member of a protected class as a result of plaintiff’s depression,
postpartum depression and other post-birth disabilities.  Complaint, ¶83.  At all times relevant hereto, plaintiff was
performing competently in the position plaintiff held with defendants.  Id., ¶84.
Defendants argue the same as under
the first and fourth causes of action, that plaintiff failed to establish a
prima facie case; there is no causal connection; and a reasonable accommodation
was not possible without undue hardship. 
Defendants further argue that there is no liability if the employee is
unable to perform.  Defendants assert
that plaintiff was not qualified to work her position with a reasonable
accommodation, citing to plaintiff’s December 8, 2022 psychiatric evaluation,
which indicates that plaintiff suffered from a negative impact on
concentration, was preoccupied with her worries, including forgetting where
items are in her house, found it difficult to keep up with housework or putting
away dishes, found it difficult to connect to Zoom because she becomes
overwhelmed with anxiety, her daily functioning is impacted and is not able to
care for herself.  The evaluation further
indicated that “she notes depressed and anxious mood with significant change in
appetite and disrupted sleep, as well as impact on her cognition and competence
in managing tasks.”  Defendants also
contend that plaintiff’s request to work remotely was unclear as there was no
indication that plaintiff could do the essential functions of her job remotely
even if she was consistent with her communication with Oberlander.  Defendants assert that although plaintiff’s
note stated that plaintiff had postpartum depression and needed to work
remotely, any work she would perform remotely would be the same work performed
in the office, including client communication and there is no indication that
plaintiff would be able to effectively communicate on behalf of defendant
corporation with her disability.
In opposition, plaintiff asserts
that she met her burden of showing a prima facie case because she provided a
medical note stating she had postpartum depression and she suffered adverse
employment actions.  See under the first
cause of action.  Plaintiff contends that
defendants improperly rely on her medical records from November and December
2022 because what is at issue is her disability in September 2022.  Plaintiff argues that defendants’ contention
that she would not be able to communicate on behalf of defendants to clients
“potentially creating a bad impression for the firm” is pure speculation.  Plaintiff also contends that defendants’
“worries [additional stressors potentially exasperating her condition) for plaintiff
fall outside their legal duties to provide a reasonable accommodation.”
The Court finds as under the first
cause of action that there are triable issues of material fact.  Oberlander’s declaration states that one of
his considerations to not grant plaintiff’s request to work remotely was
because of her disability (postpartum depression and mental health).
The motion for summary adjudication
is DENIED.
 
Sixth cause of action for failure
to engage in a good faith interactive process
“An employer’s failure to engage in
this process is a separate FEHA violation.” 
Wilson v. County of Orange (2009) 169 Cal. App. 4th 1185,
1193.  The FEHA imposes an additional
duty on the employer “to engage in a timely, good faith, interactive process
with the employee . . . to determine effective reasonable accommodations. . .
.”  Gov. Code §12490(n).  “An employer is required to provide a
reasonable accommodation for, and engage in the interactive process regarding,
disabilities that are ‘known’ to the employer.” 
Gov. Code §12940(m)-(n).  
The complaint alleges that plaintiff
reported the disability to defendants and requested accommodation, triggering defendants'
obligation to engage in the interactive process with plaintiff, but at all
times herein, defendants failed and refused to do so.  Thereafter, despite defendants continuing
obligation to engage in the interactive process with plaintiff, despite plaintiff’s
submission of doctors’ notes identifying plaintiff’s condition and plaintiff’s
desire to continue working in some capacity, defendants failed and refused to
have any dialogue with plaintiff whatsoever, on any of these occasions, and defendants
violated, and continued to violate this obligation up to and including the date
of plaintiff’s termination or, if defendant contends plaintiff was never
terminated, through the present and ongoing. 
Complaint, ¶94.
            Defendants argue that plaintiff
fails to establish a prima facie case because defendant engaged in good faith
interactive process.  Oberlander states
in his declaration that he worked with Marketing Manager Travis Johnson “over
the next few weeks to broker a deal” with plaintiff but “she made it clear she
had no interest in coming into the office at all, let alone under a hybrid work
schedule” and that she “became increasingly rude.”  He also states that the channel of
communication was never broken due to Johnson’s ability to communicate with her
in efforts to broker some sort of compromise. 
See also Travis Johnson depo. transcript where he states that he tried
to convince plaintiff to accept working in the office only three days per week
but that plaintiff refused.  Defendants
further argue that plaintiff failed to engage with defendant in good faith
because she did not provide any additional solutions to her “troubles outside
of remote work” and, instead, plaintiff asserted her unwillingness to work
in-person.
            In opposition, plaintiff argues that
defendants were not permitted to delegate the responsibility of the interactive
process to Johnson as he has no HR training, has never worked with
accommodations for medical conditions, and disclaimed any involvement in that
process. She also asserts that defendants neglected to inform plaintiff that
they were handing over the interactive process to Johnson, and “[f]or all she
knew, she was simply venting with a co-worker.” 
Further, she disputes that she did not participate in good faith because
she texted Oberlander to arrange a phone call, she spoke with him and disclosed
her disability, she obtained a note from her medical provider, and emailed
several times with questions but did not receive a response.
            The Court finds that defendants have
not met their burden to show that plaintiff cannot establish the elements under
Gov. Code §12940(n).  See under
chronology above as to the communications between plaintiff and defendants.  Notably, plaintiff requested a reasonable
accommodation on September 12, 2022 and on September 15, 2022, defendants
outright denied her request.  There was
no interactive process in between.  As to
whether the parties engaged in an interactive process through Travis Johnson is
a triable issue of material fact.
            The motion for summary adjudication
is DENIED.
 
Seventh cause of action for failure
to provide reasonable accommodations
It is an unlawful employment
practice, “[f]or an employer . . . to fail to make reasonable accommodation for
the known physical or mental disability of an applicant or employee.  Nothing in this subdivision or in paragraph
(1) or (2) of subdivision (a) shall be construed to require an accommodation
that is demonstrated by the employer or other covered entity to produce undue
hardship, as defined in subdivision (u) of Section 12926, to its operation.”  Gov. Code §12490(m)(1).  “’Reasonable accommodation’ may include
either of the following: . . . (2) Job restructuring, part-time or modified
work schedules, reassignment to a vacant position, acquisition or modification
of equipment or devices, adjustment or modifications of examinations, training
materials or policies, the provision of qualified readers or interpreters, and
other similar accommodations for individuals with disabilities.”  Gov. Code §12926(p).
Under Gov. Code §12926(u),
“’[u]ndue hardship’ means an action requiring significant difficulty or
expense, when considered in light of the following factors:
(1) The nature and cost of the
accommodation needed.
(2) The overall financial resources
of the facilities involved in the provision of the reasonable accommodations,
the number of persons employed at the facility, and the effect on expenses and
resources or the impact otherwise of these accommodations upon the operation of
the facility.
(3) The overall financial resources
of the covered entity, the overall size of the business of a covered entity
with respect to the number of employees, and the number, type, and location of
its facilities.
(4) The type of operations,
including the composition, structure, and functions of the workforce of the
entity.
(5) The geographic separateness or
administrative or fiscal relationship of the facility or facilities.”
“The elements of a failure to
accommodate claim [§12940(m)] are (1) the plaintiff has a disability under the
FEHA, (2) the plaintiff is qualified to perform the essential functions of the
position, and (3) the employer failed to reasonably accommodate the plaintiff’s
disability.” Scotch v. Art Institute of California (2009) 173 Cal. App.
4th 986, 1009-1010.
The complaint alleges that plaintiff
was willing and able to perform the duties and functions of the position in
which plaintiff was employed, or could have performed the duties and functions
of that position with reasonable accommodations.  At no time would the performance of the
functions of the employment position, with a reasonable accommodation for plaintiff's
disability or medical condition, actually or as it was perceived by defendants,
have been a danger to plaintiff's or any other person's health or safety.
Accommodation of Plaintiff's disability or medical condition, real or perceived
by defendants, would not have imposed an undue hardship on defendants.  Defendants failed and refused to accommodate plaintiff’s
disability, failed to engage in the interactive process with plaintiff and
continue to violate this obligation, up to and including the date of plaintiff’s
termination or, if defendant contends plaintiff was never terminated, through
the present and ongoing.  Complaint, ¶102.
            Defendants argue that plaintiff was
not qualified to perform the essential functions of the job from home and
defendant engaged in a good faith interactive process.  Thus, defendants contend, plaintiff fails to
establish a prima facie case.  Defendants
also argue that a reasonable accommodation was not possible without undue
hardship.  Defendants reiterate that
plaintiff refused to work in a hybrid position. 
See Oberlander decl., supra, under the first cause of action.
In opposition, she disputes that
Oberlander offered a hybrid schedule to her. 
She also argues that defendants cannot show undue hardship because they
granted “this exact accommodation” to plaintiff already from November 2021
through April 2022 when she took pregnancy leave.  See November 2021 note from medical provider,
supra.  Plaintiff argues that the factors
as to whether an accommodation poses an undue hardship weigh in her favor, and
asserts that defendants have conceded that it would not have been difficult to
accommodate her technologically and would not have cost any money or have
presented a financial hardship.  She
asserts that most of the core team were remote or partially remote and that
other managers agreed that she could perform her job remotely.
            The Court finds that there is a
triable issue of fact as to whether defendants failed to reasonably accommodate
plaintiff by allowing her to work remotely. 
There is also a triable issue as to whether allowing her to work
remotely, even only until January 2023, would have caused an undue hardship.
            The motion for summary adjudication
is DENIED.
 
Eighth cause of action for
retaliation for reasonable complaint to employer
Labor Code section §1102.5(b) makes
it unlawful for an employer to retaliate against an employee for reporting a
perceived violation of a local, state, or federal statute or regulation. 
To establish a prima facie case, “a
plaintiff must show (1) she engaged in a protected activity, (2) her employer
subjected her to an adverse employment action, and (3) there is a causal link
between the two.”  Patten v. Grant
Joint Union High School Dist. (2005) 134 Cal. App. 4th 1378,
1384.
“In a civil action or
administrative proceeding brought pursuant to Section 1102.5, once it has been
demonstrated by a preponderance of the evidence that an activity proscribed by
Section 1102.5 was a contributing factor in the alleged prohibited action against
the employee, the employer shall have the burden of proof to demonstrate by
clear and convincing evidence that the alleged action would have occurred for
legitimate, independent reasons even if the employee had not engaged in
activities protected by Section 1102.5.” 
Labor Code §1102.6.  The
traditional McDonnell-Douglas framework does not apply, and the
plaintiff is not required to rebut with evidence of pretext.  See Lawson v. PPG Architectural Finishes,
Inc. (2022) 12 Cal.5th 703, 712.
The complaint alleges that despite
the fact that plaintiff complained about not returning her to her job and not
accommodating her disability, defendants unlawfully retaliated against plaintiff
by terminating her in violation of Labor Code §1102.5.  Complaint, ¶109.
Defendants reiterate that defendant
has not performed any adverse employment action and there is no causal
connection.  Defendants further contend
that defendants’ actions were due to legitimate economic reasons unrelated to
retaliation.
In opposition, she asserts that
when she began to question defendants’ reasons about essential job functions
and undue hardship, defendants believed that plaintiff was getting litigious
and was going to go the legal route; and then, defendants stopped responding
and thus failed to engage in the interactive process and ended any possibility
that they would grant her a reasonable accommodation, which are adverse
employment actions.
The Court finds that plaintiff has
not met her burden of showing a prima facie case, including that she engaged in
a “protected activity.”  In any event,
plaintiff has not shown a causal link, that because she requested an
accommodation, she was then discharged.  The
parties do not dispute that she requested an accommodation, and defendants did
not grant one.  She did not get paid
because she did not return in person, not as a result of requesting the accommodation
in the first place.  
            The motion for summary adjudication
is GRANTED.
 
Ninth cause of action for wrongful
termination in violation of public policy
A cause of action for wrongful
termination in violation of public policy requires the following elements:  (1) plaintiff was employed by defendant; (2)
defendant discharged plaintiff; (3) violation of public policy was a
substantial motivating reason for plaintiff's discharge; and (4) the discharge
caused plaintiff's harm.  CACI No. 2430.
The complaint alleges plaintiff’s
pregnancy, taking of pregnancy leave and post-partum depression and other
post-birth disabilities were factors in defendants’ conduct as alleged
hereinabove.  Complaint, ¶118.  Defendants terminated plaintiff in violation
of California public policy by terminating Plaintiff because of her pregnancy, taking
of pregnancy leave and post-partum depression and other post-birth
disabilities.  Id., ¶119.
            Defendants argue that plaintiff does
not have an underlying FEHA claim and defendant has not performed any adverse
employment action.  Defendants also
reiterate that defendant’s actions were due to legitimate reasons unrelated to
public policy.
            In opposition, plaintiff
incorporates her arguments above.
            The Court finds that this cause of
action is derivative of the first, fifth, sixth, and seventh causes of
action.  The underlying violations of
public policy are discrimination, failing to engage in interactive process, and
failing to provide a reasonable accommodation. 
As the Court has ruled above, there are triable issues of material fact.  Thus, the same ruling applies to this cause
of action.  Such triable issues include whether
defendants discriminated against plaintiff by failing to provide a reasonable
accommodation and whether an accommodation allowing plaintiff to work remotely
would cause undue hardship to defendant. 
Further, the evidence is undisputed that plaintiff was not paid after
her return date in September, which can be construed as a “discharge.”
            The motion for summary adjudication
is DENIED.
 
ORDER
            The
motion for summary judgment is DENIED. 
The motion for summary adjudication is DENIED as to the first, third,
fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, and ninth causes of action and GRANTED as to the
second and eighth causes of action.
            Defendants
are ordered to give notice of ruling.