  Case Number:  21STCV26015    Hearing Date:   October 10, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
LATASHA
  BEARD, et al., 


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
21STCV26015




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
BREITBURN
  OPERATING LC, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          October
10, 2024
 
Moving Parties:                      Defendants Breitburn
Operating LP and Maverick Natural Resources, LLC
Responding
Party:                  None
(1)  
Verified
Application of Joel T. Towner for Admission Pro Hac Vice
(2)  
Verified
Application of Geoff A. Gannaway for Admission Pro Hac Vice
 
            The Court considered the moving
papers.
RULING
The applications are GRANTED.  The Court ORDERS that Joel T. Towner and
Geoff A. Gannaway appear as counsel pro hac vice for defendants Breitburn
Operating LP and Maverick Natural Resources, LLC.
BACKGROUND
On July 14, 2021, plaintiffs
Latasha Beard, Cheyanne Smith, and Marissa Smith filed a complaint against
Breitburn Operating LC, Maverick Natural Resources, Breitburn Energy LP, and
Marmac Resources Company for (1) negligence, (2) intentional infliction of
emotional distress, (3) civil nuisance, and (4) trespass to land based on harm
caused from an adjacent oil field.
On April 11, 2022, plaintiffs filed
a request for dismissal as to defendants Breitburn Energy LP and Marmac
Resources Company.
On August 22, 2022, plaintiffs
filed an amendment designating WG Holdings SPV, LLC as Doe 1.
On June 8, 2023, the Court granted
Michael Murphy’s application to be admitted pro hac vice for defendant WG
Holdings, SPV, LLC.
On September 14, 2023, the Court
denied Breitburn and Maverick’s motion for summary adjudication as to the
first, second, third, and fourth causes of action.
On April 2, 2024, the Court granted
defendant WG Holdings SPV, LLC’s motion for judgment on the pleadings with
leave to amend.
On May 2, 2024, plaintiffs filed a
FAC.
Trial was continued from October
14, 2024 to February 24, 2025.
DISCUSSION
Attorneys Joel T. Towner and Geoff
A. Gannaway request leave to appear as counsel pro hac vice for defendants
Breitburn Operating LP and Maverick Natural Resources, LLC.
CRC Rule 9.40 provides that an
attorney in good standing in another jurisdiction may apply to appear as
counsel pro hac vice in the State of California by filing a verified
application together with proof of service by mail of a copy of the application
and notice of hearing on all parties who have appeared in the case and on the
State Bar of California at its San Francisco office, with payment of a $50.00
fee, so long as that attorney is not a resident of the State of California, and
is not regularly engaged in substantial business, professional, or other
activities in the State of California.  
The application must state:  (1) the applicant’s residence and office
address; (2) the courts to which the applicant has been admitted to practice
and the dates of admission; (3) that the applicant is a member in good standing
in those courts; (4) that the applicant is not currently suspended or disbarred
in any court; (5) the title of each court and cause in which the applicant has
filed an application to appear as counsel pro hac vice in this state in the
preceding two years, the date of each application, and whether or not it was
granted; and (5) the name, address, and telephone number of the active member
of the State Bar of California who is attorney of record in the local
action.  CRC Rule 9.40(d).
            The Court finds that the attorneys’
applications comply with the requirements of Rule 9.40.  The applicants have paid the required $50.00
fee to the State Bar of California.  CRC
Rule 9.40(e).
The applications are GRANTED.
 
ORDER
            The applications are GRANTED.
The Court ORDERS that Joel T.
Towner and Geoff A. Gannaway appear as counsel pro hac vice for defendants
Breitburn Operating LP and Maverick Natural Resources, LLC.
Moving party is to give notice of
this ruling.