 Case Number:  24TRCV01558    Hearing Date:   October 10, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
MERRILY
  JEAN LUPO, et al., 


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
24TRCV01558




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
AL
  AMARLOUS FAMILY, LP, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          October 10,
2024
 
Moving Parties:                      Defendants Al Amarlous
Family, LP, et al.
Responding
Party:                  Plaintiffs Merrily Jean Lupo and Shepard Perez Lupo
(1)  
Demurrer to Complaint
(2)  
Motion to Strike Portions of Complaint
 
            The Court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.
RULING
            The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH TWENTY
DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND as to the fourth, seventh, and eighth causes of action in
the complaint.
The motion to strike is GRANTED
WITH TWENTY DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND. 
BACKGROUND
            On May 7, 2024, Merrily Jean Lupo
and Shepard Perez Lupo, a minor by and through his GAL Merrily Jean Lupo, filed
a complaint against Al Amarlous Family, LP, Yeconom Investments L.L.C., and
Mahmood Amarlou for (1) breach of the implied warranty of habitability, (2)
tortious breach of implied warranty of habitability, (3) private nuisance, (4)
breach of covenant of quiet enjoyment, (5) negligence, (6) violation of the
UCL, (7) IIED, and (8) unlawful retaliatory eviction.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
Demurrer
When considering demurrers, courts
read the allegations liberally and in context. 
Taylor v. City of Los Angeles
Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th 1216, 1228.  “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not
the evidence or other extrinsic matters. 
Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the
pleading or are judicially noticed.”  SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153
Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.  “The only issue
involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands,
unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”  Hahn v.
Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App. 4th 740, 747. 
Sufficient facts are the essential facts of the case “with reasonable
precision and with particularity sufficiently specific to acquaint the
defendant with the nature, source, and extent of his cause of action.” Gressley
v. Williams (1961) 193 Cal. App. 2d 636, 643-44.
Strike
“The court may, upon a motion . . .
, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper:  (a) Strike any irrelevant, false, or improper
matter inserted in any pleading.  (b)
Strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity
with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.”  CCP §436(b).
            CCP §431.10 states:  “(a) A material allegation in a pleading is
one essential to the claim or defense and which could not be stricken from the
pleading without leaving it insufficient as to that claim or defense.  
(b) An immaterial allegation in a
pleading is any of the following:  (1) An
allegation that is not essential to the statement of a claim or defense.  (2) An allegation that is neither pertinent
to nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or defense.  (3) A demand for judgment requesting relief
not supported by the allegations of the complaint or cross-complaint.  
(c) An ‘immaterial allegation’
means ‘irrelevant matter’ as that term is used in Section 436.”
The grounds for moving to strike
must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.  CCP §437.
DISCUSSION
Demurrer
Defendants demur to the fourth,
seventh, and eighth causes of action in the complaint on the grounds they fail
to state sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action and are uncertain.
The complaint alleges that in
August 2016, plaintiffs entered into a written lease agreement with defendants
for the occupancy of 8509 Lilienthal Avenue, Los Angeles.  Complaint, ¶1.  At all relevant times during plaintiffs’
tenancy, the property was unsafe, unsanitary, unhealthy, and uninhabitable and
subject to mold, water leaks, hazardous flooring (protruding floor staples and
buckled floorboards), broken glass, and ceiling in disrepair.  Id., ¶10. 
The property was subjected to even more illegal conditions than those
mentioned herein which continuously plagued plaintiffs during their
tenancy.  Defendants has actual and/or
constructive notice of the following defects yet failed to take timely or
reasonable steps to abate and/or remedy the defects.  Any repairs that were undertaken by
defendants were inadequate and/or exacerbated the subject problem (i.e.,
painting over mold).  Defendants failed
to repair and abate the defects at the property to save money and increase
defendants’ cash flow and net income.  Id., ¶11. 
The property has been subject to persistent water leaks, which has led
to mold and mildew conditions forming.  Also,
the flooring conditions at the property represented a hazard for Plaintiffs due
to the protruding floor staples, buckled floorboards and broken glass
throughout the backyard.  During the time
of plaintiffs’ tenancy, the chronic water leaks, and moisture conditions
damaged the property, interfering with plaintiffs’ use and enjoyment of the
premises and reducing the habitability of the unit, and have caused plaintiffs
significant bodily injury and emotional distress.  Plaintiffs experienced various symptoms due to
the mildew conditions at the property including dry eyes, runny nose, fatigue,
headaches, loss of memory and cough.  Defendants
intentionally and/or negligently failed to properly repair, eliminate, and
abate the mold growth and the water leaks at the property among other defects
listed herein.  Id., ¶12. 
            Fourth
cause of action for breach of covenant of quiet enjoyment
“In the absence of language to the
contrary, every lease contains an implied covenant of quiet enjoyment,
whereby the landlord impliedly covenants that the tenant shall have quiet
enjoyment and possession of the premises.” 
Andrews v. Mobile Aire Estates (2005) 125 Cal. App. 4th 578, 588
(citations omitted).  The covenant “’insulates
the tenant against any act or omission on the part of the landlord, or anyone
claiming under him, which interferes with a tenant’s right to use and enjoy the
premises for the purposes contemplated by the tenancy.’”  Id. (citations omitted).  “The implied covenant of quiet enjoyment is
partially codified in Civil Code section 1927 . . . which provides:  ‘An agreement to let upon hire binds the
letter to secure to the hirer the quiet possession of the thing hired during the
term of the hiring. . . .’”  Id.
at 588-89.
“California case law has recognized
a tort cause of action for wrongful eviction, including breaches of the
covenant of quiet enjoyment that compel a tenant to vacate, whereas breach of
covenant of quiet enjoyment that does not result in a wrongful constructive or
actual eviction is a breach of contract.” 
Bevis v. Terrace View Partners, LP (2019) 33 Cal. App. 5th 230,
250 (citation omitted).
The complaint alleges that defendants
were at all time under this duty as owner of the rental property, citing to
Civil Code §1927.  Complaint, ¶41.  Defendants engaged in actions and omissions
that interfered with plaintiffs’ peaceful and quiet enjoyment of the property
due to the mold exposure, and other substandard living conditions.  ¶42.  In renting to plaintiffs and failing to
effectively remediate the property’s issues, which include mold, and other
harmful and unsafe conditions at the property, defendants breached the implied
warranty of quiet enjoyment and Civil Code §1927.  Id., ¶43.
Defendants contend that it is
unclear whether plaintiffs have vacated or if they remain in possession of the
property.  Defendants argue that if they
elected to remain in the property, they are limited to contract damages and may
not pursue a breach of quiet enjoyment.  
In opposition, plaintiffs assert
that they were constructively evicted from the premises on October 1, 2022, and
that defendants “must have been aware of this as the premises was vacant for
the last two years” because of defendants’ “successful, though illegitimate
eviction” of plaintiffs.
The Court finds that the
allegations are insufficient.  Plaintiffs
have not adequately alleged whether and when they vacated the premises.
The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH
LEAVE TO AMEND as to the fourth cause of action.
Seventh cause of action for IIED
The tort of intentional infliction
of emotional distress is comprised of three elements:  (1) extreme and outrageous conduct by the
defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the
probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff suffered severe
or extreme emotional distress; and (3) the plaintiff's injuries were actually
and proximately caused by the defendant's outrageous conduct.  McMahon v. Craig (2009) 176 Cal. App.
4th 222, 234.  “In order to meet the
first requirement of the tort, the alleged conduct . . . must be so extreme as
to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized community.”  Id. at 234-35. Whether conduct is
sufficiently extreme and outrageous so as to be actionable may be determined as
a matter of law.  Cochran v. Cochran
(1998) 65 Cal. App. 4th 488, 494.  To
avoid demurrer, the plaintiff must allege such acts with great
specificity.  Yau v. Santa Margarita
Ford, Inc. (2014) 229 Cal. App. 4th 144, 160-61.  “Behavior may be considered outrageous if a
defendant (1) abuses a relation or position which gives him power to damage the
plaintiff’s interest; (2) knows the plaintiff is susceptible to injuries
through mental distress; or (3) acts intentionally or unreasonably with the
recognition that the acts are likely to result in illness through mental
distress.”  Newby v. Alto Riviera
Apartments (1976) 60 Cal. App. 3d 288, 297. 
“[I]t is clear that the availability of a remedy for breach of implied
warranty of habitability does not preclude a tenant from suing his landlord for
intentional infliction of mental distress if the landlord’s acts are extreme
and outrageous and result in severe mental distress.”  Stoiber v. Honeychuck (1980) 101 Cal.
App. 3d 903, 922.
The complaint alleges that the acts
and omissions of defendants, directly or through their agents, in inducing plaintiffs
to rent a dwelling that contains the defects mentioned herein, which defendants
neglected and failed to repair in an effective manner, were intentionally done
to cause harm to plaintiffs as defendants knew that a reasonable tenant,
including plaintiffs, would suffer severe emotional distress and plaintiffs did
suffer such distress in having to live with such defects and uninhabitable conditions.  Despite this knowledge, defendants took no
steps to change their actions. 
Complaint, ¶64.
            Defendants argue that there are no
facts showing that defendants acted intentionally or outrageously or why
defendants’ actions in not making repairs that were alleged to be requested
were extreme or outrageous.  Defendants
further contend that the allegations as to plaintiffs’ severe emotional
distress are conclusory and sparse.
            In opposition, plaintiffs argue that
a breach of warranty of habitability more than supports a claim for IIED and
that plaintiffs’ allegations are “extremely detailed.” 
            The Court finds that the allegations
are conclusory (and not detailed as plaintiffs assert) and do not show that defendants
engaged in extreme and outrageous conduct or that such conduct “exceeded all
bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized community.”  Plaintiffs also do not show that defendants
intended to cause plaintiffs’ emotional distress or that plaintiffs suffered
severe emotional distress.  The “mere
allegation that the plaintiffs suffered severe emotional distress, without
facts indicating the nature or extent of any mental suffering incurred as a result
of the defendant’s alleged outrageous conduct, fail[s] to state a cause of
action for intentional infliction of emotional distress.”  Pitman v. City of Oakland (1988) 197
Cal. App. 3d 1037, 1047.)
            The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE
TO AMEND as to the seventh cause of action. 
Eighth cause of action for unlawful
retaliatory eviction
Under Civil Code §1942.5, “(a) If
the lessor retaliates against the lessee because of the exercise by the lessee
of the lessee’s rights under this chapter or because of the lessee’s complaint
to an appropriate agency as to tenantability of a dwelling, and if the lessee
of a dwelling is not in default as to the payment of rent, the lessor may not
recover possession of a dwelling in any action or proceeding, cause the lessee
to quit involuntarily, increase the rent, or decrease any service within 180
days of any of the following: (1) After the date upon which the lessee, in good
faith, has given notice pursuant to Section 1942, has provided notice of a
suspected bed bug infestation, or has made an oral complaint to the lessor
regarding tenantability.
(2) After the date upon which the
lessee, in good faith, has filed a written complaint, or an oral complaint
which is registered or otherwise recorded in writing, with an appropriate
agency, of which the lessor has notice, for the purpose of obtaining correction
of a condition relating to tenantability.
(3) After the date of an inspection
or issuance of a citation, resulting from a complaint described in paragraph
(2) of which the lessor did not have notice. . . .”
Civil Code “[s]ection 1942.5 is a
remedial statute aimed at protecting tenants from certain types of abuses.  It is to be ‘liberally construed to effect its
objectives and to suppress, not encourage, the mischief at which it was
directed.’”  Barela v. Superior Court
(1981) 30 Cal.3d 244, 251 (citation omitted). 

The complaint alleges that at all
times relevant hereto, Civil Code §1942.5(a) prohibited a landlord from terminating
a tenancy, causing a tenant to quit involuntarily, decreasing a tenant’s
services or otherwise taking adverse action against a tenant to retaliate
against a tenant for the tenant’s written or oral complaint regarding the
tenantability of their unit to the landlord.
Complaint,
¶72.  Plaintiffs lawfully and peaceably
exercised their rights as tenants in notifying
and
asking defendants for repairs to the many tenantability housing defects
plaguing the
property.   Defendants instead not only continued
demanding rent, but increased rent,
decreased
services, and/or brought forth eviction proceedings in violation of Civil Code
§1942.5(a)(d).  Id., ¶73.
            Defendants argue that the
allegations are insufficient to show any retaliatory act.
            In the opposition, plaintiffs argue
that there are “numerous descriptions of the lack of” defendants’ actions,
which led to plaintiffs “being constructively evicted from the premises.”
The Court finds that the
allegations are insufficient in that the allegations do not show retaliation,
i.e., that defendant recovered possession, or that plaintiffs quit
involuntarily, or that the rent was increased, or a decrease in service.  The allegations are conclusory.
The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH
LEAVE TO AMEND as to the eighth cause of action.
 
            Motion to Strike
            Defendants
request that the Court strike paras. 39 (under the third cause of action), 48
(under the fourth cause of action), 68 and 69 (under the seventh cause of
action), 74 and 75 (under the eighth cause of action), and the prayer at 4 (as
to second cause of action), 7 (as to third cause of action), 10 (as to fourth
cause of action), 13 (as to fifth cause of action), 17 (as to seventh cause of
action), 19 (as to eighth cause of action), and 20 (as to “statutory punitive
damages”).  They all relate to
plaintiffs’ request for punitive damages.
            Civil Code §3294 authorizes the
recovery of punitive damages in non-contract cases where “the defendant has
been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice . . . .”  The Court in Taylor v. Superior Court
(1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, 894-95, found that “[s]omething more than the mere
commission of a tort is always required for punitive damages.  There must be circumstances of aggravation or
outrage, such as spite or ‘malice,’ or a fraudulent or evil motive on the part
of the defendant, or such a conscious and deliberate disregard of the interests
of others that his conduct may be called willful or wanton.” 
“’Malice’ means conduct which is
intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable
conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious
disregard of the rights or safety of others.” 
Civil Code §3294(c)(1).   
As the Court noted in College
Hospital v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 713, Section 3294 was
amended in 1987 to require that, where malice is based on a defendant’s
conscious disregard of a plaintiff’s rights, the conduct must be both
despicable and willful.  The Court in
College Hospital held further that “despicable conduct refers to circumstances
that are base, vile, or contemptible.”  Id.
at 725 (citation omitted).
A claim for punitive damages may
not be based on conclusory allegations of oppression, fraud or malice, but
instead must be based on factual allegations which support such a
conclusion.  See Smith v. Superior
Court (1992) 10 Cal. App. 4th 1033, 1041-42 (Court of Appeal
issued a peremptory writ directing trial court to issue order striking
plaintiff’s prayer for punitive damages because “[t]he sole basis for seeking
punitive damages are . . . conclusory allegations” which were “devoid of any
factual assertions supporting a conclusion [defendants] acted with oppression,
fraud, or malice”).
A tenant may state a cause of
action in tort against his landlord for damages resulting from a breach of the
implied warranty of habitability.”  Stoiber
v. Honeychuck (1980) 101 Cal. App. 3d 903, 918-19; see also Smith v.
David (1981) 120 Cal. App. 3d 101, 112 n.3 (a tenant “may seek general and
punitive damages for . . . breach of warranty [of habitability]”).  The court in Stoiber found that
plaintiff stated sufficient facts to support exemplary damages when she “alleged
that defendant had actual knowledge of defective conditions in the premises
including leaking sewage, deteriorated flooring, falling ceiling, leaking roof,
broken windows, and other unsafe and dangerous conditions . . . [and] alleged
defendants ‘In maintaining said nuisance, . . . acted with full knowledge of
the consequences thereof and the damage being caused to plaintiff, and their
conduct was willful, oppressive and malicious.’”  Stoiber, supra, at 920 (citation
omitted). 
“Inasmuch as Civil Code section
3294 requires as a prerequisite to the recovery of punitive damages that the
defendant ‘has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice,’ the cases have
uniformly recognized that proof of negligence, even gross negligence, or
recklessness is insufficient to warrant an award of punitive damages.”  Dawes v. Superior Court (1980) 111
Cal. App. 3d 82, 87 (citations omitted). 
            Defendants argue that the
allegations are insufficient to support a claim for punitive damages.  Defendants contend that rather than allege
specific acts of any conduct by defendants, the complaint “generically states
Defendants failed to remedy a series of conditions” and then uses conclusory
language.  Defendants argue that the
allegations merely state that defendants failed in their duties as landlord,
which are mere allegations of negligence. 
Defendants further argue that the allegations are insufficient against
the corporate defendant.
            In opposition, plaintiffs argue that
the allegations are sufficient.
            The Court rules as follows:  In light of the ruling on the demurrer on the
fourth, seventh, and eighth causes of action, the motion is GRANTED.  The allegations are conclusory and do not
show oppression, fraud, or malice. 
Further, as to the request for punitive damages under the other causes
of action, the allegations are insufficient also to show oppression, fraud, or
malice as they are conclusory.
 
ORDER
            The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH TWENTY
DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND as to the fourth, seventh, and eighth causes of action in
the complaint.
The motion to strike is GRANTED
WITH TWENTY DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND. 
            Defendants
are ordered to give notice of ruling.