 Case Number:  19STCV39154    Hearing Date:   February 21, 2024    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  JACKSON SCOTT YOUNG and TERI YOUNG, Plaintiff(s),  vs.  DAPPER DAN’S CAR WASH, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 19STCV39154 (C/W 21STCV13282)  [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: MOTION TO SEAL FILE RECORDS  Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  February 21, 2024  I. Background Plaintiffs Jackson Scott Young and Teri Young (“Plaintiffs”) filed this action against defendants Dapper Dan's Car Wash, et al. for injuries arising from allegations that Plaintiff Jackson Scott Young’s vehicle lost traction, causing it to collide with a light pole and guard rail, thereby causing injury. Defendants General Wash, LLC, individually and dba Dapper Dan’s Car Wash, and General Wash Land I, LLC (“Defendants”) aver that the parties entered into a Stipulation and Protective Order, and that due to inadvertence, it was not filed and executed by the Court until March 2023. On April 3, 2023, the Court continued the hearing on Defendants’ MSJ to allow Defendants to file a noticed motion to seal no later than April 18, 2023.  On April 17, 2023, Defendants filed the instant motion for an order to conditionally seal documents lodged in connection with their motion for summary judgment (MSJ). Defendants seek to seal the following:  Documents filed by Plaintiffs as Exhibits to the Declaration of Rodger C. Jensen, Esq. in Support of Plaintiffs’ Opposition to the MSJ:  Exhibit 1 - verified responses to special interrogatories served by Defendant General Wash, LLC dba Dapper Dan’s. Exhibit 2 - invoices for chemicals supplied to Defendant for the period of December 7, 2018 through April 25, 2019, which were produced in response to a subpoena to ANC Vehicle Wash Systems. Exhibit 6 - relevant portions of the transcript of the deposition of Ryan Kuhns (“Kuhns”), the Person Most Knowledgeable of Defendant General Wash, LLC, taken by me on October 12, 2022.  Documents Filed by Plaintiffs as Exhibits to the Declaration of Chris French, Ph.D. in Support of Plaintiffs’ Opposition to the MSJ.  Exhibit 3 - invoices for chemicals supplied to Defendant for the period of December 7, 2018 through April 25, 2019, which were produced in response to a subpoena to ANC Vehicle Wash Systems.  Documents Filed by Filed by Defendants as Exhibits to Defendants’ Reply to Plaintiffs’ Separate Statement in Opposition to Defendants’ MSJ.  Exhibit 2 – relevant portions of the Deposition Transcript of Ryan Kuhns  II. Motion to Seal  Unless confidentiality is required by law, court records are presumed to be open to the public. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.550, subd. (c).) Consequently, pleadings, motions, evidence, and other papers may not be filed under seal merely by stipulation of the parties; rather, a prior court order is necessary. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.551, subd. (a).)   California Rules of Court, rule 2.551(b)(1) states, “[a] party requesting that a record be filed under seal must file a motion or an application for an order sealing the record. The motion or application must be accompanied by a memorandum and a declaration containing facts sufficient to justify the sealing.”  CRC 2.550(d) makes clear that records cannot be sealed without appropriate findings.   To grant such an order, the court must expressly find that . . . “an overriding interest exists that overcomes the right of public access to the record, an overriding interest supports sealing the records, a substantial probability exists that the overriding interest will be prejudiced if the record is not sealed, the proposed sealing is narrowly tailored, and no less restrictive means exist to achieve the overriding interest.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.550, subd. (d).)   If the court fails to make the required findings, the order is deficient and cannot support sealing. (Overstock.com, Inc. v. Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. (2014) 231 Cal.App.4th 471, 487.)    III. Discussion Defendants contend that the above-listed exhibits contain confidential and commercially sensitive business information, and release of the information would reveal to competitors the details of their carwash operation, including certain financial decisions. The invoices regarding types of chemicals used, the volume of chemicals, and costs involve the car wash’s finances. Defendants contend there is no reasonable alternative but to lodge them under seal.  However, Defendants do not state sufficient facts to justify the sealing the entirety of the documents listed, as opposed to redacting the specific portions Defendants contend touch upon propriety information. The Court reviewed the lodged documents, and Defendants do not provide enough justification to seal certain information, such as the name of Defendant’s vendor, or the deposition excerpts of Kuhns in its entirety. The proposed sealing can be narrower. It is reasonably practicable to redact only portions of the documents that contain sensitive material, while the remaining portions are to be included in the public file. Defendants may either identify the portions sought to be sealed by page and line number, if practicable, or alternatively lodge with the Court both the unredacted version and the redacted version (which is the version proposed to be filed publicly) for the Court’s approval.  Based on the foregoing, the motion to seal is denied without prejudice. Further, the Court notes that Defendants’ MSJ was previously continued for the purpose of the motion to seal. If Defendants seek to bring another motion to seal, in order to more narrowly tailor the information sought to be sealed, Defendants are to continue the MSJ to account for it.    Moving party is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 21st day of February 2024      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court    