 Case Number:  23STCV26846    Hearing Date:   February 21, 2024    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  ARMANDO AVALOS, Plaintiff(s),  vs.  ALLIED UNIVERSAL SECURITY SERVICES UNIVERSAL PROTECTION SERVICES LPP, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 23STCV26846  [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: (1) SUSTAINING IN PART DEFENDANT’S DEMURRER and (2) GRANTING DEFENDANT’S MOTION TO STRIKE   Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  February 21, 2024  I. Background Plaintiff Armando Avalos (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against defendants Allied Universal Security Services Universal Protection Services LPP and White Memorial Medical Center for damages arising from security removing Plaintiff from the premises. The complaint sets forth four causes of action for (1) assault, (2) battery, (3) negligence, and (4) negligent hiring, retention, supervision and training.  Defendant White Memorial Medical Center dba Adventist Health White Memorial (“WMMC”) now demurs to the third and fourth causes of action on the grounds that Plaintiff fails to state sufficient facts.  Additionally, WMMC moves to strike paragraphs 24 and 43 of the complaint, which alleges oppression, fraud, or malice and seeks entitlement to punitive damages.   As of February 7, 2024, no timely opposition has been received to either the demurrer or motion to strike.    II. Request for Judicial Notice WMMC requests the Court take judicial notice of (1) Restated Articles of Incorporation of White Memorial Medical Center filed with the California Secretary of State on January 18, 2023, and (2) Restated Articles of Incorporation of White Memorial Medical Center filed with the California Secretary of State on July 6, 2023. The requests are granted.  (Evid. Code § 452(c); see Friends of Shingle Springs Interchange, Inc. v. County of El Dorado (2011) 200 Cal.App.4th 1470, 1483-84 [Corporations articles of incorporation “are properly the subject of judicial notice as documents reflecting official acts of the executive department of the State of California.”].)   III. Demurrer Legal Standard A demurrer is a pleading used to test the legal sufficiency of other pleadings.  It raises issues of law, not fact, regarding the form or content of the opposing party's pleading (complaint, answer or cross-complaint).  (CCP § 422.10, CCP § 589; see Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)  It is not the function of the demurrer to challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for purposes of the ruling on the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are assumed to be true.  (Donabedian, 116 Cal.App.4th at 994.) A demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack; or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable.  (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318; Donabedian, supra, 116 Cal.App.4th at 994.)  No other extrinsic evidence can be considered.  (Ion Equip. Corp. v. Nelson (1980) 110 Cal.App.3d 868, 881 [error for court to consider facts asserted in memorandum supporting demurrer]; see also Afuso v. United States Fid. & Guar. Co. (1985) 169 Cal.App.3d 859, 862 [disapproved on other grounds in Moradi-Shalal v. Fireman’s Fund Ins. Cos. (1988) 46 Cal.3d 287] [error to consider contents of release not part of court record].) A demurrer can be utilized where the “face of the complaint” itself is incomplete or discloses some defense that would bar recovery.  (Guardian North Bay, Inc. v. Superior Court (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 963, 971-72.)  The “face of the complaint” includes material contained in attached exhibits that are incorporated by reference into the complaint; or in a superseded complaint in the same action.  (Frantz v. Blackwell (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 91, 94; see also Barnett v. Fireman’s Fund Ins. Co. (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 500, 505 [“[W]e rely on and accept as true the contents of the exhibits and treat as surplusage the pleader’s allegations as to the legal effect of the exhibits.”]). A demurrer can only be sustained when it disposes of an entire cause of action.  (Poizner v. Fremont General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97,119; Kong v. City of Hawaiian Gardens Redev. Agency (2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 1028, 1046.)  B. Meet and Confer  Before filing a demurrer, the demurring party is required to meet and confer with the party who filed the pleading demurred to for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.  (CCP § 430.41(a).)   The Court finds WMMC has fulfilled this requirement prior to filing its demurrer. (Dem. Martino Decl. ¶¶ 3-4.)  C. Third Cause of Action – Negligence   The elements of a cause of action for negligence are duty, breach, causation, and damages. (Johnson v. Prasad (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 74, 78.)  “Ordinarily, negligence may be alleged in general terms, without specific facts showing how the injury occurred, but there are ‘limits to the generality with which a plaintiff is permitted to state his cause of action, and ... the plaintiff must indicate the acts or omissions which are said to have been negligently performed. He may not recover upon the bare statement that the defendant’s negligence has caused him injury.’ [Citation].” (Berkley v. Dowds (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518, 527.)    Here, the complaint alleges Plaintiff was a patron invitee at WMMC on June 18, 2023. (Compl. at ¶ 8.) WMMC is alleged to own, manage and operate the hospital, and employed, contracted, and provided security for WMMC. (Id. at ¶ 9.) The nurse called for security to remove Plaintiff from WMMC, “at which point Individual Defendants assaulted, battered, and injured Plaintiff” while removing him from the WMMC lobby. (Id. at ¶¶ 10-11.) The alleged offensive conduct included “hitting, punching, grabbing, pushing, kicking, dragging, pulling, lifting, slamming, kneeling, holding, and or touching him” and “striking Plaintiff so as to cause him to fall on the ground.” (Id. at ¶ 22.) Plaintiff incorporates by reference the allegations into the third cause of action, and further provides that defendants had a duty to provide a safe environment for patron invitees of WMMC and to avoid injury to patron invitees. (Id. at ¶¶ 27-29.) The Notice of motion provides that WMMC is demurring to the third cause of action for negligence. However, the memorandum of points and authorities only addresses, in detail, the fourth cause of action for negligent hiring, retention, supervision, and training. WMMC conclusory argues that the third cause of action and fourth cause of action are “duplicative of the medical malpractice cause of action”. (Dem. 4:17-21.) The allegations do not set forth a medical malpractice action. The factual allegations demonstrate that this is an action arising from the manner in which Plaintiff was removed from WMMC’s premises, rather than injuries related to the rendering of medical services. Further, WMMC provides no authority that the causes of action for general negligence and for negligent hiring, retention, supervision and training are considered duplicative, such that it would bar Plaintiff from alleging both simultaneously. The complaint alleges sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action for negligence against WMMC.   Based on the foregoing, the demurrer to the third cause of action is OVERRULED.   D. Fourth Cause of Action – Negligent Hiring, Retention, and Training The elements of a negligent hiring, training, supervision and retention cause of action are: (1) at the time of the hiring, the employee had certain characteristics that would make him unsuitable for the position, or lack certain requisite skills; (2) at the time of the hiring, the employer must have known of these characteristics or lack of skills; (3) said characteristics or lack of skills caused the plaintiff's injury.  (CACI No. 426.) An employer may be liable to a third party for negligently hiring or retaining an unfit employee.  (J.W. v. Watchtower Bible and Tract Society of New York, Inc. (2018) 29 Cal. App. 5th 1142, 1163.)  “There are ‘two elements necessary for a duty to arise in negligent hiring and negligent retention cases—the existence of an employment relationship and foreseeability of injury.’ [Citation.]“  (Dent v. National Football League (2018) 902 F.3d 1109, 1122 [applying California law].)  An employer’s duty “is breached only when the employer knows, or should know, facts which would warn a reasonable person that the employee presents an undue risk of harm to third persons in light of the particular work to be performed.”  (Federico v. Superior Court (Jenry G.) (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 1207, 1214 [emphasis in original].)         The principal may be negligent because he has reason to know that the ... agent, because of his qualities, is likely to harm others in view of the work or instrumentalities entrusted to him. If the dangerous quality of the agent causes harm, the principal may be liable under the rule that one initiating conduct having an undue tendency to cause harm is liable therefor.... [¶] [. . .] Liability results ... not because of the relation of the parties but because the employer antecedently had reason to believe that an undue risk of harm would exist because of the employment. ...’ [Citations.]¿¿ (Id. at 1213-14.)    “California case law recognizes the theory that an employer can be liable to a third person for negligently hiring, supervising, or retaining an unfit employee. [Citation.] Liability is based upon the facts that the employer knew or should have known that hiring the employee created a particular risk or hazard and that particular harm materializes.” (Doe v. Capital Cities (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 1038, 1054.)    Here, concerning the third cause of action for negligent hiring, retention, and training, the complaint alleges in pertinent part:  36. On or about June 18, 2023, Plaintiff was a customer and patron of White Memorial Medical Center located at 1720 E. Cesar Chavez Ave. Los Angeles, California 90033.  37. On the evening of Plaintiff’s visit to WMMC, defendant WHITE MEMORIAL negligently hired, trained, supervised, managed, controlled, and operated the premises and its security personnel, Individual defendants Does 26 through 50, inclusive…. Without any provocation from Plaintiff…. he security personnel attacked Plaintiff, holding and intentionally beating Plaintiff to the concrete ground, punching, hitting, and kicking Plaintiff, fracturing bones in Plaintiff’s face, and causing lacerations and contusions about Plaintiff’s torso, face and skill and causing Plaintiff great mental and physical distress and injury.  38. Plaintiff alleges that one of the main duties of security personnel, such as were employed and on duty at WMMC when Plaintiff was attacked, is to monitor the hospital and to ensure patrons follow the rules established by WHITE MEMORIAL for its premises. Security personnel such as Individual defendants Does 26 through 50, did not legally use force against Plaintiff as they were not taking Plaintiff into custody for a crime or in self -defense. The force used against Plaintiff was unreasonable under the circumstances.  …  40. Defendant WHITE MEMORIAL breached their duty to Plaintiff by failing to ensure the security personnel knew and understood that they were not supposed to and could not, without facing potential criminal and civil liability, grab and restrain any customer and punch, kick, hit, and use physical force on that customer such as Plaintiff, especially when such force was unwarranted and was not used in the self-defense of any of the security personnel and was not done in order to take Plaintiff into custody for having committed any crime. (Compl. at ¶¶ 36-38, 40.) WMMC argues the fourth cause of action fails to specify how the unnamed security personnel were unfit or incompetent to perform the work which they were hired, and how or why WMMC should have known the security personnel were unfit to perform their job, such that the alleged negligent hiring was a substantial factor in causing Plaintiff’s harm.  The Court agrees that the factual allegations fail to set forth the certain characteristics that would make the security personnel unsuitable for their position. Additionally, the complaint fails to allege that WMMC knew of these characteristics, such that it caused Plaintiff’s injury. Accordingly, the demurrer to the fourth cause of action is SUSTAINED.  IV. Motion to Strike Legal Standard California law authorizes a party’s motion to strike matter from an opposing party’s pleading if it is irrelevant, false, or improper.  (CCP §§ 435; 436(a).)  Motions may also target pleadings or parts of pleadings which are not filed or drawn in conformity with applicable laws, rules or orders.  (CCP § 436(b).)  A motion to strike is used to address defects that appear on the face of a pleading or from judicially noticed matter but that are not grounds for a demurrer.  (Pierson v Sharp Memorial Hospital (1989) 216 Cal.App.3d 340, 342; see also City & County of San Francisco v Strahlendorf (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1911, 1913 (motion may not be based on a party's declaration or factual representations made by counsel in the motion papers).)  In particular, a motion to strike can be used to attack the entire pleading or any part thereof – in other words, a motion may target single words or phrases, unlike demurrers.  (Warren v. Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe Railway Co. (1971) 19 Cal.App.3d 24, 40.)  The Code of Civil Procedure also authorizes the Court to act on its own initiative to strike matters, empowering the Court to enter orders striking matter “at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper.”  (CCP § 436.)  Punitive Damages Civil Code § 3294(a) states, “[i]n an action for the breach of an obligation not arising from contract, where it is proven by clear and convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual damages, may recover damages for the sake of example and by way of punishing the defendant.”  “Malice” means conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.  “Oppression” means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s rights.  Finally, “fraud” means an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the defendant with the intention on the party of the defendant of thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.  (Civil Code §3294.) Malice has long been interpreted to mean that malice in fact, as opposed to malice implied by law, is required.  Malice in fact may be proved under § 3294 either expressly (by direct evidence probative on the existence of hatred or ill will) or by implication (by indirect evidence from which the jury may draw inferences).  Thus it has been held that the “malice” required by §3294 implies an act conceived in a spirit of mischief or with criminal indifference towards the obligations owed to others.  Where the defendant’s wrongdoing has been intentional and deliberate, and has the character of outrage frequently associated with crime, all but a few courts have permitted the jury to award in the tort action “punitive” or “exemplary” damages.  Something more than the mere commission of a tort is always required for punitive damages. There must be circumstances of aggravation or outrage, such as spite or “malice,” or a fraudulent or evil motive on the part of the defendant, or such a conscious and deliberate disregard of the interests of others that his conduct may be called willful or wanton.  (Taylor v. Superior Court (1979) 24 Cal. 3d 890, 894; Grieves v. Superior Court (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 166.)  Discussion Here, WMMC contends the complaint fails to state sufficient facts to support the imposition of punitive damages against it. WMMC moves to strike paragraph 34 (contained in the third cause of action) and paragraph 43 (contained in the fourth cause of action). Because the Court has already sustained WMMC’s demurrer as to the fourth cause of action, the motion to strike paragraph 43 is moot.  Thus, the Court will only address paragraph 34, which alleges:    “Plaintiff is informed and believes that the aforesaid acts directed towards the Plaintiff were carried out while Defendants, and each of them, were malicious, belligerent, and the acts were done with a conscious disregard of Plaintiff’s right to be free from such tortious and criminal behavior, such as to constitute oppression, fraud, or malice pursuant to California Civil Code Section 3294, entitling Plaintiff to punitive damages in an amount appropriate to punish and set an example of said Entity Defendants, and each of them.”  (Compl. at ¶ 34.)   As previously stated, the complaint arises from allegations that WMMC’s security personnel battered Plaintiff while removing Plaintiff from the premises. There are no allegations showing WMMC was aware of the probable consequences of any conduct by the security personnel. Conclusory allegations are not sufficient to support a claim for punitive damages.  (Brousseau v. Jarrett (1977) 73 Cal.App.3d 864, 872.) The Court finds Plaintiff’s allegations do not rise to the level of malice, fraud, or oppression, as defined by the Code. Additionally, there are no facts alleged showing any despicable conduct by WMMC that subjected Plaintiff to cruel and in just hardship in conscious disregard of Plaintiff’s rights. When there is no evidence the defendant intended to harm the plaintiff, there must be evidence of conduct that is both willful and despicable. (Lackner v. North (2006) 135 Cal.App.4th 1188, 1211, 1213, 37 Cal.Rptr.3d 863.) Conscious disregard for the safety of another may be found “ ‘where the defendant is aware of the probable dangerous consequences of his or her conduct and he or she willfully fails to avoid such consequences.’ ” (Pfeifer v. John Crane, Inc. (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 1270, 1299, 164 Cal.Rptr.3d 112. (John Crane).) “ ‘Despicable conduct’ is conduct that is ‘ “so vile, base, contemptible, miserable, wretched or loathsome that it would be looked down upon and despised by ordinary decent people.” ’ [Citation.] Such conduct has been described as having the character of outrage frequently associated with crime.” [Citations.]¿ (John & Johnson Talcum Powder Cases (2019) 37 Cal.App.5th 292, 332-33.)    Therefore, WMMC’s unopposed motion to strike paragraph 34 of the complaint is GRANTED.   V. Leave to Amend The burden is on Plaintiff to show in what manner he or she can amend the complaint, and how that amendment will change the legal effect of the pleading. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349; Hendy v. Losse (1991) 54 Cal.3d 723, 742.) In this case, Plaintiff does not oppose the motion or otherwise make any showing as to how a claim for punitive damages can be cured., nor does Plaintiff demonstrate how the complaint can be amended to properly set forth a cause of action for hiring, retention, supervision and training. Therefore, WMMC’s motion to strike is granted without leave to amend, and WMMC’s demurrer is sustained in part as to the fourth cause of action only without leave to amend.   Moving party is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 20th day of February 2024      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court    