  Case Number:  23SMCV05958    Hearing Date:   March 5, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Leibel v. Ample
LLC, et al.
CASE NO.:                23SMCV05958
MOTION:                  Motion
to Quash Service of Summons
HEARING DATE:   3/5/2024

 
Legal
Standard
 
“A defendant . . . may serve and file a notice of
motion for one or more of the following purposes:  (1) To quash service of summons on the ground of lack of
jurisdiction of the court over him or her. . . .” (CCP § 418.10(a).) A court lacks
jurisdiction over a party if there has not been proper service of
process. (Ruttenberg v. Ruttenberg (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th
801, 808.)
“When a motion to quash is properly brought,
the burden of proof is placed upon the plaintiff to establish the facts of
jurisdiction by a preponderance of the evidence.” (Aquila, Inc. v. Sup. Ct. (2007)
148 Cal.App.4th 556, 568.)  The plaintiff has “the burden of proving the facts that did
give the court jurisdiction, that is the facts requisite to an effective
service.”  (Coulston v. Cooper (1966) 245 Cal.App.2d 866, 868;
see also Elkman v. National States Ins. Co. (2009) 173
Cal.App.4th 1305, 1312-13 [“Where a nonresident defendant challenges
jurisdiction by way of a motion to quash, the plaintiff bears the burden of
establishing by a preponderance of the evidence that minimum contacts exist
between the defendant and the forum state to justify imposition of personal
jurisdiction.”].)  
 
“[C]ompliance with the statutory procedures for service of
process is essential to establish personal jurisdiction. [Citation.]” (Dill
v. Berquist Construction Co. (1994) 24 Cal.App.4th 1426, 1444.) “[T]he
filing of a proof of service creates a rebuttable presumption that the service
was proper” but only if it “complies with the statutory requirements regarding
such proofs.” (Id. at 1441-1442.) 
 
Analysis
 
            Defendants Warner Bros. Entertainment
Inc., Warner Bros. Discovery Inc., and David Zaslav (collectively, the “WB
Defendants”) move to quash service of summons. 
The WB Defendants argue that Plaintiff did not effectuate valid service as to any
of the defendants.
      
      To effectuate
service on a corporation, summons may be delivered to the agent for service of
process or to the president, chief executive officer, or other head of the
corporation, a vice president, a secretary or assistant secretary, a treasurer
or assistant treasurer, a controller or chief financial officer, a general
manager, or a person authorized by the corporation to receive service of
process. (CCP, § 416.10(a), (b).) Code of Civil Procedure section 415.20(a) permits
substituted service on a person specified in section 416.10 by leaving the
summons and complaint at their office “with the person who is apparently in
charge thereof.” “[W]here the proof of service fails to identify any such
person, the proof of service is defective. (Ramos v. Homeward Residential,
Inc., (2014) 223 Cal. App. 4th 1434, 1441–42.) 
 
On December 29, 2023, Plaintiff
filed a Proof of Personal Service (“POS”). The POS states that on that same
date, plaintiff served the Summons and Complaint to the “Security Front Desk”
at the office building located at 230 Park Avenue South, New York, NY 10003.
Defendants provide the declaration of Ely Brown, a security supervisor at the
building, to contest this service. He explains that a third party, Unity
Building Security, provides security to the building. (Brown Decl., ¶ 4.) Mr.
Brown also states that he is not authorized to accept service on behalf of the
WBD Defendants, that he is not an officer or agent of the WBD Defendants, that
he is not an agent of Defendant Zaslav in any capacity, and that he not an
employee of any WBD entity. (¶ 3.) Presumably, neither are the other security
personnel. He confirms that two individuals attempted service of process at the
publicly accessible vestibule of the office building. (¶ 4.) The two
individuals informed the security guards on duty that they were dropping off
paperwork for service of process. (¶ 5.) The on-duty guard immediately told the
process servers that he was not authorized to accept service on behalf of WBD
parties. (¶ 5.) Despite this refusal, the process servers forced the paperwork
through a slot in the glass screen, and immediately left the premises. (¶ 5.)
Mr. Brown provides a copy of the security footage of this interaction. (¶ 6,
Ex. A.)
 
            The POS is
facially defective, as it does not identify any of the people specified
above, e.g., officers/managers of the WBD corporate entities. No individual is
identified on the proof of service as the “person to be served” on behalf of the
WBD Defendants. The proof of service notes that David Zaslav was “personally” served
but does not state that he was the “person to be served” and in what capacity
he was served as an agent of WBD. (POS ¶¶ 3, 6.) 
 
            Moreover, it is clear from the
record and POS that Defendant Zaslav was not personally served, but that only
the security personnel were served. The POS does not show that any of the
substituted service requirements were met to make such service effective
against Zaslav individually. (POS ¶ 5.) The records do not show that Plaintiff
“mailed a copy of the summon and complaint by first-class mail, postage prepaid
to [Mr. Zaslav] at the place where a copy of the summon and complaint were
left.” (CCP § 415.20(a).) Thus, WBD Defendants demonstrate that the service of
summons was invalid against them all. 
 
            The
summons also does not comply with Code of Civil Procedure section 412.30, which
provides that “[i]n an action against a corporation or an unincorporated
association (including a partnership), the copy of the summons that is served
shall contain a notice stating in substance: ‘To the person served: You are
hereby served in the within action (or special proceeding) on behalf of (here
state the name of the corporation or the unincorporated association) as a
person upon whom a copy of the summons and of the complaint may be delivered to
effect service on said party under the provisions of (here state appropriate
provisions of Chapter 4 (commencing with Section 413.10) of the Code of Civil
Procedure).’” (CCP, § 412.30.) The provisions of this section are mandatory and
service of a summons that does not comply with this section is ineffective. (Tresway Aero,
Inc. v. Superior Court (1971) 5 Cal.3d 431, 435.)
 
Here, the “NOTICE TO THE PERSON
SERVED” section of the form summons is not filled out. (Brown Decl., Ex. B.) The
notice therefore does not state whether any person served was being served as
an individual, or on behalf of a particular corporate defendant. As such, no
default may be taken against either the WBD corporate entities or Defendant Zaslav
based on this POS. (CCP § 412.30.)
            
            Furthermore,
Plaintiff fails to oppose the motion, and therefore fails to demonstrate any
facts which might support jurisdiction despite any of the discussed inadequacies
with the service of summons. 
 
For these reasons, the motion to
quash is GRANTED.