 Case Number:  BC572581    Hearing Date:   October 5, 2023    Dept:  50 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 50
 



INTELLIGENT SCM, LLC, dba AMERICAN
WORLDWIDE AGENCIES,
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
RUSSELL W. ROTEN,
  et al. 
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


BC572581




Hearing Date:


October 5, 2023




Hearing Time:


10:00 a.m.




TENTATIVE RULING
  RE:
 
ANDREW SCOTT’S RENEWED MOTION FOR ORDER DETERMINING GOOD FAITH
  SETTLEMENT




AND RELATED
  CROSS-ACTIONS


 



            
            Background
Plaintiff Intelligent SCM, LLC, dba American
Worldwide Agencies (“Plaintiff”) filed this action on February 13, 2015 against
Defendants Russell W. Roten (“Roten”) and Duane Morris. Plaintiff filed the
operative Fourth Amended Complaint (“FAC”) on July 9, 2019 against Roten, Duane
Morris, and Andrew P. Scott, alleging twelve causes of action. 
On April 27, 2017, Andrew Scott (“Scott”)
filed a Cross-Complaint against Alex F. Knowles, individually and for the AFK
Roth IRA, Peter Lamy, Graham Burford, and Intelligent SCM, LLC, fka Intell SCM,
LLC dba American Worldwide Agencies. The Cross-Complaint alleges causes of
action for (1) intentional interference with contractual relationship, (2)
intentional interference with prospective economic advantage, (3) unfair
competition, (4) declaratory relief, and (5) defamation. 
On May 3, 2017, Peter Lamy and Graham Burford
filed a Cross-Complaint against Scott. The Cross-Complaint alleges causes of
action for (1) declaratory relief and (2) slander of title. 
Scott now moves for an order determining a
good faith settlement between Scott and Plaintiff, Alex F. Knowles, individually
and on behalf of the AFK Roth IRA, Graham Burford, and Peter Lamy (collectively,
the “ISCM Parties”). The motion is unopposed. 
Discussion
“[Code
of Civil Procedure] Section 877.6 was enacted by
the Legislature in 1980 to establish a statutory procedure for determining if a
settlement by an alleged joint tortfeasor has been entered into in good faith
and to provide a bar to claims of other alleged joint tortfeasors for equitable
contribution or partial or comparative indemnity when good faith is shown.” (Irm Corp. v.
Carlson (1986) 179 Cal.App.3d 94, 104.)
Code of Civil Procedure section 877.6, subdivision
(a)(1)
provides, in relevant part, that, on noticed motion, “[a]ny party to an action
in which it is alleged that two or more parties are joint tortfeasors or
co-obligors on a contract debt shall be entitled to a hearing on the issue of
the good faith of a settlement entered into by the plaintiff or other claimant
and one or more alleged tortfeasors or co-obligors.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd. (a)(1).) “The party asserting the lack of good
faith shall have the burden of proof on that issue.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd. (d).)
“A
determination by the court that the settlement was made in good faith shall bar
any other joint tortfeasor or co-obligor from any further claims against the
settling tortfeasor or co-obligor for equitable comparative contribution, or
partial or comparative indemnity, based on comparative negligence or
comparative fault.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd. (c).)  
In Tech-Bilt, Inc.
v. Woodward-Clyde & Associates (1985) 38 Cal.3d 488, 499, the
California Supreme Court identified the following nonexclusive factors courts
are to consider in determining if a settlement is in good faith under section 877.6: “a rough approximation of plaintiffs’
total recovery and the settlor’s proportionate liability, the amount paid in
settlement, the allocation of settlement proceeds among plaintiffs, and a
recognition that a settlor should pay less in settlement than he would if he were
found liable after a trial. Other relevant considerations include the financial
conditions and insurance policy limits of settling defendants, as well as the
existence of collusion, fraud, or tortious conduct aimed to injure the
interests of nonsettling defendants.” 
The evaluation of whether a settlement was made in good faith is
required to “be made on the basis of information available at the time of
settlement.” (Tech-Bilt,
Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde & Associates, supra, at p. 499)  
When the good
faith nature of a settlement is uncontested, the Court need not consider and
weigh the Tech-Bilt factors. (City of Grand
Terrace v. Superior Court (1987) 192 Cal.App.3d 1251, 1261.) “[W]hen no
one objects, the barebones motion which sets forth the ground of good faith, accompanied
by a declaration which sets forth a brief background of the case is
sufficient.” (Ibid.)
Here, the unopposed
motion sets forth a
background of the case, discusses
the nature of the proposed settlement, and provides sufficient reasoning as to
why the settlement was reached in good faith. (Behle, Jr. Decl., ¶¶ 2-16.) Scott’s counsel states that “[g]iven the
exposure for attorneys’ fees created by both the first and second successful
special motions to strike, a liability which could total $176,461.34, I, as
counsel for Scott and Howard Zelener, counsel for ISCM, began discussing
settlement. As a result of those negotiations, a settlement has been reached
between Scott and the ISCM Parties regarding the LA Case. The settlement
includes several elements, but notably includes the compromise of the judgement
entered against Scott in the Long Beach Case in exchange for a waiver of the
attorneys’ fees to which Scott is entitled in connection with the first and
second successful special motions to strike. The negotiations took several
months and involved extensive give-and-take between the parties…the settlement
resolves the nearly decade-long dispute between the parties, as reflected
above, and takes into account the costs of settlement versus the costs of
continuing with the cases.” (Behle, Jr. Decl, ¶ 16.) All indications are that the settlement was reached as a
result of arm’s length negotiations between the settling parties.  
///
///
            Conclusion
            Based on the foregoing, Scott’s motion for an order determining good faith settlement is granted. 
Scott is ordered to provide notice of this ruling.
 
DATED:  October 5, 2023                              ________________________________
Hon.
Rolf M. Treu
Judge,
Los Angeles Superior Court