  Case Number:  18STCV03053    Hearing Date:   October 5, 2023    Dept:  50 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 50
 



THE PEOPLE OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA,
 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
KANDYPENS INC., et
  al.
 
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


  18STCV03053




Hearing Date:


October 5, 2023




Hearing Time:


10:00 a.m.




TENTATIVE RULING
  RE:
 
PEOPLE’S MOTION
  TO AMEND JUDGMENT TO ADD GRAHAM GIBSON AS JUDGMENT DEBTOR UNDER CODE OF CIVIL PROCEDURE SECTION 187
 



Background
Plaintiff People of the
State of California (“Plaintiff”) filed this action on October 31, 2018 against
Defendant Kandypens Inc. (“Kandypens”). The Complaint alleges causes of action
for (1) violation of Unfair Competition Law, (2) violation of the Stop Tobacco
Access to Kids Enforcement Act, and (3) violation of the Safe Drinking Water
and Toxic Enforcement Act. 
On July 16, 2021, the
Court issued a Final Judgment in this matter (herein, the “Judgment”). The
Judgment provides, inter alia, that Plaintiff has “established that Defendant
Kandypens…has violated (1) the Stop Tobacco Access to Kids Enforcement Act…(2)
the Safe Drinking Water and Toxic Enforcement Act…and (3) California’s Unfair
Competition Law…” (July 16, 2021 Judgment at p. 1:2-6.) The July 16, 2021
Judgment provides for injunctive relief and other affirmative undertakings. (See
July 16, 2021 Judgment at pp. 1:7-9:2.) The July 16, 2021 Judgment also
provides for civil penalties, providing, inter alia, that “[t]he Court
hereby assesses against Kandypens a statutory penalty of $1,200,000.00. This
penalty is assessed under each of the STAKE Act, the UCL, and Prop 65 as
follows…” (July 16, 2021 Judgment, ¶ 17.) 
Plaintiff now moves for
an order amending the Judgment entered on July 16, 2021 to add Graham Gibson as
a judgment debtor. Graham Gibson (“Gibson”) filed a “response” to the motion.
Discussion
As set forth above, July
16, 2021 Judgment in this matter provides for civil penalties, stating, inter
alia, that “[t]he Court hereby assesses against Kandypens a statutory
penalty of $1,200,000.00. This penalty is assessed under each of the STAKE Act,
the UCL, and Prop 65 as follows…” (July 16, 2021 Judgment, ¶ 17.) The Judgment
provides that “Kandypens will pay the total penalty in thirty-five (35) equal
monthly installments of $33,333.33 each, and a thirty-sixth and final payment
of 33,333.45 payable to the City of Los Angeles. Kandypens first payment will
be due and payable on August 1, 2021. Each subsequent payment will be due on
the first of each month through June 1, 2024.” (July 16, 2021 Judgment, ¶ 19.) 
Plaintiff indicates that
“[o]n February 1, 2022—just six months into its payment obligation—Kandypens
missed its required installment payment.” (Crowell Decl., ¶ 5, Ex. 3 (Mahmood
Decl.) ¶ 4.) The July 16, 2021 Judgment provides that “[i]n the event of
Kandypens’ default of payment beyond the grace period, without additional
notice, the People may accelerate all of the remaining installments and declare
the balance due immediately, and proceed to enforce all rights and remedies
under law or equity...” (July 16, 2021 Judgment, ¶ 21.) Plaintiff states that
“[o]n February 17, 2022, the People served Kandypens, by and through its
counsel, Jeffrey Matura, with a Notice of Default.” (Crowell Decl., ¶ 5, Ex. 3
(Mahmood Decl.) ¶ 5.) Plaintiff states that “Kandypens began making smaller,
deficient $10,000 monthly payments in March 2022. But as of August 2022,
Kandypens has stopped making those payments as well.” (Crowell Decl., ¶ 5, Ex.
3 (Mahmood Decl.) ¶ 7.) Plaintiff asserts that “[t]he Court should amend
the judgment to add Gibson as a judgment debtor under the alter ego doctrine
and Section 187 of the Code of Civil Procedure.”
(Mot. at p. 4:10-11.) 
As an initial matter, Gibson asserts in
its response that the Court does not have personal jurisdiction over Gibson,
such that the instant motion should be denied.[1] Gibson asserts
that “[i]n this case…neither general nor specific jurisdiction exists.”
(Response at p. 2:19-20.) The Court notes that Gibson does not appear to cite
to legal authority in the response concerning general or specific jurisdiction. In the reply, Plaintiff cites to Pavlovich v. Superior Court (2002) 29 Cal.4th 262, 268, where the California Supreme Court noted that “California
courts may exercise personal jurisdiction on any basis consistent with the
Constitutions of California and the United States. The exercise of jurisdiction
over a nonresident defendant comports with these Constitutions if the defendant
has such minimum contacts with the state that the assertion of
jurisdiction does not violate traditional notions of fair play and
substantial justice.” (Internal quotations and citation omitted.) 
“[C]ourts have identified
two ways to establish personal jurisdiction. Personal jurisdiction may be
either general or specific.” (Pavlovich
v. Superior Court, supra,
29 Cal.4th at pp. 268-269 [internal quotations omitted].) The Court
notes that “[a] defendant that has substantial,
continuous, and systematic contacts with the forum state is subject to general
jurisdiction in the state, meaning jurisdiction on any cause of action.” (HealthMarkets, Inc. v. Superior Court (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1160, 1167.)
In the reply, Plaintiff does not appear to dispute Gibson’s assertion that the
Court does not have general jurisdiction over Gibson. However, Plaintiff
asserts that Gibson’s activities directed toward California support specific
jurisdiction. “[W]hen determining whether specific jurisdiction exists,
courts consider the relationship among the defendant, the forum, and the
litigation. A court may exercise specific jurisdiction over a nonresident
defendant only if: (1) the defendant has purposefully availed himself or herself
of forum benefits; (2) the controversy is related to or arises out of [the]
defendant’s contacts with the forum; and (3) the assertion of personal
jurisdiction would comport with fair play and substantial justice.” (Pavlovich v. Superior Court, supra, 29 Cal.4th at p. 269
[internal quotations and citations omitted].) 
In the response, Gibson
asserts that he “has…not purposefully availed himself to California, and
no facts are present that demonstrate sufficient ‘minimum contacts’ over Gibson
with respect to California.” (Response at p. 2:25-3:1.) In his declaration in
support of the response, Gibson states that in 2006, he moved from California
to Arizona. (Gibson Decl., ¶ 2.)  Gibson
states that he “lived in Arizona
continuously since 2006,” and that he does “not intend to again reside in California.” (Gibson Decl., ¶
3.) Gibson states that he “[does] not own any real property in California and
[does] not own any business interests in California.” (Gibson Decl., ¶ 4.)
Gibson further states that “[u]ntil December 2022, [he] was the CEO of
Kandypens.” (Gibson Decl., ¶ 7.) Gibson asserts that “Kandypens is a Delaware
corporation. Its principal place of business is Arizona.” (Gibson Decl., ¶ 8.)
Gibson states that in his capacity as CEO of Kandypens, he worked in Arizona.
(Gibson Decl., ¶ 9.) Gibson further states that “[i]n [his] capacity as CEO of
Kandypens, [he] occasionally visited California for legitimate business
purposes that were solely for and on behalf of Kandypens.” (Gibson Decl., ¶
10.) 
            As
set forth above, Plaintiff asserts that Gibson’s activities directed towards
California support specific jurisdiction. As to the first prong of the specific
jurisdiction analysis, Plaintiff asserts that “[b]y founding and leading
Kandypens, a corporate entity whose principal place of business is in
California, Gibson purposely availed himself of the benefits in this state.” (Reply at p. 3:21-22.) “[P]urposeful availment
occurs where a nonresident defendant purposefully direct[s] [its] activities at
residents of the forum, purposefully derive[s] benefit from its activities in
the forum, create[s] a substantial connection with the forum, deliberately has
engaged in significant activities within the forum, or has created continuing
obligations between [itself] and residents of the forum.” (Anglo Irish Bank Corp., PLC v.
Superior Court (2008) 165
Cal.App.4th 969, 978-979 [internal quotations and citations omitted].)

            Plaintiff
asserts that “[a]lthough Gibson claims that the company is principally
based in Arizona, its legal pleadings in another lawsuit and corporate filings
say otherwise.” (Reply at p. 3:22-24.) Plaintiff’s counsel submits a
declaration in support of the reply attaching a copy of the complaint filed in the action titled Kandypens, Inc. v.
Puff Corp., Case No. 2:20-cv-00358, in the U.S. District Court for the Central District of
California.” (Crowell Reply Decl., ¶ 2, Ex. 1.) The complaint in this matter
alleges that “Kandypens is a Delaware corporation with its principal place of
business in Santa Barbara, California.” (Crowell Reply Decl., ¶ 2, Ex. 1, ¶ 2.)
Plaintiff also provides copies of Kandypens’ “Statement and Designation by
Foreign Corporation” filed with the California Secretary of State in August
2014, which list “Corporate Addresses” in California. (Crowell Reply Decl., ¶
3, Ex. 2.) In addition, Kandypens’ “Statement of Information” filed with the
California Secretary of State in August 2023 lists a “Principal Address” and
“Mailing Address” in California. (Crowell Reply Decl., ¶ 4, Ex. 3.) 
            Plaintiff
also asserts that “[e]ven if Kandypens were not principally located in
California, Gibson purposefully directed activities at the state in his role as
the company’s majority shareholder, president, and Chief Executive Officer.”
(Reply at p. 4:3-5.) Plaintiff’s counsel’s reply declaration attaches a copy of excerpts of the December 11, 2020
deposition of Kandypens, which designated Gibson as its witness. (Crowell Reply
Decl., ¶ 5, Ex. 4 (Gibson Depo.)) Plaintiff notes that Gibson testified that “So
I am more of a large, you know, customer -- customer service, shipping and
fulfillment, and product creation and marketing.” (Id. at p. 53:3-5.) Plaintiff
also cites to the following testimony from Gibson’s deposition: “Q…Can you tell
me, generally, what KandyPens House LA is? A[.] Yes. It’s a concept that I
created that’s called experiential marketing. It’s where someone can come and
learn about our products, try our products, and get to know the company that
makes them. Get to know the brand…Q[.] Okay. And when did you create KandyPens
House LA? A[.] October of 2019.” (Id. at p.
131:3-18.) Gibson also testified “A[.] I would say, since we’ve had the
house, we’ve had less than a dozen events.” (Id.
at p. 133:11-12.) In addition, Plaintiff cites to the following testimony
from Gibson’s deposition: “Q[.] And this is a post on the KandyPens Instagram
account about something called Combschella; correct? A[.] Yes…Q[.] And what did
your sponsorship entail? A[.] We had a booth and -- where we showed our
products.” (Id. at p. 95:25-96:23.) 
            As
to the second prong of the specific jurisdiction analysis, Plaintiff asserts
that this case is substantially connected to Gibson’s California activities. Plaintiff
notes that the Complaint in this action contains a section alleging that
“Defendant Targets Minors and Young Adults with Social Media Marketing.”
(Compl., p. 18:4.) Plaintiff alleges, inter alia, that “[n]not only does
Kandypens allow minors to purchase tobacco products from its website, but
Kandypens actively targets minors through the use of social media marketing
designed to reach and appeal to adolescent, teen, and young-adult audiences.”
(Compl., ¶ 72.) Plaintiff notes that the Complaint’s first cause of action is
for violation of the Unfair Competition Law, and that on April 16, 2021, the
Court issued an Order on Plaintiff’s motion for remedies which indicates, inter
alia, that “[i]njunctive relief involving Defendant’s marketing practices
is appropriate.” (April 16, 2021 Order at p. 5:16.) 
            As
to the third prong, Plaintiff asserts that exercising jurisdiction over Gibson
would be fair and reasonable. Plaintiff cites to Snowney v.
Harrah's Entertainment, Inc. (2005) 35 Cal.4th 1054, 1070, where the California Supreme Court found that in making the
determination as to whether the assertion of specific jurisdiction is fair, “the court must consider the burden on the
defendant, the interests of the forum State, and the plaintiff’s interest in
obtaining relief. It must also weigh in its determination the interstate
judicial system’s interest in obtaining the most efficient resolution of
controversies; and the shared interest of the several States in furthering
fundamental substantive social policies. Where [, as here,] a defendant
who purposefully has directed [its] activities at forum residents seeks to
defeat jurisdiction, [it] must present a compelling case that the presence of
some other considerations would render jurisdiction unreasonable.
In this case, defendants do not contend the exercise of jurisdiction would be
unfair or unreasonable, and we see no reason to conclude otherwise.” (Internal quotations and citations omitted.) The Court
notes that in its response to the instant motion, Gibson does not appear to
specifically assert that the exercise of
jurisdiction over him would be unfair or unreasonable. 
In addition, Plaintiff asserts that in the reply that “the
case is largely concluded, and a judgment is already entered. Given that Gibson
and Kandypens have been able to litigate this case in California since 2018,
they have conducted marketing activities in California, the company’s Chief
Operating Officer is located in California (Crowell Reply Decl., Ex. 5 (Zender
Dep.), at p. 7:22-25)[2],
its primary bank account is located in a California bank (id., at p. 15:5-15), and Gibson resides in a
neighboring state, Gibson cannot make a convincing argument—let alone a
compelling one—that exercising jurisdiction over him would be unreasonable.”
(Reply at p. 5:26-6:4.)[3]
            As discussed above, Plaintiff relies
on evidence submitted for the first time in connection with the reply in
responding to Gibson’s assertion that the Court does not have personal
jurisdiction over him. Because Gibson has not had the opportunity to respond to Plaintiff’s
Reply Declaration of Joshua L. Crowell, the Court will permit Gibson to file
and serve a surreply.   
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, the hearing on this motion will be continued to Nov. 6, 2023
at 10:00 a.m. in Dept. 50. 
The Court will
permit Gibson to file and serve a surreply on or before Nov.
1, 2023, solely to address the evidence submitted by Plaintiff in connection
with the reply.¿The
argument and evidence in any surreply is limited as discussed above. Gibson may
not include any argument or evidence on any other issue.¿¿¿ 
Plaintiff is ordered to provide notice of this ruling. 
 
DATED:  October 5, 2023      
                        ________________________________
Hon. Rolf M.
Treu
Judge, Los Angeles Superior Court


