 Case Number:  22STCV37960    Hearing Date:   October 5, 2023    Dept:  50 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 50
 



ALBERT ARUTYUNOV, et al.,
 
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
EXODUS RECOVERY, INC. DBA THE DR. DAVID L. MURPHY SOBERING
  CENTER, et al., 
 
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


  22STCV37960




Hearing Date:


October 5, 2023




Hearing Time:


10:00 a.m.




TENTATIVE RULING
  RE:
 
DEFENDANT EXODUS
  RECOVERY INC., dba THE DR. DAVID L. MURPHY SOBERING CENTER’S DEMURRER TO
  PLAINTIFFS’ COMPLAINT; 
 
DEFENDANT EXODUS
  RECOVERY INC., dba THE DR. DAVID L. MURPHY SOBERING CENTER’S MOTION TO STRIKE
  PORTIONS OF PLAINTIFFS’ COMPLAINT
 



 
Background
Plaintiffs Albert
Arutyunov, Luiza Arutyunova, and Albert Arutyunov and Luiza Arutyunova as
Successors in Interest to Decedent, Spartak Arutyunov (collectively,
“Plaintiffs”) filed this action on December 6, 2022 against Defendants Exodus
Recovery, Inc. dba the Dr. David L. Murphy Sobering Center (“Exodus”), Social
Model Recovery Systems dba Rena B, Pedro Manzano, Roger Coapes, and Brandon
James. The Complaint alleges causes of action for (1) wrongful death based on
negligence, and (2) dependent adult neglect. 
Exodus now demurs to the
second cause of action of the Complaint. Exodus also moves to strike portions
of the Complaint. Plaintiffs oppose both. 
Demurrer 
A.   
Legal Standard 
A
demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the
pleading under attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially
noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) “To
survive a demurrer, the complaint need only allege facts sufficient to state a
cause of action; each evidentiary fact that might eventually form part of the
plaintiff’s proof need not be alleged.” (C.A. v.
William S. Hart Union High School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 872.) For the
purpose of testing the sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer
admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967.) A
demurrer “does not admit contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or
law.” (Daar v. Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713.)  
B.     Allegations of the Complaint 
In the Complaint, Plaintiffs allege that Albert Arutyunov is the
father of and a successor in interest to Spartak Arutyunov (herein, the
“Decedent”). (Compl., ¶ 3.) Luiza Arutyunova is the mother of and a successor
in interest to the Decedent. (Compl., ¶ 4.) Plaintiffs allege that Exodus is
“in the business of providing custodial care as a sobering center,” and that it
provided custodial care to the Decedent. (Compl., ¶ 6.) Plaintiffs allege that Exodus
is the licensee of the facility known as David L. Murphy Sobering Center (the
“Center”), and that Exodus is responsible for the organization, management, operation,
and control of the Center. (Compl., ¶¶ 6, 7.) 
Plaintiffs allege that “because
of his having tested positive for methamphetamine, and while still under their
custodial care, SOCIAL and JAMES transported [the Decedent] to [the Center] at
approximately 1:00 p.m. on January 2, 2022, so that he could sober-up prior to
returning to recommence the recovery program at the RENA B facility the next
morning.” (Compl., ¶ 24.) Plaintiffs allege that “the [Decedent] was observed
by COAPES and/or other CENTER security personnel outside by the facilities gate
requesting unknown pedestrians for ‘dope’.” (Compl., ¶ 26.) Plaintiffs allege
that “at around 7:39 p.m., while still a resident at and under the custodial
care of the CENTER, MONZANO found [the Decedent] in the CENTER’s men’s bathroom
unconscious and unresponsive.” (Compl., ¶ 29.) Plaintiffs allege that “emergency
personnel from the LAFD were summoned but were unable to resuscitate [the
Decedent], and at approximately 8:12 p.m. on January 2, 2022, he was pronounced
dead. Los Angeles County Coroner performed an autopsy, including toxicology
testing, and concluded that [the Decedent’s] death was caused by a combined
methamphetamine and fentanyl intoxication.” (Compl., ¶ 31.) 
Plaintiffs allege that “although the CENTER knew or should have known
that [the Decedent] – as well as any of their other residents – could have at
any time sought to obtain illicit drugs - including fentanyl – and that they
should be prepared to offer treatment that would address a fentanyl overdose,
at no time after [the Decedent] was found in the bathroom and unresponsive,
while still a resident at and under the custodial care of the CENTER, did
anyone from the CENTER administer Narcan, Epinephrine or any other type of
Opioid overdose treatment to [the Decedent] to attempt to resuscitate him prior
to the arrival of the emergency personnel.” (Compl., ¶ 30.) Plaintiffs allege
that “despite knowing that an individual like [the Decedent] would be
particularly vulnerable to custodial neglect and needed to be protected from
matters which could pose a hazard to his health and safety, both SOCIAL and the
CENTER failed to assign staff, personnel and/or security sufficient to properly
monitor [the Decedent’s] behavior while he was a resident at their facilities
and under their custodial care.” (Compl., ¶ 32.) 
C.     Second Cause of Action for Dependent Adult
Neglect 
Exodus
asserts that Plaintiffs have failed to plead a cause of action for dependent
adult neglect against Exodus. Exodus cites to Carter v.
Prime Healthcare Paradise Valley LLC (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 396,
406-407, where the Court
of Appeal noted that “we distill several factors that
must be present for conduct to constitute neglect within the meaning of the
Elder Abuse Act and thereby trigger the enhanced remedies available under the
Act. The plaintiff must allege (and ultimately prove by clear and convincing
evidence) facts establishing that the defendant (1) had responsibility for
meeting the basic needs of the elder or dependent adult, such as nutrition,
hydration, hygiene or medical care; (2) knew of conditions that made the elder
or dependent adult unable to provide for his or her own basic needs; and (3)
denied or withheld goods or services necessary to meet the elder or
dependent adult’s basic needs, either with knowledge that injury was substantially
certain to befall the elder or dependent adult (if the plaintiff alleges
oppression, fraud or malice) or with conscious disregard of the high
probability of such injury (if the plaintiff alleges recklessness). The
plaintiff must also allege (and ultimately prove by clear and convincing
evidence) that the neglect caused the elder or dependent adult to suffer
physical harm, pain or mental suffering. Finally, the facts
constituting the neglect and establishing the causal link between the neglect and
the injury must be pleaded with particularity, in accordance with the pleading
rules governing statutory claims.”
(Internal quotations and citations omitted.) 
Here, in
support of the second cause of action for dependent adult neglect, Plaintiffs
allege that “Defendants, and each of them, had direct care and
custody of [the Decedent], who was a dependent adult under Welf. & Inst. Code §15600, et seq.,” and
that “Defendants, and each of them, failed to use the degree of care that a
person in the same situation would have used in providing for [the Decedent’s]
basic needs.” (Compl., ¶¶ 40-41.) Plaintiffs further allege that “[o]n January
2, 2022, Defendants, and each of them, breached their duties to [the Decedent].
As a direct and proximate result of the reckless and wrongful acts, conduct, or
omissions of Defendants, and each of them, which proximately caused the drug
overdose and subsequent death of [the Decedent], he thereafter endured physical
and emotional pain and suffering, including having the presence of mind to
understand that due to the effects of the drugs he was allowed to obtain and
consume, and the lack of immediate medical care being rendered to him, he was
slowly dying.” (Compl., ¶ 42.) 
Exodus asserts that the foregoing allegations are conclusory and do
not constitute a claim for dependent adult neglect within the meaning of Welfare and Institutions Code section 15610.57.[1]
Exodus contends that “[t]here are no specific facts whatsoever as to what
Defendant Exodus allegedly did or failed to do that rise to ‘neglect’ of
plaintiffs’ decedent constituting a claim for dependent adult neglect.”
(Demurrer at p. 11:26-28.) But as set forth above, Plaintiffs allege that
“although the CENTER knew or should have known that [the Decedent] – as well as
any of their other residents – could have at any time sought to obtain illicit
drugs - including fentanyl – and that they should be prepared to offer
treatment that would address a fentanyl overdose, at no time after [the
Decedent] was found in the bathroom and unresponsive, while still a resident at
and under the custodial care of the CENTER, did anyone from the CENTER
administer Narcan, Epinephrine or any other type of Opioid overdose treatment
to [the Decedent] to attempt to resuscitate him prior to the arrival of the
emergency personnel.” (Compl., ¶ 30.)[2]
Exodus does not appear to address this allegation in the demurrer.  
Next, Exodus asserts that
the Decedent was not a “dependent adult” within the meaning of the “Dependent
Abuse/Neglect Act.” (Demurrer at p. 12:19-20.) 
Welfare and Institutions Code section 15610.23, subdivision (a)
provides that “dependent adult”
means “a person, regardless of whether the person lives independently, between
the ages of 18 and 64 years who resides in this state and who has physical or
mental limitations that restrict his or her ability to carry out normal activities
or to protect his or her rights, including, but not limited to, persons who
have physical or developmental disabilities, or whose physical or mental
abilities have diminished because of age.” Welfare
and Institutions Code section 15610.23,
subdivision (b) provides that “dependent
adult” includes “any person between the ages of 18 and 64 years who is admitted
as an inpatient to a 24-hour health facility, as defined in
Sections 1250, 1250.2, and 1250.3 of the Health and Safety
Code.” 
In the Complaint,
Plaintiffs allege that the Decedent “was born on July 21, 1981, was
between the ages of 18 and 64 years old had physical and mental limitations
that restricted his ability to carry out normal activities and to protect his
rights and was under the custodial care of Defendants, and each of them, who
owned, operated, managed or were employed by 24-Hour Health Facilities and was
therefore a ‘dependent adult’ within the meaning of Welf.
& Inst. Code § 15610.23.” (Compl., ¶ 2, emphasis omitted.) Exodus asserts that “[h]ere,
plaintiffs merely use the ‘boilerplate’ language in Section
15610.23 to assert that decedent was a ‘dependent adult.’ Yet there are
absolutely no specific facts alleged in support of decedent’s purported
‘status’ as a ‘dependent adult’ within the meaning of Section
15610.23.” (Demurrer at p. 13:12-15.) 
Plaintiffs counter that the Complaint alleges that “due to his
longstanding history of drug and alcohol abuse, record of frequent arrests and
incarceration, and his recurrent suffering from schizophrenia, bipolar
disorder, anxiety, and depression as a consequence of his drug and alcohol
abuse, [the Decedent] was a person who was particularly vulnerable to custodial
neglect and needed to be protected from matters which could pose a hazard to
his health and safety.” (Compl., ¶ 18.) Plaintiffs allege that the Decedent had
“physical and mental limitations that restricted his ability to carry out
normal activities and to protect his rights…” (Compl., ¶ 2.) Exodus asserts
that “a resident at a drug treatment facility is not deemed a ‘dependent
adult’” (Demurrer at p. 12:25) but fails to cite any legal authority to support
such assertion. 
Lastly, Exodus asserts that “a claim for dependent adult neglect must
state facts that show involvement by an officer, director, or managing agent of
a corporate defendant.” (Demurrer at p. 14:5-6.) In support of this assertion,
Exodus cites to Welfare and Institutions Code section 15657, subdivision (c), which provides that “[w]here it is
proven by clear and convincing evidence that a defendant is liable for physical
abuse as defined in Section 15610.63, neglect
as defined in Section 15610.57, or abandonment
as defined in Section 15610.05, and that the
defendant has been guilty of recklessness, oppression, fraud, or malice in the
commission of this abuse, the following shall apply, in addition to all other
remedies otherwise provided by law:…(c) The standards set forth in subdivision (b)
of Section 3294 of the Civil Code regarding
the imposition of punitive damages on an employer based upon the acts of an
employee shall be satisfied before any damages or attorney’s fees permitted
under this section may be imposed against an employer.” But this provision does not provide, as Exodus contends,
that “[t]o state a claim under Welfare &
Institutions Code section 15657, a plaintiff must allege facts
showing that an officer, director, or managing agent of defendant was involved
in the abuse or neglect, authorized the abuse, ratified the abuse, or hired the person who did the abuse with advance
knowledge of the person’s unfitness and hired him or her with a conscious
disregard of the rights and safety of others.”
(Demurrer at p. 14:7-11, emphasis omitted.) 
The Court notes that Welfare and Institutions Code section 15657
concerns “remedies,” and “a demurrer cannot rightfully be sustained to part of a cause
of action or to a particular type of damage or remedy.” (Kong v. City of Hawaiian Gardens Redevelopment
Agency (2002) 108 Cal.App.4th
1028, 1047; see also
PH II, Inc. v. Superior Court (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1680, 1682 [“A
demurrer does not lie to a portion of a cause of action.”].) 
Based
on the foregoing, the Court overrules Exodus’s demurrer to the second cause of
action of the Complaint. 
Motion to Strike 
A court may strike any “irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading” or any part of
a pleading “not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a
court rule, or an order of the court.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 436.) “The grounds for a motion to strike shall appear on the face
of the challenged pleading or from any matter of which the court is required to
take judicial notice.” (Id., § 437.) 
            Exodus moves to strike Plaintiffs’ request
for “punitive and exemplary damages.” (Compl., p. 11:16.) Exodus also moves to
strike references to “neglect,” “wrongful acts” “willful and conscious
disregard,” “recklessness,” “oppression,” “malice,” “oppressive,” “fraud,”
“reckless act,” and “despicable conduct” in the Complaint. (See Notice
of Motion at ¶ 1, citing p. 8, ¶ 32, p. 9, ¶ 37, ¶ 38, p. 10, ¶ 42, ¶ 44, ¶
45.) Plaintiffs seek punitive damages in connection with their first cause of
action for wrongful death based on negligence and their second cause of action
for dependent adult neglect. (Compl., ¶¶ 38, 44.) 
            Exodus argues that “Plaintiffs’
prayer for punitive/exemplary damages is improper because no specific facts
have been alleged showing that Defendant Exodus engaged in oppression, fraud,
or malice.” (Mot. at p. 10:1-4.) A motion to strike may lie where the facts
alleged do not rise to the level of “¿malice,
oppression or fraud¿” required to support a punitive damages
award. (¿Turman v. Turning
Point of Central California, Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 64¿.) “¿‘Malice’ means
conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or
despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and
conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.¿” (¿¿Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1)¿¿.) “¿‘Oppression’
means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in
conscious disregard of that person’s rights.¿” (¿Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(2)¿.) “¿‘Fraud’ means an
intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known
to the defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby
depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.¿” (¿Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(3)¿.)¿ 
            In the opposition to the motion to
strike, Plaintiffs state that they “do not Oppose the within
Motion as it relates specifically to the request to strike any reference to
punitive damages and the pertinent language relating thereto. Plaintiffs in
error included their claim for Punitive Damages, which Plaintiffs acknowledge
is disallowed as a matter of law in cases involving Wrongful Death.” (Opp’n at
p. 1:25-28.) However, Plaintiffs also assert that “Defendants request to strike
the content of Paragraph 45 of the Second Cause of Action for Dependent Adult
Neglect relating to Plaintiffs’ request for attorney’s fees and costs pursuant
to Welf. & Inst. Code §15657(a) is
misplaced.” (Opp’n at p. 2:1-3, emphasis omitted.) 
Paragraph 45 of the Complaint alleges that “[t]he above acts by
Defendants were reckless and despicable conduct carried on by them with a
willful and conscious disregard of the rights and safety of [the Decedent].
Further, said conduct subjected Plaintiffs and [the Decedent] to cruel and
unjust hardship in conscious disregard of their rights. Such conduct amounted
to recklessness, oppression, malice and/or fraud thus entitling Plaintiffs to
attorney’s fees and costs from Defendants pursuant to Welf.
& Inst. Code §15657(a).” (Compl., ¶ 45, emphasis omitted.)
Plaintiffs state that they “acknowledge[] the use of language in that
paragraph suggesting conduct that would warrant the imposition of punitive
damages, however under §15657(a) and (c) that
language is appropriate and necessary for Plaintiffs to recover reasonable
attorneys’ fees and costs under §15610.57.” (Opp’n
at p. 2:8-11.) 
Welfare and Institutions Code section 15657, subdivision (a) provides, “[w]here it is proven by clear
and convincing evidence that a defendant is liable for physical abuse as
defined in Section 15610.63, neglect as
defined in Section 15610.57, or abandonment as
defined in Section 15610.05, and that the
defendant has been guilty of recklessness, oppression, fraud, or malice in the
commission of this abuse, the following shall apply, in addition to all other
remedies otherwise provided by law: (a) The court shall award to the
plaintiff reasonable attorney’s fees and costs. The term ‘costs’ includes, but
is not limited to, reasonable fees for the services of a conservator, if any,
devoted to the litigation of a claim brought under this article.” 
Plaintiffs state that “while
punitive damages are not recoverable in the Second Cause of Action for
Dependent Adult Neglect, Plaintiffs nonetheless have the obligation to meet the
standard set forth in Civil Code §3294(b) to
recover reasonable Attorneys’ Fees and Costs.” (Opp’n at p. 3:1-3.) But
Plaintiffs do not explain why they contend the allegations of the Complaint
meet the standard set forth in Civil Code section 3294.
Plaintiffs do not respond to Exodus’s assertion that “Plaintiffs’
complaint…fails to allege the requisite, specific facts which would support the
conclusory allegations of intentional wrongdoing, nor any facts which establish
that the alleged wrongdoing was of a ‘despicable’ or ‘injurious’ nature. There
are no specific facts supporting any purported willful, intentional or
malicious conduct by Defendant Exodus, that Defendant Exodus intended to cause
injury to plaintiffs’ decedent, or the requisite supporting specific facts that
Defendant Exodus’ actions were willful.” (Mot. at p. 12:12-17.) 
Exodus also moves to strike Plaintiffs’ request for “[a]ttorney’s Fees
in an amount according to proof pursuant to Welf. &
Inst. Code §15657(a)…” (Compl., p. 11:11, emphasis omitted.) As set
forth above, Welfare and Institutions Code section 15657, subdivision (a) provides, “[w]here it is proven by clear
and convincing evidence that a defendant is liable for physical abuse as
defined in Section 15610.63, neglect as
defined in Section 15610.57, or abandonment as
defined in Section 15610.05, and that the defendant
has been guilty of recklessness, oppression, fraud, or malice in the commission
of this abuse, the following shall apply, in addition to all other remedies
otherwise provided by law: (a) The court shall award to the
plaintiff reasonable attorney’s fees and costs. The term ‘costs’ includes, but
is not limited to, reasonable fees for the services of a conservator, if any,
devoted to the litigation of a claim brought under this article.” Exodus
asserts that “[t]he facts alleged in plaintiffs’ Complaint do not rise
to the level of recklessness, oppression, fraud or malice…At best, the facts
only rise to the level of negligence.” (Mot. at p. 9:20-22.) Plaintiffs do not
respond to this point in the opposition. 
Lastly, Exodus moves to strike Plaintiff’s request “[f]or prejudgment
interest, according to proof, from each and every Defendant.” (Compl., p. 11:14.)
Exodus cites to Chesapeake Industries, Inc. v. Togova Enterprises, Inc. (1983) 149 Cal.App.3d
901, 908, where the Court
of Appeal noted that “courts have reasoned that where an accounting is required in
order to arrive at a sum justly due, interest is not allowed…Disallowing
prejudgment interest in an accounting action is consistent with the principle
previously noted that no prejudgment interest is allowable when damages cannot
be computed except on conflicting evidence . . . because of the absence of
established or reasonably ascertainable market prices or values. In such cases,
since the amount of the damages cannot be resolved except by accord, verdict or
judgment, interest prior to judgment is not allowable.” (Internal quotations
omitted.) 
Exodus
asserts that “[h]ere, plaintiffs are not entitled to prejudgment
interest because such damages are neither known to Defendant Exodus nor
susceptible of calculation except on conflicting evidence. Further, there are
simply no facts pled warranting such claim for prejudgment interest.
Plaintiffs’ allegations do not provide certainty as to what any actual damages
would be, or how they would be calculated, or from what date.” (Mot. at p.
16:13-17.) Plaintiffs do not respond to this point in the
opposition, which the Court construes as a concession of the merits of the
argument.  
In light of the foregoing, the Court grants Exodus’s motion to strike
in its entirety. 
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, Exodus’s motion to
strike references to “neglect,” “wrongful acts” “willful and conscious
disregard,” “recklessness,” “oppression,” “malice,” “oppressive,” “fraud,”
“reckless act,” and “despicable conduct” in paragraphs 32, 37, 38, 42, and 44
of the Complaint, and page 11:16 (Prayer for Relief, ¶ 7) of the Complaint is
granted as to Exodus, without leave to amend. As set
forth above, Plaintiffs state that they “do not Oppose the within Motion
as it relates specifically to the request to strike any reference to punitive
damages and the pertinent language relating thereto.” (Opp’n at p. 1:25-27.) 
The Court grants Exodus’s motion to strike as to the references to the
specified language in paragraph 45 of the Complaint[3];  as well as Plaintiff’s requests for attorney’s
fees and prejudgment interest (page 11:11 and 11:14 - Prayer for Relief, ¶¶ 3,
5) of the Complaint, with leave to amend. 
The Court orders Plaintiffs to
file and serve an amended complaint, if any, within 20 days of the date of this
Order. If no amended complaint is filed within 20 days of this Order, Exodus is
ordered to file and serve its answer within 30 days of the date of this Order.¿
Exodus is ordered to give notice of this Order.
 
DATED:  October 5, 2023                              ________________________________
Hon. Rolf M.
Treu
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court
 


