 Case Number:  21STCV28284    Hearing Date:   October 5, 2023    Dept:  50 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 50
 







ARMANDO VAZQUEZ-RAMOS, as Successor Trustee of the LOURDES
  R. VAZQUEZ FAMILY LIVING TRUST of 2004,
 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
ANTONIO RAMOS VAZQUEZ, in his individual capacity, et al., 
 
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


21STCV28284




Hearing Date:


October 5, 2023




Hearing Time:


10:00 a.m.




TENTATIVE RULING RE:  
PLAINTIFF ARMANDO VAZQUEZ- RAMOS’
  RENEWED MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT 



            
Background 
Plaintiff Armando
Vazquez-Ramos, as Successor Trustee of the Lourdes R. Vazquez Family Living
Trust of 2004 (“Plaintiff”) filed this action on July 30, 2021 against, inter
alia, Antonio Ramos Vazquez, in his individual capacity, and Fernando Ramos
Vazquez. The Complaint alleges causes of action for (1) quiet title to real
property and for injunctive relief, (2) constructive trust, and (3) accounting.

On September 26, 2022,
Plaintiff filed an amendment to the Complaint naming Peggy Muse in place of Doe
2. 
In the Complaint,
Plaintiff alleges, inter alia, that he “is now, and at all times
mentioned herein was, the owner of all the following real property, situated in
the City of Long Beach, and commonly known as: 1608 Petaluma Avenue, in the
City of Long Beach.” (Compl., ¶ 31.) Plaintiff alleges that “ANTONIO RAMOS
VAZQUEZ, in his individual capacity, and FERNANDO RAMOS VAZQUEZ, in his
individual capacity, Defendants, claim an interest and estate in each of the
aforementioned properties adverse to Plaintiff; the claims of defendant are
without any right whatsoever, and defendant has no right, estate, title or
interest in any of the property, nor any part thereof, whatsoever.” (Compl., ¶
32.) 
Plaintiff now moves for
leave to file a first amended complaint. Antonio Ramos Vazquez, Fernando Ramos
Vazquez, and Peggy Muse (collectively, “Defendants”) oppose. 
Discussion 
Pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure section 473(a)(1), “[t]he
court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow
a party to amend any pleading.” Amendment may be allowed at any time before or
after commencement of trial. (Code Civ. Proc., § 576.)
“[T]he court’s discretion will usually be exercised liberally to permit
amendment of the pleadings. The policy favoring amendment is so strong that it
is a rare case in which denial of leave to amend can be justified.” (Howard v. County of San Diego (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 1422, 1428 [internal
citations omitted].) “If the motion to
amend is timely made and the granting of the motion will not prejudice the
opposing party, it is error to refuse permission to amend….” (Morgan v. Superior Court of Los Angeles County (1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530.) Prejudice includes “delay in trial, loss of critical
evidence, or added costs of preparation.” (Solit v.
Tokai Bank, Ltd. New York Branch (1999) 68 Cal.App.4th 1435, 1448.)
A motion to amend a pleading before trial
must include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended pleading, which must
be serially numbered to differentiate it from previous pleadings or amendments.
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324, subd. (a).) The motion must also state what allegations are proposed
to be deleted or added, by page, paragraph, and line number. (Ibid.) Finally, a
separate supporting declaration specifying the effect of the amendment, why the
amendment is necessary and proper, when the facts giving rise to the amended
allegations were discovered, and the reason why the request for amendment was
not made earlier must also accompany the motion. (Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1324, subd. (b).)
Exhibit A attached to Plaintiff’s motion is
a proposed First Amended Complaint. Plaintiff’s counsel’s declaration in
support of the motion states, inter alia, that “[d]uring the course of litigation and
the extensive discovery propounded, especially
by defendants in this
litigation, it became apparent to me, as counsel, that two new critical causes of
action needed to be pleaded. The first of those is the new Fourth Cause of
Action for the Tort of Deceit, against Defendants ANTONIO,
FERNANDO, and MUSE, consisting of new paragraphs 66 through 74, at new pages
24 through 26. The original Complaint did not contain any
cause of action sounding in tort. The second of those is the new Fifth Cause of
Action for Cancellations of Instruments, consisting of new paragraphs number 75
through 80, at new pages 26 through 28.” (Sylva Decl., ¶ 14.) Plaintiff’s
counsel further states that “[d]uring the course of litigation and the
extensive discovery propounded, especially that discovery conducted by the
defendants in this litigation, it became obvious that Plaintiff ARMANDO needed
to add PEGGY MUSE as a defendant, and to plead a considerable amount of new
allegations that were in common to most of the causes of action, including
those to which she is not a defendant.” (Sylva Decl., ¶ 15.) 
Paragraph 19 of
Plaintiff’s counsel’s declaration sets forth new paragraphs in the proposed
First Amended Complaint. (Sylva Decl., ¶ 19.) Plaintiff identifies particular
paragraphs of the proposed First Amended Complaint and discusses the effect of the proposed amendment, why the proposed
amendment is necessary, when the facts giving rise to the proposed amended
allegations were discovered, and the reason why the request for amendment was
not made earlier. (See Sylva
Decl., ¶ 19.)
            In
the opposition, Defendants first assert that the motion fails to comply with California Rules of Court, rule 3.1324,
subdivisions (a)(2)
and (3). These provisions provide that “[a] motion to amend a pleading before trial must:…(2) State what
allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and
where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the deleted allegations are
located; and (3) State what
allegations are proposed to be added to the previous pleading, if any, and
where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the additional allegations are
located.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324, subds. (a)(2)-(3).) 
            Defendants’
counsel asserts that “Plaintiff
freely made numerous additions and deletions throughout his Amended Complaint. Indeed, it appears every paragraph was either
added, or substantially modified to add, delete,
or change facts from the prior Verified Complaint. The changes are too numerous to identify here. Other than the added
paragraphs, none of these changes have been
identified by Plaintiff in the Notice, Motion or the Declarations attached thereto.” (Potier Decl., ¶ 4.) In the reply, Plaintiff notes that his
counsel’s declaration in support of the motion states, “[a]lso, having drafted the proposed
First Amended Complaint chiefly upon the information
which was being supplied to me by my client, Plaintiff ARMANDO, I state on information and belief that no material allegations that were
contained in the earlier Complaint have been deleted
or changed by the new allegations.” (Sylva Decl., ¶ 12, p. 20.) But it is
unclear what Plaintiff’s counsel means by “material” allegations. As set forth
above, “[a] motion to
amend a pleading before trial must…[s]tate what allegations in the
previous pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and where, by page,
paragraph, and line number, the deleted allegations are located.” (Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1324, subd (a)(2), emphasis added.)
            Defendants
also assert that “Ms.
Sylva references many added paragraphs, but upon
examination of them, there is substantial overlap with
paragraphs in the original complaint. Ms. Sylva labels them ‘new,’ when in fact they are existing paragraphs that have been substantially modified.
This allowed Plaintiff to avoid specifying the
additions, deletions, and modifications of previously existing paragraphs. Other than reference to certain newly added
paragraphs, none of the other specific changes have been addressed.” (Opp’n. at
p. 2:26-3:3.) In the reply, Plaintiff asserts that Defendants “complain that
the disclosures of renumbered paragraphs did not go far enough to identify the small
additions to content which accompanied the respective renumbering. Yet, they
have not identified a single new, minor, addition that they find objectionable
or prejudicial.” (Reply at p. 3:17-19.) But again, as discussed, “[a] motion to amend a pleading before trial must:…(2) State what
allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and
where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the deleted allegations are
located; and (3) State what
allegations are proposed to be added to the previous pleading, if any, and
where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the additional allegations are
located.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324, subds. (a)(2)-(3).)
            Next,
Defendants note that Plaintiff submits the Declaration of Armando Vazquez-Ramos
in support of the instant motion, which is not certified under penalty of
perjury. Code of Civil Procedure section 2015.5 “defines a
‘declaration’ as a writing that is signed, dated, and certified as true under
penalty of perjury. In addition, section
2015.5 specifies that a declaration must either reveal a
‘place of execution’ within California, or recite
that it is made ‘under the laws of the State of California.’” (People v. Bryant (2011)
191 Cal.App.4th 1457, 1470 [emphasis omitted].) The Court thus
disregards the Declaration
of Armando Vazquez-Ramos filed with the motion. As noted by Plaintiff, on
September 21, 2023, after Defendants’ opposition to the instant motion was
filed, Plaintiff filed a “Corrected Declaration of Armando Vazquez-Ramos in
Support of Plaintiff’s Renewed Motion for Leave to File First Amended
Complaint.” This declaration provides, inter alia, that “I
declare under penalty of perjury under the laws of the State of California that
the foregoing is true and correct.” However, as the corrected declaration was
not timely filed with the moving papers, Defendants have not had the opportunity
to respond to it. The Court notes that “¿[t]he general rule of motion practice…is
that new evidence is not permitted with reply papers.¿” (¿Jay v.
Mahaffey (2013) 218
Cal.App.4th 1522, 1537¿.)  
            Defendants also assert that “[t]hroughout Ms. Sylva’s Declaration,
and particularly commencing in paragraph 19, Ms. Sylva references facts for which she lacks personal knowledge.
She repeatedly makes
statements concerning when Plaintiff discovered facts, which are facts
Plaintiff is required to
attest to, not Ms. Sylva.” (Opp’n at p. 3:17-20.) In the reply, Plaintiff
asserts that “[a] careful inspection of ARMANDO’s Amended Declaration will show
that he personally made these assertions.” (Reply at p. 4:16-17.) But as set
forth above, Plaintiff’s corrected declaration was not timely filed with
the moving papers, and Defendants have not had the opportunity to respond to
it. Thus, the Court declines to consider it. 

Defendants also note
that Plaintiff’s counsel’s declaration does not clearly specify when the facts giving rise to certain
proposed additional allegations were discovered, instead stating that certain
facts were discovered “in
discovery.” (See Sylva Decl., pp. 8-10.)[1] Plaintiff
does not appear to respond to this point in the reply. 
            Lastly,
Defendants assert that Plaintiff’s motion is untimely and will prejudice them.
Defendants indicate that Antonio Ramos Vazquez and Peggy Muse have propounded
written discovery in this action. (Potier Decl., ¶ 9.) Defendants’ counsel asserts
that “Defendants’ discovery is all done, except depositions. Due to the above
discovery activity, my clients have incurred almost $100,000 in attorney fees
much due to discovery and Plaintiff’s willful refusal to comply with discovery.
The discovery included not only propounding the actual discovery, but numerous
detailed follow up meet and confer letters and communications, and Informal
Discovery Conferences that became necessary due to Plaintiff’s failure to
comply.” (Potier Decl., ¶ 10.) In the reply, Plaintiff counters that “[t]he
depositions are still pending. Any new facts or new allegations can be
addressed in these depositions. Defendants’ previous discovery and pending
discovery does not preclude them from learning of the new, or modified,
allegations in the proposed Amended Complaint.” (Reply at p. 7:3-7.) 
            In
any event, in light of the foregoing, particularly Plaintiff’s failure to
comply with California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1324, Plaintiff’s
motion is denied. 
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion is denied without
prejudice.
Plaintiff is ordered to give notice of this Order.
 
DATED:  October 5, 2023                              ________________________________
Hon. Rolf M.
Treu
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court


