  Case Number:  23STCV13121    Hearing Date:   December 18, 2023    Dept:  50 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department
50
 



INSURANCE COMPANY OF THE WEST,
 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
SUDDEN VALLEY HOLDINGS, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


23STCV13121




Hearing Date:


 
  December 18, 2023




Hearing Time:


 10:00 a.m.




TENTATIVE RULING
  RE:  
 
DEFENDANT SUDDEN
  VALLEY HOLDINGS’ MOTION FOR AN ORDER VACATING AND SETTING ASIDE DEFAULT
  ENTERED AGAINST DEFENDANT; 
 
ORDER TO SHOW
  CAUSE RE: REVIEW OF DEFAULT JUDGMENT 
 
 



 
Background
Plaintiff Insurance Company of the West (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
on June 8, 2023 against Defendant Sudden Valley Holdings (“Defendant”). The
Complaint alleges one cause of action for breach of agreement. 
            On August 1, 2023, default was
entered against Defendant.  
Defendant now moves for an order to vacate and set aside the default
entered against Defendant and provide Defendant with leave to file its answer
to Plaintiff’s Complaint. Plaintiff opposes. 
 
Discussion
Code of Civil Procedure section 473,
subdivision (b) provides in pertinent part: 
 
“The court may, upon any terms as may
be just, relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a judgment,
dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against him or her through his or
her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. Application for this
relief shall be accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed
to be filed therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted, and shall
be made within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the
judgment, dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken.”
 “[B]ecause the law strongly favors trial and
disposition on the merits, any doubts in applying section
473 must be resolved in favor of the party seeking relief from default.” (Elston v. City of Turlock (1985) 38 Cal.3d 227, 233 [negative
treatment on other grounds].) Where the party in default moves
promptly to seek relief, and no
prejudice to the opposing party will result from setting aside the
default, “very slight evidence will
be required to justify a court in setting aside the default.” (Ibid.)
On July 27, 2023,
Plaintiff filed a proof of service indicating that Defendant was served with
the Complaint on June 20, 2023 by substituted service. Item 4 of the proof of
service states that the address where the party was served is “325 N
Larchmont Blvd Suite 118, Los Angeles CA 90004.” 
            In
support of the instant motion, Defendant submits the Declaration of Patrick
Henry, Defendant’s CEO. (Henry Decl., ¶ 1.) Mr. Henry states that “[w]hile…325
N. Larchmont Blvd., Suite 118, Los Angeles, CA 90004 is the address listed on
the California Secretary of State website for service of process for Defendant,
325 N. Larchmont Blvd., Los Angeles, CA 90004 is a UPS Store wherein Defendant
rents a private mail box. While Defendant regularly checks its mail there,
Defendant denies ever receiving Plaintiffs Summons or Complaint either from any
UPS Store employee or in the mail.” (Henry Decl., ¶ 2.) Mr. Henry further
states that “[t]he first time that Defendant became aware of this case was when
Defendant received a copy of Plaintiff’s August 16, 2023 request for court
judgment,” and that “[i]mmediately upon receipt of Plaintiff’s August 16, 2023
request for court judgment, Defendant engaged counsel.” (Henry Decl., ¶¶ 2-3.) 
            Defendant asserts that accordingly,
the default entered against Defendant “should be vacated and set aside because
such default result from Defendant’s inadvertence, surprise, or excusable
neglect.” (Mot. at p. 3:4-5.) Defendant also provides a copy of its proposed
answer to the Complaint. (Loakes Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. C.) 
            In the opposition, Plaintiff argues
that “[t]o obtain relief, the party in default must show: (1) a meritorious
defense; (2) a satisfactory excuse for not presenting a defense to the original
action; and (3) diligence in seeking to set aside the default once it was
discovered.” (Opp’n at p. 3:14-16.) In support of this assertion, Plaintiff
cites to Sporn v. Home
Depot USA, Inc. (2005) 126 Cal.App.4th 1294, 1301, where the Court of Appeal noted that “[a]n essential requirement to obtain relief from a judgment
on grounds of extrinsic fraud is that defendant demonstrate a satisfactory
excuse for not defending the action.” But here, Defendant does not seek to obtain
relief from a judgment on the grounds of extrinsic fraud. As discussed,
Defendant moves to set aside the default pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (b).[1]

            Plaintiff
argues that Defendant has “not established a meritorious defense.” (Opp’n at p.
3:18.) But Plaintiff does not appear to cite any legal authority demonstrating
that Defendant must do so on a motion to set aside a default pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (b).

            Plaintiff also asserts that
Defendant has not adequately established excusable neglect. Plaintiff argues
that “Mr. Henry essentially claims this is the correct address for serving
Defendant, he regularly receives mail there, received the request for default
judgment in the mail, and other documents, but conveniently did not receive the
Summons and Complaint…He offers no explanation as to how he also forgets
receiving the request for entry of default which would have also put him on
notice of the pending litigation.” (Opp’n at p. 4:8-13.) 
But as set forth above, pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (b), “[t]he court may, upon any terms
as may be just, relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a
judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against him or her
through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.” (Emphasis
added.) Plaintiff does not appear to assert that Defendant has not shown mistake,
inadvertence, or surprise here. 
Defendant notes that “California Code of Civil
Procedure section 473 provides for relief from judgment or order taken by
mistake, inadvertence, surprise or excusable neglect. ‘Surprise’ referred to in the
provision of this section is ‘some condition or situation in which a party to
cause is unexpectedly placed to his injury, without any default or
negligence of his own, which ordinary prudence could not have guarded against.’”
(Credit
Managers Ass'n v. Nat'l Indep. Bus. Alliance (1984) 162 Cal.App.3d 1166, 1172-1173.) Defendant asserts
that it “was surprised to learn that default had been entered in
a case it did not even know existed…” (Reply at p. 3:5.) 
As
set forth above, Mr. Henry states that “[w]hile the 325 N. Larchmont Blvd.,
Suite 118, Los Angeles, CA 90004 is the address listed on the California
Secretary of State website for service of process for Defendant, 325 N.
Larchmont Blvd., Los Angeles, CA 90004 is a UPS Store wherein Defendant rents a
private mail box. While Defendant regularly checks its mail there, Defendant
denies ever receiving Plaintiffs Summons or Complaint either from any UPS Store
employee or in the mail.” (Henry Decl., ¶ 2.) The Court finds that Defendant
has demonstrated surprise and/or inadvertence for purposes of Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (b). 
In the opposition, Plaintiff also asserts that “[a]lternatively, if
the Court grants Defendants’ Motion, the Court has discretion to award
appropriate monetary sanctions.” (Opp’n at p. 4:19-20.) Plaintiff states that
it “requests the Court award sanctions against Defendants and their counsel of
up to $2,000.00, payable to [Plaintiff].” (Opp’n at p. 4:26-27.) Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision
(c)(1), “(1) Whenever the court grants relief from a
default, default judgment, or dismissal based on any of the provisions of this
section, the court may do any of the following: (A) Impose a penalty of no greater than one thousand dollars ($1,000)
upon an offending attorney or party. (B) Direct that an offending attorney pay an amount
no greater than one thousand dollars ($1,000) to the State Bar Client Security
Fund. (C) Grant other relief as is appropriate.” (Emphasis added.) The Court does not find that the
circumstances here warrant penalties against Defendant or its counsel under Code of Civil Procedure section 473,
subdivision (c)(1). 
Plaintiff also asserts that “[a]n
award of [Plaintiff’s] attorneys’ fees is…warranted.” (Opp’n at p. 5:1.)
Plaintiff seeks “$618.50 in costs incurred in processing the default, preparing
the default judgment package and opposing the motion to vacate default.” (Opp’n
at p. 5:9-11.)
Code of Civil Procedure section 473,
subdivision (b) provides that
“[t]he court shall, whenever relief is granted
based on an attorney’s affidavit of fault, direct the attorney to pay
reasonable compensatory legal fees and costs to opposing counsel or parties.”
Here, Defendant’s motion is not based on an attorney’s affidavit of fault. 
Plaintiff also cites to Jade K. v.
Viguri (1989)
210 Cal.App.3d 1459, 1474, where the
Court of Appeal noted that “Section 473
permits the court to grant relief ‘upon such terms as may be just.’ The court
may properly order payment of costs or attorney fees to the adverse party as
compensation for loss or expense occasioned by the granting of the section 473 motion.” Plaintiff’s counsel states that
Plaintiff “incurred $618.50 in costs incurred in processing the default
and preparing its default judgment package.” (Gascou Decl., ¶ 8.) The Court
finds that this amount is reasonable. 
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, Defendant’s
motion to vacate and set aside default is granted. 
The default entered against Defendant
on August 1, 2023 is ordered set aside.
Defendant is ordered to
pay Plaintiff the amount of $618.50 within 20 days of the date of this Order. Defendant is ordered to file
its answer to the Complaint within 10 days of the date of this Order.  
In light of the foregoing, the Order to Show
Cause Re: Review of Default Judgment scheduled for December 18, 2023 is
vacated. 
Defendant is ordered to
give notice of this Order.
 
DATED:  December 18, 2023            
                        ________________________________
Hon. Rolf M.
Treu
Judge, Los Angeles Superior Court


