 Case Number:  BC703900    Hearing Date:   October 15, 2024    Dept:  14 Case Background
Relevant here, this was an
action arising out of a dispute over a real estate development project. On
October 15, 2019, Plaintiffs 618 Van Ness, LLC (“618”) and Eugene Oak
(“Eugene”) filed their Fourth Amended Complaint (“4AC”) for (1) Quiet Title;
(2) Breach of Contract; (3) Fraud; (4) Malpractice; and (5)-(6) Declaratory
Relief against Defendants BBC Van Ness, LLC (“BBC”); Federal Street Holdings,
LLC (“Federal”); Winter; Van Ness Partners I, LLC (“Partners”); Bixby Bridge
Fund, LLC (“Bixby”); RN Management, LLC (“RN”); Jane Oak (“Jane”); Jane Oak and
Associates, APC (“Associates”); Dong Choi (“Choi”); and DOES 1-25.[1]
The first and third causes of action are asserted against Defendants BBC,
Winter, Federal, Partners, Bixby, and RN, only. The second and sixth causes of
action are asserted against Defendant Choi, only. The fourth cause of action is
asserted against Defendants Jane and Associates, only. The fifth cause of
action is asserted against all Defendants except Defendant Choi.
On June 22, 2020, this court
granted summary judgment in favor of Defendants BBC, Winter, Federal, Partners,
and RN on the 4AC. On August 4, 2020, this court entered judgment in favor of
Defendants BBC, Winter, Federal, Partners, and RN on the 4AC. On September 23,
2020, this court ordered the dismissal of Defendants Jane and Associates,
pursuant to a settlement agreement.
After the June 2020 order
granting summary judgment, Plaintiff filed 17 motions and reserved 36 more
seeking to reverse the court’s ruling. Plaintiff also filed many ex parte applications
seeking the same relief. The Court resorted to periodically vacating each of
Plaintiff’s reservations to prevent Plaintiff from occupying every reservation
spot available on the calendar for months.
On December 7, 2020, this court
revoked Plaintiff Eugene’s fee waiver. On December 15, 2020, Plaintiff Eugene
appeared personally before the court on an ex parte basis and made an oral
request to dismiss the Fourth Amended Complaint without prejudice. (Minute
Order of December 15, 2020). The court granted this motion. On December 18,
2020, the court clarified that the result of this action was a dismissal
without prejudice as to Defendants Choi and Bixby – judgment had already been entered
in favor of Defendants BBC, Winter, Federal, Partners, and RN, and Defendants
Jane and Associates had already been dismissed after settlement. The result of
the December 15, 2020 hearing was a complete disposition of all remaining
aspects of the case.
On January 12, 2021, Judge Terry Green formally
declared Eugene Oak a vexatious litigant in this matter. Under that order, Oak
became subject to a Code of Civil Procedure section § 391.7 prefiling
requirement that requires Oak to get the permission of the presiding judge to
file new litigation. Permission is granted only if it appears the litigation
has merit and is not being filed for purposes of harassment or delay. (Code
Civ. Proc. § 391.7(b).) 
On February 15, Plaintiff made a motion before
Department 1 to vacate the prefiling order against him which was denied because
it was premature.
On July 1, 2024, Plaintiff obtained a new fee waiver
and filed a frivolous motion for reconsideration.
On August 28, 2024, the Court denied Plaintiff’s motion
for reconsideration and found Plaintiff filed the motion in bad faith.
On September 10, 2024, Plaintiff filed this motion to
set aside the August 28, 2024 order denying his motion for reconsideration.
On September 30, 2024, Plaintiff filed a demand for
jury trial.
On October 3, 2024, Plaintiff filed a notice of
mandatory appearance.
On October 3, 2024, Department 1 denied Plaintiff’s
requests for clarification.
On October 10, 2024, Plaintiff filed a request for
withdrawal of Defendants’ attorneys of record and to change a judge trial to
jury trial.
Plaintiff has reserved a hearing on a motion to disqualify
the judicial officer assigned to this department. 
Instant Pleading
Plaintiff moves to set aside the August 28, 2024 order
denying his motion for reconsideration.
Decision
Plaintiff’s motion to set aside the August 28, 2024
order denying his motion for reconsideration is DENIED.The Court sets an OSC re: revocation of fee waiver for November 8, 2024. ___
Discussion
Plaintiff moves to set aside the August 28, 2024 order
denying his motion for reconsideration on the grounds that the order was
entered based on fraud. As will be discussed below, each of Plaintiff’s
arguments is without merit. 
Plaintiff alleges that all Defendants are in default
because they failed to appear for the hearing on the motion for
reconsideration, which took place on August 6, 2024. However, all Defendants in
this matter have been dismissed and cannot be in default. 
Plaintiff also argues that the clerk in this department
extended the time Plaintiff had to file the motion for reconsideration. There
is no law that court clerks are authorized to extend the time limit to file a
motion for reconsideration under Code Civ. Proc., section 1008.
Plaintiff argues that the Court should have granted the
motion for reconsideration due to a change of law because Judge Terry Green
committed bribery. This is not a change of law which would justify setting
aside an order denying Plaintiff’s motion for reconsideration. 
Plaintiff argues Defendant Winter committed fraud,
trickery, deceit, oppression, and malice. This argument is unintelligible and
unrelated to the motion for reconsideration. 
Plaintiff argues vexatious litigant order is not
applicable to Plaintiff in this case because this is not new litigation. The
Court did not deny the motion for reconsideration because of Plaintiff’s status
as a vexatious litigant. 
Plaintiff argues Attorney Eddie Jauregui made
misrepresentations or committed misconduct. Again, this argument is
unintelligible and unrelated to the motion for reconsideration.
Finally, Plaintiff alleges Defendant BBC was never a
grantor. Again, this argument is unintelligible and unrelated to the motion for
reconsideration.
Plaintiff fails to show that the order denying the
motion for reconsideration was entered due to fraud. None of the arguments
raised in his motion to set aside the order have anything to do with equitable
grounds to set aside the order. Therefore, the motion is DENIED.
The Court finds that Plaintiff’s 168-page motion to set
aside was filed in bad faith. In just one month, Plaintiff filed this and many
more frivolous documents in this matter which demonstrate that he is again
engaging in abusive behavior. Pursuant to Gov. Code, section 68636(f),
Plaintiff is ordered to appear at a court hearing to consider whether
limitations should be placed on court services for which Plaintiff’s fees were
waived. 
Conclusion
Plaintiff’s motion to set aside the August 28, 2024
order denying his motion for reconsideration is DENIED. The Court sets an OSC re: revocation of fee waiver for November 8, 2024. 


