 Case Number:  24STCV15211    Hearing Date:   September 19, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court
  of California
County of Los
  Angeles




 
Success Import USA, Inc.,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
24STCV15211




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Mellarius Medical LLC, et al., 


 
 
 
Defendants.


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: September 19, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice Leiter
(2) Demurrers to Complaint
Moving Party: Defendants Mellarius Medical LLC and
Patrick J. Moraites
Responding Party: Success Import USA Inc.
 
T/R:     DEFENDANTS’ DEMURRERS ARE OVERRULED.
 
DEFENDANTS TO FILE AND SERVE ANSWERS TO
THE COMPLAINT WITHIN 30 DAYS OF NOTICE OF RULING.
 
DEFENDANTS TO NOTICE
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please
email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing.
The Court considers the moving papers,
opposition, and reply. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On June 18, 2024, Plaintiff Success
Import USA, Inc. sued Defendants Mellarius Medical LLC and Patrick J. Moraites,
asserting causes of action for (1) breach of contract; (2) accounts stated; and
(3) unjust enrichment. Plaintiff alleges Defendants failed to pay 11 invoices
for medical devices sold, shipped, and delivered by Plaintiff.
 
REQUESTS FOR
JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
Defendants’ requests for judicial
notice are GRANTED.
 
ANALYSIS
 
A demurrer to a complaint may be taken to the whole complaint or to any
of the causes of action in it.  (CCP §
430.50(a).)  A demurrer challenges only
the legal sufficiency of the complaint, not the truth of its factual
allegations or the plaintiff's ability to prove those allegations.  (Picton v. Anderson Union High Sch. Dist. (1996)
50 Cal. App. 4th 726, 732.)  The court
must treat as true the complaint's material factual allegations, but not
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.  (Id. at 732-33.)  The complaint is to be construed liberally to
determine whether a cause of action has been stated.  (Id. at 733.)
 
Defendants demur to the complaint on the ground that Plaintiff, as a
foreign corporation, cannot maintain an action in California under Corp. Code § 2203(c). This provision states, 
 
A foreign
corporation . . . which transacts intrastate business without complying with
section 2105 shall not maintain any action or proceeding upon any intrastate business
so transacted in any court of this state, commenced prior to compliance with
section 2105, until it has complied with the provisions thereof and has paid to
the Secretary of State a penalty of two hundred fifty dollars ($250) in
addition to the fees due for filing the statement and designation required by
section 2105 and has filed with the clerk of the court in which the action is
pending receipts showing the payment of the fees and penalty and all franchise
taxes and any other taxes on business or property in this state that should
have been paid for the period during which it transacted intrastate business.
 
Defendants, who are Florida residents, assert that Plaintiff has conducted
substantial business within California while failing to pay state taxes and
comply with state law. According to Defendants, Plaintiff has its principal
place of business in California, its CEO lives in California, and invoices
reflect Plaintiff conducts business from California. According to judicially
noticeable documents, Plaintiff registered with the California State Franchise
Board after filing this action. The registration shows Plaintiff is in “good
standing” with the board.
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues that Defendant has not shown that
Plaintiff needed to register in California and must pay back taxes.  Plaintiff asserts that the complaint and
evidence presented by Defendant show only that Plaintiff conducted interstate
business between Plaintiff and Defendants located in Florida. The Court agrees.
Corporations Code § 191 defines
"transacting intrastate business" as "entering into repeated and
successive transactions of its business in this state, other than interstate or
foreign commerce." Here, the complaint and invoices show Plaintiff sold
goods to Defendants in Florida. Defendants have not shown Plaintiff engaged in
transactions in this state that are not interstate commerce. 
 
Defendants’ demurrers are
OVERRULED.
 
 
 
 