 Case Number:  24STCV05054    Hearing Date:   July 8, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior
  Court of California
County of
  Los Angeles




 
Priscilla Moreno,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
24STCV05054




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Retirement Housing Foundation, Foundation Property
  Management, Inc., Las Alturas RHF Housing Partners, LP


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: July 8, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion to Compel Arbitration and Stay Proceedings
Moving Party: Defendants
Retirement Housing Foundation, Foundation Property Management, and Las Alturas
RHF Housing Partners, LP
Responding Party:
Plaintiff Priscilla Moreno
 
T/R:    DEFENDANTS’ MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION IS
GRANTED. 
 
THE ACTION IS
STAYED.
 
DEFENDANT RHF TO GIVE NOTICE.  
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative,
please email the courtroom at¿SMCdept54@lacourt.org¿with notice
to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the day of
the hearing.
The Court
considers the moving papers, opposition, and reply.
 
BACKGROUND
            
This is a wrongful termination
case between Plaintiff Priscilla Moreno and Defendants Retirement Housing Foundation, Foundation Property
Management, and Las Alturas RHF Housing Partners, LP (collectively “RHF”).  Generally, Plaintiff alleges that she was subjected
to age discrimination and that she opposed elder abuse she witnessed. Plaintiff
also claims she opposed fraud committed by RHF, which falsely claimed they had
performed services for a longer period than they had. The operative  First Amended Complaint alleges nine causes of action: (1)
Retaliation in Violation of Gov’t Code § 12940(h); (2) Retaliation in Violation
of Labor Code § 1102.5(b); (3) Wrongful Termination in Violation of Public
Policy; (4) Defamation (Civ. Code §§ 45, 45a, 46); (5) Age Discrimination in
Violation of FEHA (Gov’t Code § 12940(h)); (6) Failure to Permit Inspection of
Employee Records (Cal. Lab. Code § 226); (7) Failure to Prevent Discrimination
and Retaliation (Gov’t Code § 12940(k)); (8) Hostile Work Environment (Gender)
in Violation of Gov’t Code § 12940(j)(1); and (9) Discrimination (Gender) in
Violation of Gov’t Code § 12940(a).
 
ANALYSIS
 
“On petition of a
party to an arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement
to arbitrate a controversy and that a party thereto refuses to arbitrate a
controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to
arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the
controversy exists….”  (CCP §
1281.2.)  The right to compel arbitration
exists unless the court finds that the right has been waived by a party’s
conduct, other grounds exist for revocation of the agreement, or where a
pending court action arising out of the same transaction creates the
possibility of conflicting rulings on a common issue of law or fact.   (CCP § 1281.2(a)-(c).)  “The party seeking arbitration bears the
burden of proving the existence of an arbitration agreement, and the party
opposing arbitration bears the burden of proving any defense, such as
unconscionability.”  (Pinnacle Museum Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle
Market Development (US), LLC (2012) 55 Cal.4th 223, 236.) 
 
A. Existence of Arbitration Agreement
 
            Defendant
moves to compel arbitration based on the Arbitration Agreement between
Plaintiff and RHF, dated June 25, 2018. The agreement provides, in pertinent
part, “any and all disputes arising out of relating to Employee’s employment
with the Company, or the termination of that employment, shall be submitted to
final and binding arbitration. Such disputes shall include, but are not limited
to, any claim of harassment of discrimination in violation of any federal or
state law, or any other aspect of Employee’s compensation, employment, or the
termination of employment . . . as may arise between the Employee and Company
or its parent, subsidiaries, affiliates or agents . . . “  (Id.) 
 
This action arises
out of Plaintiff Moreno’s employment and termination from that employment. Defendant
has demonstrated the existence of an arbitration agreement.
 
B. Applicability of
the FAA and Amendment Ending Forced Arbitration of Sexual Assault and Sexual
Harassment Act (EFAA)
            
            Plaintiff
argues that the pre-dispute arbitration agreement is invalid under the Ending
Forced Arbitration of Sexual Assault and Sexual Harassment Act of 2021, 9 USC
§§ 401-402 (“EFAA”). The EFAA states: “At the election of the person alleging
conduct constituting sexual harassment dispute or sexual assault dispute . .
.  no pre-dispute arbitration agreement.
. . . shall be enforceable with respect to a case which is filed under Federal,
Tribal, or State law and relates to the sexual assault dispute or the sexual
harassment dispute. (9 USC ¶-402(a).) Plaintiff contends that her claim for
gender-based hostile work environment is a “sexual harassment dispute” under
California Law because FEHA defines sexual harassment broadly. Plaintiff says
that the harassing conduct “need not have anything to do with sexual advances.”
(Acardi v. Superior Court (1993) 17 Cal.App.4th 341, 348.)
 
Plaintiff has not alleged a sexual harassment cause of action subject to
the EFAA. Her claims based on gender-based hostile work environment are not sexual
harassment claims. Plaintiff has alleged a single occasion –
May 12, 2023 – on which she was told she was “too old for her position,
forgetful” and was asked about her “hormones.” (First Amended Complaint (“FAC”)
¶ 20.) She allegedly received a separate comment a month later that “All this
crying stuff has to go.” (FAC ¶ 21.) Plaintiff does not allege that the second
comment bore any connection to Plaintiff’s age, gender, or medical condition. These
comments do not rise to the level of an actionable claim for sexual harassment.
(Hughes v. Pair (2009) 46 Cal.4th 1035, 1044.)
 
C.
Enforceability
 
Plaintiff argues that the agreement is procedurally
and substantively unconscionable. As the agreement was presented on a take it
or leave it basis, there is a low degree of procedural unconscionability. But this alone does not render the
arbitration agreement unconscionable. To find the agreement unenforceable, the
degree of substantive unconscionability must be high. (See Dotson v. Amgen, Inc. (2010) 181 Cal.App.4th 975, 981.) 
 
Plaintiff also asserts
that the agreement is procedurally unconscionable because Defendant did not
provide Plaintiff with a copy of the applicable arbitration rules. Defendant
argues that the rules were readily available on the internet and accessible to
the public. Defendant cites Lane v. Francis Capital Mgmt. LLC (2014) 224
CA 4th 676, 691, in which the court found that procedural
unconscionability may be lessened where the applicable rules are readily
available on the internet. Here, the Agreement also provides that a copy of the
rules would be produced to the employee on request, but Plaintiff never
requested a copy. This does not raise the level of procedural
unconscionability.  
 
Plaintiff argues the
agreement is substantively unconscionable because it lacks mutuality by only
covering claims the employee is likely to bring against the employer. But the
Agreement states that it governs “any and all disputes arising out of or
relating to Employee’s employment with the Company. . .” Plaintiff does not
demonstrate how this language shows non-mutuality.  Plaintiff has failed to establish a high
degree of substantive unconscionability. 
 
Defendant’s motion to
compel arbitration is GRANTED; the Action is STAYED.
 