  Case Number:  22STCP03668    Hearing Date:   April 22, 2024    Dept:  26 Superior Court of
California
County of Los Angeles
Department 26



 
QUALITY LOAN SERVICE
  CORP.,
                        Petitioner,
            v.
 
ALL CLAIMANTS TO
  SUPRLUS FUNDS AFTER TRUSTEE SALE OF REAL PROPERTY LOCATED AT 1353 W. 90TH
  STREET, LOS ANGELES, CA 90044,
                        Respondents.


 
  Case No.: 
  22STCP03668
 
  Hearing Date:  April 5, 2023
 
[TENTATIVE] order RE:
Respondent/claimant’s motion for order vacting default and
  allowing claim of surplus funds 



 
Background
            On
October 7, 2022, Petitioner Quality Loan Service Corp. (“Petitioner”) filed the
instant petition pursuant to Civil Code § 2924j(c) to deposit surplus funds
from a deed of trust sale of the real property located at 1353 W. 90th
St., Los Angeles, CA 90044.
            On
November 3, 2022, Petitioner filed a motion to deposit surplus funds pursuant
to Civil Code § 2924j. 
            On
April 27, 2023, the Court, with Judge Elaine Lu presiding, granted Petitioner’s motion to deposit the surplus funds.
The surplus funds of $87,759.58 were ordered to be deposited with the clerk of
the court forthwith. 
            On
July 19, 2023, the Court held a hearing to consider all competing claims to the
surplus funds in accordance with Civil Code § 2924j, subd. (d). Because no
claims were filed, the Court set this matter for an OSC re: Escheating of Funds
to the Los Angeles Superior Court for July 20, 2026. 
            On
November 30, 2023, Claimant Louise Kelly filed the instant motion for order
vacating default and allowing claim of surplus funds pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure § 473, subd. (b).
            No
opposition has been received. 
Legal
Standard
Code of Civil Procedure § 473(b) provides
in part: 
 
“The court may,
upon any terms as may be just, relieve a party or his or her legal
representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken
against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
excusable neglect. Application for this relief shall be accompanied by a copy
of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed therein, otherwise the
application shall not be granted, and shall be made within a reasonable time,
in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment, dismissal, order, or
proceeding was taken. . . . No affidavit or declaration of merits shall be
required of the moving party. Notwithstanding any other requirements of this
section, the court shall, whenever an application for relief is made no more
than six months after entry of judgment, is in proper form, and is accompanied
by an attorney's sworn affidavit attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or neglect, vacate any (1) resulting default entered by the clerk
against his or her client, and which will result in entry of a default
judgment, or (2) resulting default judgment or dismissal entered against his or
her client, unless the court finds that the default or dismissal was not in
fact caused by the attorney's mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect. The
court shall, whenever relief is granted based on an attorney's affidavit of
fault, direct the attorney to pay reasonable compensatory legal fees and costs
to opposing counsel or parties.”
 
Discussion
Here, Claimant Louise Kelley (“Kelley”) moves “for an order vacating the dismissal
entered on May 9, 2023, wherein the Court entered an order re: Surplus Funds in
the case.” (Notice of Motion at pp. 1-2.) However, a dismissal has never been
entered in this case. Upon review of the instant motion, it appears that
Kelly may miscomprehend the proceeds that have transpired. As stated above, the
Court granted Petitioner’s motion to deposit
the surplus funds on April 27, 2023. Notice of this order was issued on May 9,
2023. Based on the proof of service enclosed within the notice, Kelley was
mailed a copy of the notice in the care of Secured Capital LLC, 402 W.
Broadway, Suite #400, San Diego, CA 92101. 
Moreover, the
order issued on April 27, 2023 had no bearing on Kelley’s ability to submit a
claim. In fact, it facilitated such an opportunity. “Within 90 days after
deposit with the clerk, the court shall consider all claims filed at least 15
days before the date on which the hearing is scheduled by the court, the clerk
shall serve written notice of the hearing by first-class mail on all claimants
identified in the trustee's declaration at the addresses specified therein.” (Civ. Code, §
2924j, subd. (d).) Even though Kelley attests that she became homeless
since the foreclosure of the subject property, her declaration does not fully
articulate why service at the 402 W. Broadway address was insufficient. (Kelley
Decl. ¶¶ 4-6.) 
Nevertheless, while Civil Code § 2924j
provides a general timeline for claims to be considered, it does not expressly
state that the court is precluded from considering claims made reasonably after
the 90-day deadline. Furthermore, based on the underlying petition and Kelley’s
declaration, she was the record owner of the subject property. (See Pet. ¶ 3;
Kelley Decl. ¶¶ 2-3.) Civil Code § 2924k establishes the order of priority for
distribution of the surplus funds with the trustor being last. Other than the claim
asserted now, a review of the Court file reveals that no party has filed any
claim to the surplus funds. As a result, under Civil Code section 2924k(a)(4),
the funds should be distributed to the trustor on the deed of trust, who is
identified as Louise Kelley.
The Court will deem Kelley’s motion as a
claim to the subject surplus funds. As there has been no opposition to the
motion, the Court will order that the surplus funds be released to Kelley.
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
Based on the foregoing, Claimant Louise
Kelley’s Motion for Order Vacating Default and Allowing Claim of Surplus Fund is
DENIED, in part as to the request to vacate a dismissal. The Court having
deemed the instant motion as a claim to the surplus funds on deposit with the
court, the Court GRANTS the claim and hereby orders that surplus funds in the
amount of  $87,759.58 shall be released to Louise Kelley.
 Clerk
to give notice. 
 
DATED: April ___, 2024                                                       ___________________________
                                                                                          Yolanda
Orozco
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court