 Case Number:  22STCV38301    Hearing Date:   September 24, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




forex express corp., d/b/a
   wirecash

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
inter & co. payments,
   inc., f/k/a pronto money transfer, inc., d/b/a pontual

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


22STCV38301




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


September
   24, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[tentative]
  Order RE:
 
plaintiff’s motion to seal portions of joint
  reply and supporting documents
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                 Plaintiff Forex Express Corp.,
d/b/a WireCash          
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Defendant Eliran Grushkowsky
Motion to Seal Portions of Joint Reply and Supporting Documents
The court considered the moving and reply papers filed in connection
with this motion. 
The court did not consider “Defendant Eliran Grushkowsky’s Limited
Oppositions to Plaintiff Forex Express Corp.’s Notice of Motion and Motion to
Seal Mottram Declaration,” filed on September 13, 2024, because it was not
filed with the court and served on the parties at least nine court days before
the hearing.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1005,
subd. (b).) 
DISCUSSION
Plaintiff Forex Express Corp., d/b/a WireCash (“Plaintiff”) moves the
court for an order filing under seal (1) page 8, lines 20-23, page 9, lines 7
and 22, page 10, lines 1, 2-3, and 12-14, and page 11, lines 1-3 and 11-12 of
“Defendants’ Joint Reply in Further Support of the Motion to Quash Non-Party
Subpoenas,” filed by defendants Inter & Co. Payments, Inc., Inter &
Co., Inc., and Eliran Grushkowsky on April 23, 2024, (2) page 6, lines 1-7 and page
6, line 27 through page 8, line 4 of the “Supplemental Objections and Responses
to Defendant Inter & Co. Payments, Inc.’s First Set of Special
Interrogatories,” attached as Exhibit A to the declaration of Rachel Feldman
filed on April 23, 2024, and (3) page 244, line 1 through page 247, line 25, of
the deposition transcript of Plaintiff’s person most qualified, attached as
Exhibit D to the declaration of Rachel Feldman filed on April 23, 2024.  Plaintiff requests this relief on the ground
that these documents quote from, paraphrase, or discuss information (1) set
forth in Plaintiff’s trade secret disclosures, that (2) the court previously
ordered sealed.  
Generally, court records are presumed to be open unless
confidentiality is required by law.¿ (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.550, subd.
(c).)¿ If the presumption of access applies, the court may order that a record
be filed under seal “if it expressly finds facts that establish: (1) There
exists an overriding interest that overcomes the right of public access to the
record; (2) The overriding interest supports sealing the record; (3) A
substantial probability exists that the overriding interest will be prejudiced
if the record is not sealed; (4) The proposed sealing is narrowly tailored; and
(5) No less restrictive means exist to achieve the overriding interest.”¿ (Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 2.550, subd. (d).)¿¿Further, in an action brought under
the Uniform Trade Secrets Act, “a court shall preserve the secrecy of an
alleged trade secret by reasonable means, which may include . . . sealing the
records of the action . . . .”  (Civ.
Code, § 3426.5.) 
First, the court finds, as to the information set forth on page 8,
between lines 20-23, page 9, lines 7 and 22, page 10, lines 1, 2-3, and 12-14,
and page 11, lines 1-3 and 11-12 of the “Joint Reply in Support of Defendants’
Motions to Quash Subpoenas for Production of Business Records to Amazon Web
Services, Inc., and Github Inc.[,]” that Plaintiff has not shown that there exists
an overriding interest that overcomes the right of public access to the record
since those portions of the reply papers do not include information regarding
Plaintiff’s trade secrets.  (Cal. Rules
of Ct., rule 2.550, subd. (d)(1).)  The
court therefore denies Plaintiff’s motion to seal those portions of the reply
papers.
Second, the court finds, as to page 6, lines 1-7 and page 6, line 26
through page 8, line 4 of the “Supplemental Objections and Responses to
Defendant Inter & Co. Payments, Inc.’s First Set of Special
Interrogatories,” that (1) there exists an overriding interest that overcomes
the right of public access to the record because it includes information
regarding Plaintiff’s potential trade secrets, (2) the overriding interest
supports sealing the record to ensure the confidentiality of Plaintiff’s
potential trade secrets, (3) a substantial probability exists that the
overriding interest will be prejudiced if the record is not sealed, (4) the
proposed sealing, which seeks to seal only a few portions of the objections, is
narrowly tailored, and (5) no less restrictive means exist to achieve the
overriding interest.  (Cal. Rules of Ct.,
rule 2.550, subd. (d); Civ. Code, § 3426.5 [court shall preserve the secrecy of
“an alleged trade secret”].)  The court
therefore grants Plaintiff’s motion to seal as to that information. 
Third, the court finds, as to page 244, line 1, through page 245, line
20, and page 245, line 23 (beginning with “And all of those were stolen, yes”),
through page 247, line 16 of the deposition of Jonathan Cooper, that Plaintiff
has not met its burden to show that there exists an overriding interest that
overcomes the right of public access to the record because these portions of
the deposition discuss the number of trade secrets allegedly misappropriated
and the availability for review of the trade secrets, but do not discuss the
substance of any of Plaintiff’s alleged trade secrets.  The court therefore denies Plaintiff’s motion
to seal as to that information.
Fourth, the court finds, as to page 245, lines 20-23, and page 247,
line 25 of the deposition of Jonathan Cooper, that (1) there exists an
overriding interest that overcomes the right of public access to the record
because it includes information regarding Plaintiff’s potential trade secrets,
(2) the overriding interest supports sealing the record to ensure the
confidentiality of Plaintiff’s potential trade secrets, (3) a substantial
probability exists that the overriding interest will be prejudiced if the record
is not sealed, (4) the proposed sealing is narrowly tailored, and (5) no less
restrictive means exist to achieve the overriding interest.  (Cal. Rules of Ct., rule 2.550, subd. (d); Civ.
Code, § 3426.5 [court shall preserve the secrecy of “an alleged trade
secret”].)  The court therefore grants
Plaintiff’s motion to seal as to that information.
ORDER
            The court grants in part and denies
in part plaintiff Forex Express Corp., d/b/a WireCash’s motion to seal portions
of joint reply and supporting documents as follows. 
The court orders that the unredacted versions of the following
documents, lodged with the court on or about April 23, 2024, shall be filed
under seal: (1) the “Supplemental Objections and Responses to Defendant Inter
& Co. Payments, Inc.’s First Set of Special Interrogatories,” attached as
Exhibit A to the “Reply Declaration of Rachel Feldman in Support of Defendants’
Motions to Quash Subpoenas for Production of Business Records to Amazon Web
Services, Inc. and Github Inc.,” and (2) the deposition transcript of Jonathan
Cooper, attached as Exhibit D to the “Reply Declaration of Rachel Feldman in
Support of Defendants’ Motions to Quash Subpoenas for Production of Business
Records to Amazon Web Services, Inc. and Github Inc.”
The court orders plaintiff Forex Express Corp., d/b/a WireCash to file
(1) a revised version of the filing entitled “Defendants’ Joint Reply in
Further Support of the Motion to Quash Non-Party Subpoenas” that is unredacted,
and (2) a revised redacted version of the “Reply Declaration of Rachel Feldman
in Support of Defendants’ Motions to Quash Subpoenas for Production of Business
Records to Amazon Web Services, Inc. and Github Inc.,” which (i) is identified
as “Public-Redacts materials from sealed record,” (ii) redacts the information
set forth on page 6, lines 1-7 and page 6, line 26 through page 8, line 4 of
the “Supplemental Objections and Responses to Defendant Inter & Co.
Payments, Inc.’s First Set of Special Interrogatories,” attached to the
declaration as Exhibit A, and (iii) redacts only the information on page 245,
lines 20-23, and page 247, line 25 of the deposition of Jonathan Cooper,
attached to the declaration as Exhibit D.
Pursuant to California Rules of Court, rule 2.551, subdivision (e),
the court directs the clerk to file this order, maintain the records ordered
sealed in a secure manner, and clearly identify the records as sealed by this
order.  
 
 
 
 
 
            The court orders plaintiff Forex
Express Corp., d/b/a WireCash to give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  September 24, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court