  Case Number:  23CHCV01278    Hearing Date:   April 16, 2024    Dept:  F51  APRIL 15, 2024    DEMURRERS  Los Angeles Superior Court Case  # 23CHCV01278    Demurrers Filed: 10/24/23,  1/22/24   MOVING PARTY: Defendants Michael Robinson, M.D.; The  Regents of the University of California; and Henry Mayo Newhall Memorial  Hospital (collectively, “Defendants”) RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff  Manish Mishra (“Plaintiff”)  NOTICE: OK    RELIEF REQUESTED: Defendants  Michael Robinson, M.D. and The Regents of the University of California demur  against the third cause of action in Plaintiff’s first amended complaint  (“FAC”). Defendant Henry Mayo Newhall Memorial Hospital demurs against the  entire FAC.   TENTATIVE RULING: Both demurrers are sustained with 30 days leave to amend.  The Plaintiff’s late filed opposition was not  considered.     BACKGROUND    This is a  medical malpractice action in which Plaintiff alleges that on 4/26/22, during a  colectomy procedure, his doctor, Defendant Michael Robinson, M.D. “attempted  and performed a second procedure, the removal of Mr. Mishra’s transverse colon,  which was not only medically unnecessary, it was outside the scope of Mr.  Mishra’s consent.” (FAC ¶ 1.) “It was soon discovered that Mr. Mishra’s colon  was leaking and a second surgery was scheduled. During this follow-up surgery,  performed to repair the colon leak, Dr. Robinson once again performed  negligently, and Mr. Mishra’s colon was not repaired.” (Id. at ¶ 2.) Defendant  Henry Mayo Newhall Memorial Hospital (the “Hospital”) allegedly employed Dr.  Robinson. (Id. at ¶ 4.)   On 5/1/23,  Plaintiff filed his original complaint against Defendants, alleging the  following causes of action: (1) Medical Negligence; (2) Medical Negligence –  Lack of Informed Consent; and (3) Medical Battery. On 9/20/23, Plaintiff filed  his FAC, alleging the same causes of action. On 10/13/23, Plaintiff named The  Regents of the University of California (the “Regents”) as previously unnamed  Doe Defendant 2.   On 10/24/23,  Dr. Robinson and the Regents filed their demurrer. On 1/22/24, the Hospital  filed its demurrer. Plaintiff filed her late opposition on April 12, 2024.  ANALYSIS   As a general matter, a party may respond to a pleading  against it by demurrer on the basis of any single or combination of eight  enumerated grounds, including that “the pleading does not state facts  sufficient to constitute a cause of action” and is uncertain, meaning  “ambiguous and unintelligible.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subds. (e) and  (f).) In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the  pleading or via proper judicial notice.¿(Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co.  (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)¿   “A demurrer tests the pleading alone, and not the evidence  or facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants, Inc. Servs.  (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the court assumes the truth of the  complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Ibid.) The  only issue a demurrer is concerned with is whether the complaint, as it stands,  states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th  740, 747.)    Here, Dr.  Robinson and the Regents demur to Plaintiff’s third cause of action for failure  to allege facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action for Medical Battery.  The Hospital demurs to the entire FAC for failure to allege facts sufficient to  constitute any cause of action, and for uncertainty.   A.    Meet  and Confer   Before filing its demurrer, “the demurring party shall meet  and confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that  is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can  be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41, subd. (a).) The demurring party must file and  serve a meet and confer declaration stating either: “(A) The means by which the  demurring party met and conferred with the party who filed the pleading subject  to demurrer, and that the parties did not reach an agreement resolving the  objections raised in the demurrer;” or “(B) That the party who filed the  pleading subject to demurrer failed to respond to the meet and confer request  of the demurring party or otherwise failed to meet and confer in good faith.” (Id.  at subd. (a)(3).)   Here, counsel for Dr. Robinson and the Regents declares that  on 10/20/23, he sent Plaintiff’s counsel a meet and confer letter regarding the  issues raised in his clients’ demurrer, but the parties were unable to resolve  the dispute. (Decl. of John Aitelli, ¶¶ 4–5.) Counsel for the Hospital declares  that on 10/30/23, 11/15/23, 11/29/23, 12/6/23, 1/9/24, and 1/14/23, he met and  conferred with Plaintiff’s counsel regarding the issues raised in the  Hospital’s demurrer, but the parties were unable to resolve the dispute. (Decl.  of Tony Hsu, ¶¶ 6–10.) Therefore, the Court finds that counsel has satisfied  the preliminary meet and confer requirements of Code of Civil Procedure section  430.41, subdivision (a).   B.     Medical  Negligence   Plaintiff’s  first cause of action alleges against all Defendants Medical Negligence. “The  elements of a cause of action for medical malpractice are: (1) a duty to use  such skill, prudence, and diligence as other members of the profession commonly  possess and exercise; (2) a breach of the duty; (3) a proximate causal  connection between the negligent conduct and the injury; and (4) resulting loss  or damage.” (Chakalis v. Elevator Solutions, Inc. (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th  1557, 1571.)   Here, the  Hospital argues that “the FAC fails to specify when plaintiff was under the  care of defendant HENRY MAYO, the care that was rendered to him by HENRY MAYO,  and in what way the care provided to plaintiff by HENRY MAYO was substandard.”  (Hospital Dem. 4:12–14.) “The factual allegations plead in the FAC make no  mention of facts relevant to plaintiff’s claims against HENRY MAYO. …  Furthermore, Plaintiff’s allegations are entirely based on the medical care and  treatment he received from Dr. Robinson without any factual allegations  pertaining to the HENRY MAYO hospital staff.” (Id. at 8–11.)   Upon review  of the FAC, the Court finds that the only mention of the Hospital is as  follows: “Defendant Henry Mayo Newhall Memorial Hospital, is, and at all times  herein relevant was, a healthcare facility lawfully conducting business in  Valencia, in Los Angeles County, California, and is the ostensible employer  of Dr. Robinson and Does 2-20, inclusive.” (FAC ¶ 4.) However, Plaintiff  fails to allege any conduct by the Hospital nor any theory of liability against  the Hospital. The Court notes that Plaintiff has failed to file any opposition  to the instant demurrers. Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that  Plaintiff has not alleged facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action for  Medical Negligence against the Hospital.   Accordingly,  the Hospital’s demurrer is sustained as to Plaintiff’s first cause of action.   C.    Lack  of Informed Consent   Plaintiff’s  second cause of action alleges against all Defendants Medical Negligence – Lack  of Informed Consent. To state this cause of action, a plaintiff must allege  that (1) the defendant performed a medical procedure on him, (2) the defendant  failed to disclose certain information to him that was material to his decision  when soliciting his consent to a medical procedure, (3) a reasonable person in  the plaintiff’s position would not have agreed to the procedure if he had been  adequately informed, and (4) breach of the duty to disclose certain information  caused damaged to the plaintiff. (Jameson v. Desta (2013) 215  Cal.App.4th 1144, 1164; Saxena v. Goffney (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 316,  324 [“A claim based on lack of informed consent—which sounds in  negligence—arises when the doctor performs a procedure without first adequately  disclosing the risks and alternatives”]; Cobbs v. Grant (1972) 8 Cal.3d  229, 245 [“There must be a causal relationship between the physician’s failure  to inform and the injury to the plaintiff. Such causal connection arises only  if it is established that had revelation been made consent to treatment would  not have been given”].)   Here, the  Hospital argues that “as a matter of law, a patient’s physician, not the  hospital, is responsible for obtaining any necessary informed consent.”  (Hospital Dem. 5:23–24, citing Mathis v. Morrissey (1992) 11 Cal.App.4th  332, 343; Cobbs, 8 Cal.3d at 242; Mahannah v. Hirsch (1987) 191  Cal.App.3d 1520, 1527–1528.) The Hospital therefore contends that “Plaintiff’s  FAC seeks to extend a physician’s duty to obtain informed consent to an entity  with whom they have no physician-patient relationship at all.” (Id. at  6:1–2.)   The Court  agrees, and again notes that Plaintiff has failed to oppose the instant  demurrers. Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that Plaintiff has not  alleged facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action for Lack of Informed  Consent against the Hospital. Accordingly, the Hospital’s demurrer is sustained  as to Plaintiff’s second cause of action.   D.    Medical  Battery   Plaintiff’s  third cause of action alleges against all Defendants Medical Battery. To state  this cause of action, a plaintiff must allege: (1) that the defendant performed  a medical procedure without the plaintiff’s consent, or that the plaintiff  consented to one medical procedure, but the defendant performed a substantially  different medical procedure; (2) harm to the plaintiff; and (3) that the  defendant’s conduct was a substantial factor in causing the plaintiff’s harm. (Judicial  Council of California Civil Jury Instruction No. 530A.)   “The  battery theory should be reserved for those circumstances when a doctor  performs an operation to which the patient has not consented. When the patient  gives permission to perform one type of treatment and the doctor performs  another, the requisite element of deliberate intent to deviate from the consent  given is present. However, when the patient consents to certain treatment and  the doctor performs that treatment but an undisclosed inherent complication  with a low probability occurs, no intentional deviation from the consent given  appears; rather, the doctor in obtaining consent may have failed to meet his  due care duty to disclose pertinent information. In that situation the action  should be pleaded in negligence.” (Cobbs, 8 Cal.3d at 240.)   Here, the  Hospital reiterates its argument that it had no duty to obtain Plaintiff’s  informed consent, and therefore cannot be liable for Medical Battery. (Hospital  Dem. 6:26–7:1.) Defendants further argue that Plaintiff’s central allegation,  namely that Dr. Robinson removed Plaintiff’s transverse colon without first  obtaining Plaintiff’s informed consent, is based on a medical procedure that is  not “substantially different” to a colectomy procedure, to which Plaintiff  consented. (Id. at 6:24–26; Robinson Dem. 5:16–22 [“Nowhere does  plaintiff state that defendants MICHAEL ROBINSON, M.D. and/or his employer, THE  REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, performed a substantially different  procedure than that to which he consented. In fact, Dr. ROBINSON performed the  exact procedure to which plaintiff consented and no others.”].)   The Court  agrees with Dr. Robinson and the Regents that “plaintiff’s First Amended  Complaint fails to identify how the surgery performed (a colectomy, i.e.  removing a portion of the colon) was different from that to which plaintiff  consented and what facts established that defendants intended to perform a procedure  different from that to which he consented.” (Robinson Dem. 7:7–10.) As the  demurrers are unopposed, the Court finds that Plaintiff has failed to allege  facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action for Medical Battery against  Defendants. Accordingly, the Court sustains both demurrers against Plaintiff’s  third cause of action. E.     Uncertainty   Generally  speaking, “demurrers for uncertainty are disfavored and thus are strictly construed  because ambiguities can reasonably be clarified under modern rules of  discovery. Such demurrers are granted only if the pleading is so  incomprehensible that defendant cannot reasonably respond.” (Cal.Jur.3d § 137.)  “Where the complaint contains substantive factual allegations sufficiently  apprising defendant of the issues it is being asked to meet, a demurrer for  uncertainty should be overruled or plaintiff given leave to amend.” (Williams  v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (2011) 185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139 fn.2.)    Here, the  Hospital that Plaintiff’s complaint is uncertain pursuant to Code of Civil  Procedure section 430.10, subdivision (f). In applying the stringent standard  for demurrers filed on this ground, the Court finds that the complaint is not  “so incomprehensible” that the Hospital cannot respond, especially given the  extensive analysis it has offered against the pleading. Accordingly, the  Hospital’s demurrer is overruled on this ground.   F.     Leave  to Amend   Where a  demurrer is sustained, leave to amend must be allowed where there is a  reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy  (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) The burden is on the plaintiff to show the court  that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.; Lewis v. YouTube,  LLC (2015) 244 Cal.App.4th 118, 226.) However, “[i]f there is any  reasonable possibility that the plaintiff can state a good cause of action, it  is error to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend.” (Youngman v. Nevada  Irrigation Dist. (1969) 70 Cal.2d 240, 245).    Here, the  Court notes that while Plaintiff failed to timely oppose the demurrers, these  are the first demurrers brought against Plaintiff’s operative pleading in this  action. Therefore, under the Court’s liberal policy of granting leave to amend,  Plaintiff is granted 30 days leave to amend the FAC to cure the defects set  forth above.   CONCLUSION    Both demurrers  are sustained with 30 days leave to amend.