 Case Number:  23STCV13089    Hearing Date:   December 14, 2023    Dept:  78 Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles Department 78   AARON GONZALEZ,Plaintiff, vs. MANHATTAN LOFT, LLC, et al.,  Defendants.  Case No: 23STCV13089 Hearing Date: December 14, 2023       [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:  DEFENDANT FPI MANAGEMENT, INC.’S DEMURRER AND MOTION TO STRIKE Defendant FPI Management, Inc.’s Demurrer to the Complaint is OVERRULED as to the First, Second, Third, Fourth, Sixth, Eighth and Eleventh causes of action.The Demurrer is SUSTAINED as to the Seventh and Tenth causes of action. Plaintiff’s demand for monetary damages in paragraph 165 is stricken. The motion to strike is GRANTED as to the demands for punitive damages, civil penalties under LAMC 45.35, and restitution under Business and Professions Code, section 17200, et seq. The motion is DENIED as to the prayer for special damages under Civ. Code, section 1942.4(b)(1).Leave to amend is granted.If Plaintiff wishes to file a first amended complaint, Plaintiff must file and serve the first amended complaint within 10 days after the date of this order.Moving party to provide notice.FACTUAL BACKGROUND This is an action for violation of Civ. Code, section 1942.4, breach of the implied warranty of habitability, private nuisance, violation of Bus. Prof. Code, section 17200, et seq., negligence, breach of the covenant of quiet enjoyment, and intentional infliction of emotional distress. (“IIED”).Plaintiff Aaron Gonzalez is a resident of Defendants’ property located at 215 W 6th Street, Unit 708, Los Angeles, California 90013. (Compl., ¶1.) During his tenancy, Plaintiff’s unit had a cockroach infestation, deteriorating walls and ceilings, a faulty electrical system, unsanitary and worn flooring, mold contamination, dysfunctional plumbing, a lack of air conditioning, inoperable fire protection systems, unsanitary and unsafe common areas, and inadequate security. (Compl., ¶25.) The roaches in the apartment contaminated Plaintiff’s food supplies and caused Plaintiff to develop rashes and other ailments. (Compl., ¶26.) Plaintiff alleges that the water shuts off for hours at a time without notice, the plumbing in the kitchen and bathroom is constantly leaking, many lights are inoperable, and fire alarm systems go off non-stop for days at a time. (Compl., ¶¶26-33.)PROCEDURAL HISTORY On June 8, 2023, Plaintiff filed his Complaint against Defendants Manhattan Loft, LLC, SBDTLA 1, LLC, SBDTLA 2, LLC, SBDTLA 3, LLC, SBDTLA 4, LLC, Erica Rivera, Pam Pham-Le, Greystar California, Inc.,, Barry Shy, Eric Shy, Rommy Shy, 215 W 6 Owner, LLC, and FPI Management, Inc. (“FPI”).On August 16, 2023, FPI filed this demurrer and motion to strike.DISCUSSION I. DEMURRERDefendant FPI demurs to all causes of action in the Complaint. A demurrer should be sustained only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. (Code Civ. Pro., §§ 430.30, et seq.) As is relevant here, a court should sustain a demurrer if a complaint does not allege facts that are legally sufficient to constitute a cause of action. (See id. § 430.10, subd. (e).) As the Supreme Court held in Blank v. Kirwan (1985) Cal.3d 311: “We treat the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law. . . . Further, we give the complaint a reasonable interpretation, reading it as a whole and its parts in their context.” (Id. at p. 318; see also Hahn. v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747 [“A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. [Citation.]”)  “In determining whether the complaint is sufficient as against the demurrer … if on consideration of all the facts stated it appears the plaintiff is entitled to any relief at the hands of the court against the defendants the complaint will be held good although the facts may not be clearly stated.” (Gressley v. Williams (1961) 193 Cal.App.2d 636, 639.) A demurrer should not be sustained without leave to amend if the complaint, liberally construed, can state a cause of action under any theory or if there is a reasonable possibility the defect can be cured by amendment. (Schifando v. City of Los Angeles, supra, 31 Cal.4th at p. 1081.) The demurrer also may be sustained without leave to amend where the nature of the defects and previous unsuccessful attempts to plead render it probable plaintiff cannot state a cause of action. (Krawitz v. Rusch (1989) 209 Cal.App.3d 957, 967.) Meet and ConferA party filing a demurrer “shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc., section 430.41(a).) “The parties shall meet and confer at least five days before the date the responsive pleading is due. If the parties are not able to meet and confer at least five days prior to the date the responsive pleading is due, the demurring party shall be granted an automatic 30-day extension of time within which to file a responsive pleading, by filing and serving, on or before the date on which a demurrer would be due, a declaration stating under penalty of perjury that a good faith attempt to meet and confer was made and explaining the reasons why the parties could not meet and confer.” (Code Civ. Proc., section 430.41(a)(2).) A failure to meet and confer does not constitute grounds to sustain or overrule a demurrer. (See Code Civ. Proc., sections 430.41 (a)(4).)Here, FPI’s counsel testifies that she attempted to meet and confer with Plaintiff’s counsel in July and August 2023 and received no response. (Eaton Decl., ¶¶2-3.)1. First Cause of Action – Violation of California Civil Code section 1942.4FPI demurs to the first cause of action for Violation of California Civil Code section 1942.4.Section 1942.4 states that a landlord may not demand rent, collect rent, issue a notice of a rent increase, or issue a three-day notice to pay rent or quit if (1) the dwelling is found to be uninhabitable; (2) a public officer who is responsible for the enforcement of housing law, after inspecting the premises, has notified the landlord of the landlord’s obligation to abate the nuisance or repair the conditions; (3) the conditions have existed and have not been abated 35 days beyond the date of service of the notice and the delay is without good cause; and (4) the conditions were not caused by an act or omission of the tenant. Here, the Complaint alleges that the subject property is in an uninhabitable and unsafe condition. (Compl., ¶¶36, 43, 45.); that the property has been inspected by the Los Angeles Housing and Community Investment Department and the Los Angeles Department of Public Health resulting in citations for violations of the California Civil Code, the California Health and Safety Code, and the Los Angeles Municipal Code (Compl. ¶¶ 18, 20); that Defendants failed to abate or repair the conditions within 35 days of receiving the agencies’ notices (Compl. ¶ 19); and that Defendants continued to demand and collect rent while the prohibited conditions were unabated. (Compl. ¶ 82.)FPI argues that the Complaint failed to provide dates that his allegations arose, that he gave notice to any defendant of his complaints, when a public code enforcement agency officer notified the defendants of a duty to repair, which agency issued a notice, or when the 35-day grace period started or ended. FPI cites Hood v. Hacienda La Puente Unified School Dist. (1998) 65 Cal.App.4th 435, 439 (“Hood”), arguing that because a cause of action Civ. Code, section 1942.4 is a statutory cause of action, it must be pled with particularity. However, Hood involves government liability under the California Tort Claims Act, not Civ. Code 1942.4. Even under the heightened pleading standard articulated in Hood, a plaintiff is only required to plead “every fact material to the existence of [the] statutory liability.” (Hood at p.439.) Here, the dates of the inspections, notice to Defendants, when the agencies noticed a duty to repair, and the exact dates the 35-day grace period began and ended are not necessary to plead a cause of action under Civ. Code, 1942.4. It is sufficient that Plaintiff pled that Defendants failed to repair or abate the alleged conditions within 35 days of receiving the agencies’ notices. The Court finds the Complaint alleges sufficient facts to state a claim for violation of civil code section 1942.4. FPI’s Demurrer to the First Cause of Action is OVERRULED. 2. Second Cause of Action – Tortious Breach of the Warranty of HabitabilityFPI demurs to the second cause of action for tortious breach of the warranty of habitability. A warranty of habitability “is implied by law in residential leases in this state.” (Green v. Superior Court (1974) 10 Cal.3d 616, 637.) This warranty “imposes upon the landlord the obligation to maintain leased dwellings in a habitable condition throughout the term of the lease.” (Peterson v. Superior Court (1995) 10 Cal.4th 1185, 1204 [43 Cal.Rptr.2d 836, 899.) Further, the warranty “does not require that a landlord ensure that leased premises are in perfect, aesthetically pleasing condition, but it does mean that ‘bare living requirements' must be maintained.” (Green at 637.) A landlord’s “failure to substantially comply with applicable building and housing code standards which materially affect health and safety would constitute a breach of the warranty of habitability.” (Smith v. David (1981) 120 Cal.App.3d 101, 109.)  Here, the Complaint alleges that the Plaintiff’s unit suffered from a cockroach infestation, deteriorating walls and ceilings, a faulty electrical system, unsanitary and worn flooring, mold contamination, dysfunctional plumbing, a lack of air conditioning, inoperable fire protection systems, unsanitary and unsafe common areas, and inadequate security. (Compl., ¶25.) These conditions breached housing code standards and caused Plaintiff to suffer from rashes and other ailments. (Compl., ¶¶53, 26, 40.) The Complaint alleges specific defects with the property sufficient to show that the unit was not maintained in a habitable condition during Plaintiff’s tenancy. FPI argues that this is a contractual claim and Plaintiff failed to plead the legal effect of the lease or attach a copy of it to the Complaint. However, a warranty of habitability is implied by law in residential leases in California. (Green v. Superior Court (1974) 10 Cal.3d 616, 631.) Because the warranty is implied by law, it is not necessary for Plaintiff to allege terms of the contract or attach the contract to the Complaint. It is enough that Plaintiff alleged the existence of a residential lease between himself and Defendants, which he does in the Complaint. (Compl., ¶58.)Accordingly, FPI’s Demurrer to the Second Cause of Action is OVERRULED. 3. Third Cause of Action – Private NuisanceFPI demurs to the Third Cause of Action for Private Nuisance.To state a cause of action for private nuisance, a party must first allege a non-trespassory interference with the private use and enjoyment of property. (CC § 3479 – 3481; San Diego Gas & Electric Co. v. Sup. Ct. (1996) 13 Cal.4th 893, 938.) Liability for private nuisance also requires proof of two additional elements: (i) substantial actual damage, which is (ii) unreasonable as to its nature, duration, or amount. (San Diego Gas & Electric Co., supra, 13 Cal.4th at 937-38.)Here, FPI argues that the cause of action for nuisance is duplicative of the cause of action for negligence. FPI cites El Escorial Owner’s Association v. DLC Plastering, Inc. (2007) 154 Cal.App.4th 1337, 1349 and Van Zyl v. Spiegelberg (1969) 2 Cal.App.3d 367, 372 in support of this argument. However, in both cases, the issue was whether the plaintiff there could recover on a theory of negligence and nuisance separately. Because both causes of action were based on the same facts, the plaintiffs could not recover separately under both theories. Escorial and Van Zyl do not stand to bar a plaintiff from pleading both causes of action, but merely limit recovery if the causes of action are based on the same facts. Other cases cited in Escorial state that torts of negligence and nuisance frequently coexist, meaning both may be pled in the same complaint. (Lussier v. San Lorenzo Valley Water Dist. (1988) 206 Cal.App.3d 92, 104.)Accordingly, FPI’s Demurrer to the cause of action for private nuisance is OVERRULED. 4. Fourth and Eleventh Causes of Action – Business and Professions Code section 17200, et seq.Defendants demur to the Fourth Cause of Action for Violation of Business and Professions Code section 17200, et seq.To successfully plead a UCL claim for unfair business practices, a plaintiff must allege facts justifying relief in the form of protecting the public from unfair business practices or deceptive advertising. (Day v. AT&T Corp. (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 325, 331-332.) A plaintiff must plead and prove that the defendant engaged in a business practice that was either unlawful (i.e., is forbidden by law) or unfair (i.e., harm to victim outweighs any benefit) or fraudulent (i.e., is likely to deceive members of the public). (Albillo v. Intermodal Container Services, Inc. (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 190, 206.) Here, FPI argues that the Complaint lacks specificity because Plaintiff failed to distinguish each Defendant from each other. The Complaint alleges that Defendants failed to maintain the subject property and abate known habitability violations cited by the Housing Department and Health Department. (Compl., ¶¶111, 112.) Defendants unlawfully demanded rent despite failing to cure these violations. (Compl., ¶114.) Additionally, Defendants advertised the property and represented that the property had security and locked doors. (Compl., ¶180.) However, the property is not habitable, does not have locked doors, and does not have the advertised amenities. (Compl., ¶180.) The Complaint alleges sufficient facts to show that Defendants engaged in unlawful business practices by failing to cure building and health code violations. Additionally, the Complaint sufficiently alleges that Defendants engaged in fraudulent business practices by advertising the property and failing to provide the conditions promised in the advertising. Although FPI argues that each Defendant managed the property at different times, this fact is not in the Complaint. Additionally, the Complaint alleges that all Defendants engaged in these practices.Accordingly, FPI’s Demurrer to the causes of action for violations of Business and Professions Code, 17200, et seq. is OVERRULED. 5. Sixth Cause of Action – Breach of Covenant of Quiet EnjoymentFPI demurs to the Sixth Cause of Action for Breach of Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment. “[E]very lease includes a covenant of quiet possession and enjoyment.” (Erlach v. Sierra Asset Servicing, LLC (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 1281, 1299 (citing Civ. Code, § 1927).) “Minor inconveniences and annoyances are not actionable breaches of the implied covenant of quiet enjoyment.” (Andrews v. Mobile Aire Estates (2005) 125 Cal.App.4th 578, 589.) “To be actionable, the [landlord’s] act or omission must substantially interfere with a [tenant’s] right to use and enjoy the premises for the purposes contemplated by the tenancy.” (Id.)  FPI argues that the cause of action for breach of the covenant of quiet enjoyment is not supported by the facts alleged in the Complaint because it failed to allege the terms of the lease and Plaintiff failed to attach a copy of the lease. However, like the implied warranty of habitability, every lease includes a covenant of quiet possession and enjoyment. Therefore, it is enough that Plaintiff alleged the existence of a lease between himself and Defendants.Accordingly, FPI’s Demurrer to the Sixth Cause of Action is OVERRULED. 6. Seventh Cause of Action – Intentional Infliction of Emotional DistressThe elements for a cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress are (1) extreme and outrageous conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff’s suffering severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) an actual and proximate causal link between the tortious conduct and the emotional distress.¿ (Hughes v. Pair (2009) 46 Cal.4th 1035, 1050.)¿ “A defendant’s conduct is outrageous when it is so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized community.” (Jackson v. Mayweather (2017) 10 Cal.App.5th 234, 257 (internal citations and quotations omitted).) “Mere insults, indignities, threats, annoyances, petty oppressions, or other trivialities do not constitute extreme and outrageous conduct.” (Okorie v. Los Angeles Unified School Dist. (2017) 14 Cal.App.5th 574, 597 (internal citations and quotations omitted).) Rather, the requirements for satisfying the element of extreme and outrageous conduct are rigorous and difficult to satisfy. (Okorie, supra, 14 Cal.App.5th at 597.) “On the spectrum of offensive conduct, outrageous conduct is that which is the most extremely offensive.” (Id. (quoting Yurick v. Superior Court (1989) 209 Cal.App.3d 1116, 1129).) “Depending on the idiosyncrasies of the plaintiff, offensive conduct which falls along the remainder of the spectrum may be irritating, insulting or even distressing but it is not actionable and must simply be endured without resort to legal redress.” (Ibid.)  Courts have ruled that the availability of remedies for breach of implied warranty of habitability do not preclude a tenant from suing his landlord for intentional infliction of emotional distress if the landlord’s acts are extreme and outrageous and result in severe mental distress. (Stoiber v. Honeychuck (1980) 101 Cal.App.3d 903, 921.)Here, FPI argues that the Complaint fails to state facts that show Defendants’ ignoring conditions and failing to make repairs is outrageous. The Complaint alleges that Plaintiff made numerous complaints and Defendants made numerous inspections of the property. (Compl., ¶137.) Despite being on notice of the defects with the unit, Defendants ignored the defects and failed to make repairs and collected full rent. (Compl., ¶138.) Stoiber is instructive here. The court in Stoiber cited Newby v. Alto Riviera Apartments (1976) 60 Cal.App.3d 288, 297 and Aweeka v. Bonds (1971) 20 Cal.App.3d 278 as examples of the extreme conduct in habitability cases which would be sufficient to support a cause of action for IIED. In Newby, a landlord shouted at a tenant, insulted her, directed her to leave, and threatened her after the tenant protested a rent increase. In Aweeka, a tenant exercised his right to make repairs to his unit and deduct the cost from rent. Thereafter, his landlord increased rent by nearly double the normal amount and knew the tenant could not pay the increased rent. Here, unlike Newby and Aweeka, there are no facts showing Defendants engaged in extreme conduct other than failing to repair the defects in the apartment. Merely failing to repair the defects without more is insufficient to support a cause of action for IIED.Accordingly, FPI’s Demurrer to the Seventh Cause of Action is SUSTAINED. 7. Eighth Cause of Action – Negligence per seFPI Demurs to the Eighth Cause of Action for Negligence per se.“The negligence per se doctrine, as codified in Evidence Code section 669, creates a presumption of negligence if four elements are established: (1) the defendant violated a statute, ordinance, or regulation of a public entity; (2) the violation proximately caused death or injury to person or property; (3) the death or injury resulted from an occurrence of the nature of which the statute, ordinance, or regulation was designed to prevent; and (4) the person suffering the death or the injury to his person or property was one of the class of persons for whose protection the statute, ordinance, or regulation was adopted.” (Spates v. Dameron Hospital Association (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 208, 218, quotation marks omitted.) “The doctrine of negligence per se is not a separate cause of action, but creates an evidentiary presumption that affects the standard of care in a cause of action for negligence.” (Johnson v. Honeywell International Inc. (2009) 179 Cal.App.4th 549, 555, quotation marks and brackets omitted.) Here, FPI argues that this cause of action is duplicative of the cause of action for negligence. Although styled as another cause of action, negligence per se is not a separate cause of action, but a doctrine that creates an evidentiary presumption that affects the standard of care for a cause of action for negligence. Because it is part of the cause of action for negligence, Plaintiff’s allegations supporting negligence per se are not duplicative of the cause of action for negligence. Accordingly, FPI’s Demurrer to the negligence per se doctrine is OVERRULED. 8. Ninth Cause of Action – Violation of the Consumer Legal Remedies Act, Civ. Code, section 1750, et seq.The California Consumers Legal Remedies Act (“CLRA”), Civil Code section 1750, et seq., protects consumers from a broad range of unfair or deceptive business practices. Section 1770(a)(7) provides that representing that goods or services are of a particular standard, quality, or grade, or that goods are of a particular style or model, if they are of another is unlawful.Here, the Complaint alleges that Defendants violated Civ. Code, section 1770(a)(7) by leasing the subject property in a condition unsuitable for tenancy, represented in advertisements that the property was in a condition fit for human occupancy, and provided the property in a lesser quality. (Compl., ¶164.) FPI argues that the Complaint fails to allege facts sufficient to support this cause of actin because it does not allege that Plaintiff gave notice of the alleged violation. However, lack of notice only limits recovery on this cause of action. Under the Act, in order to sue for money damages, a plaintiff must first provide the defendant with notice and a 30-day opportunity to cure the issue. (Civ. Code § 1782, subd. (a).) Although the Complaint alleges Defendants had notice of the health and building code violations, there are no facts alleging Plaintiff gave notice that the conditions were not as represented in Defendants’ advertising. Thus, the relief which Plaintiff may seek under the CLRA is limited to injunctive relief alone. (Id., subd. (d).) Thus, Plaintiff’s demand for monetary damages in paragraph 165 are stricken. The demurrer is otherwise OVERRULED as to this cause of action.9. Tenth Cause of Action – Violation of Los Angeles Municipal Code (“LAMC”), section 45.33 LAMC § 45.35(F) provides that a lawsuit under LAMC § 45.33 “may be commenced only after the tenant provides written notice to the landlord of the alleged violation, and the landlord fails to remedy the repair or maintenance issue within a reasonable period of time.”Here, FPI argues that there are no facts that Plaintiff ever gave Defendants written notice of the alleged violations. Although the Complaint alleges that Plaintiff made complaints to Defendants about the unhabitable conditions, there are no facts alleging these complaints were written. Additionally, although the Los Angeles Housing and Community Investment Department and the Los Angeles Department of Public Health issued citations warning of code violations, LAMC, section 45.35F specifies that the tenant must provide written notice. Because the Complaint fails to allege that Plaintiff gave the required notice, the Demurrer to the Tenth Cause of Action is SUSTAINED.II. MOTION TO STRIKEFPI also moves to strike Plaintiff’s demands for punitive damages and attorney’s fees. FPI moves to strike paragraphs 41-44, 49, 74, 75, 84, 95, 107, 117, 126, 168, 169, 175, 176, and all demands for punitive damages and attorney’s fees in the Prayer for Relief. 1. Punitive DamagesFPI moves to strike the demands for punitive damages because Plaintiff fails to allege specific facts showing oppressive, fraudulent, or malicious conduct. Additionally, the Complaint fails to allege facts that an officer, director, or managing agent of FPI ratified any conduct that was fraudulent, malicious, or oppressive.In order to state a prima facie claim for punitive damages, a complaint must set forth the elements as stated in the general punitive damage statute, Civil Code section 3294. (College Hospital, Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 721.) These statutory elements include allegations that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud or malice. (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).) “Malice is defined in the statute as conduct intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.” (College Hospital, Inc., supra, 8 Cal.4th at p. 725 [examining Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (c)(1)].) “A conscious disregard of the safety of others may constitute malice within the meaning of section 3294 of the Civil Code. In order to justify an award of punitive damages on this basis, the plaintiff must establish that the defendant was aware of the probable dangerous consequences of his conduct, and that he willfully and deliberately failed to avoid those consequences.” (Taylor v. Superior Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, 895-896.) “As amended to include [despicable], the statute plainly indicates that absent an intent to injure the plaintiff, ‘malice’ requires more than a ‘willful and conscious’ disregard of the plaintiffs’ interests. The additional component of ‘despicable conduct’ must be found.” (College Hospital, Inc., supra, 8 Cal.4th at p. 725.) The statute’s reference to despicable conduct represents a “new substantive limitation on punitive damage awards.” (Ibid.) Despicable conduct is “conduct which is so vile, base, contemptible, miserable, wretched or loathsome that it would be looked down upon and despised by ordinary decent people. Such conduct has been described as ‘having the character of outrage frequently associated with crime.’” (Tomaselli v. Transamerica Ins. Co. (1994) 25 Cal.App.4th 1269, 1287.) “[T]he imposition of punitive damages upon a corporation is based upon its own fault. It is not imposed vicariously by virtue of the fault of others.” (City Products Corp. v. Globe Indemnity Co. (1979) 88 Cal.App.3d 31, 36.) “Corporations are legal entities which do not have minds capable of recklessness, wickedness, or intent to injure or deceive. An award of punitive damages against a corporation therefore must rest on the malice of the corporation’s employees. But the law does not impute every employee’s malice to the corporation. Instead, the punitive damages statute requires proof of malice among corporate leaders: the ‘officer[s], director[s], or managing agent[s].’” (Cruz v. Home Base (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 160, 167 [citation omitted].) As to ratification, “[a] corporation cannot confirm and accept that which it does not actually know about.’” (Ibid. [citing College Hospital, Inc., supra, 8 Cal.4th at p. 726 [for ratification sufficient to justify punitive damages against corporation, there must be proof that officers, directors, or managing agents had actual knowledge of the malicious conduct and its outrageous character]].) Here, as discussed above, the Complaint alleges that Defendants failed to maintain Plaintiff’s apartment in a habitable condition by allowing the property to suffer from a cockroach infestation, leaky plumbing, inoperable air conditioning, inoperable fire protection systems, faulty electrical systems, and other defects. Additionally, Defendants failed to provide the unit in the condition it advertised. The Complaint also alleges that Defendants failed to remedy these defects to save money and increase their cash flow. (Compl., ¶39.) Additionally, Defendants knew the unit was not fit for human habitation and made the conscious decision to subject Plaintiff to substandard living conditions. (Compl., ¶75.) Defendants also knew or should have known that these defects posed a health and safety risk to Plaintiff and still failed to provide repairs for years. (Compl., ¶139.) The facts show that Defendants acted with a conscious disregard for Plaintiff’s rights because they moved Plaintiff into his unit despite knowing it was in an unhabitable condition. Additionally, the conduct described in the Complaint meets the level of despicable conduct required to support a demand for punitive damages because the facts state Defendants advertised the property as habitable when it was not, knew of the health and safety consequences of the defects, and failed to make repairs to save money.However, the Complaint fails to name an officer, director, or managing agent of the corporate Defendants, including FPI. Additionally, there are no facts showing any officer, director, or managing agent ratified this conduct. Therefore, the Complaint fails to meet the pleading requirements to support a demand for punitive damages against a corporation. FPI’s motion is GRANTED with respect to the demand for punitive damages.2. Special Damages under Civ. Code 1942.4(b)(1)FPI argues that special damages under Civ. Code, section 1942.4(b)(1) in paragraph 84 of the Complaint and paragraph 1 of the prayer of damages should be stricken because Plaintiff has not adequately pled this cause of action. However, because the demurrer was overruled as to this cause of action, the motion to strike is DENIED as to this cause of action.3. Civil Penalties under LAMC 45.35FPI argues that the demand for civil penalties under LAMC 45.35 should be stricken because Plaintiff failed to allege a cause of action under LAMC 45.33. As discussed above, because the Complaint fails to state Plaintiff gave Defendants written notice of the alleged violation, the motion is GRANTED with respect to the civil penalties under LAM 45.35.4.  Restitution under Business and Professions Code, section 17200Finally, FPI argues that the prayer for restitution under Business and Professions Code, section 17200 should be stricken from the Complaint because Plaintiff failed to plead a cause of action under this section. As discussed above, there are no facts in the Complaint alleging Plaintiff gave notice that the conditions on the property were not as represented in Defendants’ advertising. Thus, the relief which Plaintiff may seek under the CLRA is limited to injunctive relief alone. (Id., subd. (d).) The motion is GRANTED with respect to the demand for restitution under Business and Professions Code, section 17200.DATED: December 14, 2023                                                                       ________________________________ Hon. Jill Feeney Judge of the Superior Court 