  Case Number:  20STCV05566    Hearing Date:   December 14, 2023    Dept:  78  Superior Court of CaliforniaCounty of Los AngelesDepartment 78TRINA ALLENPlaintiff, vs. MATTHEW SHEPHERD, et al.,Defendants.  Case No.: 20STCV05566  Hearing Date: December 14, 2023 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE: DEFENDANT CATAMOUNT PROPERTIES 2018 LLC’S MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENTDefendant’s motion for summary judgment as to Plaintiff Donna Allen is GRANTED.Moving party to provide notice and to file proof of service of such notice.PROCEDURAL HISTORYOn April 21, 2020, Plaintiff Donna Allen filed her Complaint (case number 20STCV15361) against Defendants Matthew Shepherd, Superior Loan Servicing, and By Asset Default Management, Inc. On December 9, 2020, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint.On December 14, 2020, Plaintiff filed Doe Amendments naming Barry Harari, Superior Loan Servicing, By Asset Default Management, Inc., and Catamount Properties as defendants in this action.On July 15, 2021, Plaintiff filed a Second Amended Complaint.On August 16, 2021, Catamount Properties 2018, LLC filed its Cross-Complaint against Matthew Shepherd.On December 1, 2021, Matthew Shepherd filed a Cross-Complaint against Trina Allen.On February 4, 2022, Plaintiff filed a Third Amended Complaint.On September 13, 2022, this case was consolidated with the case 20STCV05566.On August 9, 2023, Shakieyra Nicole Allen (“Nicole Allen”) substituted into this action as decedent Trina Allen’s successor in interest.On August 7, 2023, Defendant Catamount Properties 2018, LLC (“Catamount”) filed this motion for summary judgment.DISCUSSIONCatamount moves for summary judgment on the grounds that (1) Plaintiff cannot prevail on her fourth cause of action because she failed to list Catamount as a party against whom the cause of action is directed, (2) Plaintiff cannot prevail on her fifth cause of action because Trina Allen was authorized and required to obtain a loan secured against the subject property, (3) Plaintiff cannot prevail on her sixth cause of action because Catamount took title as a bona fide purchaser, Plaintiff ratified the loan secured by the property, Plaintiff’s claims are barred under the doctrine of unclean hands, and Plaintiff took title of the subject property. I. Legal StandardA party may move for summary judgment “if it is contended that the action has no merit or that there is no defense to the action or proceeding.”  (Code Civ. Proc., section 437c, subd. (a).) “[I]f all the evidence submitted, and all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law,” the moving party will be entitled to summary judgment.  (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) A motion for summary adjudication may be made by itself or as an alternative to a motion for summary judgment and shall proceed in all procedural respects as a motion for summary judgment.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (f)(2).)   The moving party bears an initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact, and if he does so, the burden shifts to the opposing party to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of material fact.  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850; accord Code Civ. Proc., section 437c, subd. (p)(2).) “Once the defendant . . . has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Ibid.) “If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment should be granted.” (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Med. Ctr. (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.) “When deciding whether to grant summary judgment, the court must consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers (except evidence to which the court has sustained an objection), as well as all reasonable inferences that may be drawn from that evidence, in the light most favorable to the party opposing summary judgment.” (Avivi, supra, 159 Cal.App.4th at p. 467; see also Code Civ. Proc., section 437c(c).) II. Evidentiary ObjectionsCatamount objects to Plaintiff’s evidence submitted in opposition to summary judgment.Catamount objects to the testimony of Jay Hibert. All four objections are OVERRULED.Catamount also objects to the declaration of Rosemary E. Chavez. Both objections are OVERRULED.III. Discussion1. Fourth Cause of Action – Unfair CompetitionPlaintiff concedes that Catamount was removed from this cause of action. The motion is granted with respect to the fourth cause of action for violations of the Unfair Competition Law.2. Fifth Cause of Action – Cancellation of InstrumentsCatamount moves for summary judgment with respect to the fifth cause of action for cancellation of instrument. Specifically, Plaintiff seeks to  Plaintiff’s TAC alleges that the foreclosure of the subject property was void because Trina Allen never had an interest in the property to transfer to Shepherd. (TAC ¶¶58-59.) Catamount argues that the Allen sisters’ settlement agreement and the probate court order both confirm that the title in the subject property belonged 100% to Trina Allen and that she was free to do whatever she wanted to the property, including encumber it. Civil Code section 3412 provides that a written instrument may be canceled if it is adjudged to be void or voidable, either by being obtained by fraud or otherwise. (See Civ. Code, section 3412; California Credit & Collection Corp. v. Goodin (1926) 76 Cal.App. 785, 794.) Catamount provides a declaration of the EA Trust which shows that on June 1, 2007, Earnestine Allen agreed to transfer the subject property into the Trust. (Catamount’s Exh. 2.) The declaration also states the Trustee had the power to administer the assets of the trust, encumber trust assets, invest and make purchases with the profits and principal of the trust, borrow money and purchase insurance, employ and pay necessary professionals, enter contracts and otherwise sign and execute instruments on behalf of the trust, establish accounts for the trust, distribute or divide assets, receive additional property, operate or sell any business that is part of the trust, exercise voting rights with respect to stock or business ownership, prepare tax returns, disburse funds from the trust to maintain the Grantor’s comfort and welfare, and pay debts or expenses on behalf of the Grantor. (Id.) Plaintiff was to succeed Earnestine Allen as Trustee. (Id.)Trina Allen was named the executor of Earnestine Allen’s estate in September 2015. (Catamount’s Exh. 4.) Although the Trust Declaration stated the subject property would be transferred to the Trust in 2007, Trina Allen held the property and other property as executor to Earnestine Allen’s estate by the time the Allen sisters were litigating the probate case in December 2017. (Catamount’s Exh. 7.) In any case, the three properties were transferred to the Trust in December 2017 and the court order mandating the transfer was recorded on October 26, 2018. (Id.) When the Allen sisters settled in their probate action, Trina Allen, Donna Allen, and Sandra Manghane agreed to ensure a payment from the Probate Estate or Trust to Colleen Allen and Paula Tillman for $250,000 in full settlement of their claims to the estate and the Trust. (Catamount’s Exh. 3.) The order approving the settlement dated December 19, 2017 states that after the obligations to Paula Tilman and Colleen Allen were satisfied, the Trust was to distribute the subject property to Trina Allen. (Catamount’s Exh. 6.) On April 13, 2018, Trina Allen executed a Deed of Trust in exchange for a $240,380 loan from Matthew Shepherd. (Catamount’s Exh. 9.) On May 3, 2018, Shepherd recorded the Deed of Trust. (Shepherd’s RFA responses, RFA No.3.) Trina Allen received $168,000 from Shepherd and paid $140,000 to her sisters,$16,000 to her attorney, and used the remaining funds to pay personal debts. (Trina Allen Depo., 46:3-23.)Donna Allen could not take out a loan collateralized by the subject property because she was refinancing her own home to pay the remaining debts to her sisters. (Donna Allen Depo., 42-45.) Donna Allen made some payments on the Shepherd loan because Trina Allen was not working at the time. (Id.) Donna Allen knew Trina Allen was taking out the loan but did not know what type of loan. (Id.) Donna Allen was supposed to sign off on the loan as a co-borrower once Trina Allen found the loan. (Id., 33:18-34:11.)On October 13, 2018, Donna Allen executed a Grant Deed transferring the property from the Trust to herself. (Catamount’s Exh. 12.) On May 8, 2019, Shepherd’s loan servicer began sending Trina Allen demands for payoff. (Catamount’s Exh. 13 at pg. 174.) On December 19, 2019, Superior Loan, recorded a notice default and election to sell. (Catamount’s Exh. 14 at pg. 7.) On April 1, 2020, Superior issued a notice of sale. (Catamount’s Exh. 17 at pgs. 27-28.) On April 23, 2020, Plaintiff filed a notice of lis pendens. (Catamount’s Exh. 19 at pg. 27.) However, it was not recorded until July 24, 2020. (UMF No. 33.)To succeed on this cause of action, Plaintiff must establish that (1) the Deeds of Trust (as to Shepherd and as to Catamount) are void or voidable as against herself and (2) that the Deeds of Trust “causes serious injury” to her. (See e.g., Saterbak v. JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (2016) 245 Cal.App.4th 808, 819 [affirming judgment dismissing plaintiff’s challenge to assignment of deed of trust on the grounds of that she lacked standing to do so and that the assignment did not cause her harm.)Defendant has met its burden of proof. The Court adopts the analysis set forth by Defendant in its moving papers, its reply and separate statement.Plaintiff Donna Allen has suffered no harm here, either individually or as trustee of the Trust.  Pursuant to the settlement agreement to which she was a party, all five sisters in the family were to receive either cash or a piece property. All five sisters received either cash or a piece of property, including Plaintiff Donna Allen.  Plaintiff Donna Allen got her slice of the pie, another property. The only way that Plaintiff could possibly have been harmed would have been if the subject property had been encumbered by Trina Allen without Donna Allen and the three other sisters receiving their share of the agreed upon settlement. That did not happen. Plaintiff’s decision to record title to the subject  property in her own name does not change anything. She cannot suffer from the taking of something that she was never entitled to have in the first instance.The fact that Plaintiff Donna Allen chose to make approximately five loan payments on the subject property to help her sister Trina Allen retain the subject property does not alter this analysis. Plaintiff does not show that there is a triable issue of material fact with respect to this cause of action. There is no harm or injury suffered by Plaintiff Donna Allen that must be rectified via the equitable remedy of cancellation of instruments.3. Sixth Cause of Action – Quiet TitleCatamount moves for summary judgment as to the sixth cause of action for quiet title on several independent grounds:  (1) it took the property as a bona fide purchaser for value; (2) Plaintiff ratified Trina Allen’s loan by accepting the benefits and making payments towards the balance; (3) Plaintiff had unclean hands; and (4) even if Plaintiff’s unauthorized deed to herself was valid, she still took title to the subject property subject to Shepherd’s superior deed of trust. a. Whether Catamount took title as a bona fide purchaser“The elements of bona fide purchase are payment of value, in good faith, and without actual or constructive notice of another's rights.”  (Gates Rubber Co. v. Ulman (1989) 214 Cal.App.3d 356, 365 (emphasis in original).) “The absence of notice is an essential requirement in order that one may be regarded as a bona fide purchaser.”  (Id.)  A foreclose sale to a bona fide purchaser cannot be set aside “based on irregularities in the foreclosure sale process, except in the case of fraud.”  (Melendrez v. D & I Investment, Inc. (2005) 127 Cal.App.4th 1238, 1256.)  “[A] bona fide purchaser is not chargeable with the fraud of his predecessors and takes a title purged of any anterior fraud affecting it and free from any equities existing between the original parties.”  (Id.) at 1256-57.  “The general unassailability of foreclosures promotes twin policies: [1] that a properly conducted sale be a final adjudication of the rights of the creditor and debtor and [2] that the sanctity of title of a bona fide purchaser be protected.”  (Id.) at 1257.  A bona fide purchaser of real property has constructive notice of only those matters that could be located by a diligent title search. (Vasquez v. LBS Financial Credit Union (2020) 52 Cal.App.5th 97, 108.) Here, the parties dispute whether Donna Allen or Catamount has a more senior interest in the subject property. Catamount argues that it took interest in the subject property free and clear of Donna Allen’s claim to the property. Donna Allen executed a Grant Deed to herself which was recorded on October 26, 2018. The foreclosure sale took place on April 27, 2020. (Catamount’s Exh. 18.) Donna Allen recorded a lis pendens two months later on July 24, 2020. (Catamount’s Exh. 19.) Because Donna Allen recorded her Grant Deed before the foreclosure sale took place, a title search would have revealed that there was a competing Grant Deed. Thus, Catamount should have been on notice that Donna Allen had recorded a Grant Deed on the property. Thus, Catamount fails to meet its burden of proving no triable issue of material fact remains over whether it was a bona fide purchaser. The burden does not shift to Plaintiff.b. Whether Plaintiff ratified the loan Catamount argues that Plaintiff Donna Allen ratified the loan obtained by Trina Allen by making payments on the loan and accepting its benefits, which included the receipt of cash used to pay two sisters owed money by the Trust pursuant to the terms of the settlement agreement among the five sisters.“‘Ratification is the voluntary election by a person to adopt in some manner as his own an act which was purportedly done on his behalf by another person, the effect of which, as to some or all persons, is to treat the act as if originally authorized by him.“ (City of Brentwood v. Department of Finance (2020) 54 Cal.App.5th 418, 436, quoting Rakestraw v. Rodrigues (Rakestraw) (1972) 8 Cal.3d 67, 73.) “[F]or purposes of ratification there must be some confirmatory conduct, or at least conduct inconsistent with disapproval. Facts are not to be stretched, or ambiguous, inconclusive or independent acts made the basis of a ratification.” (Gates v. Bank of America National Trust & Savings Association (1953) 120 Cal.App.2d 571, 576, quotations omitted.) The law requires a principal be apprised of all facts, but where the principal is ignorant, failure to investigate where a reasonable person would be on notice to make an inquiry may suffice to impute knowledge. (Reusche v. California Pacific Title Ins. Co. (1965) 231 Cal.App.2d 731.) Ratification may be inferred where a principal conducts itself in a manner inconsistent with any reasonable intention other than approving and adopting an agent’s actions. (Dickinson v. Cosby (2019) 37 Cal.App.5th 1138; see also Fretland v. County of Humboldt (1999) 69 Cal.App.4th 1478.) Here, Donna Allen knew that Trina Allen had obtained a loan and executed a Deed of Trust in favor of Shepherd in order to effectuate the terms of the settlement and pay the sums owed to Paula Tillman and Colleen Allen. Donna Allen could have at that time taken action against Shepherd by bringing a quiet title or other action against him contending that Trina Allen did not have the authority to sign the Grant Deed and that the subject property belonged to the Trust.Instead, Donna Allen began making payments on the loan obtained by Trina Allen and later attempted to refinance the loan. Additionally, Trina Allen made a payment out of the funds she received from Shepherd to satisfy the Trust’s obligations to Colleen Allen and Paula Tillman under the settlement agreement in the probate case. Not only did Donna Allen not take action against Shepherd, make payments against the loan, and benefit from the payment of funds to her two sisters under the terms of the probate settlement agreement, Donna Allen then executed a Grant Deed moving the subject property from the Trust to her own name. This action is inconsistent with her contention that at the time that Trina Allen executed the Grant Deed in favor of Shepherd the property belonged to the Trust and therefore Trina Allen did not have the authority to execute the deed. Donna Allen’s actions are inconsistent with any reasonable intention other than approving and adopting Trina Allen’s actions. Trina Allen was acting as an agent of the Trust whose conduct was ratified by Donna Allen. The burden shifts to Plaintiff. Plaintiff argues that Catamount is improperly relitigating issues that were already ruled upon during hearings for a preliminary injunction and a motion to expunge lis pendens. However, a preliminary injunction is not a final adjudication of the controversy. (Scaringe v. J. C. C. Enterprises, Inc. (1988) 205 Cal.App.3d 1536, 1537, disapproved of  on other grounds by Citizens for Covenant Compliance v. Anderson (1995) 12 Cal.4th 345.) Likewise a motion to expunge lis pendens is not final adjudication of the merits of a case because a court only evaluates the probable validity of a plaintiff’s real property claim. (Code Civ. Proc., sections 405.31- 405.33.) Thus, Catamount is not relitigating these issues.Summary judgment is granted on this basis.c. Unclean Hands“The doctrine of unclean hands requires unconscionable, bad faith, or inequitable conduct by the plaintiff in connection with the matter in controversy.”  (Mendoza v. Ruesga (2008) 169 Cal.App.4th 270, 279.)  Whether the unclean hands doctrine applies depends on whether the unclean conduct directly relates to the transaction upon which the complaint is made.  (Peregrine Funding, Inc. v. Sheppard Mullin Richter & Hampton LLP (2005) 133 Cal.App.4th 658, 681.)  Courts apply a three-part test that depends upon (1) analogous case law, (2) the nature of the misconduct, and (3) the relationship of the misconduct to the claimed injuries.  (Blain v. Doctor’s Co.¿(1990) 222 Cal.App.3d 1048, 1060.) Here, Donna Allen transferred the subject property to herself because she believed it was necessary to refinance the property and repay the Shepherd loan. (Donna Allen Depo: 73:18-74:25.) According to the Allen sisters’ settlement agreement and the court order approving the agreement, the subject property was to be distributed to Trina Allen after Trust fulfilled its obligations to Colleen Allen and Paula Tillman. (Catamount Exhs. 3, 6.) The Declaration of Trust specified that the Trustee had the power to distribute Trust assets subject to any restrictions or limits set forth under California law. (Catamount’s Exh. 2.) Because there was a court order requiring the Trust to distribute the subject property to Trina Allen under the terms of the settlement agreement, Donna Allen was not authorized to transfer the property to herself. Because Donna Allen was not authorized to transfer the subject property to herself, Donna Allen’s Grant Deed is void.Donna Allen’s conduct was inequitable because she had no power to transfer the subject property to herself under the restrictions imposed under the Allen sisters’ settlement agreement. Donna Allen’s conduct was also directly related to her claims here because she disputes ownership of the subject property. Therefore, Plaintiff’s claims are barred under the doctrine of unclean hands. The burden shifts to Plaintiff. Plaintiff does not address this argument and therefore fails to meet her burden. Summary judgment is granted on this basis.d. Whether Plaintiff’s Unauthorized Deed was Valid/Even if Invalid, Whether Plaintiff’s Title is Subject to Shepherd’s Deed of Trust“A quiet title action is a statutory action that seeks to declare the rights of the parties in realty. (Civ. Code, section 760.020;¿Western Aggregates, Inc. v. County of Yuba¿(2002) 101 Cal.App.4th 278, 305, 130 Cal.Rptr.2d 436.) “’”The object of the action is to finally settle and determine, as between the parties, all conflicting claims to the property in controversy, and to decree to each such interest or estate therein as he may be entitled to.”’” (Western Aggregates, supra, at p. 305, 130 Cal.Rptr.2d 436.)“A description of the parties' legal interests in real property is all that can be expected of a judgment in an action to quiet title.” (Lechuza Villas West v. California Coastal Com. (1997) 60 Cal.App.4th 218, 243, 70 Cal.Rptr.2d 399.)“Absent an interest in the property, a party has no standing to ask the court to quiet title in the property or to obtain damages for the cloud on title.” (Chao Fu, Inc. v. Chen (2012) 206 Cal.App.4th 48, 59.)Here, Donna Allen’s Grant Deed was void as she has no basis for asserting an interest in the property. Because Donna Allen has no interest in the subject property, she lacks standing to bring a cause of action to quiet title. Therefore, Catamount meets its burden of proving no triable issues of material fact remain over whether Donna Allen’s Grant Deed is void.The burden shifts to Plaintiff. Plaintiff argues she was authorized as trustee to take reasonable steps to preserve trust property. However, Donna Allen was not authorized to transfer the subject property to herself. Thus, Plaintiff fails to meet her burden of proving that a triable issue of material fact remains over whether her Grant Deed was void.Moreover, even if Plaintiff’s unauthorized deed is not invalid, Plaintiff Donna Allen took title to the property subject to all existing deeds and mortgages of which she had actual or constructive notice. (5 Cal. Real Est. § 13:38 (4th ed.), citing Title Guarantee & Trust Co. v. Monson (1938) 11 Cal. 2d 621, 628–629 ; Slaker v. McCormick-Saeltzer Co.(1918) 179 Cal. 387, 388; Filippini v. Trobock (1901) 134 Cal. 441, 443; Nguyen v. Calhoun (2003) 105 Cal. App. 4th 428, 442.) Here, she had notice of Shepherd’s interest in the property prior to her recording the Deed of Trust in her own name. Summary judgment is granted as to this cause of action.DATED: December 14, 2023 ______________________________                                                                      Hon. Jill Feeney                                                                      Judge of the Superior Court