  Case Number:  20SMCV01263    Hearing Date:   April 22, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


April 22, 2024




CASE NUMBER


20SMCV01263




MOTION


Demurrer




MOVING PARTY


Defendant Pamela Chen




OPPOSING PARTIES


Plaintiffs Steven Gryczman and Susan Gryczman, Trustees of
  the Gryczman Living Trust dated March 30, 1990



 
MOTION
 
On January 11, 2024, Plaintiffs Steven Gryczman and Susan Gryczman,
Trustees of the Gryczman Living Trust dated March 30, 1990 (“Plaintiffs”) filed
a second amended complaint (“SAC”), alleging seven causes of action for (1)
breach of the covenants, conditions and restrictions (CC&Rs); (2) breach of
contract; (3) breach of fiduciary duty; (4) negligence; (5) violation of Civil
Code section 4775; (6) private nuisance; and (7) declaratory relief.  Only the third and fourth causes of action
are alleged against Defendant Pamela Chen (“Defendant”).
 
Defendant demurs to the third and fourth causes of action on the
grounds that they fail to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivision
(e).  Plaintiffs oppose the demurrer and
Defendant replies.  
 
MEET
AND CONFER REQUIREMENT
 
            Code of Civil Procedure section
430.41, subdivision (a) requires that “Before filing a demurrer pursuant to
this chapter, the demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by
telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for
the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would
resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.”  
 
The statute further requires “As part of the meet and confer process,
the demurring party shall identify all of the specific causes of action that it
believes are subject to demurrer and identify with legal support the basis of
the deficiencies.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41, subd. (a)(1).)  “The party who
filed the complaint, cross-complaint, or answer shall provide legal support for
its position that the pleading is legally sufficient or, in the alternative,
how the complaint, cross-complaint, or answer could be amended to cure any
legal insufficiency.”  (Ibid.)
 
“The parties shall meet and confer at least five days before the date
the responsive pleading is due.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a)(2).) 
“The demurring party shall file and serve with the demurrer a
declaration stating either” the means by which the parties met and conferred,
or that the party who filed the pleading subject to demurrer failed to respond
to the meet and confer request.  (Id. at
subd. (a)(3).)  
 
Here, Defendant provided an attorney declaration indicating that on February
26, 2024, Defendant’s counsel met and conferred telephonically with Plaintiff’s
counsel, and “discussed he basis for the intended demurrer” but the parties
could not reach an agreement.  
 
Plaintiffs argue that the parties only discussed Defendant’s
anticipated demurrer to the third cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty,
not the fourth cause of action for negligence.
 
Although Defendant does not appear to have strictly complied with the
requirements of subdivision (a)(1), Defendant’s basis for the demurrer to both
causes of action is that Defendant owes no fiduciary duty to Plaintiffs, a
topic which the parties substantively discussed.
 
Therefore, because the parties discussed the underlying legal
substance of both causes of action, the Court does not find that further meet
and confer efforts would be fruitful.
 
ANALYSIS
 
1.     DEMURRER
- STANDARDS
 
“It is black letter law that a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of
the allegations in a complaint.”  (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015)
235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  In testing the sufficiency of a cause of
action, a court accepts “[a]s true all material facts properly pled and matters
which may be judicially noticed but disregard contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law.  [A court
also gives] the complaint a reasonable interpretation, reading it as a whole
and its parts in their context.”  (290
Division (EAT), LLC v. City & County of San Francisco (2022) 86
Cal.App.5th 439, 450 [cleaned up]; Hacker v. Homeward Residential, Inc.
(2018) 26 Cal.App.5th 270, 280 [“in considering the merits of a demurrer,
however, “the facts alleged in the pleading are deemed to be true, however
improbable they may be”].)
 
Further, in ruling on a demurrer, a court must “liberally construe”
the allegations of the complaint “with a view to substantial justice between
the parties.”  (See Code Civ. Proc., §
452.)  “This rule of liberal construction
means that the reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not
the defendant.”  (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209
Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.)   
 
In summary, “[d]etermining whether the complaint is sufficient as
against the demurrer on the ground that it does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action, the rule is that if one consideration of all the
facts stated it appears the plaintiff is entitled to any relief at the hands of
the court against the defendants the complaint will be held good although the
facts may not be clearly stated, or may be intermingled with a statement of
other facts irrelevant to the cause of action shown, or although the plaintiff
may demand relief to which he is not entitled under the facts alleged.”  (Gressley v. Williams (1961) 193
Cal.App.2d 636, 639.)
 
2.     FAILURE
TO STATE A CAUSE OF ACTION
 
“The elements of a claim for breach of fiduciary duty are (1) the
existence of a fiduciary relationship, (2) its breach, and (3) damage
proximately caused by that breach.”  (O'Neal
v. Stanislaus County Employees' Retirement Assn. (2017) 8 Cal.App.5th 1184,
1215.)
 
“The elements of any
negligence cause of action are duty, breach of duty, proximate cause, and
damages.”  (Peredia v. HR Mobile
Services, Inc. (2018) 25 Cal.App.5th 680, 687.)
 
Defendant demurs to both the
third and fourth causes of action on the basis that as a member of the
homeowner’s association (“HOA”) board, Defendant owes a fiduciary duty to the
HOA, and the HOA owes a fiduciary duty to the individual homeowners, but
Defendant does not owe a fiduciary duty to the individual homeowners.
 
In support of her position
that HOA board members owe no fiduciary duty to individual homeowners,
Defendant cites to Corporations Code section 7231, which provides:
 
A
director shall perform the duties of a director, including duties as a member
of any committee of the board upon which the director may serve, in good faith,
in a manner such director believes to be in the best interests of the
corporation and with such care, including reasonable inquiry, as an ordinarily
prudent person in a like position would use under similar circumstances.
 
            The
Court does not find Section 7231 to be supportive of Defendant’s position that
an HOA director owes no fiduciary duty to individual homeowners.  In general, officers and directors of
corporations owe fiduciary duties to stockholders.  (Small v. Fritz Companies, Inc. (2003)
30 Cal.4th 167, 179.)
 
            In
opposition, Plaintiffs cite to Frances T. v. Village Green Owners Assn. (1986)
42 Cal.3d 490 (hereafter Frances T.) and Raven’s Cove Townhomes, Inc.
v. Knuppe Development Co. (1981) 114 Cal.App.3d 783 (hereafter Raven’s
Cove) to support their position that homeowners may maintain actions for
breach of fiduciary duty against individual board members.
 
            In
reply, Defendant argues that in Raven’s Cove, where the homeowners
brought suit on behalf of the association, the appellate court found a
fiduciary duty existed, whereas in Frances T., where the suit was
brought on behalf of an individual homeowner, the California Supreme Court held
that there was no breach of fiduciary duty.
 
            In
Francis T., the homeowner, who was raped and robbed in her dwelling,
sued the association and its individual board members for failing to install
sufficient exterior lighting and for forcing her to remove the exterior
lighting she had installed.  The Court held
that the individual directors who forced her to remove the lighting, in
accordance with the CC&Rs, did not have a fiduciary duty to exercise their
discretion in enforcing the CC&Rs. 
Rather, the directors’ only fiduciary duty was to enforce the CC&Rs
as written and the business judgment rule governed the association’s discretion
in setting the CC&Rs.  
 
By contrast, here, Plaintiffs
have alleged Defendant violated the CC&Rs by personally concealing from
Plaintiffs repair proposals regarding the extent of the moisture intrusion into
their unit (unit 12) in June-August 2019 and June 2020.  (SAC ¶¶ 29-31.)  Defendant has not cited any authority
supporting Defendant’s contention that a cause of action for breach of
fiduciary duty or for negligence could not lie against Defendant under the
circumstances alleged.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
For the reasons stated, the Court overrules Defendant’s Demurrer to
the Third and Fourth Causes of Action.  Further,
the Court orders Defendant to file and serve an Answer to the SAC on or before May
13, 2024.
 
Defendant shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service regarding the same.  
 
 
DATED:  April 22, 2024                                                        ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court