 Case Number:  23SMCV03392    Hearing Date:   April 22, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING - NO. 1
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


April 22, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV03392




MOTION


Demurrer 




MOVING PARTIES


Defendants Crawford & Company and William Ball




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff Erin Hughes



 
MOTION
 
On October 25, 2023, Plaintiff Erin Hughes (“Plaintiff”) filed a First
Amended Complaint, alleging six causes of action: (1) breach of insurance
policy contract; (2) breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing;
(3) negligence; (4) fraud; (5) negligent misrepresentation; and (6) unfair
business practices.  The first two causes
of action were not alleged against Defendants Crawford & Company or William
Ball (“Defendants”).  
 
The Court sustained Defendants’ previous demurrer to the third cause
of action for negligence without leave to amend on the grounds that insurers
and their agents do not generally owe insureds a duty as a matter of law, and
sustained the demurrer to the fourth and fifth causes of action for fraud and
negligent misrepresentation with leave to amend.  (See January 5, 2024 Minute Order.)
 
On January 31, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Second Amended Complaint
(“SAC”) alleging five causes of action for (1) breach of insurance policy
contract; (2) breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing; (3)
fraud; (4) negligent misrepresentation; and (5) unfair business practices,
omitting the negligence cause of action. 
The first two causes of action are not alleged against Defendants.
 
Defendants demur to the third and fourth causes of action on the
grounds that they fail to state a cause of action pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 430.10, subdivision (e). 
Plaintiff opposes the demurrer and Defendants reply.  
 
ANALYSIS
 
1.     DEMURRER
- STANDARDS
 
“It is black letter law that a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of
the allegations in a complaint.”  (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015)
235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  In testing the sufficiency of a cause of
action, a court accepts “[a]s true all material facts properly pled and matters
which may be judicially noticed but disregard contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law.  [A court
also gives] the complaint a reasonable interpretation, reading it as a whole
and its parts in their context.”  (290
Division (EAT), LLC v. City & County of San Francisco (2022) 86
Cal.App.5th 439, 450 [cleaned up]; Hacker v. Homeward Residential, Inc.
(2018) 26 Cal.App.5th 270, 280 [“in considering the merits of a demurrer,
however, “the facts alleged in the pleading are deemed to be true, however
improbable they may be”].)
 
Further, in ruling on a demurrer, a court must “liberally construe”
the allegations of the complaint “with a view to substantial justice between
the parties.”  (See Code Civ. Proc., §
452.)  “This rule of liberal construction
means that the reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not
the defendant.”  (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209
Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.)   
 
In summary, “[d]etermining whether the complaint is sufficient as
against the demurrer on the ground that it does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action, the rule is that if one consideration of all the
facts stated it appears the plaintiff is entitled to any relief at the hands of
the court against the defendants the complaint will be held good although the
facts may not be clearly stated, or may be intermingled with a statement of
other facts irrelevant to the cause of action shown, or although the plaintiff
may demand relief to which he is not entitled under the facts alleged.”  (Gressley v. Williams (1961) 193
Cal.App.2d 636, 639.)
 
A.   
FAILURE TO STATE A CAUSE OF ACTION – FOURTH AND
FIFTH CAUSES OF ACTION FOR FRAUD & NEGLIGENT MISREPRESENTATION
 
The elements for fraudulent
misrepresentation are “(1) the defendant represented to the plaintiff that an
important fact was true; (2) that representation was false; (3) the defendant
knew that the representation was false when the defendant made it, or the
defendant made the representation recklessly and without regard for its truth;
(4) the defendant intended that the plaintiff rely on the representation; (5)
the plaintiff reasonably relied on the representation; (6) the plaintiff was
harmed; and (7) the plaintiff's reliance on the defendant's representation was
a substantial factor in causing that harm to the plaintiff.”  (Graham v. Bank of America, N.A.
(2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 594, 605–606.)  
 
“The essential elements of a
count for negligent misrepresentation are the same [as intentional
misrepresentation] except that it does not require knowledge of falsity but
instead requires a misrepresentation of fact by a person who has no reasonable
grounds for believing it to be true.”  (Chapman
v. Skype Inc. (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 217, 230-231 (hereafter Chapman).)  Like intentional misrepresentation, causes of
action for negligent misrepresentation sound in fraud, and must also,
therefore, be pleaded with particularity. 
(Ibid.)  
 
“In California, fraud must be
pled specifically; general and conclusory allegations do not suffice.”  (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12
Cal.4th 631, 645.)  “This particularity
requirement necessitates pleading facts which show how, when, where, to whom,
and by what means the representations were tendered.”  (Ibid.)  Causes of action for negligent
misrepresentation sound in fraud, and must also, therefore, be pleaded with
particularity.  (Chapman, supra,
220 Cal.App.4th at pp. 230-231.)  
 
With respect to Defendants,
Plaintiff alleges:
 
(c) […] Instead of using the original floor plans
provided to Mr. Ball by Plaintiff, William Ball and Crawford inserted the wrong
description of Plaintiff’s property and used a computer program to generate an
estimate with erroneous property description that was to be rebuilt. The
property description in Ball’s estimate was starkly different from the original
plans of the property given to him by Plaintiff. Ball wrote the first incorrect
estimate with the wrong property description in May of 2021 where the rebuild
cost was $650,000. After Plaintiff informed Ball of the mistakes in his
estimates he delayed issuing another estimate until May 6 of 2022. The May 2022
estimate was for $1,536,864.88 but still had the wrong description of the
property which was to be rebuild. These mistakes by Ball caused an unreasonable
delay in processing the claim and the claim is still not processed since the
required insurance benefits have not been paid.
 
[…]
 
(f) Crawford through its adjuster William Ball
falsely represented in or about January 19, 2021 to Plaintiff (when Ball
arrived to Plaintiff’s property for inspection) that Ball would conduct a
thorough inspection of Plaintiff’s property and prepare an accurate building
estimate based on the original floor plans provided to him by Plaintiff upon
his arrival. In fact these representations were false in that Ball spent
minutes at the Property failing to conduct a thorough inspection, took over six
months to prepare his first estimate, and did not use any of the original floor
plans provided to him in preparation of the building estimate causing gross
misrepresentations in the estimate and delays in distribution of the insurance
proceeds. Ball and Crawford knew that their representation of the accuracy of
the estimate were false since they had the original floor plans provided by
Plaintiff before their estimates were prepared. 
 
(g) Plaintiff relied on Ball’s representations
and competence of Ball as a professional estimator while she was working to
clear the property from debris, as well as hiring an architect and waiting for
her insurance funds to be distributed based on Ball’s estimate. Ball’s second
estimate issued to Plaintiff by email in or about May or June of 2022 was also
false since although it was in excess of the policy limits, it was not based on
original floor plans, contained misrepresentations of square footage and materials,
and did not match the CFP disbursement checks, causing Carrington to refuse to
release the insurance proceeds to Plaintiff, resulting in 3 year delay in
rebuild of the property, and a lawsuit by Carrington for judicial foreclosure
leading to attorney’s fees and emotional distress of the Plaintiff.
 
[…]
 
25. The Plaintiff relied on the above fraudulent
representations by the Defendants and Does 2- 50, and was not aware of the true
nature of the facts due to the half truth representation of CFP’s adjusters
including Kwanza Johnson , James Garner, William Ball and other Does 2- 50 who
misrepresented the reason for partial denial of Plaintiff’s insurance benefits
for damage to her vegetation, used inaccurate and false estimates for damages
to Plaintiff’s dwelling prepared by William Ball and Does 2-50 who knew or
should have known that these representations were not true. 
 
26. As a direct and proximate result of the
tortious breach of the Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing Plaintiff
suffered damages in excess of $10,000,000. 
 
27. Due to the malicious, oppressive, and
fraudulent conduct of the Defendants, and Does 1-50, Plaintiff is entitled to
exemplary damages.
 
(SAC
¶¶ 10, 24-27.)  
 
            Defendants
contend (1) the alleged misrepresentation is an opinion estimate, and therefore
not a misrepresentation as a matter of law, nor are they representations made
to Plaintiff; (2) Plaintiff does not allege reliance because she knew the
estimate was faulty and disputed it; (3) Defendants are not liable because they
acted within the course and scope of their agency under California Fair Plan (CFP);
and (4) Ball is not individually liable, because he acted in the scope of his
employment with Crawford.
 
                                                        
i.         
Opinion
Estimate
 
“[E]xpressions of opinion are
not generally treated as representations of fact, and thus are not grounds for
a misrepresentation cause of action.” (Neu-Visions Sports, Inc. v.
Soren/McAdam/Bartells (2000) 86 Cal.App.4th 303, 308.)
 
Plaintiff alleges that on or
about January 19, 2021, upon arriving at Plaintiff’s property, Ball, on behalf
of Crawford, represented that he would (1) thoroughly inspect Plaintiff’s
property; and (2) base his estimate on the original plans Plaintiff handed him.  Plaintiff further alleges these
representations were false when made because Ball only spent a few minutes
inspecting the property and produced an estimate that, on its face, was not
based upon the plans Plaintiff had provided. 
 
Thus, Plaintiff does not
allege that the misrepresentation was the estimate Ball submitted to the
insurer, rather Plaintiff alleges the misrepresentations, which Ball made
directly to Plaintiff, were that Ball would conduct a thorough inspection and
base his estimate off the original plans, neither of which Plaintiff alleges
Ball did.
 
                                                      
ii.         
Reliance
 
Plaintiff further alleges that
in reliance upon Ball’s representations that he would conduct a thorough
inspection and base the estimate on the original plans, Plaintiff assumed Ball
would produce a reasonable estimate, and her claim would be timely paid.  As such, Plaintiff expended money to clear
the debris from her home and hired an architect for the rebuild.  
 
But Plaintiff alleges Ball’s
failure to abide by his representations resulted in an underestimate of
approximately $1 million.  ($650,000 in
May 2021 versus $1,536,864.88 in May 2022.)  In other words, Ball’s failure to conduct a
thorough inspection and base his initial estimate off of the original plans,
and the subsequent year delay in updating the estimate, which was still
incorrect, have delayed payments on Plaintiff’s claim.
 
As such, Plaintiff adequately alleges reliance.
 
                                                    
iii.         
Scope
of Defendants’ Agency under CFP
 
Defendants primarily cite
nonbinding federal district court cases in support of their argument that Defendants
cannot be liable for the torts they committed because they were acting within
the scope of Defendants’ agency to CFP, the insurer.[1]
 
The only California cases
Defendants cite to are Lippert v. Bailey (1966) 241 Cal.App.2d 376, 382
(hereafter Lippert); Strawn v. Morris Polich & Purdy, LLP
(2019) 30 Cal.App.5th 1087, 1102-1103 (hereafter Strawn); and Cooper
v. Equity General Ins. Co. (1990) 219 Cal.App.3d 1252, 1259 (hereafter Cooper).
 
Lippert held:
“While an insurance agent may be personally liable to the insured for damages
which are the result of the agent's negligent failure to insure property as
contracted, the agent's personal liability is dependent upon the extent of the
disclosure of his agency.”  (Lippert,
supra, 241 Cal.App.2d at p. 382.) 
Thus, to the extent the agent entered into a contractual obligation with
the insured, yet negligently failed to fulfil those obligations, and to the
extent the agent signed the contract on behalf of the principal, the principal,
and not the agent, is liable.  (Ibid.)  
 
In Strawn, the court held that although an insurer who denies
an insurance claim in bad faith can be liable for elder abuse, the attorney who
investigates the claim as an agent for the insurer cannot.  (Strawn, supra, 30 Cal.App.5th
at p. 1101.)
 
In Cooper, the court held that the attorney-agents, who were
not themselves parties to the underlying insurance contract, could neither be
held liable for breaching the covenant of good faith and fair dealing nor for
conspiracy to breach the covenant.  (Cooper,
supra, 219 Cal.App.3d at p. 1259.)
 
These cases all involved contractual obligations, where the principal,
as opposed to the agent, was ultimately responsible, as the principal was the
party to the contract.  Moreover, two of
the cases involved agents who are attorneys. 

 
By contrast, Plaintiff cites to Bock v. Hansen (2014) 225
Cal.App.4th 215, 217, where the appellate court held that an insurance adjuster
can be liable for making negligent misrepresentations to a homeowner.  
 
  Therefore, the fact that
Defendants were working as insurance adjuster agents for CFP is not a basis to
sustain the demurrer.
 
                                                    
iv.         
Scope
of Ball’s Employment with Crawford
 
Defendants similarly cite
nonbinding federal district court authority in support of their argument that
the cause of action against Ball individually must fail because Ball was acting
in the scope of his employment at the time of the alleged
misrepresentations.  The only state cases
Defendants cite are Lippert, which the Court discusses above, and Perez
v. Van Groningen & Sons, Inc. (1986) 41 Cal.3d 962, 967, which stands
for the proposition that an employer can be vicariously liable for its
employee’s torts committed within the scope of employment.  But the fact that Crawford can be liable for
Ball’s conduct does not mean that Ball cannot also be liable for his alleged
misrepresentations.
 
Therefore, Defendants have not
provided a legal basis to sustain the demurrer as to Ball.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
For the reasons stated, the Court overrules Defendants’ demurrer in
its entirety.
 
Further, the Court orders Defendants to file an Answer to the SAC on
or before May 13, 2024.
 
Defendants shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service regarding the same.  
 
 
DATED:  April 22, 2024                                                        ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court


