


[1] “Although [a court] may not rely on unpublished
California cases, the California Rules of Court do not prohibit citation to
unpublished federal cases, which may properly be cited as persuasive, although
not binding, authority.”  (Landmark
Screens, LLC v. Morgan, Lewis & Bockius, LLP (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th
238, 251, fn. 6, citing in part Cal. Rules of Court, rule 8.1115.)  

TENTATIVE RULING - NO. 2
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


April 22, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV03392




MOTION


Demurrer 




MOVING PARTY


Defendant Carrington Mortgage Services, LLC




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff Erin Hughes



 
MOTION
 
On October 25, 2023, Plaintiff Erin Hughes (“Plaintiff”) filed a First
Amended Complaint (“FAC”), alleging six causes of action: (1) breach of
insurance policy contract; (2) breach of implied covenant of good faith and
fair dealing; (3) negligence; (4) fraud; (5) negligent misrepresentation; and
(6) unfair business practices.  The first
two causes of action were not alleged against Defendant Carrington Mortgage
Services, LLC (“Defendant.”)
 
The Court sustained Defendant’s demurrer to the third cause of action
for negligence without leave to amend on the grounds that the economic loss
rule barred Plaintiff from recovering the purely economic damages alleged in
tort, and sustained Defendant’s demurrer to the fourth and fifth causes of
action for fraud and negligent misrepresentation with leave to amend to allege
specific facts regarding who at Carrington made the alleged representations,
when they were made, how they were made, and other facts demonstrating
Defendant’s knowledge of falsity.  (See January
5, 2024 Minute Order.)
 
On January 31, 2024, Plaintiff filed a second amended complaint
(“SAC”), alleging five causes of action for (1) breach of insurance policy
contract; (2) breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing; (3)
fraud; (4) negligent misrepresentation; and (5) unfair business practices,
omitting the negligence cause of action. 
The first two causes of action are not alleged against Defendant
Carrington.
 
Defendant again demurs to the third and fourth causes of action for
fraud and negligent misrepresentation on the grounds that they are uncertain
and fail to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action pursuant to
Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivisions (e) and (f), respectively.  Plaintiff opposes the demurrer and Defendant
replies.
 
REQUEST
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
            Defendant requests judicial notice
of the following documents:
 
1.    
Exhibit 1 – Deed of Trust recorded in the Los Angeles
County Recorder’s Office on July 16, 2007 as Instrument No. 2007167387
 
2.    
Exhibit 2 – Assignment of Deed of Trust recorded in the
Los Angeles County Recorder’s Office on April 20, 2011 as Instrument No.
20110572484
 
3.    
Exhibit 3 – Assignment of Deed of Trust recorded in the
Los Angeles County Recorder’s Office on June 9, 2016 as Instrument No.
20160661641
 
4.    
Exhibit 4 – Assignment of Deed of Trust recorded in the
Los Angeles County Recorder’s Office on May 19, 2020 as Instrument No.
20200547985
 
5.    
Exhibit 5 – Complaint in Los Angeles Superior Court
Case No. 22SMCV01175
 
6.    
Exhibit 6 – Cross-Complaint in Los Angeles Superior
Court Case No. 22SMCV01175
 
With regard to Exhibits 1, 2, 3, and 4, courts can take judicial notice of the existence and recordation of real
property records, including deeds, if authenticity is not reasonably
disputed.  (Fontenot v. Wells Fargo
Bank, N.A. (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 256, 264-265.)  “The official act of recordation and the
common use of a notary public in the execution of such documents assure their
reliability, and the maintenance of the documents in the recorder’s office
makes their existence and text capable of ready confirmation, thereby placing
such documents beyond reasonable dispute.” 
(Ibid.)  Moreover, courts
can take judicial notice not only of the existence and recordation of recorded
documents but also matters that can be deduced from the documents, including
the parties, dates, and legal consequences of recorded documents relating to
real estate transactions.  (Ibid.)
 
The Court notes that these documents each bear the stamp of a notary
public and bear the stamp of the recorder’s office, as well as an official instrument
numbers, placing them beyond reasonable dispute.  Therefore, the Court takes judicial notice of
Exhibits 1, 2, 3, 4, as well as the legal consequences of the recorded
documents.
 
With respect to Exhibits 5 and 6, judicial notice may be taken of records of any court in this state.  (Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (d)(1).)  Therefore, the Court may take judicial notice
of them.  (Ibid.)   However, “while courts are free to take
judicial notice of the existence of each document in a court file, including
the truth of results reached, they may not take judicial notice of the truth of
hearsay statements in decisions and court files.  Courts may not take judicial notice of
allegations in affidavits, declarations and probation reports in court records
because such matters are reasonably subject to dispute and therefore require
formal proof.”  (Lockley v. Law Office
of Cantrell, Green, Pekich, Cruz & McCort (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 875,
882 [cleaned up].)  Accordingly, the
Court takes judicial notice of the existence of Exhibits 5 and 6, but not the
truth of the allegations contained therein.
 
ANALYSIS
 
1.     DEMURRER
- STANDARDS
 
“It is black letter law that a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of
the allegations in a complaint.”  (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015)
235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  In testing the sufficiency of a cause of
action, a court accepts “[a]s true all material facts properly pled and matters
which may be judicially noticed but disregard contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law.  [A court
also gives] the complaint a reasonable interpretation, reading it as a whole
and its parts in their context.”  (290
Division (EAT), LLC v. City & County of San Francisco (2022) 86
Cal.App.5th 439, 450 [cleaned up]; Hacker v. Homeward Residential, Inc.
(2018) 26 Cal.App.5th 270, 280 [“in considering the merits of a demurrer,
however, “the facts alleged in the pleading are deemed to be true, however
improbable they may be”].)
 
Further, in ruling on a demurrer, a court must “liberally construe”
the allegations of the complaint “with a view to substantial justice between
the parties.”  (See Code Civ. Proc., §
452.)  “This rule of liberal construction
means that the reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not
the defendant.”  (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209
Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.)   
 
In summary, “[d]etermining whether the complaint is sufficient as
against the demurrer on the ground that it does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action, the rule is that if one consideration of all the
facts stated it appears the plaintiff is entitled to any relief at the hands of
the court against the defendants the complaint will be held good although the
facts may not be clearly stated, or may be intermingled with a statement of
other facts irrelevant to the cause of action shown, or although the plaintiff
may demand relief to which he is not entitled under the facts alleged.”  (Gressley v. Williams (1961) 193
Cal.App.2d 636, 639.)
 
A.   
UNCERTAINTY
 
A demurrer for uncertainty will be sustained only where the pleading
is so bad that the responding party cannot reasonably respond - i.e., he or she
cannot reasonably determine what issues must be admitted or denied, or what
claims are directed against him or her. 
(Khoury v. Maly’s of California (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612,
616.)  Where a demurrer is made upon the
ground of uncertainty, the demurrer must distinctly specify exactly how or why
the pleading is uncertain, and where such uncertainty appears by reference to
page and line numbers.  (See Fenton v.
Groveland Comm. Services Dist. (1982) 135 Cal.App.3d 797, 809.)  
 
Defendant does not demonstrate that any portions of the SAC are so bad
that it cannot reasonably determine what issues must be admitted or denied, or
what claims are directed against it.  The
Court thus declines to sustain Defendant’s demurrer on the basis of
uncertainty.  
 
B.   
FAILURE TO STATE A CAUSE OF ACTION
 
                                                        
i.         
Third
and Fourth Causes of Action – Fraud & Negligent Misrepresentation
 
The elements for fraudulent
misrepresentation are “(1) the defendant represented to the plaintiff that an
important fact was true; (2) that representation was false; (3) the defendant
knew that the representation was false when the defendant made it, or the
defendant made the representation recklessly and without regard for its truth;
(4) the defendant intended that the plaintiff rely on the representation; (5)
the plaintiff reasonably relied on the representation; (6) the plaintiff was
harmed; and (7) the plaintiff's reliance on the defendant's representation was
a substantial factor in causing that harm to the plaintiff.”  (Graham v. Bank of America, N.A.
(2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 594, 605–606.)  
 
“The essential elements of a
count for negligent misrepresentation are the same [as intentional
misrepresentation] except that it does not require knowledge of falsity but
instead requires a misrepresentation of fact by a person who has no reasonable
grounds for believing it to be true.”  (Chapman
v. Skype Inc. (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 217, 230-231 (hereafter Chapman).)  Like intentional misrepresentation, causes of
action for negligent misrepresentation sound in fraud, and must also,
therefore, be pleaded with particularity. 
(Ibid.)  
 
“In California, fraud must be
pled specifically; general and conclusory allegations do not suffice.”  (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12
Cal.4th 631, 645.)  “This particularity
requirement necessitates pleading facts which show how, when, where, to whom,
and by what means the representations were tendered.”  (Ibid.)  Causes of action for negligent
misrepresentation sound in fraud, and must also, therefore, be pleaded with
particularity.  (Chapman, supra,
220 Cal.App.4th at pp. 230-231.)  
 
With respect to Defendant,
Plaintiff alleges:
 
(c) […] Instead of using the original floor plans
provided to Mr. Ball by Plaintiff, William Ball and Crawford inserted the wrong
description of Plaintiff’s property and used a computer program to generate an
estimate with erroneous property description that was to be rebuilt. The
property description in Ball’s estimate was starkly different from the original
plans of the property given to him by Plaintiff. Ball wrote the first incorrect
estimate with the wrong property description in May of 2021 where the rebuild
cost was $650,000. After Plaintiff informed Ball of the mistakes in his
estimates he delayed issuing another estimate until May 6 of 2022. The May 2022
estimate was for $1,536,864.88 but still had the wrong description of the
property which was to be rebuild. These mistakes by Ball caused an unreasonable
delay in processing the claim and the claim is still not processed since the
required insurance benefits have not been paid. Furthermore CARRINGTON insisted
on using the erroneous estimate prepared by Ball in allocation of the insurance
funds it held and refused to disburse such funds to the Plaintiff unless she
followed the erroneous estimate. Based on information and belief the insurance
funds were kept by CARRINGTON in an account where the interest was paid to the
California State which indirectly benefits California Fair Plan. 
 
(d) CFP and Carrington Unreasonably and
fraudulently delayed payment of policy benefits and intentionally stalled the
rebuild of the property to allow Carrington to foreclosure on the property and
keep all the equity. This fraudulent plan was achieved by redirecting the
Plaintiff with her requests to disburse funds for rebuild from CFP to
Carrington and back based on the wrongful estimate of William Ball, as well as
Crawford & Company who prepared incorrect estimates and floor plans of
Plaintiff’s property which they refused to correct causing delay, ultimate
seizure of $802,135.01 in insurance benefits payments by Plaintiff’s mortgagee
Carrington Mortgage Services LLC and a judicial foreclosure complaint by
Carrington;
 
(e) CFP Failed to accurately specify the
allocation of approximately $225,000 in insurance benefits causing Carrington
Mortgage to refuse to pay these funds to Plaintiff;
 
(f) CFP wrongfully refused to pay Fair Rental
Value to Plaintiff for her relocation expenses. In fact based on a conversation
overheard by Plaintiff between CFP and Carrington’s representative , Carrington
instructed CFP and the latter agreed not to pay full Fair Rental Value to
Plaintiff because Carrington wanted to keep more of the insurance proceeds to
itself.
 
[…]
 
(h) CARRINGTON through its loss prevention
managers Diadra, Belinda and other personnel who spoke to Plaintiff over the
phone intentionally misrepresented to Plaintiff in May 2021, September 13,
2021, October 12, 2021 and June of 2022 that the estimate prepared by Ball,
Crawford and approved by CFP were correct and had to be used to repair the
property or no insurance funds will be released. 
 
(i) Carrington’s representatives Deidra, Belinda
and others further misrepresented in telephone conversations with Plaintiff in
May 2021, September 2021, October 2021 and June of 2022 that her insurance
proceeds checks issued by CFP would be released if Plaintiff signed such checks
and forwarded them to Carrington. However, these representations were false as
Carrington only released two of the approximately five checks issued by CFP and
instead initiated a judicial foreclosure while seizing in excess of $800,000 in
insurance proceeds. Plaintiff relied on these misrepresentations in working to
clear her property from debris, hiring and architect and otherwise working to
rebuild her property. However because of Carrington’s fraudulent conduct
Plaintiff’s rebuild efforts were stalled for over 3 years, she incurred
attorney’s fees and emotional distress. 
 
(j) Carrington also intentionally concealed a
fact unknown to Plaintiff that Wilmington and Carrington did not have a proper
assignment of Plaintiff’s Note and Deed of Trust, that her original loan or a
significant portion thereof was forgiven, and neither Carrington nor Wilmington
or their trustor are the real party in interest to collect mortgage or initiate
a judicial foreclosure against Plaintiff in violation of the Federal as well as
California Rosenthal Fair Debt Collection Practices Act. Had Plaintiff known
that Carrington had no right to collect payments from her, she would not have
made mortgage payments to them an accounting of which is currently subject to
discovery in this lawsuit. As a proximate result Plaintiff was harmed for
damages in excess of $25,000 according to proof; 
 
(k) Carrington through its case manager Belinda
misrepresented its forbearance practices and procedures to Plaintiff in a phone
conversation in January of 2021 in violations of the CARES ACT in that they
misinformed plaintiff that she was not entitled to a disaster forbearance due
to a fire destroying her mortgaged property and thereafter initiated a judicial
foreclosure against Plaintiff; Carrington Mortgage unlawfully withheld legally
mandated pandemic protections, wrongly imposed fees, and reported false
information to credit reporting companies. 
 
(l) All Defendants Wrongfully and intentionally
used and enforced faulty rebuild estimates through engagement of CRAWFORD &
COMPANY as well as estimator/adjuster William Ball which were lacking
sufficient detail for allocation of insurance benefits and which caused
Plaintiff’s mortgagee Carrington Mortgage Services LLC to refuse the release to
Plaintiff of approximately $802,135.01 in insurance benefits.
 
25. The Plaintiff relied on the above fraudulent
representations by the Defendants and Does 2- 50, and was not aware of the true
nature of the facts due to the half truth representation of CFP’s adjusters
including Kwanza Johnson , James Garner, William Ball and other Does 2- 50 who
misrepresented the reason for partial denial of Plaintiff’s insurance benefits
for damage to her vegetation, used inaccurate and false estimates for damages
to Plaintiff’s dwelling prepared by William Ball and Does 2-50 who knew or
should have known that these representations were not true. 
 
26. As a direct and proximate result of the
tortious breach of the Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing Plaintiff
suffered damages in excess of $10,000,000. 
 
27. Due to the malicious, oppressive, and
fraudulent conduct of the Defendants, and Does 1-50, Plaintiff is entitled to
exemplary damages.
 
(SAC
¶¶ 10, 24-27.)  
 
            Therefore, Plaintiff alleges that in
phone calls on May 2021, September 13, 2021, October 12, 2021 and June of 2022,
Carrington’s managers and personnel, including Deidra or Diadra (spelled
inconsistently in the SAC) and Belinda repeatedly told Plaintiff that the
original May 2021 Ball estimate was correct, that Plaintiff had to accept the
incorrect estimate if she wanted to receive any disbursement of the insurance
proceeds, and that five disbursement checks were on their way, when only two
ever arrived.  In reliance upon these
representations, Plaintiff expended money clearing debris from the property and
hiring an architect for the rebuild. 
 
            Plaintiff further alleges that Defendants
conspired to unreasonably delay a year in updating the Ball estimate, until May
6, 2022, which has delayed disbursement of the insurance proceeds, preventing
Plaintiff from doing many of the repairs. 
In the meantime, Plaintiff alleges Carrington kept the funds in an
interest bearing account, the interest of which was sent to the state of
California, for the indirect benefit of Defendant California Fair Plan.  
 
Moreover, Plaintiff alleges Carrington used the lengthy delay to its
advantage to force Plaintiff into foreclosure, refusing to offer Plaintiff
forbearance in violation of the CARES ACT on the basis that forbearance is not
available for the mortgaged property had been destroyed by a fire (which the
delay prevented Plaintiff from repairing). 
Plaintiff further alleges that Carrington had no lawful right to
foreclose on Plaintiff’s property or collect mortgage payments from Plaintiff, that
Plaintiff has sent $25,000 in mortgage payments to Carrington, and that
Carrington has foreclosed on the property with the intent to keep the equity from
Plaintiff’s home.
 
As such, Plaintiff has specifically pleaded the elements of fraud and
negligent misrepresentation. 
 
In the demurrer, Defendant explains that, pursuant to the Deed of
Trust, of which the Court has taken judicial notice, Plaintiff agreed “to
generally assign rights to insurance proceeds to the holder of the Note up to
the amount of the outstanding balance.” 
(RJN No. 1 at ¶ 5, p. 9.)  The Court
notes the lender is listed on the note as “Countrywide Bank, FSB,” the Trustee
is “Recontrust Company N.A.” and the beneficiary is listed as “MERS [Mortgage
Electronic Registration Systems, Inc.”  (Ibid.)
 Defendant has provided three other
recorded assignments of the deed of trust, but none of them mention Defendant
either.  (See RJN Nos. 2-4.)
 
Further, Defendant argues the Deed of Trust provides, “Lender shall
have the right to hold such insurance proceeds until Lender has had an
opportunity to inspect such Property to ensure the work has been completed to
Lender’s satisfaction… Lender may disburse proceeds for the repairs and
restoration in a single payment or in a series of process payments as the work
is completed” and “if the restoration or repair is not economically feasible or
Lender’s security would be lessened, the insurance proceeds shall be applied to
the sums secured” by the Deed of Trust “with the excess, if any, paid to
Borrower [Plaintiff].”  (Ibid.)
 
Defendant argues that it determined rebuilding is not economically
feasible, and therefore applied the insurance proceeds to the outstanding
balance on the loan and filed a judicial foreclosure action.  In reply, Defendant further argues that it
would not retain the insurance proceeds or the equity in the property (if any,
following the fire damage) resulting from the foreclosure.
 
Whether Defendant actually determined in good faith, that rebuilding
was not economically feasible and accurately communicated that to Plaintiff
during the phone calls in question, and whether Carrington has the legal right
to foreclose on the property are factual issues to be resolved at later stages
of the litigation.
 
At this stage, Plaintiff has adequately pleaded the elements of fraud
and negligent misrepresentation with requisite specificity to withstand
demurrer.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
For the reasons stated, the Court overrules Defendant’s Demurrer to
the third and fourth causes of action.
 
Defendant shall file and serve an answer to the second amended
complaint on or before May 13, 2024.  
 
Defendant shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service regarding the same.  
 
 
DATED:  April 22, 2024                                                        ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court