 Case Number:  23STCV14229    Hearing Date:   September 13, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles




 
Flag & Symbol, LLC, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case 
No.:
 


 
23STCV14229




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling 
 




 
Value Price, LLC, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: September 13, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion to Quash Service of Summons
Moving Party: Specially Appearing Cross-Defendant
Shragay Flags & Symbols Ltd.
Responding Party: Defendants/Cross-Complainants Value
Price, LLC, Maxwell Lapin and Paul Goldman
 
T/R:     SHRAGAY’S
MOTION TO QUASH IS DENIED.
SHRAGAY TO NOTICE.  
 
If the parties wish to submit on the
tentative, please email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with notice to opposing counsel
(or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the day of the hearing.
 
The Court considers the moving papers,
opposition, reply, and supplemental briefing. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On June 20, 2023, Plaintiff Flag &
Symbol, LLC sued Defendants Value Price, LLC, Maxwell Lapin and Paul Goldman,
asserting causes of action for (1) breach of contract; (2) breach of the
covenant of good faith and fair dealing; (3) fraud; and (4) negligent
misrepresentations. This action arises from Plaintiff and Defendants’ business
relationship. Plaintiff supplied Defendant with hoodie sweatshirts and
souvenirs for Plaintiff’s store. Plaintiff alleges Defendant breached
agreements by failing to timely comply with the agreement, falsely claiming
products were defective, etc.
 
On December 6, 2023, Value Price, LLC,
Maxwell Lapin and Paul Goldman filed a cross-complaint against Flag &
Symbol, LLC, Shragay Flags & Symbols Ltd., and James Taratin.
 
ANALYSIS
 
“A defendant, on or before the last day of
his or her time to plead or within any further time that the court may for good
cause allow, may serve and file a notice of motion for one or more of the
following purposes: (1) To quash service of summons on the ground of lack of
jurisdiction of the court over him or her.”  (CCP §
418.10(a)(1).)  “When a motion to quash is properly brought, the
burden of proof is placed upon the plaintiff to establish the facts of
jurisdiction by a preponderance of the evidence.” (Aquila, Inc. v. Sup. Ct. (2007)
148 Cal.App.4th 556, 568.)
A non-resident
defendant may be subject to either general or specific jurisdiction. (See Elkman
v. National States Insurance Co. (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 1305, 1314.)  General jurisdiction exists when a defendant
is domiciled in the forum state or his activities there are substantial,
continuous, and systematic. (F. Hoffman-La Roche, Inc. v. Sup. Ct. (2005)
130 Cal.App.4th 782, 796.) 
 
Specific jurisdiction involves a 3-part test
in California. California courts adopt the same test as the test used by the
court in Boschetto v. Hansing (9th Cir. Cal. 2008) 539 F.3d 1011,1016: “
‘(1) The nonresident defendant must do some act or consummate some transaction
with the forum or perform some act by which he purposefully avails himself of
the privilege of conducting activities in the forum, thereby invoking the
benefits and protections of its laws; (2) the claim must be one which arises
out of or results from the defendant's forum-related activities; and (3)
exercise of jurisdiction must be reasonable.’ Panavision International, L.P.
v. Toeppen (9th Cir. 1998) 141 F.3d 1316, 1320 [applying California
law].).” (Jewish Defense Organization, Inc. v. Sup. Ct. of Los Angeles
County (Rambam) (1999) 72 Cal.App.4th 1045, 1054.)
Specially Appearing Cross-Defendant
Shragay Flags & Symbols Ltd. moves to quash service of summons on the
ground that the Court does not have personal jurisdiction over Shragay. Shragay
is incorporated in and operates out of Israel. The Court therefore does not
have general personal jurisdiction over Shragay.
 
Shragay asserts that there is no
specific jurisdiction because Value Price has failed to allege any facts
showing Shragay’s involvement in this dispute and because Shragay has not
purposefully availed itself of the benefits of California. 
 
In the supplemental briefing, Value
Price points out that Shagray Flags & Symbols Ltd. is denoted as SF&S/F&S Israel in the cross-complaint, showing that there are
allegations of personal jurisdiction in the operative pleading. These show
Plaintiff Flag & Symbol acted as Shagray’s US subsidiary, agent, and alter
ego in the US. Value price also presents evidence showing Shagray’s direct
involvement with the manufacture of products to be sold in California by Value
Price. This is sufficient to establish specific personal jurisdiction over
Shagray.
 
Shragay’s motion to quash is DENIED.


 