 Case Number:  22STCV32334    Hearing Date:   November 22, 2024    Dept:  52 Plaintiff Lee Ouye’s Motion for Summary
Adjudication of His First and Fourth Causes of Action
Plaintiff Lee Ouye, Trustee of the Lee and
Lorraine Ouye Trust Dated June 8, 1994, moves for summary adjudication of his
first cause of action for breach of contract and his fourth cause of action for
dissolution of partnership.  
Requests for Judicial Notice
            Ouye requests judicial notice of nine exhibits.  Defendant Mertz Del-Amo requests judicial
notice of three exhibits.  Assuming the
documents are subject to judicial notice, taking judicial notice of them is
unnecessary.  (See Jordache Enterprises, Inc.
v. Brobeck, Phleger & Harrison (1998) 18 Cal.4th 739, 748, fn. 6; Appel v. Superior Court (2013) 214
Cal.App.4th 329, 342, fn. 6.)  All requests for judicial notice are denied.
Evidentiary Objections
            Ouye
makes 10 objections to the declaration of Ronald Hegge.  All objections are overruled.            
Legal Standard for Summary Adjudication by
Plaintiff
            A
plaintiff moving for summary adjudication must prove each element of each cause
of action; once the plaintiff does so, the burden shifts to the defendant to
show a triable issue of at least one material fact.  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001)
25 Cal.4th 826, 849; Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(1).)  
1st Cause of Action: Breach of Partnership
Agreement
            Ouye
does not meet his initial burden on summary adjudication of this cause of
action.  The elements of breach of
contract are: “(1) the existence of the contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance
or excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach, and (4) the resulting
damages to the plaintiff.”  (Oasis
West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011) 51 Cal.4th 811, 821.)  
Ouye does not meet his burden of proving the element
of damages.  When damages are an element of the cause of action, the
moving plaintiff must establish “both the fact and the amount of
damages.”  (Pajaro Valley Water
Management Agency v. McGrath (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1093, 1106.)  “[A] plaintiff cannot obtain judgment on a
breach of contract cause of action in an amount of damages to be determined
later.”  (Paramount Petroleum Corp. v.
Superior Court (2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 226, 241.)  Damages
are an element of this cause of action.  Ouye’s
motion does not purport to establish the amount of damages.  
In his reply to defendant William J.
Beverly’s opposition, plaintiff argues he established he suffered $445,000 in
damages because the partnership paid that amount to Mertz Management in
management fees.  (UMF No. 30.)  Beverly responded that this fact was
undisputed.  But Ouye does not show that
amount constitutes damages resulting from a breach of the partnership
agreement.  
Ouye argues Mertz Management could not
recover those $445,000 in management fees because it had no “broker’s license
to collect rents from tenants” as required under Business and Professions Code
section 10131, subdivision (b).  (Motion,
pp. 13-14.)  Ouye fails to show that
collecting rents in violation of the Business and Professions Code breached any
contract between the parties.  That is a
statute, not a term of the contract.  
Even if the
contract prohibits payments for collecting rent in violation of the Business
and Professions Code, Ouye fails to meet his burden on summary adjudication for
two other reasons.  
First, Ouye must
show the entire amount of $445,000 in damages was for services that required a
real estate broker’s license.  (See MKB Management, Inc. v. Melikian (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 796, 805 [court could
not conclude “that all of the services provided under the property management
agreement were dependent upon or inextricably related to the acts for which a
real estate broker’s license was required”].) 
Ouye does not do so.
Second,
the real estate licensing law “merely prevents one who is required to be
[licensed] from bringing or maintaining an action to recover compensation.”  (Broffman v. Newman (1989) 213
Cal.App.3d 252, 261.)  An unlicensed
person may still “defend[] an action to recover compensation already paid to
him.”  (Ibid.)  Ouye’s cause of action for breach of contract
is not an unlicensed person’s action to recover compensation.
4th Cause
of Action: Dissolution of Partnership
            Triable issues of material fact
preclude summary adjudication of this cause of action.  A
partner may dissolve a general partnership “when any of the following occurs: (A)
The economic purpose of the partnership is likely to be unreasonably
frustrated.  (B) Another partner has
engaged in conduct relating to the partnership business that makes it not
reasonably practicable to carry on the business in partnership with that
partner.  (C) It is not otherwise
reasonably practicable to carry on the partnership business in conformity with
the partnership agreement.”  (Corp. Code,
§ 16801, subd. (5).)  Ouye does not show
that, based on the undisputed facts, any of these bases for dissolution apply.
Ouye’s evidence
demonstrates a serious dispute between some of the partners.  That does not necessarily mean a dissatisfied
partner is entitled to judicial dissolution of the partnership.  The partnership was designed to be managed by
a minority of its members.  The
“restatement of partnership agreement” provides, “The management and control of
the partnership shall be exercised by a Management Committee consisting of
three (3) Managing General Partners.” 
(Ouye Decl., Ex. 3, ¶ 7.)  Ouye’s
evidence shows there are (or were in 2021) 15 partners.  (Id., Ex. 5, ¶ 3.)  The partnership agreement thus provides that
only three of 15 partners will manage the business.  That a non-managing partner objects to the
managing partners’ conduct, or the validity of the appointment of those
managing partners, does not mean that partner can unilaterally dissolve the
partnership.  
The record
includes evidence permitting a reasonable trier of fact to conclude the
partnership’s economic purpose is not unreasonably frustrated and that it is
reasonably practicable to carry on the business.  The partnership’s business is managing a
mobile home park.  The partnership hired
a property management company to do that. 
(Mertz Del-Amo Separate Statement, Nos. 11-12.)  Ronald Hegge testifies that the property
management company “is managing the business of the partnership and the Park
very successfully,” that all “partners are receiving detail[ed] financial
statements on a monthly basis, and each partner has received financial
distributions since the Committee assumed its role in June 2022.”  (Hegge Decl. ISO Mertz Del-Amo Opp., ¶
11.)  Based on this evidence, a
factfinder could determine that, despite the disputes between some partners,
the partnership business continues to operate smoothly and in conformity with
the partnership agreement.
The court cannot
conclude that, as a matter of law, the partnership must be dissolved.  Ouye provides no authority on summary
adjudication or summary judgment of a claim for dissolution of
partnership.  He cites three cases, all
of which were appeals from judgments after trial.  (Owen v. Cohen (1941) 19 Cal.2d 147; Navarro
v. Perron (2004) 122 Cal.App.4th 797, 801; Vangel v. Vangel (1953)
116 Cal.App.2d 615, 619.)  
Disposition
Plaintiff Lee Ouye’s motion for summary
adjudication is denied.