  Case Number:  22STCV13106    Hearing Date:   November 22, 2024    Dept:  52 Defendants’
Motion to Compel Compliance with Subpoena to Omnia Insurance & Risk
Solutions, Inc.
            Defendants Farmers Group, Inc.,
Farmers Insurance Exchange, Fire Insurance Exchange, Truck Insurance Exchange,
Mid-Century Insurance Company, and Farmers New World Life Insurance Company
(collectively, “Farmers”) move to compel non-party Omnia Insurance & Risk
Solutions, Inc. (Omnia) to comply with a deposition subpoena for production of
business records.
Farmers
did not properly serve the moving papers on Omnia.  “A written notice and all moving papers
supporting a motion to compel an answer to a deposition question or to compel
production of a document or tangible thing from a nonparty deponent must be
personally served on the nonparty deponent unless the nonparty deponent agrees
to accept service by mail or electronic service at an address or electronic
service address specified on the deposition record.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1346.)  
Farmers
did not personally serve this motion on Omnia as required.  They do not show Omnia agreed to accept
service by mail or electronic service.  Farmers
contends electronically serving the moving papers on Maryann P. Gallagher,
counsel for plaintiff Maureen Martinez, was sufficient.  
Farmers
rely on the following correspondence between the parties.  On August 21, 2024, Farmers’ counsel wrote to
Gallagher, “I am writing to confirm that your law office represents Omnia
Insurance Risk Solutions, Inc., f/k/a Bill Terry Insurance Agency, Inc. (‘Omnia’).
 If so, please confirm no later than
Monday, August 26 whether you agree to accept service of: (1) Defendants’
forthcoming records subpoenas to Omnia; and (2) Notices to Consumer of records
subpoenaed from the California Department of Insurance re Omnia’s dates of
appointment.”  (Palmer Reply Decl., Ex.
I, p. 2.)  After a follow-up email, on
September 3, Gallagher replied, “Yes to accepting service I am currently in
trial so please be mindful of that in scheduling anything I will be in trial
until October 7th.”  (Id. p.
1.)  
This
correspondence does not constitute an agreement by Omnia “to accept service by
mail or electronic service” of the moving papers.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1346.)  Farmers asked Gallagher if she represents
Omnia and if she agreed to accept service of the subpoena—not the motion.  Gallagher’s reply answered yes only as to
accepting service of the subpoena.  
Farmers
also argues serving the moving papers on Gallagher was proper because she
objected to the subpoena on Omnia’s behalf and her objections did not state
they were made on behalf of plaintiff. 
(Reply, p. 2.)  But Gallagher’s
correspondence objecting to the subpoena did not state she objected on behalf
of Omnia.  She asserted at least one
objection personal to plaintiff: she contended the subpoenas “violate
Plaintiff’s fundamental right to privacy.” 
(Palmer Decl., Ex. B, p. 2.; Ex. E, p. 2.)  Moreover, Gallagher’s signature on both
letters identified her as “Attorney for Plaintiff.”  (Id., p. 3; Ex. E, p. 3.)  
Farmers’
correspondence also indicates it interpreted Gallagher’s letters as being sent
on behalf of plaintiff, not Omnia. 
Farmers’ response to Gallagher’s first letter began, “We are in receipt
of Plaintiff, Maureen Martinez’s (‘Plaintiff’) correspondence dated September 12,
2024 objecting to the subpoenas.” 
(Palmer Decl., Ex. D, p. 1.)  It
further states, “Please confirm no later than close of business on Tuesday,
September 24, 2024 whether Plaintiff will agree to withdraw her objections.”  (Id., p. 2.)
Even
assuming this correspondence showed Gallagher represented Omnia, it does not
show “the nonparty deponent agree[d] to accept service” of the motion, rather
the subpoena, “by mail or electronic service.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1346.)  
Sanctions
            In her opposition, plaintiff Maureen
Martinez moves for monetary sanctions against Farmers’ counsel.  Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.480,
subdivision (j) provides, “The court shall impose a monetary sanction … against
any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to
compel an answer or production, unless it finds that the one subject to the
sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make
the imposition of the sanction unjust.”
            Farmers acted with substantial
justification.  Based on the correspondence
discussed above, Farmers acted in good faith and with a reasonable, but
incorrect, belief that Gallagher represented Omnia and agreed to accept service
of the moving papers on Omnia’s behalf.  Farmers also acted with substantial
justification based on the substance of this discovery dispute.  The subpoena sought discoverable records and
used reasonably particularized categories of documents.  Sanctions are not just under the
circumstances.  
Disposition
            Defendants’ motion to compel
compliance with subpoena to Omnia Insurance & Risk Solutions, Inc. is denied.