  Case Number:  22STCV11193    Hearing Date:   December 13, 2024    Dept:  51 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Upinder S.
Kalra, Department 51
 
HEARING DATE:   December
13, 2024                                         
 
CASE NAME:           Edgard
Marroquin v. American Honda Motor Co., Inc.
 
CASE NO.:                22STCV11193

 
MOTION
FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION
 
MOVING PARTY:  Plaintiff
Edgard Marroquin
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Defendant American Honda Motor
Co., Inc.
 
REQUESTED RELIEF: 
 
1.      Summary
Adjudication of Defendants’ Ninth and Tenth Affirmative Defenses asserting that
Defendant maintains a qualified third-party dispute resolution program in
California and that it is a shield to all civil penalties.
TENTATIVE RULING: 
 
1.      Motion
for Summary Adjudication is GRANTED.
STATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: 
 
On April 1, 2022, Plaintiff Edgard Marroquin (Plaintiff)
filed a Complaint against Defendant American Honda Motor Co., Inc. (Defendant
or AHM) with two causes of action for: (1) Violation of Song-Beverly Act –
Breach of Express Warranty, and (2) Fraudulent Inducement – Concealment. The
Complaint alleges that Plaintiff purchased the Subject Vehicle with express and
limited warranties. During these warranties, the Subject Vehicle contained
defects and nonconformities. Plaintiff further alleges that these defects were
not sufficiently fixed when the Subject Vehicle was brought in for repairs.
 
On May 6, 2022, Defendant filed a Demurrer with Motion to
Strike which the court OVERRULED and GRANTED with leave to amend.
 
On September 9, 2022, Plaintiff filed a First Amended
Complaint. 
 
On October 11, 2022, Defendant filed an Answer.
 
On August 8, 2023, Defendant filed a Motion for Summary
Adjudication which was continued to February 10, 2025.
 
On August 20, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant Motion for
Summary Adjudication (MSA). On November 27, 2024, Defendant filed an
opposition. On December 6, 2024, Plaintiff filed a reply.
 
LEGAL STANDARD: 
 
Evidentiary
Objections
 
The court rules on Plaintiff’s evidentiary objections to the
Declaration of Austin R. Henderson in support of Honda’s opposition to Motion
for Summary Adjudication as follows:
 
The court OVERRULES: Objection Nos. 1-3. The writings are sufficiently
authenticated. Moreover, the documents are not being offered for the truth.
Rather, for knowledge.
 
Motion for Summary
Adjudication
 
The purpose of a motion for summary judgment or summary
adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’
pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in
fact necessary to resolve their dispute.”  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826,
843.)  “Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), requires
the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and
‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by
other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any
material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of
law.”  (Adler v. Manor Healthcare
Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) 
 
“On a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is
always on the moving party to make a prima facia showing that there are no
triable issues of material fact.”  (Scalf
v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal. App. 4th 1510, 1519.)  A
plaintiff moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or
her burden of showing that there is no defense to a cause of action if that
party has proved each element of the cause of action entitling the party to
judgment on the cause of action. Once the plaintiff or cross-complainant has
met that burden, the burden shifts to the defendant or cross-defendant to show
that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of
action or a defense thereto.”  (CCP § 437(p)(1).) 
 
Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of the
party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in
favor of that party.”  (Dore v.
Arnold Worldwide, Inc.¿(2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.) 
 
To establish a triable issue of material fact, the party
opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68
Cal.App.4th 151, 166.) 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
Plaintiff contends AHM’s Ninth and Tenth affirmative
defenses fail because it is undisputed that Honda does not maintain a
“qualified third-party dispute resolution process” as defined by law. Plaintiff
additionally contends these affirmative defenses fail because there is no safe
harbor from willful civil penalties. AHM does not oppose dismissal of its Tenth
Affirmative Defense. AHM does argue that triable issues exist as to whether AHM’s
NCDS program substantially complies with the requirements of Civ. Code §
1793.22 and whether Honda’s actions were willful. Plaintiff replies willfulness
is beyond the scope of this MSA and substantial compliance is not the
applicable standard.
 
AHM’s Ninth Affirmative Defense states: “AHM is informed and
believes, and on that basis alleges, that Plaintiff and/or the owner of the
subject vehicle received timely notice of the availability of a third-party
dispute resolution process, and that no effort was made to use such
process." (Answer, pg. 3:19-23.)
 
AHM’s Tenth Affirmative Defense states: “AHM is informed and
believes, and on that basis alleges, that is possesses a qualified third-party
dispute resolution process, thereby barring Plaintiffs from any civil penalty
in this lawsuit.” (Answer, pg. 3:24-28.)
 
Civ. Code § 1794(e)(2) provides: “If the manufacturer
maintains a qualified third-party dispute resolution process which
substantially complies with Section 1793.22, the manufacturer shall not be
liable for any civil penalty pursuant to this subdivision.” “The Arbitration
Certification Program (ACP) is a bureau within the Department of Consumer
Affairs charged with certification and review of the qualified dispute
resolution process . . . .” (California
Department of Consumer Affairs v. Superior Court (2016) 245 Cal.App.4th
256, 260;[1]
16 Cal. Code Regs § 3399.1.) “If the [ACP] determines that the arbitration
program is in substantial compliance with Civil Code Section 1793.22(d) . . .
the [ACP] will certify the arbitration program.” (16 Cal. Code Regs §
3399.1(g).) “Not all automobile manufacturers must have an ACP certified
program.” (California Department of
Consumer Affairs, supra, at p. 260.)
“But those manufacturers who choose to operate a certified arbitration process
have limited lemon law liability.” (Ibid.)

 
Here, Plaintiff met their burden that there are no triable
issues of fact as to the Ninth Affirmative Defense. First, it is undisputed
that the ACP of the Department of Consumer Affairs (DCA) has not certified AHM’s
dispute resolution program. (Response to Undisputed Material Fact (UMF) No. 3.)
Thus, Plaintiff’s burden is met.
 
AHM has not met their burden. First, as noted above, it is
undisputed that AHM’s dispute resolution program is not certified. (UMF No. 3.)
Second, AHM’s reliance on Suman v.
Superior Court (1995) 39 Cal.App.4th 1309 for the proposition that
certification is not required is misplaced. Notably, Suman describes the two ways new motor vehicle manufactures can
avoid incurring civil penalties. (Id.
at p. 1318.) After summarizing subdivision (e) of Section 1794 and subdivision
(d) of Section 1793.2, the Court concluded that “subdivision (e) seeks to
ensure that courts of law are used as a last resort by consumers of new motor
vehicles.” (Ibid.) Contrary to AHM’s assertion,
the Court did not discuss “substantial compliance” other than quoting the
statute and did not discuss certification at all. (Ibid.) Thus, Suman is not
applicable to the instant dispute.[2]
AHM provides no other evidence showing their program is certified. Thus, AHM’s
burden is not met.
 
Accordingly, the court GRANTS Plaintiff’s Motion for
Summary Adjudication in its entirety.
 
CONCLUSION:
 
            For
the foregoing reasons, the Court decides the pending motion as follows: 
 
1.      Motion
for Summary Adjudication is GRANTED.
Moving party is to give notice. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
Dated:              December 13, 2024                 __________________________________                                                                                                                Upinder
S. Kalra
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 


