  Case Number:  22STCV20118    Hearing Date:   January 9, 2025    Dept:  27 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL
DISTRICT
 



RAYMOND MENDOZA, 
                Plaintiff,
        vs.
 
STADCO
  LA, et al.,
 
                Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


    CASE NO.: 22STCV20118
 
[TENATIVE]
  ORDER GRANTING MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
 
Dept. 27 
1:30 p.m. 
January 9, 2024
 
 
 




 


)


 



Background
On
June 21, 2022, Plaintiff filed the present action, alleging that he slipped and
fell on ice in front of a concession stand at SoFi Stadium while attending a
Los Angeles Rams football game. Based on this incident, Plaintiff asserts
claims for negligence and premises liability against Defendant. Plaintiff
further alleges: “The defendants who were the agents and employees of the other
defendants and acted within the scope of the agency were StadCo LA, LLC; StadCo
LA Manager, LLC; Hollywood Park Management Company, LLC; Hollywood Park
Management Company II, LLC; ABM Industries" (collectively, “Stadium
Defendants”). Stadium Defendants now move for summary judgment, arguing that
Plaintiff signed a waiver releasing them from liability for negligence in connection
with the incident. Plaintiff filed an opposition. Trial is currently set for
February 24, 2025.
Legal Standard 
 
In reviewing a motion for summary judgment or
adjudication, courts must apply a three-step analysis: “(1) identify the issues
framed by the pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving party has negated the
opponent’s claims; and (3) determine whether the opposition has demonstrated
the existence of a triable, material factual issue.”¿(Hinesley
v. Oakshade Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.)
“[T]he initial burden is always on the moving party to
make a prima facia showing that there are no triable issues of material fact.”¿(Scalf
v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.)¿A
defendant moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or
her burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party has
shown that one or more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be
established, or that there is a complete defense to the cause of action.”¿(Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)¿If the
moving party fails to carry its burden, the inquiry is over, and the motion
must be denied. (See Id.; see also Consumer Cause, Inc. v. SmileCare
(2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 454, 468.)¿Even if
the moving party does carry its burden, the non-moving party will still defeat
the motion by presenting evidence of a triable issue of material fact. (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 849-50.)
To meet this burden of showing a cause of action cannot
be established, a defendant must show not only “that the plaintiff does not
possess needed evidence” but also that “the plaintiff cannot reasonably
obtain needed evidence.”¿(Aguilar,
supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 854.)¿It is
insufficient for the defendant to merely point out the absence of evidence.¿(Gaggero
v. Yura (2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 884, 891.)¿The
defendant “must also produce evidence that the plaintiff cannot reasonably
obtain evidence to support his or her claim.”¿(Ibid.)¿The
supporting evidence can be in the form of affidavits, declarations, admissions,
depositions, answers to interrogatories, and matters of which judicial notice
may be taken.¿(Aguilar, supra, 25
Cal.4th at p. 855.)
“Once the defendant … has met that burden, the burden
shifts to the plaintiff … to show that a triable issue of one or more material
facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 437c, subd. (p)(2).) The plaintiff may not merely rely on allegations or
denials of its pleadings to show that a triable issue of material fact exists,
but instead, “shall set forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue
of material fact exists as to the cause of action.”¿(Ibid.)¿“If the
plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment should be granted.”¿(Avivi
v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)
The court must “liberally construe
the evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve all
doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party,” including “all
inferences reasonably drawn therefrom.”¿(Yanowitz
v. L’Oreal USA, Inc. (2005) 36 Cal.4th 1028, 1037; Aguilar, supra,
25 Cal.4th at pp. 844-45.) “On a summary judgment motion, the court must
therefore consider what inferences favoring the opposing party a factfinder
could reasonably draw from the evidence.¿While
viewing the evidence in this manner, the court must bear in mind that its
primary function is to identify issues rather than to determine issues.¿[Citation.]¿Only
when the inferences are indisputable may the court decide the issues as a
matter of law.¿ If the evidence is in conflict,
the factual issues must be resolved by trial.”¿(Binder
v. Aetna Life Ins. Co. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839.)¿Further,
“the trial court may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a factfinder to
determine whose version is more likely true.¿[Citation.]¿Nor may
the trial court grant summary judgment based on the court’s evaluation of
credibility. [Citation.]” (Id. at p. 840; see also Weiss v. People ex
rel. Department of Transportation (2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts
deciding motions for summary judgment or summary adjudication may not weigh the
evidence but must instead view it in the light most favorable to the opposing
party and draw all reasonable inferences in favor of that party”].)
 
Release 
On
or about October 1, 2018, Plaintiff signed a Los Angeles Rams Fanfaire
Membership Agreement (“Agreement). (Declaration of Mike Forrester, ¶¶ 4-7;
Agreement, Ex. C; DocuSign certificate, Ex. D.) The agreement releases the
stadium operators and affiliated parties from liability for personal injuries
or property damage suffered by Licensee or Licensee’s guests.  (Exhibit C to the Agreement, page 12, section
9, Ex. C)
Specifically,
Section 9 of the Agreement provides: 
9)
ASSUMPTION OF RISK; INDEMNIFICATION. a) Neither the Stadium Parties nor their
respective officers, owners, directors, employees, and agents (collectively,
the “Indemnitees”) will be liable to Licensee or responsible for, and Licensee,
for itself and each of Licensee’s Guests, hereby assumes, all risk for any
loss, damage, or injury to any person or to any property of Licensee or
Licensee’s Guests in or around the Stadium (including the parking lots) arising
out of, during, or related to their attendance at any Event/Game at the Stadium
resulting from any cause whatsoever, including, but not limited to, theft and
vandalism, incidents involving other patrons, the consumption of alcoholic
beverages or other substances by other patrons, injury from thrown or dropped
objects, and spills of food or beverages, regardless of whether the personal
injury or property damage was caused by or results from, in whole or in part,
the negligence or other fault of any Indemnitee, whether sole, joint, active or
passive, excepting only those damages, costs or expenses attributable (and only
to the extent attributable) to the gross negligence or willful misconduct of an
Indemnitee, and then only such Indemnitee shall be liable with respect to such
conduct. Licensee hereby agrees to assume all responsibility and liability for
the consumption of alcoholic beverages or other substances by Licensee and
Licensee’s Guests at the Stadium, and for the conduct and behavior of Licensee
and Licensee’s Guests.
 B) LICENSEE HEREBY RELEASES AND AGREES TO
DEFEND, INDEMNIFY, AND HOLD HARMLESS THE INDEMNITEES FROM AND AGAINST ANY
LIABILITY, LOSSES, CLAIMS, DEMANDS, COSTS, AND EXPENSES, INCLUDING ATTORNEYS’
FEES AND LITIGATION OR ARBITRATION EXPENSES, ARISING OUT OF OR RELATED TO (I)
ANY VIOLATION OF THIS LICENSE AGREEMENT OR OF ANY APPLICABLE RULES BY LICENSEE
OR ANY OF LICENSEE’S GUESTS, (II) THE USE OF ALCOHOL OR OTHER SUBSTANCES IN OR
AROUND THE STADIUM (INCLUDING THE PARKING LOTS) BY LICENSEE OR ANY OF
LICENSEE’S GUESTS, (III) THE CONDUCT OR BEHAVIOR OF LICENSEE AND LICENSEE’S
GUESTS, AND/OR THE USE OF THE SEATS OR THE STADIUM (INCLUDING THE PARKING LOTS)
BY LICENSEE OR LICENSEE’S GUESTS, AND (IV) ANY PERSONAL INJURY OR PROPERTY
DAMAGE OCCURRING IN OR AROUND THE STADIUM (INCLUDING THE PARKING LOTS) IN
CONNECTION WITH LICENSEE’S OR LICENSEE’S GUESTS’ USE OF THE STADIUM (INCLUDING
THE PARKING LOTS) OR OCCUPANCY OF THE SEAT(S), INCLUDING AS A RESULT OF
NEGLIGENT, RECKLESS, WILLFUL, OR WANTON ACTIONS OF THIRDPARTIES, REGARDLESS OF
WHETHER THE PERSONAL INJURY OR PROPERTY DAMAGE WAS CAUSED BY OR RESULTS FROM,
IN WHOLE OR IN PART, THE NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER FAULT OF ANY INDEMNITEE, WHETHER
SOLE, JOINT, ACTIVE, OR PASSIVE, EXCEPTING FROM THIS INDEMNITY ONLY THOSE
DAMAGES, COSTS, OR EXPENSES ATTRIBUTABLE (AND ONLY TO THE EXTENT ATTRIBUTABLE)
TO THE GROSS NEGLIGENCE OR WILLFUL MISCONDUCT OF AN INDEMNITEE, AND THEN ONLY
SUCH INDEMNITEE SHALL BE LIABLE WITH RESPECT TO SUCH CONDUCT. 
c)
Licensee acknowledges that, although none of the Indemnitees (other than
Fanfaire, the Stadium Company and the Team Party) is a party to this License
Agreement, each such Indemnitee is an express third-party beneficiary of this
Section 9 of Exhibit C of this License Agreement and will directly or
indirectly receive the benefit of, and may enforce as if a party to this
License Agreement, the provisions of this Section 9 of Exhibit C. 
The
“Stadium Parties” who shall be held harmless according to the waiver are
defined under the Agreement as “the Stadium Company, the Team Party, Fanfaire,
Event Organizers and their respective representatives, agents, tenants,
subtenants, employees, corporate affiliates and contractors.” 
The
Agreement identifies the “Stadium Company” as Stadco LA, LLC. Defendants
provided evidence showing that the rest of the Stadium Defendants are corporate
affiliate or agents of the Stadium Company.
·       
Defendant Hollywood Park Management
Company, LLC is the asset manager of SoFi Stadium, which is owned by Stadco LA,
LLC, and is a corporate affiliate of Stadco LA, LLC because it has certain
common ownership interests and common control with Stadco LA, LLC. (Declaration
of Marlene Nations, ¶ 3.)
·       
Defendant Hollywood Park Management
Company II, LLC is an inactive limited liability company and a wholly owned
subsidiary of Hollywood Park Management Company, LLC. It is a corporate
affiliate of Stadco LA, LLC because it has certain common ownership interests
and common control with Stadco LA, LLC. (Declaration of Marlene Nations, ¶ 4.)
·       
Defendant Stadco LA Manager, LLC is the
manager of Stadco LA, LLC and a corporate affiliate of Stadco LA, LLC due to
common ownership interests and control. (Declaration of Marlene Nations, ¶ 5.)
·       
Defendant Hollywood Park Management
Company, LLC engaged ABM Industry Groups, LLC to provide services at the
Stadium for the benefit of Stadco LA, LLC. (Declaration of Marlene Nations, ¶
6.)
The court finds that
Defendants have provided evidence of a valid release agreement and evidence
demonstrating that the release agreement applies to all of the Stadium
Defendants. Accordingly, Defendants have met their initial burden.
        Plaintiff’s
Argument
Plaintiff
asserts that Defendant failed to meet its initial burden because Defendant did
not present a complete defense to Plaintiff’s cause of action. Plaintiff has
expressly alleged that Defendants’ liability arises from violations of law. (See
infra Part I.A, citing Complaint at Cause of Action No. 2, ¶ 4.) In
light of Plaintiff’s anticipation of Defendants’ reliance on the Release,
Defendants were required to demonstrate that their conduct did not constitute
violations of law in order to rely on the Release as a “complete defense” in
their Motion. (Westlye v. Look Sports, Inc. (1993) 17 Cal.App.4th 1715,
1739–1740.)
In
Westlye, the court held that when a defendant seeks summary adjudication
based on an affirmative defense, such as a release, it must address any
exceptions or counter-theories that the plaintiff has raised which would
undermine the defense. Specifically, had Plaintiff here explicitly alleged
facts indicating that Defendant’s conduct violated safety regulations or laws
designed to prevent harm of the type suffered, Defendant would have been
required to refute the existence of any such violations to prevail on its
Motion.
The
principle is further supported by Conn v. National Can Corp. (1981) 124 Cal.
App. 3d 630, where the employees anticipated the employer’s defense of
failure to exhaust contractual remedies. The employees alleged both facts and a
legal theory—that the union had breached its duty of fair
representation—thereby excusing compliance with the grievance process. The
court in Conn held “If ... the plaintiff pleads several theories or
anticipates affirmative defenses by a showing of excusing events or conditions,
the challenge to the opponent is made by the complaint, requiring the moving
defendant to affirmatively react to each theory and excusing or justifying
event, or condition which supports a theory, if the motion is to be
successful.” (Id. at p. 639, original italics.)
Here,
however, Plaintiff has not pleaded specific facts to support a theory that
Defendant violated CBC § 1003.4 or any other specific regulation. Plaintiff’s
complaint merely alleges that, on January 30, 2022, Plaintiff was lawfully on
Defendants’ premises located at 1001 South Stadium Drive, Inglewood, CA, when
he slipped on a wet substance in the concourse area of the stadium. Plaintiff
alleges that Defendants breached their duty by failing to address, alleviate,
or remedy a dangerous condition and by failing to warn business invitees of the
hazard.
Unlike
in Conn, where the employees provided detailed factual allegations
supporting their theory of unfair representation, Plaintiff’s allegations here are
broad and lack the requisite specificity regarding any alleged violation of
safety regulations. Notably, while Plaintiff’s opposition references CBC §
1003.4, which pertains to slip-resistant surfaces, the complaint does not
allege that Defendant’s surfaces were not slip-resistant or that a lack of slip
resistance caused Plaintiff’s fall. Instead, Plaintiff’s complaint is premised
on a general negligence theory, asserting that Defendant failed to remedy a wet
surface. Absent specific allegations that Defendant’s surfaces violated CBC §
1003.4 or another identifiable regulatory standard, Defendants were not on
notice of any specific regulatory violations they needed to negate in their
motion.
Additionally,
Plaintiff’s vague references to "violations of ADA, California Health and
Safety Codes, building codes, and/or ordinances" fail to provide Defendant
with adequate notice of the specific violations that Defendant must address in
its MSJ. These broad references encompass numerous potential regulations
without identifying any particular provision or factual basis for the alleged
violations. This contrasts sharply with Conn, where plaintiffs
specifically identified, in their complaint, that the defendant breached the
duty of fair representation and provided a clear basis for the alleged
misconduct.  (Further, California
requires specific material facts to be pled. 
It is not a notice pleading state. (See, e.g., Marina
Pacific Hotel and Suites, LLC v. Fireman’s Fund Ins. Co. (2022) 81 Cal.App.5th 96, 109 (detailing difference in
California and federal pleading standards).)
Accordingly,
Plaintiff failed to persuade the court and Defendant has met its initial
burden. 
Triable Issue of Fact
Plaintiff’s
opposition does not dispute the applicability or validity of the waiver.
Defendant’s separate statement regarding the waiver and its applicability to
the various defendants remains undisputed. Additionally, Plaintiff does not
contend that Defendant acted with gross negligence. 
Plaintiff’s
sole argument against the enforceability of the release rests on Civil Code
section 1668, which renders unenforceable “contracts which have for their
object, directly or indirectly, to exempt anyone from responsibility for his
own fraud, or willful injury to the person or property of another, or violation
of law, whether willful or negligent.” Plaintiff asserts that Defendant
violated California Building Code (CBC) section 1003.4 and ASTM F1637-19,
thereby invoking the “violation of law” exception under Civil Code section
1668.
ASTM
F1637-19
American
Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM) F1637-19, titled “Standard Practice
for Safe Walking Surfaces,” is not a statute, law, or local ordinance.
Plaintiff has not provided any authority or evidence to demonstrate that ASTM
F1637-19 constitutes a legal mandate under California law. Consequently, the
“violation of law” exception under Civil Code section 1668 does not apply to
ASTM F1637-19. 
CBC
Section 1003.4 
CBC
section 1003.4 states: “Circulation paths of the means of egress shall have a
slip-resistant surface and be securely attached.” Plaintiff has not
demonstrated that the location of the incident constitutes a “Circulation path”
or “means of egress” as defined by the CBC. The subject incident occurred in
front of a concession stand where there was ice on the floor. (Plaintiff’s
Deposition 49:1:9.) Plaintiff has not provided evidence that the area in front
of the concession qualifies as part of a “Circulation path” or “means of
egress.”
Section
202 of the CBC defines a “Circulation path” as “an exterior or interior way of
passage from one place to another for pedestrians,” and a “means of egress” as
“a continuous and unobstructed path of vertical and horizontal egress travel
from any occupied portion of a building or structure to a public way.” A means
of egress consists of three components: exit access, the exit, and the exit
discharge. Plaintiff has not established how the area in front of the
concession stand falls within these definitions. In fact, the concession stand
area is not part of a designated “exit access” or “exit discharge” but rather a
common area intended for patron use.
Furthermore
CBC 1003.4 governs the design and construction of means of egress, not
ongoing maintenance issues.  CBC
section 1001.1 states that “Buildings or portions thereof shall be provided
with a means of egress system as required by this chapter. The provisions of
this chapter shall control the design, construction, and arrangement of means
of egress components required to provide an approved means of egress from
structures and portions thereof.”  CBC
section 1003.4, pursuant to CBC section 1001.1, therefore governs the design
and construction of means of egress, not ongoing maintenance issues. Plaintiff
has failed to show that CBC section 1003.4 imposes a duty on Defendant to
maintain the area in a specific condition beyond its initial construction
requirements.
Since
Plaintiff’s argument and expert declaration focus solely on the lack of slip
resistance on the surface due to water, a slippery substance, and specifically
ice in front of the concession stand, it does not establish a violation of CBC
section 1003.4, which pertains to the construction or design of the means of
egress. Accordingly, Plaintiff has not shown that the “violation of law”
exception under Civil Code section 1668 applies in this case.
Accordingly,
Defendants’ MSJ is GRANTED
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court’s website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar. 
 
__________________________ 
Hon. Lee S. Arian  
Judge of the Superior Court 
 