 Case Number:  22STCV32020    Hearing Date:   January 9, 2025    Dept:  27 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL
DISTRICT
 



KONSTANTINOS J. BASDONNY, 
                Plaintiff,
        vs.
 
ADRIAN
  MICHAEL PARRIS, et al.,
 
                Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


    CASE NO.: 22STCV32020
 
[TENATIVE]
  ORDER GRANTING MOTIONS TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES
 
Dept. 27 
1:30 p.m. 
January 9, 2024
 
 
 




 


)


 



 
On
April 10, 2024, Defendant Adrian Michael Parris served his Form
Interrogatories, Set One, and Special Interrogatories, Set One, on Plaintiff.
On July 1, 2024, Plaintiff served his responses consisting of the same
objections to each form interrogatory as follows:
“Plaintiff
incorporates all previously aforementioned objections and without waiving any other
objections responds as follows: Objection. The information sought is neither
relevant to the subject matter of this action nor reasonably calculated to lead
to the discovery of admissible evidence. Deaile v. Gen’l Telephone, 40 Cal.
App. 3d 841 (1974). Objection. The request is unduly burdensome and oppressive,
harassing in nature and/or would require plaintiff to incur an undue
expenditure of time and money to respond to the request. Objection. The request
is overly broad and/or not properly limited in time and/or scope. Objection.
The request seeks information which is privileged under the attorney-client
privilege and/or is protected from disclosure under the workproduct doctrine.
Brown v. Superior Court, 218 Cal. App. 2d 430 (1963). Objection. Pursuant to
Code of Civil Procedure section 2031(f)(1), the request seeks information
equally available to the propounding party and that responding party does not
have personal knowledge sufficient to respond fully to the interrogatory
without conducting an investigation. Discovery and investigation is ongoing.
Plaintiff reserves the right to amend, supplement, or augment this response at
a later time”
Likewise,
Plaintiff served the following identical objections to each of Defendant’s
Special Interrogatories:
“Responding
Party objects to this interrogatory on the following grounds: (1) The
interrogatory contains a compound, conjunctive or disjunctive request, in
violation of Code of Civil Procedure § 2030.060; (2) The interrogatory is not
full and complete in and of itself in violation of Code of Civil Procedure§
2030.060(d); (3) The interrogatory is argumentative, lacks foundation and
improperly assumes facts that have not been established; (4) The interrogatory
seeks information that is not relevant to the subject matter of this action. It
is overly broad and remote, and as such is not reasonably calculated to lead to
the discovery of admissible evidence; (5) The interrogatory is burdensome and
oppressive and is intended to create an unreasonable burden on responding party
which ultimate burden is incommensurate with any benefit to propounding party.
The interrogatory is also unduly burdensome and oppressive to the extent that
it calls for information that is equally available to propounding party; (6)
The interrogatory improperly seeks information protected from disclosure by the
attorney-client privilege and work product doctrine and improperly seeks
disclosure of information protected by Code of Civil Procedure §2034.010 et.
seq. and Evidence Code § 1151. There is no good cause for the discovery to the
extent that the information sought is equally available to propounding party
who can conduct its own investigation and cannot attempt to rely on the
work-product of counsel for Responding Party; (7) The request is vague,
ambiguous, and unintelligible; and is additionally vague and ambiguous as to
what incidents are referred to, what time period is referred to, and what facts
are referred to; (8) The request seeks premature disclosure of expert opinion
in violation of Code of Civil Procedure sections 2034.210, 2034.220, and
2034.270; Responding Party has not decided on which, if any, expert witnesses
may be called at trial; insofar as this interrogatory seeks to ascertain the
identity, writings, and opinions of plaintiff’s experts who have been retained
or utilized to date solely as an advisor or consultant, it is violative of the
work-product privilege (See South Tahoe Public Utilities District v. Superior
Court (1979) 90 Cal.App.3d 135 [154 Cal.Rptr. l]; Sheets v. Superior Court
(1967) 257 Cal.App.2d l [64 Cal.Rptr. 753]; and Sanders v. Superior Court,
(1973) 34 Ca1App.3d 270 [109 Cal.Rptr. 770]).”
Plaintiff’s
objections consist of the same set of boilerplate objections to all form
interrogatories and special interrogatories. These objections are improper
because they lack the required specificity under California law. Objections
must be precise and tailored to each interrogatory. Courts have consistently
held that boilerplate and nuisance objections are inappropriate and may be
subject to sanctions. (Korea Data Systems Co., Ltd. v. Superior Court
(1997) 51 Cal.App.4th 1513, 1516; Standon Co., Inc. v. Superior Court (1990)
225 Cal.App.3d 898, 902-903.) 
Plaintiff
bears the burden of justifying its objections when responding to a motion to
compel. (Fairmont Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (2000) 22 Cal.4th 245,
255.) Plaintiff failed to file an opposition and did not provide any
justification for its objections.
The
court disagrees with Plaintiff’s objection that the Interrogatories are neither
relevant to the subject matter of this action nor reasonably calculated to lead
to the discovery of admissible evidence. Form interrogatories, drafted by the
Judicial Council, are presumptively proper. They are neither unduly burdensome
nor oppressive, as alleged by Plaintiff, and they seek background information
directly relevant to the issues in this case. Most of Defendant’s special
interrogatories are either contention interrogatories or interrogatories
concerning damages. Contention interrogatories are explicitly permitted under
Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.010(b). Interrogatories regarding Plaintiff’s damages
are directly relevant to Plaintiff’s claims and are proper.
The
Court disagrees with Plaintiff’s assertion that discovery and investigation are
ongoing and that Plaintiff is therefore not required to provide a response at
this time. When responding to interrogatories, the answering party has a duty
to respond in good faith to the best of its ability. (Deyo v. Kilbourne
(1978) 84 Cal.App.3d 771, 783.) A party must answer interrogatories as fully
and straightforwardly as possible based on the information reasonably available
at the time of the response. (C.C.P. § 2030.220.) Furthermore, if the
responding party lacks sufficient knowledge, it must conduct a reasonable
inquiry and investigation to acquire the necessary information from all sources
under its control. (Deyo, supra, 84 Cal.App.3d at 782.)
Regarding
the issue of privilege, Plaintiff must provide all non-privileged information
that is relevant and responsive. For any information withheld on the grounds of
privilege, Plaintiff must still identify the nature of the privilege asserted
and provide sufficient information to enable Defendant to assess the validity
of the claim.
The
Court finds Defendant’s interrogatories relevant and Plaintiff’s boilerplate
objections meritless. Accordingly, Defendant’s motions to compel further
responses are granted. Plaintiff is to provide verified and code-complaint
responses to Defendant’s Form Interrogatories, Set One, and Special
Interrogatories, Set One, without objection, except as to privilege or work
product, within 20 days of today.
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court’s website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar. 
 
__________________________ 
Hon. Lee S. Arian  
Judge of the Superior Court 
 