 Case Number:  23STCV21128    Hearing Date:   January 9, 2025    Dept:  27 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL
DISTRICT
 



ALEX OCAMPO, 
                Plaintiff,
        vs.
 
TAK
  YEUNG LAM, et al.,
 
                Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


    CASE NO.: 23STCV21128
 
[TENATIVE]
  ORDER GRANTING MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSITION 
 
Dept. 27 
1:30 p.m. 
January 9, 2024
 
 
 




 


)


 



 
Background
On
September 1, 2023, Plaintiff filed the present complaint against Defendants Tak
Yeung Lam and Kam Wai regarding a motor vehicle-motorcycle accident in the City
of Los Angeles that occurred on September 9, 2021. On August 20, 2024,
Defendants noticed Plaintiff’s deposition, with document production, for
November 21, 2024. Plaintiff did not file an objection to the deposition. On
November 20, 2024, Defendants followed up with Plaintiff’s counsel to confirm
Plaintiff’s deposition but did not receive a response. On November 21, 2024,
Plaintiff failed to appear at his deposition, and Defendants took a certificate
of non-appearance. Trial is currently set for August 22, 2025.
Legal Standard and
Discussion
Code
Civ. Proc., § 2025.450¿provides in pertinent
part the following:¿¿¿¿¿¿ ¿¿¿¿¿ 
(a) If, after service of a
deposition notice, a party to the action or an officer, director, managing
agent, or employee of a party, or a person designated by an organization that
is a party                 under
Section 2025.230, without having served a valid    objection
under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it,
or to produce for inspection any document, electronically stored information,
or tangible thing described in the deposition notice, the party giving the
notice may move for an order compelling the deponent's attendance and
testimony, and the production for inspection of any document, electronically
stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.      
Plaintiff
did not file an opposition to Defendant’s motion. Plaintiff also did not object
to Defendant’s notice of deposition for the November 21, 2024, deposition and
failed to attend the deposition on the noticed date. All requirements under
Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450 to compel the deposition have been met. Thus, the
motion is granted. Plaintiff is ordered to sit for his deposition within 20
days of today.
Defendant
requests $900 in sanctions, which the Court finds reasonable. Sanctions are
mandatory, as the Court does not find Plaintiff to have acted with substantial
justification. Sanctions are imposed against Plaintiff and his attorney,
jointly and severally, payable to Defendant within 20 days of today.
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court’s website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar. 
 
__________________________ 
Hon. Lee S. Arian  
Judge of the Superior Court 
 