 Case Number:  22STCV23545    Hearing Date:   January 9, 2025    Dept:  27 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  ELAINE LEONID TERR,  Plaintiff, vs.  COSTCO WHOLESALE, et al.,  Defendants. ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )     CASE NO.: 22STCV23545¿  [TENATIVE] MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE CROSS COMPLAINT – WILL HEAR FROM THE PARTIES  Dept. 27¿ 1:30 p.m.¿ January 9, 2024     )   Background On July 21, 2022, Plaintiff filed the present complaint alleging that she slipped and fell in the dairy and egg cooler located at 6100 Sepulveda Blvd., Van Nuys, CA on July 25, 2020, as a result of water on the ground at Costco. Plaintiff named both Costco and Arctic Cooling Systems, LLC ("Arctic") as defendants. Both defendants filed their answers in December 2023. Trial is currently set for January 28, 2025. Defendant Costco now moves the Court for leave to file a cross-complaint against Arctic for breach of contract, express indemnity, and declaratory relief. Legal Standard After the trial date has been set, a party seeking to file a cross-complaint must obtain leave of court.¿ (Id. subd. (c).)¿ The Court has discretion to grant leave “in the interest of justice at any time during the course of the action.”¿ (Ibid.)¿¿ Any party who failed to bring a compulsory cross-complaint, “whether through oversight, inadvertence, mistake, neglect, or other cause,” may apply for leave to file a cross-complaint, and as long as the party acted in “good faith,” the court must grant leave. (§ 426.50.) This mandatory standard applies regardless of factors such as surprise or undue burden. (See Silver Organizations Ltd. v. Frank (1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 94, 98-99 [section 426.50 leave was mandatory, not discretionary, even when requested only five days before trial].)¿ Discussion The basis for the motion is that Arctic contracted with Costco to maintain its refrigeration units pursuant to the May 1, 2020 Refrigeration Maintenance Services Agreement ("Agreement"). Under the Agreement, Arctic was required to defend and indemnify Costco for personal injuries arising out of Arctic’s work. Furthermore, Arctic was required to “provide a certificate of insurance at all times naming Costco Wholesale Corporation as an additional insured and protecting all parties from the liability set forth above.” On February 28, 2024, Sedgwick Claims Management ("Sedgwick"), a third-party administrator for Arctic’s insurer Everest Insurance Company, accepted the tender for defense and indemnity. However, on December 16, 2024, Costco discovered that Arctic was not providing defense or indemnity to Costco despite the obligations outlined in the Agreement. Arctic filed an opposition disputing Costco’s motion, arguing that Costco was aware of Arctic’s denial of tender as early as 2022, before the lawsuit was served, yet waited two years to seek leave to file a cross-complaint. According to Arctic, Costco first tendered its defense following a demand letter from Plaintiff (Exhibit 1), and on July 7, 2022, Arctic rejected the tender without prejudice, pending additional information (Exhibit 2.) Plaintiff’s opposition makes a similar argument that Arctic refused tender in 2022 but sought leave o amend 2 years later in 2024. In response, Costco argues that it did not delay in filing the cross-complaint. Costco acknowledges Arctic’s rejection in 2022, but contends that Sedgwick, acting as a third-party claims administrator for Everest Insurance Company, accepted the tender of defense on behalf of Arctic on February 28, 2024. Costco emphasizes that Sedgwick explicitly stated in its letter that it was acting on behalf of Everest, which issued the subject insurance policy to PMC Global, with Arctic Cooling Systems listed as a named insured under the policy. Costco maintains that Sedgwick’s acceptance of tender was effectively an acceptance on Arctic’s behalf, and its subsequent actions in seeking leave to amend were reasonable and made in good faith.  However, Artic does raise a legitimate concern that Costco has not identified any specific written or oral communication on December 16, 2024, evidencing a denial of tender by Arctic/Everest/Sedwick. Arctic presented evidence that no such communication took place, as supported by the declarations of Jordan Gray and Christopher D. Lockwood.  The court also notes that Costco counsel’s statement “on December 16, 2024, Costco discovered that Arctic is not providing defense or indemnity to Costco in spite of the Agreement” is vague and does not explain how or from whom it learned that Arctic/Everest/Sedwick was not providing indemnity or a defense.  The Court will need further clarification from the parties on how Costco became aware that Arctic, Everest, or Sedgwick was not providing a defense. If Costco can provide additional evidence supporting its claim of a denial on December 16, 2024, the Court is inclined to grant leave to file the cross-complaint, as Sedgwick appears to have accepted the tender in February 2024 pursuant to Arctic’s insurance policy. Given Costco’s reliance on Sedgwick’s acceptance and the timing of the alleged denial, the Court finds that Costco’s request to file the cross-complaint appears to have been made in good faith. The Court is also inclined to grant a continuance based on these circumstances.  ¿ __________________________¿ Hon. Lee S. Arian¿¿ Judge of the Superior Court¿  