 Case Number:  24SMCV00126    Hearing Date:   April 24, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Faramand v. Hanaie
CASE NO.:                24SMCV00126
MOTION:                  OSC
Re: Preliminary Injunction 
HEARING DATE:   4/24/2024
Legal
Standard
 
            Under Code of Civil Procedure
section 526(a), a preliminary injunction may be issued in the following cases: 
 
1)
When it appears by the complaint that the plaintiff is entitled to the relief
demanded, and the relief, or any part thereof, consists in restraining the
commission or continuance of the act complained of, either for a limited period
or perpetually. 
2)
When it appears by the complaint or affidavits that the commission or
continuance of some act during the litigation would produce waste, or great or
irreparable injury, to a party to the action. 
3)
When it appears, during the litigation, that a party to the action is doing, or
threatens, or is about to do, or is procuring or suffering to be done, some act
in violation of the rights of another party to the action respecting the
subject of the action, and tending to render the judgment ineffectual. 
            4) When pecuniary compensation would
not afford adequate relief.  
5)
Where it would be extremely difficult to ascertain the amount of compensation
which would afford adequate relief. 
6)
Where the restraint is necessary to prevent a multiplicity of judicial
proceedings. 
            7) Where the obligation arises from
a trust. 
 
            In determining whether to issue a
preliminary injunction, the trial court considers two factors: 1) the
reasonable probability that the plaintiff will prevail on the merits at trial
(CCP §526(a)(1)); and 2) a balancing of the “irreparable harm” that the moving
party is likely to sustain if the injunction is denied compared to the harm
that the non-moving party is likely to suffer if the court grants a preliminary
injunction. (CCP §526(a)(2); 14859 Moorpark Homeowner’s Assn. v. VRT Corp.
(1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 1396, 1402.) “A preliminary injunction is an interim
remedy designed to maintain the status quo pending a decision on the
merits.” (MaJor v. Miraverde Homeowners
Assn. (1992) 7
Cal.App.4th 618, 623.) “[A] cause of action must exist before injunctive
relief may be granted.” (Id. (citing Shell Oil Co. v.
Richter (1942) 52 Cal.App.2d 164, 168).)   
 
            The court’s ruling on a preliminary
injunction is not an adjudication of the merits, is not a trial, and does not
require a statement of decision. (Cohen v. Board of Supervisors,
(1985) 40 Cal.3d 277, 286.) The judge is not required to state her reasons for
granting or denying a preliminary injunction; a cursory statement is
sufficient. (City of Los Altos v. Barnes, (1992) 3 Cal.App.4th
1193, 1198.) A proposed order must be presented to the judge for signature,
with any required undertaking, within one day after the preliminary injunction
is granted, or other time ordered by the judge. (CRC 3.1150(f).)
 
Analysis
 

 
In his application, Plaintiff initially
sought the following injunctions:
 
1.  Enjoin Defendant from performing actions on
behalf of the Corporation without obtaining the prior written consent and/or
authorization of Plaintiff in his capacity as an equal shareholder of the
Corporation, and a director of the Corporation. 
2.  Enjoin Defendant from utilizing or
appropriating any assets owned by the Corporation, including but not limited to
any business credit cards, for any purpose that is not necessary to fulfill
Corporation business, without prior written authorization from Plaintiff in his
capacity as an equal shareholder of the Corporation, and a director of the
Corporation. 
3. 
Enjoin Defendant from withholding any Corporation records or documents
from Plaintiff. 
4.  Enjoin Defendant from withholding or reducing
compensation to Plaintiff for his performance of duties for the Corporation,
without prior written authorization from Plaintiff in his capacity as an equal
shareholder of the Corporation, and a director of the Corporation. 
5. 
Enjoin Defendant from deactivating, or otherwise preventing the use of,
Plaintiff’s company credit cards, without prior written authorization from
Plaintiff in his capacity as an equal shareholder of the Corporation, and a
director of the Corporation. 
6. 
Enjoin Defendant from engaging in communications or dealings with
vendors or other third parties who have a business relationship with the
Corporation in an effort to gain a prospective advantage over the Corporation
or interfere with the business relations between the Corporation and such
vendor and/or third party without the knowledge, and consent of Plaintiff. 
7. 
Enjoin the Defendant from hiring, firing, laying off employees, or
altering employees' working hours without obtaining the Plaintiff's consent. 
8. 
Require Defendant to file an amended Statement of Information with the
California Secretary of State which accurately lists the titles of the
Plaintiff and the Defendant; and 
9. 
Enjoin the Defendant from acting in any manner, whether by affirmative
action or omission thereof, that may cause employees to believe that the
Plaintiff lacks authority in the Corporation.
 
As part of the preceding TRO,
Defendant was ordered to provide full access to financial documents, including
but not limited to all accounting software, credit card statements, bank account
statements, stock accounts, ADP payroll statements, and merchant service
auth.net statements. The Court also noted that Plaintiff was not granted access
to the original Quickbooks file, or accounting software, but only a copy of
these and other records provided to Plaintiff. The Court denied the TRO as to
the other requests for relief.
 
The basis for the injunction arises
from the sixth cause of action, Plaintiff’s request to inspect the corporate
records. (Comp., ¶ 62.) Plaintiff has shown he is entitled to access and review
all corporate records, including all accounting software. (Farazmand Decl., ¶
22.) Defendant has denied Plaintiff this access. (Id.) As such, Plaintiff will
likely prevail on this cause of action.
 
Defendant does show any grounds to
deny the preliminary injunction. Defendant does not cite authority showing that
a party may not compel the inspection of corporate records through a
declaratory relief action. Defendant does not show that a mandamus proceeding
is the only method to enforce such rights. Defendant cited caselaw only relates
to appeals for administrative hearings or decisions, or other distinguishable
circumstances, and not corporate inspection rights. (See Babb v. Superior
Court (1971) 3 Cal.3d 841, 848 [defendant in a civil action may file a
cross-complaint therein seeking a declaratory judgment that the action is being
maliciously prosecuted.]; Tejon Real Estate, LLC v. City of Los Angeles
(2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 149, 154-155.)  In
fact, the court may declare the rights or duties with respect to another under
a contract. (CCP § 1060.) “An action for declaratory relief is equitable, and a
court of equity will administer complete relief when it assumes jurisdiction of
a controversy. Hence, in such an action it is proper for the court to grant any
relief consistent with the evidence and the issues embraced by the pleadings.” (Westerholm
v. 20th Century Ins. Co. (1976) 58 Cal.App.3d 628, 632 fn. 1; City of
San Jose v. Department of Health Services (1998) 66 Cal.App.4th 35, 46
(“Injunctive relief may be granted in a declaratory relief action [because] it
is the duty of the court hearing an action for declaratory relief to make a
complete determination of the controversy…”).) As such, the Court may declare
the rights and obligations surrounding the parties’ shared business, including
Plaintiff’s rights to access the business’s financial documents.  
 
Defendant contends that because
Plaintiff has been given certain records, that an injunction would be moot. However,
the issue is not moot. The injunction would include a continuing duty to provide
access to the copies of their financial records. Plaintiff is entitled
to access in the future as well. Moreover, Plaintiff contends that Defendant
has failed to provide access to multiple records regarding the Company’s Visa, American
Express, authorize.net, and stock accounts. 
 
Accordingly, the motion is GRANTED.