 Case Number:  22STCV14534    Hearing Date:   July 16, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



SAMIR B. ARMALY, in his capacity as cotrustee of the Samir B.
  Armaly and Kelly R. Armaly Revocable Trust,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
STEPHEN L. GOODMAN, MATTHEW YANG, CHRIS CHOREBANIAN, individuals,
  and FIDARES GROUP, LLC, a California limited liability company,
                        Defendants.


 Case No.:          22STCV14534
 Hearing Date:   7/16/24
 Trial Date:  N/A-Judgement
  entered on 2/14/24
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Judgment Creditor
  Samir B. Armaly’s Motion for Order Assigning Monies Due or Which Become Due
  Judgment Debtor Stephen L. Goodman
Judgment Creditor
  Samir B. Armaly’s Motion for Order to Charge Member’s Interest in LLC 



 
Background
Pleadings Framing Motion
Plaintiff Samir Armaly (Armaly), in
his capacity as cotrustee of the Samir B. Armaly and Kelly R. Armaly Revocable
Trust (the Trust) sues Defendants
Stephen L. Goodman (Goodman), Matthew Yang (Yang), Chris Chorebanian
(Chorebanian), and Fidares Group, LLC (Fidares) pursuant to a June 22, 2022
First Amended Complaint (FAC) alleging claims of (1) Breach of Contract and (2)
Fraud.
The claims arise from the following allegations. On February 20, 2020, Armaly,
as trustee of the Trust, entered into a written agreement with Goodman, Yang,
Chorebanian, Fidares, and three nonparty entities (collectively, the Buyers)
(the Agreement). Goodman signed on his behalf and on behalf of the three
nonparty entity Buyers, and Yang and Chorebanian signed on their own behalf and
on behalf of Fidares. The purpose of the Agreement was for the Trust to loan $2
million to the Buyers in connection with a potential real-estate transaction
involving the Insurance Exchange Building in downtown Los Angeles. 
The Agreement included a term pursuant to which the Buyers would
indemnify Armaly for any breach of the agreement by any of the Buyers. The
Agreement was amended at least twice to provide the Buyers with additional time
to advance the real estate venture and make payments under the Agreements and
its amendments, with the final amendment taking place in August 2020 (the
August Amendment). Under that amendment, the Buyers were liable to the Trust in
the amount of $2,607,500 in monies loaned to the Buyers. 
The Buyers failed to make payment under the August Amendment, prompting
Armaly to send a demand letter to the Buyers on August 13, 2020. On August 28,
2020, Armaly entered into a partial settlement, specifically with the three
entity Buyers, in the amount of $2,300,000, in exchange for a release of
claims. The settlement reserved Armaly’s rights to pursue satisfaction against
Defendants in this action for the outstanding obligations on the loan.
Plaintiff prays for the difference between the loan and the settlement, i.e.,
$307,500, interest at a rate of 18% per annum, costs arising from Defendants’
breach of the Agreement and subsequent amendments, and attorneys’ fees and
costs in drafting the amendments and prosecuting this action.
On January 18, 2024, the Court granted Plaintiff’s motion for summary
judgment of the FAC.  On February 14,
2024, judgment was entered in Plaintiff Armaly’s favor and against Defendants
in the amount of $537,611.39.
Motions Before the Court
On May 30, 2024, Judgment Creditor
Armaly filed (1) a Motion for Assignment Order as to Judgment Debtor Stephen
Goodman and (2) a Motion for Charging Order as to Defendant Stephen Goodman’s
interest in Improvement Network Investments LLC and Improvement Network
Development Partners LLC (collectively referred to as the “LLCs”).  No opposition has been filed as of July 15,
2024, despite proofs of service filed by moving party on May 30, 2024.
 
Motion for Assignment Order 
Legal
Standard
CCP
§708.510(a):  “Except as otherwise
provided by law, upon application of the judgment creditor on noticed motion,
the court may order the judgment debtor to assign to the judgment creditor or
to a receiver appointed pursuant to Article 7 (commencing with Section 708.610)
all or part of a right to payment due or to become due, whether or not the
right is conditioned on future developments, including but not limited to:  (1) Wages due from the federal government
that are not subject to withholding under an earnings withholding order.(2)
Rents.(3) Commissions.(4) Royalties.(5) Payments due from a patent or
copyright.(6) Insurance policy loan value.” 
(CCP §708.510(a).)
            CCP §708.510 states that the court
may order the judgment debtor to assign rights to payments due.  (CCP §708.510(a).)  On its face, this language seems to indicate
the court has no authority to order the assignment outright.  Nonetheless, other provisions of the
statutory scheme indicate the assignment may be ordered directly by the court.
For example, the statutes contain language such as “order an assignment,” “right
to payment may be assigned,” “assignment of payments,” “order assigning the
right to payments” and “reassignment of the right to payments.”  (CCP §§ 708.510(c),(d),(e) & (f),
708.530, 708.540, 708.560(b).) 
Construing all the applicable statutes together, it seems clear that the
“assignment order” contemplated by CCP §708.510, et seq. must include a court
order that assigns a right to payment outright (not simply an order directing
the judgment debtor to do so).  (Ahart, Cal.
Prac. Guide Enf. J. & Debt. (Rutter Group 2005), ¶6:1422.) 
            The court may only order the
assignment of property to the extent necessary to satisfy the money judgment.  (CCP § 708.510(d).)  Assignable payment rights include commissions
and royalties.  (CCP §708.510(a)(3).)  In determining whether an assignment order
should issue, the Court should consider (1) the reasonable requirements of a
judgment debtor who is a natural person and any dependents on the judgment
debtor (2) other payments the judgment debtor must make in satisfaction of
other judgments and wage assignments (3) the amount remaining to be due on this
judgment and (4) the amount of the right to payment that is being assigned to
creditor.  (CCP §708.510(c).) 
            Judgment debtor is entitled to claim
that all or part of the right to payment is exempt from enforcement of a money
judgment.  (CCP §708.550(a).)  However, judgment debtor must do so by
noticed motion at least three days before the hearing on the assignment order
application.  (CCP §708.550(a).)  The motion for exemption must be personally
served.  (CCP §708.550(b).)  Failure to make a timely claim waives any
claim of exemption.  (CCP §708.550(a).)
            In conjunction with or after an
application for assignment order is made, a judgment creditor may seek a
restraining order preventing the judgment debtor from assigning or otherwise
disposing of the right assigned to creditor under CCP §708.510.  (CCP §708.520(a).)  This may issue upon showing of need of the
order and the court may require creditor to post an undertaking.  (CCP §708.520(b).)  Finally, the order restraining transfer of
the assigned right must be served on the judgment debtor and the notice must
explain that failure to comply may subject the judgment debtor to contempt of
court.  (CCP §708.520(c).)
Motion
for Assignment Order: GRANTED in part and DENIED in part.
Judgment
Creditor requests an order assigning any and all payments (1) due to Judgment
Debtor from Improvement Networks LLC, and Improvement Network Development
Partners LLC (the “LLCs”), (2) any persons or entities paying rent or lease
monies to Judgment Debtor, and (3) any persons or entities from which persons
or entities debtor is owed deferred compensation, back pay, or payments on any
Accounts or general intangibles as defined in the California Commercial Code
and any person or entities, whether named in the order or not, which person or
entity creditor comes to believe are paying monies to Judgment Debtor, no
matter how such payments are characterized, and which person or entity is
served with the assignment order.  
Judgment
creditor’s request for an assignment order as to all payments due to Judgment
Debtor Stephen Morgan from the LLCs is granted. 
As of May 6, 2024, there is a valid, outstanding judgment against Morgan
in the amount of $444,302, after Judgment Debtors other than Goodman made a
$105,000 payment.  (Armaly Dec.,
¶5.)  Judgment Creditor also submits
evidence indicating that Morgan holds membership interests in the LLCs.  (Armaly Dec., Ex. 1.)  
However,
Judgment Creditor’s request for an assignment order is denied as to (1) any
persons or entities paying rent or lease monies to Judgment Debtor, and (2) any
persons or entities from which persons or entities debtor is owed deferred
compensation, back pay, or payments on any Accounts or general intangibles as
defined in the California Commercial Code and any person or entities, whether
named in the order or not, which person or entity creditor comes to believe are
paying monies to Judgment Debtor, no matter how such payments are
characterized, and which person or entity is served with the assignment order.  
This
portion of the requested order fails to specifically identify any individual or
entity that is subject to the proposed order. 
While CCP §708.510 does not specify that the obligator or payments must
be identified, a debtor could not assert a claim of exemption without such
information.  CCP §708.550(a) allows a
judgment debtor to file a claim of exemption to an assignment order based on an
affidavit setting forth all information required under CCP §703.520(b).  (CCP §708.550(a).)  The debtor must file a noticed motion
asserting an exemption at least three days before the hearing date on the
motion for assignment order.  (CCP
§708.550(a).)  Section 703.520(b) also
requires that the debtor identify the property subject to the proposed
assignment order that would be exempt. 
(CCP §703.520(b).)  Without identifying
an individual, entity or specific right to payment from an individual or
entity, Judgment Debtor cannot assert a claim of exemption.  
Judgment
Creditor’s Motion for Assignment Order is GRANTED as to any rights of payment
due Judgment Debtor Goodman from the LLCs and DENIED as to (1) any persons or
entities paying rent or lease monies to Judgment Debtor, and (2) any persons or
entities from which persons or entities debtor is owed deferred compensation,
back pay, or payments on any Accounts or general intangibles as defined in the
California Commercial Code and any person or entities, whether named in the
order or not, which person or entity creditor comes to believe are paying
monies to Judgment Debtor, no matter how such payments are characterized, and
which person or entity is served with the assignment order.  
 
Motion for Charging Order
Legal
Standard
            According to CCP §708.310, “If a
money judgment is rendered against a partner or member but not against the
partnership or limited liability company, the judgment debtor’s interest in the
partnership or limited liability company may be applied toward the satisfaction
of the judgment by an order charging the judgment debtor’s interest pursuant to
Section 15673, 16504 and 17302 of the Corporations Code.”  (CCP §708.310.)
            Corporations Code §17302(a) provides
“[o]n application by a judgment creditor of a member or of a member's assignee,
a court having jurisdiction may charge the assignable membership interest of the
judgment debtor to satisfy the judgment. 
The court may appoint a receiver of the share of the distributions due
or to become due to the judgment debtor in respect to the limited liability
company and may make all other orders, directions, accounts, and inquiries that
the judgment debtor might have made or that the circumstances of the case may
require.”  (Corp. C. §17302(a).)      
            The court may order foreclosure on a
debtor's LLC interest at any time. The purchaser at a foreclosure sale has the
rights of an assignee.  (Corp. C.
§17302(b).) 
            Motion for Charging Order:  GRANTED.
            Judgment Creditor requests a
charging order as to Judgment Debtor Goodman’s membership interest in the
LLCs.  There is an outstanding judgment
against Goodman in the amount of $444,302. 
(Armaly Dec., ¶5.)  Goodman identified
a 12.5% membership interest in Improvement Network Investments and a 20%
interest in Improvement Development Partners on his personal financial
statement submitted as part of the underlying loan transaction.  (Armaly Dec., ¶3.)  
Judgment
Creditor’s Motion for Charging Order as to Goodman’s membership interests in
the LLCs is GRANTED. 

Conclusion
            Judgment
Creditor’s Motion for Assignment Order is GRANTED as to any rights of payment
due Judgment Debtor Goodman from the LLCs and DENIED as to (1) any persons or
entities paying rent or lease monies to Judgment Debtor, and (2) “any persons
or entities from which persons or entities debtor is owed deferred
compensation, back pay, or payments on any Accounts or general intangibles as
defined in the California Commercial Code” and “any persons or entities,
whether named in the order or not, which person or entity creditor comes to
believe are paying monies to Judgment Debtor, no matter how such payments are
characterized, and which person or entity is served with the assignment order.”

Judgment Creditor’s Motion for
Charging Order as to Goodman’s membership interests in the LLCs is GRANTED. 