 Case Number:  22STCV37075    Hearing Date:   July 16, 2024    Dept:  40        Superior Court of California   County of Los Angeles   Department 40      MARIA CHAVEZ, an Individual,                                          Plaintiff,           v. CITY OF MONTEBELLO, a Californian municipal entity;    NICHOLAS RAZO, an Individual; RENE BOBADILLA, an Individual, and DOES 1-100.                                          Defendants.        Case No.: 22STCV37075  Hearing Date: July 16, 2024  Trial Date: September 18, 2024  [TENTATIVE] RULING RE: AMENDED NOTICE OF    MOTION FOR ISSUANCE OF COURT PROTECTIVE ORDER UNDER CODE OF CIVIL PROCEDURE    SECTION 2025.420 TO PRECLUDE OR LIMIT WITNESS DEPOSITIONS RELATED TO    DISMISSED CLAIMS/CAUSES OF ACTION        On November 23, 2022, Plaintiff Maria Chavez (“Chavez”) brought  the underlying action against Defendant City of Montebello (“Montebello” or  “City”); Defendant Nicholas Razo (“Razo”), City Montebello’s former Director of  Human Resources; and Rene Bobadilla (“Bobadilla”), former City Manager  (collectively, “Defendants”) for the following four causes of action relating  to the termination of Plaintiff Chavez from her position as detective from the  Montebello Police Department during the COVID-19 pandemic: (1) gender  discrimination—failure to promote; (2) gender discrimination—wrongful  termination; (3) failure to accommodate a religious belief; and (4) hostile  work environment. Only the fourth cause of action in Plaintiff’s complaint for  hostile work environment is asserted against Razo and Bobadilla.  Defendant Montebello now moves the Court for issuance of a  Protective Order which Plaintiff Chavez opposed on July 1, 2024, and to which  Defendant Montebello replied on July 10, 2024.  Background Allegations On February 28, 2023, this Court issued a Minute Order (“February 28  Minute Order”), sustaining Defendant Montebello’s demurrer as to Plaintiff’s  third cause of action for failure to accommodate a religious belief while  granting Plaintiff leave to amend. Accordingly, on March 10, 2023, Plaintiff Chavez filed a First  Amended Complaint (“FAC”) which is now the operative complaint, for religious  discrimination in violation of FEHA with respect to Defendant Montebello’s 2021  vaccine mandate during the COVID pandemic. The FAC alleged that Montebello  failed to provide identifiable and reasonable religious accommodations.  Defendant Montebello did not subsequently demur to the amended cause of action  for religious discrimination but did file a second demurrer as to Bobadilla’s  individual liability for the hostile work environment claim. Plaintiff did not  amend as to Bobadilla. The Court overruled Defendant Razo’s demurrer with  respect to Razo’s individual liability on the hostile work environment claim.  Discovery then commenced thereafter.  On May 15, 2024, Defendant Montebello filed an Amended Motion for  Issuance of Court Protective Order under Code of Civil Procedure Section  2025.420 to Preclude or Limit Witness Depositions Related to Dismissed  Claims/Causes of Action, along with a Memorandum of Authorities (“Mot.”), the  Declaration of Defendant’s attorney of record, Nancy Doumanian with Exhibits  (“Doumanian Decl.”), and an Amended Proposed Order.  Plaintiff Chavez filed her Opposition (“Opp.”) on July 1, 2024,  along with the Declaration of Paul M. Mahoney (“Mahoney Decl.”).   On July 10, 2024, Defendant Montebello filed its Reply, along with  the second Declaration of Nancy Doumanian (“Supp. Decl.”).             On July 11, 2024, Mayor Scarlet  Peralta filed a joinder to the motion for protective order, and on July 12,  2024, Plaintiff filed an Opposition to that joinder.   Motion Legal  Standard “Before, during, or after a deposition,  any party, any deponent, or any other affected natural person or organization  may promptly move for a protective order.” (CCP § 2025.420(a).) “The court, for  good cause shown, may make any order that justice requires to protect any  party, deponent, or other natural person or organization from unwarranted  annoyance, embarrassment, or oppression, or undue burden and expense.” (CCP §  2025.420(b).) This protective order may include, but is not limited to, one or  more of the following directions set forth in CCP §§ 2025.420(b)(1)-(16). “Code  of Civil Procedure section 2025.420, subdivision (b), provides a nonexclusive  list of permissible directions that may be included in a protective order.” (Nativi  v. Deutsche Bank National Trust Co. (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 261, 316.)  “If the motion for a protective order is  denied in whole or in part, the court may order that the deponent provide or  permit the discovery against which protection was sought on those terms and  conditions that are just.” (CCP § 2025.420(g).) “ ‘[T]he issuance and  formulation of protective orders are to a large extent discretionary.  [Citation.]’ ” (Nativi, supra, 223 Cal.App.4th at 316.)  “The court shall impose a monetary  sanction . . . against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes  or opposes a motion for a protective order, unless it finds that the one  subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other  circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (CCP § 2025.420(h).)     Discussion Defendant Montebello brings the instant and amended motion for  Protective Order to preclude or limit discovery to include (1) an order to  preclude the deposition of Former Mayor Kimberly Ann Cobos Cawthorne; and (2)  an order to preclude the deposition of Current and Former Police Officers,  Andrew Fivecoat, Eric Alvarez, Michael Vasquez, Ramon Alatore, Robert Josett,  Trevor Goetz, Christopher Tyni, Ryan Saldivar, Joshua Colbert, and Omar  Rodriguez (collectively “Police Officers”). (Mot., p. 2.) Defendant Montebello  requests this order to preclude the depositions of persons who have “no  rational or logical connection to any of the allegations in the underlying  lawsuit.” (Id. at p. 3.)  Defendant states that during the Pandemic, Montebello issued a  vaccine mandate requiring all employees, including police officers, to present  proof of vaccination. (Id.) Given that Plaintiff declined to do so and  was subsequently denied a religious exemption, Plaintiff was consequently terminated  from the City in compliance with the City’s vaccine mandate. (Id.)  Defendant asserts that the mandate followed the enactment of Governor Newsom’s  executive order at the time to all public employers, mandating that public  entity employees, including police and fire personnel, be vaccinated considering  the growing health and safety concerns of the Pandemic. (Id.) The ten current and former Police Officers were identified by  Plaintiff at her deposition as being witnesses related to the City’s vaccine  mandate and Plaintiff alleges that their requests for exemption were approved  while her request for exemption, which cited to religious beliefs, was denied.  However, Defendant argues that the Police Officers should be precluded from  deposition on the basis that (1) Defendant did not identify any of the  foregoing as witnesses, having any relevance to the case at bar; and (2)  Plaintiff did not identify any of the foregoing as witnesses to any of her  gender-based discrimination claims against Defendant. (Mot., p. 4.) Defendant  contends that because “the Court sustained the demurrer as to the third cause  of action for failure to accommodate without leave to amend,” these Police  Officers would have nothing relevant to say that is reasonably calculated to  lead to the discovery of admissible information in this lawsuit. (Id. at  pp. 4-5.) Defendant argues that insisting on numerous depositions of persons  whose sphere of knowledge relates to a dismissed COVID cause of action  following demurrer is a misuse of the civil discovery process per CCP 2023.010,  and thus, none of these depositions should be allowed. (Id. at p. 7.)  Moreover, such depositions would be burdensome, oppressive, and harassing to  the City, its police officers, and residents in the community who count on the  officers to keep the City safe. (Id. at p. 5.) In Opposition, Plaintiff asserts that Defendant has misrepresented  the procedural facts and legal history of the instant case because this Court  did not dismiss Plaintiff’s Chavez’s COVID-related claim (third cause of  action). (Opp., p. 2.) To the contrary, this Court granted leave to amend and  Chavez thereafter amended her third cause of action which remains a viable claim  that is maintained presently before this Court in the FAC. (Id.) Thus, Plaintiff  Chavez contends that Defendant’s misrepresentations constitute discovery abuse  which the Court should use its inherent authority to sanction Defendant for. (Id.)  Moreover, Plaintiff asserts that when Defendant deposed Plaintiff Chavez,  Chavez provided the names of the Police Officers because not only were they male  officers who were granted religious exemptions, but they also were witnesses to  the derogatory language alleged by Chavez in the complaint. (Id. at p.  3.) Thus, Plaintiff noticed the depositions of those same officers because they  are essential witnesses to establishing Chavez’s claims that she was treated  differently than her male counterparts. Plaintiff also argues that defense  Counsel asked Plaintiff Chavez numerous questions about her COVID claims during  her deposition on November 7, 2023. (See Mahoney Decl.) Plaintiff further argues that Montebello’s motion is erroneously  based on the factual and procedural history of another case, Ramirez v.  Montebello (22STCV37075), which was previously before Judge Stern who has  since retired. (Id. at p. 4. [Ramirez is now before the Honorable  Steve Cochran in Department 16.] Id.) Thus, Plaintiff argues that  Defendant has failed to establish good cause for their Motion for Protective  Order, as the procedural posture of Ramirez is not binding on this Court  and Plaintiff is entitled to obtain relevant discovery concerning the instant  matter that is not privileged. (Id.) Moreover, Defendant’s allegations  mentioning the terms “burden,” “privilege,” and “closed door meetings” are unsubstantiated  and accordingly, fail to establish good cause. With respect to Kimberly Cobos-Cawthorne, as Montebello’s former  mayor, Cawthorne admits to having knowledge of and participating in a City  policy that directly impacted Plaintiff Chavez. (Id. at p. 7.) Thus, her  testimony is relevant to her understanding of the policy goals of the mandate  and how such goals could be accomplished without compromising constitutional  rights of the Montebello workforce. (Id. at p. 7.) Significantly,  neither Razo nor Bobadilla are still employed by Defendant Montebello. (Id.  at p. 8.) Last, Plaintiff requests sanctions be awarded in the amount of $1,200  for three hours of work at the hourly rate of $400. (Id. at p. 9;  Mahoney Decl., Ex. B.) Plaintiff requests such sanctions be awarded against  Montebello and its attorney of record, Counsel Doumanian because CCP  2025.420(d) provides that sanctions are awarded to a party who successfully  opposes a motion for protective order, absent the non-prevailing party acted  with substantial justification. (CCP § 2025.420(d).) Moreover, Plaintiff  contends that Defendant and its attorneys deliberately misled the court or  negligently confused the Court in conflating the Chavez matter with Ramirez  and by representing that plaintiff Ramirez decided not to appeal Judge Stern’s  ruling on his COVID-related claim when Ramirez cannot appeal such a judgment  until a final judgment is rendered on the entirety of the action. Thus,  Defendant violated Rule 3.3 of Candor Toward the Tribunal which provides that  “A lawyer shall not: (1) knowingly make a false statement of fact or law to a  tribunal or fail to correct a false statement of material fact or law  previously made to the tribunal by the lawyer.”   Here, in Defendant’s Reply and in Counsel Doumanian’s Supplemental  Declaration, Doumanian admits she was mistaken as to her recollection of the  Court’s ruling on the City’s February 28, 2023 demurrer and mistakenly recalled  the Court had sustained the claim without leave to amend until learning  otherwise through reading Plaintiff’s Opposition. (Supplemental Decl., ¶¶ 3-4,  Ex. B.) Doumanian also declares that she was in the middle of a family medical  crisis involving her son at the time that the Court ruled on the February 28,  2023 demurrer, so her recollection of the law and motion history of this case  was mistaken. (Id. at ¶ 5.) Counsel will disclose the details of these  circumstances if the Court so requests so. (Id.) Moreover, Counsel  Doumanian apologizes to the Court for her mistake and acknowledges that this  Court sustained Defendant’s demurrer with leave to amend. (Id. at  ¶3.)  Nevertheless, Defendant states that such mistake and inadvertence  does not change its position that the depositions sought by Plaintiff are  properly the subject of this motion for protective order. (Reply, p. 4.)  Defendant asserts that Plaintiff offers no legal argument or cites to case law  that would support the depositions Plaintiff seeks. Additionally, Plaintiff  requests the Court defer ruling on the instant Motion for Protective Order  until after the Court rules on the Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings as to  the third cause of action for failure to accommodate noticed which is scheduled  to be heard on October 17, 2024.  The Court notes that since there is a jury trial in this case set  for September 17, 2024, it cannot defer the ruling of the instant motion until  October 17, 2024. Although the Court accepts Defendant’s declaration of mistake  and acknowledges Counsel Doumanian’s representations that she did not intend to  mislead the Court as to the instant matter’s procedural posture, the Court  finds Defendant’s moving papers heavily reliant on Defendant’s erroneous  recollection of the Court’s February 28 demurrer. Thus, Defendant’s motion relies  primarily on the legal argument that the Police Officers should be precluded  from deposition on the grounds that no COVID-related claim, or third cause of  action, remained. Consequently, Defendant has failed to establish that good  cause exists to warrant this Court’s issuance of a Protective Order as the  Police Officers. Defendant’s arguments in reply are insufficient to demonstrate  that the Police Officers are not relevant to Plaintiff’s claims for both gender  discrimination and failure to accommodate Plaintiff’s religious position.  Moreover, Defendant did depose Plaintiff on such COVID related matters. With respect to former mayor Kimberly Cobos-Cawthorne, the Court  finds that Defendant has established good cause to preclude her from  deposition, as her role in Defendant’s 2021 vaccine mandate is not relevant to  the determination of whether Defendant failed to accommodate Plaintiff Chavez  on the basis of her religion. Cawthorne’s role in implementing a policy that  directly impacted Plaintiff is distinguished from whether Defendant implemented  that policy in a discriminatory matter. Thus, the Court reiterates its findings  issued in the February 28 Minute Order and again concludes that the question  before the Court is not the efficacy or soundness of the vaccine mandate but  whether Defendant failed to accommodate Plaintiff’s bona fide religious beliefs  in denying her exemption to the City’s vaccine mandate.   With respect to the joinder of Mayor Scarlet Peralta, filed four  court days before the date of the hearing, Mayor Peralta requests to be  included in the defendant’s motion for protective order. No argument is  provided explaining the basis for her inclusion and no facts are set forth,  other than the single sentence: “The defendant asks the court to include Mayor  Scarlet Peralta’s unilaterally noticed deposition with request for production  of documents in relation to COVID claims, set for August 14, 2024 at 10 AM,  within the scope of the defendant’s motion for a protective order.” No facts or  argument are contained in the earlier motion regarding Mayor Peralta. In opposition, Plaintiff argues that there is no basis to continue  to prosecute this motion for protective order since it is based on Defendant’s  counsel’s incorrect recollection. The Court denies Defendant’s  requested joinder of Mayor Peralta to the  motion both because it is very late and because it provides no substantive  argument, particularly in light of the fact that Montebello’s counsel now  acknowledges that she confused the two cases. Therefore, the Court denies Defendant’s Protective Order with  respect to the Police Officers named herein and grants the Protective Order as  to former mayor Kimberly Cobos-Cawthorne only.  With respect to sanctions, the Court finds there is a mixed  result. The Court is granting Defendant’s Protective Order in part as to one of  the witnesses, but denying the motion for protective order as to the  depositions of the Police Officers. Moreover, Defendant did not act with  substantial justification with respect to the Police Officers and did  misrepresent the facts to the Court, regardless of intention. While the Court  acknowledges Defense Counsel’s ownership in the Reply of such  misrepresentations, the Court still finds this motion necessitated Plaintiff’s  time and work in opposing the misrepresentations. Significantly, even after  learning of the mistake, the Defendant did not withdraw the motion or seek to  change the analysis of why the protective order should be granted, other than  asking the Court to wait until after the trial date to rule on this motion.  While Plaintiff’s counsel’s time spent of three hours at the  hourly rate of $1,200 is reasonable, because of the mixed result, the Court will  reduce this amount to $800 against Defendant and Defense Counsel. Conclusion The Court GRANTS Defendant’s Protective Order IN PART, as to  former Mayor Kimberly Cobos-Cawthorne and DENIES Defendant’s Protective Order  as to the Police Officers named herein.  Sanctions are awarded in the amount of $800 against Defendant and  Defendant’s attorney of record to be paid to Plaintiff’s counsel within 30  days.