 Case Number:  23STCV15627    Hearing Date:   May 20, 2024    Dept:  34 SUBJECT:        Motion to
Lift Stay Pending Appeal
 
Moving Party: Plaintiff
Adolfo Agundez
Resp. Party:    Defendant DO & CO Los Angeles, Inc.
 
 
The Motion to Lift Stay Pending Appeal is DENIED. 
 
BACKGROUND:
        
On July 5, 2023, Plaintiff Adolfo Agundez filed his Complaint against
Defendant DO & CO Los Angeles, Inc. on causes of action arising from
Plaintiff’s employment by Defendant.
 
On December 8, 2023, the Court denied Defendant’s Motion to Compel
Arbitration, and Stay or Dismiss Proceedings (“Motion to Compel Arbitration”).
 
On December 19, 2023, Defendant filed Judicial Council Form APP-002,
Notice of Appeal (Unlimited Civil Case). Defendant noticed its appeal of the
Minute Order dated December 8, 2023, which denied the Motion to Compel
Arbitration. 
 
On January 1, 2024, an amended version of Code of Civil Procedure
section 1294, subdivision (a) took effect. 
 
On April 23, 2024, Plaintiff filed his Motion to Lift Stay Pending
Appeal. In support of his Motion to Lift Stay Pending Appeal, Plaintiff
concurrently filed Declaration of Pouya B. Chami. 
 
On May 3, 2024, Defendant filed its Opposition to Plaintiff’s Motion to
Lift Stay Pending Appeal (“Opposition”). 
 
On May 13, 2024, Plaintiff filed his Reply Brief in Support of
Plaintiff Adolfo Agundez’s Motion to Lift Stay Pending Appeal (“Reply”). 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
I.         
Legal
Standard
 
“An aggrieved party may appeal from: (a)
An order dismissing or denying a petition to compel arbitration.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 1294, subd. (a) [added by Stats. 1961, c. 461, p. 1550, § 2, eff.
until Dec. 31, 2023].)
 
“An aggrieved party may appeal from: (a)
An order dismissing or denying a petition to compel arbitration.
Notwithstanding Section 916, the perfecting of such an appeal shall not
automatically stay any proceedings in the trial court during the pendency of
the appeal.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1294, subd. (a) [amended by Stats. 2023, c.
710 (S.B. 365), § 1, eff. Jan. 1, 2024].)
 
“Except as
provided in Sections 917.1 to 917.9, inclusive, and in Section 116.810, the
perfecting of an appeal stays proceedings in the trial court upon the judgment
or order appealed from or upon the matters embraced therein or affected
thereby, including enforcement of the judgment or order, but the trial court
may proceed upon any other matter embraced in the action and not affected by
the judgment or order.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 916, subd. (a).)
 
“When there is a
stay of proceedings other than the enforcement of the judgment, the trial court
shall have jurisdiction of proceedings related to the enforcement of the
judgment as well as any other matter embraced in the action and not affected by
the judgment or order appealed from.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 916, subd. (b).)
 
II.      
Discussion
 
A. 
    The
Parties’ Arguments
 
Plaintiff moves the Court to lift the stay in this matter. (Motion to
Lift Stay Pending Appeal, p. 6:21–22.) 
 
Plaintiff argues: (1) that Code of Civil Procedure section 1294 no
longer mandates an automatic stay pending appeal of an order denying a motion to
compel arbitration; and (2) that Code of Civil Procedure section 1294 only has
a procedural effect and still applies to the underlying claim. (Motion to Lift
Stay Pending Appeal, pp. 3:21–22, 5:17–18.)
 
Defendant disagrees, arguing: (1) that Senate Bill 365 (the amending
legislation that recently changed Code of Civil Procedure section 1294,
subdivision (a)) is preempted by the Federal Arbitration Act (FAA); (2) that
the practical effect of the holding in Coinbase, Inc. v. Bielski (2023)
599 U.S. 736 favors a stay; (3) that the amendment of Code of Civil Procedure
section 1294, subdivision (a) is not retroactive; and (4) that Plaintiff did
not file a meet and confer declaration with the Motion to Lift Stay Pending
Appeal. (Opposition, pp. 2:26, 4:3, 4:23, 5:15–17.)
 
In his Reply, Plaintiff argues: (1) that Senate Bill 365 does not
conflict with the FAA; (2) that Senate Bill 365’s amendment of Code of Civil
Procedure section 1294, subdivision (a) is retroactive; and (3) that a meet and
confer declaration was not needed because this was not a discovery motion.
(Reply, pp. 2:24, 3:23, 5:8.)
 
B. 
    Meet
and Confer Declaration
 
1. 
    Legal
Standard
 
“A meet and
confer declaration in support of a motion shall state facts showing a
reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue
presented by the motion.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2016.040.)
 
2. 
    Discussion

 
Plaintiff filed his Motion to Lift Stay Pending Appeal to “allow
discovery in this matter to proceed while the appeal is pending.” (Motion to
Lift Stay Pending Appeal, p. 1:10–14.)
 
Defendant points to Code of Civil Procedure section 2016.040 and argues
that the Court “should not even consider Plaintiff’s motion” because Plaintiff
did not meet and confer with Defendant “to see if Defendant would stipulate to
asking the Court to lift the stay on discovery.” (Opposition, p. 5:24–27.)
 
The Court disagrees with Defendant’s argument. 
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2016.040 is part of Chapter 1 (titled:
“General Provisions”) of the Civil Discovery Act. This section describes what
is required in a meet and confer declaration, not when a meet and confer
declaration is required. 
 
The various sections of the Civil Discovery Act (and other parts of the
Code of Civil Procedure) explicitly state when a meet and confer declaration is
required. The absence of explicit language requiring a meet and confer
declaration from a statutory section is a strong indication that the
Legislature intentionally did not require one. (Compare and contrast, for
example, Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290, subd. (b) [motions to compel initial
responses to interrogatories, which do not require meet and confer declarations]
with 2030.300, subd. (b)(1) [motions to compel further responses to
interrogatories, which do require meet and confer declarations].) When the
Legislature recently wished to add meet and confer requirements outside of the
Civil Discovery Act but within other parts of the Code of Civil Procedure (such
as with demurrers), it had no trouble doing so in an explicit manner. (See Code
of Civil Procedure section, 430.31, subd. (a).)
 
Here, the Court is unaware of any requirement in statute or case law that
a meet and confer declaration is required to accompany a motion to lift a stay
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure sections 916 and/or 1294. Further, the
Court agrees with Plaintiff that this is not a discovery motion.
 
C. 
    The
Automatic Stay
 
On December 8, 2023, the Court denied Defendant’s Motion to Compel
Arbitration, and Stay or Dismiss Proceedings (“Motion to Compel Arbitration”).
 
On December 19, 2023, Defendant filed Judicial Council Form APP-002,
Notice of Appeal (Unlimited Civil Case). Defendant noticed its appeal of the
Minute Order dated December 8, 2023, which denied the Motion to Compel
Arbitration. 
 
        Defendant notes that it “timely filed a
Notice of Appeal of the Trial Court’s Order Denying a Motion to Compel
Arbitration, effectively staying this case until resolution of the appeal.”
(Opposition, p. 2:19–22.) 
 
Plaintiff admits that “[t]his case has been stayed pending the appeal”
of the Motion to Compel Arbitration.” (Motion to Lift Stay Pending Appeal, p.
2:21.) 
 
The Court agrees with the Parties that, at the present, this case is
entirely stayed. 
 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 1294, subdivision (a),
Defendant appealed the Minute Order dated December 8, 2023, in which the Court
denied Defendant’s motion to compel arbitration of this entire matter. The
record shows that Defendant perfected that appeal. Pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 916, subdivision (a), the perfecting of the appeal stayed
further proceedings with the Court. 
 
Because the appealed matter encompassed the entire matter, there could
be no further proceedings (such as on discovery) pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 916, subdivision (b). 
 
Furthermore, because the recently-passed amendments to Code of Civil
Procedure section 1294, subdivision (a) did not take effect until January 1,
2024 — which was weeks after the stay was perfected — the proceedings were
automatically stayed upon the perfecting of the appeal. 
 
D. 
    Considerations
in Favor of Lifting the Stay
 
If the Court had the discretion to lift the stay, it would do so for
multiple reasons.
 
1. 
    Public
Policy Favors Lifting the Stay
 
First, the allegations and causes of action in this matter involve
matters of fundamental importance and public policy that should be resolved as
soon as possible. 
 
Among other things, employee Plaintiff alleges that employer Defendant engaged
in discrimination, retaliation, and other violations of the Fair Employment and
Housing Act (“FEHA”). (Complaint, pp. 6–14.) 
 
The harms alleged — which include actual and symbolic harms to all of
society when employment discrimination and retaliation are allowed to go
unpunished and undeterred — go far beyond the damages that are covered by a
mere contract dispute. 
 
Thus, while there may well be very good reasons for some types of
disputes to be subject to interlocutory appeals, this Court sees no reason why
interlocutory appeals of arbitration issues should lead to automatic stays when
they involve fundamental matters of public policy, such as with FEHA cases. On
average, undue delay of such important cases harms all of society far more than
the gain to employers who lost a motion, and judges can appropriately determine
on a case-by-case basis if stays upon denial of motions to compel arbitration
should be granted anyway. 
 
2. 
    The
Significant Risk of Prejudice to Plaintiff
 
        Second, keeping the stay in place during
the pendency of the appeal poses a significant risk of prejudice to the
specific Plaintiff in this matter while posing only a minimal risk of prejudice
to Defendant. 
 
Appeals often take years to resolve. In the meantime, witnesses forget
details, documents get lost, and discovery becomes harder and more expensive. 
 
If Defendant is not liable for the acts alleged, then lifting the stay
on discovery should not be an issue for Defendant. After all, even if Defendant
had prevailed on its motion to compel arbitration, Defendant would still have
to engage in discovery through the arbitration process. Furthermore, it is
highly unlikely that there would be any significant difference the amount of
discovery allowed between the two venues. But so long as the stay remains in
place, both sides may be prejudiced, since the evidence needed to prove the
party’s case grows stale and could be lost to time. 
 
3. 
    Agreement
with the Legislature and Justice Jackson
 
Finally, the Court generally notes its agreement with both the
California Legislature and the arguments made by Associate Justice Ketanji
Jackson in Coinbase. 
 
The California Legislature recently amended Code of Civil Procedure
section 1294, subdivision (a) so that the perfecting of an appeal of a denial
of a motion to compel arbitration does not automatically stay proceedings in
the trial court. The Legislature’s language does not require that trial courts
refrain from issuing stays upon the perfecting of such appeals. Rather, the
Legislature’s language recognizes that judicial officers are in the best
position to determine whether a stay would be appropriate and accordingly gives
trial courts the discretion as to whether to issue a stay in the appropriate
case. 
 
Notably, the Legislature’s amendment heeded the wise words of Justice
Jackson, who had just months earlier dissented in the case of Coinbase, Inc.,
supra, 599 U.S. at p. 747. Among other things, Justice Jackson noted
that “the background rule is that courts have case-by-case discretion regarding
whether or not to issue a stay.” (Id. at p. 752 (dis. opn. of Jackson,
J.).) “That power is discretionary – it ‘calls for the exercise of judgment,
which must weigh competing interests’ in each particular case.” (Ibid.,
quoting Landis v. N. Am. Co. (1936) 299 U.S. 248, 254–255.) 
 
The Legislature chose to give California trial court judges the
discretion (and, ipso facto, the responsibility) to weigh whether to stay
proceedings in interlocutory appeals of denials of motions to compel
arbitration. The Court takes this responsibility seriously. If it were up to
this Court in the first instance, such a stay would not have been automatically
issued in this matter. Similarly, if the Court had the power to lift the stay now,
the stay in place would be lifted. 
 
E. 
    Issues
with the Requested Relief
 
The Court sees three issues with the relief Plaintiff seeks.
 
1. 
    Lifting
an Automatic Stay Once One is in Place
 
Plaintiff argues that the Court “should lift the automatic stay” because
Code of Civil Procedure section 1294 “no longer mandates an automatic stay
pending appeal of an order denying a motion to compel arbitration.” (Motion to
Lift Stay Pending Appeal, p. 3:20–24.) Specifically, Plaintiff claims that
“with the amended language of [section] 1294, the Court in its discretion may
lift the automatic stay and allow discovery to proceed pending Defendant’s
appeal.” (Id. at p. 5:10–12.)
 
The Court disagrees with Plaintiff’s reading of the statute. 
 
“An aggrieved party may appeal from: (a)
An order dismissing or denying a petition to compel arbitration.
Notwithstanding Section 916, the perfecting of such an appeal shall not
automatically stay any proceedings in the trial court during the pendency of
the appeal.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1294, subd. (a) [amended by Stats. 2023, c.
710 (S.B. 365), § 1, eff. Jan. 1, 2024].)
 
But Code of Civil Procedure section 1294, subdivision (a) says nothing about
a situation where the proceedings have already been
automatically stayed due to the perfecting of an interlocutory appeal of an
order denying a motion to compel arbitration.
 
The statute does not explicitly tell the trial court that it can issue
a stay (and if so, what steps should be taken for doing so); nor does the
statute explicitly tell the trial court how to lift a stay (and if so, what
steps should be taken for doing so). Likely this is because Courts usually have
other ways to issue and lift stays — including through Code of Civil Procedure
section 128, subdivision (a)(8) and through their inherent authority. (See People
v. Engram (2010) 50 Cal.4th 1131, 1146).
 
 The fundamental issue here is
that the Court did not in the first instance issue a discretionary stay
pursuant to statute or its inherent authority. Instead, an automatic
stay was issued in the first instance by operation of law. 
 
Plaintiff argues that the amended version of Code of Civil Procedure
section 1294, subdivision (a) now gives the Court the discretion to lift the
automatic stay that was previously issued by operation of law. But this was not
the power granted to the Court by the Legislature, and the Court has not been
presented with any evidence that the Legislature intended for the Court to lift
automatic stays on interlocutory appeals once they have already been put in
place. 
 
If the Legislature wished to grant the Court the discretion to lift
automatic stays that have been issued on interlocutory appeals, the Legislature
could have done so — and it still can. But as of now, the Legislature has not
done so. 
 
2. 
    Retroactivity of the Amendment
 
Plaintiff initially argues: (1) that Code of Civil Procedure section
1294, subdivision (a) “is a procedural rule” that “only has a procedural
effect”; (2) that if the Court lifted the stay, “it would not be a retroactive
application of [section] 1294 . . . [because it] does not affect the underlying
claims or defenses, or ‘rights, obligations, acts, transactions and conditions’
of the parties whatsoever”; and (3) that applying Code of Civil Procedure
section 1294, subdivision (a) now “does not retrospectively deprive [D]efendant
of the benefits of the former law” because lifting the stay only affects the
future conduct of this action and “does not retrospectively undo the prior
stay.” (Motion to Lift Stay Pending Appeal, pp. 5:17–6:17, internal quotations
omitted.)
 
Defendant argues: (1) that the statute “is silent on retroactivity”;
(2) that Defendant filed its notice of appeal on December 19, 2023, which was
before Senate Bill 365 went into effect on January 1, 2024; and (3) that
Defendant is thus entitled to the procedures that were in effect in 2023.
(Opposition, p. 5:3–13.)
 
In his Reply, Plaintiff appears to change his argument, such that he
now argues Senate Bill 365’s amendment of Code of Civil Procedure section 1294,
subdivision (a) “is retroactive and applies to the current case.” (Reply, p.
3:23–24.) Plaintiff extensively cites Brenton v. Metabolife Int’l, Inc. (2004)
116 Cal.App.4th 679 in support of his arguments. 
 
The Court agrees with Defendant’s arguments and disagrees with both
sets of Plaintiff’s arguments. 
 
 
a.  
    The
Statute Does Not Operate Retrospectively 
 
“Absent an express declaration of retrospectivity or other clear
indication that the Legislature intended retrospective application, a new
statute is presumed to operate prospectively.” (Brenton, supra,
116 Cal.App.4th at p. 688, citation omitted.)
 
The amended version of Code of Civil Procedure section 1294,
subdivision (a) is completely silent on the issue of retroactivity. Thus, there
is no question that Code of Civil Procedure section 1294, subdivision (a) only
operates prospectively and not retrospectively. Put differently, the Court
cannot retrospectively apply to December 19, 2023 the rule that took effect on
January 1, 2024 because the Legislature did not expressly declare or otherwise
clearly indicate that the statute applies retrospectively. 
 
b.  
    The
Requested Relief Would be Retrospective
 
“The
courts have broadly distinguished between substantive and procedural statutes
to assess whether applying a new statute would have improper retrospective
application, and have declined to interpret a statute as having retrospective
application when doing so would change the legal consequences of the parties'
past conduct. Accordingly, if a statutory change is substantive because
it would impose new, additional or different liabilities based on past conduct,
courts are loath to interpret it as having retrospective application. 
 
“In contrast to
changed substantive statutes, applying changed procedural statutes to the
conduct of existing litigation, even though the litigation involves an
underlying dispute that arose from conduct occurring before the effective date
of the new statute, involves no improper retrospective application because the
statute addresses conduct in the future. Such a statute is not made retroactive
merely because it draws upon facts existing prior to its enactment. Instead,
the effect of such statutes is actually prospective in nature since they relate
to the procedure to be followed in the future. For this reason, we have said
that it is a misnomer to designate such statutes as having retrospective
effect.” 
 
. . . 
 
“In other words, procedural statutes may become operative
only when and if the procedure or remedy is invoked, and if the trial postdates
the enactment, the statute operates in the future regardless of the time of
occurrence of the events giving rise to the cause of action. In
such cases the statutory changes are said to apply not because they constitute
an exception to the general rule of statutory construction, but because they
are not in fact retrospective. There is then no problem as to whether the
Legislature intended the changes to operate retroactively.
 
“It
is the effect of the law, not its form or label, that is important for purposes
of this analysis. It is not significant whether the statute is labeled
substantive or procedural in nature. Rather, what is determinative is the
effect that application of the statute would have on substantive rights and
liabilities.”
 
(Brenton, supra,
116 Cal.App.4th at pp. 688–689 [cleaned up, italics in original].)
 
        The Court does not doubt that Code of
Civil Procedure section 1294, subdivision (a) is a “procedural statute” that is
distinguishable from a “substantive statute” for the purposes of Brenton.
However, as is made clear in Brenton, the question is what effect the
law would have. 
 
        The Court has explained supra
(see Section II.E.2.a.) that Code of Civil Procedure section 1294, subdivision
(a) does not operate retrospectively. 
 
Because Code of Civil Procedure section 1294, subdivision (a) does not
operate retrospectively, the Court cannot go back to December 19, 2023 and use its
discretion to either decline to stay this matter or lift the stay as of that
time. 
 
Furthermore, as the Court explained supra (see Section II.E.1.),
the Court also lacks the discretion to prospectively lift the automatic stay
that was previously placed by operation of law. 
 
For these reasons, the Court would deny the motion to lift the
automatic stay.
 
 
3.         
Preemption
of Code of Civil Procedure Section 1294, Subdivision (a)
 
Defendant argues that Senate Bill 365 is preempted by the FAA and is in
conflict with the decision in Coinbase, supra, 599 U.S. at p.
736. (Opposition, pp. 2:26, 3:12–15.)
 
Plaintiff disagrees, arguing that Senate Bill 365 is what distinguishes
this case from Coinbase and that Code of Civil Procedure section 1294,
subdivision (a) is therefore not preempted by the FAA. (Reply, pp. 2:24, 3:1–6,
3:15, 3:21–22.)
 
The FAA preempts any state rule discriminating on its face against
arbitration. (Viking River Cruises, Inc. v. Moriana (2022) 596 U.S. 639,
650, overruling Iskanian v. CLS Transp. Los Angeles, LLC (2014) 59
Cal.4th 348.)
 
In Coinbase, the Supreme Court held that United States Code,
title 9, section 16, subdivision (a) requires federal district courts to stay
their pre-trial and trial proceedings when there is an ongoing interlocutory
appeal of the denial of a motion to compel arbitration. (Coinbase, supra,
599 U.S. at p. 738.) Among other things, the majority claimed that allowing
such proceedings to continue during an ongoing interlocutory appeal “would disfavor
arbitration.” (Id. at p. 746, emphasis in original.)
 
The Court does not agree with the majority’s reasoning in Coinbase. The
Court previously stated its agreement with the arguments made by Justice
Jackson in her well-reasoned dissent in Coinbase. (See Section II.D.3.)
 
The Court also notes that there are certain situations in which the
California Arbitration Act (CAA) applies but the FAA does not. In such
situations, Code of Civil Procedure section 1294, subdivision (a) would
obviously not be preempted. Here, Plaintiff waived that argument by failing to
argue the FAA did not apply when Defendant argued in the Motion to Compel
Arbitration that there was an arbitration agreement under the FAA. (See
Memorandum of Points and Authorities for Motion to Compel Arbitration, p. 5:19;
see also Opposition to Motion to Compel Arbitration.)
 
But the issue at hand is not whether the Court agrees with the majority
in Coinbase or whether the situation might be different given different
facts. The issue is whether the amended version of Code of Civil Procedure
section 1294, subdivision (a) is preempted because it disfavors and/or
discriminates against arbitration in violation of the FAA.
 
The Supreme Court of the United States has answered “yes,” and this
Court is obliged to respect that. (Coinbase, supra, 599 U.S. at
p. 738.) 
 
        For that independent reason, the Motion
to Lift Stay Pending Appeal must be denied. 
 
 
III.    
Conclusion
 
The Motion to Lift Stay Pending Appeal is DENIED.
 