

Hearing Date:             October 11, 2024
Case Name:                 LVNV Funding LLC v. Murad
Chilalyan
Case
No.:                    24STCV05296
Motion:                       Order
to Show Cause re: Entry of Default Judgment
Moving
Party:             Plaintiff LVNV Funding
LLC

Responding Party:      None


 

Tentative
Ruling:      Order to Show Cause
re: Plaintiff’s Motion for Default Judgment is continued.  In the alternative, if Plaintiff submits
documents that cure the issues identified before the October 11 hearing the
Court will consider them.
 

 
BACKGROUND
This is an action for repayment of
money owed by Defendant Murad Chilalyan (“Defendant”) to Plaintiff LVNV Funding
LLC (“Plaintiff”) on an underlying credit account.
 
On March 4, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
complaint against Defendants Murad Chilalyan and Does 1 through 5, inclusive,
alleging causes of action for (1) common counts-account stated and (2) common
counts-open book. In the complaint, Plaintiff alleges damages of $91,458.35,
for repayment of the total principal amount owed on Defendant’s credit account.
 
On March 5, 2024, the Court filed
notice of hearing for an Order to Show to Show Cause re: Failure to File Proof
of Service, scheduled for August 14, 2024.
 
On March 26, 2024, Plaintiff filed
proof of service on Defendant by substituted service. Plaintiff provided a declaration
of due diligence, establishing that Plaintiff attempted to effect service on
Defendant by personal delivery six times prior to effecting service by
substituted service.
 
At the hearing on August 14, 2024,
the Court heard Plaintiff’s representation that it intended to seek entry of
default against Defendant. The Court set a hearing for Order to Show Cause Re:
Entry of Default Judgment, scheduled for October 11, 2024, and required
Plaintiff’s counsel to submit default prove-up papers no later than October 1,
2024.
 
SUMMARY OF
DEFAULT JUDGMENT REQUEST

Compensatory
     Damages:                             $91,458.35 


Costs:                                                              $506.00


Total:                                                              $91,964.35 

 
SUBMITTED
DOCUMENTS (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1800)

Use
     of JC Form CIV-100                                                                                           YES 


Dismissal
     or judgment of non-parties to the judgment                                              NO 


Declaration
     of non-military status for each defendant                                               YES 


Summary
     of the case                                                                                                  YES 


585(d)
     declarations/admissible evidence in support                                                  NO 


Exhibits
     (as necessary)                                                                                               YE 


Interest
     computation (as necessary)                                                                           N/A 


Cost
     memorandum                                                                                                     YES 


Request
     for attorney fees (Local Rule 3.214)                                                             N/A  


Proposed
     judgment                                                                                                     YES 

 
DISCUSSION
            The Court
notes the following two deficiencies with Plaintiff’s Default Prove-Up
submissions.
 
First, Plaintiff did not file any request
for dismissal of Doe defendants, pursuant to Court Rule 3.1800(A). The
Complaint and Civil Case Cover Sheet both list that the action was filed
against defendants Murad Chilalyan and DOES 1 to 5, inclusive. Although
subsequent Court documents, i.e., Notice of Case Management Conference) only
list “Defendant Murad Chilalyan,” Plaintiff did not request for entry of
dismissal as to Does 1 to 5 in any prior filing.
 
Second, Plaintiff’s evidence
submitted in support of judgment requested in the filing named “Declaration in
Support of Entry of Judgment CCP § 585(d)” is not properly signed under penalty
of perjury. This is the only filing that incorporates the exhibit containing
Defendant’s agreement with Plaintiff. The declaration states only that it
incorporates by attachment a separate declaration in support of judgment. Such
separate declaration was “signed and subscribed” before a “Notary Public-State
of South Carolina.” However, it states only “I affirm under penalty of perjury
that the above facts are true and correct.” Because this declaration was
apparently signed outside of California, this verification is not in compliance
with the requirement that the declaration be expressly made “under penalty of
perjury under the laws of the state of California.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2015.5;
Kulshrestha v. First Union Commercial Corp. (2004) 33 Cal. 4th 601,
618.) 
 
CONCLUSION
 
            The Court
issues the following ruling, in the alternative.
 
            If the
Court will consider any corrected papers Plaintiff files before the October 11,
2024, hearing to address the identified non-conformities.
 
            If no
corrected papers are submitted, the Court hereby CONTINUES Plaintiff’s Motion
for Entry of Default Judgment to such later date as the Court will set. 