
Hearing Date:             October
11, 2024Case Name:                Perry & Alznauer, P.C. v.
City National Bank, et al.Case No.:                    24STCV13168Motion:                       Compel
Arbitration Moving
Party:             Defendant City National
Bank
Responding Party:      Plaintiff Perry & Alznauer, P.C.
 
Tentative
Ruling:      City National Bank’s motion
to compel arbitration is granted.
 
 This case arises
from an alleged fraudulent wire transfer from Plaintiff Perry & Alznauer,
P.C.’s (Plaintiff) personal and business bank accounts at Defendant City
National Bank to the accounts of various individuals. (Compl. ¶¶ 11-12.)  On May 24, 2024,
Plaintiff filed an action against Defendants City National Bank, Space Coast
Credit Union, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., PNC Bank, N.A., Raheem Vassall, Dante
Prescott, Michael Carseli, and Does 1 through 100. On August 6, 2024,
Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) for (1) violation of
Commercial Code section 11204, (2) negligence, (3) common counts, (4)
conversion, and (5) violation of Penal Code section 496 against Defendants.              On September 9,
2024, Defendant City National Bank (CNB) filed the present Motion to Compel
Arbitration.   On September 30,
2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition, and evidentiary objections to paragraphs 3
and 5 of the Declaration of Kyle Szabo and the attached Exhibit 2. On October 4,
2024, CNB filed its reply, and its response to Plaintiff’s evidentiary
objections.  Factual Background              Mr.
Perry, the principal of Plaintiff, was the contact on Plaintiff’s two checking
accounts that it maintained with Defendant CNB from September 2010 to at least
January 2024. (Biles Decl., ¶ 3.) According to CNB, when Plaintiff opened its
bank accounts with CNB, it had to and did sign the Account Agreement and
Disclosures (AAD), which govern the relationships between CNB and its clients.
(Id. ¶¶ 2, 4; Exhibit 2.) When Plaintiff first signed the AAD, there was
no arbitration agreement present. (Id. ¶ 5.) However, according to CNB,
in late 2022, CNB informed all clients, including Plaintiff, that an
arbitration agreement would be added to the AAD. (Id.) The amended
portion of the AAD, which contains the arbitration agreement, states in
pertinent part:  Except to the extent that they may be
resolved through small claims court or as set forth in the “Miscellaneous”
section below, any and all Claims, regardless whether they (a) arise out of,
affect, or relate to conduct that occurred prior to the Effective Date of the
Agreement, or (b) are in contract, tort, statute, or otherwise, shall, at the
election of either you or us, be resolved by confidential and binding
arbitration. Either you or we may elect to resolve
any and all Claims through arbitration, even if one of us has already initiated
litigation in court related to such Claim(s), by: (a) making written demand for
arbitration upon the other party, (b) initiating arbitration against the other
party, and/or (c) filing a motion to compel arbitration in court. AS A RESULT,
IF EITHER YOU OR WE ELECT TO RESOLVE ANY CLAIM(S) THROUGH ARBITRATION, YOU GIVE
UP YOUR RIGHT TO GO TO COURT TO ASSERT OR DEFEND YOUR CLAIMS, RIGHTS, AND POSITIONS
AS TO SUCH CLAIM(S) (except for a claim brought individually within small
claims court jurisdiction, so long as the claim remains in small claims court).
 The parties shall mutually agree that
the arbitration be administered by either the American Arbitration Association
(“AAA”) or JAMS, in accordance with the AAA or JAMS rules and procedures,
respectively, then in effect and applicable to the type of dispute at issue
(“the Rules”). (Id.; Exhibit 2, page 18.)  According to CNB, it informed
Plaintiff on December 6, 2022 of the addition of the arbitration agreement to
the AAD by email (to two different email addresses), and that Plaintiff opened both
emails. (Szabo Decl., ¶¶ 4, 5; Exhibit 1.) Within these emails, there was a
link to the complete text of the new arbitration agreement to be added to the AAD,
and that the arbitration agreement was to go into effect on February 1, 2023. (Id.
¶ 5; Exhibits 1, 2.) Specifically, the email states: “Effective February 1, 2023,
the Dispute Resolution section in the Account Agreement and Disclosures will be
revised to implement binding arbitration of almost all disputes between you and
City National Bank. Certain eligible clients may have a limited right in some
circumstances to opt out of the arbitration agreement. Please carefully review
the revised Dispute Resolution section at cnb.com/disputeresolution.” (Id.,
Exhibit 2.) According to CNB, the text of the link also explained Plaintiff’s
options regarding the arbitration agreement, including its right to opt out and
the procedures to do so. (Biles Decl., ¶ 6.)  Plaintiff disputes the existence of a
valid agreement to arbitrate. First, Plaintiff argues that there is no valid
evidence that the two emails that were said to be sent to two of Plaintiff’s
email addresses were “ever sent, opened, or read by Plaintiff,” as Plaintiff
has filed an evidentiary objection to the Declaration of Kyle Szabo and the
attached Exhibit 2. (Opposition, page 6.) Secondly, Plaintiff argues that there
was no assent on behalf of Plaintiff to the addition of the arbitration agreement
because “email notice of a significant change of terms (after 13 years) is not
authorized or sufficient.” (Id., page 8.)  Legal Standard             Under Code of
Civil Procedure section 1281.2, a court may order arbitration of a controversy
if it finds that the parties have agreed to arbitrate that dispute. Because the
obligation to arbitrate arises from contract, the court may compel arbitration
only if the dispute in question is one in which the parties have agreed to
arbitrate. (Weeks v. Crow (1980) 113 Cal.App.3d 350, 352.) Since
arbitration is a favored method of dispute resolution, arbitration agreements
should be liberally interpreted, and arbitration should be ordered unless the
agreement clearly does not apply to the dispute in question. (Id. at p.
353; Segal v. Silberstein (2007) 156 Cal.App.4th 627, 633.)  Evidentiary objections Plaintiff objects to,
and moves to strike, paragraphs 3 and 5 of Kyle Szabo’s declaration, as well as
the entirety of Exhibit 2 to his declaration on the ground of lack of
foundation and personal knowledge.  The
objections are overruled. Discussion             CNB moves to compel
arbitration on the grounds that (1) a valid agreement to arbitrate
exists; (2) the arbitration agreement covers Plaintiff’s claim against CNB; (3)
the parties agreed to arbitrate using the procedures of the Federal Arbitration
Act (FAA); (4) there is no waiver of the right to arbitrate.              The
sole basis for Plaintiff’s opposition to the motion is that CNB failed to
establish the existence of an agreement to arbitrate between the parties.  The Court disagrees.  A Valid Agreement
to Arbitrate Exists “Arbitration is a
matter of contract.” (Metalclad Corp. v. Ventana Env't Organizational
P'ship (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 1705, 1711.) “General principles of
contract law determine whether the parties have entered a binding agreement to
arbitrate.” (Craig v. Brown & Root, Inc., 84 Cal.App.4th 416, 420
(2000); Engalla v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc., 15 Cal.4th 951,
971-72 (1997).) “In determining whether an arbitration agreement exists, we
apply the same rules of contract formation as for any other contract.” (Weeks
v. Interactive Life Forms, LLC (2024) 100 Cal.App.5th 1077, 1084.)  Under California
law, arbitration agreements are valid, irrevocable, and enforceable, except on
such grounds that exist at law or equity for voiding a contract. (Winter v. Window Fashions Professions, Inc.
(2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 943, 947.) The party moving to compel arbitration must
establish the existence of a written arbitration agreement between the parties.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.) In ruling on a motion to compel arbitration, the
court must first determine whether the parties agreed to arbitrate the dispute,
and general principles of California contract law help guide the court in
making this determination. (Mendez v.
Mid-Wilshire Health Care Center (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 534, 541.) Once the moving
party alleges that an arbitration agreement exists, the burden shifts to the
responding party to prove the falsity of the purported agreement, and no
evidence or authentication is required to find the arbitration agreement
exists. (See Condee v. Longwood Mgt.
Corp. (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215, 219.) However, if the existence of the
agreement is challenged, "[the moving party] bears the burden of proving
[the arbitration agreement's] existence by a preponderance of the
evidence." (Rosenthal v. Great
Western Fin. Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413. See also Espejo v. Southern California Permanente
Medical Group (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 1047, 1058-1060.)   “With respect to
the moving party's burden to provide evidence of the existence of
an agreement to arbitrate, it is generally sufficient for that party to present
a copy of the contract to the court.” (Baker
v. Italian Maple Holdings, LLC (2017) 13 Cal.App.5th 1152, 1160). “A
petition to compel arbitration or to stay proceedings pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure sections 1281.2 and 1281.4 must state, in addition to other required
allegations, the provisions of the written agreement and the paragraph that
provides for arbitration. The provisions must be stated verbatim or a copy must
be physically or electronically attached to the petition and incorporated by
reference.” (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1330.) “Once such a document is
presented to the court, the burden shifts to the party opposing the motion to
compel, who may present any challenges to the enforcement of the agreement and
evidence in support of those challenges.’ (Baker,
supra, 13 Cal.App.5th at 1160.) Here, CNB as the
moving party, has met its burden of showing that an arbitration agreement exists
by providing the text of the addition of the arbitration agreement to the AAD. (Szabo Decl., ¶¶ 4, 5; Exhibit 1.) The
burden shifts. Now, Plaintiff disputes the existence of an agreement to
arbitrate because the two emails that CNB sent, which contained a link to the
text of the newly added arbitration agreement, were not “authorized or
sufficient” forms of notice to indicate that Plaintiff assented to the arbitration
agreement. (Opposition, page 8.)  1.    
The Arbitration Agreement is a “browsewrap” agreement.              The
arbitration agreement, which was contained within the link that was sent out in
the December 6, 2022 emails, is a browsewrap agreement.              “[W]hen
transactions occur over the internet, there is no face-to-face contact and the
consumer is not typically provided a physical copy of the contractual terms. In
that context, and in the absence of actual notice, a manifestation of assent
may be inferred from the consumer's actions . . . .” (Sellers v. JustAnswer
LLC (2021) 73 Cal.App.5th 444, 461.) “Courts have generally enforced
agreements to arbitrate formed via “clickwrap,” where an internet user accepts
a website's terms of use by clicking an “I agree” or “I accept” button, with a
link to the agreement readily available.” (Weeks, supra, 100
Cal.App.5th at 1084–85.) “Browsewrap provisions differ from clickwrap because
they operate under the theory that the user accepts a website's terms of use
merely by browsing the site.” (Id. at 1085.)              Here,
the newly added arbitration agreement is like a browsewrap provision. As stated
above, on December 6, 2022, CNB sent two emails to two of the Plaintiff’s email
addresses. (Szabo Decl., ¶ 5, Exhibits 1, 2.) According to CNB, Plaintiff
opened both emails, which included the link to the complete text of the arbitration
agreement to be added to the AAD that Plaintiff signed when it first opened its
bank accounts with CNB. (Szabo Decl., ¶ 5, Exhibits 1, 2.) Firstly, the
transaction occurred over the internet because the addition of the arbitration
agreement to the AAD was supplied over email. Secondly, CNB does not claim that
Plaintiff, or any of its clients to whom the emails were sent, must have
affirmatively assented to the addition of the arbitration agreement. The link
provided in the emails did not “require [Plaintiff] to take any unambiguous
action to agree to the terms” of the new arbitration agreement. (Weeks, supra,
100 Cal.App.5th at 1084–85.) Additionally, CNB states that under the AAD’s
terms, Plaintiff’s continued use of its accounts and related services
constituted his consent to the arbitration agreement. (Motion, page 10.)  2.    
Plaintiff was given sufficient notice of the arbitration agreement. CNB in emailing two emails to
Plaintiff on December 6, 2022, which contained a hyperlink to the newly added
arbitration agreement, provided Plaintiff with actual notice of the terms of
the arbitration agreement.  “Unlike the other common form of
[i]nternet contract—known as ‘clickwrap’ agreements—browsewrap agreements do
not require users to affirmatively click a button to confirm their assent to
the agreement's terms; instead, a user's assent is inferred from his or her use
of the [website]. Because assent must be inferred, the determination of whether
a binding browsewrap agreement has been formed depends on whether the user had
actual or constructive knowledge of the [website's] terms and conditions” (Long
v. Provide Com., Inc. (2016) 245 Cal.App.4th 855, 858.) “[W]here ... there
is no evidence that the website user had actual knowledge of the agreement, the
validity of the browsewrap agreement turns on whether the website puts a
reasonably prudent user on inquiry notice of the terms of the contract.” (Nguyen
v. Barnes & Noble Inc. (9th Cir. 2014) 763 F.3d 1171, 1177.)  “[T]o establish the enforceability of
a browsewrap agreement, a textual notice should be required to advise consumers
that continued use of a [site] will constitute the consumer's agreement to be
bound by the [site’s] terms of use.” (Long, supra, 245
Cal.App.4th at 867.)  Here, the Court finds that Plaintiff
had actual notice of the addition of the arbitration agreement. The hyperlink
here which contained the text of the arbitration agreement was directly sent to
two of Plaintiff’s email addresses. (Szabo Decl., ¶ 5, Exhibits 1, 2.) Further,
Plaintiff actually opened the contents of the two emails minutes after they
were sent. (Szabo Decl., ¶ 5, Exhibit 2.) CNB provided Plaintiff with a
personalized and targeted notice of the addition of the arbitration agreement,
which is sufficient notice to enforce a browsewrap agreement. (Nguyen, supra,
763 F.3d at p. 1176 [“[C]ourts have consistently enforced browsewrap agreements
where the user had actual notice of the agreement.”].) While Plaintiff argues
that email notice about a change of terms is inadequate, Plaintiff has not
provided any legal authority to support his contention that email notice is
insufficient as a matter of law. Because CNB provided Plaintiff with actual notice
of the addition of the arbitration agreement, Plaintiff is deemed to have
assented to the addition of the arbitration agreement and its terms.  In Reply, CNB states that it also
provided notice of the arbitration provision “early in 2022” by U.S. mail, and
also through its online portal through which Plaintiff received its monthly
statements.  The Court need not consider
this new information because the evidence is sufficient to grant the motion to
compel arbitration without it.  Conclusion              CNB Bank’s Motion to Compel Arbitration
is granted. The case is stayed pending arbitration. (Code Civ. Proc., §§
1281.4, 1292.6.) 


 
 