

Hearing Date:             October
11, 2024
Case Name:                Perry & Alznauer, P.C. v.
City National Bank, et al.
Case No.:                    24STCV13168
Motion:                       Demurrer

Moving
Party:             Defendant PNC Bank, N.A

Responding Party:      Plaintiff Perry & Alznauer, P.C.


 

Tentative
Ruling:      The Demurrer is sustained.
 

 
This case arises from an alleged fraudulent
wire transfer from the bank account of Plaintiff Perry & Alznauer, P.C.’s
(Plaintiff) at Defendant City National Bank (CNB), totaling $174,160.22. (Compl.
¶¶ 11-12.) Among these unauthorized payments was a wire transfer from one of
Plaintiff’s accounts to the accounts of various individuals, one of which was at
Defendant PNC Bank, N.A. (PNC). Plaintiff was unable to recover a portion of
the funds from the wire transfer to PNC. (Id. ¶¶ 13-14.) 
 
On May 24, 2024, Plaintiff filed an
action against Defendants City National Bank, Space Coast Credit Union, Wells
Fargo Bank, N.A., PNC Bank, N.A., Raheem Vassall, Dante Prescott, Michael
Carseli, and Does 1 through 100.
 
On August 6, 2024, Plaintiff filed
a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) for (1) violation of Commercial Code section
11204, (2) negligence, (3) common counts, (4) conversion, and (5) violation of
Penal Code section 496 against PNCs.  
            
On September 9, 2024, Defendant PNC
demurred to the only counts alleged against it, the second cause of action for
negligence and the third causes of action for common counts.
 
On September 30, 2024, Plaintiff
filed an opposition.  PNC replied.
 
Legal
Standard
 
            A demurrer is an
objection to a pleading, the grounds for which are apparent from either the
face of the complaint or a matter of which the court may take judicial notice.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a); see also Blank v. Kirwan (1985)
39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) The purpose of a demurrer is to challenge the sufficiency
of a pleading “by raising questions of law.” (Postley v. Harvey (1984)
153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.) “In the construction of a pleading, for the purpose
of determining its effect, its allegations must be liberally construed, with a
view to substantial justice between the parties.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 452.) The
court “‘treat[s] the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded,
but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law . . ..’” (Berkley
v. Dowds (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518, 525.) 

 
            When a demurrer is sustained, leave to amend must be
allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman
v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) The burden is on the plaintiff to
show the court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Ibid.; Lewis
v. YouTube, LLC (2015) 244 Cal.App.4th 118, 226.)
 
Meet and Confer 
 
Before filing a
demurrer, the demurring or moving party is required to meet and confer in
person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading demurred to or the
pleading that is subject to the motion to strike for the purposes of
determining whether an agreement can be reached through a filing of an amended
pleading that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 430.41.)  
 
Counsel for PNC
provided that they “completed a meet and confer with Plaintiff’s counsel on
August 15, 2024 via telephone and informed counsel of the deficiencies
identified in the First Amended Complaint and that PNC intended to file a
demurrer to Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint.” (Demurrer, page 2.) 
 
Thus, the meet
and confer requirement has been met. 
 
Discussion
 
            PNC demurs to
Plaintiff’s complaint on the grounds that the allegations contained in the
complaint fail to state facts sufficient to constitute causes of action for: (1)
negligence and (2) common counts. 
 
The California Uniform
Commercial Code Displaces Plaintiff’s Common Law Claims
 
            PNC
demurs as to Plaintiff’s causes of action for negligence and common counts on
the grounds that these common law claims are preempted by the California Uniform
Commercial Code. 
 
            “The
1990 Legislature enacted Article 4A of the Uniform Commercial Code as Division
11 of the California Uniform Commercial Code (U.C.C. 11101 et seq.), entitled
‘Funds Transfers.’” (Zengen, Inc. v. Comerica Bank (2007) 41 Cal.4th
239, 247.) According to the Code Comment to section 4A–102, adopted in
California as section 11102 of the California Uniform Commercial Code, Article
4A governs “fund transfer[s],” or as commonly referred to as a “wholesale wire
transfer.” (Cal. U. Com. Code, § 11102.) “In the drafting of Article 4A, a
deliberate decision was made to write on a clean slate and to treat a funds
transfer as a unique method of payment to be governed by unique rules that
address the particular issues raised by this method of payment,” and to
specifically and precisely, “allocate risks and establish limits on liability,
rather than to rely on broadly stated, flexible principles.” (Id.) 
 
As our Supreme
Court has explained, because “the Legislature adopted article 4A of the Uniform
Commercial Code exactly as written, this Code Comment is persuasive in
interpreting the statute. (Zengen, Inc. v. Comerica Bank (2007) 41 Cal.4th
239, 252.)  The Comment makes clear that
the funds transfer article is intended to provide a comprehensive body of law
and the exclusive means of determining the rights and liabilities of the
parties. The rules established within Article 4A represent “a careful and delicate
balancing” of the competing interests of “banks that provide funds transfer
services,” “commercial and financial organizations that use their services,”
and the public interest. (Id.) In balancing these interests, Article 4A
is “intended to be the exclusive means of determining the rights, duties and
liabilities of the affected parties in any situation covered by particular
provisions of the Article.” (Id.) “Consequently, resort to principles of
law or equity outside of Article 4A is not appropriate to create rights, duties
and liabilities inconsistent with those stated in this Article.” (Id.) 
 
            Both
Plaintiff and PNC agree that a funds transfer, as it is defined in Article 4A,
is at issue. (FAC ¶ 20; Demurrer, page 10; Cal. U. Com. Code, § 11104(a) [“‘Funds
transfer’ means the series of transactions, beginning with the originator’s
payment order, made for the purpose of making payment to the beneficiary of the
order. The term includes any payment order issued by the originator's bank, or
an intermediary bank intended to carry out the originator's payment order.”].)
Further it is undisputed that under Article 4A, City National Bank would be
considered the “receiving bank,” since it received the payment order (funds
transfer request) from Plaintiff, Plaintiff would be considered “sender,” PNC
Bank would be considered the “beneficiary’s bank,” and its customer, one of the
alleged fraudsters, would be considered the beneficiary. (See Cal. U. Com. Code,
§ 11103.) 
 
            In
Zengen, supra, 41 Cal. 4th at p. 253, the Supreme Court held
that Article 4A displaces common law causes actions “based on allegedly
unauthorized funds . . . in two specific areas: (1) where the common law claims
would create rights, duties, or liabilities inconsistent with division 11; and
(2) where the circumstances giving rise to the common law claims are
specifically covered by the provisions of [Article 4A.]” However, the Court
continued to state that “[t]his is not to say that the Uniform Commercial Code
necessarily displaces all common law actions based on all activities
surrounding funds transfers. One court has explained that “[t]he exclusivity of
Article 4–A is deliberately restricted to ‘any situation covered by particular
provisions of the Article.’ Conversely, situations not covered are not the
exclusive province of the Article.” (Zengen, supra, 41 Cal.4th at p. 249
(citing Sheerbonnet, Ltd. v. American Exp. Bank, Ltd. (S.D.N.Y.1995) 951
F.Supp. 403, 407-408).) 
 
            In
Zengen, the chief financial officer of plaintiff corporation embezzled
four funds transfers from one of plaintiff corporation’s bank accounts to an
account that he controlled. The transfers were not authorized, but because it
seemed “on their face” that plaintiff corporation’s chief executive officer had
signed and authorized the payment orders, the Bank processed the orders, which became
the subject matter of the dispute. (Zengen, supra, 41 Cal.4th
at p. 245.) The Court found that plaintiff corporation’s common law causes of
action against the Bank on the basis that “[t]he Bank should not have accepted
and executed the fraudulent payment orders” are preempted by the California
Uniform Commercial Code. (Id. at p. 254.) The Court stated that the fact
that the Bank made an “improper funds transfer” is “unequivocally addressed” by
Article 4A. (Id. at p. 255.) 
 
Zengen controls
the outcome here. Plaintiff’s common law causes of action directly rely on PNC’s
acceptance of the alleged fraudulent and unauthorized wire transfers. Plaintiff
alleges that “all banks owe a duty of care to maintain the integrity of the
payment order system as it applies to transfers of funds by wire transfer . . .
. Part of this duty includes an obligation to protect other parties to the
payment order system from illegal conduct committed by the bank’s own customers.”
(FAC ¶ 31.) 
 
In Zengen,
plaintiff corporation’s common law causes of action were preempted by Article
4A because they directly relied upon “unauthorized wire fund transfers.” Similarly,
Plaintiff Perry & Alznauer also relies on “unauthorized wire transfers” as
the basis for its claims. (FAC ¶ 27; Zengen, supra, 41 Cal.4th at p. 255.)
Plaintiff argues that Zengen is distinguishable because that case dealt
with claims against the “receiving bank” and the situation here deals with PNC
as the “beneficiary’s bank.” Plaintiff points to nothing in the text of the
statute or the holding in Zengen to indicate that Article 4A displaces
common law suits against banks that transmit fraudulent tranfers, but not suits
against beneficiary banks. The rule is categorical: Zengen states that Article
4A “squarely covers the question who should bear the loss when a bank executes
an unauthorized payment order.” (Id. at p. 254.) Thus, the holding
applies to the subject matter of “when a bank executes an unauthorized payment
order.” (Ibid.) Here, Plaintiff alleges that PNC should have “stop[ped]
the funds from being distributed to the beneficiaries, but negligently or
intentionally transferred funds to their customers.” (FAC ¶ 29.) In alleging
that PNC should have “stop[ped] the funds from being distributed,” Plaintiff contends
that PNC should not have executed the unauthorized transfer, which is
explicitly within the purview of Article 4A. Because Plaintiff alleges that PNC
basically made “an improper funds transfer,” its common law claims “are
displaced by Article 4A and . . . [Plaintiff's] exclusive remedy for that claim
must be found in Article 4A.” (Zengen, supra, 41 Cal.4th at p. 255.) 
 
Other cases have
come to the same conclusion. According to Chino Com. Bank, N.A. v. Peters (2010)190
Cal.App.4th 1163, 1173, “Article 4A of the UCC governs funds transfers, which
include wire transfers.” In Attisha Enterprises, Inc. v. Cap. One, N.A.
(2020) 505 F. Supp. 3d 1051, 1057 (S.D. Cal. 2020), the court found that
plaintiff’s common law negligence claim based on the beneficiary bank’s
acceptance of a fraudulent wire transfer and the subsequent release of the
funds were preempted by the California Uniform Commercial Code. Like in Attisha,
where the court preempted a common law negligence claim against the beneficiary
bank for accepting and processing an unauthorized wire transfer, here too
Plaintiff pursues common law claims against PNC, the beneficiary bank, for
processing an unauthorized and fraudulent wire transfer. As stated above,
because Plaintiff’s common law causes of action depend on whether PNC
“processed an unauthorized payment order,” Plaintiff’s common law claims fails
as they are displaced by the California Uniform Commercial Code.  (Zengen, supra, 41 Cal.4th at p. 255.)
In Chen v. JP Morgan Chase Bank (C.D. Cal 2024) No.
2:23-CV-10874-SPG-AS, 2024 WL 4004999, at p. *7, the court found that
plaintiff’s common law tort claims were preempted by Article 4A because the
plaintiffs’ “allegations that defendants should have, but failed, to stop the
allegedly fraudulent transactions from occurring is the gravamen of plaintiff’s
. . . common law claims.” Like Chen, Plaintiff here also alleges that PNC
should have “stop[ped] the funds from being distributed to the beneficiaries.”
(FAC ¶ 29.) 
 
The situation here
is unlike Venture Gen. Agency, LLC v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (N.D. Cal. 2019)
No. 19-CV-02778-TSH, 2019 WL 3503109, at *3. There, the court held that
plaintiff’s negligence claim was not preempted by the UCC because the
negligence claim was “not based solely on the wire transfers but also on [the
Bank’s] subsequent actions.” (Id. at 4.) There, the plaintiffs sought
relief not only on the Bank’s processing of the wire transfers, but also on the
Bank’s acts after processing them. (Id.) However, Plaintiff’s common law
causes of action here are not based on PNC’s subsequent conduct but are solely
based on the acceptance of the unauthorized transfers and the release of the
funds from those transfers. (Compl., ¶ 30.) Here, the Plaintiff alleges that PNC
“had time to stop the funds from being distributed to the beneficiaries, but
negligently or intentionally transferred funds to their customers (the named
individual PNCs),” and “permitted them to close the accounts and withdraw the
funds obtained fraudulently.” (Compl., ¶¶ 29-30.) There are no allegations
within Plaintiff’s common law claims against PNC apart from its actions in
connection with the fraudulent transfer. 
 
Based on the
foregoing, Plaintiff’s causes of action for negligence and common counts
against PNC fail because they are displaced by the California Uniform
Commercial Code.   PNC’s demurrer is
sustained.
 
Conclusion 
 
            PNC Bank’s demurrer is sustained as to
the second and third causes of action. The Court is dubious that Plaintiff can
demonstrate that there is a reasonable possibility that it can amend to state
common law causes of action against PNC. 
The Court will entertain argument on this issue.                   .    .    .    .     .Judge Bruce IwasakiDepartment 58

