  Case Number:  22PSCV00561    Hearing Date:   October 16, 2024    Dept:  G Plaintiff Baxter, Bailey, & Associates, Inc.’s Motion
for Relief and Vacate the Dismissal
Respondent: Defendant Aldi
Foods Inc.
TENTATIVE RULING
Plaintiff Baxter, Bailey, & Associates, Inc.’s
Motion for Relief and Vacate the Dismissal is DENIED.
BACKGROUND
This
is a collections action. In January 2022, a group of entities that assigned
their claims to Plaintiff Baxter, Bailey, & Associates, Inc. (Baxter
Bailey) provided transportation services to Defendants SB CFS, Inc. (SB CFS);
Drum Workshop, Inc. (Drum); Kelway Transportation L.L.C. (Kelway); Aldi Foods
Inc. (Aldi); Quik Pick Express LLC (Quik Pick); Woods Distribution Solutions
LLC (Woods); and Priority Express. Subsequently, Baxter Bailey alleges
Defendants failed to make the required payments for the services rendered.
On June
10, 2022, Baxter Bailey filed a complaint against Defendants and Does 1-100,
alleging the following causes of action: (1) breach of contract, (2) open book,
(3) account stated, (4) quantum meruit, and (5) unjust enrichment.
On
January 6, 2023, Baxter Bailey dismissed Aldi and Woods from the present
action. On January 26, 2023, Baxter Bailey unsuccessfully attempted to amend
the previously entered dismissal.
On
April 13, 2023, Baxter Bailey dismissed Quik Pick and Priority Express from the
present action.
On
September 17, 2024, Baxter Bailey filed the present motion as an ex parte
application. On September 19, 2024, the court denied the ex parte application
and set the present motion for a noticed hearing on October 16, 2024. A case
management conference/status conference re: ADR is also set for the same day.
ANALYSIS
Baxter
Bailey seeks to amend Baxter Bailey’s previous dismissal of Aldi and Woods. For
the following reasons, the court DENIES their motion.
Legal
Standard
Whenever
an application for relief from dismissal is made no more than six months after
entry of the judgment of dismissal, is in proper form, and is accompanied by
the moving party’s sworn affidavit attesting to his or her mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect, the court may vacate any
dismissal entered against the moving party unless the court finds that the dismissal
was not in fact caused by the moving party’s mistake, inadvertence, surprise,
or excusable neglect. (Code Civ. Proc., §473, subd. (b).) The court shall grant
relief if the moving party’s counsel provides a “sworn affidavit attesting to his or her mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or neglect.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b).) “The
court shall, whenever relief is granted based on an attorney's affidavit of
fault, direct the attorney to pay reasonable compensatory legal fees and costs
to opposing counsel or parties.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b).) “The six-month time limit for granting statutory relief is
jurisdictional and the court may not consider a motion for relief made after
that period has elapsed.” (Manson, Iver & York v. Black (2009) 176
Cal.App.4th 36, 42.)
Discussion
In this case,
Baxter Bailey seeks to amend a dismissal entered on January 6, 2024. But the
court is without jurisdiction to consider their request as it was not filed
within six months of January 6, 2024. Accordingly, the court DENIES Baxter
Bailey’s motion.
CONCLUSION
Based
on the foregoing, Baxter Bailey’s motion to vacate the dismissal entered
January 6, 2024, is DENIED.