 Case Number:  22STCV40921    Hearing Date:   April 29, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving and joinder papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
December 29, 2022, Plaintiff Elias Acevedo Holguin (“Plaintiff”) filed this
action against Defendants Bryan James Hammer (“Hammer”), Super T Transport,
Inc. (“Super T”), 99 Cents Only Stores, LLC (“99 Cents Only”), PP Tango CA LLC,
Link Logistics Real Estate LLC, Allied Universal Security Services Universal
Protection Service LPP, Realty Associates Fund X, LP, Washington Food Center
Association, and Does 1- 100 for battery and negligence.
 On
July 11, 2023, 99 Cents Only filed an answer and a cross-complaint against
Cross- Defendants Hammer, Super T, and Roes 1-10 for total equitable indemnity,
partial equitable indemnity, contribution, and declaratory relief. 
On
August 15, 2023, the clerk entered Super T’s default on the complaint. On
September 1, 2023, the Court set aside the default based on the stipulation of
Plaintiff and Super T. On September 19, 2023, Super T filed an answer to
Plaintiff's complaint. 
On
October 16, 2023, Hammer filed an answer to Plaintiff's complaint. 
On
March 28, 2024, 99 Cents Only filed a motion to continue
trial to be heard on April 29, 2024. On April 19, 2024, Super T filed a
joinder.  Plaintiff has not filed an
opposition. 
On
April 12, 2024, 99 Cents Only filed a notice of stay of proceedings
(bankruptcy). 
Trial
is currently scheduled for June 27, 2024. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
99 Cents
Only asks the Court to continue the trial. 
Super
T joins the request. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332 provides: 
“(a) Trial dates are firm 
“To ensure the prompt disposition of civil cases, the
dates assigned for a trial are firm. All parties and their counsel must regard
the date set for trial as certain. 
“(b) Motion or application 
“A party seeking a continuance of the date set for
trial, whether contested or uncontested or stipulated to by the parties, must
make the request for a continuance by a noticed motion or an ex parte
application under the rules in chapter 4 of this division, with supporting
declarations. The party must make the motion or application as soon as
reasonably practical once the necessity for the continuance is discovered. 
“(c) Grounds for continuance 
“Although continuances of trials are disfavored, each
request for a continuance must be considered on its own merits. The court may
grant a continuance only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring the
continuance. Circumstances that may indicate good cause include: 
“(1)  The
unavailability of an essential lay or expert witness because of death, illness,
or other excusable circumstances; 
“(2)  The
unavailability of a party because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances; 
“(3)  The
unavailability of trial counsel because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances; 
“(4)  The
substitution of trial counsel, but only where there is an affirmative showing
that the substitution is required in the interests of justice; 
“(5)  The
addition of a new party if: 
“(A)  The new
party has not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for
trial; or 
“(B)  The other
parties have not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare
for trial in regard to the new party's involvement in the case; 
“(6)  A party's
excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material
evidence despite diligent efforts; or 
“(7)  A
significant, unanticipated change in the status of the case as a result of
which the case is not ready for trial. 
“(d) Other factors to be considered 
“In ruling on a motion or application for continuance,
the court must consider all the facts and circumstances that are relevant to
the determination. These may include: 
“(1)  The
proximity of the trial date; 
“(2)  Whether
there was any previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to
any party; 
“(3)  The length
of the continuance requested; 
“(4)  The
availability of alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the
motion or application for a continuance; 
“(5)  The
prejudice that parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance; 
“(6)  If the
case is entitled to a preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status
and whether the need for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay; 
“(7)  The
court's calendar and the impact of granting a continuance on other pending
trials; 
“(8)  Whether
trial counsel is engaged in another trial; 
“(9)  Whether
all parties have stipulated to a continuance; 
“(10)  Whether
the interests of justice are best served by a continuance, by the trial of the
matter, or by imposing conditions on the continuance; and 
“(11)  Any other
fact or circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the motion or
application.” 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1332.) 
DISCUSSION 
99
Cents Only asks the Court to continue the trial to allow its motion for summary
judgment to be heard.  99 Cents Only observes
that the Court may not refuse to hear a timely motion for summary
judgment.  (See Sentry Ins. Co. v.
Superior Court (1989) 207 Cal.App.3d 526, 529 [“A trial court may not
refuse to hear a summary judgment motion filed within the time limits of [Code
of Civil Procedure] section 437c”].) 
Here,
however, 99 Cents Only has not filed a summary judgment motion but has only
reserved a hearing for a motion.  The
deadline to file a timely motion for summary judgment has already passed. 
The
Court denies the motion. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court DENIES Defendant 99 Cents Only Stores, LLC’s motion to continue the trial. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.