 Case Number:  23STCV28406    Hearing Date:   April 29, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as
follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
November 20, 2023, Plaintiff Luis Soto Cabral (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendants TLC Cakes dba Maria’s Bakery (“TLC”), John Louie (“John
Louie”), Paul Louie (“Paul Louie”), and Does 1-50 for general negligence and
premises liability. 
On
December 27, 2023, TLC filed an answer and a cross-complaint against
Cross-Defendants Roes 1-50 for indemnification, apportionment of fault,
declaratory relief and express indemnity. 
On
January 16, 2024, John Louie and Paul Louie filed an answer and a cross-complaint
against Cross-Defendants TLC and Does 1-50 for indemnification, apportionment
of fault, declaratory relief, and express indemnification. On February 8, 2024,
TLC filed an answer to the cross-complaint. 
On
February 22, 2024, John Louie filed a motion for a protective order to be heard
on April 29, 2024. On April 16, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition and request
for sanctions. On April 17, 2024, John Louie filed a reply. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for May 19, 2025. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
John
Louie asks the Court to issue a protective order preventing any party from
deposing him. 
Plaintiff
asks the Court to deny the motion and impose sanctions on John Louie and his
counsel. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.420 provides in
part: 
“(a) Before, during, or after a deposition, any party,
any deponent, or any other affected natural person or organization may promptly
move for a protective order. The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and
confer declaration under Section 2016.040. 
“(b) The court, for good cause shown, may make any
order that justice requires to protect any party,
deponent, or other natural person or organization from unwarranted annoyance,
embarrassment, or oppression, or undue burden and expense. This protective
order may include, but is not limited to, one or more of the following
directions: 
“(1) That the deposition not be taken at all. 
* * * 
“(g) If the motion for a protective order is denied in
whole or in part, the court may order that the deponent provide or permit the
discovery against which protection was sought on those terms and conditions
that are just. 
“(h) The court shall impose a monetary sanction under
Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or
attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion for a protective order,
unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust. . . .” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.420,
subds. (a), (b)(1), (g), (h).) 
DISCUSSION 
In
his complaint, Plaintiff alleges that he slipped and fell on Defendants’
property because the floor was wet and slippery.  
John
Louie asks the Court for a protective order preventing any party from taking
his deposition because he cannot hear or speak, he is “intellectually challenged,”
and he “has no personal knowledge of any information which is relevant, [or]
likely to lead to admissible evidence . . . .” 
(Motion p. 1.)  He will not
present any evidence in this case.  He is
identified as a defendant only because he has an ownership interest in the
property.  As a result, he argues, taking
his deposition would constitute unwarranted annoyance and/or oppression. 
To
support the motion, John Louie has provided the declaration of his brother,
Paul Louie, who states: 
“My brother John was born deaf and dumb on December
29, 1956, which makes him 67-years- old. I was born on December 5, 1961, which
makes me 62-years-old. During John’s life he has been able to communicate
simple concepts through sign language. He has been diagnosed with intellectual
disabilities which prevent him from taking care of himself. He lives with me
and I am required to provide his shelter, food, clothing, medical care and all
other necessities. Due to all these disabilities he has been declared disabled
from employment and receives Federal SSDI payments.”  (Paul Louie dec. ¶ 5.) 
          Paul Louie also states that John Louie “has never had any
role in the management or maintenance of the subject property. Since about 1997
I have managed this property. To my knowledge, John has not been to the subject
property in at least 20 years. He has no personal knowledge about the ownership,
maintenance or management of those premises at any time.” (Paul Louie dec. ¶ 4.)  
          Paul Louie does not believe that John Louie is “intellectually
capable of understanding the difference between truth and a lie.” (Paul Louie
dec. ¶ 6.)  Paul Louie is also concerned
that a deposition will harm John Louie by causing him to become confused and
upset. (Paul Louie dec. ¶ 7.) 
          Plaintiff opposes the motion, arguing Defendants have not
provided the declaration of a medical professional to support their assertions
about John Louie’s mental capacity and abilities.  In addition, Plaintiff promises to provide a
sign language interpreter at the deposition as an accommodation for John Louie’s
hearing disability and to allow him to take as many breaks as he needs. 
          In his reply, John Louis asserts that a sign language interpreter
will not overcome the difficulties created by his mental condition, which is “the
only reason for this motion . . . .” 
(Reply p. 2.) 
          The Court finds that John Louie has not established good
cause for a protective order preventing his deposition.  John Louie is acting on his own behalf as
both a defendant and a cross-complainant in this action.  No guardian ad litem has been appointed to
represent John Louie’s interests.  Before
the Court will relieve John Louie of his obligation to submit to a deposition,
the Court requires medical evidence supporting his argument that, due to his
mental or emotional condition, a deposition would constitute “unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, or
oppression, or undue burden and expense.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2025.420, subd. (b).) 
          The Court denies Plaintiff’s request for sanctions because
the circumstances make imposition of sanctions unjust. 
CONCLUSION 
The Court
DENIES without prejudice Defendant John Louie’s motion for a protective order. 
The
Court DENIES Plaintiff Luis Soto Cabral’s
request for sanctions. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.