  Case Number:  19STCV38110    Hearing Date:   April 29, 2024    Dept:  28 Having  considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as  follows.  BACKGROUND  On  October 22, 2019, Plaintiff Chellie Schou  (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants City of Los Angeles  (“Defendant”) and Does 1-20 for negligence and dangerous premises.  On  May 7, 2020, Defendant filed an answer.  On  February 7, 2024, Defendant filed a motion to compel Plaintiff’s mental  examination and to reopen discovery to allow Defendant to conduct the mental examination, to be  heard on April 26, 2024. The Court continued the hearing to April  29, 2024. On March 29, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition.  On April 17, 2024, Defendant filed an amended  notice of motion.  On April 22, 2024,  Defendant filed a reply.  Trial  is currently scheduled for May 24, 2024.  PARTIES’ REQUESTS  Defendant  asks the Court to compel Plaintiff’s mental examination and reopen discovery to  allow Defendant to conduct the examination.  Plaintiff  asks the Court to deny the motion and impose sanctions on Defendant.  LEGAL STANDARD  A.   Motion to compel mental examination            Code of Civil Procedure section  2032.310 provides:  “(a) If any party desires to obtain discovery . . . by  a mental examination, the party shall obtain leave of court.  “(b) A motion for an examination under subdivision (a)  shall specify the time, place, manner, conditions, scope, and nature of the  examination, as well as the identity and the specialty, if any, of the person  or persons who will perform the examination. The motion shall be accompanied by  a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.  “(c) Notice of the motion shall be served on the  person to be examined and on all parties who have appeared in the action.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §  2032.310.)  Code  of Civil Procedure section 2032.320 provides in part:  “(a) The court shall grant a motion for a physical or  mental examination under Section 2032.310 only for good cause shown.  * * *   “(d) An order granting a physical or mental  examination shall specify the person or persons who may perform the  examination, as well as the time, place, manner, diagnostic tests and  procedures, conditions, scope, and nature of the examination.  “(e) If the place of the examination is more than 75  miles from the residence of the person to be examined, an order to submit to it  shall be entered only if both of the following conditions are satisfied:  “(1) The court determines that there is good cause for  the travel involved.  “(2) The order is conditioned on the advancement by  the moving party of the reasonable expenses and costs to the examinee for  travel to the place of examination.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.320,  subds. (a), (d), (e).)  B.   Motion to reopen discovery  Code  of Civil Procedure section 2024.020  provides:  “(a) Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, any  party shall be entitled as a matter of right to complete discovery proceedings  on or before the 30th day, and to have motions concerning discovery heard on or  before the 15th day, before the date initially set for the trial of the action.  “(b) Except as provided in Section 2024.050, a  continuance or postponement of the trial date does not operate to reopen  discovery proceedings.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §  2024.020.)  Code  of Civil Procedure section 2024.050 provides:  “(a) On motion of any party, the court may grant leave  to complete discovery proceedings, or to have a motion concerning discovery  heard, closer to the initial trial date, or to reopen discovery after a new  trial date has been set. This motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer  declaration under Section 2016.040.  “(b) In exercising its discretion to grant or deny  this motion, the court shall take into consideration any matter relevant to the  leave requested, including, but not limited to, the following:  “(1) The necessity and the reasons for the discovery.  “(2) The diligence or lack of diligence of the party  seeking the discovery or the hearing of a discovery motion, and the reasons  that the discovery was not completed or that the discovery motion was not heard  earlier.  “(3) Any likelihood that permitting the discovery or  hearing the discovery motion will prevent the case from going to trial on the  date set, or otherwise interfere with the trial calendar, or result in  prejudice to any other party.  “(4) The length of time that has elapsed between any  date previously set, and the date presently set, for the trial of the action.  “(c) The court shall impose a monetary sanction under  Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or  attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to extend or to reopen  discovery, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with  substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of  the sanction unjust.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §  2024.050.)  Code  of Civil Procedure section 2016.040 provides:  “A meet and confer declaration in support of a motion  shall state facts showing a reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal  resolution of each issue presented by the motion.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2016.040.)  DISCUSSION  Defendant  asserts that Plaintiff’s mental examination is “essential to the proper trial  of this case” because Plaintiff has placed her mental condition at issue.  (Motion p. 2.)  As Defendant points out, in her complaint Plaintiff  alleged that she suffered mental and emotional distress as a result of the  incident that gave rise to her lawsuit.   (See Motion p. 4 [“Plaintiff’s mental condition has been placed in  controversy by her Complaint”].)  Nonetheless,  Defendant evidently made no effort to schedule Plaintiff’s mental examination  from May 7, 2020 (when Defendant filed its answer) to late November 2023, when the  attorney assigned to the case left the City Attorney’s office and the City Attorney’s  Office assigned a new attorney to the case.  The newly assigned attorney obtained the City’s  approval to retain a mental health expert to conduct the examination.  Defendant then filed this motion.  Defendant  has not explained why it did not previously request leave to conduct Plaintiff’s  mental examination.  The Court finds that  Defendant’s failure to demonstrate diligence precludes a finding of good cause  under Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.320, subdivision (a).  Therefore, the Court denies the motion. The Court denies Plaintiff's request for sanctions. CONCLUSION  The  Court DENIES Defendant City of Los Angeles’s motion to compel Plaintiff’s  mental examination and to reopen discovery.  The  Court DENIES Plaintiff Chellie  Schou’s request for sanctions.  Moving  party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.  Moving  party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court  within five days.