 Case Number:  22STCV37886    Hearing Date:   April 29, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as
follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
December 5, 2022, Plaintiffs Gayane Vardanyan (“Vardanyan”) and Ani Gasparyan
(“Gasparyan”) filed this action against Defendants
Shango Meru Kani (“Kani”), Cecil O. Coleman (“Coleman”), and Does 1-10 for
general negligence, motor vehicle tort, and negligent entrustment. 
On
September 19, 2023, Kani and Coleman filed an answer. 
On
February 7, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a motion to quash a deposition subpoena for
production of business records issued by Kani, to be heard on April 29, 2024.
On April 15, 2024, Kani filed an opposition. On April 22, 2024, Plaintiffs
filed a reply. 
On
March 20, 2024, the Court dismissed Coleman without prejudice at Plaintiffs’
request. 
Trial
is currently set for June 3, 2024. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Plaintiffs
ask the Court to quash Kani’s subpoena for records served on Interinsurance
Exchange of the Automobile Club (“Exchange”). 
Kani
asks the Court to deny the motion. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 1987.1 provides: 
"(a) If a subpoena requires the attendance of a
witness or the production of books, documents, electronically stored
information, or other things before a court, or at the trial of an issue
therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably
made by any person described in subdivision (b), or upon the court’s own motion
after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make an order
quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon
those terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including protective
orders. In addition, the court may make any other order as may be appropriate
to protect the person from unreasonable or oppressive demands, including
unreasonable violations of the right of privacy of the person. 
"(b) The following persons may make a motion
pursuant to subdivision (a): (1) A party. (2) A witness. (3) A consumer
described in Section 1985.3. (4) An employee described in Section 1985.6. (5) A
person whose personally identifying information, as defined in subdivision (b)
of Section 1798.79.8 of the Civil Code, is sought in connection with an
underlying action involving that person’s exercise of free speech rights." 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1.) 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 1985.3, subdivision (g), provides in part: 
“(g)  Any
consumer whose personal records are sought by a subpoena duces tecum and who is
a party to the civil action in which this subpoena duces tecum is served may,
prior to the date for production, bring a motion under Section 1987.1 to quash
or modify the subpoena duces tecum. Notice of the bringing of that motion shall
be given to the witness and deposition officer at least five days prior to
production. The failure to provide notice to the deposition officer shall not
invalidate the motion to quash or modify the subpoena duces tecum but may be
raised by the deposition officer as an affirmative defense in any action for
liability for improper release of records. 
* * *
 “No witness or deposition officer shall be required to
produce personal records after receipt of notice that the motion has been
brought by a consumer . . . except upon order of the court in which the action
is pending or by agreement of the parties, witnesses, and consumers affected. .
. .” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1985.3,
subd. (g).) 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 1987.2, subdivision (a), provides: 
“(a) Except as specified in subdivision (c), in making
an order pursuant to motion made under subdivision (c) of Section 1987 or under
Section 1987.1, the court may in its discretion award the amount of the
reasonable expenses incurred in making or opposing the motion, including
reasonable attorney’s fees, if the court finds the motion was made or opposed
in bad faith or without substantial justification or that one or more of the
requirements of the subpoena was oppressive.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.2,
subd. (a).) 
When
a party seeks discovery which impacts a person’s constitutional right to
privacy, limited protections come into play. (Shaffer v. Superior Court (1995)
33 Cal.App.4th 993, 999.) The protections cover a person’s personal and
financial matters. (Ibid.) The court must balance competing rights — the
litigant’s right to discover relevant facts and the individual’s right to
maintain reasonable privacy — in determining whether the information is
discoverable. (Ibid.) 
For
discovery purposes, information is relevant if it might reasonably assist a
party in evaluating the case, preparing for trial, or facilitating settlement.
(Gonzalez v. Superior Court (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1539, 1546.) 
DISCUSSION 
A.   The complaint 
The
complaint alleges that on February 11, 2022, at the intersection of Fountain
Avenue and Hyperion Avenue in Los Angeles, Kani negligently drove Coleman’s
vehicle, causing an collision with the vehicle Vardanyan was driving, in which
Gasparyan was a passenger. 
B.   The subpoena for business records 
On January
10, 2024, Kani issued a deposition subpoena to Exchange requesting: 
“Any
and all insurance records, and all traffic collision reports, vehicle estimates,
repair invoices, photographs, recorded statements, medical records, related to
a motor vehicle accident of 10/22/2021, Claim No.: 014929916, involving Ani
Gasparyan. DOB: 01/02/1990, SSN: UNKNOWN.” 
C.   Legal issues 
Plaintiffs
argue the subpoena (1) is overbroad, intrusive, and irrelevant, (2) violates the
privacy rights of Plaintiff and others, (3) violates the attorney client privilege
and attorney work product protection, and (4) violates the Insurance Information and Privacy Protection Act (Ins.
Code, § 791.13). 
1.    Attorney-client privilege 
Plaintiffs
assert the subpoena violates the attorney-client privilege because information
in an insurance company’s claims file is subject to the privilege.  Plaintiffs rely on the rule that
“communications made by an insured to his ‘“liability insurance company,
concerning an event which may be made the basis of a claim against him covered
by the policy, is a privileged communication, as being between attorney and
client, if the policy requires the company to defend him through its attorney,
and the communication is intended for the information or assistance of the
attorney in so defending him.” ’ ”  (Scripps
Health v. Superior Court (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 529, 535 (Scripps),
quoting Travelers Ins. Companies v. Superior Court (1983) 143 Cal.App.3d
436, 448-449.) 
“[T]he
party claiming the attorney-client privilege as a bar to disclosure has the
burden of showing that the communication sought to be suppressed falls within
the parameters of the privilege.” (Scripps, supra, 109 Cal.App.4th
at p. 533; accord, Soltani-Rastegar v. Superior Court (1989) 208
Cal.App.3d 424, 426 (Soltani-Rastegar).)   
Plaintiffs
have not carried this burden.  As Defendant
observes, Exchange was not Gasparyan’s insurance company.  Instead, Exchange insured the other driver in
the October 22, 2021 accident.  Therefore,
the rule stated in Scripps does not apply here. 
Even
if the Scripps rule applied, Plaintiffs have not shown that the
subpoenaed materials include any communications by Gasparyan to Exchange or
that any such communications were intended for the information or assistance of
an attorney whom Exchange would provide to defend Gasparyan from a potential
claim against her.  (Cf. Scripps, supra,
109 Cal.App.4th at p. 535 [“Here, undisputed evidence revealed that Scripps’s
corporate in-house counsel declared that the occurrence reports are
confidential records prepared by Scripps employees under its risk management
plan . . . and pursuant to the directive of its legal department”]; Soltani-Rastegar,
supra, 208 Cal.App.3d at p. 426 [“In opposing the discovery request,
petitioners submitted declarations explaining that their statements were made
in confidence to CSAA agents ‘for the sole purpose of defending’ them against
claims brought by those involved in the accident”].) 
2.    Work product protection 
Plaintiffs
also argue the subpoena violates the attorney work product doctrine, but they
provide no substantive discussion or authority on this point and the Court
considers the argument waived. 
3.    Privacy and overbreadth 
“
‘[W]hile the filing of a lawsuit may implicitly bring about a partial waiver of
one’s constitutional right of associational privacy, the scope of such “waiver”
must be narrowly rather than expansively construed, so that plaintiffs will not
be unduly deterred from instituting lawsuits by the fear of exposure of their
private associational affiliations and activities.’  [Citation.] 
Therefore, . . . an implicit waiver of a party’s constitutional rights
encompasses only discovery directly relevant to the plaintiff’s claim and
essential to the fair resolution of the lawsuit.” (Vinson v. Superior Court
(1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 842; see ibid. [“On occasion [a party's] privacy
interests may have to give way to [the] opponent's right to a fair trial.  Thus courts must balance the right of civil
litigants to discover relevant facts against the privacy interests of persons
subject to discovery”].) 
“Even
when discovery of private information is found directly relevant to the issues
of ongoing litigation, it will not be automatically allowed; there must then be
a careful balancing of the compelling public need for discovery against the
fundamental right of privacy. [Citation.] The scope of any disclosure must be
narrowly circumscribed, drawn with narrow specificity, and must proceed by the
least intrusive manner. [Citation.]”  (Davis
v. Superior Court (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1008, 1014.) 
Plaintiffs argue the subpoena seeks private information and documents which are not
related to this case.  Specifically,
Plaintiffs assert that the request for "all . . . medical records” may lead to the
production of medical records of injuries and/or treatment of body parts not
related to this case, violating Gasparyan’s and third parties' privacy rights.  
At her February 19, 2024 deposition, Gasparyan testified that she had experienced neck and back pain as a result of the previous (October 2021) accident and the same car was
involved in both accidents.  Defendant is
entitled to information about Gasparyan’s injuries and vehicle damage incurred
in the October 2021 accident because it is relevant to a possible apportionment
of Gasparyan’s damages between that accident and the accident at issue in this case. 
The
Court has weighed the need for this discovery against Gasparyan’s privacy
rights and concludes that the subpoena is not overbroad and does not violate Gasparyan’s
privacy rights.  However, the Court modifies
the subpoena to exclude records of the Exchange policyholder’s injuries, treatment, and property damage. 
4.    Insurance Code 
Plaintiffs
assert: “Insurance company files regarding an insured or a claimant are
protected by the Insurance Information and Privacy Protection Act.  [Citation.] Moreover, under California
Insurance Code section 791.13, disclosure of any personal or privileged
information gathered or received in connection with an insurance transaction is
restricted.”  Plaintiffs do not elaborate
on this argument. 
Insurance
Code section 791.13 provides: 
“An insurance institution, agent, or insurance-support
organization shall not disclose any personal or privileged information about an
individual collected or received in connection with an insurance transaction
unless the disclosure is: 
* * *  
  “(g) Otherwise permitted or required by law. 
“(h) In response to a facially valid administrative or
judicial order, including a search warrant or subpoena.” 
(Ins. Code, § 791.13, subds.
(g), (h).)  Insurance Code section 791.13
does not support Plaintiffs’ request to quash the subpoena. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court DENIES the motion of Plaintiffs Gayane Vardanyan and Ani Gasparyan to
quash the subpoena served by Defendant Shango Meru Kani
on Interinsurance Exchange of the Automobile Club. 
The
Court MODIFIES the subpoena served by Defendant Shango Meru Kani to exclude
records of the Interinsurance Exchange of the Automobile Club policyholder’s
injuries, treatment, and property damage. 
Moving
parties are ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
parties are ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.