 Case Number:  22STCV22258    Hearing Date:   April 29, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as
follows. 
BACKGROUND 
A.   The complaint, amendments, and answers 
On
July 11, 2022, Plaintiff Ebony Tay (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against
Defendants Neiman Marcus Group LLC, Doe 1, and Does 2-100 for premises
liability, negligence, and negligent hiring, supervision, and retention. 
On
August 8, 2022, Defendant The Neiman Marcus Group, Inc. (erroneously sued as
Neiman Marcus Group LLC) filed an answer. 
On
December 29, 2023, Plaintiff amended the complaint to include Defendants The
Neiman-Marcus Group, Inc. as Doe 2 and The Neiman Marcus Group, LLC as Doe 3. 
On
January 25, 2024, Defendant The Neiman Marcus Group LLC f/k/a The Neiman Marcus
Group, Inc., improperly named as The Neiman Marcus Group, Inc. (Doe 2) and
Defendant The Neiman Marcus Group LLC f/k/a The Neiman Marcus Group, Inc.,
improperly named as The Neiman Marcus Group, LLC (Doe 3) filed answers. 
On
February 22, 2024, Plaintiff amended the complaint to include Defendant Lidija
Lilija as Doe 1. 
B.       Motions to compel Plaintiff’s second independent
medical examination, for protective order, and for sanctions 
On
December 18, 2023, Defendant Neiman Marcus Group, LLC (“Defendant”) filed a
motion to compel Plaintiff to present herself for a second independent medical
examination and for sanctions, to be heard on March 20, 2024.  The Court continued the hearing to April 29,
2024.  On April 16, 2024, Plaintiff filed
an opposition.  On April 22, 2024,
Defendant filed a reply. 
On
March 1, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion for a protective order and for
sanctions, to be heard on March 28, 2024. 
The Court continued the hearing to April 29, 2024.  On March 12, 2024, Defendant filed an
opposition.  On April 22, 2024, Plaintiff
filed a reply. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for July 9, 2024. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Defendant
asks the Court to compel Plaintiff’s second independent medical examination and
to impose sanctions.  Plaintiff asks the
Court to deny the motion. 
Plaintiff
asks the Court to issue a protective order and grant sanctions.  Defendant asks the Court to deny the motion and impose sanctions on Plaintiff. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
A.   Motion to compel second independent physical
examination 
         Code of Civil Procedure section
2032.220 provides: 
“(a) In any case in which a plaintiff is seeking
recovery for personal injuries, any defendant may demand one physical
examination of the plaintiff, if both of the following conditions are
satisfied: 
“(1) The examination does not include any diagnostic
test or procedure that is painful, protracted, or intrusive. 
“(2) The examination is conducted at a location within
75 miles of the residence of the examinee. 
“(b) A defendant may make a demand under this article
without leave of court after that defendant has been served or has appeared in
the action, whichever occurs first. 
“(c) A demand under subdivision (a) shall specify the
time, place, manner, conditions, scope, and nature of the examination, as well
as the identity and the specialty, if any, of the physician who will perform
the examination. 
“(d) A physical examination demanded under subdivision
(a) shall be scheduled for a date that is at least 30 days after service of the
demand. On motion of the party demanding the examination, the court may shorten
this time. 
“(e) The defendant shall serve a copy of the demand
under subdivision (a) on the plaintiff and on all other parties who have
appeared in the action.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., §
2032.220.)  
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2032.310 provides: 
“(a) If any party desires to obtain discovery by a
physical examination other than that described in Article 2 (commencing with
Section 2032.210) . . . , the party shall obtain leave of court. 
“(b) A motion for an examination under subdivision (a)
shall specify the time, place, manner, conditions, scope, and nature of the
examination, as well as the identity and the specialty, if any, of the person
or persons who will perform the examination. The motion shall be accompanied by
a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040. 
“(c) Notice of the motion shall be served on the
person to be examined and on all parties who have appeared in the action.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., §
2032.310.) 
          Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.320 provides in part: 
“(a) The court shall grant a motion for a physical . .
. examination under Section 2032.310 only for good cause shown. 
* * *
  “(d) An order granting a physical . . . examination
shall specify the person or persons who may perform the examination, as well as
the time, place, manner, diagnostic tests and procedures, conditions, scope,
and nature of the examination.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.320,
subds. (a), (d).) 
B.   Motion for protective order 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2019.030 provides:  
“(a) The court shall restrict the frequency or extent
of use of a discovery method provided in Section 2019.010 if it determines
either of the following: 
“(1) The discovery sought is unreasonably cumulative
or duplicative, or is obtainable from some other source that is more
convenient, less burdensome, or less expensive. 
“(2) The selected method of discovery is unduly
burdensome or expensive, taking into account the needs of the case, the amount
in controversy, and the importance of the issues at stake in the litigation. 
“(b) The court may make these determinations pursuant
to a motion for a protective order by a party or other affected person. This
motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040. 
“(c) The court shall impose a monetary sanction under
Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or
attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion for a protective order,
unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2019.030.) 
DISCUSSION 
A.   Defendant’s motion for a second independent medical
examination 
On
November 2, 2023, Plaintiff appeared for an independent medical examination
with Defendant’s expert Joshua Prager, M.D., M.S.  Dr. Prager is a board-certified physician and
specialist in severe intractable pain syndromes.  (Prager dec. ¶ 2.) 
According
to Dr. Prager, his examination of Plaintiff was extremely challenging and difficult
to complete due to Plaintiff’s strong belief that her pain limits her
functional abilities and her unwillingness to fully cooperate with the
examination despite Dr. Prager’s attempts to be gentle due to Plaintiff’s
alleged pain.  As a result, the evaluation
was compromised and limited. (Prager dec.
¶ 5.)  
As a
result of the compromised evaluation, Dr. Prager could not complete circumferential
measurements, touch Plaintiff’s skin to evaluate hyperhidrosis, test for allodynia
or hyperalgesia, or complete an adequate strength evaluation. (Prager dec. ¶ 6.)  Dr. Prager stated that he had never before
encountered a patient who was so “obstructionist.” (Prager
dec. ¶ 7.)  He also believed there was “a very strong psychiatric
component” to Plaintiff’s symptoms.”  (Exh.
D, p. 7.) 
Dr.
Prager observed Plaintiff leave the examination suite without significantly
bearing weight on her cane despite her claim of extreme pain that compromises
her functional ability.  Dr. Prager also believed that Plaintiff demonstrated
more locomotion than she was willing to provide during the physical
examination. (Prager
dec. ¶ 8.) 
Although
Dr. Prager’s examination was severely limited and compromised, he was still
able to render a negative diagnosis with regard to complex regional pain syndrome. (Prager dec. ¶ 9.) 
In
Dr. Prager’s opinion, a second medical examination will enable him to attempt
to complete circumferential measurements, touch Plaintiff’s skin to evaluate
hyperhidrosis, test for allodynia or
hyperalgesia, and complete an adequate strength evaluation, and conduct further
observation of Plaintiff regarding her claims of extreme, function-limiting
pain.  A second medical examination using
the same medical techniques will enable Dr. Prager to attempt to render a more complete
diagnosis and opinion of Plaintiff’s alleged injuries and condition. (Prager
dec. ¶ 10.) 
The
Court has reviewed the transcript of the November 2, 2023 examination by Dr.
Prager.  During the examination, Plaintiff
declined several of Dr. Prager’s requests based on pain that Plaintiff anticipated
she would experience if she complied with the request.  (See transcript pp. 47-63.)  However, the transcript does not support
Defendant’s suggestion that Plaintiff intentionally obstructed the examination.  In addition, despite Dr. Prager’s
observations about Plaintiff’s use of her cane and locomotion on leaving his office
(Prager dec. ¶ 8) and his reference to “psychiatric component” to Plaintiff’s
symptoms (exh. D, p. 7), Defendant has not shown that Plaintiff is fabricating
her symptoms. A physical examination may not “include any diagnostic test
or procedure that is painful, protracted, or intrusive.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.220, subd. (a)(1).)  Plaintiff was not required to submit to a
procedure that she believed would cause her to suffer pain.  Defendant has not shown that Plaintiff was feigning
her belief or that her belief was unreasonable.
Finally,
Defendant has provided no reason to believe that a second examination would
result in a different outcome from the first examination.  Dr. Prager states that he would “attempt” to
carry out the portions of the examination he could not complete on November 2,
2023 (Prager dec. ¶ 10), but he does not opine that the attempt is likely to be
successful. 
Plaintiff,
on the other hand, states that she has continued to experience pain since Dr.
Prager’s November 2, 2023 examination. 
(Tay dec. ¶ 42.)  Plaintiff’s
continued pain suggests that a second examination is likely to yield the same
result as the first one. 
Despite
the limitations of Dr. Prager’s November 2, 2023, examination, Dr. Prager
rendered an opinion that Plaintiff does not suffer from complex regional pain
syndrome.  Dr. Prager’s ability to render
an opinion based on the first examination reduces the need for a second
examination. 
The Court finds that Defendant has not shown good cause to conduct a second physical
examination of Plaintiff.  The Court denies
Defendant’s motion. 
B.   Plaintiff’s motion for a protective order 
Plaintiff’s
motion for a protective order is moot. 
C.   Sanctions 
The
Court denies both parties’ requests for sanctions. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court DENIES Defendant Neiman Marcus Group, LLC’s motion to compel the second
independent medical examination of Plaintiff Ebony Tay. 
The
Court DENIES as moot Plaintiff Ebony Tay’s motion
for a protective order. 
The
Court DENIES the requests for sanctions of Plaintiff Ebony Tay and Defendant
Neiman Marcus Group, LLC. 
Moving
parties are ordered to give notice of this ruling.  Moving
parties are ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.