  Case Number:  23TRCV01147    Hearing Date:   November 27, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
PAUL
  WORKMAN, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV01147




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
CITY
  OF LOS ANGELES, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendant.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          November
27, 2024
 
Moving Parties:                      Defendant The People of the
State of California, by and through the Department of Transportation
(“Caltrans”)
Responding
Party:                  None
Motion
for Leave to File First Amended Cross-Complaint
 
            The Court considered the moving
papers.  No opposition was filed.
RULING
            The motion is GRANTED.  Defendant Caltrans is ordered to file its
amended cross-complaint within ten days.
BACKGROUND
On April
19, 2023, plaintiff Paul Workman filed a complaint against City of Los Angeles,
T.C. Real Estate Ltd., and Coral Realty, Inc. for dangerous condition of public
property and negligence.  Plaintiff
alleges that on November 4, 2022, plaintiff was riding his bicycle through the parking
lot intending to ride onto the city sidewalk to continue his journey.  However, as plaintiff rode from the parking
lot toward the nearest crosswalk by the city sidewalk, the front wheel of his
bicycle reached a drop of approximately eleven inches between surface of the
parking lot and the surface of the city sidewalk.  Said drop was a concealed trap not marked in
any meaningful manner and constituted a dangerous condition since the drop in
elevation between the parking lot and the sidewalk could not be seen by
plaintiff.  As a result, plaintiff
flipped off his bicycle onto the sidewalk and sustained serious injuries.
On June
9, 2023, T.C. Real Estate Ltd. and Coral Realty, Inc. filed a cross-complaint
against City of Los Angeles.
On July
3, 2023, City of Los Angeles filed a cross-complaint against T.C. Real Estate
and Coral Realty.
On
September 12, 2023, plaintiff filed an amendment designating ADR/Preferred
Business Properties as Doe 1.
On
December 13, 2023, the Court granted plaintiff’s motion for relief from Gov.
Code §945.4 as against State of California.
On
January 16, 2024, plaintiff filed amendments designating California Department
of Transportation as Doe 2 and State of California as Doe 3.
On March
30, 2024, defendants and plaintiff entered into a stipulation and the Court
ordered that the order dated December 13, 2023 be vacated, that the hearing on
the motion be rescheduled, and that the motion be re-served on State of
California and California Department of Transportation.
On May
31, 2024, the Court granted plaintiff’s motion for relief from Gov. Code §945.4
and permission to file a late government claim.
On July
12, 2024, T.C. Real Estate, LTD, Coral Realty, Inc., and ADR/Preferred Business
Prop. Filed an amendment to cross-complaint designating The People of the State
of California as Zoe 1.
On July
15, 2024, The People of the State of California (“Caltrans”) filed a
cross-complaint.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
CCP § 473(a)(1) provides, in
relevant part:  “The court may, in
furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to
amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any party,
or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other
respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or
demurrer.  The court may likewise, in its
discretion, after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be
just, an amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may
upon like terms allow an answer to be made after the time limited by this
code.”
 “This discretion should be exercised liberally
in favor of amendments, for judicial policy favors resolution of all disputed
matters in the same lawsuit.”  Kittredge Sports Co. v. Superior Court
(1989) 213 Cal. App. 3d 1045, 1047.
Under CRC Rule 3.1324(a), a motion
to amend a pleading shall (1) include a copy of the proposed amendment or
amended pleading, which must be serially numbered to differentiate it from
previous pleadings or amendments; (2) state what allegations in the previous
pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and where, by page, paragraph and
line number, the deleted allegations are located; and (3) state what
allegations are proposed to be added to the previous pleading, if any, and
where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the additional allegations are
located.
Under CRC Rule 3.1324(b), a
separate declaration must accompany the motion and must specify (1) the effect
of the amendment; (2) why the amendment is necessary and proper; (3) when the
facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and (4) the
reasons why the request for amendment was not made earlier.
Even if a good amendment is
proposed in proper form, a long, unwarranted and unexcused delay in presenting
it may be a good reason for denial.  In
most cases, the factors for timeliness are: 
(1) lack of diligence in discovering the facts or in offering the
amendment after knowledge of them; and (2) the effect of the delay on the
adverse party.  If the party seeking the
amendment has been dilatory, and the delay has prejudiced the opposing party,
the judge has discretion to deny leave to amend.  Hirsa
v. Superior Court (1981) 118 Cal. App. 3d 486, 490.  Prejudice exists where the amendment would
require delaying the trial, resulting in loss of critical evidence, or added
costs of preparation such as an increased burden of discovery.  Magpali
v. Farmers Group, Inc. (1996) 48 Cal. App. 4th 471, 486-488.
DISCUSSION
            Defendant
The People of the
State of California, by and through the Department of Transportation
(“Caltrans”) requests leave to file an
amended cross-complaint.
Defendant
seeks to add allegations as to Caltrans’ compliance with and exemption from the
Government Claims Act to address City of Los Angeles’ concerns.  Defendant asserts that Caltrans counsel met
and conferred with City of Los Angeles counsel as to the applicability of the
Government Claims Act as to Caltrans and whether Caltrans was required to
submit a government claim prior to the filing of its cross-complaint.  
The Court finds that defendant
Caltrans complied with CRC Rule 3.1324.  See
Daniel Choi decl.  Further, “[l]eave to amend is in general
required to be liberally granted.”  Kolani
v. Gluska (1998) 64 Cal. App. 4th 402, 412 (citation omitted).  
            The
motion is thus GRANTED.
 
ORDER
            The
motion is GRANTED.
            Defendant
Caltrans is ordered to file its amended cross-complaint within ten days.
            Moving defendant is ordered to give
notice of ruling.