 Case Number:  24TRCV00362    Hearing Date:   November 27, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
JEFFREY
  KNIGHT, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
24TRCV00362




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
STATE
  OF CALIFORNIA, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          November 27,
2024
 
Moving
Parties:                      Plaintiff Jeffrey Knight
Responding
Party:                  Defendant County of Los Angeles
Motion
to Vacate Dismissal
 
            The Court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.
RULING
The motion is GRANTED.  The dismissal entered on May 1, 2024 as to
County of Los Angeles is VACATED.
BACKGROUND
On January 31, 2024, plaintiff
Jeffrey Knight filed a complaint against State of California, County of Los
Angeles, and City of Los Angeles for (1) premises liability – negligence and
(2) dangerous condition of public property. 
The complaint alleges that on May 28, 2023, defendants owned, possessed,
worked upon, managed, supervised, modified, repaired, operated, maintained, or
controlled a certain sidewalk, pathway, and/or walkway located on Playa Del Rey
Beach Trail, in the city of Playa Del Rey. 
They were negligent by causing and creating the dangerous condition and
allowing it to exist and remain, the unlevel broken section of sidewalk,
pathway, and/or walkway with missing concrete. 
As a result, plaintiff was injured.
On March 27, 2024, plaintiff filed
a request for dismissal as to the first cause of action.
On May 1, 2024, plaintiff filed a
request for dismissal without prejudice as to County of Los Angeles.
On May 3, 2024, City of Los Angeles
filed a cross-complaint against County of Los Angeles.
On October 22, 2024, plaintiff
filed a request for dismissal without prejudice as to City of Los Angeles.
On October 29, 2024, City of Los
Angeles filed a request for dismissal with prejudice as to its cross-complaint
against County of Los Angeles.
LEGAL
AUTHORITY
CCP §473(b) states, in relevant
part:  “The court may, upon any terms as
may be just, relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a . . .
dismissal . . . taken against him or her through his or her mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. 
Application for this relief . . . shall be made within a reasonable
time, in no case exceeding six months, after the . . . dismissal . . . . was
taken. . . .  Notwithstanding any other
requirements of this section, the court shall, whenever an application for
relief is made no more than six months after entry of judgment, is in proper
form, and is accompanied by an attorney's sworn affidavit attesting to his or
her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect, vacate any (1) resulting
default entered by the clerk against his or her client, and which will result
in entry of a default judgment, or (2) resulting default judgment or dismissal
entered against his or her client, unless the court finds that the default or
dismissal was not in fact caused by the attorney's mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or neglect. . . .” 
“[T]he policy of the law is to have
every litigated case tried upon its merits, and it looks with disfavor upon a
party, who, regardless of the merits of the case, attempts to take advantage of
the mistake, surprise, inadvertence, or neglect of his adversary.”  Fasuyi v. Permatex, Inc. (2008) 167
Cal. App. 4th 681, 697 (citations and internal quotations omitted).
DISCUSSION

            Under CCP §473(b), plaintiff
requests that the Court vacate the dismissal as to defendant County of Los
Angeles based on attorney mistake and inadvertence.
            Plaintiff’s counsel T. Vincent
Consolo states in his declaration that he and his office inadvertently,
mistakenly, and erroneously filed a request for dismissal without prejudice as
to County of Los Angeles on May 1, 2024, which “occurred due to a sequence of
mistakes and misunderstandings by myself and my staff.”  He explains that he was unable to attend the
CMC on May 1, 2024, an associate from his office attended the hearing, and the
Court had noted that there was no proof of service on defendant County.  After the CMC, the associate tasked the
litigation paralegal to inquire as to the status of service of process or to
file a request for dismissal.  The
paralegal then communicated via text with declarant attorney whether defendant
County should be served with summons and complaint or dismissed.  Declarant confused the instant case with
another case and mistakenly and inadvertently authorized the paralegal to
dismiss defendant County.  The paralegal
altered a preexisting form CIV-110 request for dismissal, with incorrect court
address, an incorrect date, and stamped counsel’s name and filed it with the
court on May 1, the date of the CMC. 
Declarant states that he never saw the request for dismissal prior to
its filing.  He attests that it appears
that his personal inattention, confusion, and miscommunication with his staff
resulted in the erroneous and inadvertent filing of the request for dismissal.
            In opposition, County of Los Angeles
argues that plaintiff’s counsel has not shown a reasonable excuse to justify
relief under CCP §473(b).  County also
argues that the statute of limitations has run, preventing plaintiff from
pursuing the County in a new action against the County.
            In reply, plaintiff contends that
the “sole determination before this Court is whether the facts presented meet
the standard of mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect.”  Plaintiff argues that the standard has been
met based on plaintiff’s counsel’s declaration.
            The Court finds that relief from
dismissal is warranted and is mandatory based on attorney mistake and
inadvertence.
            The motion is therefore GRANTED.
 
ORDER

            The motion is GRANTED.  The dismissal entered on May 1, 2024 as to
County of Los Angeles is vacated.
            Plaintiff is ordered to give notice
of ruling.