  Case Number:  23STCV15039    Hearing Date:   November 18, 2024    Dept:  68 Dept.
68
Date:
11-18-24 c/f 117-24
Case
#: 23STCV15039
Trial
Date: 12-9-24
 
SUMMARY JUDGMENT/SUMMARY ADJUDICATION
 
MOVING
PARTY: Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant, Ashley Kim
RESPONDING
PARTY: Defendant/Cross-Complainant, James Ha, et al. 
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Motion
for Summary Judgment/Summary Adjudication
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
On
June 28, 2023, Plaintiff Ashely Kim filed a complaint for Failure to Pay
Minimum Wage Failure to Provide Accurate Itemized Pay Stubs; Waiting
Time Penalties; and, Unfair Business Practices. On July 10, 2023, Plaintiff
filed a 170.6 challenge, thereby leading to reassignment from Department 37. 
 
On
September 5, 2023, Defendants James Ha and I Park, Inc. filed a general denial.
On September 8, 2023, Defendants filed a cross-complaint for Quantum Meruit for
Services Rendered, and Common Counts against Plaintiff and Elbert Song. On
October 13, 2023, Elbert Song, in pro per, answered the cross-complaint. On
November 8, 2023, Cross-Complainants filed a first amended cross-complaint for
Quantum Meruit for Services Rendered, and Common Counts. Plaintiff answered the
cross-complaint on January 4, 2024; Song, in pro per, answered on January 5,
2024. On February 14, 2024, Cross-Defendants dismissed Song from the
cross-complaint with prejudice.
 
The
complaint itself lacks any factual context for the wage and hour claims. The
first amended cross-complaint alleges Kim worked as a real estate salesperson
for a certain condominium development, was never employee of
Defendants/Cross-Complainants, and all compensation was commissioned based. The
cross-complaint seeks compensation for use of a “suite” provided to Kim in
order to conduct business, but instead was utilized for personal endeavors.
 
RULING: Denied.
Request
for Judicial Notice: Granted (see below)
 
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Ashley Kim moves for summary
judgment/summary adjudication on the first amended cross-complaint of James Ha
and I Park, Inc. Kim moves for summary judgment on grounds of indemnification
from any and all sought after operating expense reimbursement claims under
Labor Code section 2802. James Ha and I Park, Inc. oppose the motion on grounds
of improper reliance on claim preclusion based on a prior action between the
parties. Kim in reply reiterates the statement of decision and statutory bar on
the cross-complaint.
 
The pleadings frame the issues for motions, “since it is those
allegations to which the motion must respond. (Citation.)”  (Scolinos
v. Kolts (1995) 37 Cal. App. 4th 635, 640-641; FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 367, 382-383; Jordan-Lyon Prods., LTD. v. Cineplex Odeon Corp. (1994) 29
Cal.App.4th 1459, 1472.) The purpose of a motion for summary judgment or
summary adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the
parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations,
trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar v. Atl. Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  “Code of Civil Procedure section 437c,
subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the
evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’
and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no
triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law.”  (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7
Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)  
 
“On a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is
always on the moving party to make a prima facie showing that there are no
triable issues of material fact.” (Scalf
v. D.B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.) A defendant
moving for summary judgment “has met his or her burden of showing that a cause
of action has no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the
cause of action . . . cannot be established.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) “Once the defendant . . . has
met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a
triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or
a defense thereto.” (Ibid.) 
 
“When deciding whether to grant summary judgment, the court
must consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers (except evidence to
which the court has sustained an objection), as well as all reasonable
inference that may be drawn form that evidence, in the light most favorable to
the party opposing summary judgment.” (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159
Cal.App.4th 463, 467; see also Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).) “An
issue of fact can only be created by a conflict in the evidence.  It is not created by speculation, conjecture,
imagination or guesswork.”  (Lyons v. Security Pacific National Bank
(1995) 40 Cal.App.4th 1001, 1041 (citation omitted).)
 
The issue statements and requests for relief on the motion
for summary adjudication are stated as follows: 
·        
Issue No 1: That Cross-complainants be precluded
from contending that Ms. Kim was not their employee pursuant to the ruling in
Kim v. Realtex, where the court held that Ms. Kim was Cross-complainant
I-Park's employee. Based upon the forgoing ruling, Ms. Kim is indemnified from
Cross-defendants' claims under Labor Code § 2802. 
·        
Issue No 2: That Cross-complainants be precluded
from contending that Ms. Kim did not earn any real estate selling commissions
pursuant to the ruling in Kim v. Realtex, where the court held that Ms. Kim was
entitled to selling commissions and coordination fees in the amount of $67 ,853
.33, precluding Cross-complaints from making a claim for the return of advanced
commissions on unsold condominium units. 
·        
Ms. Kim requests indemnification of her
attorneys' fees and costs pursuant to Labor Code§ 2802 in the amount of $24,583.51.
 
The motion and issue statements reflect and rely on a prior
action, Kim v. Realtex Properties, Inc., et al., 22STCV23066. Kim specifically
cites to the doctrine of collateral estoppel as the basis of relief against the
operative cross-complaint. Defendants/Cross-Complainants challenge any claim
preclusion/collateral estoppel/res judicata bar on grounds the prior decision
in no way bars the subject action.
 
The doctrine of res judicata gives certain conclusive effect
to a former judgment in subsequent litigation involving the same
controversy.  It seeks to curtail
multiple litigation causing vexation and expense to the parties and wasted
effort and expense in judicial administration. 
Res judicata, or claim preclusion, prevents relitigation of the same
cause of action in a second suit between the same parties or parties in privity
with them. Under the doctrine of res judicata, if a plaintiff prevails in an
action, the cause is merged into the judgment and may not be asserted in a
subsequent lawsuit. All claims based on the same cause of action must be
decided in a single suit; if not brought initially, they may not be raised at a
later date. Res judicata precludes piecemeal litigation by splitting a single
cause of action or relitigation of the same cause of action on a different
legal theory or for different relief. (Mycogen
Corp. v. Monsanto Co. (2002) 28 Cal.4th 888, 897.) 
 
“The doctrine [of res judicata] has two aspects. It applies
to both a previously litigated cause of action, referred to as claim
preclusion, and to an issue necessarily decided in a prior action, referred to
as issue preclusion. (Citations.) The prerequisite elements for
applying the doctrine to either an entire cause of action or one or more issues
are the same: (1) A claim or issue raised in the present action is identical to
a claim or issue litigated in a prior proceeding; (2) the prior proceeding
resulted in a final judgment on the merits; and (3) the party against whom the
doctrine is being asserted was a party or in privity with a party to the prior
proceeding.” (Brinton v. Bankers Pension Services, Inc. (1999) 76
Cal.App.4th 550, 556.)
 
“Res Judicata is not a bar to claims arising after the
filing of the initial complaint.” A party may assert new claims in an amended
pleading, “but if no such pleading is filed, a plaintiff is not foreclosed.
[Citation.] The general rule that a judgment is conclusive as to matters that
could have been litigated ‘does not apply to new rights acquired pending the
action which might have been, but which were not, required to be litigated
[Citation]’.” (Allied Fire Protection v.
Diede Const., Inc. (2005) 127 Cal.App.4th 150, 155; Planning and Conservation League v. Castaic Lake Water Agency
(2009) 180 Cal.App.4th 210, 226.)
 
“In general, collateral estoppel precludes a party from
relitigating issues litigated and decided in a prior proceeding.  (Citations.) ‘Traditionally, we have applied
the doctrine only if several threshold requirements are fulfilled. First, the
issue sought to be precluded from relitigation must be identical to that
decided in a former proceeding. Second, this issue must have been actually
litigated in the former proceeding. Third, it must have been necessarily decided
in the former proceeding. Fourth, the decision in the former proceeding must be
final and on the merits. Finally, the party against whom preclusion is sought
must be the same as, or in privity with, the party to the former proceeding. (Citation.)’”
(Gikas v. Zolin (1993) 6 Cal.4th 841,
848–849.)
 
“Collateral estoppel is used offensively when … ‘the plaintiff seeks to
foreclose the defendant from litigating an issue the defendant has previously
litigated unsuccessfully in an action with another party. Defensive use
occurs when a defendant seeks to prevent a plaintiff from asserting a claim the
plaintiff has previously litigated and lost against another defendant.’ (Citations.)” (Smith v. Exxon
Mobil Oil Corp. (2007) 153
Cal.App.4th 1407, 1414.)
 
The court takes judicial notice
of the prior complaint, the statement of decision, and statement of information
for I Park, Inc. for purposes of considering the claim preclusion issues. (Kilroy
v. State of California (2004) 119 Cal.App.4th 140, 148.) The court declines
to take judicial notice of the content of the pleadings, including the undated
declaration, for purposes of the truth of the matter asserted. (Barri v. Workers' Comp. Appeals
Bd. (2018) 28 Cal.App.5th 428, 437; Day v. Sharp (1975)
50 Cal.App.3d 904, 914.)
 
The request for judicial notice
shows the first amended complaint, 22STCV23066, filed by Kim on September 22,
2022, by Kim against Realtex Properties, Inc. and James Ha, for breach of
contract and unfair competition. The First Amended Complaint specifically
alleged the existence fo the “Commission Agreement.” [Req. Jud. Not., Ex. 1:
First Amended Complaint, ¶¶ 2, 12, 16, 18, 26.] On January 16, 2024, the court
issued a Statement of Decision, whereby the court found in paragraph 12: “In
accordance with evidence ... and the Parties’ stipulation regarding the
calculation of commissions for the ‘first 9 units to open escrow’ scenario, the
Court finds the following commissions and transaction coordination fees due to
Plaintiff KIM under the COMMISSION AGREEMENT, as reformed. First 9 Units to
Open Escrow -Total of $67,853.33 a. Plaintiff's Listing Commissions on first 9
units to open escrow at the WILTON CONDO PROJECT (Units 204-205, 305, 401-406)
- 0.5% listing commission is $42,620.00 ($8,524,000 x 0.05%), b. Plaintiff's
selling commission (1/3of2.5% or 0.8333%) on 3 units that were sold to buyers
that visited the WILTON CONDO PROJECT prior to March 8, 2022 (Units 204, 403,
404) is $23,433.33 (1/3 of $2,812,000 X 2.5%), c. Plaintiff's transaction
coordination fee for the first 9 units to open escrow is $1,800.00 (9 Units X
$200)” Paragraph 13 continues: “In accordance with evidence ... the Court finds
that Plaintiff KIM was employed by Defendant HA's construction company, I Park,
Inc. from April, 2020 ... as I Park, Inc. 's Operations Director receiving a
salary of $2,000.00 per month for her services as I Park, Inc.' s Operations
Director from until April 2021, at which time I Park, Inc. stopped payment of
Plaintiff KIM's salary under promise to pay later ...”
 
Contrary to the position in
opposition, the statement of decision categorically and unequivocally found an
employment relationship between Kim and I Park, Inc., as well as due and
payable sales commissions. Denial of such findings based (presumably) on the
fact that I Park Inc. was not an actual named party in the underlying action disingenuously
disregards the plain language of the statement of decision. [See Opposition,
6:26-7:7, 10:11-24.] Regardless of potential interpretation discussion, the
court will not consider any evidentiary re-argument of these findings,
including challenge to the scope of any agreement(s). [See Opposition,
7:13-8:4.] The court cites to the opposition in that the responsive separate
statement lacks evidence other than citation to the declaration of Ha regarding
the prior litigation, and a statement from CPA Kwang Park regarding prior
actions by Kim during the parties’ business relationship. 
 
Consistent with the prior
Statement of Decision, the court finds the subject litigation and former action
arise from the same transaction—the commissioned sales of the condominium
units. (Why the subject action was not presented to the former court for a
determination of a related case remains unknown.)
 
In challenging the subject
motion, Defendants/Cross-Complainants additionally maintain the subject first
amended cross-complaint alleges a new claim raised in the common count. The
argument again depends on the vaguely identified “advanced payments” relative
to the otherwise apparently litigated commission agreement. The position again
lacks any evidentiary or legal support. 
 
The cross-complaint and position in opposition invokes
consideration of the defense of waiver during litigation on the commission
agreement in the prior action. “Except as otherwise provided by statute, if a
party against whom a complaint has been filed and served fails to allege in a
cross-complaint any related cause of action which (at the time of serving his
answer to the complaint) he has against the plaintiff, such party may not
thereafter in any other action assert against the plaintiff the related cause
of action not pleaded.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 426.30, subd. (a).) “Since section
426.30 bars claims which the party failed to assert by cross-complaint in a
previous action arising from the same occurrence, it necessarily bars
issues which were never litigated and never actually decided.” (Hulsey
v. Koehler (1990) 218 Cal.App.3d 1150, 1157.) “[A]s a statutory bar to
splitting a cause of action, section 426.30 must be specially pleaded. It is
well-established that a rule against splitting of actions is for the benefit of
the defendant and is waived by the failure to specifically plead the defense.”
(Id. at p. 1158.) The third affirmative defense in the answer to the
first amended cross-complaint alleges waiver and the twenty-seventh affirmative
defenses raises the collateral estoppel and res judicata defenses which
encompasses the bar against claim splitting (infra).
 
“[A] party cannot by negligence or design withhold issues
and litigate them in successive actions; he may not split his demands or
defenses; he may not submit his case in piecemeal fashion. (Citation). If by an
attempt at artful pleading, a party could assert his cause in one form in one
action and, after an adverse decision on the merits, reassert it in another
form in a subsequent action, there would be no end to litigation; and, of
course, the mere fact that Flickinger may have seen fit to counterclaim in the
prior action in the form of an account stated cannot place him in any better
position than if he had omitted to file a counterclaim of any kind in that
action.” (Flickinger v. Swedlow Engineering Co. (1955) 45 Cal.2d
388, 393.) “A final judgment on the merits between parties who in law are the
same operates as a bar to a subsequent action upon the same cause of action,
settling not only every issue that was raised, but also every issue that might
have been raised in the first action. (Citations.)” (Olwell v. Hopkins (1946)
28 Cal.2d 147, 152.)
 
The court therefore finds the
claims by Ha in the first amended cross-complaint seeking some form or quantum
meruit recovery based on provision of the suite for purposes of conducting
commissioned sales are barred under the doctrine of claim splitting thereby
establishing a waiver due to the failure to raise the claims in the prior
action. [First Amend. Cross-Comp., ¶¶ 9-11.] The statement of indebtedness,
albeit in a different amount than sought in the quantum meruit cause of action,
also arises from the commission agreement fails under claim splitting and
waiver doctrine as well. [First Amend. Cross-Comp., ¶¶ 14-15.] The court relies
on the doctrine of waiver in that the exact claim was in fact not adjudicated,
thereby requiring a finding under the doctrine collateral estoppel. (See
Gikas v. Zolin, supra, 6
Cal.4th at pp. 848–849.) 
 
The Statement of Decision
specifically identified I Park Inc. as the employer, with Ha only identified as
some form of owner. Kim maintains privity between Ha and employer I Park, Inc.
The statement of information identifies Ha as the agent for service, CEO,
Secretary and CFO. [Req. Jud. Not., Ex. 3.] As addressed above, Ha was a named
defendant in the underlying action, and was therefore responsible for raising
any and all claims regarding the commission agreement. The dispute also
apparently considered the employment relationship between the parties as part
of the underlying dispute albeit with a non-named party. I Park, Inc. denies
any privity with the parties on this basis in that the entity’s “pecuniary
interests were not represented” at the time of trial. Neither party presents
any legal authority on the subject.
 
“Due process requires that the
nonparty have had an identity or community of interest with, and adequate
representation by, the ... party in the first action. [Citations.] The
circumstances must also have been such that the nonparty should reasonably have
expected to be bound by the prior adjudication....” (Citizens for Open
Access to Sand and Tide, Inc. v. Seadrift Ass'n (1998) 60 Cal.App.4th
1053, 1070 (internal quotation marks omitted).) “In the final analysis, the
determination of privity depends upon the fairness of binding [a nonparty] with
the result obtained in earlier proceedings in which it did not participate.” [¶]
“To meet the shared interest requirement, a ‘nonparty alleged to be in privity
must have an interest so similar to the party's interest that
the party acted as the nonparty's “virtual representative” in the
first action.’” (LaCour v. Marshalls of California, LLC (2023) 94
Cal.App.5th 1172, 1196 (internal quotation marks omitted.).)
 
To the extent any claims by Ha
seeking relief from the underlying commission contract are barred, the court
cannot determine how a new party, the identified employer and entity
responsible for payment, can otherwise proceed given the doctrine of claim
splitting and waiver applicable to Ha. In other words, if Ha as principal of I
Park Inc. remains barred, the basis for I Park Inc. to separately proceed on
the same claim lacks an independent basis to proceed. Nevertheless, the court
remains unclear as to whether waiver of the claims by Ha as CEO, et al. of the
corporate entity constitutes an equivalent representation under the represented
interest consideration criteria. Simple omission of a party in no way appears
to bar the adjudication of the claims involving a common party. If Ha were
concerned about the adjudication of rights on behalf of I Park Inc., nothing
precluded Ha from joining the corporate entity into action as an indispensable
party. Again, however, neither party presents any legal authority, and the
court declines to make the arguments for either side. The court therefore
defers any such consideration. The lack of specific support regarding I Park
Inc. therefore bars a basis for complete relief on the individual causes of action
as to all parties. 
 
Because the court cannot grant
complete relief on the cross-complaint, the court denies the motion for summary
judgment. Both the framing of the motion for summary adjudication and lack of
ability to separately adjudicate the entire cause of action as to all parties,
claim of duty, damages, and/or affirmative defense, also prevents the granting
the motion of summary adjudication. A request for attorney fees is also not the
appropriate subject matter for summary adjudication. (Code Civ. Proc., §
437c, subd. (f)(1).)
 
The motion is therefore denied in its entirety. 
 
Trial remains set for December 9, 2024.
 
Ashley Kim to give notice. 
 