 Case Number:  24STCV05204    Hearing Date:   November 18, 2024    Dept:  68 Dept.
68
Date:
11-18-24 c/f 9-17-24
Case
#24STCV05204
Trial
Date: Not Set/Not At Issue
 
DEMURRER
 
MOVING
PARTY: Defendant, City of Los Angeles
RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiff, Mordchai Brafman, pro per
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Demurrer
to the Complaint
·        
1st
Cause of Action: Negligence
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
Plaintiff Mordchai Brafman alleges a contract with a third
party, Sean Benaroya, for certain improvements to real property located in the
City of Los Angeles. According to Brafman, Benaroya obtained all necessary
permits and Brafman was only required to complete the work. Benaroya also
allegedly guaranteed to supply all materials. A dispute broke out between
Benaroya and Plaintiff. Ultimately, Benaroya requested an inspection from
Defendant City of Los Angeles, which led to the issuance of an Order to Comply.
Plaintiff maintains the relied upon information was false, and therefore the
order erroneously issued. On January 30, 2024, Plaintiff in pro per filed a
complaint for Negligence.
 
RULING: Sustained with
Leave to Amend.
Request
for Judicial Notice: Granted.
 
The
court first notes a Department 72 denied a motion to consolidate, some if not
all of the subject cases, including the instant action identified as: Brafman
v. Banaroya, et al., 23STCV13274; Benaroya, et al. v. Brafman, 23STCV13274;
Brafman v. Los Angeles Department of Water and Power, 23STCV30998; Brafman v.
Rubi, 24STCV21508; Cohen v. Brafman, 24STCV15508; and, Brafman v. Cohen,
24STCV15508 (same identified case number as Cohen v. Brafman). 
 
Defendant
City of Los Angeles submits a demurrer to the complaint for negligence
on grounds of immunity from any liability for the issuance of the Order to
Comply. Plaintiff Brafman
in opposition maintains City of Los Angeles remains liable under limited
immunity in that “general immunity” only exists for discretionary acts
completed within the scope of authority. City in reply reiterates the absolute
immunities position, and lack of support for any exception as expressed in
opposition. 
 
A demurrer is an objection to a pleading, the grounds for
which are apparent from either the face of the complaint or a matter of which
the court may take judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a); see
also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d
311, 318.) The purpose of a demurrer is to challenge the sufficiency of a
pleading “by raising questions of law.” (Postley
v. Harvey (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.) “In the construction of a
pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its allegations must be
liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice between the parties.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 452.) The court “ ‘ “treat[s] the demurrer as admitting all
material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions
of fact or law . . . .” ’ ” (Berkley v.
Dowds (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518, 525.) In applying these standards, the
court liberally construes the complaint to determine whether a cause of action
has been stated.  (Picton v. Anderson Union High School Dist. (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th
726, 733.)
 
“A demurrer for
uncertainty is strictly construed, even where a complaint is in some respects
uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery
procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly's of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616; Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d
135, 139 [“[U]nder our liberal pleading rules,
where the complaint contains substantive factual allegations sufficiently
apprising defendant of the issues it is being asked to meet, a demurrer for
uncertainty should be overruled or plaintiff given leave to amend.] 
 
1st
Cause of Action: Negligence
“The
liability of a public entity established by this part (commencing with Section
814) is subject to any immunity of the public entity provided by statute,
including this part, and is subject to any defenses that would be available to
the public entity if it were a private person.” (Gov. Code, § 815, subd. (b).) “(a)
A public entity is liable for injury proximately caused by an act or omission
of an employee of the public entity within the scope of his employment if the
act or omission would, apart from this section, have given rise to a cause
of action against that employee or his personal representative. (b) Except as
otherwise provided by statute, a public entity is not liable for an injury
resulting from an act or omission of an employee of the public entity where the
employee is immune from liability. (Gov. Code, § 815.2.) “Where a public entity
is under a mandatory duty imposed by an enactment that is designed to protect
against the risk of a particular kind of injury, the public entity is liable
for an injury of that kind proximately caused by its failure to discharge the
duty unless the public entity establishes that it exercised reasonable
diligence to discharge the duty.” (Gov. Code, § 815.6.) “A public entity is not
liable for an injury caused by the issuance, denial, suspension or revocation
of, or by the failure or refusal to issue, deny, suspend or revoke, any permit,
license, certificate, approval, order, or similar authorization where the
public entity or an employee of the public entity is authorized by enactment to
determine whether or not such authorization should be issued, denied, suspended
or revoked.” (Gov. Code, § 818.4.) “A public entity is not liable for injury
caused by its failure to make an inspection, or by reason of making an
inadequate or negligent inspection, of any property, other than its property
(as defined in subdivision (c) of Section 830), for the purpose of determining
whether the property complies with or violates any enactment or contains or
constitutes a hazard to health or safety.” (Gov. Code, § 818.6.) “A public
entity is not liable for an injury caused by misrepresentation by an employee
of the public entity, whether or not such misrepresentation be negligent or
intentional.” (Gov. Code, § 818.8.) “A public employee acting in the scope of
his employment is not liable for an injury caused by his misrepresentation,
whether or not such misrepresentation be negligent or intentional, unless he is
guilty of actual fraud, corruption or actual malice.” (Gov. Code, § 822.2.)
 
City of Los Angeles maintains the conduct related to the
inspection and issuance of the order for compliance categorically constitutes
immune conduct. Plaintiff in opposition maintains Government Section 821.6
should be limited in application and denied “broad reading” for purposes of
establishing immunity. Government Code section 821.6 reads: “A public employee is not liable for injury caused by his
instituting or prosecuting any judicial or administrative proceeding within the
scope of his employment, even if he acts maliciously and without probable
cause.” (Gov. Code, § 821.6.) 
 
The gravamen of the complaint
alleges false information in the order to comply report itself. [Comp., ¶ 25.]
The City refused to reexamine the report at the request of Plaintiff, and
maintains a “history” of previously correcting such reports. [Comp., ¶¶ 26-27,
30.] Plaintiff cites to Penal Code section 115 and appears to suggest a false
or forged instrument was involved in the subject report. [Comp., ¶¶ 29, 32.]
Nothing in the complaint specifically references Government Code section 821.6,
and Plaintiff otherwise offers no response to the immunities provided under Government
Code sections 818.4, 818.6, 818.8, and 822.2 in the opposition. While City of
Los Angeles asks the court to sustain the demurrer without leave to amend, the
court elects to allow leave to amend for the purpose of allowing Plaintiff to
potentially address the actual immunity provisions before the court considers
whether Plaintiff can state any non-immune cause of action as a matter of law.
 
The court grants Plaintiff 30
days leave to amend. Plaintiff may attempt to allege a basis of relief under
any and all uncited section(s). Plaintiff may NOT add any new causes of
action, damages claims or parties. (Harris v. Wachovia Mortgage,
FSB (2010)
185 Cal.App.4th 1018, 1023.) Any such claims will be subject to a motion to
strike by any and all impacted parties.
 
The court will concurrently
conduct the case management conference.
 
City of Los Angeles to give notice. 
 