 Case Number:  21STCV12131    Hearing Date:   May 24, 2024    Dept:  29 Defendants’ Motion to Compel the Deposition of Elihu
Institute for Pain Management/Culver Pain 
 
Tentative
The Court will call this matter and will hear
from counsel on all issues, including, but in no way limited to, the following.
First, is there any dispute regarding the deposition
topics?  Or does the dispute relate
solely to Requests for Production Nos. 1, 3, and 12-23?
Second, what evidence (if any) is there in
the record in support of the law firm’s trade secret argument?  The Court understands that this may be a
sensitive matter, but the party asserting a trade secret privilege has the
initial burden of producing evidence to support the existence of the privilege.
Third, what is Defendants’ response to the evidence
of burden submitted by Elihu?  Even
assuming that the requested information is discoverable and not subject to any
privilege, why should the Court require a non-party such as Elihu to incur the
substantial expenses associated with compliance?
Fourth, if the issue is the amounts that
Plaintiff actually paid (or incurred), would production of all her records (but
not the records of other patients of Elihu who are also clients of the law firm)
be sufficient?  
Fifth, if the issue is the reasonable value
of the services provided to Plaintiff, Defendants can certainly be expected to rely
on expert testimony.  How much additional
value would the subpoenaed records provide on that point (particularly if the
Court must balance that against the burden on the non-party witness)?
Background
This case arises out
of a motor vehicle accident on April 3, 2019, at or near the intersection of
Wilshire Boulevard and Granville Avenue in Los Angeles.  
 
On March 30,
2021, Danielle Garcia Goldsmith (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint on March 30,
2021, against Postmates, LLC (“Postmates”), Igor Scoralick Gesualdi (“Gesualdi”),
Lucia Scoralick, and Does 1 through 25.  On
September 24, 2021, Gesualdi and Lucia Scoralick filed their answer.  On September 27, 2021, Postmates filed its
answer.
 
On March 14, 2022,
the Court, at the request of Goldsmith, dismissed Lucia Scoralick without prejudice.
 
On April 25,
2023, Gesualdi and Postmates (collectively “Defendants”) issued a subpoena to non-party
Elihu Institute for Pain Management/Culver Pain (“Elihu”) for testimony and the
production of documents, and also served a notice of deposition.  (Saracyan Decl., ¶¶ 3-4 & Exh A.)  The notice of deposition identified 24 topics of
examination and 24 categories of documents to be produced.  (Id., Exh. A.)  
 
On May 12, 2023, Elihu
served objections (Id., ¶ 5 & Exh. B.)  Elihu did not object to the topics for
examination but did assert objections to Requests for Production Nos. 1, 3, and
12-23.  (Id., Exh. B.)  Counsel for Defendants and Elihi exchanged
correspondence but were unable to resolve the dispute.  (Id., ¶ 7 & Exh. C.)
 
On July 13, 2023,
Defendants filed this motion to compel Elihu to appear for deposition and
produce the subpoenaed documents.  Elihu and
Plaintiff each filed an opposition on May 13, 2024. Elihu and Plaintiff each
also seeks sanctions.  Defendants filed a
reply on May 17, 2024.
 
The Court is also
aware that Plaintiff filed a motion for a protective order on June 9, 2023, set
for hearing on June 4, 2024, relating to other deposition subpoenas issued to
non-party witnesses.
 
Legal
Standard
 
“Any party may
obtain discovery … by taking in California the oral deposition of any person,
including any party to the action.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.010.) 
The process by which a party may obtain discovery from a
person who is not a party to the action is through a deposition subpoena.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.010, subd.
(b).)  
“A deposition subpoena may command any of the following: (a) Only
the attendance and testimony of the deponent …. (b) Only the production of
business records for copying …. (c) The attendance and the testimony of
the deponent, as well as the production of business records, other documents,
electronically stored information, and tangible things.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2020.020.)
“If a deponent on whom a deposition subpoena has been served fails
to attend a deposition or refuses to be sworn as a witness, the court may
impose on the deponent the sanctions described in Section 2020.240 [contempt
and an action for civil damages under section 1992].” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.440, subd. (b).)
“If a deponent fails to answer any question or to produce any
document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing under the
deponent’s control that is specified in the deposition notice or a deposition
subpoena, the party seeking discovery may move the court for an order
compelling that answer or production.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.480,
subd. (a).)  “This motion shall be made no later than 60 days after
the completion of the record of the deposition, and shall be accompanied by a
meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.” (Id., subd. (b).)
“If the
court determines that the answer or production sought is subject to discovery,
it shall order that the answer be given or the production be made on the
resumption of the deposition.  (Id., subd. (i).)
“[T]he court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel an answer or production,
unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.”  (Id., subd. (j).)  
In Chapter 7 of the Civil
Discovery Act, section 2023.010, subdivision (d), defines “[m]isuses of the
discovery process” to include “[f]ailing to respond to or to submit to an
authorized method of discovery.”  Where a
party or attorney has engaged in misuse of the discovery process, the court may
impose a monetary sanction in the amount of “the reasonable expenses, including
attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct.”  (Id., § 2023.030, subd. (a).)
Except as specifically modified by the
Civil Discovery Act, the provisions of Code of Civil Procedure sections 1985
through 1997 apply to deposition subpoenas. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.030.)¿ 
Code of
Civil Procedure section 1987.1, subdivision (a), provides: “If a subpoena
requires the attendance of a witness or the production of books, documents, or
other things before a court, or at the trial of an issue therein, or at the
taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably made by any person
described in subdivision (b), or upon the court’s own motion after giving
counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make an order quashing the
subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon those
terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including protective orders. In
addition, the court may make any other order as may be appropriate to protect
the person from unreasonable or oppressive demands, including unreasonable
violations of the right of privacy of the person.”
Code of Civil Procedure section 1987.2,
subdivision (a), states, in relevant part, that in connection with an order
directing compliance with a subpoena, quashing it, or modifying it, “the court
may in its discretion award the amount of the reasonable expenses incurred in
making or opposing the motion, including reasonable attorney’s fees, if the
court finds the motion was made or opposed in bad faith or without substantial
justification.”¿ 
Discussion
 
The
Court will hear from counsel.
 
Conclusion
 
The Court
will hear from counsel.
 