  Case Number:  24STCV08368    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2024    Dept:  52 Defendants’ Motion to Strike Portions
of Complaint             
Defendants A/P Prop., LTD., Lawrence John Deovlet, Phylis Deovlet, Landmark
Realty Services, LLC, Garry A. Hartunian, and Francisca Capila move to strike
15 portions of plaintiffs’ complaint.  The
15 portions of the complaint defendants target concern punitive damages.  Courts
may strike a “demand for judgment requesting relief not supported by the
allegations of the complaint.”  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 431.10, subd. (b)(3).)  
A. Fraud, Oppression, or
Malice
            Plaintiffs allege sufficient facts to
constitute malice or oppression by each defendant.  Courts may strike allegations regarding
punitive damages where the facts alleged “do not rise to the level of malice,
oppression or fraud necessary” to recover punitive damages under Civil Code
section 3294.  (Turman v. Turning
Point of Central California, Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 64.)  
Plaintiffs allege
sufficient facts for malice or oppression. 
“ ‘Malice’ means conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause
injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the
defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of
others.”  (Civ. Code, § 3294(c)(1).)  “ ‘Oppression’ means despicable conduct that
subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that
person's rights.” (Civ. Code, § 3294(c)(2).) 

“To support an
award of punitive damages on the basis of conscious disregard of the safety of
others, a plaintiff ‘must establish that the defendant was aware of the
probable dangerous consequences of his conduct, and that he willfully and
deliberately failed to avoid those consequences.’ ”  (Penner v. Falk (1984) 153
Cal.App.3d 858, 867.)  Knowing of and failing to correct “long
existing physical conditions of the premises which portend danger for the
tenants” may constitute malice.  (Ibid.; accord Nolin
v. National Convenience Stores, Inc. (1979) 95 Cal.App.3d 279, 288
[sufficient evidence of malice where defendant’s “inattention to the danger
showed a complete lack of concern regarding the harmful potential—the
probability and likelihood of injury” resulting from dangerous conditions on
its premises].)
Plaintiffs allege
defendants knew of and refused to repair unsafe conditions that caused the
ceilings at the property to collapse in several places, including at least one
collapse that caused significant injuries. 
(Comp., ¶¶ 3-6.)  Plaintiffs
allege defendants knew of and failed to repair numerous other potentially
dangerous conditions, like “infestations” of bed bugs, cockroaches, and
rodents, “broken windows,” and “malfunctioning smoke detectors.”  (¶ 7.)  Plaintiffs allege all “Defendants … were aware
of the deplorable conditions” at the property but “intentionally refused to
repair the conditions while also ratifying their employees’ and agents’ failure
to take corrective action to remediate them.” 
(¶ 58.)  
Plaintiffs also
allege defendants committed intentional torts including “willfully caus[ing]
the interruption of utility services furnished to Plaintiffs” (Comp., ¶ 164)
and “retaliat[ing] against Plaintiffs by eliminating or reducing services at
the Property” and attempting to evict them (¶ 173).  The Court of Appeal has held allegations of
retaliation can establish malice.  (Colucci
v. T-Mobile USA, Inc. (2020) 48 Cal.App.5th 442, 455; Perkins v.
Superior Court (1981) 117 Cal.App.3d 1, 6.)    
A reasonable trier
of fact could conclude that these allegations constitute despicable conduct carried
on with a willful and conscious disregard of plaintiffs’ rights or safety or
despicable conduct that subjected plaintiffs to cruel and unjust hardship in
conscious disregard of their rights.
B. Corporate
Defendants
Plaintiffs allege
sufficient facts to recover punitive damages from defendants A/P Prop., LTD.
and Landmark Realty Services, LLC.  For an entity
to be liable for punitive damages, “the advance knowledge and conscious
disregard [of an employee’s unfitness], authorization, ratification or act of
oppression, fraud, or malice must be on the part of an officer, director, or
managing agent of the corporation.” 
(Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (b).)  The
complaint alleges, “Defendants, their officers, directors, employees, agents,
and/or representatives observed and/or were aware of the deplorable conditions.
 Nonetheless, Defendants intentionally
refused to repair the conditions while also ratifying their employees’ and
agents’ failure to take corrective action to remediate them.”  (¶ 58.) 
A plaintiff “must allege [the] ultimate facts” required for punitive
damages.  (Cyrus v. Haveson (1976)
65 Cal.App.3d 306, 316.)  A plaintiff is
not required to specifically allege the identity of a corporation’s officers or
directors who committed, ratified, or authorized the oppression, fraud, or
malice.  Plaintiffs’ allegations suffice at
the pleading stage.  
Disposition
Defendants A/P Prop., LTD., Lawrence John
Deovlet, Phylis Deovlet, Landmark Realty Services, LLC, Garry A. Hartunian, and
Francisca Capila’s motion to strike
portions of plaintiffs’ complaint is denied.  Defendants
shall answer the complaint within 20 days. 
