 Case Number:  23VECV04247    Hearing Date:   January 19, 2024    Dept:  T 23VECV04247 ELLA MILMAN vs
TARZANA WOODS CONDOMINIUM
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Defendants Tarzana Woods Condominium
Association, Inc.; Yevgeny Zharovsky; Chaudlier Moore; Marie Nilsson; Irene
White; and Poopak Mozaffari’s Demurrer to the Complaint is SUSTAINED in Part
and OVERRULED in Part.  The demurrer to
the fourth cause of action for fraud is SUSTAINED WITH 20 DAYS LEAVE TO
AMEND.  Leave to amend is limited to
curing the pleading defects identified and Plaintiff is prohibited from adding
new causes of action.  The demurrer to
the fifth cause of action for negligent misrepresentation is OVERRULED.  Defendants Tarzana Woods Condominium
Association, Inc.; Yevgeny Zharovsky; Chaudlier Moore; Marie Nilsson; Irene
White; and Poopak Mozaffari’s Motion to Strike is not considered and taken
OFF-CALENDAR due to the moving parties’ failure to resubmit the motion to
strike for filing.
Introduction 
Defendants Tarzana Woods
Condominium Association, Inc. (HOA); Yevgeny Zharovsky; Chaudlier Moore; Marie
Nilsson; Irene White; and Poopak Mozaffari (individual defendants collectively
referred to as, Individual Board Members), (all defendants collectively
referred to as, Defendants) demurred to Plaintiff Ella Millman’s (Plaintiff)
Complaint.  The demurrer placed into
issue the fourth cause of action (COA) for fraud and the fifth COA for
negligent misrepresentation.  The Notice
to the Demurrer mistakenly identified the fourth COA as “motor vehicle” and the
fifth COA as “general negligence.”  But
the body of the notice and the body of the points and authorities correctly
identified the two COAs as fraud and negligent misrepresentation.  The Court identifies the two COAs by their
correct titles: fraud and negligent misrepresentation.
            Procedure
The Court record reflected that
Plaintiff’s oppositions to the demurrer and motion to strike were filed on
December 26, 2023.  Defendants’ demurrer
was thereafter filed on December 27, 2023. 
Replies in support of the demurrer and motion to strike were then filed
on January 4, 2024.  The Court file
reflected that no motion to strike being ever filed.  The Court noted that Defendant attempted to
e-file a demurrer and motion to strike prior to December 26, 2023.  However, both were rejected and Defendant was
notified to resubmit the two briefs for filing. 
Defendant resubmitted the demurrer for filing (i.e., December 27, 2023)
but did not resubmit the motion to strike for filing.  Without moving papers on the motion to
strike, Defendants did not properly place the motion to strike before the
Court.  The Court did not consider a
motion to strike.  Defendants’ motion to
strike is taken OFF-CALENDAR.
Discussion  
The alleged misrepresentations at
issue in the fourth COA for fraud are for damages incurred from a sewage backup
in Plaintiff’s unit caused by improper maintenance of the HOA’s common
areas.  Plaintiff alleged that Defendants
represented that damages to Plaintiff’s unit caused by the common area
maintenance issues would be repaired/covered by the HOA and that the repairs
had been made.  The representations were
made on January 8, 2023 and thereafter. 
The representations were made by Co-Defendants/Non-Moving Parties Maria
Delira (Delira) and Nancy Beltran (Beltran) to Plaintiff.  (Compl. par. 39.)  Delira and Beltran are employed by
Co-Defendant/Non-Moving Party Icon Realty Services, Inc. (Icon).  Icon is alleged to be the agent of the
HOA.  (Compl. pars. 9-11.)  Although these allegations provide specific
facts to show when and to whom the representations were made, Plaintiff failed
to allege how, where, and by what means the representations were made.  For this pleading defect, the demurrer to the
fourth COA is persuasive.  
As to the fourth COA alleged
against the HOA, Plaintiff sufficiently alleged that Delira and Beltran made
the representations and that they were authorized to speak for the HOA based
upon Icon’s agency relationship with the HOA. 
Plaintiff also expressly alleged that the representations were made to
her on or about January 8, 2023 and thereafter. 
These allegations are sufficient to plead facts as to the names of the
persons who made the representations, their authority to speak on behalf of the
corporation, to whom they spoke, and when the representation was made.  However, as reviewed above, Plaintiff failed
to plead facts to allege if the representations were spoken or written.  This pleading defect again makes the fourth
COA insufficiently pled.  
As to the fourth COA alleged
against the Individual Board Members, Plaintiff alleged no facts to show that
any of the Individual Board Members made any representations to Plaintiff.  There is no specific or particular fact
pleading regarding how, when, where, to whom, and by what means any
representations were tendered. 
Representations made by Delira and Beltran are not alleged to be
attributable to the Individual Board Members, in their individual capacity, or
at minimum it is not apparent from the alleged facts how Delira and Beltran
spoke on behalf of the Individual Board Members in their individual
capacities.  The demurrer to the fourth
COA against the Individual Board Members is persuasive on this pleading defect.  
Specific to the fourth COA for
fraud, Defendants argued that the representations involve the future which are
considered opinions and improper grounds for fraud-based claims.  However, the representations are viewed as a
mixture of a false promise and a then existing fact.  The false promise is alleged because
Defendants’ statement is alleged to be a present intent to do something in the
future, which is considered a fact and not an opinion.  The affirmative fact placed into issue is
Defendants’ representation that the repairs were made.  A representation that the repair was made is
not seen to be an opinion because there are no facts alleged showing that the
speaker “believed” the repair was completed. 
The allegation only pleads that the repair as being done.  
However, specifically as to the
false promise allegation, Plaintiff must plead specific facts to plead a
contemporaneous intent not to perform. 
There are no supportive facts pled to show Defendants’ contemporaneous intent
not to perform.  The demurrer to the
fourth COA is persuasive.
The demurrer to the fourth COA is
SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.
Defendants asserted that the
negligent misrepresentation COA failed to allege facts to plead Plaintiff’s
ignorance of the truth and justifiable reliance.  However, Plaintiff alleged that Delira and
Beltran, the persons making the representations, were employees of HOA’s agent,
Icon.  The allegations provide that the
damage to Plaintiff’s unit were caused by failures in maintaining HOA’s common
area.  Because the source of Plaintiff’s
damages stem from the HOA’s common area and HOA owns, maintains, and controls
their common area, these facts are sufficient to allege that Plaintiff was
ignorant of the true facts and could justifiably rely upon Delira and Beltran’s
representations.  Defendants’ final
argument is not persuasive and the demurrer to the fifth COA cannot be
sustained upon this alleged pleading defect.
The demurrer to the fifth COA is
OVERRULED.
IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE
NOTICE.
 