  Case Number:  21SMCV01441    Hearing Date:   November 19, 2024    Dept:  I Plaintiff filed this wage and hour action pursuant to PAGA,
a statute in which a named plaintiff can bring suit on behalf of the State of
California as a private Attorney General. 
Any settlement is divided 75% to the state and 25% to the group of
employees adversely affected by the alleged misconduct.  Plaintiff’s counsel is entitled to recover
reasonable attorney’s fees for bringing the action.  The action is not a class action, although
there are similarities.  Further, the
resulting award or settlement is not in the nature of damages, but rather is a
remedy based on the penalty for violation of the pertinent statute.  Here, suit was brought and the parties,
through mediation, settled for a total settlement amount of $210,000.  After a deduction for fees and costs, the
employees’ share of the settlement is approximately $28,000.  Plaintiff is getting a separate PAGA
Incentive Payment of $5000 in addition to a separate undisclosed amount for his
separate suit.  The separate suit, unlike
the PAGA action, is one where he is suing for violations pertaining directly to
him.  However, the court is not sure
whether those allegations, or any of them, are similar to the violations
alleged in the PAGA cause of action.  Nor
does the court know the amount of the individual settlement.  There are 615 aggrieved employees in the PAGA
case, which (assuming an equal division of the pool) is about $34 per employee.

 
The court needs to know what plaintiff’s actual total
recovery will be.  The court also needs
justification as to why the named plaintiff is getting $5000 and everyone else
is getting $34.  The court is not clear
that an incentive payment, at least of this magnitude, is valid here.  The named plaintiff is acting as the state’s
agent or proxy, but the suit is designed to benefit the state and the group of
employees primarily; it is not designed as a money-maker for the named
plaintiff.  Of course, the named plaintiff
has a time expenditure that is different than the other employees, and logic
suggests appropriate compensation for that. 
Here, Richard estimates that he spent between 10 and 20 hours on the
case.  Assuming 20 hours, that is
$250/hour, which seems a bit high.
 
The fees requested here are $70,000, which is one third of
the total recovery.  Plaintiff justifies
the fee on the percentage of recovery theory. 
The court is not persuaded that such is the better calculation as
opposed to a lodestar calculation.  The
fee is justified in the short Mahoney declaration.  Counsel sets forth his extensive PAGA
experience—and the court has no doubt but that counsel is an experienced PAGA
attorney.  But other than saying that he
is experienced and setting forth a conclusory statement that $70,000 is
reasonable, there is no justification. 
Plaintiff states that an expert was retained, but the court has not seen
that report nor does the court have any information as to the expert’s bill.  The court has no idea how much time counsel
spent on the case.  In short, the fees
are not justified.  (The papers suggest
that there is a more detailed declaration filed by attorney Alemzadeh, but the
court cannot find it.)
 
In short, until these questions are answered, the court
cannot approve the settlement.  The
motion is therefore DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE. 
The parties may bring a second motion that addresses these issues.