 Case Number:  21STCV19944    Hearing Date:   July 12, 2024    Dept:  T Motion: Motion to Strike Punitive DamagesMoving Party: Defendant VCI Construction, LLC      Responding Party: Plaintiffs Eduardo Tizoc and Jocelyn Tizoc Tentative Ruling: Granted with leave to amendBACKGROUND On April 9, 2024, Plaintiffs filed the operative Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) alleging causes of action for: (1) Negligence; and (2) Motor Vehicle.  On June 13, 2024, Defendant VCI filed and served the instant Motion to Strike Punitive Damages. On June 28, 2024, Plaintiffs filed an opposition to the motion to strike, to which Defendant VCI replied on July 5, 2024. MOVING PARTY POSITION Defendant VCI argues that Plaintiffs have not pleaded facts showing that Defendant VCI’s behavior was fraudulent, oppressive, or malicious and there no facts to support that Defendant VCI engaged in despicable conduct. Further, Defendant VCI contends that the SAC does not state a claim for punitive damages and the SAC lacks any facts showing that an officer, director, or managing agent of VCI ratified Defendant Moran’s conduct or acted with oppression, fraud, or malice. OPPOSITION Plaintiffs assert that they have established a prima facie claim to support punitive damages and Defendant VCI argues the merits of the SAC which is improper on a motion to strike. Plaintiffs request leave to amend if the allegations are deemed deficient.  ANALYSIS I. Legal Standard/Applicable Law  Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole or any part thereof.¿ (Code of Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1); Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1322, subd. (b).)¿ The court may, upon a motion or at any time in its discretion and upon terms it deems proper: (1) strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of California, a court rule, or an order of the court.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a)-(b); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767, 782.)¿  “In order to survive a motion to strike an allegation of punitive damages, the ultimate facts showing an entitlement to such relief must be pled by a plaintiff.” (Clauson v. Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.) Civil Code § 3294 authorizes punitive damages upon a showing of malice, fraud, or oppression. Malice is defined as either “conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff,” or “despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.” (Civil Code § 3294(c)(1).) “Despicable conduct is conduct which is so vile, base, contemptible, miserable, wretched or loathsome that it would be looked down upon and despised by ordinary decent people.” (Mock v. Michigan Millers Mutual Ins. Co. (1992) 4 Cal. App. 4th 306, 331.) Fraud under California Civil Code, Section 3294(c)(3) “means an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.” California Civil Code, Section 3294(c)(2) defines oppression as “despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s rights.” Specific facts must be pled in support of punitive damages. (Hillard v. A.H. Robins Co. (1983) 148 Cal.App.3d 374, 391-392.) Facts must be pled to show that a defendant “act[ed] with the intent to vex, injure or annoy, or with a conscious disregard of the plaintiff’s rights.” (Silberg v. California Life Ins. Co. (1974) 11 Cal.3d 452, 462.) Conduct that is merely negligent will not support a claim for punitive damages. (Tomaselli v. Transamerica Ins. Co. (1994) 25 Cal.App.4th 1269, 1288.) An employer will not be liable for punitive damages based upon the acts of an employee of the employer, unless: (1) the employer had advance knowledge of the unfitness of the employee and employed him or her with a conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others; or (2) the employer ratified the wrongful conduct for which the damages are awarded or was personally guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice. (Civ. Code § 3294(b).) As to a corporate employer, “the advance knowledge and conscious disregard, authorization, ratification or act of oppression, fraud, or malice must be on the part of an officer, director, or managing agent of a corporation.” (Id.) A managing agent is someone who exercises substantial discretionary authority over decisions that ultimately determine corporate policy. (White v. Ultramar, Inc. (1999) 21 Cal.4th 563, 573.) A supervisory employee with hiring and firing power may qualify as a managing agent. (Id. at p. 580.)¿¿ II. Meet and Confer Requirement  Before filing a motion to strike, the moving party must meet and confer in person, by telephone, or by video conference with the party who filed the pleading to attempt to reach an agreement that would resolve the objections to the pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5, subd. (a).) “A determination by the court that the meet and confer process was insufficient shall not be grounds to grant or deny the motion to strike.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5, subd. (a)(4).) The Court finds that the meet and confer requirement has not been met. Counsel for Defendant VCI, Leeh A. Dibello (“Dibello”), declares that she sent a meet and confer letter to Plaintiffs’ counsel prior to filing the motion.  (Dibello Decl., ¶ 2; Ex. A.) No response has been received to the meet and confer letter. (Dibello Decl., ¶ 2.)  The Court finds that the meet and confer requirement has not been met as counsel did not meet and confer in person, by telephone, or by video conference. The Court, however, will still assess the merits of the motion to strike. The Court reminds the parties of the need to comply with the requirements of the Code of Civil Procedure. III.  Appropriateness of Striking Punitive Damages  Plaintiffs allege the following in the SAC: on or about June 7, 2019, Defendant Moran was driving his motor vehicle on Azusa Avenue at or near Gemini Street in the City of Industry in the course and scope of his employment with Defendant VCI. (SAC, ¶ 10.) Plaintiffs allege that Defendant Moran negligently and carelessly entered the intersection on a red light and caused a collision with the vehicle Plaintiff Eduardo Tizoc was a passenger in and caused Plaintiff Eduardo Tizoc to sustain devastating, life-changing, and catastrophic injuries. (SAC, ¶ 10.)  Plaintiffs set forth instances of Defendant Moran being involved in motor vehicle collisions, driving with a suspended license, and incurring moving violations. (SAC, ¶¶ 14-18.) Plaintiffs then allege that Defendant VCI had knowledge of Defendant Moran’s driving history, unsafe driving habits, and knowledge of Defendant Moran violating company policies, and knowledge of other facts pertaining to his driving history. (SAC, ¶¶ 19-33.) Plaintiffs allege that Defendant VCI ratified, consented to, and authorized the conduct of Defendant Moran. (SAC, ¶ 34.)  The Court notes that Plaintiffs are only seeking punitive damages pursuant to the first cause of action for negligence. However, conduct that is merely negligent will not support a claim for punitive damages. (Tomaselli v. Transamerica Ins. Co., supra, 25 Cal.App.4th 1269, 1288.)  The Court finds that Plaintiffs have not alleged sufficient facts showing malice, fraud, or oppression to warrant the imposition of punitive damages. Moreover, Plaintiffs only make conclusory allegations that an officer, director, or managing agent ratified, authorized, or consented to the alleged conduct of Defendant Moran. The punitive damages allegations in the SAC are much too conclusory.  As such, the Court finds that the punitive damages allegations should be stricken. RULING  Based on the foregoing, Defendant VCI’s Motion to Strike Punitive Damages is GRANTED.  Although Plaintiff requested leave to amend, the opposition failed to demonstrate any additional allegations that might be included in an amended complaint that would overcome the defects described above.  Absent such a showing, the Court does not grant leave to amend.  Cooper v. Leslie Salt Co. (1969) 70 Cal.2d 627, 636.