  Case Number:  20STCV38741    Hearing Date:   July 12, 2024    Dept:  T 20STCV38741
Defense MIL #1
Tentative Ruling:  Denied.  
Motions in limine should address evidentiary issues.  The Court cannot rule on anticipated conduct by
Plaintiff’s counsel unless and until that conduct occurs.  However, the Court does note that it will promptly
sustain objections regarding references to the “golden rule,” appeals to sympathy,
preconditioning the jury as to a large verdict, implying that the defendant drove
the case to trial, or suggesting that the jury is the voice of the
community.  
Defense MIL #2
Tentative Ruling: 
Granted in part.
Generally speaking, police reports, including the traffic collision
report in this matter, are inadmissible. 
Certain portions of reports may be admissible and may be used to refresh
recollections.  
Body cam footage containing hearsay statements or
inadmissible opinions relating to fault is also inadmissible, but some portions
may contain statements that are not hearsay or are subject to hearsay
exceptions or may depict the scene of the collision and may be admissible.
Unless a police officer is designated as an expert to
testify as to fault for the collision, any such opinions as to fault are inadmissible.  If the officer is designated, then only one
expert per area of testimony is permitted.
Defense MIL #2
Tentative Ruling: 
Granted in part.
With regard to medical billing that was paid by insurance, the
Court grants the motion as to limiting the introduction of the amounts paid for
medical bills as opposed to the amount billed. 
Howell v. Hamilton Meats & Provisions (2011) 52 Cal.4th
541.
The balance of the motion is denied.  To the extent that Plaintiff wishes to introduce
any other billing (paid or not), it is Plaintiff’s burden to establish their
admissibility.  
Plaintiff MIL #1
Tentative Ruling:  Denied
Based on the depositions lodged with the Court, it appears
that Defendant’s experts were deposed.
Plaintiff MIL #2
Tentative Ruling:  Denied
The Court notes that physicians who treat on a lien basis routinely
negotiate their liens and accept less than the amount billed at the conclusion
of the case.  Consequently, Defendant
should be allowed to cross-examine lien physicians regarding that practice when
establishing the reasonable value of the medical care provided.  Further, a physician treating on a lien has a
direct interest in the success of the case, which is a valid basis to attack
credibility.  Any arguable prejudice is
outweighed by the probative value.
Plaintiff MIL #3
Tentative Ruling:  Denied.Preexisting relationships between Plaintiff’s counsel and physicians
is a valid ground to attack the credibility and bias of the physician or the reasonableness of the care. Any arguable prejudice is outweighed by the
probative value.