  Case Number:  22VECV01458    Hearing Date:   April 8, 2024    Dept:  W KIMBERLY
DAVIS, et al. v. PAIGE HEMMIS, et al.
 
COMPASS CALIFORNIA, INC.’S MOTION
TO STRIKE PORTIONS OF PLAINTIFFS’ VERIFIED THIRD AMENDED COMPLAINT

Date of Hearing:        April
8, 2024                          Trial Date:       None
set. 
Department:              W                                            Case
No.:        22VECV01458
 
Moving Party:            Defendant Compass California, Inc. dba Compass 
Responding Party:     Plaintiffs Kimberly Davis and Jonathan
Davis  
Meet and Confer:      Yes. (Cortes Decl. ¶4) 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On February 6, 2024, Plaintiffs
Kimberly Davis and Jonathan Davis filed a third amended complaint against
Defendants Paige Hemmis, Jason Short, Ameka Benton, Scott Fields, Hallmark Cards,
Inc., Crown Media Holdings, Inc., Paige Hemmis, Inc., Aria Music Group, The
Oaks of Calabasas Homeowners Association, Melissa Improta, Jason Improta, and Compass
California, Inc. for 1) Intentional Interference with Contract; 2) Negligence; 3)
Trespass; 4) Violations of Civil Code § 1798.93; 5) Breach of Fiduciary Duty; 6)
Professional Negligence; 7) Unfair Business Practices; 8) Fraudulent
Concealment; 9) Negligent Misrepresentation; 10) Fraud; 11) Slander of Title; 12)
Constructive Fraud; 13) Wrongful Eviction; 14) Quiet Title; and 15) Conversion.
 
Plaintiffs allege about September 15,
2019, when Plaintiffs were absent from the subject property, Defendants Hemmis
and Short unlawfully entered upon the subject property and remained in
possession of the property until early July 2022. While Defendants Hemmis and
Short were in possession of the property, Plaintiffs were engaged in a dispute
with their mortgage lender, US Bank, related to a settlement agreement that was
entered into to address the pay off of a mortgage loan. Plaintiffs further
allege at some point prior to September 12, 2019, Defendants Hemmis, Short, Improta
and Compass engaged in a conspiracy to attempt to steal title to the
Plaintiffs’ home. On this point, Plaintiffs claim Hemmis and Short fraudulently
forged a lease that purported to have Kimberly Davis' signature on it. As a
result of Defendants’ actions, Plaintiffs have been damaged. Plaintiff
dismissed Defendants Ameka Benton and Scott Fields. 
 
On March 24, 2023, this action was
related to Kimberly Davis v. Nationstar, et al. (23VECV01125). 
 
On August 18, 2023, Paige Hemmis and
Jason Short filed a cross-complaint against Kimberly Ann Davis, Compass
California, Inc. dba Compass, Melissa Improta, and Jason Improta for breach of
contract, money had and received, implied indemnification, express indemnification,
and comparative contribution. Cross-Complainants dismissed their cause of
action for express indemnification. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Defendant
Compass California, Inc. dba Compass’ Motion to Strike is DENIED. 
 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
In
opposition, Plaintiffs request this court take judicial notice of the May 5,
2023 Ruling on the Motion to Strike Portions of the First Amended Complaint and
the Third Amended Complaint filed February 6, 2024.
 
The court
GRANTS Plaintiffs’ request for judicial notice. (Evid. Code §452(d).) 
 
ANALYSIS
 
Defendant Compass California, Inc. dba
Compass moves the court for an order striking several portions of the complaint
regarding punitive damages against Compass. 
 
To state a claim for punitive damages
under Civil Code section 3294, a plaintiff must allege specific facts showing
that the¿defendant has been guilty of malice, oppression or fraud. (Smith v.
Superior Court (1992) 10 Cal. App. 4th 1033, 1042.) The basis for punitive
damages must be pled with specificity; conclusory allegations devoid of any
factual assertions are insufficient. (Id.) A motion to strike may lie
where the facts alleged, if proven, would not support a finding that the
defendant acted with malice, fraud or oppression. (Turman v. Turning Point
of Central California (2010) 191 Cal. App. 4th 53, 63.)¿¿ 
 
“An employer shall not be liable for
[punitive] damages ..., based upon acts of an employee of the employer, unless
the employer had advance knowledge of the unfitness of the employee and
employed him or her with a conscious disregard of the rights or safety of
others or authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct.... With respect to a
corporate employer, the advance knowledge and conscious disregard,
authorization, [or] ratification ... must be on the part of an officer,
director, or managing agent of the corporation.” (Civil Code § 3294.)
 
Defendant Compass argues the
allegations against them assert conclusory statements that Compass ratified the
Improtas alleged malicious, fraudulent, and oppressive misconduct.
Specifically, there are no facts alleged to support one of Compass’ officers,
directors, or managing agents ratified alleged fraudulent conduct of the Improtas
or had any knowledge that the person with whom the Improtas were communicating
with was not the actual owner of the subject property. Nor are there facts alleged to support Compass in some way ratified or
authorized the alleged failure to verify the identity of the owner of the
property. According to Compass, the allegations “Compass' conduct was unquestionably
intended to harm the Plaintiff by permitting Ms. Hemmis to unlawfully occupy
the property, as part of her scheme with Compass to attempt to take title to
the property and/or potentially extract case from Plaintiffs' lender[]” merely
alleges a type of harm without any facts to suggest the intent to cause said
harm and is therefore a conclusory statement. As a result, Defendant Compass
contends there can be no allegation that Compass ratified any alleged
fraudulent conduct because there was no fraudulent conduct to ratify. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiffs argue the TAC
properly alleges that an officer, director, and/or managing agent (Matt Ogden)
was made fully aware of the Improta's fraud before the parties entered into the
2019 lease. Specifically, the complaint plainly alleges that Mr. Ogden was
aware that the Improtas failed to verify the identity of the owner of the
property at the time that the lease was signed, but decided to proceed with the
transaction anyway. Plaintiffs further note the complaint alleges that another
director at Compass, Kathy Mehringer, was made aware of the Improta’s and Mr.
Ogden’s misconduct and did nothing to discipline either the Improta’s or Mr.
Ogden. Accordingly, Plaintiffs contend the jury could certainly infer that the
fact that a very sophisticated real estate brokerage would most certainly not
have simply forgot to check the identity of someone they were involved in a
complicated lease, with a right of first refusal to buy of a multi-million
dollar home, but that they did so intentionally, thereby disregarding the
Plaintiff’s rights, with their motive to profit off of the commission for
finalizing the lease and the substantial additional profit that they could hope
to earn in the future. 
 
The court finds the allegations
sufficient to support a claim for punitive damages for the purposes of a motion
to strike. The allegations are much more than conclusory as Plaintiffs have
alleged an officer, director and/or managing agent spoke with the Improtas
about never having met or spoken to Plaintiffs but continued to facilitate the
transaction in order to receive a commission. The complaint further alleges another
director at Compass was made aware of the Improta’s and Mr. Ogden’s misconduct
yet took no action and therefore, ratified the fraudulent conduct. These
allegations are just sufficient enough to support a claim against Compass for
punitive damages.  
 
Accordingly, Defendant Compass’ Motion
to Strike is DENIED. 