  Case Number:  23STCV21093    Hearing Date:   October 5, 2023    Dept:  85 
CRECFIV ATO Holdings
LLC v. 
E.L. Lotus LLC et. al,
23STCV21093
Tentative decision on
motion for appointment of receiver: granted



            
 
            Plaintiff
CRECFIV ATO Holdings LLC (“Lender”) moves for the appointment of Mitch Vanneman (“Vanneman”) as a receiver to
protect, maintain, manage, and operate real property at 118 Astronaut Ellison S
Onizuka St., Los Angeles, CA 90012 (“Property”).
            The
court has read and considered the moving papers (no opposition was filed) and
renders the following tentative decision.  
 
            
A. Statement of the Case
            1.
Complaint
            Lender
filed the Complaint on August 31,
2023 against Defendants E.L. Lotus LLC (“Borrower”), Afshin Etebar (“Afshin”),
and Babak Etebar (“Babak”), alleging (1) breach of loan documents; (2) account
stated; (3) money lent; (4) breach of guaranties; (5) judicial foreclosure of
deed of trust and deficiency judgment; (6) specific performance and appointment
of receiver; (7) claim and delivery; and (8) injunctive relief.  The Complaint alleges in pertinent part as
follows.
            By
assignment, Lender loaned Lotus $47,570,000 pursuant to a Loan Agreement signed
on June 7, 2021 (“Loan”) and a Note pursuant thereto for the same amount.  A deed of trust recorded on June 9, 2021
(“DOT”) encumbers the Property and other collateral described therein in favor
of Lender to secure the Loan.  A UCC-1
financing statement perfects this interest.
            Also
on June 7, 2021, Afshin and Babak signed Indemnity and Guaranty Agreements
(“Guaranties”) guaranteeing the payment and performance of “Costs” and
“Guaranteed Recourse Obligations of Borrower” as defined therein.  A separate Completion
Guaranty required each to guarantee the complete and punctual construction of
the project on the Property.  A Carry
Guaranty required each to guarantee the prompt payment of certain
reserves, monthly payments, and other costs, fees and charges.  An Environmental
Indemnity required each to indemnify Lender from claims related to
certain environmental and hazardous substances. 
            On
January 18 and March 7, 2023, Borrower made draw requests of $346,810.64 and $258,103.38,
respectively.  The request represented
that it was no event of default had occurred at the time nor would occur with
the request.  Sections 9.13 and 9.14 of
the Loan require appropriate equity
contributions as a condition precedent to the Lander advancing funds pursuant
to a draw request.  Borrower failed to
make those contributions.  Lender would
not have advanced the funds if it had known this.
            On
June 22, 2023, Lender notified Borrower that it had failed to pay the full
amount due under the Note.  A second
demand letter on July 26 gave notice that the
Loan matured under its own terms on July 1. 
As of August 31, Borrower owes $46,532,685.87 plus attorney’s fees and
costs in this action.  Borrower and
Guarantors have also defaulted for failure to complete the mixed residential
and retail condominium construction project per the DOT and Completion
Guaranty.
            In the event of default under the
Loan, section 3.1(d) of the DOT allows the Lender to apply for appointment of a
receiver for the Property without notice to Borrower.  Borrower irrevocably consented to such
appointment in those circumstances. 
Borrower also appointed Lender with the power of attorney to perform
various duties as to the Property. 
Borrower’s majority owner Lennar Homes of California, Inc. (“Lennar”)
now refuses to engage in substantive discussions about the completion and
protection of the Property, efforts to appoint a receiver, or other
matters.  Lennar has effectively
abandoned any efforts to financially support the Property.
            Lender seeks an award against Borrower
$46,532,685.87, plus fees and costs both for this action and for the hiring of
a consultant.  The damages award should accrue
interest at the rates listed in the Note. 
Lender also seeks judgment against the Guarantors in an amount to be
determined, plus attorney’s fees and costs. 

            Lender further seeks judicial foreclosure
of the DOT and judgment for the sale of the property securing it, with proceeds
applied to amounts owed to Lender, and a turnover order for the same property.  Lender seeks appointment of a receiver and an
order to turn the Property over to said receiver.
 
            2.
Course of Proceedings
            On
September 8, 2023, Lender personally served Afshin with the Complaint, Summons,
and moving papers.
            On
September 12, 2023, Lender personally served Borrower and Babak with the
Complaint, Summons, and moving papers.
            
            B.
Applicable Law
            CCP
section 564(b) provides that the court has authority to appoint a receiver in
any of the following pertinent circumstances: (2) in an action by a secured
lender for the foreclosure of a deed of trust or mortgage and sale of property
upon which there is a lien under a deed of trust or mortgage, where it appears
that the property is in danger of being lost, removed, or materially injured,
or that the condition of the deed of trust or mortgage has not been performed,
and that the property is probably insufficient to discharge the deed of trust
or mortgage debt; (9) in all cases where necessary to preserve the property or
rights of any party; and (11) in an action by a secured lender for specific
performance of an assignment of rents provision in a deed of trust, mortgage,
or separate assignment document.  If
under CCP section 564(b)(11), the appointment may continue after entry of a
judgment for specific performance if appropriate to protect, operate, or
maintain real property encumbered by a deed of trust or mortgage or to collect
rents therefrom while a pending nonjudicial foreclosure under power of sale in
a deed of trust or mortgage is being completed.
            The
appointment of a receiver is a drastic remedy to be utilized only in
“exceptional cases.”  As such, a receiver
should not be appointed unless absolutely essential and because no other remedy
will serve its purpose.  City &
County of San Francisco v. Daley, (1993) 16 Cal.App.4th 734, 744.  A provision in
the loan documents that expressly provides for the appointment of a receiver in
the event of default is not controlling but is of some evidentiary value. 
Barclays Bank of California v. Superior Court (“Barclays”) (1977)
69 Cal.App.3d 593, 601-02. 
 
            C.
Statement of Facts
            Borrower
currently possesses the Property.  Lavian
Decl., ¶5.  On June 7, 2021, Lender’s
predecessor-in-interest CRECFIV Holdings, LLC (“Predecessor”) executed a Loan
to Borrower for a maximum principal amount of $47,570,000 and a Note to the
same effect.  Lavian Decl., ¶¶ 6-7, Exs.
A, C.  
            To
secure the Loan, a DOT recorded on June 9, 2021 encumbered both the Property
and other collateral described therein.  Lavian
Decl., ¶8, Ex. D.  Section 3.1 authorizes
judicial foreclosure or foreclosure by power of sale upon default.  Lavian Decl., ¶8, Ex. D.  Section 3.1(d) also authorizes Lender to move
for appointment of a receiver for the Property, without notice to Borrower or regard
to the adequacy of the Property or the repayment of the Loan.  Lavian Decl., ¶8, Ex. D.  Borrower waived any notice of and defense to
such appointment and agreed not to oppose any application for it.  Lavian Decl., ¶8, Ex. D.  
            Lender
perfected its interest in the Property and other collateral via a fixture
filing recorded on June 8, 2021 as Instrument No. 0912366 and a UCC-1 financing
statement.  Lavian Decl., ¶9, Exs. E-F.
            On
July 30, 2021, Predecessor assigned its rights under the Loan, Note, and DOT to
Lender.  Lavian Decl., ¶6, Ex. B.
            On
June 22, 2023, Lender gave notice via letter to Borrower and Guarantors that
Borrower had defaulted under the Note for failure to pay on June 1, 2023.  Lavian Decl., ¶12, Ex. G.  On July 26, 2023, Lender gave notice via a second
letter that the Maturity Date of the Loan was July 1, 2023, at which time all
accrued and unpaid sums thereunder became due. 
Lavian Decl., ¶13, Ex. H.  The
failure to repay those obligations at the time also constituted an event of
default.  Lavian Decl., ¶13, Ex. H.  The letter demanded repayment of the
outstanding $45,208,381.18 balance.  Lavian
Decl., ¶13, Ex. H.  
            Despite
these demand letters, Borrower has not taken any action to repay the
outstanding indebtedness.  Lavian Decl.,
¶14.  Borrower has also defaulted for
failure to complete the construction project on the Property on a timely
basis.  Lavian Decl., ¶15.
            Lender
is informed that Borrower has abandoned the Property, which now lacks
appropriate security and is at risk of immediate harm.  Lavian Decl., ¶16.  The failure to complete the project and the
mechanics liens recorded against the Property also place the Property in
peril.  Lavian Decl., ¶16.  The incomplete structure thereon is in
immediate jeopardy of potentially irreparable damage, including the risk that
unhoused persons will use the incomplete structure thereon as shelter.  Lavian Decl., ¶16.  Each of these constitute standalone events of
default.  Lavian Decl., ¶17.
            The
outstanding balance under the Loan as of August 31, 2023 is $46,532,685.87 plus
accrued interest and fees and costs connected to the enforcement of Lender
rights and remedies.  Lavian Decl., ¶18.  Lender performed all covenants and conditions
required under the Loan, Note, DOT, fixture filing, and UCC-1 filing.  Lavian Decl., ¶19.
 
            D.
Analysis
            Lender
moves for the appointment of a receiver for the Property pursuant to CCP
sections 564(b)(2), (9), and (11) and a TRO to enjoin Borrower from transferring,
concealing, removing, impairing, or using the Property pending an OSC hearing.  Mot. at 9. 
No opposition has been filed.
            The
court has authority to appoint a receiver in an action by a secured lender for
the foreclosure of a deed of trust or mortgage and sale of property upon which
there is a lien under a deed of trust or mortgage, where it appears that the
property is in danger of being lost, removed, or materially injured, or that
the condition of the deed of trust or mortgage has not been performed, and that
the property is probably insufficient to discharge the deed of trust or
mortgage debt.  CCP §564(b)(2).
            Lender
shows that the Borrower is in default.  The
Note was for a maximum principal amount of $47,570,000.  Lavian Decl., ¶7, Ex. C.  A July 26, 2023 demand letter listed the
amount owed as $45,208,381.18.  Lavian
Decl., ¶13, Ex. H.  The outstanding
balance as of August 31, 2023 is $46,532,685.87 plus accrued interest, fees,
and costs.  Lavian Decl., ¶18.  
On June 22, 2023, Lender gave notice via letter to Borrower
and Guarantors that Borrower had defaulted under the Note for failure to pay on
June 1, 2023.  Lavian Decl., ¶12, Ex.
G.  On July 26, 2023, Lender gave notice
via a second letter that the Maturity Date of the Loan was July 1, 2023, at
which time all accrued and unpaid sums thereunder became due.  Lavian Decl., ¶13, Ex. H.  The failure to repay those obligations at the
time also constituted an event of default. 
Lavian Decl., ¶13, Ex. H.  The
letter demanded repayment of the outstanding $45,208,381.18 balance.  Lavian Decl., ¶13, Ex. H.  
            Borrower
has also defaulted for failure to complete the construction project on the
Property on a timely basis.  Lavian
Decl., ¶15.  Lender is informed that
Borrower has abandoned the Property, which now lacks appropriate security and
is at risk of immediate harm.  Lavian
Decl., ¶16.  The failure to complete the
project and the mechanics liens recorded against the Property also place the
Property in peril.  Lavian Decl.,
¶16.  The incomplete structure thereon is
in immediate jeopardy of potentially irreparable damage, including the risk
that unhoused persons will use the incomplete structure thereon as
shelter.  Lavian Decl., ¶16.  Each of these constitute standalone events of
default.  Lavian Decl., ¶17.
After an event of default, section 3.3 of the DOT permits
the Lender or an appointed receiver to take possession and control of the
Property, manage and operate it, preserve and maintain it, repair and alter it,
complete any construction or repair of the planned improvements in accordance with
the approved budget, market or lease the Property, and collect all rents and
profits from it.  Mot. at 9; Lavian
Decl., ¶8, Ex. D. 
 
E. Conclusion
            Appointment
of a receiver is appropriate under CCP section 564(b)(2) and the unopposed
motion is granted.  Lender requests the
appointment of Mitch Vanneman (“Vanneman”) as receiver.  The proposed order reflects that Lender wants
the receiver to manage and oversee completion of the Project construction,
including issuing up to $8 million in receiver certificates, and then sell it.  Vanneman is located in Illinois and the court
is unclear how much work is required to complete the construction and how
Vanneman would do so from Chicago.Further, the proposed order is not on the Judicial Council form for a
capital receiver that the court requires.The court will discuss these issues with counsel at hearing.