  Case Number:  21STCV39137    Hearing Date:   December 5, 2023    Dept:  74 Gabriel
Barahona, et al. v. Kia America, Inc.       
Motion for Sanctions
The
court considered the moving papers, opposition, and reply.
BACKGROUND 
            This
action arises from a defective 2020 Kia Optima.
            On
October 22, 2021, Plaintiffs Gabriel and Bertha Barahona (Plaintiffs) filed a
complaint against Defendant Kia America, Inc. (Defendant). 
            On
October 17, 2023, Plaintiffs filed this motion for sanctions for failure to
comply with the court’s discovery order on September 16, 2022.
DISCUSSION
            Plaintiffs seek sanctions because
Defendant failed to comply with the court’s September 16, 2022 order to provide
further, verified, code compliant responses without objection to Plaintiffs’
request for production of documents (set one). As a preliminary matter, the
court notes that despite the September 16 order, Defendant’s supplemental
responses contain objections. (Crandall Decl., ¶ 20; Ex. 7.) Plaintiffs further
contend that Defendants have not produced technical service bulletins TRA085,
TRA083, and TRA098, all of which apply to the transmission defect at issue in
the subject vehicle. Plaintiffs claim these documents would have been
responsive to multiple RFPs. For example, RFP No. 16 seeks documents concerning
Defendant’s investigation of the transmission defect in vehicles of the same
year, make, and model as the subject vehicle. Although Defendant agreed to
produce all documents in its possession, custody, and control, it never
produced the technical service bulletins at issue. In its opposition, Defendant
contends those technical service bulletins were never applied to the subject
vehicle, which means they were not subject to the court’s September 16 order
compelling further responses. However, RFP No. 16 does not merely request
documents regarding the transmission defect in the subject vehicle. Rather, the
request covers vehicles of the same year, make, and model as the subject
vehicle as well. The court’s September 16 order did not limit the request.
Thus, Defendant failed to comply with the court’s September 16 order.
            The
court finds that the circumstances do not warrant terminating sanctions. (Lopez
v. Watchtower Bible & Tract Soc. Of New York, Inc. (2016) Cal.App.4th
566, 604 [discovery statutes evince an incremental approach, starting with
monetary sanctions and ending with ultimate terminating sanction].) However, the
court orders the parties to be prepared to discuss during the hearing the
appropriateness of the proposed issue and evidentiary sanctions that Plaintiff
requests in Plaintiff’s proposed order filed on October 17, 2023.