  Case Number:  19STCV18737    Hearing Date:   May 1, 2024    Dept:  78  Superior Court of CaliforniaCounty of Los AngelesDepartment 78THE BEE CONSTRUCTION, Plaintiff, vs.ONNI CONTRACTING (CALIFORNIA), INC., et al. Defendants. Case No.: 19STCV18737 Hearing Date: May 1, 2024 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE: MOTION FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION FILED BY CROSS-DEFENDANT ONNICross-Defendant Onni Contracting’s motion for summary adjudication is GRANTED as to the Second (mechanic’s lien), Fourth (unjust enrichment), Fifth (conversion), and Ninth (breach of fiduciary duty) causes of action.The motion is GRANTED with respect to (1) Onni Real Estate IX, LLC; (2) Onni South Hill Limited Partnership; (3) Onni Manhattan Beach Realty, LLC; and (4) Manhattan Beach Holdings, ULC as to causes of action one through 11.The motion is DENIED with respect to the remaining causes of action.The twelfth cause of action also remains as it was not the subject of this motion.Moving party to provide notice and to file proof of service of such notice.FACTUAL BACKGROUNDOn March 8, 2023, Domus Design Group, LLC (“Domus”) filed a Second Amended Cross-Complaint (“SACC”) against several cross-defendants, including Onni Contracting (California), Inc. A summary of the allegations in the SACC is as follows.Domus alleges that in 2017, it entered into contracts with Onni regarding two development projects for buildings Onni was constructing on Hill Street and Hope Street. Domus was to supply custom cabinets. Onni approved all material samples and paid for the materials but refused to accept delivery due to construction delays. In June 2018, Onni executives asked for changes in the container loading schedule, accelerating container loading. Domus warned that if Onni accelerated the containers, Onni would be required to immediately accept delivery to the project jobsite or storage costs would apply at Onni’s expense. After Onni approved acceleration of the containers, Onni instructed Domus to store the containers at the Port of Los Angeles with full knowledge that Onni would incur daily storage costs which must be paid before the shipping lines would allow the materials to leave the port. Of 20 shipping containers, Domus delivered 14 under Onni’s written guarantee that it would pay for the extra storage costs. Domus relied on Onni’s guarantees and continued deliveries based on Onni’s promise. Onni then refused to pay for storage costs. Geodis, the company which stored the containers, demanded full payment for the already delivered containers and the remaining containers in storage. In January 2019, when six more containers arrived at the port, Onni directed Domus to store the containers at the port. In March 2019, Onni promised to pay Geodis directly for storage costs. Moris De Cotiis, an Onni executive, vetoed this promise. Although Onni executives rushed staff to prepare a check for Geodis, Apriano Meola, another Onni executive, later ordered the checks shredded. In April 2019, Onni sent Domus a notice of default and a notice of termination. PROCEDURAL HISTORYOn February 9, 2024, Cross-Defendants Onni Contracting (California), Inc. (“Onni Contracting”), Onni Real Estate IX, LLC (“Onni Real Estate”), Onni South Hill Limited Partnership (“Onni South Hill”), and Onni Manhattan Beach Realty, LLC (“Onni Manhattan Beach”) and Manhattan Beach Holdings, ULC (“Manhattan Beach Holdings”) (collectively “Onni”) filed this motion for summary adjudication as to the following causes of action: (1) breach of contract; (2) foreclosure of mechanic’s liens; (3) common counts; (4) unjust enrichment; (5) conversion; (6) declaratory relief (7) fraudulent inducement; (8) fraud; (9) breach of fiduciary duty; (10) unfair business practices; and (11) breach of confidentiality. All Onni defendants are named in each cause of action.Onni has not moved for summary adjudication as to the twelfth cause of action for equitable indemnification.On April 10, 2024, Domus filed an opposition.On April 19, 2024, Onni filed a reply.DISCUSSIONOnni moves for summary adjudication as to the causes of action for breach of contract, foreclosure of mechanic’s lien, common counts, unjust enrichment, conversion, declaratory relief, fraudulent inducement, fraud, breach of fiduciary duty, unfair business practices, and breach of confidentiality. I. Legal StandardA party may move for summary judgment “if it is contended that the action has no merit or that there is no defense to the action or proceeding.”  (Code Civ. Proc., section 437c, subd. (a).) “[I]f all the evidence submitted, and all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law,” the moving party will be entitled to summary judgment.  (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) A motion for summary adjudication may be made by itself or as an alternative to a motion for summary judgment and shall proceed in all procedural respects as a motion for summary judgment.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (f)(2).)   The moving party bears an initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact, and if he does so, the burden shifts to the opposing party to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of material fact. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850; accord Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) In order to obtain summary judgment, a defendant may elect to show that an essential element of a plaintiff’s claim cannot be established (as opposed to presenting affirmative evidence negating as a matter of law an essential element of a plaintiff’s claim.). A defendant does this by presenting evidence that plaintiff does not possess and cannot reasonably obtain needed evidence. (Aguilar 25 Cal.4th 826 at 854.) This is usually done by presenting evidence in the form of admissions by plaintiff that plaintiff has discovered nothing to support an element of the cause of action they are pursuing. (Id. at 855.) This shifts the burden to a plaintiff to raise a triable issue of fact as to that element of the cause of action at issue. The Onni seeks summary judgment on the basis that Domus does not possess and cannot reasonably obtain needed evidence. “When deciding whether to grant summary judgment, the court must consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers (except evidence to which the court has sustained an objection), as well as all reasonable inferences that may be drawn from that evidence, in the light most favorable to the party opposing summary judgment.” (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467; see also Code Civ. Proc., section 437c(c).) II. Judicial NoticeOnni requests judicial notice of the Cross-Complaint, First Amended Cross-Complaint, and Second Amended Cross-Complaint filed by Domus in this action. The requests are granted.Domus requests judicial notice of Onni’s Cross-Complaint filed September 7, 2022, Domus’s Second Amended Cross-Complaint filed March 8, 2023, sections 9.3.2 and 3.2.2 of The American Institute of Architects AIA General Conditions, Domus’s Cross-Complaint filed January 24, 2020, Domus’s First Amended Cross-Complaint filed April 8, 2021, sections of the California Uniform Commercial Code, Business and Professions Code, and Civil Code. The request for judicial notice as to the American Institute of Architects AIA General Conditions is denied because it is not a matter which may be judicially noticed. The remaining requests are granted.III. Evidentiary ObjectionsDomus objects to the declaration of Apriano Meola. The objections are OVERRULED, however the Court will not consider any legal conclusions reached by Meloa.On reply, Onni filed 90 objections to the declaration of Kulikov. It is not necessary to rule on all these objections as most of the portions of the declaration are not material to the decision here. To the extent the Court is relying on the Kulikov Declaration as set forth below, any objections the portions relied upon are OVERRULED.IV. AnalysisOnni moves for summary adjudication on the grounds that Domus cannot establish each element of causes of action one through 11.a. Alter Ego LiabilityOnni moves for summary adjudication as to causes of action one through 11 as to all the Onni defendants that are not Onni Contracting. Onni argues that Domus failed to plead that Onni Real Estate, Onni South Hill, Onni Manhattan Beach, and Manhattan Beach Holdings are alter egos of each other and Onni Contracting. Onni further contends that that Domus cannot prove that these entities were alter egos of Onni Contracting and each other. A plaintiff who seeks to impose liability pursuant to the alter ego doctrine must prove: “(1) unity of interest and ownership between the two entities and (2) an inequitable result if the two entities are not equally liable.” (Constellation-F, LLC v World Trading 23, Inc. (2020) 45 Cal.App.5th 22, 30.)With respect to the first factor, unity of interest and ownership, there are numerous factors to be considered in determining whether the unity of interest is such that multiple corporations should be treated as one. These factors include inadequate capitalization, disregard of corporate formalities, identical directors and officers, commingling of funds and other assets, identical equitable ownership of the entities, the holding out by one entity that it is liable for the debts of the other, use of the same offices and employees, and use of one as a mere shell or conduit for the affairs of the other.  (Shaoxing County Huayue Import & Export v. Bhaumik (2011) 191 Cal.App.4th 1189; Brooklyn Navy Yard Cogeneration Partners, L.P. v. Superior Court (1997) 60 Cal.App.4th 248.) Here, Domus represented in its discovery responses that the facts giving rise to the claim that all the Onni defendants are alter egos of Onni Contracting and one another are contained within the SACC. (Murphy Decl., Exh. J, Domus’s Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set Three, Response to SROG No. 110) Domus’s SACC alleges that the other Onni entities comprise a network of corporate entities owned and controlled by the family-run Onni organization. (SACC ¶¶2-6, 11.) Assuming these facts were established, these facts alone do not show that there is a triable issue of fact with respect to the first prong of the test, unity of interest.  Here, Domus has met its burden In its opposition, Domus argues that holding the five Onni cross-defendants, not just Onni Contracting, liable is appropriate pursuant to an alter ego theory “because there is a unity of interest and ownership among Cross-Defendants; they share joint ownership, management, control are run by the same officers, directors and shareholders.” Domus further asserts that “inequitable results will certainly follow if the acts in question are treated as those of Onni Contracting alone.” (Opposition at pg. 19 and pg. 19, ftn.5) However, Domus does not cite to any evidentiary support for any of these propositions. (Opposition at pg. 19.)   Domus has had ample time to complete discovery. Trial is scheduled for June 10, 2024. To the extent that there are facts which would demonstrate that there is a triable issue of material fact on the alter ego issue, Domus should have presented those facts here. It did not.For simplicity’s sake, the Court will focus on the second prong of the test, inequitable results. Domus does not provide any description of what the inequitable result would be, much less any evidence supporting such a contention. Alex Kulikov, the principal of Domus, simply asserts in his declaration at paragraph 79 that “it would be a great injustice and offensive to the interest of justice and likely to result in inequitable results and treatment for Domus if it was determined that Onni Contracting (California), Inc. was determined to be the only entity liable to Domus.” This is an improper legal conclusion, and no facts are provided to support it.Domus also suggests that all the Onni defendants had a direct business relationship with Domus citing to paragraphs 72 through 79 of the Kulikov Declaration. These paragraphs are a confusing jumble in which facts and legal conclusions are mixed. Kulikov’s declaration merely establishes that that individuals who held positions with some of the other Onni defendants also held positions with Onni Contracting and that Domus had contacts with these individuals and others at the various Onni entities. Domus does not provide evidence of any contracts between it and any Onni defendants, other than Onni Contracting, relating to the Hope Project and the Hill Project. Domus provides no evidence that the other Onni entities took any wrongful actions. Therefore, Domus fails to meet its burden of proving a triable issue of material fact remains over whether the other Onni defendants are alter egos of each other and Onni Contracting or are otherwise liable in this action.Onni’s motion for summary adjudication is GRANTED as to the other Onni defendants with respect to Causes of Action one through 11. b. First Cause of Action – Breach of ContractOnni Contracting moves for summary adjudication of the first cause of action for breach of contract on the grounds that (1) Domus cannot establish that Onni Contracting breached either of its contracts with Domus, (2) Domus’s demand for damages for extra costs caused by delay is prohibited under the terms of the contracts, (3) Onni Contracting was permitted to keep a retainage after contract termination, and (4) Domus failed to perform under the contract.“[T]he elements of a cause of action for breach of contract are (1) the existence of the contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach, and (4) the resulting damages to the plaintiff.”  (Thrifty Payless, Inc. v. The Americana at Brand, LLC (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 1230, 1244.) There is no dispute that Onni Contracting and Domus executed two contracts, one for the Hill Project and one for the Hope Project. The parties agree that the two contracts are identical except for dates, prices, and other details that are not pertinent here. The SACC contends that Onni Contracting breached the Hope Project contract by failing to pay Geodis for the costs of storing six shipping containers filled with cabinets to be used in the Hope Project.The SACC also contends that Onni Contracting breached both contracts by withholding payments from Domus on both the Hill Project and the Hope Project. Both sides inundated the Court with multiple copies of the two contracts, as well as copies of pleadings in the case. The Court will reference the contracts attached as Exhibit 1 to the SACC. Onni Contracting contends that under the terms of the Hope Project contract Domus, not Onni Contracting, was responsible for any costs incurred for storing the custom cabinetry supplied by Domus. Onni Contracting cites to Page 3, paragraph 9 and Page 14, clause 29 of the Hope Project contract in support of its argument that Domus was responsible for providing everything from design through delivery for the prices of $2,988,919. (Onni Separate Statement ¶ 9.) Paragraph 9 of the Hope Project contract reads as follows.The contract price for the Work, inclusive of all applicable sale and use taxes for which Subcontractor shall be liable as the “retailer” to the Prime Contractor is (U.S.) $2,988,919 . .  . (the “Contract Price”). Payments on account of the Contract Price, less retention, shall be made in accordance with the Payment Schedule attached as Schedule C and any progress billing format provided to the Subcontractor by the Prime Contractor (SACC, Exh 1, pg. 47.)Clause 29 of the Hope Project contract is several pages in length and Onni Contracting does not indicate which portion it relies upon. (Onni Separate Statement ¶ 9.)Onni Contracting asserts that the Hope Project contract defines the scope of Work to include everything from design through delivery, which must include storage in addition to freight. (Onni Separate Statement ¶ 13.) In support of this contention, Onni cites to the Hope Street contract at Schedule B, beginning at page 25, including Section 13(a) where it states that Domus absorbs “all other costs related to completing the work 100%.” (Id.) Section 13(a) of Schedule B reads in its entirety as follows: “[t]he Subcontractor has absorbed all risk of price increases for raw material, labor, transportation fuel and any other cost related to completing the work 100%.” (SACC, Exh. 1, pg. 72.)The Hope Project contract defines the term Work. The contract states as follows.In order to complete the construction of the Project, the Prime Contractor wishes to engage the Subcontractor to carry out the work as described in the shop drawings, approved samples and as more specifically described in Schedule B (the “Work”).(SACC, Exh.1, pg. 45, paragraph B.)Schedule B describes the “Cabinet Scope of Work” as follows: [t]he Subcontractor to furnish Kitchen cabinets and Bathroom vanity assemblies and hardware in accordance with the attached Suite Interior Specifications dated May 02, 2017 and noted below.” (SACC, Exh.1, pg. 75, paragraph 29.) Paragraph 29 goes on to describe numerous items including in the Scope of Work. Storage costs are not discussed.Schedule B indicates that all deliveries are to be made FOB and describes other requirements regarding deliveries. (SACC, Exh. 1, pgs. 78-79, paragraph 34.) Storage costs are not discussed.The Court cannot conclude that Section 13(a), which references the risk of price increases, can be read to mean that Domus agreed to bear the cost of storage of the cabinets. Nor does Onni Contracting point to any other contractual provision that establishes that Domus will not be able to prove that Onni Contracting violated the terms of the Hope Project contract by failing to pay Geodis. Onni Contracting has not met its burden.However, even if Onni Contracting had met its burden, Domus has demonstrated the existence of a triable issue of material fact as to whether Onni Contracting was responsible for the storage costs at issue here.For instance, on March 29, 2019, Onni Contracting sent a change order to Domus indicating that the order was for “storage cost for containers due to job site not being ready to receive shipments.” (Domus Exh.40, pg. 1, Bates No. ONNI 0000072.) Onni Contracting further contends that it cannot be liable for any damages relating to storage costs since the Hope Project contract prohibits Domus from seeking damages as a result of delay. (Onni Separate Statement ¶ 33.) In support of this contention, Onni Contracting references Clause 45(g) of the contract. (Id.) Clause 45(g) reads as follows: “[t]he Subcontractor shall have no damages against the Prime Contractor for delay to the completion of the Work and the Prime Contractor’s sole liability to Subcontractor as compensation for any delays in completion of the Work shall be limited to an extension of time to complete the work.” (SACC, Exh. 1, pg. 64.)  Here, the meaning of this clause is framed by the definition of the Work discussed above. Domus is not seeking damages for delay in completion of the Work, which as defined does not include storage fees.Onni has not met its burden.Domus’s SACC also alleges that Onni Contracting breached the contracts by refusing to accept delivery of the materials. (SACC ¶28.) Onni Contracting fails to address this alleged breach or provide any evidence as to whether Onni Contracting refused to accept delivery. Having provided no evidence that it did not refuse to accept Domus’s delivery, Onni Contracting fails to meet its burden of proving no triable issue of material fact remains over whether it breached the contracts. The burden does not shift to Domus.Onni Contracting also argues that Domus suffered no damages for any alleged breach because Domus was paid the full contract price minus roughly $130,000 for the Hope Street contract and $60,000 for the Hill Street Contract. (Meola Decl., ¶¶13-14.) Onni cites paragraph 9 and clauses 29(b), 29(f), and 45 of the contracts in support of this argument. (UMF No. 18.) Paragraph 9 and clauses 29(b) and 29(f) define when the retainage may be paid. Clause 45 concerns delays and extensions of time. Relevant to termination, Clause 45(e) provides that Onni had the power to terminate in the event of a strike, lock-out, hand-billing, or similar event. Clause 45(h) provided that in the event of termination under Clause 45(e), Onni could pay the value of the work completed less any deficiency holdback. Onni did not terminate the contract for a walkout or similar event under Clause 45(e). Rather, Onni terminated the contract under Clause 50 for failure to pay a subcontractor. There, the contract states Domus would be entitled to payment for custom materials that had been installed, procured, produced, stored, or purchased as of the date of termination, which could include the cabinets here. Onni Contracting fails to meet its burden of proving no triable issue of material fact remains over whether Onni Contracting was permitted to keep the retainage under the parties’ contracts.Onni next argues that Domus failed to perform all conditions required under the contracts.A plaintiff claiming a breach of contract must at least show it substantially performed. “ ‘[S]ubstantial performance is sufficient, and justifies an action on the contract, although the other party is entitled to a reduction in the amount called for by the contract, to compensate for the defects.’ ... ‘What constitutes substantial performance is a question of fact, but it is essential that there be no willful departure from the terms of the contract, and that the defects be such as may be easily remedied or compensated, so that the promisee may get practically what the contract calls for.’ ” (Magic Carpet Ride LLC v. Rugger Investment Group, L.L.C. (2019) 41 Cal.App.5th 357, 364.) Here, Onni Contracting alleges that Domus did not seek approval to subcontract Geodis to provide storage, failed to provide Onni Contracting with timely invoices reflecting the storage fees, and failed to pay Geodis. However, for the reasons discussed above, there is a triable issue of material fact as to whether the Hope Project contract required Domus to do any of these things.The burden does not shift to Domus.Summary adjudication is denied as to this cause of action.c. Third Cause of Action – Common Counts and Sixth Cause of Action – Declaratory ReliefOnni moves for summary adjudication as to Domus’s causes of action for common counts and declaratory relief on the same grounds as the breach of contract cause of action. Because the motion was denied as to the breach of contract cause of action, the motion is denied as to the third and sixth causes of action.d. Second Cause of Action – Foreclosure of Mechanic’s LiensOnni next moves for summary adjudication as to the second cause of action for foreclosure of mechanic’s liens on the grounds that Domus failed to file its Cross-Complaint within 90 days of recording the liens.  “A mechanic's lien is a claim against the real property upon which the claimant has bestowed labor or furnished materials. [Citation.] A mechanic's lien is perfected by filing a claim of lien within certain time limitations and by meeting other statutory requirements.” (Shady Tree Farms v. Omni Financial (2012) 206 Cal.App.4th 131, 135.) A direct contractor may not enforce a lien unless the lien is recorded within 90 days after completion of the direct contract. (Civ. Code § 8412, subd. (a).) Prior to the recording of a lien, notice must be given to the owner, the direct contractor, and the construction lender; however, if the lien claimant is in a direct contract with the owner, the claimant need only give notice to the construction lender, if any. (See, Civ. Code § 8410; Civ. Code § 8200). Finally, an action to enforce the lien must be commenced within 90 days after the recording of the lien. (Civ. Code § 8460.) Here, Domus recorded mechanic’s liens on each property on August 11, 2017, October 7, 2019, and February 19, 2020. (SACC ¶96.) Domus filed a Cross-Complaint alleging foreclosure of the liens on January 24, 2020. Domus filed a First Amended Cross-Complaint alleging foreclosure of the liens on April 8, 2021. Domus thus did not file its Cross-Complaint by the statutory deadline. Onni meets its burden of proving no triable issue of material fact remains over whether the cause of action for foreclosure of mechanic’s liens was timely. The burden shifts to Domus.Domus argues that the time between the filing of the Cross-Complaint in January 2020 and the February 2020 lien recordation was only 26 days. However, the action to enforce a lien must commence within 90 days after recordation according to the wording of Civil Code Section 8460(a) which states “[t]he claimant shall commence an action to enforce a lien within 90 days after recordation of the claim of lien. If the claimant does not commence an action to enforce the lien within that time, the claim lien expires and is unenforceable.” (emphasis added)Domus provides no authority for the proposition that one may file an action to enforce a lien prior to the recordation of that lien. Therefore the 26 days between January 24, 2020 (filing of the Cross-Complaint) and February 19, 2020 (the recording date) is irrelevant.Domus did not file the First Amended Cross-Complaint until April 8, 2021, more than 90 days after the February 2020 recordation. Domus fails to meet its burden of proving a triable issue of material fact remains over whether its Cross-Complaint was timely.Summary adjudication is granted as to this cause of action.f. Fourth Cause of Action – Unjust EnrichmentOnni Contracting moves for summary adjudication of the cause of action for unjust enrichment on the grounds that California does not recognize this cause of action and because it is not a proper remedy.“The elements of an unjust enrichment claim are the receipt of a benefit and the unjust retention of the benefit at the expense of another.” (Peterson v. Cellco P’ship (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 1583, 1593.) “Unjust enrichment is not a cause of action, however, or even a remedy, but rather a general principle, underlying various legal doctrines and remedies. It is synonymous with restitution.” (Rutherford Holdings, LLC v. Plaza Del Rey (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 221, 231.) Unjust enrichment is a cognizable cause of action in California under certain circumstances, such as when there is no enforceable express contract between the parties. (Durell v. Sharp Healthcare (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 1350, 1370.) Here, because there are remedies available under another cause of action for breach of contract, it is not necessary for a cause of action for unjust enrichment to remain. Although Domus argues in opposition that the cause of action should remain because it pleaded the elements of the cause of action in the SACC, unjust enrichment is not a cognizable cause of action where other remedies are already available. The motion is granted as to this cause of action.g. Fifth Cause of Action – ConversionOnni Contracting moves for summary adjudication as to the cause of action for conversion on the grounds that breach of a contractual right of payment does not constitute a conversion.To plead a cause of action for conversion, one must allege (1) the plaintiff’s ownership or right to possession of personal property; (2) defendant’s disposition of the property inconsistent with plaintiff’s rights; and (3) resulting damages. (Fremont Indemnity Co. v. Fremont General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 119.)   “‘Conversion is any act of dominion wrongfully exerted over another’s personal property in denial of or inconsistent with his rights therein.’” (Enterprise Leasing Corp. v. Shugart Corp. (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 737, 747 (quoting Messerall v. Fulwider (1988) 199 Cal.App.3d 1324, 1329).) “‘It is not necessary that there be a manual taking of the property; it is only necessary to show an assumption of control or ownership over the property, or that the alleged converter has applied the property to his own use.’” (Id.) Onni Contracting cites Plummer v. Day/Eisenberg, LLP (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 38, 45, where a court ruled that a mere contractual right of payment does not constitute immediate possession. Additionally, a breach of contract does not constitute a conversion even if it results in injury to, or loss of, specific property because breaching a contract is not a knowing exercise of dominion over the personal property of another with wrongful intent. (Taylor v. Forte Hotels International (1991) 235 Cal.App.3d 1119, 1124.)Here, Domus alleges that Onni Contracting converted materials Domus delivered under the parties’ contracts which Onni Contracting refused to pay for. (SACC ¶¶113-116.) Because this claim ultimately arises from a breach of contract, the facts here do not support a cause of action for conversion. Onni Contracting meets its burden of proving no triable issue of material fact remains over whether Onni Contracting’s alleged breach of contract constitutes conversion. The burden shifts to Domus.Domus reiterates the allegations of the SACC and fails to include any other authority stating a breach of contract may constitute conversion. Domus fails to meet its burden of proving a triable issue of material fact remains over whether a breach of contract constitutes conversion.Summary adjudication is granted as to this cause of action.                                                               h. Seventh and Eighth Causes of Action – Fraud and Fraudulent InducementOnni moves for summary adjudication as to the causes of action for fraud and fraudulent inducement on the grounds that (1) Domus cannot prove fraudulent inducement and (2) Domus cannot prove fraud.“The elements of fraud,” including a cause of action for fraudulent inducement, “are (a) a misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) scienter or knowledge of its falsity; (c) intent to induce reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting damage.” (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Ctr. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.) The facts constituting the alleged fraud must be alleged factually and specifically as to every element of fraud, as the policy of “liberal construction” of the pleadings will not ordinarily be invoked. (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.) Onni argues that Domus’s PMK identified statements he alleges were false that form the basis for these causes of action. First, Kulikov testified that there were statements by the Onni parties relating to maintaining the confidentiality of Domus’s information. (Onni Exh. E, PMK Domus Deposition Pg. 112.)  Second, Kulikov testified that Domus relied on statements that Onni would follow the terms of the contract. (Id. at pg. 113.) Third, Kulikov testified that Domus relied on statements that Domus was to have access to other opportunities to perform work for Onni through a bidding process. (Id. at 114-123.)The Court will focus on the statements regarding maintaining the confidentiality of Domus’s work product. Onni Contracting asserts that Domus cannot identify any such statements made by Onni Contracting prior to the contract and thus the claim for fraudulent inducement must fail. (Onni Motion at pg. 27.) Onni Contracting further contends that any such reliance is not justifiable given the contracts. (Id.) In support of this contention, Onni Contracting cites to the PMK deposition of Kulikov. (Onni Separate Statement, ¶225, Exh. E at 114:19-116:24.)  The Court does not find that this citation supports the contention that Domus cannot identify particular statements regarding the confidentiality of materials. Moreover, the Court cannot find that Onni Contracting has established that Domus cannot establish that it justifiably relied on any such representations.Onni Contracting further contends that Domus cannot establish that any promises to pay storage fees to Geodis occurred before the materials were placed with Geodis for storage. (Motion pg. 28.) Assuming this contention is correct, Onni Contracting does not meet its burden of proof on this issue either as storage fees were being incurred on a daily basis and thus even if any promise was not made at the beginning a later promise still could form the basis for a cause of action   Summary adjudication is denied with respect to these causes of action.i. Ninth Cause of Action – Breach of Fiduciary DutyOnni moves for summary adjudication as to the cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty on the grounds that Domus identified no facts that support the existence of a fiduciary relationship between Domus and Onni.The elements for a breach of fiduciary duty cause of action are “the existence of a fiduciary relationship, its breach, and damage proximately caused by that breach.” (Thomson v. Canyon (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 594, 604.) “Before a person can be charged with a fiduciary obligation, he must either knowingly undertake to act on behalf and for the benefit of another, or must enter into a relationship which imposes that undertaking as a matter of law.” (Apollo Capital Fund, LLC v. Roth Capital Partners, LLC (2007) 158 Cal.App.4th 226, 246.) Onni cites Waverly Prods., Inc. v. RKO Gen., Inc. (1963) 217 Cal.App.2d 721, 732 (stating that a mere contract does not create a fiduciary relationship) in support of its argument. Here, Domus alleges a fiduciary duty exists between Domus and Onni because the parties entered into the subject contracts together. However, as Onni points out, a mere contract does not create a fiduciary relationship. Therefore, Onni meets its burden of proving no triable issues of material fact remain as to whether a fiduciary duty existed between Domus and Onni. The burden shifts to Domus.Domus reiterates the allegations in its Complaint and fails to cite any additional authority stating a fiduciary duty could arise from a mere contract. Although Domus cites Freeman & Mills, Inc. v. Belcher Oil Co. (1995) 11 Cal.4th 85, 102, that case concerned an insurance contract where a special relationship between the insurer and the insured created fiduciary responsibility. No such relationship exists here. Therefore, Domus fails to meet its burden of proving a fiduciary relationship exists between Domus and Onni.Summary adjudication is granted as to this cause of action.j. Tenth Cause of Action – Unfair Business PracticesOnni moves for summary adjudication of the cause of action for unfair business practices on the grounds that Domus has not identified a single unfair business act which supports its claim and because it has no evidence to support this cause of action.California Business and Professions Code section 17200 prohibits “any unlawful, unfair or fraudulent business act or practice.” (Bus. & Prof. Code § 17200; see Clark v. Superior Court (2010) 50 Cal.4th 605, 610.)  “An unlawful business practice or act is an act or practice, committed pursuant to business activity, that is at the same time forbidden by law.” (Klein v. Earth Elements, Inc. (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 965, 969.) “A business practice is unfair within the meaning of the UCL if it violates established public policy or if it is immoral, unethical, oppressive or unscrupulous and causes injury to consumers which outweighs its benefits.” (McKell v. Washington Mutual, Inc. (2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 1457, 1473.) “[A] breach of contract may . . . form the predicate for Section 17200 claims, provided it also constitutes conduct that is ‘unlawful, or unfair, or fraudulent.”  (Puentes v. Wells Fargo Home Mortgage, Inc. (2008) 160 Cal.App.4th 638, 645 (alteration and emphasis in original).) Here, Onni alleges that Domus has no evidence to support this cause of action because Domus failed to provide meaningful responses to discovery requests, instead referring Onni to the SACC. However, because this motion was denied as to the causes of action for breach of contract and fraud, the motion is denied as to this cause of action as well since it is essentially a derivative cause of action.Summary adjudication is denied as to this cause of action.k. Eleventh Cause of Action – Breach of ConfidentialityFinally, Onni moves for summary adjudication as to the cause of action for breach of confidentiality on the grounds that Onni was permitted to give others Domus’s designs so that these new vendors could complete the cabinetry work once Domus was terminated.The tort of breach of confidence is based upon the concept of an implied obligation or contract between the parties that confidential information will not be disclosed. (Enter. Research Group, Inc. v. Genesis Creative Group, Inc., 122 F.3d 1211, 1226-27 (9th Cir.1997) (construing California law); see also Tele-Count Eng'rs, Inc. v. Pac. Tel. & Tel. Co. (1985) 168 Cal.App.3d 455. “To prevail on a claim for breach of confidence under California law, a plaintiff must demonstrate that: ¿(1) the plaintiff conveyed ‘confidential and novel information’ to the defendant; ¿(2) the defendant had knowledge that the information was being disclosed in confidence; ¿(3) there was an understanding between the defendant and the plaintiff that the confidence be maintained; ¿and (4) there was a disclosure or use in violation of the understanding.” (Enter. Research Group, 122 F.3d at 1227.)Here, Onni Contracting contends that contracts permitted them to share Domus’s information with other contractors, even competitors brought in to complete the cabinetry. (Onni Motion at Pgs. 31-31.)  In support of this contention, Onni Contracting cites to paragraphs 264 through 270 of its separate statement. (Id.) Onni Contracting points to Clause 20 and Clause 50 of the Hope Project contract, as well as page 3, paragraph 12 of that contract. (Separate Statement ¶¶ 267, 268.) Paragraph 12 provides that [t]he Subcontractor will take whatever steps are necessary, including additional labor force or shift work or overtime, at its cost, to achieve the completion date set out in Paragraph 8 above .  . . .” (SACC, Exh. 1, pg. 47.) Clause 20 provides that “[t]o the extent the Prime Contract provides for the confidentiality of any of the Owner’s proprietary or otherwise confidential information disclosed in connection with the performance of this Subcontract, the Subcontractor is equally bound by the Owner’s confidentiality requirements.” (SACC, Exh. 1., pg. 55.)Clause 50 is long. (SACC, Exh. 1, pg. 65.) Neither the separate statement nor the motion identify which portion Onni Contracting relies upon.None of these clauses appear to address the confidentiality of Domus’s materials at all.The Court cannot find that Onni Contracting has met its burden of proof to establish that Domus will be unable to prove this cause of action. Summary adjudication is denied as to this cause of action.DATED:  May 1, 2024 ______________________________Hon. Jill FeeneyJudge of the Superior Court