 Case Number:  22STCV24225    Hearing Date:   May 13, 2024    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  PATRICK RAYFIELD, Plaintiff(s),  vs.  SAFEWAY, INC., ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 22STCV24225  [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: MOTIONS FOR TERMINATING SANCTIONS  Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  May 13, 2024  I. BACKGROUND  Plaintiff Patrick Rayfield (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against defendants The Vons Companies, Inc. (erroneously sued as Safeway Inc.), Kehe Distributors, Inc. (Doe 1), and Jyve Corporation (Doe 2) for damages arising from a boxes falling on Plaintiff while in a grocery store.  The Vons Companies, Inc. (“Vons”) and Kehe Distributors, Inc. (“Kehe”) each filed a separate motion for terminating sanctions to dismiss plaintiff Patrick Rayfield’s (“Plaintiff”) complaint against them for failure to abide by the Court’s March 6, 2024 and March 7, 2024 Orders that he serve verified responses to Vons and Kehe’s initial discovery, and to pay monetary sanctions. At the time of the filing of the motions, Plaintiff had not served responses or paid monetary sanctions in compliance with the Court’s orders. Aside from terminating sanctions, moving parties request additional monetary sanctions.  In opposition, Plaintiff contends that verified and objection-free responses to Vons’ and Kehe’s written discovery have been served, and the previously ordered monetary sanctions have been paid, thereby rendering the motions moot. In reply, Vons and Kehe concede that written responses have been served, but that the responses are evasive and incomplete. The parties are actively meeting and conferring regarding the responses. Vons and Kehe dispute that monetary sanctions have been paid, and reiterate the request for additional monetary sanctions in the amount of $1,410 for each motion.   II. TERMINATING SANCTIONS  Legal Standard Code of Civil Procedure § 2023.030 gives the court the discretion to impose sanctions against anyone engaging in a misuse of the discovery process.  A court may impose terminating sanctions by striking pleadings of the party engaged in misuse of discovery or entering default judgment.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030(d).)  A violation of a discovery order is sufficient for the imposition of terminating sanctions.  (Collison & Kaplan v. Hartunian (1994) 21 Cal.App.4th 1611, 1620.)   A terminating sanction is a "drastic measure which should be employed with caution."  (Deyo v. Kilbourne (1978) 84 Cal.App.3d 771, 793.)  "A decision to order terminating sanctions should not be made lightly. But where a violation is willful, preceded by a history of abuse, and the evidence shows that less severe sanctions would not produce compliance with the discovery rules, the trial court is justified in imposing the ultimate sanction."  (Mileikowsky v. Tenet Healthsystem (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 262, 279-280.)  While the court has discretion to impose terminating sanctions, these sanctions "should be appropriate to the dereliction and should not exceed that which is required to protect the interests of the party entitled to but denied discovery."  (Deyo, 84 Cal.App.3d at 793.)  "[A] court is empowered to apply the ultimate sanction against a litigant who persists in the outright refusal to comply with his discovery obligations."  (Ibid.)  Discovery sanctions are not to be imposed for punishment, but instead are used to encourage fair disclosure of discovery to prevent unfairness resulting for the lack of information.  (See Midwife v. Bernal (1988) 203 Cal.App.3d 57, 64 [superseded on other grounds as stated in Kohan v. Cohan (1991) 229 Cal.App.3d 967, 971].)  Discussion & Conclusion The Court granted Kehe’s motions to compel discovery responses, and ordered Plaintiff to serve verified responses, without objections, to set one of form interrogatories, special interrogatories, and request for production of documents within twenty days. (Min. Order, March 6, 2024.) The Court also ordered Plaintiff and/or his counsel to pay sanctions in the amount of $780. (Ibid.) Similarly, on March 7, 2024, the Court granted Vons’ motions to compel responses, and ordered Plaintiff to serve verified responses to Von’s initial set of discovery within twenty days, and to pay sanctions in the amount of $780. (Min. Order, March 7, 2024.)  The parties do not dispute that all outstanding discovery has now been served. Any argument regarding the sufficiency of the responses is more appropriate on a motion to compel further. Vons and Kehe argue terminating sanctions are proper because of Plaintiff’s history of delay. However, the purpose of discovery sanctions is not for punishment, but instead used to encourage fair disclosure of discovery to prevent unfairness resulting for the lack of information. (See Midwife v. Bernal (1988) 203 Cal.App.3d 57, 64 [superseded on other grounds as stated in Kohan v. Cohan (1991) 229 Cal.App.3d 967, 971].) To impose terminating sanctions now does not serve a remedial purpose, and would be disproportionate to Plaintiff’s misconduct. (Williams v. Russ (2008) 167 Cal. App. 4th 1215, 1223.) Further, in terms of the contention that Plaintiff has not actually paid the past owed monetary sanctions, terminating sanctions on the grounds of failure to pay is not the appropriate remedy. (See Newland v. Superior Court (1995) 40 Cal.App.4th 608, 615 [holding, “a terminating sanction issued solely because of a failure to pay a monetary discovery sanction is never justified.”].)   III. CONCLUSION Accordingly, Vons’ and Kehe’s motion for terminating sanctions are DENIED.  However, the Court GRANTS Vons’ and Kehe’s request for monetary sanctions, but not for the requested amount of $1,410 per motion for a total of $2,820. Vons and Kehe are represented by the same counsel, and it is unclear as to why this motion necessitated two separate motions.  Sanctions are imposed against Plaintiff and his counsel, jointly and severally. Plaintiff and/or his counsel are ordered to pay sanctions to Vons, by and through counsel of record, in the total amount of $225, within twenty (20) days.  Plaintiff and/or her counsel are ordered to pay sanctions to Kehe, by and through counsel of record, in the total amount of $225, within twenty (20) days.  Moving party is ordered to give notice.  PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 10th day of May 2024      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court  