 Case Number:  23SMCV01196    Hearing Date:   June 14, 2024    Dept:  205    Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles – West District  Beverly Hills Courthouse / Department 205   MARK LANGE,    Plaintiff, v.  SANDRA HANOVER EBNER, individually and as trustee of the EBNER AND HANOVER TRUST, et al.,   Defendants.    Case No.:  23SMCV01196     Hearing Date:  June 14, 2024   [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:   PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO COMPEL    FURTHER RESPONSES TO FORM    INTERROGATORIES AND REQUESTS    FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS   BACKGROUND    This case arises from alleged fraud surrounding the sale of a home.  Plaintiff Mark Lange entered into a written purchase agreement with Defendants Sandra Hanover Ebner and Steven Ebner, individually and as trustees of the Ebner and Hanover Trust for a home located at 5868 Deerhead Road, Malibu, California (the “Property”).  (Compl. ¶ 7.)   The Property had two septic tanks.  (Id. ¶ 9.)  Plaintiff claims Defendants failed to disclose that Mosser Plumbing had inspected the tanks and concluded they are “not compliant by the City Standard” and recommended that Defendants hire a “Civil Engineer to design a new system.”  (Id.) The operative complaint alleges four causes of action for (1) intentional misrepresentation, (2) negligent misrepresentation, (3) intentional nondisclosure, and (4) negligent nondisclosure.   On October 24, 2023, the Court denied Defendants’ motion to compel arbitration.  On December 13, 2023, Defendants filed a notice of appeal which automatically stayed the proceedings.   On March 11, 2024, Plaintiff served its first set of form interrogatories and first demand for production of documents on each Defendant.  On April 9, 2024, Defendants served their responses, which contained various objections including that discovery in this matter has been stayed by virtue of the appeal.   This hearing is on Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses to its document requests and form interrogatories.  Plaintiff’s motion seeks to resolve Defendant’s threshold objection that there is an automatic stay on discovery by virtue of Defendant’s appeal.  Plaintiff argues that pursuant to Code Civ. Proc. §1294, an action is no longer automatically stayed pending an appeal to an order denying a motion to compel arbitration.        DISCUSSION The Court concludes that the stay of discovery should be lifted to allow Plaintiff to take the deposition of Russell Mosser.  Otherwise, all other discovery is stayed.   Pursuant to Code Civ. Proc. §1294, an appeal of a denial of a motion to compel arbitration “shall not automatically stay any proceedings in the trial court during the pendency of the appeal.”  Defendants argue that Code Civ. Proc. §1294(a) was not in place when Defendants filed their appeal, and it cannot apply retroactively.  Section 1294(a) took effect in January 1, 2024, and the notice of appeal was filed on December 18, 2023.   The Court concludes that application of the amended version of §1294(a) in this case does not amount to retroactive application.  Section 1294(a) is a procedural rule, and applying an amended procedural rule to a motion that was decided before the amendment is not a prohibited “retroactive” application.  (See, e.g., Physicians Com. for Responsible Med. V. Tyson Foods Inc. (2004) 119 Cal.App.4th 120 (applying amended statute excluding certain types of claims from being subject to anti-SLAPP motions even though the amendment occurred after the anti-SLAPP motion was granted and while the case was on appeal); Brown v. Friesleben Est. Co. (1956) 139 Cal.App.2d 1 (applying amendment to increase the deposit requirements for an appellate stay did not constitute a retroactive application).)        Defendants also argue that §1294(a) is preempted by the Federal Arbitration Act (“FAA”).  Defendants cite to Coinbase, Inc. v. Bielski (2023) 599 U.S. 736, where the Supreme Court, in interpreting FAA §16, held that a district court must stay proceedings while an interlocutory appeal on the question of arbitration is ongoing.  (Id. at 743.)  But the FAA’s appellate procedures apply only to motions filed in federal court.  (Badgerow v. Walters (2022) 142 S.Ct. 1310, 1316 n. 2 (while FAA substantive provisions apply in state courts, the Supreme Court has never held that FAA procedural provisions apply in state courts); Southland Corp. v. Keating (1984) 465 U.S. 1, 16 n. 10 (“In holding that the Arbitration Act preempts a state law that withdraws the power to enforce arbitration agreements, we do not hold that §§ 3 and 4 of the Arbitration Act apply to proceedings in state courts”).  State courts following state arbitration appellate rules are not required to follow Coinbase. The Court concludes that there are compelling reasons to lift the stay to allow Plaintiff to take the deposition of a key witness in the case, Russell Mosser, who is 70 years old.  He is the owner of the septic tank company that (1) inspected Defendants septic tank system, days before Plaintiff’s purchase of Defendants’ property and (2) prepared a written report for Defendants advising them that the system was not to code and that it had to be replaced.  Given his age, Mosser needs to be deposed promptly in order to preserve critical evidence in Plaintiff’s case.  Defendant does not oppose this limited lifting of the stay.  (Opp. at 11:22-25.)  Otherwise, Plaintiff has not made a showing that the stay should be lifted as to its other discovery, including the form interrogatories and requests for production that are the actual subject of the present motion.   CONCLUSION For the foregoing reasons, the Court GRANTS IN PART and DENIES IN PART Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses.  The stay on litigation is lifted in this case to allow Plaintiff to take the deposition of Mr. Mosser.      DATED: June 14, 2024    ___________________________ Edward B. Moreton, Jr. Judge of the Superior Court 