  Case Number:  20GDCV00722    Hearing Date:   May 1, 2024    Dept:  X    Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Joel L. Lofton,
Department X
 
 
HEARING DATE:      May 1, 2024                            DISPOSED:
March 22, 2024, Jury Verdict
                                                           
CASE:                         LEAFIRE INC, a
Delaware corporation, and LLULLLU LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, v.
CADM INC.., a California corporation; JIANQIANG GU, an individual; HFE LLC, a
California limited liability company; WEE HIN, an individual, ROBERT CHEN, an
individual; CANNA HEALTHCARE, INC., a California corporation; LW VENTURES INC.,
a California corporation; COUNG THICH, an individual; 360 ESPINOSA ROAD II,
LLC, a California limited liability corporation; CANNABIS STRATEGIC VENTURES, a
Nevada Corporation, BENSHENG LI, a.k.a. BENSON LI, an individual; FONG SIMON
YU, an individual; CAXYH LLC, a California limited liability company; CAYPFD
LLC, a California limited liability company; CAMYG LLC, a California limited
liability company; CAMG LLC, a California            
limited liability company; CAJYQNG, LLC, a California limited liability
company; and DOES 1 through 20, inclusive. 
 
CASE NO.:                 20GDCV00722
 
 
 
MOTION
FOR JUDGMENT NOTWITHSTANDING THE VERDICT
AND
MOTION FOR NEW TRIAL

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendants CADM Inc., JIANQIANG GU;
CAXYH LLC, CAYFD LLC, CAMYG LLC, CAMG LLC and CAJYQNG LLC, and Defendants/ Cross-Plaintiffs
CADM, Inc. and JIANQIANG GU (“Moving Parties”)
 
RESPONDING PARTY:      Plaintiffs
Leafire Inc. and Llulllu LLC (“Responding Parties”)
 
SERVICE:                              Filed April 8, 2024
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED 
 
             Moving Parties move for judgment
notwithstanding the verdict of the jury, and for a new trial.
 
BACKGROUND
 
             This case arises out of Plaintiffs Leafire Inc. (“Leafire”) and Llulllu
LLC’s (“Llulllu”) (collectively “Plaintiffs”) claim that the defendants, in
particular Jianquiang Gu (“Gu”), engaged in a fraudulent scheme regarding the
management of marijuana facilities in exchange for a $12 million investment. 
 
            On April 3, 2023,
Plaintiffs filed a fifth amended complaint (“FAC”) against CADM, Gu, HFE, Wee
Hin, Robert Chen, Canna Healthcare, Inc. (“Canna”), LW Ventures Inc. (“LW”),
Cough Thich, 360 Espinosa Road II (“360 Espinosa”), Cannabis Strategic Ventures
(“Cannabis Strategic”), Bensheng Li, Fong Simon Yu, CAXYH LLC, CAYFD LLC, CAMYG
LLC, CAMG LLC, CAJYQNG LLC, and Does 1 through 20, alleging seventeen causes of
action for: (1) fraud, (2) investment fraud, (3) breach of written contract,  (4) breach of oral contract, (5) money had
and recieved, (6) damage to personal property, (7) intentional infliction of
emotion distress, (8) civil extortion, (9) unfair competition (10) avoidance of
fraudulent transfer, (11) avoidance of fraudulent transfer, (12) avoidance of
fraudulent transfer, (13) avoidance of fraudulent transfer, (14) avoidance of
fraudulent transfer, (15) avoidance of fraudulent transfer, (16) avoidance of
fraudulent transfer, (17) avoidance of fraudulent transfer, and (18) avoidance
of fraudulent transfer.
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Moving
Parties’ motion for JNOV/new trial is DENIED.
 
DISCUSSION
I. Procedural Discussion 
a. Procedural requirements
            The party intending to move for new trial shall file with
the clerk and serve upon each adverse party “a notice of his or her intention
to move for a new trial, designating the grounds upon which the motion will be
made and whether the same will be made upon affidavits or the minutes of the
court, or both.” (CCP § 659(a).) This time period requirement also applies to
motions for judgment notwithstanding the verdict (JNOV). (CCP § 629(b).) This
notice shall be served after the decision is rendered and before judgment is
entered or “Within 15 days of the date of mailing notice of entry of judgment
by the clerk of the court pursuant to Section 664.5, or service upon him or her
by any party of written notice of entry of judgment, or within 180 days after
the entry of judgment, whichever is earliest; provided, that upon the filing of
the first notice of intention to move for a new trial by a party, each other
party shall have 15 days after the service of that notice upon him or her to
file and serve a notice of intention to move for a new trial.” (CCP §
659(a)(1)-(2).)
            Premature notices of intention to move for a new trial
served and filed before the decision in the case are premature and void. (Ruiz
v. Ruiz (1980) 104 Cal.App.3d 374, 378-379, internal citations omitted; Ochoa
v. Dorado (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 120, 132, internal citations omitted.)
            Here, the proof of service indicates that the notice of
motion for judgment notwithstanding the verdict and notice of intention to move
for new trial was served on April 8, 2024. The parties served were: Gregory G.
Brown, Esq. [via email to: octriallaw@gmail.com]; Mark M. Higuchi, Esq. [via
email to: mhiguchi@bc-llp.com]; and Joseph M. Dankert, Esq. [via email to: jdankert@bc-llp.com]. 
Responding Parties argue that Moving Parties’ motions were
untimely filed. The Clerk of the Court served the Notice of Entry of Judgment
on March 22, 2024. Normally, a fifteen-day deadline would apply, placing the
deadline on April 6, 2024. However, since this fell on a Saturday, the deadline
was extended to the next court day, April 8, 2024, per California Rules of
Court 1.10(b). Responding Parties assert that the motions were served after
this date because on April 3, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a substitution of
attorney, changing their representation from Brown & Charbonneau, LLP to
Benjy Law Corporation, and this substitution was properly communicated to
Defendants’ counsel on the same day. Nonetheless, on April 8, 2024, Defendants
served the Motions to Plaintiffs’ former counsel, Brown & Charbonneau, LLP,
such that Benjy Law Corporation did not receive the motion until April 10,
2024, which was two days past the statutory deadline. 
In reply, Moving Parties assert that the motions were timely filed
because Attorneys Gregory G. Brown, Mark M. Higuchi, and Joseph M. Dankert (Law
Offices Brown & Charbanneau, LLP) were the attorneys of record for LEAFIRE
INC. and LLULLLU LLC at the trial, and Attorney Bobby Benjy, Esq. did not
substitute in as Plaintiffs’ counsel until April 3, 2024. Moving Parties also
state that they did serve Attorney Benjy with a courtesy copy of the motion for
JOV following day, April 9, 2024, via electronic service, within the meaning of
C.C.P. § 659, such that service was properly effectuated on April 8, 2024.
Moving Parties fail to sufficiently explain why Plaintiff’s prior
counsel should have been served rather than Plaintiffs’ current counsel, who
was substituted in on April 3, 2024, nor do they provide any legal authority
that the counsel of record at the trial should be served motions for new
trial/JNOV even if new trial is substituted. Thus, the Court finds that the
motions were not filed and served within the 15-day statutory time limit, and
should be denied on these grounds. (See Ochoa v. Dorado (2014) 228
Cal.App.4th 120, 132, internal citations omitted.) Notwithstanding, even if
these motions were timely filed, the Court finds that they would also be denied
on substantive grounds, which the Court addresses further below. 
b. Time requirements
            “If a motion for a new trial has been filed with the
court by the aggrieved party [along with the motion for judgment
notwithstanding the verdict], the court shall rule upon both motions at the
same time.” (CCP § 629(b).)
            The jurisdiction of the Court to rule on a motion for new
trial expires 75 days after the notice of entry of judgment or if that notice
has not been given,75 days after the notice of intention to file a motion for
new trial. (CCP § 660.)
c. Standard for review- Judgment Notwithstanding the Verdict
            “A motion for judgment notwithstanding the verdict may be
granted only if it appears from the evidence, viewed in the light most
favorable to the party securing the verdict, that there is no substantial
evidence in support.” (Sweatman v. Department of Veterans Affairs (2001)
25 Cal.4th 62, 68.) A motion for judgment notwithstanding the verdict may be
granted if the verdict is not supported by substantial evidence. (See Schroeder
v. Auto Driveway Company (1974) 11 Cal.3d 908, 919.) On motions for
judgment notwithstanding the verdict, the California Supreme Court stated:
"The trial judge's power to grant a judgment notwithstanding the verdict
is identical to his power to grant a directed verdict. The trial judge cannot
weigh the evidence, or judge the credibility of witnesses. If the evidence is
conflicting or if several reasonable inferences may be drawn, the motion for
judgment notwithstanding the verdict should be denied. (See Hauter v.
Zogarts (1975) 14 Cal.3d 104, 110.) “If the evidence is conflicting or if
several reasonable inferences may be drawn, the motion for judgment
notwithstanding the verdict should be denied.” (Hauter v. Zogarts (1975)
14 Cal.3d 104, 110.) 
d. Standard of review- New Trial Motion
            A motion for new trial may be granted on the following
grounds: 
“1. Irregularity in the proceedings of the court, jury or
adverse party, or any order of the court or abuse of discretion by which either
party was prevented from having a fair trial.
2. Misconduct of the jury; and whenever any one or more of
the jurors have been induced to assent to any general or special verdict, or to
a finding on any question submitted to them by the court, by a resort to the
determination of chance, such misconduct may be proved by the affidavit of any
one of the jurors.
3. Accident or surprise, which ordinary prudence could not
have guarded against.
4. Newly discovered evidence, material for the party making
the application, which he could not, with reasonable diligence, have discovered
and produced at the trial.
5. Excessive or inadequate damages.
6. Insufficiency of the evidence to justify the verdict or
other decision, or the verdict or other decision is against law.
7. Error in law, occurring at the trial and excepted to by
the party making the application.” (CCP § 657 (1)-(7).) 
            “When
the application is made for a cause mentioned in the first, second, third
and fourth subdivisions of Section 657, it must be made upon affidavits;
otherwise it must be made on the minutes of the court.” (CCP § 658, emphasis
added.) 
If the Court grants a motion
for new trial, the Court must specify the grounds on which it is granting the
motion for new trial and its reasoning as to the ground. (CCP § 657.) If the
order granting the motion does not contain the specification of reasons, “the
court must, within 10 days after filing such order, prepare, sign and file such
specification of reasons in writing with the clerk. The court shall not direct
the attorney for a party to prepare either or both said order and said
specification of reasons.” (Id.)
The
California Supreme Court in Lane v. Hughes Aircraft Co. (2000) 22 Cal.
4th 405, 412  stated: " The trial
court, therefore, is in the best position to assess the reliability of a jury's
verdict and, to this end, the Legislature has granted trial courts broad
discretion to order new trials. The only relevant limitation on this discretion
is that the trial court must state its reasons for granting the new trial, and
there must be substantial evidence in the record to support those
reasons." (Lane v. Hughes Aircraft Co. (2000) 22 Cal. 4th 405,
412.)
Additionally, if the court
grants the motion for new trial on basis of insufficiency of evidence, the
court must only grant if “after weighing the evidence the court is convinced
from the entire record, including reasonable inferences therefrom, that the
court or jury clearly should have reached a different verdict or decision.” (Id.)
Additionally, the motion for
new trial must be decided by the same judge who presided over the trial. (CCP §
661.)
e. Requirements for filing the motion and opposition 
            The moving party shall file their motion within ten days
of notice of intention to move for new trial/judgment notwithstanding the
verdict. (CCP § 659a.) The other parties have 10 days after the service of the
moving papers in which to serve and file their opposing briefs and supporting
documentation. (Id.) The moving party then has five days after that
service to file their reply brief. (Id.) 
            On April 9, 2024, the Court set the hearing for
Defendants’ motion for JNOV to be set for May 1, 2024. 
            This motion was filed April 8, 2024. 
            Responding Parties then had ten days from service of the
moving papers in which to file their opposing papers. They filed the motion for
JNOV on April 18, 2024, and the motion for new trial on April 26, 2024. The
motion for JNOV was timely but the motion for new trial was untimely as their
oppositions were due on April 18, 2024. (CCP § 659(a), CRC 1.10(b).)
            Lastly, Moving Parties’ reply was due five days after
service of the opposition. Taking the opposition date of April 18, 2024, the
reply was due April 23, 2024. Thus, the reply was untimely.
II. Discussion about the Substance of the Motion
a. In Rem Jurisdiction
Moving Parties argue that the judgment
should be stricken with respect to the two real estate properties located in
the county of Riverside because the Judgment was based on an incorrect or
erroneous basis. The contend that the Court lacked in rem jurisdiction because
the properties fell outside the Court’s geographical bounds. 
In opposition, Responding Parties argue
that the Court has jurisdiction because the action was properly venued in Los
Angeles as the main relief sought by Plaintiffs was the recovery of damages
arising out of contract and tort. Responding Parties state this rule is
employed to determine venue when a complaint involves both local and transitory
actions. Here, they claim the main relief in this case was transitory and not
centered on real property claims, making Los Angeles a proper venue. They
further clarify that under California Code of Civil Procedure section 395,
which addresses transitory claims, the requirements for venue are met as the
defendants reside in, the contracts were entered into, and were to be performed
in Los Angeles County. 
The Court finds Responding Parties’
arguments to have merit. Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 395, venue
was proper as Defendants resided in Los Angeles County, and the contracts
central to the lawsuit were both entered into and breached within this
jurisdiction. Even though the properties in question are located in Riverside
County, the transitory nature of the main relief overrides the local character
of the real property claims. Thus, the Court had jurisdiction over the action.
b. Fraud
Moving Parties assert that Plaintiffs as
corporate entities cannot be victims of fraud under tort law standards, which
apply to natural persons. Additionally, Moving Parties state the verdict was
improper not allowing separate findings for breaches of written and oral
contracts, and for conflating breach of contract with money had and received
into a single question, thereby obscuring the legal basis for any damages
awarded. Finally, Moving Parties question the adequacy of the evidence
supporting the $17,201,418 in damages awarded, noting discrepancies between the
amounts stated in the contracts, the payments acknowledged at trial, and the
figures calculated for damages. 
In opposition, Responding Parties state
that there is no legal support for Moving Parties’ assertion that Plaintiffs
cannot recover on a fraud clam because they are business entities and not
individuals. 
The Court agrees “as any person or
entity has capacity to sue or defend a civil action in the California courts.
This includes artificial ‘persons’ such as corporations, partnerships and
associations. A partnership or other unincorporated association has capacity
both to sue and be sued in the name it has assumed or by which it is known.” (American
Alternative Energy Partners II v. Windridge, Inc. (1996) 42 Cal.App.4th
551, 559.) Thus, Moving Parties fail to show that the judgment for fraud was
inconsistent or unsupported by the verdict.
c. Breach of Contract and Money Had and
Received
Moving Parties argue that the verdict
for breach of contract and money had and received should be stricken as it is
not supported by the facts. Specifically, they argue: (1) The Verdict did not
allow the Jury to make separate findings of Breach of Written Contract and
Breach of Oral Contract, though they were pled as two separate causes of
action; (2) The Verdict did not allow the Jury to make separate findings of
Breach of Contract, and Money Had and Received; (3) The Judgment, with respect
to Breach of Contract, was based on an incorrect or erroneous legal basis.; and
(4) The evidence did not support actual damages of $17,201,418 to LEAFIRE and
LULU for a breach of any contract, or for a claim of money had.
In opposition, Responding Parties assert
that Defendants waived any right to challenge the verdict form or the Court’s
responses to juror questions about what constitutes an oral contract because
they should have been raised before the jury was discharged. 
Moving Parties fail to rebut this
argument. Thus, the Court finds that since the Defendants failed to object at
the appropriate time, any subsequent complaints regarding the verdict form or
juror instructions have been effectively waived.
Responding Parties also claim that the
verdict form and response to juror question number 5 were proper, which
required the jury to identify the prevailing party and determine the damages
awarded. They reference legal standards indicating that a general verdict
implies findings in favor of the prevailing party on all material issues,
provided there is supporting evidence. They contend there was no need for each
cause of action to be detailed separately on the verdict form unless
specifically requested, which the Defendants did not do. Responding Parties
emphasize that the breach of contract and money had and received claims were
ripe for judgment at the time of trial, highlighting that Defendants failed to
make the necessary payments by the due date. This, they argue, invalidates any
claims that the lawsuit was prematurely filed. They also note that Plaintiffs
fulfilled their obligations under the loan agreement by providing the agreed
funds prior to initiating the lawsuit, thereby precluding any potential breach
by Plaintiffs. Finally, Responding Parties maintain that the compensatory
damages of $17,201,418 awarded were substantiated by extensive evidence
presented at trial, including additional consequential damages related to
specific upgrades and installations at the facilities covered by the agreement,
which were both foreseeable and communicated to the Defendants.
Again, Moving Parties fail to rebut
these arguments and the Court finds the judgment to be supported by sufficient
evidence. 
CONCLUSION
 
            Moving
Parties’ motion for JNOV/new trial is DENIED. 
 
 
Dated:   May 1, 2024                          ___________________________________
                                                                                    Joel
L. Lofton
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court


