 Case Number:  21STCV04946    Hearing Date:   February 13, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
February 8, 2021, Plaintiff Angela Walker (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendants Mike H. Davidyan (“Davidyan”), Estate of Thelma Atlas, and
Does 1-25 for general negligence, premises liability, and dog bite. 
On
May 26, 2021, Plaintiff amended the complaint to include Defendant Joyce Faye
Atlas (“Atlas”) as Doe 1. 
On
August 4, 2021, Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint against Defendants
Davidyan, Atlas, and Does 1-25 for negligence, premises liability, and dog
bite. 
On
August 18, 2021, Davidyan filed an answer. 
On
April 6, 2022, the clerk entered Atlas’s default.  On June 9, 2022, Atlas filed an answer. On
July 25, 2022, the Court set aside Atlas’s default and ruled that her answer
would stand. 
On
April 10, 2023, Plaintiff amended the first amended complaint to include
Defendant Johnny Harvey Fulcher (“Fulcher”) as Doe 2. On June 13, 2023, the
clerk entered Fulcher’s default. 
On
November 30, 2023, Atlas filed a motion for a determination that her settlement
with Plaintiff is in good faith.  No opposition
has been filed. 
On December
4, 2023, the Court granted Plaintiff’s motion for relief from jury waiver. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for April 11, 2024. 
PARTY’S REQUEST 
Atlas
asks the Court to find that her settlement with Plaintiff is in good faith. 
LEGAL STANDARD  
Code
of Civil Procedure section 877.6, subdivision (a)(2), states that “a settling
party may give notice of settlement to all parties and to the court, together
with an application for determination of good faith settlement and a proposed
order. The application shall indicate the settling parties, and the basis,
terms, and amount of the settlement. The notice, application, and proposed
order shall be given by certified mail, return receipt requested, or by
personal service. Proof of service shall be filed with the court. Within 25 days
of the mailing of the notice, application, and proposed order, or within 20 days
of personal service, a nonsettling party may file a notice of motion to contest
the good faith of the settlement. If none of the nonsettling parties files a
motion within 25 days of mailing of the notice, application, and proposed
order, or within 20 days of personal service, the court may approve the
settlement. . . .” 
“The
issue of the good faith of a settlement may be determined by the court on the
basis of affidavits served with the notice of hearing, and any
counteraffidavits filed in response, or the court may, in its discretion,
receive other evidence at the hearing.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd. (b).)  
“The
party asserting the lack of good faith shall have the burden of proof on that
issue.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd.
(d).) 
          In Tech-Bilt, Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde &
Associates (1985) 38 Cal.3d 488, 499 (Tech-Bilt), the
California Supreme Court identified the following nonexclusive factors courts
must consider in determining if a settlement is in good faith under section
877.6: “a rough approximation of plaintiffs' total recovery and the settlor's
proportionate liability, the amount paid in settlement, the allocation of
settlement proceeds among plaintiffs, and a recognition that a settlor should
pay less in settlement than he would if he were found liable after a trial.
Other relevant considerations include the financial conditions and insurance
policy limits of settling defendants, as well as the existence of collusion,
fraud, or tortious conduct aimed to injure the interests of nonsettling defendants.” 
The
evaluation of a settlement is “made on the basis of information available at
the time of settlement.”  (Tech-Bilt,
supra, 38 Cal.3d at p. 499.) 
DISCUSSION  
A.   The first amended complaint 
The
first amended complaint alleges that on February 21st, 2019, due to defendants’
negligence, dogs escaped from the premises that Atlas and other defendants owned,
occupied, and controlled and attacked Plaintiff while she was on a public
sidewalk, injuring her. 
B.   Unopposed application for good faith settlement
determination 
In City
of Grand Terrace v. Superior Court (1987) 192 Cal.App.3d 1251 (City of
Grand Terrace), the Court of Appeal observed: 
“[O]f
the hundreds of motions for good faith determination presented for trial court
approval each year, the overwhelming majority are unopposed and granted
summarily by the trial court. At the time of filing in many cases, the moving
party does not know if a contest will develop. If each motion required a full
recital by declaration or affidavit setting forth a complete factual response
to all of the Tech-Bilt factors, literally thousands of attorney hours
would be consumed and inch-thick motions would have to be read and considered
by trial courts in an exercise which would waste valuable judicial and legal
time and clients' resources. It must also be remembered that Tech-Bilt
was decided on a contested basis. We are unaware of any reported decision which
has reversed an uncontested good faith determination and we, therefore,
conclude that only when the good faith nature of a settlement is disputed, it
is incumbent upon the trial court to consider and weigh the Tech-Bilt
factors. That is to say, when no one objects, the barebones motion which sets
forth the ground of good faith, accompanied by a declaration which sets forth a
brief background of the case is sufficient.” 
(City of Grand Terrace, supra, 192 Cal.App.3d at p. 1261.) 
Atlas’s
motion satisfies the City of Grand Terrace requirements. The motion
explains that Atlas disputes liability and is accompanied by a declaration
which sets forth a brief background of the case.  No opposition has been filed.  Therefore, the Court grants the application. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS the application for a determination that the settlement between
Plaintiff Angela Walker and Defendant Joyce Faye Atlas
was made in good faith. The Court dismisses all pending and future claims
against Defendant Joyce Faye Atlas by the
parties served with this motion (to the extent those claims arise from the
facts giving rise to this case), including cross-complaints for equitable
indemnity. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.