  Case Number:  19STCV28449    Hearing Date:   February 13, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposing and reply papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
August 9, 2019, Plaintiff Deon Goggins (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against
Defendants 4755 Alla LP (“Alla”), Marpac Company (“Marpac”), MF One, LP (“MF”),
and Does 1-20 for negligence and premises liability. 
On
October 23, 2019, Alla, Marpac, and MF filed an answer. 
On
September 19, 2021, Alla, Marpac and MF filed a cross-complaint against
Cross-Defendants RRAM Services, Vortex Industries, Inc. (“Vortex”), and Roes 1
through 50 for comparative negligence, express contractual indemnity, equitable
indemnity, comparative equitable indemnity, contribution, apportionment of
fault and declaratory relief. On August 6, 2021, Alla, Marpac and MF filed an
amended cross-complaint. On October 22, 2021, RRAM Services filed an answer. On
June 29, 2022, Vortex filed an answer. 
On
April 22, 2022, Plaintiff amended the complaint to include Defendants RRAM
Services (Doe 1) and Vortex (Doe 2). 
On
April 26, 2022, Plaintiff amended the complaint to include Defendant Shrader
& Martinez Construction USA, LLC (Doe 3). 
On
June 2, 2022, Defendant Shrader & Martinez Construction USA, LLC
(erroneously sued as RRAM Services) (“Shrader”) filed an answer to Plaintiff’s
complaint. 
On
June 29, 2022, Vortex filed (1) an answer to the complaint, (2) an answer to
the cross-complaint, and (3) a cross-complaint against Cross-Defendants Alla,
Marpac, MF, and Zoes 1-20 for “Equitable, Total and/or Implied Indemnity” and
contribution. 
On
September 15, 2022, the Court dismissed the complaint against Vortex and RRAM
Services without prejudice at Plaintiff’s request. 
On
October 10, 2022, the Court dismissed Vortex without prejudice from the cross-complaint
filed by Alla, Marpac, and MF at their request. The Court also dismissed
Vortex’s cross-complaint without prejudice at Vortex’s request. 
On
February 14, 2023, Shrader filed an amended answer to the cross-complaint of
Alla, Marpac, and MF. 
On
March 11, 2022, Alla, Marpac and MF (“Defendants”) filed a motion for summary judgment
or, in the alternative, summary adjudication to be heard on May 25, 2022.  The Court continued the hearing to February
13, 2024 based on the parties’ requests.  On January 29, 2024, Plaintiff filed an
opposition. On February 8, 2024, Defendants filed a reply. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for April 5, 2024. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Defendants
request that the Court grant summary judgment or, in the alternative, summary
adjudication. 
Plaintiff
requests that the Court deny the motion. 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS 
          Plaintiff’s objections: The Court sustains the objections
in part and strikes the words “and tenantable” from the declaration of Kathy
Stimson, ¶ 6.  In all other respects, the
Court overrules the objections and denies the motion to strike.         
Defendants’
objections: Overruled 
DEFENDANTS’ REQUEST FOR
JUDICIAL NOTICE 
          Granted.  (Evid.
Code, §§ 452, subd. (d), 453.) 
LEGAL STANDARD 
A.   Summary judgment and summary adjudication 
“‘[F]rom
commencement to conclusion, the party moving for summary judgment bears the
burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue of material fact and that
he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.’”  (LAOSD Asbestos Cases (2023) 87
Cal.App.5th 949, 945, quoting Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001)
25 Cal.4th 826, 850 (Aguilar).) “[T]he party moving for summary judgment
bears an initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence
of any triable issue of material fact; if he carries his burden of production,
he causes a shift, and the opposing party is then subjected to a burden of production
of his own to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of
material fact.”  (Aguilar, supra,
25 Cal.4th at p. 850.)  
          When the moving party is a
defendant, it must show that the plaintiff cannot establish at least one
element of the cause of action.  (Aguilar,
supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 853.) “The defendant has shown that the
plaintiff cannot establish at least one element of the cause of action by
showing that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain,
needed evidence.”  (Id. at p.
854.) The defendant must “present evidence, and not simply point out that the
plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence.”  (Ibid.) Thus, “the defendant must
‘support[ ]’ the ‘motion’ with evidence including ‘affidavits, declarations, admissions,
answers to interrogatories, depositions, and matters of which judicial notice’
must or may ‘be taken.’ [Citation.] The defendant may, but need not, present evidence
that conclusively negates an element of the plaintiff’s cause of action. The
defendant may also present evidence that the plaintiff does not possess, and
cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence—as through admissions by the
plaintiff following extensive discovery to the effect that he has discovered nothing.”  (Id. at p. 855, original
emphasis.)  
          “Supporting and opposing affidavits or declarations . . .
shall set forth admissible evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (d).)
“Matters which would be excluded under the rules of evidence if proffered by a
witness in a trial as hearsay, conclusions or impermissible opinions, must be
disregarded in supporting affidavits.”  (Hayman
v. Block (1986) 176 Cal.App.3d 629, 639.) 
          In addition, a party moving for summary judgment or summary
adjudication must support the motion with “a separate statement setting forth
plainly and concisely all material facts which the moving party contends are
undisputed. Each of the material facts stated shall be followed by a reference
to the supporting evidence.” (Parkview Villas Assn. v. State Farm Fire &
Casualty Co. (2006) 133 Cal.App.4th 1197, 1209 (Parkview Villas),
quoting Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (b)(1) [motion for summary judgment];
see Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(2) [motion for summary adjudication
“shall proceed in all procedural respects as a motion for summary judgment”].)
The party opposing the motion must file with the opposition papers “a separate
statement that responds to each of the material facts contended by the moving
party to be undisputed, indicating whether the opposing party agrees or
disagrees that those facts are undisputed. The statement also shall set forth
plainly and concisely any other material facts that the opposing party contends
are disputed. Each material fact contended by the opposing party to be disputed
shall be followed by a reference to the supporting evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 437c, subd. (b)(3).)  If either party
fails to comply with the applicable separate statement requirement, that
failure may in the court’s discretion constitute a sufficient ground to decide
the motion adversely to the offending party. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subds.
(b)(1), (3).)   
          In ruling on the motion, the court
must consider all of the evidence and all of the inferences reasonably drawn from
it and must view such evidence and inferences in the light most favorable to
the opposing party.  (Aguilar, supra,
25 Cal.4th at p. 843.)  “[A] court
cannot grant summary judgment based on inferences that are contradicted by
other inferences or evidence. And a triable issue of fact exists when the
evidence permits a reasonable trier of fact to find a contested fact in favor
of the party opposing the motion. 
[Citation.] Put slightly differently, a summary judgment may not be
granted unless the evidence is incapable of supporting a judgment for the
losing party.” (California-American Water Co. v. Marina Coast Water Dist.
(2022) 86 Cal.App.5th 1272, 1296.) 
B.   Negligence and premises liability 
“The
elements of a negligence claim and a premises liability claim are the same: a
legal duty of care, breach of that duty, and proximate cause resulting in
injury.” (Kesner v. Superior Court (2016) 1 Cal.5th 1132, 1159.) 
DISCUSSION 
A.   The complaint 
The complaint
alleges the following: 
Plaintiff
was employed by Tesla, Inc. (“Tesla”), which leased the premises at 4755 Alla Road,
Los Angeles, California 90041 (“premises”) from Defendants.  On August 15, 2018, Plaintiff was in charge of
closing the gate to the premises.  The
gate was approximately 20 feet long and 10 feet tall.  Defendants owned, operated, and maintained the
gate. 
While
Plaintiff was attempting to pull the gate across, the gate fell off its track
and towards Plaintiff.  Plaintiff braced
himself and caught the gate, suffering injuries in the process. 
B.   Undisputed facts 
On October
19, 2017, Marpac and MF entered into a Lease Agreement with Tesla for a 10-year
term with options to extend.  (UMF 6.)
 Marpac
and MF are partners in 4755 Alla, LP. 
(UMF 14.)  Section 5.1 of the
Lease Agreement provided that the tenant (Tesla) agreed to repair and maintain
the premises in good and tenantable condition “including but not limited to the basic maintenance, repair and, when
necessary, non-capital replacement of . . . other mechanical and Building
Systems (collectively, the “Building Systems”), to the extent such Building
Systems are within the Premises and exclusively serving the Premises, . . . all
Tenant’s signs, locks and closing devices, and all window sash, casement or
frames, window cases, window frames, security grilles or similar enclosures,
doors and door frames, all of Tenant's signage (both interior and exterior) and
all other facilities and equipment of Tenant located outside of the Building
and otherwise located on the Premises….” (UMF 7.) 
Tesla
subcontracted with RRAM Services, Inc. for RRAM
Services, Inc. to perform the maintenance of the gate.  (UMF 12.) 
Before
the commencement of the Lease Agreement on October 19, 2017, Defendants’
property manager and representative, Kathy Stimson (“Stimson”), performed a
walkthrough inspection of the premises with Tesla
and she has personally inspected the gate on other occasions.  (UMF 8.)  Stimson noted
that the premises, including the gate, were in good working condition.  (UMF 9.) Stimson
did not observe any issues with the gate and she was not aware of the gate not
functioning properly at any time prior to the transfer of the premises to
Tesla.  (UMF 10.)  Before she
learned about Plaintiff’s complaint in this action, Stimson had never received
a complaint about the gate and she was not aware of any issue with the gate not
functioning properly.  (UMF 11.) 
Prior
to Plaintiff’s injury, Defendants were not aware of
any malfunctions involving the gate and had no records of any maintenance or
repair to the gate.  (UMF 13.)  
C.   Legal arguments 
Defendants
argue that they did not owe Plaintiff a duty of care because they did not have
possession, control, or the right to reenter the premises when Plaintiff’s
accident occurred and they did not have notice of the dangerous condition. 
“ ‘
“Generally, one owes a duty of ordinary care not to cause an unreasonable risk
of harm to others....” ' [Citation.]” (Salinas v. Martin (2008) 166
Cal.App.4th 404, 411 (Salinas), quoting Padilla v. Rodas (2008)
160 Cal.App.4th 742, 747 (Padilla).) “ ‘Civil Code section 1714 sets
forth the general duty of a property owner toward others: “Everyone is
responsible, not only for the result of his or her willful acts, but also for
an injury occasioned to another by his or her want of ordinary care or skill in
the management of his or her property or person, except so far as the latter
has, willfully or by want of ordinary care, brought the injury upon himself or
herself.”  The application of this provision entails an inquiry . . . “whether
in the management of his property he has acted as a reasonable [person] in view
of the probability of injury to others....” [Citations.]’ ” (Id. at pp.
411-412, quoting Laico v. Chevron U.S.A., Inc. (2004) 123 Cal.App.4th
649, 659 (Laico).) “A landowner ‘ “ ‘has an affirmative duty to exercise
ordinary care to keep the premises in a reasonably safe condition, and
therefore must inspect them or take other proper means to ascertain their
condition. And if, by the exercise of reasonable care, he would have discovered
the dangerous condition, he is liable.’ ” ’ [Citation.]’ ” (Id. at p.
412, quoting Portillo v. Aiassa (1994) 27 Cal.App.4th 1128, 1134.) 
“
‘An exception to the statutory rule of liability for failure to use ordinary
care in the management of one's property requires clear support in public
policy.’ ” (Salinas, supra, 166 Cal.App.4th at p. 412, quoting Laico,
supra, 123 Cal.App.4th at pp. 659–660.) “ ‘ “In the case of a
landowner's liability for injuries to persons on the property, the
determination of whether a duty exists, ‘involves the balancing of a number of
considerations; the major ones are the foreseeability of harm to the plaintiff,
the degree of certainty that the plaintiff suffered injury, the closeness of
the connection between the defendant's conduct and the injury suffered, the
moral blame attached to the defendant's conduct, the policy of preventing future
harm, the extent of the burden to the defendant and the consequences to the
community of imposing a duty to exercise care with resulting liability for
breach, and the availability, cost, and prevalence of insurance for the risk
involved.’ [Citations.]” [Citation.]’ ” (Ibid., quoting Rinehart v.
Boys & Girls Club of Chula Vista (2005) 133 Cal.App.4th 419, 430.) “
‘Foreseeability and the extent of the burden to the defendant are ordinarily
the crucial considerations, but in a given case one or more of the other Rowland
factors may be determinative of the duty analysis.’ ” (Ibid., quoting Castaneda
v. Olsher (2007) 41 Cal.4th 1205, 1213.) “The existence and scope of a
defendant's duty is a question of law for the court's resolution.” (Ibid.,
citing Shin v. Ahn (2007) 42 Cal.4th 482, 488; Padilla, supra,
160 Cal.App.4th at p. 747.) 
“[W]here
a landlord has relinquished control of property to a tenant, a ‘bright line’
rule has developed to moderate the landlord's duty of care owed to a third
party injured on the property as compared with the tenant who enjoys possession
and control.” (Salinas, supra, 166 Cal.App.4th at p. 412.)  “ ‘ “Because a landlord has relinquished
possessory interest in the land, his or her duty of care to third parties
injured on the land is attenuated as compared with the tenant who enjoys
possession and control. Thus, before liability may be thrust on a landlord for
a third party's injury due to a dangerous condition on the land, the plaintiff
must show that the landlord had actual knowledge of the dangerous condition in
question, plus the right and ability to cure the condition.” [¶] Limiting a
landlord's obligations releases it from needing to engage in potentially
intrusive oversight of the property, thus permitting the tenant to enjoy its
tenancy unmolested.’ ” (Ibid., quoting Stone v. Center Trust Retail
Properties, Inc. (2008) 163 Cal.App.4th 608, 612; see Mora v. Baker
Commodities, Inc. (1989) 210 Cal.App.3d 771, 789 (Mora) [“If the
property or equipment necessary for the functioning of the property . . . was safe when transferred to the tenant, used in the
manner for which it was intended and the lessor/owner has given up control of
the property, the commercial landlord cannot be held responsible for accidents
occurring after the property is transferred”].) 
Commercial
landowners cannot totally abrogate their landowner responsibilities merely by
signing a lease.  (Mora, supra,
210 Cal.App.3d at p. 781.)  “At the time
the lease is executed and upon renewal a landlord has a right to reenter the
property, has control of the property, and must inspect the premises to make
the premises reasonably safe from dangerous conditions.  [Citations.] Even if the commercial landlord
executes a contract which requires the tenant to maintain the property in a
certain condition, the landlord is obligated at the time the lease is executed
to take reasonable precautions to avoid unnecessary danger.  [Fn. omitted.].”  (Ibid.) 
“However,
the landlord's responsibility to inspect is limited. Like a residential
landlord, the duty to inspect charges the lessor ‘only with those matters which
would have been disclosed by a reasonable inspection.’  [Citations.] The burden of reducing or
avoiding the risk and the likelihood of injury will affect the determination of
what constitutes a reasonable inspection. The landlord's obligation is only to
do what is reasonable under the circumstances. The landlord need not take
extraordinary measures or make unreasonable expenditures of time and money in
trying to discover hazards unless the circumstances so warrant. When there is a
potential serious danger, which is foreseeable, a landlord should anticipate
the danger and conduct a reasonable inspection before passing possession to the
tenant.  [Fn. omitted.] However, if no
such inspection is warranted, the landlord has no such obligation.”  (Mora, supra, 210 Cal.App.3d at
pp. 781-782.) 
“The
obligation to inspect arises ‘only if [the landowner] had some reason to know
there was a need for such action.’ ” [Citation.]  (Lin Joon Oh v. Teachers Insurance &
Annuity Association of America (2020) 53 Cal.App.5th 71, 86, quoting Garcia
v. Holt (2015) 242 Cal.App.4th 600, 605.)  Defendants
have presented evidence that they relinquished control of the premises to Tesla
on October 19, 2017, that they inspected
the premises before the Lease Agreement with Tesla went into effect, that they were
not aware of any problems with the gate, and that the Lease Agreement gave Tesla
the responsibility to maintain and repair the gate.  Based on this evidence, Defendants have
carried their initial burden on summary judgment, shifting the burden to Plaintiff. 
In
response, Plaintiff objects to Stimson’s testimony about her inspection of
the premises, arguing that Stimson was not qualified to provide opinions.  However, Plaintiff has failed to present
evidence showing that Stimson lacked qualifications to conduct an inspection and
report on her conclusions.  Plaintiff
also relies on Evidence Code section 1523, which provides in part that “[e]xcept
as otherwise provided by statute, oral testimony is not admissible to prove the
content of a writing.”  (Evid. Code, §
1523, subd. (a).)  Evidence Code section
1523 does not apply here because Stimson may testify about her inspection even if she did not prepare a written report. 
Plaintiff
argues that “Defendants had a non-delegable duty to maintain their property in
safe condition, including the gate which injured Plaintiff, and yet had never
repaired, inspected, or performed any maintenance to the gate or its safety
mechanisms in twenty-two years.” 
(Opposition p. 2.)  Yet Plaintiff
has not presented evidence that creates a triable issue of fact regarding (1)
whether Defendants relinquished control of the premises to Tesla on October 19,
2017, (2) whether Defendants inspected the premises before the Lease Agreement
went into effect, (3) whether Defendants were aware of any problems with the
gate, and (4) whether the Lease Agreement gave Tesla the responsibility to
maintain and repair the gate. 
Plaintiff
has failed to carry his burden of raising a triable issue of
material fact.  The Court grants Defendants' motion for summary judgment. 
CONCLUSION 
The Court
GRANTS the motion for summary judgment of Defendants 4755 Alla LP, Marpac
Company, and MF One, LP. 
Moving
parties are ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
parties are ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.