 Case Number:  22STCV38594    Hearing Date:   February 13, 2024    Dept:  28 I.        Motions to compel further responses to  requests for production and form interrogatories Having  reviewed the moving, opposing, and reply papers, the Court rules as follows.  BACKGROUND  On December  12, 2022, Plaintiff Elena Perez (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against  Defendants Los Angeles Unified School District (“Defendant”) and Does 1-20 for  negligence and wrongful death.  On March  1, 2023, Defendant filed an answer.  On  November 7, 2023, Plaintiff filed motions to compel Defendant’s further  responses to requests for production of documents, set two, and form  interrogatories, set one, to be heard on December 4, 2023.  The Court continued the hearings to February  13, 2024.  On January 30, 2024, and  February 1, 2024, Defendant filed oppositions.   On February 5, 2024, Plaintiff filed replies.  Trial  is currently scheduled for June 10, 2024.  PROCEDURAL REQUIREMENTS  A.      Informal Discovery Conference  The  Eighth Amended Standing Order for Procedures in the Personal Injury Hub Courts  Effective October 10, 2022 (filed September 20, 2022), ¶ 9E, provides: “PI Hub  Courts will not hear Motions to Compel Further Discovery Responses to Discovery  until the parties have engaged in an Informal Discovery Conference (IDC).  PI Hub Courts may deny or continue a Motion  to Compel Further Responses to Discovery if parties fail to schedule and  complete an IDC before the scheduled hearing on a Motion to Compel Further Responses  to Discovery.”  The  parties participated in IDCs on November 8, 2023 and January 18, 2024.  B.       Timeliness  of motions  A  notice of motion to compel further responses must be given within 45 days of  the service of the responses, or any supplemental responses, or on or before  any specific later date to which the parties have agreed in writing. (Code Civ.  Proc., § 2033.290, subd, (c).) Failure to file a motion within this time period  constitutes a waiver of any right to compel further responses to requests for  admission.  On  November 7, 2023, Plaintiff filed motions to compel Defendant’s further  responses to requests for production of documents, set two, and form  interrogatories, set one.  Defendant does  not dispute the timeliness of the motions.  C.   Meet and  confer  “A  motion to compel must be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under  Code of Civil Procedure section 2016.040.”   (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.300, subd. (b)(1); 2031.310, subd.  (b)(2).)  “A meet and confer declaration  must state facts showing a reasonable and good-faith attempt at an informal resolution  of each issue presented by the motion.”   (Code Civ. Proc., § 2016.040.)   Plaintiff  has provided meet and confer declarations.   Defendant does not dispute the adequacy of Plaintiff’s meet and confer efforts.  D.      Separate statement  With  exceptions that do not apply here, California Rules of Court, rule 3.1345,  requires that any motion involving the content of discovery contain a separate  statement with the text of each request, the response, and a statement of  factual and legal reasons for why an order compelling further responses is  warranted.   Plaintiff  has filed separate statements.  APPLICABLE LAW  A.    Motion to  compel further responses to requests for production  Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.310 provides in  part:  “(a) On  receipt of a response to a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or  sampling, the demanding party may move for an order compelling further response  to the demand if the demanding party deems that any of the following apply:  “(1) A  statement of compliance with the demand is incomplete.  “(2) A  representation of inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive.  “(3) An  objection in the response is without merit or too general.  “(b) A motion  under subdivision (a) shall comply with each of the following:  “(1) The  motion shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the  discovery sought by the demand.  “(2) The motion  shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.  “(3) In lieu  of a separate statement required under the California Rules of Court, the court  may allow the moving party to submit a concise outline of the discovery request  and each response in dispute.  “(c) Unless  notice of this motion is given within 45 days of the service of the verified  response, or any supplemental verified response, or on or before any specific  later date to which the demanding party and the responding party have agreed in  writing, the demanding party waives any right to compel a further response to  the demand.  * * *   “(h) Except  as provided in subdivision (j), the court shall impose a monetary sanction  under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person,  or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel further  response to a demand, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction  acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition  of the sanction unjust. . . .”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subds. (a), (b), (c),  (h).)  B.   Motion to compel further responses to interrogatories  Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.300 provides:  “(a) On receipt of a response to interrogatories, the  propounding party may move for an order compelling a further response if the  propounding party deems that any of the following apply:  “(1) An answer to a particular interrogatory is  evasive or incomplete.  “(2) An exercise of the option to produce documents  under Section 2030.230 is unwarranted or the required specification of those  documents is inadequate.  “(3) An objection to an interrogatory is without merit  or too general.  “(b) (1) A motion under subdivision (a) shall be  accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.  “(2) In lieu of a separate statement required under  the California Rules of Court, the court may allow the moving party to submit a  concise outline of the discovery request and each response in dispute.  “(c) Unless notice of this motion is given within 45  days of the service of the verified response, or any supplemental verified  response, or on or before any specific later date to which the propounding  party and the responding party have agreed in writing, the propounding party  waives any right to compel a further response to the interrogatories.  “(d) The court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter  7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who  unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a further response to  interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted  with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition  of the sanction unjust.  “(e) If a party then fails to obey an order compelling  further response to interrogatories, the court may make those orders that are  just, including the imposition of an issue sanction, an evidence sanction, or a  terminating sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010). In  lieu of, or in addition to, that sanction, the court may impose a monetary  sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010).”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300.)  Code  of Civil Procedure section 2030.220 provides:  “(a) Each answer in a response to interrogatories  shall be as complete and straightforward as the information reasonably  available to the responding party permits.  “(b) If an interrogatory cannot be answered  completely, it shall be answered to the extent possible.  “(c) If the responding party does not have personal  knowledge sufficient to respond fully to an interrogatory, that party shall so  state, but shall make a reasonable and good faith  effort to obtain the information by inquiry to other natural persons or  organizations, except where the information is equally available to the  propounding party.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.220.)  DISCUSSION  A.   Plaintiff’s motion to compel Defendant’s further responses  to requests for production, set two  Propounded:                               March 14, 2023Responses:                                 May  30, 2023Privilege log:            June 30, 2023Supplemental privilege log:        [date not provided]Motion filed:                         November 7, 2023  1.    ISTAR reports and attorney-client privilege  Defendant  argues that the attorney-client privilege protects the ISTAR reports.  (Opposition pp. 2-4.)  “Where,  as here, a corporate employer requires that its employees make a report, [application  of the attorney-client privilege to] that report is determined by the  employer’s purpose in requiring the report. [Citation.] When the corporate  employer has more than one purpose in requiring the report, the dominant  purpose will control.”  (Scripps Health  v. Superior Court (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 529, 533.)   The  Court has reviewed the parties’ arguments and evidence and concludes that  Defendant’s primary purpose in requiring its employees to submit ISTAR reports is  not “for transmittal to an attorney in the course of the professional  attorney-client relationship under circumstances where [Defendant] expected  confidentiality.”  (Id. at p.  534.)  Instead, the dominant purpose is to  “enable[ ] the Educational Service Center (ESC), Central Office and other  responders to mobilize efficiently and effectively and allocate appropriate  resources to address incidents and provide support to schools, offices, and  those affected [by incidents involving  students, employees, or the school community which occur on or near District  schools and sites].”  (Los Angeles Unified  School District Policy Bulletin, Exh. O to Carrillo Dec.)  Therefore, the attorney-client privilege does  not prevent production of the ISTAR reports.  2.    Witness statements and work product protection  Defendant  argues that the witness statements at issue are protected attorney work product.  (Opposition pp. 4 -6.)  “[W]itness  statements obtained as a result of interviews conducted by an attorney, or by  an attorney’s agent at the attorney’s behest, constitute work product protected  by [Code of Civil Procedure] section 2018.030.”  (Coito v. Superior Court (2012) 54  Cal.4th 480, 494 (Coito).)  The witness  statements are entitled to at least qualified work product protection.  (See Coito, supra, 54 Cal.4th  at p. 496.)  For these statements, “[a] party seeking disclosure  has the burden of establishing that denial of disclosure will unfairly  prejudice the party in preparing its claim or defense or will result in an  injustice. [Citation.] If the party resisting discovery alleges that a witness  statement, or portion thereof, is absolutely protected because it ‘reflects an  attorney’s impressions, conclusions, opinions, or legal research or theories’ [citation],  that party must make a preliminary or foundational showing in support of its  claim. The trial court should then make an in camera inspection to determine  whether absolute work product protection applies to some or all of the  material.”  (Id. at pp. 499-500,  quoting Code Civ. Proc., § 2018.030, subds. (a), (b).)  Applying  this test to the witness statements, the Court finds that Plaintiff has carried  her burden of establishing that denial of  disclosure will unfairly prejudice her in preparing her claim or will result in  an injustice.  Defendant, however, has  not made a preliminary or foundational showing that the witness statements reflect  an attorney’s impressions, conclusions, opinions, or legal research or  theories.  Therefore, the attorney work  product doctrine does not prevent production of the witness statements.  3.    Ruling            Granted:       78, 80, 103, 105, 110, 113 (all)  4.    Sanctions  The  Court denies Plaintiff’s request for sanctions.   Imposition of sanctions would be unjust because Defendant participated  in good faith in meet and confer efforts concerning the requests for production of documents.  B.   Plaintiff’s motion to compel Defendant’s further responses  to form interrogatories, set one  Propounded:          March 7, 2023 Responses:             May 30, 2023 Motion filed:         November 7, 2023  1.    Employee contact information and privacy  Defendant  argues that responding to form interrogatory numbers 12.2 and 12.3 by providing  contact information for its employees who authored witness statements would  violate the employees’ privacy rights.   So far, Defendant asserts, no employee has consented to disclosure of the employee's contact information to Plaintiff.  Even  highly relevant, nonprivileged information may be shielded from discovery if  its disclosure would impair a person’s right to privacy under State or federal  law.  (See L. Edmon & C. Karnow, Cal. Practice  Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (Rutter 2023) ¶ 8:293, p. 8C-97 (Cal.  Practice Guide).)  “Unlike  privilege, the protection afforded is qualified, not absolute.  In each case, the court must carefully  balance the right of privacy against the need for discovery [citation].  The showing required to overcome the  protection depends on the nature of the privacy right asserted; in some cases,  a simple balancing test is sufficient, while in others, a compelling interest  must be shown.  (Cal. Practice Guide, supra,  ¶ 8:294, p. 8C-98.)  “The burden is on ‘the  party asserting a privacy interest to establish its extent and the seriousness  of the prospective invasion,’ and then the court must ‘weigh the countervailing  interests the opposing party identifies.’”   (Ibid.)  “Although  disclosure may invade their privacy, there is generally no protection for the  identity, addresses and phone numbers of percipient witnesses.  Thus, a court may not require the party  seeking discovery to obtain the [percipient] witnesses’ consent to disclosure: ‘[A]  percipient witness’s willingness to participate in civil discovery has never  been considered relevant – witnesses may be compelled to appear and testify whether they want to or not.’ ”  (Cal. Practice Guide, supra, ¶ 8:299.5, p. 8C-102.)  The employees  at issue are percipient witnesses with respect to the information contained in  their witness statements.  The Court finds that Plaintiff's need for their contact information outweighs their privacy  rights.  The employees’ contact  information will be subject to the protective order currently in effect.  2.    Ruling  Granted:  12.2, 12.3  3.    Sanctions  The Court denies Plaintiff's request for sanctions.  CONCLUSION  The Court GRANTS Plaintiff Elena Perez’s motion to  compel Defendant Los Angeles Unified School District’s further  responses to requests for production of documents, set two, and orders Defendant  Los Angeles Unified School District to provide further verified, code-compliant  responses to requests for production, set two, numbers 78, 80, 103, 105, 110, and 113 as set forth above and to produce the documents, electronically stored  information, and/or other things requested by March 12, 2024.  The Court GRANTS Plaintiff  Elena Perez’s motion to compel Defendant Los Angeles Unified School District’s  further responses to form interrogatories, set one, and orders Defendant Los  Angeles Unified School District to provide further verified, code-compliant  responses to form interrogatories, set one, numbers 12.2 and 12.3, by March 12,  2024.  The Court DENIES Plaintiff Elena Perez’s requests for  sanctions. Moving  party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.  Moving  party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court  within five days.II.  Defendant's motion to compel compliance with subpoena for  production of business records PARTIES’ REQUESTS           Defendant asks the Court to compel the Los Angeles County  Coroner’s Office (“Coroner”) to produce photographs taken in connection with the autopsy of Plaintiff's decedent.           Plaintiff asks the Court to deny the motion. LEGAL STANDARD  Code  of Civil Procedure section 1985 provides: “(a) The process by which the attendance of a witness  is required is the subpoena. It is a writ or order directed to a person and  requiring the person’s attendance at a particular time and place to testify as  a witness. It may also require a witness to bring any books, documents,  electronically stored information, or other things under the witness’s control  which the witness is bound by law to produce in evidence. When a county  recorder is using the microfilm system for recording, and a witness is subpoenaed  to present a record, the witness shall be deemed to have complied with the  subpoena if the witness produces a certified copy thereof. “(b) A copy of an affidavit shall be served with a  subpoena duces tecum issued before trial, showing good cause for the production  of the matters and things described in the subpoena, specifying the exact  matters or things desired to be produced, setting forth in full detail the  materiality thereof to the issues involved in the case, and stating that the  witness has the desired matters or things in his or her possession or under his  or her control. “(c) The clerk, or a judge, shall issue a subpoena or  subpoena duces tecum signed and sealed but otherwise in blank to a party  requesting it, who shall fill it in before service. An attorney at law who is  the attorney of record in an action or proceeding, may sign and issue a  subpoena to require attendance before the court in which the action or  proceeding is pending or at the trial of an issue therein, or upon the taking  of a deposition in an action or proceeding pending therein; the subpoena in  such a case need not be sealed. An attorney at law who is the attorney of  record in an action or proceeding, may sign and issue a subpoena duces tecum to  require production of the matters or things described in the subpoena.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1985.) Code  of Civil Procedure section 1987.1 provides: “(a) If a subpoena requires the attendance of a  witness or the production of books, documents, electronically stored  information, or other things before a court, or at the trial of an issue  therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably  made by any person described in subdivision (b), or upon the court’s own motion  after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make an order  quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it  upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including protective  orders. In addition, the court may make any other order as may be appropriate  to protect the person from unreasonable or oppressive demands, including  unreasonable violations of the right of privacy of the person. “(b) The following persons may make a motion pursuant  to subdivision (a): “(1) A party. “(2) A witness. “(3) A consumer described in Section 1985.3. “(4) An employee described in Section 1985.6. “(5) A person whose personally identifying  information, as defined in subdivision (b) of Section 1798.79.8 of the Civil  Code, is sought in connection with an underlying action involving that person’s  exercise of free speech rights. “(c) Nothing in this section shall require any person  to move to quash, modify, or condition any subpoena duces tecum of personal  records of any consumer served under paragraph (1) of subdivision (b) of  Section 1985.3 or employment records of any employee served under paragraph (1)  of subdivision (b) of Section 1985.6.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1.) Code  of Civil Procedure section 2020.010 provides: “(a) Any of the following methods may be used to  obtain discovery within the state from a person who is not a party to the  action in which the discovery is sought: “(1) An oral deposition under Chapter 9 (commencing  with Section 2025.010). “(2) A written deposition under Chapter 11 (commencing  with Section 2028.010). “(3) A deposition for production of business records  and things under Article 4 (commencing with Section 2020.410) or Article 5  (commencing with Section 2020.510). “(b) Except as provided in subdivision (a) of Section  2025.280, the process by which a nonparty is required to provide discovery is a  deposition subpoena.” (Code  Civ. Proc., § 2020.010.) Code  of Civil Procedure section 2020.020 provides: “A deposition subpoena may command any of the  following: “(a) Only the attendance and the testimony of the  deponent, under Article 3 (commencing with Section 2020.310). “(b) Only the production of business records for  copying, under Article 4 (commencing with Section 2020.410). “(c) The attendance and the testimony of the deponent,  as well as the production of business records, other documents, electronically  stored information, and tangible things, under Article 5 (commencing with  Section 2020.510).” (Code Civ. Proc., §  2020.020.) Code  of Civil Procedure section 2020.410 provides: “(a) A deposition subpoena that commands only the  production of business records for copying shall designate the business records  to be produced either by specifically describing each individual item or by  reasonably particularizing each category of item, and shall specify the form in  which any electronically stored information is to be produced, if a particular  form is desired. “(b) Notwithstanding subdivision (a), specific  information identifiable only to the deponent’s records system, like a policy  number or the date when a consumer interacted with the witness, is not  required. “(c) A deposition subpoena that commands only the  production of business records for copying need not be accompanied by an  affidavit or declaration showing good cause for the production of the business  records designated in it. It shall be directed to the custodian of those  records or another person qualified to certify the records. It shall command  compliance in accordance with Section 2020.430 on a date that is no earlier  than 20 days after the issuance, or 15 days after the service, of the  deposition subpoena, whichever date is later. “(d) If, under Section 1985.3 or 1985.6, the one to  whom the deposition subpoena is directed is a witness, and the business records  described in the deposition subpoena are personal records pertaining to a  consumer, the service of the deposition subpoena shall be accompanied either by  a copy of the proof of service of the notice to the consumer described in  subdivision (e) of Section 1985.3, or subdivision (b) of Section 1985.6, as  applicable, or by the consumer’s written authorization to release personal records  described in paragraph (2) of subdivision (c) of Section 1985.3, or paragraph  (2) of subdivision (c) of Section 1985.6, as applicable.” (Code Civ. Proc., §  2020.410.) DISCUSSION On  July 24, 2023, Defendant issued a subpoena duces tecum to the Coroner  requesting production of business records, including photographs, by August 21,  2023.  In response, the Coroner produced  an autopsy report and related forensic records from its examination of Plaintiff’s  decedent.  In addition, the Coroner provided a form notice stating: “Our records  indicate that photographs are available. However, in accordance with California  Code of Civil Procedure, Section 129, Photographs may be obtained either by  court order or by completing the attached form.” (Exhibit C to Quintana Dec.) Code  of Civil Procedure section 129 provides in part: “(a) Notwithstanding any other law, a copy,  reproduction, or facsimile of any kind of a photograph, negative, or print,  including instant photographs and video recordings, of the body, or any portion  of the body, of a deceased person, taken by or for the coroner at the scene of  death or in the course of a post mortem examination or autopsy, shall not be  made or disseminated except as follows: * * *“(2) As a court of this state permits, by order after  good cause has been shown and after written notification of the request for the  court order has been served, at least five days before the order is made, upon  the district attorney of the county in which the post mortem examination or  autopsy has been made or caused to be made. “(3) For use or potential use in a civil action or  proceeding in this state that relates to the death of that person, if either of  the following applies: “(A) The coroner receives written authorization from a  legal heir or representative of that person before the action is filed or while  the action is pending. To verify the identity of the legal heir or  representative, all of the following shall be provided to the coroner: “(i) A declaration under penalty of perjury that the  individual is a legal heir or representative of the deceased person. “(ii) A valid form of identification. “(iii) A certified death certificate. “(B) A subpoena is issued by a party who is a legal  heir or representative of the deceased person in a pending civil action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 129,  subd. (a).) The Court continues the hearing on this motion to March 21, 2024 at 1:30 p.m.  The parties may file declarations by March 18, 2024 supporting their contentions concerning whether Defendant has shown good cause to compel the production of autopsy photographs under Code of Civil Procedure section  129, subdivision (a)(2).CONCLUSION           The Court CONTINUES the hearing on Defendant Los Angeles Unified School  District’s motion to compel the Los Angeles County Coroner’s Office to comply  with the subpoena for production of business records to March 21, 2024 at 1:30 p.m. in Department 28 of the Spring Street Courthouse.  The parties may file supplemental declarations by March 18, 2024. Moving  party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. Moving  party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court  within five days.