 Case Number:  22STCV29448    Hearing Date:   February 13, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
September 9, 2022, Plaintiff Khloe Lopez, by and through her guardian ad litem
Jesus Lopez (“Plaintiff”), filed this action against Defendants County of Los
Angeles (“County”), City of Pomona (“City”), Lori Ann Thomas, Arryianna Tomas,
and Does 1-50 for negligence and premises liability. 
On
September 20, 2022, Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint adding a claim
for dangerous condition of public property. 
On
October 24, 2022, the Court dismissed the County without prejudice at
Plaintiff’s request. 
On
November 29, 2022, the City filed an answer. 
On
January 3, 2023, Plaintiff amended the complaint to include Defendant Maribel Vazquez (“Vazquez”) as Doe 1. 
On
January 17, 2023, the Court dismissed Lori Ann Thomas and Arryianna Thomas
without prejudice at Plaintiff’s request. 
On
September 20, 2023, the clerk entered Vazquez’s default. 
On
November 1, 2023, the City filed a motion for leave to file a cross-complaint
to be heard on February 13, 2024.  No
opposition has been filed. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for July 8, 2024. 
PARTY’S REQUEST 
The
City requests leave to file a cross-complaint against Vazquez for total
equitable indemnity, partial equitable indemnity, and declaratory relief. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
          Code of Civil Procedure section 426.30 provides: 
“(a) Except as otherwise provided by statute, if a party
against whom a complaint has been filed and served fails to allege in a
cross-complaint any related cause of action which (at the time of serving his
answer to the complaint) he has against the plaintiff, such party may not thereafter
in any other action assert against the plaintiff the related cause of action
not pleaded. 
“(b) This section does not apply if either of the
following are established: 
“(1) The court in which the action is pending does not
have jurisdiction to render a personal judgment against the person who failed
to plead the related cause of action. 
“(2) The person who failed to plead the related cause
of action did not file an answer to the complaint against him.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 426.30.) 
          Code of Civil Procedure section 426.50 provides:           
“A party who fails to plead a cause of action subject
to the requirements of this article, whether through oversight, inadvertence,
mistake, neglect, or other cause, may apply to the court for leave to amend his
pleading, or to file a cross-complaint, to assert such cause at any time during
the course of the action. The court, after notice to the adverse party, shall grant,
upon such terms as may be just to the parties, leave to amend the pleading, or
to file the cross-complaint, to assert such cause if the party who failed to
plead the cause acted in good faith. This subdivision shall be liberally construed
to avoid forfeiture of causes of action.” 
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 426.50.) 
          Code of
Civil Procedure section 428.10 provides: 
          “A
party against whom a cause of action has been asserted in a complaint or
cross-complaint may file a cross-complaint setting forth either or both of the
following: 
“(a) Any
cause of action he has against any of the parties who filed the complaint or
cross-complaint against him. Nothing in this subdivision authorizes the filing
of a cross-complaint against the plaintiff in an action commenced under Title 7
(commencing with Section 1230.010) of Part 3. 
“(b) Any
cause of action he has against a person alleged to be liable thereon, whether
or not such person is already a party to the action, if the cause of action
asserted in his cross-complaint (1) arises out of the same transaction,
occurrence, or series of transactions or occurrences as the cause brought
against him or (2) asserts a claim, right, or interest in the property or
controversy which is the subject of the cause brought against him.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 428.10.) 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 428.50 provides: 
“(a) A party shall file a cross-complaint against any
of the parties who filed the complaint or cross-complaint against him or her
before or at the same time as the answer to the complaint or cross-complaint. 
“(b) Any other cross-complaint may be filed at any
time before the court has set a date for trial. 
“(c) A party shall obtain leave of court to file any cross-complaint
except one filed within the time specified in subdivision (a) or (b). Leave may
be granted in the interest of justice at any time during the course of the
action.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 428.50.) 
DISCUSSION 
In her
first amended complaint, Plaintiff alleges that on October 24, 2020, she fell
on an uneven sidewalk in the City and was injured. 
In
its motion, the City asserts that Vazquez owns the property where Plaintiff fell
but the City did not previously file a cross-complaint against Vazquez as the
result of oversight and inadvertence.  
          The Court grants
the motion. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS Defendant City of Pomona’s motion for leave to file a cross-complaint
against Cross-Defendants Maribel Vazquez and Roes 1-100 for total equitable
indemnity, partial equitable indemnity, and declaratory relief.  Defendant City of Pomona is ordered to file
and serve the cross-complaint within 30 days of the hearing on this motion. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.