 Case Number:  24STCP00215    Hearing Date:   September 24, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



SHAREHOLDER REPRESENTATIVE SERVICES, LLC,
                        Petitioner,
            v.
SSCA, INC.,
                        Respondent.
______________________________________
OUT-OF-STATE CASE: 
Court of Chancery of the State of
  Delaware 
No: 2023-0498-SKR
 
SHAREHOLDER REPRESENTATIVE SERVICES LLC, solely in its capacity
  as Securityholders’ Representative for the former Securityholders of Freshly,
  Inc.,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
NESTLE USA INC., HONEY BUYER LLC,
                         Defendants.
 


 Case No.:          24STCP00215
 Hearing Date:   September
  24, 2024
 Trial Date:        N/A
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Petition to
  Enforce Subpoena Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 2029.600 [RES ID # 6548]
  and Motion to Compel



 
I. Background
Petitioner Shareholder
Representative Services LLC (Shareholder Services) is the Plaintiff in Shareholder
Representative Services LLC v. Nestlé USA, Inc., et al., pending in the
Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware (Delaware Action). In May 2023, Shareholder
Services filed suit against Nestlé USA, Inc. and Honey Buyer LLC (Defendants)
in the Delaware Action to recover payments that Shareholder Services argues the
Defendants owe the former Securityholders of Freshly, Inc. (Freshly). Shareholder
Services alleges that the Defendants’ obligations to make contracted-for
accelerated earnout payments became due when Freshly’s founder and former CEO,
Michael Wystrach, resigned from Freshly in October 2021. The case turns on
resolving the question of whether Mr. Wystrach’s resignation from Freshly was voluntary
or was coerced by Nestlé to avoid paying the earnout due to Shareholder
Services if Mr. Wystrach was terminated. 
Discovery in the Delaware Action
revealed that in the months before and after Mr. Wystrach’s separation from
Freshly, Nestlé arranged and paid for management-level coaching sessions for Mr.
Wystrach and other Freshly and Nestlé executives with executive consulting firm
Spencer/Shenk/Capers & Associates, Inc (Respondent).

Shareholder Services issued a
subpoena to Respondent on October 30, 2023. 
On December 8, 2023, Respondent served
its objections to the subpoena along with a production of documents. 
On December 13, 2023, Shareholder Services
raised several concerns regarding the responses and objections to the subpoena
and corresponding document production. The parties corresponded back and forth
but were unable to reach a resolution. 
On January 19, 2024, Shareholder
Services filed this petition to enforce the subpoena. 
On September 11, 2024, Respondent
filed an opposition. 
On September 17, 2024, Shareholder
Services replied. 
 
II. Motion
A. Requests for Judicial Notice
Respondent’s request for judicial
notice is DENIED because it is not relevant to the determination of this
motion.  
B. Evidentiary Objections
Respondent objects to various
portions of the Declaration of Kourtney Kinsel submitted in support of Shareholder
Services petition. 
Objection Nos. 1-23:
OVERRULED 
C. Legal Standard
1.    
Interstate and International Depositions and
Discovery Act
Under Code of Civil Procedure section
2029.350, “if a party to a proceeding pending in a foreign jurisdiction retains
an attorney licensed to practice in this state, who is an active member of the
State Bar, and that attorney receives the original or a true and correct copy
of a foreign subpoena, the attorney may issue a subpoena under this article.”
“A subpoena issued under this article shall be personally served in compliance
with the law of this state, including, without limitation, Section 1985.” (Code
Civ. Proc. § 2029.400.)
“If a dispute arises relating to
discovery under this article, any request for a protective order or to enforce,
quash, or modify a subpoena, or for other relief may be filed in the superior
court in the county in which discovery is to be conducted and, if so filed,
shall comply with the applicable rules or statutes of this state.” (Code Civ. Proc.
§ 2029.600 subd. (a).)
2.    
Motion to Compel Further Production
A motion to compel a further
response is used when a party gives unsatisfactory answers or makes untenable
objections to interrogatories, demands to produce, or requests for admission.
(See Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (a); Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting,
Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390,
403.) 
To request further production, a
movant must establish: (1) good cause for the production (Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.310, subd. (b)(1); Sinaiko, supra, at p. 403); and (2) that
a further response is needed because (a) the responding party’s statement of
compliance with the demand to produce is incomplete Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.310, subd. (a)(1)), (b) the responding party’s representation that it is unable
to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310,
subd. (a)(2)), (c) the responding party’s objection in the response is without
merit or is too general (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (a)(3); Catalina
Island Yacht Club v. Superior Court (2015) 242 Cal.App.4th 1116, 1127), or
(d) if the responding party objected to the production of ESI on the ground
that it is not reasonably accessible the movant can show that the (i) ESI is
reasonably accessible or (ii) there is good cause for production of the ESI
regardless of its accessibility (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (e)). 
 
D. Analysis
1.    
Procedural Analysis
Shareholder
Services moves under Code of Civil Procedure section 2029.600 to compel
production of documents from Respondent pursuant to Petitioner’s Subpoena. 
In opposition, Respondent makes
various objections regarding the service of the October 30, 2023 subpoena and reissuance
of the subpoena on January 11, 2024. However, Respondent does not deny that it
accepted service of both documents. (Kinsel Decl. Ex. 3 p. 3 [email exchange in
which Respondent’s counsel states she is accepting service of the 10/30/23
subpoena]; Ross Decl. Ex C [email exchange in which on January 23, 2024,
Respondent’s counsel confirms service of the documents purportedly served on
January 11, 2024 including the petition and reissued subpoena.] Thus, Respondent
did accept service.
Respondent’s other procedural
objections are unavailing, as Respondent does not allege that any of the
purported procedural deficiencies prejudiced Respondent in any way.  
2.    
Substantive Analysis
RPD No. 3 seeks “All Communications
and/or Documents regarding this Action.” 
Respondent objects on
attorney-client privilege, trade secret privilege and attorney-work product
grounds. (Sep. Statement p. 1) 
RPD No. 4 seeks “All contracts or
agreements between You on the one hand and Nestlé or Buyer on the other hand,
including but not limited to any of Nestlé or Buyer’s Affiliates.” 
Respondent objects on irrelevant,
overbroad, attorney-client privilege, trade secret privilege and attorney-work
product grounds. (Sep. Statement pp. 8-9)
RPD No 5 seeks “Documents
sufficient to show any and all payments received by You from Nestlé or Buyer,
including but not limited to any of Nestlé or Buyer’s Affiliates, since January
1, 2020.” 
Respondent objects on irrelevant,
overbroad, attorney-client privilege, trade secret privilege and attorney-work
product grounds (Sep. Statement pp. 16-17)
Petitioner has clarified that it is
not seeking any internal SSCA attorney-client privileged documents and presumably
the same would apply to work product. The discovery requests are not overbroad insofar
as Shareholder Services has requested discovery as to Nestlé and Buyer and Buyer’s
Affiliates and the requests are reasonably particularized
The trade secret, attorney-client
privilege, and attorney work product objections may be viable, but need to be
supported by a privilege log. A nonparty that objects to a request for document
production based on a claim of privilege must support that claim with
“sufficient factual information for other parties to evaluate the merits of
that claim, including, if necessary, a privilege log.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
2031.240 subd. (c)(1); see also Wellpoint Health Networks, Inc. v. Super. Ct.,
(1997) 59 Cal. App. 4th 110, 129 [“The information in the privilege
log must be sufficiently specific to allow a determination of whether each
withheld document is or is not in fact privileged.”].) Moreover, the parties
may enter into a protective order here in California under which the documents may
also be produced, if Respondents object to the use of the Delaware protective
order.
Based on the above, Shareholder
Services’ petition to enforce the subpoena
is GRANTED. 
Shareholder Services’ motion to compel production of documents is GRANTED
The Court also notes that Respondent must support its privilege objections with
a privilege log.
III. Conclusion
Petitioner Shareholder
Representative Services, LLC’s Petition to Enforce Subpoena is GRANTED. 
Petitioner Shareholder
Representative Services, LLC Motion to Compel is GRANTED as set forth above. 
Respondent Spencer/Shenk/Capers
& Associates, Inc. is ordered to provide further responses within 30 days
of this ruling. 