  Case Number:  23STCV21484    Hearing Date:   January 25, 2024    Dept:  71  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



LACAA, LLC,  
  
         vs.
 
REDPOINT INVESTMENT INC., et al.


 Case No.: 
  23STCV21484
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date:  January 25, 2024



 
Defendants Redpoint Investments, Inc.’s,
Arthur Yoon’s, and William Lee’s demurrer to Plaintiff LACAA, LLC’s
first amended complaint is sustained without leave to amend as to the 3rd
cause of action. 
Defendants Redpoint
Investments, Inc.’s, Arthur Yoon’s, and William Lee’s demurrer to Plaintiff
LACAA, LLC’s first amended complaint is overruled as to the 1st, 2nd, and 4th
causes of action.  
 
Defendants Redpoint Investments, Inc. (“Redpoint”), Arthur Yoon
(“Yoon”), and William Lee (“Lee”) (collectively, “Moving Defendants”) demur to the
1st, 2nd, 3rd, and 4th causes of action[1] in Plaintiff LACAA,
LLC’s (“LACAA”) (“Plaintiff”) first amended complaint (“FAC”).  (Notice of Demurrer, pgs.
1-2; C.C.P. §§430.10(c),[2] (e), (f).)
 
Background
Plaintiff filed its initial Complaint on September 7, 2023.  On October 12, 2023, Plaintiff filed the
operative FAC against Defendants and Non-moving Defendants J.P. Morgan Chase
National Corporate Services, Inc. (“J.P. Morgan Chase”) and Arthur Yoon Real
Estate Group (“Yoon Real Estate Group”) (collectively, “Defendants”) alleging five
causes of action: (1) breach of written contract- negligence; (2) breach of
fiduciary duty; (3) breach of written contract; (4) tort of another; and (5)
conversion.
On November 14, 2023, Moving Defendants filed the instant
demurrer.[3]  On December 28, 2023,
Plaintiff filed a request for dismissal of Lee in his capacities as a trustee
and an individual, and J.P. Morgan Chase National Corporate Services, Inc.,
which was granted by this Court on January 2, 2024.  On January 3, 2024, Plaintiff filed its
opposition.  On January 18, 2024, Moving Defendants
filed their reply.
 
Summary of Demurrer
Moving Defendants demur to Plaintiff’s 1st, 2nd, 3rd, and 4th
causes of action on the basis that each cause of action fails to state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action and the pleadings are uncertain.  (Demurrer, pg. 3; C.C.P. §§430.10(e), (f).)
 
          Meet and Confer
Before filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the demurring
party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who
filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining
whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be
raised in the demurrer.  (C.C.P.
§430.41(a), emphasis added.)  A
declaration must be filed with a demurrer regarding the results of the meet and
confer process.  (C.C.P. §430.41(a)(3).)
Moving Defendants counsel’s declaration states that he
corresponded in writing with to Plaintiff’s counsel to address the deficiencies
in the FAC.  (Decl. of Ryu ¶2, Exh.
A.)  Moving Defendants counsel’s
declaration is insufficient under C.C.P. §430.41(a)(3) because he did not meet
and confer in person or by telephone, as required by the statute.  However, failure to sufficiently meet and
confer is not grounds to overrule or sustain a demurrer.  (C.C.P. §430.41(a)(4).)  Accordingly, the Court will consider the
instant demurrer.
 
Legal Standard
“[A] demurrer tests the legal
sufficiency of the allegations in a complaint.” (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc.
(2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  A
demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the
pleading under attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially
noticeable.  (See Donabedian v.
Mercury Insurance Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 [in ruling on a
demurrer, a court may not consider declarations, matters not subject to
judicial notice, or documents not accepted for the truth of their
contents].)  For purposes of ruling on a
demurrer, all facts pleaded in a complaint are assumed to be true, but the
reviewing court does not assume the truth of conclusions of law.  (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital District
(1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)
 
Failure to State a Claim
Breach of Written
Contract- Negligence & Breach of Fiduciary Duty (1st & 2nd COAs)
[Against Redpoint, Yoon, and Yoon Real Estate Group]
“The elements of a cause of action in tort for professional
negligence are (1) the duty of the professional to use such skill, prudence,
and diligence as other members of his profession commonly possess and exercise;
(2) a breach of that duty; (3) a proximate causal connection between the
negligent conduct and the resulting injury; and (4) actual loss or damage
resulting from the professional’s negligence.”  (Budd v. Nixen (1971) 6 Cal.3d 195,
200.)
A cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty requires the
following elements: (1) the existence of a fiduciary duty; (2) a breach of the
fiduciary duty; and (3) resulting damage.  (See Pellegrini v. Weiss (2008) 165
Cal.App.4th 515, 524; Knox v. Dean (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 417, 432.)  
“Under the common law, . . . a broker’s fiduciary duty to his
client requires the highest good faith and undivided service and loyalty. ‘The
broker as a fiduciary has a duty to learn the material facts that may affect
the principal’s decision. He is hired for his professional knowledge and skill;
he is expected to perform the necessary research and investigation in order to
know those important matters that will affect the principal’s decision, and he
has a duty to counsel and advise the principal regarding the propriety and
ramifications of the decision. The agent’s duty to disclose material
information to the principal includes the duty to disclose reasonably
obtainable material information. [¶] . . . [¶] The facts that a broker must
learn, and the advice and counsel required of the broker, depend on the facts
of each transaction, the knowledge and the experience of the principal, the
questions asked by the principal, and the nature of the property and the terms
of sale. The broker must place himself in the position of the principal and ask
himself the type of information required for the principal to make a
well-informed decision. This obligation requires investigation of facts not
known to the agent and disclosure of all material facts that might reasonably
be discovered.’”  (Field v. Century 21
Klowden-Forness Realty (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 18, 25-26, internal citations
omitted.)
“A fiduciary must tell its principal of all information it
possesses that is material to the principal’s interests. A fiduciary’s failure
to share material information with the principal is constructive fraud, a term
of art obviating actual fraudulent intent.  (Michel v. Moore & Associates, Inc.
(2007) 156 Cal.App.4th 756, 762, internal citations omitted.). “[Fiduciary]
duties require full and complete disclosure of all material facts respecting
the property or relating to the transaction in question.”  (Padgett v. Phariss (1997) 54
Cal.App.4th 1270, 1286.)
          Plaintiff alleges Yoon
represented it as its agent in the purchase of a certain residential four-plex
located in the City of Los Angeles (“Property”), as evidenced in the Purchase
Agreement.  (FAC ¶¶15, 66, Exh. A.)  Plaintiff alleges it performed all of the
obligations required of it under the Purchase Agreement.  (FAC ¶67.) 
Plaintiff alleges all conditions required by the Purchase Agreement for
Yoon’s performance occurred and/or were excused.  (FAC ¶68.) 

Plaintiff alleges Yoon owed duties to it under the Purchase
Agreement and applicable state laws enumerating his duties as Plaintiff’s
agent.  (FAC ¶69.)  Plaintiff alleges Yoon failed to perform his
duties to protect Plaintiff’s interest. 
(FAC ¶70.)  Plaintiff alleges Yoon
breached his duties to Plaintiff by, among others, failing to secure seller
concessions due to Plaintiff before the close of escrow, failing to verify Lee’s
personal check received by Lee, and failing to complete the repairs for the
remodeled unit.  (FAC ¶71.)  Plaintiff alleges Yoon had not even seen
Lee’s check before passing it on to Plaintiff through escrow despite Plaintiff’s
condition that it would only accept seller concession in Lee’s personal check
if Yoon guaranteed and vouched for Lee. 
(FAC ¶71.)
Plaintiff alleges on September 1, 2023, a tenant moved into the
remodeled unit and complained that several electrical outlets were not powered,
confirming that Yoon never completed the repairs during escrow as
required.  (FAC ¶72.)  Plaintiff alleges as a direct and proximate
result of Yoon’s breach Plaintiff has suffered damages in an amount according
to proof at trial.  (FAC ¶73.)
Plaintiff alleges Yoon failed to protect Plaintiff’s interest and breached
his fiduciary duties when he failed to secure the remaining payment of seller
concession for Plaintiff.  (FAC
¶77.)  Plaintiff alleges Yoon characterized
many of the issues raised by Plaintiff as minor and lacking merit, including
but not limited to J.P. Morgan Chase’s notification regarding its intent to
close Plaintiff’s account due to its inability to verify Lee.  (FAC ¶77.) 
Plaintiff alleges Yoon’s failure to verify the check before delivering
it to Plaintiff through escrow was against Plaintiff’s interest.  (FAC ¶77.) 
Plaintiff alleges Yoon’s failure to secure the funds before the close of
escrow to protect Plaintiff constitutes a breach of fiduciary duty as escrow
closed before the funds cleared for Plaintiff’s immediate use as intended for
the deferred maintenance of the Property. 
(FAC ¶77.)
Plaintiff sufficiently alleges causes of action for professional
negligence and breach of fiduciary duty against Yoon.  Plaintiff also alleges the same conduct
against Redpoint and Yoon Real Estate Group. 
(See FAC ¶10.)  Plaintiff
alleges at all relevant times, each of the Defendants acted as a principal,
agent, representative, or employee of each of the other Defendants and acted
within the course and scope of the said agency or representation or employment,
and with the permission and ratification of each of the other Defendants.  (FAC ¶10.) 
Further, Plaintiff alleges, by attaching the Purchase Agreement, that
Yoon executed on behalf of Redpoint the disclosure regarding real estate agency
relationship, possible representation of more than one buyer or seller, and the
residential income purchase agreement and joint escrow instructions.  (FAC, Exh. A.)
Accordingly, Moving Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s 1st and
2nd causes of action for professional negligence and breach of fiduciary duty
is overruled.
 
Breach of Written
Contract (3rd COA) [Against Seller (Lee)]
          Defendant Lee has
been dismissed from this action.  Because
there are no other Defendants whose conduct is alleged in this cause of action,
the demurrer to the 3rd cause of action for breach of written contract is
sustained without leave to amend.
 
Tort of Another (4th
COA) [Against Redpoint, Yoon, and Yoon Real Estate Group]
The doctrine of tort of another allows a plaintiff to recover
attorney fees “if he is required to employ counsel to prosecute or defend an
action against a third party because of the tort of defendant.”  (Behniwal v. Mix (2005) 133 Cal.App.4th
1027, 1043, quoting Golden West Baseball Co. v. Talley (1991) 232
Cal.App.3d 1294, 1302.)  
The tort of another doctrine is not really an exception to the
American rule, but simply “an application of the usual measure of tort
damages.”  (Mega RV Corp. v. HWH Corp.
(2014) 225 Cal.App.4th 1318, as modified on denial of reh’g (May 20,
2014), quoting Sooy v. Peter (1990) 220 Cal.App.3d 1305, 1310 [equating
recovery of attorney fees as damages to medical fees recovered in personal
injury action]; see §3333 [“the measure of damages . . . is the amount
which will compensate for all the detriment proximately caused thereby, whether
it could have been anticipated or not”].)
Plaintiff alleges as a result of Yoon’s breach of his duties
enumerated in the Purchase Agreement and the law to Plaintiff, Plaintiff was
forced to bring the instant action to protect its interest and, as a result,
incurred and suffered loss of time, attorney’s fees and costs, and other
expenditures.  (FAC ¶90.)  Plaintiff alleges as a result of Yoon’s
breach of his fiduciary duties owed to Plaintiff, Plaintiff was forced to bring
the instant action to protect its interest, and, as a result, incurred and suffered
loss of time, attorney’s fees and costs, and other expenditures.  (FAC ¶91.)
Plaintiff alleges it seeks attorney’s fees against Redpoint, Yoon,
and Yoon Real Estate, as it was forced to bring the instant action to protect
its interest and, as a result, incurred and suffered a loss of time, attorney’s
fees and costs, and other expenditures. 
(FAC ¶92.)
Plaintiff’s causes of action for professional negligence and
breach of fiduciary duty sufficiently allege two third parties, J.P. Morgan and
Lee, against whom it employed counsel to prosecute or defend an action because
of the alleged torts of Redpoint, Yoon, and Yoon Real Estate.  (FAC ¶¶41-64.)
Accordingly, Moving Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s 4th cause
of action for tort of another is overruled.
 
Conclusion
Moving Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s FAC is sustained without
leave to amend as to the 3rd cause of action.
Moving Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s FAC is overruled as to
the 1st, 2nd, and 4th causes of action.
Moving Party to give notice.
 
Dated:  January _____, 2024
                                                                             





  