  Case Number:  23AHCV01286    Hearing Date:   March 4, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



GEORGINA SANTORO, 
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
ROSE
   CITY VETERINARY HOSPITAL, INC.,
  et al.,
 
                   Defendant(s),


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 23AHCV01286
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANT ROSE CITY VETERINARY HOSPITAL, INC.’S DEMURRER
   AND MOTION TO STRIKE 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
March 4,
   2024



 
I.       INTRODUCTION
          On
June 6, 2023, plaintiff Georgina Santoro (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against defendants Rose City Veterinary Hospital (“Defendant”) and Laynee
Hokanson, DVM (“Dr. Hokanson”). On September 25, 2023, Plaintiff filed the
operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) asserting causes of action for
veterinary malpractice, intentional misrepresentation, intentional infliction
of emotional distress (“IIED”), and conversion. This action relates to
veterinary care provided to Plaintiff’s poodle, Lumiere, who suffered from a
condition commonly referred to as an undescended testicle. (FAC, ¶ 4.) Plaintiff
alleges that Lumiere underwent surgery on June 6, 2022, and during the surgery,
she received a phone call from Dr. Hokanson, who informed her that during the
procedure, she discovered that Lumiere was “anatomically incorrect.” (FAC, ¶
5.) Upon making this discovery, Dr. Hokanson allegedly clamped Lumiere’s
urethra and prostate in place of the testicle and informed Plaintiff that his
body cavity was filling was urine
II.      LEGAL
STANDARDS
A demurrer tests the legal sufficiency
of the pleadings and will be sustained only where the pleading is defective on
its face.  (City of Atascadero v.
Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Inc. (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 445,
459.) “We treat the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded
but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law. We accept the
factual allegations of the complaint as true and also consider matters which
may be judicially noticed. [Citation.]” (Mitchell v. California Department
of Public Health (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th 1000, 1007; Del E. Webb Corp. v.
Structural Materials Co. (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 593, 604 [“the facts alleged
in the pleading are deemed to be true, however improbable they may be”].) Allegations
are to be liberally construed. (Code Civ. Proc., § 452.) A demurrer may be
brought if insufficient facts are stated to support the cause of action
asserted. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).) 
Any party, within the time allowed to
respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole
or any part thereof. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1).) The court may,
upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems
proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any
pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a); Stafford v. Shultz (1954)
42 Cal.2d 767, 782 [“Matter in a pleading which is not essential to the claim
is surplusage; probative facts are surplusage and may be stricken out or
disregarded”].) The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not
drawn or filed in conformity with California law, a court rule, or an order of
the court. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (b).) An immaterial or irrelevant
allegation is one that is not essential to the statement of a claim or defense;
is neither pertinent to nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or
defense; or a demand for judgment requesting relief not supported by the allegations
of the complaint. (Code Civ. Proc., § 431.10, subd. (b).) The grounds for
moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial
notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)
Leave to amend must be allowed where
there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v.
Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) The burden is on the complainant to
show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Ibid.)
III.     DISCUSSION
A.  
Demurrer

1.  
Second
Cause of Action for Intentional Misrepresentation
“The elements of fraud, which give rise
to the tort action for deceit, are (a) misrepresentation (false representation,
concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) knowledge of falsity (or “scienter”); (c)
intent to defraud, i.e., to induce reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e)
resulting damage.” (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 638.)
To maintain any fraud action, a plaintiff must show that he or she changed
position in reliance upon the alleged fraud and was damaged by that change of
position. (Civ. Code, § 1709.) For example, in Lazar, evidence that the
plaintiff had quit his job and moved across the country in reliance upon the
defendant’s misrepresentations, would have been sufficient to demonstrate a
detrimental change of position. (Lazar, supra, 12 Cal.4th at p.
639.)
Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s claim
for intentional misrepresentation fails because she does not allege specific
affirmative statements that induced Plaintiff to act. The Court agrees.
Although Plaintiff argues in her opposition that Dr. Hokanson misrepresented
that the surgery would be quick and easy, there are no allegations that the
surgery to correct the undescended testicle was not a “quick and easy”
procedure. Instead, the crux of Plaintiff’s FAC is that the surgery was not
performed correctly. Furthermore, there are no allegations that the purported
misrepresentation about the nature of the surgery was made intentionally. 
Plaintiff also argues that Defendant
misrepresented that Lumiere was “anatomically incorrect” and could not treat him.
(Opp., p. 4.) Plaintiff argues that she incurred over $100,000 in medical
expenses at a different hospital because Defendant did not “tak[e]
responsibility for the crisis they had created.” (Opp., p. 4.) But Plaintiff
does not allege that Defendant was in fact capable of treating Lumiere at its
facility or that she incurred a greater amount in medical expenses because
Lumiere was not treated at Defendant’s facility. 
Furthermore, Plaintiff alleges that she
was “misinformed” of Lumiere’s condition, resulting in her not obtaining the
prompt necessary care he required. (FAC, ¶ 15.) However, this contradicts Plaintiff’s
allegation that she was informed by Dr. Hokanson that Lumiere’s body cavity was
filling with urine and that Lumiere was in need of emergency care. (FAC, ¶ 5.) Plaintiff
also alleges that she immediately retrieved Lumiere and took him to VCA Animal
Specialty Group Hospital in Glendale where she was informed that Lumiere’s
condition was the result of a “botched neuter.” (FAC, ¶ 6.) 
Accordingly, the demurrer to the Second
Cause of Action is SUSTAINED. 
2.  
Third
Cause of Action for IIED
To prove an IIED claim, a plaintiff
must establish that: (1) the defendant engaged in extreme and outrageous
conduct with the intent to cause, or with reckless disregard for the
probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff suffered extreme
or severe emotional distress; and (3) the defendant’s extreme and outrageous
conduct was the actual and proximate cause of the plaintiff’s extreme or severe
emotional distress. (So v. Shin (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 652, 671.) 
Plaintiff alleges that Dr. Hokanson intentionally
engaged in extreme and outrageous conduct by acting in her self-interest and telling
Plaintiff that Lumiere was anatomically incorrect. (FAC, ¶ 18.) A statement of
diagnosis (even if incorrect or false) does not rise to the level of “extreme
and outrageous conduct” needed for an IIED claim. “Outrageous conduct is
conduct that is intentional or reckless and so extreme as to exceed all bounds
of decency in a civilized community.” (Ragland v. U.S. Bank National Assn.
(2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 182, 204.) Furthermore, Dr. Hokanson’s statement was allegedly
intended to deflect blame, which is contrary to Plaintiff’s claim that the
statement was made with the intention to cause emotional distress or with a
likelihood of causing emotional distress.”
The demurrer to the Third Cause of
Action for IIED is SUSTAINED. 
3.  
Fourth
Cause of Action for Conversion
A cause of action for conversion requires
a defendant to substantially interfere with a plaintiff’s right to possession
to property by: (1) knowingly or intentionally taking possession of such
property, (2) preventing the plaintiff from accessing the property, or (3) refusing
to return the property after being demanded to. Here, Plaintiff allege that she
entrusted Defendant with Lumiere, but does not allege that Defendant refused to
return him or prevented her from picking him up. 
The demurrer to the Fourth Cause of
Action for Conversion is SUSTAINED. 
B.  
Motion
to Strike
The majority
of Defendant’s motion to strike is moot given the Court’s ruling on its
demurrer. Accordingly, the Court only addresses Defendant’s motion to strike
Plaintiff’s request for special damages and “sundry” expenses as speculative. 
The parties
agree that a pet owner may recover the reasonable and necessary costs incurred
in the treatment and care of the animal as compensable damages. (Kimes v.
Grosser (2011) 195 Cal.4th 1556; Martinez v. Robledo (2012) 210
Cal.pp.4th 384, 388.) Defendant only argues that Plaintiff cannot recover for
future medical care because such expenses would be speculative. This is an
inappropriate argument to make at this stage of the case and also ignores
Plaintiff’s specific allegations that as a result of the improperly performed
procedure, Lumiere requires diaper changes, a special diet, and suffers from
spasms and numerous infections. (FAC, ¶ 22.) 
IV.     CONCLUSION
In light of the foregoing, Defendant’s
demurrer to the FAC is SUSTAINED. Plaintiff did not ask for leave to amend in her
opposition brief and the Court cannot ascertain any circumstances where
amendment would be possible. Accordingly, the demurrer is sustained without
leave to amend. 
The motion to strike is DENIED with
respect to Plaintiff’s request for “sundry expenses according to proof.” 
Moving party to give notice.
 
Dated
this 4th
day of March 2024
 




 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 