  Case Number:  23STCV11602    Hearing Date:   January 13, 2025    Dept:  68 Dept.
68
Date:
1-13-25 a/f 1-15-25
Case
23STCV11602
Trial
Date: 1-21-25
 
SUMMARY JUDGMENT/SUMMARY ADJUDICATION
 
MOVING
PARTY: Defendant, Mohawk Industries, Inc.
RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiff, Wendy Viridinia Solano-Castro 
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Motion
for Summary Judgment
 
Summary
Adjudication
·        
4th
Cause of Action: Fraudulent Concealment
·        
Claim
for Punitive Damages
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
Wendy
Viridinia Solano-Castro, et al. alleges the wrongful death of Raul Garcia-Leon
caused from as a stone fabricator and installer. Plaintiffs contend working
with “toxic” stone products led to the development of silicosis and death of
Garcia-Leon on February 16, 2023.
 
On
May 22, 2023, Plaintiff filed a 582 paragraph complaint for negligence, strict
liability – warning defect, strict liability – design defect, fraudulent
concealment, and breach of implied warranties. On May 31, 2023, Plaintiff a 235
page first amended complaint for negligence, strict liability – warning defect,
strict liability – design defect, fraudulent concealment, and breach of implied
warranties. The action names a multitude of parties comprised of suppliers,
sellers, etc. The case was deemed non-complex on June 5, 2023, and assigned to
Department 68 on June 7, 2023. 
 
On
October 11, 2023, the court sustained the demurrer to the first amended
complaint brought by MS International, Inc. to the fourth cause of action with
20 days leave to amend. On October 18, 2023, the court overruled the demurrer
to the fourth cause of action brought by M S International, Inc. On November 2,
2023, Caesarstone USA, Inc. filed a cross-complaint for indemnity, declaratory
relief and apportionment. On December 29, 2023, Lowes Home Centers, LLC filed a
cross-complaint indemnity, declaratory relief and apportionment.
 
On
September 5, 2024, the court granted the motion for trial preference based on
the age of Rebecca Garcia at the time of the filing of the motion.
 
RULING: Denied.
Evidentiary
Objections to the Declaration of Valerie Barney: Overruled.
 
Defendant
Mohawk Industries, Inc. (Mohawk) moves for summary judgment on the entire
complaint, and alternatively, summary adjudication on the fourth cause of
action for fraudulent concealment, and the claim for punitive damages. Mohawk
moves on grounds that it only operates as a holding company of entities that
distribute and sell the some of the products at issue, but otherwise denies any
direct liability. Plaintiffs in opposition challenge the motion on grounds that
Mohawk fails to shift the burden of proof on grounds of lack of sufficient
competent evidence, and liability based on the marketing of the subject stone
slabs containing crystalline silica. The court electronic filing system shows
no reply on file at the time of the tentative publication cutoff. The court
reserves the right to take any matters under submission for purposes of
addressing timely filed replies and evidentiary objections, if applicable.
 
The pleadings frame the issues for motions, “since it is those
allegations to which the motion must respond. (Citation.)”  (Scolinos
v. Kolts (1995) 37 Cal. App. 4th 635, 640-641; FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 367, 382-383; Jordan-Lyon Prods., LTD. v. Cineplex Odeon Corp. (1994) 29
Cal.App.4th 1459, 1472.) The purpose of a motion for summary judgment or
summary adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the
parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations,
trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar v. Atl. Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  “Code of Civil Procedure section 437c,
subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the
evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’
and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no
triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law.”  (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7
Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)  
 
“On a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is
always on the moving party to make a prima facie showing that there are no
triable issues of material fact.” (Scalf
v. D.B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.) A defendant
moving for summary judgment “has met his or her burden of showing that a cause
of action has no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the
cause of action . . . cannot be established.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) “Once the defendant . . . has
met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a
triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or
a defense thereto.” (Ibid.) 
 
A defendant may alternatively move for summary judgment on
grounds that Plaintiff lacks
sufficient evidence, and cannot reasonably obtain necessary evidence in support
of the claims.¿(Aguilar v. Atl.
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th at pp. 854-855; Collin
v. CalPortland Co. (2014)
228 Cal.App.4th 582, 587; Andrews v. Foster Wheeler LLC (2006) 138 Cal.App.4th 96, 101 [41 Cal.Rptr.3d 229, 234]
855Union Bank v. Superior Court (1995) 31 Cal.App.4th 573, 590.) The
court adheres to this standard for product liability cases, such as asbestos
and crystalline silica (e.g. latent exposure leading to mesothelioma or
silicosis).
 
“When deciding whether to grant summary judgment, the court
must consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers (except evidence to
which the court has sustained an objection), as well as all reasonable
inference that may be drawn form that evidence, in the light most favorable to
the party opposing summary judgment.” (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159
Cal.App.4th 463, 467; see also Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).) “An
issue of fact can only be created by a conflict in the evidence.  It is not created by speculation, conjecture,
imagination or guesswork.”  (Lyons v. Security Pacific National Bank
(1995) 40 Cal.App.4th 1001, 1041 (citation omitted).)
 
Mohawk relies entirely and exclusively on the declaration of
Valerie Barney for the establishment of the parent company relationship to
other Defendants, including Dal-Tile, LLC, Dal-Tile International, Inc.,
Dal-Tile of Tennessee, LLC, and Dal-Tile Distribution, LLC. Mohawk also cites
to the lack of any identification of Mohawk in the operative complaint, and
insufficient discovery responses other than a reference of Dal-Tile being
acquired by Mohawk. The only identified witness, co-worker Manuel Gonzalez Quiroz
recognized the Dal-Tile name, but was not familiar with Mohawk. Plaintiff
offers no substantive opposition to this position, and instead relies on
evidentiary objections and claims of marketing by Mohawk, thereby imposing
liability as part of the chain of distribution basis of liability. 
 
Parent-Subsidiary analysis arises under agency principles. “We start with the firm proposition that neither ownership
nor control of a subsidiary corporation by a foreign parent corporation,
without more, subjects the parent to the jurisdiction of the state where the
subsidiary does business. (Citations.) ‘Control’ in this context means the degree of direction
and oversight normal and expected from the status of ownership; it comprehends such common characteristics as
interlocking directors and officers, consolidated reporting, and shared
professional services. ... 
 
“However,
the case law identifies one situation when the acts of the parent may be found
to trespass the boundaries of legitimate ownership and control of the
subsidiary and expose the parent to the power of the state in which the
subsidiary does business. Thus, where the nature and extent of the control
exercised over the subsidiary by the parent is so pervasive and continual that
the subsidiary may be considered nothing more than an agent or instrumentality
of the parent, notwithstanding the maintenance of separate corporate
formalities, jurisdiction over the parent may be grounded in the acts of the
subsidiary/agent. (Citation.) In this instance, the question is not whether there
exists justification to disregard the subsidiary's corporate identity, the
point of the alter ego analysis, but instead whether the degree of control
exerted over the subsidiary by the parent is enough to reasonably deem the
subsidiary an agent of the parent under traditional agency principles. ... 
 
“Control
is the key characteristic of the agent/principal relationship. ... [¶] The
nature of the control exercised by the parent over the subsidiary necessary to
put the subsidiary in an agency relationship with the parent must be over and
above that to be expected as an incident of the parent's ownership of the
subsidiary and must reflect the parent's purposeful disregard of the
subsidiary's independent corporate existence. ...” Sonora Diamond Corp. v. Superior Court (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 523, 540–542.)
 
The declaration of Valerie Barney admits to the manufacture
of stone products by Dal-Tile Tennessee with sales made by Dal-Tile Distribution,
LLC. Barney denies any successor liability or responsibility for daily
management. Plaintiffs counter with identification of specific Mohawk marketing
materials for certain products, including “One Quartz Surfaces” under the
presumed manufacturing and/or sales and distribution umbrella. [Declaration of
Brian Barrow.] Plaintiffs also specifically identify certain products
manufactured by unaddressed co-defendant Dal-Tile, LLC. [See Declaration of
Raphael Metzger, Ex. F-J.] 
 
The Barney declaration lacks any specific address of Dal-Tile,
LLC, and its purported role in the manufacture and distribution of the
allegedly harmful product. Given the association of Dal-Tile products, albeit
not categorically sorted by Barney, the court finds support for the existence
of a relationship with any and all entities sharing the “Dal-Tile” base, and
therefore a basis of potential product liability via distribution, sales,
and/or marketing. (Loomis v. Amazon.com LLC (2021) 63 Cal.App.5th 466, 477, 481-482; Arriaga v.
CitiCapital Commercial Corporation (2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 1527, 1535
[“Strict liability [] applies where a nonmanufacturing party is ‘outside the
vertical chain of distribution’ of the product, but plays ‘an integral role in
the “producing and marketing enterprise” of a defective product and profit [s]
from placing the product into the stream of commerce. (Citation.)’”]; see Bay
Summit Community Association v. Shell Oil Company (1996) 51 Cal.App.4th
762, 776 [A defendant can be found strictly liable if: “(1) the defendant
received a direct financial benefit from its activities and from the sale of
the product; (2) the defendant's role was integral to the business enterprise
such that the defendant's conduct was a necessary factor in bringing the
product to the initial consumer market; and (3) the defendant had control over,
or a substantial ability to influence, the manufacturing or distribution
process”].) 
 
Dal-Tile, LLC is also in fact identified in discovery
responses, and a recognized brand by coworker and percipient witness, Cesar
Quiroz, thereby placing the product(s) in proximity to Decedent. [Declaration
of Cesar Quiroz; Brust Decl., Ex. 1-18: Deposition of Cesar Quiroz.] Plaintiffs
present specific claims regarding both Dal-Tile, LLC and marketing materials of
products manufactured and distributed by at least two, unnamed entities under
the Mohawk parent tent. The absence of address of Dal-Tile products yet
reliance on a claim of insufficient evidence even when countered by the
liability claims against Dal-Tile, LLC and Dal-Tile Distribution, LLC, undermines
any finding for Mohawk shifting the burden of proof based on absence of
evidence. The court therefore denies the motion on the failure to establish
insufficient evidence in support of the claims against Mohawk. (See McGonnell v. Kaiser Gypsum Co., Inc. (2002) 98 Cal.App.4th 1098, 1103-1104; Scheiding v. Dinwiddie Const. Co. (1999) 69 Cal.App.4th 64, 81.)
 
Even if Mohawk shifted the burden, the court finds triable
issues of material fact as to the marketing of at least certain products
encountered by Decedent. Mohawk otherwise offers no denial of exposure to said
marketed products by Decedent, thereby also precluding any finding of
sufficient proof of lack of causation evidence. [See Declaration of Kenneth
Rosenman, ¶¶ 89, 95-96, 102-104, 129.] The motion for summary judgment is
therefore DENIED.
 
On Fraudulent Concealment, Mohawk challenges the lack of any
basis of duty to disclose any specific potential harms from the (marketing of
the) product(s). Plaintiffs present no specific opposition other than the
general reliance on the failure to shift the burden, challenge to the Barney
declaration, and marketing positions. 
 
“[T]he
elements of a cause of action for fraud based on concealment are: ‘(1) the
defendant must have concealed or suppressed a material fact, (2) the defendant
must have been under a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff, (3) the
defendant must have intentionally concealed or suppressed the fact with the
intent to defraud the plaintiff, (4) the plaintiff must have been unaware of
the fact and would not have acted as he did if he had known of the concealed or
suppressed fact, and (5) as a result of the concealment or suppression of the
fact, the plaintiff must have sustained damage. [Citation.]’” (Kaldenbach v.
Mutual of Omaha Life Ins. Co. (2009) 178 Cal.App.4th 830, 850 (internal
quotation marks omitted.) 
 
“There are ‘four
circumstances in which nondisclosure or concealment may constitute actionable
fraud: (1) when the defendant is in a fiduciary relationship with the
plaintiff; (2) when the defendant had exclusive knowledge of material facts not
known to the plaintiff; (3) when the defendant actively conceals a material
fact from the plaintiff; and (4) when the defendant makes partial
representations but also suppresses some material facts. [Citation.]’” (LiMandri v. Judkins (1997) 52
Cal.App.4th 326, 336.) “Each of the other three circumstances in which
nondisclosure may be actionable presupposes the existence of some other
relationship between the plaintiff and defendant in which a duty to disclose
can arise. … As a matter of common sense, such a relationship can only come
into being as a result of some sort of transaction between the parties.” (Id. at pp. 336–337.) 
 
Again, Plaintiffs provide no substantive legal
address, but the court notes the standard for certain types of product
potentially applicable, and considered in a demurrer on the subject cause of
action brought by a different co-defendant. “The requirement's purpose is to inform consumers about a
product's hazards and faults of which they are unaware, so that they can
refrain from using the product altogether or evade the danger by careful use.”
(Jones v. ConocoPhillips Co. (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 1187, 1198.) Users
include persons responsible for processing materials not privy to information
regarding necessary safety protocols. The withholding of said information
subjects a defendant to potential fraudulent concealment liability. (Id.
at pp. 1199-1200.)
 
The operative complaint present allegations
regarding knowledge of the allegedly toxic substance, crystalline silica,
dangers to workers engaged in the cutting, grinding, fabrication, polishing,
etc. with the product, and failure to disclose potential toxicity upon working
with said products. Decedent was specifically exposed and harmed as a result of
the non-disclosed hazards and continued work with the supplied product. [First
Amend. Comp., ¶¶ 535-564.] The allegations meet the standard for fraudulent
concealment. (Bockrath v. Aldrich Chemical Co., Inc.
(1999) 21 Cal.4th 71, 78-79.)
 
Under the consideration for product liability standards applicable
to summary judgment, the court again finds insufficient address of this
standard by Mohawk for purposes of shifting the burden. The court therefore
denies the motion for summary adjudication on both the failure to shift the
burden. The court also finds triable issues of material regarding failure to
warn on allegedly known hazards caused by fabrication of products containing
silica. [Index of Exhibits, Responses to Specially Drafted Interrogatories and
Requests for Production of Documents; Metzger Decl., Ex. E-I; Rosenman Decl.]
 
On punitive damages, Mohawk challenges the sufficiency against the
corporate entity. Plaintiff again lacks substantive address and instead relies
on the integrated challenges. 
 
On punitive damages, Civil
Code section 3294, subdivision (c) authorizes punitive damages upon a showing
of malice, oppression, or fraud, which are defined as follows:
 
(1) “Malice” means
conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or
despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and
conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.
(2) “Oppression”
means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in
conscious disregard of that person’s rights.
(3) “Fraud” means an
intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known
to the defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby
depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.
 
“‘[M]alice does not require actual
intent to harm. [Citation.] Conscious disregard for the safety of another may
be sufficient where the defendant is aware of the probable dangerous
consequences of his or her conduct and he or she willfully fails to avoid such
consequences. [Citation.] Malice may be proved either expressly through direct
evidence or by implication through indirect evidence from which the jury draws
inferences.’ [Citations.]”  (Pfeifer
v. John Crane, Inc. (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 1270, 1299.) 
 
Consistent with the prior part of the order, the court
again finds the motion insufficiently addresses the evidence presented by
Plaintiff regarding the knowing distribution of the silica containing product,
including corporate knowledge and direction for the manufacture and
distribution of an allegedly harmful product, without sufficient warning. [Index
of Exhibits, Responses to Specially Drafted Interrogatories and Requests for
Production of Documents.] (White
v. Ultramar, Inc. (1999) 21 Cal.4th 563, 576–577; Cruz v. HomeBase (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th
160, 168.) Such conduct establishes the right to seek punitive damages under
the malice standard. The
motion for summary adjudication is therefore denied in its entirety. 
 
In summary, the court denies the motion for summary judgment
and summary adjudication.
 
Mohawk to give notice to all parties.
 Dept.
68
Date:
1-13-25
Case
23STCV11602
Trial
Date: 1-21-25
 
SUMMARY JUDGMENT/SUMMARY ADJUDICATION
 
MOVING
PARTY: Defendant, Stoneville USA, Inc.
RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiff, Wendy Viridinia Solano-Castro
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Motion
for Summary Judgment
 
Summary
Adjudication
·        
1st
Cause of Action: Negligence
·        
4th
Cause of Action: Fraudulent Concealment
·        
5th
Cause of Acton: Breach of Implied Warranties
·        
Claim
for Punitive Damages
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
Wendy
Viridinia Solano-Castro, et al. alleges the wrongful death of Raul Garcia-Leon
caused from as a stone fabricator and installer. Plaintiffs contend working
with “toxic” stone products led to the development of silicosis and death of
Garcia-Leon on February 16, 2023.
 
On
May 22, 2023, Plaintiff filed a 582 paragraph complaint for negligence, strict
liability – warning defect, strict liability – design defect, fraudulent
concealment, and breach of implied warranties. On May 31, 2023, Plaintiff a 235
page first amended complaint for negligence, strict liability – warning defect,
strict liability – design defect, fraudulent concealment, and breach of implied
warranties. The action names a multitude of parties comprised of suppliers,
sellers, etc. The case was deemed non-complex on June 5, 2023, and assigned to
Department 68 on June 7, 2023. 
 
On
October 11, 2023, the court sustained the demurrer to the first amended
complaint brought by MS International, Inc. to the fourth cause of action with
20 days leave to amend. On October 18, 2023, the court overruled the demurrer
to the fourth cause of action brought by M S International, Inc. On November 2,
2023, Caesarstone USA, Inc. filed a cross-complaint for indemnity, declaratory
relief and apportionment. On December 29, 2023, Lowes Home Centers, LLC filed a
cross-complaint indemnity, declaratory relief and apportionment.
 
On
September 5, 2024, the court granted the motion for trial preference based on
the age of Rebecca Garcia at the time of the filing of the motion.
 
RULING: Denied.
Evidentiary
Objections to the Declaration of Ignatius Ravi Kasturiraj: Overruled.
 
Defendant
Stoneville USA, Inc. (Stoneville) moves for summary judgment on the entire
complaint, and alternatively, summary adjudication on the first cause of action
for negligence, fourth cause of action for fraudulent concealment, fifth cause
of action for breach of implied warranties, and the claim for punitive damages.
Stoneville moves on two grounds: Lack of evidence establishing causation, and
sophisticated intermediary/user doctrine. Plaintiffs in
opposition
challenge the motion on grounds that Stoneville fails to shift the burden of
proof on grounds of lack of sufficient competent evidence, and denial of
application of the sophisticated user defense. The court electronic filing
system shows no reply on file at the time of the tentative publication cutoff.
The court reserves the right to take any matters under submission for purposes
of addressing timely filed replies and evidentiary objections, if applicable.
 
The
pleadings frame the issues for motions, “since it is those allegations to which
the motion must respond. (Citation.)” (Scolinos v. Kolts (1995) 37 Cal. App.
4th 635, 640-641; FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 367,
382-383; Jordan-Lyon Prods., LTD. v. Cineplex Odeon Corp. (1994) 29 Cal.App.4th
1459, 1472.) The purpose of a motion for summary judgment or summary
adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’
pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in
fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar v. Atl. Richfield Co. (2001)
25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) “Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c),
requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence
submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and
uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable
issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment
as a matter of law.” (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th
1110, 1119.)
 
“On a motion
for summary judgment, the initial burden is always on the moving party to make
a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of material fact.”
(Scalf v. D.B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.) A defendant
moving for summary judgment “has met his or her burden of showing that a cause
of action has no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the
cause of action . . . cannot be established.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd.
(p)(2).) “Once the defendant . . . has met that burden, the burden shifts to
the plaintiff . . . to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts
exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Ibid.)
 
A defendant
may alternatively move for summary judgment on grounds that Plaintiff lacks
sufficient evidence, and cannot reasonably obtain necessary evidence in support
of the claims.¿(Aguilar v. Atl. Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th at pp. 854-855;
Collin v. CalPortland Co. (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 582, 587; Andrews v. Foster
Wheeler LLC (2006) 138 Cal.App.4th 96, 101; Union Bank v. Superior Court (1995)
31 Cal.App.4th 573, 590.) The court adheres to this standard for product
liability cases, such as asbestos and crystalline silica (e.g. latent exposure
leading to mesothelioma or silicosis).
 
“When
deciding whether to grant summary judgment, the court must consider all of the
evidence set forth in the papers (except evidence to which the court has
sustained an objection), as well as all reasonable inference that may be drawn
form that evidence, in the light most favorable to the party opposing summary
judgment.” (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159
Cal.App.4th 463, 467; see also Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).) “An issue
of fact can only be created by a conflict in the evidence. It is not created by
speculation, conjecture, imagination or guesswork.” (Lyons v. Security Pacific
National Bank (1995) 40 Cal.App.4th 1001, 1041 (citation omitted).)
 
Stoneville
relies on denial of any supply, manufacture or distribution of silica
containing products utilized by Decedent, during the decades’ long employment
period. The position relies at least in part on an admission to distribution of
stone products, but Plaintiffs’ inability to present any evidence of Stoneville
distributed silica containing product(s) causing exposure to Decedent while
performing as a stone fabricator. The position depends on the declaration of
Ignatius
Ravi Kasturiraj, founder of Stoneville, attesting to a business focus on end
users and consumers, rather than fabricators like Decedent. Stoneville and
Kasturiraj also emphasize the distribution of natural rather than fabricated
stone, provision of safety information, denial of any records of direct supply
to Decedent or the former employers (San Remo Marble & Granite and
Bernadino Sanchez), and no actual distribution of any products until the
founding of the business in 2006. [Declarations of Ignatius Ravi Kasturiraj and
Vivian Zambrano, Ex. 3.]
 
Again, the
court addresses the action under the product liability latent injury standard,
and therefore applies the substantial factor standard in the subject action.
(Lineaweaver v. Plant Insulation Company (1995) 31 Cal.App.4th 1409, 1415,
1419.) “In the context of a cause of action for asbestos-related latent
injuries, the plaintiff must first establish some threshold exposure to the
defendant's defective asbestos-containing products and must further establish
in reasonable medical probability that a particular exposure or series of
exposures was a “legal cause” of his injury, i.e., a substantial factor in
bringing about the injury. In an asbestos-related cancer case, the plaintiff
need not prove that fibers from the defendant's product were the ones, or among
the ones, that actually began the process of malignant cellular growth.
Instead, the plaintiff may meet the burden of proving that exposure to
defendant's product was a substantial factor causing the illness by showing
that in reasonable medical probability it contributed to the plaintiff or
decedent's risk of developing cancer.” Rutherford v. Owens-Illinois, Inc.
(1997) 16 Cal.4th 953, 982. “[W]e conclude that the proper analysis is to ask
whether the plaintiff has proven exposure to a defendant's product, of whatever
duration, so that exposure is a possible factor in causing the disease and then
to evaluate whether the exposure was a substantial factor.” (Lineaweaver v.
Plant Insulation Company, supra, 31 Cal.App.4th at p. 1416.) Exposure by a contributing
party, among many, is sufficient to establish triable issues of material fact.
The calculation of the probabilities of whether even limited exposure
constituted a substantial factor is more appropriately addressed before the
trial court. (Id. at pp. 1417-1419.)
 
“In the
context of a cause of action for [silica]-related latent injuries, the
plaintiff must first establish some threshold exposure to the defendant's
defective [] products and must further establish in reasonable medical
probability that a particular exposure or series of exposures was a ‘legal
cause’ of his injury, i.e., a substantial factor in bringing about the injury.
In a[] [silicosis] case, the plaintiff need not prove that [particulate] from
the defendant's product were the ones, or among the ones, that actually began
the process of malignant cellular growth. Instead, the plaintiff may meet the
burden of proving that exposure to defendant's product was a substantial factor
causing the illness by showing that in reasonable medical probability it contributed
to the plaintiff or decedent's risk of developing [silicosis].” (Rutherford v.
Owens-Illinois, Inc. (1997) 16 Cal.4th 953, 982.)
 
The
representations of Kasturiraj regarding “less than 20%” of overall sales of
artificial stone and an emphasis on end users/consumers in no way establishes a
lack of liability under the applicable causation standard. The court also finds
the evidence regarding a review of records “dating back ten years” from the
October 30, 2024, date of the declaration only addresses potential supplies to
October 30, 2014. Plaintiff alleges exposure beginning in 1996. Given the
undisputed representation that Stoneville only commenced operations in 2006,
eight (8) years of potential supplies remains unaccounted for as part of the
showing for lack of causation. The court finds no means to definitively
determine during said eight-year period that silica containing artificial stone
products, even if only 20% of business inventory, were never delivered and
fabricated by Decedent. The gap of evidence and reliance on denial of
sufficient evidence therefore undermines any finding establishing a shift the
burden. (See McGonnell v. Kaiser
Gypsum Co.,
Inc. (2002) 98 Cal.App.4th 1098, 1103-1104; Scheiding v. Dinwiddie Const. Co.
(1999) 69 Cal.App.4th 64, 81.)
 
The court
alternatively finds triable issues of material fact based on the presence of
Stoneville vehicles and products on the premises of Decedent’s place of
employment during some or all of the relevant time period. Plaintiffs present
testimony identifying Stoneville vehicles and products for Bernadino’s shop.
[Declaration of Scott Brust: Deposition of Cesar Quiroz, 339:8-15, 997:8-24.]
Plaintiffs also referencs a project involving 47 slabs of Sapien White Calcatta
Polished artificial stone supplied to the Bernadino shop in 2021 for a hotel
project involving third party Simonetta Marshall through emails identified as
“GQ_0389 through GQ_0398.” [Declaration of Simonetta Marshall.] The emails with
“Ravi Raj” and Stoneville in fact identify the product, but it remains unclear
whether said products are silica containing. Regardless, the court finds
Stoneville fails to shift the burden regarding NO Stoneville products in
proximity to Decedent, or alternatively triable issues of material fact on the
basis of causation exist based on the identification of Stoneville products on
the premises at the relevant time of Decedent’s employment. The motion for
summary judgment and motion for summary adjudication reliant on the absence of
sufficient evidence of causation is therefore DENIED.
 
On the
second ground, sophisticated/intermediate user, the court reviews the standard.
“In general, a manufacturer or supplier has a duty to warn consumers about the
dangers and risks inherent in the use of its product. (Citations.) The
sophisticated user defense is an exception to the general duty to warn.
(Citation.) The defense concerns warnings and does not apply to a cause of
action for design defect. (Citation.) ... [¶] Under the sophisticated user
defense, a manufacturer is not liable to a sophisticated user of its product
for failure to warn about the product's dangers if the sophisticated user knew
or should have known of the dangers. (Citation.) The ‘should have known’
portion of the formulation is an objective standard. (Citation.) ... The rationale
supporting the defense is that the failure to warn about risks already known to
a sophisticated user usually is not a proximate cause of the user's injuries.
(Citation.)” (Collin v. CalPortland Co. (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th at pp. 601–602.)
 
Stoneville
relies on an apparent denial of any necessity to warn based on OSHA/Cal OSHA
regulations regarding employer responsibility to provide safety equipment, due
to an admittedly known hazard of silica particulate matter from stone
fabrication. Other than an admission to the hazards of silica dust, the motion
lacks legal support actually addressing the standard for exposure warning(s),
and instead offers deflection of any responsibility to other parties, person
and/or entities. To the extent Stoneville suggests a sophisticated intermediary
defense, the court also finds no legal or evidentiary support, including any
citation to OSHA and Cal OSHA standards. Again, reliance and deflection to
other purportedly responsible persons and entities insufficiently establishes
the basis for a finding of application of this complete defense. (Webb v.
Special Electric Co., Inc. (2016) 63 Cal.4th 167, 187-188.) 
 
Stoneville also moves for summary adjudication on punitive
damages, but subsumes any such challenge within the above addressed positions.
The court addresses the standard. On punitive damages, Civil Code section
3294, subdivision (c) authorizes punitive damages upon a showing of malice,
oppression, or fraud, which are defined
as follows:
 
(1) “Malice” means
conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or
despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and
conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.
(2) “Oppression”
means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in
conscious disregard of that person’s rights.
(3) “Fraud” means an
intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known
to the defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby
depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.
 
“‘[M]alice does not require actual
intent to harm. [Citation.] Conscious disregard for the safety of another may
be sufficient where the defendant is aware of the probable dangerous
consequences of his or her conduct and he or she willfully fails to avoid such
consequences. [Citation.] Malice may be proved either expressly through direct
evidence or by implication through indirect evidence from which the jury draws
inferences.’ [Citations.]”  (Pfeifer
v. John Crane, Inc. (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 1270, 1299.) 
 
The court finds the motion insufficiently addresses
the evidence presented by Plaintiff regarding the knowing distribution of the
silica containing product, including corporate knowledge and direction for the
manufacture and distribution of an allegedly harmful product. [Zambrano
Decl.: Responses to Specially Drafted Interrogatories and Requests for
Production of Documents.] (White
v. Ultramar, Inc. (1999) 21 Cal.4th 563, 576–577; Cruz v. HomeBase (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th
160, 168.) Such conduct establishes the right to seek punitive damages under
the malice standard. The
motion for summary adjudication is therefore denied in its entirety. 
 
The court
therefore DENIES the motion for summary judgment and summary adjudication on
the failure to establish both insufficient evidence or a complete defense on
this basis. Plaintiff additionally establishes triable issues of material fact
on the known hazards of silica particulate matter resulting from fabrication.
[Declaration of Kenneth Rosenman.]
 
Stoneville
to give notice to all parties.
 