 Case Number:  24STCP02942    Hearing Date:   January 13, 2025    Dept:  68 Dept.
68
Date:
1-13-25 c/f 10-16-24 (specially set via 9-24-24 ex parte order)
Case
# 24STCP02942
Trial
Dates: N/A
 
QUASH/PROTECTIVE ORDER
 
MOVING
PARTY: Petitioner, American International Industries 
RESPONDING
PARTY: Respondents, Ilona Klar, et al.
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Motion
to Quash or Alternatively a Protective Order on a Deposition Subpoena
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
On
September 12, 2024, American International Industries filed a petition for
protective order and to quash deposition subpoena in action pending outside of
California. The petition involves deponent Jerry Allyn Whittemore, designated
corporate representative of The Neslemur Company, predecessor of A-I-I for
Clubman Talc. Whittemore resides in Los Angeles.
 
Petitioner
represents Plaintiffs’ counsel improperly made personal contact with Whittemore
despite Whittemore being represented by counsel for The Neslemur Company. The
contact resulted in the creation of an affidavit without the consent of The
Neslemur Company to issue such a statement on behalf of the company. 
 
Respondent
now seeks to take the deposition testimony of Whittemore. The subject action
involves an asbestos contaminated cosmetic talc action currently pending in New
Jersey. 
 
Petitioner
moves to quash the subpoena and prohibit the deposition; issuance of a
protective order prohibiting further ex parte communication within Whittemore;
identification of all persons an affidavit was shared with and in contact with
attorney Simmons; destruction of said affidavit; and the affidavit be deemed
void and stricken. 
 
RULING: Denied.
Evidentiary
Objections: Overruled.
Respondents
Ilona Klar and Ronald Glaser moved to dismiss the petition for protective order
and to quash the deposition subpoena regarding the deposition of The Neslemur
Company designated corporate representative, Jerry Allyn Whittemore, in Los
Angeles. On September 24, 2024, the court granted the ex parte application of
Respondent to set the first hearing. On October 16, 2024, the court denied the
motion to dismiss. The court specially set the hearing on the petition for
protective order and to quash the subpoena for January 13, 2025, with the
petition itself to serve as the “motion.” 
 
Petitioner
American International Industries moves to quash or alternatively seeks a
protective order for seven articulated items: 1. Quash the subpoena and
prohibit Respondents from proceeding with Mr. Whittemore’s deposition; 2. Issue
a protective order prohibiting Respondents’ counsel, or any person under their
direction, from having any further ex parte communication with Mr. Whittemore;
3. Order the immediate identification of everyone whom the affidavit has been
shared with; 4. Order the immediate destruction of the affidavit and all copies
thereof; 5. Order disclosure of the identity of all persons at Simmons (or
persons under Simmons’ direction) who had contact with Mr. Whitmore as well as
the dates and times of those contact(s); 6. Order disclosure of all
communications—including letters, emails, text messages, recorded
conversations, etc.—between Simmons (or persons under its direction) and Mr.
Whittemore; and 7. Order that the affidavit is void and stricken from use in
the future and, to the extent it resurfaces, maintain jurisdiction over this
matter to enforce the Court’s orders. Respondents, Ilona Klar, et al. in
opposition denies any violation of rules regarding improper contact with a
represented party based on the denial of Whittemore as a party witness or
representative of Petitioner in any capacity. Even if Whittemore was a party
witness, Respondents maintain a compelling basis for proceeding with discovery
given the lack of alternatives for obtaining the subject information.
Petitioner in reply maintains Whittemore remains a corporate representative of
The Neslemur Company, and therefore support for improper contact. Petitioner
reiterates the prejudice and therefore basis for the motion to quash/protective
order.
 
Petitioner
moves to effectively preclude any deposition of Jerry Allyn Whittemore and block
any admission of evidence generated from communications with Whittemore and
other potential witnesses. Petitioner moves under California statutory
authority as well as California and New Jersey Rules of Professional Conduct
involving improper contact with party witnesses.
 
“If a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness … the
court, upon motion reasonably made by any person described in subdivision (b),
… may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing
compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare,
including protective orders. In addition, the court may make any other order as
may be appropriate to protect the person from unreasonable or oppressive
demands…” (Code Civ. Proc., §
1987.1, subd. (a).)
 
The petition
itself relies on a presumption that Whittemore agreed to testify as a corporate
representative though lacks any legal or factual support for this supposition.
Respondents’ counsel identifies Whittemore as a former employee of The
Neslemur Company, predecessor of A-I-I for Clubman Talc. The Neslemur Company
is now a defunct entity. [Declaration of Olivia Kelly; see Declaration of
Christine Renken, Ex. 1.] Other than a purported revival of the Neslemur
Company by Daniel Dror in April 2020 for purposes of assignment of assets to
American International Industries, Inc. [Kelly Decl.], it remains unclear how Petitioner seeks to designate former
Neslemur Company employee Whittemore as any type of
corporate representative, such as a percipient witness or person most
knowledgeable via the acquisition agreement to acquire the assets of the
Neslememur Company. The court finds NO legal or evidentiary support for this
position. (See Lopez
v. Watchtower Bible & Tract Society of New York, Inc. (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 566, 600; Maldonado v. Superior Court (2002) 94 Cal.App.4th 1390, 1398 [“The code applies by its language only to current
officers, directors, managing agents, or employees. ‘Persons formerly
affiliated with a party (e.g., former officers or employees) are not
required to attend a deposition unless subpoenaed.’ (Citation.).”].)
 
To the extent Whittemore agrees to appear as a percipient
witness without any basis of a supported corporate affiliation, the court finds
no basis to either quash the deposition subpoena, or issue a protective order.
Nothing in the conduct of Respondents counsel in any way therefore indicates a
violation of any professional standards. The court otherwise defers to the New
Jersey trial court for determination of admissibility as to witness testimony
or documents generated from the conversations with Whittemore.
 
The
“motion” to quash/protective order is therefore DENIED.
 
Petitioner to give notice.
 