  Case Number:  23STCV18241    Hearing Date:   July 5, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



AIDEE JACQUELINE TINOCO BUCIO
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
KHOWSROW BENJI, an individual; ANNA BENJI, an individual; DOES 1
  THROUGH 100, inclusive.
                        Defendants.
______________________________________
KHOSROW BENJI, an individual,
                        Cross-Complainant,
            v.
AIDEE JACQUELINE TINOCO BUCIO, an individual; and ROES 1 through
  5, inclusive,
                        Cross-Defendants.


 Case No.:          23STCV18241
 Hearing Date:   7/5/24
 Trial Date:        11/12/24
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant
  Aidee Jacqueline Tinoco Bucio’s Demurrer to Defendant/Cross-Complainant
  Khowsrow Benji’s Cross Complaint [Res ID # 3125].



 
I. Background
On February 26, 2024, Defendant/Cross-Complainant Khowsrow Benji filed a
Cross-Complaint for Damages in this action, which alleges claims of (1)
Negligence, (2) Assault, (3) Battery, (4) Intentional Infliction of Emotional
Distress (IIED), and (5) Physical Elder Abuse against Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant
Aidee Jacqueline Tinoco Bucio (Tinoco Bucio) and Roes 1 through 5.
On March 18, 2024, Tinoco Bucio filed a demurrer challenging the
Cross-Complaint’s five causes of action.
On June 24, 2024—eight court days before this hearing—Khowsrow Benji
filed a First Amended Cross-Complaint (FAXC), which omits the assault claim and
adds facts in support of the remaining four causes of action.
On June 26, 2024—four court days before this hearing—Tinoco Bucio filed a
reply arguing that the Court should reject the proposed FAXC as untimely and
contending that the FAXC is otherwise defective as drafted.
Tinoco Bucio’s demurrer is now before the Court.
 
II. Sua Sponte Motion to Strike: FIRST AMENDED
CROSS-COMPLAINT STRICKEN.
A. Legal Standard
The court may, upon a motion or at
any time in its discretion and upon terms it deems proper: (a) strike out any
irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (b) strike
out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the
laws of California, a court rule, or an order of the court. (Code Civ. Proc. §
436, subds. (a), (b); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767, 782
[“Matter in a pleading which is not essential to the claim is surplusage;
probative facts are surplusage and may be stricken out or disregarded”].)
B. Court’s Determination
The Court STRIKES the June 24,
2024, First Amended Cross-Complaint (FAXC).
“A party may amend its pleading
once without leave of the court at any time … after a … motion to strike is
filed but before the … motion to strike is heard if the amended pleading is
filed and served no later than the date for filing an opposition to the …
motion to strike.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 472, subd. (a).) “All papers opposing a
motion so noticed shall be filed with the court and a copy served on each party
at least nine court days … before the hearing.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1005, subd.
(b).) The right is limited to the amendment of a complaint initiating an action
to a first amended complaint. (Hedwall v. PCMV, LLC (2018) 22
Cal.App.5th 564, 572-579 [holding, as a matter of first impression, that a
party’s right to amend a pleading as a matter of course under Code of Civil
Procedure section 472, subdivision (a) is limited to the original pleading
commencing the action].)
Here, Khowsrow Benji filed the FAXC
eight court days prior to this hearing rather than nine court days prior to the
hearing. While the Court could ordinarily permit this amendment by making a
case-specific order for that relief subject to due process (Rutherford v. Rutherford
v. Owens-Illinois, Inc. (1997) 16 Cal.4th 953, 966-967), here, the original
Cross-Complaint and FAXC show similar shortcomings as pointed out by Bucio (reply,
pp. 3-5). For this reason, the Court instead exercises its discretion to sua
sponte strike the June 24, 2024, FAXC and instead analyze the allegations in
the Cross-Complaint as against Tinoco Bucio’s demurrer arguments.
 
III. Demurrer
A. Legal Standard
A demurrer for sufficiency tests
whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007)
147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747; see Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).)
To sufficiently allege a cause of
action, a complaint must allege all the ultimate facts—that is, the facts
needed to establish each element of the cause of action pleaded. (Committee
on Children’s Television, Inc. v. General Foods Corp. (1983) 35 Cal.3d 197,
212, superseded by statute as stated in Branick v. Downey Savings & Loan
Assn. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 235, 242.) “[E]ach evidentiary fact that might
eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need not be alleged.” (C.A. v.
William S. Hart Union High School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 872.)
In testing the sufficiency of the
cause of action, the demurrer admits the truth of all material facts properly
pleaded. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962,
966-67.) Courts read the allegations liberally and in context. (Taylor v.
City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216,
1228, disapproved on other grounds, Jones v. Lodge at Torrey Pines
Partnership (2008) 42 Cal.4th 1158, 1162.) A demurrer, however, “does not
admit contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Daar v.
Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713.) 
A demurrer may only be used to
challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from
matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (Blank v.
Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) The face of the complaint includes
exhibits attached to the complaint. (Frantz v. Blackwell (1987) 189
Cal.App.3d 91, 94.) If facts appearing in the exhibits contradict those
alleged, the facts in the exhibits take precedence. (Holland v. Morse Diesel
Intern., Inc. (2001) 86 Cal.App.4th 1443, 1447, superseded by statute on
other grounds as stated in White v. Cridlebaugh (2009) 178 Cal.App.4th
506, 521.)
B. Analysis
1. Demurrer,
Cross-Complaint, First Cause of Action, Negligence: OVERRULED.
a. Relevant
Law
“‘The elements of a cause of action
for negligence are … “(a) a legal duty to use due care; (b) a breach of such
legal duty; [and] (c) the breach as the proximate or legal cause of the
resulting injury.”’” (Ladd v. County of San Mateo (1996) 12 Cal.4th 913,
917.)
b. Court’s
Determination
The Court finds in favor of
Khowsrow Benji.
In her demurrer, Tinoco Bucio
argues that the negligence claim fails to allege a duty and a breach of duty.
The Court disagrees.
Liability for negligent conduct may
only be imposed where there is a duty of care owed by the defendant to the
plaintiff or to a class of which the plaintiff is a member. (Richards v.
Stanley (1954) 43 Cal.2d 60, 63.) A duty of care may arise through statute
or by contract. Alternatively, a duty may be premised upon the general
character of the activity in which the defendant engaged, the relationship
between the parties or even the interdependent nature of human society. (See Valdez
v. J. D. Diffenbaugh Co. (1975) 51 Cal.App.3d 494, 505.) Whether a duty is
owed is simply a shorthand way of phrasing what is “‘the essential question
whether the plaintiff’s interests are entitled to legal protection against the
defendant’s conduct.’” (Dillon v. Legg (1968) 68 Cal.2d 728, 734,
citation omitted.) “The existence of a duty of care is a question of law
decided on a case-by-case basis.” (M.W. v. Panama Buena Vista Union School
Dist. (2003) 110 Cal.App.4th 508, 516.)
Here, the Cross-Complaint
sufficiently alleges a duty from Tinoco Bucio to Khowsrow Benji, namely, the
duty of a housekeeper to exercise reasonable care in the course of her
occupation and to follow the instructions of the homeowner that hired the
housekeeper. (See, e.g., Cross-Complaint, ¶¶ 8-12.)
The Cross-Complaint also alleges a
breach of that duty: failure to follow specific instructions from the homeowner,
which led the homeowner to walk over surfaces that should not have been cleaned
and were slippery, causing Khowsrow Benji to fall and injure himself. (Cross-Complaint,
¶¶ 8-16, 17-23.)
Tinoco Bucio’s demurrer to the Cross-Complaint’s
first cause of action is thus OVERRULED.
2. Demurrer,
Cross-Complaint, Second Cause of Action, Assault: SUSTAINED without
leave to amend.
a. Relevant
Law
“The essential elements of a cause
of action for assault are: (1) defendant acted with intent to cause harmful or
offensive contact, or threatened to touch plaintiff in a harmful or offensive
manner; (2) plaintiff reasonably believed she was about to be touched in a
harmful or offensive manner or it reasonably appeared to plaintiff that
defendant was about to carry out the threat; (3) plaintiff did not consent to
defendant’s conduct; (4) plaintiff was harmed; and (5) defendant’s conduct was
a substantial factor in causing plaintiff’s harm. [Citations].” (So v. Shin
(2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 652, 668-669 (So), as modified on denial of reh’g
(Jan. 28, 2013).)
b. Court’s
Determination
Here, the Cross-Complaint fails to
allege apprehension, which is a necessary component of assault. (Cross-Complaint,
¶¶ 8-16, 24-30.)
Moreover, the allegations in the Cross-Complaint
show that these allegations cannot be cured to sufficiently allege an assault
claim against Tinoco Bucio. This is because Khowsrow Benji alleges that he fell
after he, sight unseen and with no apprehension, approached the patio area that
Tinoco Bucio washed with soap against Benji’s explicit instructions.
Tinoco Bucio’s demurrer to the Cross-Complaint’s
second cause of action is thus SUSTAINED without leave to amend.
3. Demurrer,
Cross-Complaint, Third Cause of Action, Battery: SUSTAINED without leave
to amend.
a.
Relevant Law
“The essential elements of a cause
of action for battery are: (1) defendant touched plaintiff, or caused plaintiff
to be touched, with the intent to harm or offend plaintiff; (2) plaintiff did
not consent to the touching; (3) plaintiff was harmed or offended by defendant’s
conduct; and (4) a reasonable person in plaintiff’s position would have been
offended by the touching. [Citations.]” (So, supra, 212
Cal.App.4th at p. 669.)
b. Court’s
Determination
Here, the Cross-Complaint (1) fails
to allege that Tinoco Bucio ever touched Khowsrow Benji (the touch here
allegedly being cleaning a patio floor and leaving it wet/slippery as to cause
Benji to slip and fall) and (2) fails to allege intent to harm.
As for touch, even though battery
is not limited to direct body-to-body contact, the tort usually requires that
one person make contact with the body of another such as by throwing water on
the other person. (See, e.g., Mount Vernon Fire Ins. Co. v. Busby (2013)
219 Cal.App.4th 876, 881 [throwing water onto someone as battery].) Here,
however, the Cross-Complaint alleges that Khowsrow Benji, of his own volition,
made contact with a patio floor that should not have been cleaned. (Cross-Complaint,
¶¶ 8-16, 31.) Otherwise stated, Tinoco Bucio did not physically touch Khowsrow
Benji nor did Tinoco Bucio force a third object (e.g., water, bat, umbrella,
etc.) to make contact with Khowsrow Benji. Rather, Benji walked into the patio
area and slipped on a surface that should not have been washed by Tinoco Bucio.
(Ibid.) More than anything, the Cross-Complaint alleges that it should
have been foreseeable to Tinoco Bucio that washing the patio after Khowsrow
Benji instructed Tinoco Bucio not to wash that patio could result in a person
slipping while that person in fact crossed the washed patio. Such a claim
sounds in negligence, not in intentional tort.
As for intent, the Cross-Complaint fails
to allege this element other than in conclusory fashion. (Cross-Complaint, ¶
32.) Nor are there allegations in the Cross-Complaint that would allow the
Court to infer that malicious intent underlay Tinoco Bucio’s actions in washing
the patio floor.
Tinoco Bucio’s demurrer to the Cross-Complaint’s
third cause of action is thus SUSTAINED without leave to amend.
4. Demurrer,
Cross-Complaint, Fourth Cause of Action, Intentional Infliction of Emotional
Distress: SUSTAINED without leave to amend.
a. Relevant
Law
“A cause of action for intentional
infliction of emotional distress exists when there is ‘(1) extreme and
outrageous conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless
disregard of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff’s
suffering severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual and proximate
causation of the emotional distress by the defendant’s outrageous conduct.’ A
defendant’s conduct is ‘outrageous’ when it is so ‘extreme as to exceed all
bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized community.’ And the defendant’s
conduct must be ‘intended to inflict injury or engaged in with the realization
that injury will result.’” (Hughes v. Pair (2009) 46 Cal.4th 1035,
1050-1051.)
b. Court’s
Determination
The Court adopts its intent
reasoning from the battery subsection above to determine that the IIED claim is
conclusorily alleged as to the intent to cause harm to Khowsrow Benji.
Moreover, the Court determines that
the type of injury described in the Cross-Complaint, even if accepted, does not
constitute outrageous conduct so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that
usually tolerable in a civilized community. Indeed, the Cross-Complaint fails
to allege that Tinoco Bucio intentionally washed the patio floor so that the
Benji Defendants would be injured. Instead, the Cross-Complaint alleges that
Tinoco Bucio washed the patio floor against express instruction and that
Khowsrow Benji slipped on the patio floor when his wife asked him to grab
cookies and tea from the house and to bring the same to the outdoor dining
area. (Cross-Complaint, ¶¶ 8-15.) Thus, the Cross-Complaint alleges a failure
to follow instructions regarding where to clean by Tinoco Bucio and a
coincidental fall by Khowsrow Benji when he attempted to retrieve tea and
cookies from the house, as prompted by his wife, not by Tinoco Bucio.
Tinoco Bucio’s demurrer to the Cross-Complaint’s
fourth cause of action is thus SUSTAINED without leave to amend.
5. Demurrer,
Cross-Complaint, Fifth Cause of Action, Physical Elder Abuse: SUSTAINED
without leave to amend.
a. Relevant
Law
The Elder Abuse Act defines abuse
as: “[p]hysical abuse, neglect, financial abuse, abandonment, isolation,
abduction, or other treatment with resulting physical harm or pain or mental
suffering” (Welf. & Ins. Code, § 15610.07, subd. (a)); or “[t]he
deprivation by a care custodian of goods or services that are necessary to
avoid physical harm or mental suffering” (Welf. & Ins. Code, § 15610.07,
subd. (b)).
“Physical abuse” means any of the
following:
(a) Assault, as defined in Section
240 of the Penal Code;
(b) Battery, as defined in Section
242 of the Penal Code;
(c) Assault with a deadly weapon or
force likely to produce great bodily injury, as defined in Section 245 of the
Penal Code;
(d) Unreasonable physical
constraint, or prolonged or continual deprivation of food or water;
(e) Sexual assault under various
meanings; and
(f) Use of a physical or chemical
restraint or psychotropic medication under certain conditions.
(Welf. & Ins. Code, § 15610.63.)
b. Court’s
Determination
The Court SUSTAINS Tinoco Bucio’s
demurrer to the Cross-Complaint’s fifth cause of action because the fifth cause
of action is derivative of the “physical abuse” alleged in the second and third
causes of action, against which the Court sustained Tinoco Bucio’s demurrer
without leave to amend. 
As to all of the above claims the
Court would sustain, the Court will nonetheless entertain oral argument as to
whether Cross-Complainant can meet his burden show that there are facts that
could be alleged to justify leave to amend that do not directly contradict
these allegations. Leave to amend should not be granted unless plaintiff can
establish that facts exist sufficient to state a cause of action.  (Community
Assisting Recovery, Inc. v. Aegis Security Ins. Co. (2001) 92 Cal. App. 4th
886, 895.)  Plaintiff has the burden of establishing in what manner it
would be possible to amend the complaint.  (Fuller
v. First Franklin Financial Corp (2013) 216 Cal.App.4th 955, 962-963.) 
 
IV. Conclusion
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Aidee Jacqueline Tinoco Bucio’s Demurrer to
Defendant/Cross-Complainant Khowsrow Benji’s Cross Complaint [Res ID # 3125] is
OVERRULED in part and SUSTAINED in part as follows:
(1) OVERRULED as to the Cross-Complaint’s first cause of action; and
(2) SUSTAINED without leave to
amend as to the Cross-Complaint’s second to fifth causes of action.
The Court will nonetheless entertain
oral argument as to whether Cross-Complaint can show that there are facts that
could be alleged to justify leave to amend.