 Case Number:  22STCV21562    Hearing Date:   November 6, 2024    Dept:  29 Privado v. Aultman
22STCV21562
Defendant’s Motion for Leave to File Cross-Complaint
Tentative
The motion is denied.
Background
On July 1, 2022, Plaintiff Kem Privado (“Plaintiff”)
filed a complaint against Defendant Eric Daniel Aultman (“Defendant”) and Does
1 through 50, asserting causes of action for motor vehicle negligence and
general negligence arising out of an alleged accident on July 8, 2020.
 
On December 9, 2022, Defendant filed an answer to the
complaint.
 
On December 1, 2023, Defendant filed a cross-complaint
for indemnity and contribution against Michael W. Chu, M.D. (“Chu”), and Roes 1
through 20.  In the cross-complaint,
Defendant alleges (among other things) that Chu’s negligence in providing
medical treatment to Plaintiff caused, contributed to, and/or exacerbated
Plaintiff’s injuries.  A summons was
issued on the cross-complaint, but Chu has not appeared or been defaulted, and
no proof of service of the cross-complaint has been filed.  In a declaration from counsel filed on August
5, 2024, however, Defendant represented that Chu was served on February 2,
2024.
 
The original trial date was set for December 29, 2023.
The deadline for discovery was November 29, 2023. 
 
On November 20, 2023, the Court denied Defendant’s ex
parte application to continue trial and discovery. 
 
On December 4, 2023, the parties stipulated to continue
trial to February 16, 2024 to accommodate defense counsel’s holiday vacation.
The parties again stipulated to continue trial until February 21, 2024, keeping
all discovery closed.
 
On February 5, 2024, Defendant filed for bankruptcy in
Texas, resulting in an automatic stay of the proceedings. The stay was lifted
on May 15, 2024.
 
On August 5, 2024, the Court scheduled the trial for
December 4, 2024.  
 
On September 6, 2024, Defendant filed a motion for leave
to file a cross-complaint.  The hearing
was set for October 3, 2024.  Defendant
took the motion off calendar.
 
On October 9, 2024, Defendant filed this amended motion
for leave to file a cross-complaint. 
Plaintiff filed an opposition on October 24, and Defendant filed a reply
on October 30.
 
While the motion was pending, on October 18, 2024, the
Court denied Defendant’s ex parte application to continue trial and reopen
discovery.
 
Legal Standard
The Code of Civil Procedure distinguishes
between compulsory and permissive cross-complaints.
A compulsory cross-complaint, under Code of
Civil Procedure section 426.30, is one that asserts (1) a “related cause of
action”; (2) that a party against whom a “complaint” has been filed and served
has against the “plaintiff”; and (3) that exists as of the time the answer to
the “complaint” is served. (Code Civ. Proc., § 426.30, subd. (a).)
As used in section 426.30, a “related cause
of action” is defined as “a cause of action which arises out of the same
transaction, occurrence, or series of transactions or occurrences as the cause
of action which the plaintiff alleges in his complaint.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
426.10, subd. (c).) “Complaint” is defined to include a cross-complaint, and
“Plaintiff” is defined as “a person who files a complaint or cross-complaint.”
(Id., subds. (a) & (b).)
Subject to the exceptions set forth by
statute, if a party fails to assert fails to assert a related cause of action
against the plaintiff that exists as of the time the party answers the
complaint, “such party may not thereafter in any other action assert against
the plaintiff the related cause of action not pleaded.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
426.30, subd. (a).)
A permissive cross-complaint, in contrast,
may include a much broader group of pleadings. Under Code of Civil Procedure
section 428.10, in a permissive cross-complaint a party may assert an unrelated
cause of action “against any of the parties who filed the complaint or cross-complaint
against him.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 428.10, subd. (a).) Alternatively, in a
permissive cross-complaint a party may assert a “cause of action he has against
a person alleged to be liable thereon, whether or not such a person is already
party to the action, if the cause of action asserted in his cross-complaint (1)
arises out of the same transaction, occurrence, or series of transactions or
occurrences as the cause brought against him or (2) asserts a claim, right, or
interest in the property or controversy which is the subject of the cause
brought against him.” (Id., subd. (b).) Cross-complaints for
contribution or indemnity against new parties fall within the definition of a permissive
cross-complaint in section 428.10.
A party must file a compulsory
cross-complaint at the same time as (or before) the answer to the complaint.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 426.30, subd. (a).) If a party fails to do so, and then
later on seeks leave to file the cross-complaint, the court “after notice to
the adverse party, shall grant, upon such terms as may be just to the parties,
leave to amend the pleading, or to file the cross-complaint, to assert such
cause if the party who failed to plead the cause acted in good faith.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 426.50.) The “good faith” standard must “be liberally construed
to avoid forfeiture of causes of action.” (Ibid.)
A party must file a permissive
cross-complaint before the court has set a date for trial, or, if the causes of
action in the cross-complaint are asserted against “any of the parties who
filed the complaint or cross-complaint against him or her,” at or before the
party files the answer to the complaint or cross-complaint. (Code Civ. Proc., §
428.50, subds. (a) & (b).) If a party fails to do so, and then later on
seeks leave to file the cross-complaint, the court may grant leave “in the interests
of justice.” (Id., subd. (c).)
Cross-complaints against a person or entity
that is not already a party in the action are always permissive, rather than compulsory.
(Insurance Co. of North America v. Liberty Mutual Ins. Co. (1982) 128
Cal.App.3d 297, 303; 1 Weil & Brown, California Practice Guide: Civil
Procedure Before Trial (2024), ¶ 6:524.)
Discussion
Defendant seeks leave to file a permissive cross-complaint
against proposed Cross-Defendant Chu. But Defendant already filed the
cross-complaint, a summons was issued, and Chu was served (as reported by
Defendant’s counsel).  
In a declaration supporting this motion,
Defendant’s counsel states the following with regard to the cross-complaint
filed on December 1, 2023: “[T]he court denied the cross-complaint due to
Defendant’s inadvertent failure to file a motion for leave to file the
cross-complaint.”  (Goldberg Decl., ¶
5.)  It is unclear what counsel is
stating.  The cross-complaint was filed –
rightly or wrongly – a summons was issued, and Chu was served.  There is no indication in the Court file that
the cross-complaint was stricken for failure to file a motion for leave.
Thus, it appears that the motion is
unnecessary, as the cross-complaint was filed. 
With trial less than a month away, Defendant must decide whether to seek
Chu’s default or to dismiss the cross-complaint without prejudice.
Moreover, even if the Court had stricken the
cross-complaint, making this motion necessary, Defendant has not shown why the
filing of a cross-complaint against Chu is in the interests of justice at this
stage of the case, with a trial scheduled in less than a month.  Defendant has not proceeded diligently as to
the proposed cross-complaint, and it appears to the Court that this is simply a
delay tactic.  Moreover, denial of the
motion will not prejudice Defendant, as Defendant will not be barred from
asserting future claims against Chu for indemnification in a subsequent,
independent action if Plaintiff prevails against Defendant at trial.  But Plaintiff would be prejudiced by a
further lengthy delay in trial if leave to amend were granted at this date.
Accordingly, the motion is denied.
Conclusion
 
The Court DENIES Defendant’s motion
for leave to file a permissive cross-complaint. 
 
Moving
Party to give notice.