 Case Number:  22SMCV00915    Hearing Date:   March 14, 2024    Dept:  205    Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles – West District  Beverly Hills Courthouse / Department 205  AARON CELIOUS,    Plaintiff, v.  CITY OF LOS ANGELES, et al.,    Defendants.    Case No.:  22SMCV00915     Hearing Date:  March 14, 2024   [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:   DEFENDANT ROBIN ENGEL’S    MOTION FOR RECONSIDERATION AND    DEMURRER AND MOTION TO STRIKE    SECOND AMENDED COMPLAINT       BACKGROUND This action arises from a failed bid for two government projects.  Plaintiff Aaron Celious is the owner of Maroon Society Inc. (“Maroon”).  Maroon has assigned its claims to Celious.  (Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) ¶14.)  Maroon is in the business of providing data compilation, analysis and strategic services for both private and public sector entities.  (Id. ¶21.)  Maroon engaged in a competitive bid process for two different projects for Defendant City of Los Angeles (the “City”).  It was not chosen for either project.  (Id. ¶¶23-24.)   Defendant Ernesto Morales’ company, North Star Alliances LLC, was awarded the bid for one of the projects.  (Id. ¶¶8, 28, 82.)  Defendant Robin Engel’s company, Star Insights, LLC, was awarded the bid for the other project.  (Id. ¶¶9, 28, 170.)  Plaintiff alleges that Engel and Morales grossly and fraudulently misrepresented the qualifications and experiences of their companies, to obtain an unfair competitive advantage over Maroon.  (Id. ¶28.)   The Court previously sustained a demurrer brought by Engel on Plaintiff’s UCL claim.  The Court concluded that Maroon could not assign the UCL claim to Plaintiff, and accordingly, Plaintiff did not have standing to bring the UCL claim.  The Court also granted a motion to strike Plaintiff’s prayer for punitive damages because a claim for punitive damages cannot be assigned.  Likewise, the Court struck Plaintiff’s prayer for attorneys’ fees because Plaintiff had not stated a contractual or statutory basis for such fees.   Plaintiff then filed the SAC.  The SAC alleges claims for (1) fraud, (2) negligence, (3) violation of Civil Rights 42 U.S.C. §1983, (4) intentional interference with prospective economic relations, (5) negligent interference with prospective economic relations and (6) violation of Cal. Bus. & Prof. Code §17200 et seq. (“UCL”).  Only the fourth, fifth and sixth causes of action are alleged against Engel and Morales.   The SAC contains a new claim for negligent interference with prospective economic relations against Engel and Morales.  The SAC also alleges individual injuries to Plaintiff, by virtue of Plaintiff’s commission agreement with Maroon.  (SAC ¶2.)  Plaintiff alleges that he holds a “Commission Agreement with Maroon [] to prepare bids, proposals, and all tasks related to procuring new contracts for Maroon[].”  (Id. ¶22.)  As part of the Commission Agreement, Plaintiff receives 24% of the total monetary value of contracts awarded to Maroon.  (Id.)  Plaintiff further alleges that his SAC “arises from his economic relationship with Maroon [] that was damaged as a proximate result of the tortious conduct of defendants alleged herein.”  (Id.)     Engel filed a demurrer and motion to strike the SAC.  The Court overruled the demurrer as moot and denied the motion to strike because it erroneously concluded Plaintiff filed the SAC without leave to amend, and the Court struck the SAC.  In fact, there was a stipulation allowing Plaintiff to file the SAC.  This hearing is on Engel’s motion for reconsideration of the Court’s prior order.  Engel seeks to renew its demurrer and motion to strike the SAC given that the Court has revived the SAC.  The Court grants the motion for reconsideration and will rule on Engel’s demurrer and motion to strike the SAC on the merits, as set forth below.   LEGAL STANDARD “[A] demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the allegations in a complaint.” (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  A demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable.  (See Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 (in ruling on a demurrer, a court may not consider declarations, matters not subject to judicial notice, or documents not accepted for the truth of their contents).)  For purposes of ruling on a demurrer, all facts pleaded in a complaint are assumed to be true, but the reviewing court does not assume the truth of conclusions of law. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hosp. Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)   Further, the court may, upon motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc. §436, subd. (a).) The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court. (Code Civ. Proc. §436, subd. (b).) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc. §437.)¿ Leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (See Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349 (court shall not “sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if there is any reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by amendment”); Kong v. City of Hawaiian Gardens Redevelopment Agency (2002) 108 Cal.App.4th 1028, 1037 (“A demurrer should not be sustained without leave to amend if the complaint, liberally construed, can state a cause of action under any theory or if there is a reasonable possibility the defect can be cured by amendment.”); Vaccaro v. Kaiman (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 761, 768 (“When the defect which justifies striking a complaint is capable of cure, the court should allow leave to amend.”).)  The burden is on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) DISCUSSION Plaintiff argues that Engel’s motion for reconsideration is not supported by new or different facts.  The Court disagrees.  The Court’s revival of the SAC is a new and different circumstance, warranting reconsideration.   Plaintiff also argues that Engel’s motion for reconsideration was not timely filed.  The court order to revive the SAC is dated and was mail-served by the Clerk of the Court on January 31, 2024.  Plaintiff argues that in order to be timely, the motion for reconsideration had to be filed within 10 days of this order, or by February 13, 2024.  Engel did not file his motion for reconsideration until February 15, 2024.  However, as Engel notes the 10 day deadline for seeking reconsideration is extended under Code Civ. Proc. § 1013 for service by mail.  (WEIL & BROWN, Cal. Practice Guide: Civ. Proc. Before Trial (The Rutter Group, 2021) § 9:326.1.)   Accordingly, Engel’s motion was timely. Even if untimely, the Court has discretion to reconsider its own rulings.  Every¿court retains continuing jurisdiction to¿reconsider its¿own orders during the pendency of the action, and may do so regardless of the statutory time limits concerning motions for reconsideration.  (Le Francois v. Goel (2005) 35 Cal.4th 1094, 1107.) The Court turns now to the merits of Engel’s demurrer and motion to strike the SAC.  Engel moves to strike Plaintiff’s fifth cause of action as the Court did not grant leave to add a new cause of action.  The Court agrees.   The Court did not authorize Plaintiff to add a new cause of action for negligent interference with prospective economic relations against Engel.  While the Court’s August 11, 2023 order allowed Plaintiff to file a second amended complaint, it contemplated that any amended allegations would be directed at Plaintiff’s claims against the City of Los Angeles, Andrew Westall, Holly Wolcott, Capri Maddox, and Joey Garcia (collectively the “City Defendants”).  A plaintiff may amend the complaint only as authorized by the trial court’s order, and may not add new causes of action without permission to do so unless the new cause of action is within the scope of the order granting leave to amend.  (Harris v. Wachovia Mortgage, FSB (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 1018, 1023.) Engel also moves to strike Plaintiff’s sixth cause of action for violation of the UCL on the ground the Court did not grant Plaintiff leave to re-assert the claim.  Indeed, the Court sustained the demurrer to the UCL claim without leave to amend.  Accordingly, the Court grants the motion to strike Plaintiff’s UCL claim.  The Court also strikes Plaintiff’s prayer for injunctive relief and for restitution and disgorgement as those remedies are sought in connection with the UCL claim.  Given this ruling, the Court overrules as moot Engel’s demurrer to the UCL claim.    In addition, Engel moves to strike Plaintiff’s claim for punitive damages because the claim cannot be assigned.  The Court grants the motion to strike but for a different reason.  The Court did not grant Plaintiff leave to amend his punitive damages claim, and accordingly, the Court strikes the claim.   Engel also moves to strike Plaintiff’s prayer for “legal costs for expert investigation.”  Engel argues the claim is a veiled attempt to still recover attorneys’ fees.  The Court disagrees.  Plaintiff is not seeking attorneys’ fees; he is seeking costs.  Code Civ. Proc. §1032 subd. (b) provides that “[a] prevailing party is entitled as a matter of right to recover costs in any action or proceeding.”  Accordingly, the Court denies Engel’s motion to strike Plaintiff’s prayer for costs.   CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS Engel’s motion for reconsideration, OVERRULES as moot Engel’s demurrer to the SAC and GRANTS IN PART and DENIES IN PART Engel’s motion to strike the SAC, without leave to amend.    IT IS SO ORDERED.  DATED: March 14, 2024    ___________________________ Edward B. Moreton, Jr. Judge of the Superior Court 