 Case Number:  24STCV04857    Hearing Date:   September 25, 2024    Dept:  14 #12Case Background
This is an action for fraud, rescission, breach of
contract, injunctive relief, an accounting, involuntary dissolution of the
corporation, and declaratory judgment. Plaintiffs allege that they bought a
home healthcare business in September 2023 together with Defendant Belzunce.
The seller, Defendant Akopyan, and Belzunce misrepresented that Medicare’s
provider agreement and billing privileges would convey to Plaintiffs. Belzunce
then locked Plaintiffs out of the premises and all corporate records and accounts.
Belzunce named herself CEO, President, and secretary of the corporation and
named her son, Defendant Beto, as the Assistant CFO. Plaintiff placed the
business property’s lease in her own name and placed Beto in a corporate
position without the shareholders’ consent. After Plaintiffs terminated
Belzunce from their positions, Belzunce refused to relinquish control of the
company.
On February 27, 2024, Plaintiffs Mohsen Ali and Carol
Ghanem filed their Complaint against Defendants Hero Home Healthcare, Inc.
(Hero), Diana Akopyan, Maria Isabel Belzunce, and Sebastian Beto.
On May 2, 2024, the Court entered default against
Defendants Hero, Belzunce, and Beto.
On August 1, 2024, the Court sustained Akopyan’s
demurrer in part as to the cause of action for an accounting only. The only
cause of action remaining against Defendants Belzunce and Beto is the cause of
action for fraud.
On August 20, 2024, Akopyan filed a Cross-Complaint
against Ali, Ghanem, and Belzunce.
On August 28, 2024, Plaintiffs filed this motion for
preliminary injunction. The motion is unopposed.
Instant Pleading
Plaintiffs move for a preliminary injunction for the
following:
1.     Enjoining
Hero, Belzunce, Beto, and their agents from invoicing Medi-Cal, Medicare,
Medicaid, and all private short-term and long-term healthcare insurance for
services.
2.     Buying,
transferring, destroying, encumbering, hiding, and absconding with all
corporate assets prior to the resolution of Plaintiffs’ Complaint.
3.     Ordering
Belzunce and Beto to immediately turn over unfettered access to all corporate
records, assets, and accounts to Plaintiffs.
4.     Ordering
Belzunce and Beto to comply with the January 18, 2024 shareholders meeting.
Decision
Plaintiffs’ motion for a preliminary injunction is
GRANTED. The amount of the undertaking is to be determined at the hearing on
this matter.
Legal Standard
 The trial court considers two factors in
determining whether to issue a preliminary injunction: (1) the likelihood the
plaintiff will prevail on the merits of its case at trial, and (2) the interim
harm the plaintiff is likely to sustain if the injunction is denied as compared
to the harm the defendant is likely to suffer if the court grants a preliminary
injunction. (Code Civ. Proc., section 526(a); Husain v. McDonald’s Corp.
(2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 860, 866-67.) The balancing of harm between the parties
“involves consideration of such things as the inadequacy of other remedies, the
degree of irreparable harm, and the necessity of preserving the status quo.” (Husain,
supra, 205 Cal.App.4th at 867.) Thus, a preliminary injunction may not issue
without some showing of potential entitlement to such relief. (Doe v.
Wilson (1997) 57 Cal.App.4th 296, 304.) 
Injunctive relief may be granted based on a verified
complaint only if it contains sufficient evidentiary, not ultimate, facts. (See
Code Civ. Proc., section 527(a).) The burden of proof is on the plaintiff as
moving party. (O’Connell v. Superior Court (2006) 141 Cal.App.4th 1452,
1481.) A plaintiff seeking injunctive relief must show the absence of an
adequate damages remedy at law. (Code Civ. Proc. section 526(4); Thayer
Plymouth Center, Inc. v. Chrysler Motors (1967) 255 Cal.App.2d 300,
307.)   
A preliminary injunction ordinarily cannot take effect
unless and until the plaintiff provides an undertaking for damages which the
enjoined defendant may sustain by reason of the injunction if the court finally
decides that the plaintiff was not entitled to the injunction. (See Code Civ.
Proc., section 529(a); Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1150(f); City of South
San Francisco v. Cypress Lawn Cemetery Assn. (1992) 11 Cal.App.4th 916,
920.) 
Discussion
Plaintiffs move for a preliminary injunction, arguing
that (1) Plaintiffs have a likelihood of prevailing on the merits of their
claims against Hero, Belzunce, and Beto and (2) Plaintiffs will suffer
irreparable harm if this motion is not granted.
1.    
Likelihood of prevailing
Plaintiffs allege that they have a likelihood of
prevailing on the merits of their claims against Hero, Belzunce, and Beto.
Plaintiffs have a cause of action for fraud against Belzunce and a cause of
action for an accounting against all Defendants. The remaining causes of action
are either asserted against Akopyan or are remedies, not independent causes of
action. Thus, the Court will evaluate whether Plaintiffs have a likelihood of
prevailing on the merits of their cause of action for an accounting against
Hero, Belzunce, and Beto.
Although an accounting is generally a remedy, it
may be a cause of action in some cases, such as when one party owes another a
fiduciary duty that requires an accounting, and some balance is due to a
plaintiff that can only be ascertained by an accounting. (Pantoja v.
Countrywide Home Loans, Inc. (2009) 640 F.Supp.2d 1177, 1191; Union Bank
v. Superior Court (1995) 31 Cal.App.4th 573, 593.) Where a defendant owes
no money to a plaintiff, the plaintiff has no right to an accounting. (Union
Bank v. Superior Court (1995) 31 Cal.App.4th 573, 594.)
Here, Plaintiffs rely on their verified Complaint to
show that they have a likelihood of prevailing on the merits of their claims
against Hero, Belzunce, and Beto. Plaintiffs allege that Belzunce and Akopyan misrepresented,
Belzunce failed to pay her $50,000 share and represented she required more time
to pay. (Compl., ¶¶12-13.) Thereafter, Belzunce improperly filed a statement of
information with the California Secretary of State naming herself CEO,
President, and secretary of Hero and naming Beto as the Assistant to the CFO. (Id.,
¶14.) Belzunce locked Plaintiffs out of the business property, corporate
records, and accounts. (Id.) Belzunce placed the lease for the business
property in her own name and hired Beto to work for hero without shareholder
consent. (Id., ¶15.) On January 18, 2024, the shareholders who held 66%
interest in Hero voted to terminate Belzunce and Beto from their positions as
officers of Hero. (Id., ¶16.) Belzunce refused to surrender possession
or control of the company and opened a bank account to hide Hero’s income. (Id.,
¶16.)
The evidentiary facts alleged show that Belzunce and
Beto are operating Hero without shareholder approval and have locked Plaintiffs
out of the corporate accounts. Under the agreement to buy Akopyan’s shares, all
dividends and profits earned by the shares payable on or after September 9,
2023 belong to Plaintiffs and Belzunce. (Compl., Exh. 1, ¶11.) Plaintiffs and
Belzunce were entitled to control of the company upon signing the agreement. (Id.,
¶13.) Because Belzunce and Beto have seized control over Hero’s operations and
accounts, Plaintiffs do not have access to Hero’s dividends, profits, or
records. An accounting is required to ascertain how much money Belzunce, Beto,
and Hero owe to Plaintiffs under the purchase agreement. Therefore, Plaintiffs’
verified Complaint provides sufficient evidentiary facts to show that they are
likely to prevail at trial on their claim for an accounting against Belzunce,
Beto, and Hero.
Plaintiffs meet the first prong of the preliminary
injunction analysis.
2.    
Irreparable harm
“Irreparable harm may be established where there
is the fact of an injury, such as that arising from a breach of contract, but
where there is an inability to ascertain the amount of damage. In other words,
to say that the harm is irreparable is simply another way of saying that
pecuniary compensation would not afford adequate relief or that it would be
extremely difficult to ascertain the amount that would afford adequate relief.”
(DVD Copy Control Assn., Inc. v. Kaleidescape, Inc. (2009) 176
Cal.App.4th 697, 722.) An injunction may issue to prevent wrongs “‘which occasion damages estimable only by conjecture and not by any
accurate standard. ’ ” (Ibid.) 
Here, Plaintiffs argue that they will suffer
irreparable injury if this motion is not granted because Belzunce has been
transferring clients to Hero without notifying Medicare of Hero’s sale and
accepting Medicare funds in violation of the Code of Federal Regulations,
section 424.550. (Ali Decl., ¶25.) As a result of this illegal activity,
Plaintiffs are likely to face administrative or criminal penalties as Hero’s
shareholders. (Id., ¶26.) Plaintiff Ali’s medical license is also at
jeopardy. (Id., ¶26.) Finally, Hero is likely to lose clients and goodwill
with the public as a result of the illegal conduct. (Id., ¶¶28-29.) 
Plaintiffs are likely to suffer irreparable injury if
this motion is not granted because they could face penalties because Hero
failed to notify Medicare of the sale, because Ali’s medical license would be
in jeopardy, and because Hero would lose the goodwill of the public if the
illegal activity continues. These harms are not quantifiable and pecuniary
compensation would not afford adequate relief. Additionally, if Hero cannot
continue to operate, the company would become insolvent and unable to pay
Plaintiffs the profits and dividends they were entitled to under the purchase
agreement. Enjoining the illegal conduct, ordering Belzunce, Beto, and Hero to
allow Plaintiffs access to Hero’s records, assets, and accounts, and ordering
Belzunce and Beto to comply with the shareholders’ decision to terminate their
positions at Hero would prevent further illegal conduct and allow Hero to
continue operating. Granting this motion would thus maintain the status quo
pending resolution of this action.
Belzunce, Beto, and Hero, on the other hand, are in
default and did not oppose this motion. In any case, Plaintiffs were entitled
to Hero’s profits and dividends, as well as joint control of the company, under
the purchase agreement. Belzunce, Beto, and Hero would not suffer irreparable
harm because they withheld these funds and powers from Plaintiffs. 
Plaintiffs sufficiently show they would suffer
irreparable harm if this motion was not granted and meet the second prong of
the preliminary injunction analysis. 
The motion for a preliminary injunction filed by
Plaintiffs is GRANTED because they satisfy both elements of a demand for a
preliminary injunction. 
3.    
Undertaking
An undertaking is required before the Court’s order
granting preliminary injunction may take effect. Plaintiffs failed to address
this issue in the moving papers. Plaintiffs must be prepared to discuss this
issue at the hearing on this matter.
Conclusion
Plaintiffs’ motion for a preliminary injunction is
GRANTED. The amount of the undertaking is to be determined at the hearing on
this matter.