 Case Number:  23STCV11727    Hearing Date:   February 8, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     February 8, 2024                   TRIAL
DATE: NOT SET
                                                           
CASE:                         Arturo Montoya-Bautista et al. v.
Architectural Surfaces, Inc., et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV11727            
 
DEMURRER
TO COMPLAINT

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant Tri-Stone & Tile, Inc.
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiffs Arturo
Montoya-Bautista and Magdalena Balderas-Molina
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
05/24/23: Complaint filed.
·        
12/28/23: Cross-Complaint filed by Lowe’s Home
Centers, LLC
·        
12/29/23: Cross-Complaint filed by Jacobe
Enterprises, Inc.
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is a toxic tort action alleging that Plaintiff Montoya-Bautista
developed silicosis and consequential injuries by breathing in dust from
Defendants’ stone products generated by his work as a fabricator and polisher
of stone countertops.
 
Defendant Tri-Stone & Tile, Inc.
demurs to the Complaint for insufficiently specific allegations. 
 
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Defendant’s Demurrer to the
Complaint is OVERRULED.
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Defendant Tri-Stone & Tile, Inc.
demurs to the Complaint in its entirety for failure to state facts sufficient
to constitute a cause of action. 
 
//
Legal Standard
 
A demurrer tests whether the
complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147
Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations
liberally and in context. (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and
Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.) In a demurrer proceeding, the
defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial
notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968,
994.) “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other
extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face
of the pleading or are judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court
(1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) “The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing
is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters,
states a cause of action.” (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at p. 747.) The
ultimate facts alleged in the complaint must be deemed true, as well as all
facts that may be implied or inferred from those expressly alleged. (Marshall
v. Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1397, 1403; see also Shields
v. County of San Diego (1984) 155 Cal.App.3d 103, 133 [stating, “[o]n
demurrer, pleadings are read liberally and allegations contained therein are
assumed to be true”].) “This rule of liberal construction means that the
reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not the
defendant.” (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th
1228, 1238.) 
 
Meet and Confer
 
Before filing a demurrer, the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who has filed the pleading subject to the demurrer and file a declaration
detailing their meet-and-confer efforts.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41(a).)
However, an insufficient meet and confer process is not grounds
to overrule or sustain a demurrer.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41(a)(4).)
 
The Declaration of Attorney David
Smyle states that the parties met and conferred electronically on August 3,
2023, but were unable to reach a resolution of this dispute. (Declaration of David
Smyle ISO Demurrer ¶¶ 2-3.) Defendant has thus satisfied its statutory
meet-and-confer obligation.
 
General Demurrer for Failure to Allege Specific Facts
 
            Defendant Tri-Stone
& Tile, Inc. demurs to the first three causes of action for (1) negligence;
(2) failure to warn; and (3) defective design for failing to allege specific
facts as to Defendant Tri-Stone & Tile, Inc.
 
            Defendant
argues that the Complaint as plead does not comply with the standard set forth
by our Supreme Court for pleading causation in toxic tort actions. As stated in
Bockrath v. Aldrich Chemical Company, Inc., a Plaintiff must plead (1) that
he was exposed to each of the toxic materials claimed to have caused a specific
illness; (2) Plaintiff must identify each product that allegedly caused the
injury; (3) that each toxin, specifically identified, entered into each
plaintiff’s body as a result of the exposure; (4) that each plaintiff suffers
from a specific illness and that each toxin that entered his or her body was a
substantial factor in bringing about, prolonging, or aggravating that illness;
and (5) that each toxin absorbed by each plaintiff was manufactured or supplied
by the named defendant. (Bockrath v. Aldrich Chemical Company, Inc.
(1992) 21 Cal.4th 71, 78-80.) 
 
            A cursory
examination of the Complaint reveals that Plaintiffs allege:
 
(1) that he was
exposed to silica dust causing his silicosis (Complaint ¶ 40); 
 
(2) identifies
each of Defendant’s products that allegedly caused the injury (¶ 35 pp. 25-26)
 
(3) that
Plaintiff Arturo inhaled silica dust as a result of the exposure to the
Defendants’ products. (¶ 40)
 
(4) that inhalation
of that silica dust was a substantial factor in causing, prolonging, and
aggravating Plaintiff’s silicosis; (¶ 359)
 
(5) and that the
toxins were manufactured or supplied by the Defendants (¶ 368.)
 
Defendant asserts that these
allegations are not sufficient because they address all of the several dozen
named Defendants in the aggregate rather than referring to each individual
Defendant by name. Defendant provides no authority showing that further
specificity is required where the allegations of the complaint plainly meet the
standard set forth in Bockrath. The Court therefore finds that Defendant
has failed to demonstrate that the Complaint is defective with respect to the
first three causes of action. 
 
Fourth Cause of Action: Fraudulent Concealment
 
Defendant also demurs to the fourth
cause of action for fraudulent concealment for failure to state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action. 
 
“The elements of a cause of action for
fraud based on concealment are: ‘(1) the defendant must have concealed or
suppressed a material fact, (2) the defendant must have been under a duty to
disclose the fact to the plaintiff, (3) the defendant must have intentionally
concealed or suppressed the fact with the intent to defraud the plaintiff, (4)
the plaintiff must have been unaware of the fact and would not have acted as he
did if he had known of the concealed or suppressed fact, and (5) as a result of
the concealment or suppression of the fact, the plaintiff must have sustained
damage.’” 
 
(Jones v. ConocoPhillips Co. (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th
1187, 1198.)
 
            Defendant
argues that Plaintiff failed to allege with adequate specificity that Defendant
had a duty to disclose the properties of its products, or that it intentionally
concealed that information from Plaintiff. As to each element of a claim for
fraudulent concealment, Plaintiffs allege that:
 
(1)  
Defendant concealed the toxic properties of its
products (¶¶ 460-466, 576), several of which was identified in the Complaint.
(¶ 35 p. 25-26.)
 
(2)  
 Defendants had a
duty to disclose the toxic properties of their products because of the Hazard
Communication Standard, California common law, their “knowledge of material
facts, to wit the toxic properties of their products, which were not accessible
to Plaintiff,” because they “made representations regarding their stone
products, but failed to disclose additional facts which materially qualify the
facts disclosed, and/or which rendered the disclosures made likely to mislead
Plaintiff,” and because they had a transactional relationship with Defendant,
based on their sale of toxic products to Plaintiff’s employers, with whom
Plaintiff was in privity (¶¶ 402-406), 
 
(3)  
Defendant “concealed said toxic hazards from Plaintiff
. . . so that Plaintiff . . . would use Defendants’ stone products” (¶ 407), 
 
(4)  
 Plaintiff “was
unaware of the toxic and fibrogenic [hazards] of Defendants’ stone products and
would not have acted as he did had he known of said concealed hazards (¶467),
and 
 
(5)  
As a result of Defendant’s concealment of the toxic
hazards of its stone products, Plaintiff was exposed to Defendant’s toxic
hazards and has suffered “serious injuries and disease” as a result, including
“silicosis, progressive massive fibrosis and other related and consequential
medical conditions (¶ 469)
 
These allegations are sufficient to allege a
fraudulent concealment claim against Defendant. (Jones, supra, 198
Cal.App.4th at 1195 [plaintiff’s complaint is not “unacceptably speculative if
a plaintiff has not specifically identified which toxin contained in a
particular product caused the alleged injury or has sued the manufacturers of
multiple products, alleging all of them contained toxins that were substantial
factors in causing his injury.”) Defendant claims Jones is inapposite
because “the Jones pleading did not attempt to haul into court every
manufacturer of the chemicals at issue, without consideration of whether or not
said manufacturers ever sold a single product to plaintiff’s two identified
employers.” (Reply p.3:19-21.) Mere hyperbole is not a meaningful challenge to
the application of facially relevant authority. Moreover, as the California
Supreme Court noted in Bockrath v. Aldrich Chemical Co., Inc. (1999) 21
Cal.4th 71, the remedy for an improperly speculative pleading is provided by
Code of Civil Procedure section 128.7(b), which permits the imposition of
sanctions on an attorney who is found to have deliberately filed a products
liability suit without a well-founded belief in the truth of a particular
allegation. (Bockrath, supra, 21 Cal. 4th at p. 82; see also Jones,
supra, 198 Cal.App.4th at 1196.) 
 
CONCLUSION:
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s Demurrer
to the Complaint is OVERRULED.
 
            Moving
Party to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  February 8,
2024                                ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 