 Case Number:  21STCV06333    Hearing Date:   February 8, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
HEARING DATE:     February 8, 2024                   TRIAL DATE: March 5, 2024

 
CASE:                         Laksh, Inc. et al. v. Templar
Transportation Corporation, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 21STCV06333
            
 
MOTION
TO SET ASIDE/VACATE DEFAULT & DEFAULT JUDGMENT

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant BTLN, Inc. 
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiffs Laksh,
Inc. and JROD Brothers, Inc.
 
CASE
HISTORY:

02/16/21:
     Complaint filed.
06/22/21:
     First Amended Complaint filed.
03/22/22:
     Second Amended Complaint filed. 
09/15/22:
     Third Amended Complaint filed.
04/04/23:
     Default judgment against BLTN, Inc.

 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an
action for breach of contract. 
 
Defendant BLTN, Inc. moves to set
aside the default and default judgment entered against it.  
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Defendant’s Motion to Set Aside the
Default and Default Judgment is DENIED.
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Defendant BLTN, Inc. moves to set
aside the default and default judgment entered against it pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure 473(b) and the Court’s inherent equitable authority.
 
//
 
Statutory Relief Under Code of Civil Procedure
 
Defendant moves to set aside the
default and default judgment entered against it pursuant to the discretionary
relief provision of Code of Civil Procedure section 473(b). 
 
Code of Civil Procedure section
473(b) provides in pertinent part:
 
The court may, upon any terms as may be
just, relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a judgment…taken
against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
excusable neglect. Application for this relief shall be accompanied by a copy
of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed therein, otherwise the
application shall not be granted, and shall be made within a reasonable time, in
no case exceeding six months, after the judgment…was taken.
 
(Code Civ. Proc.
§ 473(b).) The six-month time limit is jurisdictional, and runs from entry of
default, not default judgment. (Pulte Homes Corp. v. Williams
Mechanical, Inc. (2016) 2 Cal.App.5th 267, 273.) Thus, if default was
entered more than six months before the motion to set aside is made, the Court cannot
ordinarily set aside the default judgment, even if the default judgment was
within the six-month period, because doing so would be an “idle act.” (Id quoting
Howard Greer Custom Originals v. Capritti 1950) 35 Cal.2d 886, 888.)
“If the judgment were vacated, it would be the duty of the court immediately to
render another judgment of like effect, and the defendants, still being in
default, could not be heard in opposition thereto.” (Pulte Homes Corp.,
supra, 2 Cal.App.5th at 273 [internal citations and quotations omitted].) Here,
default was entered against Defendant BLTN, Inc. on November 28, 2022. This
motion was filed and served on January 16, 2024, more than a year after default
was entered against BLTN. Defendant is therefore not entitled to challenge the
default and default judgment under Code of Civil Procedure section 473(b). 
 
Equitable Relief
 
            Defendant
moves in the alternative for equitable relief to set aside the default and
default judgment.
 
            A court may
utilize its equitable authority to relieve a party from default on the grounds
of (1) a void judgment; (2) extrinsic fraud; (3) constructive service; and (4)
extrinsic mistake. (Stiles v. Wallis (1983) 147 Cal.App.3d 1143, 1147.) “Extrinsic
mistake is found when a party becomes incompetent but no guardian ad litem is
appointed; when one party relies on another to defend; when there is reliance
on an attorney who becomes incapacitated to act; when a mistake led a court to
do what it never intended; when a mistaken belief of one party prevented proper
notice of the action; or when the complaining party was disabled at the time
the judgment was entered. Relief has also been extended to cases involving
negligence of a party's attorney in not properly filing an answer.” (Kulchar
v. Kulchar (1969) 1 Cal.3d 467, 471-72 [internal citations omitted].) To
set aside a judgment based on extrinsic mistake, the moving party must (1)
demonstrate that it has a meritorious case; (2) articulate a satisfactory
excuse for not presenting a defense to the original action; and (3) demonstrate
diligence in seeking to set aside the default once it had been discovered. (Stiles,
supra, 147 Cal.App.3d at 1147-48.) 
 
            1.
Meritorious Case
 
            Defendant
contends that it has a meritorious defense to this action which it should be
permitted to present. 
 
            The party
seeking to set aside the default must not merely allege a meritorious defense
but make an affirmative showing of the facts supporting that defense. (See,
e.g. Hart v. Gudger (1957) 143 Cal.App.2d 217, 220.) A verified
proposed answer denying the material allegations of the complaint is sufficient
to demonstrate a meritorious case for the purpose of setting aside a default or
default judgment. (Stiles, supra, 147 Cal.App.3d at 148.)
 
            Defendant’s
evidence of a meritorious case is presented in the form of an unverified
proposed answer attached to the motion which offers a general denial of the
allegations in the operative Complaint and asserts various affirmative defenses
which, if proven, would offer a complete defense to the action. (Defendant’s
Exh. A.) Had the proposed answer been verified, it would by itself suffice to
demonstrate meritoriousness. Absent such verification, however, the proposed
answer lacks that value, and Defendant provides no other evidence which supports
its position that there is a meritorious defense. Were this the only defect,
the Court would be inclined to permit Defendant to obtain a proposed verified
answer. However, as addressed below, the Court is not persuaded that Defendant had
a valid excuse for not defending the original action, nor has it acted with
diligence in moving to set aside the default, and, for that reason, permitting
technical corrections would be futile. 
 
            2.
Excuse for Not Defending Original Action
 
            Defendant
asserts that it has a valid excuse for not originally defending this action. 
 
            “Although
the policy of the law is to favor a hearing on the merits of a case, courts are
not required to set aside default judgments for defendants who flagrantly
ignore the responsibility to present a defense. The burden of a party who has
had a default entered against him is not limited to merely articulating the
existence of a meritorious case. The defendant must also demonstrate a
satisfactory excuse for not responding to the original action in a timely
manner.” (Stiles, supra, 147 Cal.App.3d at 1148.) 
 
            Here,
Defendant’s excuse for failing to defend the original action is that its owner
believed that the other defendants in this action would defend and indemnify
BTLN as a bona fide purchaser of the rights to provide package service to the
regions that are the subject of this dispute. (See Declaration of Aram Seropian
ISO Mot. ¶ 4.) Mr. Seropian provides no explanation for why he formed that
belief, nor has Defendant produced any evidence indicating that it had
requested such a defense or that the other defendants promised to do so. Unsupported
statements of belief without justification are not sufficient to demonstrate a
valid excuse for not defending the original action. (See Stiles, supra,
147 Cal.App.3d at 1148 [Defendant’s unsupported belief that employer was
obligated to defend him not a valid excuse for failure to defend].) Defendant
has thus failed to demonstrate that it had a valid excuse for not defending
this action. 
 
            3.
Diligence in Seeking to Set Aside Default
 
            Defendant
also contends that it acted diligently in seeking to set aside the default when
its error was discovered. 
 
            Original
negligence in allowing the default to be taken will be excused if the aggrieved
party makes a “strong showing” of diligence in seeking to set aside the default
soon after discovering the default or entry of judgment. (See Stiles, supra,
at 1149 citing Hallett v. Slaughter (1943) 22 Cal.2d 552, 557.) In
determining whether due diligence has been exercised, the Court must examine
both the time factor and the possible prejudice which might result from setting
aside the default; the greater the prejudice, the prompter relief must be
sought. (McCreadie v. Arques (1967) 248 Cal.App.2d 39, 47.) 
 
            Defendant’s
motion was presented on January 16, 2024, six weeks before trial, and is set
for hearing on February 8, 2024, less than a month before the March 5, 2024
trial date. The remaining parties have already engaged in substantial discovery
and extensive motion practice, including challenges via both demurrer and a
motion for summary judgment. If the default were set aside, Plaintiffs would be
forced to either seek a continuance of the trial date, which would impact all
parties, or forgo any opportunity for discovery or substantive motion practice
as to claims specific to this Defendant. (See, e.g., Code Civ. Proc. §§
437c(a); 2024.020(a).) Thus, Defendant bears a heightened burden to demonstrate
that it acted diligently in not bringing the motion until this late date. 
 
            Defendant
has failed to carry that burden. Defendant’s motion offers no discussion of
when the default was discovered and no basis to presume that it acted
diligently in seeking relief when it did. More damningly, Plaintiffs present
evidence that Defendant’s counsel was aware of the default by no later than
August 30, 2023, when he telephoned Plaintiffs’ counsel to discuss vacating the
judgment to participate in a mandatory settlement conference. (Declaration of Kathrin
A. Wanner ISO Opp. ¶ 16.) In reply, Defendant’s counsel merely states that the
motion was withheld “to await the outcome of mediation” between Plaintiffs and
the other defendants. (Declaration of Melkon R. Melkonian ISO Reply ¶ 2.) This
showing is not sufficient to carry Defendant’s burden on this motion. Where
default was enter in November 2022 and default judgment in April 2023, the
Court cannot find that Defendant acted with the requisite diligence by delaying
its motion for relief an additional five months and bringing that motion on the
eve of trial. Defendant has clearly not shown that it acted with diligence in
bringing this motion for relief. 
 
            Defendant
has failed to offer competent evidence of a meritorious defense to this action,
has failed to show a valid excuse for not defending the original case, and has
not shown that it acted with diligence in seeking to set aside the default and
default judgment. The Court therefore finds that Defendant has not shown good
cause to grant equitable relief from the default and default judgment. 
 
CONCLUSION:

 
Accordingly, Defendant’s Motion to Set Aside
the Default and Default Judgment is DENIED.
 
Court to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated: February 8, 2024                                 ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 