 Case Number:  23PSCV01816    Hearing Date:   March 26, 2024    Dept:  G Defendants Oceanus Decor  & Flooring, Inc. and Zhigang Cui’s Motion to Set Aside Right to Attach  Order and Quash Writ Respondent: Plaintiff Andes  Harvest, Inc. TENTATIVE RULING Defendants Oceanus Decor  & Flooring, Inc. and Zhigang Cui’s Motion to Set Aside Right to Attach  Order and Quash Writ is CONTINUED to a date to be determined at the hearing set  in Department G (Pomona). Parties are ordered to  provide further briefing on the applicability of the original lease’s  termination provisions in accordance with the briefing schedule set by the  court. BACKGROUND This  is a breach of contract action arising from a series of sublease agreements.  Defendants Cups (DE) LP (Cups) and Wadd-II (TN) LP (Wadd) are alleged to be the  owners of a commercial property in the City of Industry. Since 2001, Defendant  Novolex Holdings, LLC (Novolex) allegedly rented the City of Industry property  from Cups and Wadd and had been subleasing the property to Defendant Oceanus  Decor & Flooring, Inc. (Oceanus) since 2022. In May 2023, Plaintiff Andes  Harvest, Inc. (Andes) agreed to sublease the City of Industry property from  Oceanus. After Andes made a payment of $182,420.08 which included the first  month’s rent and a security deposit, Andes discovered the electrical system for  the City of Industry property had been removed. When Andes demanded return of  first months’ rent and security deposit in June 2023, Oceanus only offered to  return the payment in installments, Novolex denied liability, and Cups and Wadd  both ignored Andes’s demand. On  June 20, 2023, Andes filed a complaint against Cups, Wadd, Novolex, Oceanus,  Zhigang Cui, CBRE, Inc. (CBRE), and Does 1-25, alleging the following causes of  action: (1) breach of contract, (2) breach of implied covenant of good faith  and fair dealing, (3) concealment, (4) conversion, (5) restitution, and (6)  breach of the duty of disclosure. On  November 28, 2023, the court granted Andes’s application for a right to attach  order and a writ of attachment against Oceanus. On January  16, 2024, the court granted Oceanus and Cui’s motion to vacate the entry of  default against them. On the same day, Oceanus and Cui filed a cross-complaint  against Andes and Does 1-10, alleging a single cause of action for breach of  contract. On  February 27, 2024, Oceanus and Cui filed the present motion. A hearing on their  motion is set for March 26 with a post-mediation status conference/trial  setting conference set for August 8. ANALYSIS Oceanus  and Cui move for the court to set aside the right to attach order granted on  November 28, 2023, and to quash Andes’s writ of attachment. For the following  reasons, the court CONTINUES the hearing on their motion. Legal Standard Motion to Set Aside and Quash Pursuant  to Code of Civil Procedure section 485.240, subdivision (a), “[a]ny defendant  whose property has been attached pursuant to a writ issued under this chapter  may apply for an order (1) that the right to attach order be set aside, the  writ of attachment quashed, and any property levied upon pursuant to the writ  be released, or (2) that the amount to be secured by the attachment be reduced  as provided in Section 483.015. Such application shall be made by filing with  the court and serving on the plaintiff a notice of motion.” “At  the hearing on the motion, the court shall determine whether the plaintiff is  entitled to the right to attach order or whether the amount to be secured by  the attachment should be reduced. If the court finds that the plaintiff is not  entitled to the right to attach order, it shall order the right to attach order  set aside, the writ of attachment quashed, and any property levied on pursuant  to the writ released.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 485.240, subd. (c).) “The court's  determinations shall be made upon the basis of the pleadings and other papers  in the record; but, upon good cause shown, the court may receive and consider  at the hearing additional evidence, oral or documentary, and additional points  and authorities, or it may continue the hearing for the production of such  additional evidence or points and authorities.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 485.240,  subd. (d).) Application for Right to Attach Order and Writ of  Attachment Attachment  is proper where: (1) “[t]he claim is one upon which an attachment may be  issued;” (2) “plaintiff has established the probable validity of the claim upon  which the attachment is based;” (3) “[t]he attachment is not sought for a  purpose other than the recovery on the claim upon which the attachment is  based;” and (4) “[t]he amount to be secured by the attachment is greater than  zero.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 480.090, subd. (a); see also Bank of  America v. Salinas Nissan, Inc. (1989) 207 Cal.App.3d 260, 271 (Salinas  Nissan) [party pursuing attachment remedy carries burden of establishing  grounds justifying attachment, including presenting facts that show probable  validity of underlying claim].) The court may issue an attachment on a claim  for money arising under contract, so long as the amount claimed by the party  seeking attachment is reasonably ascertainable in an amount greater than  $500.00. (Code Civ. Proc., § 483.010, subd. (a).) “Probable  validity means that ‘more likely than not’ the plaintiff will obtain a judgment  on that claim.” (Santa Clara Waste Water Co. v. Allied World National  Assurance Co. (2017) 18 Cal.App.5th 881, 885, citing Code Civ. Proc., §  481.190.) Plaintiff’s application must “be supported by an affidavit or  declaration showing that the applicant, on the facts presented, would be  entitled to a judgment on the claim upon which the attachment is based.” (Lydig  Construction, Inc. v. Martinez Steel Corp. (2015) 234 Cal.App.4th 937, 944,  citing Code Civ. Proc., § 484.030.) The affidavits must set forth facts with  particularity and a verified complaint may be utilized in lieu of such  affidavits. (Code Civ. Proc., § 482.040.) Furthermore, any documentary evidence  must be presented in admissible form. (Id., at p. 944.) Discussion On  August 16, 2023, Andes first applied for a right to attach order and writ of  attachment against Oceanus. On September 21, the court denied Andes’s  application on the grounds that Andes had failed to establish how Oceanus  breached the sublease agreement between Oceanus and Andes. (9/21/2023 Ruling,  p. 2.) While Andes argued the lack of a functioning electrical system failed to  satisfy the required conditions of the City of Industry property, the court  found Andes failed to demonstrate where those requirements were specified in  the sublease. (9/21/2023 Ruling, p. 2.) On  September 29, 2023, Andes reapplied for a right to attach order and writ of  attachment against Oceanus. On October 19, the court continued the hearing on  Andes’s application, finding Andes still failed to clarify how Oceanus breached  the sublease agreement. (10/19/2023 Ruling, p. 2.) On November 28, the court  granted Andes’s application after Andes provided additional evidence and argument  in support of its application. (11/28/2023 Ruling, p. 3.) In arguing Oceanus  had breached the sublease agreement by failing to provide a functioning  electrical system, Andes relied on provisions in the original sublease  agreement that stated the leased premises included fixtures such as electrical  and power systems. (11/28/2023 Ruling, p. 3.) Because these fixtures were not  included in the premises as alleged by Andes, the court found Andes’s claim  that Oceanus breached the sublease agreement had probable validity. (11/28/2023  Ruling, p. 3.) In  the present motion, however, Oceanus and Cui point the court to another  provision in the same lease agreement. In section 18(a), the lease agreement  describes the following termination events: “If (i) all of any Related Premises shall be taken  by a Taking, (ii) any substantial portion of any Related Premises shall be  taken by a Taking or all or any substantial portion of any Related Premises  shall be totally damaged or destroyed by a Casualty, or (iii) any portion of  any Related Premises be taken by a Taking or damaged or destroyed by a Casualty  and under applicable law such Related Premises cannot be rebuilt to at least  the same square footage and otherwise substantially the same as existed prior  to the Casualty or Condemnation and, in the case of (ii) above, Tenant  certifies and covenants to Landlord that it will cease operations at the  Related Premises for no less than two (2) years . . . then (x) in the case (i)  or (iii) above, Tenant shall be obligated, within thirty (30) days after the  Casualty, as the case may be, and (y) in the case of (ii) above, Tenant shall  have the option, within thirty (30) days after Tenant receives a Condemnation  Notice or thirty (30) days after the Casualty, as the case may be, to give to  Landlord written notice . . . in the form described in Paragraph 18(b) of the  Tenant’s election to terminate this Lease as to the Affected Premises.” (Cui  Decl., Ex. C, § 18(a).) In  section 2, the lease agreement defines “casualty” as follows: “‘Casualty’ shall mean any injury to or death of any  person or any loss of or damage to any property (including the Leased Premises)  included within or related to the Leased Premises or arising from the Adjoining  Property resulting from a fire or other casualty affecting the Leased Premises  or the Adjoining Property.” (Cui Decl., Ex. C, § 2.) Based  upon the above provisions, it appears Andes Harvest was only entitled to  terminate the lease agreement if a substantial portion of the premises was  totally destroyed. But Andes Harvest failed to address or mention these  provisions in its applications for a right to attach order and writ of  attachment. And even after Oceanus and Cui raised this issue in the present  motion, Andes Harvest failed to address it in their opposition. Accordingly,  the court will CONTINUE the hearing on Oceanus and Cui’s motion in order  for parties to provide further briefing on this specific issue. CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, the  hearing on Oceanus and Cui’s motion is CONTINUED to a date to be determined  at the hearing set in Department G (Pomona). Parties are also ordered to  provide further briefing on the applicability of the original lease’s  termination provisions in accordance with the briefing schedule set by the  court.