  Case Number:  19PSCV01160    Hearing Date:   March 26, 2024    Dept:  G Plaintiff Mohammed Khodabakhsh’s Application for
Default Judgment
Respondent: NO OPPOSITION (Court
struck Defendant’s Answer on September 22, 2022)
TENTATIVE RULING
Plaintiff Mohammed Khodabakhsh’s Application for
Default Judgment is TENTATIVELY GRANTED
pending Khodabakhsh’s filing of proof of service of the unredacted expert
report of Dr. Joseph Smith on Defendant Terry Vechick’s Counsel.
BACKGROUND
This
is an action between two former business partners. Plaintiff Mohammed
Khodabakhsh is an engineer and inventor in the clean energy technology field.
Defendant Terry L. Vechik is a marketer of inventions. In 2008, Khodabakhsh
began working with Vechik to help monetize clean energy technology developed by
Khodabakhsh. Subsequently, Khodabakhsh alleges Vechik began falsely claiming to
be an equal partner in Khodabakhsh’s work. Khodabakhsh then claims Vechik took
a laptop computer and flash drive from Khodabakhsh that contained designs,
drawings, and marketing materials for Khodabakhsh’s technology and refused to
return it. When Khodabakhsh confronted Vechik about the laptop computer and
flash drive, Khodabakhsh alleges Vechik threatened to kill Khodabakhsh. After
that, Khodabakhsh claims a mutual friend informed Khodabakhsh that Vechik told
the friend how Vechik was going to kill Khodabakhsh. Another friend informed Khodabakhsh
that Vechik had offered the friend money to conduct surveillance on Khodabakhsh
and inform Vechik of Khodabakhsh’s whereabouts.
On December
30, 2019, Khodabakhsh filed a complaint against Vechik; Rudd Koekkoek, also
known as Rudoph Koekkoek; Matchcorp Fin. Services BV; Rene Aemig; Hyperion
Capital; Ali Mir Zadeh; Vesten Food Concept AG, Hofstr. 2 CH 6004; and Does
1-25, alleging the following causes of action: (1) declaratory relief, (2)
injunctive relief, and (3) conversion.
On
September 30, 2020, Khodabakhsh filed a First Amended Complaint (FAC) against Vechik
and Does 1-25, alleging the following causes of action: (1) conversion, (2) violation
of the California Data Access and Fraud Act, (3) intentional interference with
prospective economic advantage, (4) misappropriation of trade secrets, (5)
violation of Penal Code section 496, (6) intentional infliction of emotional
distress (IIED), and (7) violations of Business and Professions Code section
17200.
On
September 22, 2022, after Vechik repeatedly refused to comply with discovery
orders by the court and pay sanctions, the court granted Khodabakhsh’s request
to impose terminating sanctions on Vechik and struck Vechik’s answer.
On
October 26, 2022, default was entered against Vechik. On January 4, 2023, Khodabakhsh
applied for a default judgment that the court denied without prejudice on
January 10. On January 26, Khodabakhsh filed a second application for default
judgment that the court again denied without prejudice on February 2. On March
16, Khodabakhsh filed a third application for default judgment that the court
granted on March 23. On July 3, the court granted a motion by Vechik to vacate
the default judgment.
On
October 10, 2023, Khodabakhsh filed a fourth application for default judgment
that the court granted on October 20. On January 10, 2024, the court granted a
motion by Vechik to vacate the default judgment.
On
February 22, 2024, Khodabakhsh filed the present application for default
judgment and also applied for an application for file the expert report of
Joseph Smith under seal.
An
OSC Re: Default Judgment is set for March 26, 2024.
LEGAL STANDARD
Code
of Civil Procedure section 585 permits entry of a default judgment after a
party has filed to timely respond or appear.  A party seeking judgment on
the default by the court must file a Request for Court Judgment, and: (1) a
brief summary of the case; (2) declarations or other admissible evidence in
support of the judgment requested; (3) interest computations as necessary; (4)
a memorandum of costs and disbursements; (5) a proposed form of judgment; (6) a
dismissal of all parties against whom judgment is not sought or an application
for separate judgment under CCP § 579, supported by a showing of grounds for
each judgment; (7) exhibits as necessary; and (8) a request for attorneys’ fees
if allowed by statute or by the agreement of the parties.  (Cal. Rules of
Court 3.1800.)
ANALYSIS
Application to Seal Records
As
an initial matter, Khodabakhsh seeks leave to file the expert report of Dr. Joseph
Smith under seal pursuant to a stipulated protective order entered on April 28,
2022. (LeJeune Decl., Ex. B.) Pursuant to the protective order, documents may
be deemed “Highly Confidential – Attorneys’ Eyes Only” if the possessing party
believes in good faith that the information contains the following:
“Documents, Testimony, or Information consists of
extremely sensitive confidential, or proprietary information or tangible
things, such as technical know-how and trade secrets, relating to: (1)
information relating to manufacturing processes or procedures with respect to
devices or other products that are commercially released or for which
substantial steps have been taken towards commercialization; or (2) information
generated by research and development activities.; or (3) information that
otherwise derives independent economic value, actual or potential, from not
being generally known to the public or to other persons who can obtain economic
value from its disclosure or use. The disclosure of ‘HIGHLY CONFIDENTIAL –
ATTORNEYS’ EYES ONLY’ to another Party or Non-Party would create a substantial
risk of serious harm that could not be avoided by less restrictive means.”
(LeJeune Decl., Ex. B, ¶ H.)
Based
upon this definition, the court finds Dr. Smith’s declaration qualifies for the
designation as it contains detailed descriptions of Khodabakhsh’s alleged trade
secrets and disclosure to the public or other parties could result in a
substantial risk of serious financial harm to Khodabakhsh. Accordingly,
Khodabakhsh’s motion to file the expert declaration of Dr. Smith under seal
pursuant to the protective order entered April 28, 2022, is GRANTED.
To
the extent Khodabakhsh failed to serve unredacted copies of Dr. Smith’s report
on Vechik’s counsel, the court finds Vechik’s counsel is entitled to the report
pursuant to the protective order. Accordingly, Khodabakhsh is ordered to serve
a unredacted copy of Dr. Smith’s report to Vechik’s counsel and file a proof of
service with the court.
Default Judgment
Khodabakhsh
seeks default judgment against Vechik in the total amount of $8,064,542.30,
including $7,000,000 in damages, $1,013,557.30 in interest, and $50,985 in
attorney fees. Upon reviewing Khodabakhsh’s application, the court finds it
cures the defects raised in the court’s January 10, 2024 ruling.
First,
the court previously found that the declaration of Richard M. Holstrom relied on
an unauthenticated and unsigned “Economic Valuation Assessment” (FES Report) of
Khodabakhsh’s ‘907 Patent that had been prepared by Forensic Economic Services
and provided by Khodabakhsh’s counsel. (1/10/2024 Ruling, p. 3.) Here,
Khodabakhsh has provided a signed copy of the report. (Garagulagian Decl.)
Second,
the court previously found that Khodabakhsh failed to demonstrate the allegedly
misappropriated trade secrets were necessary for the implementation of the ‘907
Patent. (1/10/2024 Ruling, p. 3.) In the previously submitted expert report by
Dr. Smith, the court found Dr. Smith made general statements about trade
secrets, but failed to specifically state if the trade  secrets that Vechik allegedly misappropriate
were necessary for the ‘907 Patent’s implementation. (1/10/2024, p. 3.) While
Dr. Smith provided a list of the trade secrets at issue, the court found Dr.
Smith failed to detail how each trade secret was necessary for the
implementation of the ‘907 Patent.  Instead,
Dr. Smith appeared merely to rely on Khodabakhsh’s assertions. (1/10/2024, p.
3.)
With
this submission, Khodabakhsh filed an updated expert report by Dr. Smith under
seal. In it, Dr. Smith provided further detail by explaining how specific trade
secrets were essential to the proper implementation and operation of the hydrogen
generator detailed in the ‘907 Patent. (Dr. Smith Decl., p. 22.) In particular,
Dr. Smith identifies trade secret numbers 2-5, 7-14, and 19-24 as the key trade
secrets that were essential to the implementation and operation of the hydrogen
generator and E-F generator. (Dr. Smith Decl., p. 22.) Based upon the evidence
submitted, the court GRANTS Khodabakhsh’s application for default judgment.
CONCLUSION
Based on the foregoing, Khodabakhsh’s application for default
judgment is TENTATIVELY GRANTED pending Khodabakhsh’s filing of proof of service
of the unredacted expert declaration of Dr. Smith on Vechik’s counsel.