  Case Number:  23NWCV00392    Hearing Date:   January 21, 2025    Dept:  F Ortiz v. Soliman (23NWCV00392)
This tenant rights action was filed on February 6, 2023.
Trial is set for February 3, 2025. Defendant Tahani Soliman has a pending
Motion to Compel Production of Documents Demanded in Deposition set for
November 4, 2025. Defendant now moves ex parte for an order to continue trial
until after the Motion to Compel is heard. Defendant argues good
cause exists to continue trial because Plaintiff Mary Rose
Ortiz failed to bring requested documents to her deposition on October 25,
2024. Despite meet and confer efforts, Plaintiff has failed to produce the
documents. Defendant argues the requested documents are required for trial
preparation.
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues she has been unable to
locate the requested documents, despite her diligence. Plaintiff argues
Defendant has failed to informally resolve the discovery dispute and has
otherwise delayed in compelling compliance. Plaintiff would be prejudiced by a
trial continuance due to increased costs, emotional distress, prolonged
resolution of her claims. Lastly, Plaintiff argues the discovery cut-off date
has now passed and Defendant has not filed a motion to reopen discovery under CCP
§ 2024.050.
 
In reply, Defendant argues Plaintiff’s noncompliance is the
reason for delay in filing the pending Motion to Compel. Plaintiff failed to
bring the requested documents to her deposition, even where the parties agreed
beforehand that she would provide such documents. Following the deposition,
Defendant attempted to meet and confer with Plaintiff multiple times regarding
the issue, via four emails and one phone call as recent as January 13, 2025,
but Plaintiff failed to respond. Further, Plaintiff never communicated to
Defendant that such documents could not be located. 
 
On the Court’s own motion, Defendant’s Motion to Compel
Production of Documents is ADVANCED from November 4, 2025 to today’s date and
CONTINUED to July 1, 2025 at 9:30 a.m. in Dept. SE-C.  Defendant’s
Ex Parte Application for an Order to Continue Trial is
GRANTED pursuant to CRC Rule 3.1332(c)(6)—A party's excused inability to
obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite
diligent efforts. The Court finds Defendant has been unable to secure the
requested deposition documents from Plaintiff. Plaintiff has failed to meet and
confer to resolve this issue. The Court finds a continuance is warranted to
allow Defendant to seek the discovery at issue. The Court will confer with the
parties to select a new trial and final status conference date.
Discovery and all trial deadlines will track the
new trial date. Moving Party to give notice. 