 Case Number:  24STCV18308    Hearing Date:   January 13, 2025    Dept:  52 Tentative Ruling:
            Defendant
Sports Rehab LA’s Motion to Compel Arbitration and Stay Case
Defendant Sports Rehab LA (sued as Sports Rehab LA,
Patrick Khaziran D.C.) moves to compel arbitration of this action
by plaintiffs Shaun Baden and M Sport, LLC.  Defendants
SRLA Inc., Sports Rehab LA Beverly Hills, Darmo Chiropractic PC, P. Khaziran
Chiropractic P.C., Patrick Khaziran, and Rosie Kamalmazyan filed a notice
stating they join in the motion.
Plaintiffs Shaun Baden and M Sport, LLC make three
arguments in opposition to this motion.
1. Scope of Agreement
            First,
plaintiffs contend the arbitration agreement applies only to the second cause
of action for breach of written contract. 
The operating agreement of KBM Studio City, LLC provides, “In the event
of any breach, threatened breach or other dispute between the parties under
this Agreement, the matter shall be settled by binding arbitration.”  (Comp., Ex. A, p. 28, ¶ 12.5.)  All of plaintiffs’ claims against the parties
to the agreement constitute an “other dispute between the parties under this
Agreement.”  For example, plaintiffs
allege breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing.  “Although breach of the implied covenant often is
pleaded as a separate count, a breach of the implied covenant is necessarily a
breach of contract.”  (Digerati Holdings, LLC v. Young Money Entertainment,
LLC (2011)
194 Cal.App.4th 873, 885.)  Similarly, plaintiffs allege Sports Rehab LA
breached fiduciary duties owed by majority members of KBM Studio City, LLC, to
plaintiffs as minority members.  Those
duties only exist because of the operating agreement creating KBM Studio City,
LLC.  
The arbitration provision is broad enough to
encompass all of plaintiffs’ claims against the other parties to the operating
agreement.   Even if it did not apply to
the causes of action other than breach of contract, that would not be a basis
for denying this motion as to the parties to the arbitration agreement.  (McIsaac v. Foremost Ins. Co. Grand
Rapids, Michigan (2021) 64 Cal.App.5th 418, 424 [“The fact that litigation
involves some nonarbitrable issues is not a basis to deny a petition to compel
arbitration unless those issues involve a third party who is not contractually
obligated to arbitrate”].)
2.
Grounds for Rescission
            Second, plaintiffs argue the court
should deny the motion because “[g]rounds exist for rescission of the agreement.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2, subd. (b).)  But plaintiffs rely solely on the allegations
of their complaint, which asserts a cause of action for rescission.  Merely alleging grounds for rescission is insufficient
to deny a motion to compel arbitration under Code of Civil Procedure section
1281.2, subdivision (b).  The plaintiff
must prove that grounds for rescission exist. 
(Engalla v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 951,
972-981 (Engalla).)  In a petition
to compel arbitration, “[t]he petitioner bears the burden of proving the existence
of a valid arbitration agreement by the preponderance of the evidence, and a
party opposing the petition bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of
the evidence any fact necessary to its defense. 
[Citation.]  In these summary proceedings,
the trial court sits as a trier of fact, weighing all the affidavits,
declarations, and other documentary evidence, as well as oral testimony
received at the court’s discretion, to reach a final determination.”  (Id. at p. 972.)   
In
Engalla, the California Supreme Court held the trial court “incorrectly
treated [defendants’] petition to compel arbitration as a type of summary
judgment motion, in which it was obliged to determine only that there was a
legitimate factual dispute among the parties and not to resolve that dispute.”  (15 Cal.4th at p. 972.)  In doing so, the trial court “abdicated its
role as trier of fact in deciding the petition to compel arbitration.”  (Ibid.)  Because there was “evidence to support the
[plaintiffs’] claim that [defendants] fraudulent induced” the arbitration
agreement, the case had to be remanded to the trial court to “resolve
conflicting factual evidence” and decide the petition to compel
arbitration.  (Id. at p.
981.)  
In
ruling on defendant Sports Rehab LA’s motion to compel arbitration, this court
must act as the trier of fact in a summary proceeding to determine whether
plaintiffs show “[g]rounds exist for rescission of the agreement.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2, subd. (b).  Plaintiffs do not meet their burden.  They presented no evidence.  They rely solely on the allegations of their
unverified complaint.  (Comp., ¶¶ 85-94;
Opp., pp. 16-17.)  The court does not
find grounds for rescission exist.
3.
Possibility of Conflicting Rulings
Third,
plaintiffs argue the court should deny the motion under Code of Civil Procedure
section 1281.2, subdivision (c).  That
subdivision permits a court to choose one of four options, including denying a
motion to compel arbitration, when “[a] party to the arbitration agreement is
also a party to a pending court action or special proceeding with a third
party, arising out of the same transaction or series of related transactions
and there is a possibility of conflicting rulings on a common issue of law or
fact.”  (Ibid.)  
The
contract containing the arbitration provision is the operating agreement of
nominal defendant KBM Studio City, LLC.  (Comp.,
Ex. A, ¶ 12.5.)  The parties to that
agreement are “Sports Rehab LA, Patrick Khaziran D.C.” (now known as Sports
Rehab LA), Shaun Baden, and “M Sports LLC” (not “M Sport, LLC”).  (Id., pp. 31-32.)  Plaintiffs’ complaint names nine other
defendants (not including nominal defendant KBM Studio City, LLC) who are not
parties to the agreement.  The nonsignatory defendants
fall within two categories.
First, defendants SRLA Inc., Sports Rehab LA Beverly Hills, Darmo
Chiropractic PC, P. Khaziran Chiropractic P.C., Patrick Khaziran, and Rosie
Kamalmazyan are all affiliated with Sports Rehab LA or the brand of businesses
sharing that name.  Plaintiffs allege the
other entities in this group of defendants each operated different locations of
the “Sports Rehab LA” business brand. 
(Comp., ¶¶ 18-19.)  
Khaziran was the manager of defendant Sports Rehab
LA and of nominal defendant KBM Studio City, LLC.  (Comp., Ex. A, p. 31.)  Plaintiffs further allege “Khaziran was and
is a member, manager, owner, officer, and/or director of” the other entity
defendants in this group.  (Comp., ¶
9.)  Khaziran signed the arbitration agreement,
though not as a member.  (Comp., Ex. A,
p. 31.)  He signed only on behalf of
member Sports Rehab LA and, as an individual, in a provision agreeing to act as
the manager of KBM Studio City, LLC.  (Ibid.)  
Kamalmazyan is Khaziran’s wife.  (Comp., ¶ 10.)  Plaintiffs similarly allege she “was and is a
member, manager, owner, officer, and/or director of” the other entity
defendants in this group.  (Ibid.)  As her husband did in the operating
agreement, Kamalmazyan signed an amendment to the operating agreement of KBM
Studio City, LLC in her capacity as its manager and as the chief executive
officer of Sports Rehab LA, but not as a member of KBM Studio City, LLC.  (Comp., Ex. B, p. 2.)  
These defendants filed a notice of joinder in this
motion but did not submit any memorandum of points or authorities or make any
arguments.  Nevertheless, some or all of these
nonsignatories may be entitled to enforce the arbitration agreement under any
of several legal theories.  (See Pacific Fertility Cases (2022) 85 Cal.App.5th 887, 892-894.)  Plaintiffs’
opposition refers to Khaziran and Kamalmazyan as included in the “signatory
defendants.”  (Opp., p. 6.)  The reply brief by Sports Rehab LA states Khaziran and Kamalmazyan
seek to participate in the arbitration proceeding.  (Reply, p. 7.)  There may be significant overlap between
plaintiffs’ claims against Sports Rehab LA and this group of defendants.    
Second, the remaining
four defendants, Glacier Worldwide, Inc., Breyon Prescott,
Kevin Kwok, and Michael Swader (collectively, the Glacier defendants) played an
entirely different role in the events giving rise to this action.  Plaintiffs allege the first group of defendants
breached duties to plaintiffs by attempting “to sell the entire Sports Rehab LA
empire” to Glacier Worldwide, Inc. 
(Comp., ¶ 56.)  The complaint
alleges nothing about Prescott except that he was “an individual … acting as an
employee, officer, and/or director of Glacier.” 
(¶ 12.)  The complaint alleges
nothing about Kwok or Swader except that they were each “an individual … acting
as an employee, officer, and/or director of Glacier” (¶¶ 13-14) and that
plaintiffs communicated with them regarding the potential sale of the Sports
Rehab LA businesses to Glacier (¶ 66.c). 
The basis for the Glacier defendants’ liability relies on numerous
theories that apply only to them.  Any
overlap between the claims subject to arbitration will be minimal.
Assuming
there is a possibility of conflicting rulings on common issues of law or fact,
the court will not exercise its discretion to deny this motion.  When Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.2,
subdivision (c) applies, the court has four options: “If the court determines
that a party to the arbitration is also a party to litigation in a pending
court action or special proceeding with a third party as set forth under
subdivision (c), the court (1) may refuse to enforce the arbitration
agreement and may order intervention or joinder of all parties in a single
action or special proceeding; (2) may order intervention or joinder as to
all or only certain issues; (3) may order arbitration among the parties
who have agreed to arbitration and stay the pending court action or special proceeding
pending the outcome of the arbitration proceeding; or (4) may stay
arbitration pending the outcome of the court action or special proceeding.”  Courts have “broad discretion” in choosing one
of the four options.  (Birl v.
Heritage Care, LLC (2009) 172 Cal.App.4th 1313, 1322.)  
The court finds
option (3) best serves the interests of justice and judicial economy.  Plaintiffs and Sports Rehab LA agreed to
arbitrate disputes between them under the operating agreement of KBM Studio
City, LLC.  Holding them to that
agreement is fair.  The claims against
nonsignatories all rely in some fashion on the underlying dispute between
plaintiffs and Sports Rehab LA. 
Resolving that dispute via arbitration, a “ ‘ “speedy and relatively
inexpensive means of dispute resolution” ’ ” 
(Wagner Construction Co. v. Pacific Mechanical Corp. (2007) 41
Cal.4th 19, 25), is likely to streamline resolution of all the other
claims.  
Disposition
            Defendant Sports Rehab LA’s motion
to compel arbitration is granted. 
Plaintiffs Shaun Baden and M Sport, LLC are ordered to arbitrate all
causes of action against defendant Sports Rehab LA.  The court hereby stays this entire
action.   