 Case Number:  23STCV24677    Hearing Date:   January 31, 2024    Dept:  34 SUBJECT:        Demurrer to the Complaint
 
Moving Party: Defendant
Bridget L. Jones
Resp. Party:    Plaintiff Morgan Cain
                                    
        
The Demurrer is SUSTAINED in part. The Demurrer is SUSTAINED to the
first cause of action for deprivation of custody and visitation, without leave
to amend the Complaint. The Demurrer is OVERRULED as to all else.  
 
BACKGROUND:
 
On October 10, 2023, Plaintiff Morgan Cain, in propria
persona, filed a Complaint against Defendant Bridge L. Jones on causes of
action of: (1) deprivation of custody and visitation, pursuant to Penal Code
section 278.5; (2) intentional infliction of emotional distress, pursuant to
Civil Code section 527.6, subdivision (b); and (3) defamation of character,
pursuant to Civil Code sections 44, 45a, and 46. 
 
On November 7, 2023, Defendant, in propria persona,
filed her Demurrer to the Complaint. 
 
No opposition or other response has been filed to the
Demurrer. 
 

ANALYSIS:
 
I.         
Legal Standard
 
“The party
against whom a complaint or cross-complaint has been filed may object, by
demurrer or answer as provided in Section 430.30, to the pleading on any one or
more of” various grounds listed in statute. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10.)
 
“When any ground
for objection to a complaint, cross-complaint, or answer appears on the face
thereof, or from any matter of which the court is required to or may take
judicial notice, the objection on that ground may be taken by a demurrer to the
pleading.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a).)
 
“A demurrer to a
complaint or cross-complaint may be taken to the whole complaint or
cross-complaint or to any of the causes of action stated therein.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 430.50, subd. (a).)
 
“In reviewing the sufficiency
of a complaint against a general demurrer, we are guided by long-settled rules.
We treat the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but not
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law. We also consider matters which may be judicially
noticed. Further, we give the complaint a reasonable interpretation,
reading it as a whole and its parts in their context.” (Blank v. Kirwan (1985)
39 Cal.3d 311, 318, citations and internal quotation marks omitted.)
 
II.      
Discussion
 
A.      The
Complaint
 
Plaintiff, who is litigating this matter in propria persona,
filed a handwritten complaint. The Complaint states the following. (The Court
has kept the same formatting and spelling as used in the handwritten Complaint
so as to help preserve Plaintiff’s original meaning and intent.)
 
“Plaintiff
brings for the following counts and allegations supporting Plaintiff’s cause of
action.
 
“Count
1:
 
“In
general       Violation of Penal Code
278.5 PC
 
“Deprivation
of Custody and Visitation,
 
“Penal
Code 278.5 states that it is a crime to maliciously to deprive another adult of
their lawful right to custody of or visitation with a child. 
 
“Defamation
of character, Civil Code 44, 45a, 46
 
“Count
2:  Violation of Civil Code 527.6(b)
 
“Defendant
intentionally inflicted emotional distress onto my children, family, and
parental relationship. 
 
“Plaintiff
has suffered anguish, horror, nervousness, grief, anxiety, extreme anxiety
attacks, extreme worry, shock, humiliation, and mental health decline.
 
“Count
3
 
“Violation
of Civil Code Section 44ss, 45a, 46
 
“Defamation
of Character. Plaintiff has endured unfathomable pain, mental anguish, and
uncomprisable loss of Plaintiff’s family estrangement due to the untrue
deceitful statements in general + in reports used by social workers’ to
dismember the Plaintiffs family.”
 
B.      The
Demurrer
 
Defendant demurs to the pleading on the following grounds: 
 
(1)       that the Complaint
does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action; 
 
(2)       that the Complaint is
barred by res judicata (otherwise known as “claim preclusion”); 
 
(3)       that there are
various procedural failings with the Complaint, such as that the caption page
mistakes Defendant’s name, that Plaintiff did not sign or verify the Complaint,
that Plaintiff is suing the wrong person or entity, and that this is not a
“defamation complaint”; and 
 
(4)       that there is an
issue here with the statute of limitations.
 
(Demurrer, pp.
3:3–4, 4:14–24, 5:7–17.)
 
        The Court considers each of these
arguments. 
 
C.      Failure
to Sufficiently State a Cause of Action
 
1.      Legal
Standard
 
“The party against whom a complaint or
cross-complaint has been filed may object, by demurrer or answer as provided in
Section 430.30, to the pleading on any one or more of the following grounds: .
. . (e)¿The pleading does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action.” (Code Civ. Proc., 430.10, subds. (e)–(f).)
 
2.      Discussion
 
Defendant generally demurs to the Complaint, arguing that it does not
allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action. (Demurrer, p. 3.)
 
The Court considers the causes of action individually to determine if
they state a cause of action. 
 
a.       Deprivation
of Custody and Visitation
 
i.           
 Legal Standard
 
“Every person who
takes, entices away, keeps, withholds, or conceals a child and maliciously
deprives a lawful custodian of a right to custody, or a person of a right to
visitation, shall be punished by imprisonment in a county jail not exceeding
one year, a fine not exceeding one thousand dollars ($1,000), or both that fine
and imprisonment, or by imprisonment pursuant to subdivision (h) of Section
1170 for 16 months, or two or three years, a fine not exceeding ten thousand
dollars ($10,000), or both that fine and imprisonment.” (Pen. Code, § 278.5,
subd. (a).)
 
“Nothing
contained in this section limits the court’s contempt power.” (Pen. Code, §
278.5, subd. (b).)
 
“A custody order
obtained after the taking, enticing away, keeping, withholding, or concealing
of a child does not constitute a defense to a crime charged under this
section.” (Pen. Code, § 278.5, subd. (c).)
 
ii.         
 Discussion
 
Plaintiff pleads a cause of action for deprivation of custody and
visitation pursuant to Penal Code section 278.5. 
 
Penal Code section 278.5 authorizes the City Attorney or District
Attorney to prosecute a criminal action; it does not authorize an individual to
file a civil action. 
 
Although there is a potential fine associated with conviction under
Penal Code section 278.5, the language of the statute does not authorize an
individual to bring a civil action for liability. (Compare with a civil action
for conversion pursuant to Pen. Code, § 496, subd. (c) [“Any person who has
been injured by a violation of subdivision (a) or (b) may bring an action for
three times the amount of actual damages, if any, sustained by plaintiff, costs
of suit, and reasonable attorney’s fees.].)
 
        As this is not a cognizable civil cause
of action, this issue cannot be remedied by amendment. 
 
        The Court SUSTAINS the Demurrer to the
first cause of action for deprivation of custody and visitation, without leave
to amend the Complaint. 
 
b.       Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress
 
i.           
Legal
Standard
 
“The elements of a prima facie case for the
tort of intentional infliction of emotional distress are: (1) extreme and
outrageous conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless
disregard of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the
plaintiff’s suffering severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual and
proximate causation of the emotional distress by the defendant’s outrageous
conduct. Conduct to be outrageous must be so extreme as to exceed all bounds of
that usually tolerated in a civilized community.” (Wilson v. Hynek (2012)
207 Cal.App.4th 999, 1009, citation and ellipses omitted.)
 
ii.         
Discussion
 
Plaintiff pleads a cause of action for intentional infliction of
emotional distress pursuant to Civil Code section 527.6, subdivision (b). 
 
The Court first notes that the Civil Code does not contain a section
527.6. In addition, Code of Civil Procedure section 527.6, subdivision (b) only
contains definitions, not a cause of action. Thus, the Court is unaware of any
statutory authority for this cause of action. 
 
However, as described above, California common law does recognize a
cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress. 
 
Here, Plaintiff alleges: (1) that Defendant intentionally inflicted
emotional distress on Plaintiff’s children, family, and parental relationship;
(2) that Defendant did this by defaming Plaintiff; and (3) that Plaintiff has
suffered in various ways because of this. (Complaint, p. 2.) 
 
These allegations sufficiently state a cause of action for intentional
infliction of emotional distress. 
 
        The Court OVERRULES the Demurrer to the
second cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress. 
 
c.       Defamation
 
i.           
Legal
Standard
 
“Defamation is effected
by either of the following: (a) Libel. (b) Slander.” (Civ. Code, § 44.)
 
“Libel is a false and unprivileged
publication by writing, printing, picture, effigy, or other fixed
representation to the eye, which exposes any person to hatred, contempt, ridicule,
or obloquy, or which causes him to be shunned or avoided, or which has a
tendency to injure him in his occupation.” (Civ. Code, § 45.)
 
“A libel which is defamatory of the
plaintiff without the necessity of explanatory matter, such as an inducement,
innuendo or other extrinsic fact, is said to be a libel on its face. Defamatory
language not libelous on its face is not actionable unless the plaintiff
alleges and proves that he has suffered special damage as a proximate result
thereof. Special damage is defined in Section 48a of this code.” (Civ. Code, §
45a.)
 
“Slander is a false
and unprivileged publication, orally uttered, and also communications by radio
or any mechanical or other means which:
 
“1. Charges any person with crime, or with
having been indicted, convicted, or punished for crime;
 
“2. Imputes in him the present existence of
an infectious, contagious, or loathsome disease;
 
“3. Tends directly to injure him in respect
to his office, profession, trade or business, either by imputing to him general
disqualification in those respects which the office or other occupation
peculiarly requires, or by imputing something with reference to his office,
profession, trade, or business that has a natural tendency to lessen its
profits;
 
“4. Imputes to him impotence or a want of
chastity; or
 
“5. Which, by natural consequence, causes
actual damage.”
 
(Civ. Code, § 46.)
 
“‘The
sine qua non of recovery for defamation . . . is the existence of falsehood.’
Because the statement must contain a provable falsehood, courts distinguish
between statements of fact and statements of opinion¿for purposes of defamation
liability.¿Although statements of fact may be actionable as libel, statements
of opinion are constitutionally protected.” (McGarry v. Univ. of San Diego (2007)
154 Cla.App.4th 97, 112, quoting Letter Carriers v. Austin (1974) 418
U.S. 264, 283.)
 
“[T]he question is not strictly whether the published statement is fact or
opinion. Rather, the dispositive question is whether a reasonable fact finder
could conclude the published statement declares or implies a provably false
assertion of fact.” (Franklin v. Dynamic Details, Inc. (2004) 116
Cal.App.4th 375, 385, citations omitted.)
 
“Whether a statement
declares or implies a provable false assertion of fact is a question of law for
the court to decide, unless the statement is susceptible of both an innocent
and a libelous meaning, in which case the jury must decide how the statement
was understood.” (Franklin, supra, at p. 385, citations omitted.)
 
“To determine whether a
statement is actionable fact or nonactionable opinion, we apply a totality of
the circumstances test pursuant to which we consider both the language of the
statement itself and the context in which it is made.” (Summit Bank v.
Rogers (2012) 206 Cal.App.4th 669, 696, citation omitted.)
 
ii.         
Discussion
 
Plaintiff pleads a cause of action of defamation. Specifically,
Plaintiff alleges that he has suffered because Defendant has made untrue
statements about him to harm his relationship with his family. (Complaint, p.
2.)
 
These allegations sufficiently state a cause of action for defamation. 
 
Contrary to Defendant’s argument, Plaintiff is entitled to allege
defamation as a cause of action in the Complaint. (Demurrer, p. 4:24.) A
complaint may have multiple different sets of conduct and causes of action.
While the Court must assume the truth of the matters asserted for the purposes
of ruling on a demurrer, it will ultimately be Plaintiff’s burden to prove that
he is entitled to the relief that he seeks. 
 
        The Court OVERRULES the Demurrer to the
third cause of action for defamation. 
 
D.      Defendant’s
Remaining Arguments
 
Defendant’s remaining arguments involve res judicata, procedural
issues, and the statute of limitations. 
 
        At this time, these arguments are
unmeritorious. 
 
        As to res judicata, Defendant has not
presented the Court with any information as to any prior case that would
prohibit Plaintiff from bringing this cause.
 
        As to procedural issues, “[t]he court must, in every stage of an action, disregard any
error, improper ruling, instruction, or defect, in the pleadings or proceedings
which, in the opinion of said court, does not affect the substantial rights of
the parties.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 475.) Minor procedural mistakes, such as
incorrectly spelling Defendant’s name, are not proper grounds for demur. More
importantly, Plaintiff need not verify the Complaint, and Plaintiff need not
sue everyone involved in his allegations. 
 
        Finally,
Defendant touches upon an issue with the statute of limitations. (Demurrer, p.
5:8–15.) Although it might be that there is a statute of limitations issue
here, the Complaint does not state when the conduct at issue occurred, and
Defendant does not provide the Court with any additional discussion on this
matter. Without more, Defendant has not met her burden to bring up this issue
at the demurrer stage of these proceedings. 
 
III.    
Conclusion
 
The Demurrer is SUSTAINED in part. The Demurrer is SUSTAINED to the
first cause of action for deprivation of custody and visitation, without leave
to amend the Complaint. The Demurrer is OVERRULED as to all else.  
 