 Case Number:  23STCV21388    Hearing Date:   January 31, 2024    Dept:  34 PLAINTIFF'S
REQUEST FOR ENTRY OF DEFAULT JUDGMENT 
 
 
I.         
BACKGROUND
 
On September 6, 2023, Plaintiff Milan Rivers filed his Complaint
against Defendants Kai’s Hospitality LA, LLC and Norman Lee on causes of action
arising from Plaintiff’s employment by Defendants. 
 
On November 2, 2023, by request of Plaintiff, the Clerk’s Office
entered default on Defendant Norman Lee. 
 
On December 11, 2023, Plaintiff filed:
 
(1)      
Judicial
Council Form JUD-100, Proposed Judgment;
 
(2)      
Declaration
of Milan Rivers; and
 
(3)      
Declaration
of Rodrigo F. Diaz. 
 
On December 19, 2023, by request of Plaintiff, the Clerk’s Office
entered default on Defendant Kai’s Hospitality LA, LLC. 
 
On December 27, 2023, Plaintiff filed:
 
(1)      
Judicial
Council Form JUD-100, Proposed Judgment;
 
(2)      
Declaration
of Milan Rivers; and
 
(3)      
Declaration
of Rodrigo F. Diaz. 
 
On January 3, 2024, by request of Plaintiff, the Clerk’s Office
dismissed without prejudice the doe defendants from the Complaint. 
 
II.      
ANALYSIS
 
The Request for Default Judgment is DENIED without prejudice. 
 
        Plaintiff has not filed the following:
(1) Judicial Council Form CIV-100, Request for Court Judgment; (2) Interest
Computation; (3) Memorandum of Costs; and (4) Declaration of Non-Military
Status (for each of the Defendants). 
 
        For guidance regarding any future request
for Entry of Default Judgement:  
 
·       The damages requested in the Proposed
Judgment are higher than the amount prayed for in the Complaint, and the excess
between those amounts cannot be awarded. 
 
·       Punitive damages were never prayed for in the
Complaint, which means punitive damages cannot be awarded.
 
·       Pre-judgment interest must be based on the
damages awarded, which in this case must be less than what has been requested
because the amount of damages awarded is also less than that has been
requested. 
 
·       Attorney’s fees on a default judgment are
limited by the amount awarded (not including costs), meaning the Court cannot
award the amount of fees requested. 


·      
 
The Court continues the OSC re Entry
of Default Judgement until February 27, 2024. 
If Default Judgment is not entered by that date, the Court may dismiss
the case.