  Case Number:  20STCV19714    Hearing Date:   January 4, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     January 4, 2024                     TRIAL
DATE: February 27, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                         Brown v. City of Los Angeles
 
CASE NO.:                 20STCV19714            
 
(1)  
MOTION TO FILE UNDER SEAL
(2)  
MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT OR SUMMARY
ADJUDICATION

 
MOVING PARTY:               (1)(2) Defendant City of Los Angeles
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): (1) No opposition
on eCourt as of 01/02/24 (2) Plaintiff Raymond Brown; 
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an action for whistleblower retaliation that was filed on May 22,
2020. Plaintiff alleges that he was retaliated against for making internal
complaints regarding racially discriminatory remarks made by one of his
superiors as an officer of the Los Angeles Police Department.  
 
Defendant moves for summary
judgment or summary adjudication, and to have portions of that motion placed
under seal. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
            Defendant’s
Motion to File Under Seal is DENIED. 
 
            Defendant’s
Motion for Summary Judgment is DENIED.
 
            Defendant’s
alternative Motion for Summary Adjudication is DENIED. 
 
//
 
//
 
//
DISCUSSION:
 
Motion to Seal
 
Defendant moves to file portions of
its Motion for Summary Judgment or Summary Adjudication under seal. 
 
            The sealing
of court records is governed by California Rules of Court rules 2.550 and
2.551.  (Mercury Interactive Corp. v. Klein (2007) 158
Cal.App.4th 60, 68.)  The presumption of open access to court records
does not apply to “records that are required to be kept confidential by
law.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.550(a)(3).) A party seeking to
seal a court record or seeking to file a record under seal must do so by motion
or application supported by a declaration showing facts justifying the record’s
sealing.  (Id., rule 2.551(b)(1).)  
California Rules of Court rule
2.550(d) states: “The court may order that a record be filed under seal only if
it expressly finds facts that establish: 
(1) There exists an overriding interest that overcomes the right of
public access to the record;
(2) The overriding interest supports sealing the record; 
(3) A substantial probability exists that the overriding interest will be
prejudiced if the record is not sealed; 
(4) The proposed sealing is narrowly tailored; and 
(5) No less restrictive means exist to achieve the overriding
interest.”  
            Once
sealed, a record can only be unsealed by order of court.  (Id.,
rule 2.551(h)(1).)  So long as it remains under seal, all parties
must refrain from filing anything not under seal that would disclose the sealed
matter.  (Id., rule 2.551(c).)  If a party files a
new document referring to sealed matter, it must submit an unredacted version
of the document under seal and a redacted one for the public
record.  (Id., rule 2.551(b)(5); H.B. Fuller Co. v.
Doe (2007) 151 Cal.App.4th 879, 889.) 
            Defendant
moves to file portions of its Motion for Summary Judgment or Summary
Adjudication under seal, including portions of the memorandum of points and
authorities, portions of the separate statement of undisputed material facts,
portions of fourteen separate exhibits, and portions of two supporting
declarations. However, while Defendant filed a notice of motion and lodged the
relevant documents with the Court, no memorandum of points and authorities in
connection with this motion was ever submitted to the Court, nor were
any supporting materials that might show the legal and factual basis for this
motion. Without these materials, the Court has no basis to make the necessary
factual determination that would entitle Defendant to have these documents
placed under seal.
 
            Accordingly,
Defendant’s Motion to Seal is DENIED. 
 
Motion for Summary Judgment
 
            Defendant
moves for summary judgment on Plaintiff’s Complaint. For the reasons stated
below, Defendant has failed to demonstrate that it is entitled to summary
adjudication of either cause of action asserted against it. Accordingly,
Defendant’s Motion for Summary Judgment is DENIED. 
 
Motion for Summary Adjudication
 
            Defendant
moves in the alternative for summary adjudication of Plaintiff’s causes of
action for retaliation under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and for
whistleblower retaliation under Labor Code section 1102.5. 
 
Legal Standard
 
The function of a motion for
summary judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an
opposing party can show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and, if
not, to enable an order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) Code of Civil
Procedure Section 437c(c) “requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment
if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from
the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that
there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is
entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” 
(Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110,
1119.)  “The function of the pleadings in
a motion for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues; the
function of the affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether there is any
triable issue of fact within the issues delimited by the pleadings.” (Juge
v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67, citing FPI
Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 367, 381-82.)
 
As to each claim as framed by the
complaint, the defendant moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial
burden of proof by presenting facts to negate an essential element, or to
establish a defense. (Code Civ Proc. § 437c(p)(2); Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes,
Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.) Courts “liberally construe the
evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts
concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide,
Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.) The lack of opposition by a plaintiff is
not grounds to grant a motion for summary judgment if a defendant cannot meet
their initial burden of proof. (See Thatcher v. Lucy Stores, Inc. (2000)
79 Cal.App.4th 1081, 1087.)
 
            Once the
defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that
a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action
or a defense thereto. To establish a triable issue of material fact, the party
opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster
v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)
 
Defendant’s Separate Statement
 
            Pursuant to
Rule of Court 3.1350, subdivision (b), a motion for summary adjudication must
set forth the specific causes of action, affirmative defenses, claims for
damages, or issues of duty and must be repeated, verbatim, in the separate
statement. (Cal. Rule of Court 3.1350(b).) Further, the separate statement
must, with respect to each cause of action that is the subject of the motion, separately
set forth each supporting material fact that is claimed to be
without dispute with respect to the cause of action that is the subject of the
motion. (Rule 3.1350(d)(1)(B).) Defendant’s separate statement does not
reproduce the issues as framed in the notice of motion, verbatim. Instead, the
separate statement improperly combines both causes of action and lists 71 items
which purport to be facts material to all causes of action, without
distinction. Defendant’s separate statement is not in compliance with the Rules
of Court, and the Court would be within its authority to deny the motion on
this defect alone. However, as Plaintiff has not objected to the motion on this
basis and has instead substantively responded to the motion, the Court will
overlook Defendant’s noncompliance and address the motion on its merits. 
 
Plaintiff’s Request for Judicial Notice
 
            Plaintiff
requests that the Court take judicial notice of the First Amended Complaint in Preciado
v. City of Los Angeles, LASC Case No. 19STCV12061. Plaintiff’s request is
GRANTED pursuant to Evidence Code section 452(d) (court records). 
 
Plaintiff’s Evidentiary Objections
 
            Plaintiff
objects to paragraph 4 of the Declaration of Giselle Espinoza offered in
support of Defendant’s Motion as lacking foundation and personal knowledge of the
truthfulness of the explanation in the 2019 memorandum selecting Officer
Jeffrey Lee as Police Officer III in the Media Relations Division. Plaintiff’s
objection is OVERRULED. These objections go to the weight of the evidence, not
its admissibility. 
 
First Cause of Action: Retaliation in Violation of the
Fair Employment & Housing Act
 
            Defendant
moves for summary adjudication of the first cause of action for retaliation in
violation of the Fair Employment and Housing Act. 
 
"[I]n order to establish a
prima facie case of retaliation under the FEHA, a plaintiff must show (1) he or
she engaged in a 'protected activity,' (2) the employer subjected the employee
to an adverse employment action, and (3) a causal link existed between the
protected activity and the employer's action. [Citations.] Once an employee
establishes a prima facie case, the employer is required to offer a legitimate,
nonretaliatory reason for the adverse employment action. [Citation.] If the
employer produces a legitimate reason for the adverse employment action, the
presumption of retaliation '" 'drops out of the picture, '"' and the
burden shifts back to the employee to prove intentional retaliation." (Yanowitz
v. L'Oreal USA, Inc. (2005) 36 Cal.4th 1028, 1042.) “Protected
activity” for the purposes of a retaliation claim occurs when a plaintiff “has
opposed any practices forbidden under [FEHA] or because the person has filed a
complaint, testified, or assisted in any proceeding under [FEHA].” (Gov. Code §
12940(h).) 
 
Defendant argues that Plaintiff
cannot prevail on this cause of action because he cannot establish a causal
link between the protected activity and the adverse employment actions alleged
in the Complaint. Defendant also argues in the alternative that it had a
legitimate, nonretaliatory reason for its actions. 
 
1.     
Causation
 
Defendant first attacks Plaintiff’s
prima facie case for retaliation under FEHA, arguing that he cannot establish a
causal link between his protected activity and the adverse actions complained
of.
 
The undisputed facts are these:
Plaintiff is a Black officer in the Online Unit of the Los Angeles Police
Department’s Media Relations Division, holding the rank of Police Officer II.
(Separate Statement of Undisputed Material Fact Nos. 1-3.) In late 2017, LAPD
Communications Director Josh Rubenstein twice greeted the Online Unit office
with “how are you boys?” (SSUMF No. 7.) Plaintiff and another Black officer, Police
Officer III Lyle Knight, asked Rubenstein not to address them as “boys” in
light of the term’s derogatory history as applied to Black men. (Id. No.
8.) Plaintiff and Knight reported the incident to their supervisor, Sergeant
Frank Preciado. (No. 9.) After a third incident, Sgt. Preciado complained to
Captain Patricia Sandoval. (Nos. 11-12.) Captain Sandoval overheard Rubenstein
address the Online Unit as “boys” a fourth time, after which she apologized to
Plaintiff and Knight. (Nos. 13-14.) Captain Sandoval told Plaintiff that she
had informed Rubenstein that it was “not cool” to greet Plaintiff and Knight in
that manner. (No. 14.) After these incidents, Captain Sandoval and Rubenstein
became “cold and dismissive” toward Plaintiff and Knight. (Nos. 15-16.) The
Online Unit was given additional responsibilities and had their work schedules
changed and office location moved. (No 17.) In 2018, Sandoval and Rubenstein
both told Plaintiff and Knight that they would not be able to advance unless
they left the Media Relations Division. (No. 18.) 
 
Plaintiff applied for one of two
Police Officer III positions within the Media Relations Division on October 9,
2018. (SSUMF No. 39.) Plaintiff was interviewed on October 18, 2018 by a
three-person panel, composed of Lieutenant Chris Ramirez, Lieutenant Kevin
Brawner, and Detective Meghan Aguilar. (SSUMF No. 21, 39.) Plaintiff received
an average interview score of 2.33 out of 3, placing him behind eight other
applicants for the position. (No. 39.) Lt. Brawner gave Plaintiff a perfect
score of 3 out of 3, but the other interviewers gave Plaintiff a 2 out of 3. (Id.)
Plaintiff was not selected for either opening. (SSUMF Nos. 41, 43.) Lt. Brawner
told Plaintiff that he was the most qualified applicant and would have been
accepted had he applied for a vacancy in any other division. (No. 40.) Brawner
told Plaintiff that one of the officers who was selected, Officer Marroquin,
was selected for the position because “he was allegedly Capt. Sandoval’s guy.”
(No. 42.) Plaintiff applied for a second P3 vacancy on June 20, 2019, where he
was again interviewed by Brawner and Ramirez. (SSUMF No. 58-59.) Plaintiff
received a score of 2.75 out of 3 and was the third ranked applicant. (SSUMF
No. 59.) Brawner again gave Plaintiff a score of 3 out of 3, but Ramirez ranked
Plaintiff 2.5 out of 3. (Nos. 60-61.) Plaintiff was not selected for the 2019
opening. (No. 62.) Lt. Brawner told Plaintiff that one of LAPD command’s
considerations regarding Plaintiff’s application was a separate discrimination
lawsuit by Sgt. Preciado, Plaintiff’s former supervisor. (SSUMF Nos. 47, 64.)
 
Defendant contends that Plaintiff
cannot prove a causal link between his complaints and his non-selection for the
P3 position in either 2018 or 2019. Defendant relies principally on Plaintiff’s
responses to Special Interrogatories, in which Plaintiff stated that the
employees aware of his complaints were Rubenstein, Sandoval, Brawner, Preciado,
Knight, and Officers Chris Noh. and Luis Garcia. (SSUMF No. 69.) Defendant
argues that, of these individuals, only Brawner had any input into the
selection process, and, each time, Brawner gave Plaintiff the highest interview
score and favorable reviews. Thus, Defendant argues, the only person with knowledge
of Plaintiff’s complaints was the one person who treated Plaintiff most
favorably, and thus could not have retaliated against him. As Defendant has
offered evidence that Plaintiff cannot show a causal relationship between his failure
to promote and his protected activity, the burden of proof shifts to Plaintiff
to demonstrate a triable issue of fact. 
 
Plaintiff argues in opposition that
he has unearthed additional evidence since those discovery responses were
propounded which shows that Ramirez and Aguilar were aware of Plaintiff’s
complaints before he applied for either vacancy. Plaintiff offers a sworn
declaration from Sgt. Preciado, who states under penalty of perjury that he
reported Plaintiff’s complaints and Rubenstein’s comments to both Ramirez and
Aguilar before Plaintiff’s 2018 interview. (Statement of Additional Material
Facts No. 37.) Plaintiff also offers evidence, including deposition testimony
from both Sandoval and Aguilar that the interviewers for the 2018 promotion
were selected by Sandoval. (AMF No. 36.) In reply, Defendant argues that this
evidence is too far removed from the P3 interviews to show causality because a
gap of nine months between Preciado’s report and the 2018 interview, much less
eighteen months before the 2019 interview, is too distant to suggest a causal
link under existing case law. However, none of Defendant’s authorities in
support of that contention involve a failure to promote. (See Clark Cnty.
Sch. Dist. v. Breeden (2001) 532 U.S. 268, 273-74 [transfer to different
position]; Loggins v. Kaiser Permanente Intern., (2007) 151 Cal. App.
4th 1102, 1104 [termination].) Transfers and terminations may be carried out at
any time, whereas the record shows that promotions to leadership positions only
occur when vacancies arise. It therefore does not follow that retaliation
should not be inferred when the undisputed facts show that Plaintiff was told
he would not advance in the Media Relations Division and found that statement
to be true at the first opportunity. 
Further, the evidence shows that Plaintiff was subjected to a pattern of
retaliatory conduct which began soon after his initial complaints and continued
through his promotional rejections.  (AMF
21, 23, 24, 28, 30.)
Plaintiff has thus offered evidence
that, contrary to Defendant’s position, the interviewers who scored Plaintiff
negatively were aware of his complaints and, further, that there is a triable
issue of fact as to the causal link between his protected activity and the
failures to promote him to the first three openings available to him. 
 
2.     
Legitimate Non-Retaliatory Reason
 
Defendant argues
in the alternative that even if Plaintiff has demonstrated a prima facie case
for retaliation under FEHA, Defendant nevertheless had legitimate,
nonretaliatory reasons for the failure to promote Plaintiff. 
 
An employer “has
discretion to choose among equally qualified candidates, provided the
discretion is not based upon unlawful criteria.” (Texas Dept. of Community
Affairs v. Burdine (1981) 450 U.S. 248, 259.) An employer may make these
decisions “for a good reason, a bad reason, a reason based on erroneous facts,
or for no reason at all” provided it does not act for a retaliatory
reason. (Arteaga v. Brinks, Inc. (2008) 163 Cal.App.4th 327, 344.) 
 
Defendant
contends that Officer Marroquin was selected for one of the 2018 vacancies
because he was the highest ranked applicant. (SSUMF No. 23.) Defendant points
to the interviewer reports and promotion memorandum, which highlight Officer
Marroquin’s skill with video creation, role in creating Critical Incident Videos,
and understanding of the importance of his work in relations between LAPD and
the public. (SSUMF Nos. 23-26, 41.) Defendant argues that Officer Lopez was
selected for the other 2018 vacancy because he was the second ranked applicant,
based on his experience providing information to media outlets, his passion for
the job, and his relationship with the media. (SSUMF Nos. 28-31.) As for the
2019 position, Defendant argues that Officer Lee was selected for that P3
vacancy because he was the first ranked applicant because of his background in
community relations and social media, his experience as a Press Relations
Officer, and his personal interaction with his colleagues. (SSUMF Nos. 53-55.) Thus,
Defendant argues, Plaintiff was not selected to fill any of the P3 vacancies
because other candidates were judged to be more suitable based on their
particularized experience, demeanor, and skillset, as reflected in their
interview performance. 
 
In opposition,
Plaintiff argues that this evidence is not sufficient because, notwithstanding the
performance of the other candidates, Defendant has not justified the low
ratings Plaintiff received from two interviewers who knew about his protected
conduct.  He also contends that Defendant
has failed to address the pattern of retaliation complained of by
Plaintiff.  (Opposition, p. 23.)  The Court concurs. Defendant offers no
evidence explaining why Plaintiff received a lower ranking or was a
less-favorable candidate than the other officers. The heart of Plaintiff’s
retaliation claim is that Plaintiff was given improperly low interview scores in
retaliation for his protected activity which naturally resulted in
non-promotion to the P3 positions he was seeking. Contrary to Defendant’s
assertions in reply, Plaintiff need not prove that any of the other officers
had their scores increased. It is sufficient for Plaintiff to show that his own
scores were improperly deflated as that is the crux of his complaint.  
Further, Defendant
failed in any way to address Plaintiff’s broader contention that he was
subjected to adverse employment actions well before his candidacy for
promotion.  Where only part of a plaintiff’s claim is challenged under section 437c,
summary adjudication is not available because the motion does not dispose of an
entire cause of action as is required under subdivision (t) of the statute.  (Nazir v. United Airlines, Inc. (2009)
178 Cal. App. 4th 243, 251 [“Summary adjudication must completely dispose of
the cause of action to which it is directed.”].)  Defendant’s failure to address all of the
adverse employment actions alleged to be retaliatory means that its initial
burden has not been satisfied so the burden does not shift to Plaintiff to
raise a triable issue of fact.  For
this reason, the Court finds that Defendant has not properly shown a legitimate
nonretaliatory reason for failing to promote Plaintiff. 
 
Even if the
Court reached the conclusion that Defendant had demonstrated a legitimate
non-retaliatory reason for failing to promote Plaintiff, Defendant’s own
evidence, in concert with Plaintiff’s production would demonstrate a triable
issue of fact as to retaliation. By Defendant’s own admission, Lt. Brawner
informed Plaintiff that his association with Sgt. Preciado, who brought a
separate claim against Defendant for retaliation in response to a complaint
regarding racial discrimination, was part of LAPD command’s decision in 2019.
(SSUMF Nos. 47, 64.) This admission tends to suggest, drawing all inferences in
favor of Plaintiff, that Plaintiff was not selected in part because Plaintiff made
similar complaints, and thus was presumed to be aligned with Sgt. Preciado. Defendant
contends in reply that Lt. Brawner subsequently denied discussing the lawsuit
in his deposition, but this contradiction in Defendant’s own evidence merely
reinforces the conclusion that a triable issue of fact exists. Defendant’s alternative
assertion that this argument is too speculative is unsupported by any authority
and, in any event, is not persuasive because Detective Aguilar’s denial that
she knew what information Plaintiff possessed about the Preciado lawsuit has no
bearing on Plaintiff’s argument. (See Defendant’s Exh. B. p. 45:20-25.) Indeed,
Plaintiff’s argument is that Defendant failed to promote him based on his
association with Preciado and the similarity of complaints despite Plaintiff
being otherwise uninvolved with Preciado’s suit. At the least, this evidence
creates a triable issue of fact as to the basis for Defendant’s decision in
2019 and whether that decision was motivated by retaliatory animus. 
 
This conclusion
is further supported by Plaintiff’s “me-too” evidence of a pattern of
retaliation against officers in the Media Relations unit who complain about
racial discrimination by the same senior staff members. (See Meeks v
Autozone, Inc. (2018), 24 Cal. App. 5th 855, 871.) Sgt. Preciado offers a sworn
declaration stating that he was subjected to extensive retaliation for
complaining about an order from Captain Sandoval not to speak Spanish or
broadcast Spanish language channels within the Media Relations Division,
mirroring the allegations in his complaint. (AMF No. 73.) Defendant argues that
this evidence does not show that Ramirez was specifically responsible for any
of the alleged retaliatory conduct and does not address any of the other
panelists’ decisions not to promote Plaintiff. The Court disagrees. Although
allegations in a pleading are not evidence, a witness’s sworn statement that he
was retaliated against by the same supervisor who selected the 2018 panel which
interviewed Plaintiff is evidence of retaliation against Plaintiff as well. 
Finally, Plaintiff
also offers some evidence that Defendant failed to adhere to its own standards
in selecting Officer Anibal Lopez for one of the 2018 vacancies. Captain
Sandoval testified in deposition that professionalism, composure, and control
of one’s own emotions were “important” in the interview process. (AMF No. 34.) However,
both Ramirez and Sandoval admitted that Lopez lost his composure and cried
during his interview. (AMF No. 47.) Defendant argues that “highly rating an
applicant’s interview despite them exhibiting strong external emotions about
their job” is not evidence of retaliation. To the contrary, a contradiction
between the stated values and expectations and the ultimate decision is
evidence that the reason for the decision was mere pretext. (See McRae v.
Department of Corrections & Rehabilitation (2006) 142
Cal.App.4th 377, 388-389 [pretext as pertaining to discrimination claims].)
 
Taken together,
this evidence tends to show that Defendant’s reasons for selecting Officer
Lopez in 2018 were not truthful, that Defendant’s senior officers engaged in a
pattern of retaliation for complaints of racial discrimination, and that
Plaintiff was not selected in 2019 because of his connection to Sgt. Preciado.
Thus, even if Defendant had demonstrated a legitimate, non-retaliatory reason
for its conduct, the Court would be inclined to find that there is a triable
issue of fact as to whether Plaintiff was not promoted in retaliation for his
complaints. 
 
As the Court has
found that there is a triable issue of fact as to both causation and whether
Defendant’s reasons for its actions were legitimate, Defendant is not entitled
to summary adjudication of this cause of action. 
 
Accordingly,
Defendant’s Motion for Summary Adjudication of the First Cause of Action is
DENIED.
 
Second Cause of Action:
Whistleblower Retaliation
 
Defendant moves
for summary adjudication of the second cause of action for whistleblower
retaliation under Labor Code section 1102.5. The parties agree that this cause
of action survives or fails on the same evidence and arguments as the first
cause of action. Accordingly, for the reasons stated above in connection with
the first cause of action, Defendant’s Motion for Summary Adjudication of the
Second Cause of Action is DENIED. 
 
CONCLUSION:
 
            For
the reasons explained above, Defendant’s Motion to File Under Seal is DENIED. 
 
Defendant’s Motion
for Summary Judgment is DENIED.
 
            Defendant’s
alternative Motion for Summary Adjudication is DENIED. 
 
 
 
Moving Party to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated: January 4, 2024                          
___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 