 Case Number:  23VECV04484    Hearing Date:   July 22, 2024    Dept:  T LEHMAN V WOODPARK
23VECV04484
Defendants Woodpark LLC and Micro
Property Management Inc.’s Demurrer to the First Amended Complaint is
OVERRULED.  Defendants Woodpark LLC and
Micro Property Management Inc. are ORDERED to file an Answer within 20 days.
Introduction 
Defendants Woodpark LLC
(Woodpark) and Micro Property Management Inc. (MPM) (collectively, Defendants)
demurred to Plaintiff Cyman Lehman’s (Plaintiff) First Amended Complaint
(FAC).  The demurrer placed into issue the
first cause of action (COA) for discrimination (age/disability); the second COA
for negligence, the third COA for elder abuse, the fourth COA for breach of
contract, and the fifth COA for breach of warranty of habitability.  
Procedure
Plaintiff’s opposition was due
July 9, 2024, and was untimely filed on July 11, 2024.  Plaintiff’s Counsel presents facts showing
that it was their mistake in failing to timely file/serve the opposition.  Further, Defendants’ reply did not object to
the untimeliness of the opposition.     
Because Plaintiff’s Counsel admitted their mistake, Plaintiff presented
good cause for the Court to exercise its discretion and consider the untimely
filed opposition.
Discussion 
Defendants argued that the second
COA for negligence, fourth COA for breach of contract, and fifth COA for breach
of warranty failed to allege sufficient facts to support the elements of breach
and causation as to the claims related to the broken elevator and fall in the
garage.  This issue was reviewed at the
prior demurrer to the original complaint. 
Specifically as to the broken elevator claim, the Court finds that
Plaintiff cured the pleading defect.  A
liberal reading of the pleading provided that Plaintiff is 84 years of age with
a physical disability, which existed prior to her fall in the garage.  (FAC par. 1.) 
Plaintiff leased unit number 204, which is construed to be on the second
floor of the apartment building. 
(Id.)  Plaintiff entered into the
lease in 2003 (FAC, Exh. 1), twenty years prior to filing the instant action.  It can be construed that Plaintiff leased the
second floor unit with the understanding that the building had a continually
working elevator.  However, as of 2021,
Defendants allegedly neglected the maintenance/repair of the elevator so that
it does not continually work.  (FAC pars.
12-14, and 20.)  Because of the
unreliability of the elevator, as well as Plaintiff’s age and disability,
Plaintiff suffered physical strain, mental anxiety, and emotional turmoil in
having to navigate the stairs. (FAC par. 13 and 20.)  These facts are sufficient to plead the
elements of breach, causation, as well as harm. 
The demurrer as to the broken elevator claim is not persuasive.
Specifically as to Plaintiff’s
fall in the garage, Plaintiff failed to cure the defect.  There are no new facts to plead breach or
causation.  Plaintiff did not provide new
facts to allege what caused her to fall in the garage.  There are no facts linking her fall in the
garage to an inoperable elevator.  The
demurrer as to this part of the COA is persuasive.  However, demurrers cannot be sustained
only to parts of a COA.  A demurrer
must dispose of an entire COA.  (Poizner
v. Fremont General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 119.)  The demurrer cannot be sustained just for
this part of the COA.  Although merited,
the demurrer against the claim related to the fall in the garage is
insufficient.  
Because the claims related to the
broken elevator are sufficient to get past the demurrer stage, the demurrer’s
first argument against  second, fourth,
and fifth COAs cannot be sustained.
Defendants then argued that the
fifth COA for breach of warranty of habitability is insufficiently alleged with
supportive facts because Plaintiff failed to allege: (1) Plaintiff’s lack of
knowledge of the condition at the time of occupancy, (2) effect on habitability
of the defective condition was not apparent on reasonable inspection, and (3)
notice to Defendant within a reasonable time after Plaintiff’s discovery.  However, the elements of Plaintiff’s lack of
knowledge and the imposition of a duty of reasonable inspection on a
prospective tenant is not a prerequisite to allege breach of the warranty of
habitability.  (Knight v. Hallsthammar
(1981) 29 Cal.3d 46, 54 and at fn. 5.) 
Defendant’s reliance upon Quevedo v. Braga (1977) 72 Cal.App.3d Supp 1
is unpersuasive.  Lastly, Defendant’s
argument as to lack of notice is contradicted by Plaintiff’s express allegation
that Plaintiff and other tenants provided notice.  (FAC par. 13.)  Defendant’s arguments against the fifth COA
are not persuasive.
The demurrer to the second,
fourth, and fifth COAs is OVERRULED.
As to the first COA for violation
of the Unruh Civil Rights Act, Defendants argued that there are insufficient
facts pled to support any claim of discrimination or intentional discrimination
because there are no facts alleging misconduct specifically levied against
Plaintiff.  This pleading defect was
raised at the prior demurrer.  The FAC
cured the pleading defect by alleging that Defendants’ discriminatory conduct
and intent was to get Plaintiff to move out because of her age and
disability.  Defendants chose to make
short-term fixes causing the elevator to fail rather than make a full and
compete repair of the elevator.  (FAC
pars. 23-25, and 29.)  Defendants’
arguments fail to consider the new factual allegations and the arguments are
not persuasive.  
The demurrer to the first COA is
OVERRULED.  
As to the third COA for financial
elder abuse, Defendant argued that there are insufficient facts to allege that
the taking/obtaining of Plaintiff’s property was for a wrongful use or was with
an intent to defraud.  (CACI no.
3100.)  This issue was reviewed at the
prior demurrer hearing.  Plaintiff has
pled facts to cure the pleading defect by alleging a taking for a wrongful use.  Preliminarily, the pleading element is in the
disjunctive due to the use of the word, “or.” 
“Wrongful use” requires the pleading of two elements: (1) a breach of
contract or some other misconduct; and (2) Defendants’ actual or implied
knowledge that the conduct is likely to be harmful to the elder.  (Paslay v. State Farm General Insurance Co.
(2016) 248 Cal.App.4th 639, 657.)  As
reviewed at the prior demurrer, Plaintiff sufficiently pled the first
element.  At issue was the second element
– Defendants’ knowledge that the conduct is likely to be harmful to
Plaintiff.  Plaintiff expressly alleged
that Defendants had knowledge that the taking of Plaintiff’s rent while the
elevator was continually breaking was to push Plaintiff out of her
tenancy.  This fact allegation is
sufficient to cure the prior pleading defect and makes Defendants’ argument
unpersuasive.  
The demurrer to the third COA is
OVERRULED.
Defendant argued that all COAs
are duplicative and conclusory.  However
as reviewed above, the facts alleged are sufficient to support each COA and
thus not conclusory.  Further, the fact
that each COA is based upon the same or similar facts does not necessarily make
the COAs duplicative.  The argument is
unpersuasive.
Defendants argued that all five
COAs are uncertain because Plaintiff lumps together all Defendants and failed
to differentiate between the Defendants. 
However, Plaintiff alleged the misconduct/breach/negligence against
“Defendants, and each of them.”  (FAC,
passim.)  Because the claims are alleged
against “each of them,” the allegations are sufficient to charge each Defendant
with liability.  Liberality in pleading
compels a finding that the pleading is not uncertain.  The demurrer on the grounds of uncertainty is
unpersuasive.
IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK  TO GIVE NOTICE.