 Case Number:  22SMCV02041    Hearing Date:   March 21, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


March 21, 2024




CASE NUMBER


22SMCV02041




MOTION


Continue Trial 




MOVING PARTY


Plaintiff Justin Shelton




OPPOSING PARTY


Defendant WIB Holdings, LLC



 
MOTION
 
Plaintiff Justin Shelton (“Plaintiff”) moves to continue the trial
date by a couple of weeks, so that Plaintiff’s Motion for Summary Adjudication,
currently scheduled for May 16, 2024, complies with the requirement that the
motion be heard at least thirty days prior to trial, which is currently
scheduled for June 10, 2024.  
 
Defendant WIB Holdings, LLC has filed a late opposition, to which
Plaintiff objects and replies.  
 
DEFENDANT’S
LATE-FILED OPPOSITION
 
            Code
of Civil Procedure section 1005, subdivision (b) provides, “All papers opposing
a motion […] shall be filed with the court and a copy served on each party at
least nine court days, and all reply papers at least five court days before the
hearing.”  The court has discretion
whether to consider late-filed papers. 
(California Rules of Court, rule 3.1300(d).)   
 
The hearing in this matter is
set for March 21, making Opposition papers due by March 8, and Reply papers due
by March 14.
 
            On
March 12, Plaintiff filed a notice of non-opposition.  On March 14, Defendant filed an untimely
opposition, with an attorney declaration indicating that counsel inadvertently mis-calendared
the deadline to file an opposition. 
Defendant served the opposition papers on Plaintiff on March 13, and
Plaintiff filed an objection and reply to Defendant’s late opposition on March
13, before the Opposition was filed.  
 
            While
the Court agrees Plaintiff that better management of the upcoming briefing in
this case would have prevented the late filing, the Court finds no prejudice
here, as Plaintiff still filed the Reply before the March 14 deadline, and
before Defendant’s Opposition was even filed. 

 
Therefore, the Court exercises
its discretion and considers the late-filed opposition brief.
 
ANALYSIS
 
            Trial and Discovery Cut-Off
Dates
 
            California Rules of Court, Rule
3.1332(c), provides:
 
Although continuances of trials are disfavored, each request for a
continuance must be considered on its own merits.  The court may grant a continuance only on an
affirmative showing of good cause requiring the continuance.  Circumstances that may indicate good cause
include:
 
(1)  The unavailability of an
essential lay or expert witness because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances;
 
(2)  The unavailability of a
party because of death, illness, or other excusable circumstances;
 
(3)  The unavailability of trial
counsel because of death, illness, or other excusable circumstances;
 
(4)  The substitution of trial
counsel, but only where there is an affirmative showing that the substitution
is required in the interests of justice;
 
(5)  The addition of a new party
if:
 
(A)  The new party has not had a
reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial; or
 
(B)  The other parties have not
had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial in
regard to the new party's involvement in the case;
 
(6)  A party's excused inability
to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite
diligent efforts; or
 
(7)  A significant,
unanticipated change in the status of the case as a result of which the case is
not ready for trial.
 
Factors the Court considers in ruling on a motion for continuance
include:
 
(1)  The proximity of the trial date;
 
(2)  Whether there was any
previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to any party;
 
(3)  The length of the
continuance requested;
 
(4)  The availability of
alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the motion or
application for a continuance;
 
(5)  The prejudice that parties
or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance;
 
(6)  If the case is entitled to
a preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status and whether the need
for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay;
 
(7)  The court's calendar and
the impact of granting a continuance on other pending trials;
 
(8)  Whether trial counsel is
engaged in another trial;
 
(9)  Whether all parties have
stipulated to a continuance;
 
(10)  Whether the interests of
justice are best served by a continuance, by the trial of the matter, or by
imposing conditions on the continuance; and
 
(11)  Any other fact or
circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the motion or application.
 
(Rule 3.1332(d).)
 
            Plaintiff’s
lack of diligence in timely reserving a hearing date for his motion for summary
adjudication does not constitute good cause to continue the trial date.  (See California Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(c).)  
 
Nor does it constitute good
cause for the Court to waive the 30-day deadline of Code of Civil Procedure
section 437c as an “alternative means to address the problem.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c) [“The
motion shall be heard no later than 30 days before the date of trial, unless
the court for good cause orders otherwise”])
 
Good cause to waive the 30-day
deadline could theoretically exist, if Plaintiff’s pending motion for summary
adjudication would promote judicial economy or “eliminate the need for trial on
certain claims or narrow the triable issues.” (Reply at pp. 4-5.)  However, the Court does not find that
Plaintiff’s pending motion for summary adjudication would promote judicial
economy or streamline the issues for trial here.  
 
            Plaintiff’s
operative complaint alleges five causes of action: (1) violations of Civil Code
section 1950.5 (unlawful retention of security deposit); (2) violations of
Business & Professions Code section 17200 (predicated on violations of
section 1950.5 and 1953); (3) breach of the written residential lease agreement
(which allegedly required Defendant to return the security deposit consistent
with section 1950.5); (4) negligence (breaching the duty to not violate section
1950.5); and (5) conversion (of the security deposit).  
 
            Despite
predicating all five of Plaintiff’s causes of action on violations of Section
1950.5, Plaintiff moves for summary adjudication only as to the second and
third causes of action.  Thus, even if
Plaintiff prevails, the motion requires the Court to examine all the purported
violations of Sections 1950.5 and 1953 in connection with the motion for
summary judgment, and then a trier of fact to reexamine all those issues again
in connection with the remaining causes of action.  As a result, regardless of whether Plaintiff
prevails, the Motion for Summary Adjudication is not structured in a manner that
would promote judicial economy or narrow the triable issues.    
 
Moreover, the references to
declaratory relief in Plaintiff’s motion for summary adjudication suggest Plaintiff
seeks resolution of a cause of action that exists only in a version of the
complaint Plaintiff never filed.  
 
On August 24, 2023, the Court granted
Plaintiff’s motion for leave to amend the complaint and ordered Plaintiff to
file and serve the proposed amended complaint on or before September 7, 2023,
but Plaintiff never filed it.  (See August
24, 2023 Minute Order.)  The proposed
first amended complaint attached to Plaintiff’s motion for leave alleges a new
third cause of action for Declaratory Relief for Violation of Civil Code
Section 1953, not previously pleaded.  
 
Thus, the references to
declaratory relief in Plaintiff’s motion for summary adjudication suggest that
Plaintiff seeks to adjudicate a cause of action that does not exist.[1]  As such, the motion for summary adjudication
would not promote judicial economy or narrow the triable issues for the
additional reason that it seeks resolution of issues not pleaded.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
Finding Plaintiff has not met his burden of demonstrating good cause
for the requested continuance, the Court denies Plaintiff’s motion to continue
the trial date.  
 
The Clerk of the Court shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling.
 
 
DATED:  March 21, 2024                                                      ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court


