  Case Number:  22SMCV01839    Hearing Date:   March 21, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


March 21, 2024




CASE NUMBER


22SMCV01839




MOTION


Demurrer to Complaint




MOVING PARTIES


Defendants Insight Multi-Strategy U.S. Partners, LLC;
  Insight Advisors, LLC; and Michael Tito




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff Suzanne Tito



 
MOTIONS
 
Plaintiff Suzanne Tito’s (“Plaintiff”) Complaint alleges six causes of
action: (1) breach of written contract, count 1: multi-strategy operating
agreement; (2) fraud – intentional misrepresentation, count 1: multi-strategy
capital contributions; (3) common count, count 1: multi-strategy capital
contributions; (4) breach of written contract, count 2: promissory notes; (5)
fraud – intentional misrepresentation, count 2: loans; and (6) common count,
count 2: promissory notes.
 
Defendants Insight Multi-Strategy U.S. Partners, LLC; Insight
Advisors, LLC, and Michael Tito (“Defendants”) demur to the first, second, and
third causes of action on the basis that they are preempted by federal
securities laws, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivision
(a), and Defendants demur to all causes of action for failure to state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 430.10, subdivision (e).  
 
Plaintiff opposes the demurrer and Defendants reply.
 
ANALYSIS
 
1.      DEMURRER
 
“It is black letter law that a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of
the allegations in a complaint.”  (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015)
235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  In testing the sufficiency of a cause of
action, a court accepts “[a]s true all material facts properly pled and matters
which may be judicially noticed but disregard contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law.  [A court
also gives] the complaint a reasonable interpretation, reading it as a whole
and its parts in their context.”  (290
Division (EAT), LLC v. City & County of San Francisco (2022) 86
Cal.App.5th 439, 450 [cleaned up]; Hacker v. Homeward Residential, Inc.
(2018) 26 Cal.App.5th 270, 280 [“in considering the merits of a demurrer,
however, “the facts alleged in the pleading are deemed to be true, however
improbable they may be”].)
 
Further, in ruling on a demurrer, a court must “liberally construe”
the allegations of the complaint “with a view to substantial justice between
the parties.”  (See Code Civ. Proc., §
452.)  “This rule of liberal construction
means that the reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not
the defendant.”  (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209
Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.)   
 
In summary, “[d]etermining whether the complaint is sufficient as
against the demurrer on the ground that it does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action, the rule is that if one consideration of all the
facts stated it appears the plaintiff is entitled to any relief at the hands of
the court against the defendants the complaint will be held good although the
facts may not be clearly stated, or may be intermingled with a statement of
other facts irrelevant to the cause of action shown, or although the plaintiff
may demand relief to which he is not entitled under the facts alleged.”  (Gressley v. Williams (1961) 193
Cal.App.2d 636, 639.)
 
A.   
PREEMPTION
 
Defendants argue that this Court has no jurisdiction over the first
three causes of action – for breach of contract, fraud, and common counts,
stemming from allegations that Defendants failed to return Plaintiff’s capital
contribution, pursuant to the terms of the operating agreement, because the
claims are preempted by federal securities laws prohibiting states from
adopting “any regulations, interpretations, or guidance that would have the
effect of substantively regulating SEC-registered investment advisors”
(Demurrer at p. 4) and the Complaint alleges Defendant “Insight Advisors
represents itself to be a SEC Registered Investment Advisor.”  (Complaint ¶ 7.)
 
Defendants further argue that pursuant to the “artful pleading rule,”
the Court may look beyond the face of the complaint to determine whether the
plaintiff has artfully pleaded what is really a federal law claim as a state
law claim, and if so, “the reviewing court will uphold removal even though no
federal question appears on the face of the complaint.”  (Demurrer at p. 4, citing Rivet v. Regions
Bank (1998) 522 U.S. 470, 475 (hereafter Rivet).)
 
At issue in Rivet was whether the case, which had been removed
to federal court, was properly remanded back to state court.  In determining that remand was proper, Rivet
held that claim preclusion by reason of a prior federal judgment provided
no basis for removal to federal court.
 
Here, Defendants have not removed the instant case to federal
court.  Nor have Defendants provided any
binding legal authority for the proposition that California courts may look to
extrinsic evidence in ruling on a demurrer. 
Defendants have also not provided any such extrinsic evidence or
explanation as to how Plaintiff’s breach of contract, fraud, and common counts,
stemming from the alleged agreement between Plaintiff and Defendants would be
tantamount to regulating an SEC-registered investment advisor in violation of
federal law.
 
Therefore, the Court overrules Defendants’ demurrer to the first three
causes of action for lack of jurisdiction pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 430.10, subdivision (a).
 
B.    
FAILURE TO STATE A CAUSE OF ACTION
 
                                                                   
i.           
All
Causes of Action – Statutes of Limitation
 
The statute of limitations for
actions based on a written contract is four years.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 337, subd. (a).)  The statute of limitations for actions based
in fraud is three years from “the discovery, by the aggrieved party, of the
facts constituting the fraud[.]”  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 338, subd. (d).)  The
statute of limitations for actions based on an oral contract is two years.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 339.)
 
Through the first three causes
of action, premised on the written Multi-Strategy Operating Agreement, Plaintiff
alleges that Defendants promised to reimburse her capital contributions 90 days
after any such request for reimbursement. 
Plaintiff requested reimbursement of the capital contributions on
September 29, 2021, making such reimbursement due to Plaintiff on December 31,
2021, yet Defendants never paid.  (Complaint
¶¶ 14-17.)  Thus, the alleged breach of
contract, date when the debt became due, and the date Plaintiff discovered
Defendants’ alleged fraud, occurred on December 31, 2021.  Plaintiff filed the Complaint less than one
year later, on October 13, 2022.  Thus,
the first three causes of action do not appear to be barred by the applicable
statutes of limitation.[1]
 
Causes of action four, five,
and six, alleged against Defendant Michael Tito only, are premised on various
promissory notes on loans allegedly issued between February 1, 2010 and
February 1, 2015.  (Complaint ¶ 19.)  Pursuant to the terms of the promissory
notes, the loan balance and interest are to be payable on demand.  (Exhs. 2-3 to Complaint.)  Plaintiff alleges that demand for repayment
was made on July 28, 2022, yet Defendant Tito has not tendered repayment.  (Complaint ¶¶ 21, 55, 69.)  The Complaint was filed less than three
months after Plaintiff’s demand for repayment.
 
Defendant Tito argues that the fourth cause of action is nonetheless
untimely because the statute of limitations for a promissory note payable on
demand begins to run from the date the note was issued, not the date of
demand.  In support, Defendant Tito cites
to Clunin v. First Federal Trust Co. (1922) 189 Cal.248, 249 and Carrasco
v. Greco Canning Co, Inc. (1943) 58 Cal.App.2d 673, 675.
 
However, Commercial Code section 3118, which was added in 1992
provides:  
 
[I]f demand for payment is made to the maker of a
note payable on demand, an action to enforce the obligation of a party to pay
the note shall be commenced within six years after the demand. If no demand for
payment is made to the maker, an action to enforce the note is barred if
neither principal nor interest on the note has been paid for a continuous
period of 10 years.
 
(Com.
Code, § 3118, subd. (b).)
 
            Thus, all promissory notes dated on
or after July 28, 2012 (ten years prior to the Demand for repayment) are
timely.
 
            With respect to the promissory notes
from February 1, 2010 through July 1, 2012, Code of Civil Procedure section
360.5 provides that the parties may waive the applicable statute of
limitations, by up to four years, if the waiver is in writing and signed by the
person obligated.  (See also California
First Bank v. Braden (1989) 216 Cal.App.3d 672, 674 [written guarantees
containing the phrase, “Guarantors waive the benefit of any limitations
affecting their liability hereunder or the enforcement thereof to the extent
permitted by law.” extended the statute of limitations by four years.])
 
            Here, each promissory note contains
the phrase: 
 
Every obligor, maker guarantor, and endorser of
the Note and every person who assumes the obligations of this Note […] (3)
consents to all waivers contained in this Note: (4) waives presentment, demand,
protest, notice of protest, notice of dishonor, notice of nonpayment, and
notice of any kind with respect to this Note or any guaranty of it or the
performance of the obligations under this Note or any guaranty of it; and (5)
agrees that no delay in the enforcement of payment of this Note or any guaranty
of it, and no delay or omission in exercising any right or power under this
note or any guaranty of it shall affect his liability, except as specifically
provided herein.
 
(Exhs.
2-3 to Complaint.)
 
Thus, Plaintiff has waived the applicable statute of limitations with
respect to enforcing the promissory notes by the legally allowable four
additional years.  As such, none of the
promissory notes are barred by the applicable statute of limitations.
 
Defendants argue in reply that the waiver language is too vague for
Defendants to be deemed to have made a “knowing” waiver of the statute of
limitations.  The Court disagrees.  The language, indicating that Defendants
waive presentment, demand, protest, and presentment, and that “no delay in the
enforcement of payment of this Note or any guaranty of it, and no delay or
omission in exercising any right or power under this note or any guaranty of it
shall affect his liability, except as specifically provided herein” is a clear
agreement to waive the practical effect of the statute of limitations.
 
                                                                 
ii.           
Second
and Fifth Causes of Action - Fraud
 
 “The elements of intentional
misrepresentation are (1) a misrepresentation, (2) knowledge of falsity, (3)
intent to induce reliance, (4) actual and justifiable reliance, and (5)
resulting damage.” (Aton Center, Inc. v. United Healthcare Ins. Co.
(2023) 93 Cal.App.5th 1214, 1245.) 
 
Defendants demur to the second
and fifth causes of action for fraud – intentional misrepresentation, on the
basis that they fail to allege a cause of action with the requisite
particularity.
 
“In California, fraud must be
pled specifically; general and conclusory allegations do not suffice.”  (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12
Cal.4th 631, 645.)  “This particularity
requirement necessitates pleading facts which show how, when, where, to whom,
and by what means the representations were tendered.”  (Ibid.)  
 
“One of the purposes of the
specificity requirement is notice to the defendant, to furnish the defendant
with certain definite charges which can be intelligently met.”  (Alfaro v. Community Housing Improvement
System & Planning Assn., Inc. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1356, 1384.)  As such, less specificity is required “when
it appears from the nature of the allegations that the defendant must
necessarily possess full information concerning the facts of the
controversy[.]”  (Ibid.)  “Even under the strict rules of common law
pleading, one of the canons was that less particularity is required when the
facts lie more in the knowledge of the opposite party.”  (Ibid.)
 
With respect to the second
cause of action, Plaintiff alleges:
 
36. In or around December 2008 and January 2009,
Michael Tito—in his capacity as “CEO” of Insight Advisors---represented to
Plaintiff that Insight Advisors would manage Plaintiff’s funds on her behalf,
using a degree of care, skill, and diligence that a prudent person acting in a
fiduciary capacity would use. Thereafter, at the advice and direction of
Michael Tito and Insight Advisors, Plaintiff directed that certain of her funds
being managed by Insight Advisors be used for as capital contribution to Multi-Strategy
in exchange for membership interest in that entity. At this same time, Insight
Advisors (through its agent Michael Tito) provided Plaintiff with
Multi-Strategy’s operating agreement. By way of providing this operating
agreement, along with concurrent verbal representations by Michael Tito to
Plaintiffs, Defendants represented to Plaintiff that she would be permitted to
redeem her membership interest in Multi-Strategy and thereby withdraw her
capital account at any time upon giving 90 Days’ Notice.
 
37. Defendants’ representations were false when
they were made, and Defendants knew them to be false. Defendants never intended
for Plaintiff to be able to withdraw the funds from her capital account. 
 
38. Defendants intended for Plaintiff to rely on
their false representations so that Plaintiff would make the capital
contributions. 
 
39. Plaintiff reasonably relied on Defendants’
representations and trusted Defendants would return her capital contributions
upon sufficient written notice, as agreed. Based on this reliance, Plaintiff
made substantial capital contributions of no less than $2,000,000. 
 
40. Upon realizing that Defendants had no
intention to honor the promise to return her capital contribution, Plaintiff
has further discovered that neither Multi-Strategy nor its managing member
Insight Advisors have been authorized to do business in California or Delaware
for at least several years. 
 
41. Plaintiff was harmed as a result of
Defendants’ false representations as in an amount of not less than
$2,764,282.17.
 
(Complaint
¶¶ 36-41.)  Thus, Plaintiff alleges
specific facts regarding the who (Michael Tito, in his capacity as CEO of
Insight Advisors), what (that Plaintiff’s capital contributions would be
returned to her upon 90 days’ notice), when (December 2008 and January 2009), and
how (orally and via the Multi-Strategy Operating Agreement) underlying the
second cause of action.
 
            With respect to the fifth cause of
action, Plaintiff alleges:
 
59. Michael Tito represented to Plaintiff that he
would repay loan principal plus interest upon demand, for fifty-one (51)
different loans. 
 
60. Michael Tito never intended to re-pay the
Loans and therefore his representations were false when they were made, and
Michael Tito knew them to be false. 
 
61. Michael Tito intended for Plaintiff to rely
on his false representations so that Plaintiff would loan him money. 
 
62. Plaintiff reasonably relied on Michael Tito’s
representations and trusted Michael Tito would repay the loans, as agreed.
Based on this reliance, Plaintiff loaned Michael Tito a total principal amount
of $650,000. 
 
63. Plaintiff was harmed as a result of Michael
Tito’s false representations as in an amount of not less than $860,234.41
 
(Complaint ¶¶ 59-63.)  The fifty-one (51) signed, dated promissory
notes are attached to the Complaint as Exhibits 2 and 3.
 
            Thus,
Plaintiff again alleges the who (Michael Tito), what (promised to pay the loans
upon demand), when (on the dates of each promissory note), and how (in writing)
underlying the fifth cause of action.  
 
With respect to Defendants’
knowledge of falsity and intent to defraud, Defendants’ subjective intent is
more within Defendants’ exclusive knowledge, and thus the pleading standard is
relaxed.  Moreover, Plaintiff’s
allegations that Defendants did not repay either the loans or the capital
contributions when demanded, combined with Plaintiff’s allegations that
Multi-Strategy and its managing member, Insight Advisors, have not been
authorized to do business in California or Delaware for several years, sufficiently
create an inference that Defendants made promises of repayment to induce
Plaintiff into making capital contributions and loans, without any intent to
repay them.
 
In reply, Defendants point out
that the schedule of loans on page 6 of the Complaint indicates that Defendants
previously paid $8,000 toward the initial $400,000 loan, which disproves that
Defendants had the fraudulent intent not to repay at the time they took out the
loan.  (See Church of Merciful Saviour
v. Volunteers of America, Inc. (1960) 184 Cal.App.2d 851, 858.)  Even if Defendants did not have fraudulent
intent with respect to the initial $400,000 loan from February of 2010, there
were 50 other loans taken out between 2011-2015.  Moreover, while Defendants’ repayment of
$8,000 on a $400,000 loan could indicate Defendants attempted but failed to
repay the loan in good faith, repaying only 2% of the initial balance of the
loan could also indicate that Defendants strategically made some small payments
in order to reassure Plaintiff that it was safe to make additional loans, which
Plaintiff did.  Thus, the $8,000
repayment does not save Defendants’ demurrer.
 
Defendants also contend that
Plaintiff has not alleged justifiable reliance, but Plaintiff adequately pleads
that in reliance upon Michael Tito’s representations that he would return
Plaintiff’s capital contributions on request and repay the loan, Plaintiff made
$2,000,000 in capital contributions and loaned $650,000, to Plaintiff’s
financial detriment.  (Complaint ¶¶ 39,
41, 62-63.)
 
                                                               
iii.           
Sixth Cause of Action – Common Counts
 
Defendants demur to the Sixth
Cause of Action because it “is an alternative way to seek the same money
demanded in another specific cause of action and is based on the same
facts[.]”  (Demurrer at p. 8.)  At this stage, the Complaint may “plead in
the alternative and make inconsistent allegations.”  (Klein v. Chevron U.S.A., Inc. (2012)
202 Cal.App.4th 1342, 1388.)
 
Thus, the fact that the sixth
cause of action for common counts is inconsistent with or duplicative of the
fourth cause of action for breach of contract is not a basis to sustain the
demurrer.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
For the reasons stated, the Court overrules Defendants’ Demurrer to
the Complaint in its entirety.    
 
The Court orders Defendants to file and serve an Answer to the
Complaint on or before April 12, 2024.  
 
Further, on the Court’s own motion, the Court continues the Case
Management Conference from March 22, 2024 to May 7, 2024 at 8:30 A.M. in
Department 207.  All parties shall comply
with California Rules of Court, rules 3.722, et seq., regarding the continued
Case Management Conference.  In
particular, all parties shall adhere to the duty to meet and confer (Rule
3.724) and to the requirement to prepare and file Case Management Statements
(Rule 3.725).  
 
Defendants shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service regarding the same.  
 
 
DATED:  March 21, 2024                                                      ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court


