  Case Number:  22GDCV01128    Hearing Date:   April 17, 2024    Dept:  P I.        INTRODUCTION
          This case concerns
allegations of childhood sexual abuse and childhood sexual assault. The two
plaintiffs, Jane Doe AH and Jane Doe KC allege that they suffered childhood
sexual abuse at the hands of Defendants Gloria De Los Angeles Trevino Ruiz aka
Gloria Trevi (Trevi), Sergio Gustavo Andrade Sanchez aka Sergio Andrade
(Andrade), and Maria Raquenel Portillo Jimenez aka Mary Boquitas and Mary
Raquenel (Raquenel). The alleged abuse took place in 1991-1992, when Jane Doe
AH was 13 and Jane Doe KC was 15. The abuse occurred in both Mexico and
California, while the Doe plaintiffs were backup singers and dancers for
Defendant Trevi, a Mexican popstar.
          There are two cross-complaints in this
action, as well as a related case filed by a third Jane Doe, as well as the two
Doe plaintiffs here. 
Defendant
Trevi filed the motion to compel further responses on October 17, 2023, as to
Special  Interrogatories, Set One and
Form Interrogatories, Set One served on Plaintiff Jane Doe KC 1. The hearing on
this motion was continued from February 16, 2024, to its current date of March
19, 2024. Plaintiff KC filed an opposition on March 6, 2024. Trevi filed an
omnibus reply on March 12, 2024.
          Defendant Trevi filed the instant motions to compel further
responses on October 13, 2023 as to Requests for Production, Set One. Plaintiffs
filed oppositions on March 6, 2024. Trevi filed an omnibus reply on March 12,
2024. 
          Per Plaintiffs’ and Defendant’s supplemental briefs, the
discovery disputes have been resolved. (4/11/24 Briefs.)
II.      LEGAL
STANDARD
          A. Law Governing Interrogatories
“Within
30 days after the service of interrogatories, the party to whom the
interrogatories are propounded shall serve the original of the response to them
on the propounding party[.]” (CCP § 2030.260(a).) 
          When a party propounding interrogatories deems responses to
the interrogatories to be incomplete or evasive, or deems objections to be
without merit, the propounding party may move for an order compelling further
response. Such motion must be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration and
include a separate statement. In lieu of a separate statement, “the court may
allow the moving party to submit a concise outline of the discovery request and
each response in dispute.” (CCP § 2030.300(b)(2).) Such motion must also be
made within 45 days of verified responses or supplemental responses, or on or
before any specific later date the parties have agreed to in writing. (CCP §
2030.300(a)-(c).) 
          Code Civ. Proc. Section 2030.300 (d) provides for the
imposition of monetary sanctions against any party who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes such a motion unless the court finds that the one subject to sanction
acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the
imposition of sanctions unjust. (CCP § 2030.300(d).)
          B. Law Governing Requests for Production
A
party responding to requests for inspection must either provide a statement of
compliance, represent that it lacks the ability to comply, or object. (Code
Civ. Proc. § 2031.210.) When a party propounding demands for inspection deems
responses to the responses to be incomplete or evasive, or deems objections to
be without merit, the propounding party may move for an order compelling
further responses. Such motion must set forth facts showing good cause for the
discovery, be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration, and include a
separate statement. Such motion must also be made within 45 days of verified
responses or supplemental responses, or on or before any specific later date
the parties have agreed to in writing. (Code Civ. Proc. §2031.310(a)-(c).)
          Code Civ. Proc. Section 2031.310(h) provides for the
imposition of monetary sanctions against any party who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes such a motion unless the court finds that the one subject to sanction
acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the
imposition of sanctions unjust.
III.     ANALYSIS
          The Court notes that the discovery disputes in the four
motions to compel further have been resolved. Defendant Trevi requested the
April 17, 2024 hearing remain on calendar to address her request for sanctions,
her request to strike Plaintiffs’ supplemental brief and for the Court to order
Plaintiffs to produce information pursuant to the parties’ discovery agreement.
          Trevi’s three requests are denied, as explained below.
A.
Sanctions
The
Court declines to award sanctions to either party in connection with making or
opposing this motion. Plaintiffs filed supplemental discovery responses after
the motion was filed, making this motion moot. The Court then ordered
parties to further meet and confer and parties resolved all outstanding
discovery disputes. The Court finds that both parties acted with substantial
justification, albeit belatedly. The Court declines to award sanctions to
either party.
          B. Enforcement of Discovery Agreement
          In Trevi’s supplemental brief, she requests the Court order
“Plaintiffs’ compliance with their agreement, including by providing all known
witness contact information as promised.” (4/11/24 Trevi Brief p. 3: 3-4.)  The Court politely declines to do, as the
discovery agreement is between the parties, is not before the Court and is not
the subject of these motions. The Court reminds parties that civil discovery is
intended to be a self-executing system with minimal judicial intervention.
(See Volkswagenwerk Aktiengesellschaft v. Superior Ct. (1981) 122
Cal.App.3d 326, 331; Clement v. Alegre (2009) 177 Cal.App.4th 1277,
1291-1292.)
          This relief may be sought in a subsequently noticed and
filed motion to compel further, with the requisite meet and confer.
          C. Motion to Strike Plaintiffs’ Supplemental Brief
          On April 11, 2024, Trevi also filed a document requesting
portions of Plaintiff’s supplemental brief be stuck. Trevi cites the Court
Reporter’s transcript at the March 19, 2024 hearing, where the Court ordered
further briefing on meet and confer efforts. (See 4/11/24 Objection p. 2: 19-23.)
Trevi urges that portions should be struck for discussion of the merits of
these motions, as the Court ordered further briefing on meet and confer only.
          The Court declines to strike Plaintiff’s supplemental
brief. The Court finds that this is not a properly noticed motion to strike and
even if it was, that grounds do not exist to strike the requested portions of
Plaintiffs’ brief, as they provide relevant background information. (See CCP §§
435, 436.)
IV.     CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
          Defendant Gloria
Trevi’s motions to compel further responses are DENIED. The Court denies Gloria
Trevi’s motion to strike. The Court declines to award sanctions to either
party.
 Counsel for
Plaintiffs is ordered to give notice.  Dated April 15, 2024                                     _______________________________
                                                                                  JARED D. MOSES
                                                                     JUDGE
OF THE SUPERIOR COURT
 
 