 Case Number:  23STCV24029    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2024    Dept:  68 Dept.  68 Date:  10-31-24 Case  #23STCV24029 (related to lead case 22STCV38443 Trial  Date: 8-11-25 c/f 1-27-25   FURTHER DOCUMENTS   MOVING  PARTY: Plaintiff, Limelight International, Ltd., et al.  RESPONDING  PARTY: Defendant, Rosenthal & Rosenthal of California, Inc.   RELIEF  REQUESTED Motion  to Compel Further Responses to Request for Production of Documents   SUMMARY  OF ACTION Plaintiff  Limelight International Ltd., (Limelight) a Hong Kong based company authorized  to conduct business in California alleges an unspecified defaulted balance owed  by defendant RLoom LLC (RLoom) in 2022. On February 8, 2023, RLoom and  defendant D. Masin Consulting, LLC (D. Masin) executed a “General Assignment  for the Benefit of All Creditors,” whereby all assets were subject to  liquidation for payment of outstanding debts. Also on February 8, 2022, D.  Masin and RLoom Design Corp. aka Newstyle Fashion Inc. also entered into an  “Asset Purchase Agreement, whereby said assets were assigned by RLoom to D.  Masin were sold to Newstyle for $365,000. Limelight maintains an asset value of  at least $9,000,000, including its claimed outstanding debt.   On  October 3, 2023, Plaintiff filed its complaint for Malicious Prosecution,  Breach of Fiduciary Duty, Fraudulent Conveyance, Successor Liability, Aiding  and Abetting Breach of Fiduciary Duty, and Conspiracy to Fraudulently Transfer  Property. Following certain defendants answer to the complaint, the parties  stipulated to the filing of a first amended complaint. The first amended  complaint filed on January 3, 2024, alleges Malicious Prosecution, Breach of  Fiduciary Duty, Fraudulent Conveyance, Successor Liability, Aiding and Abetting  Breach of Fiduciary Duty, and Conspiracy to Fraudulently Transfer Property. On  January 3, 2024, Plaintiff dismissed the first cause of action for Malicious  Prosecution.    On  February 20, 2024, the court overruled the demurrer to the first amended  complaint. Defendants answered the first amended complaint on March 1, 2024.    RULING: Granted. Request  for Judicial Notice: Granted.   Plaintiff Limelight International, Ltd., et al. moves to  compel further responses on Request for Production of Documents (set one),  numbers 1-21, against Defendant Rosenthal & Rosenthal of California, Inc.  Plaintiff maintains the objections lack merit, the promises to respond fail to  statutorily comply, and promised production otherwise never occurred. Rosenthal  & Rosenthal of California, Inc. in opposition maintains that discovery was  produced prior to the filing of the motion, additional discovery following the  filing of the motion, and a privilege log for all withheld items. Plaintiff in  reply reiterates the deficiency of the responses, including lack of code  compliance thereby insuring full responsive production. Plaintiff denies  production of a complete privilege log. Plaintiff requests sanctions as a  result of the delayed production. Plaintiff alternatively moves for the  appointment of a discovery referee if the court is inclined to deny the motion,  thereby necessitating a second motion.   “Whether a  particular response does resolve satisfactorily the issues raised by  a motion is a matter best determined by the trial court in the exercise of its discretion,  based on the circumstances of the case.” (Sinaiko  Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007)  148 Cal.App.4th 390, 408–409.) While Rosenthal & Rosenthal, in a  well articulated opposition, represents full production of non-privileged  material and a privilege log, the counter position in reply challenges the  completeness of said further production, code compliance and the privilege log.     The court declines to summarize and address each and every  disputed item, at least in part due the inability to conduct an item-by-item  examination of the alleged continuing deficiencies. The court accepts the  representations of Plaintiff regarding unaccounted for documents in the  privilege log, and insufficient statutory compliance. The court therefore  GRANTS the motion for purposes of compelling complete responses and production,  even if a substantial majority of production occurred, and the missing documents  were inadvertently or intentionally omitted.   The court orders the parties to further meet and confer in  order to address the deficiencies raised by Plaintiff in reply within 15 days  of this order. Defendant Rosenthal & Rosenthal to provide further code  compliant responses, full non-privileged production, and an updated privilege  log accounting for all withheld items within 15 days of the lapsed meet and  confer period.   Even if the Rosenthal & Rosenthal were to establish  completeness at oral argument, the court adheres to a policy that whenever a  motion prompts a response demonstrating validity to the motion, the court will  impose sanctions in favor of the moving party. Given the delayed production,  withheld documents, and failure to produce a privilege log until after the  filing of the motion, the court imposes the mandatory statutory minimum of  $1,000 in sanctions joint and several against Rosenthal & Rosenthal and  counsel of record. Payable within 30 days. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2023.050, subd.  (a), 2031.310, subd. (h); 2031.320, subd. (d).)    A third motion compel further responses to document demands remains  scheduled for December 5, 2024. Plaintiff in reply alternatively moves for  potential appointment, but the court finds the circumstances insufficiently  support consideration barring a more articulated showing, such as a requirement  of direct review over each and every sought after challenged item for review of  issues like relevance, privilege, third party privacy, etc. Such a showing  requires a hearing under Code of Civil Procedure section 639, subd. (a)(5); (Taggares v. Superior Court (1998) 62  Cal. App. 4th 94, 105.) The parties may alternatively stipulate to a discovery  referee. The court can tailor any such order to specific parties, with fee  splitting and sanctions awards vested with the referee, if applicable. The  court reserves the right to sua sponte set an OSC re: Appointment of Referee if  potential future discovery disputes greatly expand need and further usurp court  resources.   Plaintiff to give notice to all parties.Dept.
68Date:
10-31-24 c/f 9-3-24Case
#23STCV24029 (related to lead case 22STCV38443Trial
Date: 1-27-25 JUDGMENT ON THE PLEADINGS MOVING
PARTY: Defendant, D. Masin Consulting, LLC RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiff, Limelight International, Ltd., et al. RELIEF
REQUESTEDMotion
for Judgment on the Pleadings·        
6th
Cause of Action: Conspiracy to Fraudulently Transfer Property SUMMARY
OF ACTIONPlaintiff
Limelight International Ltd., (Limelight) a Hong Kong based company authorized
to conduct business in California alleges an unspecified defaulted balance owed
by defendant RLoom LLC (RLoom) in 2022. On February 8, 2023, RLoom and
defendant D. Masin Consulting, LLC (D. Masin) executed a “General Assignment
for the Benefit of All Creditors,” whereby all assets were subject to
liquidation for payment of outstanding debts. Also on February 8, 2022, D.
Masin and RLoom Design Corp. aka Newstyle Fashion Inc. also entered into an
“Asset Purchase Agreement, whereby said assets were assigned by RLoom to D.
Masin were sold to Newstyle for $365,000. Limelight maintains an asset value of
at least $9,000,000, including its claimed outstanding debt. On
October 3, 2023, Plaintiff filed its complaint for Malicious Prosecution,
Breach of Fiduciary Duty, Fraudulent Conveyance, Successor Liability, Aiding
and Abetting Breach of Fiduciary Duty, and Conspiracy to Fraudulently Transfer
Property. Following certain defendants answer to the complaint, the parties
stipulated to the filing of a first amended complaint. The first amended
complaint filed on January 3, 2024, alleges Malicious Prosecution, Breach of
Fiduciary Duty, Fraudulent Conveyance, Successor Liability, Aiding and Abetting
Breach of Fiduciary Duty, and Conspiracy to Fraudulently Transfer Property. On
January 3, 2024, Plaintiff dismissed the first cause of action for Malicious
Prosecution.  On
February 20, 2024, the court overruled the demurrer to the first amended
complaint. Defendants answered the first amended complaint on March 1, 2024.  RULING: Granted.Defendant Youngbin Luo submits a motion for judgment on the
pleadings on the sixth cause of action for Conspiracy to Fraudulently Transfer
Property in the first amended complaint. Luo moves on grounds that Plaintiffs
cannot state a claim for conspiracy against Luo in that Luo as owner of
Newstyle Fashion aka RLooom could not have entered into a conspiracy with an
entity under the same ownership and control. Luo also contends the relied upon
third cause of action for Fraudulent Conveyance cannot elevate to a conspiracy
cause of action, and lack of facts establishing any underlying fraud.  Plaintiff in the first opposition cites to the then pending
motion for leave to amend. Plaintiff maintains the operative first amended
complaint sufficiently alleges the claim, and the position that Luo is the
owner of RLoom relies on extrinsic information not alleged in the operative complaint.
Plaintiff otherwise maintains the conspiracy claim is properly pled. The court
continued the hearing from the original date pending the motion for leave to
amend. In continuing the motion, the court neither requested nor granted the
parties leave to file revised pleadings. Notwithstanding, Plaintiff filed an
amended opposition. The amended opposition reiterates the core arguments. Defendant in reply reiterates the position of an inability
to plead conspiracy without an underlying fiduciary duty between the parties.
Luo denies any basis of liability on the basis of “constructive fraudulent
conveyance.” Luo also emphasizes that said defects cannot be corrected, thereby
precluding any leave to amend. “A motion for judgment on the
pleadings serves the function of a demurrer, challenging only defects on the
face of the complaint… [¶] The grounds for a motion for judgment on the
pleadings must appear on the face of the complaint or from a matter of which
the court may take judicial notice.” (Richardson-Tunnell
v. School Ins. Program for Employees (2007) 157 Cal.App.4th
1056, 1061.) In considering a motion for judgment on the pleadings, courts
consider whether the factual allegations, assumed true, are sufficient to
constitute a cause of action. (Fire
Insurance Exchange v. Superior Court (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 446, 452-453.) A
demurrer is an objection to a pleading, the grounds for which are apparent from
either the face of the complaint or a matter of which the court may take
judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a); see also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,
318.) The purpose of a demurrer is to challenge the sufficiency of a pleading
“by raising questions of law.” (Postley
v. Harvey (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.) “In the construction of a
pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its allegations must be
liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice between the parties.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 452.) The court “ ‘ “treat[s] the demurrer as admitting all
material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions
of fact or law . . . .” ’ ” (Berkley v.
Dowds (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518, 525.) In applying these standards, the
court liberally construes the complaint to determine whether a cause of action
has been stated.  (Picton v. Anderson Union High School Dist. (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th
726, 733.) “A demurrer for uncertainty is strictly
construed, even where a complaint is in some respects uncertain, because
ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly's of California, Inc. (1993)
14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616; Williams v.
Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139 [“[U]nder our liberal pleading rules, where the
complaint contains substantive factual allegations sufficiently apprising
defendant of the issues it is being asked to meet, a demurrer for uncertainty
should be overruled or plaintiff given leave to amend.] “Conspiracy is not a cause
of action, but a legal doctrine that imposes liability on persons who, although
not actually committing a tort themselves, share with the immediate tortfeasors
a common plan or design in its perpetration.” (Applied Equipment Corp. v.
Litton Saudi Arabia Ltd. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 503, 510–511.) The conspiracy “must be activated by the commission of an
actual tort.” (Id. at 511.) A conspiracy
claim requires three elements: “(1) the formation and operation of the conspiracy, (2) wrongful conduct in furtherance of
the conspiracy, and (3) damages arising from
the wrongful conduct.” (Kidron v. Movie Acquisition Corp. (1995) 40
Cal.App.4th 1571, 1581.) “A party seeking to establish a civil conspiracy ‘must show that each member of the conspiracy acted in concert and came to a mutual
understanding to accomplish a common and unlawful plan, and that one or more of
them committed an overt act to further it. [Citation.] It is not enough that
the [conspirators] knew of an intended wrongful act, they must agree—expressly
or tacitly—to achieve it.’ (Citation omitted.) It must be recognized,
however, that because of the very nature of a conspiracy,
‘its existence must often be inferentially and circumstantially derived from
the character of the acts done, the relations of the parties and other facts
and circumstances suggestive of concerted action.’ (Citation omitted.) While a complaint must contain more than a bare
allegation the defendants conspired, a complaint is sufficient if it apprises
the defendant of the ‘character and type of facts and circumstances upon which
she was relying to establish the conspiracy.’ (Citations omitted.)” (Arei II Cases (2013) 216 Cal.App.4th
1004, 1022.) The
operative complaint provides reference to the elements of a conspiracy. [First.
Amend. Comp., ¶¶ 71-73.] Luo initially challenges any alleged relationship with
RLoom as a self-defeating allegation of conspiracy between a principal and a
corporate entity, while Plaintiff denies the existence of any allegation
regarding the relationship between Luo and RLoom for purposes of undercutting
the conspiracy claim. “A cause of action for civil conspiracy may not arise,
however, if the alleged conspirator, though a participant in the agreement
underlying the injury, was not personally bound by the duty violated by the
wrongdoing and was acting only as the agent or employee of the party who did
have that duty.” (Doctors' Co. v. Superior Court (1989) 49 Cal.3d
39, 44.) Paragraph 23 of the first amended complaint
states: “On
December 9, 2022, Limelight filed a verified complaint in the Los Angeles
Superior Court, commencing Limelight v. Oneworld Apparel, LLC, Case Number
22STCV38443 (the ‘Lawsuit’). In the Lawsuit, Limelight seeks to recover
$586,962.09 from RLoom for unpaid invoices on account of purchase orders made
between February 2022 to July 2022.” Paragraph 24 continues: “On January 27,
2023, RLoom, through its representative, Luo, filed a cross-complaint against
Limelight in the Lawsuit (the "Cross-Complaint"). One of the claims
in the Cross-Complaint against Limelight was for rescission of all purchase
orders entered into between Limelight and RLoom.” Paragraph 71 is consistent
with the “representative” relationship allegation: “Limelight is informed and
believe and, on that basis, alleges that Luo was aware of, and played an active
role in, the act and fraudulent transfer described above with the actual intent
to assist in defrauding creditors, especially Limelight because at all relevant
times Luo was (a) aware of the fair market value of Rloom’s assets, (b)
acquired the buyer of the assets, RLoom Design, prior to executing the
Assignment on behalf of RLoom and (c) made misrepresentations to D. Masin
regarding the value of Rloom’s assets, in an effort to have Rloom’s assets
transferred to RLoom Design through the Transfer for less than reasonably
equivalent value.”  The
phrasing of the subject “representative” language supports the finding of a
violation of the fundamental rule barring conspiracy formation by a principal
acting on behalf of a corporate entity. Plaintiff in opposition maintains the
allegation in fact mans that Luo “found the buyer of the assets of RLoom, not
that Luo [actually] purchased RLoom Design,” but also alternatively offers to
amend the language. While Luo offers no follow-up in the reply, and the
elements for conspiracy are sufficiently pled, the concession to the ambiguity
in the language still supports granting the motion on this basis. The motion is
GRANTED on this basis. In
reviewing the decision to focus on other argument, Luo emphasizes the challenge
to the lack of factual specificity, and a dramatically expanded address
challenging the underlying basis of the third cause of action via the lack of
any fiduciary duty between the parties. Luo essentially relies on a failure of
the underpinning third cause of action for fraudulent conveyance itself, as
pled only against RLoom.  The
court finds the evidentiary challenge itself premature. (Kidron v. Movie
Acquisition Corp. (1995) 40 Cal.App.4th 1571, 1589.) The court also
finds reliance on authority regarding conspiracy against an attorney under
Civil Code section 1714.10, misplaced.  (Berg
& Berg Enterprises, LLC v. Sherwood Partners, Inc. (2005) 131
Cal.App.4th 802, 823.) Still,
Luo correctly cites to the position that the underlying participating
conspirator must be legally qualified to be held labile for allegedly committing
the tort. “By its nature, tort liability arising from a conspiracy presupposes
that the conspirator is legally capable of committing the tort—that he owes a
duty to the plaintiff recognized by law and is potentially subject to liability
for the breach of that duty.” (Everest Investors 8 v. Whitehall Real Estate
Limited Partnership XI (2002) 100 Cal.App.4th 1102, 1106.) Luo depends
on a lack of any fiduciary duty between the parties, while Plaintiff
categorically identifies the third cause of action as one for “constructive”
fraudulent transfer, thereby negating any fiduciary duty element. The
actual cause of action lacks any indication of a “constructive notice” basis.
Regardless, the court addresses the elements. “Civil
Code section 1573 defines constructive fraud. ‘Constructive fraud consists: [¶]
1. In any breach of duty which, without an actually fraudulent intent, gains an
advantage to the person in fault, or anyone claiming under him, by misleading
another to his prejudice, or to the prejudice of any one claiming under him; or
[¶] 2. In any such act or omission as the law specially declares to be
fraudulent, without respect to actual fraud.’ ‘Constructive fraud arises on a
breach of duty by one in a confidential or fiduciary relationship to another
which induces justifiable reliance by the latter to
his prejudice. (Civ. Code, § 1573.)’” (Estate of Gump (1991)
1 Cal.App.4th 582, 601.) The
standard clearly undermines Plaintiff’s legally unsupported distinction. The
court therefore GRANTS the motion for judgment on the pleadings on this basis
as well, due to the underlying flaws in the relied upon “constructive”
fraudulent transfer cause of action. Luo challenges the right to amend, but it
remains unclear how the cause of action is “irredeemably defective.” The court
finds the flaws in the principal and business entity bar readily clarified, as
addressed in the opposition.  The
constructive fraud claim requires more careful consideration. While it remains
possible that Plaintiff cannot allege a fiduciary relationship in the third
cause of action for purposes of a valid conspiracy cause of action, the court
finds insufficient argument on the inability to plead such potential facts. The
court declines to make the arguments for either party, and instead defers to
the parties to fully consider the issues in amending and potentially
challenging the latest iteration of the operative complaint.  The
motion for judgment on the pleading is therefore GRANTED without prejudice/with
30 days leave to amend. Given the court previously denied the motion for leave
to amend greatly expanding the action to joining the attorney parties, adding
RICO causes of action, etc., the court will allow leave to amend ONLY as to the
third and sixth causes of action for purposes of addressing Luo. Plaintiff may NOT
add any new causes of action or damages claims. (Harris v. Wachovia Mortgage, FSB (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 1018, 1023.) Any such claims will be
subject to a motion to strike by any and all impacted parties. Motion to compel further responses to document demand
against Newstyle Fashion, Inc. aka RLoom Design Corp. scheduled for December 5,
2024. Luo to give notice to all parties.

























































































































   