..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is a summary of the tentative ruling in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 23TRCV00534
Plaintiff's Name: Khachatur Mkrtchyan
Defendant's Name: General Motors, LLC
People-Names: 
Company-Names: General Motors LLC
Places: 
Dates: 
Events: 
Money: 
Intentions: 
Facts: 
Disputes: 
Acts: 
Agreements: 
Laws: 
Statutes: 
Roles: 
Significant Statements:

  - The Court will grant the motion to compel further responses to RFP Nos. 16, 17, and 19, but will deny RFP Nos. 18, 20, and 21.
  - The Court will require GM to produce specific documents related to the Infotainment defects reported by Plaintiff in the subject vehicle's repair history.
  - The Court will deny the RFP to the extent it seeks emailed communications from GM employees transmitting or mentioning a Star Report or any other emails at this time.
  - The Court will grant RFP No. 19, but will require GM to produce warranty claims presented to the motor vehicle manufacturer as to other customers' complaints of the same symptoms experienced by the Plaintiff on two or more occasions in vehicles purchased or leased in California for the same year, make and model of the subject vehicle.
  - The Court will require GM to produce a more narrowly tailored subset of the requested categories of documents related to Infotainment symptoms reported by Plaintiff in the subject vehicle's repair history.
  - The Court will deny the motion to compel further responses to RFP Nos. 18, 20, and 21, as the discovery sought is not reasonably calculated to lead to documents that may be admissible in this case and relevant to the issues of defect and willful violation of the Song-Beverly Act.
```

And here is a summary of the tentative ruling in English text:

The Court has made a tentative ruling on the motion to compel further responses to the Requests for Production of Documents, Set One, Nos. 16-21.

The Court will grant the motion to compel further responses to RFP Nos. 16 and 19, but will deny RFP Nos. 18, 20, and 21. For RFP No. 16, the Court will require GM to produce specific documents related to the Infotainment defects reported by Plaintiff in the subject vehicle's repair history. The Court will deny the RFP to the extent it seeks emailed communications from GM employees transmitting or mentioning a Star Report or any other emails at this time.

For RFP No. 19, the Court will grant the motion, but will require GM to produce warranty claims presented to the motor vehicle manufacturer as to other customers' complaints of the same symptoms experienced by the Plaintiff on two or more occasions in vehicles purchased or leased in California for the same year, make and model of the subject vehicle. The Court will also require GM to produce a more narrowly tailored subset of the requested categories of documents related to Infotainment symptoms reported by Plaintiff in the subject vehicle's repair history.

The Court will deny the motion to compel further responses to RFP Nos. 18, 20, and 21, as the discovery sought is not reasonably calculated to lead to documents that may be admissible in this case and relevant to the issues of defect and willful violation of the Song-Beverly Act.
