 Case Number:  23TRCV00534    Hearing Date:   November 27, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                    November 27, 2024
¿¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                   23TRCV00534
¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Khachatur
Mkrtchyan v. General Motors LLC, et al.

¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                Plaintiff,
Khachatur Mkrtchyan 
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Defendant,
General Motors, LLC
¿¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                           January 13, 2025 
¿¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                                  (1) Motion to Compel
Defendant’s Further Responses to Requests for Production of Documents, Set
One    
                                                
Tentative Rulings:                     (1) GRANTED in part, DENIED
in part, subject to oral argument.  The
Court will also discuss moving the trial date
 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
A. Factual¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
On February 24, 2023, Plaintiff, Khachatur Mkrtchyan
(“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendant, General Motors, LLC and DOES
1 through 50 (“GM”). The complaint alleges causes of action for: (1) Violation
of Civil Code section 1793.2(d); (2) Violation of Civil Code section 1793.2(b);
(3) Violation of Civil Code section 1793.2(a)(3); (4) Breach of Express Written
Warranty – Civil Code section 1791.2(a); 1794; and (5) Breach of the Implied
Warranty of Merchantability – Civil Code section 891.1; 1794. 
 
On August 8, 2024, Plaintiff propounded Requests for
Production of Documents on GM seeking documents: (1) relating to GM’s internal
investigations and analysis of the Defects “plaguing” Plaintiff’s vehicle and
establishing GM previously knew of such Defects but nevertheless refused to
repurchase the vehicle (RFP Nos. 16-21). On September , 2024, Defendant served
unverified responses that Plaintiff contends were filled with boilerplate objections
and evasive, non-code compliant responses. Plaintiff also sates that many of
the requested documents were also not produced, including investigative
PowerPoint presentations and meeting minutes, failure rates, root cause
analysis, similar customer calls and communications between engineers and that
there was no indication that appropriate searches for ESI, email
communications, and other data were conducted. On October 2, 2024, Defendant
served verifications. 
 
Based on the above, Plaintiff has brought a Motion to
Compel Further Responses from GM as to Requests for Production of Documents,
Set One, Nos. 16-21. 
 
B. Procedural¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
On October 16, 2024, Plaintiff filed the
Motion to Compel GM’s further responses to Requests for Production of
Documents, Set One. On November 14, 2024, GM filed an opposition brief. On
November 20, 2024, Plaintiff filed a reply brief. 
 
¿II. ANALYSIS¿ 
¿ 
A.    Legal Standard 
A motion to compel further
responses to a demand for inspection or production of documents (“RFP”) may be
brought based on: (1) incomplete statements of compliance; (2) inadequate,
evasive, or incomplete claims of inability to comply; or (3) unmerited or
overly generalized objections.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310(c).) A
motion to compel further production must set forth specific facts showing good
cause justifying the discovery sought by the inspection demand. (See Code Civ.
Proc., § 2031.310(b)(1).) In Digital Music News LLC v Superior Court
(2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 216 at 224, the Court defined “good cause” as a showing
that there “a disputed fact that is of consequence in the action and the
discovery sought will tend in reason to prove or disprove that fact or lead to
other evidence that will tend to prove or disprove the fact.” If the
moving party has shown good cause for the requests for production, the burden
is on the objecting party to justify the objections. (Kirkland v. Sup.Ct
(2002) 95 Cal. App.4th 92, 98.) ¿ 
"The court shall limit the
scope of discovery if it determines that the burden, expense, or intrusiveness
of that discovery clearly outweighs the likelihood that the information sought
will lead to the discovery of admissible evidence." (Cal. Code of Civ.
Proc. § 2017.020(a).) Generally, objections on the ground of burden require the
objecting party to produce evidence of (a) the propounding party's subjective
intent to create burden or (b) the amount of time and effort it would take to
respond. (See West Pico Furniture Co. of Los Angeles v. Superior Court In
and For Los Angeles County (1961) 56 Cal.2d 407, 417.) However, no such
evidence is necessary where discovery is obviously overbroad on its face. (See Obregon
v. Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 424, 431.)
B.    Discussion 
 
                                  
i.         
Meet and Confer 
 
On August 8, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel states sent a
meet and confer letter to Defense counsel. (Declaration of Joshua Fennell
(“Fennell Decl.”), ¶ 25.) On August 13, 2024, Defendant responded stating GM
was not required to engage in discussions regarding ESI at that time. (Fennell
Decl., ¶ 26.) On September 23, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel sent another meet and
confer detail regarding GM’s verifications, boilerplate objections, non-code
compliant/deficient responses ad document production. (Fennell Decl., ¶ 27.) GM
did not respond. (Fennell Decl., ¶ 28.)
 
On September 20, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel sent a
second meet and confer letter requesting a response to Plaintiffs September 5,
2024 meet and confer letter. (Fennell Decl., ¶ 29.) On September 25, 2024,
Defendant’s counsel responded stating GM was standing on its objections.
(Fennell Decl., ¶ 30.) On September 26, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel sent another
meet and confer letter. (Fennell Decl., ¶ 31.) GM did not respond. (Fennell
Decl., ¶ 32.)
 
On October 4, 2024, Plaintiff sent another meet and
confer letter to which GM did not respond. (Fennell Decl., ¶¶ 33-34.) On
October 14, 2024, Plaintiff sent a final meet and confer letter. (Fennell
Decl., ¶ 35.) 
 
Despite
GM’s assertion that Plaintiff failed to meet and confer in good faith, this
court holds the meet and confer efforts to be sufficient. 
 
                                 
ii.         
Motion to Compel Further
 
            Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel GM’s
Further Responses to Requests for Production of Documents, Set One, Plaintiff seeks
further responses to RFP Nos. 16-21. The court rules on each as follows: 
 
RFP
Nos. 16: Despite Plaintiff limiting the inquiry to the same year, make, and
model of the subject vehicle, the court finds the defined term, “Infotainment
defects,” to be overbroad. Plaintiff defines this term to include, but not
limit, no sound coming out of the speakers, volume not working, Apple
CarPlay not working, radio screen freezing, infotainment screen going black,
augmented reality not working, augmented reality black screen, screen switching
to phone speaker instead of vehicle speakers during a call, radio turning
purple, radio reprogramming, VESCOM reprogramming, cluster reprogramming,
graphics reprogramming, serial dataway module reprogramming, radio replacement,
TSB 5834958; and any other relevant concern identified in the repair history
for the subject 2021 Cadillac Escalade; Vehicle Identification Number
1GYS3KKL2MR433401.  While Plaintiff is
not alone in seeking to define a defined term for purposes of discovery by
including a catch-all clause such as “any other concern in the repair history
of the subject vehicle,” that clause makes the definition objectionably
problematic.  The Court sustains GM’s objection,
but rather than make Plaintiff go through another round of propounding,
responding, and meeting and conferring before the inevitable next discovery
motion, the Court fashions an order to resolve the parties’ dispute by deleting
that clause from the discovery requests that are the subject of this motion to
compel.  In future, if and when this issue
arises in other cases between the same law firms, the proposal or offer to
delete an obviously objectionable clause or term should be made in the meet and
confer process before a discovery motion is filed.
 
            The next problematic issue raised by
Plaintiff’s overly broad definition of “Infotainment defects” is the definition’s
inclusion of approximately a dozen symptoms plus a TSB plus 6 different repair
procedures in the ambit of a singe defined term.  Doing so make the RFP objectionably compound.  The next problematic issue is that this single
RFP seeks not only 3 different categories of investigations as to the cause of
the dozen or so symptoms, but also emails and cost analyses and other documents.  Once again, the manner in which Plaintiff has
phrased this single RFP is overly and objectionably compound.  GM thus had substantial justification for
requiring Plaintiff to bring a motion to compel so that a neutral third party,
i.e., the Court, could rule on the objections. 
The Court generally does not require a motor vehicle manufacturer to
search its thousands of employees’ emails for references to a TSB or repair
procedure or root cause analysis report without a further showing than has been
made here, because such a search is not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery
of evidence that would be admissible at trial, taking into account the needs of
the case, the importance of the issue to this litigation, the burden of such a
search, and other pertinent factors.  
 
            Instead, the Court will GRANT the
motion as to RFP No. 16 and require GM to produce a more narrowly tailored
subset of the requested categories of documents, as to the Infotainment
symptoms reported by Plaintiff in the subject vehicle’s repair history, as
contemplated by the Legislature and the Governor in their passage of new Civil
Code section 871.26.    If each of the listed symptoms of (1) no
sound coming out of the speakers, (2) volume not working, (3) Apple CarPlay not
working, (4) radio screen freezing, (5) infotainment screen going black, (6) augmented
reality not working, (7) augmented reality black screen, (8) screen switching
to phone speaker instead of vehicle speakers during a call, and (9) radio
turning purple appear in Plaintiff’s repair history for the subject 2021
Escalade, then GM is ordered to produce the following categories of documents applicable
to a model year 2021 Cadillac Escalade that discuss, mention, or include any such
symptoms:
 
A.         Published
technical service bulletins (”TSBs”), 
B.         Published
information service bulletins (”ISBs”), 
C.        Portions
of any service manuals that evidence or discuss a recommended repair procedure
or diagnostic steps the repair technician should undertake in diagnosing,
repairing or replacing a component to address any of the 9 listed symptoms 
 
 
            If any of the 9 listed symptoms do
not appear in the plaintiff’s repair history for the subject Escalade, then GM
shall not be required to provide the TSBs, ISBs or service manual sections for
such a non-included symptom.  GM shall
produce the required documents on or before January 3, 2025, the currently scheduled
FSC date, with a verified written response. 
This will mean the currently scheduled trial date will need to be
postponed, which the Court will discuss at the oral argument on this motion.  The Court’s ruling is without prejudice to
Plaintiff later seeking production of other documents.
 
RFP
Nos. 17: DENIED in part and GRANTED in part. This
RFP suffers from some of the same concerns as discussed for RFP 16, but the focus
of this request is on “communications” and particularly emails.  Is Plaintiff seeking communications between GM
and Plaintiff, GM and its dealers, GM and other customers, GM and the US Department
of Transportation, etc.? The court is unable to determine this from the request
itself. Court will GRANT this request by narrowing its objectionable over
breadth and require GM to produce by January 3, 2025 any Star Reports applicable
to a model year 2021 Cadillac Escalade that discuss, mention, or include any of
the 9 listed symptoms, again provided that symptom was mentioned in the subject
vehicle’s repair history. The Court DENIES the RFP to the
extent it seeks emailed communications from GM employees transmitting or
mentioning a Star Report or any other emails at this time, i.e., without prejudice
to a later more tailored RFP or interrogatory or deposition question.
 
RFP
No. 18, 20, & 21: DENIED. To the extent that the discovery sought by
these three RFPs overlaps and is being granted with respect to the other RFPs
in this motion, the Court is permitting and requiring discovery determined by the
Court to be reasonably calculated to lead to documents that may be admissible
in this case and relevant to the issues of defect and willful violation of the Song-Beverly
Act.  
 
RFP
No. 19: DENIED in part and GRANTED in part. 
The Court typically does grant motions
to compel production of warranty claims presented to the motor vehicle manufacturer
as to other customers’ complaints of the same symptoms experienced by the
Plaintiff on two or more occasions in vehicles purchased or leased in
California for the same year, make and model of the subject vehicle.  At oral argument the Court will discuss with
counsel the type of documents that may be required and the format for a
production of documents such as in a sortable Excel spreadsheet that lists a
compilation or summary of much more voluminous documents.  The spreadsheet would contain the repair
date, the VIN last 6 of the other customers’ vehicle, the servicing dealer by
name, location and/or dealer code, a description of the customer’s complaint as
listed in the warranty claim submission, the determined cause if any of that
complaint or whether no problem or cause was found, and the correction, repair,
or replacement performed if any.
The Court scope of permissible discovery will be only the
MY 2021 Escalades sold or leased in California, a much smaller and less
burdensome amount than the national total of all MY 2021 Escalades distributed
in the United States.  Further, the
parties shall discuss search terms for key words to be used in a program for GM
to run on its digitally stored records in GM’s warranty reimbursement system
records.  The Court will NOT order GM to
identify the other customers by name, address, telephone number or any other
PII.  Any such compilation will be
subject to a Discovery Protective Order in this case, and the custodian or
other person who generates the compilation may need to be identified if the
parties cannot stipulate to the use and admissibility of the chart should this case
proceed to trial.  The Court will not
order production of ESI as to other California customers’ complaints of repair
issues that occurred on a single occasion in the plaintiff’s repair
history.  Merely because the Plaintiff
experienced a repair issue a single time does not make discovery of every other
California customer’s records for that repair issue reasonable when considering
the needs of the litigation, the importance of that issue to the issues
disputed in this litigation, the amount in controversy, and the costs of
providing the broader scope of discovery sought by Plaintiff.  
Given the impending holidays the Court recognizes that the
search for and generation of the other customers’ warranty claims may take more
than 30 days, so GM should be prepared to propose a reasonable time frame for
the production of the spreadsheet the Court will be ordering.  
 
III. CONCLUSION 
 
For
the foregoing reasons, Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests for
Production of Documents is DENIED in part and GRANTED in part. Plaintiff is ordered to give notice. 