 Case Number:  23TRCV00346    Hearing Date:   November 27, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿ 
¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 November 27, 2024 
¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                   23TRCV00346
¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Cecilia
Tapia De Ulloa, et al. v. Michael K. Newman, M.D., et al. 
¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendants, Michael K. Newman, M.D. and Association
of South Bay Plastic Surgeons Medical Group (incorrectly named and served as
South Bay Plastic Surgeons, Inc. 
¿¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY:        Plaintiff, Cecilia Tapia De Ulloa
¿¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                        April 28, 2025
¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              Defendants’ Continued Motion for Summary Judgment and Defense
Request to take a Limited St. Mary’s Deposition of Plaintiff Expert Schusterman
                                                
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) GRANT
Defendants’ request for a St. Mary’s deposition of Dr. Schusterman. The
hearing on the MSJ will be continued into early 2025. 
 
 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A.   
Factual¿¿ 
 
On February 7, 2023, Plaintiffs, Cecilia Tapia De
Ulloa and Edwin J. Ulloa, as individuals and as successors in interest to
Natalia C. Ulloa filed a Complaint against Defendants, Michael K. Newman, M.D.,
South Bay Plastic Surgeons, Inc., Jason K. Ho, M.D., Michael Mercado, M.D.,
Providence Medical Institute Manhattan Beach Urgent Care, and DOES 1 through
100. The Complaint alleges a cause of action for Medical Malpractice/Wrongful
Death and Survival Action. 
 
Defendants, Michael K.
Newman, M.D. and Association of South Bay Plastic Surgeons Medical Group
(incorrectly named and served as South Bay Plastic Surgeons, Inc. (“Moving
Defendants”) now files a Motion for Summary Judgment. 
 
B.   
Procedural¿¿ 
On April 11, 2024, Moving Defendants filed a Motion
for Summary Judgment. On July 24, 2024, Plaintiffs filed an opposition brief.
On July 25, 2024, Moving Defendants filed a reply brief. 
 
This motion was originally heard on August 1, 2024,
where this court continued the hearing to allow Plaintiff to submit an amended
declaration of Dr. Mark Schusterman and any further evidence by August 30,
2024. Defendant was allowed to submit any objections to the amended declaration
or any other declaration by September 16, 2024. 
 
On October 2, 2024, at the continued hearing, this
court continued the hearing yet again to allow the  parties to brief the issues concerning
Defendant’s request to take a St. Mary’s Medical Center v. Superior Court deposition
of Plaintiff’s expert prior to the court ruling on the motion for summary
judgment. This court ordered Plaintiff to file a supplemental brief on or
before November 6, 2024 and for Defense counsel to file a sur-reply on or
before November 18, 2024.  On November 6,
2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition brief, and on November 19, 2024, Defendants
filed a sur-reply brief. The Court indicated orally that it was inclined to
permit the defense the same right to the defendants to take a St. Mary’s
deposition of the expert who filed a declaration opposing the MSJ, just as it
had given Plaintiff the right to take a St. Mary’s deposition of the
defense expert who had submitted a declaration in support of the MSJ.  
 
II. ANALYSIS¿ 
 
In St. Mary Medical Center v. Superior
Court (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 1531 (“St. Mary”), the court of appeal
concluded that “where a party presents evidence that raises a significant question
relating to the foundation of an expert’s opinion filed in support of or in
opposition to a motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication, a
deposition limited to that subject should be allowed.”  (Id. at p.
1534.)  The physician defendants in St. Mary filed a motion for
summary judgment in which an expert declared that the physicians were not
negligent in the care and treatment of the plaintiff patient while performing a
procedure.  (Id. at p. 1534.)  In opposition, the
plaintiff filed a declaration by his expert, who declared that two of the
physicians were negligent.  (Ibid.)  The defendant physicians
then filed a motion to compel the deposition of the plaintiff’s expert while
the plaintiff opposed the motion on the grounds that expert designations had
not yet been exchanged pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2034 et
seq.  (Id. at pp. 1535-1536.) 
 
The court of appeals found that limited
discovery to address basis for the expert opinion was justified because there
was evidence that one of the physicians was not even present at the medical
procedure at issue.  The court noted that although a reply declaration
could address the mistake, the trial court would then be required to conclude
that a triable issue of fact existed.  (Id. at p. 1538.)  The
court continued, “[I]t would defeat the purpose of a summary procedure if the
opposition party were allowed to defeat the motion by less than candid
declarations or affidavits in opposition.  (Ibid.) 
 
As set forth
in St. Mary, “whether to grant discovery in a given case falls within
the sound discretion of the trial court based upon all of the facts
presented.  There must be objective facts presented which create a
significant question regarding the validity of the affidavit or declaration
which, if successfully pursued, will impeach the foundational basis of the
affidavit or declaration in question.”  (50 Cal.App.4th at pp.
1540-1541.)  
 
In Defendants’ sur-reply brief,
they observe that initially, there was a question as to the basis
of Dr. Schusterman’s declaration because he did not review authenticated
evidence as a basis for his opinions in this matter. This problem was cured following
this Court’s tentative ruling for the October 2, 2024 hearing. However,  Defendants assert that the substance of Dr.
Schusterman’s declaration raises questions as to the nature and extent of his
review of records. Specifically, Defendants assert the Supplemental Declaration
of Dr. Schusterman merely states which records he reviewed. Defendants point
out that there is not a statement of his opinions following his review of the
now more properly authenticated evidence.
 
Defendants
also argue the declaration is substantively suspect. For example, Defendants
state the declaration is devoid of any consideration that fat embolism syndrome
(assuming it existed) could have been caused by the liposuction that preceded
the subject fat transfer. Defendants assert the foundational aspects of the
said opinion are not stated in Dr. Schusterman’s declaration and need to be
explored. (citing paragraph 11 of the “original” Declaration of Dr.
Schusterman). Lastly, Defendants argue the substance of Dr. Schusterman’s
declaration pertaining to informed consent criticisms are tenuous because Dr.
Schusterman only references the consent regarding BLL and not liposuction in
general, which is covered in depth in the written consent and in Dr. Newman’s
deposition, which Dr. Schusterman purportedly reviewed. Thus, Defendants
contend this raises foundational issues as they relate to informed consent
opinions stated in paragraph 11 of the “original” opinions. 
 
In
Plaintiffs’ supplemental opposition brief, Plaintiffs contend this is about whether
plaintiff’s expert is “lying,” as opposed to an examination of the foundation for
Dr. Schusterman’s opinions.  Plaintiffs
argue Defendants are attempting to secure Dr. Schusterman’s deposition early in
violation of the established expert designation statutes pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure section 2034.210, et seq. The Court disagrees with Plaintiffs’
characterization.  In the Court’s view,
the defense is seeking sworn testimony as to whether Dr. Schusterman’s opinions
are subject to objections based on lack of foundation, or whether he has
adequate foundation regardless of the lack of specificity on foundation in the
declaration submitted in opposition tot eh MSJ. 
This is, in the Court’s opinion, a legitimate basis for a limited St.
Mary’s deposition.  If the defense is
satisfied as to the sufficiency of the foundation for Dr. Schusterman’s
opinion, they may well withdraw their motion for summary judgment or proceed to
argue it on the merits.  
 
The
Court elects to exercise its discretion and permit the defense to take a
limited St. Mary’s deposition of Dr. Schusterman, limited to the foundation
for the opinions he gave in his initial declaration filed in opposition to the
pending MSJ and foundations for his opinions as to the scope of the informed
consents in this case.  Such a limited deposition
would not be a premature full expert deposition, but rather would be restricted
by and for reasons stated in the St. Mary’s decision.   The Court reminds both parties that its
substantive tentative ruling was to deny the MSJ, on the assumption that there
was an adequate foundation for the opinions of the Plaintiff’s expert.  The
Court desires to reach the point where it can definitively rule on the defense
MSJ one way or the other.  It is in
plaintiff’s interest to demonstrate that Dr. Schusterman can lay an adequate
foundation for his opinion used to oppose the MSJ given the Court’s earlier tentative
ruling on that motion.   The Court’s tentative ruling is thus to GRANT
Defendants’ request for a St. Mary’s deposition of Dr. Schusterman and
to postpone the hearing to an agreeable date probably in February of 2025.   
 
IV. CONCLUSION

 
            For the foregoing reasons, this
Court tentatively GRANTS Moving Defendants’ motion to take the limited deposition
of Dr. Schusterman restricted under St. Mary’s to the foundation for the
opinions given in opposition to the pending MSJ.    The hearing on the MSJ will be continued into
early 2025. 