  Case Number:  23STCV15217    Hearing Date:   September 28, 2023    Dept:  49 Nancy Brusegaard Johnson, et al. v. Cooperative of American Physicians, Inc.MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT  MOVING PARTY: Plaintiffs Nancy Brusegaard Johnson, Paul Rogus, and Jorge LiraRESPONDING PARTY(S): Defendant Cooperative of American Physicians, Inc.STATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: Plaintiffs Nancy Brusegaard Johnson, Paul Rogus, and Jorge Lira worked for Defendant Cooperative of American Physicians, Inc. Plaintiffs allege Defendant terminated their employment after Plaintiffs reported that a fellow employee had engaged in a scheme to steal money and product from Defendant. Plaintiffs bring causes of action for (1) violation of Labor Code section 1102.5, (2) wrongful termination in violation of public policy, and (3) defamation.Plaintiffs now move for an order granting them leave to file a First Amended Complaint. Defendant opposed.TENTATIVE RULING:Plaintiffs’ Motion for Leave to Amend its Cross-Complaint is GRANTED.A Standalone First Amended Complaint must be filed and served to all current parties within 10 days consistent with this Ruling.Defendant to give notice, unless waived.DISCUSSION:Motion for Leave to File First Amended ComplaintI. Legal StandardIf a plaintiff wishes to amend a complaint after the answer has been filed or after the demurrer has been filed and after the hearing on the demurrer, or if he or she has already amended the complaint “of course,” permission of the court must be obtained before the amendment will be allowed. (CCP §§ 473(a)(1), 576.)   Motions for leave to amend the pleadings are directed to the sound discretion of the court. “The court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading . . . .” (CCP § 473(a)(1); see CCP § 576.) Policy favors liberally granting leave to amend so that all disputed matters between the parties may be resolved. (See Howard v. County of San Diego (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 1422, 1428.) Absent prejudice to the adverse party, the court may permit amendments to the complaint “at any stage of the proceedings, up to and including trial.” (Atkinson v. Elk Corp. (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 739, 761 [internal quotes omitted].)  Although denial is rarely justified, a judge has discretion to deny leave to amend if the party seeking the amendment has been dilatory, and the delay has prejudiced the opposing party. (Morgan v. Sup.Ct. (1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530; see also Hirsa v. Superior Court (1981) 118 Cal.App.3d 486, 490). An opposing party is prejudiced where the amendment would necessitate a trial delay along with a loss of critical evidence, added preparation expense, increased burden of discovery, etc. (Magpali v. Farmers Group, Inc. (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 471, 486-488.  Ordinarily, the court will not consider the validity of the proposed amended pleading in ruling on a motion for leave since grounds for a demurrer or motion to strike are premature.  The court, however, does have discretion to deny leave to amend where a proposed amendment fails to state a valid cause of action as a matter of law and the defect cannot be cured by further amendment.  (See California Casualty General Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1985) 173 Cal.App.3d 274, 281 (overruled on other grounds by Kransco v. American Empire Surplus Lines Ins. Co. (2000) 23 Cal.4th 390).)II. AnalysisPlaintiffs Nancy Brusegaard Johnson, Paul Rogus, and Jorge Lira move for leave to file a First Amended Complaint. Plaintiffs seek to add a single new cause of action for breach of contract [FN 1]  asserted by Plaintiff Nancy Brusegaard Johnson only, and to remedy certain “typographical errors” in the Complaint.Plaintiffs’ counsel attests he only became aware of the existence of an employment contract once he reviewed Plaintiff Nancy Brusegaard Johnson’s personnel file in order to respond to Form Interrogatories propounded by Defendant on July 28, 2023. (Leb Decl. ¶ 5.) He then “promptly asked defense counsel via e-mail to agree to either arbitrate the claims as provided in the agreement or stipulate to an amended complaint allowing Ms. Johnson to assert her claims based on the written employment agreement. Defense counsel, in a responsive e-mail, declined to either arbitrate the claims (asserting that Ms. Johnson had waived any right to arbitrate by filing this action) or stipulate to an amended complaint.” (Id.)Defendant opposes leave to amend. While Defendant recognizes the action has only been pending since June 23, 2023, Defendant contends “this dispute has actually been in litigation for over nine months.” (Opp. 2: 7-9.) That is because Plaintiff initiated three separate arbitration proceedings on these claims in January 2023. Defendant also contends that because the underlying employment contract was “produced to Plaintiffs’ counsel 9 months ago,” Defendant inexcusably delayed in seeking leave to amend. (Opp. 2: 14.) Defendant also attacks the veracity of the proposed claim, calling it superfluous of the wrongful termination claim. First, this action has been pending before this court for only 3 months. It had been pending for an even shorter time when Plaintiffs informed Defendant they sought to file an amended complaint. That the amendment may necessitate further, or additional discovery is not reason to deny the motion at such an early stage. While Plaintiffs arguably could or should have learned of the potential claims earlier, there is no evidence the failure to do so was in bad faith. This mere oversight does not support denial of leave to amend. Second, the court need not address the veracity of the breach of contract claim at this time. Instead, the “better course of action” is to permit the amendment, “and then let the parties test its legal sufficiency in other appropriate proceedings.”  (Atkinson v. Elk Corp. (2003) 109 Cal. App. 4th 739, 760.)Finally, and most important, Defendant cannot reasonably claim it will be unduly prejudiced if Plaintiffs are given leave to amend. Indeed, Defendant’s opposition does not even attempt to demonstrate any such prejudice. This conclusion is consistent with the “policy of great liberality in allowing amendments at any stage of the proceeding so as to dispose of cases upon their substantial merits.”  (Bd. of Trustees v. Superior Ct. (2007) 149 Cal. App. 4th 1154, 1163.) Accordingly, Plaintiffs’ Motion for Leave to File a First Amended Complaint is GRANTED. A standalone First Amended Complaint must be filed and served to all current parties within 10 days consistent with this Ruling.Moving party to give notice, unless waived.  IT IS SO ORDERED.Dated:   September 28, 2023 ___________________________________ Randolph M. Hammock Judge of the Superior CourtFN 1 - In the moving papers and proposed FAC, Plaintiffs also sought leave to an include an additional cause of action for bad faith denial of the existence of a contract. (See Leb Decl. ¶ 3, Exh. A.) In opposition, Defendant noted the claim would be subject to demurrer because it is no longer a recognized cause of action in this state outside of the insurance context. (See Freeman & Mills v. Blecher Oil Co. (1995) 11 Cal. 4th 85.) In Reply, Plaintiffs concede the defect and submit to file the proposed FAC without this cause of action. Consistent with this Ruling, Plaintiffs should omit this cause of action from the FAC. Any party may submit on the tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept49@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day before the hearing.  All interested parties must be copied on the email.  It should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.