  Case Number:  22TRCV00758    Hearing Date:   June 11, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
ADAN
  F. APARICIO, et al., 


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
22TRCV00758




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
AMERICAN
  HONDA MOTOR CO.,


 
 
 
Defendant.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          June
11, 2024
 
Moving
Parties:                      Plaintiffs Adan Aparicio and Darline Aparicio
Responding
Party:                  Defendant American Honda Motor Co.
Motion
to Compel Compliance with the Court’s July 14, 2023 Discovery Order and Request
for Prospective Sanctions
 
            The court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.
RULING
            The motion is GRANTED.  Defendant
is ordered to respond fully and to produce further responsive documents
responsive to Nos. 16, 19, 20, and 21, within twenty days.
BACKGROUND
            On August 30, 2022, plaintiffs Adan
F Aparicio and Darline Aparicio filed a complaint against American Honda Motor
Company, Inc. for violations of statutory obligations under the Song-Beverly Consumer
Warranty Act based on the purchase of a 2020 Honda Pilot.
            On January 27, 2023, the court
denied defendant’s motion to compel arbitration.
            On June 8, 2023, pursuant to
stipulation and order, a protective order was entered.
            On July 14, 2023, the court granted
in part and denied in part plaintiffs’ motion to compel further documents.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
            CCP §2031.310 states, in part:  “(i) Except as provided in subdivision (j),
if a party fails to obey an order compelling further response, the court may
make those orders that are just, including the imposition of an issue sanction,
an evidence sanction, or a terminating sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing
with Section 2023.010).  In lieu of, or
in addition to, that sanction, the court may impose a monetary sanction under
Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010).
            (j)(1) Notwithstanding subdivisions
(h) and (i), absent exceptional circumstances, the court shall not impose
sanctions on a party or any attorney of a party for failure to provide
electronically stored information that has been lost, damaged, altered, or
overwritten as the result of the routine, good faith operation of an electronic
information system.
(2) This subdivision shall not be
construed to alter any obligation to preserve discoverable information.”
DISCUSSION
            Plaintiffs
request that the Court order defendant American Honda to comply with the
Court’s July 14, 2023 order and provide code-compliant further supplemental
responses to Request Nos. 16, 19, 20, and 21 and provide further and complete
document production to the requests at issue. 
Plaintiffs also request “prospective monetary sanctions” in the amount
of $500 for each day that defendant does not make full and complete production.
            On
July 14, 2023, the court granted plaintiffs’ motion to compel further documents
as to Nos. 16, 19, 20, and 21.  Nos. 19
and 20 were limited to California and to specific defects in infotainment
system and excluding emails.  As to Nos.
16 and 21, the minute order states, “Plaintiffs’ counsel is to give notice and
to indicate the Court’s indicated informally regarding supplemental to make
sure there is compliance with the code with respect to the nature of the
response to be in whole or in part or unable to comply, etc.”  Defendant
was ordered to produce further responsive documents within 20 days.  The
court denied the motion as to Nos. 32 and 42.
            Plaintiffs
argue that defendant is in violation of the July 14, 2023 order because on
September 12, 2023, defendant served unverified supplemental responses, which
were not code-compliant, because they include improper limitations that render
each supplemental response not code-compliant. 
Further, plaintiffs contend, defendant failed to provide any
supplemental document production with its supplemental responses.  Plaintiffs contend that on September 26,
2023, plaintiffs’ counsel sent a meet and confer letter as to “status of the
outstanding internal investigation, failure rate information and root cause
analysis documents relating to the ‘Infotainment System Defect’ in 2020 Honda
Pilot vehicles.”  On October 17, 2023,
defense counsel responded disagreeing that the supplemental responses were not
code-compliant.
            In
opposition, defendant argues that it did not fail to comply with the Court’s
order.  Defendant asserts that it was not
until very recently that it realized documents and the verification had not
been served.  As of the date of the
opposition (May 29, 2024), defendant contends that it has produced
non-confidential documents and the verification.  Defendant incorrectly notes that the court
had denied the motion as to Nos. 16 and 21.
            In
reply, plaintiffs contends that defendant’s recent production remains
incomplete as it is missing customer complaints/claims, reported failures or
failure rates, possible fixes, or any of the internal investigation and root
cause analysis documents relating to the Infotainment System Defect.  Specifically, plaintiffs assert, although
defendant’s document production included seven TSBs/Recalls, defendant failed
to produce the backup internal investigation documents, including engineering
memos and root cause analysis documents that led to the creation of such
TSBs.  As to Nos. 19 and 20, plaintiffs
contend that defendant has produced no responsive documents.  Plaintiffs contend that to date, defendant
has not produced reports, memos, or investigations that could help plaintiffs
understand the circumstances behind the repeated problems with the subject
defect.
            As
context, the following requests are at issue (excluding electronic emails):
No. 16: all
documents, including electronically stored information (“ESI”) and electronic
emails, concerning or relating to any internal analysis or investigation by
defendant regarding 
Infotainment System Defect in vehicles of the same
year, make, and model as the subject 
vehicle.
No. 19: all
documents, including ESI and electronic emails, concerning customer complaints,
claims, reported failures, and warranty claims related to the Infotainment
System Defect, including any databases in defendant’s possession with
information from dealers, service 
departments, parts departments, or warranty
departments, and all documents concerning 
defendant’s response to each complaint, claim, or
reported failure.
No. 20: all
documents, including ESI and electronic emails, concerning failure rates of
vehicles of the same year, make, and model as the subject vehicle as a result
of the Infotainment System Defect.
No. 21: all
documents, including ESI and electronic emails, concerning or relating to any
fixes for the Infotainment System Defect in vehicles of the same year, make,
and model as the subject vehicle.
            As
noted by plaintiffs, the Court did not adopt the tentative ruling on July 14,
2023; rather, the Court granted the motion to also include Nos. 16 and 20.  The Court finds that defendant’s production
appears incomplete as stated by plaintiffs in that the production is missing
reports, memos, and/or investigations as to the subject defect and documents
responsive to Nos. 19 and 20.
            The
motion is thus GRANTED.  The Court
reserves the issue of sanctions in the event that defendant fails to fully
comply. 
ORDER
            The
motion is GRANTED.  Defendant is ordered
to respond fully and to produce further responsive documents responsive to Nos.
16, 19, 20, and 21, within twenty days.
            Plaintiffs
are ordered to give notice of ruling.