 Case Number:  22CHCV00674    Hearing Date:   May 14, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept.
F-43
Date:
5-14-24
Case
#22CHCV00674 , Triscenic Production
Services, Inc. vs. Maurice Starrantino, et al.
Trial
Date: 6-16-25
 
MOTION FOR RECONSIDERATION
 
MOVING
PARTY: Cross-Complainants Maurice and Karen Starrantino
RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiff and Cross-Defendant Triscenic Production Services, Inc.
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Cross-Complainants
have requested that the Court reconsider its March 21, 2024, order sustaining
Cross-Defendant’s Demurrer.
 
RULING: Motion for
reconsideration is denied.
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
Cross-Complainants
Maurice Starrantino and Karen G. Starrantino (the Starrantinos or Cross-Complainants)
are alleging that Cross-Defendant Triscenic Production Services, Inc. (Triscenic
or Cross-Defendant) breached its lease agreement with Cross-Complainants.
Cross-Complainants alleged that Triscenic breached the lease agreement by
sub-letting property belonging to Cross-Complainants without
Cross-Complainants’ permission. Cross-Complainants allege that Triscenic sublet
the property to both Rise, Inc., and Salt Snake LLC. Cross-Complainants
attached a Settlement Agreement to their Cross-Complaint from a previous action
that they filed against Triscenic.
 
On
March 21, 2024, this Court sustained Triscenic’s demurrer to the Starrantinos’
entire cross-complaint on the basis that the allegations in the cross-complaint
pertained to events that occurred prior to the Settlement Agreement that was
signed in June 2022. The Settlement Agreement included a General Release
provision that released Triscenic from all claims for matters that occurred
prior to the signing of the Settlement Agreement. The Court also indicated that
were it necessary to do so, it would have sustained the demurrer to the
individual causes of action with leave to amend.
 
ANALYSIS
Motions
for reconsideration are allowable pursuant to CCP § 1008(a), which states that
“When an application for an order has been made to a judge, or to a court, and
refused in whole or in part, or granted, or granted conditionally, or on terms,
any party affected by the order may, within 10 days after service upon the
party of written notice of entry of the order and based upon new or different
facts, circumstances, or law, make application to the same judge or court that
made the order, to reconsider the matter and modify, amend, or revoke the prior
order. The party making the application shall state by affidavit what
application was made before, when and to what judge, what order or decisions
were made, and what new or different facts, circumstances, or law are claimed
to be shown.”
 
CCP
§ 1008(a) requires that a motion for reconsideration be based upon new or
different facts, circumstances, or law. Rather than base his motion on new or
different facts, circumstances, or law, Cross-Complainants’ motion is entirely
based on their arguments that this Court got the ruling wrong on the demurrer.
 
The
Starrantinos argue in their motion for reconsideration that the “new” facts are
the contrasting rulings between the previous judge, Judge Pfahler, and this
Court’s ruling. The Starrantinos point to the minute order for demurrer issued
by Judge Pfahler on August 9, 2023. That demurrer was filed by the Starrantinos
regarding Triscenic’s complaint. In the ruling on that demurrer, Judge Pfahler
declined to interpret the special license agreement at issue in the case. No
determinations were made as to the settlement agreement on which Triscenic now
bases its demurrer to the Starrantinos’ cross-complaint. 
 
The
crux of the Starrantinos’ argument on reconsideration appears to be, though the
motion for reconsideration is rather vague, that because Judge Pfahler declined
to interpret the special license agreement attached to Triscenic’s complaint,
then this Court should not have interpreted the settlement agreement attached
to the Starrantinos’ cross-complaint. The Starrantinos clarify this argument
somewhat in their reply, arguing that because Judge Pfahler overruled their
demurrer to Triscenic’s complaint, then this Court should have overruled
Triscenic’s demurrer to their cross-complaint. Obviously, the two complaints had
a different factual and legal basis, and the demurrers also had a different
factual and legal basis. To argue that the two should have had identical
rulings is without merit.
 
As
for contract interpretation on demurrer, a court may consider the terms of a
contract attached to a complaint or cross-complaint when ruling on a demurrer.
“‘While the “allegations [of a complaint] must be accepted as true for purposes
of demurrer,” the “facts appearing in exhibits attached to the complaint will
also be accepted as true¿and, if contrary to the allegations in the pleading,
will be given precedence.”’” (Moran v. Prime Healthcare Management, Inc.
(2016) 3 Cap.App.5th 1131, 1145-1146.)  
 
“When
interpreting a contract, a court must consider the ‘clear and explicit’
‘language of [the] contract’ (Civ. Code, § 1638), generally construing ‘[t]he
words ... in their ordinary and popular sense ... unless used by the parties in
a technical sense’ (Civ. Code, § 1644), and taking ‘[t]he whole of [the]
contract ... together, so as to give effect to every part, if reasonably
practicable, each clause helping to interpret the other’ (Civ. Code, § 1641).”
(Id. at 1146.) 
 
Based
on the clear and explicit language of the settlement agreement, the reasonable
interpretation of the settlement agreement attached as Exhibit 3 to the
Starrantinos’ cross-complaint is that any claims from the time period preceding
the settlement agreement are barred. That is what Triscenic argued in its
demurrer and what this Court based its March 21, 2024, ruling on. The
Starrantinos did not address Triscenic’s arguments concerning the settlement
agreement in their opposition to Triscenic’s demurrer. They cannot now make the
argument that the settlement agreement should not have been interpreted in that
way and call it “new” facts. There are clearly no new facts or circumstances
present now that were not present prior to the Court ruling on the demurrer. 
 
The
Starrantinos also cite two cases that would not be relevant to this situation.
The first, Gravillis v. Coldwell Banker Residential Brokerage Co. (2006)
143 Cal.App.4th 761, dealt with a trial court that reversed its decision to
deny a motion to compel arbitration without a hearing. Reversing its decision without
a hearing constituted the new circumstances in that case. The second case, Morite
of California v. Superior Court (1993) 19 Cal.App.4th 485, the trial court
contradicted an earlier ruling staying the case by setting a trial date. Those
two cases are completely different from the present case. There are no
contradictory rulings in the present case because the two demurrers were based
on different facts and law.
 
Triscenic
has requested sanctions against the Starrantinos pursuant to CCP § 128.7, which
allows for sanctions to be awarded where a motion is filed for purposes of
delay, harassment, or to add needless costs to litigation and where there is no
merit to the arguments, where there is no evidentiary support for a party’s
position, and/or where the motion is unwarranted. The Court does not find that
there is enough evidence of these elements to warrant sanctions. No sanctions
will be awarded at this time.
 
Cross-Complainants’
motion for reconsideration is denied.
 
Moving
party to give notice.