 Case Number:  22NWCV00352    Hearing Date:   January 4, 2024    Dept:  C NATIONAL
COMMERCIAL RECOVERY, INC. v. NAVPEAK INC. 
CASE NO.:  22NWCV00352
HEARING:  01/04/24
 
#4
 
     I.       
Defendant KENNETH REDDING’s Motion to Set Aside
Default and Default Judgment is GRANTED.
 
    II.       
Defendant KENNETH REDDING’s Motion to Quash
Service of the Summons and Complaint is GRANTED. 
 
Moving Party to give Notice. 
 
Moton to Set Aside Default and Default Judgment
 
Defendant KENNETH REDDING’s Request for Judicial Notice is
GRANTED as to the existence o of the documents, but not as to any hearsay
statements contained therein. (Cal. Ev. Code §452.) 
 
Defendant KENNETH REDDING (“Redding”) argues that the
default judgment should be set aside pursuant to CCP §§473(d), 473(b), and/or 473.5.
 Redding argues that the proof of service
filed on October 17, 2022, indicating that Redding was served via substitute
service at 3077 Coolidge Ave., Costa Mesa, CA 92626 is insufficient because Redding
has resided in Arizona since April 2022. (See Redding Decl., ¶2.) 
 
In Opposition, Plaintiff argues that Redding has failed to
carry his burden of demonstrating that he is entitled to relief from default. 
 
CCP §415.20 governs substitute service. “If a copy of the
summons and complaint cannot with reasonable diligence be personally delivered
to the person to be served,… a summons may be served by leaving a copy of the
summons and complaint at the person’s dwelling house, usual place of abode,
usual place of business, or usual mailing address…, in the presence of a
competent member of the household or a person apparently in charge of his or
her office, place of business, or usual mailing address…, at least 18 years of
age, who shall be informed of the contents thereof, and by thereafter mailing a
copy of the summons and of the complaint by first-class mail, postage prepaid
to the person to be served at the place where a copy of the summons and
complaint were left.” (CCP §415(b).) 
 
Contrary to the arguments raised in Opposition, Redding has
shown that he was never served with the summons and complaint in this action. Redding
declares, under penalty of perjury: “I have been a resident of the State of
Arizona since I retired in April 2022. I was hospitalized for several months in
late 2022 and was recovering from surgeries for a heart valve replacement and
kidney removal due to cancer…. [¶] At the time of purported substitute service
of the Summons and Complaint on me for this action on October 13, 2022, I did
not reside at 3077 Coolidge Avenue, Costa Mesa, CA 92626 (the “Coolidge
Property”). I have not used the Coolidge Property as my residence, as my
business address, or as a mailing address for me at any time since I moved to
the State of Arizona in April 2022. My only mailing address since my move… has
been my new residence in the State of Arizona. At the time of the Summons and
Complaint was purportedly served on me for this action, the Coolidge Property
was not my dwelling house, usual place of abode, usual place of business, or
usual mailing address.” (Redding Decl., ¶¶2-3.) “I do not know of any person
referenced as ‘Jane Doe’ in the Proof of Service of Summons regarding me….”
(Id. ¶4.) 
 
At any time, “[t]he
court…may, on motion of either party after notice to the other party, set aside
any void judgment or order.” (CCP §473(d).) “Thus, a default judgment entered
against a defendant who has not been served with a summons in the manner
prescribed by statute is void.” (Dill v. Berquist Construction Co.
(1994) 24 Cal.App.4th 1426, 1444.) Redding did not reside at the Coolidge
Property at the time of purported service, and the Coolidge Property did not
serve as Redding’s mailing address at the time of purported service. 
 
The Court finds that service was never accomplished that the
default and default judgment are void under CCP §473(d). 
 
Motion to Quash Service of Summons 
 
As indicate above, the Court finds that service of summons
on Redding is defective in that personal service did not take place, and
substituted service was not delivered to Rediding’s abode, usual place of
business, or usual mailing address. 
 
The Motion is GRANTED. 