 Case Number:  VC067069    Hearing Date:   January 4, 2024    Dept:  C HUANG v. JAN 
CASE NO.:  VC067069
HEARING:  01/04/24
 
#7
 
Defendants/Cross-Complainants CHYAN-WEN JAN; CHING WEN CHEN;
and JAN FRUITS, INC.’s Motion for Leave to Depose Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant
JENNY HUE JU LEE for More than 7 Hours is GRANTED in part. 
 
Moving Party to give Notice. 
 
This action arises out of a business dispute concerning
Global Best Produce Inc. (“GBP”), a large Los Angeles-based produce wholesaler
owned by Defendants and Cross-Complainants CHYAN-WEN JAN and CHING WEN CHEN,
Plaintiffs and Cross-Defendants ERIC HSING SHOU HUANG and JENNY HUE JU LEE,
Cross-Defendants INGRAM LIU and SOPHIE CHANG. GBP is managed by Liu and Chang,
who also serve as the company’s directors and CEO and CFO, respectively. In
2022, GBP’s gross revenues exceeded 54 million dollars. GBP’s largest customer
is Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant FORMOSA FRESH CONNECTION, INC (“FFC”). 
 
Defendants/Cross-Complainants CHYAN-WEN JAN; CHING WEN CHEN;
and JAN FRUITS, INC. (“Defendants”) argue that they require an additional ten
hours to question Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant JENNY HUE JU LEE (“Lee”).
Defendants argue that the seven hours allowed by Code is not sufficient here
due to : the complexity of the Complaint and Cross-Complaint; numerous breaks
taken; and significant delays caused by the Mandarin- language translator.  
 
In Opposition, Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants FFC and Lee
(collectively “Plaintiffs”) argue that further time should not be granted
because Lee has already provided full and complete responses to all questions
that Lee can provide answers to, and because written discovery responses should
also suffice. Plaintiffs argue that granting beyond seven hours of deposition
time would create an undue burden onto Lee because Lee is a small business
owner and taking more time off would inconvenience and unduly burden her
business.  
 
CCP § 2025.290 states: “Except as provided in subdivision
(b), or by any court order…a deposition examination of the witness by all
counsel, other than the witness’ counsel of record, shall be limited to seven
hours of total testimony. The court shall allow additional time, beyond any
limits imposed by this section, if needed to fairly examine the deponent or if
the deponent, another person, or any other circumstance impedes or delays the
examination.” (CCP §2025.290(a).)  “This
makes the seven-hour limit presumptive and applicable only if the court does
not order otherwise” and the Court has “discretion to allow additional time to
examine a deponent beyond the seven-hour limit….” (Certainteed Corp. v. Sup.
Ct. (2014) 222 Cal.App.4th 1053, 1060.) 
 
The Court finds that additional deposition time is
warranted. Extensive examination time was consumed because of the use of an
interpreter to translate each question and answer and documents from Mandarin
to English. Moreover, upon review of the certified transcripts, it appears that
there were a number of speaking objections that went beyond a mere statement of
the ground for objection which also consumed a good amount of examination time.

 
While Lee is certainly entitled to use a language
translator, and Plaintiffs’ Counsel are entitled to assert appropriate
objections, this does not require that the length of time consumed by such
matters should be taken into account in measuring the time permitted for
examination. CCP §2025.290(a) allows seven hours of “total testimony,” not
seven hours of translation or objections. Further, additional time is mandatory
“if needed to fairly examine the deponent or if… any other circumstance impedes
or delays the examination.” (CCP §2025.290(a).) 
 
The Motion is GRANTED. Defendants have established an
entitlement to seven hours of additional oral examination. The Court does not
find that Defendants have established that ten additional hours are necessary
at this time. 
 
Defendants have also demonstrated that sanctions against
Plaintiff Lee and her counsel are warranted. (CCP §2023.010(h) and (i).) The
Court has reviewed the record of meet and confer between the parties and finds
that Plaintiffs’ Counsel’s refusal to engage in meaningful meet and confer
discussions, and insistence on not producing Lee for deposition beyond seven
hours under the circumstances outlined above, is unreasonable. 
 
Plaintiff Lee and her counsel of record are jointly and
severally ORDERED to pay Defendants and their counsel of record sanctions in
the reduced amount of $3,000.00 by no later than 30 days from the date of the
Court’s issuance of this Order. This date may be extended per agreement of the
parties. 
 