 Case Number:  23STCV18607    Hearing Date:   January 22, 2024    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  ROBERTO FRAUSTO ACEVEDO, Plaintiff(s), vs.  LOS ANGELES COUNTY METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY, ET AL., Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) Case No.: 23STCV18607  [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: MOTION TO BE RELIEVED AS COUNSEL   Dept. 31 1:30 p.m. January 22, 2024   Plaintiff Roberto Frausto Acevedo (“Plaintiff”) attorney of record, Albert Abkarian, Esq. of Abkarian and Associates (“Counsel”), moves to be relieved as counsel contending relief is necessary because of trouble communicating with Plaintiff to provide legal services. Counsel declares he has been made aware that Plaintiff may be currently held in a correctional facility. Counsel further declares the moving papers were served at Plaintiff’s last known address, which was confirmed through Plaintiff’s brother-in-law.   However, the proof of service provides only that the motion was served on Plaintiff and Defendants on October 12, 2023. Counsel must file proof of service of the motion, declaration, and proposed order on Plaintiff and on all parties who have appeared in the case.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362(d).) It is unclear, based on the proof of service, whether the declaration and proposed order were also served.   Unless Counsel furnishes proof of service that the declaration and proposed order were also served on October 12, 2023 before the hearing, the motion will be denied without prejudice. Further, the Court notes that Counsel filed MC-051, MC-052, and MC-053 altogether as one filing. Should Counsel re-file the motion, Counsel is requested to separate and file each form individually.   Moving Counsel is ordered to give notice.  PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 19th day of January 2024      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court   