 Case Number:  23STCV06668    Hearing Date:   January 22, 2024    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  EARNEST COOPER, Plaintiff(s),  vs.  LOS ANGELES COUNTY METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 23STCV06668  [TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING MOTION TO BE RELIEVED AS COUNSEL   Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  January 22, 2024  Plaintiff Earnest Cooper’s (“Plaintiff”) attorney of record, Babak Bobby Taghavi, Esq. (“Counsel”), moves to be relieved as counsel contending relief is necessary because of irreconcilable differences in further handling of this action.   The motion is denied without prejudice for the following reasons:  First, Counsel failed to sign the Declaration in Support of Attorney’s Motion To Be Relieved As Counsel (MC-052).   Second, Counsel provides that he served Plaintiff by mail at the last known address. However, if so, then Counsel must complete Item 3(b) and the corresponding subparts on form MC-052. Because Item 3 is incomplete, the Court is unable to determine whether Counsel confirmed, within the past 30 days, that the address is current.  Third, the proof of service provides that the moving papers were served on Plaintiff through certified mail. If it is the intention of Counsel that certified mail has confirmed Plaintiff’s address, then certified mail does not establish proof the address is confirmed unless there is a signed return receipt.  (See Cal. Rules of court, Rule 3.1362(d)(2).)  Counsel, therefore, must file a copy of the signed return receipt, if and when Counsel refiles the motion to be relieved as counsel.    As previously stated, if Counsel is unable to serve Plaintiff at a confirmed address, Counsel must serve the moving papers on both Plaintiff and on the Clerk of the Court- located at Stanley Mosk Courthouse- pursuant to CCP §1011 and California Rules Court, rule 3.1362(d).   Moving Counsel is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 19th day of January 2024      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court    