 Case Number:  23STCP00613    Hearing Date:   June 6, 2024    Dept:  68 Dept.
68
Date:
6-6-24 c/f 4-10-24
Case
# 23STCP00613
Trial
Dates: N/A
 
PETITION
 
MOVING
PARTY: Petitioner, David Kartch
RESPONDING
PARTY: Unopposed/Respondents, David Gutierrez, et al.
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Hearing
on Motion for Issuance of Order Directing the Redaction of Personal Information
from Public Indexes and Databases
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
On
February 28, 2023, David Kartch filed a petition for removal of personal
information from public indexes and databases due to suspicion of potential
identity theft. Kartch specifically represents that a business entity
identified as DAGUT Group Inc., and agent for service David Gutierrez unlawfully
uses Kartch’s personal address in its corporate registration documents with the
California Secretary of State. 
 
RULING: Continued.
Petitioner David Kartch moves for relief pursuant to Civil
Code section 1798.201: 
 
“A person
who has learned or reasonably suspects that his or her personal identifying
information has been used unlawfully, as described in subdivision (a) of
Section 530.5 of the Penal Code, in a business entity filing, and has initiated
a law enforcement investigation in accordance with subdivision (a) of Section
530.6 of the Penal Code, may petition the superior court in the county in which
the person resides for an order, which may be granted ex parte, directing the
alleged perpetrator of the act described in paragraph (1) of subdivision (c) of
Section 530.5 of the Penal Code, if known, and the person using the personal
identifying information in the business entity filing to appear at a hearing
before the court and show cause for both of the following:
(a) Why
the personal identifying information should not be labeled to show the
information is impersonated and does not reflect the person's identity.
(b) Why
the personal identifying information should be associated with the business
entity.”
 
(Civ.
Code, § 1798.201.)
 
“(a) A
petition filed pursuant to Section 1798.201 shall be heard and determined
based on declarations, affidavits, police reports, or other material, relevant,
and reliable information submitted by the parties or ordered to be made part of
the record by the court.
(b) If
the court determines the petition is meritorious and there is no reasonable
cause to believe that the victim's personal identifying information has been
used lawfully in the business entity filing, the court shall make a finding
that the victim's personal identifying information has been used unlawfully in
the business entity filing and shall issue an order certifying this
determination.
(c) Upon
making a determination pursuant to subdivision (b), the court shall do the
following:
(1) Order
the name and associated personal identifying information in the business entity
filing to be redacted or labeled to show that the data is impersonated and does
not reflect the victim's identity.
(2) Order
the data to be removed from publicly accessible electronic indexes and
databases.
(d) A
determination made pursuant to subdivision (b) may be vacated at any time if
the petition or any information submitted in support of the petition is found
to contain any material misrepresentation or was obtained by fraud.
(e) The
Judicial Council shall develop a form for issuing an order of determination
pursuant to this section.
(f) An
order issued pursuant to subdivision (c) shall be filed with the Secretary of
State.”
 
Civ.
Code, § 1798.202
 
The subject motion constitutes a renewed motion. On October
20, 2023, the court considered the prior motion and wrote in relevant part:
 
“Based on the wording of that code section, it appears that
DAGUT Group Inc. is entitled to notice of the hearing and an opportunity to
appear at the hearing on this motion to explain the use of the address. There
is no indication from the paperwork filed by Mr. Kartch that DAGUT Group Inc.
has been served. Before the Court can hear this motion and grant the requested
relief, Mr. Kartch must serve DAGUT Group Inc. 
 
“The Court recognizes that part of the problem is that
Petitioner does not presently know how to serve the person, David Gutierrez,
who appears to have filed the Article of Incorporation that included his
address. Nonetheless, before this Court may adjudicate the matter, the other
parties to be impacted should be given the right to participate in this
proceeding. Further, the showing by Petitioner at this time does not establish
that any personal identifying information about Petitioner has been used. 
...
“The Court will not rule on this motion at this time due to
the failure of Petitioner to serve the person or entity that will be impacted
by the requested order. The Motion is DENIED without prejudice.”
 
On April 4, 2024, the court considered the renewed motion,
whereby Kartch explained efforts to effect service on David Gutierrez,
purported agent for DAGUT Group, Inc., but the inability to confirm the
identity of the subject David Gutierrez. The court accepted the basis of the
application, but deferred consideration of the application in order to allow
Petitioner to establish compliance with due process requirements. Given the
inability to locate Gutierrez or any other unique identifying information
regarding DAGUT Group Inc., the court directed Petitioner to seek leave for
service by publication.
 
On April 23, 2024, the court granted Petitioner for leave
to complete service by publication with the Metropolitan News. A minimum of
four (4) weeks circulation is required before service is deemed complete. (Gov.
Code, § 6064.) On May 28, 2024, Petitioner filed a proof of publication on May
3, 10, 17, and 24, 2024. The court finds compliance with the order for
publication.
 
On May 30, 2024, Petitioner submitted a request for
continuance in order to allow 30 days to pass following the May 24, 2024, the
fourth consecutive publication date. Petitioner also requests a continuance of
the concurrently scheduled Case Management Conference and OSC re: Sanctions.
 
The court finds the request valid and therefore continues all
hearings to July 11, 2024. 
 
Petitioner must file an updated brief not to exceed five
pages by no later than July 3, 2024, updating the court on the matter raised in
this ruling.
 
Petitioner need not provide notice
since no respondent appeared in the action.
 