 Case Number:  24NNCV02767    Hearing Date:   October 17, 2024    Dept:  E Hearing Date: 10/17/2024 – 8:30am
Case No: 24NNCV02767
Trial Date: UNSET
Case Name: LELAND HAYASHI, by and through his Successors in Interest, Brian
Hayashi and Kristen Hayashi; and BRIAN HAYASHI and KRISTEN HAYASHI, as
individuals v. OLYMPIC SENIOR CARE, LLC, dba MORNINGSTAR of PASADENA, a limited
liability corporation; OLYMPIC SENIOR CARE, LLC, a limited liability
corporation; MORNINGSTAR SENIOR MANAGEMENT, LLC, a limited liability
corporation; KEN JAEGER, an individual; MATTHEW TURNER, an individual; STEVE H.
MARTIN, an individual; and DOES 1-50
TENTATIVE
RULING ON MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION
PROCEDURAL
Moving Party: Defendants – (1) Olympic Senior Care,
LLC dba Morningstar of Pasadena; (2) Olympic Senior Care, LLC; (3) Morningstar
Senior Management, LLC 
Responding Party: Plaintiffs – (1) Leland Hayashi, by
and Through his Successors in Interest, Brian Hayashi and Kristen Hayashi; (2)
Brian Hayashi; (3) Kristen Hayashi.
Moving Papers: Notice/Petition; Graciela Vega
Declaration; Proposed Order 
Opposing Papers: Opposition
Reply Papers: Reply; Declaration of Robert W. Chapin
Jr.
Proof of Service Timely Filed (CRC Rule 3.1300(c)): Ok
16/21 Court Days Lapsed (CCP § 1005(b)): Ok
Correct Address (CCP § 1013, § 1013a, § 1013b): Yes/No – Plaintiffs’ counsel’s
email address on eCourt is listed as mail@mcmahanlaw.com. Defendants’ proofs of
service indicated service via email; however, Defendants’ proofs of service did
not list the email address of mail@mcmahanlaw.com. Defendants’ proofs of
service listed several other email addresses. Although Defendants’ counsel did
not appear to list the proper email address for Plaintiffs’ counsel, Plaintiffs
submitted an Opposition. Therefore, Plaintiffs appear to have received the
moving papers.
RELIEF REQUESTED
“Defendants,
OLYMPIC SENIOR CARE, LLC dba MORNINGSTAR OF PASADENA; OLYMPIC SENIOR CARE, LLC;
MORNINGSTAR SENIOR MANAGEMENT, LLC (hereinafter collectively referred to as
“Moving Defendants”) will and do hereby petition the Court, pursuant to the
California Arbitration Act, Code of Civil Procedure section 1280, et seq., and
for an order compelling Plaintiff LELAND HAYASHI, by and through his Successors-in-Interest,
to arbitrate the controversy alleged against these Moving Defendants in
Plaintiffs’ Complaint on file herein, based on a valid, irrevocable, and
enforceable Arbitration Agreement between the parties.”
 
(Def. Mot. p. 1-2.)
 
“WHEREFORE, Moving
Defendants pray that: 1. This Court order Plaintiffs to arbitrate the
controversy alleged in the Complaint against these Moving Defendants; and 2.
This action be removed from the civil active list pending the outcome of
arbitration.” (Def. Mot. p. 3.)
 
“This Petition is made
upon the grounds that the controversy alleged by Plaintiffs herein is subject
to binding arbitration as against the Moving Defendants.
 
This Petition is based
upon this Notice, the accompanying Petition to Compel Arbitration pursuant to
California Code of Civil Procedure §§ 1281, 1281.4, 1295, the Memorandum of
Points and Authorities in support, the attached Declaration of Graciela Vega,
the attached Declaration of Zahra H. Aziz, the attached exhibits, all
pleadings, papers and records on file herein, and upon any oral arguments of
counsel at the time of the hearing of this Petition and Motion.”
 
(Def. Mot. p. 3-4.)
 
LEGAL STANDARD – MOTION
TO COMPEL ARBITRATION
CCP
§ 1281.2, governing orders to arbitrate controversies, provides in pertinent
part:
 
On petition of a party to
an arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to
arbitrate a controversy and that a party to the agreement refuses to arbitrate
that controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to
arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the
controversy exists, unless it determines that:
 
(a)   The
right to compel arbitration has been waived by the petitioner; or
(b)   Grounds
exist for recission of the agreement.
 
(CCP § 1281.2(a)-(b).
 
Under the Federal
Arbitration Act, arbitration agreements “shall be valid, irrevocable and
enforceable, save upon such grounds that exist at law or in equity for the
revocation of a contract.”  (9 U.S.C.
section 2.) 
 
There is a strong public
policy in favor of arbitration of disputes and any doubts concerning the scope
of arbitrable disputes should be resolved in favor of arbitration. (Moncharsh
v. Heily & Blase (1992) 3 Cal.4th 1, 9 (“courts will ‘indulge every
intendment to give effect to such proceedings.’”) (quotation omitted)). (See
also AT&T Mobility, LLC v. Concepcion (2011) 563 U.S. 333,
339.)  
 
BACKGROUND
There
appear to be three Plaintiffs in the instant action – (1) Leland Hayashi
(Hayashi), by and through his Successors in Interest, Brian Hayashi and Kristen
Hayashi; (2) Kristen Hayashi; and Brian Hayashi.
Plaintiffs’ Complaint was filed on 7/8/2024 alleging
three causes of action for: (1) Elder and Dependent Adult Abuse, Neglect and
Abandonment (Welfare and Institutions Code § 15600 et seq.), (2) Negligence,
and (3) Wrongful Death.
The first cause of action is brought by Plaintiff
Hayashi and is alleged against all Defendants.
The second cause of action is brought by Plaintiff
Hayashi and is alleged against all Defendants.
Thee third cause of action is brought by Plaintiffs
Kristen Hayashi and Brian Hayashi and is alleged against all Defendants.
Further, the Court notes that it appears that
Plaintiffs named six different Defendants – (1) Olympic Senior Care, LLC, dba
MorningStar of Pasadena, a limited liability corporation, (2) Olympic Senior
Care, LLC, a limited liability corporation, (3) MorningStar Senior Management,
LLC, a limited liability corporation, (4) Ken Jaeger, an individual, (5) Matthew
Turner, an individual, and (6) Steve H. Martin, an individual.
Moving Defendants (Movants) – (1) Olympic Senior Care,
LLC, dba MorningStar of Pasadena, a limited liability corporation, (2) Olympic
Senior Care, LLC, a limited liability corporation, (3) MorningStar Senior
Management, LLC, a limited liability corporation – now seek to compel
Plaintiffs to arbitration.
ANALYSIS
Movants
seeks to compel arbitration of the Plaintiffs by submitting the declaration of
Graciela Vega, which includes Exhibit A.
Exhibit A is a “Resident-Facility Arbitration
Agreement.” 
As stated in Jenks v. DLA Piper Rudnick Gray Cary
US LLP:
“A written agreement to submit to
arbitration an existing controversy or a controversy thereafter arising is
valid, enforceable and irrevocable, save upon such grounds as exist for the
revocation of any contract.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.) A party seeking to
compel arbitration of a dispute “bears the burden of proving the existence of
an arbitration agreement, and the party opposing arbitration bears the burden
of proving any defense, such as unconscionability.” (Pinnacle Museum Tower
Assn. v. Pinnacle Market Development (US), LLC (2012) 55 Cal.4th
223, 236, 145 Cal.Rptr.3d 514, 282 P.3d 1217.)
“Code of Civil Procedure section
1281.2 allows a party to an arbitration agreement **243 to
petition to compel arbitration. By stating that a party to an arbitration
agreement may petition to compel arbitration, the statute assumes that a proceeding
to compel arbitration will be between the signatories to the agreement.” (Marenco
v. DirecTV LLC (2015) 233 Cal.App.4th 1409, 1416, 183 Cal.Rptr.3d
587 (Marenco ).)
(Jenks v. DLA Piper
Rudnick Gray Cary US LLP (2015) 243 Cal.App.4th 1, 8.)
Here, none of the named
Movants in the Complaint are listed as parties to the arbitration agreement
attached at Exhibit A.
Exhibit A is signed by
Plaintiff, Leland Hayashi (Resident).
The other signature on
exhibit A, according to the declaration of Vega, is allegedly the signature of
the “Facility,” although Exhibit A does not define who the “Facility” is. The
declaration of Vega implies that Regency Park Fair Oaks was the “Facility” in
Exhibit A.
In relevant part of the
declaration, Vega states that Leland Hayashi signed the arbitration agreement, that
she (Vega) signed the agreement, that Vega witnessed Leland Hayashi sign the
agreement, and that Vega is the Business Office Manager of Morningstar
Pasadena.  Vega states that she was the
Business Services Director of Regency Park Fair Oaks and that Regency Park Fair
Oaks was sold and is now called Morningstar of Pasadena. Vega also states she
was the Business Services Director for Regency Park Fair Oaks during the time
that Leland Hayashi was a resident at Regency Park Fair Oaks.
Plaintiffs argue in
Opposition that the only arbitration agreement submitted is signed between
Leland Hayashi and Regency Park Fair Oaks, and not with any of the Moving
Defendants. Plaintiffs argue that Movants simply argued that Regency Park Fair
Oaks is “now Morningstar” but that Movants failed to provide any evidence of
how that happened or that any of the Defendants are valid successors or assigns
to the agreement.
“The party seeking
arbitration bears the burden of proving the existence of an arbitration
agreement, and the party opposing arbitration bears the burden of proving any
defense, such as unconscionability. [Citation.]” (Marenco v. DirectTV LLC (2015)
233 Cal.App.4th 1409, 1416.)
Here, the Court does not
find that Movants have met their burden in proving the existence of an
arbitration agreement between the Plaintiffs and Movants.
Here, no moving
Defendants are listed in Exhibit A; therefore, it would appear that Movants
would have to somehow successfully argue under some theory as to how a non-signatory
defendant can enforce an arbitration agreement.
Under Marenco v.
DirecTV LLC:
Nonsignatory defendants may enforce
arbitration agreements “where there is sufficient identity of parties.” (Valley
Casework, Inc. v. Comfort Construction, Inc. (1999) 76 Cal.App.4th
1013, 1021, 90 Cal.Rptr.2d 779.) Enforcement is permitted where the
nonsignatory is the agent for a party to the arbitration agreement (id. at
p. 1021, 90 Cal.Rptr.2d 779, citing Dryer v. Los Angeles Rams (1985)
40 Cal.3d 406, 418, 220 Cal.Rptr. 807, 709 P.2d 826), or the nonsignatory is a
third party beneficiary of the agreement (Valley Casework, supra, 76
Cal.App.4th at pp. 1021–1022, 90 Cal.Rptr.2d 779). In addition, a nonsignatory
may enforce an arbitration agreement under the doctrine of equitable estoppel.
The doctrine applies where, for example, a signatory plaintiff sues a
nonsignatory defendant for claims that are based on an underlying contract. In
such instance, the plaintiff may be equitably estopped to deny the nonsignatory
defendant's right to enforce an arbitration clause that is contained within the
contract that the plaintiff has placed at issue. (See Molecular
Analytical Systems v. Ciphergen Biosystems, Inc., supra, 186
Cal.App.4th at p. 706, 111 Cal.Rptr.3d 876.)
(Marenco v. DirecTV
LLC (2015) 233 Cal.App.4th 1409, 1417.)
The declaration of Vega
stated, “Prior to December 16, 2020, I was the Business Services Director of
Regency Park Fair Oaks. Regency Park Fair Oaks was sold and is now called
Morningstar of Pasadena.” (Vega Decl. ¶ 2.)
This statement does not mention
anything about how nonsignatory Movants ((1) Olympic Senior Care, LLC, dba
MorningStar of Pasadena, a limited liability corporation, (2) Olympic Senior
Care, LLC, a limited liability corporation, (3) MorningStar Senior Management,
LLC, a limited liability corporation) are the agents to the party that signed
the agreement (Regency Park Fair Oaks), nor does it state that Regency Park
Fair Oaks was the agent to nonsignatory Movants. All the Vega declaration
stated was that Regency Park Fair Oaks was sold and it is now called
Morningstar of Pasadena.
Further, the Reply’s
argument that Plaintiffs are equitably estopped from denying the enforcement of
the agreement is unavailing. Plaintiffs are not suing a nonsignatory defendant
for claims based on an underlying contract that Plaintiffs have placed at issue
– Plaintffs are suing for elder abuse, negligence, and wrongful death.
The Reply also points to
Article 4 of the Arbitration Agreement which states:
This agreement shall be binding for any
dispute except for disputes pertaining to collections or evictions. This
agreement is binding on all parties, including their personal representatives,
executors, administrators, successors, family, heirs assigns.
(Vega Decl. Ex. A.
Article 4.)
It isn’t entirely clear
as to why Movants point to Article 4 in Reply, but presumably Movants are
trying to argue that Movants are successors to Regency Park Fair Oaks.
Problematic with this
argument is that the Vega declaration just says that Regency Park Fair Oaks was
sold and is now called Morningstar of Pasadena. This statement says nothing as
to whether or not Morningstar of Pasadena is the successor or if it assumed any
rights, liabilities, or obligations of Regency Park Fair Oaks.
In Marenco v. DirecTV
LLC, a current employer had standing to enforce an arbitration provision of
an employment agreement as a successor of employee's prior employer, where the
current employer acquired all of the prior employer's assets, employees,
rights, and liabilities, and the original terms of employee's employment were
not modified, superseded, revoked, canceled, or nullified in any manner. However,
in Marenco, DirecTV “submitted the declaration of its assistant
secretary Janet Williamson. She attested that during the acquisition of 180
Connect, DirecTV had assumed all of 180 Connect's assets, debts, rights,
responsibilities, liabilities and obligations, including “all the rights and
obligations arising from 180 Connect, Inc.'s employee relationships.” (Marenco
v. DirecTV LLC (2015) 233 Cal.App.4th 1409, 1414.)
Here, Vega’s declaration
is nothing of the sort described in Marenco. The Vega declaration just
says that Regency Park Fair Oaks was sold and is now called Morningstar of
Pasadena. This statement says nothing as to whether or not Morningstar of
Pasadena is the successor or if any of Movants assumed the assets, debts,
rights, responsibilities, liabilities, or obligations of Regency Park Fair
Oaks.
In Reply, Movants submit
the declaration of Robert W. Chapin Jr. with an attached Interim Sublease
between Olympic Senior Care, LLC, Pasadena CA Senior Holdings LLC, and Fair
Oaks Regency Park LLC on December 16, 2020 regarding the purchase of the
premises located at 951 S. Fair Oaks Ave, in Pasadena, California 91105
(“Premises”).
The Reply argues that
pursuant to the sublease, “The Sublease constitutes an absolute assignment of
all existing agreements with residents at the time the Interim Sublease
terminated, which occurred at the time a new Residential Care for the Elderly
license for the Premises was issued in favor of Olympic Senior Care, LLC on
September 23, 2021. (See Exhibit “1,” ¶9(a).)” (Chapin Decl. ¶ 4.)
Here, the Court does not
understand the evidence that Movants submitted in Reply.
The Court has several
concerns about the evidence submitted in Reply.
First, the Court is
uncertain how it proves what Movants allege it to prove.
Second, the Court is
concerned as to how a lease is relevant to this arbitration agreement.
Third, the Court is
entirely confused as to the legal relationship between all the parties the
moving and reply papers refer to.  
Movants are as follows - (1)
Olympic Senior Care, LLC, dba MorningStar of Pasadena, a limited liability
corporation, (2) Olympic Senior Care, LLC, a limited liability corporation, (3)
MorningStar Senior Management, LLC, a limited liability corporation – in the
moving declaration of Vega, Vega only attests as to Morningstar of Pasadena but
fails to mention how the other Movants are legally related to Morningstar of
Pasadena. Vega makes no explanation as to the legal relationship of the moving
Defendants, nor does Vega submit documentation of the Movants’ legal/corporate
relationship. For example, at times, Movants will refer to Morningstar but fail
to explain or provide documentation of how this implicates the other Movants.
In the Reply declaration
of Chapin, Chapin was one of the managers of BSH III Holdings LLC – which isn’t
a Plaintiff or Defendant in this action.
In the declaration of
Chapin, Chapin states, “Attached hereto as Exhibit “1,” is a true and correct
copy of the Interim Sublease between Olympic Senior Care, LLC, Pasadena CA
Senior Holdings LLC, and Fair Oaks Regency Park LLC on December 16, 2020
regarding the purchase of the premises located at 951 S. Fair Oaks Ave, in
Pasadena, California 91105 (“Premises”).” (Chapin Decl. ¶ 2.)
As can be seen by this
statement, even though the Vega declaration mentioned how the arbitration
agreement was signed by Regency Park Fair Oaks, the Chapin Declaration in Reply
is now referring to Fair Oaks Regency Park LLC. 
Further, the Chapin
Declaration refers to Pasadena CA Senior Holdings LLC. The Court is unclear as
to how this entity is related.
Chapin also points to
¶9(a) of the document attached in the reply. However, as stated before, the
Court would need further explanation as to how this shows that Movants can take
advantage of the arbitration agreement.
Overall, Movants maintain
no consistency in naming between defendants, Movants, and non-parties and
Movants don’t submit any evidence of the corporate/legal relationship of any of
these Movants and non-parties.
At the hearing, the
Movants should expect to explain what their Reply declaration of Chapin is
attempting to prove and how it proves what Movants allege. Movants should be
expected to have proof of the legal relationship between all of these parties
if Movants are arguing that Movants assumed rights and liabilities of other
parties or successors.
Movants’ argument that
Plaintiffs conceded that Morningstar can invoke the arbitration agreement
because the Complaint at ¶12 acknowledged that Morningstar was formerly Fair
Oaks is unavailing. Paragraph 12 of the Complaint simply states that Hayashi
moved into Morningstar (formerly Fair Oaks) in December 2017. This does not
demonstrate that Fair Oaks assigned its rights and liabilities to Movants.
TENTATIVE RULING
“The
party seeking arbitration bears the burden of proving the existence of an
arbitration agreement, and the party opposing arbitration bears the burden of
proving any defense, such as unconscionability. [Citation.]” (Marenco v.
DirectTV LLC (2015) 233 Cal.App.4th 1409, 1416.)
Movants did not meet
their burden in proving that non-signatory Movants [(1) Olympic Senior Care,
LLC, dba MorningStar of Pasadena, a limited liability corporation, (2) Olympic
Senior Care, LLC, a limited liability corporation, (3) MorningStar Senior
Management, LLC, a limited liability corporation] were parties to the
arbitration agreement signed by Leland Hayashi and Regency Park Fair Oaks.
Further, Movants did not meet their burden in showing they could enforce the
agreement under theories of agency, equitable estoppel, or third party
beneficiaries. 
The Court will hear
argument, but it tentatively plans to DENY Movants’ motion to compel
arbitration.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 