  Case Number:  24GDCV00391    Hearing Date:   October 17, 2024    Dept:  E Hearing Date: 10/17/2024 – 8:30am
Case No: 24GDCV00391
Trial Date: UNSET
Case Name: HERMELINDA MARTINEZ, on behalf of all Aggrieved Employees only, v.
LAKESIDE MEDICAL ORGANIZATION, A MEDICAL GROUP, INC., ET AL.
TENTATIVE
RULING MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION
RELIEF REQUESTED
“Defendants
Lakeside Medical Organization, A Medical Group, Inc., (dba Lakeside Community
Healthcare) (“Lakeside”), ADOC Acquisition Co., A Medical Group, Inc., (dba
ADOC Medical Group) (“ADOC”), Regal Medical Group, Inc. (“Regal”), and Heritage
Provider Network, Inc. (“HPN”) (collectively “Defendants”) will and hereby do
move this Court for an order compelling Plaintiff Hermelinda Martinez
(“Plaintiff”) to arbitrate the claims alleged in this action and staying this
action pending the completion of arbitration.
 
This Motion is made
pursuant to 9 U.S.C. § 1, et seq. (the Federal Arbitration Act) and the terms
of the Mutual Arbitration Agreement (the “Agreement”) which are attached to the
Declaration of Ijeoma Ekwunife and incorporated by reference herein. This Motion
is based on the grounds that: (1) Plaintiff entered into a binding arbitration
agreement with her employer, Lakeside; and (2) the claims alleged in
Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint are all covered by the binding arbitration
agreement.
 
The Motion is based on
this Notice of Motion, the accompanying Memorandum of Points and Authorities,
the accompanying Declarations of Ijeoma Ekwunife and Regina Agopian, and all
exhibits thereto, all papers and records on file with the Court, and on all oral
and documentary evidence as may be presented at or before the time of the
hearing on the Motion.”
 
(Def. Notice, p. 2.)
 
PROCEDURAL
Moving Party: Defendants - Lakeside Medical
Organization, A Medical Group, Inc., (dba Lakeside Community Healthcare)
(“Lakeside”); ADOC Acquisition Co., A Medical Group, Inc., (dba ADOC Medical
Group) (“ADOC”); Regal Medical Group, Inc. (“Regal”); and Heritage Provider
Network, Inc. (“HPN”) (collectively “Defendants”)
Responding Party: Plaintiff, Hermelinda Martinez on
behalf of all Aggrieved Employees
Moving Papers: Notice; Memorandum; Regina Agopian
Declaration;  Proposed Order; Ijeoma
Ekwunife Declaration; 
Opposing Papers: Opposition; Proof of Service;
Hermelinda Declaration; Mirzaie Declaration; Proof of Service
Reply Papers: Reply
Supplemental: Plaintiff’s Supplemental Brief (filed
10/11/2024-8:59am)
Supplemental: Defendants’ Supplemental Brief; Anahi
Cruz Decl.; Request for Judicial Notice;
Supplemental: Plaintiff’s Supplemental Brief (filed 10/11/2024-5:52am)
Proof of Service Timely Filed (CRC Rule 3.1300(c)): Ok
16/21 Court Days Lapsed (CCP § 1005(b), CRC 3.1300(a)): Ok
Correct Address: (CCP § 1013, § 1013a, § 1013b): Ok
BACKGROUND
Plaintiff, Hermelinda Martinez,
filed the original Complaint on 3/1/2024. This action was a complaint for
enforcement under the Private Attorneys General Act (PAGA), California Labor
Code § 2698, et seq. In Paragraph 77 of the original Complaint, Representative
Plaintiff, individually, and on behalf of all aggrieved employees, requested
penalties from Defendants for violations of the Labor Code. (See ¶ 77 Compl.)
On May 1,
2024, Defendant’s counsel, (Agopian) contacted Plaintiff’s counsel, requesting
that Plaintiff agree to stipulate to arbitrate Plaintiff’s individual PAGA
claims. (Agopian Decl. ¶ 2.)
On May 21,
2024 at 5:21 p.m., Plaintiff, Hermelinda Martinez, on behalf of all Aggrieved
Employees only, filed a First Amended Complaint (FAC). 
On May 21,
2024 at 5:30 p.m., Plaintiff’s counsel, Christina Mirzaie, emailed Defendant’s
counsel and stated in relevant part, “We do not agree to stipulate to
arbitration because we have amended the complaint to drop Plaintiff's
individual claims and proceed only with the representative portion.” (See
Agopian Decl. ¶ 4, Ex. 1.)
Representative
Plaintiff, Hermelinda Martinez, alleges that she was employed by Defendants
((1) Lakeside Medical Organization, a Medical Group, Inc.(Lakeside); (2)
Heritage Provider Network, Inc.(Heritage); (3) ADOC Acquisition Co., A Medical
Group, Inc. (ADOC); and (4) Regal Medical Group, Inc. (Regal)) on or about
October 1, 2018 and continues to work for employers as of the date of this complaint.
(FAC ¶ 1.) Representative Plaintiff alleges that she and other aggrieved
employees suffered several violations of the Labor Code. (See FAC.)
This hearing
is on Defendants’ motion to compel arbitration.
ANALYSIS 
Existence
of Arbitration Agreement
The party seeking arbitration bears
the initial burden of demonstrating the existence of an arbitration agreement.
(Pinnacle Museum Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle Market Development (US), LLC (2012)
55 Cal.4th 223, 236.) In ruling on a motion to compel arbitration, the Court
must first determine whether the parties actually agreed to arbitrate the
dispute, and general principles of California contract law help guide the court
in making this determination. (Mendez v. Mid-Wilshire Health Care Center
(2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 534, 541; Victoria v. Superior Court (1985) 40
Cal. 3d 734, 835.) Even when the FAA applies, “interpretation of the
arbitration agreement is governed by state law principles.” (Hotels Nevada,
LLC v. Bridge Banc, LLC (2005) 130 Cal.App.4th 1431, 1435.) 
Defendants
submitted the declaration of Ijeoma Ekwunife. Ekwunife has been employed by
Regal since April 2019 in its Employee Services Department. (Ekwunife Decl. ¶
1.) Ekwunife is currently employed as the Director, Employee Services (DES) for
Regal, a position Ekwunife has held since July 2023. (Id.) Although
employed by Regal, Ekwunife supports the Human Resources of Defendants. (Id.)
Ekwunife states that Lakeside, ADOC, and Regal are affiliates of HPN. (Id.
at ¶ 3.)
Ekwunife’s declaration
submits as Exhibit A what is titled a “Mutual Arbitration Agreement”
(Agreement). This agreement is signed by both Defendant Lakeside and Plaintiff,
Hermelinda Martinez. 
Plaintiff’s
Opposition does not dispute the existence of the arbitration agreement, nor
does Plaintiff’s Opposition dispute that Plaintiff signed the arbitration
agreement.
Therefore,
Defendants met their burden in demonstrating the existence of an arbitration
agreement.
FAA
The Federal Arbitration Act (FAA)
applies to contracts that involve interstate commerce (9 U.S.C. §§ 1, 2), but
since arbitration is a matter of contract, the FAA also applies if it is so
stated in the agreement. (See Victrola 89, LLC v. Jaman Properties 8
LLC (2020) 46 Cal.App.5th 337, 355 (“[T]he presence of interstate commerce
is not the only manner under which the FAA may apply. … [T]he parties may also
voluntarily elect to have the FAA govern enforcement of the Agreement”].)  
Plaintiff
argues that the FAA does not apply to the arbitration agreement because
Defendants proffer no evidence that: (1) Plaintiff nor Defendants were engaged
in interstate commerce; (2) that Plaintiff performed any duties outside of
California; (3) or that Plaintiff performed any business in other states.
The Court
does not find Plaintiff’s argument availing; the parties elected to have the
enforceability of the Agreement be decided in accordance with the FAA.
As stated in
the Agreement under the section of “Governing Law”:
The
parties agree that the Company is engaged in transactions involving interstate
commerce. The parties understand and agree that this is an Agreement to
arbitrate under the FAA and that enforceability of this Agreement will be
decided in accordance with the FAA. 
Except
as otherwise provided under the FAA or other applicable federal law, the
substantive law of California shall apply with respect to any claim brought
under California law as to a controversy ongoing in California.
(Ekwunife Decl. ¶ 10, Ex. A.)
Scope of Arbitration Agreement
Once the Court concludes
an arbitration agreement exists, it must then consider whether the agreement
covers the claims at issue. (Omar v. Ralphs Grocery (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th
966, 960.)
Defendants argue that this Court should compel Plaintiff’s
individual PAGA claim to arbitration and stay the remaining
non-individual/representative PAGA claims pending arbitration. Further,
Defendants argue that Plaintiff must arbitrate the question of whether or not
she personally suffered a Labor Code violation and has standing as an
“aggrieved employee” to pursue a representative PAGA claim in court.
Plaintiff argues that Defendants’ motion is
based on the incorrect premise that this FAC is even bringing an individual
PAGA claim. Plaintiff argues she is bringing only a representative PAGA claim
and she is not bringing an individual PAGA claim. Plaintiff argues that she is
only brining a representative PAGA claim because the FAC does not seek any
individual relief , redress, or remedy for any of her individual claims.
            Only
Seeking Individual Relief
As
a preliminary matter, this Court does not fully understand Plaintiff’s argument
that she is not seeking any individual relief.
Plaintiff
cites to Paragraph 16 of the FAC which states:
REPRESENTATIVE PLAINTIFF suffered at least one labor code
violation as a result of DEFENDANTS’ policies and practices, and as a result
has standing to pursue a representative PAGA claim. Although REPRESENTATIVE
PLAINTIFF has suffered labor code violations, REPRESENTATIVE PLAINTIFF does not
seek any redress or remedy for any of her individual claims, including, but not
limited to her individual PAGA claims. As this is only a PAGA case, no wages
are sought on behalf on anyone. The only recovery REPRESENTATIVE PLAINTIFF
seeks in this case are for representative PAGA penalties, attorneys’ fees, and
costs.
(FAC ¶ 16.)
While the Court is aware that ¶ 16 of the FAC
explicitly states that Representative Plaintiff does not seek any redress or
remedy for any of her individual claims, the Court fails to see how ¶ 16 isn’t contradictory
to other portions of the FAC.
As stated in ¶ 102 of the FAC:
THEREFORE,
REPRESENTATIVE PLAINTIFF and the individuals he seeks to represent request
relief as described below:
PRAYER
THEREFORE,
REPRESENTATIVE PLAINTIFF prays for judgment against DEFENDANTS, and Does 1
through 50, and each of them, as follows:
1.
Statutory attorneys’ fees and costs under PAGA and California Code of Civil
Procedure Section 1021.5; 
2.
Statutory penalties under PAGA; 
3.
Costs of suit; and 
4.
Such further relief as the Court deems just and proper.
(FAC ¶ 102.)
The Court is
confused as to how Plaintiff is arguing that she doesn’t seek any individual
relief, and that she only seeks relief for other employees, when Plaintiff is
in fact requesting relief in the Prayer for: Statutory attorneys’ fees and
costs under PAGA and California Code of Civil Procedure Section 1021.5; Statutory
penalties under PAGA; Costs of suit; and Such further relief as the Court deems
just and proper.
Further, confusing
to the Court is that, in Plaintiff’s supplemental brief, Plaintiff points the
Court to ¶ 100 of the FAC which alleges:
Pursuant
to California Labor Code section 2699(i), civil penalties recovered shall be
distributed as follows: seventy-five percent (75%) to the Labor and Workforce
Development Agency for the enforcement of labor laws and education of employers
and employees about their rights and responsibilities and twenty-five percent
(25%) to the AGGRIEVED EMPLOYEES.
(FAC ¶ 100.)
In reference
to ¶ 100 of the FAC, Plaintiff continues to argue that Plaintiff does not seek
individualized relief because Plaintiff is seeking relief for the “aggrieved
employees.” What is confusing about Plaintiff’s argument is that despite
seeking relief for the aggrieved employees, and despite arguing that Plaintiff
doesn’t seek individual relief, Plaintiff’s supplemental brief concedes the
following, “As described supra, by definition, Plaintiff cannot exclude
herself from the “aggrieved employees” definition under the Labor Code.” (Pl.
Supp. Brief, p. 6.) 
Therefore,
the Court fails to understand Plaintiff’s argument that she is not seeking any
individual relief when she is admitting that the FAC seeks relief for aggrieved
employees, and she is simultaneously admitting that she is an aggrieved
employee. This would seem to directly contradict Plaintiff’s argument that she
isn’t seeking relief if she is arguing that the aggrieved employees seek
relief, and that she is in fact an aggrieved employee. Or to phrase it another
way, the Court still fails to see how Plaintiff isn’t seeking any individual
relief.
The Court
will hear argument on this issue.
            Representative Only Claim
Setting aside the Court’s confusion as to whether or not Plaintiff is
seeking individual relief, for the sake of argument, the Court will assume the
truth of Plaintiff’s argument that she is only bringing a representative PAGA
claim and that she is not brining an individual PAGA claim.
Under Viking
River Cruises, Inc. v. Moriana, 596 U.S. 639 (2022) (Viking River
Cruises), the Supreme Court held that the FAA allows for division of PAGA
actions into individual and non-individual (representative) claims through an
agreement to arbitrate.
After Viking
River Cruises was decided, the Supreme Court of California held in Adolph
v. Uber Technologies, Inc. (2023) 14 Cal.5th 1104 that a plaintiff who
files a PAGA action with individual and non-individual claims does not lose
standing to litigate the non-individual claims in court simply because the
individual claims have been ordered to arbitration.
Here,
Plaintiff seems to be arguing that since Plaintiff is bringing only representative/non-individual
PAGA claims, and since representative claims cannot be compelled to
arbitration, there is nothing here to be compelled to arbitration.
Plaintiff cites
to Balderas v. Fresh Start Harvesting, Inc. (2024) 101 Cal.App.5th 533 (Balderas)
to argue that a Plaintiff can bring a representative PAGA action without filing
an individual PAGA claim.
The Court
does not disagree with Plaintiff’s understanding that Balderas held that
an employee could allege a representative-only claim. 
However, the
Plaintiff’s reliance on Balderas doesn’t fully address the issues that
are implicated in this motion. 
In Balderas,
Balderas did not bring an individual PAGA claim; she brought only a
representative claim, and on the trial court’s own motion, it struck Balderas’s
pleading because the trial court said she lacked standing because she did not
allege an individual claim. (See Balderas v. Fresh Start Harvesting, Inc. (2024)
101 Cal.App.5th 533, 536.) 
On appeal in
Balderas, the Second District Court of Appeal explained how under Adolph
v. Uber Technologies, Inc. (2023) 14 Cal.5th 1104, 1120 (Adolph),
the only two requirements for PAGA standing are that a plaintiff must allege
that he or she is (1) someone who was employed by the alleged violator and (2)
someone against whom one or more of the alleged violations was committed. (Balderas
v. Fresh Start Harvesting, Inc. (2024) 101 Cal.App.5th 533,538-539.)
The Second
District Court of Appeal then went on to say that Balderas sufficiently alleged
the standing requirements; the Second District Court of Appeal reversed the
trial court’s ruling striking the pleading and held that an employee met the
requirements for standing to bring a representative PAGA action without filing
an individual PAGA claim. (Balderas v. Fresh Start Harvesting, Inc. (2024)
101 Cal.App.5th 533, 539.)
Problematic
with Plaintiff’s reliance on Balderas is that it was a case at the
pleading stage and did not deal with a motion to compel arbitration. Many of
the issues relevant here were not implicated in Balderas.
For example,
Defendants here are arguing that whether or not Plaintiff is an “aggrieved
employee” must be determined by the arbitrator based on the arbitration
agreement in this case. Balderas did not address a motion to compel
arbitration, nor did it address the scope of an arbitration agreement.
Here, the
Court finds Defendants’ argument availing that based on the language of the
instant arbitration agreement, whether or not Plaintiff is an “aggrieved
employee” is to be determined by the arbitrator. 
Plaintiff’s
argument appears to be that since she alleged she was an aggrieved employee in
the FAC – an aggrieved employee is an individual who worked for the alleged
violator and personally sustained at least one Labor Code violation (Adolph
v. Uber Technologies, Inc. (2023) 14 Cal.5th 1104, 1127) – she therefore
has standing and this representative only claim goes to litigation and not
arbitration.
This Court
does not disagree with Plaintiff’s argument that Plaintiff has alleged she was
an aggrieved employee. 
“[U]nless
and until there is a finding on the merits regarding the alleged violation,
allegations of a Labor Code violation by an alleged employee or former employee
are alone sufficient to establish PAGA standing.” (Rocha v. U-Haul Co. of
California (2023) 88 Cal.App.5th 65, 77.)
However, Defendants
here are in fact contesting whether or not Plaintiff is an “aggrieved employee.”
And Defendants are arguing that the instant arbitration agreement provides that
the arbitration agreement here leaves this issue up to the arbitrator. This
Court agrees. 
In relevant
part of the arbitration agreement under the section titled “Covered Claims”:
Except
as expressly set forth in the section entitled “Claims Not Covered by this
Agreement,” any claim, dispute, cause of action, complaint or controversy
arising out of or in any way relating to Employee’s employment with the
Company, the terms or conditions of employment with the Company, including the
termination of employment from the Company, is subject
to binding arbitration pursuant to the terms of this Agreement (the
“Covered Claims”). The Covered Claims include all
disputes, claims, complaints, or controversies that Employee now has or in
the future may have against the Company or any parent, affiliate or subsidiary
of the Company, or any of their respective current and former officers,
directors, employees, attorneys and agents, or that the Company now has or in
the future may have against Employee, including claims in tort or contract,
claims for discrimination, harassment, or retaliation, claims for overtime,
wages, compensation, penalties or restitution, claims under the California Fair
Employment and Housing Act, Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as
amended, the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, the California Labor
Code, the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967, the Fair Labor
Standards Act, the Family and Medical Leave Act, and the California Family
Rights Act, and any other claim under any federal, state, or local statute,
constitution, regulation, rule, ordinance, or common law, arising out of and/or
directly or indirectly relating to Employee’s application for employment with
the Company, recruitment, terms and conditions of employment or termination of
employment are subject to arbitration pursuant to the terms of this Agreement
and will be resolved by arbitration and NOT by a court or jury. The parties
hereby forever waive and give up the right to have a judge or jury decide any
Covered Claims.
(Ekwunife Decl. ¶ 10, Ex. A.)
In relevant part the Agreement covers “any claim, dispute, cause
of action, complaint or controversy arising out of or in any way relating to
Employee’s employment with the Company… is subject to binding arbitration
pursuant to the terms of this Agreement… The Covered Claims include all
disputes, claims, complaints, or controversies… claims under the California
Labor Code…”
Therefore, determining whether or not Plaintiff is an
“aggrieved employee” falls within the scope of this arbitration agreement. 
While the Court agrees with the Plaintiff that for purposes
of pleading, the Plaintiff pled she was an aggrieved employee, the Court notes that
Plaintiff’s argument goes one step further.
Plaintiff’s theory appears to be that since Plaintiff
alleged standing, this must be accepted as true, and thus, there is only a
representative claim, and since representative claims cannot go to arbitration,
Plaintiff cannot be compelled to arbitration in any scenario.
However, to point out Plaintiff’s somewhat specious
reasoning, if this Court denied Defendants’ motion to compel arbitration, Plaintiff
can avoid the issue of any fact finder ever having to determine if Plaintiff
was actually in fact an aggrieved employee simply because representative claims
cannot go to arbitration; thus Plaintiff is an aggrieved employee simply
because Plaintiff alleges she is an aggrieved employee.
This argument flies in the face of common sense and the law.

Plaintiff cannot under the guise of litigating
representative PAGA claims ask the Court to resolve issues directly covered in
an arbitration agreement between Plaintiff and Defendants. Any such holding
would effectively render the arbitration agreement null and would be preempted
by the FAA.
“The ‘principal purpose of the FAA is to ensur[e] that
private arbitration agreements are enforced according to their terms.’” AT&T
Mobility LLC v. Concepcion (2011) 563 U.S. 333, 344. Therefore, “[t]o
ensure that arbitration agreements are enforced according to their terms, the
FAA preempts all state laws that apply of their own force to limit those
agreements against the parties’ will or to withdraw the power to enforce them.”
(Cronus Invs., Inc. v. Concierge Servs. (2005) 35 Cal. 4th 376, 385)
The Court also notes that it does not disagree with
Plaintiff’s argument that under Adolph, paring away the plaintiff’s
individual claims does not deprive the plaintiff of standing to pursue
representative claims under PAGA. (Adolph v. Uber Technologies, Inc. (2023)
14 Cal.5th 1104, 1122.)
However, what the Court would like to bring to Plaintiff’s
attention is that in Adolph the plaintiff brought both individual and
non-individual claims. Here, Plaintiff is arguing it is only bringing a
representative claim. Further, this Court points out how the court in Adolph
noted, “We limited our review to the question of PAGA standing and
express no view on the parties’ arguments regarding the proper interpretation
of the arbitration agreement.” (Adolph v. Uber Technologies, Inc. (2023)
14 Cal.5th 1104, 1128-29.) 
Distinguishable here from Adolph is that this Court
is forced to interpret the arbitration agreement.
In conclusion, whether or not Plaintiff is bringing a
representative only claim, this Court finds that the arbitrator must determine
the preliminary issue of whether or not Plaintiff is in fact an “aggrieved
employee.”
Unconscionability
The Court must next
consider whether the arbitration agreement is unconscionable.  Unconscionability generally includes the
absence of meaningful choice on the part of one of the parties together with
contract terms that unreasonably favor the other party. (Carboni v.
Arrospide (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 76, 82-83.) Unconscionability has both a
“procedural” and a “substantive” element. (A & M Produce Co. v. FMC Corp.
(1982) 135 Cal.App.3d 473, 486.)  An
agreement to arbitrate is unenforceable only if both procedural and substantive
unconscionability is shown. (Stirlen v. Supercuts, Inc. (1997) 51
Cal.App.4th 1519, 1533.) Plaintiff has the burden of proving both procedural
and substantive unconscionability. (Crippen v. Central Valley RV Outlet.
Inc. (2004) 124 Cal.App.4th 1159, 1165.)
Here,
the only grounds on which Plaintiff challenges substantive unconscionability is
that Plaintiff argues that the Agreement contains an unenforceable waiver of
Plaintiff’s right to bring a representative action.
The
Court does not find this argument availing. 
Even
if this Court assumes that the Agreement contains an unenforceable waiver of
Plaintiff’s right to bring a representative action, under Viking River
Cruises a severability clause in the agreement provides that if the waiver
provision is invalid in some respect, any portion of the waiver that remains
valid must still be enforced in arbitration. (Viking River Cruises, Inc. v.
Moriana, 596 U.S. 639, 663 (2022).)
Here,
the Agreement contained a severability clause:
Except as provided below, if any court of competent jurisdiction
or arbitrator finds any part or provision of this Agreement void, voidable, or
otherwise unenforceable, such a finding will not affect the validity of the
remainder of the Agreement, and all other parts and provisions remain in full
force and effect. If, however, the class action waiver or collective action
waiver or representative action waiver is found to be void, voidable, or
otherwise unenforceable, then the claim or portion thereof found to be able to
proceed on a class action or collective action or representative action basis,
as applicable, shall proceed in court and not in arbitration, and all remaining
claims shall proceed in arbitration, with the court claim stayed until the
arbitration is concluded, unless such stay is contrary to applicable law.
(Ekwunife Decl. ¶ 10, Ex. A.)
Therefore, since the agreement must be found to
be both procedurally and substantively unconscionable, and since the sole
argument that Plaintiff brought up to as to substantive unconscionability was
unavailing, Plaintiff has not shown that the Agreement is unconscionable.
Staying Proceedings
Defendants argue that this
Court should stay the representative/non-individual PAGA claim pending
arbitration.  
“If a court of competent jurisdiction, whether in this State
or not, has ordered arbitration of a controversy which is an issue involved in
an action or proceeding pending before a court of this State, the court in
which such action or proceeding is pending shall, upon motion of a party to
such action or proceeding, stay the action or proceeding until an arbitration
is had in accordance with the order to arbitrate or until such earlier time as
the court specifies.” (CCP § 1281.4.)
Here, the Court finds that a stay of the representative PAGA
claim is appropriate while the arbitrator determines whether or not Plaintiff
is an “aggrieved employee.”
TENTATIVE RULING
Defendants’ motion to compel
arbitration is GRANTED in part. Whether or not Plaintiff is an “aggrieved
employee” is to be determined in arbitration. 
However, as this Court pointed out, it is confused as to
whether or not Plaintiff is in fact bringing an individual PAGA claim in
addition to its representative claim. 
At the hearing, the Court will hear argument as to whether
the Complaint asserts an individual PAGA claim. 
Whether or not the Plaintiff is an “aggrieved employee” is
an issue that is to be determined in arbitration. 
However, if Plaintiff convinces this Court that there is
only a representative PAGA claim, then the arbitrator is only to decide the
issue of whether or not Plaintiff is an aggrieved employee. 
However, if Defendants convince this Court that there is
both an individual and a representative claim, it appears as if the arbitrator
would have to decide not only if Plaintiff is an aggrieved employee, but the
arbitrator would also have to determine the resolution of the individual PAGA
claim.
Defendants’ request for judicial notice in support of
Defendants’ supplemental brief is granted.