 Case Number:  24STCV08288    Hearing Date:   August 8, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     August
8, 2024                                               TRIAL DATE:  Not set
                                                           
CASE:                                Mike Tehrani, et al. v. Mehrdad Adjari
 
CASE NO.:                 24STCV08288
 





















 
PETITION
FOR RELEASE OF MECHANIC’S LIEN FROM PROPERTY
 
PETITION
FOR RELEASE OF SECOND MECHANICS LIEN
 
DEMURRER
WITHOUT MOTION TO STRIKE



 
MOVING
PARTY:              Defendant Mehrdad Adjari
 
RESPONDING
PARTY:     Plaintiffs Mike Tehrani and Eskan
Builders, Corp.
 
 
I.          INTRODUCTION
 
            This case concerns the property located at 12428 Laurel
Terrace Drive, Studio City, California 91604 (the “Property”).  Defendant Mehrdad Adjari (Defendant or Adjari)
is the owner of the Property.  In 2021,
Adjari and Plaintiffs Mike Tehrani and Eskan Builders, Corp. (Plaintiffs) entered
into a written contract wherein Plaintiff agreed to provide labor, services,
equipment, or materials for a construction project on the Property.  Plaintiffs completed the work.  Adjari failed to pay Plaintiffs for the
amount due.  This action followed on
April 2, 2024. 
 
            Before the
court are three matters: Defendant’s two (2) Petitions for Release of
Mechanic’s Lien and Defendant’s Demurrer to the Complaint.  
 
The court notes that Plaintiffs filed the First Amended
Complaint on July 26, 2024. “A party may amend its pleading once without leave
of the court at any time before the answer, demurrer, or motion to strike is
filed, or after a demurrer or motion to strike is filed but before the demurrer
or motion to strike is heard if the amended pleading is filed and served no
later than the date for filing an opposition to the demurrer or motion to
strike.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 472, subd. (a).)  Here, because Plaintiffs
served its amended pleading on the date their opposition to the demurrer would
have been due, the court finds that Defendant’s Demurrer is MOOT.
 
The court proceeds to consider Defendant’s Petitions for
Release of Mechanic’s Lien.
 
II.        LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
            After a
mechanic’s lien has been recorded, “[t]he owner of property or the owner of any
interest in property subject to a claim of lien may petition the court for an
order to release the property from the claim of lien if the claimant has not
commenced an action to enforce the lien within the time provided in Section
8460.”  (Civ. Code, § 8480, subd. (a).)  A claimant must commence an
action to enforce a lien within 90 days of recording the lien. (Civ. Code, §
8460, subd. (a).)  Section 8460 further provides that “[i]f the claimant
does not commence an action to enforce the lien within that time, the claim of
lien expires and is unenforceable.” (Civ. Code, § 8460, subd. (a).) Section
8460 also provides that the 90-day time limit to commence an action to enforce
a lien does not apply if there was an agreement to extend credit and a notice of
that fact was recorded within 90 days after recordation of the claim of lien or
more than 90 days after recordation of the claim of lien but before a purchaser
or encumbrancer for value and in good faith acquires rights in the
property.  (Civ. Code, § 8460, subd. (b).)
            
III.       DISCUSSION
 
            In March
2023 and May 2024, Plaintiffs recorded Mechanics Liens on the Property.  The liens are recorded in the Official
Records of Los Angeles County as document numbers 20230170026 (the “First
Lien”) and 20240323880 (the “Second Lien”), respectively.  Defendant now seek orders directing the
release of the liens.
 
A.    First Lien
 
            Defendant
argues the First Lien should be released because Plaintiffs did not timely
commence an action to enforce the lien.   

 
After a mechanic’s lien has been recorded, “[t]he owner of
property or the owner of any interest in property subject to a claim of lien
may petition the court for an order to release the property from the claim of
lien if the claimant has not commenced an action to enforce the lien within the
time provided in Section 8460.”  (Civ. Code, § 8480, subd. (a).)  A
claimant must commence an action to enforce a lien within 90 days of recording
the lien. (Civ. Code, § 8460, subd. (a).)  Section 8460 further provides
that “[i]f the claimant does not commence an action to enforce the lien within
that time, the claim of lien expires and is unenforceable.” (Civ. Code, § 8460,
subd. (a).) Section 8460 also provides that the 90-day time limit to commence
an action to enforce a lien does not apply if there was an agreement to extend
credit and a notice of that fact was recorded within 90 days after recordation
of the claim of lien or more than 90 days after recordation of the claim of
lien but before a purchaser or encumbrancer for value and in good faith
acquires rights in the property.  (Civ. Code, § 8460, subd. (b).)
 
Here, the First Lien was recorded on March 15, 2023.  Thereafter, Plaintiffs filed this action more
than 90 days later on April 2, 2024.  Therefore,
under Civil Code section 8460, Plaintiffs’ First Lien expired and is
unenforceable.  
 
In opposition, Plaintiffs lodge several procedural attacks
to the Petition.  As relevant here,
Plaintiffs contend the Petition to Release the First Lien does not comply with
statutory requirements.[1]  The court agrees. 
 
First, Defendant did not properly serve of the Petition.  “The
petitioner shall serve a copy of the petition and a notice of hearing on the
claimant at least 15 days before the hearing. Service shall be made in the same
manner as service of summons, or by certified or registered mail, postage
prepaid, return receipt requested, addressed to the claimant as provided
in Section 8108.”  (Civ. Code § 8486, subd. (b).)  Notice shall be given to the person to be
notified at the person's residence, the person's place of business, or,
depending on the title of the person or entity to be served, at a specified
address. (Civ. Code. § 8108.)  The petitioner bears the burden of proving
he complied with service and date for hearing requirements. (Civ. Code. § 8488,
subd. (a).) 
 
Here, Defendant served a copy of the Petition and notice of
hearing on Plaintiffs’ counsel on May 23, 2024 via electronic service to “JSchmid@hbblaw.comq”.  (Proof of Electronic Service, 5/23/24.)  This is Plaintiffs’ Counsel’s electronic
service address, misspelled.  There is no
proof Plaintiffs were served at any of the addresses specified in Civil Code
section 8108.  The service requirements
have not been satisfied. 
 
Second, Defendant did not comply with other procedural requirements.  Civil Code section 8484 requires that the petition
for release order be verified by the petitioner and allege the following: 
 
(a)
The date of recordation of the claim of lien. A certified copy of the
claim of lien shall be attached to the petition. 
(b) The county in which the claim of lien is recorded. 
(c)
The book and page or series number of the place in the official records where
the claim of lien is recorded. 
(d) The legal description of the property subject to the
claim of lien. 
(e)
Whether an extension of credit has been granted under Section 8460, if so to
what date, and that the time for commencement of an action to enforce the lien
has expired. 
(f)
That the owner has given the claimant notice under Section 8482 demanding that
the claimant execute and record a release of the lien and that the claimant is
unable or unwilling to do so or cannot with reasonable diligence be
found. 
(g) Whether an action to enforce the lien is pending. 
(h)
Whether the owner of the property or interest in the property has filed for
relief in bankruptcy or there is another restraint that prevents the claimant
from commencing an action to enforce the lien. 
 
(Emphasis added.)  
 
A property owner may not petition for a release order until
he or she gives the claimant notice demanding that the claimant execute and
record a release of lien claim at least ten days before filing the petition.
(Civ. Code, § 8482.) The manner of giving notice must comply with the
requirements of Civil Code sections 8100, et. seq. (Id.) 
 
Here, Defendant’s Petition has several sefects.  The Petition is unverified, does not include
a certified copy of Plaintiffs’ claim of lien filed on March 15, 2023, Serial
No. 20230170026, does not indicate whether credit has been extended, and does
not set forth the legal description of the Property.  Further, although Defendant indicates that on
April 1, 2024, he gave Plaintiffs notice under Civil Code section 8482
demanding that the First Lien be released, there is no proof the demand was
served in compliance with Civil Code section 8100, et. seq.  
 
Defendant may very well be entitled to an order directing
the release of the First Lien.  As the Defendant
points out, Plaintiffs do not dispute they did not commence an action to
enforce the First Lien within 90 days of recording the lien.  Given this background, the court is inclined
to award attorney fees.[2]  However given the defects in Defendant’s
Petition re First Lien, the court will continue the hearing to allow Defendant
to cure the defects. 
 
B.    
Second Lien
            
The same procedural defects in the Petition re First Lien are
likewise applicable to the Petition re Second Lien.  However, for the reasons stated below, a
continuance of the Petition re Second Lien to cure the defects is not
warranted.
 
Defendant argues the Second Lien should be released because
Plaintiffs did not timely record the lien within 90 days.  “A claimant other than a direct contractor
may not enforce a lien unless the claimant records a claim of lien within the
following times: 
 
(a) After the claimant ceases to provide work.
(b) Before the earlier of the following times:
(1) Ninety days after completion of the work of improvement.
(2) Thirty days after the owner records a notice of
completion or cessation.”  
 
(Civ. Code, § 8414.)[3]
 
            Here, Defendant
contends the work was completed on March 15, 2023. Plaintiffs then recorded the
Second Lien on or about May 16, 2024, which is more than ninety days later.
 
            In
opposition, Plaintiffs point to the allegations in its First Amended Complaint
which states, “Plaintiffs are informed and believe that the work of improvement
on the Project was completed on or about February 28, 2024.”  (FAC, ¶ 54.) 
Thereafter, Plaintiffs recorded the Second Lien within the 90 day
period.
 
            In reply,
Defendant pivots and argues the work is ongoing.  And, because the work is ongoing, the Second
Lien was recorded prematurely.  At best,
Defendant points to a factual dispute. 
This issue is best disposed by way of trial or summary judgment.  Moreover, Defendant does not offer any
evidence to substantiate the claim that work on the Property is ongoing.
 
IV.       CONCLUSION 
 
Based on the foregoing, the Petition for Release of Second
Mechanics Lien is DENIED without prejudice. 

 
The Hearing for Petition for Release of Mechanic’s Lien from
Property is CONTINUED to September 13, 2024, to allow Defendant to correct the
defects noted in this order.  
 
The Demurrer is MOOT.
 
Defendant to give notice.
 
 
Dated:   August 8, 2024                                             




 


   




 


  Kerry
  Bensinger  
  Judge of
  the Superior Court 




 


