 Case Number:  BC704624    Hearing Date:   August 8, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     August
8, 2024                                               TRIAL DATE:  Not set
                                                           
CASE:                                Hong Jin, et al. v. Dragon Dream LLC, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 BC704624
 





















 
EX
PARTE APPLICATION FOR RIGHT TO ATTACH ORDER AND ORDER FOR ISSUANCE OF WRIT OF
ATTACHMENT (NONRESIDENT) PER CCP § 492.010



 
MOVING
PARTY:              Defendants/Cross-Complainants
Dragon Dream LLC and Mingyong Huang
 
RESPONDING
PARTY:     Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants Hong
Jin and Ming Zhou
 
 
I.          INTRODUCTION
 
            This is a consolidated action concerning the commercial
property located at 16839 Gale Ave., Los Angeles, California (the “Property”).  The Property was owned by Dragon Dream, LLC.  Dragon Dream, LLC was wholly owned by Mingyong
Huang.  In 2017, Plaintiffs Hong Jin and
Ming Zhou (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) were approached by their real estate
agent Angela Xu (Xu) about an investment opportunity to acquire an ownership
interest in the Property.  Zu represented
that her business partner (and husband), Bo Wang (Wang), owned the Property but
wanted to sell a 25% interest due to financial distress.  In October 2017, Plaintiffs entered into an
agreement with Bo Wang and Dragon Dream, LLC to acquire 25% interest in the
Property.  Pursuant to the agreement,
Plaintiffs wired $1,500,000 renminbi (Chinese currency) to a bank account in
China.  In March 2018, Plaintiffs looked
closer at the agreement and realized it was not an agreement to acquire a 25%
interest in the Property but was instead a Membership Interest Purchase
Agreement.  Plaintiffs alleged they
entered into the agreement based on fraudulent misrepresentations. 
 
 On May 11, 2018,
Plaintiffs filed this action against Defendants Dragon Dream, LLC and Mingyong
Huang (collectively, “Defendants”), among others.  Defendants cross-complained against
Plaintiffs.  
 
On March 17, 2022, Plaintiffs filed a new action against Defendants
in Case No. 22STCV09428.  There,
Plaintiffs asserted they were assignees of Bo Wang, who Plaintiffs originally
claimed defrauded them.  Defendants filed
a notice of related case and moved to consolidate.  This action and Case No. 22STCV09428 were
consolidated on July 5, 2022.
 
On August 14, 2023, Defendants filed a Cross-Complaint in
Case No. 22STCV09428 naming Bo Wang as a cross-defendant.  Defendants have been unable to effectuate
service of process on Bo Wang who, in 2018, was deported from the United States
to China.
 
Before the court is Defendants’ Ex Parte Application for
Right to Attach Order and Order for Issuance of Writ of Attachment.  Defendants seek to preserve their ability to
recover on their cross-complaint against Bo Wang by requesting that this court
exercise in rem/quasi in rem jurisdiction over “all property of Bo Wang which
is subject to attachment.”  
 
Plaintiffs filed an opposition to the Ex Parte Application. 
 
II.        DISCUSSION
 
            Defendants
do not establish entitlement to the relief requested for several reasons.
 
First, Defendants’ Ex Parte Application for Writ of
Attachment was improperly filed with this court.  Under LASC Local Rule, rules 2.8(a) and 2.9, an
application for pre-judgment writ of attachment is to be heard in Department
82, 85, or 86.  (Cf. LASC Local Rule(a)
[providing that applications for post-judgment writ of attachment
are to be heard in the department where the case is assigned (emphasis added)].)  A judgment has not been entered in this
action.  Accordingly, Defendants’ application
for pre-judgment writ of attachment must be heard by Department 82, 85,
or 86.
 
Second, Defendants do not establish they will suffer
irreparable harm or immediate danger.  California
Rules of Court, Rule 3.1201 provides that a request for ex parte relief must be
in writing and must include all of the following: 
 
1.     
An application containing the case
caption and stating the relief requested; 
2.     
A declaration in support of the
application making the factual showing required under rule 3.1202(c); 
3.     
A declaration based on personal
knowledge of the notice given under rule 3.1204; 
4.     
A memorandum; and 
5.     
A proposed order. 
 
Pursuant to California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1202(c), “[a]n
applicant must make an affirmative factual showing in a declaration containing
competent testimony based on personal knowledge of irreparable harm, immediate
danger, or any other statutory basis for granting relief ex parte.”
 
Here, Defendants fail to show irreparable harm or immediate
danger if relief is not granted.  Indeed,
Defendants do not discuss at all the elements of irreparable harm or immediate
danger.  Similarly, Code of Civil
Procedure section 485.010 provides that “no right to attach order or writ of
attachment may be issued pursuant to this chapter unless it appears from facts
shown by affidavit that great or irreparable injury would result
to the plaintiff if issuance of the order were delayed until the matter could
be heard on notice.”  (Emphasis
added.)  Defendants do not meet their
burden of proof.
 
Third, Defendants have not provided an adequate description
of the property to be attached.  Code of
Civil Procedure section 484.020 states, in part, “Where the defendant is a
natural person, the description of the property shall be reasonably adequate to
permit the defendant to identify the specific property sought to be attached.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §  484.020(e).) 
Here, cross-defendant Bo Wang is a natural person.  Accordingly, Defendants are required to
provide a reasonably adequate description of his property to be attached.  However, Defendants state they seek to attach “all
property of Bo Wang which is subject to attachment.”  This is not a reasonably adequate description
of the property to be attached.
 
Fourth, Defendants have not provided Bo Wang with proper notice.  The plaintiff may apply for a right to attach
order by noticing a hearing for the order and serving the defendant with
summons and complaint, notice of the application, and supporting papers any
time after filing the complaint.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 484.010.)  Here, Defendants did not serve Bo Wang with this
Ex Parte Application or the summons and cross-complaint.
 
III.       CONCLUSION 
 
Based on the foregoing, the Ex Parte Application is DENIED.
 
The clerk of the court to give notice.
 
 
Dated:   August 8, 2024                                             




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of
  the Superior Court 




 