 Case Number:  23STCV24236    Hearing Date:   August 8, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     August 8, 2024                                               TRIAL
DATE:  Not set
                                                           
CASE:                         Emaza Gibson v. Jason Derulo, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV24236
 





















 
DEFENDANT
FUTURE HISTORY, INC.’S MOTION 
FOR
A PROTECTIVE ORDER STAYING DISCOVERY
      


 
 
I.          INTRODUCTION
 
Plaintiff Emaza Gibson (“Plaintiff” or “Gibson”) is an artist.
 Defendant Jason Derulo (“Derulo”) is a
musical artist signed with major record label Atlantic Recording Corporation
(“Atlantic”).  Derulo also owns the
record label Future History, Inc. (“Future History”).  In or around August of 2021, Derulo contacted
Gibson about an opportunity to become a successful musician.  Thereafter, Gibson entered into agreements
with Derulo, Atlantic, and Future History for the purpose of creating a mixtape
and an album.  Gibson was also to create
a single record featuring Derulo.  
 
In or around September of 2021, Gibson began working with
Derulo to create her album under the Future History label.  Throughout the working relationship, Derulo
was difficult to communicate with, made unwanted sexual advances towards Gibson,
and treated her with hostility.  After an
incident where Derulo aggressively approached Plaintiff and berated her for
arriving late to a recording session, Gibson’s mother and manager, Sandra Bales
(“Bales”) contacted Derulo’s manager, Frank Harris (“Harris”) about the
incident.  Harris acknowledged the
incident and said there was nothing to do.  Gibson also contacted Atlantic Executive Vice
President Anton Ben-Horin (“Ben-Horin”) to discuss the hostility she felt from
Derulo and difficulties communicating with Derulo.  Ben-Horn acknowledged Derulo’s behavior but
ultimately did nothing to address Gibson’s concerns.  On September 6, 2022, Atlantic and Future
History terminated the agreement with Gibson. 
This lawsuit followed.
 
Procedural Background
 
Gibson filed a Complaint on October 5, 2023.  Derulo and Atlantic filed a demurrer to the
Complaint.  Harris also filed a demurrer
to the Complaint.
 
On February 1, 2024, before the deadline to file oppositions
to the demurrer, Gibson timely filed the First Amended Complaint (FAC) against Derulo,
Future History, Atlantic, and Harris.[1]  The FAC alleges the following causes of
action: 
 
1.     
Quid Pro Quo Sexual Harassment
2.     
Failure to Prevent and/or Remedy
Harassment 
3.     
Retaliation in Violation of FEHA
4.     
Sexual Harassment in Violation of
the Unruh Civil Rights Act 
5.     
Intimidation and Violence in Violation
of the Ralph Civil Rights Act
6.     
Breach of Contract
7.     
Breach of the Covenant of Good Faith
and Fair Dealing
8.     
Intentional Infliction of Emotional
Distress
9.     
Negligent Infliction of Emotional
Distress
 
On March 4, 2024, Harris filed a demurrer to the FAC
(“Harris Demurrer”).
 
On March 8, 2024, Derulo and Atlantic filed a demurrer to
the FAC (“Derulo Demurrer”).
 
On March 15, 2024, Derulo and Atlantic filed a Motion to
Dismiss Pursuant to the Code Civ. Proc. § 410.30.  
 
On April 19, 2024, after taking the matters under
submission, the Court granted the Motion to Dismiss which mooted Derulo and
Atlantic’s Demurrer and sustained Harris’s Demurrer without leave to
amend.  
 
Thereafter, Plaintiff filed a Motion to Vacate the court’s
April 19, 2024 order.  Future History
also filed a Demurrer and Motion to Dismiss Pursuant to the Code Civ. Proc. §
410.30.  Those matters are scheduled to
be heard on November 11, 2024.
 
Motion for Protective Order
 
On May 23, 2024, Future History filed this Motion for a
Protective Order Staying Discovery. 
Future History moves for a temporary stay on discovery pending the
court’s ruling on Future History’s Motion to Dismiss and Demurrer.  The stay on discovery is requested up to 30
days after the court orders Future History to answer the operative complaint.
 
The motion is unopposed. [2]
 
II.           DISCUSSION & LEGAL STANDARD
            
            Defendant Future History seeks a protective order staying
discovery until the court resolves its Motion to Dismiss and Demurrer to the
FAC.  As Future History explains, its
Motion to Dismiss raises the same arguments which Defendant Derulo raised in
support of his meritorious Motion to Dismiss.  Further, Future History’s Demurrer raises
similar arguments as those made by Defendant Harris in support of Harris’s
meritorious demurrer.  Future History’s
motions are scheduled to be heard on November 12, 2024.  Future History has not answered the operative
pleading.  As such, Future History argues
good cause exists to stay discovery pending the outcome of its motions and further,
because Plaintiff has yet to state a valid cause of action. 
 
On motion and for good cause shown, the court may establish
the sequence and timing of discovery for the convenience of parties and
witnesses and in the interests of justice. 
(Code Civ. Proc., 2019.020, subd. (b).) 
A stay of discovery may be warranted until the complaint states a viable
cause of action which would withstand demurrer. 
(See Terminals Equipment Co. v. City and County of San Francisco (1990)
221 Cal.App.3d 234, 247.)
 
The court finds good cause exists to stay discovery pending
resolution of Future History’s Motion to Dismiss and Demurrer.  Future History’s pending motions raise the
same or similar arguments that its co-defendants Derulo and Harris raised in
their respective and meritorious motions. 
(See Minute Order, 4/19/24.)  It
is therefore in the interests of justice to stay discovery unless and until
Plaintiff can state a viable cause of action in this forum.  Plaintiff, having not filed an opposition,
does not provide any argument to the contrary.
 
III.       CONCLUSION         
            The
unopposed motion is GRANTED.  Discovery
is stayed as to Defendant Future History, Inc. until resolution of
its Motion to Dismiss and Demurrer to the First Amended Complaint.
            Defendant
Future History to give notice.
Dated:   August 8, 2024                                  




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




 
            
 
 


