  Case Number:  23SMCV03404    Hearing Date:   February 8, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


February 8, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV03404




MOTION


Motion to Strike Portions of Plaintiff’s Complaint




MOVING PARTY


Defendant Barrington Pacific, LLC




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff Annabella Gutman



 
MOTION
 
Defendant Barrington Pacific, LLC (“Defendant”) moves to strike from
Plaintiff Annabella Gutman’s (“Plaintiff”) Complaint references to and demands
for injunctive relief and punitive damages. 
Plaintiff opposes the motion and Defendant replies.
 
 
LEGAL
STANDARDS - MOTION TO STRIKE
 
Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading, may serve
and file a motion to strike the whole pleading or any part thereof.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1); Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1322, subd. (b).) 
On a motion to strike, the court may: (1) strike out any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike out all or
any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of
California, a court rule, or an order of the court.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a)-(b); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767,
782.)  
 
Here, Defendant moves to strike Plaintiff’s references to and demands
for injunctive relief and punitive damages.
 
1.      Injunctive Relief
 
Defendant argues that
Plaintiff has failed to adequately plead what specific injunctive relief she
seeks in connection with the nuisance cause of action, and therefore the
request for injunctive relief should be stricken.  The only authority Defendant cites in support
is Code of Civil Procedure section 431.10, which defines “material” and
“immaterial” allegations and provides that an “immaterial allegation” is an
“irrelevant matter” subject to a motion to strike under Code of Civil Procedure
section 436.
 
The Court disagrees.  There is no heightened pleading requirement
for nuisance.  Plaintiff has adequately
alleged that Defendant’s failure to repair and maintain the property has
created a nuisance, for which Plaintiff seeks injunctive relief to remedy.
 
Therefore Defendant’s motion
to strike the requests for injunctive relief is denied.
 
2.      Punitive Damages
 
In ruling on a motion to strike punitive damages, “judges read
allegations of a pleading subject to a motion to strike as a whole, all parts
in their context, and assume their truth.” 
(Clauson v. Superior Court
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.)  To
state a prima facie claim for punitive damages, a plaintiff must allege the
elements set forth in the punitive damages statute, Civil Code section 3294.  (College
Hosp., Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 721.)  Per Civil Code section 3294, a plaintiff must
allege that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.  (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).)   As set forth in the Civil Code, 
 
(1) “Malice” means conduct which is intended
by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which
is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard
of the rights or safety of others.  (2)
“Oppression” means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and
unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person's rights.  (3) “Fraud” means an intentional
misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the
defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving
a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.
 
(Civ.
Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1)-(3), emphasis added.)  
 
Further, a plaintiff must assert facts with specificity to support a
conclusion that a defendant acted with oppression, fraud or malice.  To wit, there is a heightened pleading
requirement regarding a claim for punitive damages.  (See Smith v. Superior Court (1992) 10
Cal.App.4th 1033, 1041-1042.)  “When
nondeliberate injury is charged, allegations that the defendant’s conduct was
wrongful, willful, wanton, reckless or unlawful do not support a claim for
exemplary damages; such allegations do not charge malice.  When a defendant must produce evidence in
defense of an exemplary damage claim, fairness demands that he receive adequate
notice of the kind of conduct charged against him.” (G. D. Searle & Co.
v. Superior Court (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 22, 29 [cleaned up].)  In Anschutz Entertainment Group, Inc. v.
Snepp, the Court of Appeal noted that the plaintiffs’ assertions related to
their claim for punitive damages were “insufficient to meet the specific
pleading requirement.”  (Anschutz
Entertainment Group, Inc. v. Snepp (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 598, 643
[plaintiffs alleged “the conduct of Defendants was intentional, and done
willfully, maliciously, with ill will towards Plaintiffs, and with conscious
disregard for Plaintiff's rights. Plaintiff's injuries were exacerbated by the
malicious conduct of Defendants. Defendants' conduct justifies an award of
exemplary and punitive damages”]; see also Grieves
v. Superior Court (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 166 [“The mere allegation an
intentional tort was committed is not sufficient to warrant an award of
punitive damages.  Not only must there be
circumstances of oppression, fraud, or malice, but facts must be alleged in the
pleading to support such a claim”].)   
 
            Moreover, “[a]n
employer shall not be liable for damages pursuant to subdivision (a), based
upon acts of an employee of the employer, unless the employer had advance
knowledge of the unfitness of the employee and employed him or her with a
conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others or authorized or ratified
the wrongful conduct for which the damages are awarded or was personally guilty
of oppression, fraud, or malice.” 
(Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (b).)
 
Defendant argues the allegations do not specifically plead Defendant’s
prior knowledge, especially since Defendant is the employer of those
responsible for the building maintenance. 
Plaintiff responds that the allegations in the Complaint sufficiently
establish Defendant’s knowledge.
 
With respect to Defendant’s knowledge, the Complaint alleges:
 
5.  On
information and belief Barrington Plaza (Defendants) led Plaintiff into the
lease, knew of the conditions, knew they planned to not honor the Agreement,
and at all material times, managed the day to day activities and conditions of
the Property, and interfaced with Tenants regarding issues at The Property.
 
[…]
 
10. 
Plaintiff entered a lease for 1 year of exclusive use and enjoyment of
the Property on or about February 22, 2023. 
In or about May 2023, Defendant made news that they would seek to evict
all 712-units at the Property to make repairs, both breaching the lease
Agreement, and making Plaintiff incur costs, frustration and damages for having
moved into the Property.
 
11.  Since
announcing their plans, Defendant has stopped repairing and maintaining the
Property. […]
 
13. Plaintiff began making written complaints
about ongoing faulty plumbing and constant disruption of quiet enjoyment
starting in May 2023.  Defendant have
since failed to repair.
 
14. Plaintiff is informed and believe that the
repairs and conditions at the Property were known by Defendants prior to
entering into the Lease Agreement and were intentionally withheld including
planned site-wide evictions.
 
15. 
Specifically, the Defendant entered an Agreement without the ability to
perform and has since intentionally, negligently or recklessly abandoned their
duties. […]
 
16.  On
information and belief, the Defendants are experienced property owners and
managers, and landlords of residential property throughout Los Angeles County,
and are aware of the conditions, without immediate remediation serious
habitability violations would develop that would seriously and materially
impact one’s health and tenancy.
 
17.  In
response to Plaintiff’s disapproval of the breach of her lease, and complaints
and vocal dissent about the above neglect, the Defendants ignored the
Plaintiffs and retaliated against her through communication and/or disregard
and ultimately failing to remedy the situation, including, failing to relocate
the Plaintiff.
 
18. 
Plaintiff is informed and believe that Defendants are intentionally
disregarding the property in an effort to maximize their profits pending their
mass-eviction, in complete disregard for Plaintiff’s rights in law and equity.
 
[…]
 
21.  On or
about June of 2023 the Defendants stopped performing maintenance and repairs
throughout the Property.
 
[…]
 
25. 
Defendants had actual and constructive notice of the defective
conditions alleged herein, but despite such notice, failed to adequately repair
and abate the conditions at The Property.
 
[…]
 
28. 
Defendants knew or should have known that permitting said defective
conditions to exist threatened the physical and emotional health and well-being
of Plaintiff and posed a serious threat and danger to their health and safety.
 
(Complaint
¶¶ 5, 10-11, 13-18, 21, 25, 28.)
 
            With regard to the allegations made
“on information and belief,” allegations made “on information and belief” are
insufficient to satisfy the heightened pleading requirement “unless the facts
upon which the belief is founded are stated in the pleading.”  (Dowling v. Spring Val. Water Co.
(1917) 174 Cal.218, 221.)
 
            As for the remaining allegations,
although Plaintiff alleges that she began notifying Defendant in writing of the
defective conditions in May 2023, and Defendant stopped maintaining the
property in June 2023, Plaintiff does not plead specific facts regarding
exactly when the letters were sent, or who and where they were sent to in order
to adequately plead punitive damages against Defendant employer.
 
            Therefore, the Court grants
Defendant’s motion to strike punitive damages from the Complaint.
 
3.     
Leave to Amend
 
A plaintiff has the burden of showing in what
manner the complaint could be amended and how the amendment would change the
legal effect of the complaint, i.e., state a cause of action. (See The
Inland Oversight Committee v City of San Bernardino (2018) 27 Cal.App.5th
771, 779; PGA West Residential Assn., Inc. v Hulven Int'l, Inc. (2017)
14 Cal.App.5th 156, 189.) A plaintiff must not only state the legal basis for
the amendment, but also the factual allegations sufficient to state a cause of
action or claim. (See PGA West Residential Assn., Inc. v Hulven Int'l, Inc.,
supra, 14 Cal.App.5th at p. 189.) Moreover, a plaintiff does not meet his
or her burden by merely stating in the opposition to a demurrer or motion to
strike that “if the Court finds the operative complaint deficient, plaintiff
respectfully requests leave to amend.” (See Major Clients Agency v Diemer
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1116, 1133; Graham v Bank of America (2014) 226
Cal.App.4th 594, 618 [asserting an abstract right to amend does not satisfy the
burden].)
 
Here, Plaintiff has failed to meet this burden, as Plaintiff
merely argues that Courts liberally grant leave to amend, but does not provide
any specific facts Plaintiff could add to cure the deficiencies
identified.    
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
For the reasons stated, the Court grants in part and denies in part
Defendant’s motion to strike.  
 
Defendant’s motion is granted with respect to Plaintiff’s request for
punitive damages.  The Court orders the
prayer for punitive damages stricken from the Complaint without leave to
amend.    
 
Defendant’s motion is denied with respect to Plaintiff’s request for
injunctive relief.  
 
Defendant shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service regarding the same.  
 
 
DATED:  February 8, 2024                                                    ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court