 Case Number:  24NNCV00159    Hearing Date:   January 17, 2025    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



JORGE ALFARO, 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
JAMES J.
   JABER, M.D., et al.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 24NNCV00159
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEMURRER WITH MOTION TO STRIKE
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
January
   17, 2025



 
I.      INTRODUCTION
         On March 8,
2024, plaintiff Jorge Alfaro filed this action against defendants James J.
Jaber, M.D. (“Dr. Jaber”), Penrose Therapeutx, Inc. (“Penrose Therapeutx”),
Southern California Head and Neck Surgery, and Tribar Healthcare Partners
(“Tribar”). 
          On
July 31, 2024, Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”).
Plaintiff asserts causes of action for: (1) medical negligence, (2) intentional
infliction of emotional distress (“IIED”), (3) fraud, (4) constructive fraud,
and (5) violation of Business & Professions Code § 17200 (“UCL”). 
          On
September 4, 2024, Dr. Jaber and Southern California Head and Neck Surgery
(collectively, “Defendants”) filed this demurrer to the Second, Third, Fourth,
and Fifth Causes of Action in Plaintiff’s FAC for IIED, fraud, constructive
fraud, and violation of the UCL. Defendants also filed a motion to strike Plaintiff’s
requests for $20,000,000 in damages, punitive damages, and attorney’s fees. 
          Plaintiff
filed opposition briefs on January 6, 2025. 
          Defendants
filed reply briefs on January 10, 2025. 
II.     LEGAL
STANDARDS
A.  
Demurrer
A demurrer tests the legal sufficiency
of the pleadings and will be sustained only where the pleading is defective on
its face. (City of Atascadero v. Merrill
Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Inc. (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 445, 459.)
“We treat the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded but not
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law. We accept the factual
allegations of the complaint as true and also consider matters which may be
judicially noticed. [Citation.]” (Mitchell
v. California Department of Public Health (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th 1000, 1007; Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials
Co. (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 593, 604 [“the facts alleged in the pleading are
deemed to be true, however improbable they may be”].) Allegations are to be
liberally construed. (Code Civ. Proc., § 452.) In construing the allegations,
the court is to give effect to specific factual allegations that may modify or
limit inconsistent general or conclusory allegations. (Financial Corporation of America v. Wilburn (1987) 189 Cal.App.3rd
764, 769.) 
B.  
Motion
to Strike
          Any party,
within the time allowed to respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of
motion to strike the whole or any part thereof. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd.
(b)(1).) The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and
upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter
inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767,
782 [“Matter in a pleading which is not essential to the claim is surplusage;
probative facts are surplusage and may be stricken out or disregarded”].) The
court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with California law, a court rule, or an order of the court. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (b).) An immaterial or irrelevant allegation is one
that is not essential to the statement of a claim or defense; is neither
pertinent to nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or defense; or a
demand for judgment requesting relief not supported by the allegations of the
complaint. (Code Civ. Proc., § 431.10, subd. (b).) The grounds for moving to
strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)
III.    DISCUSSION
A.         
Allegations
of the Complaint 
Plaintiff alleges that in 2018, he began
treating with Dr. Jaber, a head and neck doctor, for HIV with an experimental
drug. (FAC, ¶¶ 11-13.) Dr. Jaber allegedly instructed Plaintiff to stop taking
the medicine prescribed by Plaintiff’s previous doctors and to only take Dr.
Jaber’s experimental drug manufactured by Penrose Therapeutx. (FAC, ¶¶ 14-15.)
Dr. Jaber advised Plaintiff that this experimental drug worked by “eliminating
his immune system and that way [Dr. Jaber] could work on rebuilding his immune
system again.” (FAC, ¶ 16.) Dr. Jaber also told Plaintiff “not to worry since
the experimental drug would help him fight off any virus and protect him
against any disease.” (FAC, ¶ 17.) Plaintiff took this experimental drug for
approximately 4 years and in or around the summer of 2022, he started feeling
sick. (FAC, ¶¶ 17-18.) He developed rectal pain and bleeding (later diagnosed
as condyloma) and “also developed skin lesions on his face and flu synthons
[sic] as well as mental health conditions such as ADHD, anxiety, and
depression.” (FAC, ¶ 18.) In March 2023, Plaintiff was hospitalized due to
pneumonia and decided not to take this experimental drug anymore. (FAC, ¶ 19.)
Plaintiff was hospitalized a second time in April 2023 due to viral and
bacterial infections, which caused tissue damage. (FAC, ¶ 20.) Plaintiff
alleges he was never advised regarding side effects of the drug or the chemical
composition of the experimental drug, and due to Dr. Jaber’s actions, his HIV
has now progressed into AIDS. (FAC, ¶ 21.) 
B.         
Second
Cause of Action: IIED 
The elements of an intentional
infliction of emotional distress cause of action are: (1) extreme and
outrageous conduct by the defendant; (2) intention to cause or reckless
disregard of the probability of causing emotional distress; (3) severe
emotional suffering; and (4) actual and proximate causation of the emotional
distress. (See Moncada v. West Coast Quartz Corp. (2013) 221 Cal.App.4th
768, 780; Wilson v. Hynek (2012) 207 Cal.App.4th 999, 1009.) To satisfy
the element of extreme and outrageous conduct, defendant’s conduct “‘must be so
extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized
society.’” (Moncada, supra, 221 Cal.App.4th at 780 (quoting Tererice
v. Blue Cross of California (1989) 209 Cal.App.3d 878, 883).) 
Defendants argue that Plaintiff
unsuccessfully attempts to expand his claim for medical negligence and has not
pled facts demonstrating an intent to cause emotional distress or reckless
disregard of the probability of doing so because Plaintiff alleges that Dr.
Jaber intended to “test their medication [on Plaintiff] without consent, among
other reasons.” (Demurrer, p. 7; FAC, ¶ 49.) 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues that
the FAC goes beyond challenging the manner in which medical treatment was
provided because he alleges that Dr. Jaber intentionally acted with an ulterior
purpose. This alleged ulterior purpose, testing medication on Plaintiff without
consent, is belied by the other allegations in the FAC, namely that Plaintiff
was apparently aware that the medication was experimental and that Defendant
was aware that the medication would not be effective. (FAC, ¶ 12.) That
Plaintiff did not understand the extent of the side effects goes more to a
claim for lack of informed consent premised on medical malpractice, not an
intentional tort. (See Larson v. UHS of Rancho Springs, Inc. (2014) 230
Cal.App.4th 336, 351.) 
Defendants’ demurrer to the Second
Cause of Action is SUSTAINED.  
C.         
Third
and Fourth Causes of Action: Fraud and Constructive Fraud
In response to Plaintiff’s Third Cause
of Action for fraud, Defendants argue that Plaintiff fails to plead specific facts
showing that Dr. Jaber intended to defraud him and that Plaintiff is merely
repeating his professional negligence claim. In opposition, Plaintiff argues again
that his allegations are distinct from malpractice because Dr. Jaber acted with
the “ulterior purpose” of unauthorized testing. 
Plaintiff’s allegation that Dr. Jaber
knew the medication would not work is at odds with his allegation that Dr.
Jaber had intended to “test” the medication on Plaintiff without consent. (FAC,
¶¶ 47-49.) It is possible that Plaintiff meant to imply that Dr. Jaber was
fraudulently peddling a medication that he knew was ineffective in order to
profit off Plaintiff (in lieu of alleging that he treated Plaintiff as an unknowing
test subject). However, fraud must be pled with specificity. Accordingly,
Defendants’ demurrer to the Third Cause of Action is SUSTAINED. 
As for Plaintiff’s Fourth Cause of
Action for constructive fraud, constructive fraud differs from actual fraud in
that no fraudulent intent is required. (Civ. Code, § 1573(1).) Rather, if one
who is under a fiduciary duty to provide complete and accurate information to
the plaintiff and fails to do so, and the plaintiff is misled to the plaintiff’s
prejudice, there is a claim for constructive fraud despite any intent to
mislead or deceive. 
Here, Plaintiff alleges that Dr. Jaber
deceived him by “provid[ing] him with medications that were not FDA approved,
and which caused side effects, and that Defendant had no intention of curing
his condition.” (FAC, ¶ 54.) However, Plaintiff fails to allege that he was
misled because he does not allege that he was ever under the impression that
the experimental drug was FDA approved or that he would not have taken the
medication if he knew that the FDA had not approved this experimental drug. Also,
Plaintiff does not allege that had he known about the side effects of this
experimental drug, he would not have taken it. 
Accordingly, the demurrer to the Third
and Fourth Causes of Action is SUSTAINED. 
D.         
Fifth
Cause of Action: Violation of UCL 
The UCL prohibits “unlawful, unfair, or
fraudulent business practices.” (Bus. & Prof. Code, § 17200.) Plaintiff
alleges that Defendants engaged in “repeated deception and harassment of patients”
and “provided non-FDA approved medication without proper prescription or
informed consent.” (FAC, ¶¶ 58-59.) Plaintiff does not identify a particular
statute or law that was violated, such as any prohibition on the sale,
prescription, or advertisement of FDA-approved experimental drugs, and
therefore fails to identify any unlawful practice. 
However, Plaintiff adequately alleges an
unfair business practice. In the consumer context, an act or practice is unfair
under the UCL if the consumer injury is substantial, the injury is not
outweighed by any countervailing benefits to consumers or to competition, and
the injury is not an injury that consumers themselves could reasonably have
avoided. (See Camacho v. Automobile Club of Southern California (2006)
142 Cal.App.4th 1394, 1403.) Here, Plaintiff alleges a substantial injury,
including the progression of HIV into AIDS and his inability to work, that is
not outweighed by the perceived benefits of an ineffective drug. (FAC, ¶¶ 22,
25.) Plaintiff’s injuries are also not ones which he could have avoided. Accordingly,
the demurrer to the Fifth Cause of Action is OVERRULED. 
E.         
Motion
to Strike 
Since the only viable claims remaining
are Plaintiff’s medical malpractice claim and the UCL claim, Defendants’ motion
to strike Plaintiff’s claims for punitive damages is GRANTED. (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 425.13 [punitive damages against medical provider may only be asserted on
motion]; Bus. and Prof. Code, §§ 17203-17206 [only injunctive relief and
restitution available for UCL claims].) 
Defendants’ motion to strike attorneys
fees under Code of Civil Procedure section 1033.5(a)(10) is also GRANTED. Plaintiff’s
lawsuit primarily seeks to recover compensation for his personal injuries. (Schwartz
v. City of Rosemead (1984) 155 Cal.App.3d 547, 555 [“The private attorney general
theory, as codified in this section, authorizes an award of attorney’s fees
when: (1) the action has resulted in the enforcement of an important right
affecting the public interest, (2) a significant benefit, whether pecuniary or
nonpecuniary, has been conferred on the general public or a large class of
persons; and (3) the necessity and financial burden of private enforcement.”])
Defendants’ motion to strike
Plaintiff’s allegation of $20,000,000 in damages in paragraph 26 is GRANTED.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 425.10, subd. (b) [amount demanded shall not be stated in
the complaint for a personal injury action].) 
IV.    CONCLUSION
Defendants’ demurrer to the Second,
Third, and Fourth Causes of Action is SUSTAINED with 20 days leave to amend. 
Defendants’ demurrer to the Fifth Cause
of Action is OVERRULED. 
Defendants’ motion to strike is
GRANTED. 
Moving party to give notice.
Dated
this 17th
day of January
2025
 




 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot 
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 