  Case Number:  22AHCV00029    Hearing Date:   January 17, 2025    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



XIAO FAN PENG, et al.,
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
YUN
   XIANG TSENG, et al., 
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 22AHCV00029
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: PLAINTIFF’S MOTIONS TO COMPEL DEPOSITIONS OF YUN XIANG
   TSENG, KRISTINE A. NALDJIAN, DAO HOUSE, LLC, AND WDA, LLC
 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
January
   17, 2025



 
On January 18, 2022, Fan Peng (“Peng”)
filed this action against Yun Xiang Tseng (“Tseng”), Zhao Cesarone, Anna Grace,
Kristine A. Naldjian (“Naldjian”), Dao House, LLC (“Dao House”), and WDA, LLC
(“WDA”) for breach of contract, intentional and negligent misrepresentation,
false advertising, conversion, unjust enrichment, intentional infliction of
emotional distress, “purchase money resulting trust”, and “alter ego.” Peng
filed an amended complaint (“FAC”) on January 31, 2022, which added Childwise
International Corporation as a defendant. On March 30, 2022, Tseng filed a
cross-complaint for breach of contract against Peng. Then, Peng filed the
Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) on July 19, 2022, which added Zhou Sail
Electronic Co., Ltd. (“Sail Electronic”) as a plaintiff. 
On May 16, 2024, Plaintiff filed four
motions for orders compelling Tseng and Naldjian to appear for their
depositions, as well as the depositions of the Persons Most Knowledgeable
(“PMK”) for Dao House and WDA. Plaintiff also request sanctions against each
deponent in the amount of $3,067.26. 
Any party may obtain discovery, subject
to restrictions, by taking the oral deposition of any person, including any
party to the action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.010.) A properly served
deposition notice is effective to require a party or party-affiliated deponent
to attend and to testify, as well as to produce documents for inspection and
copying. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.280, subd. (a).) “If, after service of a
deposition notice, a party . . . without having served a valid objection . . .
fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for
inspection any document . . . described in the deposition notice, the party
giving notice may move for an order compelling deponent’s attendance and
testimony, and the production . . . of any document . . . described in the
deposition notice.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.450, subd. (a).)
As noted by the Court in its tentative
order issued on October 9, 2024, Plaintiff’s moving papers attach nearly 80
pages of email correspondence but not a single deposition notice (either
initial or amended). The hearing was continued at the request of the parties
but despite this continuance, Plaintiff still has not filed any of the
deposition notices to show that they have actually been served on the
deponents. Accordingly, the motions are DENIED. As the motions are denied,
Plaintiff’s requests for sanctions (which remain unsubstantiated, as noted by
the Court in its previous tentative) are also DENIED.  
VI.    CONCLUSION
Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s
motions are DENIED without prejudice.
Moving party to give notice.  
 
Dated
this 17th
day of January
 2025 
 




 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 