  Case Number:  22VECV00619    Hearing Date:   October 27, 2023    Dept:  T CIENEGA SPA, INC. V. PAGE 22VECV00619[Tentative] Order on Plaintiff Cienega Med Spa, Inc.’s application filed on 9/8/2023 to impose sanctions on defendant Arthur Page for non-compliance with the court’s order of 8/25/2023: The court grants terminating sanctions against defendant Arthur Page pursuant to CCP section 2023.010 which provides, that "[m]isuses of the discovery process include, but are not limited to, the following: . . . (g) Disobeying a court order to provide discovery."  CCP section 2023.010(d) provides: "The court may impose a terminating sanction by one of the following orders: (1) An order striking out the pleadings or parts of the pleadings of any party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process."The 8/25/2023 order stated:The court has reviewed the ex parte application and the opposition. The court may order a party who has responded that it will produce responsive documents to comply. Here, in response to RFP numbers 5, 6, 43, and 44, defendant Page responded by saying he would produce all nonprivileged documents responsive to the request in his possession, custody, and control. Based on the information provided, defendant gave only partial production of documents and did not produce all responsive documents. Accordingly, defendant Page is ordered to comply and produce all responsive non-privileged documents re RFP number 5, 6, 43, and 44 within 10 days. The compliance must identify which pages of documents produced specifically are responsive to which requests to produce, as required by Code. Specifically, defendant Page is ordered to produce: 5. All communications between Page and Marshall in his possession, custody, or control. 6. All documents, including communications, that refer to Marshall in his possession, custody, or control. 43. All building permit applications that defendant Page submitted to any city or county from January 1, 2016 to the present date in his possession, custody, or control. 44. All building permit applications that the company submitted to any city or county from January 1, 2016 to the present date in his possession, custody, or control.As set forth in the moving and reply papers, Mr. Page has intentionally failed to comply with the court’s order.  The court has reviewed the court ordered responses.  Notably, the court ordered response has a preliminary statement and general objections, neither of which is allowed under any circumstances.  This violates the spirit and intent of the order and creates a concern that material is being withheld and the responses are not complete. These were court ordered responses.In fact, Mr. Page says in his court ordered response: ...Responding Party will not respond to any request, or any part thereof, which seeks information which is protected by any of the above-cited privileges.”  (Emphasis added.) This is in direct contravention to the court's order and discovery statutes that require a privilege log for withheld privileged documents. No such log was provided.Additionally, the Supplemental Response to RFP  5, 6, 43 and 44 (these were court ordered) state that all “non-privileged documents” will be produced.  The original responses already said that. There was no need for the court to order the identical responses again. If the documents did not accompany the response, then Mr. Page was required to produce the documents, numbered, with a compliance document, as per the court order. [“Accordingly, defendant Page is ordered to comply and produce all responsive non-privileged documents re RFP number 5, 6, 43, and 44 within 10 days. The compliance must identify which pages of documents produced specifically are responsive to which requests to produce, as required by Code.”]  The remainder of the supplemental responses are not Code compliant and it is clear that Mr. Page is not acting in good faith.In his opposition to this sanctions motion, Mr. Page states that there are two categories of documents in issue.  This is not true; there are 4. 5. All communications between Page and Marshall in his possession, custody, or control.6. All documents, including communications, that refer to Marshall in his possession, custody, or control.43. All building permit applications that defendant Page submitted to any city or county from January 1, 2016 to the present date in his possession, custody, or control.44. All building permit applications that the company submitted to any city or county from January 1, 2016 to the present date in his possession, custody, or control.Mr. Page says that in response to the court's order, he served verified further response to RFP 5 on 9/5/2023 in which he made a reasonable inquiry and diligent search and confirmed that no such documents ever existed concerning written communications between himself and Mr. Marshall.  This response is incomplete in that "written communications" is undefined and leaves up in the air as to whether he means, letters, emails, notes, and/or text messages.   Moreover, the response was subject to the objections making it impossible to know whether any information was withheld pursuant to objection.  Mr. Page also states in his verified further response to RFP 6 that such documents never existed but on its face this is not true as there are plans in this case which have Mr. Marshall's name on them and he produced them. He also mentioned the existence of documents at his depositon.  Therefore, Mr. Page's response and verification cannot be believed.  He was required to identify and produce all documents that he has in his possession, custody, or control that refer to Mr. Marshall.  If he had them but no longer does, he has to identify them, explain what happened to them, and identify who has them. This includes emails, notes, and text messages, as well as electronically stored documents and hard copies of documents.  His response is patently false.   His testimony at his deposition confirms this false statement. Mr. Page also states in his verified further response to RFP 43, subject to improper objections, that:Without waiving and subject to said objections, Responding party has previously complied with this request on January 5, 2023 and April 3, 2023 by the prior production of all documents responsive to this request in Responding party’s possession, custody and control identified as Page_000173-000177 and Page_000399-000404 involving building permit applications that Responding party submitted to the City of Calabasas on behalf of Plaintiffs pertaining to Plaintiffs’ Calabasas tenant improvement project made a subject of this action. Following the Court’s August 25, 2023 ex parte discovery order requiring Responding party’s further compliance production, after a diligent search and reasonable inquiry Responding party cannot comply with the portion of the request involving Responding party’s unrelated applications for permits on behalf of other property owners in other cities, states, and Europe who are not made a subject of the Plaintiffs’ action because the requested documents are no longer in Responding party’s possession, custody or control or have been destroyed prior to Plaintiffs’ request for production of same. Responding party believes the relevant building and safety department of the city, county, state, or country such as France, Italy, or England, may still be in possession, custody, or control of the requested documents regarding Responding party’s applications for permits unrelated to Plaintiffs involving Plaintiffs’ tenant improvement project in the City of Calabasas. Responding party also refers to documents produced by third-parties in the action, the City of Calabasas, and Haro Construction who was Plaintiff’s general contractor whose documents Plaintiff controlled production in response to Responding party’s subpoena. (Emphasis added.)This is NOT a Code complaint response.  If he had responsive documents in his possession but does not have them any longer, he is required to identify what those documents are, what happened to them, and who else may have a copy.  He has to identify all building permit applications that he has submitted anywhere to any entity within the applicable time period, and what happened to them and why he does not have them.  To believe Mr. Page would mean that he has no records of any project that he has ever worked on in which he submitted permit applications to any city, county, state, or country.  He would also have to identify the project, in which city or county, names of other persons or entities which would have the documents.  He did not do this.  His reiteration or assertion of new objections is frivolous and cannot be condoned.As the response was court ordered, his objections and non Code compliant responses are sanctionable and a violation of the court's order.His response was similar to RFP 44.  Concerning RFP 44, he admitted that since 2016, he has expedited 30-40 permit applications.  What happened to those documents?  He has the ones for this project, why not the others?  What happened to the Heady project?  Did he destroy those, too?  He has emails with Rose going back to 2021.  Certainly he can search he emails for other projects as well. The court notes that he sent an electronic version of the permit application by email.  He failed to state what happened to the electronic version of all of the other permit applications he worked on.  Similarly, he has emails with the city on this project.  What happened to the emails on others?In summary, he failed to do anything different of substance in his supplemental responses than he did in his original responses.  It is clear he just refuses to comply.Mr. Page's counsel's objection to the initial ex parte order is not well taken as Mr. Page suffered no prejudice to the order being issued on ex parte application because he did not provide Code complaint responses to begin with and he basically just copied those non Code complaint responses again (with improper objections) for his court ordered response.  He clearly would have done the same whether it was by ex parte application (which the court is granted latitude in to consider on an ex parte basis given the trial setting priority at that time) or noticed motion.  Nor does counsel indicate what Mr. Page would have done differently even if he had 3 months to respond to the motion to compel.  The answer is obvious: he would have done nothing different.Mr. Page's blatant and willful disregard of the court order, the reiteration and assertion of frivolous objections, his patently false statements, his non Code complaint responses, and his failure to acknowledge that he was under court order to comply is more than enough discovery abuse -- which is prejudicial to the plaintiff Cienega Spa, Inc. -- such that it warrants terminating sanctions. The court strikes the answer of defendant Arthur Page filed on 2/10/2023 and enters default against him. As to this plaintiff and this defendant, the matter will proceed on a default prove up concurrent with trial.Defendant Arthur Page’s ex parte applications as to Cienega Spa are, therefore, moot.As to Defendant Page's ex parte applications as to plaintiff Rose's Garden Bar, the court rules as follows:Application for an order to compel a second session of the deposition of PMQ Rose Nadalie-Werz, the court grants the motion only if she produced additional invoices from Haro Construction (and only if specifically required by the deposition notice) after her first session, and only as to questions concerning those invoices.  Otherwise, the application is denied.  Voluntary production of documents not requested does not count.Application to Compel Plaintiff Rose’s Garden Bar, LLC’s Further Responses To Defendants' Requests for Production of Documents, Set One AND Application to Compel Plaintiff Rose’s Garden Bar, LLC’s Compliance with Promised Document Production AND Application to Compel Further Responses to Defendants' Special Interrogatories, Set One, by Plaintiff Rose’s Garden Bar, LLC: Defendant Arthur Page’s applications for discovery orders filed on 9/18/2023 against plaintiff Rose’s Garden Spa:  Denied.  Failure to meet and confer in good faith.  Counsel for the responding party responded to the meet and confer letter on September 13, 2023.  Moving party did not respond.  There was still room for discussion but, instead, moving party sought ex parte orders.  The failure to meet and confer in good faith is grounds for denial of the applications.  The court notes that prior to hearing, further supplemental responses were served. It is not unreasonable to believe that further meet and confer would have resulted in these further supplemental responses.  This is without prejudice to a new motion to compel (if otherwise timely) on the supplemental or further supplemental responses after a good faith meet and confer. 