 Case Number:  23VECV02412    Hearing Date:   October 27, 2023    Dept:  T NOTICE: IF THERE IS A
POTENTIALLY RELATED ACTION, THAT IS TO BE DISCLOSED TO THE COURT FORTHWITH.
NORTHSTAR V CADB
23VECV02412
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Plaintiff Northstar Contracting Group, Inc.’s
Motion to Compel Arbitration is GRANTED.
Introduction 
Plaintiff Northstar Contracting
Group, Inc. (Plaintiff) moved to compel arbitration as to Defendant CADB
Catalyst Construction Group, LLC (Defendant). 
  
Discussion  
Plaintiff has the initial burden
to allege that an arbitration agreement exists. 
The burden then shifts to Defendant to dispute the arbitration
agreement.  (Condee v. Longwood Mgt.
Corp. (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215, 219.) 
Plaintiff submitted a copy of the Subcontract entered with Defendant
which included an arbitration provision. 
(John Ralls (Ralls) Decl. par. 4, Exh. A: par. 12.8.)  Plaintiff met its initial burden to show the
existence of an arbitration agreement entered with Defendant.  The burden shifted to Defendant to dispute
Plaintiff’s right to arbitration.  
Defendant argued that the instant
action is required to be resolved in the civil courts because the Subcontract
required disputes between Subcontractor and Contractor that involves disputes
between Contractor and Owner to be decided in the same tribunal/forum as
disputes between Contractor and Owner.  
(Ralls Decl. Exh. A, Subcontract, sec. 12.4.)  However, the argument is not persuasive
because Defendant does not submit any evidence to show an action being filed
between Contractor and Owner in a tribunal/forum.  Without evidence of an action between
Contractor/Owner, there is insufficient showing that the instant action is
required to be resolved in this Court. 
Defendant’s argument relying upon Subcontract, sec. 12.4 is
unpersuasive.  There is no Notice of
Related Cases being filed to even show that this action is related to any
action between Contractor and Owner, if any even exists.
Defendant argued that the Court
should exercise its discretion under Code of Civil Procedure sec. 1281.2(c) on
the grounds that there is risk of conflicting rulings.  However, as required under the statute, it
must be shown that Defendant is party to a pending court action with a third
party, arising out of the same transaction. 
As was the defect identified above, there is no evidence to show that
Defendant is party to a pending action with a third party.  Defendant’s opposition lacked any admissible
evidence.  To the extent Defendant’s
argument relied upon the concurrently filed claims against Defendant CA Senior
Woodland Hills CA Property Owner, LLC (CA Senior), the Court does not find that
a risk of conflicting rulings exist because the instant civil action is ordered
stayed.  Further, an arbitration award
against Defendant, if any were to be found, would not be a conflict as to
Plaintiff’s claims against CA Senior because Plaintiff’s claims against CA
Senior are seen as being in conjunction with its claims against Defendant.  There is a possibility that an award against
Defendant could be construed as a credit against an award against CA Senior
and/or grounds to seek reimbursement by Defendant and against CA Senior.  The Court does not see any potential for conflict.  Defendant’s argument based upon Code of Civil
Procedure sec. 1281.2(c) is unpersuasive.
The parties presented argument as
to the “Payment Process” and “Progress and Final Payments” provisions in the
Subcontract.  (Subcontract, secs. 9.1 and
9.2.)  The parties also placed into issue
whether Defendant and CA Senior are legally separate entities.  These arguments/issues are not considered in
that the issues are beyond the scope of the issues of a motion to compel
arbitration.  Whether the payment
provisions and/or the Subcontract are lawful and whether the two defendants are
separate entities are not defenses to compelling arbitration.  These two issues are not considered.
Defendant argued that Plaintiff
waived its right to arbitration. 
However, the Court finds that Plaintiff did not act inconsistently with
its intent to arbitrate.  The three months
between filing of the action and the filing of the instant motion is not unreasonable.  Further, the initial motion to stay filed
pursuant Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.5 is expressly made to protect
against waiver.  Even if there were facts
to show that Plaintiff took steps inconsistent with the right to arbitrate,
Defendant failed to present any admissible evidence to support its contention
that they were prejudiced.  Defendant’s
argument as to waiver is unpersuasive.
Defendant failed to meet its
burden to dispute or present a defense against the arbitration agreement.  The motion to compel arbitration is
GRANTED.   The court action will remain
stayed.
This is without prejudice to
seeking to set the order aside if there is delay in payment of arbitration fees
in accordance with recent law.
IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE
NOTICE.