 Case Number:  24SMCV00025    Hearing Date:   August 1, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Prasad v. Nathan,
et al.
CASE NO.:                24SMCV00025
MOTION:                  Special
Motion to Strike/Demurrer
HEARING DATE:   7/31/2024

 
BACKGROUND
 
This hearing regards two demurrers and a special motion
to strike. Defendant Robert Wiener moves to strike under Code of Civil
Procedure (CCP) section 425.16 specific allegations and causes of action contained
in Plaintiff Gyanmitra Prasad’s Complaint. Defendant Brian Nathan demurs to the
Complaint. Defendants International Church of Divine Awakening (“ICODA”), Chase
Thomas, Manya Natan, Michael Sletta, and Sky Nathan also demur to the Complaint.
In response to the demurrers, Plaintiff filed his first amended complaint
(FAC), which mooted the pending demurrers. 
The FAC also omits the claims against Defendant Wiener. Even though an
amended pleading was submitted, the Court must still consider the merits of the
Anti-SLAPP motion against the Complaint. 
 
ANTI-SLAPP
Legal Standard
 
CCP section 425.16 permits the
Court to strike causes of action arising from an act in furtherance of the
defendant's right of free speech or petition, unless the plaintiff establishes
that there is a probability that the plaintiff will prevail on the claim. “The
anti-SLAPP procedures are designed to shield a defendant’s constitutionally
protected conduct from the undue burden of frivolous litigation.” (Baral
v. Schnitt (2016) 1 Cal.5th 376, 393.) “The anti-SLAPP statute does not
insulate defendants from any liability for claims arising from the
protected rights of petition or speech. It only provides a procedure for
weeding out, at an early stage, meritless claims arising from protected
activity.” (Id. at 384.) 
 
“Resolution of an anti-SLAPP motion
involves two steps. First, the defendant must establish that the challenged
claim arises from activity protected by section 425.16. If the defendant makes
the required showing, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to demonstrate the
merit of the claim by establishing a probability of success.” (Baral, supra,
1 Cal.5th at 384, citation omitted.) The California Supreme Court has
“described this second step as a ‘summary-judgment-like procedure.’ The court
does not weigh evidence or resolve conflicting factual claims. Its inquiry is
limited to whether the plaintiff has stated a legally sufficient claim and made
a prima facie factual showing sufficient to sustain a favorable judgment. It
accepts the plaintiff’s evidence as true, and evaluates the defendant’s showing
only to determine if it defeats the plaintiff’s claim as a matter of law.
‘[C]laims with the requisite minimal merit may proceed.’” (Id. at
384-385 [citations omitted].) 
 
A moving party must move to strike
under this section within 60 days of service of the complaint. (CCP
§425.16(f).)
 
EVIDENTIARY
ISSUES
 
Defendant Wiener’s request for
judicial notice is GRANTED. 
ANTI-SLAPP
ANALYSIS
 
The Complaint states four causes of
action against Wiener for intentional infliction of emotional distress (IIED) (eighth
cause of action), defamation (twelfth), conversion (thirteenth), and legal
malpractice (fourteenth - purportedly a derivative claim by ICODA). Wiener moves
to strike all causes of action alleged against himself and all factual
allegations mentioning him. The Court will first address the statement-based
claims of IIED and defamation.
 
Prong One Standards
 
Wiener argues that his liability is
based on pre-litigation communications protected by subsections (1) and (2). “At
the first step, the moving defendant bears the burden of identifying all
allegations of protected activity, and the claims for relief supported by them.
When relief is sought based on allegations of both protected and unprotected
activity, the unprotected activity is disregarded at this stage.” (Baral,
supra, 1 Cal.5th at 396.) CCP section 425.16(e) defines protected acts as
the following: “1) any written or oral statement or writing made before a
legislative, executive, or judicial proceeding, or any other official
proceeding authorized by law, 2) any written or oral statement or writing made
in connection with an issue under consideration or review by a legislative,
executive, or judicial body, or any other official proceeding authorized by law…”

 
Communications which are
“preparatory to or in anticipation of the bringing of an action or other
official proceeding” are within the scope of protected conduct under Code of
Civil Procedure section 425.16. (Bel Air Internet, LLC v. Morales, (2018)
20 Cal. App. 5th 924, 940; see Action Apartment Assn., Inc. v. City of Santa
Monica (2007) 41 Cal.4th 1232, 1251 [discussing the litigation privilege].) To
be protected, a communication “must be ‘in furtherance of the objects of the
litigation.’ This is ‘part of the requirement that the communication be
connected with, or have some logical relation to, the action, i.e., that it not
be extraneous to the action.’ A prelitigation communication is privileged only
when it relates to litigation that is contemplated in good faith and under
serious consideration.” (Id., citations omitted.) 
 
Defendant identifies communications
leading up to and regarding Plaintiff’s termination.  The Complaint alleges that ICODA wrongfully
“terminated” Plaintiff without notice or the “due process” required by the by-laws
via Wiener. (Compl., ¶ 55.) On March 26, 2022, Wiener drafted certain “notice”
letters be sent to the ICODA directors, as directed by Premodaya, which were
designed not to be received by Plaintiff. (¶ 59.) On March 31, 2022, Wiener
sent a letter to Plaintiff purporting to terminate Plaintiff’s employment in
retaliation of Plaintiff’s complaints. (¶ 60, Ex. G.)  On May 2, 2022, Wiener sent Plaintiff a letter
claiming that Plaintiff “was no longer” an “employee, officer or director” of
ICODA and that Plaintiff should not attend any ICODA functions or contact any
ICODA members. (¶ 62.) The letter cited crucial and urgent ecclesiastical
issues, inconsistent with the March 31, 2022, termination letter. (¶ 63.) In a
letter of May 5, 2022, Wiener sent Plaintiff a letter, stating that Plaintiff was
attempting to “extort money” and that "[f]uture correspondence direct to
ICODA or any of its personnel will be similarly disregarded and remain
unopened." Wiener stated that plaintiff was attempting to “extort money.”
(Id., ¶ 157, Ex. J4.) 
 
Defendant also identifies
communications in December 2022. On December 15, 2022, Wiener sent a letter calling
Plaintiff a “liar and perjurer” with “psychosis,” engaging in “character
assassination,” and making “terroristic type threats.” (Compl., ¶¶ 69, 158, Ex.
J22.) The letter was transmitted to the ICODA officers and directors and other
third parties. (¶ 159.) On December 18, 2022, Aden, Manya and Devaraj sent a
letter edited by Wiener to the “entire ICODA community” that called Plaintiff “a
disgruntled ex-employee seeking revenge,” accused Plaintiff of trying to “con”
members and making “false and baseless accusations and threats to extract money
from ICODA,” “harassing” ICODA, and among other things, “disseminating his
hatred and revenge.” (¶¶ 68, 160-161.) Plaintiff contends that these
accusations were false. (¶ 71.) 
 
The claims for IIED and defamation
arise from some of the above communications. The IIED claim alleges that “Premodaya’s
ad hominem attacks, both directly and through Attorney Wiener, in connection
with the wrongful termination of Plaintiff’s employment, were intended to and
did result in Plaintiff’s severe emotional distress.” (Compl., ¶ 131.) As a
result of these unprivileged attacks, Plaintiff “suffered mental and emotional
distress and damage, humiliation, fear, guilt and shame” and has been unable to
work. (¶¶ 132- 133.) Such “ad hominem attacks” are reasonably embraced by the
May 5 letter allegedly stating that Plaintiff was attempting to “extort money,”
the December 15 letter calling Plaintiff a “liar and perjurer” etc.; and the
December 18 open letter calling Plaintiff 
“disgruntled ex-employee seeking revenge.” Likewise, the Complaint cites
the above letters sent or drafted by Wiener on May 5, December 15, and December
18 as the basis for defamation. (Compl., ¶¶ 157-161, Exs. J4, J22.) Defendant
characterizes the alleged communications as settlement negotiations. Defendant
cites various communications attached to the complaint between May 5, 2022, and
December 15, 2022, which he contends were all made in connection with the
serious threat of litigation by Plaintiff and/or ICODA. (Compl., Exs. G-H,
J1-J22.) 
 
            May 5,
2022, Letter
 
The Court concurs that the May 5,
2022, letter is within the scope of section 425.16(e)(1)-(2). The May 5 letter addresses
Plaintiff’s request that Wiener cease representing ICODA and threaten to
“submit the matter to the State Bar for examination.” (Compl., Ex. J3.) In
opposition to the allegations, Wiener explained to Plaintiff that he was only
ever ICODA’s attorney, was not ever Plaintiff’s individual attorney, and never
gave him legal advice. (Ex. J4.) Wiener ends the letter informing Plaintiff
that any direct contact between Plaintiff and ICODA or its personnel will be
disregarded and remain unopened. (Id.) This letter was then followed up by a
lengthy letter from Plaintiff explaining his contentions regarding his own
substantive claims against ICODA and Premodaya, his position that Wiener should
cease representing ICODA and Premodaya, and that he would “take all appropriate
action” if he did not receive a signed statement from Wiener that he ceased to
represent ICODA and Premodaya. (Ex. J6.) 
 
In context, Wiener sent the May 5,
2022, letter in furtherance of protected litigation activity. The May 5 letter directly
addressed Plaintiff’s allegations of attorney misconduct and conflicts of
interest. The letter was in direct response to a clear threat to file a state
bar complaint regarding the same, which is indisputably an official proceeding.
Defendant’s prong one burden is thus met as to the May 5 letter.
 
December 15, 2022, and December 18,
2022, Letters
 
The Complaint alleges facts demonstrating
that the December letters are preparatory to, or in anticipation of, this
litigation. In the December 15, 2022, letter, Wiener called Plaintiff a “liar
and perjurer” with “psychosis,” engaging in “character assassination” and
making “terroristic type threats.” (¶¶ 69, 158, Ex. J22.) The letter was
transmitted to the ICODA officers and directors, and other unspecified third
parties. (¶ 159.) The December 18, 2022, letter, edited by Wiener, concerned
the ongoing dispute, and was allegedly sent to the “entire ICODA community”. (¶
71.) The above communications, in context, are in furtherance of Wiener’s objectives
in the instant litigation. Wiener wrote or transmitted those letters in
relation to the ongoing employment dispute between Plaintiff and Premodaya.
Thus, the first prong is met as to these letters.
 
            Conversion

 
Plaintiff alleges that he shared a
personal joint checking account with Premodaya. (Compl., ¶ 78.) He claims that Premodaya
withdrew all funds from their shared accounts three days after Wiener demanded
that Plaintiff accept their terms or receive nothing. (¶¶ 79, 169.) Premodaya
and Wiener refused and continues to refuse to return Plaintiff’s funds unless
Plaintiff complied with multiple unjust and extortionate demands, including a
complete release of any and all claims against Premodaya. (¶¶ 80, 170, Ex. J.)
Despite knowing that the funds are owned by Plaintiff, the complaint alleges
that Wiener refuses to return the funds. (¶ 172.)
 
Wiener fails to meet his burden to
show that the cited communications form the basis of the relief sought. Defendant
specifically cites his letter dated July 2, 2022, which contains a settlement
and release offer. However, Defendant’s letter is not the basis of the cause of
action. While the conversion was achieved, in part, by Wiener’s refusal to return
the funds, the refusal and counteroffer are not the basis of liability for the
conversion claim. Instead, Wiener’s failure to return the funds rightfully possessed
by Plaintiff is the basis for liability. Any other allegations are merely
background and incidental facts.
 
Malpractice
 
The malpractice claim does not
arise from protected activity. “‘California courts have held that when a claim
[by a client against a lawyer] is based on a breach of the fiduciary duty of
loyalty or negligence, it does not concern a right of petition or free speech,
though those activities arose from the filing, prosecution of and statements
made in the course of the client’s lawsuit. The reason is that the lawsuit
concerns a breach of duty that does not depend on the exercise of a
constitutional right.’” (Chodos v. Cole (2012) 210 Cal.App.4th 692,
702, quoting 4 Mallen and Smith (2012 ed.) Legal Malpractice, § 37:11; see also
Sprengel v. Zbylut (2015) 241 Cal.App.4th 140, 151 [“‘actions based on
an attorney’s breach of professional and ethical duties owed to a client’ are
generally not subject to section 425.16 ‘even though protected litigation
activity features prominently in the factual background.’”].)  “Even
though the ‘petitioning activity is part of the evidentiary landscape within
which [claimant’s] claims arose, the gravamen of [claimant’s] claims is that
[the former attorney] engaged in nonpetitioning activity inconsistent with his
fiduciary obligations owed to [claimant].’” (Chodos, supra, 210
Cal.App.4th at 702.) 
 
Wiener presents no authority
suggesting that the malpractice claim could arise from protected activity when
brought by a client against counsel. The complaint alleges a derivative
claim (apparently on behalf of ICODA) that Wiener never communicated or
consulted with ICODA’s Board of Directors or conducted any investigation into
Plaintiff’s claims, as set forth in the correspondence, or into the truth of
Premodaya’s statements supporting the facts set forth in Wiener’s letters to
Plaintiff. (Compl., ¶ 178.) The Complaint alleges that Wiener’s failure to
obtain the advice and approval of the ICODA Officers and Board of Directors was
in gross and willful disregard of his responsibilities to ICODA. (¶ 180.) Wiener’s
transmission of the “termination letter” and the May 5, 2022, letters to
Plaintiff, was professional negligence, exposing ICODA, its officers and
directors to litigation on liability. (¶ 182.) Whether or not these allegations
state a claim for malpractice is another matter entirely. Therefore, Wiener
does not meet his initial burden as to this cause of action.
 
Second Prong 
 
            Defendant
has met its burden concerning the IIED and defamation claims based on Wiener’s
May 5, 2022, December 15, 2022, and December 18, 2022, letters. Plaintiff
therefore has the burden to show a prima facie case for IIED and defamation. 
 
            Plaintiff
cannot meet its burden on the current record. Plaintiff does not submit any
admissible evidence in support of the defamation or IIED claims, and merely
appends all of the previously-cited communications to his memorandum without
foundation. Plaintiff attempts to rely on his recently filed FAC, which was
purportedly verified by Plaintiff. Upon examination of the evidence, the
verification does not comply with CCP section 2015.5’s requirement that, if the
verification was executed outside the state of California, the declarant must
state that it is “certified or declared under the laws of the State of
California.” Plaintiff executed the verification in India, but did not swear
under the laws of the state of California. Thus, there is no evidence on the
record in support of the opposition.
 
If the court were to consider the
FAC as evidence, Plaintiff has dropped essential allegations against Wiener. The
FAC does not allege that Wiener intentionally caused Plaintiff emotional
distress. (See FAC ¶ 150.) While Plaintiff maintains the defamation action
against Wiener, Plaintiff omits the specific factual and charging allegations
against Wiener in support of defamation. (See FAC ¶¶ 172-180.) Therefore, the
FAC does not assist Plaintiff as to the second prong of the Court’s analysis.
 
Accordingly, the special motion to
strike is GRANTED in part. Given the partial success of the motion, and that
Plaintiff dismissed the action against Wiener in response to the anti-SLAPP,
the Court would grant, in part, Defendant’s request for attorneys’ fees.