  Case Number:  23SMCV02460    Hearing Date:   August 1, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Cheatham v.
Honda of Santa Monica, et al.
CASE NO.:                23SMCV02460
MOTION:                  Motion
for Summary Judgment/Adjudication
HEARING DATE:   8/1/2024
 
Legal
Standard
 
A party may move for summary judgment in any action or
proceeding if it is contended the action has no merit or that there is no
defense to the action or proceeding. (CCP, § 437c(a).) “The purpose of the law
of summary judgment is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the
parties' pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations,
trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  
 
“A party may move for summary adjudication as to one or
more causes of action within an action, one or more affirmative defenses, one
or more claims for damages, or one or more issues of duty, if the party
contends that the cause of action has no merit, that there is no affirmative
defense to the cause of action, that there is no merit to an affirmative
defense as to any cause of action, that there is no merit to a claim for
damages, as specified in¿Section 3294 of the Civil Code, or that one or more defendants
either owed or did not owe a duty to the plaintiff or plaintiffs.”¿(CCP,¿§
437c(f)(1).)¿If a party seeks summary adjudication as an alternative to a
request for summary judgment, the request must be clearly made in the notice of
the motion. (Gonzales v. Superior Court¿(1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 1542,
1544.)¿ “[A] party may move for summary adjudication of a legal issue or a
claim for damages other than punitive damages that does not completely
dispose of a cause of action, affirmative defense, or issue of duty
pursuant to” subdivision (t). (CCP,¿§ 437c(t).)¿ 
 
To prevail, the evidence submitted must show there is no
triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law.¿(CCP, §¿437c(c).)¿The motion cannot succeed unless
the evidence leaves no room for conflicting inferences as to material facts;
the court has no power to weigh one inference against another or against other
evidence. (Murillo v. Rite Stuff Food Inc. (1998) 65 Cal.App.4th
833, 841.) In determining whether the facts give rise to a triable issue of
material fact, “[a]ll doubts as to whether any material, triable, issues of
fact exist are to be resolved in favor of the party opposing summary judgment…”
(Gold v. Weissman (2004) 114 Cal.App.4th 1195, 1198-99.) “In other
words, the facts alleged in the evidence of the party opposing summary judgment
and the reasonable inferences there from must be accepted as true.” (Jackson
v. County of Los Angeles (1997) 60 Cal.App.4th 171, 179.) However, if
adjudication is otherwise proper the motion “may not be denied on grounds of
credibility,” except when¿a material fact is the witness’s¿state of mind and
“that fact is sought to be established solely by the [witness’s] affirmation
thereof.” (CCP, § 437c(e).)¿ 
 
Once the moving party has met their burden, the burden
shifts to the opposing party “to show that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto.” (CCP §
437c(p)(1).) “[T]here¿is no
obligation on the opposing party... to establish anything by affidavit unless
and until the moving party has by affidavit stated facts establishing every
element... necessary to sustain a judgment in his favor.”¿(Consumer Cause,
Inc. v.¿SmileCare¿(2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 454, 468.)¿ 
¿ 
“The pleadings play a key role in a summary judgment
motion. The function of the pleadings in a motion for summary judgment is to
delimit the scope of the issues and to¿frame¿the outer measure of materiality
in a summary judgment proceeding.” (Hutton v. Fidelity National Title Co.¿(2013)
213 Cal.App.4th 486, 493, quotations and citations omitted.) “Accordingly, the
burden of a defendant moving for summary judgment only requires that he or she
negate plaintiff's theories of liability¿as alleged in the complaint;
that is, a moving party need not refute liability on some theoretical
possibility not included in the pleadings.” (Ibid.)¿ 
 
EVIDENTIARY ISSUES
 
Defendant’s objections are SUSTAINED.
 
Analysis
 
Defendant Honda of Santa Monica moves for summary judgment
or adjudication. The complaint purports to state three causes of action for
fraud, recission and violation of trust. The Court interprets the allegations
as a single cause of action for fraud (intentional, negligent, concealment and
promise without an intent to perform), as recission and constructive trust are remedies
not causes of action.
 
The elements of fraud are: “(a)
misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b)
knowledge of falsity (or ‘scienter’); (c) intent to defraud, i.e., to induce
reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting damage.” (Charnay v.
Cobert (2006) 145 Cal.App.4th 170, 184.)
 
The Complaint alleges that on May
9, 2023, Plaintiff entered into a contract with Defendant Honda of Santa Monica
to purchase a new 2023 Honda Accord Hybrid vehicle (VIN # 1HGCY2F54PA022366)
(“the Subject Vehicle”) for $48,243.50. (Compl., “Bill for Recission”, ¶ I.) Plaintiff
provided a down payment of $500.00 and financed the balance of $47,743.50. (Id.)
Honda Santa Monica allegedly failed to “fully disclose to [Plaintiff] the asset
which is the promissory note had actual cash value of $48,243.50 and went on to
sell or assign my promissory note to HONDA FINACIAL and HONDA FINACIAL is
fraudulently misrepresenting the promissory note to be a contract to pay back
an alleged loan in the amount of $47,743.50. When [in] fact HONDA FINACIAL
never loaned [Plaintiff] any money and cannot prove there was a loan during the
transaction to purchase the vehicle.” (Id.) Plaintiff then alleges that there
was a “misapplied down payment of $500” when Honda Santa Monica stated a “required
downpayment” in order to be approved for financing by the finance company Honda
Financial. (Id., ¶II.) However, Honda Financial stated that the down payment
was not required. (Id.) The complaint alleges again that Honda Santa Monica
allegedly represented that 1) the alleged down payment of $500 was required
during the credit transaction; and 2) the credit transaction was a loan. The
complaint alleges that the representations were false when made. 
 
            Honda of
Santa Monica presents evidence that it made no misrepresentations regarding the
down payment or nature of the loan. The pertinent documents reveal that
Plaintiff was applying for a loan for the purchase of the Subject Vehicle. (UMF
9; Waites Decl., Exs. A, C.) Plaintiff was never told he needed to include a
down payment with the purchase. Plaintiff voluntarily made a nominal down
payment of $500.00 and financed the balance of $47,743.50. (UMF 11.) Plaintiff
was informed that the sales contract, including the loan, would be assigned to
American Honda Finance Corp. (UMF 12, 18.) Plaintiff was aware American Honda
Finance Corp. was the lender/lienholder on the Subject Vehicle. (UMF 13.) Honda
of Santa Monica had no knowledge of Plaintiff’s misconception that he believed
a down payment was required by Honda Finance Corp. (UMF 15-16.) The undisputed
evidence thus establishes that nothing was misrepresented to the Plaintiff. (UMF
14.)  
 
Plaintiff does not submit an
opposing separate statement. Thus, Plaintiff cannot meet his burden. Even if
the court considers the opposition as a responsive separate statement, Plaintiff
submits no evidence in support of his burden to demonstrate that Honda of Santa
Monica, in fact, misrepresented the nature of loan or the necessity of the down
payment. At best, Plaintiff confusingly cites to American Honda Finance
Corporation's articles of incorporation, which has no bearing on the nature of
the loan or the downpayment. Plaintiff therefore does not meet his burden to
show a dispute of material fact.
 
Accordingly, the motion is GRANTED.  Defendant to prepare a proposed judgment.