 Case Number:  23STCV07270    Hearing Date:   January 16, 2024    Dept:  14 Guiterrez v. Los Angeles Community College District et alCase Background
 
Plaintiff served as Defendant’s
Interim Vice Chancellor of Human Resources. She alleges that Defendant gave her
an inappropriate, entry-level salary, then undertook to financially punish her when
she resisted. 
 
On October 30, 2023, Plaintiff
filed her First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) for (1) Gender Discrimination, (2)
National Origin Discrimination, (3) Failure to Prevent, (4) FEHA Retaliation,
(5) Violation of Labor Code § 1197.5(a), and (6) Violation of Labor Code
§ 1197.5(b) against Defendants Los Angeles Community College District (“District”)
and DOES 1-100. 
 
            No trial
date has yet been set.
 
Instant Pleading
 
            Defendant District
now demurs to the entire FAC on the grounds that it is uncertain.
 
Decision
 
            Defendant’s
Request for Judicial Notice (“RJN”) is GRANTED.
 
The demurrer is OVERRULED.
Defendant District is to Answer within 10 days. 
 
Discussion
 
The only listed ground in the
Notice of Demurrer is uncertainty. Demurrers for uncertainty are disfavored and
should only be sustained if the complaint is pled in such a manner as to
prevent the defendant from responding. See Morris v. JPMorgan Chase Bank,
N.A. (2022) 78 Cal.App.5th 279, 292.
 
The court sustained a prior
demurrer on uncertainty grounds, because Plaintiff had improperly combined
multiple separate theories into single causes of action. The court ordered
counsel to separate these theories out so that Defendant could respond to them
individually. Plaintiff has now done as this court instructed.
 
The remaining ambiguities do not
prevent Defendant from responding. They represent details which the parties can
and should clear up by way of discovery, not further pleading practice.
 
Conclusion
 

            Plaintiff
has complied with this court’s instructions, and produced a pleading to which
the Defendant can rationally and cleanly respond. Therefore, the demurrer is OVERRULED.
Defendant District is to Answer within 10 days. 