 Case Number:  23STCV18715    Hearing Date:   January 16, 2024    Dept:  14 Robany LLC v. Travelers Casualty Insurance Company    Petitioner insured its commercial
property with Respondent. Petitioner has invoked an appraisal clause in its
insurance contract. That clause requires Petitioner to select an appraiser,
Respondent to select an appraiser, and then the two appraisers to select an “umpire”
who will resolve any differences between the appraisers.
 
Petitioner has selected Mr. Craig
Bordon. Respondent has selected Mr. Thad E. Eaton. Mr. Bordon and Mr. Eaton
have been unable to select an umpire. In that event, the contract dictates,
pursuant to Insurance Code § 2071, that a court will select the umpire.
 
Petitioner now moves this court for
an order selecting an umpire.
 
The motion is CONTINUED to February
1, 2024, at 8:30 am. 
 
Respondent is ORDERED to submit a
list of five suggested umpires no later than January 25, 2024. 
 
Code of Civil Procedure
§ 1281.6 provides the rules for the court’s selection of any neutral, even
though it expressly only refers to arbitrators. Section 1281.6 provides as
follows:
 
“If the arbitration agreement
provides a method of appointing an arbitrator, that method shall be followed.
If the arbitration agreement does not provide a method for appointing an
arbitrator, the parties to the agreement who seek arbitration and against whom
arbitration is sought may agree on a method of appointing an arbitrator and
that method shall be followed. In the absence of an agreed method, or if the
agreed method fails or for any reason cannot be followed, or when an arbitrator
appointed fails to act and his or her successor has not been appointed, the
court, on petition of a party to the arbitration agreement, shall appoint the
arbitrator.
 
When a petition is made to the
court to appoint a neutral arbitrator, the court shall nominate five persons
from lists of persons supplied jointly by the parties to the arbitration or
obtained from a governmental agency concerned with arbitration or private
disinterested association concerned with arbitration. The parties to the
agreement who seek arbitration and against whom arbitration is sought may
within five days of receipt of notice of the nominees from the court jointly
select the arbitrator whether or not the arbitrator is among the nominees. If
the parties fail to select an arbitrator within the five-day period, the court
shall appoint the arbitrator from the nominees.”
 
Petitioner has supplied a list of five
persons. (Motion filed December 15, 2023, p. 5-6). Respondent has not. The
court owes Respondent a fair opportunity to submit a list. However, this
process is meant to work expeditiously, and the court intends to ensure that it
does. Therefore, Respondent will have until January 25, 2024, to supply their
own list of five persons.
 
The court will issue its list of five
nominees, chosen from the lists of Petitioner and Respondent, at the hearing on
February 1, 2024. The court will then continue the hearing to February 8, 2024
at 8:30 am. 
 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
§ 1281.6, the parties will have until February 6, 2024, to select an
arbitrator from the court’s list. If they do not, the court will make the
selection at the hearing on February 8, 2024.