 Case Number:  23BBCV01900    Hearing Date:   March 1, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
March 1, 2024

MOTION
TO SET ASIDE/VACATE DEFAULT JUDGMENT AND DEFAULT 

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV01900

 



MP:  


Christopher Valentine (Defendant) 




RP:  


Gary
  Pantaleo and Kathleen Pantaleo (Plaintiffs)



 
NOTICE:
The Court is not requesting oral argument on
this matter.  Pursuant to California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1)
notice of intent to appear is required.  Unless the Court directs argument
in the Tentative Ruling, no argument will be permitted unless a “party notifies
all other parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the
hearing of the party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative
ruling will become the ruling of the court if no notice of intent to appear is
received.”   
Notice
may be given either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818)
260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
On August 16, 2023 Plaintiffs Gary Pantaleo and Kathleen
Pantaleo (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed an action against Defendants Christopher
Valentine and Christian Tolen Von Lahr  (collectively, “Defendants”) for unlawful detainer.  
 
On October 30, 2023, the Defendants failed to appear for
trial, after notice of the Final Status Conference and the trial date were sent
to Defendants.  The Court conducted an
uncontested court trial and the Court entered judgment in favor of Plaintiffs
and against Defendant Christopher Valentine in the amount of $56,319.80. 
  
HISTORY: 
 
On January 5, 2024, Defendant Valentine filed the instant
Motion to Set Aside and Vacate Default Judgment (“Motion”). Plaintiffs filed
opposition on February 20, 2024. As of February 26, 2024, at 2:00 p.m.,
Defendant Valentine has not filed his reply. 
  
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
C.C.P. § 473(d)
allows the Court to find a judgment void, even if facially valid, in the
instance that service is defective such that jurisdiction is lacking. “To
establish personal jurisdiction, compliance with statutory procedures for
service of process is essential; if a default judgment was entered against a
defendant who was not served with a summons as required by statute, the
judgment is void, as the court lacked jurisdiction in a fundamental sense over
the party and lacked authority to enter judgment.” (Kremerman v. White
(2021) 71 Cal.App.5th 358, 370.) 
 
“To set aside a¿judgment¿based
upon extrinsic mistake one must satisfy three elements. First, the defaulted
party must demonstrate that it has a meritorious case. Second, the party
seeking to set aside the default must articulate a satisfactory excuse for not
presenting a defense to the original action. Last, the moving party must
demonstrate diligence in seeking to set aside the default once ... discovered.”
(Id., at p. 982.)¿¿¿ 
 
 
II.        MERITS 
 
Defendant asks the
Court to void the judgment on the following basis: (1) there was excusable
neglect, mistake, surprise, or inadvertence (§473(b)); (2) default was
entered despite the Defendant’s lack of actual notice of the lawsuit in time to
respond (§473.5);
(3) default is void sing the legal papers were not served to Defendant (§473 (d));
(4) void since they were based (in whole or in part) on external fraud or
mistake; and (5) the judgment was
invalid/void, therefore any Writ of Possession/Execution used to enforce the
Judgment was improperly issued. (§128 (a)(8).)
 
Default judgment was
granted on November 27, 2023 and Defendant Valentine alleges that he discovered
it on January 3, 2024. (Valentine Decl. ¶ 4.) 
 
Defendant states that
he was never served by anyone. (Valentine Decl. p. 8.) In support of
Defendant’s motion, he only attaches his own declaration. However, Defendant
only states that Plaintiffs’ counsel has a “history of not noticing.” (Id.
at ¶ 2.) Additionally, he claims that after he filed his answer, he never
received any notices. (Id.)  Defendants
allege that the did not receive actual notice of the lawsuit in time to
respond; however, each defendant did file a responsive pleading with the court
– each filed an answer.
 
In opposition, Plaintiffs
Gary Pantaleo and Kathleen Pantaleo identify the fifteen mailings from either
the Clerk or Plaintiff’s counsel’s office which were mailed to Defendant’s home
address. (Opp. p. 4.).  This is the same
address in which the original Summons and Complaint were mailed; both of which
each defendant filed an answer. 
Furthermore, each defendant filed a request for fee waivers and
supplemental fee waivers.   Still, Defendant claims to have not received
anything other than a Summons and Complaint. In support of Plaintiffs’
opposition, they attached several documents relating to the eviction, such as
the entry demand writing, notice of lease fraud writing, lien 3-day notice
writing, and two business checks in the amount of $3,500.00. They also note
that Defendants failed to comply with the Court’s order on remitting rent
payments and have a business operating out of the Burbank home. 
 
The Court does not
find that Defendant has provided adequate proof that he was not served with
notice of the action. Therefore, the Court finds no defects in the proof of
service that cause the judgment to be void. Given the sufficiency of the proof
of service on each of the fifteen mailings, the Court declines to find the
service on Defendant defective. Defendant does not provide any evidence or
support as to the other grounds sought. Thus, Defendant Valentine’s motion is
DENIED. 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the event
the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed order
or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the following
form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and entered
into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Defendant Christopher
Valentine’s Motion to Set Aside and Vacate Default Judgment came on regularly for hearing on March 1, 2024, with
appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the
court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there rule as
follows: 
 
THE MOTION TO SET ASIDE AND VACATE DEFUALT
JUDGMENT IS DENIED. 
 
PLAINTIFF TO GIVE NOTICE.
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
March 1, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 