 Case Number:  24STCV16578    Hearing Date:   November 18, 2024    Dept:  49 Vladimir Shagramanov, et al. v. Aleksey Pak, et al.(1) DEFENDANT’S DEMURRER TO COMPLAINT(2) MOTION TO STRIKE MOVING PARTY: Defendant Aleksey PakRESPONDING PARTY(S): NoneSTATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:Plaintiff Vladimir Shagramanov, an attorney, and his law firm, SP Law Group, bring this action against Defendants Aleksey Pak and Oxana Galay for defamation. Plaintiffs allege they helped Defendant Pak obtain compensation from an accident involving Pak’s 18-wheeler in 2018. In 2024, Defendant Pak allegedly made complaints to the state bar and in a posting on Yelp claiming that Plaintiffs had defrauded him. The complaints came just after Plaintiffs fired their former employee, Defendant Galay. Plaintiffs allege Defendant Galay and Defendant Pak are now conspiring to make false statements about Plaintiffs. Plaintiffs assert causes of action for (1) defamation—libel, (2) defamation—libel per se, (3) false light, (4) fraud, (5) misrepresentation, (6) intentional infliction of emotional distress, (7) negligent infliction of emotional distress, (8) intentional interference with prospective economic advantage, and (9) negligent interference with prospective economic advantage. On September 10, 2024, this court granted Defendant Pak’s special motion to strike in part. Defendant Pak now demurrers to the Complaint and moves to strike portions therein. No opposition was filed.  [FN1]TENTATIVE RULING:Defendant’s Demurrer to the First, Second, and Third Causes of Action is SUSTAINED. Plaintiffs are given thirty (30) days leave to amend the First Cause of Action only. Defendant’s Motion to Strike is MOOT.Defendant is ordered to give notice, unless waived.DISCUSSION:DemurrerI. Meet and ConferThe Declaration of Attorney Leo Rotenberg reflects that Plaintiff did not respond to Defendant’s attempts to meet and confer. While this demonstrates the lack of any substantive meet and confer, the court exercises its discretion to hear the motion. The parties are admonished to comply with any meet and confer obligations going forward. (CCP § 430.41.)II. Legal StandardA demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action.  (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App. 4th 740, 747.)  When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context.  (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th 1216, 1228.)  In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or by proper judicial notice.  (CCP § 430.30(a).)  A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters.  (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153 Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.)  Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed.  (Id.)  The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.  (Hahn, 147 Cal.App.4th at 747.)III. Analysis Defendant Aleksey Pak demurrers to the First, Second, and Third Causes of Action in the Complaint. Following Defendant’s partially successful special motion to strike—in which the Court struck all causes of action to the extent they arose from Pak’s State Bar complaint, including the fourth through ninth causes of action in their entirety—these causes of action remained only to the extent they are predicated on the Yelp! statements. (See 09/10/2024 Ruling on Defendant’s Special Motion to Strike.)  Each is addressed in turn. A. First Cause of Action for LibelIn support of the demurrer, Defendants argue that Plaintiffs have not pled the defamatory statements with the requisite specificity. “The general rule is that the words constituting an alleged libel must be specifically identified, if not pleaded verbatim, in the complaint.” (Kahn v. Bower (1991) 232 Cal.App.3d 1599, 1612, fn. 5.)The following relevant allegations remain in the Complaint: Plaintiff Vladimir Shagramanov, an attorney, and his law firm, SP Law Group, allege that Defendant Pak was involved in a collision in Missouri while operating his 18-wheeler in 2017. (Compl. ¶ 1.) “Stranded in Missouri, Defendant called his friend, Ms. Oxana Galay…and requested that someone would come to his rescue.” (Id. ¶ 3.) Defendant Galay then contacted Plaintiff Vladimir Shagramanov, owner of SP Law Group, for assistance. (Id. ¶ 5.) Plaintiffs then utilized contacts in Missouri who provide Defendant with assistance. (Id. ¶ 6.) Once Defendant Pak returned to Los Angeles, Plaintiffs allege they helped Defendant Pak obtain compensation from the accident. (Id. ¶¶ 1, 8, 9, 10.) In 2024, “after almost six and a half years of having no contact with Vladimir Shagramanov or his office,” Defendant Pak allegedly made a posting on Yelp claiming that Plaintiffs had defrauded him. (Id. ¶¶ 11, 12.) The post stated that Shagramanov “robbed Defendant Pak” and that Shagramanov “is a crook.” (Id. ¶ 12.) Plaintiffs allege that Defendant Pak’s statements came right after Plaintiffs fired Defendant Oxana Galay, a former employee, from the law firm in January 2024. (Id. ¶ 13.) After Defendant Galay’s termination, Plaintiffs allege that “several individuals,” including Defendant Pak, “whom Defendant Galay was in close relationship and who at one point or another used services of SP Law Group simultaneously filed identical claims against” Plaintiffs. (Id. ¶ 14.) Thus, Plaintiffs allege that Defendants Galay and Pak “are working together and conspiring to make false statement[s] about” Plaintiffs. (Id. ¶¶ 15, 16.) Plaintiffs assert causes of action against Defendant Pak for (1) defamation—libel, (2) defamation—libel per se, and (3) false light. Here, Plaintiffs have not alleged or provided the full text of the Yelp review. Plaintiffs allege only that Defendant made a post “claiming that he was defrauded by Vladimir Shagramanov, that Vladimir Shagramanov robbed Defendant Pak, and that Vladimir Shagramanov is a crook.” (Compl. ¶ 12.) These bare allegations that Defendant called Plaintiff Shagramanov a crook or “robbed” him are insufficient to allege the words of the alleged libel with the requisite specificity. Accordingly, Defendant’s Demurrer to the First Cause of Action is SUSTAINED. Generally speaking, leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) Plaintiffs are given leave to amend to plead the verbatim words of the Yelp post or attach a copy of the post to the pleading as an exhibit. B. Second Cause of Action for Libel Per Se and Third Cause of Action for False LightNext, Defendant argues the Second Cause of Action for Libel Per Se and Third Cause of Action for False Light are duplicative of the First Cause of Action for Libel. These three causes of action are based on the same allegations and Plaintiffs seek the same recovery.  By failing to oppose, Plaintiffs have not demonstrated why concurrent causes of action for libel and libel per se are necessary. In addition, the third cause of action for false light is superfluous of the libel cause of action. (See Med. Marijuana, Inc. v. ProjectCBD.com (2020) 46 Cal. App. 5th 869, 895 [stating that false light is “essentially superfluous” when coupled with defamation claim].) Accordingly, Defendant’s Demurrer to the Second and Third Causes of Action is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.Motion to StrikeBecause Defendant’s Demurrer is SUSTAINED IN ITS ENTIRETY, the motion to strike is MOOT.Defendant is ordered to give notice, unless waived.IT IS SO ORDERED.Dated:   November 18, 2024 ___________________________________ Randolph M. Hammock Judge of the Superior Court Any party may submit on the tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept49@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day before the hearing.  All interested parties must be copied on the email.  It should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.