  Case Number:  23TRCV00137    Hearing Date:   March 26, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
BRANDON
  REYNOLDS, et al.,


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV00137




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
ZARNA
  SURTI,


 
 
 
Defendant.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          March 26, 2024
 
Moving Parties:                      Attorney Law Offices of
Jacob Emrani, APC for plaintiff Brandon Reynolds
Responding Party:                  None
Motion to Be Relieved
as Counsel
The court considered the moving
papers.
RULING
The motion is GRANTED. The court
orders that the attorney is relieved as counsel of record for plaintiff Brandon
Reynolds, effective upon the filing of the proofs of service of the signed
“Order Granting Attorney’s Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel – Civil” (Judicial
Council form MC-053) upon the client. 
BACKGROUND
On January 17, 2023, plaintiffs
Brandon Reynolds and Cashmine Crawford filed a 
complaint against Zarna Surti and Tarun Surti for negligence and motor
vehicle negligence based on an incident that occurred on January 16, 2021 in
Inglewood.  
On November 2, 2023, the court
granted defendants’ motions to compel further discovery responses against
plaintiff Reynolds.
On December 12, 2023, the court
granted plaintiffs’ counsel’s motion to be relieved as counsel as to plaintiff
Crawford.
Trial is set for October 23, 2024.
LEGAL STANDARD
The court has discretion to allow
an attorney to withdraw, and such a motion should be granted provided that
there is no prejudice to the client and it does not disrupt the orderly process
of justice.  See Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994) 21 Cal. App. 4th 904, 915; People v. Prince (1968) 268 Cal. App. 2d
398.
CRC Rule 3.1362 (Motion to Be
Relieved as Counsel) requires (1) notice of motion and motion to be directed to
the client (made on the Notice of Motion and Motion to be Relieved as
Counsel—Civil form (MC-051)); (2) a declaration stating in general terms and
without compromising the confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship
why a motion under Code of Civil Procedure section 284(2) is brought instead of
filing a consent under Code of Civil Procedure section 284(1) (made on the
Declaration in Support of Attorney's Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil
form (MC-052)); (3) service of the notice of motion and motion and declaration
on all other parties who have appeared in the case; and (4) the proposed order
relieving counsel (prepared on the Order Granting Attorney's Motion to Be
Relieved as Counsel—Civil form (MC-053)).
DISCUSSION
            Plaintiff Brandon Reynolds’s attorney
Law Offices of Jacob Emrani/Douglas Younglove/Charles Oglesby seek to be
relieved as counsel. 
            Counsel states in his declaration
that there has been a breakdown in the attorney client relationship and a material
breakdown in trust and communication between counsel and client, preventing
effective assistance of counsel; and client’s conduct has rendered it
unreasonably difficult for the lawyer to carry out the representation
effectively.
The court finds that the attorney
submitted a declaration establishing that the service requirements of
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1362, have been satisfied.  The court also finds that the attorney has
shown sufficient reason why the motion to be relieved as counsel should be
granted.
            The motion is GRANTED.
ORDER
The motion is GRANTED. The court
orders that the attorney is relieved as counsel of record for plaintiff Brandon
Reynolds, effective upon the filing of the proofs of service of the signed
“Order Granting Attorney’s Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel – Civil” (Judicial
Council form MC-053) upon the client. 
Moving counsel is ordered to give
notice of this ruling. 