 Case Number:  23TRCV02571    Hearing Date:   March 26, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
ANA
  MARILU LANDAVERDE RIVERA, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV02571




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
AMERICAN
  HONDA MOTOR CO., INC.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          March 26,
2024
 
Moving
Parties:                      Plaintiff Ana Marilu Landaverde Rivera
Responding
Party:                  Defendant American Honda Motor Co., Inc.
Motion
to Compel Further Responses to Plaintiff’s Request for Production of Documents,
Set One
 
            The court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.
RULING
            As to plaintiff’s Requests for
Production of Documents, Nos. 1-14, the motion is GRANTED. Although the court
finds that defendant’s responses are code-compliant, it is unclear whether
defendant has produced responsive documents and a privilege log.  Defendant is ordered to produce responsive
documents and a privilege log within 20 days.
            As to Nos. 15-29 and 30-31, the
motion is DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE.  The court
is ordering the case bifurcated for both discovery and trial.  In phase one the parties shall try the basic
Song Beverly Act claim arising from the claimed breach of the Song Beverly
statutory obligations, of which Nos. 1-14 are relevant.
Phase two shall involve plaintiff’s
claim to a civil penalty under Civil
Code §1794(c) for a willful
violation of the statute.  Discovery on
the phase two issues, such as whether defendant knew that it could not repair
the claimed defects, based on its knowledge learned from vehicles other than plaintiff’s
vehicle (Nos. 30-31), shall be deferred until after the trier of fact has
returned a verdict favorable to plaintiff in phase one.            
BACKGROUND
            On August 9, 2023, plaintiff Ana
Marilu Landaverde Rivera filed a complaint against American Honda Motor Co.,
Inc. for violations of Song Beverly Act and Sonic-Harbor City H, Inc. d/b/a
Carson Honda for negligent repair.
            On October 24, 2023, the parties
entered into a stipulation and protective order – confidential designation
only.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
45-Day Rule: 
This motion must be served within 45 days after service of the response
in question (extended if served by mail, overnight delivery, or fax; see CCP §
1013); otherwise, the demanding party waives the right to compel any further
response to the CCP §2031.010 demand. 
CCP §§2031.310(c), 2016.050; see Sperber
v. Robinson (1994) 26 Cal. App. 4th 736, 745.  The 45-day time limit is mandatory and
jurisdictional.  Sexton v. Superior Court (1997) 58 Cal. App. 4th 1403, 1410.  The parties, however, can also agree in
writing on a specific later date by which to file the motion to compel.  CCP §2031.310(c). 
Meet-and-Confer Requirement: 
The motion to compel further responses must be accompanied by a
declaration showing “a reasonable and good faith attempt” to resolve the issues
outside of court (so-called “meet and confer”). 
CCP §§2016.040, 2031.310(b)(2).
Separate Statement: 
Any motion involving the content of a discovery request or the responses
to such a request shall be accompanied by a separate statement.  This includes a motion to compel further
responses to demand for inspection of documents or tangible things.  CRC Rule 3.1020(a)(3).  
Request for Production of Documents
On receipt of a response to an
inspection demand, the demanding party may move for an order compelling further
responses to the demand if the demanding party deems that any of the following
apply:  (1) a statement of compliance
with the demand is incomplete; (2) a representation of inability to comply is
inadequate, incomplete, or evasive; or (3) an objection in the response is
without merit or too general.  CCP §
2031.310(a).  A statement of compliance
shall state that the production, inspection, and related activity demanded will
be allowed either in whole or in part, and that all documents or things in the
demanded category that are in the possession, custody, or control of that party
and to which no objection is being made will be included in the production.  CCP § 2031.220.  “A representation of inability to comply with
[a] particular demand for inspection . . . shall affirm that a diligent search
and reasonable inquiry has been made in an effort to comply with that
demand.  This statement shall also specify
whether the inability to comply is because the particular item or category has
never existed, has been destroyed, has been lost, misplaced, or stolen, or has
never been, or is no longer, in the possession, custody, or control of the
responding party.  This statement shall
set forth the name and address of any natural person or organization known or
believed by that party to have possession, custody, or control of that item or
category of item.”  CCP § 2031.230. 
A motion to compel further response
to requests for production “shall set forth specific facts showing good cause
justifying the discovery sought by the inspection demand.”  CCP § 2031.310(b)(1).  “To establish ‘good cause,’ the burden is on
the moving party to show both:  [1] Relevance to the subject matter (e.g.,
how the information in the documents would tend to prove or disprove some issue
in the case); and [2] Specific facts justifying discovery
(e.g., why such information is necessary for trial preparation or to prevent
surprise at trial).  The fact that there
is no alternative source for the
information sought is an important factor in establishing ‘good cause’ for
inspection.  But it is not essential in every case.”  Weil & Brown, Civil Procedure Before Trial, 8:1495.6 (citations omitted).  “Declarations are generally used to show the
requisite ‘good cause’ for an order to compel inspection.  The declarations must contain ‘specific facts’
rather than mere conclusions.”  Id. at 8:1495.7 (citation omitted).  “The declarations may be on information and
belief, if necessary.  However, in such
cases, the ‘specific facts’ supporting such information and belief (the sources
of the information) must also be alleged.” 
Id. at 8:1495.8 (citation
omitted).  “Most declarations are made by
the attorney for the moving party, who is usually more familiar with the
relevancy and ‘specific facts’ constituting ‘good cause’ for inspection.”  Id.
at 8:1495.9.
“If ‘good cause’ is shown by the moving
party, the burden is then on the responding party to justify any objections
made to document disclosure (the same as on motions to compel answers to
interrogatories or deposition questions. . . ).”  Id.
at 8:1496 (citation omitted).
DISCUSSION
            Plaintiff Ana Marilu Landaverde
Rivera requests that the court order defendant American Honda Motor Co., Inc. (“AHM”)
to provide further responses and documents to plaintiffs’ Request for
Production of Documents, Set One, Nos. 1-31.
            In the complaint, plaintiff alleges
that on May 11, 2022, plaintiff purchased a certified pre-owned 2022 Honda
Accord.
            On April 11, 2023, with 21,086 miles
on odometer, plaintiff presented the vehicle to defendant’s authorized repair
facility, Airport Marina Honda, complaining that the vehicle would
inappropriately brake on its own and that the display screen would turn black
when connected to Bluetooth.  The
technician could not duplicate the brake concern and performed a hard set for
the display concern.  
On May 13, 2023, with 22,366 miles
on the odometer, plaintiff presented the vehicle to authorized repair facility,
Airport Marina Honda, complaining of same concerns.  The technician could not duplicate either
concern.  The technician performed
another hard reset of the display concern.
On June 13, 2023, with 23,900 miles
on the odometer, plaintiff presented the vehicle to an authorized repair
facility complaining of same concerns and that the steering was stiff when
turning and reversing as in a parking lot. 
The technician performed another hard reset for the display concern and
explained that the vehicle was working as intended regarding the steering
concern.
On August 10, 2023, with 26,706
miles on the odometer, plaintiff presented the vehicle to an authorized repair
facility complaining of a dashboard smart entry system problem and that the
vehicle would turn off by itself.  The
technician found DTC B1663 but concluded the vehicle was operating as
designed.  
On October 12, 2023, with 30,188
miles on the odometer, plaintiff presented the vehicle to authorized repair
facility, Carson Honda, complaining that the audio screen would turn off
intermittently while driving.  The
technician could not duplicate the concern.
Plaintiff contends that none of the
attempts have repaired the subject vehicle’s defects as plaintiff continued to
experience problems with the vehicle.
            Plaintiff asserts that on October 3,
20023, plaintiff propounded requests for production of documents, set one on
defendant AHM.  On November 6, 20023,
defendant served responses with objections and failed to produce many of the
responsive documents requested.  On November
9, 2023, plaintiff’s counsel sent a detailed meet and confer letter.  On November 17, 2023, plaintiff’s counsel
served a further meet and confer letter.
             Specifically, plaintiff asserts, Requests 1
through 14 seek documents relating to plaintiff’s own vehicle as such
information is “probative of nonconformities regarding the Subject Vehicle.”  Requests 15 through 29 seek documents
reflecting defendant’s written warranties and policies and procedures related
to what is covered under said warranties, how coverage is determined, and
training related to warranty coverage, policies and procedures relating to how
defendant handles customer complaints, and whether defendant abides by its
affirmative duties to repurchase or replace defective vehicles.  Plaintiff argues that the “discovery sought by
these Requests will support Plaintiff’s claim for civil penalties in that it
will show Defendant’s awareness of a prevalent defect which neither Defendant,
nor its authorized repair facilities, could repair.”  Requests 30 and 31 seek documents related to
defendant’s knowledge of the same or similar defects in other vehicles of the
same year, make, and model as the subject vehicle, which is “[c]ritical to a
showing of ‘wilfullness.’”  
            In opposition, defendant asserts
that it has served code-compliant responses and objections.  As to Nos. 1-6, 9-11, and 13-14, defendant
responded that it has agreed to produce responsive documents that are in its possession,
custody, or control and to which no objection was being made.  
As to Nos. 7, 8, 12, 15, 17-22, 24,
26-27, 29, and 31, defendant responded that it was “unable to comply with this
request and has no documents responsive to this request and no responsive
documents have ever existed.”
In response to No. 16, defendant
responded that it was unable to comply with the request and that pursuant to a
diligent search and reasonable inquiry, AHM has no responsive documents and no
responsive documents had ever existed but “in the interest of cooperation,” it
would produce guideline documents titled, “Lemon Law Inquiries,” “Early
Warning,” and “Attorney Involved,” subject to a protective order.  In response to No. 23, defendant responded
same as No. 16, and that it would produce a copy of Sections 3 and 5 of its
2022-2023 Service Operations Manual directed to warranty repair, subject to a
protective order.  As to No. 25,
defendant responded same as No. 16, and that it would produce a portion of
Section 9 of the Services Operations Manual, subject to a protective
order.  As to No. 28, defendant responded
same as No. 16, and that it would produce Section 3 of the Services Operations
Manual.
            The court rules as follows:  As to plaintiff’s Requests for Production of
Documents, Nos. 1-14, the motion is GRANTED. Although the court finds that
defendant’s responses are code-compliant, it is unclear whether defendant has
produced responsive documents and a privilege log.
            As to Nos. 15-29 and 30-31, the
motion is DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE.  The court
is ordering the case bifurcated for both discovery and trial.  In phase one the parties shall try the basic
Song Beverly Act claim arising from the claimed breach of the Song Beverly
statutory obligations, of which Nos. 1-14 are relevant.
Phase two shall involve plaintiff’s
claim to a civil penalty under Civil
Code §1794(c) for a willful
violation of the statute.  Discovery on
the phase two issues, such as whether defendant knew that it could not repair
the claimed defects, based on its knowledge learned from vehicles other than plaintiff’s
vehicle (Nos. 30-31), shall be deferred until after the trier of fact has
returned a verdict favorable to plaintiff in phase one.
            The motion is thus GRANTED in part
and DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE in part.
ORDER
            As to plaintiff’s Requests for
Production of Documents, Nos. 1-14, the motion is GRANTED. Although the court
finds that defendant’s responses are code-compliant, it is unclear whether
defendant has produced responsive documents and a privilege log.  Defendant is ordered to produce responsive
documents and a privilege log within 20 days.
            As to Nos. 15-29 and 30-31, the
motion is DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE.  The court
is ordering the case bifurcated for both discovery and trial.  In phase one the parties shall try the basic
Song Beverly Act claim arising from the claimed breach of the Song Beverly
statutory obligations, of which Nos. 1-14 are relevant.
Phase two shall involve plaintiff’s
claim to a civil penalty under Civil
Code §1794(c) for a willful
violation of the statute.  Discovery on
the phase two issues, such as whether defendant knew that it could not repair
the claimed defects, based on its knowledge learned from vehicles other than plaintiff’s
vehicle (Nos. 30-31), shall be deferred until after the trier of fact has
returned a verdict favorable to plaintiff in phase one.
            Plaintiff is ordered to give notice of ruling.