 Case Number:  23BBCV01897    Hearing Date:   October 25, 2024    Dept:  A The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Zachary Purnell (Plaintiff) brings this action against 55 Silver, LLC (55
Silver), Kiloby Center for Recovery, Inc. (Kiloby), 9 Silver, LLC (9 Silver), Nathan
Young (Young), and Hatteras Lux Homes, LLC (Lux) (collectively Defendants). Plaintiff
states that he was a resident of a sober living home located at Hatteras St.,
North Hollywood, California (the Property). Plaintiff alleges he was attacked
by a third-party as a result of Defendants’ negligence. 
 
Defendants
55 Silver and Kiloby are alleged to own/operate the Property. (FAC ¶ 7.) Defendant
Young is alleged to be the owner/operator of 55 Silver and Kiloby. (FAC ¶ 9.)
Defendants 9 Silver and Lux were added by Doe Amendment. It appears that
Plaintiff alleges 9 Silver and Lux are also an owners/operators of the Property.
(FAC ¶ 12.) 
 
Plaintiff’s
Complaint contained two causes of action for (1) Negligence and (2) Premises
Liability as against each Defendant. On May 31, 2024, the Court sustained the
demurrer of 9 Silver and Young to each cause of action with leave to amend. The
Court found Plaintiff had pled insufficient facts but that this deficiency
could be cured by amendment. On June 13, 2024, Plaintiff filed his First
Amended Complaint (FAC).  
 
9 Silver, Young, and Lux (hereinafter
Demurring Defendants) now demur to each cause of action in the FAC, arguing
that they fail to allege sufficient facts. Plaintiff opposes the motion and
Demurring Defendants reply. 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Demurrer
 
The grounds for a demurrer must appear on the
face of the pleading or from judicially noticeable matters. (C.C.P. §
430.30(a); Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) A demurrer for
sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v.
Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) The only issue involved in a
demurrer hearing is whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Id.)
 
A demurrer assumes the truth of all factual,
material allegations properly pled in the challenged pleading. (Blank v.
Kirwan, supra, 39 Cal. 3d at 318.) No matter how unlikely or improbable,
the plaintiff’s allegations must be accepted as true for the purpose of ruling
on the demurrer. (Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co. (1981)
123 Cal.  App. 3d 593, 604.) But this does not include contentions;
deductions; conclusions of fact or law alleged in the complaint; facts
impossible in law; or allegations contrary to facts of which a court may take
judicial notice.  (Blank, supra, 39 Cal. 3d at 318.)
 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure (“C.C.P.”) §§
430.10(e) and (f), the party against whom a complaint has been filed may demur
to the pleading on the grounds that the pleading does not state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action, or that the pleading is uncertain,
ambiguous and/or unintelligible. It is an abuse of discretion to sustain a
demurrer without leave to amend if there is a reasonable probability that the
defect can be cured by amendment. (Schifando v. City of Los Angeles
(2003) 31 Cal. 4th 1074, 1082.)
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Meet and Confer 
 
C.C.P. §§ 430.41(a) requires that the moving party meet
and confer with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to the
demurrer. Upon review the Court finds the meet and confer requirements were
met. (Torres-Brito Decl. ¶ 6; Victor Decl. ¶ 4.)  
 
Judicial Notice 
 
Plaintiff
requests the Court take judicial notice of its May 31, 2024 minute order. Given
that this minute order is already part of the Court’s record, the Court finds
judicial notice to be appropriate and the request is GRANTED. 
 
Facts 
 
Plaintiff
states that he was a resident of a sober living home located at Hatteras St.,
North Hollywood, California. (FAC ¶ 2.) On July 11, 2023, Plaintiff
alleges he was attacked by a neighbor to the property. (FAC ¶ 4.)
Plaintiff further alleges that this neighbor “often caused trouble” at the
property. (FAC ¶ 3.) Plaintiff does not identify this neighbor in his FAC.

 
The
above allegations were also present in Plaintiff’s initial Complaint. As will
be explained in detail, the Court found the Complaint subject to demurrer for
failure to allege sufficient facts and granted leave to amend. Upon amendment,
Plaintiff has added the following factual allegations: 
 
·        
“Police reports indicate a recurrence of neighbors
instigating physical altercations on the property while entering without
authorization repeatedly.” (FAC ¶ 3.) 
·        
“[T]here was a history of altercations between residents
and neighbors, including but not limited to arguments, shoving, and physical
confrontation. The
frequency of altercations makes it reasonable to believe Defendants were aware
of the issue and that another altercation harming residents was foreseeable.”
(FAC ¶ 18.) 
·        
“Defendants knew residents were a vulnerable population due
to their struggles with substance use disorder.” (FAC ¶ 19.) 
 
First COA – Negligence – Overruled  
 
In
order to state a claim for negligence, Plaintiff must allege the elements of
(1) “the existence of a legal duty of care,” (2) “breach of that duty,” and (3)
“proximate cause resulting in an injury.” (McIntyre
v. Colonies-Pacific, LLC (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 664, 671.)
 
“Landowners
under California law are required to maintain land in their possession and
control in a reasonably safe condition.” (Williams v. Fremont Corners, Inc. (2019)
37 Cal.App.5th 654, 663, citing Ann M. v. Pacific Plaza Shopping Center
(1993) 6 Cal.4th 666, 674.) “One well-established limit is that there is no
duty to act to protect others from the conduct of third parties.” (Williams
supra, 37 Cal.App.5th at 663 [internal quotation marks omitted].) 
 
There
exists an exception to this limit where a party has shown a special
relationship between the injured party and the landowner. (Melton v.
Boustred (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 521, 531.) “Courts have found such a
special relationship in cases involving the relationship between business
proprietors such as shopping centers, restaurants, and bars, and their tenants,
patrons, or invitees. In addition, such “special relationships triggering a
duty to protect another from foreseeable injury caused by a third party have
been found in other contexts, including those of (i) common carriers and
passengers, (ii) innkeepers and their guests, and (iii) mental health
professionals and their patients.” (Id. [internal quotation marks and
citations omitted].) 
 
Liability
for nonfeasance is limited to situations in which there is a special
relationship that creates a duty to act. (Seo v. All-Makes Overhead Doors
(2002) 97 Cal.App.4th 1193, 1202.) In determining the scope of property owner’s
duty to protect from third-party harm the Court looks at “…the foreseeability
of harm to the plaintiff, the degree of certainty that the plaintiff suffered
injury, the closeness of the connection between the defendant's conduct and the
injury suffered, the moral blame attached to the defendant's conduct, the
policy of preventing future harm, the extent of the burden to the defendant and
consequences to the community of imposing a duty to exercise care with
resulting liability for breach, and the availability, cost and prevalence of
insurance for the risk involved.” (Ann M. supra, 6 Cal.4th 666 at 675.) 
 
The
Court previously sustained the demurrer to this cause of action, finding that
Plaintiff had alleged insufficient facts as to Defendants’ prior knowledge of
violence by third parties against residents of the sober living home. The Court
found the allegation that the neighbor who attacked Plaintiff “often caused
trouble” was insufficient to establish that violence was foreseeable by
Defendants. Having reviewed Plaintiff’s amendment, the Court now finds that he
has alleged sufficient facts. 
 
Plaintiff
has now alleged that physical altercations between neighbors of the sober
living home and its residents were common occurrences. (FAC ¶ 18.) In
addition, Plaintiff has alleged that police responded to one or more of these
incidents. (FAC ¶ 18.) These allegations on their face are sufficient to
allege that third party criminal conduct was to some degree foreseeable by
Defendants, especially given the allegation that Defendants provided housing to
particularly vulnerable tenants. (FAC ¶ 19.)  
 
Demurring
Defendants’ argument that more facts are required to survive demurrer is
unpersuasive. Demurring Defendants cite to Wiener v. Southcoast Childcare
Centers, Inc. in asserting that precise details of the third party conduct
must be considered when determining whether that conduct was foreseeable by a
defendant. (Wiener v. Southcoast Childcare Centers, Inc. (2004) 32
Cal.4th 1138, 1149.) Demurring Defendants construe the holding in Wiener as
requiring Plaintiff to plead the criminal actions of third parties in greater
detail, but the holding of Wiener does not speak to the sufficiency of
pleadings. Wiener concerned an appeal from a motion for summary
judgment, in which the trial court was presented with evidence from the parties
as to whether criminal acts of third parties were foreseeable. (Wiener supra,
32 Cal.4th at 1142.) The Wiener court’s holding was directed at the
sufficiency of evidence and not the sufficiency of pleadings. (Id.) 
 
The
same can be said regarding Demurring Defendants’ citation to Ann M. v.
Pacific Plaza Shopping Center. Demurring Defendants cite this case in
support of their argument that “a high degree of foreseeability” is required to
hold a landlord liable for criminal acts of third parties. (Ann M. supra,
at 679.) As with Wiener, Ann M. concerned review of a trial
court’s order regarding summary judgement. (Id.) The Ann M.
court’s ruling on the degree of foreseeability required was based on an
evaluation of evidence, not the sufficiency of pleadings. (Id. at
675.)  
 
In
short, the Court finds that Plaintiff’s FAC is factually sufficient to sustain
a cause of action for Negligence. The general rule is that a party need only
allege ultimate facts, not that they must plead each evidentiary fact that
might eventually form part of their proof. (CA. v. William S. Hart Union
High School District (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 872.) Plaintiff has done
so here. Demurring Defendants have presented no authority, nor is the Court
aware of any, that necessitates deviation from the general pleading
requirements. Demurring Defendants’ argument that Plaintiff is required to
plead foreseeability with a great deal of specificity is simply unsupported by authority.
 
Accordingly,
the demurrer of 9 Silver, Young, and Lux to the first cause of action is
OVERRULED. 
 
Second COA – Premises Liability – Overruled  
 
“The
elements of a cause of action for premises liability are the same as those for
negligence: duty, breach, causation, and damages.” (Castellon v. U.S. Bancorp (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 994, 998.)
“Premises liability is grounded in the possession of the premises and the
attendant right to control and manage the premises.” (Kesner v. Superior Court (2016) 1 Cal.5th 1132, 1158, quotation
marks omitted.)
 
As
the pleading requirements for Premises Liability and Negligence overlap, Demurring
Defendants first argue that Plaintiff fails to allege sufficient facts as to
foreseeability. As explained above, the Court finds Plaintiff has rectified the
previous deficiency with additional factual allegations. 
 
Demurring
Defendants also now argue that the cause of action for premises liability is
duplicative of the negligence cause of action. Demurring Defendants argue that
Plaintiff’s cause of action for premises liability “adds nothing by way of fact
or theory of recovery” and thus is subject to demurrer without leave to amend.
(See Rodrigues v. Campbell Industries (1978) 87 Cal.App.3d 494, 501.) 
 
The
Court acknowledges that there is a variety of competing authority as to whether
a demurrer brought under C.C.P.§ 430.10 can be sustained where a cause of
action is found to be duplicative of another. Some courts have held that
duplicative causes of action are subject to demurrer. (See Palm Springs
Villas II Homeowners Association, Inc. v. Parth (2016) 248 Cal.App.4th 268,
290; see also Careau & Co. V Security Pacific Business Credit, Inc.
(1990) 222 Cal.App.3d 1371, 1392.) Other courts have found sustaining such a
demurrer to be inconsistent with a plaintiff’s right to assert inconsistent
causes of action at the pleading stage. (See Blickman Turkus, LP v. MF
Downtown Sunnydale, LLC (2008) 162 Cal.App.4th 858, 890; see also Adams
v. Paul (1995) 11 Cal.4th 583, 593.) 
 
In
resolving this conundrum, the Court finds the reasoning in Blickman to
be the most instructive. The Blickman court first noted that the
language of C.C.P. § 430.10 does not authorize a demurrer on grounds of
redundancy (Blickman supra, 162 Cal.App.4th at 890.) The Blickman court
observed that the practice of sustaining a demurrer to a duplicative cause of
action was actually grounded in language no longer present in the statutory
scheme.  (Id.) Although the
statute authorizing a motion to strike, C.C.P. § 436(a), did previously
authorize courts to strike out “irrelevant and redundant” matter, that language
has since been removed. (Id.) The court observed that the modern statute
contained no analogous language authorizing the striking of redundant material.
(Id.) 
 
The Court finds the
reasoning in Blickman persuasive. These demurrers are undoubtedly
brought pursuant to C.C.P. § 430.10 and that code section simply does not
authorize a demurrer where a cause of action is alleged to be duplicative. 
Accordingly,
the demurrer of 9 Silver, Young, and Lux to the second cause of action is
OVERRULED. 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
9 Silver, LLC, Nathan
Young, and Hatteras Lux Homes, LLC’s Demurrers came
on regularly for hearing on October 25, 2024, with appearances/submissions as
noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised
in the premises, did then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE
DEMURRER TO THE FIRST AND SECOND CAUSES OF ACTION ARE OVERRULED.
 
DEFENDANT
YOUNG TO GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 