 Case Number:  22STCV13111    Hearing Date:   October 25, 2024    Dept:  A The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Anita Aslanyan (Plaintiff),
individually and as successor in interest to Razmik Aslanyan (Decedent)
(collectively Plaintiffs) bring this action against Providence St. Joseph
Health Center (Providence) and THC Orange County, LLC dba Kindred Hospital
Los Angeles (THC). Plaintiffs allege that Providence and THC failed to properly
care for Decedent, resulting in his death. Plaintiffs state a singular cause of
action for professional negligence. 
 
The
following motions are currently before the Court: 
 
·        
THC’s Motion to Compel Plaintiff’s Further Responses to
SPROG Set Two (continued from October 4, 2024). 
 
·        
THC’s Motion to Compel Plaintiff’s Responses to RFPD Set
Four. 
 
·        
THC’s Motion to Compel Plaintiff’s Responses to RFPD Set
Five. 
 
·        
THC’s Renewed Motion to Authorize Adult Protective Services
to Release Decedent’s Records. 
 
The
Court previously continued one of these motions in order to allow Plaintiff
additional time to secure counsel. 
 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
Given
the large number of discovery related motions currently on calendar for this
case, the Court finds a summary of the case’s procedure to this point would be
helpful in ensuring all parties are on the same page. The Court will then
individually address the four motions currently before it. 
 
Discovery & Motion Timeline 
 
On
June 5, 2024, this matter was transferred to this Court from Department 28 of
the Personal Injury Court. (See June 5, 2024 Minute Order.) As a result, all
pending motions were deemed to be vacated by this Court upon transfer. At the
time of transfer the following motions were pending: 
 
General:
 
·        
Motion to be Relieved as Counsel filed by Plaintiff’s
counsel on May 2, 2024 (to be heard on August 6, 2024). 
 
·        
Motion to Authorize Adult Protective Services (APS) to
release Plaintiff’s records filed by THC on May 7, 2024 (to be heard on June
20, 2024). 
 
·        
Motion to Continue Trial filed by THC on May 30, 2024 (to
be heard on June 26, 2024). 
 
As to Plaintiff: 
 
·        
Motion to Compel Further Responses to SPROG Set Two filed
by THC on June 3, 2024 (to be heard on August 20, 2024). 
 
·        
Motion to Compel Further Responses to RFPD Set Two filed by
THC on June 3, 2024 (to be heard August 20, 2024). 
 
As to Decedent: 
 
·        
Motion to Compel Further Responses to SPROG Set Two filed
by THC on June 3, 2024 (to be heard on August 20, 2024). 
 
·        
Motion to Compel Further Responses to RFPD Set Two filed by
THC on June 3, 2024 (to be heard August 20, 2024). 
 
On
June 14, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel refiled their Motion to be Relieved. On July
12, 2024, this motion came before the Court and was granted. Plaintiff has since
been representing herself. 
 
On
June 17, 2024, THC refiled its Motion to Authorize APS to release records. The
motion was heard August 16, 2024. The Court denied the motion without on
grounds that it was procedurally defective. 
 
THC also
refiled each of its previous discovery motions. These motions are outlined
below: 
 
As to Plaintiff: 
 
·        
Motion to Compel Further Responses to SPROG Set Two refiled
by THC on August 5, 2024 (to be heard on October 4, 2024). 
 
·        
Motion Compel Further Responses to RFPD Set Two refiled by
THC on August 5, 2024 (to be heard on September 20, 2024). 
 
As to Decedent: 
 
·        
Motion to Compel Further Responses to SPROG Set Two refiled
by THC on June 3, 2024 (to be heard on September 20, 2024). 
 
·        
Motion Compel Further Responses to RFPD Set Two refiled by
THC on August 5, 2024 (To be heard on September 20, 2024). 
 
Presumably
because the Court’s reservation system had no available slots, the four
discovery motions above were scheduled to be heard on two different dates. 
 
On
September 20, 2024, THC’s motion to compel Decedent’s further responses to
SPROG and RFPD came on for hearing. THC’s motion to compel Plaintiff’s further
responses to RFPD also came on for hearing on that day. Plaintiff did not
oppose these motions or appear at the hearing. The motions were granted in
their entirety. Decedent was to serve further responses to SPROG Set Two Nos.
13 & 14 and RFPD Set Two Nos. 28-30 within 30 days of the Court’s order.
Plaintiff was to serve further responses to RFPD Set Two Nos. 27, 28, and 29.
The Court also awarded sanctions as against Plaintiff in the amount of
$1,255.00 to be paid within 30 days. 
 
The
Court notes that the September 20, 2024 minute order improperly states that
Plaintiff was to serve responses to SPROG Set Two Nos. 13 & 14. The
substance of the order concerned SPROG Set Two as addressed to Decedent and not
Plaintiff. 
 
On
October 4, 2024, THC’s motion to compel Plaintiff’s further response to SPROG
Set Two came on for hearing. Plaintiff appeared, in pro per, at this hearing.
Counsel for THC did not appear as the motion was unopposed and Plaintiff did
not provide notice that she would be appearing. At the hearing Plaintiff
explained that she was still attempting to secure new counsel for the matter.
The Court continued the motion to October 25, 2024 to allow Plaintiff more time
to secure counsel and ordered the Clerk to give notice. 
 
Plaintiff’s Oppositions 
 
On
October 16, 2024, Plaintiff’s new counsel filed his Notice of Appearance. Also
on October 16, 2024, Plaintiff filed the following documents: 
 
·        
Opposition to THC’s Motion to Deem RFA Set Three Matters
Admitted (filed on October 1, 2024, to be heard on November 15, 2024). 
 
·        
Opposition to THC’s Motion to Compel Responses to SPROG Set
Four (filed on October 1, 2024, to be heard on November 15, 2024). 
 
·        
Opposition to THC’s Motion to Compel Responses to SPROG Set
Three (filed on October 1, 2024, to be heard on November 22, 2024). 
 
·        
Opposition to THC’s Motion to Compel Responses to RFPD Set
Six (filed on October 1, 2024, to be heard on November 22, 2024). 
 
On
October 21, 2024, Plaintiff filed the following documents: 
 
·        
Opposition to THC’s Motion to Compel Responses to RFPD Set
Four (filed on August 19, 2024, to be heard October 25, 2024) 
 
·        
Opposition to THC’s Motion to Compel Responses to RFPD Set
Five (filed on October 1, 2024, to be heard on October 25, 2024). 
 
·        
Opposition to THC’s Renewed Motion to Authorize Adult
Protective Services to Release Decedent’s Records (filed on September 16, 2024,
to be heard on October 25, 2024). 
 
THC’s Motion to Compel Compliance with Deposition Subpoena
- Denied
 
Although
it is labeled by THC as a “Motion to Authorize”, the motion directed at
requiring APS to release Decedent’s records is properly categorized as a Motion
to Compel Compliance with Deposition Subpoena pursuant to C.C.P. § 1987.1.

 
Despite the Court’s explanation in the
previous ruling that Welf. And Inst. Code §§ 15633 and 10850(a) were irrelevant
to this motion, THC has retained their citation and related arguments in the
renewed briefing. Regardless, THC states it now has served a deposition
subpoena on APS which APS subsequently refused to comply with. (See Exhs. 4
&5.) As such, the Court will analyze this motion pursuant to C.C.P.
§ 1987.1.
 
C.C.P.
§ 1987.1(a) provides: “If a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness or
the production of... documents... at the taking of a deposition, the court,
upon motion... may make an order... directing compliance with it upon those
terms or conditions as the court shall declare.” C.C.P. § 1987.1 does not
contain a meet and confer requirement, nor a requirement that good cause for
production of documents be shown.  C.C.P. § 2020 et seq., the
statutes governing subpoenas issued to a third party, also contains no good
cause requirement. The Court’s analysis does not end there.
 
C.C.P.
§ 2031, which applies to document production requests served on a party,
requires the party seeking to compel such production set forth specific facts
showing good cause justifying the discovery sought by the inspection demand.
Since the section governing party and nonparty subpoenas are part of a single
statutory scheme, and since it is unlikely the Legislature intended to place
greater burdens on a non-party than on a party to the litigation, the Court
reads a good cause requirement into the latter section.
 
In Digital
Music News LLC v Superior Court (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 216 at 224, the
Court defined “good cause” as a showing that there “a disputed fact that is of
consequence in the action and the discovery sought will tend in reason to prove
or disprove that fact or lead to other evidence that will tend to prove or
disprove the fact.”  If the moving party has shown good cause for the
requests for production, the burden is on the objecting party to justify the
objections. (Kirkland v. Sup.Ct (2002) 95 Cal. App.4th 92,
98.) 
 
Given
the foregoing, THC bears the burden to demonstrate good cause for production of
record pertaining to Decedent. The Court finds they have not done so. 
 
THC’s
showing of good cause is based entirely on a Clinical Note authored by social
worker Suzanne Spinosa (Spinosa). (Exh. 1.) This note was apparently obtained
by THC because it was included in Decedent’s medical records from Providence
Saint Joseph Medical Center. (Janssen Decl. ¶ 3.) The contents of this
note are as follows: 
 
Pt is a 66YO male
admitted to ICU for respiratory arrest. Pt and complex family members very
well-known to staff due to frequent admissions, multiple APS reports, extensive
social work involvement. CSW consulted as a person who will only identify
themselves as “Joe” been calling ICU staff claiming they have proof that one of
pt’s daughters is financially abusing him. This person identified as “Joe” will
not provide a full name or call back number, subsequentially, they also dropped
off a sealed manilla envelope containing this “evidence” of abuse. CSW notified
Risk Manager, Dena Decker, of this package and handed sealed envelope to Dena.
Social work to continue to reiterate to family that multiple APS reports have
been filed in compliance with suspected financial, physical and emotional abuse
and evidence cannot and will not be reviewed by hospital to determine any sort
of ruling, rather, they will need to go through law enforcement. To date, no
family member has provided any legal documents stating who pt would determine
as his decision maker. This writer completed APS report # 666616 filed to
comply with this pt’s admission. 
 
(Exh. 1, p. 2.) 
 
The
Court finds this note does not provide good cause for the production of
Decedent’s APS records. First, Spinosa’s comments about alleged financial abuse
by one of Decedent’s daughters derives from a completely anonymous source with
no independent verification. Second, the comment regarding financial abuse does
not even specify Plaintiff was the daughter committing the abuse. Third,
Spinosa’s mention of potential financial abuse is entirely unrelated to her
mention of the APS reports. 
 
The
gravamen of Plaintiff’s claim is the allegation that Decedent suffered a head
injury because of the professional negligence of THC and other Defendants.
Nothing in the Spinosa note indicates that APS contains discoverable
information about whether THC upheld its standard of care. As such, THC has not
demonstrated good case to compel APS to comply with the subpoena. Accordingly,
the motion to compel is DENIED. 
 
Motions to Compel Responses to RFPD Set Four & Five –
Moot 
 
Plaintiff’s
counsel represents that on October 21, 2024, he served responses to THC’s RFPD
Set Four and Five. (Markarian Decl. ¶ 5.) Given the subsequent service of
responses prior to the hearing on these motions, the Court finds the motions
MOOT. 
 
Any
sanctions pursuant to these motions are purely discretionary as per C.C.P.
§ 2023.030(a). As Plaintiff was without counsel, the Court declines to grant
sanctions in this matter. The Court has already assessed sanctions in
connection with the motions heard and granted on September 20, 2024. Given the
imposition of those sanctions and the fact that Plaintiff has subsequently
retained counsel, the Court is confident that further sanctions will not be
necessary to ensure her compliance with discovery. 
 
Motion to Compel Further Responses to SPROG
Set Two – Granted in Part & Denied in Part 
 
Despite
the Court’s continuance of this matter to allow Plaintiff additional time to
secure counsel and respond, this motion remains unopposed. As such, the Court
will adhere to it previous tentative ruling, except on the issue of sanctions.
As explained above, the Court does not find further sanctions are necessary to
ensure compliance. 
 
The
SPROG to which THC moves to compel further responses are produced below along
with Plaintiff Anita’s initial response. 

 
·        
Please state with particularity the substance of all
conversations you had with all medical professionals regarding Decedent’s
admission to Kindred Los Angeles (SPROG No. 15.) 
 
o  
Objection. Plaintiff objects on the grounds that this
interrogatory is overly broad as to time and scope as to be an unwarranted
annoyance, embarrassment, and is oppressive. To comply with this request would
be an undue burden and expense on the Plaintiff. The request is calculated to
annoy and harass Plaintiff…. Without waiving said objection, Responding Party
responses: Responding Party recalls having conversations demanding a radiograph
of Decedent’s head to be performed following the fall, Responding Party recalls
discussions regarding the call light not working properly.
 
·        
Please state with particularity all expenses you incurred
as a result of injuries which you attribute to Kindred Los Angeles. (SPROG No.
16.) 
 
o  
Objection. Plaintiff objects on the grounds that this
interrogatory is overly broad as to time and scope as to be an unwarranted
annoyance, embarrassment, and is oppressive. To comply with this request would
be an undue burden and expense on the Plaintiff. The request is calculated to
annoy and harass Plaintiff.
 
·        
Please state with particularity all expenses you incurred
as a result of decedent’s alleged injuries which you attribute to Kindred Los
Angeles. (SPROG No. 17.)
 
o  
Objection. Plaintiff objects on the grounds that this
interrogatory is overly broad as to time and scope as to be an unwarranted
annoyance, embarrassment, and is oppressive. To comply with this request would
be an undue burden and expense on the Plaintiff. The request is calculated to
annoy and harass Plaintiff. Without waiving said objections, Responding Party
responds: Medical expenses incurred at UCLA.
 
·        
Please identify the KINDRED LOS ANGELES staff member you
allege did not raise the rails on decedent’s bed when the incident occurred.
(SPROG No. 18.) 
 
o  
Responding Party does not know the name.
 
The
Court finds that Plaintiff’s response to SPROG Nos. 15 is incomplete or
evasive. As concerns SPROG No. 15, Plaintiff Anita clearly identifies two
conversations that she had with THC staff. Despite this, the response to SPROG
No. 15 is without any of the particulars of those conversations. If Plaintiff
Anita does not recall the substance of those conversations, she must so state. 
 
The
Court also finds that the response to SPROG No. 16 is insufficient. This
response contains only a number of boilerplate objections and is unresponsive
to the question posed. 
 
As
concerns the response to SPROG No. 17, it too is incomplete. Plaintiff Anita’s
answer of “Medical expenses incurred at UCLA” is so vague as to be unresponsive
to THC’s request for particular expenses. Plaintiff Anita’s response fails to
identify what these medical expenses are or to direct THC to any specific
documentation in which they are detailed. 
 
Lastly,
the Court finds Plaintiff Anita’s response to SPROG No. 18 to be sufficient.
This SPROG asks Plaintiff Anita to identify the member of THC which allegedly
failed to raise the rails on Decedent’s hospital bed. Plaintiff Anita’s
response that she is unaware of the identity of the THC employee responsible is
a complete answer to the SPROG. This answer is neither evasive nor incomplete. 
 
Accordingly,
the motion to compel further responses is GRANTED in part and DENIED in part.
The motion is GRANTED as to SPROG Nos. 15, 16, and 17. The motion is DENIED at
to SPROG No. 18.
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the event
the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed order
or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the following
form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and entered
into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
THC Orange County, LLC dba Kindred Hospital
Los Angeles’s Motions to Compel came on regularly for hearing on October 25, 2024, with
appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the
court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there rule as
follows: 
 
THE MOTION TO COMPEL COMPLIANCE WITH DEPOSITION
SUBPOENA IS DENIED. 
 
THE MOTIONS TO COMPEL PLAINTIFF’S RESPONSES TO
RFPD SETS FOUR AND FIVE ARE MOOT.
 
THE MOTION TO COMPEL PLAINTIFF’S FURTHER
RESPONSES TO SPROG SET TWO IS GRANTED AS TO SPROG NOS. 15, 16, AND 17 AND
DENIED AS TO SPROG NO. 18.
 
THC TO GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 