 Case Number:  23BBCV00757    Hearing Date:   October 25, 2024    Dept:  A The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Brenda
Armstrong (Plaintiff) brings this action against John Doe in relation to an
April 21, 2021 motor vehicle incident. Plaintiff alleges she was standing
beside her parked vehicle when John Doe’s vehicle struck her vehicle and caused
her severe injury. Plaintiff alleges that John Doe thereafter fled the scene
and Plaintiff has been unable to ascertain his identity. 
 
On July
12, 2024, the Court granted a motion to compel Burbank Police Department’s
(BPD) compliance with a deposition subpoena issued by Plaintiff. The subpoena sought
the police report generated in connection with the incident, as Plaintiff stated
the report would allow her to learn the identity of John Doe. The BPD declined
to comply with the subpoena, citing Plaintiff’s failure to serve a Notice to
Consumer as required by C.C.P. § 1985.3. (See Exh. C.) The BPD did not oppose
that motion. 
 
Before
the Court is a motion for reconsideration of the July 12 ruling brought by the
City of Burbank (the City) on behalf of the BPD. The City argues that their
failure to oppose the motion resulted from Plaintiff’s failure to serve the
motion upon BPD or the City. The City further argues that they believe Plaintiff
is abusing law enforcement resources to obtain confidential information
obtained as part of a police investigation. 
 
Plaintiff
has not filed any opposition to this motion. The Court notes that, pursuant to
C.R.C. Rule 8.54(c), a failure to oppose a motion may be deemed consent to its
being granted.  
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Compliance
with Deposition Subpoena 
 
The
service of a deposition notice, pursuant to C.C.P. § 2025.240, is effective to
require any party deponent to attend, testify, and produce materials for
inspection at a deposition. (C.C.P. § 2025.280(a).) To require the attendance
and testimony of a non-party deponent, as well as his or her production of any
document or tangible thing for inspection and copying, the party seeking
discovery must serve on that deponent a deposition subpoena, pursuant to C.C.P.
§ 2020.010, et seq. (C.C.P. §§ 2020.010(b), 2025.280(b); See also Sears,
Roebuck & Co. v. National Union Fire Insurance Company of Pittsburgh
(2005) 131 Cal.App.4th 1342, 1350 [discovery from nonparties is governed by C.C.P.
§§ 2020.010, et seq., and is primarily carried out by way of subpoena].)
 
If a
deponent fails to answer any question or to produce any document, the party
seeking discovery may move the court for an order compelling that answer or
production. (C.C.P. § 2025.480(a).) If the court determines that the answer or
production sought is subject to discovery, it shall order that the answer be given
or the production be made on the resumption of the deposition. (C.C.P. §
2025.480(i).)
 
Motion
for Reconsideration 
 
C.C.P. §
1008(a) provides “When an application for an order has been made to a judge, or
to a court, and refused in whole or in part, or granted, or granted
conditionally, or on terms, any party affected by the order may, within 10 days
after service upon the party of written notice of entry of the order and based
upon new or different facts, circumstances, or law, make application to the
same judge or court that made the order, to reconsider the matter and modify,
amend, or revoke the prior order. The party making the application shall state
by affidavit what application was made before, when and to what judge, what
order or decisions were made, and what new or different facts, circumstances,
or law are claimed to be shown.” 
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Service 
 
The
Court first addresses the City’s argument that Plaintiff never properly served
notice of the motion to compel. C.C.P. § 2025.480(b) requires that a motion to
compel compliance with a deposition subpoena be either (1) given orally at the
examination or (2) subsequently provided in writing. As this deposition
subpoena was solely for the production of documents, it follows that Plaintiff
was required to give notice of this motion in writing. 
 
A
review of the moving papers submitted by Plaintiff reveals no attached proof of
service for the motion to compel. Plaintiff’s motion contains proof of service
for the underlying subpoena, but it contains no proof of service upon the City
or BPD of notice of the motion to compel. This omission was inadvertently
overlooked in the Court’s initial review of this motion. As such, Plaintiff’s
motion should not have been granted on procedural grounds alone. 
 
Timeliness 
 
The
City also argues that Plaintiff brought the motion to compel beyond the
statutory time frame of 20 days. The Court finds this argument unpersuasive. 
 
The
City states that Plaintiff brought her motion pursuant to C.C.P. §§ 1985.3
& 1985.4. This misstates the grounds for Plaintiff’s grounds motion. The
basis for the City’s refusal to comply was Plaintiff’s failure to serve notice
to consumer under C.C.P. § 1985.3. This does not mean that Plaintiff’s motion
to compel the City’s compliance is governed by C.C.P. § 1985.3. C.C.P. § 1985.3(g),
and its 20-day time limit, only applies to a motion to compel brought against
an objecting consumer who has received proper notice. The code section does not
address a motion to compel brought against a non-consumer, non-party deponent. Such
motions are clearly within the purview of C.C.P. § 2025.480, which maintains a
60-day time limit for filing. 
 
Disclosure 
 
Despite
the failure of Plaintiff to serve notice on the City, the Court finds denial on
these grounds would only result in more motion practice to resolve the
underlying dispute of disclosure. Given that the City is now clearly apprised
of the motion, the Court elects to resolve the propriety of its previous ruling
on the merits.  
 
The
City argues that the records sought by Plaintiff are subject to exemption from
disclosure under the California Public Records Act. The City points to Gov.
Code § 7923.600 which provides in relevant part: 
 
[T]his division does
not require the disclosure of records of complaints to, or investigations
conducted by, or records of intelligence information or security procedures of,
the office of the Attorney General and the Department of Justice, the Office of
Emergency Services and any state or local police agency, or any investigatory
or security files compiled by any other state or local police agency, or any
investigatory or security files compiled by any other state or local agency for
correctional, law enforcement, or licensing purposes.
 
The
City cites to Williams v. Superior Court for the proposition that law
enforcement investigatory files are exempt from disclosure under the California
Public Records Act (CPRA). (See Mot. p. 6.) Williams concerned a request
by a newspaper publisher to obtain reports of disciplinary proceedings from the
San Bernadino County Sheriff’s office. (Williams v. Superior Court (1993)
5 Cal.4th 337, 341.) In making its ruling, the California Supreme Court relied
upon the holding in Uribe v. Howie that the investigatory reports
exception only applies when “…the prospect of enforcement proceedings is
concrete and definite.” (Uribe v. Howie (1971) 19 Cal.App.3d 194,
212.) Citing Uribe, the Williams court held that the files
requested were statutorily exempt from disclosure, given that they were
specifically related to a concrete enforcement proceeding. (Williams supra,
5 Cal.4th at 323.) 
First,
the effort to obtain this information was not sought under the Public Records
Act but rather a deposition related to a pending lawsuit.  Nonetheless, the City has not evidenced a concrete
enforcement proceeding in this case such that the exemption under Gov. Code §
7923.600 is triggered. The
existence of a concrete and definite enforcement proceeding must be supported
by some evidentiary showing. This showing can be relatively straightforward and
based on testimony of the investigators involved. For example, in Rackauckas
v. Superior Court, the California Court of Appeal held that the testimony
of investigators alone was sufficient to establish the existence of enforcement
proceedings. (Rackauckas v. Superior Court (2002) 104 Cal.App.4th
169, 178.) 
 
The
City’s declaration contains no facts as to an ongoing investigation in
connection with the April 21,
2021 traffic incident. The City merely avers that they were “informed by BPD
that the Incident Report would not normally be disclosed and would be withheld
pursuant” to the relevant code sections. (Aguado Decl. ¶ 8.) There are no
facts speaking to any enforcement proceedings in the City’s declaration. Given
that this traffic collision occurred in 2021, the Court finds it highly
unlikely that the City would be unaware of enforcement proceedings at this
point if any had ever gone forward.  Furthermore, the Plaintiff is the purported
victim in the very crime that the City claims requires protection.
 
Had
the Plaintiff (and putative victim) sought the information via a Public Records
Act request vs a deposition subpoena, the Court finds that the information
sought by Plaintiff would be subject to disclosure under Gov. Code § 7923.605
which provides in relevant part: 
 
Notwithstanding
Section 7923.600, a state or local law enforcement agency shall disclose the
names and addresses of persons involved in, or witnesses other than
confidential informants to, the incident, the description of any property
involved, the date, time, and location of the incident, all diagrams,
statements of the parties involved in the incident, the statements of all
witnesses, other than confidential informants, to the victims of an incident,
or an authorized representative thereof, an insurance carrier against which a
claim has been or might be made, and any person suffering bodily injury or
property damage or loss, as the result of the incident caused by arson,
burglary, fire, explosion, larceny, robbery, carjacking, vandalism, vehicle
theft, or a crime as defined by subdivision (b) of Section 13951, unless the
disclosure would endanger either of the following: (1) The safety of a witness
or other person involved in the investigation. (2) The successful completion of
the investigation or a related investigation.
 
Here
Plaintiff seeks the following document(s): 
 
A copy of Burbank
Police Department report number 21-2635 for the incident regarding our Client
Brenda Armstrong.
 
Plaintiff’s
purpose in bringing this motion is to obtain the name of the proposed defendant
in this action. This information is plainly available to her under Gov. Code §
7923.605, even if the contents of the entire report are not. Even then, the Court
struggles to see which information could be present in the report that is not
subject to disclosure under Gov. Code § 7923.605. 
 
To
the extent that the City believes the report contains information obtained from
the Department of Motor Vehicles (DMV) which would not be subject to
disclosure, they fail to state as much in their declaration. The City merely
avers that they are “aware that BPD investigations into traffic related
incidents, such as the incident alleged in Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel, often
involve BPD officers accessing DMV records to conduct investigations.” This
statement does nothing to establish that such information is present in the
report requested by Plaintiff. Generalized statements that DMV information is
often present in such records is not the same as a statement that such
information is indeed present in the report Plaintiff requested. The City’s
offer to provide the report for an in camera review does not alleviate these
concerns. In order for the Court to determine that an in camera review is
proper, it stands to reason that the City must aver that there is some
information in the report requiring such review. 
 
Regardless,
the Court anticipates that the hearing of this motion would likely bring forth
more information relating to the contents of the report. This information may
indeed reveal that the report contains information not subject to disclosure
under the CPRA. This would in turn necessitate the Court’s in camera review of
the report. In the Court’s mind this review is likely unnecessary. Plaintiff
has been clear that she only seeks the report insofar as it would allow her to
identify John Doe. Given these representations, the Court finds that disclosure
of the report in a redacted form would satisfy the concerns of both parties. This
would allow Plaintiff to ascertain the name of John Doe, information she is
entitled to under Gov. Code § 7923.605. It would also allow the City to prevent
the disclosure of any information subject to the Gov. Code § 7923.600. 
 
Finally,
it is important to note that the incident occurred in April 2021.   It has been over three years for the Burbank
Police Department to complete their investigation.   Unless an investigator can provide a
declaration that the requested information jeopardizes an ongoing
investigation, such disclosure is unlikely to affect a successful prosecution
after over three years to investigate. 
 
Accordingly,
the motion for reconsideration is GRANTED IN PART. Plaintiff’s previously
granted motion to compel compliance with the deposition subpoena is subject to
the limitation that the City may redact any information not subject to
disclosure under Gov. Code § 7923.605. 
 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
The City of Burbank’s
Motion for Reconsideration came on regularly for
hearing on October 25, 2024, with appearances/submissions as noted in the
minute order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the
premises, did then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE MOTION FOR RECONSIDERATION IS GRANTED IN PART. 
 
PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO COMPEL COMPLIANCE IS GRANTED, SUBJECT
TO THE LIMITATION THAT THE CITY OF BURBANK MAY REDACT ANY INFORMATION IN THE
REQUESTED REPORT WHICH IS NOT SUBJECT TO DISCLOSURE UNDER GOV. CODE § 7923.605.
 
COMPLIANCE
TO OCCUR WITHIN 30 DAYS. 
 
CITY OF
BURBANK TO GIVE NOTICE.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 