 Case Number:  23BBCV01810    Hearing Date:   October 25, 2024    Dept:  A The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Alen Allahverdi
(Plaintiff) brings this action against Norik
Azarian (Defendant). Plaintiff alleges that he was contracted to work on
Defendant’s home at 8024 Jayseel St., Sunland, CA 91040 (the Subject Premises).
Plaintiff alleges that he fell and was injured as the result of Defendant’s
negligent maintenance of the Subject Premises. Plaintiff’s Complaint states
causes of action for (1) Premises Liability and (2) General Negligence. 
 
Before the Court is a
motion for leave to amend the Complaint brought by Plaintiff. Plaintiff seeks
to add allegations as to where he fell from the roof of the Subject Premises.
Plaintiff explains that his initial Complaint contained factual allegations
which were inaccurate by virtue of the language barrier between himself and his
counsel. Plaintiff’s counsel states that these inaccuracies came to light
during his deposition. 
 
Defendant has
rendered no opposition to this motion. The Court
notes that, pursuant to C.R.C. Rule 8.54(c), a failure to oppose a motion may
be deemed consent to its being granted.  
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
The court
may, in its discretion and after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any
terms as may be just, an amendment to any pleading, including adding or
striking out the name of any party, or correcting a mistake in the name of a
party, or a mistake in any other respect. (C.C.P. § 473(a)(1).) 
 
“Public
policy dictates that leave to amend be liberally granted.” (Centex Homes v.
St. Paul Fire &. Marine Ins. Co. (2015) 237 Cal.App.4th 23, 32.) “Although
courts are bound to apply a policy of great liberality in permitting amendments
to the complaint at any stage of the proceedings, up to and including trial …
this policy should be applied only ‘where no prejudice is shown to the adverse
party. A different result is indicated ‘where inexcusable delay and probable
prejudice to the opposing party’ is shown.” (Magpali v. Farmers Group, Inc.
(1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 471, 487 [internal citations and quotation marks omitted].)
 
A motion
to amend a pleading must include (1) a copy of the proposed amendment or
amended pleading which must be serially numbered to differentiate it from
previous pleadings or amendments and (2) a statement of what allegations in the
previous pleading are proposed to be deleted or added. (C.R.C. Rule 3.1324(a).)
 These changes should identify by page,
paragraph, and line number where the allegations added/removed are located. 
 
The
motion shall also be accompanied by a declaration attesting to (1) the effect
of the amendment, (2) why the amendment is necessary and proper, (3) when the
facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered, and (4) why the
request for amendment was not made earlier. (C.R.C. Rule 1.324(b).)
 
In ruling
on a motion for leave to amend a pleading, the court does not consider the
merits of the proposed amendment, because “the preferable practice would be to
permit the amendment and allow the parties to test its legal sufficiency by
demurrer, motion for judgment on the pleadings or other appropriate
proceedings.” (Kittredge Sports Co. v. Superior Court (1989) 213
Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048.) While the trial court may deny a motion for leave to
amend on grounds that, e.g., the party seeking the amendment has caused
unreasonable delay in doing so, it probably abuses its discretion if it denies
any such motion in the absence of a finding of prejudice to the opposing side.¿
(See Thompson Pacific Construction, Inc. v. City of Sunnyvale (2007) 155
Cal.App.4th 525, 545.)
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
The Court finds that
Plaintiff has sufficiently demonstrated he is entitled to the relief he seeks. 
 
Plaintiff attaches a
proposed First Amended Complaint to his motion as required by C.R.C. Rule 3.1234(a).
(Ekmekchyan Decl. Exh. B.) Plaintiff states the allegations that are proposed
to be added and those to be removed. (Ekmekchyan Decl. ¶ 6.) Plaintiff explains
that the purpose of this amendment is to correct inaccurate allegations in his
initial Complaint as to where he fell on the Subject Premises. (Id.) Plaintiff’s
counsel explains that Plaintiff is native Farsi speaker with limited
understanding of English. (Ekmekchyan Decl. ¶ 4.) In drafting the initial
Complaint, Plaintiff’s counsel relied on the help of a bilingual employee
within their office to obtain information from Plaintiff. (Id.) Through
some miscommunication or mistranslation, Plaintiff’s Complaint mistakenly
alleged that he had fallen from a ladder at the Subject Premises. (Id.) Instead
Plaintiff intends to allege that he fell from the roof of the Subject Premises.
(Id.) 
 
As support for the above
declaration, Plaintiff attaches sections of his March 7, 2024 deposition. (Ekmekchyan
Decl. Exh. A.) Plaintiff’s counsel states that it was Plaintiff’s testimony at
deposition which alerted them to the mistake in the Complaint. (Ekmekchyan
Decl. ¶ 6.) 
 
The Court finds the
requirements of C.R.C. Rules 3.1324(a) and (b) are satisfied. Additionally, as
the underlying facts are related to the original Complaint, allowing Plaintiff
to file the amended Complaint will increase the likelihood of the case being
resolved efficiently on the merits. Requests to amend initial pleadings are to
be liberally considered and Defendants have rendered no opposition to the
motion.  
 
As concerns prejudice to Defendant,
the Court finds none here. It is true that more than a year passed between Plaintiff
filing his initial Complaint and filing the instant motion. Further, Plaintiff’s
deposition occurred over six months ago. Trial for this matter is currently set
for March 24, 2025. While it should not have taken Plaintiff a year to notice a
rectify this mistake, it does not follow that this delay was unreasonable. Given
that Defendant has been privy to the information revealed in Plaintiff’s
deposition since March 2024, the Court finds Defendant would not be prejudiced
by this amendment on its face. Further, Defendant has submitted no opposition, and
thus presented no facts showing this amendment would prejudice his ability to
defend this matter at trial. (See Rickley v. Goodfriend (2013) 212
Cal.App.4th 1136, 1159 [Holding that the burden of demonstrating prejudice is
held by the party claiming to be prejudiced].)
 
Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s Motion for Leave to Amend is GRANTED. Plaintiff is to file his
First Amended Complaint within 10 days. 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Alen Allahverdi’s Motion for Leave to Amend came
on regularly for hearing on October 25, 2024 with appearances/submissions as
noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised
in the premises, did then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE MOTION FOR LEAVE TO AMEND IS GRANTED.
 
PLAINTIFF IS TO FILE HIS FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT
WITHIN 10 DAYS. 
 
PLAINTIFF TO PROVIDE NOTICE.  
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 