 Case Number:  22STCV31770    Hearing Date:   May 23, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


May
  23, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV31770




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Contest the Good Faith Settlement of Defendant Jose Hernandez 




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Sunset-Cherokee Plaza, L.P.




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendant
  Jose Hernandez



 
 
BACKGROUND
This
action stems from a stabbing outside a strip mall resulting in the death of
William Atkins, Jr. (“Decedent”) on March 1, 2022. Plaintiffs Carmen Vasquez
(“Vazquez”), Willie Atkins, Sr. (“Atkins, Sr.”), and Carmen Vasquez and Willie
Atkins, Sr. as successors in interest to decedent William Atkins, Jr.
(together, “Plaintiffs”) filed this action against Defendants Jose Hernandez
(“Hernandez”), H-H & S Enterprises (“HH&S”), Sunset Cherokee Plaza,
L.P. (“SCP”), 7- Eleven, Inc. (“7-Eleven”), and Does 1-100, inclusive. Plaintiffs
allege that Jose Hernandez, the employee of a 7-Eleven franchise operated by
HH&S, stabbed Decedent on property owned by SCP. (Complaint ¶ 17.) The complaint brings the
following causes of action: 
1. Assault and
Battery—Against Hernandez, HH&S, and 7-Eleven
2. Negligence—All
Defendants
3. Violation of the Ralph Act—Against Hernandez, HH&S, and 7-Eleven. 
 
Defendant Sunset-Cherokee Plaza, L.P. (“SCP”) now
moves to contest the settlement entered between Plaintiffs and Defendant Jose
Hernandez (“Hernandez”). Hernandez opposes and SCP replies.  
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Under section 877.6 of the Code of Civil Procedure, “[a] determination by
the court that [a] settlement was made in good faith shall bar any other joint
tortfeasor . . . from any further claims against the settling tortfeasor .
. . for equitable comparative contribution, or partial or comparative
indemnity, based on comparative negligence or comparative fault.” (Code Civ.
Proc. § 877.6 (c).) Any party to an action may move for an order
determining whether a settlement between the plaintiff and one or more alleged
tortfeasors or co-obligors was made in good faith. (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6,
subd. (a)(1).) “The party asserting the lack of good faith shall have the burden of
proof on that issue.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd. (d).) 
 
In City of Grand View Terrace v. Superior Court
(1987) 192 Cal.App.3d 1251, 1261, the court provided the following guidance
regarding a motion for a good faith settlement determination: 
 
If the good
faith settlement is contested, section 877.6, subdivision (d), sets forth a
workable ground rule for the hearing by placing the burden of proving the lack
of good faith on the contesting party. Once there is a showing made by the
settlor of the settlement, the burden of proof on the issue of good faith
shifts to the nonsettlor who asserts that the settlement was not made in good
faith. If contested, declarations by the nonsettlor should be filed which in many cases could require the
moving party to file responsive counterdeclarations to negate the lack of good faith asserted by the nonsettling contesting
party. 
 
(192 Cal.App.3d 1251, 1260-1261 [citation omitted].) 
 
Section 877.6 requires “that the courts review [settlement] agreements
made under its aegis to insure that the settlements appropriately balance the .
. . statute’s dual objectives” (i.e., providing an “equitable sharing of costs
among the parties at fault” and encouraging parties to resolve their disputes
by way of settlement.) (Tech-Bilt, Inc. v.
Woodward-Clyde & Associates (1985) 38 Cal.3d 488, 494 (hereafter, Tech-Bilt).) In
Tech-Bilt, the court set forth the factors to consider when determining
whether a settlement is made in good faith. The Tech-Bilt factors are:
(1) a rough approximation of plaintiff’s total recovery and the settlor’s
proportionate liability; (2) the amount paid in settlement; (3) the allocation
of settlement proceeds among plaintiffs; (4) a recognition that a settlor
should pay less in settlement than he would if he were found liable after a
trial; (5) the financial conditions and insurance policy limits of settling
defendants; and (6) the existence of collusion, fraud, or tortious conduct
aimed to injure the interests of the non-settling defendants. (Tech-Bilt,
supra, 38 Cal.3d at p. 498-501.) Not every factor will apply in every case.
(Dole Food Co., Inc. v. Sup.Ct. (Shell Oil Co.) (2015) 242
Cal.4th 894, 909.) 
 
“ ‘A determination as to the good faith of a settlement, within the
meaning of section 877.6, necessarily requires the trial court to examine and
weigh a number of relevant factors, [fn. omitted] one of the most important of
which is the settling party's proportionate liability.’ [citation.] If ‘there
is no substantial evidence to support a critical assumption as to the nature
and extent of a settling defendant's liability, then a determination of good
faith based upon such assumption is an abuse of discretion.’” (Mattco Forge, Inc. v. Arthur Young & Co. (1995) 38 Cal.App.4th 1337, 1350.)
 
“All affidavits relied upon as probative must state evidentiary facts;
they must show facts and circumstances from which the ultimate fact sought to
be proved may be deduced by the court. [citation.] Affidavits or declarations
setting forth only conclusions, opinions or ultimate facts are to be held
insufficient; even an expert's opinion cannot rise to the dignity of
substantial evidence if it is unsubstantiated by facts. [citation.]” (Greshko v. County of Los Angeles (1987) 194 Cal.App.3d 822, 834.)
 
“The party asserting the lack of good faith . . . [is] permitted to
demonstrate, if he can, that the settlement is so far ‘out of the ballpark’ in
relation to [the above] factors as to be inconsistent with the equitable
objectives of [Section 877.6]. Such a demonstration would establish that the
proposed settlement was not a ‘settlement made in good faith’ within the terms
of section 877.6.” (Tech-Bilt, supra, 38 Cal.3d at pp. 499–500.)
 
JUDICIAL
NOTICE
 
The Court grants SCP’s request for judicial notice of the filed
documents in this case. (Evid. Code § 452(d).) 
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Defendants 7-Eleven, HH&S, and
Hernandez entered into a settlement with Plaintiffs on February 28, 2023 for
$1,000,000. On July 21, 2023, the Court denied SCP’s motion to challenge the
good faith of the settlement as to 7-Eleven and HH&S. On September 29,
2023, the Court granted 7-Eleven and HH&S’ application for determination of
good faith of the settlement. 
 
            On January 8, 2024, the Court
granted SCP’s motion for leave to file a cross-complaint against Hernandez. Plaintiffs
opposed, arguing that it was barred due to the determination of the good faith
settlement with 7-Eleven and HH&S. However, the Court noted that Hernandez
was not named in the application for good faith nor the order that was signed,
and counsel for HH&S and 7-Eleven did not purport to represent Hernandez in
the settlement. (Min. Order, 1/8/24.) As a result, the Court had not yet
addressed the specific objections to Hernandez. 
 
            On March 18, 2024, Hernandez filed
an amended Application for Determination of Good Faith Settlement entered into
on February 28, 2023. This motion follows. 
This
case arises from a fatal stabbing outside of a Hollywood strip mall. Early in
the morning of March 1, 2022, Decedent and a companion, Daniel Burden, entered
a 7-Eleven located 6660 West Sunset Blvd. in Los Angeles, CA. The 7-Eleven was
operated by HH&S and located in a strip mall owned by SCP. Hernandez was
the 7-Eleven manager on site when Decedent entered the store. Hernandez
confronted Decedent and Burden after suspecting them of shoplifting. When they
attempted to leave, Hernandez blocked the entrance. Decedent ran past him but
Hernandez chased after Decedent and stabbed him twice outside of the store. 
The
only cause of action pled against SCP in the complaint was the second cause of
action for negligence. Settling Plaintiffs, Vasquez and Atkins, Sr., are
Decedent’s parents. With regards to the negligence cause of action, they allege
that SCP failed to provide adequate security at the premises of the incident
despite its knowledge that the premises was in a dangerous and crime- ridden
location. 
SCP
argues that Hernandez was not acting in self-defense because he placed himself
in front of the 7-Eleven exit to block Decedent and therefore, put himself in a
position to be assaulted. As result, his proportional liability is much higher.
(Motion, 8.) SCP argues Plaintiffs claim damages in excess of $7,500,000. 
In
opposition, Hernandez argues it is undisputed that during the incident, he was
acting within the scope of employment with HH&S. (Opp., 2.) Therefore,
because HH&S’s liability was based on respondeat superior, the finding of
good faith settlement to towards HH&S should apply here. Instead, Hernandez
provides evidence that he acted in self-defense. 
“In
a suit for assault and battery, the defendant is not liable if that defendant
reasonably believed, in view of all the circumstances of the case, that the
plaintiff was going to harm him or her and the defendant used only the amount
of force reasonably necessary to protect himself or herself.” (J.J. v. M.F.
(2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 968, 976.)
Hernandez
attaches a police report from the incident, in which Hernandez is interviewed
and gives statements supporting that he acted in self-defense. (Serpik Decl.,
Exh. C, Police Report.) Hernandez informed police officers responding to the
incident that his life was threatened and that Decedent threatened to strike
him with a metal object inside the store. (Id., p. 2.) During the
altercation, Hernandez stated he saw Decedent and his companion take an unknown
object out of their bag which was when he stabbed Decedent. (Id., p. 4.)
Hernandez suffered a broken nose as a result of the incident. (Ibid.)
Competing evidence in the report comes from the officers’ interviews of Burden
and an eyewitness to part of the events that shows that, in fact, Hernandez
initiated the altercation by blocking the exit. (Ibid.) However, the
report also states that the surveillance footage shows a verbal confrontation
between Hernandez, Decedent and Burden, as Decedent and Burden continued to
take merchandise and walk toward the exit. (Id., p. 3.)  The settling parties stated that they reached
the settlement after reviewing the report, surveillance videos, deposition and
hearing transcripts of Hernandez and Burden from Burden’s criminal case, and
extensive criminal histories of both Decedent and Burden. (Serpik Decl. ¶ 7.)
SCP
provides no further information regarding Hernandez’s self-defense argument,
but argues that discovery is still pending with Hernandez, who had not entered
this case until SCP filed a cross complaint against him on January 9, 2024.
Hernandez filed his answer on March 13, 2024. SCP also argues that the
settlement between HH&S may not reflect Hernandez’s liability, since this
incident may fall within the exceptions of respondeat superior. 
In
reply, SCP requests a continuance in order to depose Hernandez and meet and
confer about unverified discovery responses he served. SCP seeks a 90 to 120
day continuance to complete this discovery. 
Since there is often little discovery at the settlement
stage, the objecting non-settler can move for a continuance of the hearing
"if necessary, for the purpose of gathering facts, which could include
further formal discovery, to support its statutory burden of proof as to all
Tech-Bilt factors non-settlors placed in issue in order that the matter can be
fully and fairly litigated." (City of Grand Terrace v. Superior Court (1987)
192 Cal.App.3d 1251, 1265.) 
            
            Therefore, SCP’s request for a
continuance is granted. However, the Court notes that “good faith”
depends on information available at the time of settlement, not evidence that
might be acquired later. (See Tech-Bilt, supra,
38 Cal.3d at 499.) 
 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, the motion to Contest the Good Faith Settlement of
Defendant Jose Hernandez is continued to August 21, 2024 at 1:30 p.m. in Department 32
of the Spring Street Courthouse. 
 
Moving party shall give notice of the Court’s order and file a proof
of service of such.