 Case Number:  22STCV17484    Hearing Date:   May 23, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


May
  23, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV17484




MOTIONS:  


Petition
  for Minors Compromise 




MOVING PARTY:


Petitioner Andres Sijifredo Barajas 




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed
  



 
 
The Court has reviewed the petition
filed on March 19, 2024 by Petitioner Andres Sijifredo Barajas (Petitioner) on
behalf of Claimant Andres Julian Barajas, age 10. The Court denies the petition without prejudice for the
following reasons: 
 
Petitioner must provide attachment 8 with medical records
or a medical report showing that Claimant is fully recovered from the chest and
back pain. 
 
Petitioner must complete item 10a. The amounts in 10b
must equal the amount in 10a. 
Petitioner must complete item 10c.
 
Petitioner must complete items 11b(2), 11b(3) and provide
attachment 11b(6) stating the reasons for the apportionment.
 
Petitioner must complete the values in item 12a, even if
some are $0. Petitioner indicates that Claimant received treatment at
Providence Cedars-Sinai Tarzana Medical Center. The total amount of medical
expenses must be accounted for, including any reductions. 
 
Petitioner must request attorney fees in item 13a, as it
appears based on the proposed order that attorney fees are sought. As a result,
Petitioner must include an attorney declaration in attachment 13a and a copy of
the fee agreement in attachment 17a. 
 
The attorney name must be provided in item 17b. 
 
It appears the attorney is representing another party
besides Claimant in this action. Petitioner must change the response in item
17e and provide the applicable attachment. 
 
In the Proposed Order (MC-351), Petitioner should mark 1b
instead since this is not an expedited petition. Item 2 must state Petitioner’s
name. Item 3 must state Claimant’s name. 
Since Petitioner does not seek the funds to be deposited
into a blocked account, he should not select items 8b(1) or 9. Instead, he
should select 8b(2) and describe the method set forth in item 18b(5) of the
petition. 
 
 
Accordingly, the Court denies the petition without
prejudice.
 
Petitioner shall give notice and file a
proof of service of such.
 