 Case Number:  20STCV26481    Hearing Date:   May 23, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court. 

 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


May
  23, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


20STCV26481




MOTIONS:  


Compel
  Plaintiff’s Responses to Supplemental Request for Production of Documents




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant
  SF Markets, LLC  




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            Defendant SF Markets, LLC
(Defendant), moves to Compel Plaintiff Idalia Lemus’ (Plaintiff) response to
Supplemental Request for Production of Documents, Set One. Plaintiff does not
oppose.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Demand for Production 
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure Section 2031.300, if a party
fails to serve a timely response to a demand for inspection, the party making
the demand may move for an order compelling response to the demand. (Code Civ.
Pro § 2031.300 (b).) The party who fails to serve a timely response to a demand
for inspection waives any objection to the demand unless the court finds that
the party has subsequently served a response that is in substantial compliance
or party’s failure was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable
neglect. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.300 (a)(1)- (2).)  
 
Supplemental Demand for Production 
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.050 provides: 
 
“(b) A party may propound a supplemental demand for
inspection, copying, testing, or sampling twice before the initial setting of a
trial date, and, subject to the time limits on discovery proceedings and
motions provided in Chapter 8 (commencing with Section 2024.010), once after
the initial setting of a trial date. 
 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.050(b).) 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Here, Defendant represents that it served Supplemental Request for
Production of Documents, Set One on Plaintiff on October 2, 2023. (Crossin
Decl. ¶ 2, Exh. A.) Plaintiff’s responses were due on November 3, 2023, but she
failed to respond by the deadline. Because Plaintiff did not timely serve
responses and did not file an opposition, the Court grants the motion to
compel.  
 
Defendant
also requests $875.00 in monetary sanctions against Plaintiff and her counsel
of record, representing an hourly rate of $250.00 and the $60.00 filing fee. The
Court finds sanctions are warranted because Plaintiff has failed to respond.
However, the amount requested is excessive due to the type of motion at issue,
the fact no opposition was filed, and because Defendant can appear remotely.
Therefore, the Court awards sanctions in the amount of $435.00 (1.5 hours of
attorney time to file and appear at hearing, plus the $60 filing fee).             
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s Motion to Compel Plaintiff’s Responses to Supplemental
Request for Production of Documents is GRANTED. Plaintiff Idalia Lemus shall
provide responses, without objection, within 30 days.
 
The Court further GRANTS Defendant’s request for monetary sanctions
against Plaintiff and her counsel of record, jointly and severally, in the
reduced amount of $435. Said monetary sanctions are to be paid to counsel for
Defendant within 30 days of the date of this order.
 
Moving
party to provide notice and file a proof of service of such.