 Case Number:  20STCV39408    Hearing Date:   May 23, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


32




HEARING DATE


May 23, 2024




CASE NUMBER


20STCV39408




MOTION


Motion for Summary Judgment 




MOVING PARTY


Defendant The California Department of Transportation




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff Edward Lopez
  



 
MOVING PAPERS
 
1.      Notice of Motion and Motion for Summary
Judgment; Memorandum of Points and Authorities
2.      Separate Statement of Undisputed Material
Facts
3.      Declaration of Maria Raptis 
4.      Declaration of Steve Scott
5.      Declaration of Christian Engelmann
6.      Declaration of Michelle L. Han 
7.      Declaration of Luis Monterrubio
8.      Defendant’s Compendium of Exhibits in Support
 
OPPOSITION PAPERS
 
1.      Plaintiff’s Opposition; Memorandum of Points
and Authorities
2.      Plaintiff’s Separate Statement of Disputed
Material Facts in Opposition
3.      Declaration of Kevin M. Davis 
4.      Declaration of Kay Greeley 
5.      Compendium of Exhibits in Support
 
REPLY PAPERS
 
1.      Reply
2.      Reply to Plaintiff’s Response to Defendant’s
Separate Statement of Undisputed Facts 
3.      Objections to Plaintiff’s Evidence 
4.      Declaration of Michelle L. Han in Support 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            On
October 13, 2020, Plaintiff
Edward Lopez (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendants State of
California, California Highway Patrol, the California Department of
Transportation, and Does 1 to 100 for negligence and dangerous condition of
public property under Government Code section 835. Plaintiff alleges that on
March 26, 2020, he was driving on the northbound Interstate 5 freeway, near the
Glendale Boulevard ramp exit, when his vehicle crashed into a tree, causing
injuries. (Complaint ¶ 10.) 
 
            Plaintiff
alleges that the dangerous condition constituted a broken tree on the roadway
and the failure “to create the proper width and number of lanes of the highway
at this location, allowing the paved portion of the shoulder to be an
insufficient width, and to allow and cause the shoulder just off the paved area
to contain collision hazards including a tree or trees.” (Complaint ¶¶ 12, 19.)
 
            Defendant
the People of the State of California, acting by and through the Department of
Transportation (erroneously sued as “State of California” and “The California
Department of Transportation”) (“Defendant”) now moves for summary judgment
arguing the following: (1) it did not have actual or constructive notice of the
alleged dangerous condition; (2) Interstate 5 was not a “dangerous condition”
under Government Code section 830.2; and (3) Defendant is entitled to the
design immunity provision of Government Code section 830.6, which provides an
absolute defense. 
 
            Plaintiff
opposes and Defendant replies. 
            
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
 
Even though Plaintiff asserted some
evidentiary objections in his separate statement, he did not file the
objections in a separate document pursuant to California Rules of Court, rule
3.1354. The Court therefore declines to rule on the objections. 
 
The Court declines to rule on
Defendant’s objections as they have no effect on the ruling herein.  
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
            “[T]he party moving for summary
judgment bears the burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue of
material fact and that he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law[.] There
is a triable issue of material fact if, and only if, the evidence would allow a
reasonable trier of fact to find the underlying fact in favor of the party
opposing the motion in accordance with the applicable standard of proof.” (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.) “[T]he party moving
for summary judgment bears an initial burden of production to make a prima
facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact; if he
carries his burden of production, he causes a shift, and the opposing party is
then subjected to a burden of production of his own to make a prima facie
showing of the existence of a triable issue of material fact.” (Ibid.; Smith
v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 1463, 1474 [summary
judgment standards held by Aguilar apply to summary adjudication motions].)
Further, in line with Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co., “[o]n a motion
for summary adjudication, the trial court has no discretion to exercise. If a
triable issue of material fact exists as to the challenged causes of action,
the motion must be denied. If there is no triable issue of fact, the motion
must be granted.” (Fisherman's Wharf Bay Cruise Corp. v. Superior Court
(2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 309, 320.)
 
            “The defendant may, but need not,
present evidence that conclusively negates an element of the plaintiff's cause
of action.” (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at 855.) Alternatively,
“[t]he defendant may […] present evidence that the plaintiff does not possess,
and cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence—as through admission by
the plaintiff following extensive discovery to the effect that he has
discovered nothing.” (Id.)¿This must be supported with evidence
“including ‘affidavits, declarations, admissions, answers to interrogatories,
depositions, and matters of which judicial notice’ must or may ‘be taken.’” (Id.
at 854–55 [quoting Code Civ. Proc. § 437c(b)].)
 
            “On a summary judgment motion, the
court must therefore consider what inferences favoring the opposing party a
factfinder could reasonably draw from the evidence. While viewing the evidence
in this manner, the court must bear in mind that its primary function is to
identify issues rather than to determine issues. Only when the inferences are
indisputable may the court decide the issues as a matter of law. If the
evidence is in conflict, the factual issues must be resolved by trial.” (Binder
v. Aetna Life Ins. Co. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839 [cleaned up].)
Further, “the trial court may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a
factfinder to determine whose version is more likely true. Nor may the trial
court grant summary judgment based on the court's evaluation of credibility.” (Id.
at p. 840 [cleaned up]; see also Weiss v. People ex rel. Department of
Transportation (2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for
summary judgment or summary adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must
instead view it in the light most favorable to the opposing party and draw all
reasonable inferences in favor of that party”].)
 
DISCUSSION
 
Government Code section 835 states:¿“Except as provided by
statute, a public entity is liable for injury caused by a dangerous condition
of its property if the plaintiff establishes that the property was in a
dangerous condition at the time of the injury, that the injury was proximately
caused by the dangerous condition, that the dangerous condition created a
reasonably foreseeable risk of the kind of injury which was incurred, and
either:¿¿ 
¿ 
(a) A
negligent or wrongful act or omission of an employee of the public entity
within the scope of his employment created the dangerous condition; or¿¿¿ 
¿ 
(b) The
public entity had actual or constructive notice of the dangerous condition
under Section 835.2 a sufficient time prior to the injury to have taken
measures to protect against the dangerous condition.”¿¿¿
 
Government Code section 835 sets out the
exclusive conditions under which a public entity is liable for injuries caused
by a dangerous condition of public property. (Metcalf v. County of San
Joaquin (2008) 42 Cal.4th 1121, 1129, citing Brown v. Poway Unified
School Dist. (1993) 4 Cal.4th 820, 829; see also Zelig v. County of Los
Angeles (2002) 27 Cal.4th 1112.) 
 
A. Actual or
Constructive Notice
 
A public entity has actual notice of a dangerous condition
if it had actual knowledge of the existence of the condition and knew or should
have known of its dangerous character.  (Gov. Code § 835.2(a).)  “To
establish actual notice, ‘[t]here must be some evidence that the employees had
knowledge of the particular dangerous condition in question’; ‘it is not enough
to show that the [public entity's] employees had a general knowledge’ that the
condition can sometimes occur. [Citation.]”  (Martinez v. City of Beverly
Hills (2021) 71 Cal.App.5th 508, 519.) 
 
A public entity has constructive notice of a dangerous
condition only if the plaintiff establishes that the condition had existed for
such a period of time and was of such an obvious nature that the public entity,
in the exercise of due care, should have discovered the condition and its
dangerous character.  (Gov. Code § 835.2 (b).)  On the issue of due
care, admissible evidence includes, but is not limited to evidence of whether
the condition and its dangerous character would have been discovered by an inspection
system that was reasonably adequate or whether the public entity maintained and
operated an inspection system with due care and did not discover the
condition.  (Gov. Code § 835.2 (b)(1)-(2).)  “Whether the dangerous
condition was obvious and whether it existed for a sufficient period of time
are threshold elements to establish a claim of constructive notice.”  (Heskel v. City of San
Diego (2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 313, 317.)  “Where the plaintiff fails to
present direct or circumstantial evidence as to either element, his claim is
deficient as a matter of law.”  (Ibid.)      
 
Although the conspicuousness of the condition and the
length of time it existed are normally questions of fact for resolution by the
jury, they may be resolved as matter of law where the plaintiff's evidence as
to either element is legally insufficient. (Kotronakis v. City & County
of San Francisco (1961) 192 Cal.App.2d 624, 629 [jury verdict for plaintiff
reversed where there was no evidence the puddle of vomit in which plaintiff
slipped had been on the sidewalk longer than overnight]; Heskel v. City of San
Diego (2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 313, 318-319, 321 [summary judgment proper
where plaintiff failed to provide evidence to rebut the City's showing the
condition was not obvious].)  
 
Here, it is undisputed that on March 26, 2020, Plaintiff was
traveling northbound on State Route 5 and had just passed the Hyperion Ave
overpass when a tree from the northbound State Route 5 right shoulder fell on
his moving vehicle. (UMF 1–2.) 
 
On the issue of notice, Defendant sets forth the following additional
facts: 
 
-         
The State has no records of any complaints or concerns
from the public or public officials about the health or condition of any of the
trees on the northbound State Route 5 at or near the Glendale Blvd. exit in Los
Angeles, California for one year before March 26, 2020. (UMF 7.) 
-         
In the one year prior to plaintiff’s injury, the State
had not received any reports, complaints, or correspondence from the public or
public officials regarding any tree falling accidents on the northbound State
Route 5 at or near the Glendale exit in Los Angeles, California. (UMF 8.)
-         
The State maintains a database of maintenance records
in its Integrated Maintenance Management System (“IMMS”), which reflects all
inspection and maintenance work conducted on its streets and highways,
including at the subject location. (UMF 9.) 
-         
Per the Maintenance Manual and the Maintenance Policy
Directives, a specialized level of tree inspection, an Annual Tree Inspection,
was performed at the subject location by Tree Risk Assessment Qualified
(“TRAQ”) personnel on September 23, 2019. (UMF 10.) 
-         
TRAQ personnel are those who have passed Module 7 of
the Tree Safety and Aerial Rescue Guide, titled “Tree Risk Assessment,” prior
to performing an Annual Tree Inspection. Module 7 addresses tree risk
assessment strategies, descriptions, identification, and signs of tree
conditions that may predispose a tree to structural failure. (UMF 11.) 
-         
Annual Tree Inspections identify tree conditions that
may predispose a tree to structural failure. (UMF 12.) 
-         
Had there been any condition that could predispose a
tree to structural failure (such as decay, leaners, codominant stems, multiple
branches, hangers, cracks, splits, or dead trees and branches) at or near the
subject location, the specific tree condition would have been noted and
addressed as part of the 2019/2020 Annual Tree Inspection. (UMF 13.) 
-         
The September 23, 2019 ATI did not report any
deficiencies at the incident location. (UMF 14.) 
-         
Maintenance personnel conducted a supervisor area
inspection and maintenance work for areas of the roadway that included the
subject location in the approximately two weeks before the subject accident.
(UMF 15.) 
-         
Supervisor area inspections include a visual inspection
of the roadway, including roadside trees and vegetation along transportation
facility rights of way and at State facilities. (UMF 16.) 
-         
The IMMS Work Order report reflects that on September
10, 2019 and September 11, 2019, a maintenance crew removed dead trees at the
southbound State Route 5 Glendale onramp at postmile 23.6, which is directly
across from where the incident at issue occurred. (UMF 17.) 
-         
If maintenance personnel noticed deficiencies that
needed to be addressed during the performance of their maintenance duties, a
Work Order would be created in IMMS, maintenance personnel would respond to the
area, inspect the location, perform whatever maintenance was necessary, and an
IMMS log created for the response. (UMF 19.) 
-         
Had notice of any condition that could predispose a
tree to structural failure for any of the trees on State Route 5 at the
accident location, it would have been reflected in the IMMS Work Order Report
and/or the 2019/2020 Annual Tree Inspection Work Order. (UMF 20.) 
-         
The IMMS Work Order Report and/or the 2019/2020 Annual
Tree Inspection indicate that the State was not advised of any unresolved issue
with the health or condition of any of the trees on State Route 5 at the
accident location in the one year prior to the subject accident. (UMF 21.) 
-         
There was no notification from motorists, local
agencies, local entities, the California Highway Patrol, or anyone else that
any tree on State Route 5 at the accident location was in danger of potential
structural failure in the one year prior to the subject accident. (UMF 24.) 
 
Based
on the above, Defendant has met its initial burden to show that it had no
actual or constructive notice that the tree would fall. The IMMS Work Order
Report shows that the area was inspected on September 23, 2019 and no issues
were reported. (Def. Exh. L, p. 7–8.) This occurred roughly six months before
the tree fell on March 26,
2020. There was also no report of the tree from a maintenance team in September
2019, which was removing dead trees from the opposite side of the freeway. Defendant
also sets forth evidence that it received no complaint from the public or
public officials about the subject tree. As a result, the burden shifts
to Plaintiff to establish a triable issue of fact, specifically regarding the conspicuousness of the tree’s condition and the length
of time it existed. 
 
Plaintiff
sets forth the declaration of Kay Greeley, a Master Arborist, who opined that
based on a Google Maps image of the alleged tree that fell, it posed a high
risk of failure. (Pl. Exh. 5, Greeney Decl. ¶ 7–8; Exh. 6.) However, in reply,
Defendant argues that the tree Ms. Greeney identified in the Google Maps image
is not the subject tree that fell. The Court agrees. Plaintiff set forth
photographs of the fallen tree on the date of the incident. Exhibit 4,
photograph 15.2, shows that the subject tree was positioned near the top of the
hill. To the right, the photograph shows the tree that Ms. Greeley analyzed in
her declaration, which is positioned lower down the hill, and did not fall.
Therefore, Plaintiff fails to show the existence of a triable issue of fact
that the subject tree was in an obvious dangerous condition from the freeway. 
 
Plaintiff also argues that Defendant’s tree
inspectors should have inspected the trees by foot, instead of driving by. He
argues that driving by the trees violated Defendant’s TRAQ 7 Module
requirements. (Opp., 8.) Plaintiff also argues that the Qualified Tree Risk
Assessors who checked the subject area were not properly trained since everyone
passes Module 7—which instructs on how to identify at-risk trees. (Pl. Exh. 1,
Scott Depo. 43:13–44:2.) However, even assuming that the TRAQ personnel were
not qualified, Plaintiff fails to set forth evidence that the tree was in an
obviously dangerous condition for a certain amount of time that Defendant, in
exercising due care, should have become aware of it and taken corrective
action. (See Heskel, supra, 227 Cal.App.4th at 321.) 
 
Lastly, Plaintiff argues the entry for September
23, 2019, for postmile 23.6 where the accident happened indicates that Caltrans
was going to address a defective eucalyptus tree “ASAP” and never stated what
corrective action, if any was taken. (See Pl. Resp. UMF 10.) Plaintiff does not
state exactly where this entry is found in exhibit L. However, in Plaintiff’s
response to UMF 14, he quotes an entry from the IMMS Work Order Report that
refers to a eucalyptus tree near the Los Feliz Boulevard off ramp that needs
trimming. (Pl. Resp. UMF 14.) Nevertheless, reviewing exhibit L, there appear
to be no entries referencing a eucalyptus near the Glendale exit or postmile
23.6 where the incident occurred. Plaintiff fails to set forth further evidence
that would support an inference that the tree referenced is the subject tree.  
 
As a result, Plaintiff fails to meet his burden to
establish a triable issue of fact regarding actual or constructive notice.
 
B. No Evidence that Defendant’s Employee Created
Dangerous Condition 
 
            Defendant provides written
discovery responses by Plaintiff. In response to Special Interrogatory numbers
17 and 18, regarding notice, Plaintiff provides no argument that Defendant’s
employee caused the tree to fall. (Def. Exh. D.) Additionally, the opposition
does not assert that Defendant’s employee caused the dangerous condition, but
rather should have discovered it during an inspection. As a result, Defendant
meets its burden to show that Plaintiff has no evidence that its employee
created the dangerous condition. 
 
            Plaintiff offers no facts
in his separate statement showing that an employee created the condition in the
tree, and therefore fails to meet his burden. 
 
            C. Dangerous Condition
of Freeway
 
            
Defendant argues that the design of the freeway itself was not in a
dangerous condition. Plaintiff alleged Defendant
failed “to create the proper width and number of lanes of the highway at this
location, allowing the paved portion of the shoulder to be an
insufficient width, and to allow and cause the shoulder just off the paved area
to contain collision hazards including a tree or trees.” (Complaint ¶ 19.) As a result, it was
necessary to address this allegation in the motion. (Lyons v. Security Pacific Nat. Bank
(1995) 40 Cal.App.4th 1001, 1018 [“In a motion for summary judgment, the issues
are framed by the pleadings.”].) Defendant sets forth evidence
that Plaintiff failed to provide evidence that it failed to create the proper
width and number of lanes on the freeway. (UMF 26.) Plaintiff
concedes it is not alleging that Interstate 5 was defective; instead, they argue
the tree’s placement and fact that it was apparent that it would fall
constitutes the dangerous condition. (See Opp., 8; Pl. Resp. UMF 30 [“Common
sense tells you that this design has no impact on the tree that ultimately fell
over.”].) Therefore, Defendant meets its burden to show no triable issue of
fact regarding the design of the freeway. Plaintiff sets forth no evidence
establishing that the lanes or width of the freeway was in a dangerous
condition and thus fails to meet his burden.
 
Therefore, the motion for summary judgment is
granted. As a result, the Court declines to address Defendant’s argument
surrounding immunity under Government Code section 830.6.  
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
Therefore, Defendant’s motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED.
Defendant shall file and serve a proposed judgment within 10 days. 
 
Defendant shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file proof of
service of such.
 