  Case Number:  20STCV25715    Hearing Date:   May 23, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


32




HEARING DATE


May
  23, 2024




CASE NUMBER


20STCV25715




MOTION


Demurrer
  




MOVING PARTY


Defendant
  A7 Towing, Inc.  




OPPOSING PARTY


 None



 
MOTION
 
On
July 8, 2020, Plaintiff Laura Castaneda, through guardian ad litem Esther
Mendoza filed a complaint against Defendants Aaron’s Towing, Inc., John Doe 1,
John Doe 2, and Does 3 to 100. The complaint alleges that Laura Castaneda
suffered from cerebral palsy and on July 12, 2018, was in the back seat of her
mother’s (Esther Mendoza) parked car. Plaintiff alleges that tow truck
operators (Doe 1 and Doe 2) attempted to tow the car while Laura Castaneda was
inside, causing her injuries.  
 
On February
21, 2024, the Court granted Plaintiff’s motion for leave to file a first
amended complaint to reflect Plaintiff Laura Castaneda’s death and to add Defendant
A7 Towing to the complaint as the “alter ego” of Aaron’s Towing, Inc. (Min.
Order, 2/21/24.)
 
On February 23, 2024, Plaintiff Esther Mendoza, individually and as
successor-in-interest to Laura Castaneda (“Plaintiff”), filed the operative
first amended complaint (“FAC”).
 
On May 13, 2024, the Court granted Plaintiff’s motion to continue
trial and all related dates from June 24, 2024 to December 2, 2024. 
 
Defendant A7 Towing, Inc. (“Defendant”) now demurs, in pro per, to the
complaint. Plaintiff opposes and Defendant replies. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
            The
demurrer was filed on April 18, 2024, on behalf of A7 Towing, Inc. “in pro
per”. The demurrer is signed by “Jenny Marin, Owner of A7 Towing, Inc.” There
is no indication that Jenny Marin is a licensed attorney in the state of
California. 
 
A corporation has the capacity to be sued, but cannot
represent themselves in propria persona, like natural persons. (CLD
Construction, Inc. v. City of San Ramon¿(2004) 120 Cal.App.4th 1141, 1145.) It also
cannot represent itself thought a corporate officer, director, or other
employee who is not an attorney. (Id.) A corporation must be represented
by licensed counsel in court proceedings. (Id.)  
 
In CLD Construction, Inc., a trial court granted a
motion to strike a corporation’s complaint, without leave to amend, because it
was filed in pro per. The action was then dismissed with prejudice. (Id.
at 1145.) The Court of Appeal reversed, finding it was “more appropriate and
just to treat a corporation's failure to be represented by an attorney as a
defect that may be corrected, on such terms as are just in the sound discretion
of the court.” (Id. at 1149.) The court emphasized however that this
flexible rule “in no way impairs the court’s ability to assure that trained
legal professionals participate in the presentation of the corporation’s case.”
(Id. at 1150.)  
 
            Plaintiff’s
opposition correctly points out that Defendant cannot bring this demurrer or
appear in court, without a licensed attorney. Plaintiff also argues the
demurrer was filed late.[1]

 
            On
May 15, 2024, Defendant filed a substitution of attorney form, indicating it is
now represented by counsel. On May 16, 2024, Defendant filed a reply, by
counsel, acknowledging the demurrer was filed in pro per. As a result,
Defendant requests a short continuance so that Defendant may meet and confer
regarding the basis of the demurrer. However, based on CLD Construction, Inc., because the demurrer was filed in pro per and
Defendant is now represented, the Court will
overrule the demurrer with leave to file a responsive pleading within eleven (11)
days. 
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court OVERRULES Defendant’s demurrer to the complaint
with leave to file a responsive pleading within eleven days. 
 
Defendant shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service of such. 


