 Case Number:  22STCV28051    Hearing Date:   May 23, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


May
  23, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV28051




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Compel Arbitration




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Lyft, Inc. 




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On August 29, 2022, Plaintiff Jesus Vera (“Plaintiff”) filed a
complaint against Defendants Lyft, Inc., Luis Rivera Alvarado, Diaz Mirian, and
Does 1 to 50 for negligence related to a motor vehicle accident that occurred
on August 31, 2020.  
 
Defendant Lyft, Inc. (“Lyft”) now moves to compel arbitration and to stay the
proceedings pending completion of arbitration. No opposition has been
filed. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
The Federal
Arbitration Act (“FAA”) governs a motion to compel arbitration when an
agreement provides its ‘enforcement’ shall be governed by the FAA. (Victrola
89, LLC v. Jamon Properties 8 LLC (2020) 46 Cal.App.5th 337, 346.) 
 
Parties may be compelled to arbitrate a
dispute upon the court finding that: (1) there was a valid agreement to
arbitrate between the parties; and (2) said agreement covers the controversy or
controversies in the parties’ dispute.¿(9 U.S.C., § 4;¿Chiron Corp. v. Ortho
Diagnostics Systems, Inc.¿(9th Cir. 2000) 207 F.3d 1126, 1130.) If the
finding is affirmative on both counts, the FAA requires the Court to enforce
the arbitration agreement in accordance with its terms. (Simula, Inc.
v. Autoliv, Inc.¿(9th Cir. 1999) 175 F.3d 716, 719–720.)¿
 
“The petitioner
bears the burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration agreement by
the preponderance of the evidence, and a party opposing the petition bears the
burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence any fact necessary to its
defense. In these summary proceedings, the trial court sits as a trier of fact,
weighing all the affidavits, declarations, and other documentary evidence, as
well as oral testimony received at the court's discretion, to reach a final
determination.” (Giuliano v. Inland Empire Personnel, Inc. (2007) 149
Cal.App.4th 1276, 1284.) 
 
“If a court
of competent jurisdiction, whether in this State or not, has ordered
arbitration of a controversy which is an issue involved in an action or
proceeding pending before a court of this State, the court in which such action
or proceeding is pending shall, upon motion of a party to such action or
proceeding, stay the action or proceeding until an arbitration is had in
accordance with the order to arbitrate or until such earlier time as the court
specifies.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.4.)
 
DISCUSSION
 
Lyft moves to
compel arbitration on the grounds that Plaintiff agreed to arbitrate by
agreeing to its Terms of Service. The agreement reads in pertinent part: 
 
“(a)
Agreement to Binding Arbitration Between You and Lyft. YOU AND LYFT MUTUALLY
AGREE TO WAIVE OUR RESPECTIVE RIGHTS TO RESOLUTION OF DISPUTES IN A COURT OF
LAW BY A JUDGE OR JURY AND AGREE TO RESOLVE ANY DISPUTE BY ARBITRATION, as set
forth below. This agreement to arbitrate ("Arbitration Agreement") is
governed by the Federal Arbitration Act and survives after the Agreement
terminates or your relationship with Lyft ends. ANY ARBITRATION UNDER THIS
AGREEMENT WILL TAKE PLACE ON AN INDIVIDUAL BASIS; CLASS ARBITRATIONS AND CLASS
ACTIONS ARE NOT PERMITTED. Except as expressly provided below, this Arbitration
Agreement applies to all Claims (defined below) between you and Lyft, including
our affiliates, subsidiaries, parents, successors and assigns, and each of our
respective officers, directors, employees, agents, or shareholders. . . . Except
as expressly provided below, ALL DISPUTES AND CLAIMS BETWEEN US (EACH A
"CLAIM" AND COLLECTIVELY, "CLAIMS") SHALL BE EXCLUSIVELY
RESOLVED BY BINDING ARBITRATION SOLELY BETWEEN YOU AND LYFT. These Claims
include, but are not limited to, any dispute, claim or controversy, whether
based on past, present, or future events, arising out of or relating to: this
Agreement and prior versions thereof (including the breach, termination,
enforcement, interpretation or validity thereof), the Lyft Platform, . . . any
other goods or services made available through the Lyft Platform . . . .” 
 
(Sniegowski Decl. ¶ 12c,
Exh. 5, 17a.)
 
First, the
FAA governs the agreement according to the explicit terms. Lyft presents
evidence from its Safety Program Senior Specialist that Plaintiff was using
Lyft’s services on August 31, 2020 when the subject accident occurred. (Sniegowski
Decl.  ¶ 13.)  The terms above represent the August 26, 2019
arbitration agreement that was in effect on the day of the incident. (Id. ¶ 12,
14.) Lyft’s Safety Program Senior Specialist declares that on August 5, 2020, Plaintiff
affirmatively accepted the terms through the Lyft App. (Id. ¶ 12b, 12c, 15.) Clickwrap
agreements are those in which website users are required to click on an “I
agree” box after being presented with a list of terms and conditions of
use.  (Nguyen v. Barnes & Noble Inc. (9th Cir. 2014) 763 F.3d
1171, 1175-76.)  “Clickwrap agreements require a user to affirmatively
click a box on the website acknowledging awareness of and agreement to the
terms of service before he or she is allowed to proceed with further utilization
of the website. [Citations omitted] Clickwrap agreements ‘have been routinely
upheld by circuit and district courts…”  (United States v. Drew
(C.D. Cal. 2009) 259 F.R.D. 449, 462 n.22 [internal quotations omitted].) 
Here, the Lyft App directed Plaintiff to scroll through and read
the entire terms of service and then required Plaintiff to click a button
demonstrating his consent. (Sniegowski Decl. ¶ 15.) Because the evidence shows that Plaintiff
had to read through the terms before affirmatively clicking a button in
consent, Lyft meets its burden to show there was a valid agreement. 
 
Second, the
provision states that all disputes and claims between Lyft that arise out of any
services through the Lyft Platform will be exclusively resolved by binding
arbitration. Therefore, because Lyft maintains Plaintiff was using its services
when the accident occurred, Lyft has met its burden that the agreement covers
the present controversy. Plaintiff does not oppose this motion and therefore,
fails to meet his burden.
 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Therefore, Defendant Lyft, Inc.’s motion to compel arbitration and
stay all judicial proceedings pending the completion of arbitration is GRANTED.
 
The matter is set for an Order to Show Cause Re Dismissal Due to
Completion of Arbitration for November 22, 2024 at 8:30 a.m. in Department 32
of the Spring Street Courthouse.
 
Moving party shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a
proof of service of such. 
 