 Case Number:  22STCV28898    Hearing Date:   May 23, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


May
  23, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV28898




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to be Relieved as Counsel




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant 1242 Sunset Plaza, LLC’s Counsel




OPPOSING PARTY:


None



 
BACKGROUND
 
            Defendant
1242 Sunset Plaza, LLC’s (Defendant)
counsel of record, Barry MacNaughton and Catherine Veeneman at Ervin Cohen
& Jessup LLP (Counsel), moves to be relieved as counsel for Plaintiff.
Counsel contends relief is necessary due to a conflict and breakdown in the
attorney-client relationship.
 
            No
opposition has been filed for this motion. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
To be granted relief as counsel, counsel must comply with California
Rules of Court (CRC) 3.1362. Even where grounds for termination exist,
attorneys seeking to withdraw must comply with the procedures set forth in
California Rule of Professional Conduct (CRPC) 3.700 and are subject to
discipline for failure to do so. CRPC 3.700(B) lists various grounds for
mandatory withdrawal. 
 
An attorney's right to terminate the attorney-client relationship and
withdraw from a case is not absolute. (See Vann v. Shilleh (1975) 54
Cal.App.3d 192, 197; People v. Prince (1968) 268 Cal.App.2d 398.) The
decision whether to grant or deny an application for withdrawal is within the
court's discretion, and it does not abuse that discretion by denying the
application on the ground that the attorney's withdrawal would work injustice
upon a third party. (Hodcarriers, Bldg. and Common Laborers Local Union No.
89 v. Miller (1966) 243 Cal.App.2d 391.)
 
The rules have been liberally construed to protect clients. (Vann
v. Shilleh, supra, 54 Cal.App.3d 192.) An attorney, either with client's
consent or court's approval, may withdraw from a case when withdrawal can be
accomplished without undue prejudice to client's interests; however, an
attorney “shall not withdraw from employment until the member has taken
reasonable steps to avoid reasonably foreseeable prejudice to the rights of the
client, including giving due notice to the client, allowing time for employment
of other counsel, complying with rule 3-700(D), and complying with applicable
laws and rules.” (CRPC 3.700(A)(2).) A lawyer violates his or her ethical
mandate by abandoning a client (Pineda v. State Bar (1989) 49 Cal.3d
753, 758 759), or by withdrawing at a critical point and thereby prejudicing
the client’s case. (CRPC 3.700(A)(2); Vann v. Shilleh, supra.)
 
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Counsel has filed forms MC-051 and
MC-052 and has lodged with the Court a copy of the proposed order on form
MC-053 as required.  (Cal Rules of Court,
rule 3.1362.)  Counsel states the instant
motion is filed for the following reason: “Without breaching the
attorney-client privilege, the declaring attorney can advise that there has
been an irreparable breakdown in the attorney-client relationship which
prevents Ervin Cohen and Jessup LLP from representing the client. Substitution
by mutual consent is not an option here as the client has not responded to the
film's requests to discuss the issue.” (MC-052.)
The Court
finds that this is a valid reason for withdrawal. (See Rules Prof. Conduct,
rule 1.16(b)(4).)¿¿¿ 
 
            The Court previously denied this motion because Counsel
did not provide proof of service of all the moving papers on Defendant. (Min.
Order, 2/29/24.) The Court also noted that the papers were not served on an
officer or agent of Defendant, and there could be prejudice since Defendant, as
an entity, cannot represent itself. Lastly, the Court noted that the papers did
not contain information on all future proceedings in this case. (Ibid.)
 
In this revised motion, all the moving papers have been served. Counsel’s
declaration (MC-052) states that Defendant does not have an agent for service
of process currently registered with the California Secretary of State. The
address that Defendant was served is the address of the last registered agent
for Defendant, the current principal and mailing address for Defendant, and the
address of Defendant’s managing member, FMB Consulting, LLC. Counsel also
asserts a courtesy copy of the papers were served via email to Ilan Kenig, the
managing member of FMB Consulting, LLC. Counsel asserts that they received
responses from this email address previously. The moving papers also provide information
on all future proceedings in this case. 
 
Additionally, in response to the Court’s request at the previous
hearing, Counsel provides case law supporting that the Court may relieve
counsel before Defendant retains new representation. In Thomas G. Ferruzzo,
Inc. v. Superior Court (Ferruzzo) (1980) 104 Cal.App.3d 501, the
trial court denied motions to relieve counsel of corporate defendants, citing
the rule that corporate defendants cannot appear in propria persona. (Id.
at 503.) The Court of Appeal acknowledged this may be the correct procedure
where the corporation wishes to relieve counsel, but not when “the corporation
simply won’t cooperate with counsel in anyway.” (Id.)  
 
The Ferruzzo court discussed further:
 
“There are two concepts, not one, which are here involved. The first
is the principle supported by Merco that a corporation may not proceed
in propria persona. The second is that an attorney, given proper grounds, may
be permitted by the court to withdraw as attorney of record. (Code Civ.Proc., s
284.) These two concepts are not inconsistent in the case of a corporate
client. An attorney may be allowed to withdraw without offending the rule
against corporate self-representation. The effect of withdrawal is to leave the
corporation without representation and without the ability to practice
self-representation. For the uncooperative corporate client who has not been
willing to bring in new counsel, granting of the withdrawal motion will put
extreme pressure on it to obtain new counsel of record for should it fail to do
so it risks forfeiture of its rights through non-representation.” 
(Thomas G. Ferruzzo, Inc., supra, 104 Cal.App.3d
at 504.)
 
            As a result, the Court in Ferruzzo
issued a writ directing the trial court to grant the motions, since they were
based on non-cooperation and non-payment of attorney fees. (Id.)
 
            Similarly here, the basis for this
motion is a breakdown of the attorney-client relationship. Counsel also
contends representatives from Defendant will not discuss this issue. Therefore,
because this motion is based on the non-cooperation of Defendant, the Court
finds no prejudice in granting this motion. 
 
Accordingly, the Court GRANTS the motion to relieve
counsel.  
 
Counsel shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file
proofs of service of such. 
 
 
 
 
 