  Case Number:  22SMCV02614    Hearing Date:   October 16, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


October 16, 2024




CASE NUMBER


22SMCV02614




MOTION


Motion to Bifurcate




MOVING PARTIES


Defendants Southern California Healthcare System, Inc. and
  Southern California Hospital at Culver City




OPPOSING PARTIES


none



 
MOTION
 
            On December
7, 2022, Plaintiff Jane Doe brought (“Plaintiff”) brought suit against
Defendants Southern California Healthcare System, Inc.; Southern California
Hospital at Culver City; and Elsworth Felix,[1]
alleging four causes of action for (1) sexual battery; (2) sexual harassment;
(3) dependent adult abuse and neglect; and (4) negligent hiring, supervision,
or retention of employee.
 
            Defendants
Southern California Healthcare System, Inc. and Southern California Hospital at
Culver City (“Defendants”) now move to bifurcate the issue of punitive damages
to be addressed after the liability phase of the trial.  Defendants’ motion is unopposed.
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
Civil Code Section 3295,
subdivision (d) provides:
 
The court shall, on
application of any defendant, preclude the admission of evidence of that
defendant’s profits or financial condition until after the trier of fact
returns a verdict for plaintiff awarding actual damages and finds that a
defendant is guilty of malice, oppression, or fraud in accordance with Section
3294. Evidence of profit and financial condition shall be admissible only as to
the defendant or defendants found to be liable to the plaintiff and to be
guilty of malice, oppression, or fraud. Evidence of profit and financial
condition shall be presented to the same trier of fact that found for the
plaintiff and found one or more defendants guilty of malice, oppression, or
fraud.
 
Further, Code of Civil Procedure section
598 provides:
 
The court may, when
the convenience of witnesses, the ends of justice, or the economy and
efficiency of handling the litigation would be promoted thereby, on motion of a
party, after notice and hearing, make an order, no later than the close of
pretrial conference in cases in which such pretrial conference is to be held,
or, in other cases, no later than 30 days before the trial date, that the trial
of any issue or any part thereof shall precede the trial of any other issue or
any part thereof in the case, except for special defenses which may be tried
first pursuant to Sections 597 and 597.5. The court, on its own motion, may
make such an order at any time.

Similarly, Code of Civil Procedure section 1048 provides:
 
(a) When actions
involving a common question of law or fact are pending before the court, it may
order a joint hearing or trial of any or all the matters in issue in the
actions; it may order all the actions consolidated and it may make such orders
concerning proceedings therein as may tend to avoid unnecessary costs or delay.
 
(b) The court, in
furtherance of convenience or to avoid prejudice, or when separate trials will
be conducive to expedition and economy, may order a separate trial of any cause
of action, including a cause of action asserted in a cross-complaint, or of any
separate issue or of any number of causes of action or issues, preserving the
right of trial by jury required by the Constitution or a statute of this state
or of the United States.
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Upon a
defendant’s application, precluding the admission of evidence about defendant’s
financial condition until after the trier of fact has returned a verdict in
favor of plaintiff and found that the defendant is guilty of oppression, fraud,
or malice is mandatory under Civil Code section 3295, subdivision (d).  
 
Trial in this matter is currently
scheduled to begin in less than four months, on February 3, 2025.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court grants
Defendants’ unopposed motion to bifurcate the issue of the amount of punitive
damages until after Defendants’ liability and oppression, fraud, or malice have
been established.    
 
Defendants shall provide notice of
the Court’s order and file a proof of service of the same.
 
 
 
DATED: 
October 16, 2024                                                   ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court
 


