 Case Number:  23SMCV05170    Hearing Date:   October 16, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


October 16, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV05170




MOTIONS


Motion to Compel Further Responses to Special
  Interrogatories (Set Two)




MOVING PARTY


Defendant Ford Motor Company




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff Eddie Baruta



 
MOTION
 
This case arises from alleged defects to the vehicle Plaintiff Eddie
Baruta (“Plaintiff”) purchased from Defendants Ford Motor Company and Santa
Monica Ford Lincoln. 
 
Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) alleges seven causes of
action: the first three alleging breach of express warranty under the
Song-Beverly Act, the fourth alleging breach of implied warranty under the
Song-Beverly Act, the fifth for fraudulent inducement-concealment, the sixth
for negligent repair (against Defendant Santa Monica Ford Lincoln only), and
the seventh for violation of the Consumer Legal Remedies Act.
 
Defendant Ford Motor Company (“Defendant”) now moves for an order
compelling Plaintiff to provide further responses to the following discovery requests:
 
1.    
Special Interrogatories (Set 2), Nos. 24-54, 57-60
a.     
Propounded:         March
15, 2024
b.    
Responded:           April
16, 2024 (electronic service)
c.     
Motion Filed:        July
9, 2024
 
Plaintiff opposes the motion and Defendant replies.
 
PROCEDURAL
REQUIREMENTS
 
            Timeliness of Motion &
Meet and Confer
 
            A notice of motion to compel further
responses must be given within 45 days of the service of the responses, or any
supplemental responses, or on or before any specific later date to which the
parties have agreed in writing. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.310, subd. (c).)
Failure to file such a motion within this time period constitutes a waiver of
any right to compel further responses to interrogatories or requests for
production of documents. (Ibid.)
 
            On April 16, 2024, Plaintiff electronically
served initial responses, consisting primarily of objections and generic references
“to the documents produced in connection with Plaintiff’s Responses to
Defendant’s Requests for Production, Set One, to the extent applicable. See Code
Civ. Proc. §2030.230.”  On April 17,
2024, Plaintiff served the verifications. 
(Weiser Decl. ¶ 5.)  Forty-five
days after Plaintiff’s complete service of the initial verified responses was therefore
Saturday, June 1, making Defendant’s initial deadline to move to compel Monday,
June 3.  Adding two court days for
electronic service brings the deadline to move to compel to Wednesday, June 5.  
 
On May 30, 2024, counsel for Defendant sent Plaintiff’s counsel a
letter, outlining the deficiencies in the responses and requesting supplemental
responses by June 3, 2024.  (Scott Decl.
¶ 5 and Ex. D.)  The cover email for the
May 30, 2024 letter indicated, “I understand that this is a rather short
turnaround, so Ford is more than willing to extend Plaintiff’s deadline to
provide supplemental responses to June 28, 2024, if Plaintiff is likewise
willing to extend Ford’s deadline to file a motion to compel to four weeks
after receipt of Plaintiff’s verified supplemental responses.”  (Scott Decl. ¶ 5 and Ex. E.)
 
On May 31, 2024, having not heard back, counsel for Defendant again
sent Plaintiff’s counsel an email, indicating “I wanted to remind you that Ford
is more than willing to extend Plaintiff’s deadline to provide supplemental
responses if Plaintiff is likewise willing to extend Ford’s deadline to notice
a motion to compel.”  (Scott Decl.¶ 5 and
Ex. F.)
 
On June 4, 2024, at 11:30 a.m., counsel for Defendant met and
conferred telephonically with Plaintiff’s counsel, where the parties agreed
Defendant would provide Plaintiff an extension to provide supplemental
responses by June 25, 2024, and in return, Plaintiff agreed to extend
Defendants’ deadline to move to compel to July 9.  (Scott Decl. ¶ 6 and Ex. G.) 
 
On June 6, 2024, Defendant’s counsel sent Plaintiff’s counsel an email
memorializing the parties’ June 4 agreement. 
(Scott Decl. ¶ 6 and Ex. G.)  That
email encompassed 11 cases (including this case) where the deadline to
supplement was extended to June 25 and the deadline to move to compel was
extended to July 9, and twenty other cases where the deadline to supplement was
extended to June 28, 2024 and the deadline to move to compel was extended to
July 19, 2024.  (Ibid.)
 
In opposition, counsel for Plaintiff declares, “On June 4, 2024, I met
and confer (sic) with Defense counsel, Zack Amin, regarding Plaintiff’s
responses to Defendant’s discovery. Defense counsel requested supplemental
responses for a few matters. Following our call, Defense counsel, sent an email
of 30+cases. However, nowhere in the conversation did I agree to supplement 30+
cases. I never confirmed in writing to extend Defendant’s Motion to Compel
deadline on this matter. The conversation took approximately 2 minutes. This
matter was not discussed.”  (Weiser Decl.
¶ 6.)  
 
The Weiser declaration also indicates, “On April 17, 2024, Plaintiff
served verifications, making Defendant’s Motion to Compel deadline June 3,
2024 (the latest)” and “On June 4, 2024, Defendant was late to even meet
and confer regarding the extension.  At
that time Defendant had already waived its right to compel further
responses.”  (Weiser Decl. ¶¶ 5, 7.)  Further, Weiser declares:
 
8. Defendant’s Motion is procedurally defective. There was no good
faith meet and confer effort and Defendant has not received an extension
confirmed in writing. 
 
9. Plaintiff never confirmed in writing to extend Defendant’s Motion
to Compel deadline. Therefore, their motion is procedurally defective and
untimely.
 
(Weiser
Decl. ¶¶ 8-9.)
 
            As discussed above, the Court finds Defendant’s
initial deadline to move to compel was June 5, not June 3.  As such, the Court disagrees with Weiser’s contention
that it was already too late to meet and confer or that Defendant had already
waived its right to compel further responses by June 4.
 
            Further, the Court does not find
credible Weiser’s statements that she did not agree to reciprocal extensions of
her deadlines to provide supplemental discovery responses and of Defendant’s
deadlines to move to compel further responses in the 31 cases listed in the
email.  Further, there is no evidence in
the record that Weiser objected to the email’s characterization of the parties’
agreement until the opposition to this motion. 
If the contents of Defendant’s June 4 email memorializing the parties’
agreement were untrue, the onus was on Weiser to respond to that email, and
correct them, which she apparently did not do. 

 
            As such, the Court finds that the
parties agreed to reciprocally extend Plaintiff’s deadline to supplement the
responses to June 25 and Defendant’s deadline to move to compel further
responses to July 9, as evidenced by Defendant’s June 6 email memorializing the
parties’ June 4 agreement, to which Plaintiff’s counsel did not object.
 
            Thus, the Court finds the parties’
meet and confer and the motion timely.
 
            Separate Statement
 
            California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1345 requires that any motion involving the content of
discovery contain a separate statement with the text of each request, the
response, and a statement of factual and legal reasons for why an order
compelling further responses is warranted.
 
            Defendant
has provided a separate statement with respect to the SROG in compliance with
the Rules of Court.
 
ANALYSIS    
 
1.    
SROG Nos. 24-54, 57-60
 
“The purpose of the discovery rules is to enhance the truth-seeking
function of the litigation process and eliminate trial strategies that focus on
gamesmanship and surprise. In other words, the discovery process is designed to
make a trial less a game of blindman’s bluff and more a fair contest with the
basic issues and facts disclosed to the fullest practicable extent.” (Juarez
v. Boy Scouts of Am., Inc. (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 377, 389 [cleaned up].)
 
Where a party objects or responds inadequately to discovery requests,
a motion lies to compel further responses, and that party has the burden to
justify the objections or inadequate responses.  (Fairmont Ins. Co. v. Superior Court
(2000) 22 Cal.4th 245, 255; Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (a) [motion to
compel further responses lies “[o]n receipt of a response to a demand for
inspection”].)  “A trial court’s
determination of a motion to compel discovery is reviewed for abuse of
discretion.  However, when the facts
asserted in support of and in opposition to the motion are in conflict, the
trial court’s factual findings will be upheld if they are supported by
substantial evidence.”  (Costco
Wholesale Corp. v. Superior Court (2009) 47 Cal.4th 725, 733 [cleaned up].)
 
The interrogatories at issue are as follows:
 
SPECIAL
INTERROGATORY NO. 24: List all statements of material fact that YOU allege Ford
represented to YOU that YOU relied on in deciding to purchase or lease the
VEHICLE.
 
SPECIAL
INTERROGATORY NO. 25: IDENTIFY all DOCUMENTS that support YOUR answer to the
preceding Interrogatory.
 
SPECIAL
INTERROGATORY NO. 26: List all material facts that YOU allege Ford failed to
disclose to you prior to YOUR purchase or lease of the VEHICLE.
 
SPECIAL
INTERROGATORY NO. 27: IDENTIFY all DOCUMENTS that support YOUR answer to the
preceding Interrogatory.
 
SPECIAL
INTERROGATORY NO. 28: If YOU allege that Ford disclosed some facts, but failed
to disclose additional facts that materially qualify the facts that were
disclosed, list all facts YOU believe Ford failed to disclose.
 
SPECIAL
INTERROGATORY NO. 29: IDENTIFY all DOCUMENTS that support YOUR answer to the
preceding Interrogatory.
 
SPECIAL
INTERROGATORY NO. 30: List all material facts that YOU allege Ford concealed
from YOU about the VEHICLE.
 
SPECIAL
INTERROGATORY NO. 31: IDENTIFY all DOCUMENTS that support YOUR answer to the
preceding Interrogatory. 
 
SPECIAL
INTERROGATORY NO. 32: State what the defect is in YOUR VEHICLE that YOU allege
Ford had exclusive knowledge and concealed prior to YOUR lease or purchase of
the VEHICLE. 
 
SPECIAL
INTERROGATORY NO. 33: IDENTIFY all DOCUMENTS that support YOUR answer to the
preceding Interrogatory. 
 
SPECIAL
INTERROGATORY NO. 34: List all material facts that YOU allege Ford had
exclusive knowledge of and failed to disclose prior to YOUR lease or purchase
of the VEHICLE.
 
SPECIAL
INTERROGATORY NO. 35: IDENTIFY all DOCUMENTS that support YOUR answer to the
preceding Interrogatory.
 
SPECIAL
INTERROGATORY NO. 36: List all material facts that YOU allege Ford actively
concealed.
 
SPECIAL
INTERROGATORY NO. 37: IDENTIFY all DOCUMENTS that support YOUR answer to the
preceding Interrogatory.
 
SPECIAL
INTERROGATORY NO. 38: If YOU allege Ford made partial representations, but also
suppressed some material facts, list all material facts YOU allege Ford
suppressed.
 
SPECIAL
INTERROGATORY NO. 39: IDENTIFY all DOCUMENTS that support YOUR answer to the
preceding Interrogatory.
 
SPECIAL
INTERROGATORY NO. 40: IDENTIFY all DOCUMENTS, including but not limited to
advertisements, brochures, and website pages, that YOU reviewed prior to YOUR
lease or purchase of the VEHICLE.
 
SPECIAL
INTERROGATORY NO. 41: Describe all COMMUNICATIONS YOU had with Ford prior to
YOUR lease or purchase of the VEHICLE.
 
SPECIAL
INTERROGATORY NO. 42: IDENTIFY all DOCUMENTS that support YOUR answer to the
preceding Interrogatory.
 
SPECIAL
INTERROGATORY NO. 43: List all questions, if any, YOU asked the personnel of
the DEALERSHIP (for purposes of these Interrogatories, the term “DEALERSHIP”
shall mean the authorized Ford dealership that Plaintiff purchased or leased
the VEHICLE from) prior to YOU leasing or purchasing the VEHICLE.
 
SPECIAL
INTERROGATORY NO. 44: IDENTIFY all DOCUMENTS that support YOUR answer to the
preceding Interrogatory.
 
SPECIAL
INTERROGATORY NO. 45: Describe in detail what made YOU decide to lease or
purchase the VEHICLE
 
SPECIAL
INTERROGATORY NO. 46: IDENTIFY all DOCUMENTS that support YOUR answer to the
preceding Interrogatory.
 
SPECIAL
INTERROGATORY NO. 47: List all facts that support YOUR allegation that Ford intentionally
concealed material facts about YOUR VEHICLE from YOU prior to the date YOU
leased or purchased the VEHICLE.
 
SPECIAL
INTERROGATORY NO. 48: IDENTIFY all DOCUMENTS that support YOUR answer to the
preceding Interrogatory.
 
SPECIAL
INTERROGATORY NO. 49: List all facts that support YOUR allegation that Ford
concealed material facts from YOU with the intent to defraud YOU.
 
SPECIAL
INTERROGATORY NO. 50: IDENTIFY all DOCUMENTS that support YOUR answer to the
preceding Interrogatory.
 
SPECIAL
INTERROGATORY NO. 51: Describe in detail how would YOU have acted differently
had YOU known the material facts YOU allege Ford concealed from YOU.
 
SPECIAL
INTERROGATORY NO. 52: IDENTIFY all DOCUMENTS that support YOUR answer to the
preceding Interrogatory.
 
SPECIAL
INTERROGATORY NO. 53: State the date YOU first learned that FORD MOTOR COMPANY
concealed material facts from YOU.
 
SPECIAL
INTERROGATORY NO. 54: IDENTIFY all DOCUMENTS that support YOUR answer to the
preceding Interrogatory.
 
SPECIAL
INTERROGATORY NO. 57: List with specificity all damages YOU allege you suffered
as a result of Ford’s failure to disclose material facts.
 
SPECIAL
INTERROGATORY NO. 58: IDENTIFY all DOCUMENTS that support YOUR answer to the
preceding Interrogatory.
 
SPECIAL
INTERROGATORY NO. 59: State the total amount of damages in dollars YOU suffered
as a result of Ford’s failure to disclose material facts to YOU.
 
SPECIAL
INTERROGATORY NO. 60: IDENTIFY all DOCUMENTS that support YOUR answer to the
preceding Interrogatory.
 
(Defendant’s
Separate Statement.)
 
Plaintiff substantively responded to each of the interrogatories at
issue with some variation of, “Plaintiff refers Defendant to the documents
produced in connection with Plaintiff’s Responses to Defendant’s Requests for Production,
Set One, to the extent applicable. See Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.230.”  For SROG Nos. 24, 26, 28, 30, 32, 34, 36, 38,
41, 43, 45, 47, 49, 51, 53, Plaintiff added the phrase, “Information responsive
to this request may be found in Plaintiff’s Complaint, and the Subject
Vehicle’s repair history.”  To SROG Nos.
57 and 59, Plaintiff added the phrase, “Plaintiff contend that they are
entitled to maximum amount of damages allowed by law.”
 
Plaintiff does not take issue with any specific interrogatories.  Rather, Plaintiff argues generally, that
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure, section 2030.230, Plaintiff may answer by
reference to the writings from which the answer may be derived.
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.230 provides:
 
If the answer to an interrogatory would necessitate the preparation or
the making of a compilation, abstract, audit, or summary of or from the
documents of the party to whom the interrogatory is directed, and if the burden
or expense of preparing or making it would be substantially the same for the
party propounding the interrogatory as for the responding party, it is a
sufficient answer to that interrogatory to refer to this section and to specify
the writings from which the answer may be derived or ascertained. This
specification shall be in sufficient detail to permit the propounding party to
locate and to identify, as readily as the responding party can, the documents
from which the answer may be ascertained. The responding party shall then
afford to the propounding party a reasonable opportunity to examine, audit, or
inspect these documents and to make copies, compilations, abstracts, or
summaries of them.
 
            The Court does not find that
Plaintiff’s general reference to its document production suffices “to specify
the writings from which the answer may be derived or ascertained [..] in
sufficient detail to permit the propounding party to locate and to identify, as
readily as the responding party can, the documents from which the answer may be
ascertained.”  Further, Section 2030.230
does not provide a responding party carte blanche to direct the propounding
party generally to its document production in lieu of substantively responding
to any special interrogatories.  
 
Therefore, the Court finds Plaintiff’s general and boilerplate
reference to its document production insufficient to satisfy Plaintiff’s burden
to respond to the interrogatories at issue. 
As such, the Court grants Defendant’s motion to compel in its entirety.
 
2.    
Sanctions
 
            A trial court may sanction a party for
engaging in the misuse of discovery, which includes: failure to respond or
submit to an authorized method of discovery; making an evasive response to
discovery; making, without substantial justification, an unmeritorious
objection to discovery; and making or opposing, unsuccessfully and without
substantial justification, a motion to compel or to limit discovery. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2023.010.)
 
In addition, Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.300, subdivision (d)
provides: “The court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a further response to
interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust.”
 
            Here, Defendant requests monetary sanctions
in the amount of $560, to compensate for the attorney time spent preparing the
motion and the $60 filing fee.   (Scott Decl. ¶ 8.)  The Court finds that Plaintiff’s failure to
provide complete, substantive responses to SROG 2 to be an abuse of the
discovery process, and Plaintiff’s opposition to Defendant’s motion to compel
was made without substantial justification, both of which warrant monetary
sanctions.  
 
As such, the Court grants Defendant’s request for monetary sanctions
in the amount of $560.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
            For the foregoing reasons,
Defendant’s motion to compel further responses to SROG is granted in its
entirety.  The Court orders Plaintiff to
serve further verified responses to SROG (set 2) Nos. 24-54 and 57-60 within 30
days of the Court’s order.    
 
            Further, the Court orders Plaintiff
to pay monetary sanctions in the amount of 
$560, to Defendant, through Defendant’s counsel of record within 30 days
of the Court’s order.
 
            Defendant shall provide notice of
the Court’s orders and file the notice with a proof of service forthwith.  
 
 
 
 
DATED:  October 16, 2024                                                   ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court
 