 Case Number:  24SMCV00111    Hearing Date:   October 16, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


October 16, 2024




CASE NUMBER


24SMCV00111




MOTIONS


Motion to Compel Further Production to Request for
  Production set 1, no. 2




MOVING PARTY


Plaintiff Noshin Abdi




OPPOSING PARTY


Defendant Marble & Tile USA, Inc.



 
MOTION
 
This is a premises liability case arising from allegations that
Plaintiff Noshin Abdi (“Plaintiff”) fell and became injured while on Defendant
Marble & Tile USA, Inc.’s (“Defendant”) premises.  
 
Plaintiff now moves for an order compelling Defendant to provide a
further document production to Demand for Production (set 1) (“RPD”).  Defendant opposes the motion and Plaintiff
replies.
 
PROCEDURAL
REQUIREMENTS
 
            Timeliness of Motion
 
            A notice of motion to compel further
responses must be given within 45 days of the service of the responses, or any
supplemental responses, or on or before any specific later date to which the parties
have agreed in writing. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.310, subd. (c).) Failure to file
such a motion within this time period constitutes a waiver of any right to
compel further responses to interrogatories or requests for production of
documents. (Ibid.)
 
            The body of the motion indicates the
RPD were served on March 13, 2024 (see Motion at p. 2:12).  The Declaration of Emanuel Abrishami
indicates Defendant’s responses were served on March 18, 2024. (Abrishami Decl.
¶ 5.)  The parties subsequently agreed to
extend Plaintiff’s deadline to move to compel to August 26, 2024.  (Abrishami Decl. ¶ 12.)  The Motion was timely filed on August 22,
2024.
 
            Separate Statement
 
            California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1345 requires that any motion involving the content of
discovery contain a separate statement with the text of each request, the
response, and a statement of factual and legal reasons for why an order
compelling further responses is warranted.
 
            Plaintiff
has provided a separate statement with respect to the RPD in compliance with
the Rules of Court.
 
ANALYSIS    
 
1.    
DISCOVERY – GENERAL PRINCIPLES
 
            “The purpose of the discovery rules
is to enhance the truth-seeking function of the litigation process and
eliminate trial strategies that focus on gamesmanship and surprise.  In other words, the discovery process is
designed to make a trial less a game of blindman's bluff and more a fair
contest with the basic issues and facts disclosed to the fullest practicable
extent.”  (Juarez v. Boy Scouts of Am., Inc. (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 377, 389
[cleaned up].)   
 
            Where a party objects, or responds
inadequately, to discovery requests, a motion lies to compel further responses,
and that party has the burden to justify the objections or inadequate
responses. (Fairmont Ins. Co. v. Superior
Court (2000) 22 Cal.4th 245, 255; Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (a)
[motion to compel further responses lies “[o]n receipt of a response to a
demand for inspection”].)  “A trial
court's determination of a motion to compel discovery is reviewed for abuse of
discretion.  However, when the facts
asserted in support of and in opposition to the motion are in conflict, the
trial court's factual findings will be upheld if they are supported by
substantial evidence.” (Costco Wholesale
Corp. v. Superior Court (2009) 47 Cal.4th 725, 733 [cleaned up].) 
 
2.    
RPD No. 2
 
Plaintiff seeks the following:
 
DEMAND
FOR PRODUCTION NO. 1: Any and all DOCUMENTS that refer to, evidence or reflect
a statement taken by any party, person and/or witness to the INCIDENT referred
to in the complaint or from any persons with knowledge of relevant facts
regarding the INCIDENT referred to in the complaint (written statements given
by percipient witnesses are not work product (Rodriguez v. McDonel Douglas
Corp., (1978) 87 Cal. App. 3d 626)).
 
(Plaintiff’s
Separate Statement.)
 
            Defendant responded as follows:
 
Objection. This demand violates the
attorney-client, attorney work product and/or work product privileges as it
attempts, or potentially seeks, to discover notes, memoranda, strategy and
confidential reports of this responding party’s attorney prepared in the course
of litigation or to defend expected litigation by said attorney’s agents,
representatives, employees and investigators. Responding party will not produce
any document containing communications between responding party and its
attorneys (or anyone acting on counsel's behalf) as such are protected by the
attorney client privilege. Responding party will not produce any document that
contains its attorney's impressions, conclusions, opinions, or legal research
or theories on the grounds that they are protected by the attorney work product
privilege. 
 
This demand seeks documents that are protected
from disclosure by the attorney work product privilege (as to the identity of
witnesses). See Nacht & Lewis Architects, Inc. v. Superior Court
(1996) 47 Cal.App.4th 214. Additionally, this demand seeks documents that are
protected from disclosure by the attorney-client privilege (as to Defendant’s
statements). See Soltani-Rastegar v. Superior Court (1989) 208
Cal.App.3d 424. Further, the definition of “DOCUMENTS” is overbroad. Without
waiving such objection and the right to modify, amend or supplement this
response: Responding Party is only in possession of the privileged statement of
Responding Party’s employee, Ana Hernandez, a copy of which will not be
produced. 
 
Further, Plaintiff was interviewed by telephone
on June 17, 2022 with Plaintiff’s counsel on the call. Information in
connection with the interview is already in the possession of Plaintiff and her
attorney.
 
(Plaintiff’s
Separate Statement.)
 
            Plaintiff moves to compel production
of the referenced statement of Ana Hernandez on the grounds that the
attorney-client and work product privileges did not attach because Ana
Hernandez is an “independent witness,” and the “dominant purpose” of her
statement to Defendant’s insurer was not intended as a confidential communication
to lawyers, but rather as a factual statement to the claims adjuster.
 
            Defendant opposes, arguing that the
single and dominant purpose of obtaining the recorded statement from Ana
Hernandez was to transmit the statement to the adjuster’s attorneys in
anticipation of litigation.
 
            Per Evidence Code section 954,
“[t]he client, whether or not a party, has a privilege to refuse to disclose,
and to prevent another from disclosing, a confidential communication between
client and lawyer if the privilege is claimed by:  (a) The holder of the privilege; (b) A person
who is authorized to claim the privilege by the holder of the privilege; or (c)
The person who was the lawyer at the time of the confidential communication,
but such person may not claim the privilege if there is no holder of the
privilege in existence or if he is otherwise instructed by a person authorized
to permit disclosure.”  (Evid. Code, §
954.)  And “while attorney-client
communications are presumed to be confidential, the party claiming the
attorney-client privilege as a bar to disclosure has the burden of showing that
the communication sought to be suppressed falls within the parameters of the
privilege.”  (Scripps Health v.
Superior Court (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 529, 533 [cleaned up].)
 
            Moreover, “[i]t has long been
recognized that communications made by an insured to his liability insurance
company, concerning an event which may be made the basis of a claim against him
covered by the policy, is a privileged communication, as being between attorney
and client, if the policy requires the company to defend him through its
attorney, and the communication is intended for the information or assistance
of the attorney in so defending him.”  (Scripps Health v. Superior Court, supra, 109
Cal.App.4th at p. 535; see also Soltani-Rastegar
v. Superior Court (1989) 208 Cal.App.3d 424; Travelers Ins. Cos. v. Superior Court (1983) 143 Cal.App.3d
436.)  
 
            In D. I. Chadbourne, Inc. v.
Superior Court , the California Supreme Court addressed whether the
attorney-client privilege barred the disclosure of a corporate employee’s
statement.  In so doing, the Supreme
Court explained that whether or not the statement should be produced depends on
the dominant purpose for which the communication originated.  (D. I. Chadbourne, Inc. v. Superior Court
(1964) 60 Cal.2d 723, 737 [“When the corporate employer has more than one
purpose in directing such an employee to make such report or statement, the
dominant purpose will control, unless the secondary use is such that
confidentiality has been waived”].)  
The
Supreme Court further expounded:
 
[I]t is well settled that a communication is not
protected by the attorney-client privilege, even when made in the course of
professional employment, unless the client intends that it be treated in confidence.
For it is the client, and not the attorney, who may claim the privilege.  And that which was not privileged in the
first instance may not be made so merely by subsequent delivery to the
attorney.  When these basic rules are
applied to the usual corporate situation, a question arises as to whether the
employee who was called upon to make a report or statement intended the same to
be in confidence; or, if he had no specific intent, whether he was required by
the corporation to make a statement, and (if so) whether the corporation's
intent to transmit in confidence to its attorney is sufficient to supply the
necessary element of original intent to communicate in confidence?
 
(Id.
at pp. 732–733 [cleaned up].)  To
summarize, “[w]here the employee's connection with the matter grows out of his
employment to the extent that his report or statement is required in the
ordinary course of the corporation's business, the employee is no longer an
independent witness, and his statement or report is that of the employer.”  (Id. at p. 737; see also Sierra
Vista Hosp. v. Superior Court (1967) 248 Cal.App.2d 359 [Incident Report
generated by hospital administrator transmitted to hospital’s attorney through
the insurance carrier was privileged attorney client communication not subject
to disclosure].)
 
            Similarly, the attorney work product
doctrine is codified under Code of Civil Procedure section 2018.010, et seq.  
            
It is the policy of the state to do both of the
following:
 
(a) Preserve the rights of attorneys to prepare
cases for trial with that degree of privacy necessary to encourage them to
prepare their cases thoroughly and to investigate not only the favorable but
the unfavorable aspects of those cases.
 
(b) Prevent attorneys from taking undue advantage
of their adversary's industry and efforts.
 
(a) A writing that reflects an attorney's
impressions, conclusions, opinions, or legal research or theories is not
discoverable under any circumstances.
 
(b) The work product of an attorney, other than a
writing described in subdivision (a), is not discoverable unless the court
determines that denial of discovery will unfairly prejudice the party seeking
discovery in preparing that party's claim or defense or will result in an
injustice.
 
(See
Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2018.020, 2018.030.) 
“Absolute protection is afforded to writings that reflect ‘an attorney's
impressions, conclusions, opinions, or legal research or theories.’ All other
work product receives qualified protection; such material ‘is not discoverable
unless the court determines that denial of discovery will unfairly prejudice
the party seeking discovery in preparing that party's claim or defense or will
result in an injustice.’ ”  (Coito v.
Superior Court (2012) 54 Cal.4th 480, 485, citations omitted (hereafter Coito).)
 
            In Coito, the California
Supreme Court decided “[w]hat work product protection, if any, should be
accorded two items: first, recordings of witness interviews conducted by
investigators employed by defendant's counsel, and second, information
concerning the identity of witnesses from whom defendant's counsel has obtained
statements.”  (Coito, supra, 54
Cal.4th at p. 485.)  With respect to both
items, the Coito court opined:
 
[W]e hold that the recorded witness statements
are entitled as a matter of law to at least qualified work product protection.
The witness statements may be entitled to absolute protection if defendant can
show that disclosure would reveal its attorney's impressions, conclusions,
opinions, or legal research or theories. 
If not, then the items may be subject to discovery if plaintiff can show
that denial of discovery will unfairly prejudice [her] in preparing [her] claim
or will result in an injustice.
 
As to the identity of witnesses from whom
defendant's counsel has obtained statements, we hold that such information is
not automatically entitled as a matter of law to absolute or qualified work
product protection. In order to invoke the privilege, defendant must persuade
the trial court that disclosure would reveal the attorney's tactics,
impressions, or evaluation of the case (absolute privilege) or would result in
opposing counsel taking undue advantage of the attorney's industry or efforts
(qualified privilege).
 
(Id.
at p. 486 [cleaned up].)   Attorneys are
the holders of the “work product privilege.” 
(See Curtis v. Superior Court (2021) 62 Cal.App.5th 453, 468 [“The
work product privilege is held by the attorney, not the client”].)  
 
            Here, the Court finds that the
“Dominant Purpose Test” is applicable to determining whether the recorded
statement is covered by the attorney-client privilege and not subject to
disclosure.  To meet its burden to
prevent disclosure of the statement of Ana Hernandez under the attorney-client
privilege, Defendant advances the Declaration of Marie Rose (“Rose”), who is a
claims adjuster for Travelers Insurance. 
In that declaration, Rose declares:
 
2. I am the current claims representative
assigned to the above referenced claim and if called upon to testify under oath
as to the truth of the matters stated herein, I could and would competently do
so. 
 
3. On or around February 8, 2022, Plaintiff
claims to have been injured while on the insured’s business premises located at
11266 Santa Monica Blvd., Los Angeles, CA 90025.
 
4. The incident involving Plaintiff was reported
to Travelers on or around March 8, 2022. 
 
5. As a result of this incident, and at the
direction of counsel, Marble & Tile USA’s former employee, Ana Hernandez
provided a recorded statement to a former Travelers employee on or around March
14, 2022. 
 
6. Taking recorded statements of witnesses is a
general practice of Travelers, done at the direction of Travelers General
Counsel, when incidents occurred that give rise to a claim. The statements are
taken to obtain legal advice from counsel. 
 
7. The dominant and single purpose of obtaining
the recorded statement from Ana Hernandez was to transmit the recording to the
attorneys designated by Travelers for use in anticipation of litigation. 
 
8. The recorded statement of Ana Hernandez was
intended to be confidential and not to be used in any way by Marble & Tile
USA for investigative or other business purposes.
 
(Rose
Decl. ¶¶ 2-8.)  Thus, at the direction of
Defendant’s insurer’s counsel, Ana Hernandez gave a recorded witness statement
to a “former Travelers employee.”  
 
            Based upon the Rose declaration, the
Court finds that the recorded statement of Ana Hernandez, Defendant’s former
employee, is a communication “intended for the information or assistance of the
attorney in so defending” Defendant.  In
other words, the Dominant Purpose of the recorded statement was to transmit
information from Defendant (through its former employee Ana Hernandez) to its
attorney.  Therefore, the Court
determines that the attorney-client privilege bars the production of the
recorded statement of Ana Hernandez.
 
3.    
Sanctions
 
            A trial court may sanction a party
for engaging in the misuse of discovery, which includes: failure to respond or
submit to an authorized method of discovery; making an evasive response to
discovery; making, without substantial justification, an unmeritorious
objection to discovery; and making or opposing, unsuccessfully and without
substantial justification, a motion to compel or to limit discovery. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2023.010.)
 
In addition, Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.300, subdivision (d)
provides: “The court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a further response to
interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust.”
 
            Here, because the Court has
determined that the recorded statement at issue is protected from disclosure by
the attorney-client privilege, monetary sanctions are not appropriate.  
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
            Because the Court finds the recorded
statement of Ana Hernandez protected by the attorney-client privilege, the
Court denies Plaintiff’s motion to compel in its entirety.  Further, because the Court denies Plaintiff’s
motion to compel, the Court similarly denies Plaintiff’s request for monetary
sanctions.  
 
            Plaintiff shall provide notice of
the Court’s orders and file the notice with a proof of service forthwith.
 
 
 
DATED:  October 16, 2024                                                   ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court
 