  Case Number:  20STVC40804    Hearing Date:   August 15, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
Hearing Date: 8/15/24¿ 
CASE NO./NAME: 20STCV40804 Karen Alfaro vs. California Department of General
Services et al.
Moving Party: Defendant State of California
Responding Party: Plaintiff¿ 
Notice: Sufficient¿ 
Ruling: MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT IS GRANTED.
 
Background
On September 23, 2019,
at approximately 2:00 p.m., Plaintiff filed the instant case concerning an
incident involving Defendant Luther Lawson, who was driving behind Plaintiff.
The parties suspected there was a rear-end collision. Lawson exited his
vehicle, and as Plaintiff was about to exit hers, with one foot on the ground,
Lawson allegedly closed the car door on Plaintiff’s legs, causing injuries.
Lawson was operating a vehicle owned by the California Department of General
Services at the time of the incident. Plaintiff then followed Lawson and
observed him entering Yoshinoya, a fast- food restaurant, shortly after the
incident.
Plaintiff brought two causes of action, intentional
tort and general negligence, against Lawson and his employer, the State of
California. Defendant State of California now moves for summary judgment,
claiming that the incident occurred while Lawson was on his break and therefore
was not within the scope of employment.
Legal Standard
In reviewing a motion for summary judgment or
adjudication, courts must apply a three-step analysis: “(1) identify the issues
framed by the pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving party has negated the
opponent’s claims; and (3) determine whether the opposition has demonstrated
the existence of a triable, material factual issue.”¿(Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th
289, 294.)¿ 
¿ 
“[T]he initial burden is always on the moving
party to make a prima facia showing that there are no triable issues of
material fact.”¿(Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005)
128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.)¿A
defendant moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or
her burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party has
shown that one or more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be
established, or that there is a complete defense to the cause of action.”¿(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)¿If the moving party fails to carry its burden, the inquiry is over,
and the motion must be denied. (See Id.; see also Consumer Cause,
Inc. v. SmileCare (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 454, 468.)¿Even if the moving party does carry its burden, the non-moving
party will still defeat the motion by presenting evidence of a triable issue of
material fact. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826,
849-50.)¿ 
¿ 
To meet this burden of showing a cause of
action cannot be established, a defendant must show not only “that the
plaintiff does not possess needed evidence” but also that “the plaintiff
cannot reasonably obtain needed evidence.”¿(Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 854.)¿It is insufficient for the defendant to merely point out the
absence of evidence.¿(Gaggero
v. Yura (2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 884, 891.)¿The defendant “must also produce evidence that the plaintiff cannot
reasonably obtain evidence to support his or her claim.”¿(Ibid.)¿The
supporting evidence can be in the form of affidavits, declarations, admissions,
depositions, answers to interrogatories, and matters of which judicial notice
may be taken.¿(Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at
p. 855.)¿ 
¿ 
“Once the defendant … has met that burden, the
burden shifts to the plaintiff … to show that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) The plaintiff may not merely rely on
allegations or denials of its pleadings to show that a triable issue of
material fact exists, but instead, “shall set forth the specific facts showing
that a triable issue of material fact exists as to the cause of action.”¿(Ibid.)¿“If the
plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment should be granted.”¿(Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159
Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)¿ 
¿ 
The court must “liberally construe the
evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve all
doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party,” including “all
inferences reasonably drawn therefrom.”¿(Yanowitz
v. L’Oreal USA, Inc. (2005) 36 Cal.4th 1028, 1037; Aguilar, supra,
25 Cal.4th at pp. 844-45.) “On a summary judgment motion, the court must
therefore consider what inferences favoring the opposing party a factfinder
could reasonably draw from the evidence.¿While viewing the evidence in this manner, the court must bear in
mind that its primary function is to identify issues rather than to determine
issues.¿[Citation.]¿Only when the inferences are indisputable may the court decide the
issues as a matter of law.¿ If the
evidence is in conflict, the factual issues must be resolved by trial.”¿(Binder v. Aetna Life Ins. Co. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832,
839.)¿Further, “the trial court may not weigh the
evidence in the manner of a factfinder to determine whose version is more
likely true.¿[Citation.]¿Nor may the trial court grant summary judgment based on the court’s
evaluation of credibility. [Citation.]” (Id. at p. 840; see also Weiss
v. People ex rel. Department of Transportation (2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864
[“Courts deciding motions for summary judgment or summary adjudication may not
weigh the evidence but must instead view it in the light most favorable to the
opposing party and draw all reasonable inferences in favor of that party”].)¿ 
 
Going and Coming Rule
In order for a public
entity to be liable for an act or omission of its employee, that act or
omission must have been undertaken in the “course and scope” of employment. (Hoff
v. Vacaville Unified School Dist. (1998) 19 Cal.4th 925, 932.) California
Government Code section 815.2, subdivision (a) provides that “a public entity
is liable for injury proximately caused by an act or omission of an employee of
the public entity within the scope of his employment if the act or omission
would, apart from this section, have given rise to a cause of action against
that employee.” Plaintiff has the burden to demonstrate that the employee acted
in the scope of his employment. (Ducey v. Argo Sales Co. (1979) 25
Cal.3d 707, 721.)
Generally, an employee
is not acting within the scope and course of employment when commuting to or
from the workplace at the beginning or end of a work day. (Sumrall v. Modern
Alloys, Inc. (2017) 10 Cal.App.5th 961, 967-968.) Thus, accidents caused
during the employee's normal transit between home and work cannot support respondeat
superior liability. (This is known as the  “going and coming” rule.) This principle is
based on the theory that the employment relationship is suspended from the time
employees leave their jobs until they return and that during normal commutes,
employees are not rendering services directly or indirectly to their employers.
(Pierson v. Helmerich & Payne Int'l Drilling Co. (2016) 4
Cal.App.5th 608, 618.)  
The going and coming
rule applies to conduct even when an employee leaves for an authorized break. (Tryer
v. Ojai Valley Sch. (1992) 9 Cal.App.4th 1476, 1483 [affirming grant of
summary judgment where employee was involved in car accident after leaving work
for lunch]; see also Caldwell v. A.R.B., Inc. (1986) 176
Cal.App.3d 1028, 1039 [employee’s departure from work “that was merely taken at
an earlier time in the day than [her] regular commute” was squarely within the
going and coming rule].)
The Court in Sunderland
v. Lockheed Martin Aero. Sys. Support (2005) 130 Cal.App.4th 1,
explains that an employer is vicariously liable only if the employee
committed the tortious act within the scope of his employment, and the act is
within the scope of employment when “ ‘the risk of such an act is typical
of or broadly incidental to the employer's enterprise’ ” or “ ‘inherent in,
typical of or created by the work so that it is a foreseeable risk of the
particular employment.’ ” The court continued: “If an employee's act is purely
personal, it is not ‘typical of or broadly incidental to the employer's enterprise.’
[Citation.] If the main purpose of the injury-producing activity ‘was the
pursuit of the employee's personal ends, the employer is not liable.’
[Citations.]” (Id. at p. 11.) The court concluded the employee's trip to
a fast food restaurant was personal and not related to his employment or his
employer. The purpose of the employee's trip to buy fast food “was a purely
private and personal activity, ‘a substantial personal deviation from his
employment duties' sufficient to make it unfair to hold [the employer]
vicariously liable. [Citation.]” (Id. at p. 12.) This activity did not
create a risk typical of or broadly incidental to his employment. Consequently,
the employee was not acting within the scope of his employment. The court
affirmed summary judgment in favor of the employer.  (Ibid.) The
going and coming rule equally applies when an employee is traveling to or from
lunch, even in the employer's vehicle. ( Halliburton Energy Servs.,
Inc. v. Dep't of Transp. (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 87, 100-1.)
Undisputed Facts 
On September 23, 2020,
at approximately 2:00 p.m., Plaintiff was driving on Exposition Boulevard in
Los Angeles. Plaintiff attempted to exit her vehicle to see if the van, driven
by Defendant Lawson, that stopped behind her had rear-ended her car. Lawson’s
van did not hit Plaintiff’s car. However, because Plaintiff contended that
Lawson closed her car door on her legs, Plaintiff phoned the police and began
following Lawson. Plaintiff followed Lawson and advised police over the phone
that Lawson entered a Yoshinoya restaurant after leaving the scene of the
incident. Plaintiff never met Lawson before the incident. Plaintiff did not
know where Lawson worked before the incident.
Discussion
Defendant has met its prima
facie burden. It has provided undisputed evidence that Lawson was in the
midst of an outing to a fast food restaurant at the time of the incident,
albeit in a car owned by his employer.  The going and coming rule would thus
apply.  (See Halliburton Energy
Servs., Inc., supra.) 
Although Plaintiff
argues that Defendant did not meet its burden, Plaintiff did not present any
argument on how Defendant failed to meet its initial burden. While Plaintiff
cited various cases, it did not apply the law to the facts of this case. (Opp.
at 7.)
Plaintiff's main
argument is that there is a triable issue of fact regarding whether Lawson was
acting within the scope of employment at the time of the incident. Plaintiff
points to various excerpts from Lawson's deposition to support this claim.
Lawson testified that on the date of the incident, his shift started at 9:00
a.m. and ended at 3:30 p.m. (Lawson Depo. 21:25-22:4). He drove to the DMV for
air conditioning maintenance (Lawson Depo. 22:5-16) and testified that he has a
morning break at 9:00 a.m., a lunch break at 11:00 a.m., and an afternoon break
at 2:00 p.m. (Lawson Depo. 24:23-25:3). He finished his work at the DMV around
1:30 to 2:00 p.m. (Lawson Depo. 25:24), and the incident occurred around 2:00
p.m. after he completed his tasks (Lawson Depo. 24:6; 29:1-5). Lawson was on
his way to get food during his afternoon break when the incident occurred. He
stopped at Yoshinoya, ordered food, and intended to take his break there before
returning to the office. He was at the restaurant for 15-20 minutes (Lawson
Depo. 35:24-36:8) and indicated that it was the norm for him to go somewhere to
grab something to eat during his second break in the afternoon (Lawson Depo.
70:7-15).
Evidence presented by
Plaintiff indicates that the incident occurred while Lawson was en route to
Yoshinoya to eat, contradicting Plaintiff's assertion that it happened within
Lawson's scope of employment. Plaintiff suggests that the incident took place before
Lawson's scheduled afternoon break; however, this is unsupported by evidence,
as Lawson's break typically starts at 2:00 p.m., coinciding with the time of
the incident. Significantly, Lawson had completed his tasks at the DMV and was
traveling to Yoshinoya to take his break when the incident occurred. Therefore,
the incident transpired while Lawson was engaged in and in pursuit of a
personal activity.
Plaintiff contends that
even during his paid afternoon break, Lawson is still on the clock and
therefore within the scope of employment, yet Plaintiff presented no legal
authority to support this contention. While the court recognizes differences
between a lunch period and a mere break, particularly for hourly employees who
must clock out for lunches but not for breaks, where the employee is on the
clock during the break and off the clock during lunch; nevertheless, the
employment nexus is similar in both the lunch and break contexts when the
employee travels during these periods merely to obtain something to eat. (See
Bailey v. Filco, Inc. (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 1552, 1566-67.) The key factor
is not whether Lawson was on the clock, rather than whether the incident
occurred in pursuit of a purely private and personal activity unrelated to
Lawson’s work function.
Plaintiff further
argues that Lawson was driving a government vehicle at the time of the
incident, and that he was en route to return the vehicle to the office in Van
Nuys while performing duties mandated by Defendant CDGS. However, the going and
coming rule applies, even when the employee is driving a company car. (Halliburton
Energy Servs., Inc., supra.) Further, if the primary purpose of the
injury-producing activity was the pursuit of the employee’s personal ends, the
employer is not liable. (Sunderland, supra, 130 Cal.App.4th at p.
11.) Lawson’s deposition makes it clear that he had finished work at the DMV
and was headed to Yoshinoya to take his afternoon break and eat before
returning to the office in Van Nuys. Lawson testified that the incident
occurred while he was en route to Yoshinoya, intending to and indeed did take a
personal break of 15-20 minutes there. The Court finds this excursion to be a
full departure from Lawson’s employee duties, thereby taking his  conduct out of the scope of employment. Consequently,
Plaintiff failed to raise a triable issue of fact, and thus, summary judgment
is GRANTED.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party
intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to
the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed
by the case number.  The body of
the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact
information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless all parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.  You should
assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the
parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off
calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion
without leave.
 
 
 
 
 