 Case Number:  22STCV30916    Hearing Date:   August 15, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
¿ 
MOTIONS TO COMPEL MENTAL EXAMINATION
Hearing Date: 8/15//24
CASE NO./NAME: 22STCV30916 HORACIO GALVAN
vs CAESAR VALIENTE, et al.
Moving Party: Defendant Valiente
Responding Party: Plaintiff
Notice: Sufficient
Ruling: MOTION TO COMPEL MENTAL
EXAMINATION IS CONTINUED
 
Legal Standard
¿ 
Except for defense physicals in
personal injury cases (in which one examination is permitted as a matter of
course) and exams arranged by stipulation, a court order is required for a
physical or mental examination. Such order may be made only after notice and
hearing, and for “good cause shown.” (CCP §2032.320(a).)
¿ 
The examination will be limited to
whatever condition is “in controversy” in the action. (CCP §2032.020(a).) This
means the examination must be directly related to the specific injury or
condition that is the subject of the litigation. Roberts v. Superior Court
(1973) 9 Cal.3d 330, 337. Often, a party's pleadings put his or her mental or
physical condition in controversy ... as when a plaintiff claims continuing
mental or physical injury resulting from defendant's acts: “A party who chooses
to allege that he has mental and emotional difficulties can hardly deny his
mental state is in controversy.” See Vinson v. Superior Court (1987) 43
Cal.3d 833, 837, wherein the plaintiff claimed ongoing emotional distress from
sexual harassment by former employer. Discovery responses can also frame the
issues regarding the injuries and damages alleged.
¿ 
Where the plaintiff's injuries are
complex, several exams may be necessary by specialists in different fields.
There is no limit on the number of physical or mental exams that may be ordered
on a showing of good cause. The good cause requirement checks any potential
harassment of the plaintiff. See Shapira v. Superior Court (1990) 224
Cal.App.3d 1249, 1255.
 
The burden is on the moving party
to show (by declarations or other evidence) that the examinee's condition is
“in controversy” in the action. The moving party must also establish good cause
for the examination(s) sought. A court order for physical or mental examination
must be based on a showing of “good cause” (CCP § 2032.320(a)): (1) relevancy
to the subject matter; and (2) specific facts justifying discovery: i.e.,
allegations showing the need for the information sought and lack of means for
obtaining it elsewhere. (Vinson v. Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833,
840.) The purpose is to protect an examinee's privacy by preventing annoying
“fishing expeditions” - i.e., one party may not compel another to undergo psychiatric testing
“solely on the basis of speculation that something of interest may surface.” (Id.)
 
The notice of motion must state
the time, place, identity and specialty of the examiner, and the “manner,
conditions, scope and nature of the examination.” (CCP § 2032.310(b).) The
requirement for specification of the “manner, conditions, scope and nature of
the examination” apparently requires disclosure of whatever diagnostic tests
and procedures will be utilized (x-rays, blood and urine samples, etc.). (See
CCP § 2032.220(c).) The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration. (CCP § 2032.310(b).)¿¿ 
 
Discussion
 
On September 21, 2022, Plaintiff Horacio Galvan filed
the present case, alleging he was attacked by Defendant Caesar Valiente, an
off-duty police officer, while Plaintiff was trying to prevent Defendant's dog
from attacking his dog. Plaintiff claims he was diagnosed with PTSD and severe
mental distress as a result of the incident. On July 10, 2024, Plaintiff
designated Amy Childers as a non-retained medical expert to opine on
Plaintiff's mental condition and emotional distress. On July 16, 2024,
Defendant requested Plaintiff’s mental examination. Subsequently, on July 17,
2024, Defendant moved the court to compel Plaintiff’s mental examination. 
 
Defendant has demonstrated that
Plaintiff's mental condition is in controversy and that there is good cause for
the examination, as Plaintiff was diagnosed with PTSD and severe emotional
distress as a result of the incident. Additionally, Plaintiff has recently
designated an expert who will opine on his mental condition. Plaintiff does not
dispute that Plaintiff's mental condition is in controversy or that there is
good cause for the mental examination in his opposition.
 
Defendant
opposes the present motion on several procedural grounds. First, Plaintiff
argues that the notice fails to specify the identity of the psychologist who
will conduct the examination, as it states, "The psychological evaluation
will be performed by Dr. Rad and a testing associate." However, Dr. Rad
filed a declaration clarifying that she "will personally conduct both the
clinical interview of Plaintiff and the aforementioned battery of psychological
and psychometric testing and will score and tabulate the data it produces by
herself without the assistance of 'a testing associate.'" (Dr. Heleya Rad,
PSY.D’s Declaration, ¶10). Thus, Defendant has identified Dr. Rad as the
psychologist who will be conducting the examination, in compliance with CCP §
2032.320(d).
 
Second,
Plaintiff argues that Defendant did not specify the diagnostic tests to be
performed in accordance with CCP § 2032.320(d). Defendant’s demand states that
all measures that will be administered to the Plaintiff will be drawn from the
test list provided below: TEST LIST Beck Anxiety Inventory (BAI) Beck
Depression Inventory-2 (BDI-2) Beck Hopelessness Scale (BHS) Clinician
Administered PTSD Scale for DSM-5 (CAPS-5) Detailed Assessment of Posttraumatic
Stress (DAPS) Mini Mental Status Exam- Brief or Standard (MMSE-2-BV/SV)
Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory-3 (MMPI-3) Personality Assessment
Inventory (PAI) PTSD Checklist for DSM-5 (PCL-5) Trauma Symptom Inventory-2
(TSI-2) Victoria (VSVT) Wide Range Achievement Test (WRAT-4) Ex. "7".
 
The nature of a
mental examination often requires a certain degree of flexibility, as the examiner
may find certain tests unnecessary or new ones pertinent as he/she conducts the
interview and evaluations. At the time of the present motion, the psychologist
is only aware that Plaintiff has been diagnosed with PTSD and severe emotional
distress. Without a prior testing and interview, predicting the precise tests
to be conducted in advance is impractical. As the examination unfolds and more
information is gathered, the relevance of certain tests may change.
Consequently, it is reasonable for Defendant to choose potential tests from a
list based on the evolving specifics of the case as the assessment progresses. Carpenter
v. Superior Court, 141 Cal.App.4th 249, 267 (Cal. Ct. App. 2006), supports
this approach by allowing Plaintiff to request the identification of
"potential tests and procedures" in the moving papers.  The Court acknowledges that providing a list
of tests could potentially lead to abuse, where Defendant might include an
exhaustive array of tests, obscuring the relevant ones within a sea of options
and thereby failing to give Plaintiff adequate notice of the actual tests to be
performed. This is not the situation here. The tests listed by Defendant are
related to Plaintiff's alleged PTSD and severe emotional distress, and the list
is concise enough to provide Plaintiff with adequate notice, allowing him to
object to any specific tests he deems inappropriate, irrelevant, or abusive.
 
Third, the Court
agrees with the Defendant that a separate statement is not necessary in this
instance. California Rule of Court 3.1345 states that a separate statement is
required “[f]or medical examination over objection.” (Rule 3.1345(6)). Since no
objection to the mental examination was served, the requirement for a separate
statement does not apply. The purpose of the separate statement is to allow the
court to review objections and responses side by side for each request, for the
court’s convenience. This requirement is inapplicable in the present motion as
no objections were raised.
 
Having said
that, the Court agrees with Plaintiff that no meet and confer was conducted by
Defendant prior to the filing of the present motion. Defendant sent a request
to stipulate to a mental examination on July 16, and the very next day, served
a demand for the mental examination and filed a motion to compel. Defendant
argues that based on past meet and confer experiences with Plaintiff's counsel
where counsel does not respond, a more modest effort is sufficient under the
circumstances. However, even if the Court were to agree with that position, it
does not perceive the effort here to be even “modest.” Typically, meet and
confer efforts involve a phone call or an in-person meeting.  Serving a demand for a mental examination and
then filing a motion to compel on the very same day does not constitute a
modest effort but rather no effort at all. This approach does not provide
Plaintiff with a reasonable amount of time to respond or to engage in meet and
confer.
 
Overall, the Court
finds that there is good cause for the mental examination and that the demand
for the mental examination has met the requirements of CCP § 2032. The court will continue the
present motion to _____, 2024, and ORDERS the parties to meet and confer
on Plaintiff’s mental examination based on the Court’s inclination as stated in
the foregoing analysis.
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party
intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to
the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.  The body of
the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact
information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless all parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.  You should
assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the
parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off
calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion
without leave.
 