 Case Number:  21STCV37769    Hearing Date:   August 15, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
MOTION FOR ORDER TO SEAL PRIVILEGED DOCUMENTS
Hearing Date: 8/15/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 21STCV37769 JUAN PABLO
FERRUFINO MEJIA vs MICHELLE JO FINKELSTEIN. 
Moving Party: Plaintiff
Responding Party: Defendant Michelle Finkelstein
Notice: Sufficient 
Ruling: MOTION TO SEAL GRANTED 
 
Background
On July 28, 2020, a
staff member in Plaintiff's counsel's office apparently included an email
communication from Plaintiff to “Monica,” his case manager at PARRIS Law Firm,
in information provided to Dr. Fishman, Plaintiff’s doctor.
Plaintiff remained
unaware of this disclosure until June 18, 2024, when Dr. Fishman was deposed.
During this deposition, defense counsel introduced this email as Exhibit 7,
following Dr Fisherman’s production of Plaintiff’s entire medical file on June
17, 2024. In response, Plaintiff requested that defense counsel either return
the privileged information or agree to seal Exhibit 7 and any related
testimony. Plaintiff also sought a stipulation to prevent the disclosure of the
letter's contents during the ongoing litigation and trial. Defendant refused
these requests.
Plaintiff now moves the
Court for the following orders (1) an order prohibiting Defendant and her
attorneys from disclosing any privileged documents or communications; (2) an
order compelling Defendant and her attorneys to either return, destroy, or
redact all privileged documents and information in their possession; (3) an
order to seal any court records containing privileged information; and (4) an
order requiring Defendant to disclose the names and contact information of any
individuals or entities who received copies of the privileged documents or
information derived from such documents, along with the dates of such
disclosures.
Legal Standard
Generally,
attorney-client privilege “is waived with respect to a communication protected
by the privilege if any holder of the privilege, without coercion, has
disclosed a significant part of the communication or has consented to
disclosure made by anyone.” Evid. Code § 912. Nonetheless, “‘waiver’ does not
include accidental, inadvertent disclosure of privileged information by the
attorney.” State Comp. Ins. Fund v. WPS, Inc., 70 Cal. App. 4th 644, 654
(1999); accord Newark Unified School Dist. v. Superior Court, 245
Cal. App. 4th 887, 900 (2015).  
Code of Civil Procedure
section 2031.285(a) provides that “[i]f electronically stored information
produced in discovery is subject to a claim of privilege or of protection as
attorney work product, the party making the claim may notify any party that received
the information of the claim and the basis for the claim.” After receiving such
notice, “a party that received the information shall immediately sequester the
information and either return the specified information and any copies that may
exist or present the information to the court conditionally under seal for a
determination of the claim.” Civ. Proc. Code. § 2031.285(b). At least one Court
of Appeal decision has stated that “by enacting Code of Civil Procedure section
2031.285 in 2009, the Legislature codified the rule [that inadvertent
disclosures do not constitute waivers of attorney-client privilege], at least
as to electronically stored materials produced during discovery.” Newark
Unified School Dist., 245 Cal. App. 4th at 900 (citations omitted). Thus, a
party may claw back privileged electronically stored information inadvertently
produced in discovery, and the opposing party may challenge that claim of
privilege in a noticed motion.  
 
Discussion
Defendant contends that
the email exchanges between Plaintiff and the case manager at his attorney's
office do not qualify for attorney-client privilege. It is true that not all
communications between a client and their attorney are privileged. (Los
Angeles County Bd. of Supervisors v. Superior Court (2016) 2 Cal.5th 282,
296.) Nonetheless, the specifics of the communication, as described by both
Plaintiff and Defendant, reveal that the nature of the communication appears to
center on discussing case evidence, seeking to receive legal advice and
instructing counsel on managing a specific aspect of the case. Further, these
communications occurred after Plaintiff had retained counsel, indicating that
they were made within the context of legal representation.
Defendant argues that
Plaintiff’s counsel may have intentionally disclosed the communication to Dr.
Fisherman to influence his professional judgment. Though attorney-client
privilege is only waivable by the privilege holder and is not negated by
unauthorized disclosures by the client's agent (DP Pham, LLC v. Cheadle
(2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 653, 668), Defendant seems to suggest that that
Plaintiff authorized his attorney to disclose the email to Dr. Fisherman in
attempt to have Dr. Fisherman alter his medical report.  However, this suggestion appears to be
entirely speculative.
In any event, Defendant
here has not followed the protocol of CCP § 2031.285(b).  That section describes what Defendant should
have done to use the contested information. 
Defendant did not do that. 
Accordingly, the Motion is granted in an effort to place the parties in
the position intended by that CCP section.
PLEASE TAKE
NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date
and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party
submitting. 
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the
hearing to argue. 
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion
without leave.
 