  Case Number:  20STCV15993    Hearing Date:   April 15, 2024    Dept:  14 Williams Vs. Wells Fargo Case Background             This is the
second of four related cases, all arising out of the management of a set of
medical clinics. The individual Plaintiff alleges that he set up these medical
clinics and hired Defendants to manage them. He further claims that Defendants
then embezzled millions of dollars from the clinics. On March 24, 2021, Plaintiffs
Wilbur A. Williams, Jr. M.D (“Williams”) and Wilbur Williams, M.D., Inc. (“Practice”)
filed their Second Amended Complaint for (1) Breach of Contract, (2) Declaratory
Relief, (3) Conspiracy to Convert/Embezzle Funds, (4) Negligence, (5) Breach of
the Implied Covenant, (6) Financial Elder Abuse, and (7) Unfair Competition against
Defendants Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (“Bank”), Hovanes Tonoyan (“Tonoyan”)
(collectively “Wells Fargo Defendants”), Sevana Petrosian (“Petrosian”), Salina
Ranjbar (“Ranjbar”), Vana Mehrabian (“Mehrabian”), Staforde Palmer (“Palmer”)
(collectively “Petrosian Defendants”), and DOES 1-100.  On June 30, 2021, Judge Barbara M.
Scheper, sitting in Department 30 of this courthouse, sustained the demurrer of
the Wells Fargo Defendants, without leave to amend. On July 8, 2021, Judge
Scheper ordered the claims against the Petrosian Defendants to arbitration. Appeal             Plaintiffs
appealed the dismissal of the Wells Fargo Defendants. The Court of Appeal
affirmed in part, reversed in part, and remanded with directions. The dismissal
of the second, fourth, and sixth causes of action was affirmed. The
dismissal of the third and seventh causes of action was reversed. The
trial court was additionally instructed to (1) hear a motion for leave to amend
related to the first and fifth causes of action should Plaintiffs choose to
bring it, (2) hear a motion to strike portions of the SAC should defense choose
to renew it.             On October
14, 2022, Judge Scheper issued a minute order acknowledging receipt of the
remittitur from the Court of Appeal and conforming her prior ruling to its
instructions. She also accepted a peremptory challenge filed by Plaintiffs.             The case,
along with all the related cases, was then assigned to this department. Arbitration             Plaintiffs
did not appeal the order compelling his claims against the Petrosian
Defendants to arbitration. The arbitration has not yet taken place.  Current Status Plaintiffs’ claims against the
Petrosian Defendants were compelled to arbitration by Judge Scheper. They will
not be tried in this court. On March 21, 2023, this court ordered the court
proceedings against the Petrosian Defendants dismissed for lack of prosecution.
Plaintiffs appealed that order. On April 2, 2024, this court received an
opinion from the Court of Appeal which reverses that order and directs the
Petrosian Defendants to open arbitration proceedings and seek dismissal from
the arbitrator. No remittitur has yet been issued. Plaintiffs’ case against the Wells
Fargo Defendants remains pending in court and has been narrowed to the third
and seventh causes of action. On December 13, 2022, this court ordered certain
factual allegations stricken from the SAC but did not remove any causes of
action or claims for damages. On December 22, 2022, the Wells Fargo Defendants
filed their Answer to the SAC. Plaintiff did file a motion for leave to amend,
as permitted by the Court of Appeal. This court denied that motion on July 20,
2023.  On May 2, 2023, this court granted
leave to substitute Gail Dee Lew-Williams (“Lew-Williams”) as
successor-in-interest to Plaintiff Williams, who is now deceased.             Jury Trial
is presently set for April 29, 2024. Instant Motion The Wells Fargo Defendants now move
this court for an order bifurcating the trial of the seventh cause of action
for Unfair Competition, as well as trial on the amount of punitive damages. Decision             The motion
is GRANTED. Plaintiff’s seventh cause of action for unfair competition will be
tried first to the court. After conclusion of that matter, if any issues of
fact remain to be resolved, Plaintiff’s third cause of action will be tried to
the jury. If the jury returns the verdict required by Civil Code
§ 3295(d), only then will there be a trial on the amount of punitive
damages. Governing Statutes Code of Civil Procedure § 598
states, in pertinent part, as follows:             “The court
may, when the convenience of witnesses, the ends of justice, or the economy and efficiency of
handling the litigation would be promoted thereby, on motion of a
party, after notice and hearing, make an order, no later than the close
of pretrial conference in cases in which such pretrial conference is to be
held, or, in other cases, no later than
30 days
before the trial date, that the trial of any issue or any part thereof shall precede the trial of any
other issue or any part thereof in the case…” (emphasis added). Section 1048(b) states, in relevant
part, as follows:             “The court,
in furtherance of convenience or to avoid prejudice, or when separate trials will be conducive
to expedition and economy, may order a separate trial of any cause of
action, including a cause of action asserted in a cross-complaint, or of any
separate issue or of any number of causes of action or issues…” Discussion The California Supreme Court has
decided that Unfair Competition claims are tried to the court, not to a jury. Nationwide
Biweekly Administration, Inc. v. Superior Court (2020) 9 Cal.5th
279, 305 (“a cause of action under the UCL…is to be tried by the court rather
than by a jury”). And where a complaint includes bench issues and jury issues,
the court tries the bench issues first. Hoopes v. Dolan (2008) 168
Cal.App.4th 146, 156-157. Therefore, the Unfair Competition claim
must be tried first. If there is any factual issue left
for a jury to decide after the court makes its rulings on the Unfair
Competition claim, the third cause of action will be tried to a jury. However,
Civil Code § 3295(d) provides that the court “shall” bifurcate the issue
of the amount of punitive damages from the rest of the trial. Only if the jury
returns “a verdict for plaintiff awarding actual damages and finds that a
defendant is guilty of malice, oppression, or fraud” may the court proceed to
trial on the amount of punitive damages. Id. Conclusion             The order
of trial is determined by statute and case law as set forth above. The Wells
Fargo Defendants have asked that this court follow those rules, and Plaintiffs
have not opposed the motion. Therefore, the motion is GRANTED.  
