  Case Number:  24STCV15953    Hearing Date:   November 13, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     November 13, 2024               TRIAL DATE: NOT
SET
                                                           
CASE:                         Hassan Halawi, et al. v. 596 New
Hampshire, LLC
 
CASE NO.:                 24STCV15953            
 
DEMURRER
TO COMPLAINT AND MOTION TO STRIKE PORTIONS OF COMPLAINT

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant 596 New Hampshire, LLC
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiffs Hassan
Halawi, Sylvia Kim, & Joseph Sundstrom (MTS Only—no response to Demurrer)
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is a habitability action that was filed on June 26, 2024. Plaintiffs
allege that they leased an apartment from Defendant which contained numerous
structural and habitability defects. 
 
Defendant demurs to the third cause
of action for unfair competition, the seventh cause of action for negligent
infliction of emotional distress, and the eighth cause of action for
intentional infliction of emotional distress. Defendant also moves to strike
portions of the Complaint pertaining to punitive damages. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Defendant’s Demurrer is SUSTAINED without
leave to amend as to the seventh cause of action, SUSTAINED with
leave to amend as to the eighth cause of action and otherwise OVERRULED. This
ruling is without prejudice to the assertion of claims for emotional distress
under the fourth cause of action for negligence. 
 
            Defendant’s Motion to Strike is
MOOT.
 
            Plaintiffs shall have 30 days leave
to amend the Complaint from the date of this order. 
 
//
DISCUSSION:
 
Demurrer to Complaint
 
Defendant demurs to the third cause
of action for unfair competition, the seventh cause of action for negligent
infliction of emotional distress, and the eighth cause of action for
intentional infliction of emotional distress.
 
Legal Standard
 
A demurrer tests whether the complaint
states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740,
747.) When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in
context. (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and Power (2006)
144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.) In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be
apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A demurrer tests the
pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it
lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are
judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d
902, 905.) “The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the
complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of
action.” (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at p. 747.) The ultimate facts
alleged in the complaint must be deemed true, as well as all facts that may be
implied or inferred from those expressly alleged. (Marshall v. Gibson, Dunn
& Crutcher (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1397, 1403; see also Shields v.
County of San Diego (1984) 155 Cal.App.3d 103, 133 [stating, “[o]n
demurrer, pleadings are read liberally and allegations contained therein are
assumed to be true”].) “This rule of liberal construction means that the
reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not the
defendant.” (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th
1228, 1238.) 
 
Meet and Confer
 
Before filing a demurrer, the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who has filed the pleading subject to the demurrer and file a declaration
detailing their meet-and-confer efforts.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41(a).)
However, an insufficient meet-and-confer process is not grounds
to overrule or sustain a demurrer.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41(a)(4).)
 
The Declaration of Andrew M. Morrow
states that Defendant’s counsel emailed Plaintiff’s counsel on September 25,
2024 seeking to meet and confer regarding the issues raised in this demurrer.
(Declaration of Andrew M. Morrow ISO Dem. ¶ 2.) Plaintiffs’ counsel stated that
he was not available until October 7, 2024. (Id. ¶ 2.) Defendant does
not explain why this delay prevented the parties from meeting and conferring
before bringing this motion. Defendant has thus failed to demonstrate a
compliant meet-and-confer effort. Nevertheless, in the interest of expedience,
the Court will address the Demurrer on its merits.
 
Third Cause of Action: Unfair Competition
 
            Defendant
demurs to the third cause of action for failure to state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action. 
 
California Business and Professions Code § 17200 prohibits
any “unlawful, unfair or fraudulent business act or practice.” Ultimately, “an
‘unfair’ business practice occurs when that practice ‘offends an established
public policy or when the practice is immoral, unethical, oppressive,
unscrupulous or substantially injurious to consumers.” (Davis v. Ford Motor
Credit Co., LLC (2009) 179 Cal.App.4th 581, 585.) “Unlawful” practices are
business practices forbidden by any law.” (Olszewski v. Scripps Health
(2003) 30 Cal.4th 798, 827.) “Unfair” practices must also be tethered to some
underlying constitutional, statutory, or regulatory provision. (Scripps
Clinic v. Superior Court (2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 917, 940.) 
 
            Defendant
argues that this claim is inadequately pled because the Complaint does not
identify any specific practices that are unfair, unlawful, or fraudulent.
Defendant’s contention is specious. The Complaint plainly alleges that Defendants
violated, inter alia, Civil Code sections 1927 (pertaining to the
covenant of quiet enjoyment) and 3479 (nuisance) as well as Los Angeles
Municipal Code sections 151.00 et seq. (Complaint ¶ 49.) These statutes
correspond to the fifth and sixth causes of action for breach of the covenant
of quiet enjoyment (¶¶ 57-67), the first cause of action for private nuisance,
(¶¶ 32-40), and the second cause of action for unlawful collection of rent. (¶¶
41-46.) The Court therefore does not share Defendant’s view that the third
cause of action fails to state facts sufficient to support a claim for unlawful
business practices.
 
            Accordingly,
Defendant’s Demurrer to the third cause of action is OVERRULED.
 
Seventh Cause of Action: Negligent Infliction of
Emotional Distress
 
            Defendant
demurs to the seventh cause of action for negligent infliction of emotional
distress for failure to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.
As Defendant states, well-settled precedent holds that negligent infliction of
emotional distress is not an independent tort, but merely the tort of
negligence. (E.g., Christensen v. Superior Court (1991) 54 Cal.3d 868,
885.)
 
            As
Plaintiffs have separately alleged a cause of action for negligence, the Court
concurs with Defendant that the seventh cause of action is improper.
Accordingly, Defendant’s Demurrer to the seventh cause of action is SUSTAINED.
This ruling is without prejudice to the assertion of any claims for emotional
distress arising from Defendant’s negligence under the existing cause of action
for negligence. 
 
Eighth Cause of Action: Intentional Infliction of
Emotional Distress
 
            Defendants
demur to the eighth cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional
distress for failure to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.
 
“The elements of the tort of intentional infliction of
emotional distress are:    
‘“(1) extreme and outrageous conduct by
the defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the
probability of causing, emotional distress;   (2) the plaintiff’s suffering severe or extreme emotional
distress; and (3) actual and proximate causation of the emotional distress by
the defendant’s outrageous conduct. …” Conduct to be outrageous must be so
extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized
community.’ [Citation.]” (Citation omitted.) “It is not enough that the conduct
be intentional and outrageous. It must be conduct directed at the plaintiff, or occur in the presence of a plaintiff of whom the defendant
is aware.” 
 
(Catsouras v. Department of California Highway Patrol (2010)
181 Cal.App.4th 856, 874-875.) The defendant’s conduct must be “directed
primarily” at the plaintiffs, “calculated to cause them severe emotional
distress,” or “done with knowledge of their presence and of a substantial
certainty that they would suffer severe emotional injury.” (Christensen v.
Superior Court (1991) 54 Cal.3d 868, 906.) 
 
            Defendant
contends this cause of action is inadequately pled because Plaintiffs have not
alleged conduct which was extreme and outrageous, nor have they alleged that
the conduct was intentionally directed at Plaintiffs, and have not offered
sufficient allegations of severe emotional distress. 
 
            The
Complaint, as pled, alleges that Plaintiffs’ rental unit is uninhabitable
because of (1) holes in the walls and ceiling (see Complaint ¶¶ 16-18); (2)
nonfunctional electrical outlets (¶ 16), (3) obstruction of the front door (¶
17); (4) rat infestation (¶ 19); (5) water leaks (¶ 20); (6) missing appliances
and smoke detectors (¶ 21); (7) damaged railings at the front entrance (¶ 22);
(8) birds nesting in the bathroom (¶23); and (9) office furniture and cubicles
being stored in the bedrooms (¶ 24). The Complaint also includes images which,
construed in the light favorable to Plaintiffs, evidence severe dilapidation in
the rental unit. Although Defendant attempts to minimize the deficiencies
alleged in the pleadings, the Court is not prepared to say that the
deficiencies could not, as a matter of law, rise to the level of “severe and
outrageous” conduct. 
 
            That said,
the Complaint alleges that Defendant intentionally caused these conditions but offers
no facts to support the bare conclusion that Defendant intended to cause
emotional distress. (Complaint ¶¶ 26, 78.) Moreover, although Plaintiffs allege
emotional distress, the Complaint offers no facts to support that contention,
nor any specifics which would support a claim of severe emotional
distress. (Complaint ¶¶ 27; 79.) The Court therefore concurs with Defendant
that the eighth cause of action is inadequately pled insofar as it does not
adequately allege intent to cause severe emotional distress and does not allege
that severe emotional distress resulted.
 
            Accordingly,
Defendant’s Demurrer to the eighth cause of action is SUSTAINED.
 
Leave to Amend
 
            When a demurrer is sustained, the
Court determines whether there is a reasonable possibility that the defect can
be cured by amendment. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318).  When
a plaintiff “has pleaded the general set of facts upon which his cause of
action is based,” the court should give the plaintiff an opportunity to amend
his complaint, since plaintiff should not “be deprived of his right to maintain
his action on the ground that his pleadings were defective for lack of
particulars.” (Reed v. Norman (1957) 152 Cal.App.2d 892,
900.) Accordingly, California law imposes the burden on the plaintiffs to
demonstrate the manner in which they can amend their pleadings to state their
claims against a defendant.  (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18
Cal.3d 335, 349.) “Denial of leave to amend constitutes an abuse of discretion
unless the complaint shows on its face it is incapable of amendment. 
[Citation.]  Liberality in permitting amendment is the rule, if a fair
opportunity to correct any defect has not been given." (Angie M. v.
Superior Court (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1217, 1227.)
 
            Plaintiffs have not demonstrated how
the seventh and eighth causes of action could be amended to cure the
deficiencies identified in this demurrer. Moreover, as the Court has concluded
that the seventh cause of action is duplicative of the fourth cause of action
for negligence, leave to amend is not proper as to that claim. With respect to
the eighth cause of action, however, as the Court has sustained the demurrer to
that claim for lack of detail, the method of curing that deficiency is facially
apparent. The Court will therefore exercise its discretion to permit amendment
as to the eighth cause of action. 
 
Conclusion
 
            Accordingly, Defendant’s Demurrer is
SUSTAINED without leave to amend as to the seventh cause of
action, SUSTAINED with leave to amend as to the eighth cause of
action and otherwise OVERRULED. This ruling is without prejudice to the
assertion of claims for emotional distress under the fourth cause of action for
negligence. 
 
Motion to Strike
 
            Defendant
moves to strike portions of the Complaint. As the Court has sustained the
accompanying Demurrer with leave to amend, Defendant’s Motion to Strike is
MOOT.  
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly,
Defendant’s Demurrer is SUSTAINED without leave to
amend as to the seventh cause of action, SUSTAINED with leave to
amend as to the eighth cause of action and otherwise OVERRULED. This ruling is
without prejudice to the assertion of claims for emotional distress under the
fourth cause of action for negligence. 
 
            Defendant’s Motion to Strike is
MOOT.
 
            Plaintiffs shall have 30 days leave
to amend the Complaint from the date of this order. 
 
            Moving
Party to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  November 13,
2024                            ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 