 Case Number:  24STCV11955    Hearing Date:   January 2, 2025    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Catherine Elizabeth Graham,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
24STCV11955




 
vs.


 


 
                        Tentative Ruling
 




 
Western University of
  Health Sciences,


 
 
 
Defendant.


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date:
January 2, 2025
Department 54,
Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Demurrer to
First Amended Complaint and Motion to Strike
Moving Party: Western
University of Health Sciences
Responding
Party: Plaintiff Catherine Elizabeth Graham
 
T/R:      DEFENDANT’S
DEMURRER TO THE THIRD, FIFTH, SEVETH AND TWELFTH CAUSES OF ACTION IS SUSTAINED
WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND. THE DEMURRER TO THE REMAINING CAUSES OF ACTION IS
SUSTAINED WITH 30 DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND. 
THE MOTION TO STRIKE IS DENIED AS MOOT.
DEFENDANT TO NOTICE. 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please email the
courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with notice to opposing
counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the day of the hearing.
The Court considers the moving papers, reply,
and request for leave to amend.
BACKGROUND
On February 1, 2023, Plaintiff Catherine
Elizabeth Graham filed a complaint against Defendant Western University of
Health Sciences. Following Defendant’s demurrer, Plaintiff filed the operative
first amended complaint on October 7, 2024, asserting causes of action for (1)
fraudulent concealment; (2) negligent misrepresentation; (3) wrongful
termination; (4) intentional misrepresentation; (5) breach of fiduciary duty;
(6) violation of CDAF; (7) strict liability; (8) negligence; (9) invasion of
privacy; (10) trespass to chattels; (11) IIED; and (12) conversion. 
Plaintiff applied to Western University of
Health Sciences in the 2017-2018 application cycle, having graduated from UCLA
and UC Irvine with three majors, a minor, and a master’s degree. In the fall of
2018, Plaintiff allegedly encountered a grade discrepancy due to conflicting
instructions from Naida Jakirlic, College of Optometry instructor, and Tobias
Boehm, College of Dental Medicine instructor, leading to a formal grade appeal
in April 2019. She alleges that in retaliation for her grade appeal, she was
placed on academic probation by Ida Chung in May 2019, which she claims was
unjust.  Upon resuming classes in the
fall, she faced additional tensions and allegations of unprofessionalism,
leading to further academic probation and eventually her dismissal in January
2020 after a Student Performance Committee hearing. 
In February 2020, Plaintiff met with
Elizabeth Hoppe, Dean of the College of Optometry, and Andrea Quezada, where
she was pressured to either repeat the second year or withdraw. She alleges
that this was part of continued harassment and discrimination due to her
affiliation with ophthalmology and her ambitions. Upon reapplying, Plaintiff’s
request to resume her studies was denied by Hoppe, who claimed the decision was
made by the Admissions Committee. She further alleges covert involvement by
Hoppe in subsequent meetings and continued harassment. In August 2021,
Plaintiff reported a violation of the Family Education Rights and Privacy Act
(FERPA) and stalking by Hoppe to the Office of the Provost, David Baron, who
acknowledged her intent to transfer. 
Plaintiff alleges that from August 2021 to
June 2022, WesternU operated under a “cult-like” covert culture, engaging in
harassment, unauthorized use of her data, and false advertising practices. In
May 2022, she filed multiple Title IX complaints and reported various
incidents, including unauthorized processing of her information by Andrea
Quezada and cyber law violations to the Board of Trustees. She continued to
face retaliation, including being locked out of university facilities and
having her withdrawal mishandled. In September 2022, she notified the Office of
the Attorney General about her complaints, alleging ongoing issues and seeking
redress. 
ANALYSIS
A demurrer to a complaint may be taken to the
whole complaint or to any of the causes of action in it. (CCP § 430.50(a).) A
demurrer challenges only the legal sufficiency of the complaint, not the truth
of its factual allegations or the plaintiff's ability to prove those
allegations. (Picton v. Anderson Union High Sch. Dist. (1996) 50 Cal. App.
4th 726, 732.) The court must treat as true the complaint's material factual
allegations, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law. (Id.
at 732-33.) The complaint is to be construed liberally to determine whether a
cause of action has been stated. (Id. at 733.)
A. First Cause of Action for Fraudulent Concealment
“The elements of fraud, which give rise to
the tort action for deceit, are (a) misrepresentation (false representation,
concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) knowledge of falsity (or ‘scienter’); (c)
intent to defraud, i.e., to induce reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e)
resulting damage.” (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal. 4th 631,
638.) “[F]raud must be pled specifically; general and conclusory allegations do
not suffice. . . .This particularity requirement necessitates pleading facts
which show how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations
were tendered.” (Lazar, supra, 12 Cal. 4th at 645 [internal
quotation marks and ellipses omitted].) 
“[T]o establish fraud through nondisclosure
or concealment of facts, it is necessary to show the defendant ‘was under a
legal duty to disclose them.’” (OCM Principal Opportunities Fund v. CIBC
World Markets Corp. (2007) 157 Cal.App.4th 835, 845.) Nondisclosure or
concealment may constitute actionable fraud when: (1) there is a fiduciary
relationship between the parties; (2) the defendant had exclusive knowledge of
material facts not known to the plaintiff; (3) the defendant actively conceals
a material fact from the plaintiff; and (4) the defendant makes partial
representations but also suppresses some material facts. (See Los Angeles
Memorial Coliseum Commission v. Insomniac, Inc. (2015) 233 Cal.App.4th 803,
831.)
Plaintiff alleges that WesternU failed to
inform prospective applicants, including herself, about the existence of a
covert entity and culture at WesternU and defects in the university’s design
and leadership, which would lead to harassment of students pursuing academic
objectives. Plaintiff also claims that WesternU representatives provided
misleading information that obscured an accurate evaluation of the programs
offered and that the governance of
WesternU involves the sharing of and access to private information on computer
systems (and support devices) and computer networks. Plaintiff alleges
“intended to deceive Plaintiff, and prospective students and the public,
because of the embarrassment of being a cult or cult-like entity that did not
achieve recognition as a religion.”
The claim is unclear. Vague allegations that
WesternU did not disclose its “cult-like” culture do not establish a claim for
fraudulent inducement. Additionally, Plaintiff does not allege justifiable
reliance. Plaintiff merely alleges she would have “behaved differently” if
these “facts” had been disclosed. Plaintiff also fails to show a duty to
disclose the purportedly withheld facts.       
The demurrer to the first cause of action is
SUSTAINED.
B. Second Cause of Action for Negligent Misrepresentation
The elements of negligent misrepresentation
are: (1) misrepresentation of a past or existing material fact, (2) without
reasonable ground for believing it to be true, (3) with intent to induce
another’s reliance on the fact misrepresented, (4) ignorance of the truth, (5)
justifiable reliance on the misrepresentation by the party to whom it was
directed, and (6) resulting damage.  (Hydro-Mill
Co., Inc. v. Hayward, Tilton & Rolapp Ins. Associates, Inc. (2004) 115
Cal.App.4th 1145, 1154.)  “As is true of
negligence, responsibility for negligent misrepresentation rests upon the
existence of a legal duty, imposed by contract, statute or otherwise, owed by a
defendant to the injured person.”  (Eddy
v. Sharp (1988) 199 Cal.App.3d 858, 864.)
Plaintiff
alleges that Associate Dean of Academic Affairs Ida Chung gave her false
reasons for denying her grade appeal in that Chung stated there was “a lack of
evidence to support a procedural error,” when there was “explicit evidence”
showing otherwise. This is unclear and lacks the specificity required to allege
a claim for fraud. Additionally, there is no duty to disclose alleged.
The
demurrer to the second cause of action is SUSTAINED.
C. Third Cause of
Action for Wrongful Termination
Defendant
demurs to the third cause of action for wrongful termination on the ground that
Plaintiff was not an employee of Defendant. The Court agrees.
The
demurrer to the third cause of action is SUSTAINED without leave to amend.
D. Fourth Cause
of Action for Intentional Misrepresentation
Plaintiff
alleges that, upon her readmission in 2020, Hoppe decided that she would
graduate with the class of 2024 but falsely represented to her that decision
was made by the admission committee. She further alleges that Hoppe falsely
represented that the readmission represented a “fresh start,” when it was
“another opportunity for commitment to Western University College of
Optometry.” These allegations lack the specificity required to support a claim
for misrepresentation. Additionally, the alleged misrepresentations are not
misrepresentations of “facts,” but of opinions.
The
demurrer to the fourth cause of action is SUSTAINED.
E. Fifth Cause of
Action for Breach of Fiduciary Duty
Defendant
demurs to the fifth cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty on the ground
that Defendant does not owe Plaintiff a fiduciary duty. The Court agrees. (See Thomas
v. Regents of University of California (2023) 97 Cal.App.5th 587, 630 [“A
fiduciary relationship generally does not exist in the school context.”])
The
demurrer to the fifth cause of action is SUSTAINED without leave to amend.
F. Sixth, Ninth,
Tenth, Twelfth and Thirteenth Causes of Action
The
sixth cause of action for violation of the comprehensive computer data and
access fraud act, ninth cause of action for invasion of privacy, tenth cause of
action for trespass to chattels, twelfth cause of action for conversion, and
thirteenth cause of action for failure to prevent harassment are alleged
against certain individuals individually “and as representatives and outcomes
of Western University of Health Sciences Board of Trustees.” Plaintiff does not
specify if she seeks to sue the trustees in their individual capacities or as
an entity separate from WesternU (which is not named in the FAC). Regardless,
“[t]he trustees of a nonprofit educational corporation are recognized as its
directors, and a director of a nonprofit corporation cannot be personally
liable for the debts, liabilities, or obligations of the corporation.” (Antebi
v. Occidental College (2006) 141 Cal.App.4th 1542, 1548; see also Zumbrun
v. University of Southern California (1972) 25 Cal.App.3d 1, 10.)
The
demurrer the sixth, ninth, tenth and twelfth causes of action is SUSTAINED.
G. Seventh Cause of Action for Strict Liability
(Ultrahazardous Activity; Nuisance)
Under California law, an activity is
considered ultrahazardous if it necessarily involves a risk of serious harm
that cannot be eliminated by the exercise of utmost care and is not a matter of
common usage. (Lipson v. Super. Ct., (1982) 31 Cal.3d 362; Luthringer
v. Moore (1948) 31 Cal.2d 489, 498.)
According to California Civil Code § 3479, a
nuisance is defined as anything injurious to health, indecent or offensive to
the senses, or an obstruction to the free use of property. A public nuisance
affects an entire community or a considerable number of persons, while a
private nuisance affects an individual's use and enjoyment of their land. (Cal.
Civ. Code §§ 3480, 3481.)
Plaintiff alleges strict liability for
nuisance and ultrahazardous activity by allowing Defendant’s employees to
wrongfully access her computer. These facts do not establish claims for strict
liability.
The demurrer to the seventh cause of action
is SUSTAINED without leave to amend.
H. Eighth Cause of Action for Negligence
In
her eighth cause of action, Plaintiff alleges that the WesternU Board of
Trustees “collectively failed to prevent” the individual defendants from cyber
violations targeted at Plaintiff and “even contribut[ed]” to such violations
“in defense of what she believes to be cult objectives.” This does not
establish a cause of action for negligence.
The
demurrer to the eighth cause of action is SUSTAINED.
I. Twelfth Cause
of Action for Conversion
Conversion is “the wrongful exercise of
dominion over the property of another.” (Lee v. Hanley (2015) 61 Cal.
4th 1225 (quotations omitted).) To establish a claim for conversion, a
plaintiff must plead: “(1) the plaintiff's ownership or right to possession of
the property; (2) the defendant's conversion by a wrongful act or disposition
of property rights; and (3) damages.” (Id. (quotations omitted).)
Plaintiff claims that WesternU “converted”
her transcript by fraudulently changing her failing grades for the Spring 2022
semester to “W,” making the transcript invalid and useless as a reflection of
her academic record. There are no facts to allege conversion, which requires
interference with tangible property. Plaintiff’s academic transcript is
considered information and not tangible property. The failure to accurately
reflect her failing grades cannot support a cause of action for conversion.
The demurrer to the twelfth cause of action
is SUSTAINED without leave to amend.
J. Motion to Strike
As the demurrer has been sustained in its
entirety, the motion to strike is MOOT. The Court notes however, that Plaintiff
untimely filed the FAC and added causes of action and new parties following
Defendant’s first demurrer. This is not permitted, but the Court will allow the
amendment as it was Plaintiff’s first attempt at amendment. Going forward,
however, Plaintiff may not add parties or causes of action without permission
from the Court in a motion for leave to amend.