  Case Number:  22STCV39957    Hearing Date:   January 2, 2025    Dept:  54 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles




 
Rodolfo Garcia-Rosas, et al., 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case 
No.:
 


 
22STCV39957




 
vs.


 


 
                    Tentative Ruling 
 




 
Architectural Surfaces, Inc., et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: January 2, 2025
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion to Enforce Subpoena and Compel
Deposition
Moving Party: Defendant C&C North America, Inc.
Responding Party: Plaintiffs Rodolfo Garcia-Rosas and
Alma Delia Llamas
 
T/R:     DEFENDANT’S
MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE A CROSS-COMPLAINT IS GRANTED.
 
DEFENDANT TO
NOTICE.  
If the parties wish to submit on the
tentative, please email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with notice to opposing counsel
(or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the day of the hearing.
 
The Court considers the moving papers,
opposition, and reply.
 
BACKGROUND
 
On March 13, 2023, Plaintiffs Rodolfo
Garcia-Rosas and Alma Delia Llamas filed the operative first amended complaint
against Defendants Architectural Surfaces, Inc., et al., asserting causes of
action for (1) negligence; (2) strict liability – warning defect; (3) strict
liability – design defect; (4) fraudulent concealment; (5) breach of implied
warranties; and (6) loss of consortium. Plaintiff alleges he developed
silicosis and consequential injuries through his employment working with stone
products manufactured, distributed, and/or supplied by Defendants.
 
ANALYSIS
 
“A party who fails to plead a cause of
action. . . whether through oversight, inadvertence, mistake,
neglect, or other cause, may apply to the court for leave to amend his
pleading, or to file a cross-complaint, to assert such cause at any time during
the course of the action.  The court,
after notice to the adverse party, shall grant, upon such terms as may be just
to the parties, leave to amend the pleading, or to file the cross-complaint, to
assert such cause if the party who failed to plead the cause acted in good
faith.  This subdivision shall be
liberally construed to avoid forfeiture of causes of action.”  (CCP § 426.50.)  
 
Defendant C&C North America moves
for leave to file a cross-complaint for indemnity against Plaintiff’s employers
for failing to implement safety procedures to work with Defendant’s stone
products. In opposition, Plaintiff asserts Defendant should not be permitted to
amend this late in litigation. Delay alone is insufficient grounds to deny
leave to file a cross-complaint.
 
Defendant's motion is GRANTED.