 Case Number:  23STCV06585    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2023    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


32




HEARING DATE


October
  31, 2023




CASE NUMBER


23STCV06585




MOTION


Demurrer
  to Complaint & Motion to Strike




MOVING PARTY


Defendant
  Beth Shuster




OPPOSING PARTY


Unopposed



 
MOTION
 
On March 24, 2023, Plaintiffs Jeremy David Asheghian and Daniel Jacobi
(Plaintiffs) filed a complaint against Defendant Beth Schuster and Does 1 to 20
for negligence and negligence per se surrounding a motor vehicle accident. 
 
Defendant now demurs to the Complaint alleging it does not state facts
to support its claim for punitive damages. Defendant also moves to strike references
to punitive damages in the Complaint. No opposition was filed. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Demurrer
 
A demurrer is a pleading used to
test the legal sufficiency of other pleadings. 
It raises issues of law, not fact, regarding the form or content of the
opposing party's pleading (complaint, answer or cross-complaint).  (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 422.10, 589; see Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)  It is not the function of the demurrer to
challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for purposes of the ruling on
the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are assumed to be true.  (Donabedian, 116 Cal.App.4th at 994.)
 
The general rule is that the plaintiff need only allege
ultimate facts, not evidentiary facts. (Doe v. City of Los Angeles
(2007) 42 Cal.4th 531, 550.) “All that is required of a plaintiff, as a matter
of pleading, even as against a special demurrer, is that his complaint set
forth the essential facts of the case with reasonable precision and with
sufficient particularity to acquaint the defendant with the nature, source and
extent of his cause of action.” (Rannard v. Lockheed Aircraft Corp. (1945) 26 Cal.2d 149,
156-157.) 
 
On demurrer, a trial court has an independent duty to
“determine whether or not the … complaint alleges facts sufficient to state a
cause of action under any legal theory.” (Das v. Bank of America, N.A.
(2010) 186 Cal.App.4th 727, 734.) Demurrers do not lie as to only parts of causes
of action, where some valid claim is alleged but “must dispose of an entire
cause of action to be sustained.” (Poizner v. Fremont General Corp.
(2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 119.
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
Based on Defendant’s counsel’s declaration, it appears the parties did
not meet and confer in-person or by telephone. (Opfell Decl. ¶ 3.) However, “[a]
determination by the court that the meet and confer process was insufficient
shall not be grounds to overrule or sustain a demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
430.41 (a)(4).)  
 
ANALYSIS
 
As stated above, a demurrer only tests the
sufficiency of the allegations in the complaint. However, the relief sought for
in the prayer of the complaint is not subject to a demurrer. (See Venice Town Council, Inc. v. City of Los Angeles (1996) 47 Cal.App.4th 1547, 1562.)
The proper procedure to attack an improper claim for punitive damages is
through a motion to strike. 
 
Therefore, Defendant’s demurrer to
the punitive damages claim is overruled because it is not a cause of action. The
Court now turns to Defendant’s motion to strike. 
 
Defendant’s Motion to Strike             
 
California law authorizes a party’s motion to strike matter from an
opposing party’s pleading if it is irrelevant, false, or improper.  (Code
Civ. Proc. §§ 435; 436(a).)  Motions may also target pleadings or parts of
pleadings which are not filed or drawn in conformity with applicable laws,
rules or orders.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 436(b).)  A motion to strike is
used to address defects that appear on the face of a pleading or from
judicially noticed matter but that are not grounds for a demurrer.  (Pierson
v Sharp Memorial Hospital (1989) 216 Cal.App.3d 340, 342; see also City
& County of San Francisco v Strahlendorf (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1911,
1913 (motion may not be based on a party's declaration or factual
representations made by counsel in the motion papers).)  In particular, a
motion to strike can be used to attack the entire pleading or any part thereof
– in other words, a motion may target single words or phrases, unlike
demurrers.  (Warren v. Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe Railway Co.
(1971) 19 Cal.App.3d 24, 40.)  The Code of Civil Procedure also authorizes
the Court to act on its own initiative to strike matters, empowering the Court
to enter orders striking matter “at any time in its discretion, and upon terms
it deems proper.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 436.) 
 
Punitive damages may be imposed where it is proven by clear and convincing
evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or
malice.  (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).)  “Malice” is conduct
intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable
conduct which is carried on with a willful and conscious disregard of the
rights or safety of others.  (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1).) 
“‘Punitive damages are proper only when the tortious conduct rises to levels of
extreme indifference to the plaintiff’s rights, a level which decent citizens
should not have to tolerate.’  [Citation.]”  (Lackner v. North
(2006) 135 Cal.App.4th 1188, 1210.)    
 
“As amended to include [despicable], the [Civil Code section 3294]
plainly indicates that absent an intent to injure the plaintiff, ‘malice’
requires more than a ‘willful and conscious’ disregard of the plaintiffs’
interests.  The additional component of ‘despicable conduct’ must be
found.”  (College Hospital Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th
704, 725.) (emphasis added.)  The statute’s reference to despicable
conduct represents a “new substantive limitation on punitive damage
awards.”  (Ibid.)  Despicable conduct is “conduct which is so
vile, base, contemptible, miserable, wretched or loathsome that it would be
looked down upon and despised by ordinary decent people.  Such conduct has
been described as ‘having the character of outrage frequently associated with
crime.’”  (Tomaselli v. Transamerica Ins. Co. (1994) 25 Cal.App.4th
1269, 1287.)  Further, “[t]here must be evidence that defendant acted with
knowledge of the probable dangerous consequences to plaintiff’s interests and
deliberately failed to avoid these consequences.”  (Flyer’s Body Shop
Profit Sharing Plan v. Ticor Title Ins. Co. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 1149,
1155.) 
 
A motion to strike punitive damages is properly granted where a
plaintiff does not state a prima facie claim for punitive damages, including
allegations that defendant is guilty of oppression, fraud or malice.  (Turman
v. Turning Point of Cent. California, Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53,
63.)  “Mere negligence, even gross negligence, is not sufficient to
justify such an award” for punitive damages.  (Kendall Yacht Corp. v.
United California Bank (1975) 50 Cal.App.3d 949, 958.) Moreover, conclusory
allegations are not sufficient to support a claim for punitive damages.  (Brousseau
v. Jarrett (1977) 73 Cal.App.3d 864, 872.) 
 
The Court finds that Plaintiffs’
allegations do not support punitive damages against Defendant. The California
Supreme Court has held that punitive damages may be imposed for driving while
intoxicated under certain circumstances, but it has not held that punitive
damages are always appropriate in cases involving driving while intoxicated. (Taylor
v. Superior Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, 892.) In Taylor, the
defendant had previously caused a serious automobile accident while driving
under the influence, had been arrested and convicted for drunken driving on
numerous prior occasions, had recently completed a period of probation
following a drunk driving conviction, and was presently facing an additional
pending criminal drunk driving charge at the time of the accident. (Id. at
893.) Further, the defendant accepted employment which required him both to
call on various commercial establishments where alcoholic beverages were sold,
and to deliver or transport such beverages in his car. (Id.) Finally,
the complaint alleged that at the time of the accident, defendant was
transporting alcoholic beverages and simultaneously driving while consuming an
alcoholic beverage. (Id.) The California Supreme Court found these
circumstances to be circumstances of aggravation or outrage and there was “no
valid reason whatever for immunizing the driver himself from the exposure to
punitive damages given the demonstrable and almost inevitable risk visited upon
the innocent public by his voluntary conduct as alleged in the complaint.” (Id.
at 898.) 
 
Subsequently, the appellate court
in Dawes v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 82, clarified that
“[t]he risk of injury to others from ordinary driving while intoxicated is
certainly foreseeable, but it is not necessarily probable,” and punitive
damages may be warranted where the circumstances surrounding the defendant’s
decision to drive while intoxicated made the risk of harm to others probable. (Id.
at 89.) In Dawes, the circumstances constituted more than the “ordinary
driving while intoxicated,” where there was a probable risk of injury to others
due to the defendant’s driving while intoxicated, at a high rate of speed,
zigzagging through traffic, in the middle of the afternoon, and in locations of
heavy pedestrian and vehicle traffic. (Id. at 88-89.)
 
Here, Plaintiffs’ Complaint does not
allege specific facts that show malice, fraud, or oppression. Instead, the
Complaint only alleges that Defendant was driving “under the influence of a
substance (despicable conduct).” (Complaint ¶¶ 12, 13.) As discussed in Dawes,
this alone does not convey that Defendant’s conduct created a probable risk to
others. As a result, it does not meet the standard for malicious and despicable
conduct because it does not allege specific facts to support that finding. Merely
stating as a conclusion that the conduct was despicable is not enough. Accordingly,
the Court grants the motion to strike.
 
The burden is on Plaintiffs to show in what manner he or she can
amend the complaint, and how that amendment will change the legal effect of the
pleading.  (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349; Hendy
v. Losse (1991) 54 Cal.3d 723, 742.) Plaintiffs do not oppose the
motion or request leave to amend. Therefore, Plaintiffs have not met their
burden.         
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court overrules Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s
claim for punitive damages. 
 
Defendant’s motion to strike paragraphs 12, 13 and prayer 6 “For
punitive damages” is GRANTED without leave to amend. 
 
Defendant shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service of such. 
 