 Case Number:  19STCV46029    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2023    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


October
  31, 2023




CASE NUMBER:


19STCV46029




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Summary Judgment, or in the alternative, Summary Adjudication   




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Union Pacific Railroad Company 




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiff
  Joseph D. Pearson 



 
 
MOVING PAPERS
 
1.      Notice of Motion
2.      Memorandum of Points and Authorities in
Support
3.      Union Pacific Railroad Company’s Separate
Statement of Undisputed Material Facts
4.      Table of Evidence in Support
5.      Compendium of Non-California Authorities
 
OPPOSITION PAPERS
1.      Plaintiff’s Opposition; Memorandum of Points
and Authorities
2.      Plaintiff’s Response to Defendant’s Separate
Statement
3.      Plaintiff’s Evidence and Appendix of Exhibits

 
REPLY PAPERS  
1.     
Reply to Motion for Summary Judgment
2.     
Separate Statement
3.     
Objection to Plaintiff’s Evidence
 
BACKGROUND
 
On December 20, 2019, Plaintiff Joseph D. Pearson (Plaintiff) filed a
complaint against Defendants Union Pacific Railroad Company and Does 1 to 20
under the Federal Employers’ Liability Act (FELA) (45 U.S.C. § 51 et seq.) and
the Federal Safety Appliance Act (FSAA) (49 U.S.C. § 20301). The alleged injury
occurred while Plaintiff was working for Defendant as a “brakeman” in a train
yard. (Complaint ¶ 8.) Plaintiff alleges that Defendant breached its duty by
failing “to maintain their equipment and premises.” The alleged breach resulted
in Plaintiff using a “defective bleeding rod” which then caused injuries. (Id.
¶ 10.) 
 
Defendant Union Pacific Railroad Company (Defendant) now moves for
summary judgment, or in the alternative, summary adjudication, on the basis
that no triable issues of fact exist. Specifically, under the FELA cause of
action, Defendant argues Plaintiff cannot establish Defendant had notice of the
hazard, or that it caused his injuries. Under the FSAA cause of action,
Defendant argues the subject car was not “in use” and there was no defect on
the bleeding rod. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
“[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears the burden of persuasion
that there is no triable issue of material fact and that he is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law[.] There is a triable issue of material fact if,
and only if, the evidence would allow a reasonable trier of fact to find the
underlying fact in favor of the party opposing the motion in accordance with
the applicable standard of proof.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)  “[T]he party moving for summary judgment
bears an initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the
nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact; if he carries his burden of
production, he causes a shift, and the opposing party is then subjected to a burden of production of his own to make a prima facie
showing of the existence of a triable issue of material fact.” (Ibid.;
Smith v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 1463, 1474
[summary judgment standards held by Aguilar apply to summary
adjudication motions].)  Further, in line
with Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co., “[o]n a motion for summary
adjudication, the trial court has no discretion to exercise.  If a triable issue of material fact exists as
to the challenged causes of action, the motion must be denied. If there is no triable
issue of fact, the motion must be granted.” (Fisherman's Wharf Bay Cruise
Corp. v. Superior Court (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 309, 320.)
 
“On a summary judgment motion, the
court must therefore consider what inferences favoring the opposing party a
factfinder could reasonably draw from the evidence. While viewing the evidence
in this manner, the court must bear in mind that its primary function is to identify
issues rather than to determine issues. 
Only when the inferences are indisputable may the court decide the
issues as a matter of law. If the evidence is in conflict, the factual issues
must be resolved by trial.” (Binder v. Aetna Life Ins. Co. (1999) 75
Cal.App.4th 832, 839 [cleaned up].) 
Further, “the trial court may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a
factfinder to determine whose version is more likely true.  Nor may the trial court grant summary
judgment based on the court's evaluation of credibility.” (Id. at p. 840
[cleaned up]; see also Weiss v. People ex rel. Department of Transportation
(2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for summary judgment or
summary adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must instead view it in the
light most favorable to the opposing party and draw all reasonable inferences
in favor of that party”].)  
 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTION
 
As an initial matter, the Court
notes that Plaintiff objected to Defendant’s evidence in their Separate
Statement. The objections were not filed separately pursuant to California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1354(b), and thus fail to be formatted correctly. Despite
this, the Court acknowledges that Defendant’s Separate Statement cites to a
Schroeder Declaration, when it appears its exhibits are attached to the
Declaration of Simone Leighty. The Court will therefore cite to the Leighty
Declaration when citing Defendant’s exhibits.
 
The Court declines to address
Defendant’s objections to Plaintiff’s evidence because the Court does not rely
on the evidence to reach the rulings herein.
 
DISCUSSION
 
Federal
Employers’ Liability Act (FELA)
 
“While injured employees in California generally are
entitled to workers’ compensation benefits regardless of whether the employer
was at fault (Lab. Code, § 3200 et seq.), those benefits are not available to
railroad employees who suffer on-the-job injuries. Instead, their right of
recovery is governed by [the federal Employers’ Liability Act] FELA, which
permits recovery only if the employer acted negligently. 
[Citations.]  A FELA action may be brought in either federal or state
court.  [Citations.]  ‘When, as here, a FELA action is brought in
state court, state law governs procedural questions, while federal law governs
substantive issues.  [Citation.]  State procedure does not apply,
however, if it results in the denial of a federal right granted by
Congress.’  [Citation.]”  (Fair v. BNSF Railway Co. (2015) 238
Cal.App.4th 269, 275 (Fair).)   
 
45 U.S.C. § 51 provides that a railroad employer is liable
“to any person suffering injury while he is employed by such carrier in such
commerce, … for such injury … resulting in whole or in part from the negligence
of any of the offices, agents, or employees of such carrier….”  (45 U.S.C.
§ 51.)  The question of evidence required to establish that a railroad’s
negligence caused the exposure is much less than in an ordinary negligence
case.  (Harbin v. Burlington N. R.R. Co. (7th Cir. 1990) 921 F.2d
129, 131 (Harbin).)  “FELA imposes upon a railroad a continuing and
nondelegable duty to use reasonable care to provide railroad employees a safe
place to work.” (Woods v. Union Pacific Railroad
Co. (2008) 162 Cal.App.4th 571, 577.)
 
“The
standard under FELA is a relaxed one; to prove that a railroad breached its
duty, a ‘plaintiff must show circumstances which a reasonable person would
foresee as creating a potential for harm [and] then show that this breach
played any part, even the slightest, in producing the injury.’ [citation
omitted.] ‘It is well established that the quantum of evidence required to
establish liability in a FELA case is much less than in an ordinary negligence
action.’ [citation omitted] If the negligence of the employer ‘played any part,
however small, in the injury,’ the employer is liable. [citation omitted]
Neither assumption of the risk nor the contributory negligence of the employee
bars recovery, if the injury was at least in part the result of the employer's
negligence. (45 U.S.C. §§ 53, 54.)” (Fair, supra, 238 Cal.App.4th at 275–76.)  
 
The parties set forth the following undisputed facts. On June 26,
2019, Plaintiff was working as a brakeman in Defendant’s Valla Yard in Santa Fe
Springs, California. (UMF 1.) The Valla Yard is an industrial switching yard.
(UMF 13.) Plaintiff was engaged in normal switching operations. (UMF 14.) At
the time of the incident, Plaintiff was tasked with bleeding the air from the
brakes on several railcars. (UMF 5.) Plaintiff was bleeding the air out of a
string of hopper cars that were attached to each other. The string totaled
seventeen hopper cars and two locomotives. 
 
Plaintiff alleges that when he pulled the bleeding rod on hopper car
“EUCX 887472,” the rod did not move, causing him to be propelled forward and
suffer injury. (PF 15.) Later inspection revealed there was a piece of wood
near the bleeding rod, which Plaintiff contends caused the rod to jam. 
 
Defendant argues there is no dispute of triable fact that it had
notice of the car’s hazardous condition (i.e. the piece of wood). Defendant
also argues that Plaintiff cannot establish that the defect caused his
injuries. 
 
Defendant sets forth the following facts: 
 
-         
Plaintiff was responsible for performing visual
inspections of the railcars. (UMF 4.)
-         
At the time of the incident, Plaintiff was unaware of
the wooden stick located near the bleed rod. (UMF 6.) 
-         
The bleed rod is housed within an inverted "U-bar"
and requires minimal effort to pull or move. (UMF 7.)
-         
At the time of the incident, the bleed rod did not
require excessive pulling for Plaintiff to move it. (UMF 8.)
-         
Plaintiff used reasonable effort when attempting to
move the bleed rod. (UMF 9.)
-         
The wooden stick was not wedged in place near the bleed
rod. (UMF 10.)
-         
The wooden stick did not impede the functionality of
the bleed rod, which could have been pulled with normal, minimal effort. (UMF
11.) 
 
Plaintiff
offers the following facts:
 
-         
From the day that the Subject Car arrived at its
origination point, Defendant UP’s West Colton Yard, until the Incident
occurred, the Subject Car was moved, switched, spotted, operated, and handled
exclusively by Defendant UP’s railroaders and trainmen at Defendant UP’s West
Colton Yard, Los Nietos Yard, and Valla Yard. (PAMF 3.)
-         
After Plaintiff Pearson had bled the eight to ten rail
cars that had gone by him without incident, he reached to pull the bleed valve
rod on the Subject Car using reasonable and ordinary effort just as he had done
thousands of times before the day of the Incident. (PAMF 14.)
-         
To Plaintiff Pearson’s surprise, the bleed valve rod on
the Subject Car was stuck and seized up which caused him to propel forward and
be knocked off balance on the rock ballast surface. (PAMF 15.)
-         
After assisting Plaintiff Pearson and attempting to get
him medical help, conductor Wilson went back to look at the Subject Car. (PAMF
22.)
-         
Conductor Wilson observed and photographed the bleed
valve rod on the Subject Car which he had seen Plaintiff Pearson attempt to
pull when the Incident occurred. (PAMF 23.) 
-         
Conductor Wilson saw that the bleed valve rod on the
Subject Car was tampered with and had a piece of wood or stick which appeared
to be jammed and wedged against the bleed valve rod within its retainer. (PAMF
24.)
-         
A foreign piece of wood jammed in the bleed valve rod
within the bleed valve rod retainer is an unusual, nonconforming condition of
an operational device which is an essential part of the air brakes system.
(PAMF 25.)
-         
Throughout Plaintiff Pearson’s entire career with
Defendant UP, having performed this same bleed off job thousands of times, he
had never seen or encountered foreign material in the bleed valve rod and
retainer. (PAMF 30.)
-         
Only a sophisticated railroad employee involved in the
handling, operation, and transportation of hopper rail cars would have any
knowledge of, contact with, or reason to insert foreign material into the bleed
valve rod within the retainer. (PAMF 33.) 
-         
The Subject Car was exclusively handled, moved,
manipulated, tested, inspected, and spotted by Defendant UP’s employees while
on Defendant UP and its customer’s rail tracks. (PAMF 34.)
-         
Plaintiff Pearson was only one (1) of ten (10) or more
of Defendant UP’s employees who held responsibilities at Defendant UP’s yard(s)
and were involved in the transportation, movement, switching, and use of the
Subject Car for the approximate 30-day period that the Subject Car was
exclusively in Defendant UP’s control before the Incident occurred. (PAMF 35.) 
 
Defendant has failed to meet its burden to show that there are no
triable issues of fact that it did not have notice of the defect. Defendant’s
facts, as outlined in their Separate Statement, do not address notice. They
also do not dispute Plaintiff’s evidence which suggests that only an employee
of Defendant would know to place the piece of wood near the bleeding rod and
that the car was in Defendant’s control for thirty days. 
 
Defendant relies on Deans v. CSX Transp., Inc. (4th Cir. 1998) 152 F.3d 326 for the
proposition that summary judgment is proper if there is no evidence that an
inspection would provide notice of the defect. In Deans, the only
evidence produced was “the fact that a post-injury inspection of the hand brake
demonstrated that it was defective.” (Id. at 330.) Here, however, the
alleged defect was a piece of wood placed near the bleeding rod. A reasonable
inference is that the defect was visible even from afar. Moreover, the subject
car was exclusively within Defendant’s control for about 30 days. Defendant has
set forth no evidence that it had no actual or constructive notice of a visible
defect within its custody.
 
Therefore,
Defendant’s motion for summary adjudication as to whether Defendant had notice
of the defect is denied.
 
Regarding the issue of
causation, Defendant has met its initial burden to show the absence of a
triable issue of fact. Gavin Jenkins, Defendant’s Manager of Yard Operations,
testified that based on the photographs, he believed the wood piece was not
impeding the movement of the bleeding rod. (Leighty Decl., Exh D, Jenkins Depo.
47:14–21.)  Kevin Garcia, Defendant’s
Director of Operations, testified that the wood piece near the bleeding rod had
no effect on the ability to move the rod. (Leighty Decl., Exh. E, Garcia Depo.
47:14–22, 87:7–22.)  The burden shifts to
Plaintiff. 
Plaintiff has demonstrated there is a dispute of material
fact. Plaintiff’s declaration, under penalty of perjury, states that the
subject bleeding rod was stuck when he attempted to pull it. (Exh. B, Pearson
Decl. ¶ 8–10.) Plaintiff has been employed by Defendant since 1997 and has
performed this movement thousands of times before without incident. (Id. ¶ 3,
9.) There is also no indication that moveable bleeding rods on the other cars
contained foreign objects near them. Additionally, Conductor Karl Wilson, with whom
Plaintiff was working on the day of the incident, described the alleged defect
as “the bleeding rod and a piece of wood stuck in it.” (Pl. Exh. F, Wilson
Depo. 102:1–10.)  Plaintiff’s expert, who
has worked for Defendant for 42 years as a trainman, brakeman, and switchman,
testified that “[i]f foreign material such as a piece of
wood is wedged or provides pressure against the bleed valve rod in any
direction within the retainer, it can seize up or stick the bleed valve rod
into a fixed position so that it will not pull out, push in or retract as
intended in the normal functioning of the air brake system. By doing so you are
altering and overriding its ability to properly control the air brake bleed
valve for its intended functions.” (Pl. Exh. D, Nava Decl. ¶ 16A.) 
Accordingly, considering
the evidence in the light most favorable to Plaintiff, including all reasonable
inferences, the Court finds that there are triable issues of fact regarding
whether the alleged defect caused Plaintiff’s injuries. The Court therefore
denies Defendant’s motion for summary adjudication as to the issue of causation.
 
Federal
Safety Appliance Act (SSA)
 
“The SAA imposes on a railroad an absolute duty to provide and
maintain safety appliances on its trains. [citation omitted] The act ‘has been
liberally construed so as to give a right of recovery for every injury the
proximate cause of which was a failure to comply with a requirement of the
[a]ct.’ [citation omitted] When a violation of the SAA results in injury to an employee,
the railroad is strictly liable for the injury. [citations omitted] The SAA
thus dispenses ‘with the necessity of proving that violations of the safety
statutes constitute negligence; and making proof of such violation is effective
to show negligence as a matter of law.’ [citation omitted]” (Woods v. Union Pacific Railroad Co. (2008) 162
Cal.App.4th 571, 577.) The SAA is not an independent cause of action, but a
plaintiff can use a SAA violation to recover through a FELA action. (Id.)
Whether a
particular railroad appliance comes within the purview of the SAA is a question
of law. (Woods v. Union Pacific Railroad Co. (2008) 162
Cal.App.4th 571, 578.) “A jury question is presented under the FSAA if it can
be reasonably concluded that the equipment failed to operate properly causing
plaintiff's injury.” (Sheehy v. Southern Pac. Transp.
Co. (9th Cir. 1980) 631 F.2d 649, 653.) 
 
Defendant argues there was no defect on the bleeding rod. 
 
Defendant
sets forth the following facts: 
 
-         
The bleed rod is housed within an inverted
"U-bar" and requires minimal effort to pull or move. (UMF 7.)
-         
At the time of the incident, the bleed rod did not
require excessive pulling for Plaintiff to move it. (UMF 8.) 
-         
Plaintiff used reasonable effort when attempting to
move the bleed rod. (UMF 9.) 
 
Plaintiff
sets forth the following facts:
 
-         
After assisting Plaintiff Pearson and attempting to get
him medical help, conductor Wilson went back to look at the Subject Car. (PAMF
22.)
-         
Conductor Wilson observed and photographed the bleed
valve rod on the Subject Car which he had seen Plaintiff Pearson attempt to
pull when the Incident occurred. (PAMF 23.) 
-         
Conductor Wilson saw that the bleed valve rod on the
Subject Car was tampered with and had a piece of wood or stick which appeared
to be jammed and wedged against the bleed valve rod within its retainer. (PAMF
24.)
 
Courts have suggested that
under the FSAA, railroads are not under a positive duty to keep all appliances
safe.  (See Collins v. Southern Pac. Co. (9th Cir. 1961) 286 F.2d 813, 815.) External materials
that make appliances unsafe, without evidence that the appliances themselves
are defective, do not violate the FSAA. For example, in Collins, the
court held that the trial court properly dismissed a FSAA action where the
plaintiff slipped on grease as he was ascending the ladder. (Id. at 813,
815–16 [“It would appear to be unreasonable under such circumstances that the
railroad should at all times and under all circumstances be under a positive
duty to maintain its cars in a safe condition (under the FSAA). Of course,
under the general provisions of the Federal Employers' Liability Act, the
railroad may be held responsible for negligence in the maintenance of its
cars.”].) Similarly, here Plaintiff alleges the bleeding rod was defective
under the FSAA due to the jammed piece of wood. This is analogous to the grease
on the ladder in Collins because it is also an external material
separate from the appliance. 
 
Accordingly, considering
the evidence in the light most favorable to Plaintiff, including all reasonable
inferences, the Court finds that there are no triable issues of fact regarding
whether the rod was defective. The Court therefore grants summary adjudication
as to the alleged FSAA violation.
 
Because summary
adjudication is granted, the Court declines to address Defendant’s alternative argument
that the subject car was not “in use” under the FSAA. 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Therefore, Defendant’s motion for summary adjudication as to
Plaintiff’s claim under the Federal Safety Appliance Act is GRANTED.
 
Defendant’s motion for summary adjudication under the Federal
Employers’ Liability Act cause of action is DENIED.
 
Defendant’s motion for summary judgment is DENIED. 
 
Defendant shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service of such. 
 