 Case Number:  20STCV35205    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2023    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


October
  31, 2023




CASE NUMBER:


20STCV35205




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Set Aside Dismissal




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiffs Juan Barranco-Varela, Ofelia
  Ramos Valencia, Juan Daniel Barranco, and Ricardo Barranco 




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed



 
BACKGROUND
 
On July 28, 2023, this case was called for an Order to Show Cause Re:
Dismissal (Settlement). Counsel for Plaintiffs Juan Barranco-Varela, Ofelia
Ramos Valencia, Juan Daniel Barranco, and Ricardo Barranco (Plaintiffs) did not
appear. As a result, the Court ordered the complaint dismissed without
prejudice. 
 
On September 13, 2023, Plaintiffs filed the instant motion to set
aside the dismissal. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Under Code
of Civil Procedure section 473(b), the Court may relieve a party from a
dismissal taken against him through his mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
excusable neglect.  This application must
be filed no more than six months after entry of the order from which relief is
sought, and must contain an affidavit of fault demonstrating the moving party’s
mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. 
 
A mistake
is a basis for relief under section 473 when by reason of the mistake a party
failed to make a timely response.  Surprise occurs when a party is
unexpectedly placed in a position to his injury without any negligence of his
own. Excusable neglect is a basis for relief when the party has shown some
reasonable excuse for the default.  (Credit Managers Association of
California v. National Independent Business Alliance (1984) 162 Cal.App.3d
1166, 1173; Davis v. Thayer (1980) 113 Cal.App.3d 892, 905.)  Under
Code of Civil Procedure section 473, the moving party bears the burden of
demonstrating an excusable ground, such as fraud or mistake, justifying a
court’s vacating a judgment.  (Basinger v. Roger & Wells (1990)
220 Cal.App.3d 16, 23–24.)   
 
Relief under
this section is mandatory when based on an attorney affidavit of fault;
otherwise, it is discretionary. (Id.) However mandatory relief is only
available when a party fails to oppose a dismissal motion (“which are
procedurally equivalent to a default”). (Leader v. Health Industries of America, Inc. (2001) 89
Cal.App.4th 603, 620.) The mandatory relief provision
does not apply to dismissals for “failure to prosecute [citations omitted], dismissals
for failure to serve a complaint within three years [citations omitted],
dismissals based on running of the statute of limitations [citations omitted],
and voluntary dismissals entered pursuant to settlement [citations omitted].”
(Id.) 
 
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Procedurally,
the present motion is timely because it was filed within six months after the
case was dismissed. 
 
Since the case was dismissed due to a non-appearance at an
order to show cause, relief is not mandatory in this scenario. 
 
            However, the Court has discretion to
vacate the dismissal under section 473(b). The Declaration of Pamela
Rodriguez states that at 8:30 a.m. on July 28, 2023, while logging in to appear
remotely, her computer froze. (Rodriguez Decl. ¶ 9.) She successfully logged in
at 8:35 a.m. but the case had already been called. After all matters were
called, Plaintiffs’ counsel was told the case had been dismissed. (Id. ¶ 13.) Based
on this information, the Court finds that Plaintiffs have shown a reasonable
excuse since the failure to appear was due to technological difficulty. 
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court GRANTS Plaintiffs’ motion to set aside the dismissal.
 
 
            The Court sets an Order to Show
Cause Re Dismissal (Settlement) for November 28, 2023 at 8:30 a.m.
            
Plaintiffs to provide notice and file a proof of service of such.
 