  Case Number:  19STCV40369    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2023    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


October
  31, 2023




CASE NUMBER:


19STCV40369




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Compel Responses to Form Interrogatories Set One 




MOVING PARTY:


Cross-Complainant Ben Behzadi




OPPOSING PARTY:


Cross-Defendant
  Jonathan Pae



 
BACKGROUND
 
            Cross-Complainant
Ben Behzadi (“Behzadi”) asserts that Form Interrogatories were served on
Cross-Defendant Jonathan Pae (“Pae”) on June 15, 2023. (Takaloo Decl. ¶ 2.) No
timely objections were served. (Id. ¶ 3.) No responses have been received to
date. Behzadi moves to compel responses. No opposition has been filed.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
2030.290, “[i]f a party to whom interrogatories are directed fails to serve a
timely response . . . [t]he party to whom the interrogatories are directed
waives any right to exercise the option to produce writings under Section
2030.230, as well as any objection to the interrogatories, including one based
on privilege or the protection for work product under Chapter 4 (commencing
with Section 2018.010.  . . .   [and] The party propounding the
interrogatories may move for an order compelling response to the
interrogatories.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subds.
(a)-(b).)  
 
For a motion to compel initial
discovery responses, all a propounding party must show is that it properly
served its discovery requests, that the time to respond has expired, and that
the party to whom the requests were directed failed to provide a timely
response. (See Leach v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 902, 905­-06.)
Where a party fails to serve timely responses to discovery requests, the court
may make an order compelling responses.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300; Sinaiko
Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148
Cal.App.4th 390, 403.)   A party that fails to serve timely responses
waives any objections to the request, including ones based on privilege or the
protection of attorney work product.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300, subd.
(a).)  
 
Sanctions are mandatory against any party,
person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a
response to interrogatories, unless a court finds they acted with substantial
justification or other circumstances make the sanction unjust.¿ (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2030.290(c), 2031.300(c).)¿
 
DISCUSSION
 
The evidence shows that Behzadi served
Form Interrogatories Set One and no responses were timely received. Therefore, Behzadi has demonstrated that discovery
was properly propounded, and that Pae failed to timely respond. The Court
grants the motion to compel.
 
Plaintiff also requests that
sanctions be imposed in the amount of $4,141.65. The Court finds that the
discovery abuse warrants sanctions, but finds that the amount requested is
excessive given the nature of the motion and lack of opposition. Accordingly,
the Court awards sanctions in the amount of $741.65 (1 hour of attorney time
plus the filing fee).
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court grants Behzadi’s motion to compel responses to form
interrogatories. Pae shall serve verified responses without objections within
30 days. 
 
Pae is ordered to pay $741.54 in sanctions to counsel for
Behzadi within 30 days.
 
Behzadi shall provide notice of the Court’s order and file a proof of
service of such.
 