 Case Number:  22STCV20486    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2023    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


October
  31, 2023




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV20486




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Compel Further Responses and Production of Documents




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiffs Jorge LaVerde and Miriam La
  Verde




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendant
  Target Corporation



 
BACKGROUND
 
On August 2, 2022 Plaintiffs Jorge
LaVerde and Miriam La Verde (Plaintiffs) filed a first amended complaint
against Defendant Target Corporation (Defendant) for injuries related to an alleged slip and fall. 
 
Plaintiffs now move to compel further
responses to Plaintiffs’ Request for Production of Documents, Set One,
Numbers 1–2, 6–7, and 66–71 under Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.310. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
“On receipt of a response to a demand for inspection,
copying, testing, or sampling, the demanding party may move for an order
compelling further response to the demand if the demanding party deems that any
of the following apply: . . . (2) A representation of inability to comply is
inadequate, incomplete, or evasive; (3) An objection in the response is without
merit or too general.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.310 (a).)  The motion must set forth facts showing good
cause exists to justify the demand and contain a meet and confer declaration.
(Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.310(b).) 
 
When seeking production of
documents or a demand for inspection, the moving party has the initial burden
to show good cause for the production. 
If good cause is shown, the burden to justify an objection to the
discovery request is on the party asserting the objection.  (See Fairmont Ins. Co. v. Superior Court
(2000) 22 Cal.4th 245, 255.)
 
MEET AND
CONFER
 
Though not explicitly stated in the Declaration of
Christopher Orlando, it appears based on the IDC held on April 13, 2023 with a
different judicial officer, that the parties have met and conferred in good
faith to resolve this issue. 
            
 
DISCUSSION
 
The alleged incident occurred on
August 25, 2020. Of the discovery requests in dispute, numbers 1 to 2 seek
copies of all witness or party statements regarding the incident. Number 6 to 7
seek documents that support Defendant’s contention that it is not at fault.
Defendant is withholding a statement from Marlene Trejo, an employee who
inspected the floor before the incident and witnessed the scene immediately
after the incident. (Pl. Exh. 3, SROG No. 5, FROG No. 12.1.) 
 
Defendant claims that Trejo’s
statement is privileged based on the attorney-client privilege and work product.

 
As an initial matter, the Court
finds Plaintiffs have demonstrated good cause to seek the statement of Trejo,
since it could contain information about the state of the flooring, which is
relevant to the case. Thus, the burden now shifts to Defendant to justify the
objections. 
 
Attorney-Client Privilege
 
“When a party asserts the attorney-client
privilege it is incumbent upon that party to prove the preliminary fact that a
privilege exists. [Citation.]” (State Farm Fire & Casualty Co. v.
Superior Court (1997) 54 Cal.App.4th 625, 639.)
 
In determining whether an employee statement or report is
protected under the attorney client privilege, the case of D.I. Chadbourne,
Inc. v. Superior Court, details eleven basic principles to be
applied.  (D.I. Chadbourne, Inc. v. Superior Court (1964) 60 Cal.2d
723, 736-38.)  As relevant here, the D.I. Chadbourne court stated: 
 
1. When the employee of a defendant corporation is also a
defendant in his own right (or is a person who may be charged with liability),
his statement regarding the facts with which he or his employer may be charged,
obtained by a representative of the employer and delivered to an attorney who
represents (or will represent) either or both of them, is entitled to the
attorney client privilege on the same basis as it would be entitled thereto if
the employer employee relationship did not exist;
 
4. Where the employee's connection
with the matter grows out of his employment to the extent that his report or
statement is required in the ordinary course of the corporation's business, the
employee is no longer an independent witness, and his statement or report is
that of the employer;
 
5. If, in the case of the employee
last mentioned, the employer requires (by standing rule or otherwise) that the
employee make a report, the privilege of that report is to be determined by the
employer's purpose in requiring the same; that is to say, if the employer
directs the making of the report for confidential transmittal to its attorney,
the communication may be privileged;
 
6. When the
corporate employer has more than one purpose in directing such an employee to
make such report or statement, the dominant purpose will control, unless the
secondary use is such that confidentiality has been waived; 
 
7. If
otherwise privileged under the rules stated above, a communication does not
lose its privilege merely because it was obtained, with the knowledge and
consent of the employer, by an agent of the employer acting under such agency; 
 
9. And in all
corporate employer-employee situations it must be borne in mind that it is the
intent of the person from whom the information emanates that originally governs
its confidentiality (and hence its privilege); thus, where the employee who has
not been expressly directed by his employer to make a statement, does not know
that his statement is sought on a confidential basis (or knowing that fact does
not intend it to be confidential), the intent of the party receiving and
transmitting that statement cannot control the question of privilege;
 
10. Similarly, where
the corporate employer directs the employee, at the request of its insurance
carrier, to make such a statement, the intent of the employer controls; and
unless the insurance carrier (or its agent) has advised the employer that the
employee’s statement is to be obtained and used in such manner, it cannot be
said that the corporation intended the statement to be made as a confidential
communication from client to attorney;
 
… 
 
(Id. at 737.)  
 
Here, Plaintiffs focus on Marlene
Trejo’s intent.[1] However,
while the speaker’s intent does “originally govern[]” the confidentiality of
the document where the employee has not been expressly directed by the employer
to make the statement, here, Target directs its employees at the request of the
insurance carrier to make statements. (McCort Dec. ¶ 4.) Therefore, it is the
intent of the employer that controls. (D.I. Chadbourne, supra, 60 Cal.2d
at 737 [principle number 10]; see also Scripps Health v. Superior Court
(2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 529, 533 [“Where, as here, a corporate employer requires
that its employees make a report, the privilege of that report is determined by
the employer’s purpose in requiring the report. When the corporate employer has
more than one purpose in requiring the report, the dominant purpose will
control.”] [citations omitted].) Target’s primary purpose is to assist in
anticipation of litigation. (McCort Dec.¶ 5.) Accordingly, the Court finds that
Trejo’s witness statement is protected by the attorney-client privilege.[2]
 
On the other hand, Plaintiffs argue
that Defendant has identified the statement as a document that supports
Defendant’s contentions. (See Motion at p. 13, citing Ex. 7.) The Court agrees
that if Defendant intends to waive the attorney-client privilege and rely on
the document, it must produce the statement in discovery.
 
Prior Accident/Claims/ Lawsuits 
 
Defendant also objects to numbers
66 to 71 which request documents about prior and subsequent slip and fall
claims, accidents, and lawsuits against Defendant in the past five years.
Plaintiff argues the requests are reasonably calculated to produce evidence
about notice of the defective floor. Plaintiff cites to authority that prior
evidence of accidents can be admissible to proving notice. 
 
Defendant argues these requests are
overbroad because Plaintiff allegedly slipped on spilled water— a transitory
feature which is unrelated to past falls. Defendant distinguishes the case
authority provided by Plaintiff as involving more permanent conditions rather
than spilled water. However, given the broad scope of discovery, the Court
finds that past accident reports, claims, or lawsuits involving spills may lead
to the discovery of admissible evidence, including relating to the issues of
notice and habit or custom evidence regarding a failure to clean or warn.[3]
(Code Civ. Proc. § 2017.010.)
 
On the other hand, Plaintiff does
not explain how subsequent incidents are reasonably calculated to lead to
admissible evidence. Accordingly, the Court denies the motion to compel
regarding subsequent incidents.
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court GRANTS the motion to compel further regarding
Plaintiffs’ Request for Production of Documents, Set One, Numbers 66 to
71, as they relate to past incidents.
 
The Court DENIES the motion to
compel further regarding Plaintiffs’
Request for Production of Documents, Set One, Numbers 1–2, 6–7 as they
relate to Marlene Trejo’s statement. 
 
Plaintiffs to provide notice and file a proof of service of such.
 


