  Case Number:  23SMCV01508    Hearing Date:   February 23, 2024    Dept:  N TENTATIVE RULING
 
Plaintiff
Adriana Fadlallah’s Motion for Order Establishing Admissions and for Monetary
Sanctions Against Oliver Holt and His Attorneys Ford, Walker, Haggerty &
Behar is DENIED.
 
Plaintiff
Adriana Fadlallah to give notice. 
 
REASONING
 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2033.280, subdivision (b), a
“party may move for an order that the genuineness of any documents and the
truth of any matters specified in the requests be deemed admitted, as well as
for a monetary sanction.” The court “shall” grant the motion to deem requests
for admission admitted “unless it finds that the party to whom the requests for
admission have been directed has served, before the hearing on the motion, a
proposed response to the requests for admission that is in substantial
compliance with Section 2033.220.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c).)
 
Plaintiff Adriana Fadlallah (“Plaintiff”) served
Defendant Oliver Holt dba Oliver Holt Landscape (“Holt”) with Plaintiff’s
Requests for Admission on August 2, 2023. (Mot., Sheinbein Decl. ¶ 2.) On
September 5, 2023, before responses were due, Plaintiff’s counsel was notified
by defense counsel that Holt died on June 2, 2023. (Opp’n, Wang Decl. ¶ 5, Ex.
A.) Plaintiff provides no basis for deeming requests for admission admitted
against a deceased person or imposing monetary sanctions for failing to respond
when the party is deceased, and Plaintiff has also failed to provide a basis
for continuing to prosecute this action against Holt when Plaintiff has since
named the Estate of Oliver Holt as a defendant. In Plaintiff’s Joint Meet and
Confer IDC Statement, Plaintiff states only that this action can be continued
despite Defendant’s death, without acknowledging that Plaintiff is asking the
Court to deem the requests admitted against a different party than the one who
was subject to the discovery requests, i.e., Defendant is a different party
than Defendant’s estate. Given that Plaintiff has failed to provide legal
authority for deeming
requests for admission admitted against a deceased party or imposing monetary sanctions for failing to respond when the party is
deceased, Plaintiff Adriana Fadlallah’s Motion for Order Establishing
Admissions and for Monetary Sanctions Against Oliver Holt and His Attorneys
Ford, Walker, Haggerty & Behar is DENIED.