 Case Number:  23STCV27046    Hearing Date:   March 28, 2024    Dept:  1 23STCV27046           METROPOLIS
MASTER ASSOCIATIATION vs OLEG PARISER
Defendant’s Motion to Submit Petition for Coordination
TENTATIVE RULING: 
Defendant Pariser’s Motion to Submit Petition for Coordination is
GRANTED. The Court shall sign the provided proposed order.  Clerk to give notice. 
Background
of Los Angeles Superior Court Cases 23STCV27046 and 23STSC04388
 
On November 3, 2023, Metropolis
Master Association filed 23STCV27046 against Oleg Pariser seeking validation of
the election of its corporate officers and declaratory relief. 
 
Metropolis Master Association alleges
it is “a mix-used master planned community consisting of a hotel, three high
rise condominium buildings, approximately 32 commercial condominiums, Master Association
Property, and a total of approximately 1,555 residential condominiums to be
governed by three condominium associations.” (Compl. ¶ 4.) All units are allegedly
subject to a Master Declaration of Covenants, Conditions, and
Restrictions as well as the Bylaws and the Election and Voting Rules. (Id. ¶
5.) Metropolis Master Association alleges
Pariser challenged the September 2022 election of the Association’s Board of
Directors, and all prior elections, by arguing “the elections have been
conducted in violation of California Code of Regulations Title 10, Section 2792.19.”
Metropolis Master Association notes
Pariser filed a small claims complaint in Los Angeles Superior Court case 23STSC04388,
“seeking declaratory and equitable relief pursuant to Civil Code 5145.” (Id. ¶
8.) Metropolis Master Association requests
the court adjudicate the validity of the September 2022 election under
Corporations Code section 7616 and confirm that the Association’s governing
documents regarding election rules are valid and enforceable. 
 
On January 29, 2024, Judge
Richard L. Fruin issued an order finding this action related to small claims
case 23STSC04388 Pariser v. Metropolis Master Association.
In the small claims case, Pariser alleged the Association failed to follow its
election rules because the Association’s developer, Greenland, was not current
in its payment of regular and special assessments and the elections violated California
Code of Regulations Title 10, Section 2792.19(c)(1) because Greenland’s
membership votes elected all of three directors up for election. The court
entered judgment in the small claims action against Metropolis Master Association, which it appealed. 
 
On February 20, 2024, Judge Fruin
issued an order stating “[t]his case is hereby determined to be complex within
the meaning of rule 3.400 of the California Rules of Court.” 
 
On March 18, 2024, the Court
denied Pariser’s motion for leave to file a cross-complaint. 
 
Background
of Orange County Case 30-2023-01346055-CU-NP-CJC
 
On August 28, 2023, Greenland LA Metropolis Development I,
LLC and Greenland LA Metropolis Development I-A, LLC (collectively “Greenland”)
filed a civil action against Metropolis I Condominium Owners’ Association (“Met
I Association”), Meredith Spira, Oleg Pariser, Jacinta Tian, and Matt Ragusano in
Orange County Superior Court case 30-2023-01346055-CU-NP-CJC. The complaint
asserted causes of action for: (1) violation of the CC&RS – Civil Code §
5975;(2) breach of fiduciary duty; (3) declaratory relief; (4) removal of
director (Cal. Corp. Code § 7223); (5) violation of Corp. Code Section 8333, et
seq.; and (6) breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing.
 
The complaint alleges Greenland owns fifty residential
units and two retail units within one of the towers of the Metropolis
development in downtown Los Angeles. Defendant Met I Association, and its
directors, Defendants Meredith Spira, Oleg Pariser, Jacinta Tian, and Matt
Ragusano, allegedly filed a Demand for Arbitration against Plaintiff Greenland
LA Metropolis Development I seeking millions of dollars in alleged unpaid
assessments and asserted the unpaid assessments were grounds to disqualify
Greenland’s representative from serving on the board of directors on August 8,
2023. Greenland also alleges Met I Association failed to issue annual reports
as required and refused to provide Greenland with information regarding legal
and financial matters. The complaint seeks a determination that Greenland does
not owe any amount to Met I Association, that the disqualification of its
representative was improper, that the election is void, and the removal of Defendants
Spira, Pariser, Tian, and Ragusano as directors of Met I Association.
 
On November 1, 2023, Met I Association and Pariser filed a
cross-complaint against Greenland, Greenland LA Metropolis Acquisition, LLC,
and Metropolis Master Association. The cross-complaint asserts causes of action
for: (1) breach of covenant; (2) breach of fiduciary duty; (3) declaratory
relief; (4) accounting; and (5) negligence. The cross-complaint alleges
Greenland failed to pay assessments on its units to Met I Association beginning
on April 1, 2017 based upon a purported Abatement Agreement, which the parties
failed to provide to the Department of Real Estate. Metropolis Master
Association and Greenland also allegedly failed to establish and manage Cost
Centers as required by the applicable CC&Rs. Met I Association alleges it
faces a significant financial shortfall and seeks to enforce the assessment
obligations, declare the Abatement Agreement void, and obtain a judicial
declaration of its right to foreclose on its assessment liens. Pariser also
seeks to enforce his right to financial records of Metropolis Master
Association. 
 
Request
for Judicial Notice
 
On February 27, 2024, Defendant
Pariser filed a request for judicial notice and a supplemental request for
judicial notice, both seeking judicial notice of the February 20, 2024 minute
order in 23STCV27046. On March 21, 2024, Defendant Pariser filed a request for
judicial notice of the January 2, 2024 minute order in 23STSC04388. The
requests are GRANTED. (Evid. Code § 452(d).) 
 
Motion for Leave to Submit Petition
for Coordination
 
Standard 
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 404 provides: “[w]hen civil
actions sharing a common question of fact or law are pending in different
courts, a petition for coordination may be submitted to the Chairperson of the
Judicial Council, by the presiding judge of any such court, or by any party to
one of the actions after obtaining permission from the presiding judge, or by
all of the parties plaintiff or defendant in any such action. . . . a motion
for permission to submit a petition, shall be supported by a declaration
stating facts showing that the actions are complex, as defined by the Judicial
Council and that the actions meet the standards specified in Section 404.1.”
(See also Cal. R. Ct., rule 3.520(b)(1) (“If a direct petition is not
authorized by Code of Civil Procedure section 404, a party may request
permission from the presiding judge of the court in which one of the included
actions is pending to submit a petition for coordination to the Chair of the Judicial
Council.”).) In Los Angeles Superior Court, the presiding judge has designated
the supervising judge of the civil division (who sits in Dept. 1) to exercise
this authority and responsibility. (Code Civ. Proc. § 404.9.)  
 
Defendant’s
Motion Satisfies the Applicable Procedural Requirements 
 
A motion seeking permission to submit a petition for
coordination “must specify the matters required by rule 3.521(a) and must be
made in the manner provided by law for motions in civil actions generally.”
(Cal. R. Ct., rule 3.520(a).) Rule 3.521(a) requires the submission of
“memorandum and declarations showing:
 
(1)  The name of each
petitioner or, when the petition is submitted by a presiding or sole judge, the
name of each real party in interest, and the name and address of each party's
attorney of record, if any;
 
(2)  The names of the
parties to all included actions, and the name and address of each party's
attorney of record, if any;
 
(3)  If the party
seeking to submit a petition for coordination is a plaintiff, whether the
party's attorney has served the summons and complaint on all parties in all
included actions in which the attorney has appeared;
 
(4)  For each
included action, the complete title and case number, the date the complaint was
filed, and the title of the court in which the action is pending;
 
(5)  The complete
title and case number of any other action known to the petitioner to be pending
in a court of this state that shares a common question of fact or law with the
included actions, and a statement of the reasons for not including the other
action in the petition for coordination or a statement that the petitioner
knows of no other actions sharing a common question of fact or law;
 
(6)  The status of
each included action, including the status of any pretrial or discovery motions
or orders in that action, if known to petitioner;
 
(7)  The facts relied
on to show that each included action meets the coordination standards specified
in Code of Civil Procedure section 404.1; and
 
(8)  The facts relied
on in support of a request that a particular site or sites be selected for a
hearing on the petition for coordination.
 
(Cal. R. Ct., rule 3.521(a).) Defendant Pariser’s motion is
accompanied by the proposed petition for coordination, which includes the
information required by Rule 3.521(a) and Code of Civil Procedure section 404.
(Rogers Decl. Ex. B, Feb. 27 RJN Ex. A.) 
 
The motion also must be “accompanied by a proposed order.
The proposed order must state that the moving party has permission to submit a
petition for coordination to the Chair of the Judicial Council under rules
3.521-3.523.” (Cal. R. Ct., rule 3.520(b)(1).) On February 27, 2024, Defendant
Pariser submitted the required proposed order. (Cal. R. Ct., rule 3.520(b)(1).)
Because the other parties do not agree to the filing of a petition for
coordination, Defendant Pariser was required to bring a motion for permission.
(Code Civ. Proc. § 404.)  
 
Defendant Pariser Demonstrated a
Common Issue of Fact or Law 
 
“Coordination may be requested when civil actions sharing a
common question of fact or law are pending in different courts.” (Keenan v. Superior Court (1980) 111
Cal.App.3d 336, 340.) Defendant Pariser argues “the dispositive issue in each
action stems from the enforceability of the Illegal Abatement Agreements
entered into at the direction of Greenland as that issue determines whether:
(a) Met Master had a duty to disqualify Greenland candidates; (b) Met I
correctly disqualified Greenland candidates; (c) Greenland owes millions of
dollars in unpaid assessments; and (d) Greenland directors violated their
fiduciary duties to both non-profit community associations and their respective
membership as a whole.” (Mot. at 8:14-19.) In reply, Pariser reiterates the
cases “share common questions of fact and law as to Greenland’s improper
control of both associations, the legality of abatement agreements, the factual
circumstances that resulted in abatement agreements, Greenland’s failure to pay
assessments due and owing to Met I and Met I’s failure to pay Greenland’s share
of assessments to Met Master at Greenland’s direction and control. . . all
raise common questions of law as to the enforceability of abatement agreements
. . . [and] the disqualification of directors in common interest development elections.”
(Reply at 3:9-4:1.) 
 
In opposition, the Greenland parties argue against
the ultimate coordination of the cases, citing Code of Civil Procedure section
404.1. The Greenland parties also argue Orange County is the proper venue for the
claims asserted in that action, which Pariser contests. (Greenland
Opp. at 6:1-12; Reply at 4:8-5:7.) However, these arguments are not properly
before the Court on Pariser’s motion herein. Similarly, Metropolis Master Association’s joinder primarily relies
upon Section 404.1. While the motion must include information relevant to
Section 404.1, this Court does not determine the ultimate issue of
whether the cases should be coordinated. 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 404.) The only requirement to submit a petition for
coordination of cases deemed complex, (Feb. 27 RJN Ex. A), is to demonstrate there
are “civil actions sharing a common question of fact or law are pending in
different courts.” (Ibid.) 
 
In addressing this requirement, the Greenland parties
contend “the three actions at issue do not share a common question of fact or
law, nor is there is a risk as to inconsistent rulings, as the matters involve
different entities, different assessments, different abatements, and therefore
different analyses.” (Greenland Opp. at 4:26-5:21.) Pariser’s argument in reply regarding Greenland’s standing to oppose the
motion, (Reply at 5:8-6:10), lacks merit as Greenland are parties to litigation
encompassed within the proposed petition. In the joinder, Metropolis
Master Association summarily contends “the Orange County action involves a
dispute regarding the election for the Board of Directors for Metropolis I
Condominium Owners’ Association (‘Met I Association’), which is a completely separate
entity from the Metropolis Master Association” and therefore the cases “do not
share a common question of fact or law.” (Joinder at 3:6-12.) 
 
In
23STCV27046, Metropolis Master Association seeks an adjudication of the
parties’ rights regarding the election of the board of directors and challenges
related thereto, citing Pariser’s filing of the small claims complaint in 23STSC04388.
The small claims complaint specifically alleged “[p]er Defendant’s Master
Election Rules adopted 02/28/2022 Section IV.B.1, a Candidate or Director must
be current in the payment of regular and special assessments. Defendant’s
developer, Greenland is not current in its payment of regular and special
assessments.” In 30-2023-01346055-CU-NP-CJC, Greenland LA Metropolis
Development I LLC, a Delaware and Greenland LA Metropolis Development I-A, LLC
seek a judicial declaration that they are current on all assessments and
Pariser argues they are not current and the abatement agreements relied upon by
Greenland are void. The Court agrees with Pariser that the cases share common
questions of law and fact and therefore meet “the threshold standard set forth
in section 404.”  (Keenan, supra, 111
Cal.App.3d at 342.) 
 
Accordingly, the motion is
GRANTED. Los Angeles Superior Court cases 23STCV27046 and 23STSC04388 are stayed
for 30 days. (Cal. R. Ct, rule 3.520(b)(3) (“To provide sufficient time for a
party to submit a petition, the presiding judge may stay all related actions
pending in that court for a reasonable time not to exceed 30 calendar days.”).)