  Case Number:  19STCV02020    Hearing Date:   March 28, 2024    Dept:  1 19STCV02020           JANE
ROE vs JAMES A MACER, M.D., et al.
Plaintiff’s Application of Plaintiff for an Order to
Transfer Civil Case to Judicial District (C.C.P 402; LASC Local Rule 2.3 (b)
(2))
TENTATIVE RULING: 
Plaintiff’s Application of Plaintiff for an Order to Transfer Civil Case
to Judicial District (C.C.P 402; LASC Local Rule 2.3 (b) (2)) is DENIED. The
case shall remain as assigned.  Clerk to
give notice. 
Standard 
 
The Local Rules of the Los Angeles Superior Court govern
the assignment of cases between its districts and departments. (Code Civ. Proc.
§ 402.) LASC Local Rule 2.3(b)(2) authorizes Department 1 to transfer civil
cases from one judicial district to another via a noticed motion on three
enumerated grounds: (1) when the case was filed in an improper district; (2)
for the convenience of witnesses; or (3) to promote the
ends of justice. (LASC Local Rule 2.3(b)(2).) A transfer under the Local
Rules is discretionary. 
 
Plaintiff
Has Not Demonstrated a Sufficient Basis for a Transfer 
 
Plaintiff seeks to transfer this action from the Alhambra
Courthouse in the Northeast District to back to the Burbank Courthouse in the
Northwest District or to any other district.
 
Plaintiff contends a transfer would promote the ends of
justice because the case involves intimate details of Plaintiff’s life and a
different judicial district “would be less likely to contain a jury pool of
plaintiff’s coworkers, co-employees, and patients.” (Mot. at 4:21-23.) Plaintiff
states news of the transfer to Alhambra caused her emotional distress because
she is “worried that jurors at the Alhambra and Pasadena courthouses would be
more likely to reside in the areas neighboring Huntington Hospital including
Pasadena, San Marino and Alhambra, where a lot of my coworkers, co-employees,
physicians, nurses, co-workers, staff and patients reside.” (Corwin Decl. ¶ 8; Roe
Decl. ¶ 5.) 
 
Plaintiff does not provide any authority supporting the
contention that her speculation regarding the potential jurors is sufficient to
warrant a transfer. Plaintiff cites Civil Code section 3427.3, which has no
application here. Civil Code section 3427.3 provides “[t]he court having
jurisdiction over a civil proceeding under this title shall take all steps
reasonably necessary to safeguard the individual privacy and prevent harassment
of a health care patient, licensed health practitioner, or employee, client, or
customer of a health care facility who is a party or witness in the proceeding,
including granting protective orders” and allows the use of pseudonyms. The
title under which Civil Code section 3427.3 is located, is entitled “Interference
with Access to Health Care” and refers to cases involving a “commercial blockade”
of a health care facility. (Civ. Code §§ 3427 et seq. See Department of Fair
Employment and Housing v. Superior Court of Santa Clara County (2022) 82
Cal.App.5th 105, 110 (“Because of the inherently sensitive nature of some
proceedings, statutes specifically allow for keeping certain parties’
identities confidential. (See, for example, . . . Civ. Code, § 3427.3 [allowing pseudonym in actions for interference
with access to health care].”).) Plaintiff’s claims are not brought under this
statute. 
 
Plaintiff also cites Code of
Civil Procedure section 367.3. However, this statute only applies where the
litigant “is an active participant in the address confidentiality program
created pursuant to Chapter 3.1 (commencing with Section 6205) of Division 7 of
Title 1 of the Government Code.” Plaintiff has not demonstrated she is an
active participant in California’s Safe at Home Program, which is designed to
assist “persons attempting to escape from actual or threatened domestic
violence, sexual assault, stalking, human trafficking, or elder or dependent
adult abuse.” (Gov. Code § 6205(a).) 
 
As argued by Defendant, the trial judge has numerous tools
at their disposal to address Plaintiff’s concerns regarding potential jurors. Plaintiff
has not met her burden to demonstrate a transfer would promote the ends of
justice within the meaning of Los Angeles Superior Court, Local Rule 2.3(b)(2).
The application is DENIED. 