 Case Number:  23STCV19923    Hearing Date:   May 23, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



NATHANIEL HOWARD,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
KENNETH MELROSE; LAW OFFICES OF KEN J. MELROSE; LAW OFFICES OF
  KENNETH J. MELROSE, LLC; BMS LEGAL SERVICES LLC; STEPHEN SOLENDER; STEPHEN
  SOLENDER dba THE SOLENDER GROUP; THE SOLENDER GROUP, INC.; YANGKYOUNG LEE;
  MICHAEL MANAPOL; FIRST INDEMNITY INSURANCE AGENCY, INC., ERIC CANTON, AND
  DOES 1 THROUGH 400, INCLUSIVE,
                        Defendants.


 Case No.:          23STCV19923
 Hearing Date:   5/23/24
 Trial Date:        N/A
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Plaintiff
  Nathaniel Howard’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Special
  Interrogatories, Set One, by Defendant Kenneth Melrose, and for Monetary
  Sanctions in the Amount of $13,360 Against Kenneth Melrose and His Counsel of
  Record Klinedisnt PC; and
Plaintiff
  Nathaniel Howard’s Motion to Compel the Second Session of Deposition of
  Defendant Kenneth Melrose and Request for Sanctions (Reimbursement of Fees
  and Costs Associated with This Motion) of $7,620 Against Mr. Melrose and His
  Lawyers, the Klinedinst Firm and Heather Rosing.



 
I. Background
A. Pleadings
Plaintiff Nathaniel
Howard sues Defendants Kenneth Melrose, Law Offices of Ken J. Melrose as well
as Law Offices of Kenneth J. Melrose, LLC (collectively LOKM), BMS Legal
Services LLC (BMS), Stephen Solender dba The Solender Group, The Solender
Group, Inc., Yangkyoung Lee, Michael Manapol, First Indemnity Insurance Agency,
Inc., Eric Canton, and Does 1 through 400, pursuant to a March 29, 2024, First
Amended Complaint (FAC).
The FAC alleges claims
of (1) Fraud/Conspiracy/Aiding and Abetting, (2) Breach of Fiduciary
Duty/Conspiracy/Aiding and Abetting, (3) Statutory Remedies Per Penal Code
Section 496, (4) Negligence, (5) Breach of Contract as to Howard’s Contract
with LOKM, (6) Conversion, (7) Breach of Fiduciary Duty, (8) Negligence, and
(9) Declaratory Relief.
The claims—only some of
which completely overlap as to operative Defendants being sued on the
claim—arise from the following allegations, among others.
On February 14, 2017,
Howard was seriously injured by negligence and other malfeasance of Clark
Construction and Conco (the underlying defendants). Plaintiff was first
represented by attorney Brian Witzer. Witzer filed suit against the underlying
defendants. During the course of Witzer’s representation of Howard, he took on
co-Defendant Kenneth Melrose as an agent, employee and partner. Melrose in turn
allegedly engaged in severe breaches of fiduciary duty, aided and abetted
Witzer in defrauding Howard and engaged in malpractice in his own right. Other
lawyers who engaged in malfeasance relative to the handling of the underlying
case were Stephen Solender, Michael Manapol, Eric Canton and Yangkyoung Lee. For
example, Witzer operated a Ponzi-style scheme where he would use monies
belonging to one client to pay another client. In another example, during the
course of the underlying action, Witzer and Melrose (and to a lesser but still
significant extent, Solender, Manapol, Canton and others according to proof)
insisted that Plaintiff obtain exceedingly expensive litigation funding so that
they could avoid the risk of funding the case themselves, and then
misappropriated at least $200,000. As of the filing of the FAC, the litigation
funder was demanding close to $700,000 from Plaintiff Howard, even though
Witzer and Melrose misappropriated and converted over $200,000, which
constitutes a loss of close to $1 million in and of itself.
B. Motions Before
the Court
On February 13, 2024,
Plaintiff Howard filed a motion to compel further responses from Defendant
Kenneth Melrose to certain first set special interrogatory requests, and for
sanctions.
On March 4, 2024,
Plaintiff Howard filed a motion to compel the second deposition of Defendant
Melrose, which also seeks a sanctions award.
On May 10, 2024,
Defendant Melrose filed oppositions to both motions.
On May 16, 2024,
Plaintiff Howard filed a reply to the opposition to the motion to compel a
second deposition.
On May 17, 2024—one
court day late—Plaintiff Howard filed a reply to the opposition to the motion
to compel further responses. The papers explain that the reply was filed late
for personal reasons involving the death of a friend of Plaintiff’s counsel.
Plaintiff Howard’s motions are now
before the Court.
 
II. Motion to Compel Further Responses and Request for
Sanctions
A. Motion to Compel Further Responses: MOOT in
part, GRANTED in part, DENIED in part.
1. Legal Standard
A
motion to compel a further response is used when a party gives unsatisfactory
answers or makes untenable objections to interrogatories, demands to produce,
or requests for admission. (See Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.300, subd. (a),
2031.310, subd. (a), 2033.290, subd. (a); Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting,
Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 403 (Sinaiko)
[interrogatories and demands to produce].)
To
compel a further response to interrogatories, the movant can show that: (1) the
responding party’s answer to a particular interrogatory is evasive or
incomplete (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (a)(1)); (2) the responding
party’s exercise of the option to produce documents in response to an
interrogatory was unwarranted or the required specification of those documents
was inadequate (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (a)(2)); and (3) the
responding party’s objection to an interrogatory is without merit or too
general (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (a)(3); see, e.g., Williams v.
Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 550 [defendant’s argument that
plaintiff was required to establish good cause or prove merits of underlying
claim before propounding interrogatories without merit]).
2. Analysis
Plaintiff’s
moving papers seek further responses to SROGs, Set One, Nos. 4-5 and 9-23. The
moving papers seek further responses without qualification from introductory
statements or general objections, and without objections. (Mot., Notice, p. 2.)
The
Court notes that rather than striking the preliminary introduction or
objections to the interrogatory responses, the Court provides a structure below
for the parties to resolve their disputes according to the Court’s reasoning on
Defendant Melrose’s objections.
a. SROGs, Set One, Nos. 4, 9, 11, 13, 18,
20-23
The
Court determines that this motion is MOOT as to SROGs, Set One, Nos. 4, 9, 11,
13, 18, and 20-23 because the reply brief limits its arguments in favor of
further responses, without qualification or objection, to SROGs, Set One, Nos.
5, 10, 12, 14, 15, 16, 17, and 19. (Reply, pp. 3-10 [Nos. 10, 14, 15; No. 12;
Nos. 16, 17; No. 19; No. 5].)
b. SROGs, Set One, No. 5
The
Court GRANTS relief as to SROGs, Set One, No. 5.
The
interrogatory requests, “[f]or each case in which you appeared as trial counsel
between January 1, 2020[,] and April 23, 2023, please state the dates on which
you appeared as trial counsel.” (Mot., Ex. 1, p. 2.)
In
response, Defendant Melrose asserted a response with mostly objections and with
a substantive portion that identifies the underlying action as between December
28, 2022, and March 20, 2023. (Mot., Separate Statement, Response to SROGs, Set
One, No. 5.)
The
relevance of this interrogatory is clear from the allegations that Counsel in
the underlying action prioritized other matters before Plaintiff’s case despite
having promised Howard that counsel would prioritize taking that matter to
trial. (See, e.g., Complaint, ¶¶ 52(b), 62.) SROGs, Set One, No. 5 could lead
to information regarding whether Defendant Melrose was in fact working on other
cases and not prioritizing Plaintiff Howard’s lawsuit as a result. Thus, the
request is relevant to the issues in this action.
Defendant
Melrose fails to raise valid objections.
In
his opposition, Defendant Melrose argues that Plaintiff did not sufficiently
meet and confer on this interrogatory where counsel did not fully flesh out the
relevance of this discovery until filing this motion, making it difficult for
Defendant Melrose to have ascertain relevance. (Opp’n, p. 6.) The Court
disagrees with this position based on relevance, as discussed above, and
because the Legislature was aware that establishing a broad right to discovery
might permit parties lacking any valid cause of action to engage in “fishing
expeditions” to a defendant’s inevitable annoyance but granted such a right
anyway, comfortable in the conclusion that “‘[m]utual knowledge of all the
relevant facts gathered by both parties is essential to proper litigation.’” (Williams
v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 551, citation omitted.)
Defendant
Melrose also argues that the lack of clarity partially arose from the failure
of the Complaint to allege misrepresentations as to Defendant Melrose’s trial
experience. (Opp’n, p. 6.) However, relevance of subject matter does not depend
on legally sufficient pleading, nor is it restricted to issues formally raised
in pleadings. (Williams, supra, at p. 551, quoting Union Mut.
Life Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1978) 80 Cal.App.3d 1, 10.)
The
opposition contends that the discovery at issue is not relevant to this action
(addressed and rejected above) and that Melrose’s duty of confidentiality
prevents him from responding to this interrogatory. As to confidentiality, the
Court also disagrees. The opposition argues that “[h]ere, [under various cited
authorities preceding this quote,] Mr. Melrose is obligated to maintain the
confidentiality of the clients he has represented (including the fact that he
represented them) and prevent disclosure of those facts to third[ ]parties.”
(Opp’n, pp. 7-8.) Yet, this argument is generally crafted for SROGs, Set One,
Nos. 4-5, 9-13, and 21-23, and thus does not explain with any clarity why
highlighting dates in which Melrose was in trial would divulge confidentiality.
The
separate statement argument in response to this interrogatory is identical to
the briefing in the points and authorities, and thus, it provides no greater
clarity on how simply divulging dates on which Defendant Melrose was in trial
will result in breaching the duty of confidentiality. (Compare Opp’n, pp. 7-9,
with Opp’n, Separate Statement, pp. 6-7.) Moreover, as argued in the moving
papers’ separate statement, the data is contained in public records,
undermining Melrose’s argument. (Mot., Separate Statement, p. 15.)
Last,
the Court rejects the original objections to this interrogatory, most of which
were addressed above, and the remainder of which lack sufficient elaboration or
merit in the face of the need for the discovery here.
c. SROGs, Set One, Nos. 10, 14, 15
The
Court GRANTS relief as to SROGs, Set One, Nos. 10, 14, and 15, with significant
conditions.
The
discovery as to sources of income is relevant. For example, as argued in the
separate statement, “Plaintiff believes that Melrose was paid percentages of
multiple cases he worked on with Witzer and/or LOBW. If Plaintiff’s counsel’s
theory is correct, a percentage payout will substantially support Plaintiff’s
theory that Melrose and Witzer were at least de facto partners and/or joint
venturers.” (Mot., Separate Statement, pp. 18, 25, 27 [same quote for all three
interrogatories].)
At
the same time, Defendant Melrose brings up many good points relating to client
confidentiality and the dangers of disclosure here. (See, e.g., Opp’n, pp.
8-9.)
The
Court will thus order further responses by Melrose that indicate either 1) the
name of the law firm, to the extent that monies were received from a law firm,
or 2) if directly from a client, directly or as a result of a settlement, then
the responses should indicate Client number 1, Client number 2, etc. In this
way, Plaintiff will be able to obtain information to test Defendant Melrose’s
contentions, while Defendant will be able to maintain confidentiality of his
actual clients. The Court does not see how such responses would violate any
privacy or confidentiality rights.
In
relation to Defendant Melrose’s privacy rights, the Court determines that
Defendant Melrose placed his financial sources at issue when he testified that
he received almost no compensation from Witzer or the entities relating to
Witzer (see Mot., Ex. 5, Comments to 10, 14, 15; no objection in opposition
papers), and a compelling need to determine the veracity of the statements
supports disclosure of sources of income for Defendant Melrose. Defendant
Melrose’s alleged role in Witzer’s alleged Ponzi scheme is at the heart of this
case. Discovery directly seeking information on that issue offers a compelling
need.
The
Court rejects the other objections raised against these interrogatories:
unwarranted annoyance, overbreadth, oppression, and harassment. Annoyance,
oppression, and harassment are undermined by the discussion in the preceding
paragraphs. The Court also finds no overbreadth where the interrogatories are specifically
limited to January 1, 2020, and April 1, 2023, and where the targeted discovery
is central to the issues in this case.
On
these grounds, the Court finds that relief here is merited, as limited above.
d. SROGs, Set One, No. 12
The
Court GRANTS relief as to SROGs, Set One, No. 12.
The
interrogatory states, “[i]f you received any form of payments from the Law
Offices of Brian Witzer between January 1, 2020[,] and April 1, 2023, please
state the date and amount of any such payment.” (Mot., Ex. 1, p. 3.)
Defendant
Melrose initially responded with mainly objections and a substantive response
reading, “Responding Party represented Propounding Party on a contingency basis
and has not been paid anything to date for his efforts.” (See Opp’n, Emani
Decl., Ex. 2, p. 11.)
Defendant
Melrose then supplemented the response after this motion as filed to add: “Responding
Party has reviewed the information available, including bank statements and is
not able to provide the date and amount of all payments from Brian Witzer
and/or the Law Offices. of Brian Witzer. To the best of Responding Party’s
recollection, Brian Witzer and/or the Law Offices of Brian Witzer paid
responding party a small retainer in late 2019 or early 2020 that was likely
between $4,000 and $5,000, though it could have been slightly larger or
smaller. Other than that retainer, Responding Party did not receive any
payments from Brian Witzer or the Law Offices of Brian Witzer.” (Opp’n, Emani
Decl., Ex. 2, pp. 11-12.)
First,
the interrogatory clearly involves relevant information. The pleadings have
alleged that LOBW was used by Witzer to divert monies rightfully belonging to
clients, such as Plaintiff Howard. Defendant Melrose’s involvement in that
scheme is highly germane to the issues in this case, or, at the least, is
information that could lead to the discovery of admissible evidence because it
may lead to, for example, evidence of additional grounds for liability against
Defendant Melrose, or of a partnership between Witzer and Melrose.
Second,
these responses are somewhat evasive. The original response limits itself to
facts in this case, not all payments received from LOBW. While such a request might
otherwise be overbroad, within the context of this litigation and the
Ponzi-style allegations, the request goes to heart of whether Witzer and
Melrose were running the alleged Ponzi scheme together. Clarity as to whether
these are the only payments received for any case is appropriate.
Third,
the Court rejects the objections raised by Defendant Melrose. Relevance
undermines unwarranted annoyance, oppression, and harassment objections. The
overbreadth objection is not greatly elaborated and is undermined by the set
timeframe for discovery, i.e., January 1, 2020, to April 1, 2023. And the
privacy objections have been discussed and rejected above as to third parties
and as to Defendant Melrose’s financial information.
e. SROGs, Set One, Nos. 16-17
The
Court DENIES relief as to SROGs, Set One, Nos. 16-17. Insufficient meet and
confer preceded Plaintiff’s motion in relation to this discovery.
In
the meet and confer letter preceding this motion, Plaintiff’s counsel responded
as follows to Defendant Melrose’s responses to SROGs, Set One, Nos. 16-17: “We
will accept a response, i.e., that the only ‘document’ constituting a written
agreement between Melrose and Witzer is the referenced ‘Fee Division Agreement
Pursuant to California RPC 1.5.1’, but for the record we believe that this
response is perjurious, and there were other written documents. We will deal
with the perjury at a later point in time.” (Mot., Ex. 5 at SROGs, Set One,
Comments to Nos. 17, 18.)
Thereafter,
Defendant Melrose provided further responses to SROGs, Set One, Nos. 16-17,
despite the fact that Plaintiff said he would accept those responses, and never
corrected counsel for Defendant Melrose when they confirmed their understanding
that those responses were not part of the meet and confer process. (Opp’n,
Emani Decl., ¶ 8.)
The
reply does not address this argument. (Reply, pp. 7-9.) This section of the
reply even mentions the January 15, 2024, meet and confer letter from Plaintiff’s
counsel but fails to address whether sufficient meet and confer preceded the
filing of a motion in relation to these interrogatory requests.
Relief
is thus DENIED as to these requests.
f. SROGs, Set One, Nos. 19
Relief
is MOOT as to RPDs, Set One, No. 19.
The
interrogatory reads, “[p]lease identify any and all bills, invoices, documents
or ledgers memorializing hours you allegedly spent [on] Howard v. Clark between
April 1, 2019 [and] December 1, 2020.” (Mot., Ex. 1, p. 3.)
Defendant
Melrose initially met this interrogatory with objections and a substantive
response indicating that Plaintiff Howard was already in possession of the
client file and its detailed indexes, and that if additional documents were
discovered, they would be produced as they arose. (See Opp’n, Emani Decl., Ex.
2, p. 21.)
Defendant
Melrose supplemented the response after Plaintiff filed his motion as to
restate objections and further produce the “Howard v. Melrose RFP & SPROG
Chart.” (Opp’n, Emani Decl., Ex. 2, pp. 21-22.)
First,
the Court determines this information is relevant. As argued in Plaintiff
Howard’s separate statement, “Melrose claims he is entitled to quantum meruit
and is asserting a lien.” (Mot., Separate Statement, p. 36.) The time expended
by Defendant Melrose in the underlying action clearly relates to the requested
discovery.
Second,
however, the Court determines that the Chart appears to have mooted this
request. The Court notes that the moving papers only attach the first and last
page of the Chart as Exhibit 4, and the opposition and reply do not attach the
Chart at all. A review of the available pages appears to show that Defendant
Melrose individually listed each of the 316,411 pages of documents produced by
Defendant Melrose and tied each individual page to various production requests,
i.e., “RFP 105; RFP 106; RFP 109; RFP 110; RFP 111; RFP 112; RFP 113.” (Mot.,
Ex. 4.) While Plaintiff may take issue with the form of the Chart, the Chart
does specify writings from which an answer seemingly may be derived or
ascertained. Moreover, the Chart appears to contain sufficient detail for
Plaintiff to locate the documents listed in the Chart, e.g., KM00000001 or KM00316411.
As Melrose explained in his separate statement, Melrose claims he kept no
specific billing statements, therefore, he contends that the entire client file
and indexes of the client file are responsive to the request for documents
memorializing hours he allegedly spent on the case. Plaintiff may be entitled
to a verified response setting forth the above if it has not already been
provided, but the Court otherwise denies an order for further responses.
B.
Request for Sanctions: GRANTED in part.
1. Legal Standard
The
court must impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section
2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes a motion to compel a further response to interrogatories, unless it
finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification
or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (d).)
The
court may award sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor of a party who files
a motion to compel discovery, even though no opposition to the motion was
filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn, or the requested discovery
was provided to the moving party after the motion was filed. (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1348(a).)
2. Analysis
The
Court finds that sanctions are merited in part.
First,
the fairest resolution is for Plaintiff to receive a share of sanctions
proportional to success in its motion. That success is measured by the
interrogatories that were mooted by Defendant Melrose serving discovery in
response to the filing of this motion, and by the Court’s grant as to other
interrogatory requests. Only two of the requests for further discovery were denied,
leaving a total of 15 requests either moot or granted as to compelling further
responses. A 15/17 share of sanctions thus appears proper in a mixed result
ruling such as this one.
Second,
the request for sanctions is reasonable. As to fee rate, counsel’s declaration
sufficiently describes in succinct detail the long legal experience of
Plaintiff’s counsel, justifying a rate of $800 per hour. Next, this was an
intensive motion that required the drafting of a lot of moving parts. Ten hours
to draft the motion and accompanying documents appears to be an appropriate
award. An additional three hours to review the opposition and draft the reply
also appears appropriate. However, the Court reduces the number of compensable
hours for preparation and travel to this hearing to one hour. After the time
spent drafting the motion and reply, four hours is excessive for hearing
preparation and attendance. Moreover, counsel indicated that he would not be
appearing personally. (Reply, p. 4 at § VIII.) A single compensable hour should
thus satisfy for the purposes of the hearing. Otherwise stated, the Court finds
it reasonable to limit appearance sanctions to $800, which is a reasonable
compensation for that purpose. The $60 filing fee is reasonable. Sanctions are
thus appropriate in the amount of $12,060.
Last,
the Court determines that sanctions are appropriate as against Defendant
Melrose and his counsel, Klinedinst, jointly and severally, where the record
shows that counsel bears some responsibility for the discovery delays and
nonresponses.
Sanctions
are thus GRANTED in part in the amount of $12,060 against Defendant Melrose and
his counsel, Klinedinst, jointly and severally.
 
III. Motion to
Compel Deposition and Request for Sanctions

A. Motion to Compel Second Deposition:
GRANTED.
1. Legal
Standard
“Once any party has taken the
deposition of any natural person, including that of a party to the action,
neither the party who gave, nor any other party who has been served with a
deposition notice pursuant to Section 2025.240 may take a subsequent deposition
of that deponent.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.610, subd. (a).)
However, “for good cause shown, the
court may grant leave to take a subsequent deposition, and the parties, with
the consent of any deponent who is not a party, may stipulate that a subsequent
deposition be taken.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.610, subd. (b).)
The total time for deposition by
all counsel is generally limited to seven hours. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.290,
subd. (a).) However, a court shall allow additional time, beyond any limits
imposed by this section, if needed to fairly examine the deponent or if the
deponent, another person, or any other circumstance impedes or delays the
examination. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.290, subd. (a).) Subdivision (a) and
parts of subdivision (b) have been found by California courts to impose merely
presumptive restrictions that are applicable only if the court does not order
otherwise, thus giving courts ample discretion as to additional deposition
time. (Certainteed Corp. v. Superior Court (2014) 222 Cal.App.4th 1053,
1060-1062 (Certainteed) [seven-hour limit and 14-hour limit in complex
cases merely presumptive], superseded by statute on other grounds as discussed
in Cahill Construction Co., Inc. v. Superior Court (2021) 66 Cal.App.5th
777, 786-787 (Cahill) [Legislature responds to Certainteed by
enacting law becoming Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.295].)
It does not appear from the papers that
Plaintiff is seeking more than the seven hours generally allowed.
2. Relevant
Procedural History
On December 29, 2023, Plaintiff’s
counsel began the deposition of Kenneth Melrose. During a recess, an
unanticipated legal emergency arose that prompted Plaintiff’s counsel to
request an adjournment of the deposition with a second session to be later
scheduled. (Mot., Zelig Decl., ¶¶ 3-4.) The emergency was clarified in the
reply to pertain “to issues that had unexpected ar[isen] relative to the filing
of two heavy oppositions for summary judgment/adjudication.” (Reply, Zelig
Decl., ¶ 4.)
Defendant Melrose’s counsel
(hereafter, defense counsel) assented to the request for adjournment provided
that a second session was scheduled in short order. Plaintiff’s counsel sent an
email shortly thereafter asking for deposition dates of January 4 or 5, 2024. (Mot.,
Zelig Decl., ¶ 5, Ex. 1 [copy of email thread].) Plaintiff’s counsel reached
out again on January 2, 2024, and January 8, 2024. (Mot., Zelig Decl., ¶¶ 6, 8,
Exs. 2, 4.)
Defendant Melrose’s opposition
clarifies that on November 29, 2023, defense counsel informed Plaintiff’s
counsel that defense counsel would be in trial for a different matter starting
on January 5, 2024. (Opp’n, Emani Decl., ¶ 10, Ex. E.) This explanation appears
to have been shared again on January 2, 2024. (Opp’n, Emani Decl., ¶ 11 [no
referenced attachment].) This explanation may inform the limited response in
late December 2023 and early January 2024.
On January 5, 2024, in between the
communications from Plaintiff’s counsel, the court reporter who took the
partial deposition of Defendant Melrose “certified” the deposition. (Mot.,
Zelig Decl., ¶ 7, Ex. 3.)
On January 11, 2024, the court
reporter served the completed first transcript for the December 29, 2023,
deposition. (Mot., Zelig Decl., ¶ 9, Ex. 5.)
On February 21, 2024, a little more
than a month later, Plaintiff’s counsel followed up regarding scheduling a
second deposition. The meet and confer letter requested but did not suggest
specific alternative deposition dates. (Mot., Zelig Decl., ¶ 10, Ex. 6.)
As of March 4, 2024, defense
counsel had not responded, prompting Plaintiff to file this motion, which
requests a second deposition session but does not request any documents. (Mot.,
p. 2 at Notice, ¶ 1; Mot., Zelig Decl., ¶ 11.) 
3. Applicable
Statutory Sections
The Court briefly discusses why its
determination is couched in Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.610 rather
than in Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.450 or 2025.480.
The lack of authority on this
issue—i.e., what is the statutory authority for filing a motion to compel a
second deposition session after the first deposition session ended by mutual
adjournment and an agreement to continue the deposition at a later time, but
where the second session never materialized—is recognized in the papers.
A trial court may construe a motion
bearing one label as a different type of motion. (Austin v. Los Angeles
Unified School Dist. (2016) 244 Cal.App.4th 918, 930.) “‘The nature of a
motion is determined by the nature of the relief sought, not by the label
attached to it. The law is not a mere game of words. … The principle that a
trial court may consider a motion regardless of the label placed on it by a
party is consistent with the court’s inherent authority to manage and control
its docket.’ [Citation.]” (Ibid.) 
Section 2025.450 is most applicable
to circumstances where the deposition did not proceed because the deponent
fails to attend the deposition or to produce documents or fails to proceed with
the deposition. Here, Kenneth Melrose attended the December 29, 2023,
deposition. And Defendant Melrose did not “fail to proceed” with the deposition
where the adjournment was mutually requested. Whether he subsequently failed to
proceed with the second session is not the same thing as refusing to proceed
with the first session on December 29, 2023, despite being present at the
deposition.
Section 2025.480 is most applicable
to circumstances where the deponent fails to answer any question or to produce
any document in the deposition notice or subpoena. That is also not the case
here because Defendant Melrose did not fail to answer any question. Instead,
the deposition was mutually adjourned. Moreover, Plaintiff Howard offers no
challenge to any production associated with the deposition.
As a result, the Court determines
that the discretionary statutory section of Code of Civil Procedure section
2025.610 best allows the Court to balance the competing needs of the parties in
scheduling a second deposition session.
The Court analyzes sanctions below
under a different statutory section because section 2025.610 does not contain
its own sanctions subdivision, but sections 2023.010 and 2023.030 are generally
applicable to discovery.
4. Analysis
The Court finds in favor of
Plaintiff Howard.
There is good cause for a second
deposition session. The parties’ papers are clear: Defendant Kenneth Melrose
agreed to the second session through defense counsel’s assent to adjournment
provided Plaintiff’s counsel scheduled a second session in short order, which
Plaintiff’s counsel in fact attempted to do, as summarized above.
Here, there is no guarantee that
without a Court order, the second session of the deposition will move forward. While
Defendant Melrose has professed a willingness to proceed with a second
deposition session, the evidence before the Court informs a determination that the
parties would be best served by a court order setting a specific date for
deposition.
Last, the Court notes that the
opposition arguments are not otherwise availing.
While Plaintiff could have served a
second deposition notice, the second session was supposed to arise from the
first deposition notice. Moreover, the spirit of cooperation would dictate
following the exact steps followed by Plaintiff’s counsel: email follow ups
based on a prior mutual understanding that the second session would take place.
(Opp’n, p. 5.)
Plaintiff’s counsel also reached
out to defense counsel several times to request dates, and even though defense
counsel replied once to meet and confer efforts—i.e., only on January 2,
2024—that meet and confer communication from defense counsel merely noted that
defense counsel would be in trial as of January 5, 2024, but failed to provide
specific deposition dates for the second session. The Court does not find Plaintiff
at fault for not doing more to secure the second session when the record shows
that Plaintiff and counsel acted in good faith and, for the most part,
diligently followed up regarding a second session—though it must be noted that
no efforts took place between January 9, 2024, and February 20, 2024.
For the reasons discussed in the
preceding paragraph, to the extent that a meet and confer was required prior to
filing this motion, the Court determines that Plaintiff Howard satisfied that
requirement through the above discussed emails dated between December 29, 2023,
and February 21, 2024.
Last, Plaintiff’s counsel’s
declaration described defense counsel’s failure to respond to the meet and
confer emails, leaving Plaintiff’s counsel no choice but to file this motion on
March 4, 2024, within 60 days of the certification and service of the
transcript for the December 29, 2023, deposition session, based on the time
restrictions in Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.480. Defendant Melrose is
likely correct in arguing that section 2025.480 is not the applicable statutory
section, but Defendant Melrose is wrong in arguing that there was no urgency to
the possibility that Plaintiff Howard could lose their right to a second
deposition session by failing to file this motion prior to the section 2025.480
timeframe expiring.
5. Disposition
For the above reasons, Plaintiff
Howard’s motion is GRANTED as to compelling a second deposition session.
B. Request
for Sanctions: DENIED as to cross requests
1. Legal
Standard
Code of Civil Procedure section
2023.030 permits California courts to impose monetary sanctions for discovery
misuses, which are defined by section 2023.010 of the Code of Civil Procedure.
The court may award sanctions under
the Discovery Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery,
even though no opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion
was withdrawn, or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party
after the motion was filed. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1348(a).)
2. Analysis
The Court finds that sanctions are
not merited to either side.
On the one hand, the Court agrees
that there was a lack of statutory guidance on this issue, justifying Plaintiff’s
counsel’s decision to file a motion. It was only after this motion was filed
that Defendants provided specific dates after indicating their initial unavailability,
without giving any additional dates. On the other hand, Plaintiff’s counsel failed
to follow up between January 9, 2024, and February 20, 2024, begging the
question whether this motion truly was necessary. (Opp’n, Emani Decl., ¶¶
15-21, Exs. G-J.)
The Court notes that Plaintiff’s
reply offers to drop his request for sanctions, if the Defendants would do so
as well. Given the ambiguity in the situation and the initial failure to provide
additional dates, the Court denies Defendant Melrose’s cross-request for
sanctions.
 
IV. Conclusion
A. Motion to Compel Further
Responses and for Sanctions
Plaintiff Nathaniel Howard’s Motion
to Compel Further Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One, by Defendant
Kenneth Melrose, and for Monetary Sanctions in the Amount of $13,360 Against
Kenneth Melrose and His Counsel of Record Klinedisnt PC is MOOT in part,
GRANTED in part, and DENIED in part as follows:
(1) MOOT as to Special
Interrogatories, Set One, Nos. 4, 9, 11, 13, 18-23;
(2) GRANTED as to Special
Interrogatories, Set One, Nos. 5, 10, 12, 14-15;
(3) DENIED as to Special
Interrogatories, Set One, Nos. 16-17; and
(4) GRANTED in part as to sanctions
in the amount of $12,060 as against Defendant Melrose and his counsel,
Klinedinst, jointly and severally.
Defendant Kenneth Melrose is
ordered to produce supplemental responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One,
Nos. 5 and 12 within 21 days of this ruling.
The parties are ordered to meet and
confer regarding a proposed order for the procedure to be followed with regard
to Special Interrogatories, Set One, Nos. 10, 14, and 15.
Defendant Kenneth Melrose and
counsel, Klinedinst, are ordered, jointly and severally, to remit sanctions of
$12,060 to Plaintiff Nathaniel Howard, within 21 days of this ruling.
B. Motion to Compel Second
Deposition and Request for Sanctions
Plaintiff Nathaniel Howard’s Motion to Compel the Second Session of
Deposition of Defendant Kenneth Melrose and Request for Sanctions
(Reimbursement of Fees and Costs Associated with This Motion) of $7,620 Against
Mr. Melrose and His Lawyers, the Klinedinst Firm and Heather Rosing is GRANTED
in part as follows:
(1) GRANTED as to compelling the second session of Defendant Kenneth
Melrose’s deposition; and
(2) DENIED as to sanctions against Defendant Melrose and his
counsel, Klinedinst and Heather Rosing, jointly and severally.
The Court DENIES Defendant Kenneth
Melrose’s opposition request for sanctions.