  Case Number:  23SMCV02630    Hearing Date:   October 25, 2023    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE
RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


October
  25, 2023




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV02630




MOTION


Motion
  to Compel Arbitration




MOVING PARTY


Defendant
  Lucas, Horsfall, Murphy & Pindroh




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff
  Jack Ford



 
MOTION
 
Defendant Lucas, Horsfall, Murphy & Pindroh (“Defendant”) moves to
compel Plaintiff Jack Ford (“Plaintiff”) to arbitrate Plaintiff’s claims for professional
negligence (accounting malpractice) arising from tax advice Defendant allegedly
gave to Plaintiff including the sale of  real property to Plaintiff’s financial
detriment.  
 
Plaintiff opposes the motion and Defendant has replied. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARDS – MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION
 
            “[T]he advantages of arbitration
include a presumptively less costly, more expeditious manner of resolving
disputes.  It follows a party to a valid
arbitration agreement has a contractual right to have its dispute with another
party to the contract resolved quickly and inexpensively.”  (Henry v. Alcove Investment, Inc.
(1991) 233 Cal.App.3d 94, 99–100 [cleaned up].) 
Thus, “on petition of a party to an arbitration agreement alleging the
existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a party to
the agreement refuses to arbitrate that controversy, the court shall order the
petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines
that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy exists.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2; see also 
EFund
Capital Partners v. Pless (2007) 150 Cal.App.4th 1311, 1320 [the language
in section 1281.2 compelling arbitration is mandatory].) The right to compel
arbitration exists unless the court finds that the right has been waived by a
party’s conduct, other grounds exist for revocation of the agreement, or where
a pending court action arising out of the same transaction creates the possibility
of conflicting rulings on a common issue of law or fact.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2, subds.
(a)-(c).)    
 
            “On a petition to compel
arbitration, the trial court must first determine whether an agreement to
arbitrate the controversy exists. 
Because the existence of the agreement is a statutory prerequisite to
granting the petition, the petitioner bears the burden of proving its existence
by a preponderance of the evidence.  The
party seeking arbitration can meet its initial burden by attaching to the
petition a copy of the arbitration agreement purporting to bear the
respondent's signature.”  (Bannister
v. Marinidence Opco, LLC (2021) 64 Cal.App.5th 541, 543-544 [cleaned
up].)  The party seeking to compel arbitration must also “plead and prove a
prior demand for arbitration and a refusal to arbitrate under the
agreement.”  (Mansouri v. Superior
Court (2010) 181 Cal.App.4th 633, 640-641.) 

 
            And while the moving party on a
motion to compel arbitration “bears the burden of proving the existence of a
valid arbitration agreement by a preponderance of the evidence, [a] party
opposing the petition bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of the
evidence any fact necessary to its defense.  The trial court sits as the
trier of fact, weighing all the affidavits, declarations, and other documentary
evidence, and any oral testimony the court may receive at its discretion, to
reach a final determination.”  (Ruiz
v. Moss Bros. Auto Group, Inc. (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 836, 842 [cleaned
up]; see also Pinnacle Museum Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle Market Development (US), LLC (2012) 55 Cal.4th 223, 236 [“The party
seeking arbitration bears the burden of proving the existence of an arbitration
agreement, and the party opposing arbitration bears the burden of proving any
defense, such as unconscionability”].)  
 
ANALYSIS
 
On or about June 18, 2019, Plaintiff executed Defendant’s Engagement
Letter in connection with Defendant’s provision of accounting service to
Plaintiff.  (Declaration of Michael P. Amerio,
¶ 2, Exh. 1.)  The Engagement Letter
contained the following provisions:
 
Management agrees that any dispute (other than
our efforts to collect an outstanding invoice) shall be submitted first to
mediation, and if mediation is not successful, then to binding
arbitration.  The parties will engage in
the mediation process in good faith once a written request to mediate has been
given by any party to the engagement. 
Any mediation initiated as a result of this engagement shall be
administered within the county of Los Angeles, California in accordance with
the Dispute Resolution Rules of Judicate West and any ensuing arbitration shall
be conducted within said county, according to California law.  The results of any such mediation shall be
binding only upon agreement of each party to be bound.  The costs of any mediation proceeding shall
be shared equally by the participating parties.
 
If the parties are unable to resolve any dispute
through mediation outlined above, the dispute shall be resolved by binding
arbitration.  The arbitration will be
conducted in accordance with the procedures in this document and the Dispute
Resolution Rules of Judicate West as in effect on the date of the engagement
letter, or such other rules and procedures as the parties may designate by
mutual agreement.  The parties understand
and agree that by using arbitration to resolve all disputes, they are giving up
any right that they may have to a court trial by judge or jury trial with
regard to those claims.
 
Any dispute arising out of the engagement, except
actions by us to enforce payment of our professional invoices, must be filed
within one year from the completion of the engagement, notwithstanding any
statutory provision to the contrary.  In
the event of arbitration, any monetary awards Management obtains shall be
limited in amount, and shall not exceed the amount of the fee charged by us,
and paid by the Entities, for the services set forth in this engagement letter.
 
(Ibid.)  
 
            Plaintiff
argues (1) this dispute does not fall within the scope of the arbitration
provision; (2) the arbitration provision is procedurally unconscionable because
(i) it is a “take it or leave it” contract of adhesion; (ii) it contains an
element of surprise because the Judicate West rules are neither included or
linked within the Agreement, and the rules are subject to change after signing;
(3) the provision is substantively unconscionable because (i) it lacks
mutuality; and (ii) it abrogates Plaintiff’s rights by shortening the statute
of limitations; and (4) mediation is a condition precedent of mandatory
arbitration.
 
1.     
SCOPE
 
Plaintiff first argues that the dispute, which stems from Defendant’s
alleged provision of injurious tax advice, which induced Plaintiff to sell real
property to his financial detriment, exceeds the scope of the engagement
letter, which pertains only to Defendant’s preparation of Plaintiff’s annual
tax returns, and not to any advice Defendant provided to Plaintiff.
 
In support, Plaintiff relies on Rice v. Downs (2016) 248
Cal.App.4th 175, 186.  In Rice,
the arbitration provision at issue applied to “any controversy between the
parties arising out of this Agreement[.]” 
The Court of Appeal held that the legal malpractice claim arose out of
the professional’s duty to exercise reasonable care, not out of the contractual
terms of the Agreement.
 
By contrast, here, the arbitration agreement does not limit the scope
of arbitrable claims to those arising from the Engagement Letter.  Rather, it applies to “any dispute (other
than our efforts to collect an outstanding invoice)[.]”  (Declaration of Michael P. Amerio, ¶ 2, Exh.
1.)  The broader scope makes sense in
light of the parties’ long history of working together, dating back to
1969.  (See Complaint, ¶ 6.)  Further, the language of the engagement
letter makes clear that the parties’ contemplated working together in the
future and intended the terms to apply to that future work: “[i]n the event the
firm prepares any subsequent tax returns or undertakes any additional work on
your behalf without a written agreement, the terms set forth in this engagement
shall apply.”  (Declaration of Michael P.
Amerio, ¶ 2, Exh. 1.)
 
In any event, the first sentence of the engagement letter contemplates
Defendant’s provision of tax advice: “We appreciate the opportunity of working
with you and advising you regarding your income tax matters.”  Therefore, Defendant’s provision of tax
advice regarding the potential sale of Plaintiff’s real property is directly
covered by the engagement letter.
 
As such, the dispute is within the scope of the arbitration provision.
 
2.     
UNCONSCIONABILITY 
 
            “Unconscionability is ultimately a
question of law for the court.”  (Flores
v. Transamerica Homefirst, Inc. (2001) 93 Cal.App.4th 846, 851.)  “However, numerous factual issues may bear on
that question.” (Gutierrez v. Autowest, Inc. (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 77,
89.)  As such, Plaintiff must show two
elements to establish the unconscionability defense: (1) procedural
unconscionability, which focuses on the manner in which the contract was
negotiated, and (2) substantive unconscionability, which concerns whether the
contract’s terms are unreasonably one-sided. (Armendariz v. Foundation
Health Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 113-115 (hereafter Armendariz).)

 
            “The prevailing view is that
procedural and substantive unconscionability must both be present in order for
a court to exercise its discretion to refuse to enforce a contract or clause
under the doctrine of unconscionability. But they need not be present in the
same degree. Essentially a sliding scale is invoked which disregards the
regularity of the procedural process of the contract formation, that creates
the terms, in proportion to the greater harshness or unreasonableness of the
substantive terms themselves.  In other
words, the more substantively oppressive the contract term, the less evidence
of procedural unconscionability is required to come to the conclusion that the
term is unenforceable, and vice versa.” 
(Armendariz, supra, 24 Cal.4th at p. 114 [cleaned up].)  
 
a.      
PROCEDURAL UNCONSCIONABILITY 
 
Procedural unconscionability examines the “oppression
that arises from unequal bargaining power and the surprise to the weaker party
that results from hidden terms or the lack of informed choice.”  (Ajamian v. CantorCO2e, L.P. (2012)
203 Cal.App.4th 771, 795.)  Preprinted
forms buried within a volume of documents offered on a “take or leave it basis”
evidence a high degree of procedural unconscionability.  (See Dougherty v. Roseville Heritage
Partners (2020) 47 Cal.App.5th 93, 102-104 (hereafter Dougherty).)  Most consumer contracts are adhesive and
therefore present some procedural unconscionability. (Sanchez v. Valencia
Holding Co., LLC (2015) 61 Cal.4th 899, 915, (hereafter Sanchez).)  “[A] finding of procedural unconscionability
does not mean that a contract will not be enforced, but rather that courts will
scrutinize the substantive terms of the contract to ensure they are not
manifestly unfair or one-sided.”  (Ibid.)  
 
Plaintiff argues that the agreement is procedurally unconscionable
because (1) it is a contract of adhesion; and (2) it did not include the
Judicate West arbitration rules, which can change over time.  
 
i.       
Contract of Adhesion
 
Plaintiff argues the agreement is a contract of adhesion because it
was a “take it or leave it” agreement and Plaintiff did not participate in the
negotiation of the terms, which were “first inserted into the engagement letter
almost forty years into Mr. Ford’s business relationship with the
Defendant.”  (Plaintiff’s Opposition, p.
7.)  
 
Plaintiff has not produced any evidence that the agreement was
adhesive.  This is not a standard form
contract; rather, it is a personalized letter to a decades-long client.  And while Plaintiff chose not to try to
negotiate the terms of the engagement, there is no evidence that he would have
been unable to do so, especially in light of the long ongoing working
relationship between the parties.
 
                        ii.         Arbitration Rules
 
Plaintiff next argues that the arbitration agreement is procedurally
unconscionable because although the agreement indicates the Judicate West
arbitration rules apply to the arbitration proceedings, it does not attach
those rules to the letter.  In support,
Plaintiff primarily cites Harper v. Ultimo (2003) 113 Cal.App.4th 1402
(hereafter Harper).  
 
In Harper, the Court of Appeal affirmed the trial court’s
determination that the arbitration agreement was unconscionable.  With respect to procedural unconscionability,
the appellate court found that the Better Business Bureau arbitration rules,
which were not attached to the agreement, limited the damages and remedies
available to a refund and up to $2500 of property damage, excluding all other
damages and remedies, including personal injuries, even in the event of an
intentional tort.  These “surprise” terms
were “oppressive,” because they were “artfully hidden” by mere reference to the
BBB’s arbitration rules, without attaching them.  (Harper, 113 Cal.App.4th at p.
1406.)  
 
By contrast, here, Plaintiff has not pointed to any “surprise”
provisions in the Judicate West arbitration rules, such as limitations on the
remedies or damages available to Plaintiff. 
Thus, the engagement letter’s reference to the rules does not create the
“surprise” or “oppression” necessary for a finding of procedural
unconscionability.
 
Also unavailing is Plaintiff’s argument that the rules can change over
time.  The provision makes clear, “The
arbitration will be conducted in accordance with the procedures in this
document and the Dispute Resolution Rules of Judicate West as in effect on the
date of the engagement letter, or such other rules and procedures as the
parties may designated by mutual agreement.” 
Thus, the terms of the arbitration will change only in the event the
parties mutually agree.
 
Therefore, the Court finds that the arbitration provision in the
engagement letter is not procedurally unconscionable.[1]
 
3.     
MEDIATION AS A CONDITION PRECEDENT
 
Plaintiff’s final argument is that the arbitration provision has not
been triggered, because mediation is a condition precedent to arbitration, and
Defendant ignored Plaintiff’s written request to mediate.  In support of this argument, Plaintiff cites
to an unpublished federal district court case, which cites to out-of-circuit
cases in support of its ruling.  Thus,
Plaintiff has not provided any binding legal support for the contention that
Defendant cannot yet compel arbitration proceedings because it ignored
Plaintiff’s written request to mediate.
 
Moreover, Plaintiff has not provided evidence that he ever submitted a
formal mediation demand.  The Ford
declaration merely indicates, “On April 6, 2023, Haderlein and Kouyoumdjian
LLP, my attorneys in this matter, sent a demand letter on my behalf to Lucas
Horsfall, informing them that we believed Lucas Horsfall was liable for
accounting malpractice, and requested informal settlement talks so that
litigation could be avoided.  They never
responded.”  (Ford Decl. ¶ 4.)  A written request for “informal settlement
talks” is not necessarily the same as a written demand for mediation, pursuant
to the dispute resolution terms of the parties’ agreement.  Plaintiff may not circumvent the arbitration
provision by filing a lawsuit instead of presenting a written mediation demand.
 
CONCLUSION
 
            Therefore, the Court grants
Defendant’s motion compelling Plaintiff’s claim to arbitration.  The Court further orders this action stayed,
pending the resolution of the parties’ arbitration proceeding.   
 
            Further, the Court vacates the Case
Management Conference scheduled on December 6, 2023 and sets a Status
Conference re: Completion of Arbitration on April 23, 2024 at 8:30 A.M. in
Department 207.  The parties shall file
a joint report regarding the status of the arbitration no later than 5 court
days before the scheduled status conference. 
         
 
            Defendant shall provide notice of
the Court’s ruling and file a proof of service regarding the same.
 
 
 
DATED:  October 25, 2023                                                  ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court
 


