  Case Number:  21STCV34010    Hearing Date:   December 11, 2023    Dept:  51 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Upinder S.
Kalra, Department 51
 
HEARING DATE:   December
11, 2023                                         
 
CASE NAME:           Victor Aguirre, et al v. Steve Sungho
Lee, et al.
(Lead Case: Edwin
Import, Inc., et al. v. Steve Sungho Lee, et al.)
 
CASE NO.:                Case No. 21STCV34010 (Lead Case
No. 21STCV07268)

 
MOTION
FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT, OR IN THE ALTERNATIVE, SUMMAR ADJUDICATION

 
MOVING PARTY:  Defendants
L&HM Limited Partnership and Stelee Industries, Inc.
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiffs Victor Aguirre, Claudia
Aguirre, Stephen Osterberg, Kenneth Fraser, Jacob Gonzalez, Nicholas Estrada,
and Sergio Seanz
 
REQUESTED RELIEF: 
 
1.      
Summary
Adjudication of the First, Second, Third, and Fourth Causes of Action because
there is no triable issue of fact regarding whether Defendants’ owed Plaintiffs
a duty as Plaintiffs assumed the risk of harm;
2.      
Summary
Adjudication of the Second Cause of Action because Defendants were not engaged
in any ultrahazardous activity;
3.      
Summary
Adjudication of the Third and Fourth Causes of Action because Defendants were
not in possession, custody or control of the subject property when the incident
occurred;
4.      
Summary
Adjudication of the Third and Fourth Causes of Action because Defendants did
not know and had no basis to know that a “dangerous” condition existed at the
subject property;
5.      
Summary
Adjudication of Claudia Aguirre’s loss of consortium claim as it is dependent
upon Victor Aguirre’s claims; and
6.      
Summary
Adjudication of Plaintiffs’ claim for punitive damages because Defendants did
not act with malice, oppression, or fraud.
 
TENTATIVE RULING: 
 
1.      Motion
for Summary Judgment, or Alternatively, Summary Adjudication is DENIED in its
entirety.
STATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: 
 
On September 15, 2021, Plaintiffs Victor Aguirre and Claudia
Aguirre (Plaintiffs) filed a Complaint against Steve Sungho Lee, Stelee
Industries, Inc., SL Property Management I LLC, SL Property Management II LLC,
L & H Limited Partnership, Bio Hazard Inc., Minh V. Vo, Green Buddah LLC,
Raheela Lakhany, Smoke Tokes LLC, and Shafaq Aslam Sattar (Defendants) with six
causes of action for: (1) Civil Code § 1714.9; (2) Strict Liability (Ultrahazardous
Activity); (3) Negligence, (4) Premises Liability, (5) Loss of Consortium; and
(6) Punitive Damages.
 
According to the Complaint, Plaintiff Victor Aguirre was
injured on May 16, 2020 due to a massive explosion that occurred at 327 Boyd
Street and adjacent properties in downtown Los Angeles (the Subject Property). Plaintiffs
allege that the Subject Property contained hundreds of illegally and improperly
stored butane canisters and thousands of illegally and improperly stored
nitrous oxide cylinders. Plaintiffs additionally allege that these explosive
materials were stored in such a way to negligently or intentionally conceal
their contents from the firefighters.  
 
On January 3, 2022, the court granted a notice of related
cases with Case No. 21STCV07268 filed on 02/24/21 entitled Edwin Import, Inc., et al. v. City of Los Angeles, et al. The court
deemed 21STCV07268 as the lead case.
 
On March 30, 2022, Cross-Complainants Steve Sungho Lee,
Stelee Industries, Inc., SL Property Management I, LLC, SL Property Management
II, LLC, and L&HM Limited Partnership filed a Cross-Complainant against
Green Buddha LLC, Smoke Tokes, LLC, ST & Company, LLC, DCM Distributions,
LLC, Raheel Lakhany, Shafaq Sattar, and Devendra C. Munyal with evelen causes
of action for: (1) equitable indemnity, (2) apportionment, (3) express
indemnity, (4) express indemnity, (5) breach of contract for failure to defend,
(6) breach of contract for failure to defend, (7) declaratory relief on duty to
defend, (8) declaratory relief on duty to defend, (9) breach of contract, (10)
breach of contract, and (11) declaratory relief. 
 
On June 13, 2022, the court granted another notice of
related cases with Case No. 22STCV12786 filed on 04/15/22 entitled Stephen Osterberg v. Steve Sungho Lee, et
al. and Case No. 22STCV15019 filed on 05/05/22 entitled Kenneth Fraser, et al. v. Steve Sungho Lee,
et al.
 
On June 17, 2022, the court granted another notice of
related cases that is identical to the June 13, 2022 notice of related cases.
 
On September 26, 2023, Defendants Stelee Industries, Inc.
and L&HM Limited Partnership (Moving Defendants) filed the instant motion
for summary judgment, or alternatively, summary adjudication as to the
Complaint filed by Plaintiffs Victor Aguirre and Claudia Aguirre (Aguirre
Plaintiffs).
 
On December 1, 2023, the Aguirre Plaintiffs filed an
opposition. No REPLY was filed. 
 
LEGAL STANDARD: 
 
Summary Judgment
 
The function of a motion for summary judgment or
adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an opposing party cannot
show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and to enable an order of
summary dismissal without the need for trial.¿(Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843 (Aguilar).) In analyzing such motions,
courts must apply a three-step analysis: “(1) identify the issues framed by the
pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving party has negated the opponent's
claims; and (3) determine whether the opposition has demonstrated the existence
of a triable, material factual issue.”¿(Hinesley¿v.¿Oakshade¿Town
Center¿(2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294).¿Thus, summary judgment or summary
adjudication is granted when, after the Court’s consideration of the evidence
set forth in the papers and all reasonable inferences accordingly, no triable
issues of fact exist and the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter
of law.¿(CCP § 437c(c);¿Villa v.¿McFarren¿(1995)
35 Cal.App.4th 733, 741.) 
 
A triable issue of material fact exists where “the evidence
would allow a reasonable trier of fact to find the underlying fact in favor of
the party opposing the motion in accordance with the applicable standard of
proof.” (Aguilar, supra, at p. 850.) 
 
As to each claim as framed by the complaint, the
party¿moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication must satisfy the
initial burden of proof by presenting facts to negate an essential element.¿(Scalf¿v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc.¿(2005)
128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.) Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support
of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the
evidence in favor of that party.”¿(Dore
v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc.¿(2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.) A motion for summary
judgment or summary adjudication must be denied where the moving party's
evidence does not prove all material facts, even in the absence of any
opposition or where the opposition is weak.¿(See¿Leyva v. Superior Court (1985) 164 Cal.App.3d 462, 475;¿Salesguevara¿v. Wyeth Labs., Inc. (1990)
222 Cal.App.3d 379, 384, 387.)¿¿¿ 
¿ 
Once the¿moving¿party has met the burden, the burden shifts
to the opposing party¿to show via specific facts that a triable issue of
material facts exists as to a cause of action or a defense thereto.¿(CCP §
437c(o)(2).)¿ When¿a¿party¿cannot¿establish an essential element or defense, a
court must grant a motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication.¿(CCP §
437c(o)(1)-(2).)¿ 
 
Separate Statement
 
Plaintiffs contend that the court should deny the motion
because Moving Defendants failed to set forth each issue and the facts to
support each issue in violation of Cal. Rules of Court 3.1350(d).
 
Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1350(d) provides:
“(1) The Separate Statement of
Undisputed Material Facts in support of a motion must separately identify:
(A) Each cause of action, claim for
damages, issue of duty, or affirmative defense that is the subject of the
motion; and
(B) Each supporting material fact
claimed to be without dispute with respect to the cause of action, claim for
damages, issue of duty, or affirmative defense that is the subject of the
motion.
(2) The separate statement should
include only material facts and not any facts that are not pertinent to the
disposition of the motion.
(3) The separate statement must be in
the two-column format specified in (h). The statement must state in numerical
sequence the undisputed material facts in the first column followed by the
evidence that establishes those undisputed facts in that same column. Citation
to the evidence in support of each material fact must include reference to the
exhibit, title, page, and line numbers.”
 
CCP 437c(b)(1) states in pertinent part: “The supporting
papers shall include a separate statement setting forth plainly and concisely
all material facts that the moving party contends are undisputed. Each of the
material facts stated shall be followed by a reference to the supporting
evidence. The failure to comply with this requirement of a separate statement
may in the court's discretion constitute a sufficient ground for denying the
motion.” 
 
The court disagrees with Plaintiffs’ contention that it must
deny the motion due to faulty Separate Statement.[1]
Indeed, the code provides such a response when there is no Separate Statement filed with the MSJ. Here, Moving Defendants
have provided a Separate Statement of the material facts upon which it relies
to support its motion.
 
Accordingly, the court will consider the merits of the
motion.
 
Evidentiary Objections
 
The court rules on Plaintiffs’ evidentiary
objections as follows:
 
The court sustains: 3, 4 , and 5 
 
The court overrules: 1, 2, 6, 7
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
Issue 1 – No Duty
 
a.     
Firefighter’s
Rule
Moving Defendants contend that
the “Firefighter’s Rule” bars the Aguirre Plaintiffs’ claims with no applicable
exceptions.[2]
Plaintiffs argue that the facts show an exception to the Firefighters Rule
because the explosion was not the reason the firefighters were summoned.
 
Under the “firefighters rule,” third persons injured by the
very risk that necessitated their presence on the premises cannot recover for
injuries proximately caused by that risk. (Gregory
v. Cott (2014) 59 Cal.4th 996, 1001-1002.) Thus, landlords and tenants are
not liable to firefighters injured by the “normal hazards” of their
occupations. (Ibid.) Put differently,
the “firefighters rule” is a form of primary assumption of risk which bars
plaintiffs from recovery because defendants have no legal duty to protect
plaintiffs from the very risk of harm they are employed to confront. (Knight v. Jewett (1992) 3 Cal.4th 296,
309; Rosenbloom v. Hanour Corp.
(1998) 66 Cal.App.4th 1477, 1480-1481 (applying the same rationale to a shark
handler).) As a result, causes of action based on injuries arising out of
plaintiff’s “normal” occupational risks is barred even if the injury-provoking
conduct was ordinary negligence, “reckless,” or “willful or wanton.” (Ibid; see also Lipson v. Sup. Ct. (Berger) (1982) 31 Cal.3d 362, 373 (Lipson); Rowland v. Shell Oil Co. (1986) 179 Cal.App.3d 39, 405.) However,
liability will lie for injuries caused by tortious conduct independent of the normal
incidents of responding to the peril. (Civ. Code § 1714.9; Donohue v. San Francisco Housing Auth. (1993) 16 Cal.App.4th 658,
663; Lipson, supra at p. 369 (noting the rule only applies to prohibit firemen
from recovering for injuries caused by the very misconduct which created the
risk which necessitated his presence.)) 
 
In Lipson, Court
of Appeal concluded that the firefighter could recover for injuries sustained
on the job because the landowner’s deception was an “independent act” of
misconduct when he falsely told the firefighter chemicals involved in a
boilover were nontoxic. (Lipson, supra,
at p. 369.) There, the firefighter responded to a call to handle a boilover at
a chemical production plant. (Id. at
370.) The Court found that the landowner’s representations were independent
acts because they occurred after the chemicals had boiled over, the firefighter
had already arrived at the scene, and the misrepresentation “was not the reason
for real party’s presence at the chemical plant.” (Ibid.) 
 
Here, Moving Defendants met their initial burden showing
that the Firefighter’s Rule applied to this case. Specifically, the Plaintiffs
responded to the scene of a structure fire and were injured while fighting the
fire. (Separate Statement of Undisputed Material Facts (UMF) Nos. 8, 10, 11,
12.) However, Plaintiffs met their burden showing a triable issue of material
fact disputing the Firefighter Rule’s application to the instant case. In
particular, the fire was caused by an employee who ashed a cigarette under
shelving filled with cardboard and left a lit coal which smoldered and
transitioned to a full fire amongst ordinary combustible materials.
(Plaintiffs’ Additional Statement of Facts (AMF) No. 2.) So, as in Lipson, where the firefighter responded
to a boilover and subsequently encountered the hazardous materials, here,
Plaintiffs responded to a structural fire that was not resulting from the
alleged mishandling of the hazardous materials. Indeed, as the Lipson court noted, “a fireman does not
assume every possible risk he may encounter while engaged in his occupation.”[3]
(Lipson, supra, at p. 371.) 
 
Accordingly, the court DENIES Moving Defendant’s motion
for summary adjudication as to the First, Second, Third, and Fourth Causes of
Action.
 
b.       Landowner Duty When Property Leased
to Tenant
Moving Defendants contend there is no evidence that Moving
Defendants retained any control of the subject property after having leased it
to the tenants, was not aware of the type of materials stored on May 16, 2020,
or received any complaints regarding the tenants’ use of the Subject Property
at any time prior to the incident. Moving Defendants also contend that their
tenants’ alleged fire code violations are not imputed to them. Plaintiffs argue
that there is a factual dispute as to how much control Moving Defendants
retained over the Subject Premises and whether they knew or should have known
that their tenants stored the hazardous materials. Put differently, Plaintiffs
argue that there is a dispute as to whether Moving Defendants had some reason
to know there was a need to inspect the Subject Premises.
 
“The obligation to inspect arises only if the landowner has
some reason to know there was a need for such action.” (Lin Joon Oh v. Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association of America
(2020) 53 Cal.App.5th 71, 86; Garcia v.
Holt (2015) 242 Cal.App.4th 600, 605.) “The landlord need not take
extraordinary measures or make unreasonable expenditures of time and money in
trying to discover hazards unless the circumstances so warrant.” (Oh, supra,
at p. 605.) 
 
Here, Moving Defendants met their initial burden that they
owed no duty to Plaintiffs. Specifically, Moving Defendants owned and managed
the Subject Property. (UMF Nos. 17, 18.) Mr. Lee, as part of his duties for and
involvement with Moving Defendants, has been at or in the vicinity of the
Subject Property regularly since 2000. (UMF No. 23.) On August 12, 2019,
Defendant L&HM leased Unit B of the Subject Property to ST & Company
LLC a.k.a. Smoke Tokes. (UMF No. 24.) On November 20, 2019, Defendant L&HM
leased Unit A of the Subject Property to Green Buddha, LLC. (UMF No. 27.) Mr.
Lee claims that Moving Defendants had no knowledge prior to May 16, 2020 that
their tenants stored hazardous materials at the Subject Property and that they
stored them unsafely. (UMF No. 80.) 
 
However, Plaintiffs met their burden to demonstrate a
factual dispute as to how much control Moving Defendants exerted on the Subject
Property and whether they knew that their tenants maintained hazardous
materials.[4]
First, there is a triable issue of fact as to how often Moving Defendants
inspected the Subject Property because the lease provides for “verifying
compliance by Lesee with the Lease.” (UMF No. 50.) Second, the Fire/Life Safety
Violation Notice from 8/24/16 cuts against Moving Defendants’ lack of knowledge
argument because it cites problems with “storage” of boxes below the ceiling and
indicates removal and safe disposal of all combustible rubbish and waste
material at the close of each working day. (UMF No. 70.) Additionally,
Plaintiffs show a factual dispute as to when these violations were remedied (if
at all). (UMF No. 71.) Violations apparently happened again in 2017 for the
same reasons. (UMF No. 74, 75.) And another in 2019 for improper storage. (UMF
No. 78, 79.) As to Mr. Lee’s claim for no knowledge of hazardous materials,
Plaintiffs show that Mr. Lee knew that at least Smoke Tokes stored hazardous
materials because Smoke Tokes’ storage of hazardous materials caused a fire in
2016 at one of Mr. Lee’s other buildings, Smoke Tokes entered a new lease with
Moving Defendants and carried on the same business. (UMF No. 80.) Finally, there
are photographs of  cardboard boxes
labeled “butane” blocking the exit of one of the properties. (UMF No. 85.) 
 
Accordingly, the court DENIES Moving Defendants’ motion
for summary judgment, or alternatively summary adjudication, as to the First,
Second, Third, and Fourth Causes of Action.
 
Issue 2 –
Ultrahazardous Activity
 
Moving Defendants contend that they were not engaged in
ultrahazardous activity because they were the property owner and maintenance
company, did not control or possess the premises, and were not involved in and
played no role in the presence or storage of any materials at the Subject
Property.  Plaintiffs argue that there is
a factual dispute as to how much control Moving Defendants retained over the
Subject Premises and whether they knew or should have known that their tenants
stored the hazardous materials.
 
Whether an activity is “ultrahazardous” for strict liability
is a question of law. (Luthringer v.
Moore (1948) 31 Cal.2d 489, 496.) There are six factors courts consider
(one alone is usually not dispositive): (1) existence of a high degree of risk
of some hard to the person or property of others; (2) likelihood that harm from
the activity will be great; (3) inability to eliminate the risk by the exercise
of reasonable care; (4) extent to which the activity is not a matter of common
usage; (5) inappropriateness of the activity to the place where it is carried
on; and (6) the extent to which the value of the activity to the community is
outweighed by its dangerous attributes. (Edwards
v. Post Trans. Co. (1991) 228 Cal.App.3d 980, 984-985.) 
 
Here, Moving Defendants did not meet their initial burden.
First, the Separate Statement is wholly deficient as to which facts support
their argument to this issue. Second, Moving Defendants did not develop this
argument.
 
Accordingly, the court DENIES Moving Defendants motion
for summary judgment, or alternatively, summary adjudication as to the Second
Cause of Action.
 
Issue 3 – Possession,
Custody or Control of the Subject Property
 
The court refers to its analysis as Issue 1(b).
 
Issue 4 – Knowledge
of “Dangerous” Condition
 
The court refers to its analysis as Issue 1(b).
 
Issue 5 – Loss of
Consortium
 
Moving Defendants contend that Plaintiff Claudia Aguirre’s
claim fails because her husband’s claim fails. Plaintiffs argue the claim does
not fail.
 
As discussed above, there are material factual disputes
pertaining to the First, Second, Third, and Fourth Causes of Action. As such,
Plaintiff Claudia Aguirre’s Fifth Cause of Action survives.
 
Accordingly, the court DENIES Moving Defendants’ motion
for summary judgment, or alternatively, summary adjudication as to the Fifth
Cause of Action.
 
Issue 6 – Punitive
Damages
 
Moving Defendants contend that there are no triable issues
of material fact demonstrating that punitive damages are appropriate. Plaintiffs
argue there is a material factual dispute as to Moving Defendants’ knowledge.
 
As discussed above, the court agrees there is a material
factual dispute as to Moving Defendants’ knowledge of the hazardous materials.
Additionally, Moving Defendants’ Separate Statement is deficient such that it
is unclear which facts support their argument. 
 
Accordingly, the court DENIES Moving Defendants’ motion
for summary judgment, or alternatively, summary adjudication as to the Sixth
Cause of Action.
 
CONCLUSION:
 
            For
the foregoing reasons, the Court decides the pending motion as follows: 
 
1.      Motion
for Summary Judgment, or Alternatively, Summary Adjudication is DENIED in its
entirety.
Moving party is to give notice. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
Dated:             December
11, 2023                 __________________________________                                                                                                                Upinder
S. Kalra
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 


