 Case Number:  23SMCV05253    Hearing Date:   November 14, 2024    Dept:  O  Case Name: 
Diaz Plastering, Inc., v. Sarlan Builders, Inc., et al.



Case No.:


23SMCV05253


Complaint Filed:


11-7-23           




Hearing Date:


11-14-24 


Discovery C/O:


N/A




Calendar No.:


16


Discovery Motion C/O:


N/A




POS:


OK


 Trial Date:


None



SUBJECT:                 MOTION TO DEPOSIT BOND FUNDS
PURSUANT TO CCP §§ 386, 386.5, EXONERATION AND DISMISSAL OF WESTERN SURETY, AND
FOR ATTORNEYS’ FEES AND COSTS
MOVING
PARTY:   Defendant/Cross-Complainant
Western Surety Company
RESP.
PARTY:         Defendants/Cross-Complainants/Cross-Defendants
Stacey Wisnom individually, and as trustee of the Living Trust of Stacey Wisnom
and John Baltz
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
            Defendant/Cross-Complainant Western Surety Company Motion
to Deposit Bond Funds, Exoneration and dismissal of Western Surety, and for Attorneys’
Fees and Costs is GRANTED. The Court finds that Western Surety Company has
incurred reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs in the amount of $13,554.66 (49.7
hrs. @ ~$244.25/hr. + $1,415.66 in costs).
 
            Western Surety Company is ordered to deposit the
remaining balance of the Bond in the sum of $11,445.34 (the $25,000 penal sum
of the Bond minus court-ordered attorneys’ fees in the amount of $13,554.66)
with the Los Angeles County Superior Court Clerk, West District, within 30 days
of the entry of this Order.
 
            Pursuant to California Code of Civil Procedure Section
386.6, Western Surety Company is awarded $13,554.66, which reflects reasonable
attorneys’ fees and costs incurred in bringing this action in interpleader.
This amount is to be deducted from the $25,000 penal sum of the Bond.
 
            Upon deposit of the Bond funds with the Los Angeles
County Superior Court Clerk, the following shall be effective: 
 
(a)
The Bond is exonerated and Western Surety Company is fully and forever
released, discharged and acquitted of and from any and all liability of any
kind or nature whatsoever, whether known or unknown, arising from the Bond,
including any amounts due and owing or claimed to be due and owing from the
Bond; 
 
(b)
Pursuant to CCP § 386(f), the Court finds it appropriate to restrain and
prohibit the prosecution of any further legal action against Western Surety
Company regarding said Bond;
 
(c)
The Court will dismiss Western Surety Company as a party from the present
action with prejudice; and 
 
(d)
The Court will deposit said Bond funds in an interest-bearing account until a
final determination is made as to how the Bond funds will be distributed.
 
REASONING
 
Pursuant to CCP § 386(b)
and (f): 
 
(b) Any person, firm,
corporation, association or other entity against whom double or multiple claims
are made, or may be made, by two or more persons which are such that they may
give rise to double or multiple liability, may bring an action against the
claimants to compel them to interplead and litigate their several claims.
 . . . .
 
(f) After any such
complaint or cross-complaint in interpleader has been filed, the court in which
it is filed may enter its order restraining all parties to the action from
instituting or further prosecuting any other proceeding in any court in this
state affecting the rights and obligations as between the parties to the
interpleader until further order of the court.


(Code Civ. Proc., § 386,
subd. (b), (f).)
 
Pursuant to CCP § 386.5:

 
Where the only relief
sought against one of the defendants is the payment of a stated amount of money
alleged to be wrongfully withheld, such defendant may, upon affidavit that he
is a mere stakeholder with no interest in the amount or any portion thereof and
that conflicting demands have been made upon him for the amount by parties to
the action, upon notice to such parties, apply to the court for an order
discharging him from liability and dismissing him from the action on his
depositing with the clerk of the court the amount in dispute and the court may,
in its discretion, make such order.


(Code Civ. Proc., §
386.5.)
 
Pursuant
to CCP § 386.6(a):
 
A party to an action who
follows the procedure set forth in Section 386 or 386.5 may insert in his
motion, petition, complaint, or cross complaint a request for allowance of his
costs and reasonable attorney fees incurred in such action. In ordering the discharge
of such party, the court may, in its discretion, award such party his costs and
reasonable attorney fees from the amount in dispute which has been deposited
with the court. At the time of final judgment in the action the court may make
such further provision for assumption of such costs and attorney fees by one or
more of the adverse claimants as may appear proper.
 
(Code Civ. Proc., §
386.6, subd. (a).)
 
“An
interpleader action is traditionally viewed as two suits: one between the
stakeholder and the claimants to determine the stakeholder's right to
interplead, and the other among the claimants to determine who shall receive
the funds interpleaded.” (State Farm Fire & Casualty Co. v. Pietak
(2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 600, 612.)
 
            Defendant/Cross-Complainant Western Surety Company
(“Western”) filed a Cross-Complaint for Interpleader on 12-11-23 (See 12-11-23
Cross-Complaint.) Western declares that the Interpleader Defendants BNS Marble
& Granite, Inc. (“BNS Sarble”), Diaz Plastering, Inc. (“Diaz”), Sol Tile
& Marble, Inc. (“Sol Tile”), Stacey Wisnom Trustee Of The Living Trust Of
Stacey Wisnom And John Baltz (“Wisnom”), and Sandy Boffill (“Boffill”) (collectively
“Interpleader Defendants”) have made claims to the Bond issues by Western in
excess of the maximum bond amount of $25,000. (Willemain Decl., ¶ 5; Ordonez
Decl., ¶ 3; Ex. 2.)
 
            Western declares: 
 
WESTERN cannot determine
which claim or claims take priority, and is exposed to liability in excess of
the penal sum of the Bond. WESTERN is a mere stakeholder with no interest in
the amount or any portion of the Bond. In addition to the claims asserted by
the Interpleader Defendants, WESTERN fears that it may face additional claims
or suits against its Bond. Having no other alternative, WESTERN filed the
subject Cross-Complaint for Interpleader solely based on its role as surety for
SARLAN BUILDERS INC. Through the interpleader action and to prevent WESTERN
from continuing to incur further unnecessary attorneys’ fees and costs, WESTERN
seeks an order (1) to deposit the subject Bond funds to allow the Court to
determine its proper distribution; (2) restraining and prohibiting the
prosecution of any further legal action against said Bond; and (3) exonerating
the Bond.
 
(Willemain Decl., ¶ 6.)
 
            Western argues that all parties to the interpleader
action, and any future claimants, should be restrained from either instituting
or further prosecuting any other proceeding against Western arising out of
claims against the Bond pursuant to CCP § 386(f). (See Motion, p. 7.)
 
            Western requests $1415.66 in costs comprising of $716.61
in court filing fees and $699.05 in service fees which includes the “first
appearance fee, amendments to cross complaint, notice and acknowledgment of
receipts, requests for dismissals, proof of service, case management
statements, and proof of service.” (Willemain Decl., ¶ 7; Ordonez Decl. ¶ 4.)
Wisnom does not dispute these costs in her opposition. 
 
            Western requests a total of $12,139 (49.7 hrs @ ~$244.25/hr.)
in attorneys’ fees connected with the Interpleader action and include billing
invoices attached to the motion. (Willemain Decl., ¶ 8; Ordonez Decl. ¶ 5; Ex.
3, “Billing Invoices”.) Jennifer Ordonez declares her hourly rate is $245/hr. (Ibid.)
The approximate hourly rate for a total of $12,139.00 comprising of 49.7 hours
of work is roughly $244.25, a slightly lower rate than Ordonez’s declared
hourly rate. Thus, Western requests a total of $13,544.66 in attorneys’ fees
and costs to be deducted from the $25,000 bond. (Willemain Decl., ¶ 9.)\
 
            Wisnom argues then requested fees
are “grossly excessive” and “eviscerates nearly half of the proceeds of the
bond intended to indemnify and cover losses sustained by victims of the bond
principle.” (Oppo., pp. 5–6.) Wisnom, however, does not point to any specific
instance within Western’s detailed billing invoices that are excessive, or
unreasonable. The opposing party must identify the particular charges it
considers objectionable. “[I]n challenging attorney fees as excessive because
too many hours of work are claimed, it is the burden of the challenging party
to point to the specific items challenged, with a sufficient argument and
citations to the evidence. General arguments that fees claimed are excessive,
duplicative, or unrelated do not suffice.” (Vines v. O'Reilly Auto
Enterprises, LLC (2022) 74 Cal.App.5th 174, 18.; see also,
 (Gorman
v. Tassajara Development Corp. (2009) 178 Cal.App.4th 44. )
 
            Western argues that when preparing an Interpleader  “time must be spent determining the identity
of the claimants, the location of the defendants for purposes of determining
the appropriate venue, and obtaining the necessary documents for filing,” plus
when any new claims are filed they “must be reviewed, added to the action, and
the parties served.” (Reply, pp. 2–3.) Additionally, it appears from the
billing invoices that Western billed a total of $12,825, making the requested
total of $12,139 in attorneys’ a slight discount from the actual fees incurred.
(See Motion, Ex. 3.) Additionally, Western has supported their requested fees
and costs by two declarations and attached invoices. Without Wisnom pointing to
specific entries of the invoices for overbilling, double billing, excessive
billing, etc. the Court finds the time pent and hourly rates charged by counsel
for Western is reasonable.
 
            Thus,
Western’s Motion to Deposit Bond Funds, Exoneration and dismissal of Western Surety,
and for Attorneys’ Fees and Costs is GRANTED. 