  Case Number:  20SMCV00941    Hearing Date:   November 14, 2024    Dept:  O   Case Name: 
Naeini v. TD Ameritrade Inc., et al.           



Case No.:                    24SMCP00143


Complaint Filed:                   3-14-24




Hearing Date:            11-14-24


Discovery C/O:                     N/A




Calendar No.:            9


Discover Motion C/O:          N/A




POS:                           OK


Trial Date:                             None Set



SUBJECT:                 PETITION TO VACATE
ARBITRATION AWARD  
MOVING
PARTY:   Petitioner Ava Naeini
RESP.
PARTY:         Respondents TD
Ameritrade, Inc. and TD Ameritrade Clearing
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
            Petitioner
Ava Naeini Petition to Vacate Arbitration Award is DENIED. Petitioner did not
provide any evidence, or otherwise meet its burden to vacate the arbitration
award under CCP § 1286.2(a)(1)–(6).
 
            Accordingly,
because no grounds to vacate the arbitration award exist, and the requirements
of CCP § 1285.4 are met, and Respondents TD Ameritrade, Inc. and TD Ameritrade
Clearing Petition to Confirm Arbitration Award is GRANTED pursuant to CCP §
1286.  TD Ameritrade, Inc. is to submit
the proposed judgment.
 
REASONING
            “Any
party to an arbitration which an award has been made may petition the court to
confirm, correct or vacate the award.”  CCP §1285.  “A petition under
this chapter shall:  (a) set forth the substance of or have attached a
copy of the agreement to arbitrate unless the petitioner denies the existence
of such an agreement. (b) Set forth the names of the arbitrators. (c) Set forth
or have attached a copy of the award and the written opinion of the
arbitrators, if any.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1285.4.)
 
            “A
response to a petition under this chapter may request the court to dismiss the
petition or to confirm, correct or vacate the award.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
1285.2.)
 
            “A
petition to vacate an award or to correct an award shall be served and filed
not later than 100 days after the date of the service of a signed copy of the
award on the petitioner.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1288.)
 
            “A
response shall be served and filed within 10 days after service of the petition
 . . . . The time provided in this
section for serving and filing a response may be extended by an agreement in
writing between the parties to the court proceeding or, for good cause, by
order of the court.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1290.6.)
 
The court may not vacate an
award unless:
(a) A petition or response
requesting that the award be vacated has been duly served and filed; or
(b) A petition or response
requesting that the award be corrected has been duly served and filed and:
(1) All petitioners and
respondents are before the court; or
(2) All petitioners and
respondents have been given reasonable notice that the court will be requested
at the hearing to vacate the award or that the court on its own motion has
determined to vacate the award and all petitioners and respondents have been
given an opportunity to show why the award should not be vacated.
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1286.4.)
 
(a) Subject to Section 1286.4,
the court shall vacate the award if the court determines any of the following:
(1) The award was procured by
corruption, fraud or other undue means.
(2) There was corruption in any
of the arbitrators.
(3) The rights of the party
were substantially prejudiced by misconduct of a neutral arbitrator.
(4) The arbitrators exceeded
their powers and the award cannot be corrected without affecting the merits of
the decision upon the controversy submitted.
(5) The rights of the party
were substantially prejudiced by the refusal of the arbitrators to postpone the
hearing upon sufficient cause being shown therefor or by the refusal of the
arbitrators to hear evidence material to the controversy or by other conduct of
the arbitrators contrary to the provisions of this title.
(6) An arbitrator making the
award either: (A) failed to disclose within the time required for disclosure a
ground for disqualification of which the arbitrator was then aware; or (B) was
subject to disqualification upon grounds specified in Section 1281.91 but
failed upon receipt of timely demand to disqualify himself or herself as
required by that provision. However, this subdivision does not apply to
arbitration proceedings conducted under a collective bargaining agreement
between employers and employees or between their respective representatives.
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1286.2,
emphasis added.)
 
            “Arbitrators
do not exceed their powers by reaching erroneous factual or legal conclusions
on the merits of the parties' claims, even if the award causes substantial
injustice to one of the parties.” (Starr v. Mayhew (2022) 83 Cal.App.5th
842, 859.)
 
            “[A]rbitrators,
unless specifically required to act in conformity with rules of law, may base
their decision upon broad principles of justice and equity, and in doing so may
expressly or impliedly reject a claim that a party might successfully have
asserted in a judicial action.’ ” (Moncharsh v. Heily & Blase (1992)
3 Cal.4th 1, 10–11.) “[C]ourts will not review the validity of
the arbitrator's reasoning.” (Id., at p. 11.) “ Further, a court may not
review the sufficiency of the evidence supporting an arbitrator's award.” (Ibid.) “Thus, it is the general rule that, with narrow exceptions, an
arbitrator's decision cannot be reviewed for errors of fact or law. In
reaffirming this general rule, we recognize there is a risk that the arbitrator
will make a mistake. That risk, however, is acceptable for two reasons. First,
by voluntarily submitting to arbitration, the parties have agreed to bear that
risk in return for a quick, inexpensive, and conclusive resolution to their
dispute.” (Ibid.)
 
            “Absent
an express and unambiguous limitation in the contract or the submission to
arbitration, an arbitrator has the authority to find the facts, interpret the
contract, and award any relief rationally related to his or her factual
findings and contractual interpretation.” (Gueyffier v. Ann Summers, Ltd. (2008)
43 Cal.4th 1179, 1182.)
 
            CCP
1286.2(a)(5) “was designed as a ‘safety valve in private arbitration that
permits a court to intercede when an arbitrator has prevented a party from
fairly presenting its case.’ [Citation.] It comes into play, for example, when
an arbitrator, without justification, permits only one side to present
evidence on a disputed material issue. [Citation.] The Arbitration Act codifies
‘the fundamental principle that “[a]rbitration should give both parties an
opportunity to be heard.” [Citation.] ... [T]he opportunity to be heard must be
extended to all parties equitably.’ [Citation.] To conduct an arbitration
without abiding by that principle evinces bias, constituting misconduct.”  (Bacall v. Shumway (2021) 61
Cal.App.5th 950, 963.)
 
            “[t]he
statutory provisions for [review of an arbitration award] are manifestly for
the sole purpose of preventing the misuse of the proceeding, where corruption,
fraud, misconduct, gross error, or mistake has been carried into the award to
the substantial prejudice of a party to the proceeding.” (Id., at p.
974.)
 
 
I.               
Petitioner fails to satisfy her burden to vacate
the arbitration award


            Petitioner
Ava Naeini (“Naeini”) Petitions the Court to vacate the 1-5-24 arbitration
award. (See Petition, Attachment 8(c). Naeiini meets all the statutory
requirement of CCP § 1285.4 by attaching the arbitration award, which includes
the names of the arbitrators and substance of the award. (Ibid.) Naeini
filed the petition on 3-14-24, and thus the petition to vacate was filed within
100 days of the arbitration award pursuant to CCP § 1288.
 
            Naeini
petitions to vacate the award based on all available grounds to vacate an
arbitration award, by checking all the boxes on Form ADR-106, § 10(c), however
the main arguments appear to be based on CCP § 1286.4(a)(3)–(5). (see Petition
to Vacate at p. 3, § 10, subd. (c).) In the Petition attachment 10(c)(2) at p.
19 of the Petition, Naeini argues that the proceedings were not fair and
efficient, the arbitrator did not comply with the applicable law or arbitration
agreement, and the arbitrator lacked impartiality or independence. (see
Petition to Vacate, Ex. 10(c)(2) at pp. 20–24.) 
 
            However,
Naeini fails to submit any declaration, evidence or authority to support her
petition.  Naeini references to the arbitration
hearings does not show bias, prejudice or non-compliance with the law or
arbitration agreement. The Court may not generally review and vacate an
arbitration award based on errors of law.  (Moncharsh, supra,  Cal.4th at p. 11.)  This includes
erroneous evidentiary rulings. (See Schlessinger v. Rosenfeld, Meyer &
Susman (1995) 40 Cal.App.4th 1096, 1110-1111.) “Plainly, this
type of attack on the arbitrator's decision, if not properly limited, could
swallow the rule that arbitration awards are generally not reviewable on the
merits. Accordingly, a challenge to an arbitrator's evidentiary rulings or
limitations on discovery should not provide a basis for vacating an award
unless the error substantially prejudiced a party's ability to present material
evidence in support of its case.”  (Id., at p. 1110.)
 
            Naeini’s
Reply also includes allegations of Arbitrators mocking Naeini for taking prayer
time, favoritism towards respondents, unfair distribution of time, bias,
mismanagement of a motion in limine, and failure to understand key issues. Again,
Naeini does not submit any evidence that persuasively shows any grounds to support
of a motion to vacate an arbitration award under CCP § 1286.4(a)(3)–(5). (See FCM
Investments, LLC v. Grove Pham, LLC (2023) 96 Cal.App.5th 545, 552, review
denied (Jan. 17, 2024) [“The narrow grounds stated in section 1286.2
for vacating an award protect against error that is so egregious as to
constitute misconduct or so profound as to render the process unfair.”].)
 
            The
Court finds that there is no evidence of Arbitrator corruption. It is Naeini’s
burden to provide evidence and establish facts that the arbitrator was biased
or corrupt, and Naeini fails to do so. Bias cannot be construed from the “merest
unsubstantiated suggestion of personal bias or prejudice.” (Haworth v.
Superior Court (2010) 50 Cal.4th 372, 389, as modified (Sept. 1,
2010).) Naeini does not provide any evidence other than her subjective view
that arbitrators were biased or corrupt, and thus Naeini does not meet her
burden to show bias. ([A]n arbitrator's decision is not generally reviewable
for errors of fact or law, whether or not such error appears on the face of the
award and causes substantial injustice to the parties.” (Moncharsh, at
p. 6, 10 Cal.Rptr.2d 183, 832 P.2d 899.) 
            
            The
Court finds that the arbitrators did not exceed their powers due to Naeini not
providing any allegations, facts or evidence to show that arbitrator in fact
exceeded their powers. (Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. v. Intel Corp.
(1994) 9 Cal.4th 362, 374 [“The Court must follow the rule of substantial
deference to the arbitrators' jurisdictional determinations”].)


            The
Court finds that that Naeini does not present any clear evidence of prejudicial
conduct, and in fact the provided evidence shows that the Arbitrators were
deferential to Naeini allowing Naeini to file an untimely brief, and
accommodating Naeini’s “inappropriate behavior” of abruptly leaving the virtual
hearing prompting a lengthy delay of the proceedings. (10-31-24 Oppo., p.
16:7–16.) 
            
                        Thus, Naeini’s Petition to Vacate
the Arbitration Award is DENIED. 
 
            Respondents
request that the arbitration award be confirmed if the petition to vacate is denied.
 If a petition to vacate is filed the
Court is required “to settle all issues relating to the status of the arbitral
award in a single proceeding, by either confirming the award (as rendered or as
corrected by the court) or by vacating it.” (Law Finance Group, LLC v. Key
(2023) 14 Cal.5th 932, 947; see Code Civ. Proc., § 1286. [“If a petition or
response under this chapter is duly served and filed, the court shall confirm
the award as made, whether rendered in this state or another state, unless in
accordance with this chapter it corrects the award and confirms it as
corrected, vacates the award or dismisses the proceeding”].) 
 
            The
petition to vacate the award included all the requirements of CCP § 1285.4
including a copy of the agreement to arbitrate, , and a copy of the arbitration
award including the names of the arbitrators. (See Petition to Vacate
Arbitration Award, Ex. 4(c), 8(c).) Thus, all the requirements of a petition to
confirm an arbitration award are met. 
 
            The
Court finds that due to the denial of the Petition to Vacate the Arbitration
award, thus no grounds to vacate the arbitration award exist, the Court orders
the 1-5-24 Arbitration Award Confirmed pursuant to CCP § 1286.
 