 Case Number:  24SMCV02567    Hearing Date:   November 14, 2024    Dept:  O  Case Name: 
Kousnetz v. McCaney, et al.



Case No.:


24SMCV02567


Complaint Filed:


5-30-24           




Hearing Date:


11-14-24 


Discovery C/O:


N/A




Calendar No.:


18


Discovery Motion C/O:


N/A




POS:


OK


 Trial Date:


None



SUBJECT:                 DEMURRER WITH MOTION TO STRIKE 
MOVING
PARTY:   Defendant Jennifer McCaney
RESP.
PARTY:         Plaintiff Savanah
Kousnetz 
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
            Defendant
Jennifer McCaney’s Demurrer to the 2nd–5th causes of action
within Plaintiff Savanah Kousnetz’s Complaint is OVERRULED. The causes of
action are not barred by the exclusive remedy of workers compensation at this
stage of the litigation. Plaintiff has stated ultimate facts to successfully
allege all the causes of action within the Complaint. 
 
            Defendant Jennifer
McCaney’s Motion to Strike is DENIED. 
  
            Defendant’s
RJN is DENIED. (See Gould v. Maryland Sound Indus., Inc. (1995) 31 Cal.
App. 4th 1137, 1145, as modified (Feb. 9, 1995) [“[W]e hold the existence of a
contract between private parties cannot be established by judicial notice under
Evidence Code section 452, subdivision (h).”].)
 
REASONING
As a general matter, in a demurrer
proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via
proper judicial notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116
Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A demurrer tests the pleading alone, and not the
evidence or facts alleged.” (E428.50Fab, Inc. v. Accountants,
Inc. Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the court assumes
the truth of the complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Id.)
The only issue a demurrer is concerned with is whether the complaint, as it
stands, states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th
740, 747.)
 
Where a demurrer is sustained,
leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of
successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.)
The burden is on the plaintiff to show the court that a pleading can be amended
successfully. (Id.; Lewis v. YouTube, LLC (2015) 244 Cal.App.4th 118,
226.) However, “[i]f there is any reasonable possibility that the plaintiff can
state a good cause of action, it is error to sustain a demurrer without leave
to amend.” (Youngman v. Nevada Irrigation Dist. (1969) 70 Cal.2d 240,
245.) 
 
Plaintiff is only required to
allege ultimate facts, not evidentiary facts. (See Committee on Children's
Television, Inc. v. General Foods Corp. (1983) 35 Cal.3d 197, 212 [“the
complaint should set forth the ultimate facts constituting the cause of action,
not the evidence by which plaintiff proposes to prove those facts”); 1 Cal.
Affirmative Def. § 10:2 (2d ed.) [allegations of agency, course and scope of
employment, etc. qualify as ultimate facts].) Plaintiff’s allegations must be
accepted as true on demurrer. (See Yvanova v. New Century Mortgage Corp.
(2016) 62 Cal.4th 919, 924 [“For purposes of reviewing a demurrer, we accept
the truth of material facts properly pleaded in the operative complaint”].)
 
I.               
Demurrer to 2nd–5th causes
of action as barred by the exclusive remedy of workers compensation —OVERRULED
 
Defendant Jennifer McCaney
(“McCaney”) demurs to the 2nd-5th causes of action arguing
the causes of action are barred by the exclusive remedy of workers compensation.
McCaney requests the Court to take judicial notice to the employment contract
between McCaney and Plaintiff Savanah Kousnetz (“Kousnetz”) to show that
Kousnetz was McCaney’s employee at the time of the subject incident, and not an
independent contractor as alleged in the Complaint. (Demurrer, pp. 5–9; see
Compl., ¶ 10.) McCaney references Labor Code § 3600(a) and 3602(a) to argue
that these “statutes establish that a workers’ compensation claim is the
exclusive remedy of an employee or a decedent employee’s heirs against an
employer for an injury sustained in the course of the employment.” (Demurrer,
p. 6:18–21; see Livitsanos v.
Superior Court (1992) 2 Cal.4th 744, 754; Yau v. Allen (2014) 229 Cal.App.4th 144, 161.)  
 
Labor Code § 3600(a) states, “Liability
for the compensation provided by this division, . . ., shall, without regard to
negligence, exist against an employer for any injury sustained by his or her
employees arising out of and in the course of employment.”  (Cal. Labor Code, § 3600 subd. (a).) Labor
Code § 3602(a) states, “Where the conditions of compensation set forth in
Section 3600 concur, the right to recover compensation is, except as
specifically provided in this section and Sections 3706 and 4558, the sole and
exclusive remedy of the employee or his or her dependents against the employer.”
Cal. Labor Code § 3602, subd. (a).)
 
McCaney’s argument is without merit
at the demurrer stage, as the Court cannot take judicial notice to a contract
between the parties. (See Gould v. Maryland Sound Indus., Inc. (1995) 31
Cal. App. 4th 1137, 1145, as modified (Feb. 9, 1995) [“[W]e hold the existence
of a contract between private parties cannot be established by judicial notice
under Evidence Code section 452, subdivision (h).”]; Del E. Webb Corp. v.
Structural Materials Co. (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 593, 605 ["The
hearing on demurrer may not be turned into a contested evidentiary hearing
through the guise of having the court take judicial notice of affidavits,
declarations, depositions, and other such material which was filed on behalf of
the adverse party and which purports to contradict the allegations and
contentions of the plaintiff."] The Court cannot take judicial notice to
the fact that McCaney and Kousnetz contracted under an employment contract
versus an independent contractor contract, thus the Court cannot make a ruling
that as a matter of law an employment contract specifically existed between the
parties to warrant the remedy be exclusively under workers compensation. 
 
Additionally, all well plead
allegations must be accepted as true at the pleadings stage, and Kousnetz
pleads she was considered an independent contractor by alleging:
 
On June 6, 2022, the McCaney Family
contracted with Plaintiff to provide the Children childcare services. At all
times relevant herein, Plaintiff was classified, treated, and acted as an
independent contractor. Plaintiff performed a substantial portion of her duties
outside of the McCaney Family household and controlled the manner in which she
provided services.
 
(Compl., ¶ 10.)
 
Thus, McCaney’s demurrer
to the 2nd-5th causes of action as barred by the
exclusive remedy of workers compensation is OVERRULED. 
 
II.            
McCaney’s Demurrer to the 2nd cause
of action for IIED—OVERRULED
 
The elements of a cause of action
for intentional infliction of emotional distress are (1) outrageous conduct by
the defendant, (2) intention to cause or reckless disregard of the probability
of causing emotional distress, (3) severe emotional suffering, and (4) actual
and proximate causation of the emotional distress. “Conduct is extreme and
outrageous when it exceeds all bounds of decency usually tolerated by a decent
society, and is of a nature which is especially calculated to cause, and does
cause, mental distress. Liability does not extend to mere insults, indignities,
threats, annoyances, petty oppressions, or other trivialities.” (Fisher v.
San Pedro Peninsula Hospital (1989) 214 Cal.App.3d 590, 618.)
 
Kousnetz has alleged ultimate facts
sufficient for an IIED claim, including outrageous conduct, intention to cause
the emotional distress, severe emotional suffering, and causation. (Compl., ¶¶ 17–27,
35, 36, 37.) Kousnetz also alleges McCaney’s authorization and ratification of
McCaney’s children, B.M. and W.M.’s, extreme and outrageous conduct. (Compl., ¶
35.) Thus, McCaney’s demurrer to the IIED cause of action for not stating facts
to allege the cause of action is OVERRULED. 
 
III.          
McCaney’s Demurrer to the 3rd-5th
causes of action for failure to plead specific facts for fraud—OVERRULED
 
"A complaint for fraud must allege
the following elements: (1) a knowingly false representation by the defendant;
(2) an intent to deceive or induce reliance; (3) justifiable reliance by the
plaintiff; and (4) resulting damages. Every element must be specifically
pleaded. [citations omitted]" (Service by Medallion, Inc. v. Clorox Co.
(1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 1807, 1816.)
 
“[T]he facts constituting the fraud
must be alleged with sufficient specificity to allow defendant to understand
fully the nature of the charge made.” (Roberts v. Ball, Hunt, Hart, Brown
& Baerwitz (1976) 57 Cal.App.3d 104, 109.) Fraud actions against
corporations require the plaintiff “to allege the names of the persons who made
the allegedly fraudulent representations, their authority to speak, to whom
they spoke, what they said or wrote, and when it was said or written.” (Tarmann
v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 157.) However,
the specificity requirement is “relaxed when the allegations indicate that the
defendant must necessarily possess full information concerning the facts of the
controversy or when the facts lie more in the knowledge of the opposite party.”
(Ibid., citations omitted.)
 
McCaney conclusively argues that
the 3rd-5th causes of action sounding in fraud do not
comply with the strict pleading requirements for fraud claims, but fail to show
specifically where the allegations are non-compliant. The Court finds finds the
fraud allegations of the 3rd–5th causes of action are
sufficient to comply with the strict pleading requirements of fraud. 
 
Kousnetz specifically pleads misrepresentations
by McCaney, and McCaney was aware of specific incidents of their children’s
history of violent behavior. (Compl., ¶¶8, 19.) Kousnetz pleads McCaney
intentionally withheld and misrepresented this information in order to hire and
retain Kousnetz, and Kousnetz relied on the misrepresentations eventually
resulting in injury. (Id., ¶¶ 10, 13–15, 20–22) 
 
Thus, McCaney’s Demurrer to the 3rd-5th
causes of action is OVERRULED. 
 
IV.          
McCaney’s
Motion to Strike Punitive Damages—DENIED
 
McCaney argues that Plaintiff has failed to sufficiently plead punitive
damages. The Court disagrees. 
 
A plaintiff may recover punitive damages in an action for the breach of
an obligation not arising out of contract where the defendant has been guilty
of oppression, fraud, or malice. (Cal. Civ. Code §3294 (a).) 
 
“(a) In an action for breach of an obligation not arising from
contract, where it is proven by clear and convincing evidence that the
defendant had been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice, the plaintiff, in
addition to the actual damages, may recover damages for the sake of example and
by way of punishing the defendant.” (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a.)
 
“Malice is ‘conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury
to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant
with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.’
(Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1).) Oppression is ‘despicable conduct that
subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that
person's rights.’ (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(2).) Despicable conduct is
conduct that is so vile, base, contemptible, miserable, wretched or loathsome
that it would be looked down upon and despised by ordinary decent people. Such
conduct has been described as having the character of outrage frequently
associated with crime.” (Scott v. Phoenix Schools, Inc. (2009) 175
Cal.App.4th 702, 715.)
 
Here, Kousnetz alleges that McCaney made misrepresentations that the
children’s behavioral issues were simply them “adjusting to her.” (Compl., at ¶
11.) Kousnetz alleges that she later learned that the children have had a long
history of violent behavior towards McCaney Family staff leading to injury.
(Compl., at ¶ 19.) Kousnetz further alleges that the McCaney family
intentionally withheld this information because Plaintiff and other potential
childcare workers would refuse to work with the children. (Compl., ¶¶ 20–22.)
Kousnetz essentially alleges that McCaney had actual and constructive notice of
the possible harm the children posed to Kousnetz, but McCaney consciously
disregarded it, which are sufficient allegations for pleading punitive damages.
 
            McCaney argues that Civ Code §
1714.1 precludes Plaintiff from pursuing punitive damages but this argument is
without merit as well. 
 
Civ Code § 1714.1 states:      
 
(a)
Any act of willful misconduct of a minor that results in injury or death
to another person or in any injury to the property of another shall be imputed
to the parent or guardian having custody and control of the minor for all
purposes of civil damages, and the parent or guardian having custody and control
shall be jointly and severally liable with the minor for any damages resulting
from the willful misconduct.
Subject
to the provisions of subdivision (c), the joint and several liability of the
parent or guardian having custody and control of a minor under this subdivision
shall not exceed twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000) for each tort of the
minor, and in the case of injury to a person, imputed liability shall be
further limited to medical, dental and hospital expenses incurred by the
injured person, not to exceed twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000). 
 
(Civ.
Code, § 1714.1.)
 
The statute only limits Kousnetz recovery from McCaney on behalf of
B.M, for his negligence. Punitive damages are not alleged against B.M. for his
negligence. However, nothing precludes Kousnetz from seeking punitive damages
against McCaney for her own malicious conduct under Civ Code § 3294..
Plaintiff’s causes of action of IIED, Negligent Misrepresentation, Intentional
Misrepresentation, and Negligent Failure to Warn, are separate and distinct
from her cause of action for Negligence, and thus punitive damages may be
alleged to McCaney for her actions alone.
 
Finally, McCaney argues Kousnetz cannot recover punitive damages
because the claims are barred by the exclusive remedy of workers compensation,
but as analyzed above, this argument is without merit at this stage. The Court
cannot take judicial notice of the employment contract, nor the facts contained
within the contract, and thus cannot make a determination as a matter of law
regarding the specifics of the employment scenario between the parties. 
 
McCaney’s Motion to Strike is DENIED. 


 