  Case Number:  21TRCV00034    Hearing Date:   October 17, 2024    Dept:  M LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                              Thursday, October 17, 2024
Department M                                                                                                         Calendar No. 12
 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Blake
Williams v. City of Torrance, et al.   
21TRCV00034
1.      Blake Williams’ Motion for Leave to File Third Amended
Complaint   
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Blake Williams’ Motion for Leave to
File Third Amended Complaint is denied without prejudice. 
 
Background
 
Plaintiff filed the Complaint on January 15, 2020. The
operative Second Amended Complaint was filed on September 10, 2021. Plaintiff
alleges the following facts. Plaintiff was employed as a police officer with
the City of Torrance. In late 2019, Plaintiff was investigated for an arrest he
made outside of his assigned beat. In 2020, Plaintiff was involved in a vehicle
pursuit which he terminated. Thereafter, he was improperly investigated in
contravention of his rights under the Public Safety Officers Procedural Bill of
Rights Act. Plaintiff alleges the following causes of action: 1. Violation of
the Public Safety Officers Procedural Bill of Rights Act, Gov. Code Sections
3303, et seq.; 2. Declaratory Relief; 3. Labor Code 1102.5.
 
Motion for Leave to Amend 
 
The court may, in furtherance of justice, and on such
terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading.  Code Civ. Proc., §§ 473 & 576.  Judicial policy favors resolution of all
disputed matters between the parties and, therefore, leave to amend is
generally liberally granted.  Ordinarily,
the court will not consider the validity of the proposed amended pleading in
ruling on a motion for leave since grounds for a demurrer or motion to strike
are premature.  However, the court does
have discretion to deny leave to amend where a proposed amendment fails to
state a valid cause of action as a matter of law and the defect cannot be cured
by further amendment.   Cal. Casualty General Ins. Co. v. Superior
Court (1985) 173 Cal.App.3d 274, 281. 
 
The application for leave to amend should be made as
soon as the need to amend is discovered. 
The closer the trial date, the stronger the showing required for leave
to amend.  If the party seeking the
amendment has been dilatory, and the delay has prejudiced the opposing party,
the court has the discretion to deny leave to amend.  Hirsa
v. Superior Court (1981) 118 Cal.App.3d 486, 490.  Prejudice exists where the amendment would
require delaying the trial, resulting in loss of critical evidence, or added costs
of preparation such as an increased burden of discovery.  Magpali
v. Farmers Group, Inc. (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 471, 486-488. 
 
Plaintiff moves for leave to amend to file a Third Amended
Complaint.   
 
Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324(a) states: “A motion
to amend a pleading before trial must:
(1) Include a copy of the proposed amendment or
amended pleading, which must be serially numbered to differentiate it from
previous pleadings or amendments;
(2) State what allegations in the previous pleading
are proposed to be deleted, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line
number, the deleted allegations are located; and
(3) State what allegations are proposed to be added to
the previous pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number,
the additional allegations are located.” Id. (emphasis added).
 
Plaintiff appears to have complied with Rule
3.1324(a). Plaintiff appears to state the allegations that were added to the TAC
and those that were omitted. (Motion, pages 4-6.)  
 
Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324(b) requires that the
moving party must submit a separate declaration specifying:
“(1) The effect of the amendment;
(2) Why the amendment is necessary and proper;
(3) When the facts giving rise to the amended
allegations were discovered; and
(4) The reasons why the request for amendment was not
made earlier.”
 
Plaintiff provided a declaration meeting element (1)
to (2) above. (Decl., Corey Glave, ¶¶ 4-7.) 
However, there is nothing in the declaration which states when,
specifically, the facts giving rise to the amendment were discovered and why
the request for amendment was not made earlier. The Court also notes that the
proposed Third Amended Complaint appears to include allegations of conduct on
the part of Defendants which occurred after January 14, 2021. If a basis for
liability against Defendants is premised upon conduct occurring after the
filing of the initial pleading, Plaintiff’s recourse would be to file a motion
for leave to file a “supplemental” complaint and not an “amended” complaint.
Further, if new allegations which may have occurred prior to January 14, 2021,
but which were not mentioned or contemplated in the prior pleadings are sought
to be included, Plaintiff must provide specific facts to meet the elements
noted above as this does not appear to be within the spirit of why leave to
amend was sought in the context of the Court’s review of the Defendants’ motion
for summary judgment.
 
Finally, the Court must also address the unusual
declaration filed by Plaintiff’s counsel with the Reply. Generally, new
evidence is not authorized with the Reply. However, the Court has discretion to
consider new evidence in reply papers in ruling on a motion provided the other
party has notice and an opportunity to respond. See, Jacobs v. Coldwell
Banker Residential Brokerage Co. (2017) 14 Cal.App.5th 438, 449-50.  Here, the new evidence consisted of a
declaration which strangely begins with paragraph 11 and contains no
substantive facts. While the Court can only guess, it appears that perhaps the
matters set forth in the Reply on pages 1 to 3 were intended to be part of the
declaration? In any event, even the statements set forth on pages 1 to 3 do not
specifically set forth facts to meet the elements of Cal. Rules of Court, Rule
3.1324(b).
 
Therefore, Plaintiff’s Motion for Leave to File Third
Amended Complaint is denied without prejudice. 
 
In light of the current procedural posture of the
instant action and the fact that a Motion for Summary Judgment is still
pending, the Court will set a hearing date on a renewed Motion for Leave to
File a Third Amended Complaint and will also continue the Motion for Summary
Judgment to that date. The Court will confer with the parties to set an
amenable date for all parties and the Court.
 
Plaintiff is ordered to give notice of this ruling.