 Case Number:  22TRCV00743    Hearing Date:   October 17, 2024    Dept:  M LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                 
            Thursday,
October 17, 2024
Department M                                                                                                          Calendar No. 9 
 
 
 
 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
            Harrison Tyler Kurtz v. Surf Airlines, Inc., et al.
            22TRCV00743
1.      Harrison Tyler Kurtz’s Motion to Compel [Further]
Responses to Request for Production of Documents, Set One 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Harrison Tyler Kurtz’s Motion to Compel [Further] Responses to Request
for Production of Documents, Set One, is deemed moot. 
 
            Background
 
            Plaintiffs
filed the Complaint on August 25, 2022. Plaintiffs allege the following facts.
Plaintiffs were
investors in Defendant Surf Airlines. As part of a recapitalization, Defendants
agreed to purchase Plaintiffs’ shares in return for promissory notes. However, Defendants
failed to make the payments required by the promissory notes.  
 
            Motion to Compel Further Responses to
Requests for Production of Documents
 
A party responding to an
inspection demand shall respond to each demand with one of the following:  a statement the party will comply with the
demand, a representation the party lacks the ability to comply with the demand,
or an objection.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.210, subd. (a).)  A response to an
inspection demand may be inadequate because it is evasive or incomplete;
contains an incomplete statement of compliance; an inadequate, incomplete, or
evasive representation of inability to comply; or meritless or overly general
objections to a demand.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (a).) 
 
If a demanding party
believes the responding party responded inadequately, the demanding party may
move for an order compelling further response. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (a).)  “Unless notice of this motion is given within
45 days of the service of the verified response, or any supplemental verified
response, or on or before any specific later date to which the demanding party
and the responding party have agreed in writing, the demanding party waives any
right to compel a further response to the demand.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd.
(c).)   
 
            Meet
and Confer
 
Plaintiffs set forth meet
and confer declarations in substantial compliance with CCP §
2031.310(b)(2).  (Declaration, Darryl P.
Rains, ¶¶ 5-10.)
 
Motion to
Compel 
 
            Plaintiffs’
motion to compel further responses to Request for Production of Documents, Set
One, is deemed moot because Defendant served a further response on September
24, 2024. (Decl., Jeffrey D. Harris, ¶ 10.) Plaintiffs filed a Reply in which
they still take issue with the further responses were served as well as the
documents that were produced in conjunction with those further responses. The
propriety of the further responses is not at issue with the instant motion. Any
request to compel service of further responses or to compel compliance with a
response which stated that documents would be produced would be the subject of
a new motion. Of course, a motion to compel further response to the September
24, 2024 responses would also require a meaningful meet and confer process and
a meet and confer declaration. The Court notes that an IDC had been completed
on September 26, 2024. Thus, the Court will not require an additional IDC if another
motion is sought specifically regarding the September 24, 2024 responses.
However, the Court urges the parties to meet and confer in good faith to avoid
the necessity of further court intervention on issues the Court believes the
parties can reach an amicable resolution.
 
Sanctions
 
Plaintiffs
did not seek sanctions nor set forth a proper request for sanctions in the
notice of motion.
 
Defendants’
request for sanctions is denied. 
 
The
Court notes that the motion was not properly identified as a motion to compel
“further” responses, and also set on the motion calendar as a motion to compel
initial responses. Plaintiffs’ counsel is notified that, in the future, the
motion must be properly identified and slotted on the Court’s calendar as a
motion to compel “further” responses and not “initial” responses.
 
Plaintiffs
are ordered to give notice of this ruling. 