 Case Number:  23VECV04995    Hearing Date:   November 12, 2024    Dept:  T ASH V
KENNICH 23VECV04995
[TENTATIVE]
ORDER:  Defendants Jennifer Kennick and Colleen Irby’s Motion for Summary
Judgment is GRANTED. 
Defendants
Jennifer Kennick and Colleen Irby’s Alternative Motion for Summary Adjudication
is MOOT.
Defendants
Jennifer Kennick and Colleen Irby’s Request for Judicial Notice is GRANTED but
not as to any hearsay or facts in dispute.
Introduction
Defendants
Jennifer Kennick (Kennick) and Colleen Irby, erroneously sued as “Colleen
Irby-SBS Trust Deed Network A Corporation” (Irby) (collectively, Defendants)
moved for summary judgment (MSJ) and alternatively moved for summary
adjudication (MSA) against Plaintiff Arvis Ash’s (Plaintiff) Complaint. 
The MSJ/MSA placed into issue the sole cause of action (COA) for wrongful
foreclosure.  The MSA raised four issues.  MSA Issue 1 asserted that
there is no triable issue of fact because “a nonjudicial foreclosure sale is
“accompanied by a common law presumption that ‘it was conducted regularly and
fairly.’” (Notice, pg. 2:14-15.)  MSA Issue 2 asserted that there is no
triable issue of fact because “Plaintiff cannot establish that the initiation
of foreclosure proceedings was improper under Civil Code §2924 et seq.
[sic]”.  (Notice, pg. 2:18-20.)  MSA Issue 3 asserted that there is
no triable issue of fact because “Plaintiff does not and cannot allege any
tender.”  (Notice, pg. 2:22-23.)  MSA Issue 4 asserted that there is
no triable issue of fact because of the 16th through 19th Affirmative
Defenses.  (Notice, pg. 3:1-8.) 
As an
opposition to the MSJ/MSA, Plaintiff filed a single brief titled “Answer to
Defendants Jennifer Kennick & Colleen Irby’s Notice of Motion and Motion
for Summary Judgment, or in the Alternative Summary Adjudication” (Opposition).
Discussion
Defendants
argued that there is no triable issue of fact as to the wrongful foreclosure
claim because Defendants were not the trustee or beneficiary on the
non-judicial foreclosure proceedings.  Defendants asserted that Non-Party
S.B.S. Trust Deed Network Corporation (SBS) is the trustee.  Defendants
asserted that Non-Party Grace Greens #1 Homeowners Association (HOA) is the
beneficiary on the Deed of Trust (DOT) at issue in the alleged non-judicial
foreclosure proceeding.  Defendants presented facts to show that they are
employees of SBS.  (Defendants’ Separate Statement of Facts (DSSF) 25 and
26.)  Defendants’ evidence provided that SBS executed the Notice of
Default (NOD), the Notice of Trustee Sale (NTS), and the Trustee Deed Upon Sale
(TDUS).  SBS recorded the NOD on September 27, 2022; recorded the NTS on
January 3, 2023; and recorded the RDUS on August 18, 2023.  (DSSF 28-34
and Request for Judicial Notice (RJN) Exhs. F-H.)  In each of these
documents, evidence is presented that Defendants, as individuals, did not
foreclose upon Plaintiff’s property.  Because Defendants are not the
foreclosing entity, the evidence is sufficient to show that there is no triable
issue of fact as to any wrongful foreclosure or wrongful conduct as to the
non-judicial foreclosure by Defendants, as individuals.  Defendants met
their burden of proof to show that no triable issue of fact exists. 
Because Defendants met their burden, the burden transferred to Plaintiff to
show that a triable issue of fact exists.
Despite
Plaintiff’s contention otherwise in the caption of the Opposition, Plaintiff’s
Opposition failed to attach or submit a separate statement or any evidence to
support her opposing arguments.  (Code Civ. Proc., sec. 437c(b)(2) and (3)
and (d);  Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1350(f)(3).)  Upon these two
defects in failing to submit a separate statement and in failing to 
submit admissible evidence, Plaintiff failed to meet her burden of proof. 
Plaintiff’s Opposition only presented her arguments against the MSJ/MSA. 
These two defects in the Opposition are sufficient to present good cause to
grant the MSJ. 
Even if the
Court were to consider the arguments in the Opposition as a separate statement
or admissible evidence, Plaintiff still failed to meet her burden of proof to
show a triable issue of fact regarding Defendants’ employee status and/or
non-foreclosing entity status.  Plaintiff failed to present any argument
or evidence to dispute that Defendants were acting as employees of SBS, the
foreclosing trustee, and that Defendants were not related to HOA, as the
foreclosing beneficiary.  There is no basis for individual liability
against the defendants under the theory of the case.  Because Plaintiff
failed to meet her burden of proof, the MSJ is persuasive.
Defendants’
MSJ is GRANTED.  Defendants’ MSA is MOOT.
IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE NOTICE.