  Case Number:  21STCV31600    Hearing Date:   November 12, 2024    Dept:  T PACHECANO V HURDLE 21STCV31600
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Defendant Toyota Financial Services International
Corporation’s Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED.
Introduction
Defendant Toyota Financial Services International Corporation (Defendant)
moved for summary judgment (MSJ) against Plaintiffs Adrian Texis and Randy
Lopez’s (collectively, Plaintiffs) Complaint filed in the non-lead case:
21STCV31669.  Plaintiffs opposition was due on October 29, 2024 and none
was filed.  The MSJ placed into issue the single cause of action (COA) for
negligence alleged in the non-lead Complaint.
An opposition was due October 29, 2024 and none was filed.
Discussion
Defendant argued that there is no triable issue of fact as to any liability
when the owner of the vehicle is engaged in the trade or business of renting or
leasing vehicles and there is no negligence or criminal wrongdoing by the
owner.  (49 U.S.C. sec. 30106.)  Defendant provided that Co-Defendant
Sylvia Hurdle (Hurdle) rented the vehicle from Animo LLC (Animo). 
Defendant provided that they are the owner of the vehicle and had contracted
with Non-Party Launch Mobility, Inc. to rent out Defendant’s previously leased
vehicles.  Defendant rented out the vehicles through Animo, a subsidiary
of Launch Mobility, Inc.  (Defendant’s Separate Statement of Facts (DSSF)
1-5)  Defendant further provided that Hurdle passed Animo’s requirements
to rent the vehicle.  (DSSF 7-8.)  Defendant asserted that they and
Animo are in the business of renting vehicles and that Animo rented out the
vehicle to Hurdle.  (DSSF 13-15.)  Defendant asserted that there are
no facts showing any negligent maintenance of the vehicle or that Hurdle was
unfit to drive the vehicle.  (DSSF 16-17.)  Because Defendant
provided facts showing that they are in the business of renting vehicles and
provided facts showing that there is no negligence or criminal conduct on their
part, Defendant met their burden of proof to show that there is no triable
issue of fact as to the negligence COA.  Because Defendant met their
burden of proof, the burden transferred to Plaintiffs to show that a triable
issue of fact exists.  Because Plaintiffs did not oppose the MSJ,
Plaintiffs failed to meet their burden.
Defendant’s MSJ is GRANTED. 
IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE NOTICE.