  Case Number:  20STCV45192    Hearing Date:   May 3, 2024    Dept:  72 Yang v. Global Win
Capital Corporation
20STCV45192
Tentative
Ruling:  Motions In Limine
The Court issues the following tentative rulings on the
motions in limine filed by Defendant Global Win Capital Corporation (“GWCC”)
and Plaintiff Jeffrey Qiuhong Yang (“Yang”). 

The Court takes the description of the relief requested from
the title of each of the motions.
A.           GWCC’s
Motions In Limine
1.       
MIL #1: 
 GWCC moves to exclude testimony,
evidence, argument, and comment concerning plaintiff’s subjective opinion on the
ultimate issue of retaliation.  The Court
denies the motion.  The Court will not
micromanage the manner in which Yang testifies about the basis for his claim
that he was retaliated against.  However,
the Court will deal with objections as to relevance and foundation on a question-by-question
basis.
 
2.       
MIL #2: 
GWCC moves to exclude testimony, evidence, argument, and comment
concerning Plaintiff’s subjective opinion on others’ knowledge or state of
mind.  The Court denies the motion,  which is not specific enough to support an in
limine ruling.   The Court will deal with
objections as to foundation on a question-by-question basis.
 
3.       
MIL #3: 
GWCC moves to exclude Yang from speculating about others’ actions where
Yang lacks personal knowledge.  The Court
denies the motion,  which is not specific
enough to support an in limine ruling.  
The Court will deal with objections as to foundation on a
question-by-question basis.  The Court
admonishes all parties not to seek testimony from witnesses as to matters about
which the witness lacks foundation.
 
4.       
MIL #4: 
GWCC  moves to exclude lay witness
opinion testimony regarding Yang’s alleged economic damages calculations.  The Court denies the motion.  The motion does not provide sufficient
specificity about what evidence GWCC purports to seek to exclude.  There are facts relating to economic damages
as to which Yang is competent to testify. 
The Court will deal with objections to the evidence on a case-by-case
basis.
 
5.       
MIL #5: 
GWCC moves to exclude irrelevant, inadmissible and highly prejudicial character
evidence.  The Court grants the motion in
part.   Without a further showing outside
the presence of the jury, Yang is ordered not to offer into evidence the
following broad statements as to character: 
“guys at Shanying don’t follow the laws” “do whatever they want” and
operate in a legally “grey” area; Global Win and Shanying always engage in “illegal
practices”; Yang is a straightforward, black-and-white employee who strictly
follows the rules; and Global Win is a ‘wishy washy’ Chinese company doing
things in grey areas.”  The Court expects
all parties to comply with California law and evidentiary rules relating to
character evidence.
 
 
 
B.           Yang’s
Motions In Limine
 
6.       
MIL #1: 
Yang moves to exclude any evidence or arguments relating to the Court’s
9/28/2021 ruling and plaintiff’s whistleblower allegations in the original and
first amended complaint.  The Court
denies the motion.  The facts and
allegations that Yang seeks to exclude may be relevant to the issues in this
case and issues of credibility.  Yang has
not provided a legal basis to exclude them.
 
7.       
MIL #2: 
Yang moves to exclude Plaintiff’s financial condition and related
evidence.  The Court denies this motion
as moot.  The Court’s December 14, 2023
order will govern this issue.
 
8.       
MIL #3: 
Yang moves to limit testimony of experts designated as rebuttal experts.  The Court issues no tentative.  The Court will hear argument.  The Court also wishes GWCC to address whether
as a practical matter it seeks to have Messrs. Blumentstein and Dolgoff testify
as to something other than would be appropriate for a rebuttal expert.
 
9.       
MIL #4: 
The binders submitted by the parties contains no MIL #4 by Yang.
 
10.  
MIL #5: 
Yang moves to exclude the October 22, 2019 termination letter.  The Court denies the motion.  The letter is relevant and admissible.  It relates to disputed issues at the center
of this case.
 
11.  
MIL #6: 
Yang moves to exclude Defendant’s expert Dawn Jones.   The Court denies the motion.  The three bullet pointed areas of  testimony on page 10 of GWCC’s opposition are
appropriate topics for expert testimony. 
The Court will deal with hearsay objections raised by Yang on a
case-by-case basis.  All parties will be
expected to comply with People v. Sanchez (2016) 63 Cal.4th 665 in
presenting expert testimony.