 Case Number:  23BBCV00117    Hearing Date:   December 19, 2024    Dept:  A MOTION TO
COMPEL INDEPENDENT MEDICAL EXAMINATION

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV00117

 



MP:  


Zane and Gina Cazares (Defendants)




RP:  


Jonathan Lee (Plaintiff)



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Jonathan Lee
(Plaintiff) brings this action against Zane and Gina Cazares (Defendants).
Plaintiff alleges he was injured by virtue of Defendants’ negligent operation
of a motor vehicle. 
 
Defendants
now move to compel Plaintiff’s participation in a second independent medical
exam (IME). Defendants claim another IME is necessary because Plaintiff
subsequently underwent surgery to repair the damage he alleges was caused by
Defendants. Defendants further state that they were not informed of the surgery
prior to the first IME. 
 
Plaintiff
opposes the motion, arguing that Defendants have not demonstrated good cause
for a second IME. Plaintiff argues that Defendants were aware of the surgery
prior to the IME and that alternative means exist by which they can obtain the
information they now seek. 
  
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Where any
party seeks to obtain discovery by a physical examination other than that
described in C.C.P. § 2032.220, or by a mental examination, the party shall
obtain leave of the court. (C.C.P. § 2032.310(a).) A mental examination shall
be performed only by a licensed physician, or by a licensed clinical
psychologist who holds a doctoral degree in psychology and has had at least
five years of postgraduate experience in the diagnosis of emotional and mental
disorders. (C.C.P. § 2032.020(c)(1).) A motion for an examination shall specify
the time, place, manner, conditions, scope, and nature of the examination, as
well as the identity and specialty, if any, of the person or persons who will
perform the examination and shall be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration. (C.C.P. § 2032.310(b).) 
 
The Court
shall grant the motion only for good cause shown. (C.C.P. § 2032.320(a).) To
show good cause, the moving party must provide specific facts justifying
discovery and show that the inquiry is relevant to the subject matter of the
case or is reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible
evidence. (Vinson v. Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 840.)  The good-cause requirement serves as a
barrier to excessive and unwarranted intrusions. (Id.) 
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Timeline  
 
On December 5, 2023,
Defendants’ counsel took Plaintiff’s deposition. (Aziev Decl., Exh. 1.) During
this deposition, Plaintiff stated that he intended to undergo surgery to treat
his hernia in late December 2023 at Keck Medicine of USC (USC Keck). (Id.
at p. 77, lines 19-24.) 
 
On February 4, 2024, Defendants
subpoenaed Plaintiff’s medical records from USC Keck. (Aziev Decl. ¶ 2,
Exh. 2.) The date of production was March 5, 2024. (Id.) Responsive
records were produced on February 19, 2024. (Aziev Decl., Exh. 3.) 
 
On February 14, 2024,
Defendants served Plaintiff with notice of the first IME with Defendants’
designated physician Mark Spoonamore (Spoonamore). (Aziev Decl., Exh. 4.)
Plaintiff responded with a series of objections. (Aziev Decl., Exh. 5.) Counsel
for the parties met and conferred, ultimately agreeing to the IME upon
Defendants’ acceptance of 17 conditions. (Aziev. Decl., Exhs. 5-7.) One of
these conditions, number eight sates that “Plaintiff’s
counsel must receive written confirmation that no additional orthopedic
examination will be demanded by or on behalf of any other defendant.” (Aziev
Decl., Exh. 5 at p. 2.) 
 
On March 20, 2024, Plaintiff
appeared for the first IME with Spoonamore. (Stevens. Decl. ¶ 5, Exh. B.) 
 
On September 18, 2024,
Plaintiff underwent the surgery to repair his hernia at USC Keck. (Stevens Decl.,
Exh. B.) The surgery was performed by Jeffrey Wang, M.D. (Wang). (Id.)
 
On October 3, 2024,
Defendants noticed depositions of USC Keck’s Custodian of Records and Wang.
(Aziev Decl., Exhs. 8, 9.) Plaintiff did not object to these depositions and
his counsel in fact appeared to defend them. (Aziev Decl., Exh. 10.) On October
23, 2024, Defendants’ counsel did not appear for either deposition, instead
taking the depositions off-calendar via email a few minutes before they were
slated to start. (Aziev Decl. Exhs. 10-11.) Plaintiff contends he has never
been given a reason for the cancellation. 
 
On October 23, 2024,
Plaintiff was served with notice of a second IME with Spoonamore. (Steven Decl.
¶ 6, Exh. C.) Plaintiff objected and Defendants subsequently brought the
instant motion. 
 
Merits 
 
The Court finds Plaintiff’s
argument that Defendants have not demonstrated good cause to compel a second
IME to be persuasive. 
 
There is no limit on the
number of mental or physical examinations, provided that a showing of good
cause is made to justify more than one mental or physical examination of a
party. (See Shapira v. Superior Court (1990) 224 Cal.App.3d 1249, 1255.)
The good cause requirement is intended to check for potential harassment of
plaintiffs by repetitive examinations. (Id.; See also Sporich v.
Superior Court (2000) 77 Cal.App.4th 422 superseded by statute on
other grounds at 428.) Good cause in this context is established by facts
that appear in the record and must be shown such that an impartial tribunal
would be satisfied that the request may be granted without abuse of the
inherent rights of the adversary. (Sporich supra, 77 Cal.App.4th
at 427, 428.) 
 
Shapira concerned an order to compel a second medical
examination of a plaintiff who claimed both physical and mental injuries. (Shapira
supra, 224 Cal.App.3d at 1255.) The Shapira court noted that "multiple
examinations should not be ordered routinely; the good cause requirement will
check the potential harassment of plaintiffs by repetitive examinations,"
and "multiple examinations by medical specialists in different
fields" may be necessary based upon a plaintiff's claimed injuries. (Id.)

 
There is a surprising
dearth of case law addressing the concept of “good cause” for purpose of
compelling further IME. Shapira and Sporich are the most relevant
recent authorities concerning this issue, and neither case provides clear
guidelines for finding good cause has been shown. While these cases make clear
that good cause has not been shown were a further IME is harassing, the opinions
contain little guidance on what constitutes facts, “…such that an impartial
tribunal would be satisfied that the request may be granted without abuse of
the inherent rights of the adversary.” 
 
Most case law, including federal
court authority relied upon by both parties, look to the ruling in Vinson v.
Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833 for guidance. In Vinson,
the California Supreme Court discussed good cause in the context of the former
C.C.P. § 2036, the statute which previously governed motions such as the one
before this Court. (Vinson supra, 43 Cal.3d at 840.) At the time Vinson
was decided, C.C.P. § 2036 had actually been repealed by the legislature
and not yet replaced by any equivalent provision. (Id. at fn.6.)
Regardless, the Vinson court concluded that the legislature did not
intend to obviate the good cause requirement. (Id.) Indeed this
requirement was reintegrated when the Legislature enacted the current C.C.P. § 2032.320(a).

 
Given the above, the Court
finds the factors for determining good cause as explained in Vinson are
still helpful where a party seeks to compel a second IME. Vinson concluded
that good cause required (1) a showing of relevancy to the subject matter, (2) specific
facts illustrating a need for the information, and (3) a lack of means for
obtaining it elsewhere. (Id.) It is the third Vinson factor which
is particularly relevant to the instant motion. 
 
Here, Defendants’ stated
need for a second IME is to obtain information related to the “performance,
outcome and subsequent prognosis of the surgery.” (Mot. p. 6.) Defendants argue
that they also expect Wang will testify at trial as to the need for surgery,
thus Defendants need an independent examination by Spoonamore. While Defendants
may assert the need for this information, they do not address whether this
information can be obtained through sources other than a second IME. Defendants’
motion and their reply make no reference to the cancelled depositions of USC
Keck’s Custodian of Records and Wang. It appears to the Court that information
about the “performance, outcome and subsequent prognosis of the surgery” is all
easily obtainable through deposition of these third parties. This would be a
significantly less obtrusive means of obtaining such information and Defendants
have presented no argument to the contrary, this is especially true had counsel
not cancelled these deposition within minutes of their anticipated starting as
represented by Plaintiff.   
 
Accordingly, the motion to
compel Plaintiff’s second IME is DENIED. 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Zane and Gina Cazares’
Motion to Compel Independent Medical Examination came
on regularly for hearing on December 19, 2024, with appearances/submissions as
noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised
in the premises, did then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE MOTION TO COMPEL INDEPENDENT MEDICAL
EXAMINATION IS DENIED. 
 
DEFENDANTS TO GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
December 19, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 