 Case Number:  23BBCV02014    Hearing Date:   December 19, 2024    Dept:  A MOTIONS
TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV02014

 



MP:  


Kathleen F. Davis
  (Defendant)




RP:  


Matthew C. Moore
  (Plaintiff)



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Matthew
C. Moore (Plaintiff) brings this action against Kathleen F. Davis (Defendant).
Plaintiff alleges causes of action for Wrongful Eviction, Theft, Civil Extortion,
and Defamation as well as Property Damage. Plaintiff alleges that Defendant
locked him out of a residential living he rented from Plaintiff and refused him
access to his personal belongings.
 
Defendant,
in pro per, now brings these motions to compel Plaintiff’s further
responses to Form/Special Interrogatories (FROG/SPROG), Request for Production
of Documents (RFPD), and Request for Admissions (RFA.) Plaintiff opposes the
motions and Defendant replies. 
  
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL STANDARD 
 
Motion to
Compel Further Responses to Interrogatories 
 
On
receipt of a response to interrogatories, the propounding party may move for an
order compelling a further response if the propounding party deems that the
responses contain: (1) answers that are evasive or incomplete, (2)¿an
unwarranted or insufficiently specific exercise of an option to produce
documents in lieu of a substantive response, or (3) unmerited or overly
generalized objections.  (C.C.P.
§¿2030.300(a).) The responding party has the burden of justifying the
objections thereto. (Coy v. Sup.Ct. (1962) 58 Cal.2d 210, 220-21.)
  
Motion to
Compel Further Responses to RFPD
 
A motion
to compel further responses to RFPD may be brought based on: (1) incomplete
statements of compliance; (2) inadequate, evasive, or incomplete claims of
inability to comply; or (3) unmerited or overly generalized objections. 
(C.C.P. § 2031.310(c).) 
 
A motion
to compel further production must set forth specific facts showing good cause
justifying the discovery sought by the inspection demand. (See C.C.P. §
2031.310(b)(1).) In Digital Music News LLC v Superior Court (2014) 226
Cal.App.4th 216 at 224, the Court defined “good cause” as a showing that there
“a disputed fact that is of consequence in the action and the discovery sought
will tend in reason to prove or disprove that fact or lead to other evidence
that will tend to prove or disprove the fact.”  
 
If the
moving party has shown good cause for the requests for production, the burden
is on the objecting party to justify the objections. (Kirkland v. Sup.Ct
(2002) 95 Cal. App.4th 92, 98.) 
 
Motion to
Compel Further Responses on RFA
 
On
receipt of a response to requests for admission, the party requesting
admissions may move for an order compelling a further response if that party
deems that either or both of the following apply: (1) an answer to a particular
request is evasive or incomplete or (2) an objection to a particular request is
without merit or too general. (C.C.P. § 2033.290(a).)
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Meet and Confer 
 
Plaintiff argues that Defendant failed to meet and confer
prior to bringing these motions. Plaintiff states that although Defendant
emailed his counsel several times in reference to these discovery responses,
these attempts do not evidence her good faith attempt to obtain informal
resolution of the specific issues at hand. The Court disagrees. 
 
The purpose of the meet and confer requirement under
C.C.P.§ 2016.040 is to “…to encourage the parties to work out their differences
informally so as to avoid the necessity for a formal order...This, in turn,
will lessen the burden on the court and reduce the unnecessary expenditure of
resources by litigants through promotion of informal, extrajudicial resolution
of discovery disputes.” (Townsend v. Superior Court (1998) 61
Cal.App.4th 1431, 1435.) 
 
Considerations as to whether a good faith
meet and confer effort has been made entrusted to the trial court's discretion
and judgment, with due regard for all relevant circumstances. (Obregon v.
Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 424, 432.) “A single letter, followed
by a response which refuses concessions, might in some instances be an adequate
attempt at informal resolution, especially when a legitimate discovery
objective is demonstrated. The time available before the motion filing
deadline, and the extent to which the responding party was complicit in the
lapse of available time, can also be relevant. An evaluation of whether,
from the perspective of a reasonable person in the position of the discovering
party, additional effort appeared likely to bear fruit, should also be
considered” (Id. [emphasis added].) 
 
Here, Defendant emailed Plaintiff’s counsel on August 21,
2024 expressing her belief that the responses consisting purely of objections
were, “…designed to avoid producing any evidence in support of [Plaintiff’s]
claims against me.” (Mot. to Compel Interrogatories, Davis Decl., Exh. 1 at p.
75.) Plaintiff’s email further addressed the objections on grounds that the
interrogatories improperly referenced the Complaint. (Id.) Plaintiff
further stated her belief that there was nothing in her discovery which requested
material subject to the attorney client privilege. (Id.) 
 
Plaintiff’s counsel responded with a series of less than
cordial emails. The response of Plaintiff’s counsel does not address any of the
arguments raised by Defendant’s email. (Id.) Instead, Plaintiff’s
counsel glibly states that he disagrees with Defendant and that she interposed
some of the same objections in her discovery responses. Defendant responded to
this email again addressing the objections in substance. (Id.)
Plaintiff’s counsel responded once more, explaining his belief that Defendant
has not met and conferred in good faith. (Id. at 76.) 
 
In reviewing the above correspondence, the Court finds
Defendant adequately met and conferred in good faith. Defendant presented clear
arguments as to her issues with Plaintiff’s objections in her initial
correspondence. What she received in response was a simple “I disagree,”
followed by a lecture on the meet and confer process. Regardless of how one
reads the tone of Plaintiff’s counsel in reply, Defendant was reasonable in
concluding that any further meet and confer attempts would not produce the responses
she was looking for. Defendant was not required to continue the meet and confer
process in the face of such obstreperous responses. 
 
FROG
 
Defendant moves to compel further response to FROG Nos.
2.12, 9.1, 9.2, 12.1, 12.2, 12.3, 12.4, 12.5, 12.6, 12.7, 13.113.2, 14.1, 14.2,
and 17.1. Plaintiff objected to each of the FROG on the various grounds which
are listed below: 
 
·        
This interrogatory seeks information that is
not relevant to the subject matter of this litigation, and not reasonably
calculated [sic] to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. This
interrogatory calls for speculation as to any other party.
 
·        
This interrogatory seeks information that is
not relevant to the subject matter of this litigation, and not reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence, vague and ambiguous
as to “other damages.”
 
·        
This FI seeks identifying information
regarding persons interviewed by counsel or other persons on the client’s
behalf which is protected by the qualified work product doctrine.
 
·        
This FI is vague and ambiguous as to the terms
“cited” and “charged.”
 
Despite the fact that Plaintiff has stated objections on
each of the above grounds, his opposition briefs none of the objections with
specificity. The only argument Plaintiff presents as to the objections is that
he is permitted to assert each of these objections even where the
interrogatories are prepared by form. As Plaintiff has presented no argument
with respect to the content of his objections, the Court finds he has
necessarily failed to uphold his burden in opposing this motion.
 
Accordingly, the motion to compel further responses to FROG
is GRANTED. 
 
SPROG
 
Plaintiff moves to compel further responses to each of her
20 SPROGs. Defendant objected to each of these on various grounds, as stated
below: 
 
·        
This interrogatory is not full and complete
in and of itself in violation of C.C.P. § 2030.060(d); this interrogatory
contains subparts, or a compound, conjunctive, or disjunctive question in
violation of C.C.P. § 2030.060(d) and (f). 
 
·        
Vague and ambiguous as to the term
“ownership.”
 
·        
Irrelevant and not reasonably calculated to
lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.
 
As with FROG, Plaintiff bears the burden to demonstrate his
objection are meritorious. The only objection briefed in Plaintiff’s opposition
is that Defendant’s SPROG, “…asked for information or documents and added as
alleged in a specific cause of action or paragraph of [Plaintiff’s] complaint.”
(Opp. p. 4.) Plaintiff argues that because each of the SPROG concerns his
contentions “as stated in Paragraph [X] of the Complaint,” they are not full
and complete within the meaning of C.C.P. § 2030.060(d). The Court finds this
argument unpersuasive. 
 
In making the above argument, Plaintiff relies on Catanese
v. Superior Court (1996) 46 Cal.App.4th 1159. In Catanese, the Court
of Appeal found a set of interrogatories violated C.C.P. § 2030.060(d) where
they cross-referenced the propounding party’s deposition. The following are two
examples of these interrogatories: 
 
9. Do you contend that
[Ray] has given any answers to any of the questions asked of her in any of the
volumes of her deposition taken on or before September 28, 1995, which are
untrue?
 
10. Unless your answer
to the preceding interrogatory is an unqualified negative answer, identify the
question asked and [Ray's] answer by stating the date of deposition, volume
number, page and line numbers of any of the questions which you contend [Ray]
answered untruthfully.
 
(Catanese supra,
46 Cal. App.4th at 1161-1162.) 
 
The Court of Appeal found these interrogatories were an
impermissible attempt to avoid the 35 SPROG limit imposed by what is now C.C.P.
§ 2030.030(b). (Id. at 1165.) The court found that by cross-referencing
a large number of questions asked in deposition, the SPROG sought to vitiate
the statutory limit. (Id.)
 
Plaintiff also cites to Clement v. Alegre (2009)
177 Cal.App.4th 1277. In Clement the opposing party objected to a
special interrogatory which asked the party to, “Please state the amount of
such damages as identified in interrogatory number 1” (Clement supra 177
Cal.App.4th at 1282.) The court found that the objection was without
merit and contrasted these interrogatories with those in Catanese,
finding no attempt to circumvent the 35 interrogatory limit. (Id. at
1287.) The Court observed that because, “…plaintiffs seized on what might have
been at most an arguable technical violation of the rule, to
object to interrogatories that were clear and concise where the interrogatories
did not even arguably violate the presumptive numerical limitation
set by statute.” (Id. at 1287, [emphasis in original].) “In so doing,
plaintiffs themselves engaged in the type of gamesmanship and delay decried by
the drafters of the Act.” (Id.) 
 
Here, the Court finds the challenged interrogatories are
closer to those in Clement than Catanese. Although Defendant’s
interrogatories refer to an outside document (the Complaint), they do not
function to circumvent the interrogatory limit. Defendant’s interrogatories
simply ask Plaintiff to identify facts in support of the claims made in his
Complaint. Taken at face value, Plaintiff’s argument suggests that Defendant’s
interrogatories would be proper if she just deleted the phrase “as stated in
Paragraph [X] of the Complaint.” 
 
In short, Defendant’s interrogatories request information
which does not require the type of extrinsic search that Catanese contemplates.
Nor do they function to circumvent the 35 interrogatory limit. Instead, Plaintiff’s
objections reflect the exact type of technical violation decried by the holding
in Clement. 
 
Accordingly, the motion to compel further responses to
SPROG is GRANTED. 
 
RFPD
 
Each of Defendant’s RFPD asks Plaintiff to produce
documents related to either claims made in his Complaint or related to his
response to a certain interrogatory. For example, RFPD No. 6 asks Plaintiff to
identify all documents related to any psychiatric treatment he sought as the
result of Defendant’s alleged conduct. As another example, RFPD No. 10 requests
Plaintiff produce any social media postings they made pertaining to Defendant’s
alleged conduct. 
 
The Court finds Plaintiff has demonstrated good cause of
further production as to each request. Each of these requests related to the
dispute between the parties and the contentions made by Plaintiff in the
Complaint. As such, the burden shifts to Plaintiff to justify his objections
thereto. 
 
Plaintiff objected to each of Defendant’s RFPD as follows: 
 
This RFP violates the
provisions of Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.030(c)(1) in that it fails
to designate the documents, things, etc. to be inspected, copied, tested, or
sampled either by specifically describing each individual item or by reasonably
particularizing each category of item; Lack of relevance; no tendency to lead
to discovery of admissible evidence; overbroad.
 
The Court notes that Plaintiff’s burden on opposition is to
justify his objection to Defendant’s RFPD. Plaintiff’s opposition does not do
this with particularity, instead generally asserting that this objection is
meritorious without discussing the RFPD to which they are directed. The only
RFPD which Plaintiff’s opposition addresses specifically is RFPD No. 1, which
the Court will discuss below. Further, despite the fact that Plaintiff asserted
many objections to each RFPD, his opposition briefs only his objection on
grounds that each of the RFPD fail to particularize the documents to be
produced. The Court finds this objection to be without merit. 
 
A party cannot be expected to specifically describe an
individual item without first ascertaining its existence. (Calcor Space
Facility, Inc. v. Superior Court (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 216, 22.) To
this end the discovery statute requires that a propounding party specifically
describe the item or “reasonably” particularize each category of item.
“The ‘reasonably’ in the statute implies a requirement such categories be
reasonably particularized from the standpoint of the party who is subjected to
the burden of producing the materials.” (Id.) 
 
In the Court’s view, Defendant’s requests are reasonably
particularized within the meaning of C.C.P. § 2031.030 (c)(1). Even where
Defendant’s requests are broad (for example RFPD No. 1 requests all documents
relied upon in responding to FROG), the requests are still reasonably
particularized within the meaning of the statute. Each request clearly
identifies a category of items to be produced (documents relied upon in FROG,
documents evidencing medical damages, documents evidencing social media posts,
etc.). The Court does not see how Plaintiff could interpret these requests as
asking them to produce documents beyond those narrow categories. 
 
Further, Defendant’s RFPD are simply not the type of request
which C.C.P. § 2031.030 (c)(1) seeks to prohibit. This statute is intended to
prohibit impermissibly vague “fishing expeditions” at preliminary states of
discovery. (Id. at 224.) Defendant’s RFPD do not request “all documents
Plaintiff intends to rely on trial”, they instead request reasonably
particularized categories of documents in connection with claims Plaintiff has
explicitly made. 
 
Accordingly, the motion to compel further responses to RFPD
is GRANTED. 
 
RFA
 
Defendant moves to compel further responses to each of her
16 RFA. Plaintiff objected to each RFA with the following: 
 
This RFA violates the
provisions of Code of Civil Procedure (“CCP”) section 2033.060(f). 
 
The only additional objection interposed was to RFA No. 12,
which reads as follows: 
 
Q: Admit that MATTHEW
C. MOORE’s tenancy at KATHLEEN F. DAVIS’s home alleged in Paragraph 17 of the
COMPLAINT was at will.
 
A: calls for a legal
conclusion from a lay witness; assumes the existence of other facts.
 
The Court first notes Plaintiff’s objection to each RFA is
grounded in a code section which does not apply to RFA. C.C.P. § 2033.060(f)
specifically contemplates the format of interrogatories, not RFA. The form RFAs
must take is governed by C.C.P. §§ 2033.010 – 2033.080. These sections have no
equivalent prohibition on subparts, or compound/conjunctive/disjunctive
questions. As such, these objections are without merit. 
 
As concerns the objection on grounds that RFA No. 12 calls
for a legal conclusion, Plaintiff presents no argument in support of this
objection. It follows that he has thus failed to carry his burden to justify
this objection. 
 
Accordingly, the motion to compel further responses to RFA
is GRANTED. 
 
Sanctions 
 
The court shall impose a monetary sanction against any
party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to
compel a further response, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction
acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the
imposition of the sanction unjust. (C.C.P. § 2031.310(h).) 
 
Here, the Court finds that Plaintiff opposed the instant
motions without substantial justification. Plaintiff could not have reasonably
believed that each of the objections he presented were meritorious, and indeed
he fails to brief many of them.  Plaintiff’s
opposition to the motion concerning RFA appears even less reasonable, as it is
premised on a code section which is inapplicable on its face; however, on
December 16, 2204 the Court received a Notice of Serving Supplemental
Responses  which the Court is optimistic
are compliant.  Nevertheless to the
extent they are not, the Court will rule on the motion to minimize further
motion practice concerning this discovery. 
 
The Court notes that Defendant is pro per and is requesting
monetary sanctions in the amount of $1,060 plus filing fees.  In reviewing the Defendant’s request, the
Court is unable to locate any Defendant declaration supporting this dollar
amount including reasonable expenses in preparing the motions.  Nonetheless, a pro per defendant is entitled
to recovery of reasonable expenses the Court will impose sanctions in the
amount of $180.00 which is reimbursement for the filing fee for each motion
($60 x 3).   These are the reasonable expenses associated
with the filing.
 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Kathleen
F. Davis’s Motions to Compel Further Responses came on regularly for hearing on December 19, 2024, with
appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the
court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there rule as
follows: 
 
THE
MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSE TO FORM AND SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES IS
GRANTED. 
 
THE
MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSE TO REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS IS
GRANTED. 
 
THE
MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSE TO REQUEST FOR ADMISSIONS IS GRANTED. 
 
FURTHER PRODUCTION TO OCCUR WITHIN 30 DAYS. 
 
SANCTIONS ARE GRANTED AS AGAINST PLAINTIFF’S COUNSEL IN THE
AMOUNT OF $180.  SANCTIONS TO BE PAID
WITHIN 30 DAYS. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
December 19, 2024                          _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 