 Case Number:  23NWCV01707    Hearing Date:   August 14, 2024    Dept:  C CAMARILLO v. SUNRUN, INC.,
ET AL.CASE
NO.:  23NWCV01707HEARING:  8/14/24 @ 9:30 A.M. #2TENTATIVE
RULING     
I.       
Plaintiff Beatriz Camarillo’s motion to strike Defendant’s
answer is GRANTED.   
II.       
Defendant Sunrun Inc.’s motion to compel arbitration is MOOT.
 Clerk
to give NOTICE.   Background This is a continuation. This is a fraud and
breach of contract action regarding the sale and installation of solar panels
at a residence. On June 5, 2023, Plaintiff Beatriz Camarillo sued defendant
Sunrun, Inc.; Hartman Home Transformation; and DOE defendants 1 through 50.  On October 5, 2023, Plaintiff demurred to the
Defendant’s answer.  On October 25, 2023, Defendant filed its Motion
to Compel Arbitration. On December 7, 2023, the Court sustained the
demurrer with leave to amend.  On March 13, 2024, Defendant Sunrun, Inc.
amended its answer.  Plaintiff Beatriz Camarillo moves to strike
Defendant’s answer because it is untimely. Defendant Sunrun, Inc. moves to
compel arbitration based on the power purchase agreement Plaintiff Beatriz
Camarillo purportedly signed. At the hearing, Defendant indicated that it was
only served an unverified copy of Plaintiff’s complaint.  The clerk provided Defendant with a copy of
the verified complaint filed with the court on June 5, 2023.   Motion
to Strike  The
court may strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (b).)  Plaintiff
argues that Defendant’s answer is untimely because Defendant filed it more than
10 days after December 7, 2023. Following a ruling on a demurrer, unless
otherwise ordered, Defendant must answer or amend within 10 days. (Cal. Rules
of Court, rule 3.1320 (g).) The Court did not order otherwise. Thus,
Defendant’s answer is untimely.  However,
the Court does not strike the answer on this ground because Defendant’s Counsel
asserts she did not receive notice of the demurrer or the Court’s ruling on the
demurrer. (Fairbrother Decl., ¶ 9.) Plaintiff
also argues that Defendant made a general denial even though Plaintiff verified
her complaint. In opposition, Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s verification
does not comply with statutory requirements.  Defendant
can make a general denial only if the complaint is unverified. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 431.30, subd. (d).) Any verification must substantially comply with
Code of Civil Procedure, section 2015.5. Based upon the Court’s review of the complaint,
the verification substantially complies. Thus, the answer improperly asserts a
general denial.   The
motion to strike is GRANTED.   Compel
Arbitration Here,
Defendant answered, Plaintiff demurred, and then Defendant moved to compel
arbitration. Then the court sustained Plaintiff’s demurrer and Defendant
amended the answer that is the subject of this hearing. Because the Court
sustained the demurrer to the answer and struck the amended answer, the motion
to compel contractual arbitration is MOOT. 
Defendant is not foreclosed from renewing its motion to compel
contractual arbitration in lieu of filing an amended answer. (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 1281.7.)  





























































































 