 Case Number:  24NWCV00084    Hearing Date:   August 14, 2024    Dept:  C B. A. vs
Billy Valdivia, et al., Case No.: 24NWCV00084
This is a
sexual abuse case. Plaintiff B.A. and Defendants Efren Martinez and Graciela
Ortiz jointly apply ex parte for an order shortening time to hear (1)
Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff, B.A.’s First Amended Complaint and (2)
Plaintiff’s request for an order shortening time to hear Plaintiff’s Motion to
Compel Further Responses from the Huntington Park Police Department, a third
party.  Defendants’ demurrer is currently scheduled for hearing on March
13, 2025.  Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses is scheduled to
be heard on May 7, 2025.  Trial is not currently set in this matter. 
Defendants
Martinez and Ortiz are both candidates in the November of 2024 general
election.  Defendant Martinez contends there are ads being run against him
which “ask voters to impute negative character traits to him based on the
allegations of the complaint.” (App., p. 2.)  Defendants contend that if
this motion is not heard before the election, they will suffer irreparable
injury to their political campaigns which are incapable of being remedied.
Plaintiff contends that if her motion is not heard sooner she will suffer
irreparable harm to her causes of action because she will be forced to wait
nearly a year to get the necessary business records to identify witnesses and
participants in the events surrounding the conduct of Billy Valdivia. 
Third party City of Huntington Park argues Plaintiff has failed to demonstrate
irreparable harm.  
The ex parte
application is GRANTED.  Although Plaintiff has not demonstrated irreparable
harm, the Court exercises its discretion to advance Plaintiff’s motion to
compel further responses.  Accordingly, Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff,
B.A.’s First Amended Complaint is ADVANCED from March 13, 2025 to today’s date
and CONTINUED to October 10, 2024 at 9:30 a.m. in Dept. SE-C.  Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel Further Responses is ADVANCED from May 7, 2025 to today’s date
and CONTINUED to December 3, 2024 at 9:30 a.m. in Dept. SE-C.  Defendants
to give notice.  