 Case Number:  23NWCV00948    Hearing Date:   August 14, 2024    Dept:  C Irvin Pelagio vs FCA US LLC,
et al.Case No.: 23NWCV00948Hearing Date: August 14, 2024 @ 9:30 a.m.  #1Tentative Ruling Plaintiff Irvin Pelagio’s Motion to Compel
Further Response to Request for Production of Documents is GRANTED in part as
set forth below.  Further responses are
due in 45 days.  Plaintiff’s Request for
Sanctions is DENIED.Plaintiff to give notice.  This is a lemon law action. 
Plaintiff Irvin Pelagio (“Plaintiff”) contends that Defendants Premier
Automotive of Placentia, LLC and FCA US LLC (“Defendants”) violated the
California Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act by failing to repair Plaintiff’s
2021 Dodge Durango. During the warranty period, the Subject Vehicle contained
or developed numerous defects that Defendants’ authorized repair facility was
unable to conform to warranty.On September 15, 2023, Plaintiff served the first set of
Request for Production of Documents. (Lopez Decl., ¶ 4; Ex. A.) On October 23,
2023, FCA served responses but without verifications. (Lopez Decl., ¶ 5; Ex.
B.) FCA later served verifications on October 26, 2023. (Lopez Decl., ¶ 5.)On January 2, 2024, Plaintiff sent an additional meet and
confer letter addressing these interrogatories. (Lopez Decl., ¶ 10; Ex. G.)
Plaintiff asked that the parties agree to extend the motion to compel deadline
to January 31, 2024 and asked that FCA respond to the letter by January 17,
2024. (Lopez Decl., ¶ 11; Ex. D.) FCA agreed. (Ibid.) On January 17,
2024, FCA provided a response essentially indicating that it was standing by
its responses. (Lopez Decl., ¶ 12; Ex. H.) Despite the parties’ efforts, the parties
remain at an impasse. (Lopez Decl., ¶ 13.)Plaintiffs move to compel further response to Request for
Production of Documents Nos. 28, 30, and 34-35. 
Legal Standard “(a) The party to whom a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or
sampling has been directed shall respond separately to each item or category of
item by any of the following: (1) A statement that the party will comply
with the particular demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling by the
date set for the inspection, copying, testing, or sampling pursuant to
paragraph (2) of subdivision (c) of Section 2031.030 and any related activities; (2) A
representation that the party lacks the ability to comply with the demand for
inspection, copying, testing, or sampling of a particular item or category of
item; (3) An objection to the particular demand for inspection, copying,
testing, or sampling.” (CCP § 2031.210.) “A representation of inability to comply with the particular demand for
inspection, copying, testing, or sampling shall affirm that a diligent search
and a reasonable inquiry has been made in an effort to comply with that demand.
This statement shall also specify whether the inability to comply is because
the particular item or category has never existed, has been destroyed, has been
lost, misplaced, or stolen, or has never been, or is no longer, in the
possession, custody, or control of the responding party. The statement shall
set forth the name and address of any natural person or organization known or
believed by that party to have possession, custody, or control of that item or
category of item.” (CCP § 2031.230.) “(a) On receipt of a response to a demand for inspection, copying,
testing, or sampling, the demanding party may move for an order compelling
further response to the demand if the demanding party deems that any of the
following apply: (1) A statement of compliance with the demand is
incomplete; (2) A representation of inability to comply is inadequate,
incomplete, or evasive; (3) An objection in the response is without merit
or too general.” (CCP § 2031.310.) Discussion Request for Production of Documents Nos. 28, 30,
and 34, 35All these document requests involve pre-litigation release
agreements. ·       
RFP No. 28: All DOCUMENTS which describe YOUR
rules, policies, or procedures regarding requiring a consumer in California to
sign a release agreement as part of a pre-litigation repurchase.According to Plaintiff, whether Defendant has a policy
requiring consumers to sign release agreements, like the one it sent Plaintiff,
would demonstrate whether it willfully violates the Song-Beverly Act.  Defendant stands by its relevance and
overbreadth objections because the lawsuit relates to Plaintiff’s single
vehicle, and it is not a class action suit. 
The Court determines that Request No. 28 is within the
proper scope of discovery, subject to the limitation that Defendant need only
produce records from 2021 to the present date.Accordingly, the motion to compel further response to RFP
No. 28 is GRANTED in part.·       
RFP No. 30: All DOCUMENTS evidencing the
rationale of YOUR response to the pre-litigation repurchase request for the
SUBJECT VEHICLEThis request was labeled as Request for Production No. 37
in Plaintiff’s separate statement. 
Defendant indicates it will comply in part and produce a copy of any
Customer Assistance Inquiry Records (CAIRs) containing communications with
Plaintiff relating to the subject vehicle. 
Accordingly, the motion to compel further response to RFP
No. 30 is GRANTED in part. ·       
RFP No. 34: YOUR template “goodwill”
pre-litigation repurchase letter in California·       
RFP No. 35: YOUR template pre-litigation
repurchase letter(s) for a vehicle being repurchased pursuant to the
Song-Beverly Act.Plaintiff argues that the template letters may tend to
prove that FCA willfully engaged in a corporate pattern and practice of
frustration and taking undue advantage of consumers instead of issuing the
required statutory remedies. If so, the jury may impose civil penalties against
FCA.Defendant repeats its argument that this a not class-action
case; therefore, templates are unnecessary and are not causally related to the
instant action.  At the hearing,
Defendant stressed that use of the word “template” is ambiguous because there
are dozens of agents who process SBA claims, and each one has their own
methodology.  The Court determines that Request Nos. 34 and 35 are within
the proper scope of discovery because template letters, to the extent they are
used by Defendant, may reflect Defendant’s policies and procedures regarding
pre-litigation repurchase offers.  Defendant
need only produce letters from 2021 to the present date.  The parties are ordered to meet and confer
regarding what constitutes a “template” for purposes of this discovery
request.  Accordingly, the motion to compel further response to RFP
Nos. 34 and 35 is GRANTED in part.  Sanctions “[T]he court shall impose a monetary sanction…against any
party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to
compel further response to a demand, unless it finds that the one subject to
the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances
make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (CCP §2031.310(h).)Based on the nature of the discovery requests at issue,
particularly with respect to template letters, the Court determines that
Defendant acted with substantial justification in opposing the motion.  Accordingly, the request for sanctions is DENIED.     