 Case Number:  22STCV16084    Hearing Date:   November 25, 2024    Dept:  B Erbent geobany martinez, et al. Vs savage services
corporation, a corporation, et al.
 
Application for Pro Hac Vice
 
Date of Hearing:          November 25, 2024                Trial Date:       April 28, 2025
Department:               B                                              Case
No.:         22STCV16084
 
Moving Party:             Defendants
Savage Services Corporation and Gaston Scranton
Responding Party:       None
 
BACKGROUND
 
On May 16, 2022, Plaintiffs Erbent
Geobany Martinez (“Erbent”), Johnarcadio Martinez Ramirez (“Johnarcadio”), and
Stephanie Martineth Nineth Martinez Zepeda (“Stephanie”)(collectively
“Plaintiffs”), individuals and successors-in-interest of the estate of Juan
Jose Martinez, deceased, filed a complaint against Defendants Savage Services
Corp. (“Savage”), Gaston Scranton, an individual (“Scranton”), and DOES 1 to
100 (collectively “Defendants”) alleging wrongful death as a result of motor
vehicle negligence. Plaintiffs allege that, on July 8, 2021, fatally struck
decedent while negligently operating a motor vehicle.
 
On October 29, 2024, Lina R. Powell,
Esq. (“Counsel”) filed the instant unopposed application to be appear pro hac
vice on behalf of Defendants.
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Lina R. Powell’s Application to Appear
Pro Hac Vice is GRANTED.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Cal. Rules of Court Rule 9.40 provides that an attorney in
good standing in another jurisdiction may apply to appear pro hac vice in this
State by way of written application upon due notice to all interested parties,
as well as service on the State Bar in San Francisco with payment of a $50.00
fee, so long as that attorney is not a resident of California, does not work in
California, and does not perform regular or substantial business, professional,
or other activities in the State. (CRC Rule 9.40.) 
 
The written application must provide the following
information: (1) applicant attorney’s residence and office addresses; (2) the
courts to which the applicant attorney has been admitted and dates of
admission; (3) representation that the attorney applicant is a member in good
standing in the courts of admission and is not currently suspended or disbarred
in any court; (4) the title of each court and action in which the applicant
attorney has appeared pro hac vice in this State in the preceding two years, if
any; and (5) the name, address, and telephone number of the active California
State Bar member who is counsel of record in the local action. (CRC
9.40(d).)  
 
ANALYSIS
 
Counsel seeks to appear on behalf of Defendants
pro ha vice in this action. Based on the application and the attached declaration:
(1) Counsel is not employed or residing within California (Powell Decl. ¶¶ 2
and 5); (2) Counsel has not applied to any other California courts to appear
pro hac vice within the past two years (Ibid. at ¶ 5); (3) the
application has the proper admission information for other courts where the
attorney is admitted (Ibid. at ¶ 3); (4) the attorney is in good
standing (Ibid. at ¶ 4); and (5) the applicant is to be associated with
local counsel, Danielle L. Kuck (Ibid. at ¶ 7). Additionally, notice of
hearing upon this application was served upon the State Bar of California,
along with the required $50.00 fee. (Ibid. at ¶¶ 8 and 9.)
 
Accordingly, the application conforms with CRC Rule 9.40 and
is granted.
 
CONCLUSION
 
Counsel’s application to appear on behalf of Defendants pro
hac vice is GRANTED.
Court to sign proposed Order.  Moving party to give notice. 
 