 Case Number:  23STCV19923    Hearing Date:   January 25, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



NATHANIEL HOWARD,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
KENNETH MELROSE; LAW OFFICES OF KEN J. MELROSE; LAW OFFICES OF KENNETH
  J. MELROSE, LLC; BMS LEGAL SERVICES LLC; STEPHEN SOLENDER; STEPHEN SOLENDER
  dba THE SOLENDER GROUP; THE SOLENDER GROUP, INC.; YANGKYOUNG LEE; MICHAEL MANAPOL;
  FIRST INDEMNITY INSURANCE AGENCY, INC., ERIC CANTON, AND DOES 1 THROUGH 400, INCLUSIVE,
                        Cross-Defendants.


 Case No.:          23STCV19923
 Hearing Date:   1/25/24
 Trial Date:        N/A
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Defendants Kenneth
  Melrose, Law Offices of Ken J. Melrose, and Law Offices of Kenneth J.
  Melrose, LLC’s Motion to Stay the Case.



 
Background
Pleadings
Plaintiff Nathaniel Howard sues
Defendants Kenneth Melrose (Melrose), Law Offices of Ken J. Melrose (Melrose
Law), Law Offices of Kenneth J. Melrose, LLC (Melrose LLC), BMS Legal Services
LLC (BMS Legal), Stephen Solender (Solender), Stephen Solender dba The Solender
Group (Solender Group), The Solender Group, Inc. (Solender Inc.), Yangkyoung
Lee (Lee), Michael Manapol (Manapol), First Indemnity Insurance Agency, Inc.
(First Indemnity), Eric Canton (Canton), and Does 1 through 400 inclusive.
The operative October 18, 2023
Complaint alleges claims of (1) Fraud, Conspiracy, Aiding and Abetting, (2)
Breach of Fiduciary Duty, Conspiracy, Aiding and Abetting, (3) Breach of
Fiduciary Duty, (4) Professional Negligence, (5) Statutory Violations, (6)
Conversion, (7) Fraud, Conspiracy, Aiding and Abetting, (8) Breach of Fiduciary
Duty, Conspiracy, Aiding and Abetting, (9) Breach of Contract, (10) Negligence,
(11) Breach of Third-Party Beneficiary Contract, and (12) Tortious Breach of
the Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing (Bad Faith).
The claims arise from allegations
that Plaintiff Howard retained Brian Witzer (Witzer) and his corporation, Law
Offices of Brian D. Witzer (Witzer Law) (both in bankruptcy proceedings), to
represent Howard in a personal injury lawsuit arising from injuries sustained
by Plaintiff Howard as a result of a construction site incident, with the case
allegedly valued at $20 million (the Personal Injury Case; Riverside Superior
Court Case No. PSC1901153.) The Complaint alleges that while representing
Plaintiff Howard, Witzer and Witzer Law misappropriated at least “six-figures”
of funds belonging to Plaintiff Howard, and that Witzer and Witzer Law worked
with other Defendants in mishandling the Personal Injury Case.
Motion Before the Court
On November 29, 2023, the Melrose
Defendants filed a motion to stay the case.
On January 11, 2024, Plaintiff
Howard opposed the motion to stay.
On January 18, 2023, the Melrose
Defendants replied to the opposition.
The Melrose Defendants’ motion is
now before the Court.
 
Motion to Stay Proceedings
Legal
Standard
A
motion to stay asks the court to temporarily suspend a proceeding. (See Black’s
Law Dict. (11th ed. 2019) Stay).
A
party can ask the court to stay an action or proceeding based on the court’s
inherent power to stay in the interest of justice and to promote judicial
efficiency. (See Cal. Const., art. VI, § 1 [vesting courts with judicial power];
Code Civ. Proc., § 128 [giving court power in proceedings before it]; Adams
v. Paul (1995) 11 Cal.4th 583, 593 [court has inherent power to stay
related actions]; Smith v. Jones (1900) 128 Cal. 14, 15 [court has right
to postpone case]; Koch-Ash v. Superior Court (1986) 180 Cal.App.3d 689,
696 [court has inherent authority to stay trial]; see also Walker v.
Superior Court (1991) 53 Cal.3d 257, 266-267 [California Supreme Court has
repeatedly recognized inherent power of courts, derived from both statute and
Constitution, to ensure orderly administration of justice].)
The
court can stay a civil action (or discovery in a civil action) when the party
seeking the stay is a defendant in concurrent and related civil and criminal
proceedings. (See People v. Coleman (1975) 13 Cal.3d 867, 884-885; People
v. Rizzo (2013) 214 Cal.App.4th 921, 951-952; Avant! Corp. v. Superior Court
(2000) 79 Cal.App.4th 876, 882; Pacers, Inc. v. Superior Court (1984)
162 Cal.App.3d 686, 690.)
If
another pending action or proceeding involving the same parties and
substantially the same issues would decide one or more issues in the case, the
court on its own motion or on a party’s motion can stay the case based on
principles of comity and judicial economy. (See Thomson v. Continental Ins.
(1967) 66 Cal.2d 738, 746 (Thomson); Simmons v. Superior Court (1950)
96 Cal.App.2d 119, 123-124.) The decision to grant or deny a motion for a stay
based on another pending action is within the court’s discretion. (Thomson,
supra, 66 Cal.2d at p. 746; St. Paul Fire & Mar. Ins. v.
AmerisourceBergen Corp. (2022) 80 Cal.App.5th 1, 14.)
Order
Granting Stay: DENIED.
In
their motion, the Melrose Defendants argue that this action “cannot proceed
until the Personal Injury Case and Mr. Witzer’s bankruptcy matters are
resolved. The outcome of the Bankruptcy Matters may determine whether Mr.
Witzer, an otherwise indispensable party, can ever be named as a defendant. A
resolution, whether by settlement or judgement [sic], of the Personal Injury
Case would impact Plaintiff’s damage calculation here, a critical component of
his malpractice case. Unless and until the Personal Injury Case and Bankruptcy
Matters are resolved, all parties will be speculating about Plaintiff’s
potential recovery; rendering liability and damages uncertain. As mentioned
above, proceeding with this case will prejudice the parties and increase the
likelihood of inconsistent verdicts and a waste of judicial resources.” (Mot.,
p. 2; see Mot., pp. 3-6.)
In
opposition, Plaintiff Howard argues that the Personal Injury Case was dismissed
on January 11, 2024, thus undercutting a substantial portion of the Melrose
Defendants’ motion. Howard also argues that the Witzer bankruptcy proceedings
should not be a ground for staying this action, the Melrose Defendants have
failed to cite authority in support, and that it would be inequitable to
deprive Howard of his day in court against the Melrose Defendants based on
misconduct by Witzer. Howard otherwise argues that the trial likely will not
take place until late 2025, giving ample time for the bankruptcy proceedings to
conclude. Howard last argues that any bankruptcy discharge will not remove the
uncertainties created by the bankruptcy proceedings and that the Melrose
Defendants’ complaints regarding discovery are not presently before the Court (the
difference between discovery disputes and disputes re: stay of proceedings).
(Opp’n, pp. 6-8; see Opp’n, Zelig Decl., ¶ 5.)
In
reply, the Melrose Defendants argue that this action is inextricably
intertwined with the Personal Injury Case and Witzer bankruptcy proceedings and
that a resolution of this action cannot take place until there is a resolution
in those other proceedings. The Melrose Defendants also argue that Howard’s
evidence is not clear as to the status of the Personal Injury Case action,
i.e., did not attach a dismissal order, and that the Witzer bankruptcy
proceedings remain pending. The Melrose Defendants argue that the interests of
justice favor a stay, that no party will be prejudice by a stay, and that a
stay is also justified based on Witzer and Witzer Law being indispensable parties.
(Reply, pp. 2-5.)
The
Court finds in favor of Plaintiff Howard.
A
review of the docket on Westlaw for the Personal Injury Case does show a
Request for Dismissal on Complaint of Nathaniel Howard was filed on January 12,
2024. (See PSC1901153.) The Court can thus accept that the Personal Injury Case
has been resolved and no longer supports a stay, as argued by Plaintiff Howard.
(Opp’n, Zelig Decl., ¶ 5.)
This
leaves the Witzer bankruptcy proceedings and indispensable party arguments. The
Court finds neither availing. To whatever degree Witzer and Witzer Law’s debts
are discharged in bankruptcy, such a decision would merely affect Defendants’
exposure if found liable in this action, not whether Defendants are liable to
Plaintiff Howard for their own tortious conduct amounting to claims of fraud,
breach of contract or fiduciary duty, negligence, or aiding and abetting any of
these harms. As for whether Witzer and Witzer Law are indispensable parties—an
argument only briefly mentioned in the motion to stay but elaborated in the
reply—the Court finds the better practice would be to permit challenges to the
pleadings to move forward pursuant to full briefing—for example, a demurrer
filed pursuant to Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (d) based on defect of
parties (non-joinder)—and to permit discovery to move forward while the Witzer
bankruptcy proceedings are resolved. The Court also notes that Witzer and
Witzer Law are not directly relevant to the question of whether the Complaint
alleges liability against the Melrose Defendants based on breach of obligations
and tort violations not directly involving Witzer and Witzer Law.
The
Melrose Defendants’ motion is thus DENIED. 

Conclusion
Defendants Kenneth Melrose, Law
Offices of Ken J. Melrose, and Law Offices of Kenneth J. Melrose, LLC’s Motion
to Stay the Case is DENIED.