 Case Number:  23STCV15063    Hearing Date:   January 25, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



SMARTSILK CORP., a Delaware corporation,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
LORRAINE D’ALESSIO , an individual; Lorraine D’Alessio, A
  Professional LAW CORPORATION, a California corporation; D’ALESSIO LAW, a California
  business entity form unknown; D’ALESSIO LAW GROUP, a California business
  entity form unknown; and DOES 1 through 50, inclusive,
                        Defendants.


 Case No.:          23STCV15063
 Hearing Date:   1/25/24
 Trial Date:        N/A
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Defendants Lorraine
  D’Alessio and Lorraine D’Alessio, A Professional Law Corporation’s Demurrer
  to Plaintiff’s Complaint; and
Defendants Lorraine
  D’Alessio and Lorraine D’Alessio, A Professional Law Corporation’s Motion to
  Strike Plaintiff’s Complaint.



 
Background
Pleadings
Plaintiff SmartSilk Corp. sues Defendants
Lorraine D’Alessio, Lorraine D’Alessio, A Professional Law Corporation (D’Alessio
Law Corp.), D’Alessio Law, D’Alessio Law Group, and Does 1 through 50 pursuant
to a June 28, 2023 Complaint alleging claims of (1) Fraudulent
Misrepresentation and (2) Negligent Misrepresentation.
The claims arise from the following
allegations. Between December 2020 and January 2021, Plaintiff SmartSilk entered
negotiations with 24KK—a company located in Thailand—to source and deliver medical
grade gloves for sale in the United States and Canada. Richard D’Alessio—Lorraine
D’Alessio’s husband—acted as 24KK’s broker, and Defendants in this action facially
acted as 24KK’s counsel. After receiving samples of 24KK-sourced gloves, SmartSilk
requested that Lorraine D’Alessio make five specific attestations, on which SmartSilk
would rely to move forward with a deal with 24KK. These attestations included
24KK’s ability to source and deliver medical grade gloves. Lorraine D’Alessio executed
the Letter of Attestation (LOA) on January 4, 2021 and made the five requested
attestations. Relying in substantial part on the LOA, on January 19, 2021, SmartSilk
wired $2 million to 24KK as a 30% deposit on the first monthly shipment of
gloves according to the parties’ December 29, 2020 sales purchase agreement
(SPA). After receiving the deposit, however, 24KK abruptly ceased
communications with SmartSilk. SmartSilk followed up, first seeking delivery
and then to recover its money, to no avail, resulting in damages of over $2
million. Lorraine D’Alessio was a recipient of SmartSilk’s communications but
did not disclaim her representation of 24KK despite this receipt.
Motions Before the Court
On September 21, 2023, Lorraine D’Alessio
and D’Alessio Law Corp. filed a demurrer to the Complaint.
That same day, these Defendants
filed a motion to strike the Complaint in its entirety and paragraph 3 of the
Complaint’s Prayer.
On January 11, 2024, Plaintiff
SmartSilk filed oppositions to the demurrer and motion to strike, which were
electronically served on Lorraine D’Alessio and D’Alessio Law Corp.’s counsel
at the same email addresses appearing in these Defendants’ September 21st
motion.
No reply appears in the record.
Lorraine D’Alessio and D’Alessio Law
Corp.’s demurrer is now before the Court.
 
Demurrer
Demurrer Sufficiency Standard
A demurrer for sufficiency tests
whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007)
147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747; see Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).) This
device can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the
pleading under attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially
noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) To sufficiently allege a cause of action,
a complaint must allege all the ultimate facts—that is, the facts needed to establish
each element of the cause of action pleaded. (Committee on Children’s
Television, Inc. v. General Foods Corp. (1983) 35 Cal.3d 197, 212,
superseded by statute as stated in Branick v. Downey Savings & Loan
Assn. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 235, 242.) Thus, “[t]o survive a
[general] demurrer, the complaint need only allege facts sufficient to state a
cause of action; each evidentiary fact that might eventually form part of the
plaintiff’s proof need not be alleged.” (C.A. v. William S. Hart Union High
School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 872.) In testing the sufficiency of the
cause of action, the demurrer admits the truth of all material facts properly
pleaded. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962,
966-67.) A demurrer, however, “does not admit contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law.” (Daar v. Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d
695, 713.) When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally
and in context. (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and Power
(2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228, disapproved on other grounds, Jones v.
Lodge at Torrey Pines Partnership (2008) 42 Cal.4th 1158, 1162.) The face
of the complaint includes exhibits attached to the complaint. (Frantz v.
Blackwell (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 91, 94.) If facts appearing in the exhibits
contradict those alleged, the facts in the exhibits take precedence. (Holland
v. Morse Diesel Intern., Inc. (2001) 86 Cal.App.4th 1443, 1447, superseded
by statute on other grounds as stated in White v. Cridlebaugh (2009) 178
Cal.App.4th 506, 521.)
Demurrer to Entire Complaint:
OVERRULED.
The Complaint’s two causes of
action incorporate prior allegations—summarized above in the Background—to
support streamlined intentional and negligent misrepresentation claims against
all Defendants, as based on Lorraine D’Alessio ’s LOA. (Complaint, ¶¶ 1-50
[background allegations], 51-57 [intentional misrepresentation claim], 58-63
[negligent misrepresentation claim].)
Intentional misrepresentation
involves “(1) a knowingly false representation by the defendant; (2) an intent
to deceive or induce reliance; (3) justifiable reliance by the plaintiff; and
(4) resulting damages.” (Service by Medallion, Inc. v. Clorox Co. (1996)
44 Cal.App.4th 1807, 1816.)
Negligent misrepresentation
involves (1) an assertion, as a fact, of that which is not true, (2) by one who
has no reasonable ground for believing it to be true, (3) made with intent to
induce the recipient to alter his position to his injury or his risk, (4) with
justifiable reliance on the representation, and (5) resulting damage. (B.L.M.
v. Sabo & Deitsch (1997) 55 Cal.App.4th 823, 834.)
Allegations of fraud “must be pled
with more detail than other causes of action.” (Apollo Capital Fund, LLC v.
Roth Capital Partners, LLC (2007) 158 Cal.App.4th 226, 240.) “Every element
of the cause of action for fraud must be alleged … factually and
specifically[,] and the policy of liberal construction of the pleadings … will
not ordinarily be invoked to sustain a pleading defective in any material
respect. [Citations.]” (Committee on Children’s Television, Inc. v. General
Foods Corp. (1983) 35 Cal.3d 197, 216, superseded by statute as stated in Branick
v. Downey Savings & Loan Assn. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 235, 242.) “[G]eneral
and conclusory allegations do not suffice.” (Small v. Fritz Cos., Inc.
(2003) 30 Cal.4th 167, 184 [citations omitted].) Fittingly, a plaintiff
pleading fraud must plead facts showing “how, when, where, to whom, and by what
means” the allegedly fraudulent representations were tendered. (Lazar v.
Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.)
I. Attorney-Client
Privilege
In their demurrer, Lorraine D’Alessio
and D’Alessio Law Corp. argue that the attorney-client privilege prevents
Defendants from presenting a meaningful defense in this action. Specifically,
these Defendants argue that “a) SmartSilk was not a client of these moving
defendants, b) 24KK, a non-party, is the holder of the privilege, c) 24KK has
not waived the privilege, and d) the privilege exists between 24KK and these
moving defendants,” for which reasons “moving defendants cannot present all of
the facts and communications in order to conduct a trial on the merits.” Lorraine
D’Alessio and D’Alessio Law Corp. also argue that “[d]ismissal of the action is
supported so as to prevent an action proceeding with defendants’ hands tied
behind their backs.” (Demurrer, pp. 4-5.)
In opposition, SmartSilk argues how
the three cases cited by the demurrer to support the attorney-client privilege
argument actually contradict the demurrer’s position. In essence, SmartSilk
argues that “(1) Defendants have not identified any evidence that is 24KK’s
confidential information; (2) there is no evidence that 24KK is insisting that
the information remain confidential; (3) there is no reason to believe that any
of the allegedly confidential information is highly material to the defendants’
defenses; (4) given the lack of information about Defendants’ evidence, there
is no way for the court to effectively use ‘ad hoc measures from [its]
equitable arsenal,’ to evaluate whether this action can proceed; and (5) given
the complete lack of information, it is impossible to determine if it would be ‘fundamentally
unfair’ to allow the action to proceed.” SmartSilk also argues that denying it
the right to proceed would be fundamentally unfair where SmartSilk has an
absolute right to sue Defendants for making false statements to SmartSilk, and
that the crime-fraud exception would likely waive any privilege. (Opp’n, pp.
3-8.)
No reply appears in the record
despite service. (Compare Opp’n to Demurrer, Proof of Service [service on
counsel for Lorraine D’Alessio and D’Alessio Law Corp. via email], with Mot.,
p. 1 [showing same email addresses for Lorraine D’Alessio and D’Alessio Law
Corp.’s counsel].)
The Court finds in favor of SmartSilk.
This action alleges what could be
interpreted as 24KK’s fraud on SmartSilk, which was facilitated by Lorraine D’Alessio
and her law firm(s)’s representations attesting:
“(i) ‘I am counsel for 24KK CO.
LTD.[] (Hereinafter “MY CLIENT”)’”;
“(ii) ‘I attest that MY CLIENT has
agreed to produce[], and deliver for the next 24 months, as of this date, up to
1 million boxes per month of Glov-Nitrile Exam gloves [] to SmartSilk, to be
labeled Glov by SmartSilk, and sold exclusively to the US and Canada’”;
“(iii) ‘Glov is both FDA 510K
certified, and Canadian MDL certified’”;
“(iv) ‘This agreement is secured by
acceptable financial instruments agreed to by the parties,’”
“(v) ‘MY CLIENT is ready, willing
and able to proceed with this production allocation agreement,’”
“(vi) ‘the manufacturing, securing
of raw materials, and other necessary supply chains needed to fulfill this
agreement are unencumbered,’”
“(vii) ‘I am available to converse
further regarding this production allocation agreement’”’; and
“(viii) ‘I certify that I have
gained admission to the bar in the United States in the State of California,
BAR REGISTRATION NUMBER 16373400 and am in good standing.’”
(See Complaint, ¶ 42, quoting
Complaint, Ex. 1 [copy of Jan. 4, 2021 Letter of Attestation signed by Lorraine
D’Alessio on D’Alessio Law Group letterhead].)
The crime-fraud exception clearly
permits discovery into whether, for example, Defendants had any knowledge of
any fraudulent intent on the part of 24KK, and thus, executed the LOA despite
knowing the reliance the LOA would induce in SmartSilk. (Evid. Code, § 956.) To
the extent that discovery delves into protected communications or work product,
Defendants can raise objections and file motions for protective orders. If
SmartSilk cannot then make its case despite discovery, Defendants can file a
motion seeking to dismiss this action based on insufficient pleadings or
evidence or based on Defendants’ inability to present meaningful defenses
without waiving the attorney-client privilege.
II. Marital Privilege
In their demurrer, Lorraine D’Alessio
and D’Alessio Law Corp. also argue that the marital privilege bars Lorraine D’Alessio
from presenting a meaningful defense because “[a]ny communications between Ms. D’Alessio
and Mr. D’Alessio [24KK’s broker] are protected from disclosure by the marital
privilege.” (Demurrer, p. 6, citing Evid. Code, § 970.)
SmartSilk’s opposition fails to
address this argument.
No reply appears in the record.
The Court finds in favor of
SmartSilk.
The fact that Lorraine D’Alessio as
an individual may be limited in the testimony she can provide regarding her
husband—who is not a party to this action—is not in and of itself a reason to
determine that Lorraine D’Alessio cannot sustain a meaningful defense in this
action, on the face of the pleadings. Richard D’Alessio’s involvement with 24KK
and its alleged actions is unclear based on the pleadings themselves. There is
no indication that Lorraine D’Alessio will be called to testify against Richard
D’Alessio in any proceeding, at least insofar as the pleadings now stand. To
the extent that Lorraine D’Alessio is tacitly arguing that her testimony in
this action would necessarily implicate her husband in some kind of proceeding
against him, the Court determines that Defendants’ briefing on this point is
insufficient to support sustaining a demurrer.
Defendants’ demurrer is thus
OVERRULED.
 
Motion to Strike
Legal
Standard
The
court may, upon a motion or at any time in its discretion and upon terms it
deems proper: (a) strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted
in any pleading; or (b) strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or
filed in conformity with the laws of California, a court rule, or an order of
the court. (Code Civ. Proc. § 436, subds. (a), (b); Stafford v. Shultz
(1954) 42 Cal.2d 767, 782 [“Matter in a pleading which is not essential to the
claim is surplusage; probative facts are surplusage and may be stricken out or
disregarded”].)
For
the purposes of a motion to strike pursuant to Sections 435 to 437 of the Code
of Civil Procedure, the term “pleading” generally means a demurrer, answer,
complaint, or cross-complaint, (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (a)), and an
immaterial allegation or irrelevant matter in a pleading entails (1) an
allegation that is not essential to the statement of a claim or defense, (2) an
allegation that is neither pertinent to nor supported by an otherwise
sufficient claim or defense, or (3) a demand for judgment requesting relief not
supported by the allegations of the complaint or cross-complaint (Code Civ.
Proc., § 431.10, subds. (b)(1)-(3), (c)).
I.
Order
Striking Complaint: DENIED.
In
their motion, Lorraine D’Alessio and D’Alessio Law Corp. argue that “plaintiff[’s
Complaint] raised issues not only related to their specific situation investing
in a deal, but also the services provided by defendants to client, 24KK, who is
not a party to this case. 24KK has not waived the attorney-client privilege. As
such, defendants are placed in the untenable position of being unable to rebut
these allegations without disclosure of protected client confidences, whether
providing oral testimony or documentation relating to communications with their
clients that pertain to the services provided and dismissal of these defendants
is mandated.” (Mot., pp. 5-9.)
In
opposition, SmartSilk argues that it is not material to this motion that
Defendants may possess privileged information belonging to 24KK and that
Defendants failed to show why privilege prevents them from proceeding in the
case. (Opp’n to Mot., pp. 3-5.)
No
reply appears in the record.
The
Court finds in favor of SmartSilk.
The
Court adopts its discussion as to the demurrer above to DENY the motion to
strike as to this relief.
II.
Order
Striking Punitive Damages: DENIED.
In
their motion, Lorraine D’Alessio and D’Alessio Law Corp. also argue that
punitive damages are not sufficiently alleged in the Complaint because the “Complaint
fails to specify what Mr. Altman [SmartSilk’s CEO] and Ms. D’Alessio
specifically discussed during their January 2021 call,” which means that “the
Complaint fails to plead with particularity the circumstances constituting the
alleged fraud,” undercutting the claims supporting punitive damages. (Mot., pp.
9-10.)
In
opposition, SmartSilk argues that in sufficiently alleging fraud, it has also sufficiently
alleged a basis for punitive damages. (Opp’n to Mot., pp. 5-6.)
No
reply appears in the record.
The
Court finds in favor of SmartSilk.
The
Court briefly notes that Lorraine D’Alessio and D’Alessio Law Corp. challenge
the punitive damages prayer based on the fraud claims failing to plead the
circumstances surrounding the misrepresentations with particularity, which is
not an argument raised by these Defendants in their demurrer. (See Demurrer,
pp. 3-6 [arguments limited to privileges].)
Moving
to the merits, the Court determines that the Complaint sufficiently alleges a
basis for misrepresentation, whether intentional or negligent: Lorraine
D’Alessio’s execution of the LOA, the truth or certainty of which Lorraine
D’Alessio did not correct or address during a January 2021 call with SmartSilk’s
CEO, Yair Altman. (See Complaint, ¶¶ 40-46.) As to the content of the January
2021 call between Altman and Lorraine D’Alessio, the Court is not convinced
that such allegations are necessary. Those allegations would be necessary for,
for example, a fraud or negligent misrepresentation claim arising from misrepresentations
made during the call itself. However, it appears evident that the issue in the
fraud claims is Lorraine D’Alessio’s execution of the LOA and SmartSilk’s
reliance on it. (See Complaint, ¶¶ 40-46.) As such, allegations that such a
call took place and that Lorraine D’Alessio did not correct or address
uncertainties as to her representations in the LOA during that call are proper
background allegations.
Lorraine
D’Alessio and D’Alessio Law Corp.’s motion is thus DENIED as to striking
punitive damages.

Conclusion
Defendants Lorraine D’Alessio and Lorraine
D’Alessio, A Professional Law Corporation’s Demurrer to Plaintiff’s Complaint is
OVERRULED.
Defendants Lorraine D’Alessio and Lorraine
D’Alessio, A Professional Law Corporation’s Motion to Strike Plaintiff’s
Complaint is DENIED.