  Case Number:  22NWCV00157    Hearing Date:   February 21, 2024    Dept:  C Esquibel, et al. v. IEV Factory, et al.
CASE NO.:  22NWCV00157
HEARING:   2/21/24 @ 9:30 AM
#1
 
Defendant’s
counsel’s Motion to be Relieved as Counsel is GRANTED.
The Law Offices of Matthew Huzaineh to give
NOTICE.
 
Defendant’s
counsel, Matthew Huzaineh of the Law Offices of Matthew Huzaineh, P.C. moves to be relieved as counsel for Defendant, IEV Factory, Inc.
(IEV).
Background
This
is a breach of contract action filed by Plaintiffs Steve Esquibel, Lara
Sellars, Maho Mitsuya, and EV Factory, Inc. against Defendants IEV, Martin
Kruszenlnicki, and Yutaka Miyazaki.
Discussion

Good cause exists to grant the motion based on any of the grounds
under Rules of Professional Conduct Rule 3-700(C). Rule 3-700(c) provides that
an attorney may withdraw based on any of the following: (1) The client (a)
insists upon presenting a claim or defense that is not warranted under existing
law and cannot be supported by good faith argument for an extension,
modification, or reversal of existing law, or (b) seeks to pursue an illegal
course of conduct, or (c) insists that the member pursue a course of conduct
that is illegal or that is prohibited under these rules or the State Bar Act,
or (d) by other conduct renders it unreasonably difficult for the member to
carry out the employment effectively, or (e) insists, in a matter not pending
before a tribunal, that the member engage in conduct that is contrary to the
judgment and advice of the member but not prohibited under these rules or the
State Bar Act, or (f) breaches an agreement or obligation to the member as to
expenses or fees. (2) The continued employment is likely to result in a
violation of these rules or of the State Bar Act; or (3) the inability to work
with co-counsel indicates that the best interests of the client likely will be
served by withdrawal; or (4) The member's mental or physical condition renders
it difficult for the member to carry out the employment effectively; or (5) The
client knowingly and freely assents to termination of the employment; or (6)
The member believes in good faith, in a proceeding pending before a tribunal, that
the tribunal will find the existence of other good cause for withdrawal. An attorney
may request to withdraw from representation of a corporate client. (Thomas
G. Ferruzzo, Inc. v. Superior Court (1980) 104 Cal.App.3d 501, 504.)
 
IEV’s counsel’s declaration demonstrates good cause for withdrawal
because IEV has failed to pay the agreed upon fees. IEV was served by mail at
its last known address which was confirmed in the last 30 days.
 
 
The motion is GRANTED. The order shall take effect when the
proof of service of the signed order on IEV has been filed with the court. 
 
 
 