 Case Number:  22NWCV01776    Hearing Date:   February 21, 2024    Dept:  C Cancino, et al. v.
rios, et al.
CASE NO.:  22NWCV01776
HEARING:   2/21/24 @ 9:30 AM
#3
 
Defendants’ Motion to Set Aside Default and
Default Judgment is GRANTED.
Moving Party to give NOTICE.
 
Defendants Yone Aracely Lopez Rios, Jose E.
Rodriguez, Tequila B.A.R. General, Inc. (Tequila Bar), and Los Lopez Tequila
B.A.R. & Spirits, Inc. (Los Lopez) (collectively Defendants) move to set
aside default and the resulting default judgment pursuant to CCP § 473(b).
Background
Plaintiffs
Jose Alvaro Cancino and Angelica Garcilazo Madrigal (collectively Plaintiffs)
allege that Defendant sold worthless shares of stock to Plaintiffs in Tequila
Bar and Los Lopez. Plaintiffs claim that Tequila Bar and Los Lopez were
inactive corporations. Plaintiffs filed a Complaint against Defendants alleging
causes of action for:
1.   
Breach
of Contract (against Tequila Bar, Rios, and Rodriguez)
2.   
Fraud
(against all Defendants)
3.   
Conversion
(against all Defendants)
4.   
Violation
of Penal Code § 496 (against all Defendants)
5.   
Declaratory
Relief (against all Defendants)
Legal
Standard
Discretionary
and mandatory relief is available to parties from “judgment, dismissal, order,
or other proceeding taken against him or her.” (CCP § 473(b).) Discretionary
relief is available under the statute as “the court may, upon any terms as may
be just, relieve a party or his or her legal representative from judgment,
dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against him or her through his or
her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. (CCP § 473(b).)
Alternatively, mandatory relief is available when “accompanied by an attorney’s
sworn affidavit attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
neglect.” (CCP § 473(b).) Under this statute, an application for discretionary
or mandatory relief must be made no more than six months after entry of the
judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding from which relief is
sought.  (CCP § 473(b); English v.
IKON Business Solutions (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 130, 143.) 
Discussion

Here, Default was entered against each
Defendant on March 1, 2023. Defendants filed their Motion to Set Aside Default
on August 31, 2023, which is within the six months allowed by CCP § 473. “‘[W]hen
relief under section 473¿is¿available, there is a strong public policy in favor
of granting relief and allowing the requesting party his or her day in court …
[Citation.]” (Rappleyea v. Campbell (1994) 8 Cal.4th 975, 981-82.) Thus,
there is strong public policy in favor of granting Defendants’ Motion to Set
Aside Default.
Default judgment against Defendants is set
aside because Defendants’ counsel’s excusable neglect of failing to file a
responsive pleading while preparing for trials in other matters. Defendants’
counsel states that he failed to calendar the date to file a responsive
pleading. (Valenzuela Decl., ¶ 4.) Further, at the time counsel was retained,
he was preparing for trials set to begin on February 8, 2023 and February 14,
2023. (Valenzuela Decl., ¶¶ 5-6.) Thus, Defendants’ counsel’s neglect was
excusable within the meaning of CCP § 473(b) and the strong public policy in
favor of determination on the merits weighs in favor of setting aside the
default. Therefore, Defendants’ Motion to Set Aside Default is granted.
Additionally, Default Judgment is set aside because the Entry of Default is set
aside.
 
Accordingly, Defendants’
Motion to Set Aside Default and Default Judgment is GRANTED.
 
 