  Case Number:  22VECV00297    Hearing Date:   December 15, 2023    Dept:  W FEISTY GAL, INC., et al. v. MICHAEL
KAISER, et al.
 
defendants michael kaiser and people’s
care holdings, inc.’s motion for judgment on the pleading
 
Date of Hearing:        December
15, 2023                                      Trial
Date:       April 8, 2024  
Department:              W                                                                    Case
No.:        22VECV00297
 
Moving Party:            Defendants Michael Kaiser and People’s Care Holdings,
Inc. 
Responding Party:     Plaintiffs Feisty Gal, Inc. and Michelle
Lander 
Meet and Confer:      Yes. (Tovar Decl.) 
 
BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiffs Feisty Gal, Inc. and Michelle Lander allege Defendants
Michael Kaiser and People’s Care Holdings, Inc. sold Plaintiffs an unregistered
franchise. Plaintiffs allege Defendants had several pre-sale omissions and
post-sale omissions false and deceptive representations regarding the franchise
status of A Right Place for Seniors International, LLC. 
 
On March 2, 2022, Plaintiffs filed a complaint against Defendants
asserting causes of action for (1) Violation of the California Franchise
Investment Law - Sale of an Unregistered Franchise; (2) Violation of the
California Franchise Investment Law - Failure to Disclose Materially Different
Terms of Franchise Agreement; (3) Fraudulent Concealment; (4) Fraud; (5)
Negligent Misrepresentation; (6) Breach of Contract; and (7) Unjust Enrichment.

 
Default was entered against Defendants on June 17, 2022. The
default was vacated on December 15, 2022. 
 
On December 22, 2022, Defendants filed a Cross-Complaint against Gemma
Dela Cruz, A Right Place for Seniors, Inc., and A Right Place For Seniors
International LLC for contractual indemnity, equitable indemnity, implied
indemnity, and contribution. Gemma Dela Cruz and A Right Place for Seniors,
Inc. were dismissed on March 3, 2023. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Defendants Michael Kaiser and People’s Care Holdings, Inc.’s
Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings is DENIED. 
 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTIce
 
Defendants request this court take
judicial notice court documents (See RJN, Exhs. 1-3.) The court GRANTS
Defendants’ request. (Evid. Code §472(d).) 
 
discussion
 
Defendants Michael Kaiser and People’s Care
Holdings, Inc. move pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure §438 for judgment on the
pleadings as to the entire Complaint and all cause of action therein on the
grounds Feisty Gal, Inc. may not represent itself. Defendants also move on the
grounds Ms. Lander was not a party to the Franchise Agreement and therefore
also lacks standing to bring or maintain the lawsuit.
 
A defendant’s motion for judgment on the pleadings may be made
after the time to demur has expired and an answer has been filed. (CCP §
438(f).) A motion by a defendant may be made on the grounds that (1) the court
“lacks jurisdiction of the subject of one or more of the causes of action
alleged” or (2) the complaint or cross-complaint “does not state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action against that defendant.” (CCP §
438(c).)¿ 
 
“A motion for judgment on the pleadings has the same function as a
general demurrer, and hence attacks only defects disclosed on the face of the
pleadings or by matters that can be judicially noticed.” (Cloud v. Northrop
Grumman Corp. (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 995, 999.) “A motion for judgment on
the pleadings is akin to a general demurrer; it tests the sufficiency of the
complaint to state a cause of action.” (Wise v. Pacific Gas and Elec. Co.
(2005) 132 Cal.App.4th 725, 738.)¿¿ 
 
Defendants first argue Defendants cannot proceed with discovery or
its trial preparation so long as FGI remains unrepresented and therefore, the court
should grant the motion without leave to amend and enter judgment in favor of
Defendants and against Plaintiffs. Defendants contend Plaintiff FGI remains in
pro per despite the fact that the court relieved its counsel on August 29, 2023
and defense counsel has repeatedly reminded Plaintiffs that FGI needed to
retain new counsel. The court agrees FGI cannot proceed in pro per. “When a
corporation seeks to appear without the benefit of counsel in other than small
claims cases, it is the duty of the trial court to advise the representative of
the corporation of the necessity to be represented by a licensed lawyer. If no
such licensed representative is present, appearing for the corporation, the
court may: (1) hear a motion for continuance; or (2) enter the corporation's
default for nonappearance at trial. We conclude neither the parties nor the
court can permit the corporation to appear and conduct a contested (other than
small claims) trial in propria persona.” (Van Gundy v. Camelot Resorts, Inc.
(1983) 152 Cal.App.3d Supp. 29, 31–32.) Defendants further argue because this
entire lawsuit is based on the allegation that Plaintiff FGI entered into a
written franchise agreement and Ms. Lander is not a party to the contract, the
court must also grant the motion as to Ms. Lander. 
 
Plaintiffs filed a belated opposition arguing the motion is now
moot because Feisty Gal and Lander now have counsel to represent them. (Gordee
Decl. ¶2.) Although ‘belated’, the court exercises its discretion to consider
the late filed and served opposition. 
(CRC 3.1300(d).)  Accordingly, the
court agrees the motion is now moot. FGI is represented by counsel. Moreover,
although Defendants further moved on separate grounds against Ms. Lander, the
grounds were based on FGI not moving forward with the action. 
 
Accordingly, Defendants’ Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings is
DENIED.  