 Case Number:  23VECV01229    Hearing Date:   December 15, 2023    Dept:  W CYRUS
MAZAHERIAN, et al. v. CAMERON MAZAHERIAN, et al.
 
MOTION TO STRIKE FIRST AMENDED
COMPLAINT
 
Date of Hearing:        December
15, 2023                          Trial
Date:       None
set. 
Department:              W                                                        Case
No.:        23VECV01229
 
Moving Party:            Defendant
Monika Mazaherian 
Responding Party:     Plaintiffs
Cyrus Mazaherian and Linda Terashita 
Meet and Confer:      Yes.
(Bloom Decl. ¶¶8-12.) 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On March 20, 2023, Plaintiffs Cyrus
Mazaherian and Linda Terashita filed a complaint against Defendants Cameron
Mazaherian and Monika Mazaherian for breach of contract, unjust enrichment,
money lent, money paid, constructive trust, judicial foreclosure, and
declaratory relief. Plaintiffs allege they entered promissory note agreements
with Defendants whereby Plaintiffs agreed to provide loans to Defendants at
various times. Plaintiffs further alleged they have not received any of the monthly
payments and moreover, Defendants are amidst a separation, which Plaintiffs
believe  will cause a Default /
anticipatory repudiation under all three promissory notes if reasonable and
timely assurances are not made about payments of the promissory notes and the
status of the secured interests.
 
On November 6, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a
First Amended Complaint for breach of contract, unjust enrichment, money lent,
money paid, and declaratory relief. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Defendant’s Motion to Strike First Amended
Complaint is DENIED. 
 
discussion
 
Defendant Monika
Mazaherian moves the court for an Order striking the First Amended Complaint of
Plaintiffs Cyrus Mazaherian and Linda Terashita as a late filed pleading.
Defendant Monika contends the deadline for Plaintiffs to file an amended
complaint was October 24, 2023; however, Plaintiffs did not file a First
Amended Complaint until November 6, 2023 – i.e., approximately two weeks after
the Deadline for them to do so had passed.
 
“Under
section 436: ‘The court may, upon a motion made pursuant to Section 435
[allowing motions to strike], or at any time in its discretion, and upon
terms it deems proper: [¶] ... [¶] (b) Strike out all ... of any pleading not
drawn or filed in conformity with ... an order of the court.’ (Italics added.)
Indeed, ‘by virtue of its inherent power to prevent abuse of its
processes’ (italics added), a trial court may strike an amended complaint ‘filed
in disregard of established procedural processes,’ and may strike an amended pleading
‘because no request for permission to amend was sought.’ [Citation.]” (Leader
v. Health Industries of America, Inc. (2001) 89 Cal.App.4th 603, 613.) 
 
The court may
dismiss a complaint as to a defendant when, after a demurrer to the complaint
is sustained with leave to amend, the plaintiff fails to amend it within the
time allowed by the Court and either party moves for dismissal. (CCP §
581(f)(2).)  If an amended pleading is
filed after the time allowed, an order striking the amended pleading must be
obtained by noticed motion under Code of Civil Procedure section 1010. (CRC
Rule, 3.1320(i).) 
 
The court
sustained Monika’s demurrer as to all causes of action in the Complaint on
September 18, 2023 and Monika’s counsel gave notice to Plaintiffs of the
Court’s ruling by U.S. mail and e-mail on September 19, 2023. (Bloom Decl.,
Exh. 1.) Defendant Monika argues because time to amend after a demurrer runs
from the service of notice of the decision or order, the deadline for
Plaintiffs to file an amended complaint was October 24, 2023. (See CCP
§472(b).) However, Plaintiffs did not file the amended complaint until
approximately two weeks later on November 6, 2023. Defendant contends rather
than filing the belated amended complaint, Plaintiffs should have sought
permission to file the belated pleading. (See e.g., Leader v. Health Indus.
of America, Inc. (2001) 89 Cal.App.4th 603, 612-13.)
 
In
opposition, Plaintiffs argue the FAC was served six days early of the deadline.
However, due to the inadvertent mistake of the Plaintiffs’ counsel’s office,
the FAC was not filed at that time and was not filed until twelve days after
the deadline set by the court. Plaintiffs’ counsel claims he prepared the FAC
and then asked secretary Desiree Robison to file and serve the FAC on all
parties. (Abramson Decl. ¶¶ 3-4, Ex. 1.) Mr. Abramson saw Ms. Robison’s timely
email serve the FAC and mistakenly assumed that Ms. Robison has also filed the
FAC with the Court, as was Ms. Robison’s and the firm’s custom and practice.
(Abramson Decl. ¶¶ 3-5, Ex. 1; Robison Decl. ¶3-8.) Unfortunately, at this time,
Ms. Robison was going through personal issues which resulted in Ms. Robison
failing to timely file the FAC with the court. (Robison Decl. ¶¶4-5.) As a
result, Plaintiffs contend pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure sections 473 and
581, the court has discretion to relieve Plaintiffs of their counsel’s mistake
and accept the FAC. 
 
Monika, in
reply, takes issue with Plaintiffs’ contention that there was actual service on
Monika and moreover, Plaintiffs’ “concocted” excuse is not credible. 
 
The court
denies Defendant’s motion to strike. "A trial court's determinations to
deny leave to file a belated amended pleading under section 473, subdivision
(a)(1) [Citation], to strike a pleading under section 436 [Citation], and to
dismiss an action under section 581, subdivision (f)(2) [Citation] are all
reviewed for abuse of discretion.” (Leader, supra, 89 Cal.App.4th
at p. 612.) The court uses its discretion in denying the motion to strike.
Based on Plaintiff’s counsel’s testimony along with Ms. Robinson’s (both signed
under penalty of perjury), the court finds mistake and/or excusable neglect
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 473. Defendants have not
sufficiently shown they were prejudiced by the two-week delay. Moreover, as
noted above, the decision to grant or deny a party's motion to dismiss is
within the judge's discretion. (Gitmed, supra, 26 Cal.App.4th at
p. 827.) Several courts have held a demurrer is a dismissal motion for purposes
of mandatory relief under CCP § 473(b).) Accordingly, even if the court were to
grant the motion to strike, Plaintiffs could then file for mandatory relief
under Code of Civil Procedure section 473. “[I]f the prerequisites for the
application of the mandatory provision of section 473, subdivision (b) exist,
the trial court does not have discretion to refuse relief.” (Leader v.
Health Industries of America, Inc. (2001) 89 Cal.App.4th 603, 612.) Because
relief is mandatory, the court would set aside the stricken complaint. 
 
Any arguments
regarding the merits of the action can be addressed on demurrer, motion for
judgment on the pleadings, summary judgment and the like. 
 
Accordingly,
Defendant’s Motion to Strike is DENIED. 