  Case Number:  22STCV17968    Hearing Date:   December 11, 2023    Dept:  34 SUBJECT:        Motion for
Relief Pursuant to CCP Section 473(b)
 
Moving Party: Plaintiff
Fernando Carmona
Resp. Party:    None
 
 
The Motion for Relief Pursuant to CCP Section 473(b) is DENIED. 
 
 
PRELIMINARY
COMMENTS:
 
        In this case,
Plaintiff’s counsel filed a motion under CCP §473(b) to vacate a dismissal so
that Plaintiff’s counsel can file an attorney's fees motion in a Lemon Law case.  In Hernandez v. FCA US LLC
(2020) 50 Cal.App.5th 329, the Court of
Appeal upheld this Court’s denial of a motion to vacate a dismissal under CCP
§473(b); in that case Plaintiff’s counsel also moved to vacate dismissal so he could
file an attorney's fees motion in a Lemon Law case. 
 
        In
other words, this case is identical to Hernandez.  Yet Plaintiff’s counsel in this matter failed
to distinguish – or even mention –Hernandez in their motion.
Professional Rules of Conduct, Rule 3.3(a)(2) “prohibits an attorney from (1)
failing to disclose to (2) a tribunal (3) legal authority in this State that is
(4) known to the lawyer to be directly adverse to the position of the client
and (5) not disclosed by opposing counsel.” 
(People v. Williams (2022) 75 Cal.App.5th 584, 586.)
 
“An attorney is an officer of the
court and owes the court a duty of candor . . . The duty of candor
is not simply an obligation to answer honestly when asked a direct question by
the trial court. It includes an affirmative duty to inform the court when a
material statement of fact or law has become false or misleading in light of
subsequent events.”  (Levine v. Berschneider (2020) 56
Cal.App.5th 916, 921.)
 
The Court would like to hear from Plaintiff’s
counsel during oral argument why it should not sanction counsel for failing to
be honest and candid with this Court in its motion.  
 
 
BACKGROUND:
        
On June 1, 2022, Plaintiff Fernando Carmona filed his Complaint against
Defendants FCA US, LLC and Arm and J Corporation on causes of action arising
from Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act. 
 
On May 9, 2023, Plaintiff filed: (1) Notice of Acceptance of Defendant
FCA US LLC’s Amended Offer to Compromise; and (2) Judicial Council Form CM-200,
Notice of Settlement of Entire Case.
 
On September 14, 2023, the Court entered the Parties’ Stipulation and
Order Requesting the Court Retain Jurisdiction Pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure § 644.6.
 
On September 15, 2023, the Court dismissed with prejudice the
Complaint. By this time, no motion for attorney’s fees had been heard, despite
prior orders of the Court requiring that such a motion be heard by the time of
dismissal.
 
On November 9, 2023, Plaintiff filed his Motion for Relief Pursuant to
CCP Section 473(b). In support of his Motion, Plaintiff concurrently filed: (1)
Declaration of Stephen Parnell; and (2) Proposed Order. 
 
No opposition or other response has been filed to the Motion. 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
I.          
Legal Standard
 
“The court may, upon any terms as may be just, relieve a party or his
or her legal representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other
proceeding taken against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or excusable neglect. Application for this relief shall be
accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed
therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted, and shall be made
within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment,
dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken. . . . No affidavit or declaration of
merits shall be required of the moving party. Notwithstanding any other
requirements of this section, the court shall, whenever an application for
relief is made no more than six months after entry of judgment, is in proper
form, and is accompanied by an attorney’s sworn affidavit attesting to his or
her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect, vacate any (1) resulting default
entered by the clerk against his or her client, and which will result in entry
of a default judgment, or (2) resulting default judgment or dismissal entered
against his or her client, unless the court finds that the default or dismissal
was not in fact caused by the attorney’s mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
neglect. . . .” (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b).)
 
II.      
Discussion
 
Plaintiff moves the Court to vacate the
dismissal of this matter so that a motion for attorney’s fees can be filed.
(Motion, p. 7:1–5.) Plaintiff argues that this relief is appropriate because
Plaintiff’s Counsel made a calendaring error which could have happened to
anyone. (Id. at pp. 4–6.)
 
The Court disagrees with Plaintiff’s
argument. 
 
On May 9, 2023, Plaintiff filed: (1) Notice of Acceptance of Defendant
FCA US LLC’s Amended Offer to Compromise; and (2) Judicial Council Form CM-200,
Notice of Settlement of Entire Case.
 
On June 29, 2023, the Court ordered that
any motion for attorney’s fees must be filed and heard by September 1, 2023.
(Minute Order dated June 29, 2023, p. 1.)
 
On September 15, 2023, pursuant to an
oral request made by Plaintiff, the Court dismissed with prejudice the
Complaint. 
 
Nearly two months later, Plaintiff’s
Counsel filed this motion for relief and declares that they made mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or neglect. 
 
Plaintiff’s failure to file the motion
for attorney’s fees was not mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect as that
term is used in Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (b). (Hernandez
v. FCA US LLC (2020) 50 Cal.App.5th 329, 332, 336–339.) 
 
Perhaps more importantly, the mandatory
provisions of CCP §473(b) concern vacating a dismissal or default. But this is
not a case where Plaintiff was denied his day in court through attorney
error.  As in Hernandez, “[t]his
case was not dismissed because of the mistake or neglect of counsel. The case
was dismissed because the parties had reached a settlement and [Plaintiff] has
been paid in full under her settlement.” (Hernandez,
supra, at p. 337.)  Plaintiff
“had [his] day in court and consequently settled [his] case as the
prevailing party. What [he] lost, for lack of a better word, was the
opportunity to file and litigate [his] motion for attorney fees and costs
before the court dismissed [his] settled case. 
(Hernandez, supra, at p.
338.)   
 
As in Hernandez, “after the
parties reached a settlement, the court used its inherent supervisory power to
set the hearing on the OSC regarding dismissal 90 days out, providing counsel
plenty of time to file the attorney fees motion, and allowing the trial court
to ensure the timely and speedy resolution of the proceeding before it.” (Id.)

 
“Our reading of the mandatory provision
of section 473, subdivision (b) and the long line of cases applying this
section compels us not to endorse an overly expansive interpretation of the
statute. Counsel missed the court-ordered deadline to move for attorney fees.
Section 473 provides no relief for such error.” (Hernandez, supra,
at p. 339.)
 
Thus, mandatory relief is inappropriate
here. For these same reasons, discretionary relief is under section 473,
subdivision (b) is also inappropriate. 
 
Discretionary relief under CCP §473(b) is
also inappropriate because Plaintiff’s Counsel did not attach a copy of the
proposed motion for attorney’s fees to the attorney declaration submitted in
support of the motion to set aside dismissal. Pursuant to the statute, “Application
for this relief shall be accompanied by a copy of the . . . pleading proposed
to be filed therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted. . .
.”  (CCP §473(b).)  Failure
to attach the proposed motion means the motion is not “in proper form” as that
term is used in the statute, and hence the requirements of the statute were not
met. (Hernandez, supra, at pp 336-337.)
 
III.    
Conclusion
 
The Motion for Relief Pursuant to CCP Section 473(b) is DENIED. 
 
 