  Case Number:  21STCV32125B    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2023    Dept:  30 Dept.
30 
Calendar
No. 
Hidden Ridge Lot 9, LLC vs. Kennco Plumbing, Inc.,
et. al., Case
No. 21STCV32125 
 
Tentative Ruling re: 
Cross-defendant’s Motion to Compel Arbitration
 
            Cross-Defendant Uponor, Inc.
(Uponor) moves to compel Cross-Complainant Kennco Plumbing, Inc. (Kennco) to
binding arbitration and to stay this action pending completion of arbitration.
The motion is denied.
 
“On petition of a party to an
arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to
arbitrate a controversy and that a party thereto refuses to arbitrate such
controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate
the controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy
exists, unless it determines that: (a) The right to compel arbitration has been
waived by the petitioner; or (b) Grounds exist for the revocation of the
agreement.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 1281.2,
subds. (a), (b).)
A proceeding to compel arbitration is
in essence a suit in equity to compel specific performance of a contract. (Freeman v. State Farm Mutual Auto Insurance
Co. (1975) 14 Cal.3d 473, 479.) Such enforcement may be sought by a party
to the arbitration agreement. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1280, subd. (e)(1).) 
            The petition to compel arbitration
functions as a motion and is to be heard in the manner of a motion, i.e., the
facts are to be proven by affidavit or declaration and documentary evidence
with oral testimony taken only in the court’s discretion. (Code Civ. Proc.,
§1290.2; Rosenthal v. Great Western Fin.
Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413–414.) The petition to compel
must set forth the provisions of the written agreement and the arbitration
clause verbatim, or such provisions must be attached and incorporated by
reference. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1330; see Condee v. Longwood Mgmt. Corp. (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215, 218 (Condee).)  
            Once petitioners allege that an
arbitration agreement exists, the burden shifts to respondents to prove the
falsity of the purported agreement, and no evidence or authentication is
required to find the arbitration agreement exists. (See Condee, supra, 88
Cal.App.4th at p. 219.) However, if the existence of the agreement is
challenged, “petitioner bears the burden of proving [the arbitration
agreement’s] existence by a preponderance of the evidence.” (Rosenthal v. Great Western Fin. Securities
Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413; see also Espejo v. Southern California Permanente Medical Group (2016) 246
Cal.App.4th 1047, 1058–1060.)
 
On August 31, 2021, Plaintiff Hidden
Ridge, Lot 9, LLC (Hidden Ridge) commenced this action against Defendants
Kennco Plumbing and All Creative Construction, Inc. (All Creative). Hidden
Ridge’s Complaint alleges that All Creative contracted with Paradise Estate
Properties, LLC (Paradise Estate) in February 2013 to perform construction on
the residential property located at 24100 Hidden Ridge Road, Hidden Hills, CA
(the Property). (Comp. ¶¶ 1, 12.) After entering into the contract with All
Creative, Paradise Estate transferred and assigned its rights under the
contract to Hidden Ridge. (Comp. ¶ 13.) In May 2013, All Creative entered into
an agreement with Kennco to provide labor and materials necessary to complete
water, waste, and gas systems at the Property. (Comp. ¶ 14.) Hidden Ridge
alleges that defects in the Property’s plumbing has, within the last three
years, caused water penetration and damage to the Property. (Comp. ¶ 15.) The
Complaint asserts claims against Defendants for breach of contract, breach of
express warranty, negligence, and breach of contract.
 
            Kennco filed its Cross-Complaint on
April 1, 2022, against only Roe Defendants. The Cross-Complaint incorporates
the allegations in Hidden Ridge’s Complaint, but itself contains no specific
factual allegations. (CC ¶ 13.) The Cross-Complaint alleges nine causes of
action for equitable indemnity, express indemnity, breach of express and
implied warranties, breaches of contract, negligence, contribution, and
declaratory relief. On May 5, 2023, Kennco amended the Cross-Complaint to add
Uponor as a Roe Defendant.
 
            Uponor moves to compel arbitration
of Kennco’s claims against it based on an arbitration provision in the “UPONOR,
INC. LIMITED WARRANTY” (the Limited Warranty).
Kennco’s
Manager states, “[a]ll products sold by Uponor in the United States between
October 15, 2012 and the present are subject to and governed by” the Limited
Warranty. (Beissel Decl. ¶ 5.) The Limited Warranty “warrants to the owner of
the applicable real property that the Uponor products listed below shall be
free from defects in materials and workmanship, under normal conditions of use
when installed as part of a potable water distribution system.” (Beissel Decl.,
Ex. 1 [4].)
The Limited Warranty sets out a
“Warranty Claim Process (for building owners and homeowners only)” which
requires written notification of an alleged failure or defect in Uponor’s
products to be sent to Uponor’s Minnesota office within 30 days of detection.
(Beissel Decl., Ex. 1 [5].) It further provides, “[i]n the event claimant and
Uponor are unable to resolve a  claim
through informal means, the parties shall submit the dispute to the American
Arbitration Association or its successor (the ‘Association’) for arbitration,
and any arbitration proceedings shall be conducted before a single arbitrator
in the Minneapolis, Minnesota metropolitan area.” (Ibid.)
 
“[T]he threshold
questions presented by every motion or petition to compel
arbitration are whether an agreement to arbitrate
exists [Citations] and, if so, whether the parties’ dispute falls within the scope of that agreement.”
(Ahern v. Asset Management
Consultants, Inc. (2022)
74 Cal.App.5th 675, 687.)
 
Here,
because Kennco’s
allegations fail to identify the warranty underlying its claims against Uponor,
the Court cannot determine that those claims fall within the scope of the
Limited Warranty and its arbitration provision. “In order to plead a cause of action for breach of express
warranty, one must allege the exact terms of the warranty, plaintiff's
reasonable reliance thereon, and a breach of that warranty which proximately
causes plaintiff injury.” (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986)
185 Cal.App.3d 135, 142.) In the Cross-Complaint, Kennco generally alleges that
it “entered into written and/or oral agreements with Cross-Complainants which
included representations that the services performed and/or materials provided
were merchantable and in a proper condition for their intended use and purpose
(i.e., improvements at the Subject Property).” (CC ¶ 33.) Kennco has not pled
any term of the warranty allegedly breached by Uponor. The incorporated
allegations in Hidden Ridge’s Complaint also make no reference to Uponor’s
limited warranty; rather, Hidden Ridge’s claim for Breach of Express Warranty
is pled solely against All Creative, based on a contract provision in its
construction contract with All Creative. (Comp. ¶¶ 23-26.)
Given this lack of
specificity, it is unclear whether the Limited Warranty is the same warranty
placed at issue in the Cross-Complaint. Uponor has also presented no evidence
of Kennco’s agreement to the Limited Warranty, and, “[g]enerally speaking, one
must be a party to an arbitration agreement to be bound by it or invoke it.” (Molecular
Analytical Systems v. Ciphergen Biosystems, Inc. (2010) 186 Cal.App.4th
696, 706; see Fleming v. Oliphant Financial, LLC (2023) 88 Cal.App.5th
13, 21 [denying motion to compel arbitration where “nothing in the record suggests
that [plaintiff] might have consented to the arbitration
provision”].) Accordingly,
the motion is denied.