  Case Number:  23PSCV00504    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2023    Dept:  G Defendants Ronald A.
Gershman, Catherine J. Gershman, and Gershman Properties LLC’s Demurrer to
First Amended Complaint by Plaintiff and Request for Monetary Sanctions
Respondent: NO OPPOSITION
TENTATIVE RULING
Defendants Ronald A.
Gershman, Catherine J. Gershman, and Gershman Properties LLC’s Demurrer to
First Amended Complaint by Plaintiff is SUSTAINED with ten (10) days leave to amend to the
first, second, third, fifth, and sixth causes of action and without leave to
amend as to the fourth cause of action.
Furthermore, Defendants
Ronald A. Gershman, Catherine J. Gershman, and Gershman Properties LLC’s Request
for Sanctions is DENIED without prejudice for failure to comply with Code of
Civil Procedure section 128.5, subdivision (f)(1)(A).
BACKGROUND
This
is a breach of lease agreement action. From February 2012 to January 2016, Ruthas Gin International Corp. (Ruthas Gin) leased a Baldwin Park
property from Gershman Properties LLC (Gershman Properties) for the purposes of
operating a hair salon. In January 2016, Plaintiff Yanqiu Zhang took ownership of the
hair salon from Ruthas Gin and assumed Ruthas Gin’s lease with Gershman Properties. From 2019 to
2021, Zhang alleges Gershman Properties began increasing Zhang’s pro rata share
of common area maintenance costs and failed to explain the increases. Zhang also
alleges Gershman Properties refused to repair the Baldwin Park property’s HVAC
system when it broke down during the summer of 2021.
On
February 21, 2023, Zhang filed a complaint against Gershman Properties, Ronald
A. Gershman, and Catherine J. Gershman (collectively, the Gershman Defendants)
as well as Does 1-50, alleging the following causes of action: (1) breach of
written lease agreement, (2) breach of written lease agreement for failure of
consideration and failure to perform, (3) injunctive relief, (4) breach of
fiduciary duty, (5) breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing,
and (6) intentional infliction of emotional distress (IIED). On June 21, the
court sustained the Gershman Defendants’ demurrer to Zhang’s Complaint with
leave to amend.
On
June 26, 2023, Zhang filed a First Amended Complaint (FAC) alleging the same
causes of action against the same defendants.
On
July 20, 2023, the Gershman Defendants filed the present demurrer. On August
16, the court continued a hearing on the demurrer so parties could further meet
and confer. On September 12 and September 13, the Gershman Defendants’ counsel
telephonically met and conferred with Zhang’s counsel. (Weinberg Suppl. Decl.,
¶ 4-5.)
A
hearing on the present demurrer is set for October 4, 2023, along with a case
management conference.
ANALYSIS
The
Gershman Defendants demur to Zhang’s entire FAC. For the following reasons, the
court SUSTAINS the demurrer in its entirety.
Legal Standard
A
party may demur to a complaint on the grounds that it “does not state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd.
(e).) A demurrer tests whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn
v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747 (Hahn).) When considering
demurrers, courts accept all well pleaded facts as true. (Fox v. JAMDAT
Mobile, Inc. (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 1068, 1078.) In a demurrer proceeding,
the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial
notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968,
994.) “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other
extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face
of the pleading or are judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court
(1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) “The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing
is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters,
states a cause of action.” (Hahn, supra, at p. 747.)
Breach of Contract Claims (First, Second, Third, and
Fifth Causes of Action)
The
Gershman Defendants argue Zhang’s first and second causes of action for breach
of contract, third cause of action for injunctive relief, and fifth cause of
action for breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing fail to
plead sufficient facts to state a claim and are uncertain. The court agrees.Legal Standard
To
state a cause of action for breach of contract, a plaintiff must be able to
establish “(1) the existence of the contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or
excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach, and (4) the resulting
damages to the plaintiff.” (Oasis West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011) 51
Cal.4th 811, 821.) If a breach of contract claim “is based on alleged breach of
a written contract, the terms must be set out verbatim in the body of the
complaint or a copy of the written agreement must be attached and incorporated
by reference.” (Harris v. Rudin, Richman & Appel (1999) 74
Cal.App.4th 299, 307.) In some circumstances, a plaintiff may also “plead the
legal effect of the contract rather than its precise language.” (Construction
Protective Services, Inc. v. TIG Specialty Ins. Co. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 189,
198-199.)
Discussion
In
this case, the Gershman Defendants argue Zhang fails to allege the existence of
a specific contract between the parties. Zhang alleges the parties “entered a
valid, binding, and enforceable written Lease Agreement.” (FAC, ¶ 62.) Zhang
also alleges “[t]he written Lease Agreement, and the subsequent First Amended
Lease Agreement and related documents are in effect.” (FAC, ¶ 63.) But Zhang
still fails to provide a copy of the actual lease agreement that Zhang assumed. 
This
failure is particularly fatal to Zhang’s cause of action which is based in part
on the Gershman Defendants’ alleged repair or maintenance obligations. (FAC, ¶
31, 39, 48.) And while Zhang provides copies of the assignment agreement and
two lease amendments, they do not include any provisions covering maintenance
or repair obligations.
Next,
it appears Zhang does not have standing to bring this action. According to the
lease amendments provided by Zhang, the lease agreement at issue was between Gershman
Properties and KC International Inc. (KC International) following Zhang’s
assignment of the lease to KC International on April 25, 2017. (FAC, Ex. 2, 3.)
Accordingly, it appears Zhang was not a party to the lease agreement. While
Zhang did sign a “guaranty of lease” in support of the 2017 least amendment, that
is insufficient to convey standing. (See Stevenson v. Oceanic Bank (1990)
223 Cal.App.3d 306, 315 [holding where plaintiff was not personally party to
loan agreement, “[P]laintiff's personal claim of a breach of contract by [Defendant]
must be based on the guaranty agreement, not the loan agreement”].)
Last,
of all the Gershman Defendants in this action, only Gershman Properties appears
to be a party to the lease agreement. While Zhang appears to suggest Gershman
Properties is the other Gershman Defendants’ alter ego, Zhang fails to
adequately allege such as set out in Turman v. Superior Court of Orange
County (2017) 17 Cal.App.5th 969, 980-981.
Accordingly,
the Gershman Defendants’ demurrer to Zhang’s first and second cause of action
is SUSTAINED
with leave
to amend. Because Zhang’s third cause of action for injunctive relief and fifth
cause of action for breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair
dealing are based on the same breach of contract claims, the Gershman
Defendants’ demurrer to these causes of action is also SUSTAINED.
Breach of Fiduciary Duty (Fourth Cause of Action)
The
Gershman Defendants contend Zhang’s fourth cause of action for breach of
fiduciary duty fails to plead sufficient facts to state a claim and is
uncertain. The court agrees.
In
previously sustaining the Gershman Defendants’ demurrer to Zhang’s Complaint,
the court noted a landlord-tenant relationship is insufficient to impose
fiduciary duties. (6/21/23 Ruling, p. 3, citing Frances T. v. Village Green
Owners Assn. (1986) 42 Cal.3d 490, 513; Girard v. Delta Towers Joint
Venture (1993) 20 Cal.App.4th 1741, 1749.) Nonetheless, Zhang’s FAC repeats
the same allegations and still fails to allege the existence of another
fiduciary relationship outside of the contractual landlord-tenant relationship.
Because Zhang does not even attempt to allege the existence of any other type
of relationship that could qualify as a fiduciary relationship, the court
treats this as an admission that none exists and finds further amendment to be
futile. (See Shaw v. Los Angeles Unified School District (Sept. 19,
2023, B315814) __ Cal.App.5th __ [2023 WL 6118536, *6] [“Typically, the failure
to amend a complaint constitutes an admission that the plaintiffs have stated
the case as strongly as they could have, and no additional facts could be
alleged to cure the defect.”].)
Accordingly,
the Gershman Defendants’ demurrer to Zhang’s fourth cause of action is SUSTAINED without leave to amend.
IIED (Sixth Cause of Action)
The
Gershman Defendants maintain Zhang’s sixth cause of action for IIED fails to
plead sufficient facts to state a claim and is uncertain. Because Zhang’s IIED claim
is based on allegations surrounding how the Gershman Defendants carried out or
failed to carry out their obligations pursuant to the alleged lease agreements,
Zhang’s failure to adequately allege those contractual claims also dooms Zhang’s
IIED claim.
Accordingly,
the Gershman Defendants’ demurrer to Zhang’s sixth cause of action is SUSTAINED with leave to amend.
Request for Sanctions
The
Gershman Defendants request $3,785 in sanctions pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 128.5. Because this request for sanctions must be made in a
separately noticed motion pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 128.5,
subdivision (f)(1)(A), the Gershman Defendants’ request is DENIED without prejudice.
CONCLUSION
Based on the foregoing, the
Gershman Defendants’ demurrer to Zhang’s FAC is SUSTAINED in its
entirety with ten (10) days leave to amend to the first, second, third, fifth,
and sixth causes of action and without leave to amend as to the fourth cause of
action.
Furthermore, the Gershman
Defendants’ request for sanctions is DENIED without prejudice for
failure to comply with Code of Civil Procedure section 128.5, subdivision
(f)(1)(A).