

 
BACKGROUND
 
On August 16, 2021, Plaintiff Pamela
Sue Clark (Plaintiff) filed the complaint alleging damages arising from an
automobile collision against Defendant Selina G. Salibaba (Defendant) and Does 1
through 75. 
 
On September 13, 2024, Defendant’s
counsel filed this motion to be relieved as counsel. 
 
On October 1, 2024, Plaintiff filed
an opposition to the motion.
 
MOVING PARTY
POSITION
 
Counsel Charles D. May, Esq.;
Eduardo Osorio; and Tharpe & Howell (collectively, Counsel) seek to be
relieved as Defendant’s counsel. 
 
OPPOSITION
 
On opposition, Plaintiff argues
that Counsel has made inadequate efforts to contact Defendant and that
permitting withdrawal at this late stage of the case would cause undue
prejudice to Defendant. 
 
REPLY
 
As of October 21, 2024, no reply
has been filed.
 
 
 
ANALYSIS
 
I.          Motion
to be Relieved as Counsel
A.        Legal Standard 
The court has discretion to allow an attorney to
withdraw, and such a motion should be granted provided that there is no
prejudice to the client and it does not disrupt the orderly process of justice.
(See Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994) 21 Cal. App. 4th 904, 915; People
v. Prince (1968) 268 Cal.App.2d 398.) California Rules of Professional
Conduct, rule 1.16(b)(10) provides that a permissive request for withdrawal may
be properly granted where an attorney believes that the tribunal will find good
cause for withdrawal.  
 
California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1362 (Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel) requires (1)
notice of motion and motion to be directed to the client (made on the Notice of
Motion and Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil form (MC-051)); (2) a declaration
stating in general terms and without compromising the confidentiality of the
attorney-client relationship why a motion under Code of Civil Procedure,
section 284, subdivision (2) is brought instead of filing a consent under Code
of Civil Procedure, section 284, subdivision (1) (made on the Declaration in
Support of Attorney's Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil form (MC-052));
(3) service of the notice of motion and motion and declaration on all other
parties who have appeared in the case; and (4) the proposed order relieving
counsel (prepared on the Order Granting Attorney's Motion to Be Relieved as
Counsel—Civil form (MC-053)).
B.
       Discussion 
 
Counsel states that, since June 3, 2024,
they have been unable to contact Defendant, having attempted to do so by phone
call, text message, and email. (Osorio Decl., ¶ 2.) Counsel states that they
have retained an investigation company to confirm Defendant’s current address
but remain unable to contact Defendant for unknown reasons. (Osorio Decl., ¶
2.)
 
            Here,
Counsel have not complied with California Rules of Court, rule 3.1362. Counsel
states that they served required papers on Defendant; however, proofs of
service on Counsel’s MC-051 and MC-052 only indicate that those papers have
been served on Plaintiff, not on Defendant. Furthermore, for MC-052 does not
properly list the upcoming hearings in this matter. Counsel have otherwise
complied with California Rules of Court, rule 3.1362: Counsel have provided a
declaration stating why this motion has been brought instead of a consent, filed
proofs of service on all other parties who have appeared in the case, and filed
a proposed order relieving Counsel.
 
            The court
finds that Counsel have demonstrated a reasonable basis for withdrawal, namely
the breakdown in the attorney-client relationship. (Cal. Rules of Professional
Conduct, rule 1.16, subd. (b)(4).) However, this case is set for trial on
December 19, 2024. While the court agrees with Plaintiff that the proximity of
the trial date is problematic here, the court is hesitant to force Counsel to
continue representing Plaintiff without the ability to communicate with
Plaintiff. Nonetheless, because Counsel failed to fully comply with the
requirements of California Rules of Court, rule 3.1362, the court CONTINUES Counsel’s
motion to allow Counsel to correct all the defects. 

 
 
III.       Conclusion 
            
            For the foregoing reasons, Counsel’s
Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel for Defendant is CONTINUED to DECEMBER 10, 2024,
at 10:00 a.m. in Department 25 of the Spring Street Courthouse, to allow
counsel to correct the defects outlined herein and file supplemental moving
papers. 
 
Counsel for
Defendant is ordered to give notice.
 
 