

 
The is an elder abuse action. On February 7, 2022,
Plaintiffs George Small III (Decedent) (by and through his Successor in
Interest, Barbara Small), Barbara Small, and Kent Small. (collectively,
Plaintiffs) filed their initial complaint in this action. 
 
            On
July 11, 2023, Defendant Nicholas Jauregui, M.D., Inc. (Defendant or Supportive Care) filed
a demurrer to the first cause of action and a motion to strike. Plaintiffs
opposed the demurrer and motion to strike. The Court sustained the demurrer
with leave to amend and granted the motion to strike.
 
            On
September 13, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a First Amended Complaint (FAC); the FAC
contains causes of action for (1.) elder abuse, (2.) negligence,
and (3.) wrongful death.
 
            The
demurer to the first cause of action is sustained without leave to amend. The
motion to strike is granted without leave to amend.
 
LEGAL STANDARD
A demurrer for sufficiency tests
whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007)
147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers, courts read the
allegations liberally and in context. The defects must be apparent on the face
of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins.
Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) A demurrer tests the pleadings alone
and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where
the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. (Code
Civ. Proc., §§ 430.30, 430.70.) At the pleading stage, a plaintiff need only
allege ultimate facts sufficient to apprise the defendant of the factual basis
for the claim against him. (Semole v. Sansoucie (1972) 28 Cal. App. 3d
714, 721.) A “demurrer does not, however, admit contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law alleged in the pleading, or the construction of
instruments pleaded, or facts impossible in law.” (S. Shore Land Co. v.
Petersen (1964) 226 Cal.App.2d 725, 732 [internal citations omitted].)
 
“The court may, upon a motion made
pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it
deems proper: (a) Strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted
in any pleading. (b) Strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or
filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of
the court.”¿(Code Civ. Proc., § 436.) “Immaterial” or “irrelevant” matters
include allegations not essential to the claim, allegations neither pertinent
to nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or a demand for judgment
requesting relief not supported by the allegations of the complaint. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 431.10, subds. (b)(1)-(3).)
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Defendant demurs to the first cause of action for
elder abuse. The basis for the demurrer is Plaintiffs’ failure to allege facts
sufficient to state an elder abuse claim. 
 
            The elements of a cause of action
under the Elder Abuse and Dependent Adults Act (Elder Abuse Act or Act), are
statutory. (Intrieri v. Superior Court (2004) 117 Cal.App.4th 72, 82.) “The Elder Abuse Act makes certain
enhanced remedies available to a plaintiff who proves abuse of an elder, i.e.,
a ‘person residing in this state, 65 years of age or older.’ (Welf. & Inst.
Code § 15610.27.) In particular, a plaintiff who proves ‘by clear and
convincing evidence’ both that a defendant is liable for physical abuse,
neglect or financial abuse (as these terms are defined in the Act) and that the
defendant is guilty of ‘recklessness, oppression, fraud, or malice’ in the
commission of such abuse may recover attorney fees and costs. (Welf. &
Inst. Code, § 15657, subd. (a).) 


            The FAC alleges that, on the evening
of February 4, 2020 and throughout the following day, Defendants administered
multiple doses of Haloperdol and Morphine in order to control and chemically
restrain Decedent. (FAC ¶¶ 21-30.) As result of this medication, Decedent died
the following morning, on February 6. (FAC ¶ 30.) 
 
            The demurrer argues the allegations
do not support a claim for elder abuse as defined by statute. That is, the
allegations show neither “neglect” nor “abuse.”
 
            The opposition argues that the FAC sufficiently
alleges facts demonstrating neglect. 
 
            “The Elder Abuse Act defines abuse as ‘[p]hysical
abuse, neglect, financial abuse, abandonment, isolation,
abduction, or other treatment with resulting physical harm or pain or mental
suffering’ (Welf. & Inst. Code, § 15610.07, subd. (a)(1), italics added);
or ‘[t]he deprivation by a care custodian of goods or services that are
necessary to avoid physical harm or mental suffering’ (id., § 15610.07, subd. (b)(2)). 
 
            The Court will first address whether the allegations are adequate
to demonstrate “neglect” under the statute. 
 
The Act defines neglect as ‘[t]he
negligent failure of any person having the care or custody of an elder or a
dependent adult to exercise that degree of care that a reasonable person in a
like position would exercise.’ (Welf. & Inst. Code § 15610.57, subd.
(a)(1).) ‘Neglect includes, but is not limited to, all of the following: [¶]
(1) Failure to assist in personal hygiene, or in the provision of food,
clothing, or shelter. [¶] (2) Failure to provide medical care for physical and
mental health needs.... [¶] (3) Failure to protect from health and safety
hazards. [¶] (4) Failure to prevent malnutrition or dehydration.’ (Welf. &
Inst. Code § 15610.57, subd. (b).) In short, neglect as a form of abuse under
the Elder Abuse Act refers ‘to the failure of those responsible for attending
to the basic needs and comforts of elderly or dependent adults, regardless of
their professional standing, to carry out their custodial obligations.’ (Delaney v. Baker (1999) 20 Cal.4th 23, 34.) 
 
            As to the issue of “neglect,”
Defendant’s demurrer is well-taken. The FAC alleges that Defendant administered
medication in amounts or quantities to restrain Decedent, which resulted in
Decedent’s death. (FAC ¶¶ 21-30.) These allegations do not show a failure to
provide medical care or any other type of custodial care. Thus, Plaintiffs have
not alleged facts showing “neglect.” 
 
            The Opposition’s entire analysis of
its pleadings on this element is as follows: “the operative complaint contains
specific factual allegations constituting Defendant’s neglect of decedent: the
defendant failed to provide decedent medical care, failed to protect from
health and safety hazards, (Complaint at ¶¶20-37).” (Opp. 4:7-9.) 
 
            As
stated in the statute, neglect is the failure to provide for the care and custody
of an elder. The plaintiff must allege, with particularity,
that the neglect caused the elder adult to suffer physical harm, pain, or
mental suffering. (Carter v. Prime Healthcare Paradise Valley LLC (2011)
198 Cal.App.4th 396, 407.)
 
Here, Plaintiffs point only to the
administration of medication as the basis for neglect – specifically that too
much medication was provided. (FAC ¶ 61.) Plaintiffs’ argument and allegations
are entirely conclusory with regard to neglect. Moreover, the injury here was
the result of the provision of care, not its failure to provide. 
 
Thus, the FAC fails to allege a
cause of action for elder abuse based on neglect. As Plaintiffs do not argue in
opposition that the FAC alleges facts to support abuse under the elder abuse
statute, the Court will not address this argument.[1]

 
            Finally, Defendant argues there are
no factual allegations that Defendant intentionally or recklessly provided
medication to Decedent or reasonably believed that Decedent would die as a
result of the provision of the medication.
 
            As
noted above, Elder Abuse and Dependent Adult
Civil Protection Act (the Elder Abuse Act or the Act) (Welf.
& Inst. Code § 15600 et seq.) provides heightened remedies for the
“neglect” of an elder or dependent adult where the defendant “has been guilty
of recklessness, oppression, fraud, or malice” in the commission of the
neglect. (Welf. & Inst. Code §§ 15610.07, subd. (a), 15657.)
“Oppression, fraud and malice ‘involve “intentional,” “willful,” or “conscious”
wrongdoing of a “despicable” or “injurious” nature.’ [Citation.] Recklessness
involves ‘ “deliberate disregard” of the “high degree of probability” that an
injury will occur’ and ‘rises to the level of a “conscious choice of a course
of action ... with knowledge of the serious danger to others involved in it.” ’
” (Carter v. Prime Healthcare Paradise Valley LLC (2011)
198 Cal.App.4th 396, 405; Covenant Care, Inc. v. Superior
Court (2004) 32 Cal.4th 771, 789 [“In order to obtain the Act's
heightened remedies, a plaintiff must allege conduct essentially equivalent to
conduct that would support recovery of punitive damages.”].)
 
            Although oppression and recklessness are often a jury question, a
demurrer may be sustained where facts alleged in the complaint do not show the
requisite culpable or reckless conduct by defendant. (See e.g., Carter,
supra, 198 Cal.App.4th at p. 407 [demurrer properly sustained where conduct
alleged was not “sufficiently egregious to constitute neglect . . . within the
meaning of the Elder Abuse Act”]; Alexander v. Scripps Memorial Hosp. La
Jolla (2018) 23 Cal.App.5th 206, 223 [same].) The pleading cannot rely,
however, on conclusory allegations that the staff acted “maliciously and with
the intent to oppress plaintiff” or that “defendants acted “with recklessness.”
(See Carter, supra, at pp. 407, 412–413 [facts constituting Elder Abuse
Act neglect must be pleaded with particularity; willful misconduct allegations
deficient because plaintiffs did not “allege[ ] facts, as opposed to
conclusions or contentions,” indicating hospital acted with deliberate
indifference].)


As noted, the FAC fails sufficiently
to allege neglect or abuse.  It follows
that no allegations of recklessness, oppression, fraud, or malice have been
pleaded. 
 
The demurrer to the first cause of
action is sustained without leave to amend. 
 
Motion to Strike
 
            Defendant also moves to strike the
request for punitive damages, and attorney fees. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiffs argue that they are entitled to attorney
fees based on the elder abuse cause of action; further, Plaintiffs
contend they have pled sufficient facts to support prayer for punitive damages
as the provisions of MICRA do not apply to the elder abuse claim. 
 
As a result of the Court’s ruling on the demurrer to the elder abuse
cause of action, the motion to strike is granted.
 
CONCLUSION
 
The demurrer to
the first cause of action is sustained. The motion to strike Plaintiffs’
requests for punitive damages and attorney’s fees is granted. Having alleged no
new material allegations after the Court’s ruling on the demurrer to the
Complaint, Plaintiff shall not have leave to amend. 


