 Case Number:  22SMCV00818    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2023    Dept:  N TENTATIVE RULING
 
Currently
pending before the Court is Defendants David S. Sibelman, Shahnaz Levyim, and
Desiree Levyim (“Defendants”)’s Motion to Compel Documents Related to Fortis
Developmental Services, Inc. In filing their motion and reserving a reservation
for hearing, Defendants represented that their motion was not one to compel
further responses, but this is belied by the nature of the motion, wherein
Defendants seek production of documents responsive to Request for Production
No. 145 to Plaintiff Cornell Gillenwater and Request for Production No. 121 to
Plaintiff Bret Kadel. Defendants acknowledge that Plaintiffs objected to these
requests and refused to produce documents. It is clear that this is a motion to
compel further responses pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.310,
subdivision (a)(3). Defendants argue that Plaintiffs agreed to comply and
produce documents, but they cite only statements made in a meet-and-confer
session, not their written responses to the requests, such that this motion
cannot be deemed a “Motion to Compel Compliance” pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 2031.320, subdivision (a).
 
Defendants
argue that this issue is a “meritless distraction”; the Court does not agree. A
motion to compel further responses is subject to different statutory
requirements, such as a separate statement, which was not included here, and
the Court’s hearing reservation system operates to allow parties to obtain
motion hearing dates based on the type of the motion filed. If the Court were
to disregard this system, a party could simply reserve a hearing as any type of
motion, argue that it was a mere technicality, and jump the line before parties
who complied with the Court’s reservation system. The Court is not inclined to disregard
its own system here.
 
Accordingly,
Defendants David S. Sibelman, Shahnaz Levyim, and Desiree Levyim’s Motion to
Compel Documents Related to Fortis Developmental Services, Inc. is hereby taken
off calendar. Defendants may refile their motion as a motion to compel further
responses and obtain a new hearing reservation date.
 
Defendants
David Sibelman, Shahnaz Levyim, and Desiree Levyim to give notice. 