  Case Number:  20SMCV01254    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2023    Dept:  N TENTATIVE RULINGPlaintiff Eidan Gamaty’s Motion for Leave to File Second Amended Complaint is GRANTED.Plaintiff Eidan Gamaty shall file a clean copy of the Second Amended Complaint within ten (10) days of entry of this order.Plaintiff Eidan Gamaty to give notice. REASONINGThe court may grant leave to amend the pleadings at any stage of the action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (a).) A party may discover the need to amend after all pleadings are completed (the case is “at issue”) and new information requires a change in the nature of the claims or defenses previously pleaded. (See Dye v. Caterpillar, Inc. (2011) 195 Cal.App.4th 1366, 1380.)“The policy favoring amendment is so strong that it is a rare case in which denial of leave to amend can be justified. Leave to amend should be denied only where the facts are not in dispute, and the nature of the plaintiff’s claim is clear, but under substantive law, no liability exists and no amendment would change the result.” (Howard v. County of San Diego (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 1422, 1428, internal quotation marks and citations omitted.) Courts apply a policy of great liberality in permitting amendments to the complaint “at any stage of the proceedings, up to and including trial,” absent prejudice to the adverse party. (Atkinson v. Elk Corp. (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 739, 761.) Prejudice exists where the amendment would require delaying the trial, resulting in loss of critical evidence, added costs of preparation, or an increased burden of discovery. (See Magpali v. Farmers Group, Inc. (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 471, 486-488 [trial court’s denial of leave to amend was proper where those factors were present].) If the delay in seeking the amendment has not misled or prejudiced the other side, the liberal policy of allowing amendments prevails. (See Higgins v. Del Faro (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 558, 564-565 [describing same].)A motion for leave to amend must: (1) Include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended pleading, which must be serially numbered to differentiate it from previous pleadings or amendments;(2) State what allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the deleted allegations are located; and(3) State what allegations are proposed to be added to the previous pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the additional allegations are located.(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(a).) Further, a separate declaration must accompany the motion and must specify the following:(1) The effect of the amendment;(2) Why the amendment is necessary and proper;(3) When the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and(4) The reasons why the request for amendment was not made earlier.(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(b).)Plaintiff Eidan Gamaty (“Plaintiff”) moves the Court for leave to file a Second Amended Complaint to add certain allegations, a new defendant, JBEK Insurance Services, LLC, and new causes of action for unjust enrichment and conversion. Plaintiff has provided a redlined copy of the proposed amended pleading identifying the proposed new allegations (Mot., Shem-Tov Decl. ¶ 10, Ex. F), and Plaintiff’s counsel states that discovery documents revealed that JBEK Insurance Services, LLC purchased Enterprise Insurance Group, LLC, the entity at issue in this action (Mot., Shem-Tov Decl. ¶¶ 3-5). Defendants James Bekhor, Jeremy Bekhor, and James S. Bekhor Insurance Services, Inc. (“Defendants”) oppose the motion on the ground that Plaintiff was in possession of these documents since March 2023, not July 2023 as Plaintiff asserts, and the delay in seeking amendment will require additional discovery and postponement of the current trial date.The Court finds that amendment is proper here. Plaintiff presents credible statements that he was unaware of the underlying facts until July 2023, and even if Plaintiff was aware of the facts in March 2023 after receiving a document identifying JBEK Insurance Services, LLC, the delay in seeking to amend was not so substantial that the Court finds it proper to deny Plaintiff the chance to litigate a claim against JBEK Insurance Services, LLC on this basis. While it is possible that the trial date may be postponed, Defendants have failed to sufficiently state whether any new discovery will be substantial, and the Court trusts that Plaintiff will swiftly engage in discovery given the necessity to bring this action to trial. Accordingly, Plaintiff Eidan Gamaty’s Motion for Leave to File Second Amended Complaint is GRANTED. Plaintiff Eidan Gamaty shall file a clean copy of the Second Amended Complaint within ten (10) days of entry of this order.