  Case Number:  22SMCV01252    Hearing Date:   March 13, 2024    Dept:  N TENTATIVE RULINGDefendants Michael B. Gerhardt, M.D., Tanya Marie Cariveau, and Cedars Sinai Kerlan-Jobe Institute’s Demurrer to the First Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED with thirty (30) days leave to amend as to the first, fourth, fifth, and sixth causes of action and SUSTAINED without leave to amend as to the second and third causes of action.Defendants Michael B. Gerhardt, M.D., Tanya Marie Cariveau, and Cedars Sinai Kerlan-Jobe Institute’s Motion to Strike Portions of the First Amended Complaint is DENIED as MOOT.Defendant Providence Saint John’s Health Center’s Demurrer to Portions of Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED with thirty (30) days leave to amend as to the fifth and sixth causes of action.Defendant Providence Saint John’s Health Center’s Motion to Strike Portions of Plaintiff John Tebbens’ First Amended Complaint is DENIED as MOOT.Plaintiff John Tebbens may amend his complaint only as authorized by the Court’s order and may not amend the complaint to add a new party or cause of action without having obtained permission to do so. (Harris v. Wachovia Mortgage, FSB (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 1018, 1023.)Moving parties to give notice.REASONINGDefendants Michael B. Gerhardt, M.D. (“Dr. Gerhardt”), Tanya Marie Cariveau (“Cariveau”), Cedars Sinai Kerlan-Jobe Institute (“Cedars Sinai”), and Providence Saint John’s Health Center (“Providence Saint John’s”) (collectively “Defendants”) demur to the claims within Plaintiff John Tebbens (“Plaintiff”)’s First Amended Complaint (“FAC”), and they move to strike the exhibits included with the FAC, as well as Plaintiff’s prayer for punitive damages. At the outset, the Court notes that Plaintiff’s FAC is organized in a way that is difficult to cite, as it lacks paragraph numbers, and page numbers are mislabeled. Plaintiff has also declined to identify the specific title of each cause of action as a heading for each claim. The Court uses the page numbers identified on the filing for ease of reference and analyzes each cause of action in the way that best reflects Plaintiff’s allegations.Legal Standard“[A] demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the allegations in a complaint.” (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.) A demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (See Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 [in ruling on a demurrer, a court may not consider declarations, matters not subject to judicial notice, or documents not accepted for the truth of their contents].) For purposes of ruling on a demurrer, all facts pleaded in a complaint are assumed to be true (Aubry v. Tri-City Hosp. Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967), but the Court does not “assume the truth of contentions, deductions, or conclusions of fact or law” (Moore v. Regents of University of California (1990) 51 Cal.3d 120, 125).Further, the court may, upon motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a).) The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (b).) The grounds for a motion to strike are that the pleading has irrelevant, false, or improper matter, or has not been drawn or filed in conformity with laws. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436.) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)Leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (See Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349 [court shall not “sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if there is any reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by amendment”]; Kong v. City of Hawaiian Gardens Redevelopment Agency (2002) 108 Cal.App.4th 1028, 1037 [“A demurrer should not be sustained without leave to amend if the complaint, liberally construed, can state a cause of action under any theory or if there is a reasonable possibility the defect can be cured by amendment.”]; Vaccaro v. Kaiman (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 761, 768 [“When the defect which justifies striking a complaint is capable of cure, the court should allow leave to amend.”].) The burden is on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)First Cause of Action: FraudIn the first cause of action, Plaintiff alleges that Dr. Gerhardt called Plaintiff confused and disoriented with no idea why he had scheduled the call, and Dr. Gerhardt falsely attested that he performed a service. (FAC, p. 14.) “The elements of fraud are (a) a misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) scienter or knowledge of its falsity; (c) intent to induce reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting damage.” (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Ctr. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.) The facts constituting the alleged fraud must be alleged factually and specifically as to every element of fraud, as the policy of “liberal construction” of the pleadings will not ordinarily be invoked. (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.)The nature of the purported fraud is not clear, i.e., it appears Plaintiff takes issue with a call with Dr. Gerhardt, but the harm appears to be a charge to Plaintiff’s insurance company, not Plaintiff, and he fails to describe the harm he suffered. Further, Plaintiff fails to allege what was said to him, his reliance, and the resulting damage. Accordingly, Dr. Gerhardt’s demurrer to the first cause of action is SUSTAINED with thirty (30) days leave to amend.Second Cause of Action: Oppression and Third Cause of Action: MaliceIn the second cause of action, Plaintiff takes issue with Dr. Gerhardt’s advice that it would take a year to heal, and in the third cause of action, Plaintiff takes issue with Dr. Gerhardt’s alleged failure to make Plaintiff’s right hip replacement be stable and fit. (FAC, pp. 14, 15.) Neither oppression nor malice are proper causes of action, and the Court cannot determine a proper claim for either of these purported causes of action. Accordingly, Dr. Gerhardt’s demurrer to the second and third causes of action is SUSTAINED without leave to amend.Fourth Cause of Action: Professional Negligence, Fifth Cause of Action: Breach of Duty of Reasonable Care, and Sixth Cause of Action: Failure to Provide Reasonable Skill and Standard of CareWhile Plaintiff’s fourth cause of action is one for professional negligence, it is not clear whether Plaintiff alleges claims for professional negligence or general negligence in the fifth and sixth causes of action. In the fourth cause of action, Plaintiff alleges that Dr. Gerhardt failed to provide a reasonable minimum standard of care. (FAC, p. 15.) In the fifth cause of action, Plaintiff alleges that Defendants owed Plaintiff a duty of care, and Dr. Gerhardt failed to use reasonable care. (FAC, p. 16.) In the sixth cause of action, Plaintiff again alleges that Defendants breached the duty of care through Dr. Gerhardt’s failure to provide reasonable skill and standard of care. (Ibid.)“The elements of a cause of action for professional negligence are (1) the existence of the duty of the professional to use such skill, prudence, and diligence as other members of the profession commonly possess and exercise; (2) breach of that duty; (3) a causal connection between the negligent conduct and the resulting injury; and (4) actual loss or damage resulting from the professional negligence.” (Oasis West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011) 51 Cal.4th 811, 821.) To state a claim for general negligence, Plaintiff must allege the elements of (1) “the existence of a legal duty of care,” (2) “breach of that duty,” and (3) “proximate cause resulting in an injury.” (McIntyre v. Colonies-Pacific, LLC (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 664, 671.) The specific nature of the duty owed by Defendants is not clear, as Plaintiff has not so alleged, and Plaintiff’s failure to identify his claims against Defendants as either professional negligence or general negligence precludes a meaningful analysis to identify the deficiencies. Put simply, Plaintiff has failed to sufficiently allege either claim against Defendants because the only allegation is that Dr. Gerhardt did not meet the standard of care; Plaintiff has not identified the specific breach underlying his claims against Defendants. Accordingly, Defendants’ demurrers to the fourth, fifth, and sixth causes of action are SUSTAINED with thirty (30) days leave to amend. In so ruling, the Court notes that Plaintiff is not permitted leave to allege claims for “Breach of Duty of Reasonable Care” or “Failure to Provide Reasonable Skill and Standard of Care,” as these are not proper claims; rather, Plaintiff is permitted leave to plead proper negligence claims in these claims’ place.Motion to StrikeGiven the Court’s ruling on demurrer, Defendants’ motions to strike are DENIED as MOOT.Evidentiary ObjectionsProvidence Saint John’s objects to certain statements within the opposition declaration submitted by Plaintiff. The Court declines to rule on these objections, as they were not material to the Court’s ruling herein.