  Case Number:  23TRCV020085    Hearing Date:   June 26, 2024    Dept:  M LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT 
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                   Wednesday,
June 26, 2024  
Department M                                                                                          Calendar No. 15
 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Damian
Eduardo Sarabia v. Del Amo Hospital, Inc., et al.  
23TRCV02008

1.      Damien Eduardo Sarabia’s Motion to Compel Further
Responses to Special Interrogatories
2.      Damien Eduardo Sarabia’s Motion to Compel Further
Responses to Requests for Production of Documents
3.      Damien Eduardo Sarabia’s Motion to Compel Further
Responses to Requests for Admissions       

TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Damien Eduardo Sarabia’s Motion to
Compel Further Responses to Special Interrogatories is granted.
 
            Damien Eduardo Sarabia’s Motion to
Compel Further Responses to Requests for Production of Documents is granted, in
part, and denied, in part.
 
            Damien Eduardo Sarabia’s Motion to
Compel Further Responses to Requests for Admissions is granted.
 
            Background
 
            Plaintiff filed the Complaint on June 21, 2023. The only
named Plaintiff is “Damian Eduardo Sarabia, an individual.” Plaintiff alleges
the following facts. Plaintiff makes the following allegation: “Plaintiff, at
all relevant times herein, was a minor male who was a patient/resident at the
Del Amo Behavioral Health System. His date of birth is April 10, 2014. At the
time of the filings (sic) of this Complaint Plaintiff has become an adult.”
(Complaint, ¶ 10.)  As noted above, the
Complaint was filed in June 2023 which would make Plaintiff nine years old. The
age of majority in California is 18. Plaintiff, however, also alleges,
nonsensically, that he was “an adult” “at the time of the filings (sic).” (Id.)
Plaintiff makes the following allegation: Plaintiff alleges that he was
assaulted, battered, and sexually assaulted and battered by another patient on
two occasions from June 21, 2023 to June 23, 2023. (Id. at ¶¶ 14-16.)  However, the Complaint was filed on June 21,
2023 purportedly prior to the completion of the alleged assaults. 
 
            Plaintiff alleges the following causes of action for: 1. Common
Law Assault; 2. Common Law Battery; 3. Sexual Battery in Violation of Civil
Code § 1708.5; 4. Negligence; 5. Premises Liability; 6. Breach of Fiduciary
Duty; 7. Negligent Supervision of a Minor; 8. IIED. 
 
            Defendant’s demurrer was sustained with 20 days leave to
amend. Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint was filed on April 5, 2024. Plaintiff’s FAC omitted the first three causes of
action noted above. 
 
            Motions to Compel
 
            Where responses to interrogatories have been served but
the requesting party believes that they are deficient because the answers are
evasive or incomplete, or, because an objection is without merit, that party
may move for an order compelling a further response.  CCP § 2030.300(a).  Notice of the motion must be given within 45
days after service of verified responses in question, or any verified
supplemental responses.  CCP §
2030.300(c).  The motion must be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration in compliance with CCP §
2016.040.  CCP § 2030.300(b).
 
            A
party responding to an inspection demand shall respond to each demand with one
of the following:  a statement the party
will comply with the demand, a representation the party lacks the ability to
comply with the demand, or an objection. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.210, subd. (a).)  A response to an inspection demand may be
inadequate because it is evasive or incomplete; contains an incomplete
statement of compliance; an inadequate, incomplete, or evasive representation
of inability to comply; or meritless or overly general objections to a
demand.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2031.310, subd. (a).) 
 
            If
a demanding party believes the responding party responded inadequately, the
demanding party may move for an order compelling further response.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd.
(a).)  “Unless notice of this motion is
given within 45 days of the service of the verified response, or any
supplemental verified response, or on or before any specific later date to
which the demanding party and the responding party have agreed in writing, the
demanding party waives any right to compel a further response to the
demand.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310,
subd. (c).)    
 
            Where responses to requests for admissions have been
served but requesting party believes that they are deficient because the
answers are evasive or incomplete, or, because an objection is without merit,
that party may move for an order compelling a further response.  CCP § 2033.290(a).  The motion must be made within 45 days after
service of verified responses in question, or any verified supplemental
responses.  CCP § 2033.290(c).  The motion must be accompanied by a meet and
confer declaration in compliance with CCP § 2016.040.  CCP § 2033.290(b).
 
            Meet and Confer
 
            Plaintiff set forth meet and confer declarations in
sufficient compliance with CCP §§ 2030.300, 2031.320, 2033.290, and 2016.040.
(Declarations, Setareh Panah.)
 
            Motions to Compel
 
            Plaintiff moves to compel further responses to Special
Interrogatories 10, 24, 26 to 30, 32 to 34, and 41. 
 
            Plaintiff moves to compel further responses to Requests
for Production of Documents 19, 20, 23, 24, 26, 28, 29, 31, and 32. 
 
            Plaintiff moves to compel further responses to Requests
for Admissions 18 to 23, and 35. 
 
            Defendant objected based on the medical privacy
privileges set forth under the Lanterman-Petris Short Act and HIPAA. 
 
            “The state Constitution expressly grants Californians a right of
privacy. (Cal. Const., art. I, §1.) Protection of informational privacy is the
provision’s central concern.”  Williams
v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 552. “[W]hen a discovery request
seeks information implicating the constitutional right of privacy, to order
discovery simply upon a showing that the Code of Civil Procedure section
2017.010 test for relevance has been met is an abuse of discretion.”  Williams v. Superior Court, supra, 3
Cal.5th at 556 (citations omitted).
 
            In
Hill v. National Collegiate Athletic Assn. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 1, 35-37,
the California Supreme Court “established a framework for evaluating potential
invasions of privacy.  The party
asserting a privacy right must establish a legally protected privacy interest,
an objectively reasonable expectation of privacy in the given circumstances,
and a threatened intrusion that is serious. . . . . The party seeking
information may raise in response whatever legitimate and important
countervailing interests disclosure serves, while the party seeking protection
may identify feasible alternatives that serve the same interests or protective
measures that would diminish the loss of privacy. A court must then balance
these competing considerations.” Williams v. Superior Court, supra, 3
Cal.5th at 552 (citations omitted). In Hill, the Court “explained that
not ‘every assertion of a privacy interest under article I, section 1 must be
overcome by a “compelling interest.” . . . . A ‘“compelling interest”’ is still
required to justify ‘an obvious invasion of an interest fundamental to personal
autonomy.’”  Id. at 556. In an older case, the California Supreme Court, in Valley
Bank of Nevada v. Superior Court, “indulge[d] in a careful balancing of the
right of civil litigants to discover relevant facts, on the one hand, with the
right of bank customers to maintain reasonable privacy regarding their
financial affairs, on the other.” Valley Bank of Nevada v. Superior Court (1975)
15 Cal.3d 652, 657. 
 
            Disclosure
depends upon balancing the need for discovery against the need for
confidentiality.  “Courts must instead
place the burden on the party asserting a privacy interest to establish its
extent and the seriousness of the prospective invasion, and against that
showing must weigh the countervailing interests the opposing party identifies,
as Hill requires.”  Williams v.
Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 557. 

 
            The
Lanterman-Petris-Short Act and 42 CFR § 164.500 et seq. provide exceptions
through which protected health information may be disclosed. Pursuant to 42 CFR
§164.510(e)(1): “A covered entity may disclose protected health information in
the course of any judicial or administrative proceeding: (i) In response to an
order of a court or administrative tribunal, provided that the covered entity
discloses only the protected health information expressly authorized by such
order[.]” Welf. & Inst. Code, § 5328(a)(6) states: “All information and
records obtained in the course of providing services under Division 4
(commencing with Section 4000), Division 4.1 (commencing with Section 4400),
Division 4.5 (commencing with Section 4500), Division 5 (commencing with
Section 5000), Division 6 (commencing with Section 6000), or Division 7
(commencing with Section 7100), to either voluntary or involuntary recipients
of services are confidential. Information and records obtained in the course of
providing similar services to either voluntary or involuntary recipients before
1969 are also confidential. Information and records shall be disclosed only in
any of the following cases: (6) To the courts, as necessary to the
administration of justice.”
 
            Welf.
& Inst. Code, § 5328.01(b) states:
            “If
authorized by an appropriate order of a court of competent jurisdiction in the
county where the records are located compelling a party to produce in court
specified records and specifically describing the records being sought, when
the order is granted after an application showing probable cause therefor. In
assessing probable cause, the court shall do all of the following:
            (1)
Weigh the public interest and the need for disclosure against the injury to the
patient, to the physician-patient relationship, and to the treatment services.
            (2)
Determine that there is a reasonable likelihood that the records in question
will disclose material information or evidence of substantial value in
connection with the investigation or prosecution.
            (3)
Determine that the crime involves the causing of, or direct threatening of, the
loss of life or serious bodily injury.
            (4)
In granting or denying a subpoena, the court shall state on the record the
reasons for its decision and the facts which the court considered in making
such a ruling.
            (5)
If a court grants an order permitting disclosure of such records, the court
shall issue all orders necessary to protect, to the maximum extent possible,
the patient's privacy and the privacy and confidentiality of the
physician-patient relationship.
            (6)
Any records disclosed pursuant to the provisions of this subdivision and any
copies thereof shall be returned to the facility at the completion of the
investigation or prosecution unless they have been made a part of the court
record.”
 
            Special Interrogatories
 
            Plaintiff’s
motion to compel further responses is granted.
 
            Upon
balancing the need for the discovery against the privacy interest involved, the
Court finds that the purported need for discovery outweighs the privacy
interests of either currently unidentified third parties or co-Defendant Daniel
Castanon. The specific special interrogatories at issue with the motion are
sufficiently narrowly tailored such that it may obtain essential information
regarding witnesses and other facts without delving deeply into areas that would
be a significant violation of third parties’ or Castanon’s privacy interests.
The interrogatories do not request specific health related information. 
 
            Request for Production of Documents
 
            Plaintiff’s
motion to compel further responses is granted, in part, and denied, in part.
 
            As
to Requests 19 and 31, the motion is granted, in part, and denied, in part. The
requests seek photographs and videos which may implicate the protected privacy
rights of third parties and the purported need for the information does not
outweigh these privacy interests. However, if there are videos or photos which
only depict Plaintiff, Castanon, and employees, such documents are ordered to
be produced. Thus, to that extent, the motion is granted.  `As to the matters that are not being produced
upon privilege grounds, Defendant is ordered to serve a privilege log
identifying such documents that are being withheld.
 
            As
to Requests 28, 29, and 32, the motion is granted, in part, and denied, in
part. While the requests do seek certain information that may not implicate
significant medical privacy interests of third parties, it appears that because
of the broad language of the requests, if a full production is provided,
certain privileged information may be implicated. Thus, the motion is granted
in part such that production is ordered as to non-privileged information, but a
privilege log is ordered to be served to identify the documents that are being
withheld based on grounds of medical privacy of third parties.
 
            As
to Requests 20, 23, 24, and 26, the motion is granted. Upon balancing the need
for the discovery against the privacy interest involved, the Court finds that
the purported need for discovery outweighs the privacy interests of either currently
unidentified third parties or co-Defendant Daniel Castanon.
 
            Requests for Admissions
 
            Plaintiff’s
motion to compel further responses is granted.
 
            Upon
balancing the need for the discovery against the privacy interest involved, the
Court finds that the purported need for discovery outweighs the privacy
interests of either currently unidentified third parties or co-Defendant Daniel
Castanon. The specific requests for admissions at issue with the motion are
sufficiently narrowly tailored such that it may obtain essential information
regarding witnesses and other facts without delving deeply into areas that
would be a significant violation of third parties’ or Castanon’s privacy
interests. In fact, the requests are framed in a manner that does not involve
the need to delve into specific health related or privacy related information
at all. Defendant can fully respond with an admission or denial without
disclosing any such privileged matters.
 
            As
to the portions of these motions which were granted, Defendant is ordered to
serve further responses within 20 days of this date.
 
            Plaintiff
is ordered to give notice of this ruling.