 Case Number:  24TRCV01756    Hearing Date:   June 26, 2024    Dept:  M 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT – SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 




 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka Wednesday, June 26, 2024
Department M Calendar No. 15  



 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Rafael
Lopez, et al. v. David Avalos, et al.  
24TRCV01756
1.     
Rafael Lopez, et
al.’s Application for Preliminary Injunction 
 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Rafael Lopez, et al.’s Application for a Preliminary
Injunction is granted pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 526.
 
Background
 
Plaintiffs’ Complaint was filed on May 23, 2024.
Plaintiffs allege the following facts. Plaintiffs borrowed money from Defendant
David Avalos, but the money was paid back. Plaintiffs do not recall ever
signing any promissory notes or notarizing any deeds of trust. Defendants’
current attempt to foreclose upon the property is fraudulent. 
 
Application for Preliminary Injunction
 
“In determining whether to issue a preliminary
injunction, the trial court considers two related factors: (1) the likelihood
that the plaintiff will prevail on the merits of its case at trial, and (2) the
interim harm that the plaintiff is likely to sustain if the injunction is
denied as compared to the harm that the defendant is likely to suffer if the
court grants a preliminary injunction. 
The latter factor involves consideration of such things as the
inadequacy of other remedies, the degree of irreparable harm, and the necessity
of preserving the status quo.”  14859 Moorpark Homeowner’s Assn. v. VRT
Corp. (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 1396, 1402.
 
Plaintiffs move for a preliminary injunction to
refrain Defendants as follows: “(1) From proceeding with the trustee's sale
under the notice of default recorded against the real property located at 1434
W 224th St., Torrance, CA 90501, assessor's parcel number 7347-005-022 (the
"subject property"), on January 18, 2024, originally scheduled on May
29, 2024, then rescheduled for June 4, 2024, pursuant to the Notice of
Trustee's Sale, recorded on May 1, 2024; and (2) Filing any further notices of
trustee's sales or selling the subject property secured by the deed of trust.”
(Order to Show Cause, page 2, lines 18-23).
 
The Court finds that, solely for purposes of the
instant application for preliminary injunction, Plaintiffs adequately met their
burden to demonstrate a likelihood that Plaintiffs will prevail on the merits
of the case at trial. Plaintiffs submitted evidence to, at a minimum, show that
Defendants may have committed violations of the statutes and wrongful acts
identified in the Complaint. Plaintiffs state that they paid back any money
owed to Defendants and that they do not recall signing any promissory notes or
notarizing any deeds of trust. (Decls., Blanca Lopez; Rafael Lopez, ¶¶ 8-12.)  Plaintiffs contend that, therefore, the
attempted foreclosure sale on the property is not lawful. (Id.)  Defendants filed no written opposition. 
 
Thus, in consideration of the above, the Court must
weigh the interim harm that Plaintiffs may suffer if an injunction is denied
compared to the harm that Defendants are likely to suffer if an injunction is
granted. A trustee’s sale of the subject real property has the potential of
inflicting irreparable harm upon Plaintiffs. In addition, the Court must
consider the policy of retaining the status quo until the resolution of the
action on the merits.  In conducting the
balancing test, the Court determines that the interim harm that Plaintiffs may
suffer if the injunction is not granted is greater than Defendants’ relative
harm if the injunction is granted. 
 
Therefore, the Court grants Plaintiffs’ application
for preliminary injunction. 
 
“On granting an injunction, the court or judge must
require an undertaking on the part of the applicant to the effect that the
applicant will pay to the party enjoined any damages, not exceeding an amount
to be specified, the party may sustain by reason of the injunction, if the
court finally decides that the applicant was not entitled to the injunction.
Within five days after the service of the injunction, the person enjoined may
object to the undertaking. If the court determines that the applicant's undertaking
is insufficient and a sufficient undertaking is not filed within the time
required by statute, the order granting the injunction must be dissolved.” Code
Civ. Proc., § 529(a).
 
The Court determines that the amount that Defendants
may suffer would simply be an approximate amount of fees incurred by Defendants
to ultimately substantiate and prevail as to Defendants’ defenses. 
 
The Court orders that Plaintiffs post a bond in the
sum of $25,000.00.  
 
Plaintiffs are ordered to give notice of this ruling.