  Case Number:  21SMCV00716    Hearing Date:   November 19, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           SMC Specialty
Finance LLC v. Sanping, et al.
CASE NO.:                21SMCV00716
MOTION:                  Motion
for Sanctions
HEARING DATE:   11/19/2024

 
Legal
Standard
            
If a party fails to obey a
court order compelling it to provide a discovery response, “the court may make
those orders that are just, including the imposition of an issue sanction, an
evidence sanction, or a terminating sanction . . .. In lieu of or in addition
to this sanction, the court may impose a monetary sanction . . ..” (CCP §§
2030.290(c), 2030.300(e), 2031.300(c), 2031.320(c).) Misuse of the discovery
process, which includes disobeying a court order to provide discovery, is
conduct subject to sanctions. (CCP § 2023.010(g).) Possible sanctions are: 
 
(a) [A] monetary sanction
ordering that one engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any
attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including
attorney's fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct…. 
 
(b) [A]n issue sanction
ordering that designated facts shall be taken as established in the action in
accordance with the claim of the party adversely affected by the misuse of the
discovery process. The court may also impose an issue sanction by an order
prohibiting any party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process from
supporting or opposing designated claims or defenses. 
 
(c) [A]n evidence sanction by
an order prohibiting any party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process
from introducing designated matters in evidence. 
 
(d) [A] terminating sanction by
one of the following orders: 
 
(1) An order
striking out the pleadings or parts of the pleadings of any party engaging in
the misuse of the discovery process. 
 
(2) An order
staying further proceedings by that party until an order for discovery is
obeyed. 
 
(3) An order
dismissing the action, or any part of the action, of that party. 
 
(4) An order
rendering a judgment by default against that party. 
 
(e) [A] contempt sanction by an
order treating the misuse of the discovery process as a contempt of court. 
 
(CCP § 2023.030.) 
 
The party seeking to impose
sanctions need only show the failure to obey earlier discovery orders. (Puritan
Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1985) 171 Cal.App.3d 877, 884 [interpreting
former statute dealing with “refusal” to comply].) However, numerous cases hold
that severe sanctions (i.e., terminating or evidentiary sanctions) for failure
to comply with a court order are allowed only where the failure was willful. (R.S.
Creative, Inc. v. Creative Cotton, Ltd. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 486, 495; Vallbona
v. Springer (1996) 43 Cal.App.4th 1525, 1545; Biles v. Exxon Mobil Corp.
(2004) 124 Cal.App.4th 1315, 1327.) The burden of proof then shifts to the
party seeking to avoid sanctions to establish a satisfactory excuse for his or
her conduct. (Corns v. Miller (1986) 181 Cal.App.3d 195, 201.) 
 
Spoliation of evidence means the
destruction or significant alteration of evidence or the failure to preserve
evidence for another's use in pending or future litigation. (Willard v.
Caterpillar, Inc. (1995) 40 Cal.App.4th 892, 907, overruled on other
grounds in Cedars–Sinai Medical Center v. Superior Court (1998) 18
Cal.4th 1, 18, fn. 4; see Victor Valley Union High School District v.
Superior Court of San Bernardino County (2023) 91 Cal.App.5th 1121, 1152
[duty to preserve evidence attaches where litigation was reasonably
foreseeable].) Such conduct is condemned because it “can destroy fairness and
justice, for it increases the risk of an erroneous decision on the merits of
the underlying cause of action. Destroying evidence can also increase the costs
of litigation as parties attempt to reconstruct the destroyed evidence or to
develop other evidence, which may be less accessible, less persuasive, or
both.” (Cedars, supra, 18 Cal.4th at 8.) It is a misuse of the
discovery process, subject to a broad range of punishment including monetary,
issue, evidentiary, and terminating sanctions. (Williams v. Russ¿(2008)
167 Cal.App.4th 1215, 1223; see CCP §§ 2023.010(d), 2023.030(a)-(d).)
 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
 
Defendants/Cross-Complainants’ objections to the Declaration
of Gary Gorham are OVERRULED.
 
Analysis
 

Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant SMC
Specialty Finance LLC (“SMC”) moves for sanctions against Defendant Beijing
Zhumeng Qiming Culture & Art Co. Ltd. (“Zhumeng”) for discovery abuse.  SMC requests the following sanctions:
 
a) a monetary sanction against
Zhumeng of $12,990 for the costs associated with bringing this motion; 
b) an evidentiary sanction
precluding Zhumeng from introducing evidence relating to its relationship, or
lack of relationship, with Xi (Alex) Zhang (“Zhang”); 
c) an evidentiary sanction in the
form of a jury instruction that Zhumeng failed to maintain evidence, lost or
discarded evidence, and submitted false responses to discovery in this case,
and that the jury may infer from such conduct that the evidence would have been
unfavorable to Zhumeng;
d) an issue sanction establishing
that Zhang acted with the authority of Zhumeng, or the apparent authority of
Zhumeng, to negotiate the disputed transaction with SMC; and/or 
e) a terminating sanction striking
Zhumeng’s Answer to SMC’s Complaint and its remaining claims in its Second
Amended Cross-Complaint (“SACC”).
 
SMC argues that such sanctions are
proper because Zhumeng admits that it: (1) failed to preserve evidence in the
possession of its employees, agents and officers, (2) lost or discarded
critical evidence in this case after litigation was filed, (3) served verified
responses to discovery falsely stating that it never possessed such evidence,
and (4) failed to amend its false discovery responses to cure its false
statements. SMC argues that Zhumeng claims to have “lost” certain responsive
documents after this lawsuit, including communications between Zhumeng’s
principal Ke Liming and Zhang, and communications between an employee, Xuanxuan
(“Tiffany”) Tie, and Zhang, as well as all communications regarding its $13.2
million dollar investment in the Midway film.
 
At-Issue Document Requests
 
On February 10, 2023, SMC
propounded Requests for Production of Documents (“RPD”), Set One, which
primarily sought documents relevant to the issue of whether Zhang was actually
or apparently Zhumeng’s agent. (Gorham Decl., ¶ 5, Ex. A.) This is a critical
issue in this lawsuit.  Relevant to this
motion, SMC requested: a) all communications between Zhumeng and Zhang or documents
relating to Zhang (RFP 5, 6); b) all communications with third parties about
Zhang (RFP 7, 8); c) all communications between Zhumeng and its agents and
employees, on the one hand, and Han Sanping, on the other hand. (RFP 9); d) documents
relating to Zhumeng’s investment in Midway (RFP 4); e) communications
with Midway Island Productions (“MIP”) (RFP 13); f) documents relating to the
Substitution Agreement wherein Zhumeng substituted in for another Chinese
company to provide financing (RFP 22); g) communications with Zhumeng’s
co-defendant Zhengfu and its director Han Jianu (RFP 10, 11).
 
Zhumeng served its operative supplemental
responses in March 2024. (Gorham Decl. ¶14, Ex. G.) In its supplemental
responses as to RFP nos. 4, 5, 13, and 22, Zhumeng stated it “has produced or
will produce all nonprivileged responsive documents in its possession, custody
or control that it located after a diligent search and reasonable inquiry.” As
to RFP nos. 6, 7, 8, 9, and 11, Zhumeng stated that after a diligent search and
reasonable inquiry no responsive and nonprivileged documents were found because
“such documents have never been in Zhumeng’s possession, custody or control.” Critical
to the Court’s analysis, Zhumeng never disclosed that any documents were lost,
misplaced or discarded. (Id.) In March 2024, Zhumeng produced documents consisting
of 281 pages. (Gorham Decl. ¶ 11, Ex. F.) 
 
SMC demonstrates that Zhumeng’s
production included no emails, WeChat communications, text messages or written
communication about its multi-million-dollar investment in Midway or
negotiations thereto, which was Zhumeng’s sole purpose. (Gorham Decl., ¶13, see
Qian Depo. 14:2-21 [Zhumeng’s sole business was its investment in Midway].)
SMC notes that Zhumeng did not even produce responsive documents which it
submitted earlier in this proceeding, despite indisputably having control over
said documents. (See Gorham Decl., ¶27, Ex. S [November 4, 2020 e-mail from its
employee Tiffany Tie to Lions Gate executive John Biondo, in which Tie stated
that Zhang was “a former employee of Zhumeng”].) 
 
 
 
 
Spoliation of Evidence, False Discovery Responses
 
SMC asserts that Zhumeng failed to
preserve evidence, destroyed responsive documents, failed to conduct a reasonable
search in responses to RFPs, and provided false responses to the RFPs. SMC
argues that the recent depositions of Zhumeng’s PMKs confirms Zhumeng’s discovery
abuse. 
 
SMC asserts that Zhumeng’s PMK,
Long Qian, admitted to failing to preserve responsive communications in the
possession of its employees, agents and officers. PMK Qian explained Zhumeng
has no policies regarding retention of emails and WeChats communications, and
that nobody at Zhumeng made any effort to preserve Tie’s WeChat communications,
despite her alleged importance to the Midway financing, which is central
to this dispute. (Gorham Decl., ¶ 20, Ex. L, at 44:21-25.) Qian admits that she
exchanged WeChats with Xi Xiaotang (the director of Jixiang, the other party to
the Substitution Agreement and later a general manager of Zhumeng), Tiffany Tie
(employed at Jixiang, Zhengfu, and Zhumeng at various relevant times), and
Jianu Han (director of Zhengfu). (Id., at 42:11-16.) These communications are
indisputably within the scope of the RFPs. Qian explains that she lost “most”
of the WeChats due to “periodic cleansing” of her phone, and her changing of
phones “from time to time.” Qian provides no details in opposition about her
periodic cleansing of relevant and material evidence during the pendency of
this suit. Qian also testified that no employees were asked to preserve documents.  (Id., at 43:13-44:1.)  While Qian states that a diligent search has
been now made “in connection with discovery in this action,” that is not the
issue before the Court.  (Qian Decl., ¶ 3.)  The critical time frame is whether evidence
was preserved once litigation became reasonably foreseeable.
 
Furthermore, PMK Ke Leming,
director and principal of Zhumeng, admitted at deposition that he communicated
with Han Sanping and Zhang by WeChat, but had lost those messages because his
phone was stolen while he was on a COVID-19 lockdown in December 2022. (Gorham
Decl. ¶¶ 13, 21, Ex. M, at 25:15-17, 59-60; see Ke Liming Decl., ¶¶5-9.) The
Court is unsure how a phone was stolen when someone was on a “lockdown,” but that
is beside the point. These communications would have been “lost” ten months
after this litigation was filed.
 
The PMKs’ deposition testimonies demonstrate
that no reasonable efforts were made to obtain communications from several of Zhumeng’s
current and former employees. For instance, Zhumeng made no effort to obtain WeChat
communications from Tie, an employee during the pendency of this action, who
allegedly negotiated the central transaction. (Id., at 45:5-8; 81:10-13; see
RJN Ex. 1 [Tie’s decl. in Opp. to SMC’s MSA].) WeChats from Tie regarding Midway
admittedly existed, but Zhumeng cannot explain what happened or why they were
not secured. (Id., at 180-181.) Zhumeng also failed to search for e-mails to or
from Zhang Guodong, the employee at Zhumeng who executed several of the Midway
agreements and whose signature was allegedly forged on a 2020 letter of
direction from Zhumeng to SMC. Despite the fact that such communications would
be responsive to the subject RFPs, Zhumeng admits it did not attempt to search through
Mr. Guodong’s email account. (Id., at 76:18-21, 80:24-91:2.) 
 
             No financial models and no communications to
or from Hu Jian regarding the Midway project were produced. (Gorham
Decl., ¶14.) Qian did not know whether Hu Jian had “financial models relating
to Midway” or whether there were any written documents at Zhumeng
reflecting financial information about Midway. Qian responded that she
was “not certain about that” and would “need to think about it or go back and
look for it.” (Qian Depo, Gorham Decl., ¶ 20, Ex. L, at 65:16-22, 169:15-19.) Even
though no finance information was produced, Zhumeng has proffered a declaration
in which Tie explains that she “received profit reports” relating to Midway.
(RJN ¶1, Ex. I, at ¶29; Gorham Decl. ¶13.) 
 
 
SMC demonstrates that Zhumeng
engaged in willful discovery abuse. SMC further shows that Zhumeng had a duty
to preserve evidence starting at the latest, November 2020, when it learned
that money due on Midway was the subject of SMC’s foreclosure
proceeding. (Bakewell Decl., ¶ 27, Ex. 2.) The record demonstrates that it
failed to preserve WeChat communications regarding Midway during the
pendency of this suit. The evidence also supports the Court’s conclusion that Zhumeng’s
agent(s) destroyed relevant communications during the pendency of this lawsuit,
failed to conduct reasonably diligent searches, and provided false responses to
the RFPs. Zhumeng’s current responses to the RFPs suggested that documents
would be produced or have never been in its possession/custody/control, but did
not state that any responsive documents were lost or destroyed as required by
section 2031.230. Thus, at a minimum, Zhumeng has provided unexplained, false
responses to the RFPs. 
 
Zhumeng’s communications regarding Midway
would be critical to resolving SMC and Zhengfu’s claims regarding the Midway
rights. For instance, the representatives of MIP believed that Zhumeng was a
company owned and controlled by Zhang and Han Sanping, as did Sacker, who
represented Zhumeng (and other Han Sanping companies) in connection with Midway.
Communications with those parties would confirm whether or not Zhumeng was
using Zhang as an agent. The absence of these records speaks volumes against
Zhumeng. In fact, the entirety of the record suggests intentional and willful spoliation
of material evidence. Zhumeng therefore has the burden to explain its conduct.
 
Zhumeng claims that no willful discovery
abuse occurred. Ke and Long’s explanations in opposition are perfunctory and incredible.
Long provides no details on how the information on her phone was culled. Long simply
expects the court to accept that she either intentionally deleted messages due
to storage space, or lost the messages during unspecified phone exchanges
without any specifics. Ke at least claims that the phone was stolen in December
2022 while he was locked down in quarantine. The Court is unsure how that theft
could have occurred during a lockdown but will assume the contention is true. However,
this was still well over a year after this lawsuit began, and apparently three
months before he was even asked to preserve or look for these documents. In
light of the May 2021, TRO hearing centered on Zhang’s authority, Ke’s position
is utterly implausible. To strain credibility further, Ke now claims that these
messages would be helpful for Zhumeng’s action. If the messages were so helpful
for Zhumeng, then Zhumeng’s failure to preserve such messages, or produce them
during the May 2021 TRO hearing, is truly confounding. Further, Zhumeng does
not explain why it did not produce any WeChats, when Qian admits to
having at least some WeChats. Zhumeng offers no explanation in
opposition why they failed to produce any financial information regarding
Midway, despite admitting on the record that they have profit reports. Zhumeng
also fails to explain why they have not reached out to Tie or Xiaotang in an
effort to mitigate this lost evidence. 
 
The totality of the record demonstrates
that the PMK’s intentionally deleted or failed to maintain the documents and communications
in bad faith. This bad faith loss of evidence resulted in a substantial
prejudice SMC’s rights to discovery and its ability to prosecute and defend this
action.  Therefore, the remaining
questions is the appropriate sanction.
 
Sanctions
 
In light of Zhumeng’s willful
discovery violations discussed above, the Court tentatively issues the
following sanctions: 
1) monetary sanctions against
Zhumeng in the noticed amount of $12,990.00; and 
2) an evidentiary sanction in the
form of a jury instruction that Zhumeng failed to maintain evidence, lost or
discarded evidence, and submitted false responses to discovery in this case,
and that the jury may infer from such conduct that the evidence would have been
unfavorable to Zhumeng.
 
Tentatively, the Court is not
inclined to issue more extreme sanctions on this record, but will discuss that
issue during the hearing. While the Court believes that Zhumeng’s PMKs
intentionally destroyed material evidence, and that terminating sanctions could
be appropriate under such circumstances, the above sanctions will sufficiently
mitigate any substantive harm to SMC without risking an unearned windfall to
SMC.  
 
Accordingly, the motion is GRANTED.