 Case Number:  24SMCV01691    Hearing Date:   November 19, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Bobs LLC v. Quality
Loan Service Corp., et al.
CASE NO.:                24SMCV01691
MOTION:                  Motion
to Quash
HEARING DATE:   11/19/2024

 
 
Legal
Standard
 
Code of Civil Procedure section
1987.1 states that “[i]f a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness or the
production of books, documents, electronically stored information, or other
things before a court, or at the trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of
a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably made by any person described in
subdivision (b), or upon the court’s own motion after giving counsel notice and
an opportunity to be heard, may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely,
modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as
the court shall declare, including protective orders.”  (CCP §
1987.1(a).)  “In addition, the court may make any other order as may be
appropriate to protect the person from unreasonable or oppressive demands,
including unreasonable violations of the right of privacy of the person.” 
(Id.)  
   
As a general rule, all unprivileged
information that is relevant to the subject matter of the action is
discoverable if it would itself be admissible evidence at trial or if it
appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.
(CCP § 2017.010; Schnabel v. Superior Court (1993) 5 Cal.4th 704,
711.) Information is relevant if it might reasonably assist a party in
evaluating the case, preparing for trial, or facilitating settlement. (Gonzalez
v. Superior Court (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1539, 1546.)
 
Subpoenas which seek consumer
records, including personal financial information, must adhere to additional
procedural requirements laid out in CCP § 1985.3.  The subpoena must first
be served on the consumer at least five days before it is served on the
nonparty from whom records are sought (with a five-day extension if served by
mail, pursuant to CCP § 1013). (CCP, § 1985.3(b)(3).) A subpoena must
be served on the custodian of records at least fifteen days before the date
upon which records are to be produced, plus any statutory extensions. (Id.,
§§ 1985.3(d), 2020.410(c).) CCP section¿2025.410(c) requires that a motion to
quash a deposition notice must be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration.  
 
Additionally, a motion to quash
production of documents at a deposition must be accompanied by a separate
statement setting forth the particular documents or demands at issue and the
factual and legal reasons why production should not be compelled.  (CRC rule
3.1345(a)(5).) 
 
EVIDENTIARY
ISSUES
 
Defendant’s request for judicial
notice is GRANTED.
 
Plaintiff’s request for judicial
notice is GRANTED.
 
ANALYSIS
 
Defendant Sam Ostayan moves to
quash seven deposition subpoenas issued and served on several third parties by Plaintiff
Bobs, LLC requiring the production of business records in the possession of
such third parties, and for an order requiring Plaintiff to pay reasonable
expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by Defendant in relation to the
making of this motion, in the amount of $5,640.00. This includes the following
subpoenas:
 
• Deposition Subpoena for
Production of Business Records to the Custodian of Records for Attorney Lender
Services, Inc.;
• Deposition Subpoena for
Production of Business Records to the Custodian of Records for Clear Recon
Corp.;
• Deposition Subpoena for
Production of Business Records to the Custodian of Records for First American
Title Insurance Company;
• Deposition Subpoena for
Production of Business Records to the Custodian of Records for Integrated
Lender Services, Inc.;
• Deposition Subpoena for
Production of Business Records to the Custodian of Records for Mortgage Lender
Services, Inc.;
• Deposition Subpoena for
Production of Business Records to the Custodian of Records for S.B.S. Lien
Services; and
• Deposition Subpoena for
Production of Business Records to the Custodian of Records for Total Lender
Solutions.
 
            As to the Mortgage
Lender Services and Total Lender Solutions subpoenas, the deponents responded.  (Geibelson Decl., Exs. F–G.) Thus, the motion
is essentially moot as to these subpoenas. Otherwise, Defendant objects to each
subpoena on financial privacy grounds. 
 
The party asserting a privacy right
must establish a legally protected privacy interest, an objectively reasonable
expectation of privacy in the given circumstances, and a threatened intrusion
that is serious. (Hill v. National Collegiate Athletic Assn.
(1994) 7 Cal.4th 1, 35-37.) The party seeking information may raise, in
response, whatever legitimate and important countervailing interests disclosure
serves, while the party seeking protection may identify feasible alternatives
that serve the same interests or protective measures that would diminish the
loss of privacy. (Id. at 37–40.) If there is a serious invasion of
a constitutional right to privacy, the party seeking the evidence must
establish that the information sought is not only essential and directly
relevant, but also that this information could not be discovered through less
intrusive means. (Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 552.)
In considering a privacy objection, trial courts must carefully balance a right
of privacy against the interest in having just litigation. (Pioneer Electronics
(USA), Inc. v. Superior Court (2007) 40 Cal.4th 360, 371.); Allen v.
Superior Court (1984) 151 Cal.App.3d 447, 449; see, e.g., Valley Bank of
Nevada v. Superior Court (1975) 15 Cal.3d 652, 658 [factors include “.
. . the purpose of the information sought, the effect that disclosure will have
on the parties and on the trial, the nature of the objections urged by the
party resisting disclosure, and ability of the court to make an alternative
order which may grant partial disclosure, disclosure in another form, or
disclosure only in the event that the party seeking the information undertakes
certain specified burdens which appear just under the circumstances.”].) The
burden is on the party seeking the constitutionally protected information to
establish direct relevance. (Harris v. Superior Court (1992) 3
Cal.App.4th 661, 665.)  
 
Defendant raises a valid privacy
concern. (Ostayan Decl., ¶¶2-3.) Personal financial records come within the
zone of privacy protected by the California Constitution, Article 1, Section 1.
(Valley Bank of Nevada v. Superior Court (1975) 15 Cal.3d 652, 655-656; Fortunato
v. Superior Court (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 475, 480-481; see also Schnabel
v. Superior Court (1993) 5 Cal.4th 704, 712-713 [finding a right to privacy
in confidential customer information in whatever form it takes, including tax
returns, checks, statements, or other account information].) The state's
privacy provision “extends to one's confidential financial affairs as well as
to the details of one's personal life” (Pioneer Electronics (USA), Inc. v.
Superior Court¿(2007) 40 Cal.4th 360, 368.) Here, each of the subpoenas
plainly seeks personal financial information from financial institutions. The
subpoenas seek communications with lenders. With the potential exception of
Defendant’s section 2924m declarations for certain real estate transactions,
the subpoenas call for Defendant’s financial lenders to disclose information
concerning Defendant’s loan transactions. Such information falls within the
scope of Defendant’s private financial information 
 
Plaintiff demonstrates direct
relevancy of information on Defendant’s past foreclosure purchases. Defendant
argues that information regarding his purchase of other properties would
be irrelevant in this case concerning the sale of the Subject Property. To the
contrary, the subpoenas seek evidence which would be directly relevant to
Plaintiff’s wrongful foreclosure, fraud and UCL claims against Defendant.
Plaintiff relies, in part, on Defendant’s fraudulent misrepresentations in violation
of section 2429m(a). Section 2924m allows a “prospective owner-occupant” to
make a priority bid at auctions. To qualify as a “prospective owner-occupant,”
a person must aver that they “will occupy the property as their primary
residence … for at least one year.” (Civ. Code § 2429m(a).) The SAC alleges
that Defendant made such a declaration, despite not being a qualified
prospective owner-occupant. The SAC alleges he had no intention of occupying
the Property as his primary residence and was acting as the agent of others in
attempting to purchase the Property. (SAC ¶ 54.) Accordingly, he obtained the Property
by fraudulently representing himself as a prospective owner-occupant during the
April 2024 sale and is therefore not a bona fide purchaser for value. (¶¶ 27, 54-56,
97-102.) Defendants’ conduct was allegedly unfair, unlawful and fraudulent
under the UCL. (¶ 105.) Plaintiff must be allowed to inquire into whether
Defendant was truly a qualified prospective owner-occupant. 
 
Plaintiff has presented specific
cause for discovery into Defendant’s past foreclosure purchases. Defendant has
made seventeen declarations since September 2021 averring his intent to
occupy a primary residence for more than a year. These contradictory statements
would tend to show the falsity of his declaration in the subject sale. For
example, if Defendant has declared in 2023 or 2024 that he did occupy or
intended to occupy a different property for more than a year, then it is more
likely that he did not intend to occupy the Subject Property during an
overlapping time period. The subject subpoenas will flush out any inconsistent
statements Defendant may have made to lenders concerning his intent to occupy
the various properties he has purchased as his primary residence. Further, the
records may also reveal whether Ostayan was acting on behalf of others when
purchasing any the properties, and further evidence of Ostayan’s intent for his
purchase of the subject property.
 
That said, any declarations from
2022 could not contradict his declaration concerning the subject property in
April 2024. Thus, the scope of the subpoenas will be limited to records
starting in 2023 to the present. With this limitation in place, there would be
no less-intrusive means reasonably available to obtain the same information. 
 
Accordingly, the motion to quash is
DENIED. The subpoenas are modified as discussed, i.e., production is limited to
records from 2023 to the present. 