 Case Number:  23PSCV01207    Hearing Date:   October 16, 2023    Dept:  6 CASE NAME:  Ariana  Escala v. Envision WC MB Auto, LLC, et al. Defendants  Envision WC MB Auto, LLC and Federated Mutual Insurance Company’s Motion to  Compel Arbitration  TENTATIVE RULING The Court GRANTS the motion to compel arbitration. This action is  STAYED pending arbitration.  The Court will set a Status Conference re Arbitration at or following  the hearing on this motion.              Defendants are  ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this  order.  BACKGROUND This is a car purchase dispute. On  April 24, 2023, Plaintiff Ariana Escala (Plaintiff) filed this action against  Defendants Envision WC MB Auto, LLC (Envision) and Federated Mutual Insurance  Company (Federated Mutual) (collectively, Defendants) and Does 1 through 100,  alleging causes of action for intentional misrepresentation, negligent  misrepresentation, violation of Business and Professions Code § 17200, bond  claim, violation of the Consumer Legal Remedies Act, and breach of implied  warranty.  On September 6, 2023, Defendants filed the instant motion to  compel arbitration. On September 21, 2023, Plaintiff opposed. On October 9,  2023, Defendants replied.  LEGAL  STANDARD Parties may be compelled  to arbitrate a dispute upon the court finding that: (1) there was a valid  agreement to arbitrate between the parties; and (2) said agreement covers the  controversy or controversies in the parties’ dispute. (Omar v. Ralphs  Grocery Co. (2004)¿118 Cal.App.4th 955, 961.) A party moving to compel  arbitration has the burden of establishing the existence of a valid agreement  to arbitrate and the party opposing the petition has the burden of proving, by  a preponderance of the evidence, any fact necessary to its defense. (Banner  Entertainment, Inc. v. Superior Court¿(1998) 62 Cal.App.4th 348, 356-357.)  A party seeking to compel arbitration meets their initial burden of  establishing the existence of a valid arbitration agreement by attaching a copy  to the motion or petition to compel arbitration. (Espejo v. Southern California  Permanente Medical Group (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 1047, 1060.)  “California  has a strong public policy in favor of arbitration and any doubts regarding the  arbitrability of a dispute are resolved in favor of arbitration.” (Coast  Plaza Doctors Hospital v. Blue Cross of California (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th  677, 686.) “This strong policy has resulted in the general rule that  arbitration should be upheld unless it can be said with assurance that an  arbitration clause is not susceptible to an interpretation covering the  asserted dispute.” (Ibid. [internal quotations omitted].) This  is in accord with the liberal federal policy favoring arbitration agreements  under the Federal Arbitration Act (“FAA”), which governs all agreements to  arbitrate in contracts involving interstate commerce. (9 U.S.C. § 2, et  seq.; Higgins v. Superior Court (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 1238, 1247.) DISCUSSION         FAA v CAA             “[T]he FAA's procedural provisions (9 U.S.C. §§ 3, 4, 10, 11) do not  apply unless the contract contains a choice-of-law clause expressly  incorporating them.” (Id. at 174, 110 Cal.Rptr.3d 180.)  “[T]he question is not whether the parties adopted the CAA’s procedural provisions: The state's procedural  statutes (§§ 1281.2, 1290.2) apply by default because Congress intended the  comparable FAA sections (9 U.S.C. §§ 3, 4, 10, 11) to apply in federal court.  The question, therefore, is whether the parties expressly incorporated the FAA’s procedural provisions into their agreements.” (Victrola 89, LLC v. Jaman Properties 8 LLC (2020) 46  Cal.App.5th 337, 345) [internal citations and quotation marks omitted].            “[P]revious cases have held that when an arbitration agreement  provides that its ‘enforcement’ shall be governed by California law, the  California Arbitration Act (CAA) governs a party's motion to compel  arbitration. It follows that when an agreement provides that its ‘enforcement’  shall be governed by the FAA, the FAA governs a party's motion to compel  arbitration.” (Victrola 89, LLC v. Jaman Properties 8 LLC  (2020) 46 Cal.App.5th 337, 346.) Defendants move under both the FAA  and the CAA to compel arbitration in this matter. While the Arbitration  Agreement (as defined below) provides that it is governed by the FAA, (Economou  Decl., Ex. 1, p. Motion, Ex. 1), that is insufficient to invoke the procedural  provisions of the FAA. The Arbitration Agreement must specify that its  enforcement is governed by the FAA. (See Victrola 89, supra, 46  Cal.App.5th at p. 346.) Defendants also have not cited to any evidence of the Sales  Contract (as defined below) involving interstate commerce. (See 9 U.S.C. § 2, et seq.; Higgins, supra, 140  Cal.App.4th at p. 1247.)  Accordingly,  the CAA governs this motion. Analysis             “[T]he  petitioner bears the burden of proving its existence by a preponderance of the  evidence.” (Rosenthal v. Great Western Fin. Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413.) “If  the party opposing the petition raises a defense to enforcement—either fraud in  the execution voiding the agreement, or a statutory defense of waiver or  revocation [citation]—that party bears the burden of producing evidence of, and  proving by a preponderance of the evidence, any fact necessary to the defense.”  (Ibid.) The moving party meets their initial burden of proving the  existence of a valid arbitration agreement by attaching a copy to the motion. (Espejo,  supra, 246 Cal.App.4th at p. 1060.)              Defendants have attached a copy of a  Retail Installment Sales Contract (Sales Contract) for the subject vehicle to  their motion. (Economou Decl., Ex. 1.)[1] It also contains an arbitration clause (Arbitration Agreement). (Id.) Accordingly,  Defendants have met their initial burden. The burden now shifts to Plaintiff to  challenge the validity of the Arbitration Agreement.              Plaintiff does not dispute the  existence of the Arbitration Agreement, that she is a party to the Sales  Contract, or that it covers the purchase of the subject vehicle. Instead,  Plaintiff contends the motion should be denied because California law prohibits  arbitration of claims for public injunctive relief, citing McGill v.  Citibank, N.A. (2017) 2 Cal.5th 945 and Mejia v. DACM, Inc. (2020)  54 Cal.App.5th 961. For the reasons set forth below, the Court disagrees.  The  Court notes that in McGill, the California Supreme Court held that the  arbitration clause in that case which precluded the right to seek injunctive  relief in any forum was invalid and unenforceable. (McGill, supra, 2  Cal.5th at p. 961 (“Thus, insofar as the arbitration provision here purports to  waive McGill's right to request in any forum such public injunctive relief, it  is invalid and unenforceable under California law.”).) No such language is  found in the subject arbitration agreement. Thus, McGill does not  provide a basis to deny the motion to compel arbitration.  Further,  while the California Supreme Court held that claims for injunctive relief under  the CLRA and UCL are inarbitrable, it also held that claims for restitution or  disgorgement under the UCL, as well as other claims for damages, are  arbitrable. (See Cruz v. PacifiCare Health Systems, Inc. (2003)  30 Cal.4th 303, 316, 320 (“We therefore conclude that each of Cruz's injunctive  relief requests is inarbitrable.”; “We therefore conclude that Cruz's actions  for restitution and/or disgorgement, whether brought as an individual or as a  class action, are arbitrable. By the same logic, his common law claim for  unjust enrichment, which is essentially an action for restitution is also  arbitrable.”) Here, Plaintiff does seek injunctive relief under the CLRA (Compl.  ¶ 82), which is not arbitrable. But Plaintiff also seeks restitution under the  UCL (Compl., ¶57 and Prayer 3rd Cause of Action ¶ 1) and damages  under the CLRA (Compl., ¶78 and Prayer 5th Cause of Action ¶¶ 1-3), as  well as damages under her other claims, which are arbitrable.  This  Court has discretion to stay proceedings on inarbitrable claims pending  resolution of the arbitration. (Cruz, supra, 30 Cal.4th at p. 320 (“Finally,  we note that when there is a severance of arbitrable from inarbitrable claims,  the trial court has the discretion to stay proceedings on the inarbitrable  claims pending resolution of the arbitration.”))              Moreover, although not raised by the  parties in their respective briefs, the Court notes that the Arbitration  Agreement provides that the question of arbitrability is to be determined by  the arbitrator. Specifically, it states that, “[a]ny claim or dispute, whether  in contract, tort, statute or otherwise (including the interpretation and  scope of this Arbitration Provision, and the arbitrability of the claim or  dispute), between you or us… which arises out of or relates to your… purchase  or condition of this vehicle… shall… be resolved by neutral, binding arbitration  and not by a court action.” (Economou Decl., Ex. 1, italics added.) An arbitration clause that “clearly and  unmistakably” empowers the arbitrator to decide issues of arbitrability is  enforceable. (B.D. v. Blizzard Entertainment, Inc. (2022) 76 Cal.App.5th  931, 957.) “There  are two prerequisites for a delegation clause to be effective. First, the  language of the clause must be clear and unmistakable. [Citation.] Second, the  delegation must not be revocable under state contract defenses such as fraud,  duress, or unconscionability.’ [Citations.] The ‘clear and unmistakable’ test  reflects a ‘heightened  standard of proof’ that reverses the typical presumption in favor of the  arbitration of disputes.’ [Citation.]” (Id., at p. 957, italics in  original.)  Here,  the Arbitration Agreement expressly provides that the arbitrator determines the  arbitrability of any claims or disputes thereunder. (Economou Decl., Ex. 1.) The  Court finds this language to be clear and unmistakable. Plaintiff also raised  no unconscionability arguments with respect to the Arbitration Agreement, or  the Sales Contract for that matter, even after Defendants’ moving papers addressed  any potential unconscionability arguments. Plaintiff otherwise raised no  defenses to enforcement of the Arbitration Agreement, such as fraud or duress.  Thus, the arbitrator will determine which of Plaintiff’s claims are covered by  the Arbitration Agreement.  Based  on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS the motion to compel arbitration. The Court  will further stay this action pending arbitration, and set a Status Conference  re Arbitration.  CONCLUSION The Court GRANTS the motion to compel arbitration. This action is  STAYED pending arbitration.  The Court will set a Status Conference re Arbitration at or  following the hearing on this motion.Defendants are ordered to give notice of the Court's ruling within five calendar days of this order.      