 Case Number:  23STCV11460    Hearing Date:   October 12, 2023    Dept:  39 Paul Kim v.
Airstream, Inc.
Case No.
23STCV11460
Motion to Stay
 
            Plaintiff
Paul Kim (“Plaintiff”) filed this case under the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty
Act against Airstream, Inc. (“Defendant”). 
Plaintiff purchased the Airstream in California.  However, Plaintiff signed a limited warranty
with a forum selection clause that states:
 
“Exclusive jurisdiction for deciding legal disputes relating
to alleged breach of express warranty and breach of implied warranties arising
by operation of law as well as those relating to representations of any nature
rests in the courts within the state of manufacture, which is Ohio.  Also, this limited warranty shall be
interpreted and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of
Ohio.  Any and all claims, controversies,
and causes of action arising out of or relating to this limited warranty, whether
sounding [in] contract, tort, or statute, shall be governed by the laws of the
State of Ohio, including its statute of limitations, without giving effect to
any conflict of law rules that would result in the application of the laws of a
different jurisdiction.”
 
(Declaration of Rick March, Exh. A, p. 2.) 
 
            The problem
with this forum selection clause is that it applies Ohio law, “without giving
any effect to conflict of law rules that would result in the application of the
laws of a different jurisdiction.”  This
is a problem because the Airstream was purchased in California, and the
Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act cannot be waived.  (See Civ. Code, § 1790.1.)  Recognizing this problem, Defendants have
stipulated that the Ohio court shall “utilize the Song-Beverly Consumer
Warranty Act to adjudicate those allegations.” 
(Declaration of James R. Robertson, ¶ 5.)  The Court grants the motion, conditioned on
Defendant—and the Ohio court—applying the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act to
this dispute.  The Court finds that
striking the waiver provision cures the unconscionability.  
 
The remainder of Plaintiff’s
arguments are not persuasive.  Per
California law, a forum-selection clause is presumptively valid, and is
enforceable unless the opposing party meets the “heavy burden” of proving
enforcement would be unreasonable under the circumstances of the case.  (Bancomer S.A. v. Superior Court (1996)
44 Cal.App.4th 1450, 1457.)  Where a
contract contains a forum-selection clause that requires litigation to proceed
exclusively in one particular forum, the court will enforce the clause unless
it is unreasonable.  (Animal Film, LLC
v. D.E.J. Productions, Inc. (2011) 193 Cal.App.4th 466, 471.)  “A clause is reasonable if it has a logical
connection with at least one of the parties or their transaction.”  (Verdugo v. Alliantgroup, L.P. (2015)
237 Cal.App.4th 141, 147.)  Defendant
manufactures its vehicles in Ohio.  As
such, the forum-selection clause is reasonable.
 
            Plaintiff’s
counsel suggests that his client did not freely and voluntarily agree to the
forum selection clause because he did not read it.  Plaintiff’s declaration does not support that
argument.  (Declaration of Paul Kim, ¶¶
6-8.)  Clearly, he received the warranty
and signed it.  (See Declaration of Rick
March, Exh. A.)  The Court has considered
Plaintiff’s counsel’s remaining arguments and finds none to be persuasive.
 
            Based upon
the forgoing, the Court orders as follows:
 
            1.         The Court strikes the provision stating
that Ohio law shall apply to this dispute, regardless of Ohio’s choice-of-law
provisions.
 
            2.         The Court grants the motion on the
condition that the Ohio court applies the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act in
its entirety (e.g., the law governing what is a defect, the law governing what
is a reasonable number of repair attempts, etc.)    
 
            3.         The Court advances and vacates all
dates and stays this case.
 
4.         This
order is without prejudice to a motion to lift the stay if the Ohio court
refuses to apply the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act in its entirety.  (See Investors Equity Life Holding Co. v.
Schmidt (2015) 233 Cal.App.4th 1363, 1376.)
 
5.         The
Court sets an Order to Show Cause why this case should not be dismissed.  The hearing shall be on May 13, 2024, at 8:30
a.m.  The Court orders Plaintiff’s
counsel to file a status report on or before May 2, 2024.  The Court provides notice: If Plaintiff’s
counsel fails to file a status report and fails to appear at the hearing,
either remotely or in-person, absent good cause, the Court will assume this
matter has been resolved in Ohio and will dismiss this case with prejudice.
 
6.         The
Court’s clerk shall provide notice.  
   