 Case Number:  24STCP00039    Hearing Date:   November 5, 2024    Dept:  45 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 



 
TIERRA HOLDINGS CO., LLC, a California limited
  liability company; FEM VENTURES, LLC, a California limited liability company;
  
and QBN CAPITAL, LLC, a California limited liability
  company,
 
                            
  Petitioners,
 
                              vs.
 
G2K HOLDINGS, LLC., a California limited liability
  company; EUGENIO A. GONZALEZ, an Individual; ROBERT KNOHL, an Individual; and
  MONICA GONZALEZ; an Individual; and DOES 1 – 20, inclusive,
 
                             
  Respondents.
 


Case No.:  24STCP00039
DEPARTMENT 45
 
 
 
[TENTATIVE] RULING
 
 
 
Action Filed: 
  1/5/24
Trial Date: 
  N/A



 
Hearing date:              November 5, 2024
Moving Party:             Petitioner FEM VENTURES, LLC
Responding Party:      None
Motion for Charging
Order Against Eugenio Gonzalez
The Court considered the moving papers.
No opposition or reply was filed. 
            The
Judgement Creditor’s motion is GRANTED.
Background
            On
June 5, Petitioners Tierra Holdings Co., LLC, FEM Ventures, LLC, and QBN
Capital, LLC obtained a judgment from this Court against Respondents G2K
Holdings, LLC, Eugenio Gonzalez, Monica Gonzalez, and Robert Knohl, jointly and
severally, in the total sum of $3,279,720.93. 
             
            On
June 27, 2024, Petitioner FEM Ventures, LLC (“Judgment Creditor”) filed an
Application for Appearance and Examination of Respondent Eugenio Gonzalez
(“Gonzalez”) set for hearing on September 12, 2024. On that date, Gonzalez
failed to appear. The Court ordered a bench warrant and set bail in the amount
of $5,000. The hearing was continued to 
October 17, 2024. 
On October 2, 2024, Judgment Creditor
filed this Motion for Charging Order against Gonzalez to satisfy the judgment. 
On October 17, 2024, Gonzalez again
failed to appear. The hearing was continued to November 20, 2024. 
            No
opposition or reply was filed as of October 29, 2024.
Legal Standard
Code of Civil Procedure, section 708.310
provides:¿ 
“If a money judgment is rendered against a partner or
member but not against the partnership or limited liability company, the
judgment debtor’s interest in the partnership or limited liability company may
be applied toward the satisfaction of the judgment by an order charging the
judgment debtor’s interest. . .”
Code of Civil Procedure, section 708.320, subdivision (a)
provides:¿ 
“A lien on a judgment debtor's interest in a
partnership or limited liability company is created by service of a notice of
motion for a charging order on the judgment debtor and on either of the
following: (2) All members or the limited liability company.”
Corporations Code, section 17705.03, subdivision (a)
provides, in relevant part:¿¿ 
“On application by a judgment creditor of a member or
transferee, a court may enter a charging order against the transferable
interest of the judgment debtor for the unsatisfied amount of the judgment.¿¿A
charging order constitutes a lien on a judgment debtor’s transferable interest
and requires the limited liability company to pay over to the person to which
the charging order was issued any distribution that would otherwise be paid to
the judgment debtor.”
Discussion
On June 5, the Court entered a
judgment confirming an arbitration award on this matter in the total sum of
$3,279,720.93. (Bequer Decl., ¶ 2, Exh. A.) As of the motion’s filing date,
September 11, 2024, Respondents have not paid any portion of the judgment.
(Mot., 3:5.) Petitioner/Judgment Creditor FEM Ventures, LLC moves the
Court to issue a charging order against Respondent/Judgment Debtor Gonzalez’s
transferable interest in two limited liability companies (LLCs).
The Court finds that Judgment Creditor
has served the Gonzalez and the two LLCs with the Notice of Motion for Charging
Order and filed proof of service with the Court in accordance with Code of
Civil Procedure, section 708.320, subdivision (a).
Judgment Creditor has identified two limited
liability companies in which Gonzalez owns an interest: Sunflower Apartments,
LLC (“Sunflower”) and Avalon Cove Communities, LLC (“Avalon”). Prior to the
entry of judgment, Gonzalez gave Benjamin Bequer, principal of Judgment
Creditor, a property/asset listing schedule. (Bequer Decl., ¶ 3.) Sunflower and
Avalon were listed on the schedule as entities that Gonzalez owns an interest
in and owns property through. (Ibid.) The California Secretary of
State’s website indicates that Sunflower and Avalon both have Matthew Sullivan
listed as their agent. (Bequer Decl., ¶¶ 4-6, Exhs. B, C.) Further, both
entities have the same mailing address. (Bequer Decl., ¶ 6.) Such commonalities
indicate common ownership by Gonzalez. (Ibid.) The Court finds Judgment
Creditor has established Gonzalez’s interest in the two limited liability
companies. 
Conclusion
            The
Court GRANTS the Motion for Charging Order. 
            It is
so ordered.
 
Dated: November 5, 2024
 
_______________________
MEL RED RECANA
Judge of the Superior Court
 
 