  Case Number:  23STCV18258    Hearing Date:   November 5, 2024    Dept:  45 Superior Court of
California
County
of Los Angeles
 



 
RAVAND
  CONSTRUCTION, INC., a California Corporation; HASSAN MOHAMMADKHANIGHIYASVAND
  aka RAMIN GHIYASVAND, an individual,
 
                             Plaintiff,
 
                              vs.
ALEN
  AIR SYSTEMS, a California Corporation; ALEN MANOOKIAN, an individual; and
  DOES 1 through 50, inclusive,
 
                              Defendants.


Case No.: 23STCV18258
DEPARTMENT
  45
 
 
 
[TENTATIVE] RULING
 
 
 
Action
  Filed: 8/2/2023
[1st
  Amended Complaint Filed: N/A]
Trial
  Date: 6/30/2025



 
Hearing date: November
5, 2024
Moving Party: Defendant
Madlen Manoukian
Responding
Party: Plaintiffs Ravand Construction, Inc. and Hassan Mohammadkhanighiy Asvand
Defendant
Madlen Manoukian’s Demurrer to the First Amended Complaint  
The Court
considered the moving papers, opposition, and reply.
            The
demurrer is SUSTAINED with leave to amend.
 
Background
            This
action arises from an alleged failure to repay three separate loans made by
Plaintiffs Ravand Construction, Inc. (“Construction”) and Hassan
Mohammadkhanighiy Asvand aka Ramin Ghiyasvand (“RG”) (collectively,
“Plaintiffs”). On August 2, 2023, Plaintiffs filed their Complaint against
Defendants Alen Air Systems (“AAS”), Alen Manookian (“Defendant Alen”), and
Does 1 through 50, inclusive, alleging the following causes of action: (1)
breach of contract; (2) check fraud (Civ. Code §
1719); (3) fraud and deceit – intentional misrepresentation (erroneously spelled
“decient”); (4) breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing; (5)
quantum meruit; (6) unjust enrichment (erroneously listed as the “fifth cause
of action”); (7) an accounting (erroneously listed as the “fifth cause of
action”); and (8) intentional infliction of emotional distress (erroneously
listed as the “fifth cause of action”).
            On
October 6, 2023, Plaintiffs filed two amendments to the complaint indicating
that Doe 1’s true name is “Madlen Manoukian” and Doe 2’s true name is “Alem
Manoukian Senior.”
            On
December 21, 2023, Defendant Madlen Manoukian (“Defendant Madlen”) filed the
instant demurrer to Plaintiffs’ Complaint.
            On
October 22, 2024, Plaintiffs filed their opposition. And on October 24, 2024,
Defendant replied.
 
Legal
Standard
            “[A]
demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the allegations in a complaint.” (Lewis
v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.) A demurrer can be used
only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack
or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (See Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 [in ruling on a
demurrer, a court may not consider declarations, matters not subject to
judicial notice, or documents not accepted for the truth of their contents].)
For purposes of ruling on a demurrer, the court “ ‘ “treat[s] the demurrer  as admitting all material facts properly
pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law….” ’ ” (Berkley
v. Dowds (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518, 525.) “The only issue involved in a
demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with
extraneous matters, states a cause of action.” (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147
Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)
            A
party may also demur to a complaint where “[t]he pleading is uncertain,”
meaning also that it is “ambiguous [or] unintelligible.” (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §
430.10 subd. (f).) The law encourages courts to liberally construe pleadings
and disfavors demurrers for uncertainty. (Morris v. JPMorgan Chase Bank,
N.A. (2022) 78 Cal.App.5th 279, 292.) That said, where the complaint does
not properly distinguish between multiple defendants, such that it is not clear
which factual allegations are made as to which parties, the complaint fails for
ambiguity. (See Hawley Bros. Hardware Co. v. Brownstone (1899) 123 Cal.
643, 646-47.) Similarly, allegations made against multiple defendants are
fatally uncertain where plaintiff alleges the same harm against multiple
defendants but makes no effort to either apportion their liability or show why
it cannot be apportioned in the complaint. (See Landau v. Salam (1971) 4
Cal.3d 901, 909.)
 
Discussion
            Defendant Madlen demurs to
Plaintiffs’ Complaint on the grounds that (1) each
cause of action alleges insufficient facts to state a valid claim against
Defendant Madlen, and (2) each cause of action is uncertain or ambiguous as to
Defendant Madlen. Here, the Court finds that the allegations of Plaintiffs’
Complaint are insufficient and uncertain as to Defendant Madlen because they
fail to provide her with notice of the basis for her liability.
 
Plaintiffs’ Allegations are Insufficient to Establish
Valid Claims Against Defendant Madlen
            Defendant Madlen contends that the
allegations in Plaintiffs’ Complaint are insufficient to state a valid claim
against her because the only allegations that could be construed as imputing
liability against her would contradict other express allegations of the
Complaint.
Plaintiffs contend that the properly pled allegations in the Complaint
are sufficient to establish the causes of action against Defendant Madlen
because the allegations against Defendant Alen are valid, and the Complaint, as
alleged, makes the same allegations against Defendant Madlen as it does
Defendant Alen. In their moving papers, Plaintiffs contend that they properly
identified Defendant Madlen as a named defendant, by amending her into the
Complaint, because Plaintiffs discovered that the fraudulent scheme perpetrated
by Defendants was a family business. Plaintiffs contend that Defendant Alen
received assistance from his father, Alen Manoukian Senior, and sister,
Defendant Madlen, to execute his scheme to defraud Plaintiffs. 
However, these allegations appear nowhere in the Complaint’s allegations.
Instead, Plaintiff relies on various paragraphs of the Complaint identifying
the parties to establish its claims against Defendant Madlen. First, Paragraph
9 of the Complaint states as follows:
The true names and capacities, whether individual, official, corporate,
associate, or otherwise, of Defendants sued in this Complaint as DOES 1 to 50,
inclusive, are unknown to Complainants, who sue such Defendants by such
fictitious names. Each of the Defendants designated herein as a Doe is legally
responsible in some manner for the unlawful acts referred to herein.
Complainants will seek leave of Court to amend this Complaint to reflect the
true names and capacities of the Defendants designated as Does when such
identities become known.
(Ibid.)
Next, Plaintiff relies on Paragraph 10 of the
Complaint, which states as follows:
At all time mentioned in this Complaint, Defendants were the agents,
servants, employees, partners, joint venturers or representatives of each of
the remaining Defendants, and were at all times acting in the course and scope
of said agency, service, employment, partnership, joint venture or
representation. Defendants ratified and approved the acts of said agents,
servants, employees, partners, joint ventures, or representatives.
(Ibid.)  
And, finally, Paragraph 11 of the Complaint states
as follows:
Plaintiff [sic] are informed and believe, and based thereon allege
that, at all relevant times, Defendants, and each of them, were acting in
concert or participation with each other, and/or were joint participants and
collaborators in doing the acts complained of, and as such, each Defendant is
jointly and severally liable to Complainants.
(Ibid.)
Plaintiffs contend that these paragraphs of the Complaint are proper
basis to impute liability for each of the allegations against Defendant Alen
and AAS to Defendant Madlen. However, this argument is non-meritorious. First,
this argument contradicts certain express allegations of the Complaint, which
explicitly state that Defendant Alen or AAS were the parties who performed
certain acts, not all Defendants or Doe defendants. Paragraph 6 of the
Complaint states that “Plaintiff [sic] are informed and believe and
thereon allege that ALEN owns all the capital stock of ALEN AIR, and that ALEN
controls, dominates, and manages ALEN AIR and that the two entities are one and
the same person.” (Ibid.) This indicates that only the actions of
Defendant Alen are directly imputable to AAS, or, conversely, that the actions
of AAS are only directly imputable to Defendant Alen. 
Further, Paragraph 7 also states that “Defendants ALEN, ALEN AIR shall be
referred to collectively as ‘Defendant.’” Thus, the allegations of the
Complaint common to all causes of action that generally refer to “Defendant,”
by the express allegations of the Complaint, do not reach Defendant Madlen. (See
Complaint, ¶¶ 15, 18, 20, 21, 22, 24, 25, 26, 27.) 
And merely Doing in Defendant Madlen does not rectify this issue. As the
Complaint explicitly states, “Complainants will seek leave of Court to amend this
Complaint to reflect the
true names and
capacities of the
Defendants designated as Does when such identities become known.” (Id., ¶
9 (emphasis added).) Here, Plaintiffs’ amendments to the complaint merely
identified the names of Alen Manoukian Senior and Defendant Madlen, but did not
reflect the capacities of these Doe Defendants, or their liability for the
allegations against the original named Defendants. Although Plaintiffs’ moving
papers identify a potential basis for liability against Defendant Madlen, such
contentions may not be considered as the basis for granting or denying relief
in a demurrer as they are outside the allegations of the complaint. (See Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co., supra, 116 Cal.App.4th at p. 994.)
However, where a demurrer is sustained, leave to amend must be allowed
where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v.
Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) The burden is on the plaintiff to show
the court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id; Lewis v.
YouTube, LLC (2015) 244 Cal.App.4th 118, 226.) The basis Plaintiffs
identify for establishing liability against Defendant Madlen in their moving
papers may be sufficient to establish liability against Defendant Madlen, by
identifying her role in the fraudulent scheme perpetrated by Defendant Alen and
AAS against Plaintiffs.
Accordingly, Defendant Madlen’s demurrer to Plaintiffs’ Complaint based
on insufficiency is SUSTAINED with leave to amend.
            Plaintiffs’ Allegations are Uncertain or
Ambiguous as to Defendant Madlen
            Defendant Madlen further contends
that the allegations in Plaintiffs’ Complaint are uncertain or ambiguous
because, without actually identifying which allegations are specifically made
against Defendant Madlen, Plaintiffs do not provide proper notice of the basis
for liability against Defendant Madlen.
            The Court notes, as Defendant Madlen
concedes, demurrers for uncertainty are generally disfavored because the
defects may be inconsequential, and any confusion may be possible to resolve
through the liberal discovery process. (See Lickiss v. Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (2012) 208 Cal.App.4th 1125, 1135.) But as
discussed above, a demurrer for uncertainty may lie where the failure to label
parties and claims makes a pleading so defective that the opposing party is
unable to determine what he or she is supposed to respond to. (See Hawley
Bros. Hardware Co. v. Brownstone, supra, 123 Cal. at p.
646-47; Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 135,
139, fn. 2.)
            Here, the Complaint is uncertain or
ambiguous as to Defendant Madlen because the express allegations of the
Complaint, as discussed above, limit the effect of the Plaintiffs’ allegations,
and do not properly impute liability to Defendant Madlen. Plaintiffs’ Doing in
of Defendant Madlen was improper because Plaintiffs’ amendment did not indicate
the capacity of Defendant Madlen or the basis for attaching liability against
her.
            However, a demurrer on the ground of
improper joinder of parties is merely a pleading error, and typically should
not be sustained without leave to amend when it appears that the defect can be
cured by amendment and “removing mere uncertainties in the phraseology of
expression of their causes of action.” (Kraft v. Smith, (1944) 24 Cal.2d 124, 132.) Here, as indicated above, the primary
basis for granting Defendant Madlen’s demurrer to the instant Complaint is a
contradiction in the phraseology of those allegations that would establish
liability against Defendant Madlen. Further, Plaintiffs’ moving papers identify
a reasonable basis for amending the Complaint that may be sufficient to
establish its claims against Defendant Madlen that would not be uncertain or
ambiguous.
            Accordingly, Defendant Madlen’s demurrer
to the Plaintiffs’ Complaint based on uncertainty is SUSTAINED with leave to amend.
 
Conclusion
            In all, Defendant Madlen Manoukian’s
Demurrer to Plaintiffs’ Complaint is SUSTAINED with leave to amend.
 
            It
is so ordered.
 
Dated: November 5, 2024
 
_______________________
MEL RED RECANA
Judge of the
Superior Court
 