 Case Number:  BC665798    Hearing Date:   June 21, 2024    Dept:  200 LOS ANGELES
SUPERIOR COURT 
WEST DISTRICT -
BEVERLY HILLS COURTHOUSE 
DEPT. 200
 
TENTATIVE
RULING ON DEFENDANTS’ MOTION TO DISMISS COMPLAINT FOR DEFECTIVE NOTICES OF
VIOLATION AND ON OTHER GROUNDS
 
Consumer Advocacy
Group v. Gel Spice Company, et al., Case No. BC 665798
Hearing Date: June 21,
2024, 10:00 a.m. 
 
INTRODUCTION 
 
          This
motion was brought shortly before the end of trial after most but not all
witnesses had testified. As agreed during trial, issues arose which might be
decided as a legal matter and were relevant to potentially avoiding or reducing
the many complex factual issues that the parties would otherwise still have to
address in closing briefs and that the Court would then have to decide. A
motion to dismiss - based as it is here on standing - can be raised at any
time. 
 
STATEMENT OF CONTENTIONS 
 
          On June
3, 2024, Defendants filed this motion to dismiss for (1) defective pre-suit notices
of violation (“NOV”) and (2) inability to seek injunctive relief, supported by
a Request for Judicial Notice (“RJN”). Defendants argue: 
 
          First, the
NOV are at once both overbroad and too narrow. (See Ex. C to Defendants’
RJN (also Trial Ex. 39)) The NOV’s each state in similar fashion:  
 
“An exemplar of the violations caused by Cumin includes but
is not limited to:
-         
“Fresh Finds”; “Ground Cumin”; Net Wt. 3.39oz
(96g); FRESHNESS GUARANTEED!; “A great cook’s secret ingredient! Try it with
chili, stews, or any Mexican dish and bring out the full flavors of all your
favorite foods. Distributed by; Big Lots Stores, Inc. P.O. Box 28523 Columbus,
OH 43228; UPC 411010983700; Best By 07/22/18 11:39. 
 
Violators caused consumer
product exposures in violation of Proposition 65 by making available Cumin for
distribution or sale in California to consumers…”
 
On the other hand, para. 57 of the
second amended complaint (“SAC”) alleges: “The scope of the Second Cause of
Action as to GROUND CUMIN is limited to the specific UPC 410001983700 and the
Best By 07/22/18 11:39 designation.”[1] 
 
          Defendants
assert the following issues arising from how the NOV and complaint are framed:
 
1.     
The NOV’s do not distinguish between the spices referenced
therein which are alleged to be in violation of Proposition (“Prop”) 65 from
other spice sold or offered by the alleged violator for which no violation is
alleged, as required by 27 CCR sec. 12903(b)(2)(D), by merely indicating an
exemplar. The NOV’s do not set forth whether all spice in each NOV is alleged
to be in violation. 
2.     
The OEHHA guidance treating use of “including
but not limited to” language in a NOV as meaning the cited product is merely an
example of the violation does not cure the above-referenced requirement. See
Ex. B to Defendants’ RJN.  
3.     
Consideration of only the Best By date on the specific
bottle alleged in the complaint is a distinct claim different from the broader
assertion in the NOV – that Consumer Advocacy Group (“CAG”) did not advise the
Attorney General it would be merely asserting. Moreover, consideration of only
a Best By date with a time stamp limitation would not make sense as that would
then restrict the complaint to a specific bottle that was not purchased by a
consumer (but by CAG). 
          
          Second, CAG
did not give notice in either any of the NOV or in the complaint that they were
contending that consumers who use the spices in question for “health benefits”
or for “medicinal purposes” should also be considered in the exposure analysis.
The NOV and complaint merely assert violation selling spices for “cooking.” The
Certificate of Merits (“COM”) describes the usage as spices for flavoring or
coloring. This is significant because medicinal products spices are regulated
in a different manner than food, as drugs or dietary supplements, and are
therefore irrelevant to the issues here. (See 21 C.F.R. Part 100, et seq
and Part 330, et seq.)  
 
          Third,
the NOV’s do not have a valid supporting (and required) COM. (See Health
and Safety Code (“HSC”) sec. 25249.7(d)) They contend that Dr. Gagik Melikyan,
who provided the basis for the COM, is not a qualified exposure assessor. Melikyan
is a chemistry professor, not a toxicologist. Indeed, CAG did not designate him
as expert in exposure assessment. Moreover, Melikyan’s reports are based merely
on a dietary website that lacks the scientific basis to support his assessment.
The diet website does not provide analysis of frequency of consumption or of amount
eaten, as needed for a scientific assessment. 
 
          Fourth, the
allegations in the complaint expressly limiting the causes of action to a
single best by date – that has now since expired – means there is no ongoing
activity that would be the basis for any injunctive relief. (See Consumer
Cause v. Johnson & Johnson (2005) 132 Cal.App.4th 1175, 1183,
1186) Defendants contend that CAG is now also limited to that allegation,
corroborated by their counsel thereafter, where CAG also discarded samples from
later Best By dates. 
 
          On June
11, 2024, Plaintiff filed its Opposition to the motion, together with Declarations
of Michael Marcus and of counsel and a RJN. Plaintiff argues as follows:
 
          First,
CAG’s use of the “included but not limited to “language in the NOV did not make
them overbroad. To the contrary, the OEHHA Final Statement of Reasons (“FSOR”)
(p. 10) indicates the opposite; namely, that “such expansive language “would
not be considered in any way to expand the violation.” No court has dismissed a
case that was based on a complaint that was narrower than the NOV (as
here) in contrast to a complaint that was broader than the NOV. 
 
          The scope
of the alleged violations was properly limited by the Best By information.[2]
Plaintiff argues that use of a Best By date, as opposed to use of a UPC code,
is necessary for three reasons:
          First, because it is consistent with
the focus of Prop 65 on what consumers consider buying on store shelves in
California.[3]
Indeed, the State of New York also regulates foods through Best By dates (that
was the basis for its recall of certain turmeric that played some role in CAG
filing this case.) 
          Second,
using only a UPC code is not sufficiently specific as it could apply to
products sold at any time, as well as from different source lots, and hence
would allow Defendants to improperly “average in” test results for products
after sale of the products in question. 
          Third,
use of a “source lot” definition is untenable because Plaintiff received that
information only after discovery and in any event a source lot definition would
not take account of how that product was thereafter manufactured or distributed
by different brands. 
 
          The NOV adequately
informed Defendants and Public Enforcers of the alleged violations. Gel’s
representative, Andrew Kuszynski, testified that he understood the scope of the
NOV and was able to investigate the claim by conducting a trace report with use
of the UPC and Best By information to find the source lot from which the spices
originated, thereby evidencing that the NOV distinguished between those
products in violation and those that were not. (See Council for
Education & Research on Toxics v. Starbucks (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th
879 (NOV failing to distinguish between coffee and additives) The parties’
conduct in this case – including CAG’s complaint as well as Defendants’
discovery requests - also shows Defendants understood the limited scope of what
was at issue. 
 
          Second, the
NOV’s are not required to identify intended uses of the spices in question. The
NOV’s address all means of ingestion. Plaintiff argues that Defendants’
expert, Dr. Barbara Petersen, failed to address consumption based on perceived
health benefits in her analysis – as Plaintiff argues is commonly claimed in
various places, as demonstrated in the surveys it conducted related to turmeric.[4]
Hence, Plaintiff argues that Defendants therefore hereby improperly seek to
exclude medicinal use of spices. Plaintiff contends that FDA regulation of
turmeric supplements is not relevant where consumers ingest turmeric both for cooking
and for its health benefits.  
 
           Third, the
COM satisfied the requirements - by providing the Attorney General the
necessary information that there is a “reasonable and meritorious case” under
HSC sec. 25249.7(d)(1) - on which CAG has the burden of proof. (11 CCR sec.
3101(a)) (Plaintiff does not have to negate the safe harbor or other
affirmative defense as to which Defendants have the burden of proof. (See
Consumer Cause v. SmileCare (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 454, 469)) 
          Melikyan
is qualified to provide the basis for the reports that there was a level of lead
in these spices requiring a warning and therefore the COM’s were scientifically
valid. Moreover, a valid COM is not a prerequisite to bringing the action and
is typically only reviewable by the court in camera at the close of the
case. (HSC sec. 25249.7(h)) (Plaintiff produced the COM here because Melikyan (whom
Plaintiff consulted with) was designated to testify as an expert.) 
          The
action was brought in the public interest under HSC sec. 25249.7 by giving
notice to the AG and other applicable prosecutors and those agencies not taking
any action thereafter. (Center for Self-Improvement v. Lennar Corp.
(2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 1543, 1557) Unlike in DiPirro v. American
Isuzu Motors (2004) 119 Cal.App.4th 966, 971, here CAG served
the AG with the NOV prior to filing this case. Similarly, unlike in Physicians
Committee v. Applebee’s (2014) 224 Cal.App. 4th 166, here CAG
conducted investigation into the products at issue. 
          CAG did
not suppress evidence: The samples Plaintiff discarded had a different Best By
date than the one that was the subject of this complaint and was discarded because
of a chain of custody issue as to where that sample was purchased. 
 
          Fourth, injunctive
relief under HSC sec. 25249.7(a) is relevant here because wrongful acts are
likely to recur or there is a substantial possibility a violation of HSC sec. 25249.5
or 25249.6 will occur. Many jurisdictions have lead level requirements below
what was found in Defendants’ products. As a “right to know” law, consumers
should know that these spices contain more lead than FDA believes is safe. Plaintiff
is in any event entitled to penalties for past violations. Gel’s position on
warnings – as set forth on p. 44 of the Opposition - shows an injunction is
needed given the “threat” of future violations. Defendants’ expert, Petersen, testified
to Gel being able to sell spices without a Prop 65 warning at levels above what
NY believed should be recalled: Gel’s own internal compliance program (of
keeping lead to below 1 ppm) will not be sufficient. Gel sold turmeric with
high lead levels even after a recall of turmeric by the State of New York. Test
results for lead in turmeric sold by Gel show levels higher than permitted in
New York or under European Commission Regulations. Gel is not complying with
“good manufacturing practices” (“GMP’s”) as to testing its products consistent
with FDA rules where source lots can be different locations. Finally, Plaintiff
disputes that it is effectively contending Defendants should test every bottle
for lead, or that it is seeking what would be a “novel” compliance program, as
it argues Defendants are claiming.  
 
         On June
14, 2024, Defendants filed a Reply. They argue the following concerning the
four principal issues on this motion: 
 
          First, the
Opposition does not address that the use of the “exemplar” and “included but
not limited to” language in the NOV did not make it “reasonably clear” prior to
litigation that the violation was about only the highlighted Best By dates – as
Plaintiff now acknowledges - and that it did not concern more generally the
spice brand - thereby failing to meet the requirement (under 27 CCR sec.
12903(b)(2)(D)) that the NOV identify the products as to which no
violation is alleged. For example, had Defendants then known the limited nature
of the claim, they would have argued the alleged violation was too narrow, if
one at all, where the bottle did not just have a Best By date but also was further
limited to the time stamp. 
          That
Plaintiff purportedly elected to later “narrow” the complaint does not change
the deficiency in the NOV and therefore the issue is not moot. (Calif. for
Disability Rights v. Mervyn’s (2006) 39 Cal.4th 223, 233) In
turn, the parties have proceeded through discovery based on the broad contention
in the NOV, not the very limited allegation in the complaint. Plaintiff may not
permissibly change the scope of its claim midstream where it is to its
perceived advantage to do so and thereby increase the lead level from that
based on averaging different samples from the same source lot. Defendants were
deprived of the opportunity to resolve this matter short of litigation were the
claim as now circumscribed, instead investigating this matter believing the NOV
was contending violations of which the contents of this bottle were merely an
example. 
 
          Second, Defendants
object to Plaintiff bringing in new information concerning those buying spice
for health reasons when it was not introduced at trial. Moreover, where Petersen
included such uses in her analysis, health reasons would not change the
analysis and therefore does not need to be addressed separately. Use of spices
for medicinal purposes is regulated in a different manner than food and is
therefore also irrelevant.  Finally, Plaintiff
spoliated evidence in discarding a sample with a different Best By date. 
 
          Third, Melikyan
is not an expert who can have properly been consulted for a COM and that the
COM still need provide a basis to show the products contained a chemical in the
product – even if it was Defendants’ burden to show the level of chemical was
in the safe harbor. 
 
          Fourth, there
is no need for an injunction where the Best By dates at issue have expired and
are no longer for sale. What Plaintiff in effect seeks is an “obey the law” injunction
that is impermissibly vague (see Long Beach Memorial Med. Ctr. v.
Kaiser (2021) 71 Cal.App.5th 323, 343) and moreover is the
province of OEHHA to regulate, not a court. In addition, an injunction cannot
lie based on foreign law, with different policy goals as to how to address
toxics, or alleged breach of FDA regulations that are not the concern of Prop
65. Testing based on Best By dates would be inconsistent with the testing
required by FDA. 
 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
          The Court
grants each side’s RJN. 
 
          Issue
No. 1: Adequacy of the Notices of Violation
 
          A valid
NOV is required to be served prior to filing suit. (HSC sec. 25249.7(d)) The notice
must identify the “specific type of consumer product…that causes the
violation” or must identify the actual “name of the consumer product.” (27
CCR sec. 25903(b)(2)) “The provisions of this paragraph shall not be
interpreted to require more than reasonably clear information, expressed in
terms of common usage and understanding, on each of the indicated topics.” Id.
A notice is not required to include “[t]he specific admissible evidence by
which the person providing the notice will attempt to prove the violation.’
(sec. 25903 (b)(4)) If a violation was not included in the notice, it cannot be
part of the action.” (OEHHA Initial Statement of Reasons) A private enforcer is
“not required to investigate the alleged violator’s product lines exhaustively
in order to distinguish the listed category of products…from the company’s
other products…that may be in compliance with Proposition 65.” (OEHHA FSOR, p.
14)
 
          The NOV
serves two purposes: (1) to allow public prosecutors to evaluate the claim and
(2) to put the alleged violator on notice so it can cure the violation without
litigation. (CAG v. Kintetsu Enterprises (2007) 150 Cal.App.4th
953, 963-64) The notice should be sufficient to allow the recipient to assess the
nature of the alleged violation. (Yeroushalmi v. Miramar Sheraton (2001)
88 Cal.App.4th 738, 750) 
 
          Failure
to comply with the HSC requirements for a NOV is grounds for dismissal of the
complaint for lack of standing where the deficiency cannot be cured after
filing of the complaint. (Starbucks, supra, 84 Cal.App.5th at
900) (CCP sec. 410.10)[5] 
 
           The
Court cannot disregard the use of the “exemplar” and “included but not limited
to” language in the NOV. Reading this language, together with the numerous
references to the spice generally throughout the NOV, would reasonably lead
Defendants to believe the alleged violation concerned the brand spice, i.e. the
“type” or “name” of the product, not just the contents of this bottle limited
by its Best By date. Were the Court not to read this language as a claim of
violation of a type of product, or the name of the product, there would then be
no claim at all regarding the sort of product – which is what is required.[6] This
would also effectively disregard the claims as to this spice elsewhere in the
NOV that is not limited to the Best By date: “Violators caused consumer product
exposures in violation of Proposition 65 by producing or making available Cumin
for distribution or sale in California to consumers.” 
 
          Reading this
language any other way would alter the claim. After all, the NOV is required to
identify the type or name of the product, i.e., turmeric or the
other spices in question. The NOV does not have to identify the specific
product (which it now asserts it was doing) or to have investigated the
violator’s products beforehand. In short, the use of the exemplar in the NOV rendered
the notice neither clear nor specific when viewed in the context of the limited
claim alleged in the SAC.[7] 
 
          The
language of OEHHA concerning disregarding “including but not limited to”
language addresses a different problem where the violation is bigger than those
identified in the NOV. Here, it is the opposite issue.[8] The
foregoing is material as the NOV makes it seem that the issue is far more
significant than it is.
 
          Further,
the regulations require the complainant to also advise the violator which of
its products is not at issue. (27 CCR sec. 12903(b)(2)(D)) This CAG also
wholly fails to do where the alleged violation is only after the fact clarified
- or according to Defendants strategically changed - to solely concern the Best
By date to increase the recognized lead level and thereby defeat Defendants’
burden to show the level was below the required ceiling. Here, Plaintiff having
sought to artfully allow it to claim it is not just the exemplar that was at issue
cannot now argue inconsistently that only the Best By date on this bottle was
ever claimed to be in violation, as Plaintiff for example acknowledges on pp.
15-16 of its Opposition.  
 
          Thus, the
NOV’s here did not allow Defendants to reasonably assess the alleged violation,
as required by Kintetsu, supra. Unlike in Kintetsu, here the
NOV’s were not “clear and specific.” Therefore, the issue here is not like in Kintetsu
invalidating the notice based on imposing additional requirements. (See Angelucci
v. Century City Supper Club (2007) 40 Cal.4th 160, 179  (reversing appellate court’s dismissal of
action; concerns related to potentially abusive litigation “do not supply a
justification for our inserting additional elements of proof into the cause of
action defined by the statute.”) Had the NOV’s been clearer, Defendants could
have explained the issue was cured where the source lot that the contents of this
bottle came from did not have lead levels that exceeded the safe harbor.[9]
Instead, the NOV effectively contended that the lead level in the spice in this
bottle was not the only violation, just an example.  
 
          The lack
of clarity in the NOV is also significant to Defendants because the AG would
have been informed that Defendants were bringing an action arguably not in the
public interest where it served little if any purpose regarding alleged
excessive lead in one bottle where Defendants were being put to very
significant expense to have to then defend the action based on a decision of a
private entity that would potentially only primarily benefit its lawyers by way
of extracting a settlement. In this regard, Defendants’ citation to People
ex rel. Lockyer v. Brar (2004) 115 Cal.App.4th 1315, 1316-1317 is
relevant - discussing the role of AG in preventing private enforcers from
engaging in a shakedown over “ridiculously minor violations.”[10]
 
          In
addition, use of the contents of one bottle is contrary to the requirement that
lead levels be determined by reference to the “category” of product, not one
specific example. (27 CCR sec. 25821(c )(2)) [11]
However the exact “category” may be defined, Plaintiff’s theory (as
subsequently revealed) is not based on a category at all. Hence, had Defendants
known this beforehand, it might have avoided the litigation or at least
clarified what was truly at issue and changed how this case was handled.
Apparently, the discovery in this case has assumed that the violation was with
the spices identified in each NOV generally, not just those sold with the Best
By date used as an example.[12] 
 
           Furthermore,
the testimony of Dr. Arnold Bloom, a biologist, demonstrated that averaging was
critical for determining lead exposure because lead is largely insoluble, i.e.,
it does not break down in soil and hence must be looked at in terms of
averaging within the source lot. Hence, analyzing the lead level in just one
bottle would not provide an average lead level in the source lot for this
spice. There could be a high amount in one lot and a low amount in another lot.
Melikyan did not refute this basic proposition, instead taking the different
position that lead is not naturally occurring but rather that its presence in
food is the product of human activity. Defendants, however, are not asserting
the ”naturally occurring” defense here.  
 
           Moreover,
for the reasons identified in Defendants’ concurrent motion in limine “N” to
exclude evidence that can be established only by testing on a Best By date
basis (filed June 3, 2024), reliance on the contents of only one bottle (leaving
aside the separate issues concerning testing of that bottle) - as a basis to
refute Defendants’ assertion that the lead levels fell below what consumers
would otherwise have to be warned concerning – may be impermissible in that it
would have likely required Defendants to implement a testing regime
inconsistent with what Defendants were required to follow to meet FDA requirements.

 
         
Defendants explain that by way of 27 CCR sec. 25501, concerning
naturally occurring chemicals such as lead in food, Prop 65 requires compliance
with federal (and parallel California Sherman law) GMP’s, including those under
21 CFR Part 117 which as Gel Spice’s representative, Kuszynski, testified
concerning, mandate a stringent testing scheme, including sampling from large
pallets of spice, representing known source lots, as part of the importation,
manufacturing and distribution process for its spices. The foregoing does not
include testing for lead once later bottled with Best By dates. Defendants
argue that it is therefore improper for Plaintiff to have expected to follow a
procedure that looks to a testing scheme it was not aware of beforehand and
which is not part of what it is required to follow.   
 
          Plaintiff’s
Opposition to that motion (filed June 11, 2024), by contrast, asserts various
arguments why consideration of Best By dates on the finished products on sale
on California shelves should be able to be utilized: Plaintiff cites 27 CCR
sec. 25821(a)(1) for the proposition that the level in question is the chemical
concentration of a listed chemical for the specific exposure and that therefore
averaging in other products not in the Best By date category at issue should
not be permitted. They complain that allowing for re-definition of the
violation or averaging in other test results based on products made later (after
a turmeric recall in NY in 2016 (where spices are bottled three years before
the Best By date)) would make it impossible to enforce Prop 65.[13] Further,
Plaintiff argues that in any event Defendants did not comply with federal GMP’s
and in turn that Prop 65 imposes requirements beyond those under Federal law. 
 
          At the
same time, Defendants argue in their Reply (filed June 14, 2024) that p. 30 of the
Opposition again corroborates Plaintiff’s position that only its designated
Best By date is relevant (and hence the significance of this motion.) They also
note that Plaintiff’s theory of how to assess exposure has been previously
rejected in various forums. In addition, they argue Plaintiff has not shown how
applicable federal requirements mandate the assessment it proposes.  
 
           The
Court does not now need to decide the motion in limine since it is granting
this motion. However, at least for the purposes of this motion, it is sufficient
to note that there is significant question whether Plaintiff could in any event
proceed based on a single Best By date – even if use of Best By dates
generally is an accepted and permissible mode of identifying the products at
issue. The NOV is required to identify the type or name of the product,
not the specific exposure. Hence, Plaintiff’s reliance on a specific Best By
date at least appears contrary to the mandates for a NOV. Moreover, a single
Best By date would likely also not comply with the separate requirement in 27
CCR sec 25821(c)(2), discussed above, that assessments be conducted based on
product category, not allegations based on a chosen Best By date. This
is not an issue of averaging in other later products after the fact, as
Plaintiff argues; it is about ensuring the testing of the type of product is
scientifically accurate (as also discussed above.)[14] 
 
          While
Plaintiff is correct that Defendants are not here relying on the “naturally
occurring” defense under 27 CCR sec. 22501(a)(4), that does not also mean that
this section is not applicable to incorporate federal guidelines.  Indeed, Plaintiff contends that Defendants should
reduce chemical contaminants to the “lowest level currently feasible,” as
defined in the Federal Regulations. Plaintiff offers no law that would
suggest that for purposes of Prop 65 that the production of spices be anything other
than as prescribed by FDA. The cases cited merely conclude that there is a permissible
different focus under Prop 65 than under Federal safety guidelines. Indeed, Plaintiff
also argues inconsistently that Prop 65 is not concerned with how the spice was
manufactured, only with the level of exposure from the finished product.[15] 
 
         The Court
recognizes that this motion is made years after this case was filed - during
trial – however, this issue apparently arose only after settlement negotiations
– and the issue still needs to be resolved as it the basis based upon which
further issues would depend.[16] The
ambiguity in the NOV’s is still needlessly causing ongoing other issues in this
case and the scope of what was at issue needs to be decided to be able to
decide the other issues as to whether Defendants had met their burden of proof.
The Court has heard all the relevant evidence on this issue at trial and
therefore is not now curtailing Plaintiff from presenting its case. Deciding
this issue by motion would effectively be the same as if it did so in a
statement of decision after trial except the parties now know what they would have
needed to brief.
 
           In
summary, Plaintiff cannot have it both ways: If the violation is just this Best
By date, as Plaintiff now argues, then the NOV did not make that clear and the
case is subject to dismissal. If the violation is more than with this Best By
date, that CAG disavows, then it cannot now preclude consideration of other
samples from the source lot – which would at least according to Defendants
allow them to prove lead levels are below what requires a warning.[17]  
 
          Issue
No. 2: Limitation to uses of spices for cooking 
 
          Initially, the Court sustains
Defendants’ objection to consideration of argument based on the report of Dr.
Avena, or the report itself, where Avena did not testify and was not a
designated witness in this case. 
 
           The
Court cannot, however, as a matter of law rule that the NOV’s are deficient
because they do not specify health or medicinal related reasons for eating
these spices: 
          First,
the NOV’s state broadly that the concern is with consumers ingesting these
spices. The NOV’s are not limited to use of spices for cooking, even if the
exemplar references a label where spice is to be used for cooking. It is also
difficult to discern from what evidence has been presented to date whether
consumers cook with spice in part for health or medicinal reasons and therefore
that health or medicinal purposes was not mentioned may not have been necessary
where these reasons may not be wholly separate from use of spices for cooking. 
          Second,
the purpose of ingestion would be to add a requirement to the NOV over
and above what 27 CCR sec. 25903(b) specifies. 
           Third,
at least Petersen (Defendants’ expert) contends that her analysis of use of
spices would include such uses. Therefore, Defendants are not prejudiced by
this broad use of spice regardless.      

          Fourth,
the motion is too broad in that even if the NOV’s should not properly include
ingestion for health or medicinal purposes that should necessarily also mean
that they are invalid at least for purposes of using these spices for
cooking.   
          Fifth,
the Court has insufficient evidence from which to conclude that because spice
supplements may be subject to different regulations than food that therefore to
include spice supplements here improperly changes the analysis. As discussed
above, Prop 65 is intended to work in conjunction with applicable federal
regulations. The purpose here is not to determine whether manufacturing or
distribution of products comply with federal regulations. Therefore, it does
not appear at this stage at least that because there may be different
applicable federal regulations than with food that Prop 65 would not still
apply regardless. Therefore, the NOV’s do not render the complaint subject to
dismissal for this reason. 
         Finally,
Dr. Damian is still to testify on behalf of Plaintiff on this issue.  
       
          In sum,
the broad scope of ingesting spices does not invalidate the NOV.    
 
 
          Issue
No. 3: Validity of the Certificates of Merit 
 
            Unlike
a NOV, the validity of a COM is not an issue of standing – even if it may raise
other issues later concerning good faith in having brought an action that was
not “reasonable and meritorious.” As Plaintiff points out, a valid COM is not a
prerequisite to bringing the action and is typically only reviewable by the
court in camera at the close of the case. (HSC sec. 25249.7(h))
Defendants’ Reply is noticeably silent on this issue. On this motion to
dismiss, the Court can address only issues of standing. 
 
          In
addition, it is not apparent whether a COM should have to contemplate that a
violator may raise as an affirmative defense, that is its burden to prove, that
the level of the chemical in the spice is at a level below what is required for
a warning to be mandated. (See Consumer Cause v. SmileCare (2001)
91 Cal.App.4th 454, 469) Though certifying that an action is
meritorious would seem to infer that a party is contending the level of the
chemical in the product exceeds the level at which no warning is required, at
the same time a complaining party cannot be expected to know what evidence the
violator has that supports its defense. Hence, until a determination has been
made on the merits, it is premature to determine the validity of the COM. Hence,
a motion to dismiss on this ground is improper.[18]  
 
          The Court
does not reach the issue of Plaintiff having consulted with Melikyan, based on
his qualifications, to support a valid COM. 
 
 
 
 
 
          Issue
No. 4: Need for injunctive relief.
 
          The Court
cannot decide this issue on a motion to dismiss where it is at least
conceivable that Defendants will not be able to establish their safe harbor
defense were the Court to accept the testimony of one or more of CAG’s various
experts that Defendants’ way of measuring exposure is deficient for one reason
or another. 
 
          Though,
on the one hand, Plaintiff does not present the calculation in opposition to
the motion to show Defendants’ products exceeded lead and arsenic levels that
do not require a warning (so as to prove a basis for an injunction), on the
other hand, as with Issue No. 3 above, the underlying reasons for finding that
no injunctive relief could be warranted (i.e., no violation or threatened
violation) presupposes conclusion of the trial and a decision on the merits. Even
assuming there would be no further exposure to chemicals in long past Best By
dates, no longer for sale, the Court cannot wholly rule out the threat of any
past violations recurring without deciding the merits. In such event, the Court
would not issue an “obey the law” order but one based on any violation. In
turn, though Defendants argue that any injunction could not be based on the law
of another state, non-compliance with federal regulations or the rules of
foreign countries, again that other jurisdictions have laws or regulations related
to safety of food products does not change that this Court is still bound to
follow  California’s “right to know” law initiated
by Prop 65. 
 
          The
request for an injunction is not subject to dismissal. 
               
 
CONCLUSION 
 
          For the
reasons stated above concerning Issue No. 1, the Court grants the motion.[19] 
  

