  Case Number:  19STCV30463    Hearing Date:   June 21, 2024    Dept:  200 LOS ANGELES
SUPERIOR COURT 
WEST DISTRICT -
BEVERLY HILLS COURTHOUSE 
DEPT. 200
 
TENTATIVE
RULING ON WINE WAREHOUSE’S SECOND MOTION FOR ISSUE AND MONETARY SANCTIONS  
 
Ben Myerson Candy
Co., Inc., dba Wine Warehouse v. Devoto-Wade LLC, dba Golden State Cider, and
related cross-complaint, Case No. 19STCV30463
Hearing Date: June
21, 2024, 8:30 a.m. 
 
INTRODUCTION 
 
          By its
cross-complaint, Golden State Cider (“GSC”) sought some $30 million in lost
profits from Wine Warehouse (“WW”) arising from conduct of WW based on a
distribution agreement. After this action was filed, however, GSC was acquired in
May 2022 by a third party, Sonoma Craft Holdings (“Sonoma”). WW seeks to
determine whether the conduct in question made any difference in the amount for
which GSC was able to sell the business. On this motion, WW seeks relief based
on its attempt to conduct discovery from GSC’s most knowledgeable person
(“PMK”) concerning the acquisition. 
 
 
PROCEDURAL HISTORY AND STATEMENT OF CONTENTIONS 
 
          On March 30,
2021, Judge Mel Recana appointed a referee “for all discovery purposes in the
action.” (Para. 4) The Court notes the numerous discovery motions and other
disputes providing “exceptional circumstances” for the appointment of a
referee. (Para. 2) The referee “shall preside over hearings and depositions,
take evidence; and rule on objections, motions…” (Para. 5) “Nothing in this
order shall preclude the Court from hearing and deciding discovery matters if
the Referee is unavailable or the Court so orders.” (Attachment to Order, para.
5)   
 
          On March
23, 2023, Judge Recana granted GSC’s motion for a protective order in part to
limit the topics for examination at its PMK deposition.
 
          On May 31,
2023, Judge Recana approved the discovery referee’s May 9, 2023 recommendation
and report. Sec. 2 of that report recommended on WW’s motion to compel a
further PMK deposition of GSC that GSC be ordered to produce Christopher Lacey for
a one-hour deposition, that GSC produce certain text messages responsive to an
order of March 23, 2023 and bank statements related to payments to GSC from its
acquisition and that WW’s request for monetary sanctions be denied where GSC’s objections
were substantially justified. On WW’s motion to compel documents withheld from
GSC’s responses, the recommendation was to find that the documents were not
privileged and if privileged, the privilege was waived. Again, the referee
recommended that WW’s request for monetary sanctions be denied where GSC’s
objections were substantially justified.
 
          On August
1, 2023, WW filed an earlier version of this motion for issue and monetary
sanctions. 
 
          On
November 16, 2023, Judge Recana denied WW’s motion for contempt and sanctions
related to the non-production of certain e-mail between counsel. (GSC produced
the documents promptly after the California Supreme Court denied its petition
for review of an earlier order of the Court of Appeal denying its petition for
a writ from the order compelling the production of these email.) 
 
          On
December 7, 2023, WW took the further PMK deposition that was based on the
topics set forth in the notice to the earlier session of the deposition. The
referee attended the deposition. 
 
          On
December 11, 2023, after tentatively denying the motion, Judge Recana ultimately
took the first motion for sanctions off calendar, without prejudice to
consideration by the judge to which this case was to be assigned for a long
cause trial (given that the any issue sanction would impact motions in limine
and issues at trial.)  
 
          On
December 22, 2023, WW filed this second motion for issue sanctions and monetary
sanctions:   
          WW seeks
an order precluding GSC from arguing WW’s conduct caused loss of enterprise
value to GSC in its acquisition by Sonoma and or that Sonoma paid less for its
purchase of GSC due to conduct of WW. WW contends GSC violated the May 31, 2023
order by Lacey coming to the follow up PMK deposition again unprepared to
answer questions concerning the acquisition. Further, WW argues GSC’s counsel
improperly continued to interpose objections to questions related to the acquisition,
including as to Lacey’s role at the new entity formed based on the acquisition,
that the referee had overruled. In addition, WW complains that GSC did not
earlier produce two email of counsel regarding the acquisition that GSC
withheld from production on grounds of privilege until after the California Supreme
Court denied its petition for review. WW argues that these facts, like in Sauer
v. Superior Court (1987) 195 Cal.App.3d 213, 228-229, warrant the
above-referenced issue sanctions.  
          In turn,
seeks total monetary sanctions of $21,756, representing $14,063.60 in bringing
this motion and $7,692.40 for conducting the deposition in December 2023 that
did not produce the information GSC should have then provided. 
 
          On April
11, 2024, GSC filed its Opposition to the motion. GSC argues initially this is
an impermissible motion for reconsideration of earlier orders. In addition, GSC
contends that WW improperly bypassed seeking relief from the referee before
filing the sanctions motion, that the referee found GSC’s conduct
“substantially justified,” precluding this motion, and that the e-mails between
counsel was not within the scope of the further session of the deposition or
relevant to the acquisition that was the basis for re-opening discovery. Lacey
was prepared to answer questions about the topics that should have been the
focus of the deposition. GSC also argues that the objections it asserted
through counsel at the second session of the deposition were proper and that
the referee agreed. Further, GSC argues that the proposed issue sanction would in
any event act as a “windfall” to WW that would not be justified (see Williams
v. Russ (2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 1215, 1223) and that the monetary
sanction is excessive given it includes time for the earlier sanctions motion. 
 
          On April
17, 2024, WW filed its Reply in further support of this motion. It argues this
motion was properly brought before this Court, as opposed to the referee, where
Judge Recana indicated this motion should be heard by the long-cause trial
judge, that it is not in effect an untimely motion for reconsideration, and
that the second session of the GSC PMK deposition was not limited to texts and
bank records. WW reiterates why sanctions are warranted based on what occurred
at the deposition. 
 
          On April
29, 2024, this case was assigned to the undersigned for a long-cause trial. 
 
          On May 28,
2024, at an initial status conference with the undersigned, the Court set the
hearing on this second motion for June 21, 2024. 
 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
          The Court
does not find this motion to be one seeking to reconsider earlier orders
(though it does recite prior related history.) The motion is based solely on
what transpired at the deposition on December 7, 2023.[1] There
is no prior report or order concerning the conduct of the December 2023
deposition. Therefore, this is an open issue. 
 
          GSC is
correct, however, that this motion should have been heard at least initially by
the referee. The March 30, 2021 order makes this clear, as recited above.[2] Even
if ultimately the motion would have come to the Court for an order, it would
have gone first to the referee for his report and recommendation. 
         WW argues
instead that Judge Recana ordered this motion be heard by the long-cause trial
court – as opposed to his having decided the earlier version of it - and that
therefore it did not have to be heard first by the referee. However, Judge
Recana did not state that he was indicating a different rule should follow than
the parties had engaged in previously concerning discovery matters by using the
referee, or not follow the order appointing the referee – which remained in
place. That this trial courtroom should hear the motion rather than his
courtroom does not mean he was indicating that WW should not have first been
heard by the referee. It makes no sense that the referee would not first
provide a report and recommendation where he was present at the deposition and
would give an impartial perspective. (WW may also not have wanted the referee’s
input on this issue  where it appears he
had found GSC’s position was justified on at least some occasions). The
referral to this trial court was due merely to its having to address
potentially overlapping issues about what should properly be heard at trial.
However, the motion remained one arising from discovery issues even its effect
would concern the scope of trial. 
          Consistent
therewith, the nature of the claims here concerning discovery would have been
best determined by the referee -- who was present at the deposition and would
know whether the questioning was proper, if follow up questioning was necessary
or if ultimately GSC and or Lacey complied with the order for a further
session. Those issues are not now clear after the fact: 
          For
example, contrary to GSC’s claims, the May 9, 2023 referee report did not
explicitly limit the further session of Lacey’s deposition to the text messages
and bank records. On the other hand, in the same report, the referee recommended
production of those documents. Hence, it is unclear if the deposition was
solely concerning those documents to be produced. 
          In turn,
while GSC is again in error in asserting that the e-mails do not concern the
acquisition, where the earlier issue remains in doubt, this may not have been
material. Further, it is not clear what knowledge Lacey should have had about
e-mail which he neither sent nor received. 
          Similarly,
while GSC improperly instructed Lacey not to answer a question as to Lacey’s interest
in the new entity – also likely relevant to the consideration for the
acquisition – WW does not indicate whether this information was not secured by
way of answer to another question, adequately addressed by way of errata to the
transcript or again make clear if this was properly part of this session of the
deposition in the first place.  
 
         
Therefore, even if this motion did not have to go to the referee, the
Court cannot conclude that there is a basis for the requested sanctions.
Moreover, as relates to the issue sanctions at least, the Court agrees with GSC
that those appear to be too severe for what was involved here. This would
eradicate seemingly the principal claim of the cross-complaint or effectively
serve as a terminating sanction. There is nothing in the record showing prior
sanctions or other incremental discipline as to any wrongdoing by GSC previously
that would warrant taking this seemingly disproportionate – and punitive - step.
(Doppes v. Bentley Motors (2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 967, 992)    
 
CONCLUSION 
 
          For these reasons, the Court denies
the motion.


