 Case Number:  SC126845    Hearing Date:   June 21, 2024    Dept:  200 LOS ANGELES
SUPERIOR COURT 
WEST DISTRICT - BEVERLY
HILLS COURTHOUSE  
DEPT. 200
 
TENTATIVE RULING
ON BALANCE OF PLAINTIFFS’ MOTION IN LIMINE No. 3 
RE: DR. SEAN
FISCHER   
 
Lackey, et al. v.
Zohoury, et al., Case No. SC126845
Hearing Date: June
21, 2024, 11:00 a.m. 
 
INTRODUCTION 
 
          This
ruling pertains to the remaining part of this motion in limine that the Court has
not yet decided – concerning the request to exclude expert opinion testimony by
Dr. Sean Fischer. Trial is set for July 8, 2024. 
 
BACKGROUND 
 
          On April
24, 2024, when this motion was first heard, the Court ruled that the parties
provide an update concerning the need to take Fischer’s deposition given the
motion was filed in 2022 when this case was assigned to a different judge for
trial. Exchange of expert information was in December 2019. At that time,
Defendants had designated Fisher as an expert but did not make him available
for deposition, warranting exclusion under CCP sec. 2034.300 if he was a
retained expert. 
          On May
17, 2024, Plaintiffs filed an ex parte application to strike, relevant
here, the expert designation of Fischer and to bar his giving expert testimony
at trial. They argued that Defendants’ recently revised and amended revised designations
dated April 30, 2024 and May 3, 2024 still did not clarify if Defendants had
retained Fischer to give expert testimony. In their latter designation, Defendants
indicated they had not retained Fischer but that they were still reserving the
right to call him as an expert at trial. 
          On May
24, 2024, Defendants filed opposition to the ex parte application. They
contended that the supplemental designations sufficed where Fischer had not
been retained but had been a treating physician for a tenant at the subject
property (about which this case is concerned.) 
          On May
28, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a Reply in support of their ex parte
application. They contended that Fischer was not a treating physician for any
of the plaintiffs herein and therefore the exception did not apply. 
          Also on May
28, 2024, the Court issued a tentative ruling to grant the motion and deny the ex
parte application as moot. Defendants had not provided the required
declaration under CCP sec. 2034.260 to allow for a deposition that is required
if a party intends to use a retained expert to provide an opinion at trial, nor
designated him as a treating physician (which would still be required even if
it is not required the designee be made available for deposition.) Kalaba v.
Gray (2002) 95 Cal.App.4th 1416, 1422-1423) Where Fischer did
not treat any of the plaintiffs in this case, the treating physician exception would
not apply in the first place. The Court ultimately, however, continued the
hearing given the unavailability of counsel for Defendants.
          On June
10, 2024, the Court heard the motion. Defendants argued the treating physician
exception did not solely apply to a physician treating the parties in a case. Apparently
Fischer had treated Charles Hicks, who though not a plaintiff in this case, had
resided at the subject property and had similar complaints to Plaintiffs –
having previously brought his own case against Defendants. The Court permitted
further briefing and continued the motion. 
          On June
13, 2024, Defendants filed a Supplemental Brief and declaration of counsel in opposition
to the motion. They contend that under CCP sec. 2034.210(b) “percipient
experts” are not limited to treating physicians, relying on Schreiber v.
Estate of Kiser (1999) 22 Cal.4th 31, and that therefore Fischer
should be allowed to testify as a non-retained expert as an oncologist
concerning lack of causation between any exposure to asbestos and injury to
plaintiffs. Counsel also states he spoke to Fischer in 2021 after Fischer’s
deposition in the Hicks case as Hicks’ treating physician and that Fischer
opined that there was no causal link based on what counsel advised him concerning
the testimony of Plaintiffs’ treating physician (Dr. Richwald) . 
          On June
17, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a responsive Supplemental Brief. They argue Schreiber
does not permit Fischer to testify in this case where he did not treat any of
the plaintiffs and has no personal knowledge of relevant facts. Further,
Defendants have not established what foundation Fischer would have to give an
opinion as to causation. (Howard Entertainment v. Kudrow (20120 208
Cal.App.4th 1102, 1114) In turn, Fischer’s opinion is based upon
impermissible hearsay provided by Defendants’ counsel. (Bennett v. Superior
Court (2019) 39 Cal.App.5th 862, 880) 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
          In Schreiber,
supra, the California Supreme Court states in relevant part concerning
treating physicians: “’Such an expert would be someone who has acquired,
independently of the litigation, personal knowledge of relevant facts.’…what
distinguishes the treating physician from a retained expert is not the content
of the testimony, but the context in which he became familiar with the
plaintiff’s injuries that were ultimately the subject of litigation, and which
form the factual basis for the medical opinion…A treating physician is not
consulted for litigation purposes, but rather learns of the plaintiff’s
injuries and medical history because of the underlying physician-patient
relationship.”[1]
(Id., 22 Cal.4th at 35-36)
 
          Here, Fischer
is not a retained expert who must be made available for deposition. Nor is he a
treating physician - within the meaning of the statute and Schreiber -
who would not be subject to being made available for deposition: Fischer
did not treat any of the plaintiffs. It is apparent from the foregoing
quotation that a treating physician is one who treated a plaintiff and has
personal knowledge of his or her medical condition from their physician-patient
relationship – not as Defendants argued from treatment of some other person who
is not a party herein (like Hicks). 
 
          Rather,
Fischer is a physician who lacks sufficient personal knowledge concerning plaintiffs’
alleged injuries or whether those were caused by asbestos exposure. Plaintiffs
indicate that what Fischer knows about this case is what Defendants’ counsel
told him. Fischer does not know what injury plaintiffs may have suffered and
therefore is unable to know how, if at all, the exposure may have caused them any
such injury. The context by which Fischer obtained what information he
has was not “independent of the litigation,” or through obtaining personal
knowledge of the relevant facts. His opinion is derived from what he learned
from counsel about what in turn Dr. Richwald may have stated. 
 
          As a
result, Fischer is unable to meet the requirement of Evidence Code sec. 801
that an expert only provide an opinion “on matter (including his special
knowledge, skill, experience, training and education) perceived by or
personally known to the witness or made known to him…” As Schreiber
notes, a treating physician does not become an expert only when non-percipient
opinion testimony is elicited.” (Id., at 34) Here, Fischer’s opinion on
case-specific facts would be without foundation and in turn based on
impermissible hearsay. Any facts he might still obtain would not have been in a
context “independent of the litigation.” Instead, it would be from Defendants’
consulting with him for litigation purposes. 
 
         Finally,
the Court gave Defendants a further opportunity to retain Fischer to give an
expert opinion in view of the delay in going to trial. They elected not to do
so. They cannot instead seek to obtain his opinion testimony through the back
door. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
          For these
reasons, the Courts grants the motion. 


