


[1] As discussed below, trial here has focused almost
exclusively concerning the eighth cause of action in the SAC as to the NOV for turmeric,
as opposed to the causes of action pertaining to the NOV’s for other spices. Plaintiff
concentrated on the impact of the seemingly high lead level shown on its test
for the bottle showing a Best By date of July 7, 2019. Para. 122 of the
SAC again limits the allegations to solely the turmeric for the Best By designation
referenced in the NOV.  


[2] Plaintiff contends that its inclusion also of the
time stamp information on the label is immaterial. Potential exposure for Prop
65 purposes does not require the consumer to have in fact used the product. (Lee
v. Amazon (2022) 76 Cal.App.5th 200, 248) Hence, CAG asserts Defendants’
argument that nobody may have purchased this bottle is irrelevant.  


[3]
Plaintiff argues Prop 65 is concerned only with in-state exposures to
California consumers based on the level of chemicals in products on shelves in
the state, not per se the sale of products of out of state producers. It is the
level of chemicals in the finished product that is at issue, not - as with
regulation by FDA - with what occurred during the manufacturing or distribution
process. State laws that regulate only conduct in this state, such as sale of
products in the state, are not impermissibly extraterritorial, even if a
state’s requirements have significant upstream effects outside of the state. (Nat’l
Pork Producers Council v. Ross, 6 F.4th 1021, 1025 (9th
Cir 2021), aff’d (2023) 598 U.S. 356, 374 (A law directed at in-state activity
is constitutionally permissible even where it has the practical effect of
controlling out of state behavior.))  
 


[4] Plaintiff relies by way of the declaration of counsel
on an attached report of Nicole Avena which was submitted in another case, CAG
v. Ross Stores. 


[5] As with Defendants’ prior motion to dismiss, there is
no use objection to reliance on the evidence presented at trial, as well as
what is set forth in the complaint and by way of the RJN, where the Court has
already heard all evidence relevant to this motion. The motion might also be
treated as either one comparable to a motion for judgment under CCP sec. 631.8
or as a “non-traditional” substantive motion in limine (applying the stricter
standard of treating of assuming all facts in favor of the non-moving party.) (See
Kelly v. New W. Fed. Sav. (1996) 49 Cal.App.4th 659, 669) 


[6] The NOV is inherently inconsistent: On the one hand,
it is as broad as could be applicable to all the particular spice manufactured
by the violator, but on the other hand, it is also seemingly very specific (though
not specific at all in only stating the violation by way of example.)  


[7] The Court reaches this conclusion mindful of its
ruling on May 1, 2024 on an earlier motion to dismiss based on lack of standing
due to a different issue with the NOV’s, finding that a NOV should be assessed
based on a “substantial compliance” test rather than requiring “strict
compliance.” Where the NOV’s are not clear about what product is in violation, however,
they are not in substantial compliance. The NOV’s here did not satisfy the
purpose of the regulation that the violator be able to reasonably assess which
of its products were alleged to be in violation of Prop 65. Unlike use of counsel
as the contact person on the NOV, that is relatively inconsequential, not providing
the type or name of the product is highly consequential. 


[8] Reading the NOV literally as the bottle with a time
stamp would also not make sense. Were the Court to do so, a consumer would not
have bought this bottle (CAG did so) and therefore there was no relevant
exposure. The Court does not believe that Plaintiff intended the time stamp to
count but again that would not have been its intent if the NOV was read in the
way it was written. 


[9] The parties are not in dispute that use of a UPC code
allowed Defendants to trace the source from which the spice originated. The
issue here is whether Defendants may permissibly change the scope of the
alleged violation stated in the NOV where to do so might allow Plaintiff to
show a higher lead level compared to the level in the source lot with varying
Best By dates. 


[10] The Court is not now finding CAG or its attorneys was
involved in a “shakedown.” 


[11] Section 25821(c)(2), applicable to exposure
assessments of reproductive toxins in foods, as here, states: “For exposures to
consumer products, the level of exposure shall be calculated using the
reasonably anticipated rate of intake or exposure for average users of the
consumer product, and not on a per capita basis for the general population. The
rate of intake or exposure shall be based on data for use of a general
category or categories of consumer products, such as the United States
Department of Agriculture Home Economic Research Report, Foods Commonly Eaten
by Individuals: Amount Per Day and Per Eating Occasion, where such data are
available.” (Emphasis added) 


[12]  For this
reason, Defendants contend that CAG engaged in spoliation of evidence when it
discarded a sample with a different Best By date than the one in the NOV.
Plaintiff argued that it was entitled to do so where the sample was not
relevant to what was at issue. Plaintiff is thereby estopped to claim that the
complaint is about anything other than the Best By date in the NOV – contrary
to what it asserts was the intended scope of the NOV (not just limited to the Best
By date referenced). 


[13] By order filed April 15, 2024, however, the Court
denied Plaintiff’s motions in limine Nos. 6 and 8 that similarly sought to
restrict the evidence Defendants could use to show the level of lead in the
spice at issue to solely the Best By date. 


[14] The Court does not decide here what is the relevant
category of turmeric and whether that would include turmeric from source lots post-recall.
Defendants contended at trial that the source lot for the turmeric that was
subject to a recall was a different lot than the source lot for the July 9,
2019 Best By date.   


[15] Under 27 CCR sec 25821(c)(2) (see above), again,
exposure is also assessed applying federal guidelines absent some other
available data. 


[16] It is not clear why Defendants did not raise this
issue earlier when the SAC states the Best By date limitation is how CAG was then
electing to proceed. However, where this is an issue of standing, it can still
be raised at this  late date. The Court
recognizes this is to CAG’s significant detriment in having to go to trial on
the underlying issues when this issue that might have been resolved earlier. 


[17] The Court does not reach the ultimate question of
whether Defendants met their burden of proof. There are numerous highly
disputed factual issues that turn on competing expert opinions – from several scientific
perspectives - related to the most accurate measures to assess exposure. 


[18]
Unlike in In re: Vaccine Cases (2005) 134 Cal.App.4th 438,
there is not an issue raised here that CAG did not inform the AG of the basis
for bringing this action before filing suit. 

 


[19]
In view of the decision on this motion, the
pending motions in limine L, M and N become moot and are taken off calendar.

