 Case Number:  23TRCV03047    Hearing Date:   February 14, 2024    Dept:  M 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT – SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 




 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                               Wednesday, February 14, 2024
Department M                                                                                                                            Calendar No. 11   



 
 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Theodore
G. Schwartz v. Claudette Spinelli Schwartz, et al. 
23TRCV03047
1.      Claudette Spinelli Schwartz’s Demurrer to Complaint 
2.      Claudette Spinelli Schwartz’s Motion to Strike
Portions of Complaint
3.      Theodore G. Schwartz’s Motion to Compel Defendant’s
Deposition
4.      Claudette Spinelli Schwartz’s Motion for Protective
Order

TENTATIVE RULING

            Claudette
Spinelli Schwartz’s Demurrer to Complaint is overruled.
 
            Claudette
Spinelli Schwartz’s Motion to Strike Portions of Complaint is denied.
 
            Theodore
G. Schwartz’s Motion to Compel Defendant’s Deposition is granted.
 
            Claudette
Spinelli Schwartz’s Motion for Protective Order is denied, in part, and
granted, in part.  
 
            Background
 
            Plaintiff filed the Complaint on September 14, 2023. Plaintiff
alleges the following facts. Plaintiff alleges that Defendant abandoned
Plaintiff and inflicted physical and financial harm upon Plaintiff during their
marriage after Plaintiff’s cancer diagnosis. Defendant converted assets
belonging to Plaintiff. Plaintiff alleges the following causes of action: 1.
Physical Elder Abuse, Neglect, & Abandonment (Welf. & Inst. Code §§
15610.63, 15610.57, and 15610.05); 2. Battery; 3. Financial Elder Abuse (Welf.
& Inst. Code § 15610.30); 4. Conversion; 5. Intentional Infliction of
Emotional Distress.  
 
            Meet and Confer
  
            Defendant did not file
a meet and confer declaration in sufficient compliance with both CCP § 430.41
and CCP § 435.5. Defendant’s counsel freely admits that no meet and confer
attempt occurred prior to filing the demurrer and motion.  (Decl., Derrick S. Lowe.) Defendant’s counsel
is admonished and instructed in the future not to ignore this requirement.
 
            Demurrer

            A demurrer tests the sufficiency of a complaint as a
matter of law and raises only questions of law. (Schmidt v. Foundation Health
(1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 1702, 1706.)  In
testing the sufficiency of the complaint, the court must assume the truth of
(1) the properly pleaded factual allegations; (2) facts that can be reasonably
inferred from those expressly pleaded; and (3) judicially noticed matters. (Blank
v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) 
The Court may not consider contentions, deductions, or conclusions of
fact or law.  (Moore v. Conliffe
(1994) 7 Cal.App.4th 634, 638.) Because a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency
of a complaint, the plaintiff must show that the complaint alleges facts
sufficient to establish every element of each cause of action.  (Rakestraw v. California Physicians
Service (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 39, 43.) 
Where the complaint fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action, courts should sustain the demurrer.  (C.C.P., § 430.10(e); Zelig v. County of
Los Angeles (2002) 27 Cal.App.4th 1112, 1126.)
 
            Sufficient facts are the essential facts of the case
"with reasonable precision and with particularity sufficiently specific to
acquaint the defendant with the nature, source, and extent of his cause of
action.”  (Gressley v. Williams
(1961) 193 Cal.App.2d 636, 643-644.) 
"Whether the plaintiff will be able to prove the pleaded facts is
irrelevant to ruling upon the demurrer." 
(Stevens v. Superior Court (1986) 180 Cal.App.3d 605,
609–610.)  Under Code Civil Procedure §
430.10(f), a demurrer may also be sustained if a complaint is “uncertain.”  Uncertainty exists where a complaint’s
factual allegations are so confusing they do not sufficiently apprise a
defendant of the issues it is being asked to meet.  (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp.
(1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139, fn. 2.)
 
            Defendant demurs to the first cause of action for failure
to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.  
 
            First Cause of Action for Violations of the Elder
Abuse Act
 
            As to the cause of action for Elder Abuse, the demurrer
is overruled. Plaintiff alleges sufficient facts to state a cause of action.
The alleged facts are sufficient to state the necessary standard of egregious
conduct to meet the requisite level of conduct constituting abandonment, neglect,
or abuse in order to state a cause of action under the Elder Abuse Act. In
addition, for pleading purposes, Plaintiff alleges sufficient facts of a
caretaker and/or custodial relationship between Plaintiff and Defendant.
 
            A cause of action under Welf. & Inst. Code § 15600 et
seq. (“Elder Abuse Act”) must be alleged with particularity.    See,
Covenant Care, Inc. v. Superior Court (2004) 32 Cal.4th 771, 790.   Acts that constitute simply professional
negligence do not constitute elder abuse. 
“In order to obtain the remedies available in section 15657, a plaintiff
must demonstrate by clear and convincing evidence that defendant is guilty of
something more than negligence; he or she must show reckless, oppressive,
fraudulent, or malicious conduct. The latter three categories involve
"intentional," "willful," or "conscious"
wrongdoing of a "despicable" or "injurious" nature.”  Delaney
v. Baker (1999) 20 Cal.4th 23, 31-32.  
“To recover the enhanced remedies available under the Elder Abuse Act
from a health care provider, a plaintiff must prove more than simple or even
gross negligence in the provider's care or custody of the elder.”  See,
Carter v. Prime Healthcare Paradise Valley LLC (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 396,
405. 
 
            “It is the nature of the elder or dependent adult's
relationship with the defendant—not the defendant's professional standing—that
makes the defendant potentially liable for neglect.” Winn v. Pioneer Medical
Group, Inc. (2016) 63 Cal.4th 148, 152. Welf. & Inst. Code, § 15600 states, in
relevant part: “(d)
The Legislature recognizes that most elders and dependent adults who are at the
greatest risk of abuse, neglect, or abandonment by their families or caretakers
suffer physical impairments and other poor health that place them in a
dependent and vulnerable position. (e) The Legislature further recognizes that
factors which contribute to abuse, neglect, or abandonment of elders and
dependent adults are economic instability of the family, resentment of
caretaker responsibilities, stress on the caretaker, and abuse by the caretaker
of drugs or alcohol.” Thus, clearly, pursuant to the plain language of Section
15600, family members may be held liable under the Act so long as a sufficient
caretaker and/or custodial relationship is established.
 
            Here, Plaintiff has alleged sufficient facts to state,
for purposes of pleading, that Defendant had a substantial caretaking or
custodial relationship to Plaintiff. (Complaint, ¶¶ 3, 23, 24.)  While Defendant disputes the existence of a
substantial caretaker relationship, the Court must treat the allegations as
true at the demurrer stage.  Defendant
will have the opportunity to defend these allegations with evidence during the
course of the litigation.
 
            Plaintiff alleges the sufficient particularized facts to
support allegations of elder neglect, abuse, and/or abandonment. Plaintiff
alleges that he was over 65 years old. (Complaint, ¶ 39.)  Plaintiff alleges numerous instances of
physical abuse, neglect, and/or abandonment. (Id. at ¶¶ 25-42.)  Plaintiff alleges that Defendant neglected and
abandoned Plaintiff during and after his cancer treatment, physically attacked
him on numerous occasions, and hatched plans to place false accusations of
abuse upon Plaintiff and to convert his assets. (Id.)  
 
            Plaintiff alleges the necessary facts to meet the
standard for punitive damages pursuant to CC § 3294 by stating that Defendant
personally committed acts of malice, oppression, and/or fraud.   Therefore, the factual allegations do support
Plaintiff’s contention that Defendant acted with a deliberate and knowing
conduct of indifference in conscious disregard for the rights and safety of Plaintiff.
 See,
Carter, 198 Cal.App.4th at 405-07 (outlining examples of the
type of egregious conduct that would support an Elder Abuse cause of
action).  Plaintiff alleged facts that go
beyond negligence, but which would, instead, demonstrate willful or reckless
misconduct. Id. 
 
            Thus, Plaintiff has alleged sufficient facts of
conduct which rises to the level of despicable and egregious behavior to allow
Plaintiff to plead the heightened remedies and prayer for attorney’s fees
available under the Elder Abuse Act. 
 
            Therefore, the demurrer to the first cause of action is
overruled.  
 
            Motion to
Strike  
 
            The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its
discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or
improper matter inserted in any pleading. 
CCP § 436(a).  The court may also
strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with
the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.  CCP § 436(b). 
The grounds for a motion to strike are that the pleading has irrelevant,
false or improper matter, or has not been drawn or filed in conformity with laws.  CCP § 436. 
The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading
or by way of judicial notice.  CCP § 437.
 
            Defendant moves to strike portions of the first cause of
action that refer to punitive damages, neglect, and abandonment. The motion to
strike is denied for the same reasons noted above in the Court’s ruling
overruling the demurrer. Plaintiff has alleged sufficient specific facts to
state a claim for punitive damages based on the alleged acts of malice,
oppression, and/or fraud by Defendant. 
 
            Therefore, the motion to strike is denied.
 
            Defendant is ordered to file and serve an Answer within
10 days of this date.
 
            Motion to Compel Deposition 
 
            The
party noticing the deposition may move for an order compelling appearance at
the deposition and production of documents, pursuant to the deposition notice,
from the party deponent who fails to appear or produce materials requested in
the deposition notice, and who has not served a valid objection under §
2025.410(a).  CCP § 2025.450(a).  
 
            “The
motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to attend the deposition and produce the
documents, electronically stored information, or things described in the
deposition notice, by a declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted
the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance.”  CCP § 2025.450(b)(2). Plaintiff set forth a
meet and confer declaration stating that Plaintiff contacted the deponent to
inquire about the nonappearance. (Decl., Adam F. Streisand, ¶¶ 7-13.)
 
            Plaintiff
moves for an order compelling Defendant to appear and testify at her
deposition. The motion is made on the grounds that Defendant has repeatedly
informed Plaintiff of Defendant’s refusal to appear for deposition until some
future unspecified date and then did not appear for the properly noticed
deposition. 
 
            Defendant
filed an opposition stating that she does not necessarily refuse to sit for a
deposition but refers the parties and the Court to her motion for protective
order in which she attempts to place parameters and conditions on the
deposition.  
 
            Thus,
since the deposition has not yet taken place and there is no dispute that Defendant
has not appeared for her properly noticed deposition, Plaintiff’s motion to
compel deposition is granted. The dispute regarding the parameters of the
deposition will be discussed in the context of Defendant’s motion for
protective order. 
 
            Motion for Protective
Order  
 
            The Court is authorized to limit
discovery through a protective order. 
The order may be granted on motion of any party or other person affected
by the discovery sought.  CCP §§ 2017.020(a),
2019.020(b), 2019.030(a).  A protective
order may be obtained to limit the frequency or extent of use of any discovery
method on any of the following grounds: 
(1)  “The discovery sought is
unreasonably cumulative or duplicative …; 
(2)  “(The information) is
obtainable from some other source that is more convenient, less burdensome or
less expensive;  (3)  “The selected method of discovery is unduly
burdensome or expensive, taking into account the needs of the case, the amount
in controversy, and the importance of the issues at stake in the
litigation.”  CCP § 2019.030(a)(1)-(2). 
 
            Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.420 states:
“(a)
Before, during, or after a deposition, any party, any deponent, or any other
affected natural person or organization may promptly move for a protective
order. The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under
Section 2016.040.
(b)
The court, for good cause shown, may make any order that justice requires to
protect any party, deponent, or other natural person or organization from
unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, or oppression, or undue burden and
expense. This protective order may include, but is not limited to, one or more
of the following directions:
(1)
That the deposition not be taken at all.
(2)
That the deposition be taken at a different time.
(3)
That a video recording of the deposition testimony of a treating or consulting
physician or of any expert witness, intended for possible use at trial under
subdivision (d) of Section 2025.620, be postponed until the moving party has
had an adequate opportunity to prepare, by discovery deposition of the
deponent, or other means, for cross-examination.
(4)
That the deposition be taken at a place other than that specified in the
deposition notice, if it is within a distance permitted by Sections 2025.250
and 2025.260.
(5)
That the deposition be taken only on certain specified terms and conditions.
(6)
That the deponent's testimony be taken by written, instead of oral,
examination.
(7)
That the method of discovery be interrogatories to a party instead of an oral
deposition.
(8)
That the testimony be recorded in a manner different from that specified in the
deposition notice.
(9)
That certain matters not be inquired into.
(10)
That the scope of the examination be limited to certain matters.
(11)
That all or certain of the writings or tangible things designated in the
deposition notice not be produced, inspected, copied, tested, or sampled, or
that conditions be set for the production of electronically stored information
designated in the deposition notice.
(12)
That designated persons, other than the parties to the action and their
officers and counsel, be excluded from attending the deposition.
(13)
That a trade secret or other confidential research, development, or commercial
information not be disclosed or be disclosed only to specified persons or only
in a specified way.
(14)
That the parties simultaneously file specified documents enclosed in sealed
envelopes to be opened as directed by the court.
(15)
That the deposition be sealed and thereafter opened only on order of the court.
(16)
That examination of the deponent be terminated. If an order terminates the
examination, the deposition shall not thereafter be resumed, except on order of
the court.”
 
            Meet and
Confer
 
            Defendant set forth a meet and
confer declaration in substantial compliance with CCP § 2025.420(a).  (Declaration, Robert C. Baker, ¶ 3.)
 
            Motion for
Protective Order
 
            Defendant moves for a protective
order to delay Defendant’s deposition until some unspecified date after she has
determined that she has sufficiently healed physically and emotionally, and
then, when the deposition is set, that she be allowed to appear remotely
without Plaintiff being present or visible.  
 
            Defendant’s motion for protective
order is denied, in part. Defendant fails to establish good cause for the
granting of the type of protective order that she seeks. Defendant fails to
show that she will be subjected to unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, or
oppression to allow her to delay her deposition indefinitely. Such an order
would allow her alone to determine when the deposition would occur.  Defendant also fails to show that she should
be allowed to set conditions upon the deposition, other than a caveat which
will be mentioned below. The motion is essentially premised upon Defendant’s own
self-serving declaration of her fear of Plaintiff as well as a completely
conclusory declaration from a family law lawyer expressing his concerns about
Plaintiff’s ability to focus.  Without
any real concrete substantive facts to substantiate these concerns and fears,
the Court cannot completely grant the type of protective order sought by
Defendant in his case. 
 
            The Court does note that one
condition does appear to be reasonable and would not substantially prejudice
Plaintiff’s rights. That condition would be that Plaintiff is not visible or
present during the deposition. However,
in Plaintiff’s opposition, Plaintiff states that he has already freely conceded
to this condition. (Opposition, page 17, lines 16-17.) 
 
            Thus, Defendant’s motion for
protective order is denied, in part, except as to the condition that Plaintiff
not be present or visible during the in-person deposition.  However, the parties are, of course, free to
enter into any agreement or stipulation themselves as to any additional
parameters with respect to how the deposition will be conducted.
 
            Defendant is ordered to appear for
her deposition personally at a date, time, and location to be determined upon
agreement by the parties. If no agreement can be reached, Defendant is ordered
to appear at a reasonable date, time, and location to be determined by
Plaintiff.
 
            Plaintiff is ordered to give notice of
this ruling.
 