  Case Number:  22STCV06106    Hearing Date:   February 14, 2024    Dept:  M LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                               Wednesday, February 14, 2024
Department M                                                                                                                             Calendar No. 3
 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Nestor
Hernandez, et al. v. Fouad I. Ghaly, et al. 

22STCV06106
1.      Nestor Hernandez, et al.’s Motion for Leave to File
First Amended Complaint  
 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Nestor Hernandez, et al.’s Motion
for Leave to File First Amended Complaint is granted. 
 
Background
 
Plaintiffs filed the Complaint on February 17, 2022. Plaintiffs
allege the following facts. Plaintiffs allege medical negligence relating to the
care and treatment provided to Plaintiff Nestor Hernandez in connection with a
procedure to his left eye. 
 
Motion for Leave to Amend 
 
The court may, in furtherance of justice, and on such
terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading.  Code Civ. Proc., §§ 473 & 576.  Judicial policy favors resolution of all
disputed matters between the parties and, therefore, leave to amend is
generally liberally granted.  Ordinarily,
the court will not consider the validity of the proposed amended pleading in
ruling on a motion for leave since grounds for a demurrer or motion to strike
are premature.  However, the court does
have discretion to deny leave to amend where a proposed amendment fails to
state a valid cause of action as a matter of law and the defect cannot be cured
by further amendment.   Cal. Casualty General Ins. Co. v. Superior
Court (1985) 173 Cal.App.3d 274, 281. 
 
The application for leave to amend should be made as
soon as the need to amend is discovered. 
The closer the trial date, the stronger the showing required for leave
to amend.  If the party seeking the
amendment has been dilatory, and the delay has prejudiced the opposing party,
the court has the discretion to deny leave to amend.  Hirsa
v. Superior Court (1981) 118 Cal.App.3d 486, 490.  Prejudice exists where the amendment would
require delaying the trial, resulting in loss of critical evidence, or added costs
of preparation such as an increased burden of discovery.  Magpali
v. Farmers Group, Inc. (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 471, 486-488. 
 
Plaintiffs move for leave to file a First Amended
Complaint to add a cause of action for intentional concealment and to state a
claim for punitive damages.   
 
Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324(a) states: “A motion
to amend a pleading before trial must:
(1) Include a copy of the proposed amendment or
amended pleading, which must be serially numbered to differentiate it from
previous pleadings or amendments;
(2) State what allegations in the previous pleading
are proposed to be deleted, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line
number, the deleted allegations are located; and
(3) State what allegations are proposed to be added to
the previous pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number,
the additional allegations are located.” Id. (emphasis added).
 
Plaintiffs adequately complied with Rule 3.1324(a). (Decl.,
Kenneth M. Yaeger, ¶ 4A1).  
 
Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324(b) requires that the
moving party must submit a separate declaration specifying:
“(1) The effect of the amendment;
(2) Why the amendment is necessary and proper;
(3) When the facts giving rise to the amended
allegations were discovered; and
(4) The reasons why the request for amendment was not
made earlier.”
 
Plaintiffs provided declarations meeting elements (1)
to (4) above. (Decl., Kenneth M. Yaeger, ¶4A2; Decls., Nestor Hernandez; David
Mark, M.D.)  
 
Therefore, Plaintiffs’ Motion for Leave to File First
Amended Complaint is granted.
 
Plaintiffs are ordered to file and serve the proposed
FAC within five days of this date. 
 
Plaintiffs are ordered to give notice of this ruling. 