  Case Number:  20STCV39389    Hearing Date:   September 19, 2024    Dept:  F51  SEPTEMBER 18, 2024    MOTION TO  DISQUALIFY COUNSEL  Los Angeles Superior Court Case  # 20STCV39389     Motion Filed: 6/26/24                                                                                 JURY TRIAL:  10/7/24   MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff I.G., an individual  (“Plaintiff”) RESPONDING PARTY: Defendant Paul Adame, an  individual (“Defendant”) NOTICE: OK   RELIEF REQUESTED: An order disqualifying Vanderford  & Ruiz, LLP and its partners and associates from representing Defendant in  the instant action.   TENTATIVE RULING: The motion is denied.   BACKGROUND   This action  arises out of Plaintiff’s claim that on 2/3/12, when Plaintiff was a 10-year  old student at Germain Elementary School in Los Angeles Unified School District  (LAUSD), Plaintiff was sexually battered by Defendant, a buildings and grounds  worker employed by LAUSD, during school hours.      On 5/11/21,  Plaintiff filed the operative Second Amended Complaint (SAC), alleging against  Defendant and LAUSD the following causes of action: (1) Sexual Battery; (2)  Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress; and (3) Negligence. On 12/1/21,  the Court entered a judgment of dismissal in favor of LAUSD after sustaining  its demurrer to Plaintiff’s third cause of action without leave to amend. On  10/6/22, the Court of Appeal affirmed the ruling.   On 6/26/24, Plaintiff filed the instant motion to disqualify  Defendant’s counsel. On 9/6/24, Defendant filed his opposition. On 9/12/24,  Plaintiff filed her reply.   ANALYSIS   “A lawyer shall not enter into an  agreement for, charge, or accept compensation for representing a client from  one other than the client unless: (a) there is no interference with the lawyer’s  independent professional judgment or with the lawyer-client relationship.” (Cal.  Rules Prof. Conduct, rule 1.8.6.) Here, Plaintiff asserts that Defendant’s  counsel is being paid by LAUSD pursuant to an indemnification agreement. (Ex. 1  to Decl. of Sebastian M. Medvei.) Plaintiff argues that Defendant’s counsel  must be disqualified because LAUSD’s refusal to pay for any proposed settlement  between Plaintiff and Defendant creates an unwaivable conflict of interest in  violation of rule 1.7 of the California Rules of Professional Conduct. (Cal.  Rules Prof. Conduct, rule 1.7, subd. (d)(1) [“Representation is permitted under  this rule only if the lawyer … reasonably believes that the lawyer will be able  to provide competent and diligent representation to each affected client.”].)   1.       Standing   As a preliminary matter, Defendant  argues that Plaintiff lacks the requisite standing to bring the instant motion  to disqualify. A standing requirement is implicit in a motion to disqualify an  attorney, i.e., the moving party generally must have or must have had an  attorney-client relationship with the attorney. (Jarvis v. Jarvis (2019)  33 Cal.App.5th 113, 131; Conservatorship of Lee C. (2017) 18 Cal.App.5th  1072, 1084.) A judge may grant a non-client’s motion for disqualification when  the opposing attorney’s continued representation threatens the moving party  with a cognizable injury or would undermine the integrity of the judicial  process. (Kennedy v. Eldridge (2011) 201 Cal.App.4th 1197, 1205.)   Here, Defendant argues that “Plaintiff  has no relationship with Vanderford & Ruiz, LLP. She also does not allege  concrete, particularized harm to a legally cognizable interest. Instead,  Plaintiff speculates that the School District would rather pay to defend the  case, than to have Mr. Adame accept a settlement offer. There is no basis,  whatsoever, for Plaintiff’s speculation and it does not constitute a concrete  and particularized cognizable interest to support Plaintiff’s disqualification  motion.” (Def.’s Opp. 8:22–26.)   Plaintiff argues in reply that she  “has suffered economic loss and even emotional harm by virtue of LAUSD’s  control of the litigation.” (Pl.’s Reply 7:15–16.) Specifically, Plaintiff  asserts that “Present Defense Counsel’s lack of independence from LAUSD has  caused Present Defense Counsel to refuse to use LAUSD’s defense funds to accept  Plaintiff’s offer to settle the case for $10,000, which offer, made in  recognition of LAUSD’s refusal to pay settlements via its control of Present  Defense Counsel and Defendant’s indigence and inability to pay any liability  outside of his relationship with LAUSD as his indemnitor, does not even  remotely approximate any realistic risk of liability in this case.” (Id.  at 7:21–46.) “Had that offer been accepted, as it should have been, and as it  would have been by independent counsel advising Defendant, Plaintiff would not  have suffered economic loss in the form of additional attorney’s fees and costs  litigating this case.” (Id. at 8:3–5.) Plaintiff further argues that “here,  LAUSD’s interference with Present Defense Counsel’s independence and Present  Defense Counsel’s conflict poses an injury to the judicial process. … But for  Present Defense Counsel’s payment relationship with LAUSD, this matter would  have settled long ago, because, as explained above, the liability exposure is  so great and the demands to settle have been so small that no party, let alone  actual independent counsel, or the Defendant, would take on the risk of trying  this case over $10,000 (and Plaintiff’s other past offers).” (Id. at 10:5–14.)   The Court agrees with Defendant that  Plaintiff’s purported monetary harm in incurring continued legal fees, due to  Defendant’s refusal of Plaintiff’s settlement offer, is speculative and  therefore, alone, insufficient to establish standing to bring the instant  motion. However, the Court observes that where a third-party guarantor’s  payment of a party’s legal fees interferes with counsel’s independent legal  judgment, the integrity of the judicial process is unquestionably threatened,  such that a non-client may bring a motion to disqualify counsel. Accordingly,  the Court finds that here, Plaintiff has the requisite standing to bring the  instant motion because her claims against Defendant’s counsel, if meritorious,  would undermine the integrity of the judicial process. (Kennedy, 201  Cal.App.4th at 1205.) Nevertheless, as further discussed below, the Court finds  that Plaintiff has not sufficiently shown that a conflict of interest exists such  that Defendant’s counsel must be disqualified.   2.       Conflict of Interest   Here, the indemnification agreement  between LAUSD and Defendant provides that “The school district reserves all  rights to stop paying for your defense at any time and also to not pay any  judgment, compromise, or settlement on your behalf if plaintiff’s alleged  injuries arose from your act or omission outside the scope of your school  district employment; or because you acted or failed to act because of  actual fraud, corruption, or actual malice; or because a conflict of interest  would prevent the school district from defending you.” (Ex. 1 to Medvei Decl.  [emphasis added].)   Plaintiff argues that a conflict of  interest exists here because “even if settlement were independently advisable  in this case, LAUSD’s refusal to pay a settlement and its willingness to pay  for continued litigation, and Present Defense Counsel’s incentive to receive  payment from LAUSD for continued litigation and their lack of any incentive to  consider a reasonable settlement, inexorably will prevent Present Defense  Counsel from appropriately advising the Defendant to accept a settlement.” (Pl.’s  Mot. 4:7–12.) Plaintiff argues that “in a traditional insurance relationship,  the refusal to settle a case in the face of risk of a substantially greater  liability would be called ‘bad faith’ because a competent person would accept a  settlement that is cheaper than the cost to defend and/or the likely verdict.”  (Id. at 5:6–9, citing Johansen v. California State Auto. Ass’n  Inter-Ins. Bureau (1975) 15 Cal.3d 9, 16.)   In general, a public entity must  provide its employee with a defense in any action against the employee arising  out of conduct within the scope of their employment, and it must indemnify an  employee for any judgment or settlement paid by the employee in such an action.  (Gov. Code § 825 et  seq. [indemnification]; Gov. Code §  995 et seq. [defense].) Defendant argues in opposition that “contrary to  unsupported assertions in motion, there is no evidence that the School District  ‘is paying Defendant’s lawyers not to settle Defendant’s case.’” (Def.’s Opp. 5:20–21.)  “Here, the School District is operating precisely in accordance with Gov. Code  §§ 825 and 995, because it has provided Defendant Adame with a defense, but  reserved its right not to pay any judgment or settlement unless there is a  finding that Defendant Adame acted within the scope of his employment.” (Id.  at 6:14–18.)   In reply, Plaintiff argues that “because  LAUSD has determined, as did the Court and the Court of Appeal,[1] that Defendant’s conduct  was not within the scope of Defendant’s employment by LAUSD, such that LAUSD ‘will  have no liability’ for a judgment against Defendant, LAUSD has set a blanket  policy for this case of refusing to pay any settlement or verdict on  Defendant’s behalf.” (Pl.’s Reply 4:26–5:3.) “LAUSD is willing to risk great  calamity to Defendant on the (slim) possibility that Defendant might be cleared  by a jury of liability, altogether, which result would allow LAUSD to be able  to conclusively deny the veracity of this incident altogether—an outcome to  LAUSD that is well worth the payment of substantial attorney’s fees to Present  Defense Counsel and the risk that defense poses to Defendant, whom, if  Plaintiff prevails, LAUSD can thereafter simply distance itself from. And, if  Defendant is found liable, LAUSD will have no responsibility to pay even a cent  of the verdict against him and could even, itself, prosecute Defendant for the  monies it expended on his defense.” (Id. at 5:6–14.)   The Court agrees with Plaintiff’s general  argument that if Defendant’s counsel’s relationship with LAUSD prevented  Defendant from agreeing to settle the case, against Defendant’s interests, such  a conflict of interest may warrant disqualification. However, as previously  mentioned, any such resulting harm to either party is speculative at this  juncture. Plaintiff has not provided the Court with any evidence or  calculations that the proposed settlement is substantially lesser than  Plaintiff’s expected recovery upon a trial on the merits, nor any evidence that  LAUSD directed or otherwise influenced Defendant’s counsel to reject Plaintiff’s  settlement offer.     The Court also notes that trial is  set for October 7, 2024 and this case is 1435 days old as of the writing of  this tentative ruling.     Based on the foregoing, the Court  finds insufficient cause to conclude that an unwaivable conflict of interest  exists as to Defendant’s counsel’s representation of Defendant. Accordingly,  the motion is denied.   CONCLUSION   The motion is denied.     