  Case Number:  19STCP00482    Hearing Date:   August 14, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



CITIZENS
  FOR AMENDING PROPOSITION L, et al., 
                        Petitioners/Plaintiffs,
            vs.
CITY OF POMONA, 
                                                                             
  
                        Respondents/Defendants.
  
 
 
REGENCY OUTDOOR ADVERTISING, INC., a
  California Corporation,
 
                        Real Party in
  Interest.
 
 
AND RELATED CROSS-ACTIONS.                       


 


     
  CASE NO.:  19STCP00482
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
 
REGENCY OUTDOOR
ADVERTISING, INC.’S MOTION FOR
SUMMARY ADJUDICATION
 
CITY OF POMONA’S MOTION FOR AN ORDER TO SHOW
  CAUSE RE: CONTEMPT
 
Date: August 14, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
BACKGROUND
This
action arose from a dispute over the regulation by Respondent/Defendant City of
Pomona (the “City”) of billboards. 
Plaintiffs filed a complaint on February 14, 2019, essentially alleging
that the City was helping Real Party-In-Interest Regency Outdoor Advertising,
Inc. (“Regency”) flout the law by allowing Regency to operate and maintain
billboards in violation of Proposition L, which imposed restrictions on the erection
of new billboards in the City.
 
On
November 17, 2022, the City filed its operative first amended cross-complaint
(the “FACC”) against Regency, alleging: (1) implied equitable indemnity; (2)
contribution; (3) declaratory relief; (4) express contractual indemnity; (5)
breach of contract; (6) breach of contract; and (7) declaratory relief.  
 
On
May 5, 2023, the City filed a Motion for Summary Adjudication as to its third
and seventh causes of action for declaratory relief.  In its October 30, 2023 Minute Order, the
Court adjudicated the City’s third cause of action as moot since the City
cannot be found liable for Plaintiffs’ damages, and granted the City’s Motion
for Summary Adjudication as to its seventh cause of action.  
 
On
March 19, 2024, the City filed a Request for Dismissal, voluntarily dismissing
its first, second, third, and fourth causes of action in its FACC against Regency.  As a result, the only presently remaining
causes of action under the City’s FACC are the fifth and sixth causes of action
for breach of contract.  
 
REGENCY’S MSA
            On May 15, 2024, Regency filed the
instant Motion for Summary Adjudication (the “MSA”) as to the City’s fifth
cause of action in its FACC.  The City
filed its opposition on July 31, 2024.  Regency
filed a late reply on August 9, 2024.
 
The
Court has considered the moving and opposition papers.  The Court has exercised its discretion in
considering the late reply papers.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 1005, subd. (b).)
             
 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS 
            The City’s Objection
Nos. 1, 4 and 5 are SUSTAINED. 
            The City’s Objection Nos. 2 and 3 are
OVERRULED.
 
JUDICIAL NOTICE 
The City’s request for judicial notice (“RJN”) of
Exhibits 1 through 6 is GRANTED (except as to the truth of the matters
contained therein) pursuant to Evidence Code Sections 452(b), (c), and
(h).  (Trinity Park, L.P. v. City of
Sunnyvale (2011) 193 Cal.App.4th 1014, 1027 [“The Evidence Code … expressly
provides for judicial notice of a public entity’s legislative enactments (Evid.
Code, § 452, subd. (b)) and official acts (id., subd. (c)).  Thus, we may take notice of local ordinances
[citation] and the official resolutions, reports, and other official acts of a
city [citation]”].)
 
DISCUSSION
Legal Standard
The function of a motion for summary judgment or
adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an opposing party cannot
show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and to enable an order of
summary dismissal without the need for trial.  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  The Code of
Civil Procedure § 437c(c) “requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment
if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from
the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that
there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is
entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”  (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992)
7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)  “The function
of the pleadings in a motion for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of
the issues; the function of the affidavits or declarations is to disclose
whether there is any triable issue of fact within the issues delimited by the
pleadings.”  (Juge v. County of
Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67, citing FPI Development, Inc. v.
Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 367, 381-382.)¿¿ 
¿ 
As to each cause of action as framed by the
complaint, the defendant moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication
must satisfy the initial burden of proof by presenting facts to show “that one
or more elements of the cause of action ... cannot be established, or that
there is a complete defense to the cause of action.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c(p)(2); see also Scalf
v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.)  Courts “liberally construe the evidence in
support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning
the evidence in favor of that party.”  (Dore
v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)¿¿ 
¿ 
Once the defendant has met that burden, the burden
shifts to the plaintiff to show that a triable issue of one or more material
facts exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto.  To establish a triable issue of material fact,
the party opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster
v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)¿¿ 
 
Fifth Cause of
Action for Breach of Contract 
To
state a cause of action for breach of contract, a plaintiff must plead: “(1)
the existence of the contract, (2) plaintiff's performance or excuse for
nonperformance, (3) defendant's breach, and (4) the resulting damages to the
plaintiff.” (D’Arrigo Bros. of California v. United Farmworkers of America
(2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 790, 800.) 
 
            In its MSA, Regency does not dispute
the existence of the contract at issue (the Development Agreement) nor deny its
failure to remove the subject billboards. The City’s performance under the
contract is also not an issue. 
 
            Here, Regency’s main argument is
that the City’s fifth cause of action for breach of contract fails because it is
premised on an unenforceable contractual penalty provision.  More specifically, the City’s Fifth Cause of
Action alleges that Regency breached the Development Agreement between the
parties by failing to pay a fine set forth in Section IV.J thereof.  Section IV.J provides that, to the extent
Regency does not remove certain billboards, Regency is required to pay a “fine”
of either $500 per day (adjusted to the CPI formula) or the actual revenues
that Regency receives from the billboards, whichever is greater.  (Declaration of Brian Kennedy in Support of
Regency’s MSA (“Kennedy Decl.”), ¶ 8; Exh. A.) 
Regency contends that Section IV.J represents an improper liquidated
damages provision.  Therefore, if Regency
establishes that the liquidated damages clause is an unenforceable penalty, it
negates the essential element of damage.  
 
In
support of its contention, Regency submits the declaration of Brian Kennedy
(“Kennedy”), Regency’s owner and co-founder, who declared that he was
personally involved with the negotiations of the Development Agreement between
Regency and the City, and the amendments thereto.  (Kennedy Decl., ¶ 3.)  Kennedy declares that “[t]he fine set forth
in Section IV.J of the Development Agreement was not based on a reasonable
endeavor by the parties to estimate [sic] the losses the City might
suffer from Regency's failure to remove the billboards.  At the time the Development Agreement was
executed, the parties did not make any attempt to estimate the actual losses
the City might suffer if the billboards were not timely removed.  The fine was not calculated based on any
analysis by the parties with respect to the City's anticipated losses if the
billboards were not timely removed.” 
(Kennedy Decl., ¶ 9.) 
 
In
opposition, the City counters that Regency’s sole evidence to support its
position in the form of Kennedy’s declaration is clearly refuted by the City’s
June 24, 1992, Planning Commission meeting, and November 9, 1992, February 8,
1993, and May 24, 1993, City Council meetings.  (RJN, Exhs. 3-6.)  The City contends that before executing the
Development Agreement, the City and Regency engaged in extensive discussions
and negotiations regarding its terms.  (RJN, Exhs. 1-3.)  For example, the City points out that during
such negotiations, Regency was represented by an attorney and had many
opportunities to dispute or negotiate the Development Agreement’s various
terms. (e.g., RJN, Exh. 3, p. 11.), and that the City provided Regency
an opportunity to make revisions to the Development Agreement. (RJN, Exh. 2.)  
 
Liquidated
Damages
Civil
Code § 1671(b) provides that “a provision in a contract liquidating the damages
for the breach of the contract is valid unless the party seeking to invalidate
the provision establishes that the provision was unreasonable under the
circumstances existing at the time the contract was made.”  Courts evaluate liquidated damages clauses by
determining if the clause represents a “reasonable endeavor” to estimate the
cost of a breach. (El Centro Mall, LLC v. Payless Shoe Source, Inc.
(2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 58, 62-63.)  
 
Here,
Regency argues that the liquidated damages provision “was not based on any
reasonable endeavor by the parties to estimate the City’s potential losses if
the billboards were not timely removed.” 
Regency relies on Kennedy’s declaration, in which he testifies that the parties
did not “make any attempt to estimate the City’s potential losses if the
billboards were not timely removed” or “engage in any analysis of the City’s
potential losses in connection setting the fine set forth” in the liquidated
damages provision.
 
The
City, however, presents evidence refuting Kennedy’s declaration – for example,
the City’s June 24, 1992 Planning Commission meeting, and November 9, 1992,
February 8, 1993, and May 24, 1993 City Council meetings. (RJN, Exhs. 3-6.)  The Court also notes that the City has not
had the opportunity yet to depose Regency’s witnesses, particularly Kennedy, which
will likely reveal facts surrounding the negotiations of the Development
Agreement, and whether Regency accepted the liquidated damages provision at issue.
 The Court also notes that to the extent
that the fine is based at least in part on the actual revenues collected from
the billboards in question, it has an actual relationship to the potential
losses arising from Regency’s actions.
 
There
is thus a triable issue on whether the terms were unreasonable under the
circumstances existing at the time of the contract was entered into by the
parties.  Under these circumstances, the Court
cannot conclude as a matter of law that Section IV.J is an unenforceable
penalty provision.  Thus, Regency has not
satisfied its initial burden to show that no triable issue of material fact
exists.
 
Accordingly,
Regency’s MSA as to the City’s Fifth Cause of Action is DENIED.
 
THE CITY’S MOTION
FOR CONTEMPT
            On May 20, 2024, the City filed the
instant Motion for an Order to Show Cause re: Contempt (the “Motion for
Contempt”) against Regency.  Regency
filed its opposition on August 1, 2024, and the City filed a reply on August 7,
2024.
 
The
Court has considered the moving, opposition and reply papers.
 
Legal
Standard
“Disobedience of any lawful judgment,
order, or process of the court” is a contempt of the authority of the court.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1209 (a)(5).)  “When the contempt is not committed in the
immediate view and presence of the court … an affidavit shall be presented to
the court or judge of the facts constituting the contempt.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1211 (a).)  The judge shall thereupon make a finding re:
contempt, and the court may grant an order to show cause.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1212.)  If the court finds that the moving party has,
by affidavit, alleged facts sufficiently showing the required bases for
contempt jurisdiction, the court signs an order to show cause re: contempt, setting
the date and time for a contempt hearing. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1212.)
 
            The trial court must have
jurisdiction over an alleged contemnor in order to hold a contempt proceeding,
for which it is required that the moving party show by affidavit: (1) an order
was made; (2) the alleged contemnor’s knowledge of that order; (3) the alleged
contemnor’s ability to render compliance; and (4) the alleged contemnor’s willful
disobedience.  Anderson v. Superior Court
(1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 1240, 1245.)  The
moving party’s affidavit shall function like a complaint, and facts giving rise
to the court’s jurisdiction to charge the alleged contemnor must be
“well-pleaded” therein.  (People v. Hadley
(1924) 66 Cal.App. 370, 379-380.)
Here,
the City moves for an order requiring Regency to show cause why it should not
be held in contempt of Court for failing to comply with this Court’s October
30, 2023 Order Re: City’s Motion for Summary Adjudication (“MSA Order”).  The City contends that by refusing to take
down the billboards, Regency has willfully violated the terms of the MSA Order,
and is therefore guilty of contempt.
 
The
Court disagrees with the City’s contention. 
The MSA Order granted summary adjudication on the City’s declaratory
relief cause of action regarding a provision in the Development Agreement.  The Court, in so doing, declared the rights
of the parties pursuant to the billboard removal provision of the Development
Agreement.  The Court, did not, however
expressly order Regency to remove the billboards.  Thus, while the Court, in the MSA Order,
declared the City’s contractual rights under the Development Agreement, it did
not order Regency to take any specific action, that is, to remove the
billboards.
 
Contempt
proceedings are criminal in nature, and the prescribed procedural safeguards
must be accorded the alleged contemner.  (City of Culver City v. Superior Court,
38 Cal.2d 535, 541.)  The prime purpose
of such proceedings is punishment for disobedience of a valid order directing
performance of a specified act.  Liability for such drastic punishment ‘should
not rest upon implication or conjecture’ but rather upon an order expressing in
‘clear, specific and unequivocal’ language the act required.  (Ransom v. Superior Ct., 262 Cal. App.
2d 271, 276.)
 
In
the absence of specific language in the Court’s MSA Order requiring Regency to
take a specific action, the Court, under the circumstances, cannot hold Regency
to be in contempt.
 
Accordingly,
the City’s Motion for Contempt is DENIED.
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 14th day of August 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



