 Case Number:  23STCV17191    Hearing Date:   August 14, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



TIMOTHY SETTLES,
  
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
CONTEMPORARY SERVICES CORP.; DOES 1 to 5,
  
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.:  23STCV17191
 
ORDER RE: 
 
DEMURRER TO PLAINTIFF’S COMPLAINT
 
MOTION TO STRIKE PORTIONS OF PLAINTIFF’S
  COMPLAINT
 
Date: August 14, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING
PARTY: Defendant CONTEMPORARY SERVICES CORPORATION (“Defendant”)
 
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff
TIMOTHY SETTLES (“Plaintiff”’)
 
BACKGROUND
             On July 20, 2023, Plaintiff filed a form
complaint (the “Complaint”) against Defendant, asserting the following as causes
of action: 1) general negligence; 2) intentional tort; (3) intentional
infliction of emotional distress; 4) undue mental anguish; 5) bad faith
business practice; 6) defamation of character; and 7) violation of the
“doctrine of unclean hands.”
 
            On May 24, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Demurrer
(the “Demurrer”) and a Motion to Strike portions of the Complaint (the “Motion
to Strike”).  On July 8, Plaintiff filed
a document entitled “Plaintiff’s Request of the Court to Take Judicial Notice
That the Defendant’s Attorney Has No Standing to File Any Documents While in
Default, See Exhibits.” Noting that Plaintiff was under the mistaken belief
that Defendant was in default when his Request for Entry of Default had been
rejected, but wishing that all issues be determined on their merits, on its own
motion the Court continued the hearing to this date to allow Plaintiff to file
a substantive opposition, if desired.  
 
            All opposition papers were due nine
court days before the hearing date, on or before August 1, 2024.  Instead, Plaintiff filed his “Reply and
Opposition to Defendant’s Demurrer and Motion to Strike” the day before the
hearing, on August 13, 2024. Initially, the Court notes that what Plaintiff
filed late was an opposition and not a reply brief.  
 
The
Court is allowed to disregard late-filed papers; moreover, the extreme lateness
of the filing meant Defendant had no opportunity to file a reply brief, which
is ordinarily due five court days before the hearing. (Code of Civil Procedure,
Section 1005.)  
 
            Nevertheless, the Court has
considered Plaintiff’s opposition, which did not address the issues in the
Demurrer and Motion to Strike.  The Court
finds merit in Defendant’s Demurrer and Motion to Strike, as the Complaint
fails to allege the elements of any recognized cause of action against
Defendant, instead only stating the facts on the basis of which Plaintiff
believes he has a claim.  As such, the
Complaint does not allege a valid cause of action against Defendant as
pleaded.  
 
The
Court understands that Plaintiff is not a lawyer; however, he must also
understand that the Court is required to hold him to the same standards as
those followed by lawyers when he is representing himself.  (Nwosu v. Una (2004) 122 Cal.App.4th
1229, 1246-47.)
 
If
Plaintiff does not state every element of a recognized cause of action as to
each cause of action alleged in his next amended complaint, then his first
amended complaint may again be subject to demurrer, regardless of whether he
believes that he has been treated badly. 
If the Court concludes that he is unable to state a valid cause of
action, it may sustain a demurrer thereto without leave to amend.  
 
The
Court suggests that Plaintiff may wish to consult either an attorney or a
self-help center for assistance in satisfying the very difficult pleading
requirements that this Court must and will require him to follow.  The Court further notes that Plaintiff is not
entitled to an evidentiary hearing on a demurrer as he has requested, as
demurrers are decided entirely upon the facts as pleaded and on any matters
that may be judicially noticed and are not subject to the presentation of
outside evidence. (CCP Section 430.10, et seq.)
 
Therefore,
the Court sustains the Demurrer with thirty days leave to amend.  The Motion to Strike is moot.
 
Moving
Party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 


 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 14th day of August 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



