 Case Number:  23STCP01705    Hearing Date:   August 14, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



TOHID NAEEM, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
NIDAL A. BARAKAT,
 
                        Defendant.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.:  23STCP01705
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
 
MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE THIRD AMENDED
  COMPLAINT
 
Date: August 14, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff
Tohid Naeem (“Plaintiff”)
 
RESPONDING PARTY: None.
 
            The Court has considered the moving
papers.  No opposition and reply papers have
been filed.  
 
BACKGROUND
             On May 18, 2023, Plaintiff filed the operative
one-page complaint (“Complaint”) against Defendant Nidal A. Barakat
(“Defendant”) for Violations of Tenant Anti-Harassment Ordinance.  On July 31, 2023, Defendant filed an Answer.
 
Subsequently,
Plaintiff filed motions for leave to file an amended complaint, which the Court
either denied or continued to allow proper service on the Defendant.
 
On
March 29, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Motion for Leave to File Second Amended Complaint,
which the Court granted on April 30, 2024. 
In its April 30, 2024 Minute Order, the Court indicated that an amended
complaint is to be filed within fifteen days. 
 
On
May 21, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant Motion for Leave to File Third
Amended Complaint (the “Motion”).  Plaintiff
now seeks to add Catherine Durickas as a defendant in this action and to add
additional causes of action.  The Motion
is unopposed.  
 
DISCUSSION
Code
of Civil Procedure Section 473 permits the trial court in its discretion to
allow amendments to pleadings in the furtherance of justice.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (a)(1).) Code
of Civil Procedure Section 576 provides that any judge, at any time before or
after commencement of trial, in the furtherance of justice, and upon such terms
as may be proper, may allow the amendment of any pleading or pretrial
conference order.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
576.) There is a policy of great liberality in permitting amendments to the
pleadings at any stage of the proceeding.  (Berman v. Bromberg (1997) 56
Cal.App.4th 936, 945.)  An application to
amend a pleading is addressed to the trial judge’s sound discretion.  (Id.)  If the motion to amend is timely made and the
granting of the motion will not prejudice the opposing party, it is error to
refuse permission to amend and where the refusal also results in a party being
deprived of the right to assert a meritorious cause of action or a meritorious
defense, it is not only error but an abuse of discretion.  (Morgan v. Superior Court of Cal. In and
For Los Angeles County (1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530.)  Where no prejudice is shown to the adverse
party, the liberal rule of allowance prevails.  (Higgins v. Del Faro (1981) 123
Cal.App.3d 558, 564.)
 
Under
California Rules of Court rule 3.1324, a motion for leave to amend a pleading must
be accompanied by a declaration that sets forth: (1) the effect of the
amendment; (2) why the amendment is necessary and proper; (3) when the facts
giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and (4) the reasons why
the request for amendment was not made sooner.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324, subd. (b).)
 
A
motion to amend a pleading before trial must (1) include a copy of the proposed
amendment or amended pleading, which must be serially numbered to differentiate
it from previous pleadings or amendments; (2) state what allegations in the
previous pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and where, by page,
paragraph and line number, the deleted allegations are located; and (3) state
what allegations are proposed to be added to the previous pleading, if any, and
where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the additional allegations are
located.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1324(a).)
 
            Here, the Motion is accompanied by
Plaintiff’s declaration stating that he has “recently discovered evidence
indicating that Catherine Durickas, Apartment Manager, played a significant
role in the events described” in his complaint. 
(Declaration of Tohid Naeem, ¶ 2.) 
Plaintiff further states that he seeks to add Catherine Durickas as a
defendant to ensure that all responsible properties are held accountable, and
that an amendment is necessary for the proper adjudication of his claims.  (Id., ¶ 3-4.)  Thus, the Court finds Plaintiff has complied
with Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(b).
 
            The Motion includes a copy of the
proposed amended pleading.  Since the
proposed amended pleading is entirely different from the original pleading
(which merely states “Violations of Tenant Anti-Harassment Ordinance”), the
Court finds that Plaintiff has substantially complied with Rules of Court, rule
3.1324(a) even though the Motion does not state which allegations in the previous
pleading are proposed to be deleted and where, and does not state which
allegations are proposed to be added to the previous pleading and where.  In fact, the Complaint sought to be amended
contains no allegations.
 
Finally,
the Court finds no indication that present Defendant would be prejudiced by
allowing the amendment.  As long as no prejudice to the defendant is
shown, the liberal policy regarding amendment prevails and it is an abuse of
discretion to refuse the amendment.  (Mesler
v. Bragg Mgmt. Co. (1985) 39 Cal.3d 290, 297.)  The Court notes,
however, that trial is set for November 19, 2024 and if the new defendant seeks
additional time for discovery, the trial will be continued.
 
RULING
The Motion is GRANTED.  The Third Amended Complaint is to be filed and
served within 15 days of this order. 
 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
Dated this 14th day of August 2024




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J. Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



