 Case Number:  24STCV02587    Hearing Date:   August 14, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



4E CAPITAL LP,
  etc., et al., 
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
PACIFIC CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS GROUP,
  INC., etc., et al., 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.: 24STCV02587
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
OSC RE PLAINTIFFS’ MOTION FOR
  PRELIMINARY INJUNCTION
 
Date: July 14, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiffs
4E Capital LP, Pharm Capital, LLC and Alexey Mikhaylov (“Plaintiffs”) 
 
RESPONDING PARTY: Pacific
Consolidated Holdings Group, Inc. (“PCH”) and OBM PDG, LLC (“OBM”)
(collectively sometimes “Defendants”)
 
            The Court has considered the moving,
opposition and reply papers. The Court has considered the objections filed to
the declarations and sustains all objections except as to statements of fact
contained therein that are within the personal knowledge of the declarant, as
opposed to statements of opinion and conclusions of law. 
 
 
BACKGROUND
             This case arises from a lending relationship
between Plaintiffs and Defendant PCH.  On
January 31, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a lawsuit against Defendants and on June 26,
2024, they filed their First Amended Complaint (the “FAC”), the currently
operative pleading.  The FAC alleges
claims for Breach of Contract, Fraudulent Conveyance (actual and constructive
and aiding and abetting same), Common Law Fraudulent Transfer (and aiding and
abetting same), Larceny, Breach of Fiduciary Duty (and aiding and abetting
same), Fraud, Negligent Misrepresentation, Accounting and Declaratory Relief.  
 
            In the FAC, Plaintiffs allege, in
pertinent part, that “Pursuant to the Side Letters for the second set of loans,
the Second 4E and Mikhaylov Loans, and the binding Restructuring [Letter of
Intent (the “LOI”)], PCH assigned the PDG Notes [three promissory notes in a
total amount of approximately $10,621,254 (the “Notes”) between OBM and PDG,
Carpenteria and Rincon) to Plaintiffs and the other lenders.”  (FAC, ¶136.) 
 
The
Memorandum refers to an alleged assignment to Plaintiffs and “other [unidentified]
lenders,” who are presumably lenders separate and distinct from Plaintiffs.  The parties agree that the Notes are the only
substantial asset owned by OBM and that OBM is a wholly owned subsidiary of
Defendant PCH.  An interpleader action
regarding the Notes is currently pending in the Santa Barbara County Superior
Court as Pacific Dutch Group, LLC, et al., v. OBM PDG, LLC Case No. 24CV0182
(the “Interpleader Action”). 
 
On
June 5, 2024, Judge Stephen I. Goorvich of this Court issued writs of
attachment on behalf of Plaintiffs and against PCH “for any property of a
defendant who is not a natural person for which a method of levy is
provided.”  Writs of attachment to
non-natural persons do not apply to shares of stock.  (Code of Civil Procedure, Sections 488.300, et
seq.)
 
            On July 19, 2024, Plaintiffs presented
to this Court an Ex Parte Application for a Temporary Restraining Order (“TRO”)
to enjoin Defendants from proceeding with an allegedly fraudulent transfer consisting
of a proposed restructuring transaction (the “Farfalla Transaction”) for the
debt of PCH.  The details on the Farfalla
Transaction are set out in a memorandum sent to “Certain Creditors of Pacific
Consolidated Holdings Group, Inc.” dated July 11, 2024 (the “Memorandum”).  In the Memorandum, PCH represented that while
it “presently does not believe it has any material asset value at this time,”
the one asset it has is its 100% ownership interest in OBM, and that OBM has an
interest as the holder of the Notes from the Dutch Group.  The Memorandum states that while OBM “historically
held interests in” the Dutch Group [Declaration of Omar Mangalji (“Mangalji
Decl.”), ¶ 3], that ownership interest was the subject of a “comprehensive
buyout” by the Dutch Group. (Mangalji Decl., ¶7.) 
 
In
connection with a settlement of issues between OBM and the Dutch Group, the
Dutch Group and its related entities CPL and Rincon each gave a promissory note
to OBM. The Notes were all executed as of January 19, 2022 and were in the
original amounts of $19,128,071.96 (the Dutch Group), $1,382,806.50 (CPL) and $919,910
(Rincon), for a total amount due to OBM of $21,430.788.46.  For the purposes of this order, the three
promissory notes will be referred to as the “Notes” and the Dutch Group, CPL
and Rincon will be referred to as the “Dutch Group.”
 
The
Memorandum proposed to creditors, including Plaintiffs, that they exchange
their position as creditors of PCH for member interests in a new entity,
Farfalla Capital Investments, LLC (“Farfalla”), in return for which PCH would
enter into a Secured Promissory Note in favor of Farfalla (the “Farfalla Note”)
in a principal amount not to exceed the approximate value of the Notes, which
would be secured by a first-priority, perfected lien in PCH’s entire ownership
interest in OBM, the holder of the Notes. 
The Memorandum is silent as to whether or when payments would be made by
PCH on the Farfalla Note.
 
The
Memorandum represents that Farfalla “will” receive a first-priority security
interest in “PCH’s entire ownership interest in OBM,” but not a first-priority,
perfected lien in the Notes themselves.  Farfalla
therefore does not receive the Notes themselves but only receives a security
interest in the company that owns the Notes.   Meanwhile,
the Notes are the subject of an interpleader action in the Santa Barbara Court
which Dept. 1 of this Court will be asked tomorrow to transfer to this
Department.    
 
No
representation is made that the Notes are not in default, that PCH will make
payments on a set schedule, or at all, that regular payments, or any payments,
will be made by the Dutch Group under the Notes or that all, or in fact any
payments made under the Notes will in turn be paid to Farfalla.  Under the terms of the Farfalla Transaction, however,
PCH would effectively retain no assets, since its one asset is pledged to
Farfalla.  The fact that if Plaintiffs did
not agree to enter into the Farfalla Transaction they would be able to pursue their
creditor’s claim against PCH would therefore be meaningless. 
 
The
Court is not ruling whether or not Plaintiffs have a security or an assignment
interest in the Notes themselves.  Plaintiffs,
however, have alleged contract claims which Judge Goorvich has held are likely
to prevail.  Plaintiffs have also alleged
claims in this lawsuit for fraudulent transfers which are sufficiently
generally pled to cover the Farfalla Transaction.  The Farfalla Transaction would result in the
transfer of what PCH itself describes as the “one exception” to its belief that
it has no material asset value. 
 
As
the Memorandum states: “[i]f OPBM PDG fails to meet its obligations to
[Farfalla] under the Secured Promissory Note, [Farfalla], in addition to the
traditional remedies granted a secured lender, will have the right to foreclose
on and take possession of PCH’s entire ownership interest in OBM PMG and
its assets as a going concern.”  OBM’s assets consist of the Notes.  Without the assets of OBM, i.e., the
Notes, PCH has no “material asset value.” 

 
In
return, the members of Farfalla would be entitled to “distributions from
Farfalla from funds PCH pays to Farfalla on the Farfalla Note,” but only at the
Manager’s discretion.  Even those
potential payments are not guaranteed or even set by PCH in any way.   While
the original amount of the Notes was $21.4 million in January 2022 and there
were stipulated monthly payments from the Dutch Group to OBM which presumably
reduced the value of the Notes to approximately $10,621,254 over a period of
two years (a reduction in principal value of approximately $10,778,746)[1],
only “some of [those payments] were occasionally remitted by OBM PDG
to PCH.”  (Mangalji Decl., ¶ 8.)  
 
Moreover,
under the Memorandum, not only is there no requirement that all payments
received by PCH on the Notes will be paid to Farfalla, but in fact “THERE IS NO
GUARANTEE THAT YOU WILL EVER RECEIVE ANY DISTRIBUTION FROM [FARFALLA] OR ANY
PAYMENTS WITH RESPECT TO THE PCH OBLIGATIONS ASSIGNED PURSUANT TO THE PROPOSED
RESTRUCTURE.”  The interest rate on the
Notes is 0%.
 
The
Memorandum set a deadline of July 19, 2024, close of business, for creditors to
enter into a non-binding agreement to become members of Farfalla or to retain
their status as creditors of PCH after the creation of Farfalla.  PCH has represented to the Court that – even without
Plaintiffs’ participation – the “significant participation” required to
effectuate the Farfalla Transaction has been met, such that if the PI is not
issued, it will go forward.  If the
Farfalla Transaction goes forward, Plaintiffs will have no assets from which to
satisfy their 
 
Under
the Farfalla Transaction as contemplated, Plaintiffs therefore have the option
either to: 1) accept the offer of membership in Farfalla and lose their current
claims against Plaintiffs, with some vague possibility of distributions from
Farfalla if PCH pays Farfalla on the Farfalla Note; or 2) reject or otherwise
not respond to the offer and retain their claims as against PCH, which would then
become an entity with no assets.  
 
After
oral argument on the Ex Parte Application, the Court expressed a tentative decision
to grant the TRO in order to maintain the status quo pending full briefing and
argument on a Preliminary Injunction (“PI”). 
In light of this tentative decision, the parties instead stipulated to
the issuance of an Order to Show Cause (“OSC”) for this date why a PI should
not be ordered: (1) restraining and enjoining Defendants PCH and OBM from proceeding
with the Frafala Transaction or an Assignment for Benefit of Creditors (“ABC”);
and (2) restraining and enjoining OBM and PDG and PCH from taking any other
actions to transfer PCH’s interest in OBM, and PCH and OBM’s claimed interests
in the Notes throughout the pendency of this action.


 
DISCUSSION
Initially, the Court finds that the potential effect
of the Farfalla Transaction is to create an effective lien on the Notes as part
of the first security interest conveyed in OCM, which owns the Notes, while at
the same time allowing PCH to continue to enjoy the benefits of potential
payments to be made on the Notes (albeit subject to the possibility of making
payments on the Farfalla Note).  The
Farfalla Transaction would therefore effect a transfer of the Notes within the
meaning of   CC Section 3439.01(i).
 
“In
deciding whether to issue a preliminary injunction, a court must weigh two
‘interrelated’ factors: (1) the likelihood that the moving party will
ultimately prevail on the merits and (2) the relative interim harm to the
parties from issuance or nonissuance of the injunction.  . . . . 
The trial court's determination must be guided by a ‘mix’ of the
potential-merit and interim-harm factors; the greater the plaintiff’s showing on
one, the less must be shown on the other to support an injunction.” (Butt v. State of California (1992) 4
Cal.4th 668, 677-78 (citations omitted).) 

 
The
Court therefore considers the above two factors, as follows:
 
Likelihood of Prevailing
Judge
Goorvich has held that Plaintiffs have a substantial likelihood of prevailing
on their breach of contract claims, at least, for the amount of their debt,
which is in excess of $10 million. (June 5, 2024 Order granting Applications
for Writs of Attachment at pp. 8-10.)  The Court further finds that the allegations
of the Sixth Cause of Action of the FAC sufficiently allege a basis for proceeding
on a fraudulent conveyance claim regarding the Farfalla Transaction under Civil
Code (“CC”) Section 3439.04(a)(1).
 
“A
fraudulent conveyance is a transfer from the debtor of property to a third
person undertaken with the intent to prevent a creditor from reaching that
interest to satisfy its claim.” (Nautilus, Inc. v. Yang (2017) 11
Cal.App.5th 33, 39; CC, Section 3439.04(a).)  A transfer is fraudulent “if the debtor made
the transfer (1) with actual intent to hinder, delay, or defraud any creditor,
or (2) without receiving reasonably equivalent value in return, and…intended
to, or reasonably believed or reasonably should have received, that he or she
would incur debts beyond his or her ability to pay as they became due.” (Kirkeby
v. Superior Court (2004) 33
Cal.App.4th 642, 648.) 
 
In
addition to making fraudulent transfers voidable, the Uniform Fraudulent
Transfers Act (“UFTA”) also permits a plaintiff to seek “[a]n injunction
against further disposition by the debtor or a transferee, or both, of the
asset transferred or other property of the transferee.” (CC Section
3439.07(a)(3)(A).)  Whether a conveyance
is made with fraudulent intent is a question of fact, and proof often consists
of inferences from the circumstances surrounding the transfer. (Filip v.
Bucurenciu (“Filip”) (2005) 129 Cal.App.4th 825,
835.)  Civil Code Section 3439.04 sets
forth the factors that determine actual intent. These factors are: (1) whether
the transfer or obligation was to an insider; (2) whether the debtor retained
possession or control of the property; (3) whether the transfer or obligation
was disclosed or concealed; (4) whether before the transfer was made or
obligation was incurred, the debtor had been sued or threatened with suit; (5) whether
the transfer was subject of substantially all the debtor’s assets; (6) whether
the debtor absconded; (7) whether the debtor removed or concealed assets; (8) whether
the value of the consideration received by the debtor was reasonably equivalent
to the value of the asset transferred or the amount of the obligation; (9) whether
the debtor was insolvent or became insolvent shortly after a substantial debt
was incurred; and (10) whether the debtor transferred the essential assets of
the business to a lienor that transferred the assets to an insider of the
debtor.
 
There
is no minimum number of relevant factors that must be present before the scales
tip in favor of finding actual intent to defraud.  (Filip at 834.)  The Court therefore analyzes the relevant
factors.
 
(1)  Whether the
transfer or obligation was to an insider
The
Farfalla Transaction would cause PCH to issue a promissory note in the full
amount of the Notes, secured by PCH’s stock in OBM, to an entity which it has
created for the purpose of avoiding its debts. 
PCH has no means to pay on the Secured Promissory Note except by using
payments that it may receive on the Notes. 
Thus, the income stream from the Notes is the only asset of PCH since the
OBM stock itself does not produce income. 
Therefore, an effective lien on the payments on the Notes – PCH’s only
source of income and assets – is to be effectively transferred to Farfalla, an
entity created by PCH for the purpose of eliminating its own debt.  Farfalla is an insider of PCH in this
transaction.  The Court finds that this
factor weighs in favor of the Farfalla Transaction being a fraudulent
transaction.
(2)  Whether the debtor
retained possession or control of the property
PCH
retains ownership of the stock in OBM while retaining the right to income from
the Notes as the 100% owner of OBM.  This
factor weighs in favor of designation of the Farfalla Transaction as a
fraudulent transaction.
(3)  Whether before the
transfer was made or obligation was incurred, the debtor had been sued or
threatened with suit 
Plaintiffs
had filed suit before this transaction was offered to PCH’s creditors. This
factor weighs in favor of designation of the Farfalla Transaction as a
fraudulent transaction.
(4)  Whether the
transfer was of substantially all of the debtor’s assets
See
factor (1).  This factor weighs in favor
of designation of the Farfalla Transaction as a fraudulent transaction.
(5)  Whether the value
of the consideration received by the debtor was reasonably equivalent to the
value of the asset transferred or the amount of the obligation
The
consideration is cancellation of PCH’s debt and other claims from the lenders
other than Plaintiff in an amount not established and so this factor cannot be
evaluated.
(6)  Whether the debtor
was insolvent or became insolvent shortly after a substantial debt was incurred
If
the Farfalla Transaction closes, PCH would become indebted in the amount of the
Secured Promissory Note, with its only asset encumbered in an equal amount,
rendering it insolvent. This factor weighs in favor of designation of the
Farfalla Transaction as a fraudulent transaction.
 
 The Court finds that the balance of the Section
3439.04 factors weighs in favor of a finding that there is a substantial likelihood
that Plaintiffs will prevail on their fraudulent transfer claim under CC
Section 3439.04.  
            
1.     The Relative
Interim Harm to the Parties
a.     Harm to Plaintiffs
In
the absence of an injunction, Plaintiffs would be harmed because they would be
required to choose between maintaining their claims against an effectively
insolvent entity and trading those claims for an interest in an entity that
does not guarantee any payments whatsoever. 

b.     Harm to Defendants
If
this Court were to issue this injunction, Defendants would be unable to close
the Farfalla Transaction.  As the Court
does not intend to enjoin Defendants from entering into an Assignment for the
Benefit of Creditors, they would be in no worse position than they were in
before this proceeding was begun.  While
PCH claims that it would be harmed because the Farfalla Transaction is the only
way that it can avoid insolvency, as it has reached this position through the
borrowing that has put it in this position, the relative harm to the Parties
weighs in favor of Plaintiffs who lent the money rather than in favor of Defendants,
who borrowed those funds and did not pay them back.
 
ORDER
Because
the Court finds that good cause exists for the issuance of a preliminary
injunction against Defendants’ proceeding with the transaction outlined in the
Memorandum July 11, 2024 or any similar restructuring involving the rights to
the Notes other than an Assignment for the Benefit of Creditors, the Court
therefore issues a Preliminary Injunction against Defendants on condition of Plaintiffs’
posting a bond in the amount of $______________ within __ days of the date of
this order.
 
Moving
Party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 


 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 14th day of August 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 






