 Case Number:  19STCV23747    Hearing Date:   August 14, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



J.G., a minor by
  and through his Guardian ad Litem, S.F., et al., 
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
LOS ANGELES UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT, et
  al., 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


      CASE NO.: 19STCV23747 (c/w  20STCV01832 and 19STCV30462)
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT OR SUMMARY
  ADJUDICATION
 
Date: August 14, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant
Los Angeles Unified School District (“LAUSD” or the “District”)
 
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiffs
AC, JG, AZ, BW, JC and RC (sometimes collectively, “Plaintiffs”)
 
            The Court has considered the moving,
opposition and reply papers. 
 
BACKGROUND
             These consolidated actions involve minor Plaintiffs
who have sued Defendant LAUSDct  based on
allegations of sexual abuse perpetrated by Defendant Daniel Ayon (“Ayon”), who
was employed as a staff coordinator in the Beyond the Bell after-school program
attended by Plaintiffs at Amestoy Elementary School (the “School”) in Gardena,
California. 
 
            LAUSD now moves for summary judgment
or, in the alternative, summary adjudication of issues (the “Motion”).  Plaintiffs have filed an opposition and LAUSD
has filed a reply. 
 
THE PLEADINGS
            The operative complaints
in this consolidated case are as follows: Case No. 20STCV01832 (“A.C.”), in
which the remaining causes of action alleged against LAUSD are the Fourth
(Negligent Hiring, Supervision and Retention of Unfit Employee (“NHSR”)); Fifth
(Breach of Mandatory Duty – Government Code, Sections 815.6, 815.6 and 820);
Sixth (Failure to Report Suspected Child Abuse); Seventh (Negligent Supervision
of Minor); and Eighth (Negligent Failure to Warn, Train or Educate); Case No. 19STCV23747
(“J.G.”); and Case No. 19STCV30462 (“R.C.”), both of which allege NHSR claims
against LAUSD; R.C. also alleges a cause of action against LAUSD for
Negligence.
 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
Defendant’s
objections to the Declaration of Jason Peplinski Ed.D nos. 4 and 5 are
SUSTAINED.  All other objections by LAUSD
are OVERRULED. 
 
DISCUSSION
The
function of a motion for summary judgment or adjudication is to allow a
determination as to whether an opposing party cannot show evidentiary support
for a pleading or claim and to enable an order of summary dismissal without the
need for trial.  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  California Code of Civil Procedure
(“CCP”) section 437c, subdivision (c) requires the trial judge to grant summary
judgment if all the evidence submitted, and all inferences reasonably deducible
from the evidence and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that
there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is
entitled to judgment as a matter of law. 
(Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp.
(1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)
 
As
to each claim as framed by the complaint, the defendant moving for summary
judgment must satisfy the initial burden of proof by presenting facts to negate
an essential element, or to establish a defense.  (CCP § 437c, subd. (p)(2); Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005)
128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.)  Once the
defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that
a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action
or a defense thereto.  To establish a triable
issue of material fact, the party opposing the motion must produce substantial
responsive evidence.  (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68
Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)  Courts liberally
construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and
resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.  (Dore
v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)
 
A
motion for summary adjudication may be granted only if it completely disposes
of a cause of action. (CCP § 437 c(f).)


 
THE MOTION
            The Motion is based upon LAUSD’s
position that: 
 
LAUSD
did not have any direct or indirect knowledge of Ayon’s alleged
misconduct.  There was no suspicion of
misconduct identified from any Beyond the Bell Staff member working with Ayon.  There were no prior complaints or concerns
against Ayon.  Specifically, there were
no complaints made by the plaintiffs, themselves, or their parents.  Ayon’s background check was cleared before
and throughout his employment.  Further
the plaintiffs cannot state any facts that hiring or having Ayon as an employee
itself was a substantial factor in the plaintiffs’ injuries from Ayon’s abuse
because it is not foreseeable that hiring Ayon could lead to the sexual abuse
of the plaintiff. (Memorandum in Support of the Motion, p. 10, ll. 14-21.)
 
The
District contends that the first notice received by LAUSD of Ayon’s alleged
sexual misconduct with children occurred on Thursday, April 4, 2019, when
Plaintiff BW ripped his pants in the morning while attending school. (Defendant’s
Statement of Undisputed Material Facts (“UMF”) 1.) BW told his grandmother and
parents later that day that Ayon had touched his “private area” when supposedly
examining the rip in B.W.’s pants. (UMF 3.) 
Plaintiff BW’s mother called the principal of the school the following
day, and the principal called the Gardena Police Department and followed up
with a Suspected Child Abuse Report (“SCAR”). (UMF 5.)  On Friday, April 5, 2019, Ayon’s supervisor
was called and Ayon was removed from campus. 
(UMF 6.)
 
The
Motion relies upon this incident as being the first indication that Ayon was
committing sexual abuse on the children in the Beyond the Bell program which he
supervised, and that Ayon was immediately removed from the school to assert
that it is entitled to summary judgment on all the claims alleged against it.  LAUSD contends that Plaintiffs’ alleged
sexual assaults were not foreseeable to LAUSD and that therefore they cannot be
held liable to Plaintiffs as a matter of law. 
(UMF 1-40, inclusive.)  
 
Plaintiffs
assert that the evidence shows that other incidents pre-dating the April 4,
2019 incident placed LAUSD on notice of Ayon’s activities and that therefore neither
summary judgment nor summary adjudication should be granted.
 
The
Evidence
LAUSD
presents evidence in the form of deposition transcript excerpts and records
from the personnel file of Ayon to support their contention that it did not
receive notice of Ayon’s actions in sexually abusing Plaintiffs until April 5,
2019.  Specifically, the District
presents evidence that the minor Plaintiffs testified in their depositions that
they did not notify other staff members at the School of Ayon’s actions before
the ripped-pants incident on April 4, 2019.
 
Plaintiffs
present their own excerpts of the depositions to raise a triable issue of
material fact as to whether or not LAUSD had notice of these actions and
therefore whether it was foreseeable that Ayon would sexually abuse children in
the School. Plaintiffs also present the declaration of plaintiff A.C., which
states that “[i]n the Fall of my kindergarten year” he informed “Miss Jasmine,”
a staff member of the School, of Ayon’s abuse and that this abuse was not acted
upon.  A.C.’s declaration states that
Miss Jasmine [Jimenez] “told me to be quiet and sit down.  Mr. Danny touched my private area after
that.”  (A.C. Decl., ¶2.)
 
It
is undisputed that the Fall of AC’s kindergarten year was in 2018 and that the ripped-pants
incident occurred in April of 2019.
 
Plaintiffs
also present the deposition testimony of Plaintiff A.Z., who testified that
“Coach Jasmine” walked in when A.Z. was alone with Ayon while Ayon was abusing
A.Z.  It was against LAUSD’s policies for
a teacher to be alone with a student.  (Additional
Material Disputed Facts 17.)
 
The
Authority
The
parties agree that LAUSD, as a school district, is in a special relationship
with its students.   “[B]ecause of the special relationship,
imposing obligations beyond what each person generally owes others under Civil
Code section 1714, the duty of care owed by school personnel includes the duty
to use reasonable measures to protect students from foreseeable injury at the
hands of third parties acting negligently or intentionally."  (C.A. v. William S. Hart Union High School
Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.App.4th 861, 870.)  
 
As
the Court held in Doe v. Lawndale Elementary School Dist. (“Lawndale”)
(2021) 72 Cal.App.5th 113, 129: “To the extent Doe v. DCFS
[(2019) 37 Cal.App.5th, 675] suggests that, in all cases where a
defendant has a special relationship with a plaintiff, the defendant has a duty
to protect the plaintiff from third party assault or abuse only if the
defendant has actual knowledge of the third party’s propensity for assault or
abuse, California law does not support such a proposition.” (Id.
(emphasis added).)  
 
“Simply
put, the school grounds provide a different setting than an adult’s home.  And there are differing public policy
concerns relating to the responsibilities of school districts that provide
mandatory education as compared to adults who invite children into their home
on a voluntary basis.” (M.W. v. Panama Buena Vista Union School Dist.
(2003) 110 Cal.App.4th 508, 524.)
 
As
in Lawndale, LAUSD here contends it is not foreseeable that school
employees, and specifically Ayon, will sexually abuse students. In Lawndale,
although the school district contended that “sexual abuse is so unforeseeable
that it is outside the course and scope of everyone’s employment as a matter of
law,” the court recognized that: “a school district is not like every
employer.  As the court recognized in [Doe
v.] United States Youth Soccer [(2017) 8 Cal.App.5th
1118, 1129], sexual abuse by members ‘of an organization that provide[s]
activities exclusively for children’ – like an elementary school district – is
reasonably foreseeable, even where the organization ‘had no knowledge that [the
employee] had previously sexually or physically abused anyone or had a
propensity to do so. [citations omitted]’” (Id. at p. 132.)
 
Once
a court determines a defendant owes a duty to a plaintiff, the remaining
liability questions, breach as well as factual and legal causation, are usually
questions for the jury. (Brown v. USA
Taekwondo (2021) 11 Cal.5th
204, 228.) “Breach, injury, and causation must be demonstrated on the basis of
facts adduced at trial, and a jury’s determination of each must take into
account the particular context in which any act or injury occurred.” (Vasilenko v. Grace Family Church (2017) 3 Cal.5th 1077, 1084.)  Nevertheless, “[e]ven if an organization is in
a special relationship with the tortfeasor or plaintiff, ‘[t]he court may
depart from the general rule of duty… if other policy considerations clearly
require an exception.’”  (Doe v. The
Roman Catholic Archbishop of Los Angeles (“Archbishop”) (2021)
70 Cal.App.5th 657, 673.)  
 
The
California Supreme Court has explained that once a special relationship has
been found, as it has here, the trial court must consult the factors described
in Rowland v. Christian (“Rowland”) (1968) 69 Cal.2d 108 to
determine whether relevant policy considerations justify limiting that duty.[1]  The Rowland factors are: “the
foreseeability of harm to the plaintiff, the degree of certainty that the
plaintiff suffered injury, the closeness of the connection between the
defendant’s conduct and the injury suffered, the moral blame attached to the
defendant’s conduct, the policy of preventing future harm, the extent of the
burden to the defendant and consequences to the community of imposing a duty to
exercise care with resulting liability for breach, and the availability, cost
and prevalence of insurance for the risk involved.” (See, Archbishop, supra, at pp. 673-674.)  “In considering [the Rowland factors], we determine, not whether they
support an exception to the general duty of reasonable care on the facts of the
particular case before us, but whether carving out an entire category of cases
from that general duty rule is justified by clear considerations of policy.” (Regents of University of Cal. v. Superior
Court (2018) 4 Cal.5th
607, 624.)
 
As
in Lawndale, LAUSD in the instant case does not discuss the Rowland
factors in an attempt to assert that “carving out an entire category of cases
from that general duty rule is justified by clear considerations of policy.” (Lawndale
at 130.)  Also as in Lawndale,
“[a]s with all defendants moving for summary adjudication or summary judgment, the
District had the burden to show [Plaintiffs] could not establish the element of
duty because the Rowland factors supported an exception to the
District’s general duty of care. (Id. at 130-131.)  As the Court held
in Lawndale: “even if the District had raised the
issue, the Rowland factors do not weigh in favor of limiting the
District’s duty to protect students from sexual abuse by teachers and other
school employees as [LAUSD] proposes: to cases where school administrators have
actual knowledge of prior sexual misconduct by the teacher or employee and
where sexual misconduct is not ‘ambiguous.’” (Id. at p. 131.)
 
The Court here therefore reviews the Rowland factors to
determine whether a legal basis exists not to apply the general duty of care for
special relationships to LAUSD’s actions here. 

 
1.     Foreseeability
As in Lawndale, LAUSD here
argues that it had no duty to prevent injury to Plaintiffs by Ayon because there
were no “red flags” in his conduct or his background to indicate that he would
sexually assault them.  As the Court held
in Lawndale, the issue is not whether it is foreseeable a particular perpetrator’s
conduct would injure a plaintiff, but whether a particular plaintiff’s injury
was reasonably foreseeable in light of a particular defendant’s conduct.  (Id. at p. 131.)  In other words, the Court must “evaluate more
generally whether the category of negligent conduct at issue is sufficiently
likely to result in the kind of harm experienced.”  (Id.) 
“Thus, the issue is not whether it was reasonably foreseeable [the
perpetrator’s] conduct would injure [plaintiff], but whether it is reasonably
foreseeable the failure of school administrators to take reasonable measures to
prevent sexual abuse will injure students.” 
(Id.)   
 
As the court held in Doe
v. United States Youth Soccer, supra, at p. 1132, sexual
abuse by members “of an organization that provide[s] activities exclusively for
children” -- like an elementary school district – “is reasonably foreseeable,
even where the organization ‘had no knowledge that [the employee] had
previously sexually or physically abused anyone or had a propensity to do so.’”
“In light of the disparity between school administrators and minor students in
knowledge and control over the school environment, and the trust parents place
in schools to protect their children, school administrators who fail to prevent
sexual abuse are not absolved of moral responsibility simply because they did
not have ‘actual knowledge’ an employee previously engaged in sexual
misconduct.”  (Lawndale, at pp. 172-73.)
“Safeguarding children from sexual abuse – ‘[o]ne of society’s highest
priorities [citations omitted] – weighs strongly in favor of imposing a duty on
school districts to take reasonable measures to identify and respond to
potential misconduct, even before a district knows a specific employee has
previously engaged in sexual misconduct.” 
(Id. at 135.)  The Court
finds that the issue of foreseeability weighs against limiting liability in
this case.
 
2.     Certainty that the plaintiff suffered injury
The second factor, the degree of certainty that the
plaintiff suffered injury can be assessed from the fact that LAUSD does not
contest that Ayon in fact sexually assaulted Plaintiffs.  Plaintiffs here have testified that Ayon
physically and emotionally abused them and then threatened them if they
revealed the abuse.  Plaintiffs’ claims
therefore involve both tangible and intangible harm, such as emotional
distress. This factor does not warrant limiting claims, like Plaintiffs’ here, that
are based on physical sexual abuse and assault. In addition, where a plaintiff
seeks to recover for emotional distress for such abuse, “[c]ourts have
recognized that ’[t]he significant emotional trauma caused by childhood sexual abuse
is well documented.” (Archbishop, at p. 678.)  
 
The Court finds that the factor of certainty weighs
against limiting LAUSD’s liability for the alleged conduct. 
 
3.      
4.     Connection with
Defendant’s conduct
Here,
Defendant LAUSD’s allegedly negligent act was a failure to, among other things,
“adequately and properly investigate, hire, train, and supervise their staff to
protect their students from harm caused by unfit and dangerous individuals
hired as staff.”  (A.C. First Amended
Complaint, ¶38.)  As noted by the Court
in Lawndale: “[a] school district that fails to reasonably supervise
employees and students increases the likelihood that an employee will sexually
abuse a student.”  (Lawndale at 133.)  Therefore, the Court holds that the connection
between the alleged injury and Defendant LAUSD’s conduct is established.
 
Moreover,
Plaintiff A.Z. testified that a school employee, “Coach Jasmine,” saw him alone
with Ayon in the auditorium “under the stage”, in violation of School
rules.  Regardless of whether the
actually saw Ayon abusing A.Z., which A.Z. believes she did, this violation of
the rule against a staff member being alone with a student has a clear
connection with the injury alleged by Plaintiffs.
 
5.     Moral Blame
School
administrators who fail to prevent sexual abuse are not absolved of moral
responsibility simply because they did not have ‘actual knowledge’ an employee
previously engaged in sexual misconduct. (Lawndale
at p. 135.)  The Court finds that moral
blame can be attributable to the actions of LAUSD in this case, which weighs
against limiting liability in this special relationship. 
 


 
6.     Policy of
preventing future harm
LAUSD
does not and indeed cannot argue that there is not a strong public policy in
favor of preventing future harm from sexual abuse of minors.  This factor therefore weighs against limiting
liability for LAUSD in this case.
 
7.     Extent of the
burden to defendant and consequences to the community of imposing a duty
Here,
LAUSD admits that it trained Ayon each year of his employment on child abuse
policies. (UMF 21.)  Therefore, there is
no reason to create an exception to LAUSD’s duties where it has already
recognized the risks and undertaken the burden to provide such training. (Lawndale
at p. 137.)
 
8.     Insurance
As
in Lawndale, no evidence has been provided by either side in this
litigation regarding this factor and it will therefore not be weighed for or
against imposing liability on LAUSD.
 
9.     Summary of Rowland
Factors
The
Rowland factors overwhelmingly weigh against limiting LAUSD’s duty in
this case and in favor of allowing this case to proceed.
 
Is
there a Material Issue of Fact as to Foreseeability?
The
Court finds that there remains a triable issue of material fact as to whether
LAUSD had notice before the ripped-pants incident in April 2019 that Ayon was sexually
assaulting students.
 
Here,
LAUSD’s relies upon evidence from Plaintiffs’ depositions, including the
deposition of Plaintiff A.C., in which he denies having told adults at his
school about the abuse by Ayon, to support its position that LAUSD could not
have foreseen that Ayon would sexually abuse A.C. or any other of the
Plaintiffs.  Plaintiffs counter this
evidence with other excerpts from A.C.’s deposition in which AC testified that
he did tell adult staffers at the School about the abuse and a declaration in
which he declares that he told those staffers in the Fall of his kindergarten
year (2018) and they took no action until the ripped-pants incident in April of
2019. 
 
While
LAUSD objects to Plaintiffs’ evidence on the ground that a party cannot present
his own deposition testimony in opposition to a motion for summary judgment and
that a party’s declaration cannot be used when it contradicts the party’s
deposition testimony, this general rule does not apply here.   While the Court was not given the entire
transcript of A.C.’s – or indeed any other witness’s -- depositions, from the
excerpts provided, the Court has grave doubts about the reliability of the
excerpts provided by LAUSD.  It appears,
at least in part, that when A.C.  testified
that he did speak with staff at the School about his abuse by Ayon before April
of 2019, the questioning attorney objected to his own question on the ground
that it must have been ambiguous and re-asked the question, sometimes using
words that the child Plaintiff may not have understood, until the testimony
used by LAUSD was adduced.  (See, e.g.,
A.C. Depo., 51:19-52-24.)
 
The
Court notes that at the time of the alleged abuse of A.C., he was in
kindergarten.  His original complaint was
filed on July 8, 2019, so at which time Plaintiff A.C. was apparently only  six years old. 
His deposition was taken on October 27, 2021, at which time he would
have been approximately eight years old. 
In no case cited by LAUSD for the proposition that a declaration cannot
be used when it contradicts a prior deposition is the deponent who seeks to
submit an allegedly contradictory declaration a minor, much less a child as
young as eight years old, as A.C. was at the time of his deposition.  
 
Moreover,
the rule cited by LAUSD only applies if the subsequent declaration contradicts
unequivocal deposition testimony. (Tiffany Builders, LLC v. Delrahim (2023)
97 Cal.App.5th 536, 547.) In the instant case, not only is the
deponent/plaintiff in question a child, but both sides cite to testimony in his
same deposition session that they each claim supports their position – which is
far from the type of unequivocal testimony as to which a subsequent declaration
cannot be used to contradict it.
 
Specifically,
LAUSD cites to Page 53 lines 4-25 of Plaintiff A.C.’s deposition to support
their alleged UMF that Plaintiff A.C. never told LAUSD of Ayon’s alleged sexual
misconduct while a student. (UMF 23.)  However,
Plaintiffs’ citation to page 51 at line 19 to page 52 at lines 1 through 19
contradicts that testimony, stating:
 
Attorney:         You never told Miss Carmen that Mr.
Danny did anything improper to you, did you?
A.C.:               Yes, I did.
[colloquy
between counsel]
Attorney:         Did you tell Miss Carmen that Mr. Danny
did something to you in the bathroom?
A.C.                 I
told both of them.  I told Miss Carmen
and Miss Jasmine.
 
As
noted above, A.C. also provided a declaration stating that he informed Miss
Jasmine of Ayon’s abuse in the Fall of 2018 and that she told him to be quiet
and sit down, and that Ayon abused him after that time.
 
The
testimony of A.Z. also creates a material issue of fact regarding notice to
LAUSD before April 2019.   A.Z. testified as follows:
 
Attorney:         Do you believe that any of the other
staff at Beyond the Bell should have known what Mr. Danny was doing to you or
to anybody else?
A.Z.:                Yeah.
[Objection]
Attorney:         Why do you think the staff should have
known?
[Objection]
A.Z.:                Once me and Mr. Danny were in
the auditorium, and Ms. Jasmine walked in to use the bathroom, and then he was
sitting next to me touching me.  I’m
pretty sure she saw or seen that. (A.Z. Depo., p. 159:2 to 160, line 14.)  
 
Therefore,
whether or not Ms. Jasmine actually saw the abuse, A.Z. has provided evidence
that she saw A.Z. alone with Ayon, which should have put LAUSD on notice of the
potential abuse.
 
A.Z.’s
testimony is evidence that a staff member of the School actually saw A.Z. alone
in the auditorium with Ayon before the ripped-pants incident. A.C.’s
declaration also clearly states that he reported Ayon’s conduct to Miss Jasmine
in “the Fall of [A.C.’s] kindergarten year” which was also before the ripped-pants
incident.  
 
Although
the Court agrees that other testimony by A.C. states that he did not report abuse
by Ayon until after the ripped-pants incident, his other testimony at his
deposition to the contrary and in his declaration, together with his very young
age, creates a triable issue of material fact such that neither summary
judgment nor summary adjudication[2] is
appropriate here.
 
Based
on the evidence produced by Plaintiffs, the Court finds that to the extent that
foreseeability is an issue, a triable issue of material fact exists as to
whether school officials were put on notice by A.C. that Ayon was abusing him
or by A.Z.’s being seen alone with Ayon by Miss Jasmine.  As such, neither summary judgment nor summary
adjudication is warranted under these circumstances.
 
 
            CONCLUSION         
The
Court finds that the Motion fails to meet its burden to establish that there
are no triable issues of material fact regarding the claims alleged in the Complaints.  The Court therefore DENIES the Motion. 
 
Moving
Party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative
must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed by the
instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 14th day of August 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 




 


