 Case Number:  BC506921    Hearing Date:   October 12, 2023    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



WILLIAM E.
  RICE, et al., 
 
                                  Plaintiffs,
  
         v.
 
 
GARY P. DOWNS, et al.
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No:  BC506921 (consolidated with  
 BC619678)
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  October 12, 2023
 Calendar
  Number:  8



 
 
 
Defendant Kristoffer J. Kaufmann moves for the
following orders: (1) that the three court-appointed appraisers exclusively use
the “fair market value” approach in evaluating Plaintiff William E. Rice’s
interest in Highland Property Development, LLC; (2) that the parties are
instructed to provide these appraisers with the necessary information about the
state and operation of Highland Property Development, LLC on May 5, 2016; and
(3) that the parties are instructed to meet and confer within thirty days to
reach an agreement on the terms and provision in each of the limited
partnership agreements that are relevant to the fair market valuation of Rice’s
interest, which would then be provided to the appraisers. (See Notice of Motion
at pg. 2.) 
 
Defendant’s motion for order instructing
appraisers on proper methodology for appraisal is DENIED.
 
Background
 
          On April 25, 2013, a Complaint was filed in case no.
BC506921. On June 12, 2017, Plaintiffs William E. Rice (“Plaintiff” or “Rice”),
Douglas B. Day (“Day”), Highland Property Development LLC (“HPD”), Highland
Property Construction, Inc. (“HPC”) (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed a First
Amended Complaint (“FAC”) against Defendants Gary P. Downs (“Defendant” or
“Downs”), Nixon Peabody LLP (“Nixon Peabody”) (collectively, “Defendants”) and
Does 1 through 25 for (1) legal malpractice; (2) breach of fiduciary duty; (3)
rescission and restitution; and (4) negligent retention and supervision. On
June 19, 2013, Nixon Peabody filed a Cross-Complaint against Cross-Defendant
HPD and Roes 1 through 20 for (1) quantum meruit and (2) account stated.
 
          On
May 05, 2016, in the case no. BC619678, Rice filed a Complaint against Defendants
Downs and Kristoffer J. Kaufmann (“Kaufmann”) and Does 1 through 10 for (1)
judicial dissolution; (2) disassociation/expulsion of Gary P. Downs; (3)
disassociation/expulsion of Kristoffer J. Kaufmann; (4) fraudulent concealment;
(5) breach of fiduciary duty; (6) declaratory relief; (7) accounting; and (8)
abuse of process.  
 
          On
December 16, 2019, the Court granted Kaufmann and Downs’ motion to stay the
dissolution action and commence an appraisal of Rice’s interest in HPD pursuant
to Corporations Code § 17707.03(c). Thereafter, on December 27, 2019, the Court
appointed three appraisers based on the names proposed by the parties.     
 
On August 3, 2023, Kaufmann filed
this motion for order instructing the appraisers on the proper methodology for
appraisal. Rice opposes the motion. 
 
Legal Standard
 
           Corporations Code § 17707.03(a) states the
following: “Pursuant to an action filed by any manager or by any member or
members of a limited liability company, a court of competent jurisdiction may
decree the dissolution of a limited liability company whenever any of the events
specified in subdivision (b) occurs.” (Corp. Code § 17707.03(a).)
Furthermore, under Section 17707.03(c)(1), it states that the dissolution of
the limited liability company may be avoided if the other members choose to
purchase the membership interests owned by the members who initiated the
dissolution proceeding at their fair market value. Where the purchasing party
and moving party are unable to agree upon the fair market value of the
membership interests, the court is authorized, by notice motion, to “stay the
winding up and dissolution proceeding and shall proceed to ascertain and fix
the fair market value of the membership interests owned by the moving
parties. (Corps. Code § 17707.03(c)(2).) In doing so, “[t]he court shall
appoint three disinterested appraisers to appraise the fair market value of the
membership interests owned by the moving parties, and shall make an order
referring the matter to the appraisers so appointed for the purpose of
ascertaining that value. The order shall prescribe the time and manner of
producing evidence, if evidence is required.” (Corps Code § 17707.03(c)(3).)  
 
Discussion
 
           Kaufmann moves the Court to exercises its
inherent power to control the proceedings in order to formulate the necessary
methodology needed to ensure the correct valuation of Rice’s minority interest
in HPD reflects the “fair market value” of that interest, not the “fair value.”
(See Notice of Motion at pg. 2.) 
          “The commonly accepted definition of ‘fair
market value’ under California law is the price at which the property would
change hands between a willing buyer and a willing seller when the former is
not under any compulsion to buy and the latter is not under any compulsion to
sell, and both parties have reasonable knowledge of the relevant facts.” (Cheng
v. Coastal L.B. Assocs., LLC (2021) 69 Cal. App. 5th 112, 123.)
 
          Here,
Kaufman contends that the three court-appointed appraisers need an explicit
definition of “fair market value” because their proposed “Scope of Work”
correspondence suggests that they intend to apply a “fair value” standard when
appraising Rice’s minority interest in HPD. (Motion at pg. 1.) Kaufman asserts
that court intervention is needed because Rice has refused to permit Kaufman to
provide clarification to the appraisers as to the issue of what “fair market
value” means to HPD. (Ibid.; Kaufman Decl. ¶¶ 9-10; Exhs. C-D.) In
particular, Kaufman questions the methodology chosen by the appraisers because
he asserts that it would result in a “fair value” evaluation. (Motion at pp.
5-6, 9-10.) Kaufman reaches this conclusion because the proposed evaluation is
based on “on potential market rents, market-rate sales,
and hypothetical events that might occur after
the Valuation Date” and these factors are irrelevant because of the limitations
imposed by federal regulation, as HPD’s portfolio consists of affordable
housing projections. (Motion at pg. 10.) Thus, Kaufman argues that the proposed
Scope of Work would not provide an evaluation of HPD as it existed on May 5,
2016, but instead, it would evaluate a hypothetical HPD. (Motion at pg. 11.) As
a result, Kaufman proposes the following definition of “fair market value” to
guide the evaluation: 
 
“Fair
market value” is the amount that an able, willing, and knowledgeable buyer
would reasonably pay to acquire Rice’s interest in HPD as of May 5, 2016; 
 
The
“fair market value” determination should consider appropriate discounts for
Rice’s minority, non-controlling interest, the contractual limitations on
further disposition of the interest, and other factors that might affect
overall marketability of the interest; 
 
The
“fair market value” determination should not consider the value of HPD as a
single going concern; The “fair market value” determination should consider the
state of HPD as it was on May 5, 2016, and avoid considering speculative and
hypothetical outcomes unless substantiated by other prevailing facts, including
the mindset and position(s) of HPD’s management at that time.
 
(Motion at pg. 2.) 
 
          Additionally,
Kaufmann requests the Court to allow the parties to meet and confer to reach an
agreement “on the terms and provisions in each of the limited partnership
agreements they believe are relevant to the “fair market value” determination
of Rice’s interest,” which would be then provided to the appraisers. (Motion at
pg. 3.) Kaufmann asserts that this would assist the appraisers by saving them
time. (Ibid.) 
 
          In
opposition, Rice argues that the instant motion contravenes the Court’s
previous directive that the appraisers should not be influenced by anyone,
including the Court, during the appraisal process in order to promote the
neutrality of the process. (Opposition at pg. 5.) To support this assertion,
Rice refers to the court transcripts for the proceeding held on October 15,
2020. At that hearing, the Court, with Hon. Rupert A. Byrdsong presiding,
determined that it would not instruct the appraisers what they should be
looking for during the appraisal process unless the appraisers had confusion of
what they should be doing under the Section 17707.03. (Opposition at pg. 5; Correll Decl., Exh. 1 at pp. 16: 27-17:3, 17:21-24.)
Ultimately, the Court ordered the parties to “provide the appraisers whatever
they ask for. . . without any suggestions or needling from either side.” (Id.
at pp. 49:23-24, 50:1-2.) Specifically, the Court had no reason to doubt the
appraisers’ expertise or to infringe on their autonomy. (Id. at pg.
50:2-5.) 
 
          Furthermore,
Rice argues that the appraisers understand how to conduct the appraisal process
because the Scope of Work correspondence establishes that the appraisal will be
conducted in accordance with Corporations Code § 17707.03 and the definition of
fair market value will be derived from Code of Civil Procedure § 1263.320.
(Opposition at pg. 6; Correll Decl., Exh. 2.) Rice reasons that this definition
is appropriate, even though it applies to determining the valuation of eminent
domain rights, because it is consistent with definition set forth in Cheng,
supra, 69 Cal. App. 5th at 123. (Opposition at pg. 6.) Also, Rice points
out that the appropriate discounts, such as lack of control and lack of
marketability will be applied. (Opposition at pp. 6-7, Correll Decl., Exh. 2.) Moreover,
Rice asserts that Kaufman’s characterization of HPD’s portfolio is misleading
and fails to appreciate the rental assistance HPD receives as well as its cash
reserves. (Opposition at pp. 11-12.) Thus, Rice argues that Kaufman improperly
seeks to instruct and influence the appraisers on what information is relevant
for the valuation of Rice’s minority interest in HPD. (Opposition at pp. 7-8.)
Consequently, because the appraisers should not be limited in what information
they are provided with, the limited partnership agreements should be provided to
the appraisers in their entirety. (Opposition at pp. 8-9.)  Otherwise, Rice asserts that he should be
permitted to communicate with the appraisers on what information he deems to be
important to the appraisal process. (Opposition at pp. 9-10.)
 
          In
reply, Kaufman first argues that the Court, during the October 15, 2020
hearing, permitted the parties to seek court intervention if there were
questions or concerns regarding the appraisal process. (Reply at pp. 1-2; see
Opposition, Correll Decl., Exh. 1 at pg. 17:27-28.) Moreover, he asserts that
the parties should not be prohibited from seeking clarification because an
aggrieved party may appeal the court’s action under Section 17707.03(c)(3), and
Section 17707.03(d) provides that “Nothing in this section shall be construed
to limit the remedies otherwise available to a court of competent jurisdiction
over the dissolution.” (Reply at pg. 3.) He further reasons that, if the Court
has the authority to appoint the appraisers to conduct a fair market value
analysis, then the Court also has the authority to ensure that the methodology
chosen ensures the determination of the fair market value of the membership
interest. 
 
Second, Kaufman maintains that the Scope of Work
will implement a “fair value” standard because it would “involves a highest and
best use analysis, as though the company was being sold as a single going
concern from which Rice would receive a pro rata share of the sale proceeds.”
(Reply at pg. 2.) In this regard, Kaufman maintains his initial arguments that
the appraisal process as propose does not take into account the limitations
imposed by federal regulations on HPD’s annual income potential and sale
restrictions. (Reply at pp. 3-5.) Furthermore, Kaufman asserts that Rice’s
opposition and declaration establish that the appraisers need further
clarification because of the complexities surrounding HPD’s business model.
(Reply at pp. 5-9.) Kaufman ultimately contends that the appraisers do not understand
the nature of HPD’s business model because they have not been given enough
information about HPD to conduct the appraisal process in accordance with
Section 17707.03. (Reply at pg. 9.) For this reason, additional guidance as set
forth in the moving papers is required. (Ibid.) 
 
          Upon
consideration of the parties’ arguments, Kaufman’s motion is not taken well. First,
based on the Scope of Work correspondence, the appraisal process will be
consistent with Corporations Code § 17707.03, and the “fair market value”
definition under Code of Civil Procedure § 1263.320 would be utilized. (See
Opposition, Correll Decl., Exh. 2.) As stated under Code of Civil Procedure §
1263.320(a), a property’s fair market value is: 
 
“the
highest price on the date of valuation that would be agreed to by a seller,
being willing to sell but under no particular or urgent necessity for so doing,
nor obliged to sell, and a buyer, being ready, willing, and able to buy but
under no particular necessity for so doing, each dealing with the other with
full knowledge of all the uses and purposes for which the property is
reasonably adaptable and available.”
 
This definition is consistent with the
definition laid out in Cheng because both definitions rest on the
principles that the willing buyer and willing seller are not in any compulsion
to act and that both parties have sufficient information of the relevant facts.
(See Cheng, supra, 69 Cal.App.5th at 123.) Thus, Kaufman’s suggestion
that a “fair value” evaluation—as understood under Corporations Code § 2000 for
shareholder buyouts of a closely held corporation—will be implemented is
without merit. This is because, under a “fair value” evaluation, the appraiser
is precluded from issuing a minority interest discount, and as a result, the
purchasing members must strictly purchase the filing member’s pro rata
interest. (See Goles v. Sawhney (2016) 5 Cal.App.5th 1014, 1019.) In contrast,
a “fair market value” evaluation would include any deductions that would be
reflected in the market. (See Cheng, supra, 69 Cal.App.5th at 123-124.)
Here, the appraisers specifically stated that the deductions for lack of
control and lack of marketability would be applied. (See Opposition, Correll
Decl., Exh. 2.) Consequently, there does not appear to be any confusion as to
what standard should be applied during the appraisal process. 
 
Second, Kaufman’s argument that the appraisers
do not appreciate the complexity of HPD’s business model ignores the statements
in the Scope of Work correspondence that “[c]onsideration will be given to
existing LIHTC rent restrictions and operating requirements, including
remaining term until termination of restrictions and requirements.” (Id.)
Also, while Kaufman decries that the appraiser’s analyses of comparable sales
and comparable market rents is inapplicable or irrelevant, the appraisers
represent that those analyses will be considered and applied as appropriate.  (Id.) There is nothing to suggest that
the appraisers are incapable of comprehending the HPD’s business model. As a
result, based on the concerns that Kaufman sought to present to the appraisers for
clarification purposes, it appears that Kaufman is more concerned about
directing the appraisers on how to conduct the appraisal. This is exactly the
result that the Court had previously sought to avoid. (See Correll Decl., Exh.
1 at pp. 16: 27-17:3, 17:21-24, 50:1-2.) Therefore, the Court maintains the
position of deferring to the appraiser’s autonomy and expertise. 
 
Accordingly, because there is no confusion on
the part of the appraisers, Kaufmann’s motion for order instructing appraisers
on proper methodology for appraisal is denied. 
 
          
 