 Case Number:  21STCV33568    Hearing Date:   October 12, 2023    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



LIZABETH GRALNIK, 
 
                                  Plaintiffs,
  
         v.
 
 
DXC TECHNOLOGY, INC., et al.
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No:  21STCV33568 
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  October 12, 2023
 Calendar
  Number:  2



 
 
 
Defendants DXC Technology, Inc. and Mary Finch (“Defendants”)
move to seal certain documents that they mistakenly filed publicly in
connection with the Motion for Summary Adjudication.  Defendants also ask that the Court strike and
remove from the public record the unredacted Motion for Summary Adjudication
and supporting documents.  
 
The Court continues this motion to seal to
November 16, 2023 at 9:30 a.m. so that the Defendants can take the following
actions:
 
·       By no later than October 26, 2023, the
Defendants must file redacted versions of the documents that they seek to seal
that comply with the Court’s rulings below. 
While the Court agrees that some of the material identified by
Defendants may be sealed, it concludes that other material may not be sealed.  By no later than November 2, 2023, Plaintiff
may file a brief of no more than five pages if it believes that Defendants have
redacted too much material in violation of the current order.
·       Also by no later than October 26, 2023, the
Defendants must file a proposed sealing order that makes practical sense for
the Court and its staff.  Defendants themselves
filed these documents publicly, and they remain in the public record.  The Court has the ability to seal previously
filed documents, but no ordinary ability to “remove” or “strike” documents from
a court file.  Moreover, the form of the proposed
order filed by Defendants on September 15, 2023 seems to imply that the Court
will go through the file document-by-document and seal particular pages and
exhibits, which is a physical impossibility. 
The revised proposed order shall identify with specificity (by name and
filing date) which previously filed documents Defendants wish to have
sealed.  So long as Defendants have
properly filed public versions of each document with only the confidential
material redacted, the Court will seal the original documents.  
 
 
Background
 
          Plaintiff was employed by Defendant DXC Technology
from August 2015 to October 25, 2021, when Plaintiff provided Defendant DXC
Technology with notice of her forced resignation.  Defendant Mary Finch is the Executive Vice
President and Chief Human Resources Officer of Defendant DXC.
 
          Plaintiff
alleges Defendants retaliated against her for filing a whistleblower complaint
in 2017.  Plaintiff alleges Defendants
also retaliated against her when she filed a complaint regarding the
retaliation she suffered due to the 2017 whistleblower complaint.  Plaintiff alleges she was denied promotions,
given unwarranted poor performance reviews and was denied earned wages.  On October 25, 2021, she submitted notice of
her forced resignation due to Defendants’ refusal to pay her the wages or
expenses owed to her.
 
          The
operative complaint is the Second Amended Complaint filed on December 16, 2021
against Defendants DXC Technology, Inc. and Mary Finch alleging causes of
action for (1) Gender Discrimination (FEHA); (2) Unequal Pay Act Violation; (3)
unlawful retaliation; (4) unlawful retaliation (Labor Code §1102.5); (5)
failure to pay wages; (6) failure to reimburse expenses (Labor Code §2802); (7)
unlawful forfeiture (Labor Code §223); (8) unlawful clawback (Labor Code §221);
(9) failure to pay overtime (Labor Code §1194); (10) failure to prevent
discrimination and retaliation (FEHA); (11) unfair business practices (B&PC
17200); (12) failure to provide accurate wage statements (Labor Code
§226).  
 
          On
August 7, 2023, Defendants filed motion for summary adjudication.  Defendants filed these papers publicly.  Defendants now contend that they made an
error by doing so, and the documents should have been filed under seal at least
in part.  
 
          On
September 15, 2023, Defendants filed a motion to seal documents filed in
support of the motion for summary adjudication. 
On October 2, 2023, Plaintiff filed an opposition to the motion to
seal.  On October 5, 2023, Defendants
filed a reply to the motion to seal.  
 
Legal Standard
 
CRC Rule 2.551(b)-(d)
 
(b) Motion or application to seal a record
 
(1) Motion or application required
 
A party requesting that a record be filed under
seal must file a motion or an application for an order sealing the record. The
motion or application must be accompanied by a memorandum and a declaration
containing facts sufficient to justify the sealing.
 
(2) Service of motion or application
 
A copy of the motion or application must be
served on all parties that have appeared in the case. Unless the court orders
otherwise, any party that already has access to the records to be placed under
seal must be served with a complete, unredacted version of all papers as well
as a redacted version. Other parties must be served with only the public
redacted version. If a party's attorney but not the party has access to the
record, only the party's attorney may be served with the complete, unredacted
version.
 
(3) Procedure for party not intending to file
motion or application
 
          (A)
A party that files or intends to file with the court, for the purposes of
adjudication or to use at trial, records produced in discovery that are subject
to a confidentiality agreement or protective order, and does not intend to
request to have the records sealed, must:
 
(i) Lodge the unredacted records subject to the confidentiality
agreement or protective order and any pleadings, memorandums, declarations, and
other documents that disclose the contents of the records, in the manner stated
in (d);
(ii) File copies of the documents in (i) that are redacted so that
they do not disclose the contents of the records that are subject to the
confidentiality agreement or protective order; and
(iii) Give written notice to the party that produced the records
that the records and the other documents lodged under (i) will be placed in the
public court file unless that party files a timely motion or application to
seal the records under this rule.
 
          (B)
If the party that produced the documents and was served with the notice under
(A)(iii) fails to file a motion or an application to seal the records within 10
days or to obtain a court order extending the time to file such a motion or an
application, the clerk must promptly transfer all the documents in (A)(i) from
the envelope, container, or secure electronic file to the public file. If the
party files a motion or an application to seal within 10 days or such later
time as the court has ordered, these documents are to remain conditionally
under seal until the court rules on the motion or application and thereafter
are to be filed as ordered by the court.
 
(4) Lodging of record pending determination of
motion or application
 
The party requesting that a record be filed
under seal must lodge it with the court under (d) when the motion or
application is made, unless good cause exists for not lodging it or the record
has previously been lodged under (3)(A)(i). Pending the determination of the
motion or application, the lodged record will be conditionally under seal.
 
(5) Redacted and unredacted versions
 
If necessary to prevent disclosure, any motion
or application, any opposition, and any supporting documents must be filed in a
public redacted version and lodged in a complete, unredacted version
conditionally under seal. The cover of the redacted version must identify it as
“Public--Redacts materials from conditionally sealed record.” The cover of the
unredacted version must identify it as “May Not Be Examined Without Court
Order--Contains material from conditionally sealed record.”
 
(6) Return of lodged record
 
If the court denies the motion or application to
seal, the moving party may notify the court that the lodged record is to be
filed unsealed. This notification must be received within 10 days of the order
denying the motion or application to seal, unless otherwise ordered by the
court. On receipt of this notification, the clerk must unseal and file the
record. If the moving party does not notify the court within 10 days of the
order, the clerk must (1) return the lodged record to the moving party if it is
in paper form or (2) permanently delete the lodged record if it is in
electronic form.
 
(c) References to nonpublic material in public
records
 
A record filed publicly in the court must not
disclose material contained in a record that is sealed, conditionally under
seal, or subject to a pending motion or an application to seal.
 
(d) Procedure for lodging of records
 
(1) A record that may be filed under seal must
be transmitted to the court in a secure manner that preserves the
confidentiality of the records to be lodged. If the record is transmitted in
paper form, it must be put in an envelope or other appropriate container,
sealed in the envelope or container, and lodged with the court.
 
(2) The materials to be lodged under seal must
be clearly identified as “CONDITIONALLY UNDER SEAL.” If the materials are
transmitted in paper form, the envelope or container lodged with the court must
be labeled “CONDITIONALLY UNDER SEAL.”
 
(3) The party submitting the lodged record must
affix to the electronic transmission, the envelope, or the container a cover
sheet that:
          (A)
Contains all the information required on a caption page under rule 2.111; and
          (B)
States that the enclosed record is subject to a motion or an application to
file the record under seal.
 
(4) On receipt of a record lodged under this
rule, the clerk must endorse the affixed cover sheet with the date of its
receipt and must retain but not file the record unless the court orders it
filed.
 
Applicable Case Law
 
          Unless
confidentiality is required by law, court records are presumed to be open to
the public.  (CRC 2.550(c).)  Therefore, pleadings, motions, discovery
documents, and other papers may not be filed under seal merely by stipulation
of the parties.  The parties' agreement
that certain documents be filed under seal is improper and insufficient.  (Savaglio v. Wal–Mart Stores, Inc.
(2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 588, 600.)  A
prior court order must be obtained.  (CRC
2.551(a); H.B. Fuller Co. v. Doe (2007) 151 Cal.App.4th 879, 888.)  At a minimum, a party seeking to seal
documents must come forward with a specific list of facts sought to be withheld
and specific reasons for withholding them. 
(Id. at 894.)  
 
          “Before
substantive courtroom proceedings are closed or transcripts are ordered sealed,
a trial court must hold a hearing and expressly find that (i) there exists an
overriding interest supporting closure and/or sealing; (ii) there is a
substantial probability that the interest will be prejudiced absent closure
and/or sealing; (iii) the proposed closure and/or sealing is narrowly tailored
to serve the overriding interest; and (iv) there is no less restrictive means
of achieving the overriding interest.”  (NBC
Subsidiary (KNBC-TV), Inc. v. Supr. Ct. (1999) 20 Cal.4th 1178, 1217-1218.)        
 


 
Discussion
 
          Parties’
Positions 
 
          Defendants
move to seal the following documents in support of the Motion for Summary
Adjudication:  (1) Exhibit B-E, G, H, K,
M-R to the Declaration of Anne Mayette; (2) portions of the Declaration of Kristine Gersabeck
identified in the notice of motion; (3) portions of the Declaration of Ira Katz
identified in the notice of motion; (4) portions of the Declaration of Susan
Young identified in the notice of motion; (5) portions of the Declaration of
Lara Scherck identified in the notice of motion; (6) portions of the
Defendants’ Memorandum of Points and Authorities identified in the notice of
motion; (7) portions of Defendants’ Separate Statement identified in the notice
of motion.  Defendants inadvertently
filed unredacted versions of these documents on July 28, 2023 and ask that the
Court remove them from the public record upon granting the request to seal.
 
          Defendants
argue the portions of the record identified in the Notice of Motion should be
sealed, because they contain confidential information protected from public
disclosure by law and the stipulated protective order.  Defendants argue the documents to be sealed contain
(1) third-party private information, including third-party employee
compensation; (2) Plaintiff’s private information; (3) DXC’s confidential
business information, including employee compensation, sales quotas and goals.  Defendants argues this information is not of
public interest and contain information protected from disclosure by law.  
 
          In
opposition, Plaintiff argues the motion should be denied, because it fails to
meet the criteria for sealing.  Plaintiff
argues the case is not based on trade secret. 
Plaintiff argue Defendants fail to make any showing that the NBC factors
are met.  Plaintiff argues the public has
an interest in the employment records that help to establish violations of FEHA
and the Labor Code.  Plaintiff argues the
records are already part of the public record and no prejudice will result if
it is not sealed.  Plaintiff argues the
public interest in the civil rights and interests raised by this litigation
outweighs the Defendants’ concerns.  
 
          On
reply, Defendants argue the opposition should be stricken as untimely served on
October 2, 2023, when it was due on Friday, September 29, 2023.  Defendants argue Plaintiff also failed to
object to the confidential designation of the information they seek to
seal.  Defendants argue they have not
waived their right to seek an order sealing the documents by inadvertently
filing them as a part of the public record. 
Defendants argue the documents to be sealed implicate Plaintiff’s
privacy rights, the privacy rights of third parties and DXC’s confidential,
proprietary and trade secret information. 
Defendants argue the public’s interest in civil rights litigation does
not override their interest in their confidential, proprietary trade secrets.  Defendants argue Plaintiff does not provide
any authority that would allow disclosure of third party information. 
 
          Defendants
did not waive their right to request sealing by inadvertently filing the documents
to be sealed as part of the public record
 
          Plaintiff
argues Defendants waived their right to request a sealing order by filing the documents
to be sealed as part of the public record. 
On July 28, 2023, Defendants inadvertently filed an unredacted version
of their motion for summary adjudication and all supporting exhibits.  (Scott Dec., ¶¶4-5.)  Defendants also filed a Notice of Lodgment on
July 28, 2023 identifying the portions of the Motion for Summary Adjudication
that they wanted sealed.  On August 7,
2023, Defendants filed redacted versions of their Motion for Summary
Adjudication.  
 
          There
are no circumstances indicating waiver of the right to request sealing.  Based on Defendants’ conduct, their filing of
the unredacted versions of the documents to be sealed was inadvertent, and
Defendants did not unreasonably delay in attempting to correct this error.  (Mercury Interactive v. Klein (2007)
158 Cal.App.4th 60, 87-88 (counsel’s failure to file document under seal did
not qualify as intentional waiver of propriety of sealing where it was
undisputed that counsel did so inadvertently.)) 

 
Defendants argue three overriding
interests in the information to be sealed. 
Defendants argue (1) Plaintiff’s privacy interests; (2) DXC’s interest
in confidential, proprietary business information; and (3) the privacy
interests of third parties.  The Court
deals with each one in turn.
 
          Defendants’
request for sealing is denied as to Plaintiff’s privacy interest   
 
          Defendants’
assertion that Plaintiff’s privacy interest requires sealing is meritless.  Any privacy interest Plaintiff has in her
employment files, including her compensation information, has been waived by
Plaintiff by filing litigation and her objection to the request to seal her
records.  (See e.g. Britt v. Supr. Ct.
(1978) 20 Cal.3d 844, 864 [plaintiff waives privacy rights in medical
records to the extent those records are relevant to the litigation and the
damages claimed]; Vinson v. Supr. Ct. (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 839-840 [by
claiming emotional distress from sexual harassment, plaintiff may waive
plaintiff’s privacy right as to plaintiff’s present mental or emotional
condition].) 
 
          Defendants may redact the names of their employees
but not other information for the purpose of safeguarding the employees’
privacy rights
 
Defendants argue that the privacy
rights of third-party employees override the public’s interest in their
compensation information and employment information.  The Court agrees that the third-party
employees’ privacy rights in such information override the public’s right of
access to court records.  
 
          However,
Defendants fail to establish that the requested sealing order as to third-party
employee information is narrowly tailored or that a less restrictive means to
protect their privacy interests is unavailable. 
For example, the privacy interests of third parties in their
compensation information would be served by redacting the identifying
information of these third parties. 
Instead, based on the redacted version of Ira Katz’s declaration,
Defendants redacted the compensation information and left the identifying
information as part of the public record. 
(Katz Dec. filed on August 7, 2023.) 
The third-party interests at stake would be sufficiently protected if
their identifying information alone was redacted. Defendants may not redact other
information unless it is also covered by the requested redactions in the next
section.
 
          Defendants
may redact DXC’s confidential, proprietary business information
 
          Defendants
argue that DXC’s confidential, proprietary business information justifies
sealing portions of the record.  Defendants
submit evidence that the information to be sealed contains sales process
information, sales quota information, employee compensation information,
customer lists and customer information and that such information is kept
confidential.  (Gersabeck Dec.,
¶¶4-10.)  The public interest in access
to these records is overridden by Defendants’ commercial interest in ensuring
their confidential, proprietary information remains confidential.  Disclosure of this information would likely
destroy or substantially diminish its value, which comes in part from Defendants’
ability to keep the information confidential from competitors.  Defendants have also narrowly tailored their
request to seal their confidential, proprietary business information to the
evidence identified in ¶11 of Gersabeck’s declaration.  (Gersabeck Dec., ¶11.)  Defendants establish grounds to seal the
evidence identified in ¶11 of Gersabeck’s declaration.
 
          
          Defendants’
request to withdraw unredacted documents filed on July 28, 2023 
 
          In
addition to the request to seal, Defendants ask that the Court also withdraw
the entire unredacted versions of the following documents filed on July 28,
2023.  These documents would be:  (1) the Declaration of Anne Mayette; (2) the Declaration of Kristine
Gersabeck; (3) the Declaration of Ira Katz; (4) the Declaration of Susan Young;
(5) the Declaration of Lara Scherck; (6) the Defendants’ Memorandum of Points
and Authorities; (7) the Defendants’ Separate Statement identified in the
notice of motion.  According to defense
counsel, they contacted the court to withdraw the lodged documents and was told
that an order granting the motion to seal and withdrawing the documents from
the public record had to be obtained first. 
(Scott Dec., ¶5.)  
 
          To
the extent that the Defendants comply with the Court’s order as outlined above,
the Court will order the unredacted documents sealed—not removed from the
record.