 Case Number:  22STCV35968    Hearing Date:   October 12, 2023    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



MATTHEW ALLEN, et al.,
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
AMERICAN HONDA MOTOR CO., INC., et al.,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No:  22STCV35968
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  October 12, 2023
 Calendar
  Number:  4



 
 
 
Plaintiffs Matthew Allen and Christine Steenken
Allen (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) move for an order compelling Defendant AHM
(“Defendant”) to provide further responses to Plaintiffs’ Requests for
Production of Documents, Set One, Nos. 21, 22, 31-39, and 46-53. The motion is opposed.

 
Plaintiffs’ motion to compel
further responses is GRANTED IN PART and DENIED IN PART as follows. The motion is GRANTED with regard to requests
Nos. 37, 38, 39 (each limited to customers in California) and Nos. 51, 52, and
53 (each excluding email communications). Defendant is ordered to produce
further, code-compliant responses to those requests, and responsive documents,
within 30 days of this ruling. The motion is DENIED with regard to all other
requests for production of documents. The request for sanctions is DENIED.
 
Background
 
          Plaintiffs bring this lemon law action
against Defendant alleging causes of action for violation of Civil Code section
1793.2, breach of express written warranty, and breach of the implied warranty
of merchantability. 
 


Legal Standard
 
“On receipt of a response to a demand for
inspection, copying, testing, or sampling, the demanding party may move for an
order compelling further response to the demand if the demanding party deems
that any of the following apply: ¶ (1) A statement of compliance with the
demand is incomplete. ¶ (2) A representation of inability to comply is
inadequate, incomplete, or evasive. ¶ (3) An objection in the response is
without merit or too general.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (a).) “The
motion shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the
discovery sought by the demand.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd.
(b)(1).)  
 
Discussion
 
A.   Timeliness 
 
“Unless notice of this
motion is given within 45 days of the service of the verified response, or any supplemental
verified response, or on or before any specific later date to which the
demanding party and the responding party have agreed in writing, the demanding
party waives any right to compel a further response to the demand.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (c) [emphasis added].)
 
Here, Plaintiff’s
counsel testifies that although Defendant served its verified responses on
January 18, 2023, the Defendant granted Plaintiffs an extension until May 12,
2023, to file the instant motion to compel. (Motion, declaration of Valerie G.
Fernandez Campbell (“Campbell Decl.”), ¶ 7 [citing Exhibit E – a copy of defense
counsel’s email].) The Court notes that Exhibit E does not provide any details
regarding the parties’ agreement; it only contains an email from defense
counsel stating, “Extension granted.” Nevertheless, Defendant does not dispute
that the parties agreed to extend the motion to compel deadline. 
 
Accordingly, the Court
finds the motion timely. 
 
B.    Meet and Confer
 
The motion must be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Code of Civil Procedure
section 2016.040. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (b)(2).)
 
The Court finds that
Plaintiffs have satisfied the meet and confer requirement. (Campbell Decl., ¶¶
4-7.)


 
 
C.    Separate Statement
 
California Rules of
Court, rule 3.1345(a)(3), requires a motion to compel further responses to a
demand for inspection of documents or tangible things. 
 
Here, Plaintiffs filed
a separate statement outlining the categories of documents at issue, Defendant’s
responses, and explaining why further responses were necessary. 
 
Therefore, Plaintiffs
have satisfied the separate statement requirement. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1345(c).)
 
D.   Good Cause
 
Plaintiffs seek an order
compelling Defendant’s further response to Plaintiffs’ Requests for Production of Documents, Set One
(“RPD”), Nos. 21, 22, 31-39, and 46-53. The
Court notes that the Separate Statement also discusses RPD No. 17. (Separate
Statement, pp. 2:3-5:19.) However, Plaintiffs did not state in their notice of
motion that they are moving to compel further responses to RPD No. 17. (Notice
of Motion, pp. 1:28-2:2; see also Separate Statement, p. 2:1-2 [stating they are seeking an order compelling further
responses to Nos. 21, 22, 31-39, and 46-53].) Accordingly, the Court will only consider RPD Nos. 21, 22, 31-39,
and 46-53. 
 
Good cause showing
must be made before production may be compelled. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310,
subd. (b)(1) [providing that a motion to compel further requests for production
of documents must “set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the
discovery sought by the demand”]; Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3
Cal.5th 531, 550 [“demands for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling … require
a good cause showing before production may be compelled”].) 
 
“Good cause” has been
defined “as requiring that the party [1] produce specific facts justifying
discovery and [2] that the inquiry be relevant to the subject matter of the
action or reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible
evidence.” (Vinson v. Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 840.) 
 
RPD No. 21 asked
Defendant to produce: “All DOCUMENTS identified in [its] responses to the
Plaintiff’s Special Interrogatories, Set One, served concurrently with [the RPD].”
(Separate Statement, p. 5:20-22.) 
 
Defendant objected to
the request, arguing that it was vague, ambiguous, and overly broad. (Separate
Statement, p. 5:23-25.) 
 
Since Plaintiffs did
not attach a copy of their Special Interrogatories, Set One, the Court does not
have enough information to rule on whether Defendant should be forced to compel
further responses to RPD No. 21. 
 
Accordingly, the
request to compel further responses to RPD No. 21 is denied. 
 
RPD No. 22 asked Defendant to produce: “A copy of [its]
complete file relating to any arbitration proceeding concerning the [Vehicle].”
(Separate Statement, p. 7:1-3.)
 
Defendant objected to the request (arguing that
it was vague, ambiguous, and overly broad) and added, without waiving those
objections, that it made a “diligent search and reasonable inquiry in an effort
to comply with this request and has no documents responsive to this request and
no responsive documents have ever existed.” (Separate Statement, p. 7:5-10.)
 
Plaintiffs argue that the Court should compel
further response to RPD No. 22, because (among other things) Defendant states “that
it is not aware of any ‘non-privileged documents’ [citing RPD No. 22], yet no
privilege logs or descriptions of the withheld documents have been produced.”
(Separate Statement, p. 7:13-15.)
 
However, Defendant’s response to RPD No. 22 did
not object on the grounds of privilege or even mention non-privileged
documents. 
 
Most importantly, Defendant’s response to RPD
No. 22 was code compliant. 
 
Under the relevant statute, “[a] representation
of inability to comply with the particular demand for inspection, copying,
testing, or sampling shall affirm that a diligent search and a reasonable
inquiry has been made in an effort to comply with that demand. This
statement shall also specify whether the inability to comply is because the
particular item or category has never existed, has been destroyed, has been
lost, misplaced, or stolen, or has never been, or is no longer, in the
possession, custody, or control of the responding party.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.230 [emphasis added].) 
 
As shown above, Defendant’s response complied
with that requirement. 
 
Accordingly, the request to compel further
responses to RPD No. 22 is denied. 
 
The Court sustains Defendant’s overly broad
objection to RPD No. 31, which asked Defendant to produce: “All DOCUMENTS
relating to the Customer Call Center, including but not limited to, all flow charts,
processes, and/or scripts.” (Separate Statement, p. 8:6-12.) The request does
not limit the documents requested to those pertaining to the vehicle at issue
in this case. Plaintiffs have not shown what relevance documents related to the
Customer Call Center but do not concern the Vehicle would have to this case.  
 
However, Defendant argues in its opposition that
it served further responses to the RPD on July 3, 2023. 
 
In further response to RPD No. 31, Defendant
stated that it will produce “its guideline documents titled ‘Lemon Law Inquiries,’
‘Early Warning,’ and ‘Attorney Involved,’ … pursuant to the entry of an
appropriate protective order.” (Opposition, declaration of Bryan A. Reynolds
(“Reynolds Decl.”), ¶ 12, Exhibit
F, pp. 3:28-4:4.)
 
Therefore, the request to compel further
response to RPD No. 31 is denied as moot. 
 
The Court sustains Defendant’s overly broad
objection to RPD Nos. 32 and 33, for the same reason it has sustained the
objection to RPD No. 31. In RPD No. 32, Plaintiffs asked Defendant to produce:
“All DOCUMENTS relating to any Customer Loyalty Program or After Warranty
Assistance Program that YOU had in effect during the RELEVANT PERIOD.”
(Separate Statement, p. 10:18-24.) In RPD No. 33, they asked Defendant to
produce: “All DOCUMENTS related to the Technical Hot Line or other similar
Technical Assistance offered to AHM’s authorized dealers.” (Separate Statement,
p. 11:15-19.) Like RPD No. 31, RPD Nos. 32 and 33 are not limited to documents
concerning the vehicle at issue in this case. 
 
Accordingly, the request to compel further
responses to RPD Nos 32 and 33 is denied. 
 
RPD No. 34 asked Defendant to produce the
following: “All DOCUMENTS related to efforts by YOU to reduce the number of
repeat repair attempts for a customer.” (Separate Statement, p. 12:8-10.) 
 
The Court agrees with Defendant’s objection that
the RPD No. 34 is vague. It is unclear what “documents related to efforts to
reduce the number of repeat repair attempts for a customer” means. The request
is also unduly burdensome because Defendant would have to guess what “related
to efforts to reduce repair attempt” means, and then find and produce all
documents, of all customers that request fits, regardless of whether those
customers experienced the same issues Plaintiffs allege in their Complaint or
the documents contain information protected by the right to privacy. Plaintiffs
have not shown good cause to compel further response to RPD No. 34.
 
Accordingly, the request to compel further
response to RPD No. 34 is denied. 
 
RPD No. 35 asked Defendant to produce: “All
DOCUMENTS related to efforts by [it] to reduce the number of reacquired
vehicles.” (Separate Statement, p. 14:5-6.)
 
The Court agrees with Defendant that RPD No. 35
is vague and ambiguous. (Separate Statement, p. 14:8.) It is unclear what all
documents “related” to Defendant’s “efforts to reduce the number of reacquired
vehicles” means. The Court also finds the request overly broad and unduly
burdensome because it is not limited to a specific type of reacquired vehicles
(e.g., those vehicles that are reacquired because they contain defects). 
 
Accordingly, the request to compel further
response to RPD No. 35 is denied. 
 
The request to compel further response to
further response to RPD No. 36 is also denied because it is overly broad. The
request asked Defendant to produce: “All DOCUMENTS related to repeat repair
procedures for remedying customer concerns.” (Separate Statement, p. 15:5-6.)
As with the RPD Nos. 34 and 35, RPD No. 36 is unlimited in scope and seeks all
documents “related” to repeat repair procedures for remedying customer concerns
regardless of whether those documents concern the defects Plaintiffs allege in the
Complaint or contain information protected by the right to privacy. 
 
RPD Nos. 37, 38, and 39 asked Defendant to
produce the following.
 
·       RPD No. 37: All DOCUMENTS evidencing, relating,
or referring to complaints by owners of the same year, make, model as the
SUBJECT VEHICLE regarding any of the conditions, defects, or nonconformities for
which Plaintiff presented the SUBJECT VEHICLE to YOU or YOUR authorized repair
facility for repair. 
 
·       RPD No. 38: All surveys, reports, summaries, or
other DOCUMENTS in which owners of the same year, make, and model as the
SUBJECT VEHICLE have reported to YOU problems with any of the conditions,
defects, or nonconformities for which Plaintiff presented the SUBJECT VEHICLE
to YOU or YOUR authorized repair facility for repair.
 
·       RPD No. 39: All DOCUMENTS which evidence,
describe, relate or refer to the numbers of owners of the same year, make, and
model as the SUBJECT VEHICLE who have complained of any of the conditions,
defects, or nonconformities for which Plaintiff presented the SUBJECT VEHICLE
to YOU or YOUR authorized repair facility for repair.
 
The Court does not find RPD Nos. 37, 38, and 39
unduly burdensome so long as they are limited to customers in California.  Defendant is able to use a reasonable  understanding of “the conditions, defects, or
noncomformities” in its search for documents. 
Accordingly, the request to compel further responses to RPD Nos. 37, 38,
and 39 is denied. 
 
RPD Nos. 46, 47, and 48 seek production of all
documents “reflecting any and all information” that led to the issuance of
certain recalls. (Separate Statement, pp. 22:13-16 [“All documents reflecting
any and all information that led to the issuance of Recall 19- 096:6GP00,
including but not limited to customer complaints, failure rates, amounts paid
for repairs, technical hotline or technical assistance inquiries”]; 26:3-6
[“All documents reflecting any and all information that led to the issuance of
Recall 19- 096:6GP00, including but not limited to customer complaints, failure
rates, amounts paid for repairs, technical hotline or technical assistance
inquiries”]; 27:7-10 [“All documents reflecting any and all information that
led to the issuance of Recall 20- 050:6RD00, including but not limited to
customer complaints, failure rates, amounts paid for repairs, technical hotline
or technical assistance inquiries”].) 
 
However, RPD Nos. 46, 47, and 48 do not explain
what those recalls entailed (e.g., whether they concerned the same year, model,
and make as the Vehicle), and the Complaint does not make any allegations
concerning recalls. 
 
Therefore, the Court finds that Plaintiffs have
failed to show good cause for compel further response to those requests. 
 
Nevertheless, Defendant argues in its opposition
that it served further responses to RPD Nos. 46, 47, and 48. In those further
responses, Defendant stated that it will produce its Quality Improvement Sheet
representing its root cause internal investigations and analysis reports that
correspond to the recall service bulletins pursuant to a protective order.
(Opposition, Reynolds Decl., Exhibit F, pp 5:6-15; 6:17-26; 8:1-10.)
 
Accordingly, the request to compel further
responses to RPD Nos. 46, 47, and 48 is denied as moot.
 
The Court finds that there would have been good
cause to compel further response to RPD No. 49 which asked Defendant to
produce: “All documents, including emails, reflecting or pertaining to the
background investigation and internal analysis (including but not limited to
any root cause analysis, failure rates, contributing factors, efficacy rate of
repairs, and fixes) into battery concerns in vehicles of the same make and
model as the SUBJECT VEHICLE.” (Separate Statement, p. 28:11-15.) Contrary to
Defendant’s arguments, that request is not vague, ambiguous, overly broad,
unduly burdensome, harassing, or seeking irrelevant information. The Complaint
alleges that the Vehicle contained or developed defects, including repeat
battery concerns. (Compl., ¶ 17a.)
Therefore, RPD No. 49 seeks relevant information. 
 
Nevertheless,
Defendant states in its opposition that it served a further response to RPD No.
49, stating: “Pursuant to a reasonable search and diligent inquiry, AHM has no
documents responsive to this request as there has been no investigation and
internal analysis into battery concerns in 2019 Honda Odyssey vehicles and no
such documents have ever existed.” (Opposition, Reynolds Decl., Exhibit F, p. 9:12-15.) That further
response is code-compliant, and the Court cannot compel Defendant to produce
documents that do not exist. 
 
Accordingly, the request to compel further
response to RPD No. 49 is denied as moot. 
 
RPD No. 50 asked Defendant to produce “All
documents, including emails, reflecting or pertaining to the background
investigation and internal analysis (including but not limited to any root
cause analysis, failure rates, contributing factors, efficacy rate of repairs,
and fixes) into repeat battery replacements in vehicles of the same make and
model as the SUBJECT VEHICLE.” (Separate Statement, p. 29:13-17.)
 
As with RPD No. 49, the Court finds that there
would have been good cause to compel further response to RPD No. 50 because the
request seeks relevant information. 
 
However, in further response to RPD No. 50,
Defendant stated that after a “reasonable search and diligent inquiry, AHM has
no documents responsive to this request as there has been no investigation and
internal analysis into repeat battery replacements in 2019 Honda Odyssey
vehicles and no such documents have ever existed.” (Opposition, Reynolds Decl.,
Exhibit F, p. 10:17-20.)
 
Accordingly, the request to compel further
response to RPD No. 50 is denied as moot.
 
The Court finds good cause to compel further
response to RPD Nos. 51, 52, and 53. 
 
RPD No. 51 asked Defendant to produce: “All
documents, including emails, reflecting or pertaining to the background
investigation and internal analysis (including but not limited to any root
cause analysis, failure rates, contributing factors, efficacy rate of repairs,
and fixes) into electrical concerns in vehicles of the same make and model as
the SUBJECT VEHICLE.” (Separate Statement, p. 30:15-19.)
 
RPD No. 52: “All documents, including emails,
reflecting or pertaining to the background investigation and internal analysis
(including but not limited to any root cause analysis, failure rates,
contributing factors, efficacy rate of repairs, and fixes) into dash turning on
when vehicle is off concerns in vehicles of the same make and model as the
SUBJECT VEHICLE.” (Separate Statement, p. 31:17-21.)
 
RPD No. 53: “All documents, including emails,
reflecting or pertaining to the background investigation and internal analysis
(including but not limited to any root cause analysis, failure rates,
contributing factors, efficacy rate of repairs, and fixes) into sliding doors
struggle to close concerns in vehicles of the same make and model as the
SUBJECT VEHICLE.” (Separate Statement, p. 32:19-23.)
 
The Court finds that RPD Nos. 51, 52, and 53 are
not vague, ambiguous, overly broad, unduly burdensome, or harassing, as limited
by the Court:  Defendant will need to
search for responsive documents except that (contrary to the terms of the
request) it does not need to include email communications in its search.
These requests seek relevant information because the Complaint alleges that the
Vehicle contained or developed defects, including dash turning on randomly,
keyless error on screen, and sliding doors struggle to close, among other
issues. RPD Nos. 51, 52, and 53 seek production of documents concerning
“electrical,” “dash turning on when vehicle is off,” and “sliding doors
struggle to close” concerns in vehicles of the same make and model as the
Vehicle. (Compl., ¶ 17a.) Therefore,
given the Complaint’s allegations, the requests seek information that is
reasonably calculated to lead to admissible evidence. 
 
In its opposition,
Defendant does not argue or show that it produced further responses to RPD Nos.
51 and 52. 
 
Although Defendant
argues that it served further response to RPD No. 53 arguing that it will allow
partial production of documents requested in that request. (Opposition, Reynolds Decl., Exhibit F, pp.
11:21-12:1 [“The production will be allowed in part and AHM will also produce
safety recall service bulletin 18-128 directed to power sliding door rear
latches, which does not apply to the SUBJECT VEHICLE because it is not included
in the service bulletin campaign, and service bulletin 19-028 directed to power
sliding door reverses direction when closing, which does not apply to the
SUBJECT VEHICLE because it is excluded from the Vehicle Identification Range to
which the bulletin applies”].) The Court finds that further response
insufficient because as explained above, RPD No. 53 seeks relevant information.
The request is also reasonably limited in scope to documents concerning
vehicles of the same make and model as the Vehicle. 
 
Accordingly, the
request to compel further responses to RPD Nos. 51, 52, and 53 is granted. 
 


 
E.    Sanctions
 
Subject to certain exceptions inapplicable here,
“the court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with
Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully
makes or opposes a motion to compel further response to a demand, unless it
finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification
or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (h).)  Because
both parties have prevailed on some requests and has not prevailed on others,
the Court does not order sanctions on this motion. 
 