 Case Number:  23STCV11090    Hearing Date:   October 12, 2023    Dept:  72 SUPERIOR
COURT OF CALIFORNIA 
COUNTY OF
LOS ANGELES 
 
DEPARTMENT 72 
 
TENTATIVE RULING 
 



Antonio Gallegos, an Elder, by and through his
  Guardian Ad Litem, Anabel Simpeh
                                 
  Plaintiff, 
   
        
  v. 
 
 
Emanate Health Medical Center, et al., 
                                 
  Defendants. 
  


 Case No: 23STCV11090 
 
 
 
  
 
 Hearing Date: October 12, 2023
 Calendar Number:  9



 
 
Defendant Emanate Health Queen of
the Valley Hospital (erroneously sued as Emanate Health Medical Center Corp.,)
demurs on the grounds that Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint is uncertain and
fails to state sufficient facts to constitute causes of action for Elder Abuse
– Neglect, and Elder Abuse – Financial.
 
Demurrer is OVERRULED, as to the
1st cause of action, and SUSTAINED, with leave amend as to the 3rd
cause of action. Motion to Strike is DENIED, as to the 1st cause of
action, and DENIED AS MOOT as to the 3rd cause of action. 
 
Background 
 
            Plaintiff
Antonio Gallegos, an elder, by and through his guardian ad litem, Anabel Simpeh
(“Plaintiff”) brings this action against Defendants Emanate Heath Medical
Center, a California corporation, doing business as Queen of the Valley Hospital,
Doe Physicians 1-50, Doe Pharmacy 1-10 and Doe Pharmacists 1-50, (Defendant
Emanate), alleging three causes of action for elder abuse and negligence.
 
Legal Standard 
 
  Demurrer
 
A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether
the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When
considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in
context. In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the
face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968,
994.) “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other
extrinsic matters. …. The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether
the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a
cause of action.” (Hahn 147
Cal.App.4th at 747.)
 
Motion to Strike
 
The court may, upon a motion, or at any
time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., §
436(a).) The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or
filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of
the court. (Id., § 436(b).) The
grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way
of judicial notice. (Id. § 437.) “When
the defect which justifies striking a complaint is capable of cure, the court
should allow leave to amend.” (Vaccaro v.
Kaiman (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 761, 768.)
 
Discussion 
 
Meet and Confer: 
 
Prior to filing a demurrer, the demurring
party is required to satisfy their meet and confer obligations pursuant to Code
of Civ. Proc. §430.41, and demonstrate that they so satisfied their meet and
confer obligation by submitting a declaration pursuant to Code of Civ. Proc.
§430.41(a)(2) & (3). The Declaration of Sheila J.
Starvish indicates that the parties met and conferred via telephone and email
regarding the FAC. However, the parties were unable to resolve the issues.
(Dec. Starvish ¶ 2-3.) 
 
Uncertainty 
 
F    irst,
Defendant asserts that Plaintiff’s FAC fails because it is uncertain and
Defendant cannot determine what facts the plaintiff bases the claim for relief.
However, Defendant fails to provide any further argument in their demurrer as
to how the FAC is uncertain. 
 
Additionally, “demurrers for uncertainty are
disfavored, and are granted only if the pleading is so incomprehensible that a
defendant cannot reasonably respond. (Morris
v. JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (2022) 78 Cal.App.5th 279, 292.)
 
The Demurrer to
the FAC on the grounds that the FAC is uncertain is OVERRULED.
 
First Cause of Action: Elder Abuse/Neglect 
 
            Defendant
argues that the first cause of action fails to state a cause of action for
Elder Abuse as it is not pled with strict particularity, as required under
Welfare & Institutions Code § 15600 et seq. Moreover, the FAC does not
plead sufficient facts that indicate Defendant’s conduct was egregious or that
medical needs were denied. Additionally, the FAC does not provide sufficient
facts that indicate Defendant acted with recklessness, oppression, fraud, or
malice, but rather provides conclusory allegations that Defendant’s conduct was
reckless. Lastly, Plaintiff did not plead facts that the conduct was ratified
or authorized by an officer, director or managing agent. 
 
            Plaintiff
argues that the FAC sufficiently alleges a cause of action for Elder Abuse. The
FAC indicates that Defendant had a care plan, but failed to implement it
sufficiently, which resulted in Plaintiff sustaining an injury. Moreover, the
facts argued in Defendant’s demurrer fail to include several facts, such as
Plaintiff’s care plan, Defendant’s falsely reported records, Plaintiff required
3 people to assist him getting out of bed, the side rails were not raised
contrary to the care plan, no alarm when off, etc. (Opp. 4: 4-21; FAC ¶¶ 27,
36-37.) Additionally, Defendant’s demurrer ignores other instances of neglect
aside from the May 2022 fall. Lastly, Defendant does not provide any
controlling authority that indicates that ratification is required. 
 
The Elder Abuse Act
“makes certain enhanced remedies available to a plaintiff who proves abuse of
an elder, i.e., a ‘person residing in this state, 65 years of age or older.’
(Welf. & Inst. Code, § 15610.27.)” (Carter
v. Prime Healthcare Paradise Valley LLC (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 396, 404 (Carter).) “The Elder Abuse Act's
heightened remedies are available only in limited circumstances. A plaintiff
must prove, by clear and convincing evidence, that a defendant is liable for
either physical abuse under section 15610.63 or neglect under section 15610.57,
and that the defendant committed the abuse with ‘recklessness, oppression,
fraud, or malice.’ (§ 15657.)” (Winn v.
Pioneer Medical Group, Inc.  (2016) 63 Cal.4th 148, 156.)
In other words, “to obtain the Act's heightened remedies, a plaintiff must
allege conduct essentially equivalent to conduct that would support recovery of
punitive damages.” (Covenant Care, Inc.
v. Superior Court (2004) 32 Cal.4th 771, 789.) Furthermore, “to recover the
enhanced remedies available under the Elder Abuse Act from a health care
provider, a plaintiff must prove more than simple or even gross negligence in
the provider's care or custody of the elder.” (Carter, supra, 198
Cal.App.4th at 405.) 
 
“[S]everal factors …
must be present for conduct to constitute neglect within the meaning of the
Elder Abuse Act and thereby trigger the enhanced remedies available under the
Act. The plaintiff must allege … facts establishing that the defendant (1) had responsibility
for meeting the basic needs of the elder or dependent adult, such as nutrition,
hydration, hygiene or medical care [Citations]; (2) knew of conditions that
made the elder or dependent adult unable to provide for his or her own basic
needs [Citations]; and (3) denied or withheld goods or services necessary to
meet the elder or dependent adult’s basic needs, either with knowledge that
injury was substantially certain to befall the elder or dependent adult (if the
plaintiff alleges oppression, fraud or malice) or with conscious disregard of
the high probability of such injury (if the plaintiff alleges recklessness)
[Citations]. The plaintiff must also allege … that the neglect caused the elder
or dependent adult to suffer physical harm, pain or mental suffering.
[Citations] Finally, the facts constituting the neglect and establishing the
causal link between the neglect and the injury ‘must be pleaded with
particularity,’ in accordance with the pleading rules governing statutory
claims.” (Carter, supra, 198 Cal.App.4th at
406-407.)  
 
After a review of the
FAC, the Court finds that Plaintiff has sufficiently alleged a cause of action
for Elder Abuse/Neglect. Here, Plaintiff Gallegos was a resident of Defendant
Emanate, an acute care hospital. (FAC ¶ 5, 21-23.) Additionally, the staff was
made aware of Plaintiff’s need for special care, as a care plan was
implemented. (FAC ¶ 25-26.) Moreover, this care plan included information about
Plaintiff’s fall risk. (FAC ¶ 27.) Plaintiff had previously suffered a fall
that resulted in a hip fracture, which is why he was admitted into Defendant’s
care. The care plan included various plans, such as lowering the bed, keeping
the rails up, use a call light, and have a bed alarm. (Id.) The FAC also states that Plaintiff was found on the floor,
holding his head, indicating that a fall occurred – whether it was of
Plaintiff’s own volition or whether Defendant dropped him. Additionally, the
FAC sufficiently alleges that Plaintiff was unable to get out of bed with
assistance, was generally immobile, and the bed alarm did not sound as
Plaintiff had recently had hip surgery to repair a fracture. (FAC ¶ 30, 37.) While
there is only one fall, the injuries sustained – severe neck pain and
intracranial hemorrhage – coupled with Defendant’s knowledge of Plaintiff’s
propensity to fall without taking the necessary precautions of the care plan,
indicate recklessness. Additionally, the FAC also alleges other wrongful
conduct, such as failure to provide proper dental and oral care, bathing, and
hair care. (FAC ¶ 66.) Lastly, the FAC sufficiently provides particularity as
to the causal link between the neglect and the injury: failure to implement the
fall protections, such as raising the bed rails and lowering the bed because
Plaintiff had a hip repair, resulted in the Plaintiff suffering neck pain and
intracranial hemorrhaging. (FAC ¶ 78-80.) 
 
Demurrer as to the
First Cause of Action is OVERRULED.
 
Third Cause of Action: Elder Abuse/Financial (Wrongful
Advantage) 
 
            Defendant
argues that the third cause of action does not sufficiently state facts that
would support a cause of action for elder abuse/financial, but merely states
conclusory allegations. Specifically, Plaintiff alleges that Defendant
wrongfully took personal property by way of Medicare and Medi-Cal Benefits,
which Defendant argues are not personal property. Additionally, the FAC does
not state facts that Defendant knew or should have known of the alleged
excessive reimbursement. 
 
Plaintiff argues
that while novel, the claim for financial abuse is contemplated by the
legislature. First, public policy supports “expanding the financial abuse
statutory scheme.” Specifically, Plaintiff cites to Mahan v. Charles W. Chan Insurance Agency, Inc., for the proposition
that the legislature has “encouraged new theories to facilitate an expansion of
financial abuse claims.” (Opp. 7: 9-19.) Moreover, Civil Code § 655 indicates
that ownership of intimate objects includes “rights created or granted by
statute.” Thus, under 42 USCA §§ 1395c, 1395k and 1395o, Medicare creates a
right for qualified persons to have healthcare. In Goldberg v. Kelly (1970) 397 U.S.
254, 261 -62, footnote 8, the Supreme Court indicated that welfare entitlements
are more like “property” rather than “gratuity.” 
 
 To
establish financial elder abuse, the plaintiff must allege that the defendant
took or retained the plaintiff’s property; that the plaintiff was 65 years of
age or older at the time of the conduct; that the defendant took or retained
the property for a wrongful use or with the intent to defraud; that the
plaintiff was harmed; and that the defendant’s conduct was a substantial factor
in cause the plaintiff’s harm. (See¿CACI,
§ 3100.)¿Financial elder abuse occurs when a person takes the property of an
elder for a wrongful use or with intent to defraud or by undue influence.
(See¿Welf. & Inst. Code §¿15610.30(a).) A person is deemed to have taken
the property when he or she has deprived an elder of any property right. (See¿id.¿§¿15610.30(c).) Although bad faith
or intent to defraud is no longer required, wrongful use of property must still
be alleged. (Stebley¿v. Litton Loan
Servicing, LLP¿(2011) 202 Cal.App.4th 522, 527-28.) “A person . . . shall
be deemed to have taken . . . property for a wrongful use if . . . the person¿
. . . takes¿ . . . the property and the person . . . knew or should have known
that this conduct is likely to be harmful to the elder . .¿. .”¿(Id.¿§¿15610.30(b).)¿ 
 
            After
reviewing the FAC, the Court finds that the Plaintiff has failed to
sufficiently allege a cause of action for elder abuse – financial. While the
argument that Medicare is property is valid, the Court finds that the FAC does
not allege sufficient facts to indicate that Defendant took this property for
wrongful use or with an intent to defraud or that this was substantial factor
in Plaintiff’s harm. The FAC alleges that Defendant billed Medicare for the
services provided, which were the result of Defendant’s own misconduct.
However, the FAC does not sufficiently allege how this alleged taking or
deprivation of property was harmful to the elder. 
 
Demurrer as to the Second
Cause of Action is SUSTAINED.
 
Leave to Amend: 
 
Leave to amend
should be liberally granted if there is a reasonable possibility an amendment
could cure the defect.  (County of Santa Clara v. Superior Court (2022)
77 Cal.App.5th 1018,1035.)  The Plaintiff has the burden of demonstrating that leave to amend
should be granted, and that the defects can be cured by amendment. (“Plaintiff
must show in what manner he can amend his complaint and how that amendment will
change the legal effect of his pleading.” Goodman
v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349). It is likely that Plaintiff can
provide further facts to sufficiently correct the defects in the third cause of
action. 
 
            Motion to Strike: 
 
Defendant moves to strike two
portions of the FAC that seek Attorneys’ Fees: 
 
1. Page 25, lines 20-21 as
follows: “For attorney’s fees and costs pursuant to Welfare and
Institutions Code §15657 (a).
 
2. Page 25, lines 28 and page 26,
line las follows: “For attorney’s fees and costs pursuant
to Welfare and Institutions Code §15657.5 (a) and
(b). 
 
            Defendant
argues that Plaintiff is not entitled to attorneys’ fees because “there are no
factual allegations in Plaintiffs’ Complaint specifically as to defendant EHQOTVH
that supports this recovery. (Motion 2: 24-26.) Plaintiff argues that the
motion to strike is unnecessary. If the Court sustains either of the causes of
action, the prayers are irrelevant. If they were overruled, Welfare and
Institutions Code § 15657(a) specifically allows for attorneys’ fees. 
 
            As the Court has determined above,
the first cause of action is sufficiently alleged. Thus, the prayer for
attorneys’ fees is appropriate. As for the third cause of action, since the
Court determined it was insufficiently alleged, the prayer is now irrelevant. 
 