 Case Number:  23STCV00661    Hearing Date:   October 12, 2023    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



BALBIR DOGRA, 
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
MERCEDES-BENZ USA, LLC, et al.
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No:  23STCV00661 
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  October 12, 2023
 Calendar
  Number:  6



 
 
 
Defendant Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC moves to compel
Plaintiff Balbir Dogra submit his claims raised in the complaint into
arbitration and to stay this action pending the outcome of arbitration.
 
Defendant’s motion to compel arbitration is DENIED.
 
Background
 
          Plaintiff Balbir Dogra (“Plaintiff”) purchased a “Mercedes-B S560V”
automobile model (“Subject Vehicle”) at an undisclosed time from an authorized
retailer of Defendant Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC (“Defendant”). In July 2022, the
Subject Vehicle malfunction and remained locked while Plaintiff’s toddler
grandson was still inside. It was only after firefighters arrived at the scene
and broke the window of the Subject Vehicle could Plaintiff’s grandson be
freed. While her grandson was unharmed despite facing the risk of heat stroke,
permanent brain damage and possible death, Plaintiff suffered mental anguish.
It is further alleged that Defendant was aware of this manufacturing and safety
defect and failed to disclose it to Plaintiff at the time of her purchase. 
 
          On
January 12, 2023, Plaintiff initiated this action against Defendant, and the
complaint alleges the following causes of action: (1) fraudulent
non-disclosure; (2) negligence; (3) violation of Business & Professions
Code § 17200, et seq.; and (4) violation of Civil Code §§ 1750, et
seq.
 
          On
April 10, 2023, Defendant filed the instant motion to compel arbitration.
Plaintiff opposes the motion. 
 
Legal Standard
 
           When seeking to compel arbitration of a
plaintiff’s claims, the defendant must allege the existence of an agreement to
arbitrate.  (Condee v. Longwood Management Corp. (2001) 88
Cal.App.4th 215, 219.)  The burden then shifts to the plaintiff to prove
the falsity of the agreement.  (Ibid.)  After the Court
determines that an agreement to arbitrate exists, it then considers objections
to its enforceability.  (Ibid.)  The Court must grant a
petition to compel arbitration unless the defendant has waived the right to
compel arbitration or if there are grounds to revoke the arbitration
agreement.  (Ibid.; Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.) 
          
Judicial Notice
 
          Defendant
requests the Court to take judicial notice of Plaintiff’s complaint. The
request is granted pursuant to Evidence Code § 452(d).
 
Discussion
 
Existence of an Enforceable Arbitration
Agreement
 
“[T]he petitioner bears the burden
of proving its existence by a preponderance of the evidence.” (Rosenthal v.
Great Western Fin. Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413.) “If the
party opposing the petition raises a defense to enforcement—either fraud in the
execution voiding the agreement, or a statutory defense of waiver or revocation
[citation]—that party bears the burden of producing evidence of, and proving by
a preponderance of the evidence, any fact necessary to the defense.” (Ibid.)
 
In support of its burden, Defendant
submits evidence of the lease agreement that Plaintiff initialed leased the
Subject Vehicle, which contains an arbitration provision. (Ameripour Decl.
¶ 4, Exh. 2.) Notably, Defendant is not a signatory to the lease agreement.
Pursuant to the lease agreement, the arbitration provision states in relevant
part: 
 
1. If either you or we choose, any
dispute between you and us will be decided by arbitration and not in
court. 
[…] 
Any claim or dispute, whether in
contract, tort or otherwise (including any dispute over the interpretation,
scope, or validity of this lease, arbitration section or the arbitrability of
any issue), between you and us or any of our employees, agents , successors or
assigns, which arises out of or relates to a credit application, this lease, or
any resulting transaction or relationship arising out of this lease shall, at
the election of either you or us, or our successors or assigns, be resolved by
a neutral, binding arbitration and not by a court action. Any claim or dispute
is to be arbitrated on an individual basis and not as a class action. 
(Ibid.)
Because Defendant concedes that it
was not a signatory to the lease agreement, the issue of standing must still be
resolved, and this shall be discussed further below. But first, in opposition,
Plaintiff disputes that an arbitration agreement exists on the ground that the
aforementioned lease agreement has expired. (Opposition at pp. 4-5.) In support
of this argument, Plaintiff argues that expired on April 3, 2022 by its own
terms. (Opposition at pg. 5.) Plaintiff further points out that the Subject
Vehicle was sold to her, and title was effectively released to Plaintiff on
April 7, 2022. (Opposition at pg. 6; Dogra Decl. ¶ 2, Exh. A.) However, this
argument is not persuasive because Plaintiff’s option to purchase the Subject
Vehicle was a resulting transaction that arose out of the lease agreement.  Thus, even though the contractual relationship
may have changed, and the alleged incident occurred after the expiration of the
lease agreement, the arbitration provision is written in a way that would arguably
encompass Plaintiff’s claims following Plaintiff’s exercise of the purchase
option under the lease agreement.
Accordingly, an arbitration
agreement does exist. Whether Defendant has standing to enforce it shall be
addressed next. 
Standing to Enforce Arbitration
Agreement
While Defendant concedes that it
was not a signatory to the lease agreement, it maintains that it has standing
to compel arbitration under the lease pursuant to the doctrines of third-party
beneficiary and equitable estoppel. (Motion at pp. 4-5.) The Court shall
address each in turn.
          Third-Party
Beneficiary
To invoke the third-party
beneficiary exception, the non-signatory must show that the arbitration clause
of the agreement was “made expressly for [their] benefit.”  (Civ. Code, § 1559.) It is “not necessary
that the beneficiary be named and identified as an individual. A third party
may enforce a contract where he shows that he is a member of a class of persons
for whose benefit it was made.”  (Garratt
v. Baker (1936) 5 Cal.2d 745, 748; accord, Cargill, Inc. v. Souza
(2011) 201 Cal.App.4th 962, 967.)
A third party is entitled to
enforce a contract where: (1) it benefits from the contract, (2) a motivating
purpose of the contracting parties was to provide a benefit to the third party,
and (3) permitting the third party to enforce the contract is consistent with
the objectives of the contract and reasonable expectations of the parties.  (Goonewardene v. ADP, LLC (2019) 6
Cal.5th 817, 830.)
Here, Defendant asserts that it is
an intended beneficiary because Plaintiff’s claims relate to the lease of the
Subject Vehicle and focus on the “resulting relationship” between the parties
due to Defendant’s alleged liability for the Subject Vehicle. (Id. at
pp. 5-6.) Upon review of the arbitration provision, this
argument is not persuasive. Even though the lease agreement
references a “resulting transaction or relationship,” Defendant has failed to
show that the lease agreement was expressly made for its benefit. Rather, it
appears that the lease agreement was drafted for the purpose of securing
benefits for the contracting parties. This is evidenced by the fact that, other
than referencing the contracting parties, the arbitration provision only refers
to the finance company’s employees, agents, successors or assigns.
Thus, Defendant may not rely on the third-beneficiary doctrine as a means of
enforcing the arbitration provision within the lease agreement.
Accordingly, because the
lease agreement was not created for Defendant’s benefit, the third-party
beneficiary doctrine does not apply. 
          Equitable
Estoppel
Next, Defendant asserts it is
nonetheless entitled to enforce the arbitration provision pursuant to the
doctrine of equitable estoppel under Felisilda v. FCA US LLC (2020)
53 Cal.App.5th 486, review denied (Nov. 24, 2020) (Felisilda).
(Motion at pp. 7-9.) 
 When a petitioner seeks to compel arbitration
as to a non-signatory to the arbitration agreement, various theories are
available to support the moving party’s demand, which include the doctrine of
equitable estoppel. (JSM Tuscany, LLC v. Superior Court (2011) 193
Cal.App.4th 1222, 1237.) Under this doctrine, a nonsignatory defendant may
invoke an arbitration clause to compel a signatory plaintiff to arbitrate its
claims when the causes of action against the nonsignatory are ‘intimately
founded in and intertwined’ with the underlying contract obligations. (Id.)
 
In Felisilda, the Court of
Appeal found that purchasers of a vehicle were estopped from refusing to
arbitrate Song-Beverly Act claims against the vehicle manufacturer, based on an
agreement between the purchaser and the vehicle dealer. (See Felisilda,
supra, at 496-99.) After Defendant filed the instant motion, the Court of
Appeal issued a contrary appellate decision. In Kielar v. Superior Court of
Placer Cnty. (2023) 94 Cal.App.5th 614, the Third District Court of Appeal
expressly repudiated Felisilda. (Id. at 616.) The Third District
issued a preemptory writ of mandate directing the trial court in the case to
vacate an order compelling arbitration of a plaintiff’s Song-Beverly Act claims
against an automobile manufacturer based on an arbitration clause in the
purchase agreement between the plaintiff and the dealer from which the
plaintiff purchased the automobile.  (Ibid.)  The trial court order in Keilar was
premised on Felisilda’s view that the doctrine of equitable estoppel
applied in this context.  (Ibid.)  The Third District in Keilar held that it
does not apply.  (Ibid.)
In abandoning Felisilda,
the Third District in Keilar adopted instead the rulings of Division
Eight of the Second District in the Ford Motor Warranty Cases, known by
the lead case, Ochoa v. Ford Motor Co. (2023) 89 Cal.App.5th 1324, and
Division Seven of the Second District in Montemayor v. Ford Motor Company
(2023) 92 Cal.App.5th 958 (Montemayor).  (See Keilar, supra,
94 Cal.App.5th at 620-621 [discussing Ochoa and Montemayor]. 
The Courts in Ochoa and Montemayor rejected the reasoning of Felisilda
and held that the claims against a non-signatory automobile manufacturer are
not intimately founded in and intertwined with the obligations in the contract
containing the arbitration clause between the plaintiff and the dealer from
which the plaintiff purchased the automobile at issue, and therefore the
manufacturer could not invoke the doctrine of equitable estoppel to enforce the
arbitration clause.  (Ochoa, supra, 89 Cal.App.5th at 1333,1335-1336;
Montemayor, supra, 92 Cal.App.5th at 969-971.) Thus,
Defendant’s reliance on Felisilda is misplaced.
In reply, Defendant argues that it
can still avail itself of the doctrine of equitable estoppel to enforce the
arbitration clause pursuant to Ochoa. (Reply at pg. 5.)  Defendant asserts that the complaint alleges
language to show that Plaintiff’s claims arise from the lease agreement. (Ibid.)
In particular, Defendant relies on the following allegation: “In conjunction
with each sale, Defendants marketed, advertised and warranted that the
defective components of the Product were of merchantable quality fit for the
ordinary purpose for which such goods were used and were free from defects.”
(Compl. ¶ 30.) However, this allegation does not show that Plaintiff sued
Defendant based on the terms of the lease agreement.  (Ochoa, supra, 89 Cal.App.5th at
1334.) Rather, Plaintiff’s claims for fraudulent non-disclosure, negligence,
violation of Business & Professions Code §§ 17200, et seq., and
violation of Civil Code §§ 1750, et seq. stem from warranties beyond the
lease agreement. In fact, as in Ochoa, the lease agreement does not
include any warranty or assurances regarding the quality of the vehicle sold,
and instead, it disclaims any warrant beyond the one extended by the
manufacture. (Ochoa, supra, 89 Cal.App.5th at 1335; see also Ngo v.
BMW of North America, LLC (9th Cir. 2022) 23 F.4th 942, 949 [“the express
and implied warranties arise ‘independently of a contract of sale’ ”].)
Therefore, because Plaintiff’s claims do not arise from the terms of the lease
agreement, Plaintiff is not estopped from asserting Defendant has no right to
demand arbitration.
Based on the foregoing, because the
doctrine of equitable estoppel does not apply, Defendant lacks standing to
bring the instant motion. Accordingly, Defendant’s motion to compel is denied.  
 