  Case Number:  23VECV02601    Hearing Date:   January 6, 2025    Dept:  107 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles – Northwest District
 
DEPARTMENT 107
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



  Jonathan Manhan,
 
        
  v.
 
Mercedes-Benz
  USA, LLC, et al. 


 Case
  No.:  23VECV02601
 
 MOTION FOR ATTORNEYS’ FEES
 
 




 
Tentative Ruling   Grant in the reduced amount of $39,640.20.
 
¿ 
I.               
BACKGROUND¿ 
 
On or about
August 24, 2020, Plaintiffs Jonathan Manhan, Jordan Manhan, and BCS Inc.
(“Plaintiffs”) leased a 2020 Mercedes-Benz GLC (the “Vehicle”). (Complaint ¶¶
8, 10.) The Vehicle was defective. (Complaint ¶¶ 14-15.) 
 
On June 14,
2023, Plaintiffs filed a complaint against Defendants Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC,
Mercedes-Benz of Calabasas, and Does 1 through 40, alleging causes of action
for: (1) violation of Song-Beverly Act – breach of express warranty; (2)
violation of Song Beverly Act – breach of implied warranty; (3) violation of
Song-Beverly Act – section 1793.2; and (4) negligent repair.
 
On June 4,
2024, Plaintiffs filed a notice of settlement. 
 
On November 21,
2024, Plaintiffs filed a motion for attorneys’ fees (the “Motion”). On December
20, 2024, Defendant Mercedes-Benz USA LLC (“Defendant”) filed an opposition. On
December 24, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a reply.
¿ 
II.            
PLAINTIFFS’
OBJECTIONS
 
Plaintiffs object to various statements in Donna Hooper’s
declaration and the attached exhibits. (Objection Evidentiary filed 12/24/24.) Plaintiff’s objections mainly relate to
Hooper’s statements and exhibits relating to counsel’s hourly rates. Hooper
submitted with the declaration various exhibits of superior court orders
approving lower hourly rates. These exhibits and statements are not highly
relevant. However,
this court was not
persuaded by Plaintiffs’ grounds for the objections. This court
overrules the objections.
 
III.          
LEGAL
STANDARD¿ 
¿ 
California
Civil Code section 1794, subdivision (d) states: 
 
If the buyer prevails in an action under
this section, the buyer shall be allowed by the court to recover as part of the
judgment a sum equal to the aggregate amount of costs and expenses, including
attorney's fees based on actual time expended, determined by the court to have
been reasonably incurred by the buyer in connection with the commencement and
prosecution of such action. 
 
“The plain
wording of the statute requires the trial court to base the fee award upon
actual time expended on the case, as long as such fees are reasonably incurred
– both from the standpoint of time spent and the amount charged.” (Robertson v. Fleetwood Travel Trailers of
California, Inc. (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 785, 817) The “prevailing party has the burden of showing that the fees incurred
were reasonably necessary to the conduct of the litigation, and were reasonable
in amount.” (Id. at 817-818.) “The amount of an attorney fee to be
awarded is a matter within the sound discretion of the trial court.” (Id.
at 822.) 
 
IV.          
DISCUSSION 
 
In the Motion, Plaintiffs
seek $57,309.75 in attorneys’ fees and $2,091.70 in costs. (Motion p. 15.) This
includes 33.2 hours of attorneys’ fees billed by Norman Taylor & Associates
and 50.6 hours of attorneys’ fees billed by Wirtz Law. (Motion pp. 2-4.) Norman
Taylor & Associates stopped billing after Wirtz Law associated into the
case. (Motion p. 2.) Plaintiffs also seek a 1.5 multiplier enhancement. (Motion
p. 13.)
 

Hours

 
Defendant
argues Plaintiff’s “fee demand is exaggerated, and improperly seeks fees that
are not recoverable.” (Opposition p. 5.)
 
First,
Defendant argues Plaintiff’s counsel billed excessive time for discovery
related issues. (See Opposition p. 6.) Specifically, Defendant objects to Plaintiffs’
counsel billing 0.6 hours to review the file, 0.3 hours to draft Plaintiffs’ Form
Interrogatories, Set 1, 1.1 hours to draft Plaintiffs’ Special Interrogatories,
Set 1, 1.3 hours to draft Plaintiffs’ Request for Production of Documents, Set
1, and 1.8 hours to draft Plaintiffs’ Requests for Admission, Set 1 with
declaration. (Opposition p. 6.) Defendant argues this time is excessive because
Plaintiffs’ counsel “uses virtually identical discovery in every case and has
done so for years.” (Opposition p. 6.) This court disagrees with Defendant. The
billed time is reasonable.
 
Second, Defendant
argues that the tasks billed for the negligent repair cause of action are not
recoverable under the Song-Beverly Act and these tasks related to a separate
defendant. (Opposition pp. 6-7.) “When a cause of action for which attorney
fees are provided by statute is joined with other causes of action for which
attorney fees are not permitted, the prevailing party may recover only on the
statutory cause of action.” (Santana v. FCA US, LLC (2020) 56
Cal.App.5th 334, 349.)  “However, ‘[s]uch fees need not be apportioned
when incurred for representation on an issue common to both causes of action in
which fees are proper and those in which they are not.’” (Id.)
“Moreover, ‘[a]pportionment is not required when the claims for relief are so
intertwined that it would be impracticable, if not impossible, to separate the
attorney's time into compensable and noncompensable units.’” (Id.)  Plaintiffs’
causes of action are intertwined, and Plaintiffs were not required to apportion
their fees. Thus, this court will not reduce the award based on tasks billed
for the negligent repair cause of action.
 
Third, Defendant
argues the time billed for preparing the notice of association is excessive.
(Opposition p. 6.) Defendant objects to Norman Taylor & Associates billing
0.70 hours at $250/hour to “Prepare Proof of Service, scan and e-serve P's NOA
to OC; Prepare the same for electronic filing; Rec'd conformed copy, saved in
file; prepare the file to transfer” and 0.70 hours at $645/hour to “Draft and
prepare NOA to transfer the case to co-counsel.” (Taylor Declaration Ex. 1.)
This court agrees that seeking a total of 1.4 hours to prepare a notice of
association is excessive and reduces it to 0.3 hours at $645/hour and 0.3 hours
at $250/hour.
 
Fourth, Defendant
argues that Plaintiffs’ counsel billed for clerical tasks performed by
attorneys and paralegals and that the entries were excessively billed. (Opposition pp. 7-8.)
 The United States Supreme Court has
stated that “purely clerical or secretarial tasks should not be billed at a
paralegal rate, regardless of who performs them.” (Missouri v. Jenkins by
Agyei (1989) 491 U.S. 274, 289 fn. 10.) Further, a trial court “has broad discretion to adjust the fee
downward or deny an unreasonable fee altogether.” (Christian Research
Institute v. Alnor (2008) 165 Cal.App.4th 1315, 1322.)  
 
Defendant
objects to the following entries: On May 21, 2024, “KD” billed 0.60 hours to
“Separate Mercedez-Benz USA’s Supplemental Doc Production into discrete PDFs.”
(Wirtz Declaration Ex. 1.) On February 27, 2023, “NMC” billed 0.60 hours for
“Additional doc collection for file from Mr. and Ms. Manhan.” (Taylor
Declaration Ex. 1.)  On July 18, 2023,
“LR” billed 0.20 hours to “Review court docket to check on status of
Defendants’ Answer to Complaint to prepare and send Defendants courtesy notice
of lease expiration.” (Taylor Declaration Ex. 1.) On July 20, 2023, “LR” billed
0.20 hours to “Check court docket for Defendants Answers to Complaint due on
July 17, 2023; note to file.” (Taylor Declaration Ex. 1.) On July 25, 2023,
“LR” billed 0.20 hours to “Review Court Docket to check if Defendants filed
their responsive pleadings.” (Taylor Declaration Ex. 1.) On August 7, 2023,
“LR” billed 0.40 hours to “Review court docket to see if Defendants Answered
Complaint.” (Taylor Declaration Ex. 1.) This court agrees that these tasks were
excessively billed and reduces the total billed amount to 1 hour at $250/hour.
 
This court has
reviewed the remaining billed tasks and determined they are not clerical in
nature nor excessive.
 

Pre-Litigation Fees

 
Citing Dominguez
v. American Suzuki Motor Corp. (2008) 160 Cal.App.4th 53, 60, Defendants
argue “The law is clear that the Song-Beverly Act does not expressly provide
for recovery of fees for pre-litigation work.” (Opposition p. 5.) In Dominguez,
the plaintiff purchased a motorcycle. (Id. at p. 55.) The motorcycle
exhibited problems and the manufacturer offered to buy back the motorcycle. (Id.
at pp. 55-56.)  The plaintiff’s
counsel sent the car manufacturer a letter with an attorneys’ fees request. (Id.
at p. 56.) The manufacturer stated it would “negotiate a reasonable amount
for attorneys fees, but will not entertain fees that . . . have not yet been
incurred.” (Id.) After this communication, the plaintiff filed a
complaint under the Song-Beverly and Magnuson-Moss Warranty Act. (Id.) The
manufacturer and dealer moved for summary judgment, but the trial court denied
the motion, ruling the manufacturer had not complied with section 1793.2,
subdivision (d). (Id.) The Court of Appeal held that the trial court
erroneously denied the motion for summary judgment because “[t]here was no
evidence [the manufacturer] failed to comply, and certainly no evidence it
‘willfully’ failed to comply, with Song-Beverly.” (Id. at pp. 57, 59.)
 
At the end of
the Dominguez opinion, the Court stated:
 
Finally, Dominguez states: “It is only
logical that if the Legislature did not intend for consumers to be forced to
pay attorneys fees when they prevail in [an] action that they would likewise
not want [c]onsumers who were successful in resolving their claim on [a]
prelitigation basis to be forced to pay attorneys fees out of their own
pocket.” We assume “the Legislature knew what it was doing and meant the words
to be applied as they were written. [Citation.]” (Southern Cal. Edison Co. v. Public Utilities Com. (2002) 101 Cal.App.4th 982, 994, 125 Cal.Rptr.2d 211.) Otherwise, the Legislature would have provided
for an attorney fees award in section 1793.2, subdivision (d)(1), which it did not, or it would not have conditioned
an attorney fees award on prevailing in an action, which it did in section 1794, subdivision (d).7 Based on a plain
reading of the applicable statutory provisions, we cannot conclude the
Legislature intended that every time a manufacturer repurchases or replaces
consumer goods, a consumer is entitled to attorney fees, regardless of whether
it was pre- or post-commencement of litigation. 
 
(Id. at
p. 60.)
 
Defendants’
reliance on Dominguez is misplaced. In Dominguez, the defendant
manufacturer offered to repurchase the vehicle pre-litigation. Here, Defendants
do not argue they offered to repurchase the Vehicle before Plaintiffs filed
this action. Further, Dominguez involved a motorcycle. This case
involves a motor vehicle. Accordingly, this court will not reduce Plaintiffs’
fee award on this basis.
 

Hourly Rate

 
Defendant
argues Plaintiffs’ counsel’s claimed rates are excessive. (Opposition p. 8.) Defendant’s
counsel submits a declaration stating “Defense firms typically charge
approximately $200 - 275/hour in warranty defense litigation. This includes
seasoned practitioners with as much as thirty years of trial experience. This
is what actual market economics dictate is a reasonable rate for “Lemon Law”
lawyers with decades of experience.” (Hooper Declaration ¶ 9.) Defendant’s
counsel also submits as exhibits various superior court orders that reduced counsel’s
hourly rate. (See Hooper Declaration ¶¶ 11-17.) 
 
Plaintiffs
submit a declaration by the principal in the law firm Norman Taylor &
Associates, Norman F. Taylor. Taylor states that “[i]t is my professional
opinion that my regular billing rate of $645 per hour is more than reasonable
for a principal with my experience practicing in this field of law in Los
Angeles CA” and it is “below the rate suggested for an attorney with my years
of experience as set forth in the most recent United States Attorney’s Office Attorney’s
Fees Laffey Matrix.” (Taylor Declaration ¶ 12.)  The attorney and paralegal fees billed at
Norman Taylor & Associates range from $250/hour to $645/hour. (Taylor
Declaration Ex. 1.)
 
Plaintiffs also
submit a declaration by the managing attorney of Wirtz Law Firm APC, Richard M.
Wirtz. (Wirtz Declaration ¶ 1.) Wirtz discusses the background and experience
of the attorneys and paralegals who billed fees for this case. (Wirtz
Declaration ¶¶ 17-22.) Wirtz also states that “[i]n considering the appropriate
rates to charge in a matter such as this, I have reviewed a report entitled
United States Consumer Law Attorney Fee Survey Report (‘Report’) published in
2019 reflecting rates for 2017 to 2018” and “[b]ased on the facts presented in
the Report, I have determined that the rates charged by the attorneys in this
case are commensurate with the hourly rates charged by other attorneys with
comparable experience in consumer rights law.” (Wirtz Declaration ¶ 23.) The
attorney and paralegal fees billed at Wirtz Law Firm APC range from $250/hour
to $550/hour. (Wirtz Declaration Ex. 1.)
 
This court
finds that the hourly rates billed by Plaintiffs’ counsel are reasonable. (See Goglin
v. BMW of North America, LLC (2016) 4 Cal.App.5th 462, 464, 473-474
[concluding a trial court did not abuse its discretion in finding a $575 hourly
rate was appropriate in a Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act action.]) 
 

Enhancement

 
Defendant argues
a lodestar multiplier is inappropriate here because this is a simple lemon law
case and “Plainitffs w[ere] offered a repurchase via its 998 offer within the
first few months that counsel for Defendants substituted into the case.”
(Opposition pp. 10-11.)
 
Plaintiffs
argue this court should apply a 1.5 multiplier enhancement because Plaintiffs’
counsel took this case on a contingent fee basis and “advanced all litigation
costs and expenses without reimbursement.” (Motion p. 14.) Plaintiffs also
argue that “[t]he public interests advanced by the case . . . also justify an
enhancement to the lodestar” because “[t]he purpose of litigating these lemon
law cases is to convince manufacturers that it is less expensive to
comply with their statutory duties than to play ‘litigation chicken’ with
consumers.” (Motion pp. 14-15.)
 
“[T]he lodestar
adjustment method is the prevailing rule for statutory attorney fee awards to
be applied in the absence of clear legislative intent to the contrary” and “it
is applicable to attorney fee awards under section 1794, subdivision (d).” (Robertson
v. Fleetwood Travel Trailers of California, Inc., supra, 144 Cal.App.4th at
pp. 818-819.) The lodestar adjustment method “requires the trial court to first
determine a touchstone or lodestar figure based on a careful compilation of the
actual time spent and reasonable hourly compensation for each attorney. [Citation]
The touchstone figure may then be augmented or
diminished by taking various relevant factors into account, including (1) the
novelty and difficulty of the questions involved and the skill displayed in
presenting them; (2) the extent to which the nature of the litigation precluded
other employment by the attorneys; and (3) the contingent nature of the fee
award, based on the uncertainty of prevailing on the merits and of establishing
eligibility for the award.” (Id. at p. 819.) However, a trial court is
“not required to apply a multiplier.” (Id. at p. 822.) 
 
Plaintiffs’
counsel took this case on a contingent basis. (Taylor Declaration ¶ 29; Wirtz Declaration ¶ 29.)  But this case
involved no novel or difficult questions.  Accordingly, this court will not apply a
multiplier.
 
V.            
CONCLUSION 
¿ 
For the
foregoing reasons, this court grants Plaintiffs’ $37,548.50 in attorneys’ fees.
This court also grants Plaintiffs $2,091.70 in costs. In total, Defendant is
ordered to pay Plaintiffs $39,640.20 within thirty (30) days’ notice of this
court’s order.
 
 
 
 
 
                      
 
Dated: January 6, 2025
                                                                                     





  