 Case Number:  24VECV02670    Hearing Date:   January 6, 2025    Dept:  107  
 
Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles – Northwest District
 
DEPARTMENT 107
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



  Yvette
  Gur-Arie,
 
        
  v.
 
Brookdale Gardens of Tarzana, et al.
 

 


 Case
  No.:  24VECV02670
 
 Demurrer with Motion to Strike



 
Tentative Ruling (1) Overrule the demurrer; (2) Deny the motion to
strike.

I.              
BACKGROUND 
 
On or about June 16 or June 17,
2023, Plaintiff Yvette Gur-Arie (“Plaintiff”) experienced a “traumatic
injury-producing event which resulted in both of her lower legs being broken.”
(Complaint ¶ 20.) At the time, Plaintiff was under the care and custody of
Defendants BLC Gardens-Tarzana, L.P., Brookdale Gardens of Tarzana, and Does 1
to 30. (Complaint ¶¶ 3, 20.) On June 18, 2023, Plaintiff was transferred to
Defendant Tarzana Medical Center’s emergency room. (Complaint ¶ 30.)
 
On June 7, 2024, Plaintiff filed
a complaint against Defendants Brookdale Gardens of Tarzana, BLC
Gardens-Tarzana, L.P., Providence Cedars-Sinai Tarzana Medical Center, Tarzana
Medical Center, LLC, Oren N. Hirsch, MD, Sharon George, MD., Shannon M. Smith,
MD, and Does 1 through 200, alleging two causes of action for: (1) elder
abuse/neglect; and (2) negligence/professional negligence.
 
On October 3, 2024, Defendants
Brookdale Gardens of Tarzana and BLC Gardens-Tarzana, L.P. (“Defendants”) filed
a motion to compel arbitration. On November 5, 2024, this court denied that
motion. (11/05/24 Minute Order p. 15.)
 
On November 20, 2024, Defendants
demurred to Plaintiff’s complaint. Later that same day, Defendants filed an
amended demurrer. On November 26, 2024, Defendants filed a second amended
demurrer. On December 20, 2024, Plaintiff filed oppositions to the demurrer and
motion to strike. On December 27, 2024, Defendants filed replies.
 
II.           
PROCEDURAL MATTERS
 
A.  
Timeliness
“A
person against whom a complaint or cross-complaint has been filed may, within
30 days after service of the complaint or cross-complaint, demur to the
complaint or cross-complaint.” (Code Civ. Proc., §¿430.40(a).)¿
 
Per California Code of Civil
Procedure section¿435, subdivision (b)(1), a motion to strike should be filed
within 30 days after service of the complaint. (See Code Civ. Proc., §
412.20(a)(3).)¿¿¿ 
 
Per California Code of Civil Procedure §¿1005, subdivision (b),
moving papers should be filed at least 16 court days before they are set for
hearing, oppositions thereto should be filed at least nine court days before
the set hearing, and replies to any oppositions should be filed at least five
court days before the set hearing.
 
On November 5,
2024, this court denied Defendants’ motion to compel arbitration. Defendants were
notified of the ruling by email. (11/05/24 Minute Order pdf pp. 20-21.) Per
Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.7, “A petition pursuant to Section
1281.2 [Order to arbitrate controversy;
petition; determination of court] may be filed in lieu of filing an answer to a
complaint. The petitioning defendant shall have 15 days after any denial of the
petition to plead to the complaint.” When a document is served electronically,
“[a]ny period of notice, or any right or duty to do any act or make any
response within any period or on a date certain after the service of the
document, which time period or date is prescribed by statute or rule of court,
shall be extended after service by electronic means by two court days[.]” (Code
Civ. Proc., 1010.6(3)(B).)
 
Defendants’ initial
demurrer and amended demurrer were filed on November 20, 2024, which was
fifteen days after the denial of Defendants’ motion to compel arbitration.
However, Defendants’ second amended demurrer was filed on November 26, 2024. Accordingly,
Defendants’ second amended demurrer was untimely.
 
Judges have discretion as to
whether to consider or strike an untimely demurrer or pleading. (McAllister
v. County of Monterey (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 253, 281.) This court will
exercise its discretion and consider the second amended demurrer.
 
The demurrer, motion to strike, oppositions,
and replies were timely filed under section 1005, subdivision (b).
 
B.   Meet
and Confer
 
California Code of Civil
Procedure section¿430.41, subdivision (a) requires parties to “meet and confer”
before the filing of a demurrer to attempt to informally resolve the objections
raised in the demurrer.¿The demurring party is required to file and serve with
the demurrer a declaration either confirming that parties were unable to
resolve the issues raised by the demurrer despite having met and conferred or
that the opposing party failed to meet and confer with the demurring party in
good faith. (Code Civ. Proc. §¿430.41(a)(3).)¿
 
California Code of Civil
Procedure §¿435.5, subdivision (a) also requires parties to meet and confer
before filing a motion to strike.¿¿ 
 
Defendants’ counsel submits a
declaration stating, “Counsel for both parties met and conferred, in good
faith, telephonically” but “no agreement could be reached.” (Gonadze Motion to
Strike Declaration ¶ 2.) 
 
This court finds Defendants
satisfied the meet and confer requirements.
 
III.        
LEGAL STANDARD
As a general matter, in a
demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading
or via proper judicial notice.¿(Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004)
116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)¿“A demurrer tests the pleading alone, and not the
evidence or the facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants, Inc.
Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the court assumes the
truth of the complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Id.)
The only issue a demurrer is concerned with is whether the complaint, as it
stands, states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147
Cal.App.4th 740, 745.)¿A complaint is sufficient if it contains
“[a]¿statement¿of the¿facts¿constituting the cause of action, in ordinary and
concise language.” (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §¿425.10(a)(1).) A “complaint
ordinarily is sufficient if it alleges ultimate rather than evidentiary facts.”
(Doe v. City of Los Angeles (2007) 42 Cal.4th 531, 550.)¿
 
A party may demur to a complaint
because the complaint “does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10(e).)¿
 
IV.        
DISCUSSION
 
A.  
Elder Abuse
 
Defendants argue the complaint
does not allege with particularity facts sufficient to state a cause of action
for elder abuse. (Demurrer p. 10.)
 
Elder abuse includes any of the
following: 
 
(1) Physical
abuse, neglect, abandonment, isolation, abduction, or other treatment with
resulting physical harm or pain or mental suffering.
 
(2) The
deprivation by a care custodian of goods or services that are necessary to
avoid physical harm or mental suffering.
 
(3) Financial abuse, as defined in Section 15610.30.
 
(Welf. & Inst. Code §
15610.07(a).)
 
Under Welfare and Institutions
Code section 15610.57, subdivision (a), “’Neglect’ means either of the
following: (1) The negligent failure of any person having the care or custody
of an elder or a dependent adult to exercise that degree of care that a
reasonable person in a like position would exercise. [or] (2) The negligent
failure of an elder or dependent adult to exercise that degree of self care
that a reasonable person in a like position would exercise.”
 
Under Welfare and Institutions
Code 15610.57, subdivision (b):
 
Neglect
includes, but is not limited to, all of the following:
 
(1) Failure
to assist in personal hygiene, or in the provision of food, clothing, or
shelter.
 
(2) Failure
to provide medical care for physical and mental health needs. A person shall not be deemed neglected or abused for
the sole reason that the person voluntarily
relies on treatment by spiritual means through prayer alone in lieu of medical
treatment.
 
(3) Failure
to protect from health and safety hazards.
 
(4) Failure
to prevent malnutrition or dehydration.
 
(5) Substantial inability or failure of an elder or dependent adult to
manage their own finances.
 
(6) Failure of an elder or
dependent adult to satisfy any of the
needs specified in paragraphs (1) to (5),
inclusive, for themselves as a
result of poor cognitive functioning, mental limitation, substance abuse, or
chronic poor health.
 
“[F]actors that must be present for conduct to constitute neglect
within the meaning of the Elder Abuse Act and thereby trigger the enhanced
remedies available under the act [include] facts establishing that the
defendant: (1) had responsibility for meeting the basic needs of the elder or
dependent adult, such as nutrition, hydration, hygiene or medical care
[Citations]; (2) knew of conditions that made the elder or dependent adult
unable to provide for his or her own basic needs [Citations]; and (3) denied or
withheld goods or services necessary to meet the elder or dependent adult’s
basic needs, either with knowledge that injury was substantially certain to
befall the elder or dependent adult (if the plaintiff alleges oppression, fraud
or malice) or with conscious disregard of the high probability of such injury
(if the plaintiff alleges recklessness.) (Carter v. Prime Healthcare
Paradise Valley LLC (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 396, 406-407.) “The plaintiff
must also allege . . . that the neglect caused the elder or dependent adult to
suffer physical harm, pain or mental suffering.” (Id. at p. 407.) “[T]he
facts constituting the neglect and establishing the causal link between the
neglect and the injury ‘must be pleaded with particularity,’ in accordance with
the pleading rules governing statutory claims.” (Id.)
The complaint alleges that, at the time of the incident, Plaintiff “was
a resident of the State of California and a member of the class of persons
intended to be protected by the Elder Abuse and Dependent Adult Civil
Protection Act.” (Complaint ¶ 49.) The complaint also alleges that Plaintiff “was admitted to BROOKDALE
for ongoing care and supervision.” (Complaint ¶ 15.) Thus, the complaint
alleges Defendants were responsible “for meeting the basic needs of
the elder or dependent adult, such as nutrition, hydration, hygiene or medical
care.” (See Carter v. Prime Healthcare Paradise Valley LLC, supra, 198
Cal.App.4th at p. 406.)
The complaint
further alleges that Defendants “knew that [Plaintiff] was mentally impaired
and unable to make decisions on her own behalf”, “were . . . well-aware that
due to [Plaintiff’s] extensive physical limitations, that she required a
two-person assist with a Hoyer lift for all transfers”, and “knew that
[Plaintiff’s] health and safety would be at great risk (especially because she
was an elderly/dependent person with significant mental and physical
impairments) if she was not provided with the supervision and monitoring that
BROOKDALE was mandated to provide under Title 22.” (Complaint ¶ 17.) Thus, the
complaint alleges Defendants “knew of conditions that made the elder or
dependent adult unable to provide for his or her own basic needs.” (See Carter
v. Prime Healthcare Paradise Valley LLC, supra, 198 Cal.App.4th
at pp. 406-407.)
Finally, Plaintiff alleges that on June 16 or June 17, 2023, Plaintiff
broke her legs. (Complaint ¶ 20.) Plaintiff alleges “the exact date and time of the traumatic injury-producing
event is not presently known” because Defendants did not report the incident or
reference it in their records. (Complaint ¶ 20.) Plaintiff further alleges that
“[a]fter leaving [Plaintiff] lying in bed with severely swollen and bruised
legs, and forcing her to endure ongoing pain for several hours, BROOKDALE finally
called [Plaintiff’s] family to report that their mother was experiencing
swelling in her legs” but Defendants “neglected to inform [Plaintiff’s family]
that [Plaintiff] had been involved in a traumatic injury-producing event.”
(Complaint ¶ 28.) Plaintiff also alleges that “[i]n the early morning hours of
June 18, 2023 when BROOKDALE’s medtech checked on [Plaintiff] and touched her
legs, [Plaintiff] began screaming in pain.” (Complaint ¶ 29.) Plaintiff’s
“daughter was advised that her mother was in severe pain” and she “demanded
that 911 be called and that her mother be transferred to the hospital.”
(Complaint ¶ 29.) Plaintiff alleges that Plaintiff was transferred to the
Emergency Room at Tarzana Medical Center, “BROOKDALE continued to conceal the
occurrence of the event by failing to advise Tarzana Medical Center staff that
any traumatic event had occurred” which resulted in delaying Plaintiff’s
diagnosis “regarding the cause of [Plaintiff’s] swollen legs and her pain.”
(Complaint ¶ 31.) Plaintiff’s “leg fractures were not diagnosed until June 28,
2023.” (Complaint ¶ 31.) 
Defendants argue
that the allegations referenced above are insufficient because they “are vague
and conclusory allegations – without any supporting facts[.]” (Demurrer p. 10.)
Defendants further argue that “If the Defendant failed to communicate the full
nature of [Plaintiff’s] injuries, it is only because the sole witness to the
injury producing event is [Plaintiff] herself, who is, for reasons unrelated to
this action, mentally impaired” and “there is no basis on which the Defendants
would be aware of how the injury occurred or its full nature. The Defendants
cannot conceal what they do not know.” (Demurrer pp. 10-11.)
In the opposition,
Plaintiff responds that because Plaintiff required a “two-person assist and a
Hoyer lift to transfer between her bed and her wheelchair. Someone at Brookdale
witnessed what happened. Rather than report the incident, that someone
pretended like it never happened” (Opposition to Demurrer p. 5.)
In the reply,
Defendants argue that the complaint is defective because it “does not allege
anywhere that any of BLC Gardens’ staff were either present for the injury,
witnessed it, or had any knowledge of its occurrence” so, “any allegations
claiming that BLC Gardens ‘denied necessary medical care and services’,
‘cause[d] prolonged suffering’, or ‘incorrectly documented’ the TIPE are not
sufficiently specific to meet the requirements for alleging a cause for Elder
Abuse and Neglect.” (Reply p. 3.)
Plaintiff
alleges: (1) Defendants were “well-aware that due to [Plaintiff’s] extensive
physical limitations, that she required a two-person assist with a Hoyer lift
for all transfers”; (2) Plaintiff broke her legs sometime on June 16, 2023, or
June 17, 2023; (3) Plaintiff was in pain and had “severely swollen and bruised
legs”; (4) Defendants left Plaintiff in her bed for several hours; (5)
Defendants told Plaintiff’s family that Plaintiff’s legs were swollen, but did
not tell Plaintiff’s family about any “traumatic injury-producing event”; (6)
Defendants did not transfer Plaintiff to an emergency room until June 18, 2023;
and (7) once at the emergency room, Defendants did not tell the emergency room
staff that Plaintiff had been involved in a “traumatic injury-producing event.”
(Complaint ¶¶ 20-31.)  Plaintiff’s
allegations are sufficient to show Defendants “denied or withheld goods or
services necessary to meet the elder or dependent adult’s basic needs, either
with knowledge that injury was substantially certain to befall the elder or
dependent adult (if the plaintiff alleges oppression, fraud or malice) or with
conscious disregard of the high probability of such injury (if the plaintiff
alleges recklessness.)” (Carter v. Prime Healthcare Paradise Valley LLC,
supra, 198 Cal.App.4th at pp. 406-407.)
Finally, as to Defendants’ argument that the complaint does not allege
Defendants knew about Plaintiff’s injuries, the complaint alleges that
“[i]nstead of reporting the traumatic injury-producing event that resulted in
[Plaintiff] suffering two broken legs, BROOKDALE staff simply placed her
back in bed and ignored her complaints of severe pain and swelling.”
(Complaint ¶ 4
(Emphasis added.)) Accordingly, the complaint alleges Defendants knew about
Plaintiff’s injury.
Defendants further argue Plaintiff does not allege Defendants’ officer,
director or managing agent “had advance knowledge of the unfitness of an
employee and employed him or her with a conscious disregard of the rights or
safety of others” or “authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct for which the
damages are awarded” or “was personally guilty of oppression, fraud, or
malice.” (Demurrer p. 11.)
“The standards set forth in subdivision (b) of Section 3294 of the
Civil Code regarding the imposition of punitive damages on an employer based
upon the acts of an employee shall be satisfied before any damages or
attorney’s fees permitted under this section may be imposed against an
employer.” (Welf. & Inst. Code § 15657(c).) Per Section 3294 of the Civil
Code, “An employer shall not be liable for damages pursuant to subdivision (a),
based upon acts of an employee of the employer, unless the employer had advance
knowledge of the unfitness of the employee and employed him or her with a
conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others or authorized or ratified
the wrongful conduct for which the damages are awarded or was personally guilty
of oppression, fraud, or malice. With respect to a corporate employer, the
advance knowledge and conscious disregard, authorization, ratification or act
of oppression, fraud, or malice must be on the part of an officer, director, or
managing agent of the corporation.”
Plaintiff alleges that Defendants: (1) failed to maintain adequate
staffing levels, so residents “were not provided with the care and services
they needed to meet their basic health and safety needs”; (2) failed to provide
adequate training; (3) knew of prior complaints voiced at Resident/Family
Council Meetings and prior state investigations, but failed to reasonably
investigate those complaints or make a good faith effort to correct known
deficiencies; and (4) knew they were required establish policies and
procedures, but failed to do so. (Complaint ¶ 44.) Plaintiff also alleges Defendants had an “inadequate and
unrealistic” budget, which was “enforced by the officers, directors,
administrators and managing agents of BROOKDALE[.]” (Complaint ¶ 45.) Finally,
Plaintiff alleges “Defendants’ failure to comply with state law applicable to
RCFEs was part of a business and corporate wide strategy that was encouraged,
mandated and directed by the BROOKDALE Defendants[.]” (Complaint ¶ 46.) 
Further,
Plaintiff alleges that she suffered “extreme and unnecessary emotional and
physical pain and suffering” because Defendants failed to “provide even the
minimal amount of staff mandated by law”, failed to “provide its staff with the
training mandated by law”, failed to hire qualified staff, failed “to establish
and implement policies and procedures mandated by Title 22”, and failed “to
provide sufficient financial resources so  that BROOKDALE staff could provide the care
and services mandated by law/regulations governing RCFEs.” (Complaint ¶ 47.)
Based on the above allegations, Plaintiff has sufficiently plead that
Defendants authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct. 
Thus, the
demurrer to Plaintiff’s elder abuse cause of action is overruled.
B.  
Negligence
 
Defendants argue Plaintiff has
not plead facts supporting a cause of action for professional negligence
because Plaintiff has not sufficiently plead facts showing Defendants caused
Plaintiff’s injury. (Demurrer pp. 11-12.)
 
In the opposition, Plaintiff
responds that “[i]t is not clear why ‘professional’ negligence was invoked by
the Brookdale Defendants . . . since residential care facilities for the
elderly are not licensed as medical providers; however, the analysis regarding
the sufficiency of Plaintiff’s allegations is the same for medical and
non-medical providers.” (Opposition to Demurrer p. 10.)
 
The elements of a negligence action are: (1) a
legal duty to use due care; (2) a breach of such legal duty; and (3) the breach
was the proximate or legal cause of the resulting injury. (Ladd v. County of
San Mateo (1996) 12 Cal.4th 913, 917-918.) 
Plaintiff alleges that “Defendants
breached the duties of due care they owed to [Plaintiff] in various ways
including, but not limited to, the following: Defendants failed to hire
properly qualified personnel, failed to hire sufficient staff to meet the needs
of their residents/patients, failed to reasonably ensure the staff was properly
trained and supervised and failed to establish and/or implement policies and
procedures as mandated by law and/or the established standard of care, and/or
failed to provide RCFE care and services as required under Title 22 and/or the
standard of care in the RCFE community. Additionally, said Defendants
negligently failed to report neglect and/or abuse by others, which they
reasonably suspected, to proper administrative personnel or to proper governmental
authorities” and that Defendants “failed to allocate sufficient resources to
their respective businesses so that the needs of the residents/patients in
their care, including [Plaintiff] could be met . . .” (Complaint ¶¶ 61-62.)
Thus, Plaintiff sufficiently alleges the duty and breach elements of a
negligence cause of action.
Plaintiff also alleges that: “All
of the above acts and omissions of Defendants, and/or their employees/agents,
which caused Mrs. Gur-Arie to suffer extreme and unnecessary emotional and
physical pain and suffering, were caused, in part, by the failure of the
BROOKDALE Defendants and DOES 1 through 100, to provide even the minimal amount
of staff mandated by law, the failure to provide its staff with the training
mandated by law, the failure to hire staff that was qualified to provide the
services needed by Gur-Arie, the failure to establish and implement policies
and procedures mandated by Title 22 and the failure to provide sufficient
financial resources so that BROOKDALE staff could provide the care and services
mandated by laws/regulations governing RCFEs.” (Complaint ¶ 47.) As to the
negligence claim, Plaintiff also specifically alleges that: “The
above-described acts and/or omissions of said Defendants, and/or their
employees/agents, caused the injuries and damages alleged in the Prayer for
Damages for this cause of action as set forth below.” (Complaint ¶ 70.) Thus,
Plaintiff sufficiently alleges a causal connection between Defendants’ breach
and Plaintiff’s damages.
 
Thus, the demurrer to Plaintiff’s
negligence cause of action is overruled.
 
V.           
MOTION TO STRIKE
 
A.  
Legal Standard
The court may, upon a motion, or
at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike “any
irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading.” (Code Civ.
Proc. § 436(a).) The court may also strike “all or any part of any pleading not
drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an
order of the court.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 436(b).) The grounds for moving to
strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.
(Code Civ. Proc. §¿437(a).)¿ 
 
A motion to strike is appropriate
to attack a claim for punitive damages. (Grieves v. Superior Court
(1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 164.) “In order to survive a motion to strike an
allegation of punitive damages, the ultimate facts showing an entitlement to
such relief must be pled by a plaintiff. [Citations]¿In passing on the
correctness of a ruling on a motion to strike, judges read allegations of a
pleading subject to a motion to strike as a whole, all parts in their context,
and assume their truth.” (Clausen v. Superior Court (1998) 67
Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.) “Further, even though certain language pleads ultimate
facts or conclusions of law, such language when read in context with the facts
alleged as to defendants' conduct may adequately plead the evil motive
requisite to recovery of¿punitive¿damages.” (Monge v. Superior Court
(1986) 176 Cal.App.3d 503, 510.) 
 
“In order to state a prima facie
claim for¿punitive¿damages, a complaint must set forth the elements as stated
in the general¿punitive¿damage¿statute,¿Civil Code section 3294.” (Turman v.
Turning Point of Central California, Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 63.) To
justify a punitive damages award, the defendant must be “guilty of oppression,
fraud, or malice.” (Civ. Code., § 3294.) The defendant “must act with the
intent to vex, injure or annoy, or with a conscious disregard of the
plaintiff’s rights.” (Penner v. Falk (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 858, 867,)
 
Malice is defined as “conduct
which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or
despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and
conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.” (Civ. Code § 3294(c)(1).)
Oppression is defined as “despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel
and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s rights.” (Code Civ.
Proc. § 3294(c)(2).) Fraud is defined as “an intentional misrepresentation,
deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the defendant with the
intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving a person of
property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.” (Civ. Code §
3294(c)(3).) 
 
“Punitive¿damages¿may not be¿pleaded¿generally.”
(Today’s IV, Inc. v. Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation
Authority (2022) 83 Cal.App.5th 1137, 1193.) “The mere allegation an
intentional tort was committed is not sufficient to warrant an award
of¿punitive¿damages.” (Grieves v. Superior Court, supra, 157
Cal.App.3d 159 at 166.) And, “’conclusory characterization of defendant's
conduct as intentional, wilful and fraudulent is a patently insufficient
statement of “oppression, fraud, or malice, express or implied,’ within the
meaning of¿section 3294.” (Brousseau v. Jarrett (1977) 73 Cal.App.3d
864, 872.) “Not only must there be circumstances of oppression, fraud or
malice, but facts must be alleged in the pleading to support such a claim.” (Grieves
v. Superior Court, supra, 157 Cal.App.3d at p. 166; Today’s IV,
Inc. v. Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority, supra,
83 Cal.App.5th at p. 1193 [“In addition to the requirement that the operative
complaint set forth the elements as stated in¿section 3294, it must
include¿specific¿factual allegations showing that defendant's conduct was
oppressive, fraudulent, or malicious to support a claim
for¿punitive¿damages.”].) 
 
B.  
Discussion
Defendants move to strike portions of Plaintiff’s
complaint that seeks attorneys’ fees. (Motion to Strike p. 4.) Defendants
acknowledge that “[i]f the Court finds that plaintiff’s Elder Abuse/Neglect
cause of action is sufficiently pled and overrules the Defendants’ Demurrer,
then the Plaintiff’s prayer for attorney’s fees should not be stricken.”
(Motion to Strike p. 4.) This court overrules the demurrer, so it does not
consider the attorneys’ fees issue further.
Defendants also move to strike portions of
Plaintiff’s complaint referencing the punitive damages claim. (Notice of Motion
to Strike p. 2.) Defendants argue Plaintiff has not plead “any specific facts
of conduct by the Defendants that would support a claim that Defendants acted
with malice or oppression.” (Motion to Strike p. 6.) Defendants further argue
that “although the complaint alleges fraud against the Defendants . . .
Plaintiff has not plead sufficient facts to state a negligent cause of action
based on fraud against the Defendants.” (Motion to Strike p. 7.)
In opposition, Plaintiff argues the complaint’s
allegations are sufficient to support a claim for enhanced remedies under
Welfare and Institutions Code section 15657, the complaint sufficiently alleges
recklessness, malice, and oppression, and Plaintiff is entitled to claim
attorneys’ claims under Welfare and Institutions Code section 15657,
subdivision (a). (Opposition to Motion to Strike pp. 2-5.)
Plaintiff argues the complaint’s allegations are
sufficient to plead malice because “the Brookdale Defendants’ managing agents
were aware of the deficiencies in patient care via prior patient complaints and
CDSS investigations, yet failed to correct such pattern of neglect. Moreover .
. . the Complaint alleges that their neglect of [Plaintiff] and other patients
was motivated by a premeditated plan of promoting their own personal and/or
financial interests over the health and safety of elderly dependent patients in
their custodial care.” (Opposition to Motion to Strike p. 5.)
The complaint alleges sufficient facts supporting
Plaintiff’s punitive damages claim. Plaintiff alleges she was admitted to
Brookdale in 2019 following a car accident where she suffered a traumatic brain
injury. (Complaint ¶ 15.) Plaintiff further alleges Defendants were
aware she “was mentally impaired and unable to make decisions on her own
behalf” and “due to [Plaintiff’s] extensive physical limitations, that she
required a two-person assist with a Hoyer lift for all transfers.” (Complaint ¶
17.)  Plaintiff alleges she broke both
her legs following a “traumatic injury-producing event” but Defendants did not
report the incident or reference it in their records. (Complaint ¶ 20.)
Plaintiff also alleges Defendants’ staff noted she had “a bruise on the top of
her right foot, swelling and bruising on both lower legs, that [Plaintiff] was
saying ‘ouch, help me,’ that she was unable to fully move to either side due to
pain, and that [Plaintiff] complained of pain whenever her legs were moved or
even touched.” (Complaint ¶ 22.) But Defendants’ staff “failed to report the
occurrence of the traumatic injury-producing event or the significant changes
in [Plaintiff’s] condition to her family/responsible person or to her
physician.” (Complaint ¶ 23.)  Plaintiff
further alleges that Defendants failed to timely arrange Plaintiff’s medical
care and instead left Plaintiff “lying in bed with severely swollen and bruised
legs, and forcing her to endure ongoing pain for several hours.” (Complaint ¶¶
27-28.) Finally, Plaintiff alleges Defendants “exhibited a deliberate and total
disregard of the high probability that residents, including [Plaintiff] would
suffer great physical and emotional harm” because Defendants failed to maintain
sufficient staffing levels, failed to train their staff, failed to investigate
complaints or make a good faith effort to correct known deficiencies, failed to
establish policies and procedures to ensure Defendants’ staff had adequate
guidance and training, and approved an “inadequate and unrealistic” budget
where Defendants’ personnel were unable to “provide the staffing hours, care and
services needed by [Plaintiff] and which were mandated by law.” (Complaint ¶¶ 44-45.)

Plaintiff sufficiently alleges that Defendants
engaged in “despicable conduct which [was]
carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the
rights or safety of others.” (See Civ. Code § 3294(c)(1).)
Thus, this court denies the motion to strike.
VI.        
CONCLUSION
For the foregoing reasons, this court overrules
the demurrer and denies the motion to strike.
Dated: January 6, 2025
                                                                                     





  