 Case Number:  22STCV18775    Hearing Date:   February 14, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposing, and reply papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
June 8, 2022, Plaintiff Jennifer Lynn Remenchik (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendants David Achemian (“David Achemian”), Marianna Achemian (“Marianna
Achemian”), Sooren Achemian (“Sooren Achemian”), and Does 1-50 for motor
vehicle tort and general negligence. 
On
September 7, 2022, David Achemian, Marianna Achemian, and Sooren Achemian (“Defendants”)
filed an answer. 
On
November 30, 2023, Plaintiff filed a motion to quash subpoenas to be heard on
February 14, 2024. On January 29, 2024, Defendants filed an opposition. On
February 6, 2024, Plaintiff filed a reply. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for June 6, 2024. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Plaintiff
asks the Court to quash the deposition subpoenas for business records served on
City of Glendale—Glendale Fire Department, Glendale
Adventist Emergency Physicians, and Health Net of California, or to limit
the subpoenas. 
Defendants
ask the Court to deny the motion. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 1987.1 provides: 
"(a) If a subpoena requires the attendance of a
witness or the production of books, documents, electronically stored
information, or other things before a court, or at the trial of an issue
therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably
made by any person described in subdivision (b), or upon the court’s own motion
after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make an order
quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it
upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including protective
orders. In addition, the court may make any other order as may be appropriate
to protect the person from unreasonable or oppressive demands, including
unreasonable violations of the right of privacy of the person. 
"(b) The following persons may make a motion
pursuant to subdivision (a): (1) A party. (2) A witness. (3) A consumer
described in Section 1985.3. (4) An employee described in Section 1985.6. (5) A
person whose personally identifying information, as defined in subdivision (b)
of Section 1798.79.8 of the Civil Code, is sought in connection with an
underlying action involving that person’s exercise of free speech rights." 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1.) 
          Code of Civil Procedure section 1985.3, subdivision (g),
provides in part: 
“(g)  Any
consumer whose personal records are sought by a subpoena duces tecum and who is
a party to the civil action in which this subpoena duces tecum is served may,
prior to the date for production, bring a motion under Section 1987.1 to quash
or modify the subpoena duces tecum. Notice of the bringing of that motion shall
be given to the witness and deposition officer at least five days prior to production.
The failure to provide notice to the deposition officer shall not invalidate
the motion to quash or modify the subpoena duces tecum but may be raised by the
deposition officer as an affirmative defense in any action for liability for
improper release of records. 
* * *
  “No witness or deposition officer shall be required to
produce personal records after receipt of notice that the motion has been brought
by a consumer . . . except upon order of the court in which the action is
pending or by agreement of the parties, witnesses, and consumers affected. . .
.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1985.3,
subd. (g).) 
As a
general rule, all unprivileged information that is relevant to the subject
matter of the action is discoverable if it would be admissible evidence at
trial or if it appears reasonably calculated to lead to
the discovery of admissible evidence. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2017.010; Schnabel
v. Superior Court (1993) 5 Cal.4th 704, 711.) 
When
a party seeks discovery which impacts a person’s constitutional right to privacy,
limited protections come into play. (Shaffer v. Superior Court (1995) 33
Cal.App.4th 993, 999.) The protections cover a person’s personal and financial
matters. (Ibid.) The court must balance competing rights — the litigant’s
right to discover relevant facts and the individual’s right to maintain
reasonable privacy — in determining whether the information is discoverable. (Ibid.) 
For
discovery purposes, information is relevant if it might reasonably assist a
party in evaluating the case, preparing for trial, or facilitating settlement.
(Gonzalez v. Superior Court (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1539, 1546.) 
DISCUSSION 
A.   Complaint 
The
complaint alleges that on December 4, 2020, at 2625 Hollister Terrace, Glendale, CA 91206, David Achemian negligently operated a motor vehicle,
causing a collision with Plaintiff’s vehicle and injuring Plaintiff.  Marianna Achemian and Sooren Achemian allegedly
owned the motor vehicle David Achemian was driving and negligently entrusted it
to him. 
B.   Subpoenas 
The subpoena
issued to the City of Glendale—Glendale Fire Department (“Fire Department”)
requested: 
“All medical records, doctors' reports, radiology
reports, physical therapy records, notes, memoranda, correspondence, sign-in
sheets, videotapes, audio tapes, results of all tests, including diagnosis as
to condition and prognosis for recovery, and any other information pertaining
to the treatment of the above-named individual. All billing records including,
but not limited to, itemized statements, insurance records, billing
adjustments, write-offs, and payment transactions from all sources pertaining
to the above-named individual.ANY
AND ALL AMBULANCE AND PARAMEDIC REPORTS PERTAINING TO JENNIFER LYNN REMENCHIKFOR
DATES OF: 12/04/2020 TO PRESENT” 
The subpoena
issued to Health Net of California (“Health Net”) requested: 
“Any and all insurance, insurance policy, and
insurance claim records, including medical records, medical billing, radiology
films, and billing and payment notices for reimbursement for any medical
services provided under the health care plan of JENNIFER LYNN REMENCHIK;
MEDI-CAL MEMBER ID# U9389443601 Provide all the explanation of benefits, the
names of the health care providers that were reimbursed, a description of the
services provided, the amounts and dates of the reimbursements, and the
identification of the source of those payments.FOR
DATES OF: 12/04/2020 TO PRESENT” 
Plaintiff
has not provided a copy of the attachment to the subpoena issued to Glendale
Adventist Emergency Physicians (“Glendale Adventist”) listing the materials
requested. 
C.   Plaintiff’s motion to quash 
Plaintiff
argues the subpoenas violate her right to privacy, seek records unrelated to
her injuries, conditions, and body parts at issue in this case, violate the physician-patient privilege and/or
psychotherapist-patient privilege, are overbroad in scope and time, violate the
collateral source rule, and fail to
comply with the timing and notice requirements of Code of Civil Procedure
sections 2020.410 and 1985.3, subdivision (b). 
(Motion pp. 2-3.) 
Plaintiff
does not explain how the subpoenas allegedly violate the physician-patient privilege and/or
psychotherapist-patient privilege, the collateral source rule, or the timing
and notice requirements of Code of Civil Procedure sections 2020.410 and
1985.3, subdivision (b).  Therefore, the
Court does not address these issues and deems them waived. 
The
remaining issues center on Plaintiff’s argument that the subpoenas violate
Plaintiff’s privacy rights because they seek information that is not relevant and
not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. 
Although
Plaintiff argues the subpoenas are overbroad in time, the subpoenas issued to
Fire Department and Health Net are limited to December 4, 2020 (the date of the
alleged accident) to the present.  Based on the parties' arguments, it appears that the subpoena issued to Glendale Adventist contains the same limitation.  The
time frame is appropriate. 
“ ‘[W]hile
the filing of a lawsuit may implicitly bring about a partial waiver of one’s
constitutional right of associational privacy, the scope of such “waiver” must
be narrowly rather than expansively construed, so that plaintiffs will not be
unduly deterred from instituting lawsuits by the fear of exposure of their
private associational affiliations and activities.’  [Citation.]  Therefore, . . . an implicit waiver of a
party’s constitutional rights encompasses only discovery directly relevant to
the plaintiff’s claim and essential to the fair resolution of the lawsuit.” (Vinson
v. Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 842; see ibid. [“On occasion
[a party's] privacy interests may have to give way to [the] opponent's right to
a fair trial.  Thus courts must balance
the right of civil litigants to discover relevant facts against the privacy
interests of persons subject to discovery”].)  
The
Court has weighed Defendants' need for discovery against Plaintiff’s privacy rights and
concludes that the subpoenas are not overbroad and do not violate Plaintiff’s
privacy rights because they are limited in time to the date of the accident and
afterward.  Unless Plaintiff waives a
particular category of damages, Defendants are entitled to discover information about Plaintiff’s potential damages.  The Court denies the motion. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court DENIES Plaintiff Jennifer Lynn Remenchik’s motion to quash the subpoenas
served by Defendants David Achemian, Marianna Achemian, and Sooren Achemian on City
of Glendale—Glendale Fire Department, Glendale Adventist Emergency Physicians,
and Health Net of California. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.