  Case Number:  22STCV19546    Hearing Date:   April 11, 2024    Dept:  37 HEARING DATE:                 Thursday, April 11, 2024
CASE NUMBER:                   22STCV19546
CASE NAME:                        Deborah Mak v. Los Angeles Unified School District
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendant Los Angeles Unified
School District
OPPOSING PARTY:             Plaintiff Brent Palmer
TRIAL DATE:                        September 24, 2024
PROOF OF SERVICE:           OK

                                                                                                                                                            

PROCEEDING:                      Motion for Summary
Judgment or, in the alternative, Summary Adjudication  
OPPOSITION:                        23 February 2024
REPLY:                                  1
March 2024
 
RECOMMENDATION:        Defendant LAUSD’s request for summary judgment is denied.
LAUSD’s request for summary adjudication is granted as to the fourth cause of
action and denied as to the first, second, and third causes of action.
Defendant to give notice.

                                                                                                                                                            

 
Background
 
This action arises
from the employment of Deborah Mak (“Mak”) and Brent Palmer (“Palmer”)
(collectively “Plaintiffs”) by Defendant Los Angeles Unified School District
(“LAUSD” or “District”). In October 1999, Mak was employed as a Special Ed.
Trainee and/or Assistant at the John F. Kennedy High School. In January 2006,
Palmer was employed as an Investigator with LAUSD. In August 2021, LAUSD
adopted a mandatory COVID-19 vaccination policy (“Policy”) for its employees.
The Complaint alleges Plaintiffs submitted requests for exemptions from the
Policy pursuant to their religious beliefs (“Requests”), and LAUSD denied the
Requests.  Plaintiffs contend LAUSD
terminated Mak on December 8, 2021, and Palmer on March 9, 2022, both for
pretextual reasons.  
 
Plaintiffs
filed their operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) on November 14, 2022. The
FAC alleges six causes of action: (1) discrimination in violation of FEHA; (2)
failure to prevent discrimination and retaliation in violation of FEHA; (3)
failure to accommodate in violation of FEHA; (4) retaliation; (5) financial
abuse of a dependent adult due to undue influence (Welfare and Institutions
Code § 15610.30)—Mak against LAUSD; and (6)violation of PAGA, Lab. Code §§
2698, et seq.—Mak and aggrieved employees against LAUSD. 
 
On
January 30, 2023, the court sustained the demurrer to the fifth cause of action
without leave to amend. 
 
On
December 21, 2023, LAUSD filed a motion for summary judgment or, in the alternative,
summary adjudication as to Palmer’s first, second, third, and fourth causes of
action. Palmer opposes the Motion. The matter is now before the court. 
 
request
for JUDICIAL notice
 
The court may
take judicial notice of “official acts of the legislative, executive, and
judicial departments of the United States and of any state of the United
States,” “[r]ecords of (1) any court of this state or (2) any court of record
of the United States or of any state of the United States,” and “[f]acts and
propositions that are not reasonably subject to dispute and are capable of
immediate and accurate determination by resort to sources of reasonably
indisputable accuracy.” (Evid. Code § 452(c), (d), and (h).) “Taking
judicial notice of a document is not the same as accepting the truth of its
contents or accepting a particular interpretation of its meaning.” (Joslin v. H.A.S. Ins. Brokerage (1986) 184 Cal.App.3d 369, 374.)
 
The court
may take judicial notice of factual statements made to the public on a
government website but the truth of the statements. (Wood v. Superior Ct. of
San Diego County (2020) 46 Cal.App.5th 562, 580, fn. 2;  People v.
Morales (2018) 25 Cal.App.5th 502, 512, fn. 7.) While the court may take
judicial notice of the existence of a website, the court may not accept the
contents of the website as true. (See Ragland v. U.S. Bank National Assn.
(2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 182, 193.) 
 
Palmer
requests judicial notice of the following: 
 
1)    
The District’s official
webpage for the Office of the Chief Medical Director is attached as Exhibit
E to the Declaration of David Alami. Exhibit E is a true and correct copy
of the District’s official webpage for the Office of the Chief Medical Director
located at https://www.lausd.org/domain/1377. (Alami
Decl. ¶ 6.) 
 
2)    
The LAUSD’s Final 2021-22
Budget, prepared by the District’s Budget Services and Financial Planning
Division, dated June 2021 (adopted on or around June 22, 2021),  (attached as Exhibit F to the
Declaration of David Alami) is a true and correct copy of the District’s
2021-22 Final Budget, prepared by the District’s Budget Services and Financial
Planning Division, dated June 2021 (adopted on or around June 22, 2021) and is
accessible at https://www.lausd.org/cms/lib/CA01000043/Centricity/Domain/123/2021-22%20Final%20Budget%20Book%20rev.1.pdf. 
 
 
3)    
The District’s official
webpage for COVID-19 Vaccination Guidance is attached as Exhibit G to
the Declaration of David Alami. Exhibit G is a true and correct copy the
District’s official webpage for COVID-19 Vaccination guidance located at https://www.lausd.org/vaccineguidance. 
 
Defendant
LAUSD objects to Plaintiff’s request for judicial notice.
 
            A.        RJN of Exhibit E
 
Defendant
objects to Exhibit E on the basis that the information provided is not relevant
because “the website makes no mention of Dr. Malhotra’s role with the District
before the Office of the Chief Medical Director was created, and does provide
any insight as to its prior iterations. As a result, it does not provide
sufficient information to prove or disprove any fact of consequence here.”
(Objections to Plaintiff’s RJN at p. 2:24-27.) 
 
The
LAUSD website states: “The Office of the Chief Medical Director was established in
August 2021 and provides health policy direction for the entire school
district.” Plaintiff argues that Dr. Malhotra cannot testify about District
matters that occurred before she became the Chief Medical Director in August
2021. (See Plaintiff’s evidentiary objections to the Declaration of Smita
Malhotra). 
 
As the party moving for
summary judgment, the burden is on the Defendant District to show that Dr.
Malhotra is qualified to testify about the District’s COVID-19 response,
including facts and policies that occurred before and after she was hired by
LAUSD. As no information is provided in Dr. Malhotra’s declaration as to when
she was hired by LAUSD and if she served the District before August 2021, the
Court agrees that the Defendant has failed to show that Dr. Malhotra is
qualified to testify about what policies the District implemented before August
2021 and the District’s motivation for such policies. 

 
Based on the above, Plaintiff’s
request for judicial notice of Exhibit E is granted. 
 
B.        RJN of Exhibit F
 
The District objects to Exhibit F on the basis that “having a
budget for special education does not mean that Plaintiff could be accommodated
in the manner demanded. The Budget itself provides insufficient information to
prove or disprove any disputed fact, including but not limited to how the
budget was contemplated to be used vis-à-vis employees who sought to work
remotely, if at all.” (Objections to Plaintiff’s RJN at p. 4:13-16.) 
 
While the court may not accept the truth of the matters stated
Exhibit F, the court may take judicial notice of the existence of Exhibit F as
the information was published on a government website. Therefore, Palmer’s
request for judicial notice of Exhibit F is granted. 
 

C.        RJN of Exhibit G
 
The District
objects to Exhibit G on the basis that Exhibit G is irrelevant. Exhibit G states that the policy became effective on
September 26, 2023, after the events that gave rise to this action. 
 
Palmer fails to cite case law that would permit the court to
consider a policy implemented subsequently to show that a reasonable
accommodation could have been made in regard to a past policy or mandate.
Governmental guidance regarding the prevention of COVID-19 has shifted at
various times such that the correct policy for 
COVID-19 is reasonably subject to dispute and depends on what
governmental guidance was provided at a specific point in time. There is no “capable of immediate and accurate determination by
resort to sources of reasonably indisputable accuracy.” (Evid. Code, § 452(h).)
 
The court declines to take judicial notice of Exhibit G since it
is not relevant to whether the District’s COVID-19 policy was reasonable at the
time the events at issue took place. (See American Cemwood Corp. v. American
Home Assurance Co. (2001) 87 Cal.App.4th 431, 441, fn. 7 [“Although a court may judicially notice a
variety of matters (Evid. Code, §¿450 et seq.), only relevant material
may be noticed.”] [italics original].)

 
Evidentiary
Objections  
 
A.        Plaintiff’s Evidentiary Objections 
 
Plaintiff submitted
evidentiary objections to the Declaration of Smita Malhotra, M.D. California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1354 requires that objections be referenced by the
objection number. As Plaintiff’s objections are not numbered, the objections
are not in proper form and the court declines rule on them. (Vineyard Springs Estates v. Superior Court (2004) 120 Cal.App.4th 633, 642; Demps v. San Francisco Housing Authority  (2007) 149 Cal. App. 4th 564, 578.)
 
            B.        Defendant LAUSD’s Evidentiary Objections
 
Objection No. 1 is overruled. While Plaintiff’s
inclusion of the entire transcript violates Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1116,
the violation does not render Plaintiff’s transcript inadmissible. 

 
Objection No. 2 is
sustained. Exhibit D is a voluminous record with
documents produced by Plaintiff labeled PALMER 000001-000151. Plaintiff fails
to show who authored each document or that Defendant District stipulated the
authenticity of said documents and that admission of each document does not
violate the hearsay rule. The declaration of Plaintiff’s counsel is also
conclusory as to counsel’s personal knowledge of the exhibits attached in
opposition to this motion because it merely states: “I have personal knowledge
of the facts set forth herein, except where noted, and, if called to testify,
could and would competently testify thereto under oath.” (Alami Decl. ¶ 1.) 
 
The counteraffidavit
concludes with the allegation that the ‘facts stated herein are within the
personal knowledge of the affiant, and the affiant, if sworn as a witness, can
testify competently thereto.’ Where the facts stated do not themselves show it,
such bare statement of the affiant has no redeeming value and should be
ignored. 


(Snider v. Snider (1962)
200 Cal.App.2d 741, 754, see also Gamboa v. Northeast
Community Clinic (2021) 72 Cal.App.5th
158, 169.)
 
The authentication of Exhibit D by Plaintiff’s counsel is a
statement that merely states: “Attached hereto as Exhibit D is a true and
correct copy of Palmer’s documents produced by Palmer in this litigation, Bates
labeled PALMER 000001-000151.” (Alami Decl. ¶ 5.) Such a statement is
insufficient to authenticate all the documents that compose Exhibit D as there
are no statements showing who authored the documents or that the documents are
admissible business records kept in the ordinary course of business. Therefore, Exhibit D is inadmissible. 
 
Objection
No. 3 to Exhibit E is overruled. 
 
Objection
No. 4 to Exhibit F is overruled. 
 
Objection
No. 5 to Paragraph 8 of the Alami Declaration is sustained. 
 
Objection No. 6 to
Exhibit G is sustained due to lack of relevance. 
 
Objections Nos. 7
and 10 are sustained. 
 
Objections Nos. 8, 9, 11,
12, 13,  and 14  are immaterial to the disposition of this
Motion on the merits and the court declines to rule on them. All objections not ruled upon are preserved for
appeal. (CCP § 437c(q).)

 
Discussion
 
I.         Legal Standard
 
The purpose of a motion for
summary judgment or summary adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism
to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite
their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.”¿ (Aguilar
v. Atl. Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal. 4th 826, 843.) “Code of Civil
Procedure section 437c(c), requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment
if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from
the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that
there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is
entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp.
(1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) Summary adjudication may be granted as to one
or more causes of action within an action, or one or more claims for damages.
(CCP § 437c(f).)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿ 
A defendant moving for
summary judgment bears two burdens: (1) the burden of production – presenting
admissible evidence, through material facts, sufficient to satisfy a directed
verdict standard; and (2) the burden of persuasion – the material facts presented
must persuade the court that the plaintiff cannot establish one or more
elements of a cause of action, or a complete defense vitiates the cause of
action. (CCP § 437c(p)(2);¿Aguilar,¿supra, 25 Cal.4th at p.
850-851.) A defendant may satisfy this burden by showing that the claim “cannot
be established” because of the lack of evidence on some essential element of
the claim.¿¿(Union Bank v. Superior Court (1995) 31 Cal.App.4th 574,
590.)¿¿Once the defendant meets this burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff
to show that a “triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that
cause of action or defense thereto.”¿(Ibid.)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿ 
“On ruling on a motion for
summary judgment, the court is to ‘liberally construe the evidence in support
of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the
evidence in favor of that party.’” (Cheal v. El Camino Hospital¿(2014)
223 Cal.App.4th 736, 760.) On a summary judgment motion, the court must
therefore consider what inferences favoring the opposing party a factfinder
could reasonably draw from the evidence. While viewing the evidence in this
manner, the court must bear in mind that its primary function is to identify
issues rather than to determine issues. [Citation.]” (Binder v. Aetna Life
Ins. Co.¿(1999) 75 Cal.App.4th¿832, 839.)¿
 
II.        Motion For Summary Judgment/Summary Adjudication
 
A.        Factual Summary
 
The following facts
are undisputed unless supported by a citation to the record. Defendant LAUSD hired
Palmer in 2006 to be an investigator,
first working with the Office of the Inspector General and then the Student
Safety Investigation Team (“SSIT”). ( Undisputed Material Fact (“UMF”) 19,
25.)  The purpose of SSIT was to
investigate LAUSD employee misconduct against students. (Virgil
County(“County”) Decl. ¶ 3; Brent Palmer (“Palmer”) Decl. ¶ 4.) In March 2020,
LAUSD ordered the closure of District sites due to COVID-19, and SSIT
investigators were allowed to work from home during the timeframe the District
sites were closed. (County Decl. ¶ 7.) 
 
On August 13, 2021,
LAUSD adopted a COVID-19 vaccine mandate and informed all employees and other
adults providing services to LAUSD that a COVID-19 vaccination was required.
(UMF No. 14.) The vaccine mandate required all employees to be fully vaccinated
against COVID-19 by October 15, 2021. (UMF 15.) The District also informed all
employees that they could seek an exemption from the COVID-19 mandate either
due to a documented medical disability or serious medical condition or based on
an employee’s sincerely held religious beliefs. (UMF 16.) 
 
The District
asserted that being fully vaccinated was “an essential job function” for all
employees and adults providing services to the District but “[w]here feasible
the District will reasonably accommodate employees, who based on a documented
disability or sincerely held religious belief wish to continue working without
being fully vaccinated.” (Francisco Serrato (“Serrato”) Decl. ¶ 4, Ex. 2.) The
District also informed employees, on September 8, 2021,  as follows: 

 
Please be aware however, the reasonable
accommodations do not include permitting employees to continue
working at a District facility without being fully vaccinated. 
[.  . . ]
 
Although rare, some positions in the District
avail themselves to remote work as a reasonable accommodation. In making its
determination concerning whether to permit remote work, the District will
engage with you in the interactive process and will consider multiple factors,
including the availability and feasibility of remote work. However where your
essential job duties require your physical presence at a District facility,
the District will be unable to offer remote work as an accommodation. Further,
where a risk to the health and safety of others cannot be reduced to an
acceptable level trough a workplace accommodation, the employee may be excluded
from physically entering the workplace. 
 
Should an alternative accommodation not be
available, the District and employee will then determine if there are any
available benefit time/leave provisions, such as use of the employee’s illness
leave (if due to medical reasons), personal necessity, vacation, or unpaid
leave options. 
Failure to Comply
Failure to comply with the
mandate to be vaccinated and/or failure to provide the appropriate qualifying
accommodation documentation may result in disciplinary action, being placed on
unpaid leave, and/or separation from District service. 
 
(Serrato Decl. ¶ 4,
Ex. 2 [emphasis original].)
 
Following the
commencement of in-person education, LAUSD ordered SSIT employees to
immediately resume conducting all interviews with students and staff in person,
requiring all investigators to return to in-person work. (County Decl. ¶ 8.)
 
In compliance with
District policy, Palmer submitted a
reasonable accommodation application in response to the COVID-19 vaccine
mandate based on his firmly held religious beliefs. (UMF 30.) Palmer does not dispute that he requested to be
exempt from the COVID-19 vaccine mandate and to continue to work remotely from
home. (Serrato Decl. Ex. 3; Sheryl Rosenberg (“Rosenberg”) Decl. Ex. 7 [Palmer
Depo. at p. 33:7-14].) However, Palmer alleges
that the District failed to offer accommodations apart from remote work and
failed to consider alternative accommodations such as demoting him or placing Palmer on unpaid leave instead. 
 
The District
asserts that Palmer’s job as an SSIT
investigator could not be performed remotely because it is best practices for
an SSIT investigate to conduct in-person interviews of alleged victims and
perpetrators, to confirm that the discussion is not being overheard by third
parties and that the interviewee is not being intimidated during the process,
and to assess mannerisms and surroundings of the child being interviewed.
(County Decl. ¶ 5.) The District also asserts that some investigations involve
physical property and confidential documents that the investigator must access
on District property. (County Decl. ¶¶ 5, 6.) 
 
Palmer asserts that 95% of his job duties could be performed remotely,
as was the case when he had to work remotely due to the District closure using
Insight and Zoom. (David Alami (“Alami”) Decl. Ex. A [Palmer Depo. at pp.
19:22-20:3.) Palmer further asserts that
during the 1.5 years he had to work remotely he could access any information
designated as confidential and if physical evidence was needed from a District
site, this job was done by the SSIT Investigative Assistant “and if necessary,
sent to the forensic team for inspection and/or examination.” (Palmer Decl. ¶
8.)
 
On or about October
15, 2021, the District responded to Palmer’s
request for religious accommodation by informing him that no remote work was
available for his position and that working unvaccinated at a District facility
was not an available accommodation. (Serrato Decl. Ex. 4.) Instead,
the District offered Palmer the use of benefit time or remaining in unpaid
status, both which Plaintiff accepted. (Serrato Decl.
Ex. 4; Rosenberg Decl. Ex. 7 [Palmer Depo. at p. 47:9-22].)
 
On March 8, 2022, Palmer was dismissed from service as a
Permanent Investigator and dismissed for cause by being charged with two counts
of willful or persistent violations for his failure to comply with the COVID-19
mandate. (Serrato Decl. Ex. 5 [Statement of Charges]; Rosenberg Decl. Ex. 7
[Palmer Depo. at pp. 69-8-70:7].) 
 
After his
dismissal, Palmer filed a complaint with
the Department of Fair Employment and Housing on October 3, 2022. (UMF 35.) On
June 15, 2022, Palmer filed this action.
Defendant LAUSD now moves for summary judgment or, in the alternative, summary
adjudication as to Palmer’s first cause of action for discrimination, second
cause of action for failure to prevent discrimination and retaliation, third
cause of action for failure to accommodate, and fourth cause of action for
retaliation. 
 
B.        First Cause of
Action – Discrimination in Violation of the FEHA (Gov. Code, § 12940(a))
 
“To state a prima facie case
for¿discrimination¿in violation of the¿FEHA, a plaintiff must establish that
(1) she was a member of a protected class, (2) she was performing competently
in the position she held, (3) she suffered an adverse employment action, and
(4) some other circumstance suggests¿discriminatory¿motive.” (Ortiz v.
Dameron Hospital Assn.¿(2019) 37 Cal.App.5th 568, 577.)
 
Defendant District alleges that Palmer’s first
cause of action for discrimination fails because LAUSD had a legitimate
non-discriminatory reason for its vaccine mandate. The court agrees. 
 
i.          UMF Nos. 1 -13 Are Not Material
 
As
Palmer has presented evidence that the Office of the Chief Medical Director for
LAUSD was not created until August 2021, there are questions as to what
capacity Dr. Malhotra served the District as well as her knowledge about the
factors that shaped the District’s decision to implement a mandatory vaccine
mandate. 
 
The
burden is on the District to show that Dr. Malhotra has personal knowledge
about the District’s decision to implement a vaccine mandate, but Dr.
Malhotra’s declaration is devoid of facts showing that before August 13, 2021,
she served the District in some capacity as to allow her to speak as to the
District’s motivations for implementing a mandatory vaccine policy. Dr.
Malhotra stated that during the 2021 calendar year, she provided leadership to
the District but she provides no dates sufficient to support the finding that
she had personal knowledge about the LAUSD limiting in-person instruction in
the Spring of 2020, knowledge of the Governor’s March 13, 2020 mandate and its
contents, LAUSD’s coordination efforts with public health officials regarding
COVID-19 prior to August 2021, or the guidance provided to LAUSD, prior to
August 2021, by the United States Department of Health and Human Services
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (“CDC”), the California Department
of Public Health ("CDPH"), the California Division of Occupational
Safety and Health ("CalOSHA"), and the Los Angeles County Department
of Public Health ("LACDPH").(Malhotra Decl. ¶¶ 3, 4, 7.) 
 
Without
a specific date as to when Dr. Malhotra began advising LAUSD about COVID-19
mitigation measures and in what capacity she served LAUSD prior to August 2021,
Defendant District fails to show that Dr. Malhotra has personal knowledge of
the facts she attests to and fails to show that the court can rely on her Declaration
to establish UMF Nos. 1-13.  Her declaration
is the only source of evidence cited to support those facts. 
 
Dr.
Malhotra’s declaration asserts that “non-pharmaceutical interventions (e.g.,
masking and physical distancing) were insufficient” but fails to articulate
facts or evidence to show why these vaccination alternatives were insufficient
and why vaccination was seen as the better alternative. Dr. Malhotra states
that “[o]n June 23, 2021, CDC's Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices
(ACID) reviewed available data and concluded that the benefits of COVID-19
vaccination outweigh the risks and it recommended continued use of the vaccine
in persons aged 12 and older.” (Malhotra Decl. ¶ 12.) Yet the June 23, 2021,
CDC recommendation is not attached.  Instead,
Dr. Malhotra tries to prove the contents of the recommendation, in violation of
the secondary evidence rule. (Evid. Code, §§ 1520, 1521.) Similarly, Dr.
Malhotra asserts that “all applicable public health agencies - CDC, CDPH,
LACDPH — recommended the vaccine as appropriate for all eligible individuals,
students and adults alike.” (Malhotra Decl. ¶ 14.) However, the recommendations
of the  CDC, CDPH, and LACDPH regarding
vaccination were not attached. 
 
For
the reasons outlined above, the court cannot rely on the Declaration of Dr.
Malhotra to establish that the August 13, 2021, vaccine mandate was considered
by LAUSD to be a necessary requirement to prevent COVID-19 because the District
failed to put forth admissible evidence. 
Affidavits or declarations submitted in support for a motion for summary
judgment “shall be made by a person on personal knowledge, shall set forth
admissible evidence, and shall show affirmatively that the affiant is competent
to testify to the matters stated in the affidavits or declarations.” (CCP §
437c(d).)
 
However,
the fact that UMF Nos. 1 to 13 are not sufficiently established does not mean
that Palmer prevails in opposing the Motion because UMF Nos. 1-13 do not
establish material facts. Instead, UMF Nos. 1 -13 are used to explain LAUSD’s
reasoning for a vaccine mandate, with the material fact being that on August
13, 2021, LAUSD adopted a COVID-19 vaccine mandate. (UMF 14.) 
 
Case law has long held that compulsory
vaccination is permitted. (See Jacobson v. Massachusetts (1905) 197 U.S.
11, 29 (Jacobson). In Love v. State Dept. of Education (2018) 29
Cal.App.5th 980, the Court of Appeal held that mandatory vaccination did not
violate the plaintiffs’ right to privacy because “’compulsory immunization has
long been recognized as the gold standard for preventing the spread of
contagious diseases’” and society has a compelling interest in “fighting the
spread of contagious diseases through mandatory vaccination of school-aged
children.’ [Citations]” (Id. at pp. 933-994.) Similarly, in Jacobson the
United States Supreme Court held that “vaccination, as a means of protecting a
community against smallpox, finds strong support in the experience of this and
other countries, no court, much less a jury, is justified in disregarding the
action of the legislature simply because in its or their opinion that
particular method was—perhaps, or possibly—not the best either for children or
adults.” (Jacobson at p. 35.)  

 
Based on the above, the court finds that LAUSD
had a legitimate nondiscriminatory reason for implementing the COVID-19 vaccine
mandate for all employees working on-stie at the District. 

 
ii.         The
McDonnell-Douglas Burden Shifting Framework

 
“In cases alleging employment
discrimination, we analyze the trial court's decision on a motion for summary
judgment using a three-step process that is based on the burden-shifting test
that was established by the United States Supreme Court for trials of
employment discrimination claims in McDonnell Douglas Corp. v. Green
(1973) 411 U.S. 792, 93 S.Ct. 1817.” (Serri v. Santa Clara University
(2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 830, 860.) “The McDonnell-Douglas
framework is modified in the summary judgment context. In a summary judgment
motion in ‘an employment discrimination case, the employer, as the moving
party, has the initial burden to present admissible evidence showing either
that one or more elements of plaintiff's prima facie case is lacking or that
the adverse employment action was based upon legitimate, nondiscriminatory
factors.’ (Citation.)” (Id. at p. 861.) 
 
“If the employer meets its initial burden, the burden shifts
to the employee to ‘demonstrate a triable issue by producing substantial
evidence that the employer's stated reasons were untrue or pretextual, or that
the employer acted with a discriminatory animus, such that a reasonable
trier of fact could conclude that the employer engaged in intentional
discrimination or other unlawful action.’” (Serri,
supra, 226 Cal.App.4th at p. 861 citing Cucuzza v. City of Santa
Clara (2002) 104 Cal.App.4th 1031, 1038 [italics original].)

 
Defendant argues that there is no evidence of
discriminatory animus because it had a legitimate, non-discriminatory reason
for implementing a vaccine mandate and terminating Palmer’s employment for failing to comply with the mandate.
(Serrato Decl. Ex. 5.) The burden shifts to Palmer to show that LAUSD’s vaccine mandate was
pretextual. 
 
Palmer’s
opposition focuses on Title VII case law regarding disparate impact, despite
making no such allegations in the operative complaint. Accordingly, the District
is only required to negate theories of liability as alleged in the complaint,
and not refute allegations not included in the pleadings. (See Hutton v. Fidelity National Title Co. (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 486, 493.) Moreover, in disparate treatment cases, as opposed to disparate
impact cases, the “plaintiff alleges that an
employer has treated him or her less favorably than others due to race, color, religion, sex or
national origin, and the plaintiff must prove a discriminatory intent or
motive.”  (Harris v. Civil Service Com. (1998)
65 Cal.App.4th 1356, 1365.) Here, Palmer fails to produce evidence that the District acted with
discriminatory animus in implementing a District-wide COVID-19 vaccine mandate
or that an alternative and equally effective District policy was available that
did not require employees to be vaccinated. 
 
Palmer’s declaration asserts that other SSIT team members and staff were
allowed to complete their job duties remotely but fails to offer specific facts
or evidence to support this contention. (Palmer Decl. ¶ 10.) Palmer fails to
show that other SSIT employees who held the same position as him, that of an
investigator, were permitted to work remotely, while he was not. In fact, at
his deposition, Palmer stated that his supervisor told him remote work was not available
because it “wouldn’t be fair to have me work at home when other people cannot.”
(Alami Decl. Ex. A [Palmer Depo. at p. 33:22-25].) Accordingly, there is no
evidence that after and during the time the vaccination mandate was in place,
other SSIT staff were permitted to perform their jobs remotely while Palmer was not.
Moreover, Palmer asserts that SSI Investigative assistants needed to be onsite to
handle physical evidence. (Palmer Decl. ¶ 9.) Therefore, Palmer fails to
show that LAUSD discriminated against him based on his religion by making
vaccination a job requirement.  
 
Palmer further argues that evidence of discriminatory evidence can be
found in the fact he had to return his office equipment on November 9, 2021,
before he was officially terminated from his employment. However, the facts
establish that on October 15, 2021, Palmer’s request to work remotely was denied and he was placed on unpaid
status. Palmer fails to provide substantial evidence that by requiring him to return
office equipment not in use to the District, the District discriminated against
Palmer based on
his religious beliefs. 
 
Lastly, Palmer argues
that there is evidence of discriminatory animus because LAUSD terminated his employment
and charged him with insubordination or willful disobedience and inattention to
or dereliction of duty. (Serrato Decl. Ex. 5.) In alleging that LAUSD
discriminated against Palmer by terminating him and charging him with insubordination and
dereliction of duty, Palmer does not attack the COVID-19 vaccine mandate but LAUSD’s decision
to charge him with disobedience. 
 
LAUSD fails to offer
a legitimate non-discriminatory reason for charging Palmer with disobedience for
not complying with the vaccine mandate, despite having already placed him on
unpaid status. (Serrato Decl. Ex. 5.) While LAUSD could have terminated Palmer,
LAUSD also chose to charge him with disobedience for not complying with the
vaccination mandate due to his religious preferences. LAUSD fails to articulate
a reason for its decision to charge Palmer with disobedience rather than just
terminating his employment. In mixed-motive cases, when an employer’s actions
are motivated by both discriminatory and non-discriminatory reasons, the McDonnell
Douglas burden-shifting framework does not apply. (See Harris v. City of Santa Monica (2013) 56 Cal.4th 203,
241.) 
 
To prevail in a
mixed-motive case, Palmer
need only show that the decision to charge him with insubordination and
dereliction of duty for not complying with the vaccine mandate was
substantially motivated by the District’s religious animosity. (Lin v. Kaiser Foundation Hospitals (2023) 88
Cal.App.5th 712, 722 (“Lin”.) The burden is on the District to produce
evidence to show that it would have made the same decision to charge Palmer
with disobedience regardless of his religious beliefs. (Ibid.) 
 
There is no evidence
before the court to show that the District’s decision charging Palmer
with disobedience based on his failure to comply with the COVID-19 Vaccine
Mandate was based on a legitimate non-discriminatory reason. The District fails
to explain why Palmer’s
termination needed to be with cause and why Palmer could not remain on the unpaid status
list. The District fails to show that all employees who failed to comply with
the COVID-19 mandate, not just those who had religious reservations, were also
terminated and charged with disobedience and that the decision was made for a
legitimate business reason. Accordingly, Palmer
has presented a triable issue of fact regarding the District’s decision to
terminate him and charge him with disobedience. 
 
Thus, “[i]f triable issues of material
fact exist [as to] whether discrimination was a substantial motivating reason for the employer's adverse
employment action, even if the employer's professed legitimate
reason has not been disputed, the FEHA
claim is not properly resolved on summary judgment.’ [Citation.]” (Lin, supra,
88 Cal.App.5th at p. 722.) 
 
Based on the above, the court denies summary
adjudication as to the first cause of action for discrimination based on
religion. 
 
The court notes that to the extent Palmer argues
that LAUSD failed to propose alternative accommodations and that this is
evidence of discrimination, those allegations are analyzed under Government
Code § 12940(l).  Otherwise, the first cause of action for
discrimination and the third cause of action for failure to accommodate based
on religious creed would be subsumed into the third cause of action because the
allegations would be premised on the same operative facts. (See Silverado Modjeska Recreation
& Park Dist. v. County of Orange (2011) 197 Cal.App.4th 282,
296, fn. 9.) 
 
C.        Third Cause of
Action – Failure to Accommodate Religious Beliefs/Practices in Violation of the
FEHA (Gov. Code, § 12940(l))
 
The FEHA imposes upon employers a comparable obligation to
accommodate a person's sincerely held religious beliefs, and to refrain from
retaliating or otherwise discriminating against a person for requesting
accommodation. (Gov. Code, § 12940(l)(4).) “There are three elements to a prima
facie case under section 12940, subdivision (l): the employee
sincerely held a religious belief;
the employer was aware
of that belief; and the belief
conflicted with an employment requirement. [Citation.] Once the employee establishes a prima facie case with
sufficient evidence of the three elements, the burden shifts to the employer to establish
that ‘it initiated good faith efforts to accommodate
or no accommodation was possible without
producing undue hardship. [Citations.]’ [Citation.]” (California Fair Employment & Housing Com. v. Gemini Aluminum
Corp. (2004) 122 Cal.App.4th 1004, 1011.)
 
Recently, in Groff v. DeJoy (2023) 600 U.S. 447 [143
S.Ct. 2279, 2281, 216 L.Ed.2d 1041], the United States Supreme Court confirmed
that Title VII requires an employer that denies a religious accommodation to
show that the burden of granting an accommodation would result in undue hardship,
meaning a substantial increased costs in relation to the conduct of its
particular business. Nothing in Groff suggests that the McDonnell-Douglas
burden-shifting framework no longer applies to cases premised on the failure to
accommodate based on religious creed.  
 
Defendant argues that Palmer’s third cause of action
fails because Palmer could not be accommodated because he worked as an SSIT
investigator and working on site was required to interview alleged victims and
perpetrators as well as access confidential documents.
(County Decl. ¶¶ 5, 6, 8.)
 
The District also points
out that finite leave can be a reasonable accommodation under FEHA, “provided it is likely that at the end of
the leave, the employee would be able to perform his or her duties.” (Hanson v. Lucky Stores, Inc. (1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 215,
226.) But indefinite leave is not a reasonable
accommodation where there is no possibility that the employee will be able to
perform his essential job duties. (Ibid; referencing Gantt v. Wilson Sporting Goods Co. (6th Cir. 1998) 143 F.3d 1042, 1047 [“Reasonable
accommodation does not require the employer to wait indefinitely for an
employee's medical condition to be corrected.”) In light of the ruling in Groff,
the burden remains on the District to show that providing indefinite unpaid
leave presented an undue hardship to the District. LAUSD fails to meet this
burden. 
 
“The obligation to
search for an acceptable solution is bilateral. Employees also have the
obligation to make a good faith effort to explore alternatives.” (Soldinger v. Northwest Airlines, Inc. (1996) 51 Cal.App.4th 345, 370.)  Palmer argues that the District failed to consider other
accommodations for him, such as a demotion. But Palmer fails to provide evidence that he requested a demotion as an
accommodation and that such a job existed that permitted him to work remotely. “
‘[T]he employee can't expect the employer to read his mind and know he secretly
wanted a particular accommodation and sue the employer for not providing it.’ ”
(Prilliman v. United Air Lines, Inc. (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 935,
954.)¿“An employee cannot demand clairvoyance of his employer.” (King v.
United Parcel Service, Inc. (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 426, 443.) The evidence
before the court establishes that the District did offer Palmer alternative
accommodations such as the use of benefit time and being placed on unpaid
status. (Serrato
Decl. Ex. 4; Rosenberg Decl. Ex. 7 Palmer Depo. at p. 47:9-22].) 
 
While Palmer fails to show that he requested
other accommodations apart from working remotely, the burden remains  on LAUSD to show it “initiated
good faith efforts to accommodate or no accommodation was possible without producing
undue hardship.” (Soldinger, supra,  v. 51 Cal.App.4th at p. 370.) Here,
the evidence shows that in October 2021, after denying Palmer’s
requested accommodation of working remotely, the District did offer him two other
accommodations -- the use of any benefit time and unpaid status -- both of
which he accepted. (Serrato Decl. Ex. 4; Rosenberg Decl. Ex. 7 Palmer
Depo. at p. 47:9-22].) In March 2022, the District proceeded to dismiss Palmer and
charge him with disobedience, thus removing his accommodations. 
 
The District fails to meet its initial
burden of showing of showing no triable issues of material fact exist.  The evidence shows that the District was well
aware that unpaid leave was a possible reasonable accommodation because, in its
September 8, 2021, communication to employees, it identified unpaid leave as an
option. (Serrato Decl. ¶ 4, Ex. 2.) Despite placing Palmer on unpaid status, on March 8, 2022, the District proceeded
to terminate his employment and charge him with insubordination and dereliction
of duty for not complying with the COVID-19 mandate. (Serrato Decl. Ex. 5.) The
District fails to articulate why keeping Palmer
on unpaid status or placing him on unpaid leave was an undue hardship.]
Specifically, the District fails to identify what administrative or financial
burden the District faced if it continued to keep Palmer
on unpaid status or placed him on indefinite unpaid leave. 
 
Based on the above, the court denies summary
adjudication as to the third cause of action. 
 
D.        Fourth Cause of Action – Retaliation in
Violation of the FEHA (Gov. Code § 12940(h))
 
Government Code § 12940(h) “prohibits an
employer from retaliating against a person because the person has opposed any
practices forbidden under [Goverment Code sections 12900 through 12966] or
because the person has filed a complaint, testified, or assisted in any
proceeding under [the FEHA].” (Gov. Code, § 12940(h) “Thus, protected activity
takes the form of opposing any practices forbidden by FEHA or
participating in any proceeding conducted by the DFEH or the Fair Employment
and Housing Council (FEHC).” (Nealy v. City of Santa Monica
(2015) 234 Cal.App.4th 359, 380.)
 
To establish a prima facie case of retaliation under FEHA, Palmer
must prove that “(1) he engaged in a protected activity; (2) the employer
subjected the employee to an adverse employment action; and (3) a causal link
existed between the protected activity and the employer’s action.” (Yanowitz
v. L’Oreal USA, Inc. (2005) 36 Cal.4th 1028, 1042.) “The
McDonnell Douglas three-stage framework applies to a FEHA retaliation
cause of action.” (Glynn v. Superior Court (2019) 42
Cal.App.5th 47, 55.) 
 
The District argues
that Palmer’s
fourth cause of action fails because Palmer cannot show he engaged in a protected
activity: he did not participate in a FEHA proceeding or oppose any acts made
unlawful by FEHA before his termination. (Gov. Code, § 12940(h).) Palmer
did not file a complaint with the Department of Fair Employment and Housing
until about October 3, 2022, some seven months after his March 8, 2022,
termination. (UMF 35.) 
 
Moreover, Palmer’s
request for a religious accommodation is not a protected activity. “But
protected activity does not include a mere request for reasonable
accommodation. [Citation.]  Without more,
exercising one's rights under FEHA to request reasonable accommodation or engage in
the interactive process does not demonstrate some degree of opposition to or protest of unlawful conduct by the
employer.” (Nealy v. City of Santa Monica (2015) 234 Cal.App.4th
359, 381 (Nealy).) In Nealy, the appellate court found that
merely seeking a reasonable accommodation and initiating the interactive
process, were insufficient to amount to a protected activity because “[t]hese acts alone do not amount to ‘oppos[ing] any practices forbidden
under’ FEHA or participating in DFEH or FEHC proceedings. [Citations.] If
they did, this interpretation of protected activity ‘would significantly blur
and perhaps obliterate the distinction between an action for failure to
accommodate or engage in the interactive process and retaliation.’ ” (Nealy at
p. 381 [internal quotation marks omitted].) At his
deposition, Palmer testified that he believed he was retaliated because he “filed
for a reasonable accommodation.” (Alami Decl. Ex. A [Palmer Depo. at pp.
66:25-67:2].) 
 
The court finds that the District has met its initial burden of
showing that no triable issues of fact exist regarding the fourth cause of
action and that it is entitled to judgment as a matter of law. The burden
shifts to Palmer to show that triable issues of fact exist precluding summary
adjudication. Palmer’s opposition fails to show that apart from seeking a religious
accommodation, he engaged in other conduct that qualified as a protected
activity such as participating in a FEHA proceeding or opposing a practice
forbidden under the FEHA. (Opposition at p. 14:7-13.)
 
Therefore, the court grants summary adjudication as to the fourth
cause of action. 
 
E.        Second Cause of Action - Failure to
Prevent Discrimination and Retaliation in Violation of the FEHA (Gov. Code §
12940(k))
 
FEHA
makes it unlawful employment practice “[f]or an employer ... to fail to take
all reasonable steps necessary to prevent discrimination and harassment from occurring.” (Gov.
Code § 12940(k), see Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water
& Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1240 [noting
that retaliation is a form of discrimination and is actional under Gov. Code
section 12940(k)].)  Section
12940(k) “creates a separate actionable tort enforceable upon the establishment
of the usual tort elements of duty of care, breach of duty (a negligent act or
omission), causation, and damages.” (Dickson v. Burke Williams, Inc. (2015) 234 Cal.App.4th 1307, 1313.) 
 
The District argues
that because Palmer has failed to
establish that he was subject to unlawful discrimination, the second cause of
action fails. As established above, the District has failed to show that Palmer has no viable claim for discrimination
under section 12940(a) because LAUSD dismissed him and charged him with
disobedience but failed to articulate a legitimate, nondiscriminatory reason
for this decision. Palmer also has a
viable claim for discrimination under section 12940(l) for failure to
accommodate based on religious creed as he was placed on unpaid status but then
the accommodation was removed without the District showing why maintaining such
an accommodation was an undue hardship for the District. 
 
 Accordingly, the court denies summary
adjudication as to the second cause of action. 
 
Conclusion
 
Defendant LAUSD’s request for summary judgment is denied. LAUSD’s
request for summary adjudication is granted as to the fourth cause of action
and denied as to the first, second, and third causes of action. Defendant to
give notice. 
 
 HEARING DATE:                 Thursday, March 11, 2024
CASE NUMBER:                   22STCV19546
CASE NAME:                        Deborah Mak v. Los Angeles Unified School District
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendant Los Angeles Unified
School District
OPPOSING PARTY:             Plaintiff Deborah Mak
TRIAL DATE:                        24 September 2024
PROOF OF SERVICE:           OK

                                                                                                                                                            

PROCEEDING:                      Motion for Summary
Judgment or, in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication 
OPPOSITION:                        22 February 2024
REPLY:                                  1
March 2024
 
TENTATIVE:                         Defendant LAUSD’s request for summary judgment is denied. LAUSD’s
request for summary adjudication is granted as to the first, fourth, and sixth
causes of action and denied as to the second and third causes of action.
Defendant to give notice. 

                                                                                                                                                            

 
Background
 
This action arises from the employment of Deborah Mak (“Mak”) and
Brent Palmer (“Palmer”) (collectively “Plaintiffs”) by Defendant Los Angeles
Unified School District (“LAUSD” or “District”). In October 1999, Mak was
employed as a Special Ed. Trainee and/or Assistant at the John F. Kennedy High
School. In January 2006, Palmer was employed as an Investigator with LAUSD. In
August 2021, LAUSD adopted a mandatory COVID-19 vaccination policy (“Policy”)
for its employees. The Complaint alleges Plaintiffs submitted requests for
exemptions from the Policy pursuant to their religious beliefs (“Requests”),
and LAUSD denied the Requests.  Plaintiffs
contend LAUSD terminated Mak on December 8, 2021, and Palmer on March 9, 2022, both
for pretextual reasons.  
 
Plaintiffs filed their operative First Amended
Complaint (“FAC”) on November 14, 2022. The FAC alleges six causes of action:
(1) discrimination in violation of FEHA; (2) failure to prevent discrimination
and retaliation in violation of FEHA; (3) failure to accommodate in violation
of FEHA; (4) retaliation; (5) financial abuse of a dependent adult due to undue
influence (Welfare and Institutions Code § 15610.30)—Mak against LAUSD; and
(6)violation of PAGA, Lab. Code §§ 2698, et seq.—Mak and aggrieved
employees against LAUSD. 
 
On January 30, 2023, the court sustained the
demurrer to the fifth cause of action without leave to amend. 
 
On December 21, 2023, LAUSD filed a motion for
summary judgment or, in the alternative, summary adjudication as to Mak’s first,
second, third, fourth, and sixth causes of action. Mak opposes the Motion. The
matter is now before the court. 
 
request
for JUDICIAL notice
 
The court may take judicial notice
of “official acts of the legislative, executive, and judicial departments of
the United States and of any state of the United States,” “[r]ecords of (1) any
court of this state or (2) any court of record of the United States or of any
state of the United States,” and “[f]acts and propositions that are not
reasonably subject to dispute and are capable of immediate and accurate
determination by resort to sources of reasonably indisputable accuracy.” (Evid.
Code § 452(c), (d), and (h).) “Taking judicial
notice of a document is not the same as accepting the truth of its contents or
accepting a particular interpretation of its meaning.” (Joslin v. H.A.S.
Ins. Brokerage (1986) 184 Cal.App.3d 369, 374.)
 
The court may take
judicial notice of factual statements made to the public on a government
website but their truth. (Wood v. Superior Ct. of San Diego County (2020)
46 Cal.App.5th 562, 580, fn. 2;  People v. Morales (2018) 25
Cal.App.5th 502, 512, fn. 7.) While the court may take judicial notice of the
existence of a website, the court may not accept its contents as true. (See Ragland
v. U.S. Bank National Assn. (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 182, 193.) 
 
Plaintiff Mak
requests judicial notice of the following: 
 
1)    
The District’s October 14, 2021, job
posting on edjoin.org for Special Education Trainees, attached as Exhibit E to
the Declaration of Shaheen Anthony Etemadi. Exhibit E is a true and
correct copy of the District’s October 14, 2021, job posting on edjoin.org for
Special Education Trainees produced by Mak in this litigation, Bates labeled
MAK 000037-000039, located at https://www.edjoin.org/Home/JobPosting/1492362.
 
2)    
The District’s official webpage for the
Office of the Chief Medical Director, attached as Exhibit F to the
Declaration of Shaheen Anthony Etemadi. A true and correct copy of the
District’s official webpage for the Office of the Chief Medical Director
located at https://www.lausd.org/domain/1377.
 
3)    
LAUSD’s Final 2021-22 Budget, prepared
by the District’s Budget Services and Financial Planning Division, dated June
2021 (adopted on or around June 22, 2021), attached as Exhibit G to the
Declaration of Shaheen Anthony Etemadi. A true and correct et
Services and Financial Planning Division, dated June 2021 (adopted on or around
June 22, 2021) is available on the District’s official website:
https://www.lausd.org/cms/lib/CA01000043/Centricity/Domain/123/2021-
22%20Final%20Budget%20Book%20rev.1.pdf. 
 
4)    
The letter from the United States
Department of Education, Office for Civil Rights, to the District’s
Superintendent Alberto M. Carvalho dated April 28, 2022, attached as Exhibit
H to the Declaration of Shaheen A. Etemadi. A true and correct copy of the
letter from the United States Department of Education, Office for Civil Rights
(“OCR”). 
 
5)    
The April 28, 2022, press release
entitled “Office for Civil Rights Reaches Resolution Agreement with Nation’s
Second Largest School District, Los Angeles Unified, to Meet Needs of Students
with Disabilities during COVID-19 Pandemic” posted on the U.S. Department of
Education’s official website, attached as Exhibit J to the Declaration
of Shaheen A. Etemadi.
 
6)    
The District’s official webpage for
COVID-19 Vaccination Guidance, attached as Exhibit K to the Declaration
of Shaheen A. 
 
Plaintiff’s request for
judicial notice of Exhibit E is denied as Plaintiff fails to show
how Exhibit E is relevant. Exhibit E includes the job duties of a
Special Education Trainee including providing physical care and helping
students with classroom equipment. Plaintiff fails to show how Exhibit E
is relevant to show that Plaintiff could perform the duties of a Special
Education Trainee while working remotely. 
 
Plaintiff’s request for
judicial notice of Exhibit F is granted. Defendant District
objects to Exhibit F on the basis that the information provided is not
relevant because “the website makes no mention of Dr. Malhotra’s role with the
District before the Office of the Chief Medical Director was created, and does
provide any insight as to its prior iterations. As a result, it does not
provide sufficient information to prove or disprove any fact of consequence
here.” (Objections to Plaintiff’s RJN at p. 4:13-16.) 
 
The LAUSD website
states: “The
Office of the Chief Medical Director was established in August 2021 and
provides health policy direction for the entire school district.” Plaintiff
argues that Dr. Malhotra cannot testify about District matters that occurred
before she became the Chief Medical Director in August 2021. (See Plaintiff’s
evidentiary objections to the Declaration of Smita Malhotra). As the party
moving for summary judgment, the burden is on the Defendant District to show
that Dr. Malhotra is qualified to testify about the District’s COVID-19
response, including facts and policies that occurred before and after she was
hired by LAUSD. As no information is provided in Dr. Malhotra’s declaration as
to when she was hired by LAUSD and if she served the District before August
2021, the Court agrees that the District has failed to show that Dr. Malhotra
is qualified to testify about what policies the District implemented before
August 2021 and the District’s motivation for such policies. Judicial Notice of
Exhibit F is granted because the information was published on the
District’s website and establishes a fact that is not disputed, that the
position of the Chief Medical Director was not established until August 2021. 
 
Plaintiff’s request for
judicial notice of Exhibit H is also denied as Plaintiff fails to show
how Exhibit H is relevant. According to Plaintiff, Exhibit H is offered to show
that the District failed to provide adequate services during remote learning to
students on Individualized Education Programs remotely during the pandemic.
(Etemadi Decl. ¶ 11.) Plaintiff fails to show how the OCR letter shows that
Plaintiff could perform her job remotely or supports the finding that she
experienced discrimination and retaliation due to her religion. Additionally,
the website link to the OCR letter is no longer accessible. 
 
Plaintiff’s request for
judicial notice of Exhibit G is granted. The District
objects to Exhibit G on the basis that “having a budget for special
education does not mean that Plaintiff could be accommodated in the manner
demanded. The Budget itself provides insufficient information to prove or
disprove any disputed fact, including but not limited to how the budget was
contemplated to be used vis-à-vis employees who sought to work remotely, if at
all.” (Objections to Plaintiff’s RJN at p. 6:1-5.) While the court may not
accept the truth of the matters stated in Exhibit G, the court
may take judicial notice of the existence of Exhibit G as the information was
published on a government website. Therefore, Plaintiff’s request for judicial
notice of Exhibit G is granted. 
 
Plaintiff’s request for
judicial notice of Exhibit J is also denied because a press release is
not appropriate subject for judicial notice as the contents of the press
release are reasonably subject to dispute. (See People v. Garcia (2002)
28 Cal.4th 1166, 1175, fn. 5, [denying notice of “authoring legislator's press
releases and letters”]; Mangini v. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co. (1994)
7 Cal.4th 1057, 1063-1065, [court could not take judicial notice of truth of
conclusions in a Surgeon General report about the health effects of smoking or
of matters reported in a newspaper article].) 
 
Plaintiff’s request for
judicial notice of Exhibit K is denied as irrelevant. Exhibit
K states that the policy became effective on September 26,
2023, after the events that gave rise to this action. Plaintiff fails to state
case law that would permit the court to consider a policy implemented
subsequently to show that a reasonable accommodation could have been made
regarding a past policy or mandate. Governmental guidance regarding the
prevention of COVID-19 has shifted at various times such that the correct
policy for  COVID-19 is reasonably
subject to dispute and depends on what governmental guidance was provided at a
specific point in time. Therefore, Exhibit K is not “capable of immediate and accurate
determination by resort to sources of reasonably indisputable accuracy.” (Evid.
Code, § 452(h).)
 
Therefore, the court
declines to take judicial notice of Exhibit K since it is not relevant
to whether the District’s COVID-19 policy was reasonable at the time the events
at issue took place. (See American Cemwood Corp. v. American Home Assurance
Co. (2001) 87 Cal.App.4th 431, 441, fn. 7 [“Although a court may
judicially notice a variety of matters (Evid. Code, §¿450 et seq.), only relevant
material may be noticed.”] [italics original].)
 
Evidentiary
Objections  
 
A.        Plaintiff’s
Evidentiary Objections 
 
Plaintiff Mak
submitted evidentiary objections to the Declaration of Smita Malhotra, M.D.
California Rules of Court, rule 3.1354 requires that objections be referenced
by the objection number. As Mak’s objections are not numbered, the objections
are not in proper form and the court declines rule on them. (Vineyard Springs Estates v. Superior Court (2004) 120 Cal.App.4th 633, 642; Demps v. San Francisco Housing Authority  (2007) 149 Cal. App. 4th 564, 578.)
B.        Defendant LAUSD’s
Evidentiary Objections
 
Objection No. 1 is overruled. While Plaintiff’s inclusion of the entire transcript violates
Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1116, the violation does not render Plaintiff’s
transcript inadmissible. 
 
Objection No. 2 is
sustained. Exhibit D is a letter by the Plaintiff’s prior
counsel. Plaintiff fails to authenticate the letter and show that it is
admissible and not hearsay. 
 
Objection
No. 3 is overruled. Exhibit F is not hearsay
as it is offered to prove an independent fact or event. (See Pacific Gas
& Elec. Co. v. G. W. Thomas Drayage & Rigging Co. (1968) 69 Cal.2d
33, 42–43.) 
 
Objection
No. 4 is sustained. Exhibit E is not relevant
and is hearsay. 
 
Objection
No. 5 is overruled. Exhibit G is not subject
to the hearsay rule if offered to show the existence of a record rather than
its contents, here that the District had a budget.
 
Objection
Nos. 6 and 8 are sustained. Paragraph 9 and Paragraph
11 of the Etemadi declaration attempts to prove the contents of a writing in
violation of the secondary evidence rule. 
 
Objection
No. 10 is sustained. Exhibit J is a press
release and inadmissible due to hearsay. 
 
Objections
Nos. 7, 9, 11, 12 to 21 are immaterial to the
disposition of this Motion on the merits and the court declines to rule on
them. All objections not ruled upon are
preserved for appeal. (CCP, § 437c(q).)
 
MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
I.         Legal Standard
 
The purpose of a motion for
summary judgment or summary adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism
to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite
their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.”¿ (Aguilar
v. Atl. Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal. 4th 826, 843.) “Code of Civil
Procedure section 437c(c), requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment
if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from
the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that
there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is
entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp.
(1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) Summary adjudication may be granted as to one
or more causes of action within an action, or one or more claims for damages.
(CCP, § 437c(f).)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿ 
A defendant moving for
summary judgment bears two burdens: (1) the burden of production – presenting
admissible evidence, through material facts, sufficient to satisfy a directed
verdict standard; and (2) the burden of persuasion – the material facts presented
must persuade the court that the plaintiff cannot establish one or more
elements of a cause of action, or a complete defense vitiates the cause of
action. (CCP, § 437c(p)(2);¿Aguilar,¿supra, 25 Cal.4th at p.
850-851.) A defendant may satisfy this burden by showing that the claim “cannot
be established” because of the lack of evidence on some essential element of
the claim.¿¿(Union Bank v. Superior Court (1995) 31 Cal.App.4th 574,
590.)¿¿Once the defendant meets this burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff
to show that a “triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that
cause of action or defense thereto.”¿(Ibid.)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿ 
“On ruling on a motion for
summary judgment, the court is to ‘liberally construe the evidence in support
of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the
evidence in favor of that party.’” (Cheal v. El Camino Hospital¿(2014)
223 Cal.App.4th 736, 760.) On a summary judgment motion, the court must
therefore consider what inferences favoring the opposing party a factfinder
could reasonably draw from the evidence. While viewing the evidence in this
manner, the court must bear in mind that its primary function is to identify
issues rather than to determine issues. [Citation.]” (Binder v. Aetna Life
Ins. Co.¿(1999) 75 Cal.App.4th¿832, 839.)¿
 
II.        Discussion 
 
A.        Factual Summary
 
The following facts
are undisputed unless supported by a citation to the record. The District
provides Special Education services to students with disabilities and related
services such as transportation, developmental, corrective, and other
supportive services that are needed to assist a child in benefiting from
special education services. (Yolanda Gonzalez (“Gonzalez”) Decl. ¶ 5.) A
Special Education Trainee assists teachers with caring for students’ physical
needs and presenting educational material and development exercises. (Gonzalez
Decl. ¶ 10.) A Special Education Trainee may be assigned to a specific
classroom or school or reassigned as needed. (Gonzalez Decl. ¶ 10.)
Accordingly, a Special Education Trainee must, as an essential job duty, be
present at a school site in person to help present lesson plans, assist
students with work, transfer students in and out of adaptive equipment, and
supervise students during passing periods. (Gonzalez Decl. ¶ 10.) In 1999, LAUSD
hired Mak as a Special Education Assistant. (Undisputed Material Fact (“UMF”)
26.) 
 
On August 13, 2021,
LAUSD adopted a COVID-19 vaccine mandate and informed all employees and other
adults providing services to LAUSD that a COVID-19 vaccination was required.
(Francisco Serrato (“Serrato”) Decl. Ex. 1.) The COVID-19 vaccine mandate required
all District employees to be fully vaccinated against COVID-19 by October 15,
2021, later extended to November 15, 2021. (UMF 15.) The District also informed all employees that they could seek an
exemption from the COVID-19 mandate either due to a documented medical
disability or serious medical condition or based on an employee’s sincerely
held religious beliefs. (UMF 16.) 
 
The District
asserted that being fully vaccinated was “an essential job function” for all
employees and adults providing services to the District but “[w]here feasible
the District will reasonably accommodate employees, who based on a documented
disability or sincerely held religious belief wish to continue working without
being fully vaccinated.” (Serrato Decl. ¶ 4, Ex. 2.)
 
The District also
informed employees, on September 8, 2021, 
as follows:  
 
Please be aware however, the reasonable
accommodations do not include permitting employees to continue
working at a District facility without being fully vaccinated. 
 
[.  . . ]
 
Although rare, some positions in the District
avail themselves to remote work as a reasonable accommodation. In making its
determination concerning whether to permit remote work, the District will
engage with you in the interactive process and will consider multiple factors,
including the availability and feasibility of remote work. However where your
essential job duties require your physical presence at a District facility,
the District will be unable to offer remote work as an accommodation. Further,
where a risk to the health and safety of others cannot be reduced to an
acceptable level trough a workplace accommodation, the employee may be excluded
from physically entering the workplace. 
 
Should an alternative accommodation not be
available, the District and employee will then determine if there are any
available benefit time/leave provisions, such as use of the employee’s illness
leave (if due to medical reasons), personal necessity, vacation, or unpaid
leave options. 
Failure to Comply
Failure to comply with the
mandate to be vaccinated and/or failure to provide the appropriate qualifying
accommodation documentation may result in disciplinary action, being placed on
unpaid leave, and/or separation from District service. 
 
(Serrato Decl. ¶ 4,
Ex. 2 [emphasis original].)
 
Mak
submitted a request to be exempt from the vaccine mandate based on her
religion/religious creed. (UMF 27; Etemadi Decl. Ex. A. [Mak Depo. at p.
35:5-6].) She requested authorization to work remotely as a reasonable
accommodation. (Sheryl Rosenberg (“Rosenberg”) Decl. Ex. 8 [Mak Depo. at p.
39:10-14]; Etemadi Decl. ¶ 3, Ex. B at pp. LAUSD 000001-LAUSD
000002.)
 
On
November 24, 2021, the Committee on Reasonable Accommodations Based on
Sincerely Held Religious Beliefs (“Committee”) engaged in an interactive
meeting to consider if Mak could work remotely. (Etemadi Decl. ¶ 3, Ex B at p.
LAUSD 000001.) The
District stated that there were no vacant positions for a Special Education
Assistant at the City of Los Angeles on-line academy and that if Mak were to
work remotely “[Plaintiff] would not be able to perform the full complement of
essential functions of [her] job as a Special Education Assistant, i.e. CPR,
responding to emergency and exigent circumstances, first aid, lifting
requirements, diapering, toileting, escorting students and pushing
wheelchairs.” (Etemadi Decl. ¶ 3, Ex B at pp. LAUSD 000001-000002.)
 
The Committee went
on to note that “[w]hile some of duties may be performed
remotely, most cannot. Furthermore, offering remote services where in-person
services are more effective is not a ‘best practice’ since remote services are
not in the best interest of the student we serve” and “[w]ere the District to
offer remote services when in-persona services are otherwise available would
pose significant health and safety risks as well as increase the risk of
falling out of compliance.” (Etemadi Decl. ¶ 3, Ex B at
pp. LAUSD 000001-000002 [emphasis original].)
 
Mak
believed her termination was unlawful because she was not given the opportunity
to work remotely despite previously doing so during COVID-19. (Etemadi Decl. ¶
2, Ex. A [Mak Depo. at p. 30:3-21].) Moreover, Mak asserts that because she
worked with students with learning disabilities as opposed to physical disabilities,
she could perform her job duties remotely. (Etemadi Decl. ¶ 2, Ex. A [Mak Depo.
at pp. 24:21-25:9].) 
 
Due to Mak’s
failure to comply with the vaccine mandate, LAUSD charged her with
insubordination or willful disobedience and inattention to or dereliction of
duty and terminated her employment on December 7, 2021. (Etemadi Decl. ¶ 3, Ex.
B at pp. LAUSD 000407-LAUSD 000409; 
Serrato Decl. Ex. 4.) Mak was one of several employees who were
terminated for failing to comply with the vaccine mandate. (UMF 19.) 
 
B.        The McDonnell-Douglas Burden Shifting Framework
 
“In cases alleging employment discrimination, we analyze the trial
court's decision on a motion for summary judgment using a three-step process
that is based on the burden-shifting test that was established by the United
States Supreme Court for trials of employment discrimination claims in McDonnell
Douglas Corp. v. Green (1973) 411 U.S. 792, 93 S.Ct. 1817.” (Serri v.
Santa Clara University (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 830, 860.) “The McDonnell-Douglas framework is modified in
the summary judgment context. In a summary judgment motion in ‘an employment
discrimination case, the employer, as the moving party, has the initial burden
to present admissible evidence showing either that one or more elements of
plaintiff's prima facie case is lacking or that the adverse employment action
was based upon legitimate, nondiscriminatory factors.’ (Citation.)” (Id.
at p. 861.) 
 
“If the employer meets its initial burden, the
burden shifts to the employee to ‘demonstrate a triable issue by producing
substantial evidence that the employer's stated reasons were untrue or
pretextual, or that the employer acted with a discriminatory animus,
such that a reasonable trier of fact could conclude that the employer engaged
in intentional discrimination or other unlawful action.’” (Serri, supra,
226 Cal.App.4th at p. 861 citing Cucuzza v. City of Santa Clara (2002)
104 Cal.App.4th 1031, 1038 [italics original].)
 
C.        First Cause of Action – Discrimination in Violation of the
FEHA (Gov. Code, § 12940(a))
 
“To state a prima facie case for¿discrimination¿in violation
of the¿FEHA, a plaintiff must establish that (1) she was a member of a
protected class, (2) she was performing competently in the position she held,
(3) she suffered an adverse employment action, and (4) some other circumstance
suggests¿discriminatory¿motive.” (Ortiz v. Dameron Hospital Assn.¿(2019)
37 Cal.App.5th 568, 577.)
 
The District alleges that Mak’s first cause of action for
discrimination fails because LAUSD had a legitimate non-discriminatory reason
for its vaccine mandate. Case law has long held that compulsory vaccination is
permitted. (See Jacobson v. Massachusetts (1905) 197 U.S. 11, 29 (Jacobson).
In Love v. State Dept. of Education (2018) 29 Cal.App.5th 980, the Court
of Appeal held that mandatory vaccination did not violate the plaintiffs’ right
to privacy because “’compulsory immunization has long been recognized as the
gold standard for preventing the spread of contagious diseases’” and society
has a compelling interest in “fighting the spread of contagious diseases
through mandatory vaccination of school-aged children.’ [Citations]” (Id.
at pp. 933-994.) Similarly, in Jacobson the United States Supreme Court
held that “vaccination, as a means of protecting a community against smallpox,
finds strong support in the experience of this and other countries, no court,
much less a jury, is justified in disregarding the action of the legislature simply
because in its or their opinion that particular method was—perhaps, or
possibly—not the best either for children or adults.” (Jacobson at p.
35.)  Based on the above, the court finds that LAUSD had a legitimate
nondiscriminatory reason for implementing the COVID-19 vaccine mandate for all
employees working on-stie at the District. 
 
The burden shifts to Mak to produce substantial evidence that
the vaccine mandate was pretextual or that LAUSD acted with discriminatory
animus. (Serri, supra, 226 Cal.App.4th at p. 861.) Mak argues that a
week before her dismissal, the District published a job posting seeking ten new
Special Education Assistants. (Plaintiff’s RJN Ex. E.) However, Exhibit E is
not properly authenticated and is inadmissible due to hearsay. Mak argues that
Exhibit E shows that the District intended to terminate her without considering
possible ways to accommodate her. To the extent that Exhibit E goes to the
issue of accommodation, the claim goes to discrimination based on a claim of
religious accommodation under Government Code § 12940(l), instead of Government
Code § 12940(a). If Plaintiff’s allegations of discrimination under section
12940(a). are premised on the same operative facts, then the first cause of
action is subsumed under the third cause of action. (See
Silverado Modjeska Recreation & Park Dist. v. County of Orange
(2011) 197 Cal.App.4th 282, 296, fn. 9.)
 
Mak states the
District’s chose to terminate her by charging her with insubordination and
dereliction of duty so that she could not collect unemployment benefits, yet Mak offers
no evidence in support of this contention. Moreover, such an argument fails to
show that the District’s Covid-19 vaccination mandate was pretextual or that
the decision to terminate Mak so that she could not collect unemployment was
causally connected to Mak’s religious beliefs. In other words, Mak fails
to show that the decision to terminate her for cause was substantially
motivated by the District’s religious animosity towards her rather than the
desire to avoid paying unemployment. Even if Mak could prove that the District
terminated her with cause so that it would not have to pay unemployment, such
reason is not evidence of religious animosity. 
 
Based on the above, the
court grants summary adjudication as to the first cause of action.
 
D.        Third Cause of Action – Failure to
Accommodate Religious Beliefs/Practices in Violation of the FEHA (Gov. Code, §
12940(l))
The FEHA
imposes upon employers a comparable obligation to accommodate a person’s
sincerely held religious beliefs, and to refrain from retaliating or otherwise
discriminating against a person for requesting accommodation. (Gov. Code, §
12940(l)(4).) “There are three elements to a prima facie case under section
12940, subdivision (l): the employee sincerely held a religious belief;
the employer was aware
of that belief; and the belief
conflicted with an employment requirement. [Citation.] Once the employee establishes a prima facie case with
sufficient evidence of the three elements, the burden shifts to the employer to establish
that ‘it initiated good faith efforts to accommodate
or no accommodation was possible without
producing undue hardship. [Citations.]’ [Citation.]” (California Fair Employment & Housing Com. v. Gemini Aluminum
Corp. (2004) 122 Cal.App.4th 1004, 1011.)
 
Recently, in Groff v. DeJoy (2023) 600 U.S. 447 [143 S.Ct. 2279,
2281, 216 L.Ed.2d 1041], the United States Supreme Court confirmed that Title
VII requires an employer that denies a religious accommodation to show that the
burden of granting an accommodation would result in undue hardship, meaning a
substantial increased costs in relation to the conduct of its business. Nothing
in Groff suggests that the McDonnell-Douglas burden-shifting framework no
longer applies to cases premised on the failure to accommodate based on
religious creed.  
 
The District argues
that Mak’s
third cause of action fails because Mak could not be accommodated as remote
work was not available to Special Education Trainees. Sufficient evidence
exists to support the finding that working on-site was an essential job
function of  Special Education Trainees
because they were needed to provide CPR, first aid, and respond to emergency
and exigent circumstances in the classroom. 
(Gonzalez Decl. ¶¶ 5, 10; Etemadi Decl. ¶ 3, Ex
B at pp. LAUSD 000001-000002.)
 
The burden shifts to Mak
to show that her essential job duties could be performed remotely. Mak
testified that in helping students with learning disabilities she would help
them copy things and make copies, and occasionally go on field trips. (Etemadi
Decl. Ex. A [Mak Depo. at pp. 26:2-4, 27:11-17].) Mak fails to explain how such duties could
still be accomplished by working remotely. Her deposition testimony reveals
that to assist students as needed remotely, she and the students would have to
be constantly online on platforms like Zoom and Schoology, even school
instruction was now being provided on-site and in person on District property.
(Etemadi Decl. Ex. A [Mak Depo. at pp. 29:5-12, 30:14-22].) 
 
“FEHA does not
obligate the employer to accommodate the employee by excusing him or her from
the performance of essential functions.” (Nealy v. City of Santa Monica
(2015) 234 Cal.App.4th 359, 375 (Nealy).) The evidence before the court
shows that essential other duties of a Special Education Trainee included CPR,
providing first aid, and responding to emergency and exigent circumstances,
duties that apply to all students, not just students with physical
disabilities. (Etemadi Decl. ¶ 3, Ex B at pp. LAUSD 000001-000002.) Even if the District had an unlimited
budget, Mak fails to identify what specific
technologies or tools would have permitted her to perform these essential job
duties remotely. Mak asserts that she could perform other
job duties, such as correcting papers and entering grades remotely, but the
fact that she could perform some of her job functions remotely does not
mean that all of her duties could be performed remotely. To eliminate
the requirement that Mak work onsite would
include eliminating from her job functions the requirement that she be
available  to respond to emergency and
exigent circumstances such as providing CPR and First Aid, something that is
“not a reasonable accommodation.” (Nealy, at p. 377.) 
 
The evidence before
the court shows that while Mak was previously assigned to a single classroom with
students who had learning disabilities rather than physical disabilities, she
could be reassigned as a Special Education Trainee to
a classroom that required her to assist students with physical disabilities.
(Gonzalez Decl. ¶ 10.) The District is not required to
relocate Mak to the City of Los Angeles
online academy because there were no vacancies at the time and “FEHA does not
require a reassignment [where] there is no vacant position for which the
employee is qualified.” (Nealy, supra,  234
Cal.App.4th at p. 377.) Likewise, the District is not required
to promote Mak or create a new position that would
have allowed her to work remotely even if it had the budget to do so. (Id.
at p. 377.) 
 
Moreover, the FEHA does not require
that Mak be permitted to work remotely or be placed on unpaid
leave indefinitely where the employee “is unable
to perform
his or her essential
duties even with reasonable accommodations, or cannot perform those duties in a manner that
would not endanger his or her health or safety or the health or safety of
others even with reasonable accommodations.” (Green v. State of California
(2007) 42 Cal.4th 254, 262.)
 
Based on the above, Mak
fails to show that triable issues of fact exist regarding her ability to
perform the essential job functions of a Special Education Trainee remotely. 
 
Mak argues that other
reasonable accommodations were available that the District failed to consider,
such as a demotion or unpaid leave. “The obligation to search for an acceptable
solution is bilateral. Employees also have the obligation to make a good faith
effort to explore alternatives.” Mak fails to provide evidence that a demotion or
unpaid leave were accommodations that she sought and were denied by the
District. (Soldinger v. Northwest Airlines, Inc. (1996) 51 Cal.App.4th 345, 370.) “‘[T]he employee can't expect the
employer to read his mind and know he secretly wanted a particular
accommodation and sue the employer for not providing it.’ ” (Prilliman v.
United Air Lines, Inc. (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 935, 954.)¿“An employee cannot
demand clairvoyance of his employer.” (King v. United Parcel Service, Inc. (2007)
152 Cal.App.4th 426, 443.)
 
The District presents evidence that
it offered Mak the option to seek other positions that were not in the
classroom and did not require her to be on-site. (Rosenberg Decl. Ex. 8 [Mak
Depo. at p. 40:5-18].) Mak fails to show that a position
within the District existed that would have permitted her to work remotely,
even if it was a demotion. 
 
Mak also argues that LAUSD fails to
show that giving the Plaintiff unpaid leave was an unreasonable accommodation
because it posed a substantial hardship to LAUSD. 
 
On reply, the
District argues that finite leave can be a reasonable accommodation under FEHA, “provided
it is likely that at the end of the leave, the employee would be able to
perform his or her duties.” (Hanson v. Lucky Stores, Inc.
(1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 215, 226.) But indefinite leave is not a reasonable
accommodation where there is no possibility that the employee will be able to
perform his essential job duties. (Ibid; referencing Gantt v. Wilson Sporting Goods Co. (6th Cir. 1998) 143 F.3d 1042, 1047 [“Reasonable
accommodation does not require the employer to wait indefinitely for an
employee's medical condition to be corrected.”) The District argues that it was
not foreseeable when health officials would deem vaccination as no longer being
a best practice in preventing the spread COVID-19, such that it was not
obligated to give Plaintiff indefinite unpaid leave for an event that was not
foreseeable at the time of her termination. In light of the United States
Supreme Court’s ruling in Groff, the burden remains on the District to
show that providing indefinite unpaid leave presented an undue hardship to the
District. LAUSD fails to meet this burden. 
 
Accordingly,
Plaintiff has shown that triable issues of fact exist regarding the third cause
of action, and summary adjudication is denied as the third cause of action. 
 
E.        Fourth Cause of Action – Retaliation in
Violation of the FEHA (Gov. Code § 12940(h))
 
Government Code § 12940(h) “prohibits an
employer from retaliating against a person because the person has opposed any
practices forbidden under [Goverment Code sections 12900 through 12966] or
because the person has filed a complaint, testified, or assisted in any
proceeding under [the FEHA].” (Gov. Code, § 12940(h) “Thus, protected activity
takes the form of opposing any practices forbidden by FEHA or
participating in any proceeding conducted by the DFEH or the Fair Employment
and Housing Council (FEHC).” (Nealy v. City of Santa Monica
(2015) 234 Cal.App.4th 359, 380.)
 
To establish a prima facie case of retaliation under FEHA,
Plaintiff must prove that “(1) he engaged in a protected activity; (2) the
employer subjected the employee to an adverse employment action; and (3) a
causal link existed between the protected activity and the employer’s action.”
(Yanowitz v. L’Oreal USA, Inc. (2005) 36 Cal.4th 1028, 1042.) “The
McDonnell Douglas three-stage framework applies to a FEHA retaliation
cause of action.” (Glynn v. Superior Court (2019) 42
Cal.App.5th 47, 55.) 
 
The District argues
that Mak’s
fourth cause of action fails because she cannot show she engaged in a protected
activity: Mak did
not participate in a FEHA proceeding or oppose any acts made unlawful by FEHA
before her termination. (Gov. Code, § 12940(h).) Moreover, requesting a
religious accommodation is not in itself a protected activity. “But protected
activity does not include a mere request for reasonable accommodation.
[Citation.] Without more, exercising one's rights under FEHA to request
reasonable accommodation or engage in the interactive process does not
demonstrate some degree of opposition to or protest of unlawful conduct by the
employer.” (Nealy, supra, 234 Cal.App.4th at p. 381.) In Nealy,
the appellate court found that merely seeking a reasonable accommodation and
initiating the interactive process, were insufficient to amount to a protected
activity because “[t]hese acts alone do not amount to ‘oppos[ing]
any practices forbidden under’ FEHA or participating in DFEH or FEHC
proceedings. [Citations.] If they did, this interpretation of protected
activity ‘would significantly blur and perhaps obliterate the distinction
between an action for failure to accommodate or engage in the interactive
process and retaliation.’ ” (Nealy at p. 381 [internal quotation marks
omitted].)
 
The court finds that the District met its
initial burden of showing that no triable issues of fact exist regarding the
fourth cause of action.  The burden
shifts to the Mak to show that triable issues of fact
exist precluding summary adjudication. 
 
Mak’s opposition fails to show that apart
from seeking a religious accommodation, Mak engaged
in other conduct that qualified as a protected activity, such as participating
in a FEHA proceeding or opposing a practice forbidden under the FEHA.
(Opposition at p. 14:7-13.) Mak’s
demand letter sent by her prior counsel asking that the District rescind the
recommendation for discipline is not admissible. (See Plaintiff’s Exhibit D.) Mak also cites her own discovery
responses, something that is impermissible in opposing a motion for summary
judgment. (Great Am. Insur. Cos.
v. Gordon Trucking, Inc.
(2008) 165 Cal.App.4th 445, 450 [party cannot use his own discovery responses
to oppose summary judgment].) 
 
In sum, Mak’s fourth
cause of action is premised entirely on the fact that she requested religious
accommodation. As Mak fails to show that she engaged in a protected
activity, no triable issues of fact exist regarding the fourth cause of action,
and the court grants summary adjudication in favor of Defendant LAUSD on this
cause of action. 
 
F.        Second Cause of Action - Failure to
Prevent Discrimination and Retaliation in Violation of the FEHA (Gov. Code §
12940(k))
 
FEHA
makes it unlawful employment practice “[f]or an employer ... to fail to take
all reasonable steps necessary to prevent discrimination and harassment from occurring.” (Gov.
Code § 12940(k), see Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water
& Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1240 [noting
that retaliation is a form of discrimination and is actional under Gov. Code
section 12940(k)].)  Section
12940(k) “creates a separate actionable tort enforceable upon the establishment
of the usual tort elements of duty of care, breach of duty (a negligent act or
omission), causation, and damages.” (Dickson v. Burke Williams, Inc. (2015) 234 Cal.App.4th 1307, 1313.) 
 
LAUSD argues that
because Mak has failed to establish
that she was subject to unlawful discrimination, the second cause of action
fails. However, as established above, LAUSD has failed to show that Mak has no viable claim for discrimination under section 12940(l) for
failure to accommodate based on religious creed. 
 
 Accordingly, the court denies summary
adjudication as to the second cause of action
 
G.        Sixth Cause of Action – PAGA
Penalties (Lab. Code, § 96(k))
 
Labor Code § 96(k) provides:
 
The
Labor Commissioner and the deputies and
representatives authorized by the
commissioner in writing shall, upon the filing of a claim therefor by an
employee, or an employee representative authorized in writing by an employee,
with the Labor Commissioner, take assignments of:
 
[
. . . ]
 
(k) Claims for loss of wages as the result of demotion,
suspension, or discharge from employment for lawful conduct occurring during
nonworking hours away from the employer's premises.
 
(Lab. Code, § 96.)
 
Labor Code § 98.6(b)(3) states:

 
In
addition to other remedies available, an employer who violates this section is
liable for a civil penalty not exceeding ten thousand dollars ($10,000) per
employee for each violation of this section, to be awarded to the employee or
employees who suffered the violation.


LAUSD requests
summary adjudication on the basis that PAGA penalties cannot be maintained
against it as a public entity because Mak’s claims for violation of section
96(k) fail: she was not discharged for unlawful conduct occurring during
non-working hours.  Rather, LAUSD fired
her because she failed to comply with the vaccine mandate. 
 
Viable
PAGA claims can be maintained against public entity employers, including CSU,
but only when the laws upon which the claims are premised themselves provide
for penalties. PAGA claims cannot be maintained against public entities when
the laws upon which the claims are premised do not themselves provide for
penalties. This is because public entities are not “persons” under PAGA allowed
to bring such claims. 


(Sargent v. Board of Trustees of California State University (2021) 61 Cal.App.5th 658, 669.) 
 
“By its plain language, this provision of
98.6, subdivision (a) limits the rights of employers to discharge at-will
employees for section 96, subdivision (k) conduct.” (Grinzi v.
San Diego Hospice Corp. (2004) 120 Cal.App.4th 72, 86.) 
 
Mak’s First Amendment claim alleges that she
and other aggrieved employees “engaged
in lawful activity during nonworking hours away from Defendant’s premises by,
among other things, choosing not to receive a COVID-19 vaccination due to their
sincerely held religious beliefs and/or other lawful exemptions.” (FAC ¶ 32.)
“Specifically, Plaintiff MAK and other aggrieved employee refused to take the
COVID-19 vaccine and requested an exemption and specifically offered to accept
any reasonable accommodations, including testing, masking and distancing, as
well as any other reasonable alternatives to taking the COVID-19 vaccine.” (FAC
¶ 32.) 
 
“[T]he scope of section 96, subdivision
(k) [is] limited to ‘lawful conduct occurring during nonworking hours away from
the employer's premises’ asserting “recognized constitutional
rights.’ (Italics added.) Therefore, to successfully establish a
tortious discharge claim under this provision of section 98.6, [plaintiff] must
allege her discharge occurred because she asserted a recognized constitutional
right.” (Grinzi v. San Diego Hospice Corp. (2004) 120
Cal.App.4th 72, 86 (Grinzi).) 
 
LAUSD states that Mak was terminated because she could not perform the
essential job functions of a Special Education Trainee.  There is no recognized constitutional right
to be exempt from a vaccine mandate. (See Jacobson v. Massachusetts (1905) 197 U.S. 11; Love v. State Dept. of Education (2018)
29 Cal.App.5th 980.) Section 98.6 also protects any rights “ ‘otherwise
protected by the Labor Code.’ ” (Grinzi, supra, 120 Cal.App.4th
at p. 87.) 
Therefore, the burden
shifts to Mak to show that noncompliance with a vaccine mandate is a
recognized constitutional right or a right protected by the Labor Code. 
 
Mak’s opposition fails to
raise triable issues of fact regarding the sixth cause of action. While Plaintiff has a constitutional
right to religious freedom, she is not immune from the consequences of
following her religious practices when such practices render her unable to
perform the essential functions of her job. (See Green, supra, 42
Cal.4th at p.  262.) The ruling in Groff v. DeJoy (2023) 600 U.S. 447 reflects the fact
that when a request for reasonable accommodation based on religious beliefs is
denied, the employer bears the burden of showing undue hardship in granting the
accommodation. In no way can Groff stand for the proposition that
religious accommodations must always be granted and trump any job requirements
that conflict with an employee's sincerely held religious beliefs. 
 
For the reasons set forth above, the
court grants summary adjudication as to the sixth cause of action. 
 
Conclusion
 
Defendant LAUSD’s request for summary judgment is denied. LAUSD’s
request for summary adjudication is granted as to the first, fourth, and sixth
causes of action and denied as to the second and third causes of action.
Defendant to give notice. 
 