Here is the summary of the Judge's tentative ruling in YAML format:

```
Case Number: [insert case number]
Plaintiff's Name: Nedco, LLC
Defendant's Name: [insert defendant's name]
People-Names: Nedco, LLC, BR CO, Dopplmaier, Farmland Irr. Co.
Company-Names: Nedco, LLC, BR CO, Farmland Irr. Co.
Places: None mentioned
Dates: [insert dates relevant to the case]
Events: Service of demand letter, filing of First Amended Complaint
Money: None mentioned
Intentions: Plaintiffs' intentions in shaping the litigation
Facts: Nedco was added as a Plaintiff in the First Amended Complaint, served no prior demand letter
Disputes: Control over Nedco, litigation strategy
Acts: Service of demand letter, filing of First Amended Complaint
Agreements: None mentioned
Laws: California Code, Farmland Irr. Co. v. Dopplmaier (1957) 48 Cal.2d 208
Case Citations: [insert relevant case citations]
Statutes: None mentioned
Roles:
  - Nedco, LLC: Plaintiff
  - BR CO: Defendant
  - Dopplmaier: Defendant
  - Farmland Irr. Co.: Plaintiff (in a previous case)
Significant Statements:
  - "Nedco was only added as a Plaintiff in the First Amended Complaint, and served no prior demand letter upon Defendants."
  - "There is good reason to believe that Nedco’s role in the shaping the litigation is secondary to BR CO’s."
  - "The facts here are dissimilar [to Farmland Irr. Co. v. Dopplmaier]."
```

And here is the summary in English text:

The Judge's tentative ruling addresses the Plaintiffs' claims that the Defendants do not have shared control over Nedco, LLC. The Judge notes that Nedco was only added as a Plaintiff in the First Amended Complaint and did not serve a prior demand letter to the Defendants. This suggests that Nedco's role in shaping the litigation is secondary to BR CO's. The Judge also distinguishes the case from Farmland Irr. Co. v. Dopplmaier (1957) 48 Cal.2d 208, in which the plaintiff sought relief personal to itself and did not infer that it was responsible for concurrent litigation. The Judge concludes that the facts in this case are dissimilar.