  Case Number:  23STCV02764    Hearing Date:   October 11, 2023    Dept:  61 Defendants Gilbert Milam, Parker Berling, and Cookies
Creative Consulting and Promotions, Inc.’s Motion to Stay is GRANTED.
 
No sanctions are awarded.
 
Defendants to provide notice.
 
I.                  
MOTION FOR STAY
“Trial courts generally have the inherent power to stay
proceedings in the interests of justice and to promote judicial efficiency.” (Freiberg v. City of Mission Viejo (1995)
33 Cal.App.4th 1484, 1489.) The decision of a trial court to stay proceedings
is thus generally a matter of discretion. (Bains
v. Moores (2009) 172 Cal.App.4th 445, 480.)
 
Defendants Cookies Creative Consulting & Promotions,
Gilbert Milam, and Parker Berling (Defendants) move for a stay of proceedings
in this action pending resolution of an arbitration proceeding on similar
facts, alleged against these same Defendants by nonparties Red Tech Holdings,
LLC and Gron Ventures Fund I, LP (Claimants). This motion follows a prior
application, denied on June 12, 2023, in which the court ruled that although
the claims in each proceeding were very similar, the arbitration concerned different
parties proceeding on contractual theories, while the present case was a
derivative action brought by different parties on theories of breach of
fiduciary duty. Defendants renew their previous motion based on “new or
different facts, circumstances, or law,” under Code of Civil Procedure § 1008,
subd. (b). (Motion at p. 12.) 
 
Granting a stay in a case where the issues in two actions
are substantially identical [citations] is a matter addressed to the sound
discretion of the trial court. ‘In exercising its discretion the court should
consider the importance of discouraging multiple litigation designed solely to
harass an adverse party, and of avoiding unseemly conflicts with the courts of
other jurisdictions. It should also consider whether the rights of the parties
can best be determined by the court of the other jurisdiction because of the
nature of the subject matter, the availability of witnesses, or the stage to
which the proceedings in the other court have already advanced.
 
(St. Paul Fire and Marine Insurance Company v. AmerisourceBergen
Corporation (2022) 80 Cal.App.5th 1, 14.)
 
The new facts and circumstances supporting the renewed motion here are
the procedural history of this case and a new filing by the arbitration
claimants, which Defendants contend demonstrates the overlapping nature of the
arbitration and the present action and the necessity of a stay. Specifically,
Defendants contend that since the prior motion to stay was denied, this court
sustained their demurrer to Plaintiffs’ derivative claims with leave to amend,
and has taken under submission Plaintiffs’ motions to compel further responses
to discovery, which demonstrates the burdens associated with dual proceedings
and their substantive infirmity. (Motion at pp. 6–7.) 
Defendants further identify a declaration submitted by Thomas Linovitz,
one of Plaintiff BR CO I’s managing members, in support of a provisional relief
application in LASC Case No. 23STCV16410 associated with the arbitration, in
which he attests that he is not only the manager of the general partner of Gron
Ventures Fund, LP one of the arbitration claimants, but is also a member of Red
Tech, the other arbitration claimant, and was one of those “primarily in
charge of [the claimants’] investments” in Cookies, which is the subject of the
arbitration. (Motion Exh. 13, ¶ 2.) 
 
Defendants note, as with their last motion, that the arbitration
claimants are represented by the same counsel as Plaintiffs here. (Motion at p.
20.) They further note that Plaintiffs sent their demand letter, founded on the
same allegations of wrongdoing, on the same day that the arbitration claimants
filed their demand for arbitration. (Motion at p. 8; Ward Decl. ¶¶ 3–4.) 
 
Defendants have demonstrated new facts and circumstances justifying the
stay sought. Although they pointed out in their prior motion that Linovitz was
the manager of the general partner of Gron Ventures, Linovitz has only recently
disclosed his membership interest in the other arbitration claimant and his
role in the underlying facts supporting their contractual causes of action. 
 
In the prior motion, Plaintiffs and this court relied on the case Gregg
v. Superior Court (1987) 194 Cal.App.3d 134, in which the appellate court
determined that the trial court had abused its discretion by ordering a stay in
an action between a plaintiff franchisee against a defendant franchisor, where
the claims asserted by the plaintiff were similar to other claims pursued by
other franchisees through the same attorney against the same defendant in
federal court. (Id. at pp. 137–138.) The court noted that the plaintiff
before them was “not a party to a related action in another forum,” and stated,
“We find no precedent for preventing a litigant in the
circumstances of this case from pursuing an action because other litigants are
suing the same defendants over similar grievances in another forum.” (Id.
at p. 138.) The court in that case determined that the litigants were not
“substantially identical,” and that the claimant in the case before it was
proceeding “in the only forum which could provide him with relief.” (Id.
at p. 138.) 
 
This case is different from Gregg.
That case involved an individual plaintiff seeking personal relief separate
from the relief requested by other parties in a different action. As the court
stated, “Significant to this case is the fact that petitioner seeks personal
relief from contracts and damages for fraud and unlawful business practices
directed toward him.” (Gregg, supra, 194 Cal.App.3d at p. 138.)
Plaintiffs in the present case, however, seek no relief personal to them, but
bring a derivative action on behalf of Cookies, for the same misconduct
asserted in the arbitration. Additionally, Defendants have presented evidence
showing substantial identity of the parties prosecuting this litigation and the
concurrent arbitration, namely through the fact that Plaintiff BR CO I is
controlled by the same individual who controls the arbitration claimants.[1]
The inference of shared control is buttressed by the similar allegations in
both proceedings, the fact that all claimants are represented by the same
counsel, and the service of BR CO’s demand letter in conjunction with the Claimants’
initiation of arbitration. Defendants have shown sufficient identity of parties
and issues to warrant the requested stay, and Plaintiffs have shown no
countervailing prejudice that could result.[2]
The motion is therefore GRANTED.
 
 
 
 


