 Case Number:  24STCP00313    Hearing Date:   August 6, 2024    Dept:  82 DJCP Corporation                                                    Case
No. 24STCP00313
                                    
v.                                                                     Hearing:
August 6, 2024 
                                                                                    Location:
Stanley Mosk Courthouse 
City of Baldwin Park, et al.                                     Department: 82
                                                                                    Judge:
Stephen I. Goorvitch 
 
 
[Tentative] Order Granting
Respondent Julia Silva’s Special Motion to Dismiss
 

 

 
ORDER #1 of 2
 
INTRODUCTION
 
            Petitioner
DJCBP Corporation doing business as “Tier One Consulting” (“Petitioner”) filed
this verified petition for writ of mandate alleging that the City of Baldwin
Park (the “City”) wrongfully and unlawfully revoked its permit for commercial
cannabis manufacturing and summarily denied its appeal without a hearing.  Petitioner seeks a writ of mandate
“compelling the City to reinstate Petitioner’s Municipal Authorization” or, in
the alternative, a writ to compel the City to comply with its ministerial duty
to hold an appeal.  Petitioner also seeks
attorney’s fees and costs “as provided by law,” as well as “any other such
equitable or legal relief as the Court deems appropriate.”  Petitioner named the City and the City
Council as respondents, as well as Enrique C. Zaldivar, the City’s Chief
Executive Officer “in his official capacity.” 
Moreover, Petitioner named Julia Sylva (“Sylva”), who represents the
City with respect to “all legal matters related to commercial cannabis permits
and activities in the City,” including this lawsuit, in “her individual and
official capacity.”  Now, Sylva moves to
dismiss the case under Code of Civil Procedure section 425.16, commonly known
as an Anti-SLAPP motion, arguing that her activities relate to her
representation of the City in connection with a federal lawsuit and potential
litigation.  The motion is granted.  
 
PETITIONER’S ALLEGATIONS 
                        
            On or about
April 4, 2018, the City adopted an ordinance which authorized adult-use and
medicinal commercial cannabis cultivation, manufacturing, and distribution
activities within the city.  (Petitioner
(“Pet.”) ¶ 14.)  Pursuant to the
ordinance, “the City entered into development agreements with several cannabis
businesses resulting in the issuance of commercial cannabis permits in the
forms of Certificates of Occupancy (“COO”). 
(Id. ¶ 15.)  On or about
April 3, 2019, the City entered into an amended development agreement with Tier
One.  (Ibid.)     
 
Sylva is an attorney licensed by
the State of California and is outside special counsel to the City handling all
legal matters related to commercial cannabis permits and activities in the
City.  (Petition (“Pet.”) ¶ 8.)  On January 18, 2023, Petitioner filed a
lawsuit in the United States District Court for the Central District of
California “alleging an illegal taking as a result of the City collecting
illegal mitigation fees in the form of exactments from Tier One related to its
cannabis business.”  (Id. ¶
17.)  The parties engaged in settlement
discussions relating to that case.  (Id.
¶ 19.)  On or about November 2, 2023, Sylva
sent correspondence to Petitioner in an effort to resolve the dispute.  (Id. ¶¶ 19-21.)  In a “counter-settlement demand letter,”
Sylva stated that she is “authorized” to make a counteroffer on certain
enumerated terms.  (Id. ¶
21.)  The letter then states:  
 
Be advised, the City of Baldwin
Park will also begin to exercise its rights . . . [and] will ‘red tag’ the
building . . . and will notify the State of California, Department of Cannabis
Control (‘DCC’), that the Tier One local permit/license has been terminated and
will request that the DCC license be terminated.
 
(Ibid.)  Sylva
copied the Mayor, the City Council, the City’s Chief Executive Officer, and the
City Attorney.  (Id. ¶ 20.)  The letter references the case name and
number of the federal case.  (Id.
Exh. D.)
 
Sylva then “followed through with
her threat to ‘red tag’ (condemn) Tier One’s building by terminating
Petitioner’s Municipal Authorization and simultaneously requested termination
of the State License.”  (Id. ¶
24.)  Specifically, on December 11, 2023,
Sylva sent a letter informing the DCC that Tier One’s Municipal Authorization
had been terminated.  (Id. ¶
25.)  On December 13, 2023, Sylva sent a letter
to Petitioner demanding that it cease all commercial cannabis activities at the
property.  (Id. ¶ 27.)  
 
            On December
18, 2023, Petitioner served an appeal of the revocation of its municipal
authorization.  (Id. ¶ 30.)  Sylva sent correspondence, dated December 18,
2023, stating that the City would not participate in any appellate process
because she, as cannabis special counsel, could terminate Petitioner’s
municipal authorization without a hearing and without action from the City’s
Chief Executive Officer and/or the City Council.  (Id. ¶ 37.)  The letter states: “Your request for an
appeal to the City Council is denied.”  (Id.
¶ 38.)  
 
            The amended
development agreement was between Petitioner and the City of Baldwin Hills.  (Pet. ¶¶ 15-16 & Exh. B.)  The amended agreement was signed by the mayor
on behalf of the City of Baldwin Hills. 
(Id. Exh. B.)  The
attestation was by the City Clerk and the agreement was “Approved as to Form”
by Robert N. Tafoya, who was the City Attorney. 
(Ibid.)  Sylva was neither
a party nor a signatory to the amended development agreement.  (Ibid.)  Yet, Petitioner alleges that Sylva
“unilaterally revoked” the permit, which forms the basis of the claims against
her.  (Id. ¶¶ 40-41.)  Petitioner seeks a writ against the City
reinstating its permit or, in the alternative, ordering the City to hold a
hearing on Petitioner’s appeal.  (Pet. ¶¶
64-65.)    
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
In ruling on a special motion to
strike under Code of Civil Procedure section 425.16, commonly known as an
“Anti-SLAPP motion,” the court employs a two-step process.  First, the respondent must show that the act
or acts of which the plaintiff complains were taken in furtherance of the respondent’s
right of petition or free speech under the United States or California
Constitutions in connection with a public issue.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subd.
(b)(1).)  The respondent has the burden
of making a prima facie showing that a cause of action arises from an
act in furtherance of his or her constitutional rights of petition or free
speech in connection with a public issue. 
(Equilon Enterprises, LLC v. Consumer Cause, Inc. (2002) 29
Cal.4th 53, 67.)  If the respondent
satisfies that burden, the burden shifts to the petitioner to demonstrate a
probability of prevailing on the claim. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subd. (b)(3).)  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
            A.        Petitioner’s Case against Julia Sylva
 
            The court
first must determine the nature of Petitioner’s case against Julia Sylva.  Petitioner attempts to predicate the case on
her actions relating to the cannabis permit. 
Specifically, Petitioner alleges that Sylva “unilaterally revoked” the
permit, which forms the basis of the claims against her.  (Id. ¶¶ 40-41.)  Petitioner alleges that:
 
Sylva admitted in her December 18,
2023 correspondence that the City’s CEO and City Council took no action to
revoke Tier One’s Cannabis Permit.  Sylva
claims it was Tier One’s inaction that triggered an automatic termination of
the Development Agreement.  Sylva also
stated that there was no need to designate a “designee” of the City’s CEO
pursuant to the ordinance.  
 
(Id. ¶ 40; see also Exh. G.)  Petitioner further alleges that: 
 
Sylva, by her own admission,
unilaterally revoked Tier One’s Cannabis Permit when she took action to
terminate Tier One’s Development Agreement by sending the December 8, 2023,
correspondence and then emailing the DCC notice of the revocation on December
11, 2023. 
 
(Id. ¶ 41.)  The
referenced correspondence, which are attached as exhibits, do not support the
allegation that Sylva acted “unilaterally” and that she—not the City—is
responsible for the termination.  To the
contrary.  All of the correspondence
refers to the City revoking the permit (because the City was the party to the
development agreement).  For example, the
letter of December 8, 2023, is a “Notice of Automatic Termination and Demand to
Cease Operations of Commercial Cannabis Business in the City of Baldwin
Park.”  (Id. Exh. E.)  The letter states: 
 
On behalf of the City of
Baldwin Park, you are hereby given notice, that the Development
Agreement dated April 3, 2019, associated with the Property, is terminated,
effectively immediately, pursuant to Section 3.6 (iii), for failure to timely
pay the fee or fees.
 
(Ibid., emphasis added.)  Similarly, Sylva’s letter of December 18,
2023, references “the City,” not Sylva herself. 
(Id. Exh. G.)  More
important, Petitioner’s allegations are contradicted by the amended development
agreement itself.  The parties to the
agreement were the City and Petitioner. 
Sylva was neither a party nor a signatory to that agreement.  (Id. Exh. B.)    
 
Rather, Petitioner’s case against
Sylva is predicated upon her communications, i.e., her practice of law
on behalf of her client, the City.  This
is clear not only based upon the content of her communications, but also based
upon Petitioner’s prayer for relief.  The
prayer seeks no relief against Sylva. 
Petitioner seeks a writ of mandamus compelling “the City” to reinstate
Petitioner’s Municipal Authorization.  (Id.
¶ 64.)  In the alternative, Petitioner
seeks a writ to compel “the City” to comply with its ministerial duty to hold
an appeal hearing.  (Id. ¶
65.)  Petitioner seeks attorney’s fees
and litigation expenses, as well as “any such other equitable or legal relief
as the Court deems appropriate.”  (Id.
¶¶ 66-67.)  Neither of these requests are
directed at Sylva or cite any authority to awarding these remedies against her
in the absence of a judgment on a claim (which Petitioner does not request
against her).  Even if there was some
basis to name Sylva in her official capacity, Petitioner also sued her in her
“individual capacity,” and the petition and related documents do not evidence
any role outside that of advocating for the City.  The fact that Petitioner seeks no relief
against Sylva is evidence that she performed no acts outside her role as an
attorney (and would form the basis for a motion for judgment on the pleadings
had this motion not been filed first).   
 
B.        Sylva’s
Communications are Protected 
 
            The
anti-SLAPP statute protects “any written or oral statement or writing made
before a legislative, executive, or judicial proceeding, or any other official
proceeding authorized by law” and “any written or oral statement or writing
made in connection with an issue under consideration or review by a
legislative, executive, or judicial body.” 
(Code Civ. Proc. 
§ 425.16(e)(1), (2). 
This protection is broad: 
 
Under the plain language of section
425.16, subdivisions (e)(1) and (e)(2), as well as the case law interpreting
those provisions, all communicative acts performed by attorneys as part of
their representation of a client in a judicial proceeding or other petitioning
context are per se protected as petitioning activity by the anti-SLAPP statute.
 
(Cabral v. Martins (2009) 177 Cal.App.4th 471,
479-480, citations omitted.)  An attorney
who is sued based on her litigation-related conduct on behalf of a client is
protected by the anti-SLAPP statute. 
(See White v. Lieberman (2002) 103 Cal.App.4th 210, 221.)  These protections are broad. 
 
The anti-SLAPP protection for
petitioning activities applies not only to the filing of lawsuits, but extends
to conduct that relates to such litigation, including statements made in
connection with or in preparation of litigation.  Indeed, courts have adopted “a fairly
expansive view of what constitutes litigation-related activities within the
scope of section 425.16.
 
(Kolar v. Donahue, McIntosh & Hammerton (2006)
145 Cal.App.4th 1532, 1537, citations omitted.) 

 
            Sylva’s
communications fall within the scope of these protections.  Sylva’s “counter-settlement demand letter” clearly
relates to the federal case because the letter references the case by name and
number and contains a settlement proposal. 
(See Pet. Exh. D.)  Sylva also
sent a “Settlement Demand” that was a “Privileged/Confidential Communication
Pursuant to California Evidence Code section 1152” in relation to the federal
case, which was referenced by name and case number in the letter.  (See id. Exh. F(C).)  Sylva’s cease-and-desist letter, dated
December 8, 2023, is a precursor to potential litigation because it states:
 
On behalf of the City of Baldwin
Park, you are hereby given notice, that the Development Agreement dated April
3, 2019, associated with the Property, is terminated, effective immediately,
pursuant to Section 3.6 (iii), for failure to time pay the Fee or 
Fees. . . .  The City of Baldwin Park reserves all rights
to seek damages, attorneys fees, and other relief due to your breach of the
Development Agreement.
 
(See id. Exh. E.) 
Finally, Sylva’s letter of December 18, 2023, was a response to
Petitioner’s request for appeal.  (See id.
Exh. G.)  Not only did Petitioner’s
counsel’s original correspondence request legal process, viz., the
appeal, the letter referenced the federal case and discussed the merits of the
case and related legal issues.  (See id.
Exh. F.)  Therefore, Sylva’s response is
sufficiently connected to litigation to constitute protected activity.[1]  
 
             C.         Sylva Demonstrates a Likelihood of Success on
the Merits
 
            Julia Sylva
demonstrates a likelihood of success on the merits.  As discussed, Petitioner seeks a writ to
compel “the City” to reinstate Petitioner’s permit or, in the alternative, to
hold an appeal of its prior decision. 
Petitioner seeks relief against “the City,” not Sylva.  (See Pet. ¶¶ 64 & 65.)  Sylva was neither a party nor a signatory to
the amended development agreement. 
Accordingly, Petitioner’s remedy lies against the City.  
 
            Nor is
there any basis to sue Julia Sylva in her individual capacity.  As discussed, this petition asserts a single
cause of action: Writ of mandate under Code of Civil Procedure sections 1085
and/or 1094.5.  This cause of action does
not give rise to individual liability or permit recovery of monetary damages
against an individual.  In other words,
Sylva has no authority to reinstate Petitioner’s permit or schedule a hearing
in her individual capacity.  Rather, the potential
remedy lies against the City and perhaps the Mayor and/or Chief Executive Officer
in their official capacity.  
 
            Petitioner’s
counsel provides no credible explanation why his client named Sylva in her
individual capacity, which required her to retain separate counsel.  In the absence of a credible explanation, the
court has concerns that the reason is vindictive in nature, especially given
that she is opposing counsel and the parties are involved in multiple lawsuits.     
 
///
///


 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
            Based upon
the foregoing, the court orders as follows:
 
            1.         The court grants Julia Sylva’s special
motion to dismiss under Code of Civil Procedure section 425.16.  
 
            2.         The court finds that Julia Sylva is
entitled to attorneys’ fees under Code of Civil Procedure section 425.16(c)(1),
which states that “a prevailing defendant on a special motion to strike shall
be entitled to recover that defendant’s attorney’s fees and costs.”  
 
3.         The
court orders the parties to meet-and-confer to determine whether they will
stipulate to an amount of attorneys’ fees. 
If no stipulation is reached, counsel for Julia Sylva may file a noticed
motion for attorneys’ fees, which the court will hear regardless of any stay of
this case.  
 
            4.         Counsel for Julia Sylva shall provide
notice and file proof of service with the court.  
 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
 
Dated:  August 6, 2024                                               ______________________________
                                                                                    Stephen
I. Goorvitch
                                                                                    Superior
Court Judge 
 


 
DJCP Corporation                                                    Case
No. 24STCP00313
                                    
v.                                                                     Hearing:
August 6, 2024 
                                                                                    Location:
Stanley Mosk Courthouse 
City of Baldwin Park, et al.                                     Department: 82
                                                                                    Judge:
Stephen I. Goorvitch 
 
 
[Tentative] Order Continuing
Hearings on Demurrer and Order to Show Cause re: Stay
 

 

 
ORDER #2 of 2
             
Petitioner DJCBP Corporation doing
business as “Tier One Consulting” (“Petitioner”) filed this verified petition
for writ of mandate alleging that the City of Baldwin Park (the “City”)
wrongfully and unlawfully revoked its permit for commercial cannabis
manufacturing and summarily denied its appeal without a hearing.  Petitioner seeks a writ of mandate
“compelling the City to reinstate Petitioner’s Municipal Authorization” or, in
the alternative, a writ to compel the City to comply with its ministerial duty
to hold an appeal.  Petitioner also seeks
attorney’s fees and costs “as provided by law,” as well as “any other such
equitable or legal relief as the Court deems appropriate.”  Petitioner named the City and the City
Council as respondents, as well as Enrique C. Zaldivar, the City’s Chief
Executive Officer “in his official capacity.” 
Moreover, Petitioner named Julia Sylva (“Sylva”), who represents the
City with respect to “all legal matters related to commercial cannabis permits
and activities in the City,” including this lawsuit, in “her individual and
official capacity.”  The court granted
Sylva’s special motion to dismiss under Code of Civil Procedure section 425.16,
commonly known as an “Anti-SLAPP motion.” 

 
Now, the remaining respondents (“Respondents”)
demur under Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10(c), which provides a basis
to demur if “[t]here is another action pending between the same parties on the same
cause of action.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.10(c).)
 In this case, Respondents argue that
Petitioner has sought a “writ of mandate and preliminary injunction” in DJCBP
Corporation dba “Tier One Consulting,” et al. v. City of Baldwin Park, et al.,
Case No. 23-CV-00384-CAS-PVC (the “federal lawsuit”).  The court grants Respondents’ request for
judicial notice, per Evidence Code section 452(d).  
 
Petitioner’s first cause of action
in the federal lawsuit seeks a “writ of mandate” and “preliminary injunction”
against the City of Baldwin Park. 
Specifically, Petitioner seeks “a writ of mandate to compel the City to
reinstate plaintiffs’ municipal authority to conduct commercial cannabis
activity and to notify the state of same.” 
(Request for Judicial Notice, Exh. 1, at ¶ 290.)  Petitioner further seeks to compel the City “to
notify the Department of Cannabis Control (DCC) of the reinstatement and that
the prior request for revocation of plaintiffs’ state license be retracted by
the City.”  (Id., Exh. 1, at ¶ 291.)  This is the same relief sought in the instant
case, as Petitioner asks this court to “[i]ssue a writ of mandamus compelling
the City to reinstate Petitioner’s Municipal Authorization.”  (See Petition, ¶ 64.)     
 
            Nevertheless,
the court does not have sufficient information to rule on the demurrer to
determine whether to stay the instant case. 
The federal court dismissed the claim for writ of mandate on March 15,
2024.  (See Request for Judicial Notice,
Exh. 2.)  The order states: “However,
this dismissal is without prejudice to plaintiffs bringing an appropriate motion
to add a new claim.”  (Ibid.)
 
            Petitioner
may pursue its claim for writ of mandate in either federal court or state
court, but not both simultaneously. 
Therefore, the court orders as follows:
 
            1.         The hearing on Respondents’ demurrer is
continued to ______, 2024, at 9:30 a.m.
 
            2.         Petitioner’s counsel shall file a notice
informing the court whether his client intends to pursue the claim in federal
court or state court on or before ______, 2024. 
The court provides notice: If Petitioner intends to pursue this claim in
state court and subsequently files a motion to amend to add the claim to the federal
action, that will be a basis to stay or dismiss the instant case.    
 
            3.         The court’s clerk shall provide
notice.       


