 Case Number:  22STCV32882    Hearing Date:   February 13, 2024    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  KRASIMIRA KOVACHEVA, ET AL., Plaintiff(s),  vs.  CHANDRA BOUCHARD, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 22STCV32882  [TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING DEFENDANT’S MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER DEPOSITION   Dept. 31 10:00 a.m.  February 13, 2024  I. Background Plaintiffs, Krasimira Kovacheva, Radostin Kovachev, and Estate of Martin Radostinov Kovachev by and through its successor-in-interest Krasimira Kovacheva (“Plaintiffs”) filed this action against defendants, Chandra Bouchard, Krassimir Iordanov, and Veselka Yordanova for the wrongful death of Martin Radostinov (“Decedent”). Plaintiffs allege Decedent was killed by a gun at a party.   Plaintiffs now moves to compel defendant Chandra Bouchard (“Bouchard”) to proceed with and respond to questions at her deposition, which was not completed because of Bouchard’s counsel’s instructions to not respond. Plaintiffs further request monetary sanctions.  Bouchard opposes the motion.     II. Motion to Compel  CCP § 2025.610 states: Once any party has taken the deposition of any natural person, including that of a party to the action, neither the party who gave, nor any other party who has been served with a deposition notice pursuant to Section 2025.240 may take a subsequent deposition of that deponent. Notwithstanding subdivision (a), for good cause shown, the court may grant leave to take a subsequent deposition, and the parties, with the consent of any deponent who is not a party, may stipulate that a subsequent deposition be taken.  In this case, Bouchard appeared for her deposition on September 7, 2023, but refused to answer any questions beyond preliminary background information by invoking the Fifth Amendment. Plaintiffs argue Bouchard’s counsel has refused to produce Bouchard for questioning, and directed her to leave and not return to the deposition. Bouchard opposes the motion. However, the Court will not consider Bouchard’s perfunctory and entirely unsigned opposition. Here, a general invocation of privilege is insufficient for a claim of self-incrimination, and equivalent to an outright refusal to participate in her deposition. “[A] blanket refusal to testify is unacceptable; a person claiming the Fifth Amendment privilege must do so with specific reference to particular questions asked or other evidence sought.” (In re Marriage of Sachs (2002) 95 Cal. App. 4th 1144, 1151.) “ ‘[T]he burden is on the party or witness [invoking the privilege] to show that the testimony or other evidence could tend to incriminate him or her.’” (Id. at 1151-52.) Bouchard is on probation and has already admitted criminal liability. Even if the Court considered Bouchard’s unsigned opposition, counsel has failed to articulate with sufficient particularity how the questions may subject Bouchard to self-incrimination. Thus, the evidence shows that Bouchard’s deposition was not completed, and that Bouchard’s second deposition is required for Plaintiffs to obtain information regarding the matter.   III. Sanctions CCP § 2025.450(g)(1) requires the Court to impose sanctions unless it finds the deponent acted with substantial justification or there are circumstances that render imposition of sanctions unjust. Plaintiffs request $6,116.63 in monetary sanctions. A court has discretion to award sanctions that are “suitable and necessary to enable the party seeking discovery to obtain the objects of the discovery he seeks” but they should not be punitive in nature or levied for the purposes of punishing an offending party. (Vallbona v. Springer (1996) 43 Cal.App.4th 1525, 1545.)     Here, Bouchard and her counsel’s conduct prevented the deposition from being completed, and their actions were not justified. The Court awards Plaintiffs 2 hours to prepare the motion, one hour to appear at the hearing, and one hour of time wasted in preparing for Bouchard’s deposition and the taking of said deposition, all at the requested rate of $650 per hour for a total of $2,600 in attorney’s fees. Further, Plaintiff is awarded the September 7, 2023 transcript fee in the amount of $856.63, and an additional $60 for the motion filing fee, as costs.   Defendant Bouchard and/or her counsel are ordered to pay sanctions to Plaintiffs, by and through their attorney of record, in the total amount of $3,516.63, within twenty (20) days.      Moving party is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 9th day of February 2024      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court    