  Case Number:  24VECV00836    Hearing Date:   December 23, 2024    Dept:  O  
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHWEST DISTRICT
 



Komal, Hiten, and Yash Parmar;
  Shrena
Parmar, a minor,
  by and through her Guardian ad Litem, Komal Parmar; Lyndah Pizarro; Mozdeh
  Michel Irani; Shervin Dastpak; Virgil Safranek and Catherine Burrion,
                    Plaintiffs,
          vs.
 
Essex Property Trust, Inc.; and DOES 1 through 20, inclusive,
 
                    Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.: 24VECV00836
 
ORDER
  SUSTAINING DEFENDANT’S DEMURRER TO PLAINTIFFS’ SECOND AMENDED COMPLAINT WITH
  LEAVE TO AMEND 
 
 



 


 
I.        INTRODUCTION
This case
arises out of a habitability dispute between landlord Defendant Essex Property
Trust, Inc. (“Defendant”) and the following tenants: Plaintiffs Komal, Hiten,
Yash, and Shrena Parmar (“the Parmars”), Plaintiff Lyndah Pizarro (“Pizarro”),
Plaintiff Mozdeh Michel Irani (“Irani”), Plaintiff Shervin Dastpak (“Dastpak”),
and Plaintiffs Virgil Safranek and Catherine Burrion (“Safranek and Burrion”)(collectively,
“Plaintiffs”). Plaintiffs each allege varying levels of uninhabitable
conditions in their respective units and in the common areas of Defendant’s
property located at 22204 Victory Boulevard, Woodland Hills, CA 91367.
On June 5,
2024, the Court sustained and overruled Defendant’s Demurrer and denied
Defendant’s Motion to Strike.
Defendant now
demurrers to Plaintiffs’ fifteenth cause of action for fraud and fraudulent
concealment. 
II.      PROCEDURAL
HISTORY
On February
23, 2024, Plaintiffs filed their Complaint.
On June 5,
2024, the Court sustained and overruled Defendant’s Demurrer and denied
Defendant’s Motion to Strike.
On July 12, 2024, Plaintiffs filed their First
Amended Complaint. 
On September 26, 2024, the Court granted
Plaintiffs leave to file a Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”). 
On November 1, 2024, Plaintiffs filed their
SAC, alleging (1) Contractual and Tortious Breach of Implied Warranty of Habitability;
(2) Violation of Cal. Civ. Code §§ 1941, 1941.1 and 1942.4 (Statutory Breach of
the Implied Warranty of Habitability); (3) Contractual and Tortious Breach of
the Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment; (4) Nuisance; (5) Intentional Infliction of
Emotional Distress; (6) Negligence; (7) Wrongful Eviction; (8) Constructive
Eviction; (9) Violation of Cal. Civ. Code § 1942.5 (Retaliatory Eviction); (10)
Violation of Bus. & Prof. Code § 1700 et seq. (Unfair, Unlawful, and
Deceptive Business Practices); (11) Violation of the Fair Employment and
Housing Act; (12) Negligent Hiring, Training, and Supervision; (13) Violation
of L.A.M.C. § 151.04 (Unlawful Rent Increase); (14) Violation of L.A.M.C. §
151.09(a)(11) (Relocation Assistance); and (15) Fraud and Fraudulent
Concealment.
On November
21, 2024, Defendant filed the instant Demurrer.
On December
10, 2024, Plaintiffs filed their Opposition. 
On December
16, 2024, Defendant filed its Reply. 
III.     LEGAL
STANDARD
A demurrer is a pleading used to test
the legal sufficiency of other pleadings. It raises issues of law, not
fact, regarding the form or content of the opposing party’s pleading
(complaint, answer or cross-complaint). (See Code Civ. Proc. §§
422.10, 589(a); see Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116
Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)[1] It
is not the function of the demurrer to challenge the truthfulness of the
complaint; and for purposes of the ruling on the demurrer, all facts pleaded in
the complaint are assumed to be true. (See Donabedian, 116 Cal.App.4th
at 994.) 
“We treat the demurrer as admitting all
material facts properly pleaded but not contentions, deductions or conclusions
of fact or law. We accept the factual allegations of the complaint as true and
also consider matters which may be judicially noticed.” (Mitchell v.
California Dept. of Pub. Health (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th 1000, 1007, citation
omitted.) “[T]he facts alleged in the pleading are deemed to be true, however
improbable they may be. (Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co.
(1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 593, 604.) Allegations are to be liberally construed. (See
Code Civ. Proc. § 452.) A demurrer may be brought if insufficient facts are
stated to support the cause of action asserted. (See Code Civ. Proc. §
430.10(e).)  
“A demurrer tests the sufficiency of a
complaint as a matter of law.” (Durell v. Sharp Healthcare (2010)
183 Cal.App.4th 1350, 1358.) “[T]he court gives the complaint a reasonable
interpretation, and treats the demurrer as admitting all material facts
properly pleaded.” (Id.) In testing the sufficiency of the
complaint, the court must assume the truth of (1) the properly pleaded factual
allegations; (2) facts that can be reasonably inferred from those expressly
pleaded; and (3) judicially noticed matters. (See Blank v. Kirwan (1985)
39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence
or other extrinsic matters. (See SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984)
153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) No other extrinsic evidence can be considered. (See
Ion Equip. Corp. v. Nelson (1980) 110 Cal.App.3d 868, 881 [error for court
to consider facts asserted in memorandum supporting demurrer]; see also Afuso
v. United States Fid. & Guar. Co. (1985) 169 Cal.App.3d 859, 862
[disapproved on other grounds in Moradi-Shalal v. Fireman’s Fund Ins. Cos.
(1988) 46 Cal.3d 287] [error to consider contents of release not part of court
record].) Accordingly, “[w]hether the plaintiff will be able to prove the
pleaded facts is irrelevant to ruling upon the demurrer.” (Stevens v.
Superior Court (1986) 180 Cal.App.3d 605, 609-10.) 
A demurrer can only be sustained when
it disposes of an entire cause of action. (See Poizner v. Fremont
General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 119; Kong v. City of Hawaiian
Gardens Redev. Agency (2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 1028, 1046.) Leave to
amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful
amendment. (See Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) The
burden is on the complainant to show the Court a pleading can be amended
successfully. (Id.) However, “[i]f there is any reasonable possibility
that the plaintiff can state a good cause of action, it is error to sustain a
demurrer without leave to amend.” (Youngman v. Nevada Irrigation Dist.
(1969) 70 Cal.2d 240, 245).  
IV.     MEET AND CONFER
Before
filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the demurring party shall meet
and confer in person, by telephone, or by video conference with the party
who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of
determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the
objections to be raised in the demurrer. (See Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41(a),
emphasis added.) A declaration must be filed with a demurrer regarding the
results of the meet and confer process. (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41(a)(3).)
          Defendant
filed a declaration attesting to the parties’ meet and confer efforts and
unsuccessful attempt to informally resolve their case. (See Declaration
of Jasmine Ng filed November 21, 2024, ¶¶
5-11.) The
Court finds the parties have met their meet and confer requirements.
V.       ANALYSIS   
A.            
Plaintiffs Fail to State a Fraud and
Fraudulent Concealment Claim as the Claim Relates to All Plaintiffs
“The
elements of fraud, which give rise to the tort action for deceit, are (1) a
misrepresentation, (2) with knowledge of its falsity, (3) with the intent to
induce another's reliance on the misrepresentation, (4) justifiable reliance,
and (5) resulting damage.” (Conroy v. Regents of Univ. of Cal. (2009) 45
Cal. 4th 1244, 1255.) “The elements for a fraudulent concealment claim are: (1)
the defendant must have concealed or suppressed a material fact, (2) the
defendant must have been under a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff,
(3) the defendant must have intentionally concealed or suppressed the fact with
the intent to defraud the plaintiff, (4) the plaintiff must have been unaware
of the fact and would not have acted as he did if he had known of the concealed
or suppressed fact, and (5) as a result of the concealment or suppression of
the fact, the plaintiff must have sustained damage.” (Nissan Motor
Acceptance Cases (2021) 63 Cal.App.5th 793, 826 (internal quotations
omitted).) “No liability for concealment exists unless there is a duty to
disclose.” (Id.) 
“Relevant
to the element of duty for fraud and deceit claims, in transactions which do
not involve fiduciary or confidential relations, a cause of action for
non-disclosure of material facts may arise in at least three instances: (1) the
defendant makes representations but does not disclose facts which materially
qualify the facts disclosed, or which render his disclosure likely to mislead;
(2) the facts are known or accessible only to defendant, and defendant knows
they are not known to or reasonably discoverable by the plaintiff; (3) the
defendant actively conceals discovery from the plaintiff.” (Id. (internal
quotations and brackets omitted).)
“[F]raud
must be specifically pleaded. This means: (1) general pleading of the legal
conclusion of fraud is insufficient; and (2) every element of the cause of
action for fraud must be alleged in full, factually and specifically, and the
policy of liberal construction of pleading will not usually be invoked to
sustain a pleading that is defective in any material respect.” (Wilhelm v.
Pray, Price, Williams & Russell (1986) 186 Cal.App.3d 1324, 1331.) In
addition, a cause of action of fraud against a corporation requires a plaintiff
to allege the names of persons who made the allegedly fraudulent
representations, their authority to speak, to whom they spoke, what they said
or wrote, and when. (See Tarmann v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co.
(1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 157-58.)
However,
this rule of particularity must be applied differently in the case of
non-disclosure because it is difficult to allege "who" or
"how" or "by what means" something was not disclosed or
"when" or "where" a statement was not made. (See Alfaro
v. Community Housing Improvement System & Planning Assn., Inc. (2009)
171 Cal.App.4th 1356, 1384.) Less particularity is required in these cases
because the facts supporting concealment are more likely to be known by a
defendant. (See id.)
After
the Court sustained Defendant’s prior Demurrer, Plaintiffs added the following
facts to their fifteenth cause of action: (1) “Defendants’ 2018-2019 Lease
Agreement and 2021-2022 Lease Agreement with the Parmar Family
explicitly states that the lifespan of carpets and paint are approximately 5
years and 3 years with normal wear and tear” but that Defendant never repainted
or re-carpeted their unit; (2) “Defendants specifically represented to
prospective tenants, including Plaintiffs, that every Sunday a
complimentary breakfast would be provided” but that Defendant ended the
service; (3) “Defendant’s lured and misrepresented to the Pizarro family
into signing their lease with the promise of two weeks of free rent” but
reneged on their promise; and (4) “Defendants either fraudulently
misrepresented that Ms. Pizarro’s lease had been terminated or that her
lease was active and she was liable for back rent.” (SAC, ¶¶ 289-293 (emphasis
added).) 
As they
alleged in their Complaint, Plaintiffs again alleged a variety of “habitability
issues that were concealed from Plaintiffs” in support of their fraud cause of
action. (SAC, ¶¶ 295-296.)
The
Court will address the allegations as they pertain to each Plaintiff in groups,
below. 
1.              
Parmars
Defendant
first argues the additional facts relating to the Parmar family do not support Plaintiffs’
fraud claim because there is nothing in either the 2018-2019 lease agreement or
the 2021-2022 lease agreement that states Defendant would pay “would pay for
recarpeting or repainting of their unit during their tenancy.” (Demurrer, pg. 6
(citing the lease agreements attached to Plaintiffs’ SAC.) Defendant argues the
other allegations alleged on behalf of all Plaintiffs, the Sunday breakfast (¶
291) and the listing of habitability issues (¶ 296) are too general to meet fraud’s
heightened specificity requirements. (See Demurrer, pp. 8-9.) In any
event, Defendant argues the Parmars’ claims are barred by fraud’s three-year
statute of limitations. (See id. at 7.) 
In
Opposition, Plaintiffs argue the carpeting/re-painting examples were alleged to
show Defendant knew replacements were necessary. (See Opposition, pg.
8.) Plaintiffs point to the many leases attached to their SAC as proof of “the
extent of the false promises… represented by Defendants.” (Id.) Plaintiffs
do not address the Sunday breakfast allegation but argue the statute of
limitations does not bar the Parmars claims because “the ‘last overt act’ for
the Parmar family occurred while they were still being defrauded and paying
rent in 2023.” (Id. at 9.)
Plaintiffs
have not alleged sufficient facts to allege a fraud cause of action against the
Parmars and, as alleged, the Parmars fraud claims are barred by the statute of
limitations. As Defendant argues, the additional allegations regarding the
recarpeting and repainting do nothing to bolster their fraud claim against
Defendant because Defendant made no such promise to recarpet or repaint every 3
to 5 years—the lease discusses recarpeting and repainting only in the context
of terminating a tenancy. Nor does the Sunday breakfast promise provide support
for Plaintiffs’ fraud claim, as Plaintiffs provide no further information on
when or how this promise was made, as it is not mentioned in the leases. 
The only
allegations that are left to support Plaintiffs’ fraud claim are the
habitability allegations. But, as the Court discussed in its June 5, 2024, Order
on Defendant’s prior Demurrer, Plaintiffs’ SAC only alludes to the Parmars (and
the other Plaintiffs) entering into the lease initially. (See SAC,
¶¶ 287 (“…before renting it to them.”; 288 (“in order
to deceive Plaintiffs into renting the property…”; 296 (“[a]t all times prior
to moving in…”).) If Plaintiffs intended for their recarpeting and repainting
allegation, which references the 2021-2022 lease between the Parmars and
Defendant, to defeat any statute of limitations defenses, they should make that
abundantly clear. As currently alleged, the Parmars fraud claim is barred by
the statute of limitations. 
Regardless, the habitability allegations (which remain
unchanged from Plaintiffs’ Complaint) are not alleged with enough specificity. Even
in cases of nondisclosure, specificity is required. Generally pointing in the
direction of the hundreds of pages of leases as proof of Defendant’s “false
promises”, as Plaintiffs do in Opposition, is not sufficient, especially in a
case with several Plaintiffs. If Defendant’s misrepresentations occurred at
each lease renewal, Plaintiffs must definitively make those allegations.
Plaintiffs have not done so here. 
Accordingly, the Court SUSTAINS WITH LEAVE TO AMEND
Plaintiffs’ fraud cause of action as it pertains to the Parmars. 
///
///
2.              
Dastpak
Defendant argues Plaintiffs do not assert anything further on
behalf of Dastpak and his fraud claim would be barred by the statute of
limitations because he entered into his lease on July 8, 2020. (See Demurrer,
pg. 6.) 
For the reasons previously discussed, the Court agrees. The
Court is not persuaded by Plaintiffs’ argument that “he is continuing to be
defrauded at the time of the drafting of this opposition as he still is a
tenant.” (Opposition, pg. 9.) If Dastpak is continuing to be defrauded,
Plaintiffs must allege how this fraud is occurring and what misrepresentations
Defendant is continuing to make.
Accordingly, the Court SUSTAINS WITH LEAVE TO AMEND
Plaintiffs’ fraud cause of action as it pertains to Dastpak.
3.              
Pizarro
Defendant argues the additional facts relating to Pizzaro
fail because they are alleged as to a corporate defendant and Plaintiffs must
therefore allege “the name of the people who made the misrepresentation, their
authority to speak for the corporation, who received the communication, and
when it was made.” (Demurrer, pg. 8.) 
Plaintiffs do not directly address this argument in
Opposition, only stating as a header that “promises of free rent” are false
promises and false promises are actionable as fraud. (Opposition, pg. 7.)
Plaintiffs have failed to state sufficient facts to maintain
a fraud cause of action as the claim relates to Pizarro. Plaintiffs’ additional
allegations as they relate to Pizarro are affirmative misrepresentations that
do not seem to arise out of Pizarro’s lease. As such, and because Defendant is
a corporate defendant, Plaintiffs must allege the
names of persons who made the allegedly fraudulent representations, their
authority to speak, to whom they spoke, what they said or wrote, and when. (See
Tarmann, 2 Cal.App.4th at 157-58.) Plaintiffs again have not done so here. 
Accordingly, the Court SUSTAINS WITH LEAVE TO AMEND
Plaintiffs’ fraud cause of action as it pertains to Pizarro.
4.              
Irani
and Safranek/Burrion
Defendant argues “[t]here are no specific allegations
regarding the remaining plaintiffs as Plaintiffs only specifically addressed
the Parmars and Pizarro only.  Providing ‘examples’
for two plaintiffs, without any other specific facts as to the other plaintiffs
will not save the claim as all Plaintiffs are claiming fraud and must allege
the claim with specificity.” (Demurrer, pg. 8.) 
          Again, the Court agrees. The two
non-specific allegations, alleged on behalf of all Plaintiffs, are the Sunday
breakfast allegation and the habitability allegations. As discussed above,
these allegations are not specifically plead and thus not sufficient.
Accordingly, the Court SUSTAINS WITH LEAVE TO AMEND
Plaintiffs’ fraud cause of action against Irani, Safranek, and Burrion.  
VI.     CONCLUSION
         
Based on the foregoing analysis, the Court SUSTAINS Defendant’s Demurrer
as to Plaintiffs’ fifteenth cause of action for fraud and fraudulent
concealment WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.

Plaintiffs have leave to file an amended
complaint until January 17, 2024. 
          IT
IS SO ORDERED.
DATED:      December 23, 2024



Hon. Michael R. Amerian
Judge,
  Superior Court



 


