 Case Number:  23STCV22483    Hearing Date:   February 20, 2024    Dept:  45 Superior Court of California
County
 of Los Angeles
 



 
MICHAEL
  SOKOLOFF;
 
                             Plaintiffs,
 
                              vs.
 
CITY
  OF LA HABRA HEIGHTS, et al.
 
                              Defendants.
 


Case No.:  23STCV22483
DEPARTMENT
  45
 
 
 
[TENTATIVE] RULING
 
 
 
Action
  Filed:  09/18/23
Trial
  Date:  None Set
 
 



 
Hearing Date:             February
20, 2024
Moving Party:             Defendant
City of La Habra Heights
Responding Parties:   Plaintiff
Michael Sokoloff
 
Motion to Strike Portions of Plaintiff’s Verified
Complaint
 
The court CONTINUES
the hearing for Defendant’s motion to strike to March 18, 2024, at 8:30
am, in Department 45, to provide Defendant an opportunity
to comply with the meet-and-confer requirements of CCP § 435.5. If
the parties resolve the issues raised in the motion to strike, Defendant shall
take the motion off calendar. If the parties reach a partial resolution, the
parties shall notify the court at least seven days before the hearing. If the
parties are unable to resolve any issues, Defendant shall file a meet-and-confer declaration that complies with the requirements
of CCP
§ 435.5, no later than seven days before the
continued hearing date.
 
Discussion
Defendant City of
La Habra Heights
moves to strike portions of the Verified Complaint, filed by plaintiff Michael
Sokoloff.
CCP § 435.5(a) states, in relevant part:
“Before filing a motion to strike . . . the moving party shall meet and confer
in person, by telephone, or by video conference with the party who filed the
pleading that is subject to the motion to strike for the purpose of determining
if an agreement can be reached that resolves the objections to be raised in the
motion to strike.”
CCP § 435.5(a)(2) states, in relevant
part: “The parties shall meet and confer at least 5 days before the date a
motion to strike must be filed. If the parties are unable to meet and confer at
least 5 days before the date the motion to strike must be filed, the moving
party shall be granted an automatic 30-day extension of time within which to
file a motion to strike, by filing and serving, on or before the date a motion
to strike must be filed, a declaration stating under penalty of perjury that a
good faith attempt to meet and confer was made and explaining the reasons why
the parties could not meet and confer.”
            CCP § 435.5(a)(3) provides: “The
moving party shall file and serve with the motion to strike a declaration
stating either of the following: [¶] (A) The means by which the moving party
met and conferred with the party who filed the pleading subject to the motion
to strike, and that the parties did not reach an agreement resolving the
objections raised by the motion to strike. [¶] (B) That the party who filed the
pleading subject to the motion to strike failed to respond to the meet and
confer request of the moving party or otherwise failed to meet and confer in
good faith.”
            The court finds Defendant’s counsel’s
declaration is insufficient to establish they satisfied the meet-and-confer
requirements of CCP § 435.5. Defendant’s counsel only attests they met and
conferred with Plaintiff’s counsel before filing the motion to strike. (See Acuna
Decl., ¶ 6.) However, Defendant’s counsel does not establish the parties met
and conferred in person, by telephone, or by video conference as required under
CCP §§ 435.5(a) and (a)(3)(A). Further, Defendant’s counsel fails to indicate
the parties did not reach an agreement resolving the objections raised by the
motion to strike as required under CCP § 435.5(a)(3)(A). Accordingly, the court
finds Defendant’s counsel’s declaration fails to show the parties met and
conferred in good faith in accordance with CCP § 435.5.
The court
therefore CONTINUES the hearing for Defendant’s motion to strike to the date
and time set forth above, in Department 45, to provide Defendant
an opportunity to comply with the meet-and-confer requirements of CCP § 435.5. If
the parties resolve the issues raised in the motion to strike, Defendant shall
take the motion off calendar. If the parties reach a partial resolution, the
parties shall notify the court at least seven days before the hearing. If the
parties are unable to resolve any issues, Defendant shall file a meet-and-confer declaration that complies with the requirements
of CCP
§ 435.5, no later than seven days before the
continued hearing date.
 
It is so
ordered.
 
Dated:
February 20, 2024
 
_______________________
ROLF M TREU
Judge of the
Superior Court
 