

TENTATIVE
            Defendant Lyft, Inc.’s Motion to
Compel Arbitration and Stay Proceedings as to Plaintiff, is GRANTED.
 

Background
            This case commenced after Edward Madrid (Plaintiff) filed
a Complaint containing a single cause of action for negligence/negligence per
se on November 16, 2023. The Complaint stems from an automobile collision that
occurred on July 15, 2022. The collision involved Plaintiff who was riding as a
passenger, and the driver Joseph Roque (Roque), who was driving for Lyft, Inc.
(Lyft), Steven Dong (Steven), and Trish Dong (Trish). On December 22, 2023,
Steven and Trish filed a cross-complaint against Lyft and Roque. On the same
day, Roque filed a cross-complaint against Steven and Trish. 
 
            The current motion before the Court is Lyft,
Inc.’s Motion to Compel Arbitration and Stay Proceedings (Motion). The Motion
addresses and is targeted at the agreement between Lyft and Plaintiff. An
opposition to the Motion was filed by both Steven and Trish. However, Plaintiff
files no opposition to the Motion. 
 
Discussion
 
Legal Standard
            Under both
the Federal Arbitration Act and California law, arbitration agreements are
valid, irrevocable, and enforceable, except on such grounds that exist at law
or equity for voiding a contract. (Winter v. Window Fashions Professions, Inc.
(2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 943, 947.) The party moving to compel arbitration must
establish the existence of a written arbitration agreement between the parties.
(Code of Civ. Proc. § 1281.2.) This is usually done by presenting a copy of the
signed, written agreement to the court. “A petition to compel arbitration or to
stay proceedings pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure sections 1281.2 and 1281.4
must state, in addition to other required allegations, the provisions of the
written agreement and the paragraph that provides for arbitration. The
provisions must be stated verbatim, or a copy must be physically or
electronically attached to the petition and incorporated by reference.” (Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1330.) The moving party must also establish the other
party’s refusal to arbitrate the controversy. (Code of Civ. Proc. § 1281.2.)
The filing of a lawsuit against the moving party for a controversy clearly
within the scope of the arbitration agreement affirmatively establishes the
other party’s refusal to arbitrate the controversy. (Hyundai Amco America,
Inc. v. S3H, Inc. (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 572, 577.)
 
Analysis
            The
Court will grant the Motion only as between Lyft and Plaintiff because (1) Lyft
has established the existence of a written arbitration agreement between Lyft
and Plaintiff and (2) Lyft has established Plaintiff’s refusal to arbitrate the
controversy. 
 
            A
valid arbitration agreement exists between Lyft and Plaintiff
            Lyft
demonstrates that a valid arbitration agreement exists. In order to use the
Lyft platform, a user must create an account and assent to the terms of
service. Within the terms of service is an arbitration agreement. (See Exh. 3.)
In fact, the very first paragraph advises the reader of the arbitration
agreement (the agreement), and in paragraph 17, the agreement is presented in
full to the reader. Lyft has produced the agreement by attaching a copy in a
concurrently filed evidence packet. Moreover, Lyft has produced a signature log
showing that Plaintiff consented to the agreement on multiple occasions,
including on January 4, 2023, well after the July 15, 2022 collision at
issue.      
 
            Lyft
has established Plaintiff’s refusal to arbitrate the controversy
            The
second step is to show that Plaintiff refuses to arbitrate the controversy; the
filing of the November 16, 2023 Complaint with this Court suffices.
 
            Lyft
never requested to arbitrate the controversy with Steven and Trish
            Defendants
Steven and Trish Dong (collectively, the Dongs) file an opposition to Lyft’s
Motion; however, nowhere in the moving papers is it requested that the
controversy between Lyft and the Dongs be arbitrated nor stayed. The Dongs
argue that they are not party to the agreement; the moving papers never
provided or alleged anything to the contrary.  Granting the Motion and staying the suit with
respect to Plaintiff has no effect on the Dongs’ claims against Lyft or any
other party.   
 
Conclusion
            Accordingly,
Defendant Lyft, Inc.’s Motion to Compel Arbitration and Stay
Proceedings as to Plaintiff, is GRANTED. 
  
Moving party is ordered to give notice.  
 Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to
appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the
hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you
receive a submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume
that others might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive emails from the
parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
